

p
e
i
e
o
T
DRY
The Bulletin
TRAPS FOR HOME-BUILDERS PAGE 23
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3931
Wednesday, June 15, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 250: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
BIRMINGHAM'S CATHEDRAL CHURCH OF ST. PHILIP, BUILT WHEN ANNE WAS QUEEN
COVERING an area of eighty square miles and with a population pi over
a million, the city of Birmingham is second only to London in size and
importance among English towns. This great industrial city, even though
primarily devoted to industry, can at the same time provide much in the
world of art, music, literature and architectural interest.
There, for instance, can be seen the neo-classical Town Hall, built in
1834, which is a copy of the Temple of Jupiter Stator in Rome, and in which
Mendelssohn himself conducted the first performance of “Elijah.” Other
notable buildings include Aston Hall, a magnificent Jacobean house, once
occupied by James Watt’s son; the Art Gallery with its great pre-Raphaehte
collection; the Roman Catholic cathedral designed by Pugin; the Barber
Institute with its outstanding collection of paintings; the new Civic Centre
and the Cathedral Church of St. Philip, shown in the accompanying
illustration. , , _ , _ • .
St. Philip’s, now the Anglican Cathedral, stands in Coimore Row and
is one of the few truly baroque English churches. It was built in 1711-1715,
during the reign of Queen Anne, to the designs of Thomas Archer, a pupil
of Sir John Vanbrugh. . ,
The building is of brickwork, faced with stone, and the principal feature
of the exterior is the handsome west tower, surmounted by a dome and
lantern —one of the finest Renaissance towers in Britain. The urns around the
balustrade were added in 1750 by John Baskerville, the famous printer.
Attractive features of the spacious interior are the square-fluted Doric
columns, which support semi-circular arches in the nave. The beauty of the
interior is enhanced by the four great windows executed by William Morris
from designs by Sir Edward Burne-Jones, who was born in Birmingham m
1833. The windows depict the Crucifixion, Nativity, the Ascension and the
Last Judgment. , , , _
During the Second World War the Cathedral was damaged by fire-
bombs and narrowly escaped destruction.


STUDY FOR SUCCESS
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, -without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME .
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1255) AGE
Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK
HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney. Quick
service moderate charges.
The Red Page
MEET SOME AMERICANS
Ogden Nash
A new book of Ogden Nash’s old
verse, Many Long Years Ago (Dent) is
the sixth of his English-published
volumes (the others are “The Face
Is Familiar,” “Good Intentions,”
“Versus,” “Family Reunion” and “The
Private Dining-room”), which ‘ make
available in England the entire body
of his verse (without any duplication)
which the author wishes to preserve in
book-form.”
Nash’s verse has this characteristic
of the jazz of which it is the literary
counterpart, that it leaves the mind
jigging long after the eye has left off
reading. And that is the peculiar dis-
tinction of Nash; for often enough you
get a poetry with new ideas, but very
seldom a verse with new movement —
though it would be hard to say where
the movement is peculiar to Mr. Nash
and jazz. For instance, the comically
extended line of: —
Winter comes but once a year,
But when it comes it brings the
doctor good cheer;
Yes, it comes but once a year but
it lasts for most of it,
And you may think there is a
a chance it may be a mild
one, but there isn’t a ghost of
it.....
derives from “Our Village,” by Thomas
Hood: —
Our village, that’s to say, not
Miss Mitford’s village, but
our village of Bullock Smithy,
Is come into by an avenue of
trees, three oak pollards, two
elders and a withy ;
And in the middle there’s a green
of about not exceeding an acre
and a half ;
It’s common to all, and fed off
by nineteen cows, six ponies,
three horses, five asses, two
foals, seven pigs, and a calf!
And this free-style in English goes
back as far as Suckling: —
The first that broke silence was
good old Ben,
Prepared before with canary wine,
And he told them plainly he
deserved the bays,
For his were called works, while
others were but plays.
And
Bid them remember how he had
purged the stage
Of errors, that had lasted many
an age ;
And he hoped they did not think
the “Silent Woman,”
The “Fox,” and the “Alchemist,”
outdone by no man
In another, shorter-line, style:—
Mr. Arthur Brisbane
Considers his country’s bane his
bane,
He vigorously combats disloyalty,
And deprecates royalty—
Nash has been preceded by Clerihew
Bentley; and the limerick is nothing
new, either; though he does them very
well:—
There was a brave girl of Con-
necticut
Who signalled the train with her
pecticut,
Which the papers defined
As presence of mind,
But deplorable absence of ecticut.
But something more than even
Ogden Nash’s endowment is needed to
make a publishable limerick other
than vaguely regrettable.
If to these are added a few songs
with choruses: —
Somewhere, somehow, something
terrible,
Something altogether unbearable,
Squashes a dictator, squashes a
homebody,
Something dreadful happens to
somebody, and —
Bombs are exploding like banks,
Banks are exploding like bombs,
The Russians are mad at the
Yanks,
Kippurs are torn from their
Yoms . . .
or:—
Senator Smoot (Republican, Ut.)
Is planning a ban on smut.
Oh rooti-ti-too for Smoot of Ut.
And his reverend occiput.....
and his lackadaisical stories, notably
that about the Tsar Borealis, who, on
hearing about the tse-tse fly, insisted
on becoming the Tsar-tsar, we , have
most of the movement of which he is
capable—and little enough traceable
directly to jazz. But then you strike
wickedness which Hood would never
have attempted, and of which only
the jazz-age could be capable:—
Oh, sometimes I sit around and
think, what would you do if
you were up a dark alley and
there was Caesar Borgia,
And he was coming torgia....
So in the end one returns to the
discovery of the critic who found the
“inimitable onomatopoeia” of “murmur
of innumerable bees” also in “murder
of innumerable beeves” —it is the sense
and not the sound which makes one
perfect and the other ludicrous; and
it is Ogden Nash’s sense and not his
movement which makes him the master
of the smart world; always readable,
if memorable only because of a few
brilliantly absurd rhymes, and an
occasional summarising couplet:—
Bernarr Macfadden has given the
preamble to the Constitution
a sequel,
And established the fact that all
women are created physiqual.
Conquistadores
If George Millar’s Orellana (Heine-
mann) were what it purports to be, the
diary of a Spanish soldier who
travelled with the one-eyed Francisco
de Orellana down the Amazon in 1541
—the first party of white men to explore
and fight their way down that mighty
waterway and to cross South America
from the Pacific to the Atlantic —it
would have been a classic for 400
years.
As it is, an imaginary diary based
largely on the American Geographical
Society’s “The Discovery of the
Amazon,” published in 1934 (which
contained English translations of two
accounts of the journey written by
Fr. Gaspar de Carvajal, who travelled
with Orellana), and of course on a
thorough study of the styles and infor-
mation of Bernal Diaz and Prescott
(whom Mr. Millar gallantly pinpricks
from time to time), it is really a remark-
able imitation of a classic, and one
can easily forgive Mr. Millar a few bits
of rather lumbering humor for the vivid
reconstruction he has made of this great
journey.
It is the story of how, when Gonzalo
Pizarro, with his huge and colorful
retinue, soon reduced to a ragged and
starving remnant, attempted to cross
the continent, Orellana, sent with a
small group of Spanish and Portuguese
soldiers and two negro slaves to forage
for the expedition down the river, was
—so Mr. Millar argues—“forced” to
desert his commander by the impossi-
bility of beating upstream with too
little food, too much current and too
many hostile mosquitoes and Indians,
and so —with a hope of collecting an
empire for himself, rivalling that of the
Pizarros’ as a small compensation for
this misfortune—set off downstream to
the jungle.
The fascinating Amazon scenery—in
part because Mr. Millar has soaked
himself in the writings of that won-
derful English naturalist Bates, who
wandered about the Amazon for years
studying the birds and flowers with a
sublime indifference to danger from
the Indians which makes later writers,
in their heroics, look slightly silly—is
excellently described: —
Midday. The sky is china-blue.
Green forest walls on either hand
rise to the height of a 70-gun ship,
and in the rigging of lianas climbing
to and falling from the tops we
occasionally see monkeys, some with
the faces of cats, some big as wolves,
others small as pigeons. Above the
banks, in the steaming shadows, are
orchids, tree-ferns, canes in groves
with festoons of pale-spiked leaves.
There are palm-trees like women,
their hair falling over bended necks,
their throats decorated with great
single flowers. All this is still, heat-
frozen, under the relentless sun
A fly, smaller than a pinhead, settles
unperceived and sucks until he swells.
We paddle out of unison, now one
of the canoe, now another, having to
defend himself against slashers,
bloodsuckers, biters.
And so, too, are the hardships which
the Spaniards endured as, tormented
by insects, stricken with fever, often
near-starving and most of them
usually suffering from wounds, they
fought their way yard by yard down
the huge waters under the almost
incessant attacks of the Indians, who
met them in open conflict on the river
or ambushed them with poisoned
arrows from the banks.
Mr. Millar also gives a most con-
vincing picture of the Spanish soldiery
—the crueltywith which they burned
alive Indians who would not give them
food or information, the piety with
which they asked the blessing of the
saints on their enterprise, the ambition
and touchy pride which made them so
often fall out with each other, the
incredible fortitude with which, out-
numbered by thousands, they tramped
and sailed and fought through the wild
and hostile continent.
Red Indians
The Last Frontier, by Howard Fast
(Penguin Books), describes the settle-
ment of America only 80 years ago,
when the first railroads and telegraphs
sprawled out across the continent and
many of the Indian tribes were driven
out of their ancestral hunting-grounds
by the white settlers, and the Govern-
ment, with the best intentions, gave
them territory to starve in.
A party of Cheyenne Indians could
not exist in the established Indian
territory of Oklahoma because even the
herds of buffaloes could not live off the
hot and arid country. When they asked
to be allowed to return in peace to their
own lush lands in the Black Hills of
Wyoming many miles away, official-
dom looked up the rules and regula-
tions and refused permission.
Sixty braves, 300 squaws, old men
and children, broke out of the territory
and were pursued by 10,000 soldiers in
long blue columns of cavalry and
infantry, trainloads of artillerymen with
snub-nosed howitzers and a general in
Washington directing the operations
with all the detachment of a man
chasing an ant out of his backyard.
By courage, ingenuity and their love
of the wilds and their determination
not to give in some of their number
eventually reached their goal.
It is a poignant story, brilliantly
told.
Marianne Moore
Marianne Moore is a curiosity of
contemporary literature, an American
who has been writing a sort of not-
poetry for years until at last it is
increasingly being recognised as a kind
of poetry.
Her spiritual forefather is Whitman,
who set the Americans free to bounce
about in any kind of eccentricity and
any kind of rhythm, on the understand-
ing that the personality makes the
poetry. She reminds one of Edith Sit-
well for her mannerism, John Blight
for her awkwardness, Ogden Nash for
her humor and her way of writing
verse in prose rhythms, and most of
all, surprisingly, for a certain nuggety
impetuosity, of Skelton: —
Now this is meant for you, vapid
second-rate minds,
Good-for-nothings who try to harm
worth of all kinds.
Your gnashed teeth imply nothing
profound.
Do you think you could leave a
toothmark
On any masterwork?
Bite steel or burnished brass or dent
the diamond?
Her Selected Fables of La Fontaine
(Faber) hardly displays her full powers,
whatever they may be, since she is
more-or-less bound by the limits of
translation; but there is enough to
demonstrate how very flat she can be
when she is making originality the
excuse for technical inefficiency: —
He lumbered up as his master shook
with merriment,
Raised a hoof which use had dented,
And dealt his master’s chin a blow
that was well meant,
To the music of a bray’s accompani-
ment . . .
and, again surprisingly, along with
much of her typical shrewd humor,
how even this most prosaic method of
versification can rise to the grand style
when she wants it to: —
The bulrush bent, but not the tree.
Confusion rose to a roar,
Until the hurricane threw prone
That thing of kingly height whose
head had all but touched God’s
throne—
Who had shot his root to the
threshold of Death’s door.
On the whole the verses are too
mannered to be really effective trans-
lations of La Fontaine. Often they
lapse into doggerel because of the very
compressions that have been made to
avoid that pitfall. But they are amus-
ing, curious, different; and often,
simply as verse, as tight and tough
as a stone wall.
Safchmo Himself
Louis Armstrong’s autobiography,
talked into a recording-machine,
Satchmo, My Life in New Orleans
(Peter Davies), will have the same effect
on many readers as another famous
negro’s life-story had on one Desde-
mona: the matter-of-fact recital of his
upbringing among the honky-tonks and
brothels of that birthplace of jazz, the
calm recounting of his loves, achieves
something like purity of style, and cer-
tainly is more than the ordinary book
of reminiscences put out by great con-
cert artists in the classical tradition:—
When I was born in 1900 my
father, Willie Armstrong, and my
mother, May Ann —or Mayann as
she was called —were living on a
little street called James Alley
in the crowded section of New
Orleans known as Back o’ Town
.... There were churchpeople,
gamblers, hustlers, cheap pimps,
thieves, prostitutes and lots of
children... . Mayann told me that
the night I was born there was a
great big shooting scrap in the
Alley, and the two guys killed each
other.
Soon his father left his mother, who
went to live in a cheap red-light
district: —
Whether my mother did any
hustling I cannot say. If she did, she
certainly kept it out of my sight....
Louis stayed with his grandmother,
one of those waifs who used to go out
with their washerwoman mothers or
grandmothers, Later he went back to
live with his mother, who went out to
work, and lived with at least six “step
fathers.” Louis sold papers and
listened to the honky-tonk orchestras,
eventually forming, with Little Mack.
Big Nose Sidney and Redhead Happy
Bolton, a quartet which paraded the
streets, singing and shooting-off a
revolver for sheer high spirits. A few
revolver-shots and young Louis was put
in the Colored Waifs’ Home for Boys;
and in that more-or-less kindly run
(■Continued on page 35)


Open the door to winter travel warmth
II and convenience with rugs and cases
mm
mm
dU
wm
m
.v. s
frutn Anihnn
/forrf#»riiA
Trurm mm
1
y ii ■
1 4 ...Jg ~
ABk
. 3
•<*
, <*\A o m
</ia» \ y
c: "
S»i£?
gSSSg
M
-.5.3-
pH
■■ v-
■■"" . .
r «;( x i" A V 'SB
'
Wms : B
HHI
0
: * ■
■£": ;4 "W
; •. '
m
m
.
sm
m
liPfe
*m
L- •;
m.
■i
*****
•*m |.. '""T
x ;/
if
:
*
:i
m :fi;
1
Choose from our large range of rugs
Cases
Famous “Saddlehide” has
made this beautiful set
of ladies’ matching luggage
exclusively for our Store.
Hat Cases (illustrated top)
with rounded edge, brass
locks and cloth lined, with
pocket in lid. 18in. £B/5/'
Travel Bag, with wide
opening steel frame. Cloth
lined, with centre flap and
brass lock, double handles.
Wonderful value at £7/8/'
Mmm
lllllliillll
fm.;;
;
’ii'y/yy :•. '
V: ->x
mk,
«
Travel Rugs by “Arctic” are in smart check designs, with fringed ends.
Available in various colours and designs in si?e 72 x 60 ins. Price 59/6 each
“Shannon” lightweight travel rug. So soft and warm, in a beautiful range of
check and black check designs, with fringed ends. Size 80 x .60 ins. 85/- each
Knee Rug is most useful for reading, the theatre or motoring. In attractive
check designs with fringed ends. Sisje 48 x 42 ins. Wonderful value at 41/6 ea.
“Atlantic” is a good, medium weight rug in colourful check designs, with
fringed ends. Available in large sise, 80 ins. x 60 ins. Priced at £5/3/- each
“Albion” in a beautiful soft finished merino wool. This wonderfully handy
rug is also reversible, one side plain, the other check. Fringed ends. Si?e 78 ins.
x 60 ins. Priced at £7/15/- each
“Carnarvon,” made from pure merino wool; it is also reversible. In popular
tartan designs of Royal Stewart or Buchanan. Siz,e 80 ins. x 60 ins. Wonderfully
low value for such high quality at £B/10/- each
Illustrated at left:
Blouse Cases, with round edges, steel frame, leather handle and brass locks.
Cloth lined, with side pocket. 22" £lO/1/6, 24" £lO/19/9, 26" £ll/18/3
Ar-:oi.‘ IN *bV£'RT|Slf<
nthony Horderns
TRAVEL GOODS DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June IS, 1955
Vol. 76 — No. 3931
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521
“Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
PROBLEMS AND PRESSURES
FEDERAL PARLIAMENT rises without having
handled anything connected with the Constitution,
which sadly needs revision. Even the dramatic
contempt proceedings at the close of the session
drew attention to that. It has heard no general
statement from the Government about its
future course in dealing with the Constitution.
The sittings have closed without any clear state-
ment of intention about the time-table of participa-
tion in Malayan and South-East Asian defence. No
inkling has been what it is proposed to do
about the Senate-election, save through party
rumor and leakage. There has been no indication
about the future of policy towards the trading-banks
or the consolidation of the financial position of the
country; no foreshadowing of measures for dealing
with the growing labor shortage, or the effects of
increases in marginal rates of pay.
The debates have been more like schemozzles
—mostly concerned with internal party squabbles.
Abuse, interjection, general rowdyism among them-
selves and libellous muck-raking against political
opponents—within or without the party —have been
the main contributions of “Labor” members to the
discussions.
Latterly, with the results of the Victorian
elections before their eyes and with the prospect
of having to face a poll—perhaps a general election,
perhaps only a half-Senate poll—“ Labor” men
have been concerned in a wild private scramble
for the right to seats which will give them some
chance of return. In the alternative they have been
earnestly helping to find a basis which will increase
their salaries and allow them to squeeze as much
out of the country as they can justify while in the
House and as large a pension as they can grab for
as small a premium as possible after they have
been cast out. The debates on actual business on
both sides on Federal civil-service pay-rises were
listless and might have concerned pence instead of
millions.
On the Government side the internal position
was better than in the “Labor” party, but still
nothing calling for pride. The large body of rela-
tively able and young back-benchers has become
more and more restless at lack of employment and
at continuing to be—as they interpret the position
—“rubber-stamps” for Ministers who take them
very little into their confidence—especially
some Ministers who have nearly reached the age-
limit. The rank-and-file are like young horses kept
too long in the paddock with too little work.
The closing incidents of the legislative part of
the session, centring round Mr. Wentworth’s Atomic
Defence Bill, were manifestations of this feeling,
and it is certain that next session the restiveness
will become more marked unless some steps are
taken to promote a few back-benchers and produce
a virile programme.
This will be all the more so in view of the fact
that the betting is on a general election to clear up
the position of the Houses and pave the way for
Constitutional reform before the introduction of
the Budget for 1956-57.
The next session of 1955 will be one of the
most important for years. If the Government plays
its cards properly it will go to the country with
united and strong parties behind it and with
electoral support such as no Government has known
since 1917. It will go against a “Labor” party
which looks set, at the moment, to lose 20 seats or
thereabouts, including those of its leader (who is
reported already to be negotiating to leave Barton
for the seat of a sick member who is unlikely to
return to the House) and of at least three of the
front rank of its “shadow Cabinet”—and particu-
larly of the most promising-looking successor to
Dr. Evatt in the leadership, Mr. Nelson Lemmon,
whose St. George seat is about as safe as a bucket
without a bottom.
On the face of it the Government might seem
to be in clover. But it is not. Its finances show
signs of balancing in June with a very substantial
surplus. But its next Budget will be an unusually
tricky one to frame. Cabinet is faced with growing
defence expenditures, some of which have not yet
been publicly foreshadowed. The usual campaign
for reduction in taxation is already beginning, and
covers a wide field, ranging from firm demands for
the depreciation allowances on industrial buildings
to whittling of the iniquitous pay-roll tax and relief
for higher-bracket incomes, which, under the
present scale, are often scarcely incomes at all, and
particularly relief for all the middle-class group
who have been granted marginal increases only to
find with stunned amazement that their mounting
rate of tax is shovelling larger and larger quantities
of their earnings back into consolidated revenue.
There is something ironic in the fact that the classes
which have most eagerly advocated the soaking of
the professional earner in the £lOOO-and-over
brackets are now suffering acutely through the
policy which the unions and public-service
associations have been so strongly ready in the
past to support. The pressure of these groups
will before long have a profound influence on
Government policy in regard to taxation.
Moreover, the Government will have to face
the instability of overseas markets, the effects of
overseas strikes, the results of increased overseas
shipping-freights, the cost of imports in relation to
exports, and the rising cost of borrowing, so evident
in the increase in interest-rates and its effect on
low-earning Government securities.
These influences, combined with expanding
construction programmes, defence and otherwise,
labor shortages and bottlenecks in materials, and
the tendency of Communist agitators to exploit
them, are full of headaches for the Treasurer, while
the Prime Minister’s Constitutional problems are
no less urgent and no less difficult to deal with,
leaving aside foreign affairs and defence, which are
likely to be major issues in 1955-56, and the
dominant factors in deciding economic policy.
Anybody who would want to be a senior
Minister in the Federal Cabinet in the next year
must be a whale for trouble, even if he believes
that by a miracle internal party peace and a calmly
sensible and national-minded approach to the job
in hand can be achieved. Unfortunately it cannot
be. The pressure-groups are already at work all
round the political horizon.
Premiers, Loans and Principles
IN anticipation of the coming Loan Council
meeting, the State Premiers and Treasurers have
presumably been busy working out their
“demands.” It is to be hoped, though on past
experience not to be expected, that these will bear a
little more relation to reality than those presented
in recent years. Too often the sums cited by State
Governments as the bare minimum necessary to
cover their requirements for the year have been
not only much more than they knew they had any
hope of raising on the market, but also far higher
than they knew they had any possibility of spend-
ing, having regard to the availability of labor and
materials. There has been too much yielding to
the temptation to mix electioneering and loan-
quotas; too much use of the Loan Council meetings
for party-propaganda.
But even though elections will be held in four
States during the financial year 1955-56, the
poignant story of the crool Federal Government
denying the States much-needed loan-money for
public works has worn so threadbare that even
Mr. Cahill will scarcely have the hide to try it on
again. A glance at the record for the last couple
of years should be sufficient to explode that
legend. In May, 1953, after starting-off with a
tentative figure of £317 million, the Loan Council
approved a borrowing programme of £231 million,
despite the Federal Government’s refusal to support
a programme of more than £2OO million and its
intimation that it did not expect this figure to be
reached on the loan-market, but that it was pre-
pared to finance the deficiency up to a maximum of
£95 million. Actual loan-raising that year reached
only £126 million, and the Federal Government
arranged special assistance for the remaining £74
million.
Despite this experience—which was merely a
repetition of what had happened in 1952-53—the
Premiers lined-up last year with requests for £255
million. As before, the Federal Government set a
limit of £2OO million, but this time it indicated that
it would not be able to give any guarantee regard-
ing assistance. However, it undertook to finance
its own capital works out of revenue, as before,
and to give the States the benefit of any overseas
loans raised. The programme was adopted by six
votes to two, Cahill and Cain sticking to the tradi-
tional “We’ve-been-robbed” role, after the other
three “Labor” Premiers' had lined-up with Playford,
Fadden and Menzies in accepting the lower figure.
Cain spoke of a “raw deal” and “starvation policy”
just as a year earlier his deputy Galvin—recently
unseated in Bendigo by 12 votes —had complained
that “half-finished works all over Victoria are stark
monuments to the Commonwealth’s timidity on loan
estimates.”
“Half-finished works” in Victoria —or in New
South Wales or any other State —are not the product
of timidity on loan-estimates; if they are monu-
ments to anything it is to “Labor’s” ignorance of
or disregard for economic truths. For years the
“Labor” Premiers have believed, or have acted as
if they believed, that once a schedule of desirable
loan-works is drawn up loan-money automatically
becomes available. The belief can scarcely be a
genuine one. Loan-subscriptions can come only
from savings, and the amount likely to be available
in any year can be predicted with reasonable
accuracy. The estimates of the Federal Treasurer
in this regard have been fairly near to the mark
in recent years; those of the “Labor” Premiers have
been so ludicrously wrong that it is difficult to
believe that they ever had any faith in their
accuracy.
In the matter of loans from savings it should
be remembered that only new savings are available
for loan or investment; old savings are already
occupied. Many “Labor” critics of financial policy
seem blissfully ignorant of this, and there are
constant demands that use should be made of
savings-bank deposits to fill Government loans.
Only last month Costa, M.H.R. for Banks (the
electorate, not the institutions), put forward what he
called “a satisfactory substitute” for the raising of
dollar-loans.
I suggest that there is adequate capital avail-
able in Australia to be used for this purpose. For
example, there is over £lOOO million deposited in
the Commonwealth Savings Bank, and almost a
similar amount deposited in the private trading
banks.
Another fallacy is that the raising of a loan will
ensure that the job for which it was raised can be
done. At the end of last June some States still had
a considerable amount of unspent loan-money on
hand even though the sum they received was far
below the amount they had claimed as their
minimum requirement. The reason for this was
shortage of labor and materials, a condition which
still exists and which will leave the Federal Gov-
ernment at the end of this financial year with a
large surplus of unexpended defence funds. There
are two factors the Premiers should bear in mind.
One is that the amount of loan-money that can be
raised is limited by the amount of new savings
available: that is, by the excess of current produc-
tion over current consumption. The other is that
the amount sought must take into consideration
the availability of manpower and materials. In
other words, the question is one of productivity,
with the 40-hour week a limiting factor which can
only be offset by more conscientious work or by
improved techniques and equipment. Which brings
up the subject of overseas loans.
In the debate on the latest loan from the Inter-
national Bank “Labor” speakers took the line that
borrowing from overseas was fundamentally wrong,
was unnecessary, and was opposed to “Labor”
policy. The main contention is a loose generalisa-
tion which will not stand analysis. A nation’s
borrowing is subject to the same laws as that of an
individual. If it borrows for essential and produc-
tive purposes and with due regard to its income,
actual and prospective, the borrowing is sound;
otherwise, not.
It is fashionable to bemoan the fact that interest
is still being paid on the capital cost of railways
built decades ago. Such criticism should be directed
at the inefficiency and mismanagement responsible
for the inability of the systems to pay their way;
not at the fact that they were built on borrowed
money. At the time most Australian railways were
constructed it would have been impossible to build
them in any other way. Australia had no steel-
industry and produced no heavy machinery or
machine-tools.
Certainly it might have been possible to wait
until the country was in a position to supply all the
materials itself and the capital necessary to pay
the wages of a large work-force over the long non-
productive period during which the industries were
being established and the railways built. But a
young country does not have surplus capital to use
in that way, and in any case the community did
not want to wait for its railways; nor did it wish
to lower its living standards for a long period in
order to acquire them. Like a young couple
furnishing their home on time-payment, it wanted
to have the use of its railways while it was paying
for them. And, with an expanding economy and
an energetic, enterprising spirit pervading the land,
it was quite right.
That the borrowing ultimately got out of hand
is no argument against current acceptance of over-
seas loans. We have again a condition of an expand-
ing economy. We have full, almost overfull,
employment; immigrants are being absorbed on a
scale unknown since goldrush days and on a much
sounder basis; new industries are increasing our
future earning-powers. As in the railway-construc-
tion era, certain development is impossible without
financial help from overseas. As disclosed by the
Federal Treasurer, the greater portion of the
American loans has been spent on the purchase of
tractors, agricultural machinery, earth-moving
equipment; package power-plants, electrical equip-
ment; materials and machinery for the mining-
and forestry-industries and for the modernisation
of State railways. The 54j- million dollars of the
current loan are earmarked for similar purposes..
As to current borrowing abroad, one thing is
certain. No matter how much Federal “Labor ’
men may fulminate against it, the “Labor
Premiers will have no qualms about accepting its
fruits.


“WHO’LL COME A-WALTZING MATILDA WITH ME?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Rough Justice
Raymond E. Fitzpatrick and Frank
Courtney Browne, charged with breach
of privilege before the Privileges Com-
mittee of the Commonwealth Parliament,
were sent to prison for three months
after appearance at the Bar of the House
of Representatives. The committal had
the backing of the majority votes of the
House—ss to 12 in Fitzpatrick’s case,
55 to 11 in Browne’s.
Chief facts, stripped of sensationalism,
were as follows: After the burning and
blowing-up, in April, of the offices of the
Bankstown (Sydney) “Torch,” a paper
that had been campaigning against
certain interests in the district which it
served, Charles Morgan, M.P., Federal
member for the district, charged that the
affairs of Bankstown were dominated by
sinister interests headed by a person whom
he described as “Mr. Big,” and later
identified as Mr. Fitzpatrick. He
demanded a royal commission to inquire
into the whole matter.
Instead of supporting the demand for
inquiry, Fitzpatrick engaged a journalist
named Frank Courtney Browne at £3O
a week to —in his own words—“get
stuck into” Morgan in articles published
on April 28 and May 5, 12 and 19 in the
Bankstown “Observer” for the purpose
of silencing his accusations and demands
for investigation. Mr. Browne was later
described in the Representatives as a
specialist in “character - assassination.”
He runs a weekly newsletter called
“Things I Hear.”
The first “Observer” article alleged
that Morgan, in the company of others,
went into business at the end of the war
for the purpose of procuring the entry
of aliens into the country for a fee of £2O
a head and that false particulars were
placed on application-forms sent to
Canberra.
The action which the House of Repre-
sentatives took upon Mr. Morgan lodg-
ing a charge of contempt of Parliament
against Fitzpatrick and Browne was, as
Mr. Menzies —himself formerly a lead-
ing High Court advocate —Dr. Evatt and
Joske, Q.C., as well as the Crown Law
authorities, contended, legal and in
accordance with powers possessed under
the Constitution. The Parliament
summoned those charged before a Com-
mittee of Privilege, which acted on the
precedents of the House of Commons and
the courts. Fitzpatrick and Browne were
not treated as witnesses are commonly
treated in most courts. They were
denied counsel, and no charges were
stated against them; but this also
happens when some bankrupt is jailed
for an indeterminate term for refusing
to answer a question in court or out of
it, or refusing to disclose the whereabouts
of assets.
In examination before the privileges
committee Fitzpatrick did not deny the
charges.
MR. JOSKE: Mr. Morgan stated: “I
regard it [the attack in the articles] as a
brazen attempt to intimidate me in the
course of my public duties on behalf of
the people whom I represent.” What do
you say about that?
FITZPATRICK: That was our idea in
printing it.
MR. JOSKE: To prevent him saying
things in Parliament?
FITZPATRICK: Yes.
MR. JOSKE: Mr. Morgan then said,
“No doubt it has been caused by fears
about disclosures that will be made in
the near future as a result of inquiries
that will be set in train.” What is your
comment on that ?
FITZPATRICK: That is the burning of
the “Torch.”
MR. JOSKE: You agree that is the true
reason why it was published?
FITZPATRICK: Yes, that is so.
He agreed more than once that the
articles had been published to prevent
Morgan saying things in Parliament. He
also agreed that when he engaged Browne
he did not know in what way Browne
was going to attack Morgan. He merely
told him “to get stuck into him. That is
what I employed him for.”
The articles had said that “we will go
to Canberra and take with us the proof
of the charges against Morgan,” but
Browne had admitted that neither at the
time he wrote the articles nor at any
other time had he “any personal evidence
of the charges against Morgan.” In
fact, according to the committee, it was
clear “that a deliberate attempt had been
made to misrepresent in the mind of the
reading public the activities of Mr.
Morgan.” It reported to the House that
it was “firmly convinced that a breach of
privilege had occurred in that an attempt
had been made through the newspaper
articles to influence and intimidate a
member in his conduct in the House, and
that, further, some of the references to
the Federal Parliament in the articles
constituted a contempt of the Parliament,
which the House would best consult its
own dignity by ignoring.”
Upon the point that the two culprits
should be summoned to the Bar of the
House and punished, the House was
unanimous. When summoned, Fitz-
patrick behaved in the most abject
fashion and apologised. Browne refused
to apologise and, given every latitude,
made an attack on the Prime Minister.
Mr. Menzies submitted motions affirm-
ing the right of Parliament to declare
and exercise its power to punish offenders
in accordance with House of Commons
procedure and that the two offenders
should be imprisoned until Septem-
ber 10 or until the prorogation —which
would end the session—or dissolution of
the House or until the House should
order their discharge.
He said:
It Is a conspiracy to blackmail a
member into silence, and if that could be
done that member’s capacity to represent
his electorate to that extent would have
been destroyed. You have only to silence
enough members by that method to bring
this Parliament to impotency. Anything
that appears in the report is not qualified
or affected to the faintest degree by what
we listened to from this man Browne at
the Bar this morning. Par from seeking
to retract he gave us an exhibition of
unparalleled arrogance more than the
report may have done.... They [the
charges] were made in one case with
complete knowledge that he [Browne] had
no material to substantiate them and the
hired pen of malice could not care less.
It was a job of work to be done at £3O
a week Under these circumstances a
reprimand would be ridiculous.
The debate in Parliament was un-
expectedly dignified and proper, with
the exception of a typical outburst by Mr.
Cal well. There was unanimous agree-
ment that punishment should be inflicted,
the only major difference of opinion
being as to whether, as moved by Dr.
Evatt in an amendment, a fine would
not meet the case. No doubt on this
point the Government would have given
way if it had not been advised that a fine,
upon precedent, was not legally
possible. .
Browne and Fitzpatrick are now in
custody, having lodged an application for
habeas corpus to the Canberra Supreme
Court.
Parliament, many people will consider,
has dealt out rough justice to a couple
of rough characters. And it will be
hoped that other methods, more in keep-
ing with present-day judicial procedure,
will be devised in order to deal with any
future cases of contempt or breach of
privilege. Also that Parliament in future
will itself do more to maintain its own
dignity.
But there are other aspects of the whole
matter that still need considering.
Accusations have been made concern-
ing affairs in which Fitzpatrick is in-
volved which affect an ever-widening
ring of persons in high places. The
evidence placed before the Committee
of Privileges is said, truly or falsely, to
have been of a “startling nature.” Mr.
Bourke, who was a member of the com-
mittee, told Parliament that “the evidence
gives facts disclosing a most appalling
and serious situation in this country.
One of these is about graft and gangster-
ism among public men in high places in
our community.” Mr. Morgan said that
the real culprits behind Fitzpatrick were
in high places and included one in a high
judicial position.
The Commonwealth Government prob-
ably has its own plans, and may have
felt it wise, in view of pending investiga-
tion, not to table the charges at the
present stage. Or perhaps it feels it fair
to give the N. S. Wales Government a
chance to deal with the matter, especially
since some of Mr. Morgan’s charges in
the House on May 10 against Fitzpatrick
referred specifically to the New South
Wales Housing Commission.
Whatever the Commonwealth knows,
the primary onus of inquiry seems to
rest on Mr. Cahill. And he will not
be able to escape from his responsibility
in the matter as easily as he did from
the task of inquiring into the charges
made last year against the police in
respect of the alleged hushing-up by them
of charges at Inverell.
Premiers Should Wake Up
The High Court having declared invalid
the Premiers’ hasty legislation following
the Privy Council’s freeing of inter-
state road-transport from State restric-
tions, the Premiers have had a lot to say
about the need for States to impose levies
on road-transport to help pay for the
upkeep of roads.
That need was never denied. But from
the inception of State road-transport
taxation 25 years ago until the past few
months nothing was ever said about the
revenue being used for roads. The taxes
and restrictions were not for the good of
roads. They were designed and imple-
mented (and often savagely implemented)
to ( a ) force land-transport of goods on
to State railways, ( b ) penalise both car-
riers and shippers who preferred roads
to railways, and (c) bolster railway
finances by paying over the road-tax to
railway revenue.
They got away with it because of a
wrong High Court decision in 1933 which
imposed a precedent on succeeding
decisions. And they got away with it for
so many years that they thought it could
go on for ever. But a properly-presented
appeal to the Privy Council inevitably
righted the persisting wrong and threw
the Premiers back on the ill-considered
and hasty legislation which the High
Court invalidated last week.
The trouble is that these State Parlia-
ments have become restriction-minded in
regard to road-transport. They are
haunted by railway deficits and railway-
managers. They have taken millions in
road-tax money and handed it to the
railways, which did nothing to earn it
and which, feeling safe behind the now-
destroyed State legislation, doddered along
with little or no efforts to modernise the
service.
Their blood be on their own wooden
heads. Their restriction policies hampered
transport in a time of great transport
development, helped to ruin the roads by
making outlaws of heavy road-transport
men, and loaded the economy with
enormous transport costs.
Well, they should think hard now.
There is a very strong case for making
road-transport operators contribute to
the upkeep of roads. Neither the Privy
Council nor the High Court opposed that
case. What they refused to countenance
was the penal taxation of private trans-
port in favor of Government transport.
If the States choose to work out an
equitable system of taxation of road-
upkeep, as distinct from restrictive taxes
in favor of railways, private-transport
operators will support it. They’ve said
so, over and over again. They get no
benefit from battered roads. What Aus-
tralia wants from the States is co-opera-
tion in transport, not restriction, and that
is the only way the railways can be saved
from utter ruin.
A Ram Is Sold
Any thought of the Australian wool
income making a sudden fall ought to
have been dismissed by the new fc record of
6000gns. paid for a Bundemar Merino
ram at the Sydney ram sales. Along with
this went the wider competition and
greater numbers of buyers at the sales
than in recent years.
Woolgrowers have had a bit of a carni-
val since the war. Sometimes they’ve
been criticised for buying costly motor-
cars, expensive trips abroad and so forth,
as though anybody else who had the
money wouldn’t do the same thing.
But neither the breeders nor the buyers,
evidently, have lost sight of the main
thing—which is to keep on improving the
nation’s best income-earner. The record
price, as well as the lesser prices and the
wide buying, are encouraging. There was
a lot more in the quip, “Cripes, a man’d
have to win a N.S.W. lottery to buy a
ram,” than appeared. For one thing, it
means that those in the wool-industry
mean to keep Australia the leading wool
nation.
Max Meldrum
“M.G.S.”: Max Meldrum, dead at
80 in Melbourne, was the greatest
single influence in Australian art, both as
painter and teacher.
How he came to be so is a strange
story. Born in Scotland, he arrived in
Australia at 14. His parents were Ration-
alists, with the Rationalists’ scepticism of
conventional authority and also with a
strong belief in their son’s uniqueness.
When he went to the National Gallery in
Melbourne he brought this sceptical atti-
tude to his teachers; and, although he
learnt what they had to teach him very
quickly and won a travelling scholarship
with a picture which was as like the usual
product of the successful student of that
academy as it is possible to imagine, and
which he subsequently allowed his pupils
to paint-over, his belief in his ability to
find his own way through the maze of
art was so complete that he said at his
farewell dinner in 1900: “I know I know
nothing about art. I hope to learn some-
thing about it in Europe.”
At Julien’s academy in Paris he recog-
nised the same conventions of which he
had been sceptical at the National Gal-
lery, and he quickly left it. There were
two real authorities teaching in Paris at
that time —Rodin and Whistler —but he
did not go to them. He visited the Louvre
and there he was confronted by old mas-
ters whom he had been conditioned to
revere just as much as any academician,
but he was not sceptical of them because
they had universal prestige and because
it was in his family’s tradition, apart
from any understanding, to approve of
Velasquez, just as they approved of Corot,
a master as great as Velasquez.
In the face of his contemporaries he
was far from humble, but in the face of
these great masters he was humble in the
sense that he believed in his capacity
eventually to understand them. So he
could stand in front of a picture by
Velasquez and say: “This master knows.
All I know is that I know nothing.”
He set to work with enormous industry
and devotion to find out how Velasquez
and Corot had achieved effects which he
could see were much more like Nature
than his own pictures, and he started to
paint in their manner; but it was not at
this time that he hit on his idea of the
analytical approach to painting, and the
scale he worked out which, though far
from perfect, enabled him to measure the
relationship within a particular field of
vision. This, one of the great contribu-
tions made to art, came about later.
It was when he came back to Mel-
bourne in 1913 and set up his school at
the back of the Palace Theatre that it
happened. Whereas so many of his
friends were trying to attain to the latest
fashion, he was trying to attain to Nature’s
accent, and it was in endeavoring to
answer his pupils’ questions and solve
their problems that he hit upon his
method. He always said that he learned
to paint from his pupils. The popular
objection to him at that time that all his
pupils painted alike was actually compli-
mentary to him, since the accent he
essayed to teach was Nature’s. He was as
completely indifferent to fulfilling current
fashions or the critics as he was passion-
ately anxious to fulfil Nature. It is this,
and this alone, which makes him the most
modem of all painters—Nature is never
out of fashion. A remark he was fond
of repeating was Corot’s: “When I am
out in the fields, I am seized with rage
against my pictures.”
He returned to Europe for a second
visit, came back about 1930, and, except
for a lecture-tour of America, for the rest
of his fife lived in Melbourne, where he
turned out scores of pupils, won the Archi-
bald Prize twice, became a National Gal-
lery trustee, painted many distinguished
portraits, dozens of self-portaits, upset the
tradition of Australian landscape, and
was gazing from his bed at one of his
latest pictures when I last saw him.
A man of Meldrum’s quality seldom
appears more than once in a generation
(if so often), and Australia is fortunate
to have acquired him. The fact that his
voice has scarcely been heard of late
years above the din of contemporary
fashions doesn’t lessen the importance of
his contribution.
Russia's Cover Tactics
It is reported from Paris that Molotov
has agreed to a meeting of the Four-
Power Conference in Geneva on July
18-21, though there is likely to be no final
decision pending the gathering to cele-
brate the tenth anniversary of the United
Nations later this month at San Francisco.
Khrushchev apparently feels that Molo-
tov is a better envoy than himself in the
West and has entrusted the arrangements
to him despite the fact that in all previ-
ous major negotiations within the past
year—those with the Chinese, the Powers
in Eastern Europe and the Yugoslavs
he has had little part.
Meanwhile, there is no let-up in Russian
diplomatic intrigue. The invitation of
Nehru to Moscow has been followed by
overtures aimed afresh to draw India into
the Communist camp. Bulganin has
smoothly suggested “concerted action by
China, India and Russia to end tension in
Formosa” and made the startling declara-
tion that it was these three nations which
had succeeded in achieving peace in
Korea and Indo-China.
Flattery is a potent weapon with the
Indian, and Nehru’s response in which he
“congratulated the Soviet Government on
having done so much during the past year
for the removal of tension in the world
proves either his innocence or his guile.
At the present juncture, with the Four-
Power Conference looming, the Indian be-
havior is disquieting in the extreme, and
the alleged reported invitation of Nehru
to Khrushchev and Bulganin to visit
India, if it is a fact, is disturbing. The two
countries seem to be coming closer to-
gether every day.
Any plans for the defence of the Indian
Ocean can obviously be made by the West
only upon the premise that India will
( Continued, on next page)


either be so weak that it will be no help
against Russia, that it will be a neutral
friendly to Russia, or that it will be a base
for Russian control of the sea- and air-
routes from Europe to Australia and the
Far East.
It is very difficult to believe that Nehru
seriously has any faith in Russia’s
attempts to ease tension within the past
year. They include renewed essays to put
pressure on Southern Indo-China and to
infiltrate Siam and Malaya, strikes in a
narrow ambit of key unions through the
English-speaking world which affect
transport and defence and which look
like rehearsals for war-time practice, the
establishment of a defence bloc in
Eastern Europe which amounts virtually
to an annexation of the countries involved,
continual threats to Turkey and moves to
surround it, and renewed spying activities
as revealed by several defections of Soviet
Union officials and by such trials as those
which recently took place in Sweden.
And, lastly, the announcement, on the
verge of the Four-Power conference, of
the proposal to create by conscription an
East Germany Army.
All that is happening illustrates the
difference between Western and Eastern
approach to negotiation. So soon as the
Russians show the slightest inclination to
confer, the British and American press
and many politicians in both countries
show a tendency to accept the fact as a
step towards Kremlin surrender ; whereas
the Russians use each new agreement for
talks as cover for new encroachments and
Communist advances in the world sphere.
POLITICAL POINTS
While Canberra was having its most
dramatic day for years, Cahill’s Parlia-
ment was conveniently in recess. And
while Federal “Labor” members were
alleging once again that “high officials”
and a N. S. Wales judge were behind
Fitzpatrick, the N. S. Wales Premier and
the N. S. Wales Attorney-General main-
tained a complete silence.
• •
Morgan, spoke of “people in
high places” (in N. S. Wales) and of “the
real culprits, some of whom were holding
high positions and one a judicial position.”
Calwell, commenting that Fitzpatrick had
made his money by corruption, “in
N. S. Wales particularly,” added that
“quite a number of persons who were
forced to high office have been involved.”
Bourke, who was a member of the Privi-
leges Committee which heard the evidence
of Morgan, Fitzpatrick and Browne, and
who asked the Government to table the
whole file, spoke of “graft, corruption,
and gangsterism among public men in
high places in our community.” He
urged the Federal Government to ask the
N. S. Wales Government to confer on it
the powers necessary to appoint a Com-
monwealth royal commission with ex-
tended powers. So far, no word from
Cahill or Sheahan.
• •
The new Victorian Parliament meets
today for the first time. After a two-day
sitting to secure Supply, it will adjourn
until September. Premier Bolte
announced his full Cabinet last week.
Upper House Ministers will have to face
re-election on Saturday.
• •
Alderman Bartley has examined the
accounts for the £8027 voyage of dis-
covery a Sydney City Council delegation
made to America, and is “struck with its
moderation.” As the whole trip was quite
unnecessary, the only moderate thing
about it was that only seven aldermen
went and not the whole bang lot.
• •
Tipsters are again prophesying Attlee’s
retirement. They’ve been at it almost
continually since 1945, and they’ll have
to be right some day. Current rumor
says he will step down at the party’s
annual conference in October, with
Gaitskell most likely to replace him as a
compromise choice between Morrison
and Bevan. Attlee is 72.
• •
Queensland New Staters are calling a
convention at Mareeba (N.Q.) for August
6 and 7. Object: To create a central
organising body to get on with the job
of getting self-government for that “area
of Queensland north of the 22nd paral-
lel.” South of the parallel, the Gair boys
are a bit too busy sorting out their own
“movement” to worry about stirs in the
North. Which is another argument in
favor of the new State.
Townsville “Daily Bulletin” says that
if the people of North Queensland desire
a new State “the present State Govern-
ment has no moral right to frustrate their
ambitions.” But since when has a
Queensland Government worried about
moral rights?
• •
With 70,000 engine-drivers and fire-
men on strike and Britain in a state of
transport chaos, one striker appealed to
the strike committee to be allowed to
work, saying that his wife had threatened
to strike if he stayed out. Permission
was granted Now, if Britain only had
enough Lysistratas!
• •
The mystery of why traffic-authorities
keep sending “experts” abroad to study
traffic-laws and similar things is now
explained. So long as you have someone
abroad your answer to requests for im-
provements is always ready: “As soon as
we have studied the report of So-and-so
we will formulate a policy on parking”
(or whatever it may be).
• •
Calwell has a long memory. Forty
years or so ago American “Life” pub-
lished a cartoon showing a fed-up rooster
leaning against a barn-door and ruminat-
ing, “What’s the use? An egg today—
a feather-duster tomorrow.” Speaking on
the bill to increase. Federal members’
pensions he said the public was fickle and
members were “roosters today, and
feather-dusters tomorrow.” Some, of
course, become vacuums.
• •
Final position of parties in the Vic-
torian election: L.C.P., 34 ; C.P., ID;
Cain Labor, 20 ; Barry Labor, 1 ; Progres-
sive Labor, 1. The only difference be-
tween this result and the estimate given
here just after the election is that the
L.C.P. gained the single seat (Elstern-
wick) then conceded to the Hollway
Liberals.
Closest contests were in Bendigo, won
by Stanistreet (L.C.P.), by 12 votes;
Prahran, by Loxton (L.C.P.), by 14;
Brunswick West, by Turnbull (Cain
Labor), 82, and Oakleigh, by Doube
(Cain Labor), 205.
• •
Strange how often it happens in close
contests that the loser slips further be-
hind in the recount. Former Chief Sec-
retary Galvin is the latest to have the
WHISTLING KETTLE
experience. In the first count Stani-
street (L.C.P.) beat him in Bendigo by
two votes. In the recount the margin
was 12.
• •
With only a fortnight of the financial
year to run it seems that last year’s Budget
surplus of £56 million may be exceeded.
Income-tax, sales-tax and Customs-
revenue are all well above the estimates,
and defence-expenditure is a long way
down.
• •
“Sydney Morning Herald” (10/6/’55):
Parliament is properly jealous of its
rights, dignity and privileges.
Hon. E. J. Ward, M.H.R., quoted in
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” 10/6/’55:
You are just a low, yellow cur, that is
all you are, you sanctimonius humbug.
Get over on your right side, you rat!
Ah, yes, dignity!
• •
If Sydney health- or food-inspectors
like to check-up now on peanuts-in-the-
shell on sale in suburban shops they’ll
find many cases of weevilly and grubby
stocks quite unfit for human consumption.
• •
A trainload of cattle last week passed
over the Brachina r Stirling North (S.A.)
standard-gauge line, the longest stretch
of railway to be constructed in Australia
for many years. The new link replaces
the southern end of the Port Augusta-
Alice Springs line and skirts the western
side of the Flinders Range. It will
speed-up transport of stock from Marree
and of coal from Leigh Creek.
If it is true that the tape-recording of
l the Fitzpatrick-Browne proceedings has
been destroyed by official order, then
someone has blundered badly. Debates
are not customarily recorded, but at least
the first 80 minutes of Friday’s proceed-
ings were. In view of the importance of
the issue and the intense public interest,
it would seem elementary to have
rebroadcast the recording in the time
usually allotted by A.B.C. to Question
Time.
• •
British archaeologists have been investi-
gating some Stone Age barrows. It had
not previously been supposed that city
councils had such a long history.
# •
H. R. Clarke, of the N.S.W. State
Council of the Liberal Party, was quoted
by the party as saying, in regard to
rabbit-infestation, that “the biggest
offender was the Cahill Government,
which did not destroy rabbits on Crown
lands.” Said rabbits, of course, are des-
cendants of rabbits which lived under the
Stevens-Bruxner-Mair Government, which
did not destroy rabbits on Crown lands.
• •
To counter the abuse of liquor by
Sunday “bona fides” it is proposed to
extend the traveller limit from a 20-mile
radius of Melbourne to sixty or a hun-
dred miles. This isn’t likely to reduce the
abuse of beer much, but it will certainly
promote the use of petrol.
• •
“F.S.”: Camp Pell, the worst slum
officialdom has ever perpetuated in Mel-
bourne, is to be removed to the Zoo to
house monkeys. The monks at least will
be sure of interested attention and super-
vision ; they are Salk-vaccine monkeys
from Malaya.
• •
Aided by promptings from the Oppo-
sition lobbies, a few Canberra roundsmen
described an innocent meeting of the
Government mining-committee (no con-
nection with underground-engineering) as
a gathering of back-bench “rebels.” Some
of the members concerned later denied it
in the House ; others made their explana-
tion privately. The mistake may have
been natural in the state of affairs during
the week it was made, but newsmen should
check their observations more fully next
time. A private member’s whole politi-
cal career might be prejudiced by such a
report —though there have been cases
where “rebels” have been silenced in the
most effective way. Wasn’t Calwell a
most vocal critic of the Curtin Govern-
ment until he was invited into Cabinet?
• •
It’s not only in Australia that the Com-
munists view events through red-colored
and distorting glasses. A leader of the
Ceylon Communist party, a Pieter Keune-
man, holds that the Conservative victory-
in Britain was due to the Labor party not
giving any alternative choice to the British
voter. “If they had put forward a final
policy for peace and post-war recon-
struction,” said Keuneman, “they could
have rallied the voters and defeated the
Tories.” Sure thing, Comrade!
• •
“Mugga Way”: Poor old Eddie! Just
as things seemed set for the deputy-
leadership, and he was blushing modestly
the pat on the back bestowed by
the Doc. after the Vic. election, Federal
A.L.P. executive decided that domestic
matters likely to cause a split should not
be discussed by caucus. The reprieve for
Calwell meant gnawing frustration for
Ward. The question is whether the
veneer of unity can be kept intact until
election-time, either late this year or
early next. Nothing, of course, is likely
to heal x the division between Evatt
“Labor” and the “Anti-Corns,” which
in itself will be sufficient to ensure over-
whelming defeat for “Labor.”
• 4
A permanent National Disasters Fund
is to be established in N.S.W. It is not
for the purpose of pensioning-off ex-
ploded politicians.
• •
“In the ACT”: Frequent official refer-
ences to the discovery and exploitation of
possible deposits of uranium and other
precious minerals in the Antarctic and
inspired suggestions that planes may take
the “short route” across the South Pole
to somewhere or other have not
impressed Professor Griffith Taylor, now
living in Sydney preparing to make a
gift of valuable Antarctic records and
journals to the National Library in Can-
berra. He says he can’t imagine a less
hopeful area in which to seek uranium,
when there is all the west and north of
Australia available. Up there the rocks
are old enough, and there isn’t a burden
of 6000 ft. of ice over 90 per cent, of the
land. The prof, also says that, while
planes may usefully fly close to the North
Pole, he cannot see any short route,
between places of note, crossing the South
Pole. Finally, while research in Antarctica
is so valuable in many fields of science,
such as meteorology, radio, geology,
geography and so on, it seems a pity
to introduce unwarranted claims con-
cerning uranium and South Polar air-
routes.
• •
Storey, chairman of the Immigration
Planning Council and a member of the
Joint War Production Committee, told
a commercial organisation the other day
that the J.W.P.C. now knew “exactly
what was needed to place the country on
a war basis.” Sure, a nice big war!
• •
“Button, button! Who’s got the
button?” seems to have become the
Sydney theme-song. Hardly a Friday
passes without an invasion of the city by
armies of button-sellers working for this
or that charity. Sometimes they appear
on other weekdays as well. It’s become
too hot even for the United Charities
Fund, which concludes that the public is
getting a bit tired of it.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
A CRAZE that hasn’t swept the big
cities —yet—is marching-displays by
young women ; but it’s going strong in
northern parts of N.S.W. With head-
quarters at Tamworth, the Australian
Girls’ Marching Association has just held
its annual conference in Newcastle.
Representatives from Victoria, S.A. and
W.A., together with N.S.W. delegates
from Tamworth, Newcastle, Bathurst and
Nowra, hammered out a constitution and
discussed other matters. The girls,
dressed in colorful uniforms and behind
brass bands, provide a brilliant spectacle
in displays of precision-marching and
counter-marching. The Cessnock lasses
hold the N.S.W. championship. The
Hunter Valley champs. (Stockton Ambas-
sadors) will compete in the W-A. cham-
pionships in Perth next November. —
“Jock.”
♦♦♦ ❖ *X*
“Freddie (II)”': “Macnell’s” thumbnail-
sketch of the sinking of Scharnhorst (B.
18/5/’55) brings to mind a lower-deck
comment I got first-hand from Charles
Addis, then captain of Sheffield, which
took part in the action. His first
sleep after the party was terminated by
the arrival of his steward with the morn-
ing cuppa. By way of making conversa-
tion the captain remarked, “Well, Smith,
what did you think of the firework-
display? We helped to make naval history
last night.” The steward thought deeply,
sucked his teeth and replied as one who
“Maybe it's because I used baby-wool .”
humors a questioning infant: “Makes a
change, sir.” Charles’s comment: “I had
been brought up to believe that one had
to go to the ex-university Englishman
for the masterly understatement; from
now onwards I plump for the lower
deck.”
£4 £4 *jt
“Tinkle”: The highlight of his brief
journalistic experience in London is the
dance he had with the Duchess of Kent.
That night, he recalls, she wore little bell-
like ear-rings that tinkled as she danced.
“Maitri”: The proposal to call the
space in front of the N.S.W. Conserva-
itorium “Melba Place” reminds me of a
visit the diva paid to that institution
somewhere in the ’twenties when Henri
Verbrugghen presided. In those days, be
it remembered, there seemed to be more
respect than now for the great. To us, as
his students, Verbrugghen was little less
than a god, was considered to be just as
unapproachable, and had the glamor of
a modern film-star. The visit was ended ;
the director escorted the Dame to her car,
and, as her lips parted, we strained our
ears for the pearls we hoped to hand
on to our grandchildren. Then she spoke
in a deep bass voice. “So long, mate!”
she boomed, stepped into the car and was
whisked away.
♦♦♦ <4 ♦>
“B. A. Ker”: The “Society” scribe who
recently conjectured upon the reaction of
old-time Aussie pugs in Valhalla when
the news reached them that two New
Australians fought for the middleweight
championship of Australia should hope
that a handbill put out by a suburban
stadium never floats heavenwards.
One par. reads: “Vedete-i-Puglisti-
Italiani-in-Azione Middleweight Cham-
pion (campione d’Australia d’ei pesi medi)
Carlo Marchini will box.” If that doesn’t
cause some thick-eared spectres to come
haunting the place, then the theory that
anguished phantoms become earth-bound
is up the spout.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tasma Jun.”: Pronunciation of
proper - names by A.B.C. announcers
brings the critics into print from time to
time, and lately one of the censorious
tribe has been condemning the use of the
final vowel in the name “Bolte.” The
family of that name whom I used to know
invariably called themselves “Bolty,” and
other families of my acquaintance whose
signature ended in “e” also pronounced
that letter, although names like “Forde”
and “Woode” carry it for adornment
only. In Victoria the town of Moe sounds
as Mo-e; on the other hand, in Biblical
reading “Cyrene” is pronounced both
ways, in accordance with an old rule that
when it’s read in Greek the Greek pro-
nunciation is taken, but when in the Eng-
lish translation the Anglicised form is
used. A girl, of course, may choose to be
Irenee or Ireen, as a matter of taste; but
some names do give announcers a head-
ache. An ex-Mayor of Launceston whose
name is Thyne comes over the air occa-
sionally as “Thin” —he pronounces it
Thine. I’ve heard Wycheproof, in the
Victorian Mallee, given as “Wikeproof,”
and Winnaleah (accent on the third syl-
lable) hiding itself under “Win-a/e-eah.”
Launceston has a “My-street” which
sometimes becomes lengthened out into
“May-street” when a man with English
accent gets on to it; but taken on the
whole the A.B.C. announcers don’t do so
bad a job.
❖ ♦>
“Dicky”: The A.B.C. news-reader has
just announced that a shipload of “hand-
packed migrants” has arrived at Cairns.
❖ ♦> *
“Motuku”: Modem everyday English
is not, as the Presbyterian “Shorter
Catechism” claims to be, “for the young
and for those of weaker intellect,” clut-
tered as it is with hundreds of unneces-
sary, long and complicated terms. So
young Betty does not go up and down in
lifts or on moving stairs, but in “alliga-
tors” and on “espirators.” Also, there
was Bill, from Mole Creek, in camp with
the Ack-acks on the Derwent. Bill came
bursting out of the gas-chamber, cough-
ing and spluttering. In reply to the
Surge’s “What’s wrong, Bill?” he gasped,
“Me ruddy escalator’s crook!” Weeks
later, when the alarm-bell rang at
dawn, with a lone Nip plane circling
round somewhere above the cloud-ceiling,
“Was that your Daddy ?”
Bill dashed out to his position on the gun
regimentally naked, wearing a lot of hair,
identity-disk, tin-hat and “ruddy escala-
tor.” His only reply to the ribald remarks
of some of the gunners who had a little
more on was, “A pity risibility’s so damn’
crook!”
❖ ❖
“R.H.W.”: If it was a great shock
when a Sydney magistrate announced
from the bench that out of every five
prisoners brought before him for the use
of the knife, four were Old Australians,
and only one a New Australian, it was
also curiously consoling. If one is to be
knifed, how much pleasanter to be knifed
by an Old Australian —and how cheering
to think he is being weaned off the broken
bottle!
♦> ❖
“Hewi”: On a recent visit to Canberra
thought I might know some of the
scribblers on the Australian-American
Memorial (“Ecilat,” B. 11/5/ ’55). I didn’t
get close enough to see the writing
because the site was already occupied.
Behind the obelisk, Dad, Mum and the
kids were washing dishes and packing
the caravan while the washing dried on
the line Dad had strung up. Maybe they
couldn’t read the prominent notices
requesting reverence, but the cement flag-
stones would keep the mud off their shoes.
* ❖ *X+
“Doynest”: Sorry, “Muskeen” (B.
1/6/’55), but the student ticket-scalpers
who sold seats for the college play at a
handsome profit do attend a Victorian
public-school. As an old boy of the
school, I feel reluctant to reveal its
identity, but must add in its defence that
it has produced a host of scholars and
two of the leading figures in the present
Federal Cabinet. I should like to think
that the particular form in which the
lads displayed their business acumen
would be severely frowned upon by the
school authorities if it came under their
notice, but modern education has its own
method, which, like the peace of God,
passeth understanding.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Muskeen”: The Melbourne Club (B.
1/6/’55) at one time excluded from
membership anyone connected with busi-
ness, but judging by the lists of proposed
new members that are circulated to mem-
bers from time to time any reputable
business- or professional-man who can
find a proposer and seconder is acceptable
today. The Yorick Club is one that has
departed completely from the ideas of its
founders, one of whom was Marcus
Clarke, who was also its first secretary.
It was started in 1868 by Clarke and some
dozen literary friends, and the 64 original
members included Adam Lindsay Gordon
and Henry Kendall. During the depres-
sion years the Yorick absorbed the ex-
public-school members of the Harlequin
Club, and it is doubtful whether there is
one literary member in the club today.
Nevertheless, I consider the club the most
pleasant in Melbourne, and its members
the most friendly and congenial, thus
carrying on the tradition of its founders.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Kune”: Next to go of the 38 old-
fashioned hydraulic passenger-lifts still in
service in Sydney buildings is a 55-year-
old rope-operated specimen in the Works
and Local Government head-offices at the
comer of Phillip-street and Bridge-street,
where workmen are installing two modem
lifts. There’s something sad about the
inevitable doom of all these old rope-
crawlers. Most of them boast interior
trappings which, in sharp contrast to the
cell-like nakedness of modem lifts,
create an atmosphere of personal relaxa-
tion, even cosiness. The Works Depart-
ment’s old lift, with its all-cedar and
ornate woodwork, its many-mirrored
walls and long seat (like those in parks),
is a notable example. In these surround-
ings you can’t but feel you’re riding in
luxury and comfort —which, indeed, you
are.
€« *i* ►>
“Zorok”: Reported that one Eustace
Burnett, aged 76, of Melton Mowbray
(Eng.), hasn’t slept for 46 years. He
began to wean himself from the drug of
sleep when 28 and has been using this
borrowed time to read 28,000 books and
50,000 magazines. What puzzles me is
what happens when he reads some long
dull, tedious novel like, say, Anthony
Adverse or From Here to Eternity, which
in places inevitably and literally puts
you to sleep. What would be Eustaces
physical reaction to boredom?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Feng-Shui”: It is rather amusing to
find Pandit Nehru, the disciple of Gandhi,
compelled to use force to suppress horror-
comics along the lines of recent British
legislation. For scenes of violence the
frescoes in Buddhist temples depicting
the incredible torments that lie in wait
in the Buddhist hell for sinners whose
worst crime is burning a piece of paper
with writing on it are quite up to the
standard of the most lurid of our comics.
Like Christ, Sakyamuni preached love,
but his followers aren’t any better at prac-
tising it than some Christians. However,
the ferocious aspects of their religion
don’t seem to have made the Indian
people any more ferocious than other
people—so it is difficult to see why horror-
comics should.
DIDDLE-DIDDLE
“On the inaugural Sydney-Amsterdam polar
flight, Sydney’s Lord Mayor, Alderman Hills,
took a koala-bear from Dutch settlers for
presentation in Holland. Two days later
N. S. Wales ‘Labor’ Cabinet decided not to
revoke Sydney street-barrowmen’s licences.”
Heigh-diddle-diddle, the cat and the
fiddle,
The Mayor flew over the Pole;
The barrowmen laughed to see such sport
And the cauliflower danced with the
sole.
l
For the Sydney wheelbarrow in streets,
long and narrow
Will never be driven from there
Though native bears fly in the polar-
bear’s sky,
Rushing with Hills through the air.
Alas, fruits of “Labor” for voter and
neighbor
Are not of the street-barrow kind:
They’re withered and small in the front
of the stall —
But the spoils are still served from
behind.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A SYDNEY factory has received a
letter from a Canadian firm asking
for quotations for its products, the final
paragraph of which reads, “Please reply
in the English language.”—“Doric.”
*2* »!♦
“Moorapi”: I’m with Mr. Menzies
when he says that “Waltzing Matilda” is
a splendid and stirring tune despite the
low morality of its hero, but that our
anthem is really “God Save the Queen.”
But when he condemns “Advance Aus-
tralia Fair” as jingle, does he remember
what has been said about “God Save the
Queen” itself? It made its debut as a
patriotic song with the title “God Save
Great George Our King,” warbled by
Mrs. Cibber at Drury Lane in 1745 when
the Jacobites were marching on London.
From then onwards it has suffered severe
criticism. W. S. Gilbert said there wasn’t
a convincing line in it. “If I were king,”
scoffed Professor Saintsbury, “I’d be
ashamed of it.” The fishmongers of
London contemptuously set their own
fishy words to it and bellowed it in the
market. In spite of these and many other
assaults, the stately old melody still throbs
through history, the first and the model
of all national anthems.
“Moab”: Apropos reference by the
Prime Minister to the actions of the hero
of “Waltzing Matilda,” I recall a quip in
the “Palestine News,” a British Army
newspaper published about Christmas,
1917, when the Tommies captured
Jerusalem:
Tommy: “I hear the Australian Light Horse
have occupied Bethlehem.” .
Atkins: “I bet the shepherds watched their
flocks that night.”
*X* ❖ *>
“Villefair”: This year being the cen-
tenary of Australian railways, the first
iron-horse is to be brought forth from
pasture in the Sydney Technical College
Museum to re-run the initial course
from Sydney to Parramatta. The veteran
still carries the maker’s nameplate:
“George Stephenson & Co.” Actually,
she’s now something of a compo-
site: to restore her to working
order it was necessary to rob
a sister of hers of some parts.
On her historic run she took
exactly 40 minutes for the
journey. According to the
current timetable, a train skip-
ping all suburban stations
should do the trip in 35
minutes. Actually, the average
workman’s-train rarely does it
in less than 45.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Dick Turpin”: “Tock
Emma’s” story about the 20th
Battalion and the Stokes-
mortars (B. 1/6/’55) leaves
out the most galling incident.
After the raid on May 5 the
battalion failed to report to
Second Div. h.q. the fact that
the German raiding-party had
not only captured the Stokes-
mortars but 11 prisoners as well,
including a company - com-
mander. Divisional headquarters framed
its report to G.H.Q. accordingly, and
first news of the disaster was obtained
when Second British Army h.q. moni-
tored the German radio-communique.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mullum”: I struck a female barber
(B. 18/5/’55) in an inner suburb of
Sydney, and took a chance. The hair-
cut was good, but when it came to shaving
my neck I noticed that she did not strop
the razor before starting the job. At the
first slice I realised that it had not been
stropped since her husband or son, or
whoever did that chore for her, had left
in the morning.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: Ads. for the almost
extinct species “female secretary” con-
tinue to vie with each other in fulsome
welcome. The one that nearly caused
me to drop the dish-mop, and ten years
or so, and fly to the phone, began: “A
job in a thousand is vacant,” went on:
“The salary is high, and a month’s search
wouldn’t find a better job,” and ended
meekly: “The young lady should be
capable of compiling her own letters.”
No mention of shorthand, typing or
spelling. When I bashed an office type-
writer for a living, a minimum of 60
words a minute in typing and 120 w.p.m.
in shorthand was demanded; also tact,
initiative, a smart appearance and an
encyclopaedic fund of general knowledge,
for all of which qualifications a salary of
30s. per week was grudgingly offered, and
gratefully received. A private-secretary-
ship at £2 10s. a week was achieved only
by the smoothest and most super-efficient
of our toiling sisterhood. Hours? Nine
till six, Monday to Friday, and nine till
one, Saturdays. And if you couldn’t go
“ Good gracious, Mr. Fostar! I thought you Were on holidays !”
without afternoon-tea, that was 3d. a
day out of your pay-envelope!
* ++♦
“Visidex”: There’s a new sex-problem
in England. According to a provincial
paper’s report of a school meeting of
parents and teachers one speaker said:
“I contend that you cannot treat sex as a
scientific subject as it is at the school.
Call it science and the children will want
to experiment. I believe there has been
some trouble with this already.” But
surely this is the archetype of the rose
that by any other name . . .
“In business , Miss Wotherspoon, it's not who you are,
but what you’ve got.”
“Bo”: Butch is a noted bull-artist with
his customers, and his wares are never
less than superlative. So that when the
woman on the other side of the counter
hoped that the set of brains she had
ordered were fresh his eyebrows shot up
almost into his hair. “Fresh! ” exclaimed
the leather-merchant in a pained voice.
“Why, they’re still thinking!”
“A.L.D.”: A hotel with a long history
changed hands with the sale for about
£67,000 of the Camden Inn, Camden
(N.S.W.). It had been in the same family
66 years.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zake”: After long exposure to
speakers at public meetings (I speak not
of the hustings) I have at last settled
upon what constitutes the ultimate in
self-confidence. It is not the complete
elimination of “ers,” “urns” and “ahs”
from the speech, not an absence of stam-
mering when an interjector bowls up a
real curly one, not getting flustered when
a woman (who can’t be shot out) refuses
to be silenced. No. The acme of self-
faith has been achieved when the speaker
is able to pause, calmly pour himself out
a glass of water from the bottle on the
table, slowly irrigate his tonsils and, after
setting down the glass, pick up the threads
of his speech without batting an eyelid.
Most speakers I have heard, though obvi-
ously as dry as a wowser’s wedding,
regard the carafe of water alongside
them as they would a black-snake.
♦++
“Jock”: Mowbray House School at
Chatswood (Sydney) has closed down
after half a century of service, and its
veteran headmaster (Lionel Bavin,
8.A.) has gone into retirement.
The school chapel is one of the
oldest buildings north of the
Harbor, and a committee has
been formed to plan its removal,
stone by stone, to another site,
preferably on Church of England
property. The chapel was built in
1875 as a School of Arts. For
some years it did service as the offices
of Willoughby Municipal Council.
$
“Willie Nillie”: The argument arose
at the Sunday family dinner as to whether
the vowel in the “Rolls” of the motor-
firm is long or short. One member
quoted a scholarly Englishman as autho-
rity for the short. Mother finished it.
“That,” she argued—she is only 93, mark
you—“would be only his Oxcent.”
“Doric”: One revolutionary result of
the two World Wars is the practical
elimination of the wearing of mourning.
Op to the early part of this century, even
small children were dressed in deep black
af ter a death in the family. Enlightened
people now recognise that one can grieve
without advertising. Would seem that
so °n the Royal Family will be the only
ones to carry on the tradition.
*** *** ***
pENANG, where Australian troops are
A to go, was founded by Captain
Light, father of Colonel Light, founder
of Adelaide. There is a Malay pantun
about it:
Pulau Pinang menjadi pasar,
Kapitan Light menjadi rajah,
which means that Penang, a frowsy little
fishing-village, has become a great
market and Captain Light is its master;
the remaining two lines, as is the way
with the pantun, are sentimental refer-
ences to the sad feelings of a lover who
has lost his mistress.
Light, an East India Company’s ser-
vant, married a Portuguese-Malay girl
named Rosells. There was much of his
determination in Colonel Light, whose
statue stands in King William-street,
Adelaide (it, however, is a very academic
portrait). Captain Light had to fight his
employers for his belief that the island
would become a bastion of the Empire,
just as his son had to fight the Govern-
ment for his idea of a spacious, modern,
tree-rimmed city. Both won their battle,
but were broken in the contest.
Penang’s growth under Light was
almost as spectacular as Singapore’s
under Raffles. The Dutch would have
loved to destroy it as a free-trade menace
to their monopolistic system, but until
Von Mueller steamed in at one end and
out the other end of its harbor and
banged a few shells into the shipping, it
led a peaceful existence trading Birming-
ham goods for Siamese ivory, Indonesian
spices, rice and timber, floated down the
rivers in huge rafts with whole villages
upon them. These rafts used to drift to
and fro on the tides for weeks until a
favorable current brought them into the
harbor. ,
The island, once a depot for opium-
smugglers, Chinese millionaires and
Mecca-pilgrims from all parts of southern
Asia, has become a great port. It is
physically a single mountain-peak clothed
in jungle, with a narrow strip of fore-
shore clothed with coconut-trees and
lapped by the gentle waters of the
Malacca Strait. A few miles across is
the mainland, low-lying rice-fields, the
high spine of the Malay Peninsula away
in the background. The island peak was
fortified with great guns pointing sea-
ward, whence any possible enemy was
expected to come. It was never expected
that the Japs would come overland, but
they did—over the fine highway from
Siam.
When I was in Penang a Government
Gazette announced a detour on this Siam-
Kedah highway because one of the sul-
tan’s sacred elephants had decided to have
a baby in the middle of it. An elephant’s
period of parturition is 14 days, and the
bull-elephant was in attendance, and
there is no arguing with a bull-elephant
about to become a father.
NAKHODA.
HOW STIFF CAN YOU BE?
“Giving evidence, the constable said accused
had attempted to pick his pocket when he was
standing near the betting-ring. He, the
constable, was in plain-clothes.”
It wouldn’t take much to construe
The feelings of the cracksman who,
After some hours of steady yakka,
At last had made the safe-door yield,
Then frenzied searching had revealed
That it contained not even a cracker.
And what of him, I sadly ask,
That prospector who ends his task,
Abandons claim (so long he’d dug it) —
Wouldn’t he feel a trifle mad,
Hearing that his successor had
At first pick-stroke unearthed a
nugget ?
Who’d blame the cove who kicked his
cat,
And leaped with rage upon his hat,
Or wrecked a piece of precious pottery,
On scanning the results, to find
His ticket-number’s one behind
The first prize in the Mammoth
Lottery ?
Stiffness sets in, and back you slip.
Reserve your tears, though, for this “dip”
With fingers light as any cat-foot,
Who, trying to extricate a wad,
Was mortified to find the bod.
That he’d selected was a flatfoot!
Mugs who keep “rolls” in outside “kicks”
(They’re goats enough to buy gold-bricks)
Were laid on! He’d have come no
cropper
Had he confined to these his skill.
But just imagine it! The dill
Tries to “do over” some big copper!
Of thirty-thousand on the course
A dozen, maybe, of the Force
In plain-clothes one effects his
thraldom.
The long-shot odds that cost that “pick”
His freedom made the bookies sick —
The warning it contained appalled ’em.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the youngest of the new Tory
M.P.s in Britain’s Government will be
Australian-born Brian Harrison, son of
the Brigadier Eric Harrison who repre-
sented Bendigo in Canberra from 1931
to 1937 and was commandant of Dun-
troon on two occasions. Son was born
in Melbourne’s Toorak, was an A.I.F.
commando, and after the shindy took to
farming on his family’s property in
Essex, England. He returned to his home-
country in a migrant-ship for experience,
picked-up with two English migrants and
worked for a time as a fencing-contractor
in the Riverina. He’s 33.
• •
Told that he seemed to be getting a
lot of publicity for his appointment as
vice-chairman to W. S. Kent Hughes on
the Olympic Games committee, Lewis
Luxton replied: “Yes, too blinking
much!” Hastily called in after Avery
Brundage had scared the daylights out of
the Melbourne organisers, Lewis Luxton
(here sketched) has had a lifelong experi-
ence of getting things done —as scholar,
swimmer, rower, soldier and oil-man.
Born in 1910, he was educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar and Pembroke College,
Cambridge, where he won Blues for
swimming and rowing. He was in the
British Universities swimming-team at the
International Games at Darmstadt and
was one of the British Olympic eight at
the Los Angeles Olympiad in 1932. He
joined Shell in Melbourne in 1933, and
in the later war was in Palestine, Egypt,
Greece, Crete, Syria, Papua, British and
Dutch New Guinea, Philippines and
Borneo, ending-up with a lieutenant-
colonelcy, a wire moustache and a mili-
tary 0.8. E. Today he is managing-
director of Shell in Australia. His
father, Sir Harold Luxton, was one of
the original two Australian members of
LUXTON OF THE OLYMPICS
the International Olympic committee, a
former Lud Mayor of Melbourne and
M.L.A. for Caulfield. His father was
M.L.C. for the same see.
• •
Shell’s chairman of directors in Aus-
tralia for the past nine years, Eric Avery
shifts to London, same firm, high-up
position. J. R. C. Taylor, lately g.-m.
of Burmah-Shell, in India, takes over.
• •
“Fitz” farewells a poet:
Brian Vrepont (real name, Benjamin Arthur
Truebridge) died recently in Perth. Born in
Melbourne 72 years ago, he was a Melbourne
University graduate and taught the violin at
the Conservatorium of Music. Then he had
14 years in New Zealand, moving thence to
Queensland to fossick for gold in the Gulf
country. Some of his experiences up there
he put into verse for Brisbane “Telegraph,” for
which he was also a book-reviewer.
Always a wanderer, Vrepont roamed Austra-
lia on horse, bicycle and foot. He was a
trained medical masseur, an axeman amongst
the big timber on the N. S. Wales North Coast,
and Sydney remembers him as a well-informed
book-salesman at Angus and Robertson’s. He
published two books of verse —The Miracle
(1939) and Beyond the Claw (1944). In 1946
he completed a novel, The Time Has Come,
under a Commonwealth Literary Fellowship.
This has yet to be published.
Some years ago, commenting on his Bulletin
work, this paper said: “His lyrics are deli-
cately lovely; his later poems vigorous with
sinewy thought. His short narrative and land-
scape pieces are strong and vividly pictorial.”
Commenting on his “The Apple Tree” (first
published in “Meanjin”)—“a dapple of sun
and a smother of snowflake petals”— The
Bulletin reviewer called it “one of the loveliest
short poems ever written in Australia.”
After a bit over half-a-century in the
Commonwealth Public Service, Walter E.
Perry, Old Digger, one-time telegraph-
boy, now Commonwealth Electoral
Divisional Officer for Fremantle, reckons
he’s had enough. With the old 11th Bat-
talion, he was at the Landing, and after-
wards won the M.M. in France. Eldest
son Roy, a Timor commando of War 11,
won a similar gong in Korea.
MAX MELDRUM. at the time, in
1947, his book on his own art and views
was published.
Australian Eleven:
K.B.E.
J. E. S. Stevens, chairman of the Atomic
Energy Commission since 1952; been on the
inside since 1950, secretary of the Department
'of National Development. Not on the outer
on the military side, either —D.S.O. in Syria
(brigadier), led the Sixth Division in New
Guinea (major-general). For four years after
the war, g.-m. of the Overseas Telecommunica-
tions Commission.
Alan Taylor, legally admitted in 1926, K.C.
in 1943, and in 1948 president of the N.S.W.
Bar Association. For the past three years
Supreme Court judge.
William Hudson, head of the Snowy scheme,
experienced in dam-building and hydroelectric
work from Galloway, in Scotland, and
Mangahao, in New Zealand, to Woronora, in
N. S. Wales.
Kt.
Harold Dew, first Australian to be appointed
Sims Commonwealth Travelling Professor
(1953). Professor of Surgery at Sydney Univer-
sity for the past 20-odd years, till recently
Dean of the Faculty of Medicine; was acting-
director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute
in its early days. Practised with the R.A.M.C.
in Palestine and France, 1915-19.
Thomas Clyne, appointed to the Victorian
County Court Bench in 1939. He took over as
Federal Judge in Bankruptcy in 1942, turning-in
the job of chairman of the Federal Shipping
Control board to. do it.
Edwin McCarthy, Deputy High-Commis-
sioner in London. Economic graduate of
Melbourne University, in 1940 appointed
secretary of the Australian Department of
Commerce. Used to be a civil servant; used
to play pennant-cricket in Melbourne; now
sticks to golf.
Albert Coates, captured in Sumatra, later to
do remarkable and remembered surgery among
prisoners in Burma. One-time president of the
Victorian 8.M.A.; 1954-55 president of
Melbourne Rotary.
Eugene Goossens, Sydney Symphony
Orchestra conductor, descended on his mother’s
side from Captain Cook, and, from the same
source, from another figure in Australian
maritime exploration—Captain Furneaux. In
process of conducting music has himself crossed
the seas something like 40 times.
Darcy Cowan, settling into his Adelaide
practice when he became an R.A.M.C. captain
in 1914. Sometime lecturer in clinical medi-
cine at Adelaide University and in medical
nursing, to the Nurses’ Registration Board, and
president of the South Australian B.M.A.
Edward Lefroy, well-acred pastoralist of
Westralia; C.5.1.R.0. councillor since 1945,
the same year as he joined the Senate of the
Westralian University. Son of a knight.
John Tivey, of Sydney and Australian General
Electric; engineering scientist, one-time presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Chamber of Manufactures,
and vice-president of the Federal body.
• •
First in Victorian Birthday honors, with
C. 8., Rear-Admiral Roy Russell Dowling.
Now Chief of the Naval Staff and First
Naval Member, he commanded cruiser
Hobart (round the Philippines and
Borneo) and our first carrier, Sydney.
Frederick Grantley Morgan, director of
the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories,
gets C.B.E. He has been director since
1927, was engaged in war-time manufac-
ture of biological supplies and is now
working on the Salk vaccine. For ser-
vices to sport Dr. W. C. McClelland got
0.8. E. He is president of the Melbourne
Cricket Club and the Victorian Football
League.
Looked in on Port Melbourne on his
final trip in command, Captain G. A.
Paterson, commodore for the past year
of the 8.1.5. N. company’s fleet (one of
the world’s largest) and 40 years in its
service. Born in India, he went to sea as
a boy in 1915, had his ship torpedoed
under him in the same year and was
wounded by enemy gunfire while in a life-
boat. He was transferred to a hospital-
ship, which was also torpedoed. In sub-
sequent years he coursed safely through
seven typhoons, and, in the Baroda,
evacuated 40,000 civilians from Burma
to India in front of the Japanese occupa-
tion. Now he’s headed for a quieter life
on the Swan near Perth, where he made
a home for himself and his wife eight
years ago.
• •
Off to U.K., the U.S. and Canada,
Dr. I. F. Phipps, for years at the Waite
Agricultural Research Institute in
Adelaide, now technical-manager of
1.C.1.A.N.Z.’s biologicals division. He’s
headed for three months’ study of the
latest in agricultural chemicals and animal
remedies.
• •
New president of the Council of Food
Technology Associations, Walter Ashton,
of Westralian Farmers Co-operatives, is
the first Westralian to get the post. Food-
technology covers just about everything
that happens to tucker between leaving
the farm and arriving at the consumer—
processing, transport, packaging, storage.
A recognised authority in the food-
industry, Ashton is a member of the
Food Standards Committee of Australia,
foundation-president of the Food Tech-
nology Association of W.A., and was
nominated by the W.A. Chamber of
Manufacturers as a member of the Food
and Drug Advisory Committee, acting
under the Public Health Act. Perth
Scotch Collegian, he is well on the way
to a half-century association with Wes-
farmers ; joining them with a background
of business experience gained with the
old Elder-Shenton firm and practical,
man-on-the-land experience from a
period of mixed-farming in the Katan-
ning district. Most recently he’s been in
charge of the company’s dried-fruit pack-
ing and chairman of the Vine Fruits
Research Trust. Pet interest is promoting
overseas markets for Westralian fruits.
• •
The University of New Zealand has
conferred a Doctorate of Laws on Sir
Howard Kippenberger, whose own war-
record and his account of his country-
men’s gained him the honor. He edited
the New Zealand war-histories, and
critics considered his book, Infantry
Brigadier, published by the Oxford Uni-
versity Press in 1949, a particularly fine
effort. Sir Howard was an infantry
brigadier—in Greece, Crete, Libya and
Italy, D.S.O. and Bar, three “mentions.”
He was also a private, First N.Z.E.F., and
ended-up commanding a division in the
Second N.Z.E.F., major-general. He’s a
solicitor by profession, and a trustee of
the National Gallery.
• •
Met backstage at Adelaide’s Theatre
Royal, New York minstrels Frank Rad-
cliff e and' Bert Howell (left), who, with
other colored rhapsodians, are brighten-
ing the closing chapter in the Royal’s
history. Sold, the theatre is soon to house
floor-walkers and bargain-price shirts.
Frank and Bert mix music with late-take
humor in an act honed to a free-and-easy
polish. Frank breathed his first lungful
of U.S. air about the time the Wright
brothers proved its solidity. Like a lot
of visiting American showmen, he plays
golf—in 1938 he was U.S. Negro Cham-
RHAPSODIANS OF THE ROYAL
pion. Bert’s a few years younger. Both
got into New York show-business straight
from high school. “That’s when my
education began,” says Bert. The pair
have raised laughs in Canada, Mexico,
Europe and at London’s Palladium.
They’re typical of the real troupers whose
comedy makes the closing of Adelaide’s
Royal seem pretty tragic.
In Melbourne, after eight months away
from his base on Cyprus, Tom Stobart,
known widely for his film “The Con-
quest of Everest.” A man who likes
directing better than photographing, he
took to the camera because of the oppor-
tunities for travel it offered, and has
certainly got what he wanted —travelled
through 51 countries, scaled numerous
lofty peaks, reached upwards of 22,000 ft.
on Everest, and been in the Antarctic.
Based on Cyprus because the island’s the
interesting hub of so many radiating air-
lines, he’s travelling now to make a docu-
mentary film covering 20 countries; it
will show the part played by Massey-
Harris-Ferguson equipment in mechanis-
ing the world’s farms. Normally he’s a
university-trained zoologist.
• •
There could have been no better choice
than that of Ernest Llewellyn, Concert-
master of the Sydney Symphony Orches-
tra, as first recipient of the William Kapell
Scholarship, which will enable him to
gain greater experience and have further
study under famous teachers in Europe
and the U.S. A violinist of outstanding
natural gifts, he has, since he made his
bow to the public at 19 as soloist under
Sir Malcolm Sargent, been associate-
artist with visiting celebrities ; he founded
and led the Queensland State Quartet,
which he took to music-starved places
pretty well all over the big northern
State, and he now mixes his extensive
orchestral duties with leadership of the
Sydney String Quartet. An appeal is
being made for funds to ensure that
living-expenses while he is away (which
the scholarship is inadequate to cover)
will be sufficient. His services to the
musical life of this country more than
warrant it.
P. A. W. ANTHONY, new manager
of the Southern Electric Authority of
Queensland.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Colonel John C. Litchfield, who
in 1939 resumed the Army career he had left
off 20 years before. He wept north as A.A.
and Q.M.G. to Major-General Clowes, of the
Milne force, which, within six months of its
formation, inflicted on the Jap his first land-
defeat of the war. Scrub-typhus laid Litchfield
low at Buna; on his feet again after 12 months
in hospital, he presided at the inquiry into the
prison-outbreak at Cowra. After the war he
did a fine job as chairman of the R.S.L.
Business Advisory Panel, formed to protect
ex-servicemen from business-sharks.
At 86, at Lismore (Vic.), William Gibson,
Postmaster-General in 1923-29 and Minister for
Works, 1928-29. A farmer and grazier, fie
represented Corangamite in the Reps, for W
years all told. In 1924 he represented Australia
at the International Postal Convention at
Stockholm.
In Perth, at 80, Michael James Calanchmi,
former chairman of the Westralian Tender
Board and Under-Secretary for Mines. Une-
time mine-warden, he was on the advisory board
which represented Westralia before the Federal
Royal Commission appointed to investigate
how the State had been affected financially by
Federation. He retired in 1938, his services
recognised by award of the Imperial Service
Order.
In Sydney, at 69, A. G. (Archie) Martin,
associated with C. J. Dennis in starting The
Gadfly” in Adelaide. When that bright insect
folded its wings he joined with Beaumont
Smith in searching Europe for the human
oddities which were shown in Austraha under
the title of “Tiny Town.” On a second trip
to Europe Martin bought in Germany a film
which he judged against other opinion would
make money in Sydney. It did; quite a lot.
Later, he was publicity-manager for J.
Williamson, and the Firm never had a better
one. On retiring Martin wrote stones, short
and long; he had a market for those and for
his novels in the U.S. In stature a little man,
in human-values one of the biggest.
At Broken Hill, at 84, Edward Peter Tapp, of
Nuntherungie station in the West Darling dis-
trict (N S.W.). Known all over those parts, he
went to the district in 1896, manager of Yan-
cannia, then running 100,000 sheep on upwards
of a million acres. He bought Nuntherungie
in 1921, and worked it till he retired to Broken
Hill a few years ago.


The Red Koran
He came to our farm when I was small;
From our perch in the top of the fig-tree tall
We watched him, a small dot on the hill,
Till he rounded the bend by the timber-mill.
He had the build of the frontier race,
And peace was there in his gentle face
And he called out the Muslim greeting-prayer,
When he saw the four of us waiting there;
The wandering hadji, Muhummed Khan,
And clutched to his breast was the red Koran.
Ours was a childhood of wild delights,
We drowned in the glory of country nights,
We woke to the magpie’s bold refrain
And sniffed the fragrance of midnight rain;
On summer days when the air was sweet
We ran barefoot through the golden wheat;
Then, when the moon rose over the flat,
We bumped our heads on the praying-mat
And, man’s one solace since life began,
The hadji would read from his red Koran.
Muhummed Khan we would often seek
In the small grey hut by the shoe-string creek,
For in words that small ones could understand
He told us tales of our parents’ land,
Of fireflies high in the tamarind,
And jasmine blooming in far-off Sind,
And love was about him, strong and grand,
When he took my frail small brother’s hand;
He was a friend, this old Pathan,
And his life was ruled by the red Koran.
I left the homestead where I was bom
To face in schoolrooms the white child’s scorn.
In lonely exile I sat all day
With the strange cold mortals who did not pray.
At night, when others were lost in sleep,
I thought of my home with a longing deep
And I’d weep heart-sore, till out, afar,
I found bright-gleaming the Prophet’s star;
And I knew that where that thin creek ran
Old hadji was reading his worn Koran.
The years have passed, and those friends I held dear
All lie in the Muslim graveyard here;
My father, the proud black-bearded one,
Is sleeping there with his infant son.
Muhummed Khan and that little crew,
The hawker men that my childhood knew,
Are resting now as they well deserve
In the alien soil they tried to serve;
And I have a gift from Muhummed Khan:
At parting he gave me the red Koran.
by mena Kashmiri Abdullah


ABORIGINALITIES
T KNOW of few things less lovely than
A a bricklayer’s working-boot when he
finally brings himself to discard it.
Chemical-action of lime and cement
has bleached the uppers white, cracked
them wide open just below the tongues,
and made them just about as flexible as
wooden clogs. The heels generally
incline inwards at a raffish 30-degree
angle, and the soles bare their metallic
teeth in depraved mirth.
Mine had reached that stage and been
reluctantly deposed when the house-
owner’s wife paused in her tour of inspec-
tion to ask could she have the ruins.
Puzzled, I obliged.
When the house was finished a pair of
ornaments decorated each side of the
patio—my boots, painted-up and filled
with soil and cactus-plants! Maybe I
haven’t an artistic soul; to me they still
looked like brickies’ boots.
One pair of boots later I was work-
ing on a little mixed farm. The cocky
promptly dived on my discarded trilbies.
I was astounded ; he was the last man
I’d have expected to go arty. I said so.
“Art?” he repeated. “I want ’em for
dosing pigs—you just cut a hole in the
toe, shove the boot in the pig’s mouth
and pour the dope in the top. The pig
can relieve his feelings on the boot, but
he’s still got to swallow his medicine.”
Brick E.
* * * *
“Pitt-street Abo.”: Wonders never
cease—they multiply. Here’s what I
garner from my daily paper: C.5.1.R.0.
scientists find a Merino with two types
of wool, regard it as valuable discovery
(outback I met sheep with as many as
five types of wool; they became mutton).
Australians use 140,000 cricket-balls a
year (it’s statistics, not wonders, that
never cease). Future dentists will cut
away the gum, fit a metal plate to the
jawbone, prongs from the plate will pro-
trude through the healed gum, and false
teeth will be screwed to the prongs (pro-
bably on time-payment). A British
scientist has proved that cows never sleep
because they have to chew their cuds (I’d
always thought it was the dairy-cocky
who never slept). A Los Angeles draper
says next year men will wear white over-
coats, velvet collars, tartan trousers and
transparent suits, “whether they like it
or not.” (Well, as long as we’re not wear-
ing khaki.)
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: The recent gale on the
Westralian coast was responsible for an
unusual trespass at Fremantle. A con-
‘No, no, Abdul! It's the LAST straw that does the damage !”
stable leaving the police-station saw an
intruder on the roof of the court-house,
and a colleague climbed up and made a
smart arrest, despite violent resistance.
The sergeant on duty identified the sus-
pect as an albatross; it had possibly
mistaken the shining roof of the court-
house for a sheet of water, landed there
and been too exhausted to take-off again.
The prisoner was handed over to the
R.S.P.C.A. to be taken out to sea and
released.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Use of misleading horse-
shoes, quoted by “Kerba” (B. 25/5/’55),
recalls a device favored by writers of
tales of equestrian villains —turning the
horse’s shoes back to front so that aveng-
ing Justice, hot on the trail, would gallop
fruitlessly in the wrong direction. I
believed that for quite a few years, but
on more mature consideration can’t see
how a horse could possibly move out of
a walk in such circumstances. Even if
it could, he would be a very simple
tracker who would fail to note where the
depth of the impressions lay, and that
the nag was apparently galloping madly
with toes in the air.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: The tide was out and the
dotterels were feeding amongst the
shallow rock-pools. One fellow moved
away from the main flock ; he hopped on
a single leg and showed amazing poise
and agility, obviously the result of long
practice. It struck me that his gentle
method of progression was less likely to
disturb prospective prey than the quick
dashes affected by his mates. For half
an hour he worked apart from the mob,
“How much sugar?”
and apparently with better-than-average
success. Just as I was reflecting compas-
sionately on the courage and adaptability
that could so overcome a serious dis-
ability, the dotterel produced another leg
from where it was tucked hidden in his
breast and, putting it to the ground,
stepped off smartly towards a distant
sand-spit. I concluded that the dotterel
hopped only because hopping paid him
dividends. Possibly a serious accident
had put one leg out of action for a long
time and the bird had turned his
disability to good account.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Was considerably startled
recently to hear an elderly acquaintance
greeted as “Manure,” but no recrimina-
tions followed. Seems at school he was
being hauled over the coals: “You’ll never
do any good if you go on like this,” the
master ended his peroration; “I don’t
know what’s going to become of you
after you leave school.” “I’m all right,
sir,” piped up young Smith cheekily;
“I’m going on the land.” The master
eyed him stonily: “Indeed, Smith. So
you’re going on the land? And as what,
may I inquire? Manure?”
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: The bunya-pine (B. 18/5/’55)
was the only hereditary property the
aborigines were known to possess, and
was protected by law. Each tribe had
a number of trees which were handed
down from generation to generation, a
certain number being allotted to each
family. A curious feature of this tree is
that every third year it produces a bumper
crop, and in March of that year the abos
would assemble from miles around to
feast on the nuts of their various family-
trees, the feast lasting for several days.
Their resentment against those whites
who felled the pines for timber is under-
standable.
* * * *
“Archaen”: Emus are fond of water
and are always good swimmers (B.
25/5/’55). One of the first things
recorded by pioneer settlers was the fond-
ness of emu chicks for splashing about in
pools. I’ve often seen them doing it. I’ve
also seen a mob of about a dozen walk
straight into a flooded inland creek at
least 200yds. wide, swim across and con-
tinue their stroll. Quite recently dogs
chased an emu into the sea near Beach-
port (S.A.). It swam out beyond the
breakers, paddled along parallel with the
coast for about a quarter of a mile, came
back to shore, landed and raced away.
* * * *
“Mrs. Homo Sapiens”: The only
redeeming feature “Rongroo” concedes
the big hazel-eyed Kelly is his prowess as
a scavenger (B. 18/5/’55). But what of
his beauty? At close quarters I was
surprised to find that, instead of a drab
black, he sported an impeccable junior-
navy plumage with a sheen fit to grace
my best chapeau. And under the navy I
discovered his soft white down.
• * * *
“Sandgroper”: The administration re-
sponsible for the training and discipline
of the New Guinea Native Police prior to
World War II did a good job of instilling
in them a respect for Government pro-
perty that amounted to veneration. Dur-
ing the Buna-Sanananda show our battery
occupied a gun-position in a coconut-
plantation near Buna village two days
after its capture by the 18th Brigade,
A.1.F., and the Americans. I was helping
to organise the command-post when a
gunner escorted a native police-boy to the
tent. After slinging a classy rifle-butt
salute that rocked the gunners, he ex-
plained his mission. He belonged to a
local detachment of Angau. His boss
was back at Dobadura for the day. He
was down to his last clip of .303 —would
I issue him some? I led him to the door
of the tent and pointed to the grim
evidence of the bloody battle of only
two days before, which included thou-
sands of rounds of .303 ammo, and asked
why he hadn’t helped himself to as much
as he wanted. His look was one of scan-
dalised amazement. “More better the
Taubada give me some,” he maintained
stoutly. “All this allsame bilong
Govman’.”
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: Touching on the excellence
of old-time bricks (B. 25/5/ ’55), those
from Ballarat’s Charlie Napier Theatre —
a bright spot in Main-road in the gold-
rush days, and demolished in 1880 —
were used again in the building of Cado-
gen Terrace, which was later remodelled
and is now Sturt Mansions. The bricks
were imported from England. Incident-
ally, a curious feature of one of the oldest
brick buildings in Australia, the Indus-
trial Courts, Queen’s Square, Sydney, is
that the “frogs,” or indents, on the bricks
are stamped in the shape of the suits of
cards: hearts, clubs, diamonds and
spades.
* * * *
“Kelms”: At 40 m.p.h. the swordfish
must be one of the fastest things in the
sea, and it can be dangerous. Some
authorities think its attacks on boats and
whales are mainly accidental, but it’s been
pretty well established that the fish is
naturally pugnacious. Its sword is cer-
tainly a formidable weapon ; the British
Museum holds a part of one which broke
off after penetrating 22in. into a ship’s
timbers. Some have gone further, after
passing through a copper sheathing; and
the number of times a hooked or wounded
fish has charged a boat makes it almost
certain that some of the attacks were
deliberate. The fish uses the sword to
catch other fish, and it executes sideways
thrusts as well as straight stabs. It would
be just as likely to use the weapon for
defence.
i
* * * *
ONE of my most abiding memories of
a recent trip to Europe is of the
beauty and übiquity of Australian
eucalypts. Groves of slender, graceful
gums are almost as numerous as figs and
olives in Italy, and fit as naturally into
the background of terraced vineyards and
tower-crowned hills. In the Riviera the
eucalypts, rising majestically above the
luxuriant tangle of wattle, cacti and
flowering shrubs, dominate the scene
more proudly than the native Mediter-
ranean pine. In Spain they relieve the
arid landscape and flourish where all else
seems parched and stunted. They line
the winding roads of the Canary Islands
in stately avenue, and grace the city parks
and country homesteads of South Africa.
Even California —home of forest giants
—regards our gumtrees as its own, and
I’ve heard that Russia has so cultivated
and “educated” them as to make them
conform to the extent of becoming de-
ciduous. In hardihood, adaptability and
speed of growth and in beauty of form
and color of trunk and limb they are
unrivalled for landscape-work. Why,
then, in their native land is this so little
appreciated, and imported and often
inferior trees preferred for park and
avenue? —“Joanna.”
THE BALLAD OF TOM McCALL
“High summer it was,” said, the old pioneer,
“The year I can’t recall . .
Her grey eyes peered through the mist oi years.
“His name? It was Tom McCall.
We were lonely then. Aye, sixty miles
Was like a thousand now;
South, we were, and the mountain spur
Was a barrier of blue steel.
From Appin down to the new-born town
Was a pass too steep for the wheel.
But Tom came through, young Tom McCall
Every three months with the mail.
“Handsome he was, and gay, was Tom.
How we vied for his smile on our letter-day.
When the ships sailed in with the mail he came
Riding his sturdy grey. , ,
The months would go, oh, sandglass-slow,
And we’d know it was time for Tom.
From Sydneyside he’d have started his ride
Through the Liverpool Plains and the high
Divide
Down the Pass with the mail from Home.
“Twittering, drest in our home-made best,
We girls would watch for Tom. —■
Osbornes, Jenkinses, Smiths would come
To the house on the highest hill,
Peering our hope through the telescope
To the track beyond the mill.
“He was kind, was Tom, and thoughtfully
At his saddle he hung a horn;
Its joyful key was our heraldry
Of ‘Spectator,’ ‘Times,’ new poetry,
And our cherished news from Home.
“But I, red-cheeked, in muslin gown,
Hearing his horn-note, gay and shrill,
Was first to meet him, twinkling down
The misty hollows of Figtree Hill
To Fairy Creek beyond the town.
“One day,” and she sighed, the old pioneer,
“We heard his,horn ring clear;
And down I ran, with cheeks aflame,
Past eager Jenkinses, Osbornes, Smiths,
Waiting for us . . . ‘How that clock ticks!’
They waited. The clock ticked on ... I came,
Back up the hill, in a panic I came.
‘He’s not there ~ . Tom! Tom’s gone! ’ I said,
And fled to their arms to be comforted.
“We searched in vain. No,, never again
From that day to this was he seen again:
Not horse, nor horn, nor bags of mail
Not even so much as a fingernail.
Was it the quicksands? But someone said
That a Bunyip lived in the deep creek-bed,
And maybe ’tis so, for the horn will blow,
And I start up, thinking, ‘lt’s Tom, I know!’
“Yes, sometimes I hear his eerie horn
On summer nights when there’s mist on the
moon;
But the creek keeps her secrets in shifting
sand . . .
It’s a long time ago,” said the old pioneer.
She brushed her eyes with a trembling hand.
“A long time ago, my dear.”
n.s.w.
THEA HARKER.


TV/TAT, playing in a semi-final of the
-*■*-*- snooker-tournament, was on the blue,
with only the pink and black left, want-
ing a blue and pink to win. Black was
on its spot, pink hanging over a top-
pocket, blue and white down in baulk
in such a position that a very fine cut
would pot the blue in the corner but
almost certainly result in white rolling
into the centre-pocket. There was a hush
as Mat chalked his cue slowly, studying
the position. While he stood there a harsh
voice cut the silence. “You can have
six-to-four,” it said. Mat ignored it,
prepared for his shot. “Y’ can have twos,
now,” came the voice. Mait straightened
up and glared at the nark. Coldly the
nark said, “Y’re on the blue, mate.”
Mat’s mouth tightened. He sank the blue,
the white stopped an inch short of the
centre-pocket. Then he bashed the pink
in and, in the midst of the applause, shot
round the table and roared at the nark,
“Now, y’ blankard, you’re on a ruddy
blue!” And it was so. —“Mat’s Mate.”
t * * *
“Heresone”: There could be a record
in this marathon performance with one
of Such’s “Vigorous Vehicles” (B.
11/5/’55). “Dutchy” Bretyke and his
mate were caught by the 1929 railway-
strike while building railway-fences near
Gin Gin (Queensland). Knowing they
would have the line to themselves, they
borrowed a pumper and worked their
passage over 100 miles home to Mary-
borough.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Olympic Tyre and Rubber
Co. is bearing the cost of some improve-
ments to the Healesville Sanctuary, near
Melbourne, whose “Platypusary” is now
world-famous. One innovation has in-
teresting possibilities. If there’s too much
noise and movement around Platy’s swim-
ming-tank he gets stage-fright and refuses
to put on a turn. The new tank will be
of one-way-vision glass. Platy will thus
be spared the (to him) possibly dubious
entertainment provided by the faces out-
side, while to the crowd he and his capers
will be clearly visible.
* * * *
“Koreelah”: Ant-bed for endurance
(B. 25/5/’55)? Its properties were famed,
in Queensland’s early- and not so early-
days, as flooring for the first homes of
many of the families who pioneered the
mulga-country of the State’s south-west.
For it to be fully effective and develop
its maximum wear-resistance a binding-
agent was needed, and the most suitable
—to wit, cow-dung—was usually avail-
able in quantity, and the compound set
like concrete. Many a foot that now
treads wall-to-wall Axminster took its
first uncertain steps on such a mixture,
and many are the owners of such feet
who took their first tumble when they
tripped over the goat- and kangaroo-
skins that softened its austerity.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Further to “Saaedi’s” par.
(B. 30/3/’55) on the swamp-pheasant, or
pheasant-coucal. In the spring the birds
often conduct their courting near the tops
of the highest trees, and during the nesting
period one of the male birds invariably
perches near the crown of the tallest tree
within call of his mate. This habit of
perching at a high elevation is noticeably
common; yet, surprisingly, several Aus-
tralian publications state only that these
Inrds may fly up into bushes or low trees
if suddenly alarmed. I’ve also noted,
when listening at close quarters to male
birds, that their morning and evening
calls were obviously a quite distinct
Wut-wut-wut-wut,” sounded in a des-
cending scale, and not a bit like Coop-
coop,” the only call mentioned in several
publications on the subject. As a matter
of fact the bird has three calls, including
a brief alarm-note sometimes given by
the female, and replied to by her mate.
* * * *
“Benbow”: The Italian community in
N.Q. has introduced another new mean-
ing into our language. Tony, asked what
he was doing for a living, replied, “Me,
I go looka for da wolf.” There’s no need
to fear a lupine vanguard from Russia.
It’s just that the price of wolframite, one
of the alluvial ores of tungsten, commonly
found in N.Q., has risen slightly.
* * * *
“M.”: A week after rain the stock-
camp moved into gidgee country, to be
greeted by a display of beautiful desert-
lilies. Leaves and stems of the white
flowers are moisture-laden and are
relished by cattle.
“K.A.”: Count among the discriminat-
ing mendicants the peewee. One was in-
dustriously seeking his breakfast around
the pansy-bed when a piece of cheese was
thrown his way. Sample approved, he
accepted another. Next morning he wore
what passes for expectancy in peewee
physiognomy. After that his regular
caper was to proclaim his presence,
eventually gaining enough confidence to
enter the room. Sometimes we would take
no notice, and it was worth seeing and
hearing him register avian anger. He
must have heard about the high vitamin-
content of dairy-produce, for though he
condescended to other table titbits, his
preference remained cheese.
* * * *
“Jarrah”: I joined the small crowd of
rubber-necks at the pavement’s edge to
watch the young and rather nervous-look-
ing policeman reaching cautiously behind
the wide front-grille of a parked Holden.
The exploration continued for some
minutes ; then, with deliberate firmness,
the long arm of the Law withdrew from
its strange retreat a sleepy and dishevelled
mopoke. Obviously at a loss as to the
correct legal procedure at this stage, the
cop gazed from bird to sky, from sky
to un-co-operative bird ; then, shrugging
his shoulders, he set off in the direction of
the police-station with his lethargic
charge cradled in his arm.
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Dendrochronology-
reading the story of weather find climate
in the past by study of tree growth-rings
—is now a well-established branch of
science. To carry it out, trees such as
pines, whose annual rings of growth are
well-defined, are necessary. Much can be
“Of course it's a privilege — he's been in th ’ public service all his life."
learned from pines growing in wet
climates, but far more from those growing
in arid regions, for there the seasonal
fluctuations are far more pronounced:
heavy rainfall produces wide rings and
drought narrow ones. In the U.S.A. very
old living trees took the story back for
centuries. It was then carried right back
to 500 b.c. by studying logs used as roof-
timbers in Indian cave-dwellings. One
strange feature is the fact that sunspot
activity results in increased tree-growth,
yet modern records can establish no
correlation between sunspots, amount of
“Do you mind not reading over my shoulder ?”
sunshine and rainfall. A huge King Wil-
liam pine cut in Tasmania began its life
in a.d. 600. It reveals that around the
12th and 13th centuries there was a
great change in climate. A section of
this tree-Methuselah is in Hobart
Museum.
THE AXEMAN
Hard, incisive, the words my axe has spoken
Over the murmuring wind in the mountai
Now^the’peace of the ridges is clubbed and
As down the spear-straight pole of the blackbutt
comes.
Joy; there is joy in the swing of open shoulders,
Pivot and play of arm and sinewy back,
While the white chips fly where the windfall
bloodwood moulders . .
And the blue-lip axehead arcs in its shining
track.
Peace; there is peace worth more than ease
or money
In the creekside camp, where wild bees hover
and hum,
Robbing the melaleuca blossoms’ honey
To fill the hollow limb of the flooded gum.
Lord, send me days of toil in tall straight
timber
Where bronzewings call and shrill cicadas sing;
Pleasure of wearied strength, the campfire
embers,
And water—sweet in the mouth from a
mountain spring.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SOOTT.
OUR ODDEST POST-OFFICES
-OOOBY ISLAND, 18 miles west of
Cape York, Queensland, is well
enough known for its cave-carvings,
relics of the days of the old windjammers.
Not so well known, perhaps, that the
cave became one of Australia’s oddest
post-offices.
The cave was used by the Navy as a
supply-depot for shipwrecked sailors.
Ships which visited the island to replenish
stores and pick up any of the ship-
wrecked began to leave letters there for
other passing vessels, the post-office being
a seaman’s chest, which also contained a
log-book for recording names and dates
of ships’ visits.
Our coldest post-office would be the
one lately established on the mainland
of Australia’s Antarctic territory—any-
way, there could hardly be one colder.
The hottest would probably be at
Marble Bar (W.A.), with temperatures
usually over the century.
Australia’s smallest post-office could
be the Moodlu P. 0., about 35 miles
from Brisbane. A wooden structure
with an iron roof, the whole building
measures about 6ft. 6in. square by about
7ft. high.
The highest would be that at Kiandra
(N.S.W.), more than 4000 ft. above sea-
level, in the heart of the Snowy Moun-
tains. For the lowest you go down in a
cave in the underground opal-digging
town of Coober Pedy (S.A.).
The most temporary, and mobile,
perhaps, was the “atomic” post-office
used at Mount Potter (W.A.) during the
1952 Monte Bello atomic-bomb tests. It
was a special post- and telegraph-office,
from which news of the first atomic
explosion in Australian waters was tele-
graphed to the world. It was mounted
on a 6-ton truck on the rough northern
highway between Onslow and Roebourne.
In contrast, a mule-service for delivery
of mail operates weekly in North
Queensland, between Upper Stone and
Ewan in the steep coastal range-country
between Townsville and Ingham.
In most cases pack-horse mail-services
which operated in the Far North have
been replaced by motor-vehicles, but,
in the wet season, pack-horses still have
to be reverted to. On the Laura-Coen
run in the Cape York Peninsula the 500-
mile round-trip is done by motor-truck
when the weather permits and by pack-
horse in the “wet.” It’s a fortnightly
service, carrying mails for isolated cattle-
stations, some of the loneliest of which
are in the centre of the peninsula.
Incidentally, such mail-services are an
expensive business to the P.M.G., the
Queensland ones costing around £470,000
a year. The mailmen cover something
like 11| million miles yearly.
Recently a film entitled “The Back of
Beyond” was shown on television
throughout the British Isles, portraying
the great job the mailman does on the
run from Marree, near Lake Eyre, in
South Australia, to Birdsville, across the
Queensland border, some 350 miles over
sandy wastes. There are five homesteads
on the run; mail and supplies being
delivered fortnightly by mailman Tom
Kruise.
The showing of the film in Britain has
had the effect of boosting the mails on
that lonely run of Tom’s, 600 letters
having been received in two months,
mainly from people overseas making
inquiries about Australia.
1 Perc Goodall.
* * * *
T»Y their wayside can-stands shall ye
know them!
One cow-cocky will go for solidarity:
the platform built of huge logs strong
enough to load elephants from, with a
ramp on the farm-side equally strong;
but the structure will not be roofed.
Sturdy strength without luxuries.
Another —probably of the younger
generation—will build his stand as a
model house: a thing of beauty, with
sawn weatherboards, gable and glisten-
ing paint.
A third obviously doesn’t agree with
this pandering to truck-drivers. Why
can’t they chuck the cans up on the truck
from the ground? The structure he erects
is just good enough to keep the driver
still calling, and he refuses to make things
easier for himself by building a ramp up
to the platform on his own side.
And there are scores of other types.
The methods of bringing the full cans
from the dairy to the road are not so
varied. Some load ’em on to a truck,
utility or jeep, but the majority still stick
to the easily-loaded sled. Method of
traction, however, is divided between the
old and the new. A tractor will pull the
sled on this farm, Dobbin on the next.
Seemed to me there wasn’t much to
choose between the two methods, until I
saw a cocky “walking” the cans up his
ramp one wet day. He wiped mud
splashes off the cans with his hands, then
cleaned his dooks on a handy towel —the
moke’s tail. You can’t do that with a
tractor.
SACKVILLE.


*
one
only
is
There
m
e®
on-
motor
Its an entirely new oil
with special properties proved to give
II perfect lubrication
RATE OF WEAR
£ 9
SPECIAL ENERGOL
3§
i l
S 6 1 8 » '0 MINUTES
* Recommended only
for use in new and
well-conditioned engines.
CONVENTIONAL
PREMIUM GRADE
MOTOR OIL
Searching tests at the British Petroleum
Co’s Sunbury - on - Thames Research
Station, England, proved Special
ENERGOL achieved an 80% reduction
of over-all wear.
With Special ENERGOL (see graph at
left) the cold-starting wear rate is
something like 300 times less than for
other oils: the average wear rate over
the first s to to minutes is 30-60 times
less.
Sold only in or from
sealed containers.
Here are the plain facts about * multi-grade ’
Special ENERGOL Visco-Static.
• For use whenever SAE 10W, 20, 30, 40
are recommended.
• Cuts petrol consumption up to 18%.
• Gives increased power equal to 3 or 4
additional octane numbers.
• Ensures instant lubrication from
cold start.
• At least doubles the time between
overhauls.
SAVES SO MUCH THAN THE
EXTRA IT COSTS!
Special Energol VISCO-STATIC Motor Oil
and a complete range of ENERGOL
premium grade automotive oils and 1
ENERGREASES are available where you see I
this pump.
SPECIAL
ENERGOL
Marketed throughout Australia by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Co. Ltd
KEROSENE
TILLI-Y
Rcgd.
PRESSURE
\'' ' /
/ / \ \
irons
smoother
faster!
* EASY TO USE.
* DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT IN OR OUT OF DOORS,
* NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
* COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
* BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY fRD PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
INDUSTRY AND COSTS
TN its half-yearly report on
manufacturing activity in
Australia, the Division of In-
dustrial Development (Can-
berra) has no changes of a
startling character to announce.
But some industries are less
active for particular reasons.
“Australian factories are pro-
ducing a greater quantity of
goods than ever before,” says
the division. “Total production
has increased in the last six
months, although all industries
have not shared in the increase.”
Exceptions to the general
buoyant experience are the
refrigerator market (tipped well
in advance in these pages),
which is oversupplied, and some
products in the textile and cloth-
ing industries. “Recently,” says
the report, “the pressure of
demand for building-materials
has begun to slacken-off a little
in N.S.W. (and also to a smaller
degree in Queensland), because
of a fall in housing commence-
ments.”
Costs remain one of the great-
est problems in the Australian
economy. Early in November,
1954, the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court gave a decision in
answer to claims by metal-trades
unions for increased margins for
skill. The court decided that the
distortion which had been intro-
duced into the structure of wage-
margins during the war and
early post-war years should be
corrected by taking the 1937
margins and multiplying them
by two-and-a-half. That meant
an increase in the margin for a
fitter-and-turner from the then
525. to 755. a week (over and
above the basic wage of about
£l2 a week). For classifications
broadly below those of semi-
skilled no increase resulted, since
their margins were already equal
to, or in excess of, those pro-
vided by the formula.
Subsequently, increases in
margins have been awarded to
skilled workers under most other
Commonwealth awards which
traditionally follow the metal-
trades pattern, whilst other
applications for variations are
currently being considered.
The outcome, says the divi-
sion, has been a general rise in
labor costs in Australian manu-
facturing industry. This has
varied widely.
Most manufacturers inter-
viewed quoted a rise of approxi-
mately 3 p.c. to 4 p.c., but quite
often the overall increase has
worked out at not more than
1 p.c. or 2 p.c., particularly
where most labor employed is
unskilled or where females and
juveniles form a large proportion
of the work-force. On the other
hand, a smaller number of
manufacturers who rely pre-
dominantly on skilled workers —
for example, in the machine-
tools industry—have experienced
a rise in labor costs of as much
as 6 p.c.
A minority of manufacturers
have absorbed part of the mar-
ginal increases within over-
award wages previously being
paid, but the scarcity of skilled
tradesmen has operated against
this practice being very wide-
spread. The best skilled
workers can often still command
a premium over the award
wages.
The effect of marginal wage-
increases varies with the pro-
portion which these bear to total
manufacturing costs. The in-
fluence of wage-increases has
been insignificant in industries
such as chemicals, where labor
represents a small part of total
costs. However, in engineering
industries, wage-increases alone
have raised total costs directly
by amounts ranging from 2 p.c.
to as much as 5 p.c.
The cost into store of several
materials used in industry has
also gone up in recent months,
in some instances reflecting
price-changes overseas.
Australian merchant steel has
risen by about 9 p.c. to £35, and
similar imported steel at £6O to
£7O a ton is showing an upward
tendency. The Australian price
of copper rose from £A3IO a
ton in September, 1954, to
£A444 a ton on April 1, 1955, in
sympathy with the price quoted
on the London Metal Exchange
(early in May the price of cop-
per receded a little to £A435 a
ton).
On the reverse side, textile-
manufacturers are now paying
less for wool and rayon-yarn
than last year.
It is too early to judge the
complete effects on manufactur-
ing costs of these increases, as
they will affect materials and
services as well as direct labor
costs.
On the whole, cost-increases
in the engineering industries, as
a result of greater wage-margins,
have probably been exceeded by
increases in costs of materials —
both have been considerable.
In other industries, increases in
costs because of adjustment of
wage-margins have not been
nearly so great, while material
costs have for the most part
increased little, if at all. (Rubber,
leather and timber are the chief
exceptions.)
Prices
Prices were relatively stable in
1954, and those increases which
have occurred since have
resulted from wage-margins and
rises in materials costs in some
cases.
Prices have been increased
most by the metal-using indus-
tries, which have experienced a
larger-than-average increase in
costs.
vSumming up, the Division of
Industrial Development says that
high prosperity, stable prices and
better availability of materials
enabled manufacturers in 1954
to produce a record volume of
goods under much more normal
conditions of operation. Under
these circumstances, those per-
manent factors which determine
the demand for various types of
goods are becoming more evi-
dent and influential. It is con-
sistent with these more normal
operating conditions that there
should appear a markedly
seasonal pattern of production
and sales, a sharpening of com-
petition between firms in some
industries, a fair measure of
stability for costs and prices and
the likelihood that from time to
time there may be fluctuations in
the fortunes of individual
industries and localities.
The immediate prospect is for
some seasonal slackening in
manufacturing output during the
winter months, followed by a
further advance in production
and sales later in 1955. This
will not be inconsistent with
rapid expansion in a number of
industries.
Manufacturers generally have
not as yet been affected directly
by the more selective policy of
the banks in regard to advances.
However, although the banking
system has refrained from any
sudden braking, it has taken its
foot off the accelerator, and one
of the first results is a slight slow-
ing-down in the rate of housing
commencements, with conse-
quent easing of the pressure of
demand for building materials.
There does not seem likely to be
any shortage of goods custom-
arily bought on hire-purchase,
and apparently hire-purchase
firms have sufficient funds to
meet the needs of those seeking
such accommodation.
Take-overs
The offer by Federal Hotels,
Ltd., of Melbourne, of 305., plus
two Federal ss. shares, for each
Usher’s Hotel £1 share, has the
approval of Usher’s directors.
Federal Hotel shares have lately
been selling at 12s. This Mel-
bourne concern owns the
Federal, , in Collins-street, the
Savoy-Plaza (formerly the Alex-
ander) in Spencer-street, and it
has acquired control of Menzies
Hotel as well. The chain will
now spread to Sydney, with pos-
sibilities of further expansion.
Federal Hotels, Ltd., already
has a paid capital of £622,034,
and has been paying a \2\ p.c.
div. with reasonable comfort.
Future div.-prospects will de-
pend to an extent upon the
management’s success in pep-
ping-up earning-power of the
hotels taken over.
Nothing has come out of the
Myer Emporium offer for Fin-
ney Isles (Brisbane) shares. It
was not recommended for ap-
proval by F.I. directors.
The offer by G. J. Coles of
40s. in cash and one G. J. Coles
ss. ord. for each 10s. stock-unit
in Manton’s (Melbourne) is
likely to be accepted by Manton
shareholders.
Meanwhile, take-over fever is
affecting the shares of nearly all
the unattached retailers in the
mainland capital cities. One
reason for the take-over activity
is the difficulty of getting store-
sites in the busier parts of the
capital cities, and the high cost
of building. But political and
economic circumstances are not
completely in favor of reason-
able returns on present-day


Jwieu’d..,.
TL • i I //Ifffiffilftyfti
The connoisseur s word Ml'iiiijk
for smooth, mellow
perfection
mi!!!,
ytm
wm
m
m
U
m
£I£>SPITAL
*Co
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
T5T.47.12
✓
*
\
\
mm
wm
4 TEMPTING 15EASONS for securing
NOW a pair of STAMINA OE-LUXE
Self-supporting TROUSERS •
1. THE SUPPLY IS LIMITED. Although over
2,000,000 are made and sold, only one man in every five
will be able to get a pair this year.
2. A MAN LOOKS HIS BEST IN STAMINA.
Staminas are artistically designed to give you freedom
and comfort without losing that stylish appearance well-
dressed men demand.
3. YOU WILL GET YEARS AND YEARS OF
WEAR FROM STAMINA. Staminas are master-tailored
from a special and exclusive wear-resisting Pure Wool
Crusader Cloth. That means you have Crusader’s Guarantee
that the cloth will never fade or shrink.
4. THE PRICE IS FAR BELOW THE VALUE YOU RECEIVE.
For only 99/8 you get all the benefits of Pure Wool a cloth that is wear-
resisting, dirt-repellent, flame-resisting and water-repellent. Smartly cut,
attractive, comfortable Trousers ideal for every wear everywhere.
Stamina.
TROUSERS
DON’T DELAY! SECURE YOUR STAMINA SELF-SUPPORTING TROUSERS NOW!
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
im
building-costs; perhaps not on
take-over costs either.
The High Cost of Drilling
“Abdul Assiz”: Structural
drilling in the Kimberleys
(W.A.) by the Bureau of Mineral
Resources has been delayed
owing to the impossibility of
placing boring-contracts at a
reasonable price. Independently,
the high cost of drilling by con-
tract has been confirmed from
other quarters.
Longreach Oil, Ltd., for
example, which entered the oil
game only a short while ago
with a paid-up capital of
£200,000, has given up its active
search for petroleum after sink-
ing four wells, all under 4000 ft.
in depth, on the. ground that it
had not sufficient funds remain-
ing to extend its drilling con-
tract. And the Clarence River
Basin Co. has announced that
its initial drilling programme
near Grafton presumably
covering only two shallow wells
—will cost about £70,000.
These figures suggest that the
gross cost of sinking shallow
bores, at easily accessible loca-
tions, exceeds £lO a foot —an
amount ominously high. It will
constitute a grave obstacle to
the search for oil in Australia —
even where there is hope of pro-
duction above, say, 5000 ft. —by
any company not rich enough to
buy its own equipment, or with-
out the experience necessary to
handle a drilling crew.
McPhersons
Although, at last balance-day,
McPhersons, Ltd. (manufacturer
and distributor of builders’ sup-
plies, machinery, etc.), had no
overdraft and a strong liquid
position, it proposes to make a
one-for-four cash issue at par,
which will bring in £737,922 and
raise paid capital to £3,689,612,
all in ords. and employees’
shares.
In the last directors’ report it
was stated that a capital outlay
of more than half a million
pounds was expected during the
next two or three years. Fac-
tories and warehouses were to
be enlarged. Such an expendi-
ture could have been covered
easily out of undistributed earn-
ings at the 1953-54 rate of
reserve-increment.
The new capital which is now
being asked for, the directors
say, is required for general
expansion. It would appear
that capital outlay is to be
greater than was contemplated a
year ago, or that more working
capital is required. Turnover
goes on improving.
Last ord. div. was 11 p.c.,
paid out of earnings equal to
23 p.c. on total capital. It is a
very solid and progressive busi-
ness, with capital and dividend
well protected. Next div. is
payable in October —no interims
are declared. At 505., cum
rights, % ex-rights price of the
shares (cum dividend) is 445. 6d.,
to yield around 5 p.c. on the
present div. basis.
The new issue will be offered
late in September, for subscrip-
tion in October.
Oil and Uranium
Oil has been flowing at Rough
Range No. 1a (W.A.) following
gun-perforation of the casing at
between 3603 ft. and 3618 ft.,
which is the oil-sand horizon in
this hole. Initial flush-produc-
tion has been at the rate of 75
barrels an hour (about 16 p.c.
of which has been water). A
full test of the oil-flow is esti-
mated to take 60 days. At
Cape Range No. 2 there has
been a show of gas from a core
cut at 6800-6810 ft. The well is
drilling ahead in siltstone, which
is not generally regarded as a
likely oil-stratum.
Oil-shares are mostly in the
doldrums. The exception was the
public response to the issue
made by Interstate Oil, Ltd. The
offering to shareholders in Con-
solidated Zinc was oversub-
scribed more than nine times,
and applications for the public
issue were nearly three times
the number available. Immediate
oil-prospecting interest is in the
Gippsland (Vic.) area.
Uranium shares have been
dull. “Take-over bids” have
done little to stimulate this sec-
tion of the sharemarket. The
market-leader in this group is
N.A.U.C., but all of them have
a wilting appearance for the pre-
sent. A.O.E. shares are around
par.
N.Z. Treasury Surplus
The Department of Coinci-
dences has an addition. On the
day Maoriland Finance Minister
Watts announced a surplus of
£N.Z.9 million in the public
accounts, Secretary of the
Treasury Ashwin told the Royal
Commission on Monetary
Affairs that budgeting for a
surplus was a way of removing
money from circulation —
quickly.
The real surplus in the
accounts is more than £N.Z.2O
million, truly a reflection of
boom years, but also somewhat
disquieting.
Taxation receipts were about
£N.Z.IB million more than ex-
pected, £N.Z.IO million coming
from taxes on earnings of com-
panies and individuals, and
about £N.Z.7 million from
Customs and sales-tax revenue.
It would be hard to find a
better pointer to the ever-
increasing wage-level in
Maoriland.
Significant indeed is the admis-
sion by Watts that the public-
works vote was underspent by
£N.Z. 7 million. This would
not be for want of trying,
because public-works are being
pushed ahead with drive and
vigor. The Government had
the money, but, like private
industry and local bodies, it
couldn’t find the labor and
materials. Works Minister Bill
Sullivan made a typically-
outspoken comment on the sub-
ject when he listed private- and
public-works projects costing
millions. He said some would
have to wait. Starting all
planned works, said Sullivan,
would only result in too great
competition for labor and
materials. Some ambitious
plans would have to be put in
cold-storage.
It is ironical that Watts, in
announcing the Government’s
decision to stay off the loan-
market, solemnly stated that he
hoped this would mean local
bodies would obtain money for
capital-works, urgently needed
and long deferred. There’s a
touch of “I can’t find a builder
for my new house; you get the
money and see if you can find
one.” As the Government
found, money must go hand-in-
hand with labor and bricks-and-
mortar.
With the present £N.Z.2O
million surplus in the public-
accounts in mind, next Budget
will be interesting. As said,
there won’t be much point in
providing overmuch for works.
Most pundits are already fore-
casting tax-reductions, but in
some ways this would be a
boomerang. Tax - reductions
would leave more money in the
hands of the people with a
growing demand for luxury
consumer-goods. There would
be pressure on overseas funds to
pay for imports—and Maoriland
is worried about less money
from farm exports since the
return to free overseas
marketing.
There’s a strong case for tax-
reductions. The public accounts
prove that the Treasury is
wringing more from taxpayers
than it can spend prudently.
The Government is likely to
resolve the problem by reducing
sales-tax, especially on public-
transport vehicles and materials
used by local bodies. Political
expediency will call for lower
income-tax and increased old-
age benefits. More will be pro-
vided for loan-redemption funds
in anticipation of £N.Z.IOO
million of public loans falling
due in the next three years.
Finance Minister Watts has a
troublesome baby on his
doorstep.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit.
Vs-*
> A
\ %
4'l *?
Wm
PIS
ZsCZ&iZ
>4 v'S
\J3k
il*
jT-
■r&&£
i>:~.;'‘-
r->; 1 '» —.f
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
"> Estate the benefit of
p, this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F, H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
\Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond J . R. Faviell
F. B. Fleming G. B. Rater
Manager: IS. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officert
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF -N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.IOI.IS
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
WITH an income of £42.4 mil-
lion and assets totalling £298.3
million in the books, and worth
more, the 105-year-old A.M.P. is
the biggest mutual life office in the
British Commonwealth. About 81 p.c.
of the business is now written in Aus-
tralia, over 17 p.c. in New Zealand and
the rest mostly in Britain. Of the lot
approximately 92 p.c. is ordinary and 8
p.c. industrial.
It is difficult to overemphasise
the importance of life-assurance
as a safe and profitable avenue of
personal saving, which is that part of
an individual’s income which, by thrift,
is set aside for future enjoyment and
against misfortune. In these respects the
co.’s policies are designed to meet prac-
tically every need of the individual and
his dependants ; and they are sold on the
fairness of the contract, which creates a
full measure of capital-protection long
before it is paid for. Moreover, the capital
value of a with-profits policy keeps on
increasing by annual bonus-additions in
all economic climates.
Evidence of growing public recognition
of these facts is to be seen in the rapid
post-war growth of the society:
1944. 1954.
New business .. .. £32,524,265 £124,578,503
Total income .. .. 18,961,859 42,411,712
Total assets . . .. 156,567,275 298,304,646
Business in force .. 450,633,143 954,026,888
The expansion over the last decade has
exceeded that of the preceding 95 years,
due largely to rapid growth of population,
depreciation of the currency, and widen-
ing use of life-assurance as a means of
(1) industrial superannuation and (2) as
collateral for loans for home-building.
The co.’s latest accounts provide fresh
evidence of continued progress in all
those things which matter most so far as
bonuses to policyholders—there are no
shareholders—and soundness are con-
cerned. A record amount of new business
was written, the bigger surplus available
for distribution covered the attractive
rates of bonuses to policyholders with a
comfortable margin to spare, and the net
rate of interest earned and the expense
ratios, or cost of handling the business,
both moved in the right direction. It is all
the outcome of careful management and
wise investment of a big volume of funds.
New business totalled £124,578,503
(up £6,378,753), of which £114,274,283
(up £6,452,999) was ordinary and
£10,304,220 (down £74,246) industrial.
Income in the two departments, and what
was done with it, is shown in the follow-
ing table:
Ordinary Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’51.25,493,393 9,119,243 3,049,319 160,080 13,164,751
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 83,844
’52.28,309,830 10,349,872 3,363,399 96,730 14,499,829
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 27,481
’53.31,829,068 11,370,230 3,629,369 231,965 16,597,504
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 20,328
Tax overprovided .. .. . . 1,672,793
’54.33,202,581 12,536,090 3,945,889 242,633 , s „ 77
Exchange adjustment, £400,320 , .. s,u ’
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 44,991
Industrial Department.
Total Ex. Written Added
Dec., Income Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
*51.6,319,352 2,830,553 698,892 16,526 2,773,381
Surplus saie assets .. .. .. 17,994
'52.6,592,718 2,651,234 1,437,396 8,820 2,495,268
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 5,851
’53.6,933,058 3,072,346 1,428,491 18,630 2,413,591
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 4,248
Tax overprovided . . .. .. 408,488
'54.7,209,131 3,570,600 1,426,334 45,232 } 9 r>ql
Exchange adjustment, £80,274 .. j ’ ’
Surplus sale assets .. . . .. 9,022
Combining the figures of the two sections,
the year’s total income was £42,411,712
(up £3,649,586), of which £31,722,749 (up
£2,561,797) was premiums and
£10,668,963 (up £1,087,789) interest, rents,
etc. Of the lot a little over half was used
to meet claims, exes, and write down the
book-value of assets and provide for
exchange adjustments. The £20,164,340
that remained, together with £54,013
surplus from sale of assets, was added to
the statutory life funds, etc., raising them
to £290,510,762 —the etcetera is £5,500,000
of investment and contingency reserves,
returns from which help to swell earnings
from the statutory funds.
The surplus available for distribution
in the O.D. was £261,686 stronger at
£8,054,016:
1953. 1954.
Assurance funds .. £220,004,712 £238,127,352
Actuarial liability .. 212,212,382 230,073,336
Surplus .. .. £7,792,330 £8,054,016
Bonus policyholders . . 6,331,759 6,925,900
Reserve contingencies .. 1,000,000 750,000
Reserve interim bonuses 60,000 60,000
Carried forward .. .. 410,571 318,116
An extra £594,141 was allotted to policy-
holders in bonuses at the same high
levels as for the previous year—when the
rates were jacked up by no less than 14
p.c.—and £750,000 was sent to the contin-
gencies reserve.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on the statutory funds was £3 19s. 4d. p.c.
(up 2s. sd. p.c.). Commissions and man-
agement exes, made off with 14.47 p.c.
(down 0.22 p.c.) of net premiums in the
O.D. and 24.75 p.c. (down 0.58 p.c.) in
the I.D.
The aspect of the business to which the
directors devote most of their time and
thought is investments. Upon the success
achieved depends both the rate of interest
earned and the size of the bonuses paid
to policyholders:
Government 1953. p.c. 1954. p.c.
securitiesf .. £147,311,569 53.1 £152,226,523 51.0
Mortgages .. 86,560,773 31.2 98,774,651 33.1
Loans policies 12,719,642 4.6 12,937,260 4.3
Shares and
debentures .. 20,727,373 7.5 23,636,807 7.9
Debtors, etc.J. . 4,174,854 1.5 4,659,961 1.6
Cash .. .. 33,490 0.1 14,131 0.1
Freeholds, etc. 5,615,446 2.0 6,055,313 2.0
Total assets £277,143,147 £298,304,646
Liabilities* .. 6,554,864 7,378,099
Net assets.. £270,588,283 £290,926,557
f Includes local and semi-Govemment securities.
X Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
The increase in total assets last term
was £21,161,499, of which £12,213,878
was in respect of mortgages, etc., largely
in connection with home-building,
£4,914,954 Government securities and
£439,867 freeholds, etc., which include
the society’s big land-development pro-
ject (South Australia), which has yet to
make its major contribution to earnings.
Anthony Hordern & Sons (Sydney)
A SPRING in net earnings and lift in
dividend to levels unsurpassed since
the public became interested 29 years
ago, and which exceeded the market’s
most sanguine expectations, are two of
the important features of the latest
accounts of this big and old-established
emporium, which has State-wide connec-
tions. And, more important, the co.’s
prospects as a trader look brighter than
ever before.
For these and other reasons, the
market lengthened its bid for the co.’s
f.-p. £1 ords. from 255. a year ago to
335. in March, 1955, and then hoisted
the figure to 455. 3d. last week —highest
price ever paid for the scrip to date. The
immediate return at 455. 3d. was only 4.4,
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Later there
was a reaction to 40s. 6d., to show a
present yield of. 5 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £B3 17s. 7d. prefs. and
88s. Bd. ords.
The other reasons exerting an upward
pressure of the price are rumors of a
prospective take-over bid and the
psychology of the market. The chair-
man made no reference to any such
prospect in his annual address to share-
holders on May 25, but rumor has it
that the interested party is the big Myer
Emporium (Melbourne), which was
unsuccessful in its bid for Charles Birks
and Co. (Adelaide), as well as in a joint-
bid, with G. J. Coles and others, for
Foy and Gibson, Ltd. (Melbourne), and
which has just made a handsome ofier
for Finney Isles and Co. (Brisbane),
which that co.’s shareholders are recom-
mended, by their board, not to accept.
Another feature of A.H.’s figures
which catches the eye is the big margin
between the market price for the ords.
and their net tangible asset backing.
This margin was widened last term by
additions to reserves totalling £3,989,652,
of which £2,675,519 came from a revalua-
tion of fixed assets, £1,194,813 frorti
specific provisions now “unnecessary in
their previous form,” and £119,320 from
the year’s net earnings. Freeholds and
plant were independently revalued and
written-up in the books by £2,393,073
and £282,446 respectively, bringing them
into line with their present-day value.
Specific reserves transferred to share-
holders’ funds were depreciation
(£719,813), alterations (£100,000) and
sundry undisclosed provisions (£375,000).
Shareholders and others are thus given a
clear picture of the undertaking at today’s
values. The only things not put in the
window are the co.’s extensive goodwill
—worth a substantial sum of money, and
therefore an important part of share-
holders’ equity, the chairman says —and
allowances for bad debts and a possible
drop in inventory values.
After again setting aside £45,000 for
depreciation and an unstated amount for
taxation, etc., net earnings increased by
£89,021 (42 p.c.), reaching a record
£300,570:
Dividends s Nominal
P»ef. To Re- Re-
Feb. .Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’50..125,374 45,000 6 = 75,000 5,374 272,272
’51..131,547 45,000 6 = 75,000 11,547 283,819
’52..127,286 45,000 6 = 75,000 7,286 291,105
’53..125,030 45,000 6 = 75,000 5,030 296,135
7$ p.c.
’54..211,549 56,250 8 = 100,000 55,299 351,434
To alterations reserve, £50,000 .. 301,434
Asset revaluation reserve, £2,675,519.. 2,976,953
From depreciation ( £719,813) and
alteration (£100,000) reserves, and
sundry provisions (£375,000) ..4,171,766
’55..300,570 56,250 10 = 125,000 119,320 4,291,086
The pref. div. called for £56,259, and
the balance of the year’s profit was 19.5
p.c. on the £1,125,000 of ord. capital as
against 12.4, 6.2, 6.3, 6.5 and 6.2 p.c.
back to 1950. The lift in the div. from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. was thus a comfortable
matter. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the £300,570 of
profit was 4.7 p.c., which is below
average for the trade.
The jump in profits is the result of a
build-up of a number of factors to which
the management has given close atten-
tion during the last few years. Customers’
wants have been re-examined, inventories
have been adjusted and some of the dead
wood cut out, the quality of goods and
services has been improved with special
attention to quick-moving lines, price
and cost relationships have been realigned
by more careful budgeting and buying,
and the operating efficiencies of labor and
management have been improved. Also
a lot of money has been spent on
brightening the store and improving
shopping facilities for customers. And
further alterations and improvements are
to be made to selected sections.
Apart from the writing-up of fixed
assets and additions to reserves, the main
feature of balance-sheet figures is bigger
trading, partly on a credit basis:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Old £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref 750,000 750,000 750,000
Reserves .. .. 296,136 301,434 4,291,087
Depreciation, etc. 679,813 774,813
Mortgages .. 640,000 620,000 894,298
Creditors, etc. .. 867,405 1,243,568 1,332,226
Tax reserves .. 121,049 196,236 282,225
Final divs. .. 60,000 96,250 90,625
£4,664,403 £5,232,301 £8,890,461
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 1,478,213 1,547,675 3,947,400
Plant, etc. .. 601,289 647,665 1,003,580
Stocks .. .. 1,725,572 1,834,061 2,205,300
Book debts .. 824,601 1,154,358 1,617,840
Cash, etc 34,728 48,542 116,341
£4,664,403 £5,232,301 £8,890,461
Book-debts increased by £463,482 and
stocks (in at cost or under) by £371,239.
To help meet the outlay £274,298 net
was added to mortgages and £88,658 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors.
The more-or-less liquid surplus was
£459,200 stronger at £1,340,107.
For the first quarter of the current
term turnover is ahead of that for the
corresponding period of the previous
year, which suggests that the co. can be
expected to consolidate its gains and
make further progress.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
the one-for-two issue of
bonus-shares in September, 1954,
and the trend toward tighter trading
conditions in the industry, latest accounts
of this Bundaberg sugar-miller and
-grower put fresh heart into the market,
which lengthened its offer for the f.-p. £1
shares from 425. 6d. to 495. following
publication of the latest accounts. The
immediate return at 495. is only 4.9 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for 5.7 p.c. on his money counts on
a 14 p.c. distribution, which, on capital
as it now stands, would call for £11,583
less profit than was claimed last term.
The co. has always been a good profit-
earner and dividend-payer. Its produc-
tive capacity has been increased recently,
because of a lift in the mill quota fol-
lowing the increase of about 200,000
tons in Australia’s annual export quota
of raws, now 600,000 tons. And over the
last few years the selling-price of raws in
both the home and export markets has
strengthened. The combination has given
net earnings of those in the industry a
nice lift.
Last term G. and H. crushed 328,994
tons (up 20,239 tons) cane for 41,740
tons (up 3840 tons) raws, which was
4750 tons in excess of the co.’s allotted
mill peak. After allowing £46,615 (up
£2319) for depreciation and something
for taxation, etc., net earnings stepped up
by £16,108, reaching a record £99,783:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1950.. 48,760 12 p.c. = 34,502 14,258 185,208
1951.. 38,795 11 „ „ 36,099 2,696 187,904
1952.. 60,310 12 „ „ 42,840 17,470 205,374
1953.. 83,675 15 „ „ 69,852 23,823 229,197
Asset revaluation reserve, £210,000.. 439,197
Reserve capitalised, £210,000 .. 229,197
1954.. 99,783 12 p.c. = 75,600 24,183 253,380
* Not including depreciation reserve, £460,643 at
31/12/’54.
The £99,783 was 15.8 p.c. on'capital as it
now stands, and the div. was lowered
from 15 p.c. to 12 p.c. But the 12 p.c.
is equal to 18 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the issue of gift-scrip, which
called for £210,000, and was charged
against a reserve of like amount created
by writing-up the book-value of fixed
assets.
On the growing and milling side of
the industry earnings appear to have
reached their peak, for the time being at
any rate. Chief trouble is world-wide
overproduction, and its threat to the
open-market price for raws, and there-
fore to the average price for Australia’s
export surplus. The price structure of
the industry in Australia is based upon
three types of sales: (1) Home consump-
tion under the Commonwealth sugar
agreement; (2) negotiated exports (up
to 324,000 tons) at prices fixed annually
with the British Government; (3) open-
market exports, which are that portion
of the export surplus in excess of the
negotiated tonnage which are sold in
competition with other suppliers.
Prices per ton last season were approxi-
mately home-consumption £A47 (down
18s.), negotiated quota £S4I (down 265.)
and open-market £S3I (unchanged). It
was the bigger tonnage and steadier costs
that lifted profits. For the current season
the negotiated price has been fixed at
£S4O 155., not much if any change is
expected in the open- and home-market
figures, and local mill-production is
expected to be restricted to the allotted
quotas. The co.’s mill is due to start
crushing on July 6, and expects to handle


Established 1868
Contractors to Government. Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly
eisiuuvAv
?»$ BR'*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m i
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE FTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3p) 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neya, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Ftuih in the
Future
m
mu
America’s population is given in a new census
figure as 165 million. It is 13 million higher than
in 1950, and rising at the rate of nearly four
million a year.
That is something to make Australians think.
It drives home to us a vital lesson —that population
creates wealth, and wealth, in turn, begets
population.
It is one of the truisms of modem history that
America’s industrial and economic greatness sprang
from the opening of her gates to all acceptable
migrants in the 19th century.
The trend of that migration, by comparison
with our own in the same period, is worth
examination.
Recently I saw some figures extracted from
a book entitled “Under the Southern Cross,” written
by Henry Cornish in 1880.
The author showed that in the 64 years between
1815 (the year of Waterloo) and 1878 inclusive,
8,245,000 people emigrated from the United
Kingdom.
Of these, 5,259,000 went to the United States,
1,522,000 to Canada, 1,226,000 came to Australia
and New Zealand, and 238,000 went to all other
places.
Those same years saw the total population of
Australia grow from something like 22,000 to about
two million. It multiplied- itself ninety times in
64 years.
It is idle now to dwell on the thought that
if that rate of increase had been even approximately
maintained, Australia would long since have
reached its human capacity, on our standards.
The past is gone. There is the present, and
more importantly, the future. The need for
population remains.
In satisfying that need we are presented with
problems. But the central point is that it must be
satisfied.
And the American figures, with all they mean
in prosperous living for millions more each year,
prove that many of the problems associated with
migration are self-solving.
y
If any “Bulletin’' illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ...
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin" or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
310,000 tons of cane for the
season. Much will depend upon
what happens in connection
with costs.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £417,173 £630,000
Reserves . . .. 229,197 253,380
Depreciation reserve 415,599 460,643
Sundry creditors*.. 485,323 593,275
Staff fund .. 19,113 20,000
Final divs. .. 39,616 44,100
£1,606,021 £2,001,398
Freeholds, plant, etc. 1,114,099 1,434,045
Stocks .. •• 397,745 479,291
Sundry debtors .. 39,238 29,815
Govt, securities .. 43,200 43,200
Cash, etc. . • 11,739 15,047
£1,606,021 £2,001,398
* Including provision for taxation.
Of the year’s net addition of
£319,946 to the book-value of
fixed assets, £210,000 was on
account of the writing-up
already referred to. To help meet
the difference and carry an extra
£81,546 of stocks the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was increased by £107,952.
New Broken Hill Consolid’d
"vrEW Broken Hill Consoli-
dated is London-controlled,
but the mine just emerging
from final stages of initial
development—is at the southern
end of the big lead-zinc lode at
the Barrier (N.S.W.). In size and
performance it promises to rival
the great past and present pro-
ducers on this field, which is
one of the major contributors to
the world’s supply of lead and
zinc.
Good progress has been made
with shaft-sinking, development,
installation of winding, crushing
and mill equipment, and produc-
tion is ahead of schedule —it
began in 1945 and reached
482,058 tons last year.
The leap of over 44 p.c. in
profit and doubling of the divi-
dend last term exceeded market
expectations, and the price of
the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares advanced
from 30s. 6d. at the beginning
to 495. at the end of 1954. The
figure had eased to 455. last week.
The div., which was lifted from
Is. 6d. to 3s. per share, is sub-
ject to U.K. income tax, now
Bs. 6d. in the £. Allowing for
this and for exchange at the
current rate, the nominal 60 p.c.
distribution is equal to 43.1 p.c.
in Australian currency. On this
basis the immediate return at
455. is 5.2 p.c.
After allowing for develop-
ment (£276,345, up £162,538),
depreciation (£307,000, up
£29,600) and taxation (£543,960,
up £279,300), the profit was
£184,012 better at £597,274:
Dec., Profit. Dividends.f Reserves.
£* £*
1952. . 558,020 30 p.c. = 180,695 3,772,141
Net unexp. addition, £15,259 3,787,400
From tax reserve, £36,987 3,824,387
1953. .413,262 30 p.c. = 184,898 4,052,751
Net unexp. addition, £3848 4,056,599
1954. . 597,274 60 p.c. = 384,454 4,269,419
f Rate of div. is that declared, but amount
is shown after deducting English tax.
* Sterling.
The £597,274 was equal to 53
p.c. on the £1,126,375 of capital
as against 36.8, 49.8, 55.2, 42.1
and 36 p.c. back to 1949. Behind
the spring in last year’s net earn-
ings were stronger metal prices,
bigger production of slightly-
better-grade ore at lower cost per
ton, following installation of
additional plant and equipment
and improvement in operational
efficiency.
Average London spot prices
per ton of lead and zinc moved
in this way over the three years
to December 31 last:
Year
Dec.’3l, Lead. Zinc.
1952 .. £SI49 15 0 £SI49 4 0
1953 .. 90 3 0 75 3 0
1954 .. 96 4 0 78 5 0
For the first four months of
1955 average figures were £SIO9
lead and £SBB zinc, and on June
7 lead stood at £SIO3 and zinc
at £590.5.
Ore milled and its assay
values compare as follows:
Ore Grade
Milled, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1952.. 235,478 8.5 1.9 12.4
1953.. 403,662 8.8 2.0 13.7
1954.. 483,461 9.4 2.1 14.4
The co.’s own mill handled
338,630 tons of last year’s feed,
and when the second section is
completed about September
next, annual capacity will be
540,000 tons crudes.
Lead and zinc concentrates
produced were 56,564 tons (up
12,533 tons) and 127,180 tons
(up 26,824 tons) respectively.
The lead concentrates contained
41,632 tons (up 9173 tons) lead
and 808,4060 z. (up 163,2400 z.)
silver. Actual sales were;
Zinc Con-
Lead, Silver, centrates,
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1952.. 16,894 381,075 50,881
1953.. 31,996 695,525 97,828
1954.. 36,198 749,656 117,874
The shortfall of sales compared
with production was due to
shipping difficulties.
Measured ore reserves at
December 31, 1954, were:
f Assay —^
Ore, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
Above No.
16 level .. 900,000 5.7 1.2 16.0
Below No.
16 level .. 1,900,000 13. Q 3.4 10.0
Total . . 2,800,000 11.1 2.7 11.9
The service shaft is down 3194 ft.,
or 28ft. below No. 22 level, and
is fully equipped and in opera-
tion. Drilling and other develop-
ment in the first 1500 ft. south
of Zinc Corp.’s boundary indi-
cate at least 16,000,000 tons of
average grade ore.
The year’s improvement in the
net liquid position (net cur-
rent assets) was £894,004:
1953. 1954.
Cash, Govt, bonds £356,622 £1,444,302
Debtors .. .. 172,915 284,033
Stocks .. .. 467,646 522,598
£997,183 £2,250,933
Less liabilities* . . 1,230,231 1,633,506
Net current assets £233,048f £617,427
Machinery, etc. (less
depreciation) .. 1,896,801 1,894,004
Mine expenditure
account.. .. 3,509,590 3,855,448
Paid capital .. 1,120,592 1,126,375
Reserves .. .. 4,052,751 4,269,419
All amounts shown are sterling. * In-
cludes provision for taxation and divi-
dends. t Net deficit in 1953.
The big increases in cash, etc.,
and liabilities are related mainly
to provisions for taxation and
dividends. Net expenditure on
mine account was £345,858.
“Kerogen”: On the question
of the age of Gippsland (Lakes
Entrance) oil, consensus of
opinion is that of L. Owen (B.
1/6/’55) with a range from
Carboniferous to Late Mesozoic
as “possible.” His contention
that the glauconitic sandstone
containing the residual (?) oil of
that district was laid down under
aerobic conditions, i.e., with
oxygen present, is at variance
with the generally accepted
opinion respecting the glau-
conites of the continent (of
which the Cretaceous are con-
sidered the oldest rocks having
glauconite in any considerable
quantity). Though the origin of
glauconites here is not definitely
settled, it is considered as an
alteration product of detrital
micaceous mineral under
anaerobic conditions (absence of
oxygen and favorable to oil-
generation) at relatively shallow
depths, laid down in quiet
waters with muddy floors and at
a slow rate of deposition. Its
presence in marine strata in
Australia does not therefore rule
out the possibility of its having
played some part in oil-genera-
tion. Gippsland is by no means
a simple geological province,
although it has produced signifi-
cant heavy oil at shallow
horizons, and the present well-
sponsored search is bound to
have its surprises.
* * * *
The prospective nickel-bearing
deposit at Mt. Davis, on the
South Australian - Westralian
border, has attracted overseas
interest, and is now to be
thoroughly prospected and
tested. The find was made by
Gold Exploration and Minerals
toward the end of 1954, when
Nickel Mines of Australia was
registered in Adelaide to
investigate the prospect. Now
Nickel Mines, in association
with others, including the big
International Nickel Co. of
Canada, and New York and
London interests, has formed
South-west Mining Ltd., to do
the job. The Canadian co. is to
provide technical direction, as
well as the cash, that preliminary
exploration work will call for. If
this work shows that large-scale
development is warranted, the
Australian public is to be given
an opportunity to participate.


Wome's Letters
SYDNEY
The gentle rain from heaven continued
to drop upon Sydney during the week,
and our faith in the city’s “sunniness” is
becoming a little strained. Still, when a
retail-store set out colored tables and
chairs on its piazza and surrounded them
with banana-trees and palms there was
quite a rush from shoppers to drink
coffee thereat and to play at being in a
gay, leisurely, semi-tropical city, even if
the conversation did tend to turn to the
dreadful price of vegetables, etc. (“Beans
four-shillings a pound, my dear, and
cauliflowers up to seven-shillings each!
And they say that felt-hats are going to
be double the price next year because of
the scarcity of rabbits, of all things! ”)
☆ ☆ ☆
We really had two celebrations for the
Queen’s birthday this week ; one on the
9th and another (a holiday) on the 13th.
The Queen’s real birthday is April 21, so
the position is just a little ambiguous.
The Prime Minister said in the House
that though the Queen appears to have
three birthdays during the year she
doesn’t seem to be ageing at that rate.
Nobody seems to know why the 9th is
the official date, except that it is a long
way from Christmas and on that date it
is summer in England.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor’s reception in honor of
the Queen’s birthday brought 300 of
Sydney’s leading citizens to Government
House, and a very distinguished assembly
they made, everyone wearing decorations
who could, the men in white-tie and
tails, the women in ball-gowns (not a
ballerina-length to be seen, and long
white kid gloves almost universal).
Sir John Northcott received the guests
with his daughter, Mrs. Russell Nash,
she looking very lovely in a cream satin,
gold-embroidered dress and a diamond
tiara. Warm, golden tones in the flower
arrangements, berries and tangerine-
lilies, cotoneasters and strelitzia were
reflected by the leaping flames in the
open fireplaces, and in the drawing-room
and ballroom music was provided by a
string quartet.
Among the beautiful dresses worn was
Mrs. Alexis Albert’s French-model gown
of pale-blue paper-taffeta, with its
picturesque skirt of bouffant folds. Mrs.
Albert’s husband was an honorary aide-
de-camp ; also Mr. Jock Pagan,
whose wife wore orchid-pink satin with
an organza stole of the same color, and
Mr. Marcel Dekyvere, whose wife wore
a crinoline dress of white plissee chiffon.
fr ☆ ☆
“Carrington, V.C.,” which stars David
Niven, was given a preview in aid of Red
Cross at Hoyts’ Theatre, Double Bay,
during the week, when some glamorous
dressing made it quite a gala-evening.
Noticed there: Dr. and Mrs. C. M.
Guiney ; Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters
and Mrs. Walters with daughter
Robin (wearing a pretty black ballerina
trimmed with pink); Mrs. Tom Bateman’s
long black gloves, with their tiny horse-
shoes of rhinestones —they were much
admired. Mrs. Alec Morgan wore a
short black dress with long sleeves and
portrait-neckline. Mrs. Horton Browne’s
party included young Englishman Craw-
ley Boevey, whose black waistcoat finely
embroidered with rosebuds was one of
six 18th-century heirlooms in his family’s
possession. Colored waistcoats are quite
the thing among Sydney’s young men-
about-town now, and this introducion of
a decorative type into evening-wear may
well develop into a fashion.
V V V
Congratulations to Constance Robert-
son, of the “Herald,” on her 0.8. E. in the
Queen’s Birthday honors. Connie, inci-
dentally, is a daughter of A. G. Stephens,
who conducted Mthe Red Page of The
Bulletin in its formative days.
# V V
Birthday honors also included an M.B.E.
for Mrs. Cecilia Mary Ossoli Kelly, who
turns out to be that friend of childhood,
May Gibb, creator of the Gumnut
Babies, Bib and Bub, Snugglepot and
Cuddlepie, the Banksia Man, etc. Her
first book was published in 1911 and her
latest, The Story of Prince Dande Lion,
in 1953. In all she has published 16
books, which have made her the personal
friend of thousands of Australian
children during the past 42 years. All
these children, past and present, will be
happy to congratulate her on the honor
s fi e fi as rece ived.
. *
There should be quite a military flavor
about Mosman’s Annual Civic Ball, to
be held at the Town Hall there on June
25. The debs, will be escorted by officers
G f the First Field Regiment, R.A.A.,
Georges Heights, and they will be
received by Lieut.-General E. V. Wood-
ward a nd Mrs. Woodward. Those making
t heir curtsy will be Elizabeth Duff, Eliza-
beth Clarke, Pamela Mooney, Lesley
Hynes, Lynne Meillon, Margaret Robert-
son? Denise MacMahon and Jennifer
Callaghan. Mrs. J. I. Moore is to be
matron-of-honor.
Cara Payne, who is one of Sydney’s
ardent young workers for charity, has
announced her engagement to English-
man Brett Hall, elder son of Mrs. Sadler
Hall, of Hestbank, Lancaster. Cara is
the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Murray Payne, of Wahroonga, and is
known for. her work on committees for
the Deaf, Dumb and Blind Society and
for the Smith Family. The engagement
was announced at the recent Wonderland
Ball, and the wedding will take place in
September. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
The Consul-General for Korea, Mr.
H. Lincoln Kim, and Mrs. Kim were
among those who attended a private
screening of Mr. Geoff Collings’s film on
the reconstruction work of United
Nations in Korea, a film which runs for
30 minutes and which was later shown at
the University Film Festival during the
weekend. A small cocktail-party was
held after the screening, when the host
and hostess were Mr. Hugh Williams,
director of the United Nations Centre,
and Mrs. Williams. Among the guests
was author Jon Cleary, who said that
negotiations were under way to film his
book The Sundowners in Australia, with
John Ford as director.
* ☆ ☆
Hugh Hastings, author of the successful
“Seagulls Over Sorrento,” has both writ-
ten and produced the present play at the
Metropolitan Theatre, “Seagulls Over
Shanghai.” Seats for the opening night
were sold for the Naval Centre at Nowra,
and there were quite a number of naval
men present. The topical allusions and
familiar naval types received a lively
reception from the audience. The story
deals with the adventures of five survivors
from H.M.S. Amethyst, which, attacked
by Communist forces in China, went
aground in the Yangtze. Consequently,
the piece has a good deal of interest as
a drama as well as for its comic elements.
☆ ☆ ☆
One-hundred delegates attended the
second annual conference of the Torch
Bearers for Legacy, coming from as far
afield as Moree, Braidwood, and Grafton.
Lady Berryman officially opened the con-
ference, which was then addressed by
Legacy president Cartledge.
Mrs. Lionel McFadyen was re-
elected president, vice-presidents being
Mrs. E. Suttor (Wollongong) and Mrs.
Foulds (Orange). Mrs. L. Ravenscroft
(Grafton) will again act as honorary-sec-
retary. Delegates and observers to the con-
ference attended Legacy’s annual ball at
the Trocadero last Wednesday, when 18
debs were presented to the Governor, Sir
John Northcott. Next day a sherry-party
was held at Elwatan, the Castle Hill home
of Mrs. Robert Dixson.
MELBOURNE
Among the Victorian women men-
tioned in the Queen’s Birthday list, Lady
Brookes, wife of Sir Norman Brookes,
becomes Dame Commander of the British
Empire. During almost all her adult life
Dame Mabel has devoted her spare time
to work which has benefited the whole
community. During the First World
which was shortly after her marriage, she
worked in Egypt with Red Cross. On
returning to Australia she joined the
Children’s Hospital committee, serving on
it until 1923, when she became president
of the Queen Victoria Hospital Appeals
Committee. In 1924 she became presi-
dent of the board of management, and
she still serves in that capacity. For
years she was connected with the Girl
Guide movement, and she also helped
found the Animal Welfare League.
During the Second World War she estab-
lished a 60-bed ward for servicewomen
at Q.V. Hospital, and assisted in found-
ing Air Force House.
Also prominent in hospital work, Mrs.
L. R. Buxton, who 11 years ago received
an Q.8.E., now has the C.B.E. She is a
member of many committees, but her
most notable work has been for St.
Vincent’s Hospital. She has been presi-
dent of its auxiliaries since 1936, and is
the only woman except the Mother
Rectress on the hospital’s advisory board.
Mrs. Buxton is also a member of the
council of the Victorian division of Red
Cross.
For her great work in the educational
life of this city Miss Maud Cameron,
who last year retired after having been
for 43 years headmistress of Firbank,
Church of England Girl’s Grammar
School at Brighton, has been awarded
an M.B.E. As headmistress she saw the
school grow from 43 pupils to over 900.
Miss Cameron has also been prominent
in many other activities of the C. of E.
She is at present holidaying in England.
President of the Catholic Welfare
Organisation since 1941, Dame Mary
Daly is also president of the auxiliary
which works for the Caritas Christi hostel
for old and failing people; it is con-
ducted by the Sisters of Charity. As well.
Dame Mary is a member of the Victorian
Council of the Girl Guide Movement, and
a member of the executive of the Vic-
torian Division of Red Cross. She is
chairwoman of the functions committee
which has arranged Carnival Fantasy, to
be held at Chevron on June 24 for Red
Cross. It’s to be attended by the Gover-
nor and Lady Brooks. John Warlow
photo.
The colorful frocks worn by principals
and chorus provided most of the
brilliance at Her Majesty’s for the open-
ing night of “Carmen,” for once again
the audience dressed for the weather
rather than for opera. Lady Clapp and
Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon topped formal
gowns with full-length fur-coats. The
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. P. Selleck) chose
a short lavender-grey organza frock and
cape-stole of palest-grey Arctic-foxes.
Madame Mario Vigano’s long coat of
black Persian lamb had deep cuffs of
silver-blue mink. Mrs. Frank Tait added
to her copper-toned satins a dyed-ermine
coat; Mrs. Leo Curtis chose a short coat
of black velvet heavily embroidered with
black jet and sequins.
Lady Knox wore a white floral-
patterned satin gown under dyed-ermine.
Mrs. Rupert Downes’s cape-stole was of
white Arctic-fox. Mrs. Desmond Holly-
wood chose sea-green taffetas ; Mrs. F. H.
Wright’s theatre-coat was of black velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dorothy Gitsham’s collection of casual-
and formal-gowns includes both overseas
and locally-printed cottons. Separates,
which have become such a help in the
business-girl’s budget, were shown; the
most effective a full skirt in a black-and-
white “brick-waU”-design cotton, on
which were appliqued gold sunflowers
and green leaves, With it was a strapless
top in gold cotton —an outfit that could
be used for a sun-frock or for dancing.
A rose-print, inspired by Dior, was fea-
tured in pink roses on a white cotton.
Above the skirt was a rose-pink top, cut
with a deep U-neckline and waisted with
an olive-green cummerbund.
From Spain came a pair of high-cut
matador-pants in deep-apricot cotton.
Unusual pockets of crochet-string were
finished with trimmings of shells. To go
with them were a bodice in matching
florals and a tiny bolero in apricot
cotton and lined with floral cotton
to match the bodice. Also in
the resort-clothes group was a “tea-
timer.” The original garment, from
Waikiki, is in pastel wide-striped cotton.
Slim-fitting, it had a mandarin-collar, and
the skirt was slit at each side to the thigh
to reveal tight-fitting knee-length pants
finished with a frill of the material.
Dorothy’s version of “tea-timer” was a
full-skirted frock in exotic blue-and-gold
cotton, the pants in blue cotton.
The more formal frocks were lovely.
There was a short dance-frock of navy
French-sheer cotton. On the strapless
bodice was a large white pique rose, to
which was attached a stole. Nestling in
the folds of the full skirt (which had a
harem-hemline) was a cluster of white
pique roses with jewel centres. Bands of
imported satin ribbon embroidered in
pink roses trimmed a short, full-skirted
strapless frock of white chiffon. White
bobble-braid trimmed the strapless bodice
and full skirt of a frock in Mediterranean-
blue cotton. A very pretty party-frock
was of white cotton scattered with pink
spots. This frock could be worn back-
to-front, and.a matching pink cummer-
bund was attractive. The longer torso-
line was seen in an off-the-shoulder white
cotton frock printed in a bright-blue
design. A swathing of the material defined
the low waistline.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests arriving at the Royale Ballroom
for the Southern Command Ball were
met with gay music provided by red-
coated bandsmen. In the foyer was a
Southern Command flag, and behind the
official table was a huge crown mounted
on crossed lances. Set on tall stands were
urns of hydrangeas, berries and autumn-
foliage. On every table was the figure
of an English period-soldier of a regi-
ment now allied to an Australian one.
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
received by the G.O.C. Southern Com-
mand, Lieut.-General A. R. Garrett, and
Mrs. Garrett, the president of Southern
Command Officers’ Mess, Col. W. W.
Wearne, and Mrs. Wearne.
White guipure lace was appliqued on
the bouffant skirt of the blush-pink tulle
gown worn by Lady Brooks. Mrs.
Garrett’s gown of azure-blue stiffened
faille was cut on princess-lines; it had
an off-the-shoulder bodice, and the skirt
was very full. Mrs. Wearne’s faille was
ice-blue, the skirt being slim.
Mrs. Robin Byrne, daughter of the
Governor, wore a buttercup-yellow floral-
printed organza gown and a matching
tulle stole. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. P.
Selleck) wore pale-apricot satin brocade.
Mrs. J. E. Sell wore an unusual raspberry-
red pure-silk printed frock, the skirt
featuring a swathed hipline and draped
front.
# V V
Noted in the throng at Flemington on
the first day of the V.R.C. Queen’s Birth-
day meeting: The scarlet coat worn by
Mrs. L. R. Buxton, contrasted with her
leopard muff and hat swathed with brown
chiffon ; Mrs. Frank Tait’s deep-blue suit,
with its woven silver thread, worn with a
small white hat; Mrs. Henry Bolte’s
suit of anthracite-grey and her matching
felt-hat trimmed with jet; Mrs. A.
Murdoch’s combination of grey coat and
small red hat; Lady Collins’s white-gros-
grain hat trimmed with jet; Mrs. Norman
Strange’s neat effect of black suit, silver*
blue-mink stole and small white hat,


EXCLUSIVE FRENCH FRAGRANCE BY JACQUES FATH
|oz.
35/-
ioz.
70/-
Plus
’’ostage
FATH DE FATH exquisite perfume in
attractive diamond shaped bottle available
in two sizes. Post your order today to-
gether with cheque, Postal Note or Money
Order. Allow 2/- to cover registered post.
LIMITED STOCKS ONLY
1-mH m mm mm mm mm-
J Manly Mail Order Service Co.,
! P.O. Box 18, Balgowlah, N.S.W.
1 NAME
ADDRESS
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE CECIL HOFFMAN, for-
merly of Balmain. —TAKE NOTICE that
MABEL VERONICA HOFFMAN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1884 of 1955
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
23rd of August 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
IV. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO VACLOVAS SEREIKA late of 4 Esk
Street, Lithgow—TAKE NOTICE that
MARIA SEREIKA has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 290 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse and
applied for the discretion of this Honor-
able Court If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Twenty-third day of August,
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from K. K. REISS, Soli-
citor, 472 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
GLEADHALL, Herb, formerly of 'Wood-
stock in the State of Victoria.—WlLL
any person knowing the whereabouts of
the abovenamed HERB GLEADHALL,
please communicate with the under-
mentioned firm of Solicitors. —MOLOMBY
& MOLOMBY, 99 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ?
JACK MAY, formerly of Yunta, S.A.,
will hear to his financial advantage on
writing H. LEWIS ABBOTT, Solicitor,
Adelaide.
TO WILLIAM STEWART formerly of
Hay in the State of New South Wales
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife FRANCES
JEAN STEWART of 341 Sydney Road
Brunswick in the State of Victoria has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of your repeated
act of adultery with MOLLIE WALSH
and on the further ground of desertion
for three years and upwards Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court Melbourne on
or before the 21st day of July 1955 the
suit will proceed in your absence and a
decree for dissolution of marriage may
be granted and you may be ordered to
pay costs If you intend to defend this
suit you must also file and deliver an
answer on or before the First day of
August 1955.—D. G. SULLIVAN &
O’PHELAN, 20 Bank Place, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
FOR GENUINE ART COLLECTORS
A choice from a lifetime collection of
RARE ENGRAVINGS AND ETCHINGS
A set of 60 engravings by J. W. M. Turner (£5000). 1500 individual
copies from £1 to £lOO.
Write MAX ENKHARDT, 28 Windsor Ave., McKinnon, S.E. 14, Vic.
(All enquiries will be faithfully acknowledged.)
WHEN DO YOU
want him?
SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY
The humanitarian scientists, Dr. Knaus, and Dr. Ogino, have
discovered a means of determining with certainty the exact
time of fertility and sterility in the individual woman. Therefore
from now on one can dispense with poisonous chemicals and harmful
appliances—with all contraceptives as being unethical, unreliable
and opposed by health authorities and religious principles.
A NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
and Family Planning. It is easy to follow and absolutely re-
liable. This Natural System enables people to whom children have
been denied for years to calculate acccurately the woman’s fertile
times and thus know when conception may be fostered. On the other
hand, it encourages young couples to marry early by enabling them
to settle down properly before assuming the responsibilities of
parenthood. Then when both are fittest, they can fix .the date for
conception and the birth of their first child and later, according
to circumstances.
THE ELIMINATION OF RISK
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she had to take a big
risk. Now, with the Natural System she can know with certainty.
Thousands of clinical tests have proved it.
CHURCH SANCTIONS NATURAL METHOD
World medical authorities highly recommend it. Dr. Alexandre’3
“MARITAL ADJUSTMENT COURSE” gives complete guidance for
the happy and successful regulation of the marital relationship
in all its aspects. It contains the “WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCULA-
TOR,” invented by DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc. The information
is guaranteed reliable and enables you to plan your family with
certainty.
Price of FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR £3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. 8.N.5, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney.
MAIL NOW—DON’T WAIT AND BE SORRY
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc., Dept. 8.N.5, Box 3584, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W. 12 Alan St., Nth. Sydney. Phone XY 6789.
Please send me, under plain, sealed cover:—
Further information re both. I enclose addressed, stamped envelope.
The CALCULATOR by itself. I enclose £1
The FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR. I enclose £3
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS (State) B.N. 15/6/55
SUNDRY
SHOWS
stage and Music
“Measure for Measure”
With the frigid fires of Robert
Helpmann’s Angelo; with
Katharine Hepburn flapping
about the stage and emitting
agitated “awks” ; with a support-
ing cast of spotty abilities ; and
with Leslie Hurry’s effective and
ingenious sets, the Old Vic’s pro-
duction of “Measure for Meas-
ure” at Sydney Tiv. was rather
what one had expected after
the other two plays on its current
repertoire handsomely
mounted, flowingly staged, and
falling a little short in the his-
trionic department.
Helpmann really is a study.
Time and again, where his voice
seems incapable of encompass-
ing the emotions, his expres-
sions, poses and gestures speak
most articulately. In fact, so ac-
curately and well do his looks
and movements speak for him
in the split-instant before he
opens his rpouth that the words,
when they come, seem almost
superfluous. The only thing that
one can recall for comparison is
the perfect miming of Jean
Louis Barrault in “Les Enfants
du Paradis.”
As the gentle Isabella, how-
ever, Miss Hepburn was again
the oddity of the evening. How
her abandoned panics and her
unintelligible crescendos and
diminuendos can be reconciled
with the role is probably known
only, if at all, to Miss Hepburn
herself and producer Michael
Benthall.
Mistress Overdone (Joan Mac-
Arthur) is a rich mixture of
coarse good-nature, vulgarity and
immorality; Pompey Bum
(George Benson) a full and
rounded Shakspearian clown;
and Lucio (Robin Bailey) all the
better for being played un-
ashamedly straight to the
audience in good old-fashioned
vaudeville style. Leon Ryan’s
Duke, palely immature, needs
infinitely more authority and
vitality if he is to give any sem-
blance of pulling the threads of
action.
Altogether, an unsatisfactory
performance, though it is, ad-
mittedly, a most unsatisfactory
play. When the present com-
mentator first saw it some years
ago —and read it again closely
in the light of how it went on
the stage —it seemed, perhaps,
that whoever first tagged it a
“dark comedy” gave subsequent
producers and players what the
Americans call the “wrong
steer.”
With actors and producers
taking it too seriously—trying
to find overtones of tragedy;
with Angelo becoming almost
a psychological study ; with the
gusty Elizabethan humor bled or
civilised out of the execution-
business and out of the switching
of women on Angelo—with all
that done to it the play takes-on
sanctimonious piety alien to
Shakspeare—never a moralist
in the narrow sense and a
seriousness that almost justifies
Coleridge’s epithets of “disgust-
ing” and “horrible.”
It would be highly interest-
ing to see it done in the same
spirit as that with which the
Independent produced Jonson’s
“Volpone” a while ago —as a
gusty, full-blooded Elizabethan
sling-off at puritanical wowser-
ism. After all, what can be
offensive in an air of smug
sanctimony rarely remains so
under a gale of healthy laughter.
The piece was written in the
age in which Jonson wrote “Vol-
pone,” when audiences enjoyed
meat on their humor, and when
playwrights and actors were as
plagued by narrow-minded
reformers as they are these days ;
why then shouldn’t W.S. have
tumbled a sanctimonious wowser
in the same spirit that Jon-
son treated his miser? If that
spirit may seem foreign to W.S.,
it is less so than the smug crime-
does-not-pay approach com-
monly afforded the play.
It would be interesting to
see it given a healthier, heartier
Elizabethan treatment. The
solemn and rather smug virtue
with which it is approached these
days runs close to the very
qualities ridiculed in Angelo.
P. D.
♦> ♦*'
Infantino
Luigi Infantino, the Sicilian
tenor singing at Melbourne
Town Hall, has a lovely voice,
uses it with superb discretion
and can give an immensity of
feeling to the gentlest aria and
the most robustious of Nea-
politan folksongs.
What his compatriots seem to
like most about him, however,
is his ability to climb the ex-
tension-ladder of song until he
reaches the dizzy limit and, like
a fireman on a burning building,
pours out a positive gusher of
sound. For this enchanting
moment they wait with ill-con-
cealed impatience and, when
it comes, deprive themselves of
a good half of their enjoyment
by bursting into roars of
applause, bravos, shouts, yells
and groans of appreciation
which effectually drown the con-
cluding notes of the perform-
ance.
Infantino accepts this worship
with great good humor, and in
the next song tries to extend his
ladder a little further; conse-
quently, louder roars than ever.
The final item is given in an
atmosphere of excitement like
unto nothing on earth.
■ijt
Pascal Quartet v
Full of that amiability and
high spirits which characterise
so much of Haydn’s quartet-
writing—indeed, most of his
essays in all forms —that master’s
Op. 64 No. 5 (“The Lark”) was
worked upon magically by the
four visiting Frenchmen at Syd-
ney Town Hall for the open-
ing of their fourth subscription-
concert for the Musica Viva
Society.
Nothing in the literature of
chamber-music has more light-
hearted buoyancy than the open-
ing movement of this work,
and the four players extracted
the maximum of ebulliency from
if though there was always
dignity with the fun, as a butler
might play marbles.
The Minuet had the unseen
peasants of Haydn’s own stock
dancing their merry measures.
Only in the trio of the Minuet,
where the key switches briefly
to the minor mode, and in the
lovely song-like adagio, did the
clouds —though they were never
dark ones —pass over the sun.
The second of Beethoven’s
set of three Rasoumovsky
quartets, Op. 59, provided the
other end of the emotional
gamut —its four sections like a
four-act tragedy, except that the
denouement occurs at the end of
the third act, the final presto
being an epilogue full of Beet-
hoven’s gruffest humor. The
playing was notable for the
poignancy achieved in the
adagio.
Debussy’s sole excursion into
the field of quartet-writing, his
G Minor, Op. 10, contains less
impressionism than many of his
orchestral works. Its hard core is
one of daring harmonies. Though
less attractive than the two
other works between which it
was sandwiched, its homogeneity
and its originality are un-
deniable. At any rate, the four
players revelled in the oppor-
tunities for playing of much
delicacy which this music of
their compatriot demands.
*l* ♦!«
Ballet and Bushrangers
Because the Sundry Showman
jumped or fell or was pushed
off a rock and suffered what he
calls a Cassilis cephaloniate
fracture of his gauche heel,
which invalidated his critical
faculties (already rather ener-
vated by too much Old Vic),
this critic was dragged out
of a West Chatswood gully
and commanded —yes, com-
manded —to attend the Rayner
Sisters in certain doings at
Chatswood Town Hall.
About then Gavin Casey
alighted and dragged us up Pitt-
street to see a thunderbolt. This
turned out to be more like a
ray from the aurora Australis, a
Ray Films production, some-
what apocryphal, of the brief
life of Fred Ward, bushranger,
who permeated the Uralla
(N.S.W.) district in the ’sixties
under the alias “C apt a i n
Thunderbolt.”
Done on a very limited budget,
intended for wide-screen, TV,
and already sold in Germany,
the thing isn’t too bad at all.
Grant Taylor and Bud Tingweli,
as a couple of superbly-tailored
bushrangers who could stand up
with the flashest Mississippi
gambler, black string-tie and all,
bushrange in the superb Aus-
tralian light all over the superb
New England scenery (where the
camera-man’s artistic soul burst
into full flower), and, apart from
a few small anachronisms, the
atmosphere is authentic, even to
the orchestration of the crows.
The final gallop along the sky-
line is in the best adventure-film
tradition, and there ought to be
more of it.
Well, to get to the Rayner Sis-
ters entailed being dragged into
the adjoining Marble Bar by
Casey and Cec. Holmes, who
produced or directed or super-
vised the film, and in between
refreshing one’s memory with
Julian Ashton’s nudes, being
irrigated with beer and insinu-
ated with technical talk, some-
thing came up about Lawson’s
birthday.
This led to a show by the
“Bushwhackers’ Band” at the
Fellowship of Australian
Writers, where the assembled
writers heard readings from
Lawson’s works, but the band
was good in “old bush songs,”
and ’twas a violent switch to the
echoing Chatswood Town Hall,
where Algeranoff, Algeranova
and Ronald Reay gave “Stories
in Dance,” produced by the
Rayner Sisters, and, if audience
enthusiasm is a guide, it went
with a bang. Dancing and dress-
ing overcame the handicap of
canned music.
And so to bed.
C. S.
Artbursts
Blake Prize Paintings
On the evidence of the Blake
Prize pictures hanging at the
National Gallery in Melbourne
modernists could hardly regard
themselves any longer as rebels
waging a titanic war against the
forces of convention. Apparently
they are thoroughly accepted
even in the most conservative
religious circles, since every pic-
ture in the collection is in the
idiom of contemporary paint-
ing.
In fact, if somebody slipped in
an unsigned fragment of the
Sistine Chapel, which Michel-
angelo jdecorated with magnifi-
cent frescoes, or if a piece of
Tintoretto’s splendid “Life of
Christ” got in somehow, the
impression is that it would have
instantly been rejected by the
committee.
Donald Friend’s “St. John and
Scenes from the Apocalypse”
(first prize) is an echo of the
Byzantine tradition, nice if not
new; Eric Smith’s “Crucifixion”
(second) owes more to Rouault
than to anyone else; and Law-
rence Daws’s third-prize winner
is a cubist study of Golgotha.
The rest of the field is undis-
tinguished by any great evidence
of craftsmanship.
M. G. S.
Talkies
“The Long Journey”: An
Australian, Geoff. Collings,
directed this documentary for
the United Nations. The subject
is reconstruction work in
South Korea, particularly in
the rural areas. Before the
invasion from the north the
south was the agricultural heart
of the country, so it is fitting that
a farmer and his family, who
had to abandon farm, livestock
and everything before the in-
vading hordes, should provide
the main thread of the
story—a grim story, appalling
in its magnitude and intensity.
Collings has used his cameras
starkly to portray what is, at
bottom, simply an unending
fight by countless victims of
war to keep starvation at bay.
U.N.’s fine job is evidenced in
the tremendous effort to step-
up farm-production by modern
methods; and in home-building,
education, medicine and hygiene.
Human documents like this
one could do a lot for the
prestige of the U.N.


Deal in the Dark
by Pedsng
JIMMY Bates was a busi-
nessman of long-standing.
As butcher of Twin Rocks,
a councillor, and one of
its most stalwart citizens, he
had helped to steer it through
many of the vicissitudes which
beset a mining boom-town. He
was, consequently, a worldly-
wise person who should have
been more careful than to buy
bullocks from one stock-agent
and horse-dealer, A. A. A. H.
Jones —at least, it was to be ex-
pected that he would have had
more sense than to buy them
in the dark.
Jones —otherwise known as
“the Warrigal”—on the other
hand, should have acted more
in the manner of the wily animal
from which he took his alias and
ascertained that the normal busi-
ness arrangements of Bates’s
butchering establishment were
operative before he ventured to
sell his wares. However, the
bush is a dry place and the price
of two bullocks will buy a lot
of very wet beer in any country,
so the Warrigal concluded his
deal with expediency and pro-
ceeded to put through a few
more business-deals with any of
the town bartenders who would
take his money.
It had been Bates’s habit for
a score of years to carry out all
stock-inspections and buying at
his slaughter-yard, then to order
his native stockman to turn the
beasts into a holding-paddock
in the scrub near town, from
where they could be brought in
for slaughtering, as required.
But, on the night that Warrigal
turned up at the yard, just after
the butcher had finished a killing,
and urgently asked Bates to buy
two bullocks —at a reduced price,
if necessary—the native was
confined to his bed with
influenza.
Assuring himself that the
beasts were well worth the
money their vendor was asking
(there was not a better judge of
stock-values in the district than
Warrigal), Bates checked the
bill-of-sale slip which Jones pre-
sented and well acquainted
with the Warrigal’s untameable
thirst —cheerfully handed over
the cash and offered the dealer a
lift into the town.
Warrigal tossed his saddle into
the buggy and drove with him.
In Twin Rocks police-court
the following morning, James
Bates, J.P., smiled a trifle sancti-
moniously as he read to the first
prisoner, one very penitent stock-
agent Alfred Albert Aloysius
Horace Jones, aged forty-five
and single, the charge that said
gentleman had offended British
law and sense of propriety by
being found drunk in the town’s
main street.
Prisoner Jones’s record-card
showed that he had not been
convicted of drunkenness within
the past few months (Warrigal
had been convicted of surpris-
ingly little to those who knew of
his misdemeanors), so the Bench,
after a brief show of nods and
whisperings among themselves,
released him with a “caution.”
Warrigal bowed and said,
reverently: “Thank yer, yer
Worships,” and hurried from the
dock to make way for the next
wrongdoer.
After proceedings, Bates re-
turned laughing to his shop.
“What pleases you so much?”
his sour-faced partner, Bannis-
ter, asked.
“Last night I bought two bul-
locks from Warrigal Jones”
he began.
“Last night you what ?” Ban-
nister screamed.
“It’s all right, Ben,” Bates
pacified the lanky, stooped figure
with its raised meat-chopper.
“He had a bill-of-sale for them.
He bought them from Piggy
Lamb to take with a mob he’s
getting together for some of the
diggings up north, but his thirst
got the better of him.”
Bannister grunted.
“He put something over you,
somehow,” he said.
“No,” Bates responded. “Beau-
tiful beasts, beautiful beasts —
which reminds me, we’ll have to
send the lad out to turn them
into the holding-paddock, Pork-
chop being down with the ’flu.”
Bannister untied his apron and
hung it up.
“I’ll go meself,” he said.
BEN BANNISTER was a
scrupulously careful man.
The amount of care he lavished
on every article of his possession
was such that it had earned him
the misapplied label of “mean,”
but Bates knew Ben was not
mean, just careful, too damnably
careful for words.
That was why, half-an-hour
later, his heart sank when he
saw Bannister come at a flat
gallop along the street and slide
to a reckless halt outside the
shop, with a cloud of dust and a
shower of sparks flying from the
hooves of a horse which had
cost fifty guineas. The animal
was sweat-streaked and half-
blown and Bannister’s speech was
hardly intelligible.
“You did say that damned old
horse-thief bought those beasts
from Weeribubba Station, didn’t
you?” he asked.
“Why—yes,” Bates murmured.
Bannister was already swinging
back into his saddle. “Why?”
“Because one is from Meeri
and the other from Mount
Davies! ” Bannister snarled, ram-
ming his spurs home as he
turned the horse towards the
police-station.
A worried Jimmy Bates hur-
ried to the rear of the shop and
harnessed his horse into the
buggy. As he drove down the
street he met Ben returning from
the station.
“Not a damned John in the
town,” the tall man moaned.
“One of old Tony-the-ding’s
damned brats has fallen into a
well or something and the
damned sergeant’s out there.”
“We’ll drive out,” Bates said,
eager to become once more a
functioning member of the part-
nership. Bannister returned his
horse to its stable and they drove
to the Italian’s little mine.
Sergeant McClusky was just
leaving the scene, the centre of
a group of demonstratively
grateful southern Europeans and
a volunteer army of sundry
other characters who wore on
their faces the expression of self-
appointed heroes. Tony’s kid
had been rescued from whatever
it was he had fallen into.
McClusky’s tired face fell as
he saw the town-butchers
approaching, and it wasn’t be-
cause he had neglected to pay his
bill. People who bred or handled
stock in any way always seemed
to be in trouble when Warrigal
Jones was in the district.
“What’s up with you fellows?”
he asked.
Bates tried to ease the ser-
geant away from the crowd but
Bannister told them all:
“Warrigal Jones sold Jimmy a
couple of stolen bullocks last
night.”
“How did he come to do
that?” McClusky asked, his jaw
tightening. There seemed to be
some sort of automatic reflex
muscular action which caused
McClusky’s jaw to jump when-
ever Warrigal’s name was
mentioned.
“I can explain” Bates
began.
“He showed Jimmy a bill-of-
sale, but it wasn’t for the bul-
locks he sold him,” Bannister
said.
“Well, he can’t get far,” Bates
blurted out. “I was talking to
him less than an hour ago.”
“You were talking to him?”
Bannister said. “Where?”
“Why, in the shop, of course.”
“X suppose you told him where
I’d gone?”
“No —not exactly ... Well, he
asked me”
McClusky broke up a highly
explosive situation by climbing
into the buggy.
“We’d better go to your yard,
gentlemen,” he said.
FROM a distance of three-
hundred yards they could
see the open gate.
“No sense in disturbing the
tracks,” McClusky said. “We’ll
go into town and get a black-
tracker.”
With young Constable Daw-
son standing by, mounted, police-
tracker “Johnnie” moved slowly
up to the gate, reading every
mark against his unequalled
experience. McClusky and the
butchers watched.
“Yee-ah,” said the native.
“Yee-ah, two bullock?”
“Two bullocks,” McClusky
echoed.
“Yee-ah,” Johnnie repeated,
twig in his hand ticking off each
mark on the ground as figures in
a sum. “Warrigal an’ Susie bin
chase’m t’at way.” He pointed
with pouted lips.
“Who’s Susie?” Bannister
asked.
“The big nigger, Rabbit’s,
woman,” Bates answered.
“Been with Warrigal for years,
both of ’em,” McClusky said,
“loyal as hell, no matter how
he treats ’em.”
“That’s the big feller with the
scar down his nose?” Bannister
asked.
“Call him ‘Split-nose’ some-
times,” McClusky added. “That’s
where he gets his name of
‘Rabbit.’ ”
“Warrigal gave him that nose,”
Bates said. “Kicked him in the
face and we couldn’t sheet a
charge home because Rabbit
wouldn’t give evidence—said
Warrigal was drunk, that was
all. That’s the way Warrigal has
with people,” he shrugged.
“Yairs,” McClusky drawled,
glaring at him. “If a few more
people would realise that he’s
a dangerous criminal and not a
happy-go-lucky swaggie, he’d
commit a lot fewer crimes and
I’d have more chance of running
him in for those he did commit!
“Get after those bullocks,
then,” he ordered Dawson. “Lock
them on the racecourse when
you get them and don’t let them
out of your sight until I send
someone to take over from you.”
“Won’t he have a chance of
grabbing Warrigal, too?” Ban-
nister asked.
“If I know Warrigal,”
McClusky answered, drily, “he’s
halfway to the Meeri by now
—and when I go after Warrigal
Jones I will have to have a
charge to pick him up on. Our
first move is to get those two
bullocks identified ; he stole ’em,
we know, but we have to prove
it.”
They drove back to town; and
within half-an-hour a mesesnger
was riding hard for Meeri
Station homestead, fifty miles out
towards the line of ragged, red
hills bordering the desert from
which the station took its name.
A tired-eyed station-manager
stopped his buggy outside the
Twin Rocks police-station soon
after dawn next day, and
McClusky hustled him to the
town racecourse to inspect one
of the bullocks that a stockman
was holding there.
“We’re paying a man ten-
shillings a day to watch these
animals,” he told the Meed man.
“Warrigal Jones isn’t going to
send them bush again. If we
hadn’t got on to their tracks
straight away, we’d never have
found them.”
He had a warrant sworn out
for the Warrigal’s arrest by
noon, and by nightfall he had
called his three troopers together
to plan the campaign to capture
one miscreant while at the same
time administering the law over
an area of four-hundred miles
by five-hundred-and-fifty miles
in extent.
AT dawn, Dawson, with the
old hand Constable Bill
Thompson and Johnnie and six
horses —all the station boasted—
were moving along the Meeri
track with a seventy-mile ride
in front of them before they
reached the fringe of the country
where they knew they must start
looking for their quarry.
“If it weren’t for the fact that
the Warrigal loves his beer so
much we’d never catch him,
now,” Thompson remarked, sar-
donically. Thompson had
hunted Warrigal in the Meeri
Ranges before.
“Why doesn’t he head for the
open country and live like a
blackfellow?” Dawson asked.
Dawson was fast becoming a
bushman, but he was not up to
the Warrigal’s standard by a
long way. Few men were. “He
lives on the land enough when
no one is chasing him,” he
added.
Thompson grinned. Warrigal
knew it was next to impossible
to hide horse-tracks from Johnnie
—and Dawson would learn in
time, so he did not bother to
reply.
They picked up the first sign
in a gorge at the edge of the
ranges. It was fresh, less than a
day old.
“He’s not hurrying,” Dawson
observed, a little excitedly.
“He’s §<>t time,” Bill Thomp-
son growled, eyeing the tattered
skyline ahead and the sheer
granite cliffs on each side. “Lots
of time to make fools of us.”
“Warrigal ’n’ Rabbit ’n'
Susie,” Johnnie said, reading the
tracks.
“With four horses,” Thomp-
son added. “Warrigal’s always
got a plant of horses somewhere
that he can draw on in an
emergency—even if it means bor-
rowing them from someone who
doesn’t know his horses are being
used.”
Johnnie took the lead and they
rode, single file, up through a
tangle of rocks, stunted scrub
and clumps of hard, spiny buck-
spinifex grass.
To Bill Thompson, the comer
of hell known as the Meeri
Ranges always seemed to be the
work of some maniacal architect
in geography. Hills leaned at
crazy angles and appeared about
to topple against each other;
cliffs rose sheer from hundreds
of feet where turbulent water,
dumped from the sky at infre-
quent intervals and in great
quantities, had torn its way
through the hills as though in a
mad effort to escape from this
last place on earth.
Yet, just when it appeared that
everything in Creation had given
way to barren rock interspersed
with small patches of coarse red
sand and tough desert-scrub,
there would be a little plain with
trees and grass watered by
springs hidden in a jungle of
paperbarks, reeds and rushes;
or one came suddenly on broad
still pools in the creek-beds, re-
flecting the beauty of tall euca-
lypts and boasting fish and har-
boring water-fowl.
This was paradise to the expert
bushman on the run from the
law. Warrigal knew this three-
hundred square miles of coun-
try probably better than
Johnnie’s ancestors, if that was
possible. Here he could wheel his
tracks and double-back, and if
he were clever or fortunate
enough to have a cache or two
of essential food from which to
draw to supplement the bush
food, he could hide away there
for months, even with a police
party right in the ranges.
“Keep an eye out for any
places where he might have
tucker planted,” Bill instructed
Johnnie, and they swung out of
the gorge on a narrow track used
by the hill kangaroos.
“Susie bin leave’m,” Johnnie
called, suddenly.
Two sets of horse-tracks
branched off at a tangent and
Thompson did not question
Johnnie’s guess as to who was
riding them.
“Where’s she gone?” Dawson
asked.
Johnnie answered with con-
fidence.
“Gone get tucker,” he said,
then added, to Dawson’s exas-
peration, an airy: “Maybe.”
Bill Thompson smiled.
“Don’t believe him, Tony,” he
said. “Old doesn’t know
any more about it than we do.
Only one thing is certain,
wherever she’s gone, Warrigal
sent her.”
They rode on for three hours
before Johnnie drew rein again.
“Warrigal bin leave ’m
horses,” he said.
Thompson forced his grey up
beside Johnnie on the narrow
path and read the tracks, plainly.
The horse-tracks swung ofl
parallel with a steep incline and
a man’s boot-prints were easily
discernible on the soft, red dust
of the kangaroo-pad going up
the hill.
“He might have gone up there
to shoot a ’roo for meat,” he said.
“They lie-up in the caves along
the top of the hill during the
day. We’ll follow him.”
WARRIGAL had made no
attempt to hide his tracks;
every print was visible in the
dust. Thompson took the lead
and rode, loosely in the saddle,
up and over the crest and on to
the flat plateau above. The sure-
footed grey moved smoothly,
covering a lot of ground, until
his abrupt halt jarred Bill
Thompson out of a daydream.
In front of him was spread a
scene of grandeur and fantasy
in shape and color which could
not be equalled anywhere in the
world, Thompson felt. Back
from the rough and tumbled rim
of a “breakaway,” five miles
distant, the Meeries clawed at
the sky in a variety of shapes un-
seen in less barbaric hills. A
barely perceptible mirage played
tricks with the ever-changing
color-scheme and what was red
a minute ago now became deep-
est purple; while, far away, the
horizon appeared as a jagged line


SUPREME IN TOWN OR OUTBACK- this luxurious Humber Super Snipe is built to give you real driving
satisfaction and pride of ownership. Its dynamic 6 cylinder 4 litre O.H.V. engine only whispers at 90 M.P.H. The massive cross-braced chassis,
heavy duty shock absorbers, outstanding road holding and cornering stability—all combine to ensure safe, |HI
comfortable, fatigue-free motoring over all road conditions. Truly the Humber Super Snipe is
Australia’s biggest big car value.
£1595 plus Sales Tax Confidential terms. Accredited
finance company Industrial Acceptance Corporation Limited.
PRODUCED IN THE FACTORY OF ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
mmm
sms?*
All Authorised Dealers
Display this Sign.
DISTRIBUTORS :
QUEENSLAND : John McGrath Motor* (QM.) Pty. Ltd.,
314 Wickham Street. The Valley. Briabane. L 4871.
NEW SOUTH WALES : John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd.
255-259 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 6838.
VICTORIA : Neal’* Motors Pty. Ltd.. 122 Exhibition Street.
Melbourne. F 83481.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Commercial Motor Vehicles ltd,
165 Franklin Street, Adelaide. LA 2201.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd,
900 Ha* Street. Perth. BA 9361.
TASMANIA : O. L. Hollis Motor* Pty. Ltd.. York and
St. John Streets. Launceston. Tel. 1676.
By appointment
ir Manufacturers
Motor Car
Humber Limited
to the late King George VI
HUMBER
SUPER SNIPE
almost the hue of the
kv
From the hreakawav inwards
wa V L niain of unsurpassed
hpantv A small erouo of kan-
earoos erazed not far out and
the afternoon sun reflected from
a sea of short scarlet-tipped red-
grass. Meandering creeks and
washes, lined with olive-green
trees, formed hedgerows which
cut the whole into seeming fields
of waving, scarlet grain. The
vagary of' scenery and breath-
taking color stretched, without
relief, from the blue hill-tops,
thirty miles away, to the shim-
mering white sands in the creek-
bed directly beneath his horse’s
muzzle—two-hundred feet be-
neath his horse’s muzzle.
Thompson swore.
The sun was swinging west-
wards and there was nothing
else for it; he dismounted and
signalled to Johnnie.
You stay here with the
horses, Tony,” he sa!d, when
‘ ru SSb do°™ wth th” blaTk
„ n . t whprp he
met Susfe then well come back
arfd ride around mid follow their
tracks. We look like making a
dry camp tonight” he added
sourly glancing at the sun.
“You mean that’s where Susie
went?” Dawson asked. “The
cunning old ! ”
Johnnie grinned and nodded
his unkempt head, sagely.
“He proper clebber bast’ t’at
Warrigal, you know,” he
laughed.
“Come on, you! This is no
time to stop and admire the gal-
lant enemy,” Thompson growled,
and they dropped over the break-
away rim on to a narrow shelf
and began climbing down.
TAAWSON swung his binocu-
lars across the flats, search-
ing the slowly gathering blue
mists of the spring evening for
two riders, but he saw only birds
and a few kangaroos. Some-
where out in that glorious vista
Warrigal and Susie were riding,
making expert use of every patch
of trees and fold in the ground,
He propped his back against
a small tree, lit his pipe and let
the delicate smoke-veil drift on
the dry, sweet air. Warrigal
Jones seemed almost a friend to
him then, a friend who had de-
livered him from the tedious
routine—the dread monotony—
of the station and into this un-
tamed garden of the wilds. He
wondered why people hated and
feared the desert and, in his
ignorance, decided they were
ignorant of what a desert really
consisted.
Thompson and Johnnie re-
turned, covered in sweat and
red dust, as the sun was setting,
Dawson saw that his colleague
was positively surly and asked no
questions.
“He met her, all right,” Biil
to i d him as they mounted. “The
black bitch was probably watch-
j ng us r i de past, then doubled
back around the hill. This’ll go
on for weeks now,” he added,
despondently. “One man and a
COU ple of horses could dodge a
party 0 f twenty in these hills
if he knew the country.”
dark when they reached
maß d s , b ' ck along
>he track they had ridden during
the afternoon.
“St°"y old P lace *° > a X> a
bed ”, Thompson said “But
there s wood and grass here.
The y Ilt a fire and hobbled
out the horses.
“Where do you reckon
Rabbit’s gone, Johnnie? Bill
gsked, as they ate their unattrac-
tlve rations of salt-mutton and
damper.
Johnnie extracted his face
from a mess of the boiled meat
and unleavened bread The
whites of his eyes shone brightly
the firelight as he glanced to
the heavens for an inspiration.
“ He J° Wakefield bossi” he
said.. Good water long Wake-
held Yeah, he go Wake-
field... Maybe.”
“Wakefield’s Spring, JThomp-
son turned to Tony. “Good a
guess as any. Best place in the
south Meeri to lay-up just now.
Rabbit will probably make for
there and rest two of the horses
for a few days while we chase
the other two. Then he’ll meet
Warrigal, they’ll swap horses
and off we go again.”
“Couldn’t we sneak up and
nab Rabbit’s horses?” Dawson
suggested. “That would cut
Warrigal’s reserve by half.”
“Not a bad idea,” Thompson
grinned, “except that Warrigal
might 'think it jolly unsporting
of us and retaliate by pinching
our nags while we’re asleep—
he’d either do that or clear out
of the Meeri altogether while
we’re wasting time chasing
Rabbit.”
A dingo’s ghostly howl
drifted down the gully and
echoed from the caves along
the breakaway. Its eerie note
made Dawson shudder.
“This might not be the best
place in the world to be stranded
without horses,” he murmured,
“Him stealing them isn’t
m uch of a risk, but having to
set watches to see that he
doesn’t could be damned incon-
venient,” Thompson said. “A
m an gets tired enough in these
hills without losing half of his
s i eep . But he won’t take a
chance on getting caught by
coming near us himself, and
while his two natives have their
own horses to worry about they
won’t bother us.” He pulled his
boots off and rolled into his
bankets. .“*■* lend a ? ear *°
the horse-bell if you wake up m
the night these fellers mig/zt g
looking for a drink, but, as a
rule, they re all pretty g o
campers.
Dawson marvelled at his
senior s casualness considering
the fact that there were sixt\
JT lles of ®?nd ;and rock between
them and the nearest home-
stead. He did not real se that
without the soothing lullaby of
the silvery horse-bell close at
hand Thompson w
been out of is
very short s P ace ° n f
rolled into his own swag on
the hot earth and prepared to
spend a night battling with the
myriad black-ants.
ti/crxisj v u
'T'ONY' DAWSON knew w^“? t
it meant to feel thirsty. He
made a foible attempt to lick
his cracked lips with a dry
tongue and cursed his can-
tankerous grey.
Despondency had taken hold
of him. The senseless round-
about of finding tracks, losing
them, finding them again, could
go on for ever. He had set out
from the station to catch a
criminal and only twice since
leaving had he had any feeling
which remotely resembled satis-
faction in making life tougher
for the fugitive who was making
his own life hell. Twice there
had fallen to him the duty of
scattering to the four winds
filthy, weevil-riddled flour and
indescribably dirty tea and sugar
from Warrigal’s food-caches.
The pack-horse and spare
hack he was leading to prevent
them clearing out from the party
in search of water tugged at
their halters and did their best
to make his life more miserable.
He screwed his eyes against the
glaring sun and the depredations
of the flies and tried to make
sense out of the movements of
Thompson and Johnnie, hunt-
ing tracks in the rocks above
him. Finally they wheeled their
horses and came back to him.
“Useless,” Thompson said
through swollen lips. “We’ll
head for water and rest up for
a day or two.”
They released the pack-horse
and S p ares and returned down
the sandy, heat-scorched defile.
Taß> slender gums swayed
and rus tled soothingly in the
coo i breeze which the hills
f unne lled into the gorge for
most of the day and light. The
deepj st j]j poo l reflected red
c hff s? blue sky, green leaves and
startlingly white tree-trunks.
Dawson was hed himself and
fais sweaty cloth i ng ; repaired a
saddle> damaged w h en a horse
fep and ro jj ed j n t h e rocks;
his &t fishing . and
j ust res t e d, smoking his pipe
sparingly to conserve tobacco.
P performed the
camp-tasks impatiently
™ual
X befog now well nTth of
’childhood tribal grounds,
was not valuable assistance in
determining what Warrigal’s
ts “ r hkelv to be.
, , had
, , 7 f t i 7 over
un e iq
some o ~ p
uoun ry i f '... d
thing avoie .• Al.. ’ tirT1 ~
his cunning in w § ,
and reserves o 8 >
gaining tor lmse ■
respite and time 8
his forces at each en ,
the police-party much time and
effort.
His tactics ran to a pattern.
As soon as he knew his tracks
had been discovered he would
ride close to some area inacces-
sible to horses, abandon one
pair of his string to the care of
one native and walk through
the rough part to link up with
fo e second of his faithful fol-
lowers. Rather than risk him
douhlmg-back to rejoin the
horses he had just left, ihomp-
son was forced to track him
on f°°b “ nd where he met up
Wlt h his second native, then
walk back to his own horses ana
some roundabout route
P lcic up the trait again, in
the meantime warrigal naa
S a >X B ° Q TL ILt.r
™ le j a gooa^tracKer,
i d tA u
”1 , t d the native
° K nn nnssihlv fiitile
att ts to h ide Ins tracks
The thrrteenth da? in the
ra ™ e s Educed an undreamed!
D j ece Q f good luck They
ro f de P out fjo® t h eir camp and
were astride a low saddl £ dis .
cussing possible moves. As they,
talked Dawson swung his'
binoculars over a patch-work of
rocks and gullies filled with the
blue haze of buck-spinifex.
Threatening heat - waves rose
ominously from the rocks, and
the mirage distorted shapes or
blotted-out large sections of the
scene. A movement attracted
his attention, it was Rabbit
riding swiftly southwards with
two horses.
“Where’s he heading?” he
asked.
“Bimarra,” Johnnie answered,
quic kl y , and to Dawson’s sur-
prise he did not add his
customary “Maybe.”
“Bimarra Rock-hole,” Bill
Thompson said. “It’s about
eleven miles along the line of
those hills.”
“If he’s heading south Warri-
gal must be going that way.”
“Possible.”
They hustled down the slope
and cut Rabbit’s tracks within
a n hour,
“One o’ t’em horses lame!”
Johnnie exclaimed,
(Cnntinupd on nave 221


:■;* Sts* •:•...«
fljiv *' l>rn„,l v „I \, , r ,1.-«
1 • ' COONAC ‘ ’ (L/
••M |
TOM?
COURVOISIER
dhe.
COGNAC
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES;
NEW SOUTH WALES
FESQ & COMPANY Pty.
Ltd. 193 Gloucester Street,
SYDNEY
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WALTER REYNELL
& Sons,
REYNELLA
QUEENSLAND
THOMAS BROWN & Sons
Ltd., Eagle Street,
BRISBANE
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
DALGETY & Co. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 94,
PERTH
VICTORIA
TAYLOR FERGUSON &
Co., 12712 ft King Street,
MELBOURNE
TASMANIA
BURGESS BROTH!'r;s
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box IHiU,
HOBART
Thompson swore loudly at the
unappealing landscape.
“That means he’s probably on
his way to steal Warrigal some
more mounts,” he said. “The
old may not have come
into these parts at all.”
“If he’s doing that,” Dawson
asked, “why is he taking the
lame horse with him to slow
him down?”
“When you’re dealing with
Warrigal Jones,” Thompson
said, “it’s as well to remember
that every move made is thought
out in a very shrewd old head
beforehand. A lot of things
which will seem at first to be
just damned silly will usually
add up to a bit of pretty clever
thinking in the long run.”
“Well,” the younger man
shrugged. “A bird in the
hand”
“We could get him for illegally
using a horse”
"TOABBIT rode right up to the
the waterhole and dis-
mounted before he heard the
swish of hoofs in the coarse sand
of the wash down which he had
come. He wheeled, saw the
police spurring forward and
leapt wildly into the rocks and
prickly scrub. Once in there,
not even Johnnie could track
him, so they let him go.
Thompson dismounted and
examined the horses Rabbit
abandoned. Both bore the
Meeri Station brand and had
been ridden hard, but he doubted
if they were in any worse con-
dition than his own.
“Pull off, Johnnie,” he said.
“Water all these horses and tie
them under a good shade —
we’re camping.”
“Camping?” Dawson frowned.
“It can’t be eleven-o’clock.”
“We don’t know where Warri-
gal is or what he’s doing,”
Thompson explained. “We’ll
only get him by following
Rabbit. Johnnie couldn’t track
him in there, so we’ll have to
wait until he comes out.
“A man on foot couldn’t go
south from here,” he went on.
“There are no waters. So if
Rabbit heads south we’ll know
he’s going to Warrigal. If he
makes back along the waters
we’ll know he only came south
to get horses and Warrigal is
still lying-up somewhere north
of us.”
They were riding before
dawn next day, and Johnnie
found man-tracks soon after it
was daylight. Rabbit was trudg-
ing northwards.
“Heading for the old Simp-
son mine,” Thompson said, half
to himself. “Warrigal must be
on the west side of the range.”
A sharp “Coo! ” from Johnnie
brought his eyes up from the
tracks.
Against the sapphire morning
sky a few miles ahead a slender
column of white smoke rose
straight in the still air.
Dawson began eagerly to scan
the northern horizon with the
binoculars, but Thompson
laughed.
“He won’t answer,” he said.
“Warrigal’s not that much of a
fool. The signal is to let him
know Rabbit is in trouble. It
was probably prearranged for
when things are really going
against them. Rabbit may have
seen us and knows he can’t get
away.
“He can find his own way
home from here,” he continued.
“We’ll forget him and go after
Warrigal, if he’s not too far
away we stand a chance of
catching him now.”
They pushed north and west
across the range making all the
speed they could. But each day
they had been out had brought
them closer to the grip of
summer, and the searing heat
exacted its due from both
horses and riders. Dawson
panted and swayed in his saddle.
Johnnie found tracks of
Warrigal and the woman in the
evening, and Thompson forced
the horses on until it was too
dark to track any longer.
"VTEXT day the tracks led
them to an abandoned
camp-site, and then Thompson’s
horse, pushed beyond endur-
ance, could carry his big, bony
frame no further. He trans-
ferred his saddle to one of the
captured stock-horses ; glared at
the empty pack-saddles on the
other animals and cursed
heartily as he stuffed his tobacco-
less pipe away from his tortured
sight.
“When did they leave here,
Johnnie?”
The tracker, sullen now,
stared stonily at the horizon as
though he had not heard.
“Yes’day mor n i n g,” he
answered at last.
The tracks indicated that
Warrigal had gone north.
Thompson swore, climbed stiffly
into his saddle and turned the
tired hack towards home.
Dawson sighed between the
swollen masses that had been
lips a fortnight previously and
an expression of utter relief
crossed Johnnie’s dark features.
Sensing that they were going
home, the horses smartened
their pace for a few miles, but
fifteen days’ riding over the
vicious Meeries had told on
them, and they soon dropped to
their customary crawl.
By late afternoon they were
out of the unfriendly ranges and
riding across the plains once
more. Johnnie, his usual patient
demeanor restored by a cool
breeze, gave a soft “Coo” and
indicated in his native sign-
language : “Tracks.”
Thompson examined the
ground.
“Warrigal and the woman,”
he said. “None other.”
They followed the trail to a
large clay-pan and saw where
the couple had camped. The
sun had set, so they camped, too.
“When did they leave here?”
Thompson asked the tracker as
they prepared to dine on a
kangaroo which they had shot
during the day.
“Yes’day morning,” Johnnie
said.
“He said that about the other
place,” Dawson complained.
“They were old tracks, he
didn’t know how old and he
didn’t care,” Thompson
answered. “Looks as though
they’re heading for Weeribubba
—you’re sure it’s them?” he
repeated.
The tracker pointed to a spot
where a horse had been mounted
and declared that a mark on
the ground had been made by
“Warrigal boot.”
They settled down to chew
at tough, broiled kangaroo.
“I’m so hungry that even
some of Warrigal’s dirty,
weevilly old flour would taste
good to me,” Dawson groaned.
“S’pose’m you go back ’longa
t’em hills you fin’ plenty plant
Warrigal bin hide ’m flour,”
Johnnie chuckled, and Thomp-
son marvelled that tempers had
remained steady and they could
still laugh.
“Better try to sleep,” he said.
“Next-best thing to a good feed’s
a good sleep.”
As the little cavalcade wended
its painful way across the green
spinifex-flats between sharp-
toothed ridges, Johnnie stopped
in a sandy creek-bed, pushed his
hat back and rubbed his fore-
head with one hand, puzzling
over a mark in the sand. Daw-
son reined beside him and saw
what appeared to be a bare
footprint.
“You know that feller yamat-
jee ?” he asked.
“He no yamatjee, boss,”
Johnnie replied. “He white
feller.”
“Rats,” Dawson said. “No
white fellers out here —none silly
enough to be running about
without boots, anyway. That’s
some strange blackfellow.”
SERGEANT McCLUSKY sat
at his desk steadily writing.
In the cells a drunk howled
pathetically and the trickle of
humanity arriving at the office
to seek advice or to lay petty
complaints was just sufficient to
be annoying. He hardly glanced
up as his two troopers dragged
in.
Both men went straight to a
cupboard and stuffed tobacco
into long-empty pipes. As the
scented smoke filled the office
Thompson unbelted his revolver
and hung it on the wall, while
Dawson seated himself deliber-
ately on a stool and pushed a
cleaning-rod down the barrel of
his rifle.
No one spoke; the drunk in
the cells wailed louder and
McClusky wrote on, undis-
turbed.
“Sara’ M’Glush-key,” the
voiced howled with great pathos.
“Shtan M’Glush-key, pleash!
I’m thirshty”...
McClusky finished Writing;
slowly dabbed a blotter on the
page and got up to light a lamp.
Thompson stepped quietly
across to the desk he had
vacated.
“ Pleeeash!” screamed the
drunk, and Dawson crossed to
the sergeant’s desk, too.
“Arrested on warrant,”
Thompson read aloud. “Two
p.m., October the fourteenth,
1907 —today!”
Dawson sat down again and
Bill Thompson hurled his broad-
brimmed sombrero into a
corner.
“Twenty days, going on five-
hundred miles riding,” Dawson
almost wept, “and we missed
out on him by four hours.”
“Shtan, Shtan, you’re my
frien’,” came from the cells.
“You had just gone when we
had a report of a murder —
couple of Afghans had a fight,”
McClusky said in a tired mono-
tone. “Two days later someone
took the Club Hotel for about
£3O0 —safe was left unlocked.
Then a chap went missing on
Sam Cook’s station—found him
perished after five days—and a
halfcaste ran amuck with a rifle
out at Chinaman’s Garden. Old
Chow got shot there,” he added,
colorlessly. “Might be murder,
yet, old bloke’s pretty crook...
Mitch is out looking for the half-
caste now.”
“Shtan, have a heart, pleash,
I’m thirshty”
A BUSY barrel of a woman
bustled in and stamped up
to the sergeant.
“Mister McClusky,” she said,
glaring up at him from very
little above his belt. “You’ll
have to do something about that
Warrigal Jones ; this is not good
enough.”
“What’s the trouble, Mrs.
Green?” McClusky asked mildly.
“He come to my hotel”
“A very admirable establish-
ment, if I may say so, Mrs.
Green.”
“Oh, thank y’”——
“Let me out of here! Shtan
M’Glush-key, do you hear me ?
Let me out!”
“Some of my clients are not
as well satisfied with my hospi-
tality as your clients are with
yours, Mrs. Green —you were
going to say?”
“I couldn’t come earlier or I
would have”
“I don’t doubt that you would
have, Mrs. Green, but go on.”
“He come to my place this
afternoon”
“Ah, yes, Warrigal”
“And he was teachin’ my
parrot to swear—l caught him! ”
“We will see that it does not
occur again, Mrs.”
“You do, it’s about time
something was done about
him !” she snapped and stamped
out.
McClusky called after her:
“Something will be done, Mrs.
Green, I assure you... You
know, I do believe the lady
thought I was making light of
her worries,” he added when
she had gone.
“She couldn’t have known we
were looking for him,”* Dawson
sneered.
“The lady would indubitably
have discovered that fact as soon
as the Warrigal was unable to
pay for the next drink,”
McClusky murmured.
Warrigal yelled louder.
“How hard can a man get?”
Thompson said. “He gave his
boots to Susie so we’d think
that he went off with the horses
and he must have walked every
bit of eighty miles home bare-
foot.”
“He had no boots when I
arrested him,” the sergeant
answered without surprise, and
added: “You fellows had better
have something to eat and get
to sleep, one of you will have
to go out to Chinaman’s Garden
in the morning.”
“Oh, Gawd, I’m dry! Gawd,
I’m dry! Three weeks I been
in the desh-ert without a drink
—Shtan, lemme out!”
The troopers left the office
and McClusky thought the
sound of footsteps and the occa-
sional ring of a spur on the
unyielding ground were going in
the wrong direction. The noise
Warrigal was making made it
, difficult to tell, but from his
window he could see across the
street, by the light of a smoky,
old-fashioned oil-lamp, a faded
sign which read: The Miner’s
Anns
Two dusky figures, booted and
spurred, passed slowly under
the lamp-glow and disappeared
through the rickety swing-doors
beyond.
LAKE COUNTRY
Close held between the shoulder-
ing hills,
Firm as an ancient rhyme,
These are the old gods’ drinking-
cups
For the dark brews of time.
Thought is in wheeling scud of
gulls,
All vagrancy in air,
Where water lies on Burrum-
beet,
For it’s high and windy there.
But should the loved and loving
go there,
’Tis only to come away
Before the rocks wheel shadows
round
And smother down the day.
Grey sheep are mosses on that
land,
Trees crouch on beds of shade
When rapiers of an ocean wind
Divide grass blade from blade.
And now the high gods’ drinking
cups
Are brimmed with windy rain;
Drink, to the rocks and the
mountain air,
Until we come again!
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Avoid if you can
Traps for Home-builders
By JOHN GILMORE
-TT HOUGH in N.S.W. actual
/ costs are highest—of both
V j labor and materials —the
home-building picture in
this State is fairly general of
the Commonwealth.
If an account is known, if
securities and deeds are clear,
if plans and quotes and the
builder himself —are acceptable,
and if the money is repayable
regularly and promptly, trading-
banks in normal times allow
overdrafts readily enough.
Few young couples, however,
meet these requirements, and in
turning to alternative agencies
are involved in delays, lived out
under rented roofs. But a good
deal of the lip-service currently
paid to restrictions on home-
finance is not justified by figures.
Normal home-owning desires
of young people were checked
10 years ago by disorganisation
of war, shortages of trained men
and of materials. These factors
are no longer major, but match-
ing delays now result from
mounting demand on available
finance; the latter, too, tends to
lag behind costs—the small home
on which £lB3O was spent just
five years ago is now £BOO dearer
to build, a difference of over
40 per cent, on 1950.
A citizen may join a co-opera-
tive building-society operating
on Government - guaranteed
funds, and take up shares on
which he makes monthly pay-
ments until they are adequate
in number and value for him to
borrow. The Rural Bank does
a great deal of building business,
and there are a good many appli-
cants. The Commonwealth Bank
advances up to £1750 as a flat
maximum for brick construction.
In practice this is about 65 per
cent, of minimum permissible-
size.
Insurance-offices have their
own varying bases, with internal
policy-changes from time to
time. The War Service Homes
Division offers ex-servicemen the
best deal of all, but time-lag is
lengthy. With friendly-societies,
the trend is identification of
funds with building co-ops.
Should the home-seeker qual-
ify for a private loan he would
probably be an equally good
risk for a trading-bank. He
may avail himself of State Gov-
ernment schemes, or he may use
his own savings and do the
work himself, beginning with
minimum living-requirements
and adding rooms as his personal
reserves re-accumulate.
In 1950 N.S.W. built over
19,300 small homes at a total
cost of £35.38 million. This had
risen by last year to 28,200 units
at a gross of £74.25 million.
Buildings approved, 28,765, and
commenced, 27,653, were new
peaks, having trebled in a
decade.
Present expenditure roughly
splits up—a third each to build-
ing co-ops. and Housing Com-
mission, 12 per cent. Rural
Bank, 8 per cent, private loans
and trading-bank overdrafts, 6
per cent. War Service Homes, 3
per cent. Commonwealth Bank,
and less than 1 per cent. State
Government housing-schemes.
On overall figures there ap-
pears to be no disparity in costs
of homes under State and private
construction. Units completed
in 1954 with cash from the Com-
monwealth and State Housing
Agreement numbered 5177, with
appropriations for that year at
£12.45 million.
Recent margins-grants to
tradesmen are already felt by
owners with homes going up,
and materials become no
cheaper. There is no levelling-
off in, costs . . .
Against that general back-
ground Smith, at thirty, is build-
ing an estate for himself, his
wife and young baby. He has
an average bank-account, a few
hundreds in securities, life-
insurance, a car and a trade or
profession in which he is be-
coming competent; a plan for
the future. Prior to seeing his
banker, he has spent many
weekends looking at land.
His wife, tramping beside him
through the suburbs, loved the
place for the tfiew and the trees.
He considered other factors:
nature and size, soil-profile, ele-
vation, available services, private
covenants and similar local-
authority restrictions, title (Old
System and Torrens being more
readily acceptable for loans, and
the latter rather easier to search),
health of his family and himself,
identification of blocks in town-
planning schemes, and costs.
He has met many real-estate
agents. The good ones are
authorities on all of the fore-
going, on building-laws and
-ordinances, on local builders
and their capacities; they know
local land-dealings for years
back, are something of surveyors
and lawyers, and are essentially
practical.
But there are those, particu-
larly “smaller” men, who are
rather useless technically and
who operate along non-func-
tional lines.
“How much do you want to
pay for the block?”
Smith was cautious with this
questioner, usually a mere sales-
man assessing him for the big-
gest price, and commission, he
would pay.
“How much will you spend
on the home ?”
The agent asking this made
his deal, and accepted the 10 per
cent, deposit after Smith had
checked shire-office valuations,
while title was searched by a
solicitor.
Market- and official-values are
often not even distantly related,
but are some indication.
Buyers tend to pay about £lO
for building-sites for every £lOO
in the cost of the future home
—£3oo for a £3OOO dwelling.
Wise buyers are “extravagant”
with land, economical in build-
ing. A cheap block brings noth-
ing into the value of the invest-
ment, while aa expensive one
adds hundreds to the worth of
the completed dwelling.
Smith paid £2OO more than
he had intended, double the
official value, reasoning that his
home would be worth £BOO
more than had he saved the
£2OO and built in an inferior
estate.
While looking for a builder
living near by, a re-survey cost
Smith £5 ss. The surveyor did
seven similar jobs that day and
was all finished by 4.30 p.m.,
but at least Smith was sure of
his locations.
Architects supply plans and
specifications at a fixed 3 per
cent, of total cost, with an addi-
tional 3 per cent, supervision-
fee —a disproportionate £lBO on
a small £3OOO home. Building-
consultants and draughtsmen
charge five- to twelve-guineas.
Professional home-designers
sometimes offer plans at a few
guineas, a service some claim
compares to a medical man’s
voluntary &ork at free clinics,
but, as the same architect-drawn
plan may sell scores of times
over to those unable anyhow
to pay his three-per-cents, the
comparison is a little obscure.
Ready-made plans can be
bought for a couple of pounds.
Finance-bodies have standard
ones for their clients, the bulk
of whose contributions to costs
will come during their years of
occupancy.
Builders rarely advertise these
days ; like doctors, the good ones
are recommended.
In planning-stages, Smith
found a builder living handy to
his job, a talkative, honest
tradesman who liked his glass
among friends. In the course of
several long, thirsty afternoons,
Smith hammered out every detail
of the work with the practical
man who was to do it.
Brick was prohibitive, fibro
the cheapest; they compromised
on concrete footings, brick
foundations, Oregon frame.
“There are lots of new
materials,” the builder admitted,
“some good, some fair, some
very bad. Some of the plastics
and made-board are excellent —
“Whacko! Here come the prefabs .”
inside. But there’s still nothing
new you can use a lot of
cheaply.”
And later: “Architects?
They’ll give you plans a man
can’t use, if he’s going to keep
inside your estimates. They’re
fond of ‘modern simplicity of
design,’ and it works out damn’
dear. Then they’ll send a kid
fresh from Uni. out for inspec-
tions while you’re on the job,
youngsters who don’t know a
corbel-course from a valley-
rafter, a clinker from a
common.”
From endless sketches on
backs of froth-spotted envelopes,
Smith drew out a prime plan
and specification and paid two-
guineas for blueprints.
“This sped.,” his adviser had
emphasised, “has got to be right.
It must have everything—every
cupboard, every cornice, every
tack and what kind. You must
know what you want and get
every little detail down, and
stick to it. Changes in planning
are expensive—during building
more expensive. It js the most
important job an owner has, but
most of ’em have something
typed by a ‘consultant’ and
never even know what’s in it.
To a builder the specification
means everything; actual plans
are secondary.”
They avoided common errors
—bedrooms full of cooking-
smells ; rooms inappropriately
leading into others ; long, space-
consuming halls; wasteful over-
subdivision ; badly-related bath-
rooms and bedrooms; baths at
the end of a passageway from a
front entrance; kitchen opening
into bathroom, and other mis-
takes on which a bank, eagle-
eyed for security-value, might
frown.
Armed with plans and specifi-
cations, Smith entered the maze
of regulations. He found them
a detailed effort to systematically
provide him with services, safe-
guard his family’s and his own
health, and preserve the value of
his assets and those of neighbors.
The procedure was a matter of
days only; authorities were
helpful.
Contractors operate on a 10
per cent, overall profit on small
homes; in practice their gain
can be much more. When his
bank-manager has grinned and
nodded, the owner with the time
and ability to build his own
home cuts his costs up to 35
per cent.
The owner-contractor, buy-
ing his own materials and sub-
letting to tradesmen progres-
sively, makes big savings, too,
but must know his business to
co-ordinate labor of bricklayers,
plumbers and drainers, roofers,
carpenters, 'electricians, plas-
terers, joiners, painters and
sanders, glaziers, fibrous-plas-
terers and the rest, and to organ-
ise prompt delivery of materials
of proper quantity and quality
when needed.
Ninety-eight per cent, of
home-makers have neither time
nor knowledge for either method.
“We’ll make it a firm con-
tract,” Smith and the builder
decided after compromise on
price, “with progress-payments
as the job goes forward.”
“People,” said the contractor
when they signed their agree-
ment, “sometimes think cost-
plus will be cheaper, where the
tradesmen supply-and-fix, add
their charges and submit bills as
they go. Estimates can go hay-
wire on cost-plus ; owners worry
when they begin to get in too
deep, builders have no firm
agreement.”
And banks demand firm
agreements.
In following weeks, Smith
acquired a great assortment of
interesting information on the
subtle mechanics of home-
building.
“It’s rare these days to be paid
cash,” he was told. “Usually
it's Government or building-
society money, with inspections
by those advancing it, and this
can slow work down. When a
man gets cash-on-the-nail he
works faster and costs are so
rather lower. Some agencies are
slow payers. Small builders must
have cash for materials as they
work, and may slow-up until
the money comes through.
“Greatest friction in the actual
work is when a design is
changed. Bad enough to change
it on paper, when the builder
might have the correct-sized
timbers already ordered, but
when work has to be tom down
and gone over again there are
double-costs. The contractor has
paid for the original and he
has to charge for something
which won’t be in the finished
job. Women are difficult, ‘Oh,
George, wouldn’t it be nicer
with this partition here, a win-
dow there ?’
“Then there’s the loose speci-
fication, items glossed-over or
omitted altogether; a line on the
blueprint for a cupboard, and
no mention in the speci. as to
what sort of cupboard. The
tradesmen assume one thing and
the owner means something
else, and there’s cost-variation
and trouble.
“Good men aim to supply just
what the owner wants. Some,
though, try to talk him out of
an idea all right if there’s
reason, but often it’s just that
the builder hasn’t done anything
in that line before and won’t
depart from his known method.
More strife.
“You find the owner who
hides behind a vague specifica-
tion, withholds payment for
something he claims wasn’t in-
tended. You find the know-all
who picks the workmanship to
pieces to force prices down.
It’s a dog-chasing-tail business
when one or the other tries this
sort of thing.
“Cost-plus can be a trap for
the novice with restricted capi-
tal. If he’s the carping sort of
owner the builder takes his time
and the owner finds his money
short and himself with ulcers
before the linings go in.
“I know one case where a
man worked on cost-plus for
a city firm, building a suburban
home for one of the executives.
He ordered a hell of a lot more
stuff than the job called for, and
was putting up another place a
few streets away, on specula-
tion.
“Outright stealing from
builders is very common. No
materials stacked at the site are
safe. People seem to think
there’s something legitimate
about it.
“No real tradesman will at-
tempt extra profits by using
second-grades. But there’s a
whole lot of the stuff about —
tiles poorly glazed from the bot-
tom of firing-kilns, selling at give-
away prices; same with bricks.
Second-grade and unseasoned
timbers come at a third the price
of good-quality.
“You’ve got to watch strange
workmen. I fired a man for
dodging creosoling bearers—
right in the middle of a bad
white-ant area. Bearers are
nasty to handle when they’re
creosoted, and the floor-clamps
slip when you try to close the
flooring up.
“Timber from small mills is
suspect. I like big yards where
it has plenty of time to season,
where they’ll look worried and
say, ‘Cypress flooring? Seven-
inch Baltic weatherboards?
We’re getting a bit short, only
a million-and-a-half feet of each
left.’
“I’ve seen hurry-up roofers
tie only every fourth or fifth
tile, and sark loosely or not at
all. On the coast the sand will
blow up under the tiles and very
soon the ceiling is bulging down
with "yeight, and stained with
the dift ,-bove.
“Bad workmanship can be the
owner’s fault. A man bought a
block for the view, miles of
pretty beach from a steep hill.
It was solid rock, and by the
time they’d torn enough out
to get a level for foundations
he was several hundred pounds
out on his estimates.
(Continued on page 34)


This Appeal is authorised by
the Australian Commonwealth Government
Donations should be sent through any branch
of any bank, your local Committee or direct to
UNITED NATIONS APPEAL
FOR CHILDREN
WILL YOU HELP FEED
A HUNGRY CHILD?
If a starving little boy came to your
house tonight ... if you could see the
tiny puny limbs of kiddies who never
know what a good meal, is —of course
you would help to feed them !
You are not asked to see these children,
or prepare their gruel, remove their
rotting rags, or bathe their emaciated
bodies. The United Nations (UNICEF)
does all that supplies much-needed
medical supplies and equipment and
does it all efficiently. But you are asked
to give generously in money so that we
may carry on this work of mercy in your
name. Will you please help ... tonight?
Fill up this coupon now ..
• To the United Nations
Appeal for Children
Savoy House, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please find attached my gift of
£ : :
Mr./Mrs./Miss - -
Address -••••
All donations of £1 or over ore allowable deductions from
Income Tax. Official Receipt will be posted to you.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To exchange The Ebbing of the
Tide and By Rock and Pool, by
Louis Becke, for others by the same
author. —6085.
To buy copy of By Packhorse and
Waterhole, by Buchanan. —6086.
Biographical details concerning
Scott Inglis, an Australian actor who
died 40 years or more ago, particu-
larly details on his marriage.—6084.
Information Sought
Particulars about an incident in
Melbourne more than 80 years ago
in which a publican named John
Walshe was killed when a journalist
fired a revolver at a member of
Parliament ?
While George Paton Smith, M.L.A.,
was walking away from Parliament
House, Melbourne, at the corner of
Spring- and Latrobe-streets, Gerard
Henry Supple, barrister and journal-
ist, who is said to have had a grudge
against Smith acquired when they
were journalists on the same paper,
rushed up and started emptying a
seven-chamber revolver into him.
Supple also carried a dagger with
him. Smith ran along the street and
Supple followed, firing three shots,
one of which struck Smith’s elbow.
At the third shot John S. Walshe,
landlord of the Star of the East
Hotel, rushed at Supple and, while
closing with him, Supple fired another
shot which struck Walshe in the
stomach. The jury found Supple
guilty, but was unanimously of the
opinion that the pistol went off
accidentally. This led to long con-
sideration by the court, but he was
finally sentenced to death on Septem-
ber 15, 1870.
* * * *
What play of Marlowe’s was acted
the night before the rebellion of
Essex ?
There is no record of any play of
Marlowe’s having been performed
on that date (February 7, 1601). On
the afternoon preceding the Earl’s
appeal to the people of London, one
of the men in the plot, Sir Gilley
Merrick or Meyrick, went to the
Globe Theatre at Southwark, and, on
paying a fee of 40s. to Augustus
Phillips, ensured the performance the
same evening of a play entitled “The
Deposing of King Richard II.”
Shakspeare’s players, it seems, were
reluctant to put the piece on, saying
it was old and they would probably
lose on it. The play is understood
to have been Shakspeare’s. Although
the scene of deposition and killing
of Richard did not appear until the
third quarto-edition, printed five
years after the death of Elizabeth, it
must have been in existence and pre-
sented on this occasion, when
Merrick and a party of other
conspirators attended.
* * * *
On November 30, 1954, it was
reported that the Prime Minister,
Mr. R. G. Menztes, had held the
office one day more than the previous
longest term of office of W. M.
Hughes. Can you give a list of Aus-
tralian Prime Ministers and their
terms of office?
Barton, 1901-03, two years 269
days; Deakin, 1903-04, 1905-08,
1909- four years and 331 days;
Watson, 1904, 112 days; Reid,
1904-05, 321 days; Fisher, 1908-09,
1910- 1914-15, five years and 32
days; Cook, 1913-14, one year and
85 days; Hughes, 1915-23, seven
years and 105 days; Bruce, 1923-29,
six years and 265 days; Scullin,
1929-32, two years and 76 days;
Lyons, 1932-39, seven years and 93
days; Page, 1939, 19 days; Fadden,
1941, 39 days; Curtin, 1941-45, three
years and 303 days; Forde, 1945,
seven days; Chifley, 1945-49, four
years and 160 days; Menzies, 1939-41,
1949 and still in office, seven years
106 days to November 30, 1954.
* * * *
(7) What is “bulldogging” ? (2) Is
it practised in this country, or what
is the Australian equivalent?
(1) A method of throwing wild
cattle practised by American cow-
boys. Two horsemen are necessary.
One gallops on the off-side of the
bullock and keeps it running straight.
The “bulldogger” gallops up on the
near-side of the beast, throws himsell
from his horse on to the bullock s
neck and head and brings it to a
standstill by his weight. He then
twists its head by its horns and jaw
till the animal topples on its side.
It must fall flat on the'near-side for
fall to be considered complete. (2)
The method has been copied from
visiting cowboys by local stockmen,
but it is purely a show-stunt and of
no practical value. The Australian
method of throwing-and-tying is a
one-man job.
* * • *
Who was “the man they could not
hang,” and what were the circum-
stances of his reprieve ?
John Lee, convicted of murder at
Babbacombe, England, was reprieved
because the drop refused to act on
three occasions, when he was placed
on the scaffold. According to
Ernest Bowen-Rowlands, it was the
work of a convict, a carpenter by
trade, employed on the scaffold, who
slipped in a small wedge. After the
first failure he withdrew the wedge,
showing that the drop worked per-
fectly, but twice he put the wedge
back. Lee’s sentence was commuted
to life-imprisonment, and he was
released after 25 years. Bowen-
Rowlands, a barrister, asserted that
the convict confessed to the trick
upon his death-bed.
* * * *
Some hints on growing tree-peony ?
The plant grows well out in the
open garden, but requires a cool,
moist situation, sheltered from hot
winds and from too-direct sunshine
during the summer. It is advisable
to select a position where the plant
can be left undisturbed for several
years. The best results will be
obtained in a very rich, calcareous,
loamy soil, and lime should be added
if soil is lime-deficient, About a
fortnight after applying lime, work it
well into the surface-soil and then
thoroughly trench the ground, adding
a liberal quantity of well-decayed
manure at the same time. A little
bone-dust added to the manure will
be found very beneficial later on.
From May to early August is the
most suitable time to plant. Give the
plants a mulch of well-decayed
manure twice a year (about the
middle of April and early in October),
working this well into the soil, and
give an occasional application of
liquid-fertiliser when the plants are
in bloom.
Brief Answers
J.N.: It is quite impossible for the
homeworker to prepare luminous-
paints: they require special know-
ledge and the use of heat at extremely
high temperatures. If the powder
is ineffective, the best thing to do is
to have the work done by trades-
people who specialise in it. Try
placing the repainted clock in sun-
light for a while each day: some
luminous-paints are intensified by this
treatment, and all such clocks are
improved in luminosity by plenty of
light during the day H.R.D.: The
New Zealand Broadcasting Service
considers plays of all types For broad-
casting. There is a particular demand
for plays of half an hour to an hour
in length. Inquiries and submissions
to The Director, New Zealand
Broadcasting Service, Box 98, G.P.0.,
Wellington (N.Z.) V.F.: Write
New England New State Movement,
Box 18, Post Office, Armidale
(N.5.W.)... .G.H.C.: See New South
Wales Aboriginal Place Names and
Euphonious Words, With Their
Meanings, compiled by Frederick D.
McCarthy, anthropologist at the
Australian Museum, Sydney....
W.McK.: The first Governor of
Queensland was Sir George Ferguson
Bowen, who was appointed in Decem-
ber, 1859.... J.S.: Write Dr.
Barnardo’s Homes, 1 Jamieson-street,
Sydney E.P.: Write Standards
Association of Australia, Science
House, Gloucester-street, Sydney
A.C.: Write Public Library of South
Australia, Adelaide J.E.W.: The
growth-rate of the freshwater-perch
has never been studied and, there-
fore, no details can be supplied....
F.N.: A “Little Englander” was one
who desired to restrict the dimensions
and responsibilities of the British
Empire. It was a current term of
opprobrium during the Boer War of
1899-1901... .H.C.: Wardour - street,
London, was formerly occupied
mainly by dealers in antique, and
imitation-antique, furniture. Hence
“Wardour-street English” is applied
to the pseudo-archaic diction affected
by some modern writers, especially of
historical novels.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.LJ.: We don’t republish verses
that have already seen print
K.D.: Even if “A Summer Song”
was acceptable in mid-winter, yours
wouldn’t make the grade V.A.:
Story of the newchum who was
never on a horse and didn’t know
how cows are milked firmly rejected.
H.M.: Away with the Chicago
gangster—what’s wrong with a good
Australian crook who turns out to
have a heart of g01d?... .E.R.W.:
One of the oldest of the tricksters-
tricked series... .H.T.S.: No more
chance of its earning a cheque than
its villain had of finding water....
F.D.: Unmoved by “the glistening
tears coursing slowly down her
cheeks” S.KJ.: Your black-
tracker was turned loose to find his
way home... .G.McR.: Sent to our
Chinese laundryman for an extra
opinion; he thought, as we did, that
you were writing through your hat.
. ...W.S.: Story received. Direc-
tions as regards “w.p.b. in the event
of its being unsuitable” complied
with 8.J.C.: Grew weary of
following it on its rambling tour....
W.M.J.: Can’t hold out hope of
publication, but you should have no
difficulty in placing it with any
insomnia-sufferer C.C.: Not so
much a story as snippets from early
history... .G.H.: Slab of conven-
tional philosophy in halting rhyme.
R.B.: A very old friend, that,
the chap you met in Hogan’s
bar who “useter write f’r The
Bulleteen” ... .C.H.F.: You’re a
hemisphere out of our boundary....
S.M.H.: Your theological romance
was passed on to the Religious
Editor. He is still on the bender.
....J.F.: Well, if it isn’t our old
circus friend who cuts the rival’s
trapeze-rope half-way through!....
M.J.D.: Did you ever see in these
pages anything remotely resembling
your “attempt at humorous pedantic
verse”? H.E.: Confirmed lady-
killer reforms when he meets a
blonde with eyes like his mother.
Out... .A.W.F.: Having read both
covering-letter and story we’d suggest
that you should confine your literary
activities to writing covering-letters.
J.S.R.: Yours makes the 937th
dead-cat-mistaken-parcel yarn we’ve
read B.McP.: Even a church maga-
zine would regard it dubiously
J.G.G.: You fall into the common
error of drawing on coincidence to
bolster the melodrama A.M.L.:
You finish-up by putting your lofty-
minded hero into Parliament. That’s
anticlimax with a vengeance!
J.C.: “I could supply you with other
poems on these lines.” Now, now,
no threats! A. 8.: Desert-islander
now has plenty of company in the
w.p.b L.O’C.: Your bush verse
is so rough that it would stop a
bulldozer G.R.: Afraid we can’t
use it, not even to keep you “occu-
pied and out of mischief” L.F.:
Another swaggie camping in that
haunted hut A.G.: It doesn’t
really say much, does it? W.K.:
Not even our “patriotic spirit” could
reconcile us to a rhyme that sets
the teeth on edge L.T.: No space
to tell in detail how the dead cert,
went down by half a head... .D. 8.:
For the third time, that tramp can’t
sleep here R.McG.: lll—fed, ill-
dressed, ill-cooked and ill-served,
like the leg of mutton Dr. Johnson
once complained of E.P.: Has
all the earmarks of having been
written in a shed in a tombstone-
maker’s yard during a wet spell.
F.H.C.: “Why I Didn’t Marry
the Widow” received, and reason
noted in case we’re ever in the same
boat G.L.8.: “He leant over and
spoke to his horse. ‘lnjuns’ smoke-
signals, ole boy.’ ” Nobody can
speak to a horse that way in these
pages A.H.8.: We seem to have
met that bogged bullock-team, curs-
ing bullocky and praying parson
before N. 8.8.: Burglar who fell
in love with a policewoman and gave
her a ring he’d lifted deserved all he
got C.L.A.: “Gale succeeded
gale; the vessel rolling heavily, the
decks being continuously flooded
with salt-water.” Remarkable.


Island Storyteller's Story
Trader Becke
of the South Seas
By LEW FRIDAY
5 attTODAY this week is
the rentenarv of the birth
the centenary ot tne oirtn
of George Lewis Becke,
better known as Louis
Becke writer of South Sea tales
ST wwfw£ once
gave his birth-year as 1849, and
Becke himself on more than one
occasion as 1857 ; but the
records of the Registrar-General
of New South Wales seem un-
answerable—the date was June
to iocc
10, lojj.
A letter in Becke’s hand-
writing has just reached me from
Nnnmcn from that veteran
Noumea, irom that veteran
among New Hebridean traders
Graham Kerr, still well pre-
served at 8(1 His memories eo
served at oU. ms memories go
back a long way; he was in
the islands before the turn of the
century 3ud so W3.S his young
brother’ Hunh Kerr who
nrotner, liugn iveir, n ,
a mere 76, has now retired to
Hornsby, on Sydney’s North
Shore line
Becke’s letter is an armlication
for rjob' sent to lheb undc,
Captain Donald McLeod, fore-
most of the earlv traders and
most oi tne eany traaers anu
planters in the Hebridean group,
who died in 1894. McLeod, a
man of unrivalled influence
among the natives, was highly
regarded by the trading com-
munity, if badly traduced by the
early missionaries—but then, as
Becke says, “a South Sea trader
to the Exeter Hall idea meant
a ‘bloody’ ruffian.”
The Kerr brothers intend to
present the letter to the Mitchell
Library, where it will join a
small but invaluable file of
Becke manuscripts, including
“Bully” Hayes’s brig Leonora, which was wrecked on Kusaie. Becke way on
board as supercargo.
letters written at different
periods of his life from which I
will quote later on.
Here is the letter in full,
addressed to McLeod at
Havannah Harbor, Efate, Where
his main store was located:
C/o R. Pfoeffer, Esq.,
P.O. Box 14,
Manly Beach,
Sydney.
October 1, 1892.
Dear Sir,
I respectfully venture to write to
you to inquire if you can give me
employment as a trader on any of
your stations in the New Hebrides.
I have had about fifteen years’ experi-
ence in various parts of the islands
as trader —Samoa, Tonga, Ellice
Group, Line and Caroline Islands,
and also New Britain.
I arrived in Sydney from the Line
Islands about a year ago. I am 35
years of age, am married (with two
children), am well up in all branches
of the island trade, a good rough
carpenter and used to sail small
craft, but cannot navigate. I am
also a good bookkeeper and
accountant and have very satisfactory
references as to my ability and
sobriety.
I was in Noumea about ten months
ago ’ on ray way to Sydney> and J
heard that you were soon expected
there. I am sorry now that I did
not remain there and await your
arrival, but at the time I had the
%*£&£!•&?&*?&
been advised by my friends in Samoa
not to go there, as business is so
j W as advised by Captain Henry
and Captain Hawkins to write to
if" I
days ago and he told me
wrote to you via Noumea a letter
would be pretty safe to reach you.
? ma y mention that Capta “
1S one of the refe ( ences alluded to >
he has known me f or many yea rs.
i should very much like to return
to the islands, either as a trader or
in some other ca P acit y> a ? d > 1
could obtain a station where my
wife could accompany me. If that
would not be possible at first, perhaps
it could be managed later on.
1 would be wi,lin # t( ? serve you
under an agre ement for two or three
years p my w jf e an d children could
come with me I would be willing to
wor k on commission, but if they
could no L I f shou , ld be PC ® atl t hl eci wnrds
SPSu&I
I have not enclosed you any of my
testimonials for fear of their not
reachi safely , but I can refer
you to some gentlemen in Sydney to
whom I am well known, and from
whom you. can obtain information as
t °Tl ly the favor of
a rep i y a t your earliest convenience.
I am, Sir,
Y ° ur ® ob s d^ at ! y: ’
G -
Had McLeod’s answer been
favorable, Becke would have
continued his trading-life in an
island group deservedly known
as a white-man’s grave, in which
case the writer Becke might
never have developed.
When the letter was written
Becke was in bad health and
could get no employment. He
tried to clear scrub at Manly
(Sydney) at £3 an acre, but after
a week wrote to somebody say-
ing “he didn’t believe he could
clear an acre in less than three
years.” So he moved into the
city, where we presently find
him living in Phillip-street. The
life he had led was known to few
people until he met Ernest
Favenc, the explorer and author
of Tales of the Australian
Tropics, then just published in
London.
Favenc said: “Why don’t you
write of your experiences,
Becke?” to which Becke replied,
“I can’t write.” >-
He repeated these words when
Favenc took him along to see
J. F. Archibald, who told him,
“Write just as you are talking to
me now.”
The first story was accepted,
others found their way into
THE BULLETIN, and Archibald
suggested sending them to a Lon-
, h Rake’s first book
don publisher. HecKes nrst DOOK,
By Reef and Palm, quickly ran
j nto seve ral editions. Becke the
™,er had fT*
supercargo, trader and ia
recruiter.
„ Afler a year “ r “ on Th ?
Bulletin and the Town and
Country Journal, Becke iert
for . London. He wrote steadily
during the years that followed,
. 6 , , J T j „„ j t »
in England, Ireland, and at Le
Havre, sometimes in coHabora-
tion with W. J. Jeffery. He had
.. u r tir n „ to Tahiti
thoughts or retiring to l anm
or Tutuila, but instead, in 1908,
turned up in Sydney with a corn-
r mth South Kensing-
mission irom tne soutn i^ensina
ton and Berlin Museums and the
Royal Geographical Society to
stuc jy folklore and record native
• • tb q n „th Seas Owing
music in the houth oeas. uwing
to disagreement with another
member of the party he aban-
doned the idea and visited New
Ze a ' a " d aad Fiji- returned
to Sydney about 18 months be-
fore his death in 1913, and is
■ Waver i ev Cemeterv
buried m w averiey cemetery,
Becke s superiority over the
romantic walkabout mer-
chants who speed along the
Pacific’s canalised sea- and air-
routes today, searching for copy,
is evident. His experiences
covered an amazingly wide area ;
he had lived in lonely places
in close relationship with
natives and planters, traders,
missionaries, beachcombers and
seamen, had shared such pur-
suits as fishing and copra-buying,
and wrote of what he had seen.
Another famous trader, one
Smith, better known as “Trader
Horn,” with whom I spent three
hours in London a year before
his death, gave a like impression
of authenticity. He, too, had
lived the hard way.
Jack London tried to paint the
same world as Becke, but Lon-
don’s island writings strike one
as forced and adolescent.
Becke’s white-women, like the
American’s, are mere lay figures ;
his strength lies in down-to-earth
observation. His trading-life pro-
vided periods of idyllic bliss
interrupted by disaster. Some-
what deficient in style and plot-
construction, his stories never
approached the mastery of
Robert Louis Stevenson in
“The Beach of Falesa” ; but he
presents a living portrayal of
white and native relations and
the clash of wild and violent
personalities let loose in a strange
environment.
A few island writers since—
Louis Becke, adventurer, author.
Dean Frisbie, James Norman
Hall, Beatrice Grimshaw —can
also claim authenticity, but they
lived less dangerously.
The reader today approaches
Becke most profitably if he has
some understanding of what it
meant to be an island trader 75
years ago. Becke is the young
supercargo Denison of several
of his stories, and the bosun in
“ ’Tis in the Blood” is his half-
caste partner Alan. Other men
he knew are recognisably
introduced.
Becke’s eyes were directed to
the great ocean from the time he
opened them at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.), where his father was
Clerk of Petty Sessions. There
was a family ketch, in which
Louis used to go out with the
children’s tutor, a Mr. Guy, who
had been through the first Maori
war. When they came to Sydney
and he went to Fort-street
School, he had the use of a
dinghy from which he boarded
schooners in the harbor.
When he was barely 14, Louis
and brother Vernon were sent
to San Francisco “to make their
fortunes.” They were 140 days
on the way, in a leaky old tub
which stayed for a month’s refit
at Honolulu. Some of the pas-
sengers were disappointed miners
returning homeward ; the crew
was half-starved and mutinous.
But on this voyage Louis caught
sight of Rurutu, his first South
Sea island.
His first permanent job was as
clerk with the North Pacific
Transportation Company trad-
ing to those Southern Californian
ports which R. H. Dana had
described 50 years earlier. Then,
not yet 16, he joined a shark-
catching expedition to the
equatorial Pacific.
His career as supercargo began
when he put in his savings and
went mates with an old skipper
he met in Honolulu. On the way
to the Pelews they came on a
canoe from the Marshall islands
which had been blown hundreds
of miles off course. Only 40
natives remained alive of the 70
who had set out. Nevertheless,
when provisioned they preferred
to sail homeward. Becke and the
chief exchanged names, a pledge
of island friendship. (They met
again years later, as we shall
see.)
In Samoa Louis and the skip-
per dissolved partnership; and,
aged 17, he revisited his family
at Hunters Hill, Sydney. At the
suggestion of a brother who was
managing a North Queensland
bank, he went north at the time
of the Charters Towers’ rush.
He knocked about Northern
Queensland, learning “engine-
driving, amalgamating, and
blacksmithing.”
Still under 20, he took passage
in the barque Rotumah from
Sydney, spent some time in
Tonga, and went on to Apia,
Samoa, bustling centre of trade.
He was there when Colonel
Steinberger was intriguing for
U.S. annexation.
Two passengers he had known
on the Rotumah, a Miss Olding
and a - French priest named
Fadel, recommended Louis to
Mrs. Mary Macfarland, who
found him work in Macfarland
and Williams’ store in Apia. He
proved a reliable employee on
a waterfront abounding in
notorious characters. They in-
cluded the Yankee, Pease, who
met a horrible end; the huge
negro Black Tom, who ran a
sailors’ dive; and a host of
“romantic ruffians and roving
rascals” to whom Moss refers in
his book Through Atolls and
Islands in the Great South Sea,
published in 1889. (Moss lists
among them “Paunchy Bill,'
Joachim Ganga, Paddy Coney,
and Joe Bird,” but Becke in the
margin of a copy now in the
Mitchell corrects : “Not all ruf-
fians and rascals. Bird was a
man who in his later years would
have been honored.... for saving
life.”)
Another character Becke knew
was “Cappy” O’Keefe, “King of
the Carolines,” who ultimately
disappeared with his little
schooner Santa Cruz, in which
he had once visited Sydney.
Becke was soon involved with
a character even better known,
“Bully” Hayes. The Williamses
(one of them was British Con-
sul in Apia) were looking for
someone to hand over a vessel
(named E. A. Williams) at Milli
lagoon in the Marshalls, and
sent their young store-clerk
along with the drunken old
Dutch master Westerdorf (“Old
Tapoleni”). The mate was Jim
Knowles, a half-caste Tongan
later hanged at Fiji for killing a
captain.
Hayes was waiting for them,
and Becke agreed to become
supercargo on his brig Leonora.
Becke has told the story of their
cruise through the Carolines,
and their wreck on Strong’s
Island (Kusaie), where he was
the last to leave the ship, having
gone to the help of Lalia, a
native girl caught in the wreck-
age. In the water Becke hurt his
ribs and lost consciousness, but
the lass turned back and dragged
her former rescuer ashore.
After a while Becke fell out
with Hayes over the way he was
treating the Kusaie natives, and
took up his quarters with a
chief on the other side of the
isle. Six idyllic months as a
castaway were interrupted by
the arrival of H.M.S. Rosario,
to investigate a charge of piracy
against Hayes. This fell through,
whereupon Hayes made an open-
boat voyage to Guam, 1200
miles away. Becke got a lift
back to Samoa on the man-o’-
war.
The activities of his next em-
ployers, the Liverpool firm of
John S. de Wolf and Company,
covered the length and breadth
of Polynesia. Their trading-
stations extended from Pitcairn
Island to Yap in the Carolines.
The firm’s employees had strin-
gent instructions not to meddle in
native politics, not to sell grog,
and to pay fairly for the native
o Continued on page 34)


Research in Industry
No. 14 in a Series
5.\. •
Wg
Uninvited Guests
( j. '
From the moment a plant begins to grow, its existence is menaced
by insects. Some attack the stalks or roots, others the leaves or fruit.
In Australia, losses due to plant pests and disease amount to millions of
pounds each year.
To evolve effective weapons against insects has been one of the
principal objectives of the modern chemist. A noteworthy advance was
made when 1.C.1. research workers who, after testing no fewer than
14,000 compounds during their search discovered the “Gammexane”
insecticides. These are, in some respects, among the most potent yet
produced. They are based upon a particular form of the compound benzene
hexachloride (BHC) which exists in several forms or “isomers” as
the chemist calls them each with the same formula but possessing
different properties. The achievement of the 1.C.1. chemists was their
discovery that most of BHC’s remarkable insecticidal power resided in the
gamma isomer. Today, “Gammexane” insecticides are fighting all manner
of pests in all sorts of places from the sugar-cane beetle to the house-
fly in the home. They have demonstrated their potency in almost every
major theatre of insect attack including anti-locust warfare in the
Middle East and Australia yet in use they are harmless to man and
animals.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
1C
•L72C.1393.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. Lawry,
Sydney. Manager.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
1 Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion ot their cost The
■'National' - Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plan*-
Music, etc.
BulU antirely tm Australia bj
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents — ..
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd-
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.J
SPORTING NOTIONS
Plato, at 14 to 1, ran away
from two Queenslanders, Grand
Topic (10’s) and Prince Charm
(16’s), to win one of the most
open Stradbrokes in years.
Favorite Dicast was the first
horse beaten.
• • • •
Plato is one of the most ver-
satile gallopers in Australia and,
for a five-year-old, one of the
lightest-graced. His owner-
trainer, Harold Cooper, is a
shrewd selector of races, and
for a man who seldom has more
than two or three horses in work,
he holds a sound Turf record.
Earlier this season Plato won
Caulfield’s mile Toorak Handi-
cap and the V.R.C. H-mile
Hotham Handicap. Cooper
won the Toorak and the Caul-
field Cup with Grey Boots five
years ago, and the A.J.C. Epsom
and the Stradbroke Handicap
with Capris in 1936. Grey Boots
also won the Doncaster Handi-
cap for him in 1950 and Tah-
moor the Oakleigh Plate in
1948.
• • • •
New Zealand owners provided
four of the five starters in the
w.f.a. P. J. O’Shea Stakes in
Brisbane, run over H mile. It
was won by Surprise Ending
from Gold Quality and Finito.
Talisman was fourth and the
other New Zealander and
favorite, Golden Galleon, broke
down in running. At Randwick
the same afternoon two New
Zealanders, Half Past and
Hutton, were vanquished by
N.S.W. country galloper Pem-
broke, the only other runner,
who gave them a start and a
trouncing. Both raced below
form.
•
Pure Kind, a winner in two-
year-old maiden company at
Rosehill, was bred by Ted
McMenamin, of Glencroft stud,
Wodonga (Vic.), formerly a
crack cross-country- and flat-
rider. The filly is by the Big
Game sire Makarpura (imp.)
from Kinder Light by Kinder-
scout (imp.) from Mellow Light
by Melfort (imp.), and tracing to
Trenton. Pure Kind is a direct
descendant of that grand mare
Wakeful, whose successes in-
cluded the Oakleigh Plate, New-
market Handicap, Doncaster,
Craven Plate and Sydney Cup.
Her 25 wins were worth £16,690.
At today’s values her total
would have been more than
twice that amount.
Singing Duke, a rank outsider
when he won a Rosehill Maiden
Handicap, doubtless surprised
the stable. The Le Grand Due
(imp.) gelding cost 1400gns. at
the Randwick 1953 yearling-
sales, but has done little racing.
A strongly-built three-year-old,
he may make it interesting in
much better company. His dam,
Merry Song, who didn’t race,
is by Marconigram (imp.), and
the gelding has staying-blood in
his make-up. Family-lines in-
clude a brilliant staying mare
of note in earlier years, Anna
Carlovna, who twice won the
Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield. Sir
Solo (Auckland and Wellington
Cups) also figures in the
pedigree.
• • • •
One of the cheapest yearlings
of the 1953 Randwick sale was
the bay filly by Merry Cavalier
(imp.) from Vae Victus. There
was hardly any competition for
her and she realised only 90gns.
Trained at Rosebery by N.
Brown and racing as Lady
Victus, she won at Rosehill —her
pull in the weights on the heavy
track a contributing factor. She
is related to Bronze Eagle, a
winner of the New Zealand
Derby, and to other winners.
Her dam, Vae Victus, traces
back to Trenton.
Bred at Piercefield, Muswell-
brook (N.S.W.), by Alex
Higgins, Tout Rouge isn’t the
most handsome two-year-old,
but what he lacks in looks he
makes up in potential ability. In
his opening success at Rosehill
he humped 8.12 over a heavy
track and cleared out from his
two-year-old rivals. He is a
gelded son of Genetout (imp.)
and Red Army, and is trained
at Rosehill by M. Webster. Red
Army is by Simeon’s Fort (imp.)
from High Ho by Highfield
(imp.) from Hoogly by Don
Reynaldo (imp.). Hoogly was a
half-sister to Lavendo, winner
of a Caulfield Cup and C. B.
Fisher Plate.
« • • •
Just by way of a change this
year’s Queensland St. Leger
was left to the locals and The
Wash became the first Brisbane
horse to win the red riband in
four years. The Wash is a
smart three-year-old, and with
Melbourne jockey Purtell in the
saddle he made an exhibition of
opponents. Charles McQuillan,
of a well-known Melbourne
bloodstock company, bought
The Wash in New Zealand as a
yearling at 1400gns., acting for
the owner. Dogger Bank (imp.),
a son of Fairway, is sire of The
Wash, while his dam, Cardoness,
is a daughter of Foxbridge
(imp.) and My Own, by Lord
Quex.
It’ll be a real old family affair
if Royal Pentzia wins the G.N.
Steeple. The old fellow was
bought for 45gns., did a bit of
jumping, became a stock-horse
at Hamilton (Vic.) for his owner,
Frank Bullock, ran into barbed-
wire nine months ago and a vet.
recommended his destruction.
Owner Bullock and trainer
“ They're the anti-Soccer breakaway group.”
Lafferty wouldn’t hear of it, de-
cided to try to heal him and
let him run around as a retired
pet. Now Royal Pentzia is
among the short prices for the
G.N. Steeple—having won the
Hopetoun Steeple on Saturday
in good style—and will be
ridden by L. Moore, who learned
to ride on the Bullock property.
• • • •
A close third to King’s Call
and Sunish in the Sand-
ringham Handicap at Fleming-
ton puts El Tirador right in the
G.N. Hurdle, where he has 9.7.
A four-year-old, El Tirador may
not be quite seasoned enough for
the timber, but he’s full of
eagerness.
• • • •
Horses owned or bred in New
Zealand keep winning races in
Australia. Two to greet the judge
at Flemington on Saturday were
Off Hand and Count Paid. The
former raced previously in Syd-
ney and in the southern districts
of N.S.W. with success, but
Count Paid was having only his
third race-start, though success
was anticipated judging by the
short odds. He is a two-year-old
gelding by Count Rendered
(imp.) from Sheelin, a mare by
Te Hero from Lady Meath (imp.)
by Soldennis. His half-brother,
Seven Bells, has won several
races in N.Z., including the
Wellington Guineas and the
Auckland Champagne Stakes.
Vychan, winner of the Royal
Handicap at Flemington, had
been off the winning-list for 18
months. Race-form had been
poor, but he was fancied well,
and maybe returned most of the
money expended on him in one
way and another since his prior
success.
* * * *
A few weeks back at Harold
Park, Strathfield Jack beat a
good field of fast-class horses,
and a week later his “nephew”
stepped under the spotlight.
Brilliant Moon is by Black
Panther, a son of Dalla Derby,
sire of Strathfield Jack. Strath-
field Jack is a grandson of Globe
Derby, the Black Panther horse
being a great-grandson of the
“Father of Australian trotting.”
Dalla Derby, who did his early
racing unhoppled, was a well
set-up brown. He ran 2.9 at
the Melbourne Showground, and
won numerous “led-in” classes
at the shows. His Lady Luck
son and Minton Moon grandson
are most promising horses.
With Victorian and South
Australian trotting in hiberna-
tion, Harold Park (Sydney) beds
down for six weeks after the
meeting next Saturday night.
During this period the track will
be scraped and top-dressed while
trainers will have to content
themselves with provincial meet-
ings. Interest quickens again
after the break with warm-ups
to, and the running of, the spring
carnival.
+ +
Australia won the First Rugby
League Test at S.C.G. in a game
more instructive than exciting.
Those who came hoping for
Gallic fireworks in the backline
were disappointed; those who
appreciate sustained and intelli-
gent forward play got their
money’s worth. The French for-
wards were surprisingly good—
Delaye and Duple are in world
class. All Australian forwards
were good.
• • *
The pattern was set in the first
half, with the Australians keep-
ing the game tight, and the
French trying hard to break the
grip. A burst of scoring in the
second half was the result of the
pace of the first session—the
French forwards could hardly
raise a gallop, leaving holes in
the defence. Wells’s try in the
first half, when the French de-
fence was at its keenest, was of
a different order: excellent ex-
ploitation of a narrow chance
by both Henry and Wells. Wells,
on his day, is more than a
“crashing centre” —although he
can crash very competently—he
is a safe handler with a nice
balance who picks up speed very
quickly, dangerous whenever
he gets the ball. Saturday was
one of his days.
At half-time Australia led by
only five points (5-0) but there
was no doubt which was the
stronger team. The French kept
trying. Back after back was
pinned before he could get mov-
ing and the forwards did their
best. Now and then, in brilliant
flashes, the French gave an in-
dication of what they could do
given the slightest chance.
Ducasse’s try was a beauty. Rey
broke from his own 25 and
passed at half-way to the other
centre, Merquey; winger Du-
casse shot inside, gathered the
ball and, catching the Aus-
tralians on the v,jong foot, made
a long run to score. Dop
gathered from the loose and
sent a long pass to start a rush
that nearly scored. Once or
twice rapid changes of attack
almost came off. These tactics,
perhaps, might have been more
successful if the French backs
had kicked more. Time after
time, when kicking oyer the
heads of the Australian forwards
seemed the obvious way out of
trouble, they were caught in
possession. In the end it was
20 to 8.
* * *
In the Rugby Union match-
of-the-day in Sydney, Gordon
beat Manly 9-6 in a hot game.
St. George beat Randwick 20-14,
Eastern Suburbs beat Parra-
matta 16-13, Northern Suburbs
beat Drummoyne 9-6, and Uni-
versity hit form again with a
splash, downing Eastwood 30-6.
m * *
“Ex-Angel”: South Mel-
bourne’s 25.16 against St. Kilda
recently has been topped in
V.F.L. games only thrice in the
last 10 years. South and Saints
have figured in two of the high
tallies —Essendon’s 29.7 against
South in 1950 and Melbourne’s
27.9 against St. Kilda in 1947.
In 1949 Geelong kicked 25.17
against Essendon. South had
only once before topped 25.16 —
when they got 29.15 against
Saints back in 1919.
* * •
Middleweight Harry Grogan
(10. showed plenty of
promise when he met Ray
Richards (10.12) at Leichhardt
(Sydney) Stadium. Richards
was helplessly beaten in round
three, when referee Jack Burns
crowned Grogan. Richards
looked like being beaten early,
as a battery of rights drove him
all around the ring for more
than a minute before Grogan’s
flurry of fists scored an “eight”
knockdown in round one.
Richards took a lot of punish-
ment in the second, and was be-
ing belted from pillar to post
when the ref. called a halt.
“Corner-man”: If the news-
reel of the Marciano-Cockell
fight is any guide, I’ll stick to
the bantams. Two lethargic
figures wrapping and rolling like
a pair of love-making hippo-
potami do not make for an excit-
ing spectacle. Massive, awe-
inspiring frames and the k.o.
punch (if it comes) are poor
substitutes for an intelligent
display of boxing.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: Wisden’s is in a
dilemma regarding Leslie G.
Hylton, West Indies Test player,
executed for wife-murder. Wis-
den’s records the demise of
every Test cricketer in its
obituary pages, but now it has
to decide whether a convicted
murderer shall be given the
cricketing world’s final accolade
by inclusion in its columns.


C.S.R. CO.’S REPORT
Points from the Chairman’s Centenary Year
Address to Shareholders
Record Australian raw sugar production.
Drought reduces Fiji raw sugar output.
Increase in Building Material sales.
The year 1955 marks the Centenary of The Colonial
Sugar Refining Company Limited, Mr. E. R. Knox,
Chairman of Directors of the Company announced
in his recent address to shareholders.
Sir Edward Knox, founder
of the C.S.R. Co.
Mr. Knox said that pro-
duction for the whole Aus-
tralian raw sugar industry
in 1954 was a record
1,285,000 tons. This was
72,000 tons higher than
the previous record produc-
tion in 1953.
The output from C.S.R.’s
Australian raw sugar mills
reached a record 255,000
tons, despite a poor crop
in N.S.W. yielding only
24,700 tons. C.S.R. owns
7 of 34 Australian mills.
Bulk Handling
of Raw Sugar
Equipment for unload-
ing and handling raw sugar
in bulk from ships at our
Sydney refinery has been
completed, at a cost of about
£BOO,OOO. The first inter-
state vessel to deliver a bulk
raw sugar cargo at the re-
finery arrived in May and
the bulk handling arrange-
ments worked satisfactorily.
Drought Reduces
Fiji Production
Our five mills in Fiji
produced 133,000 tons of
raw sugar in 1954. This
was disappointing after the
record output of 190,000
tons from the Colony in the
previous season. A severe
drought during the last half
of 1953 seriously affected
the growth of cane and re-
duced its tonnage.
Refined Sugar
Sales in Australia
Sales of sugars and
syrups from our five Aus-
tralian refineries for the
year ended 31st March,
1955, totalled 478,000
tons, as compared with
460,000 tons for the pre-
vious year.
Refinery expansion and
improvement is continuing
at an annual expenditure
of about £lm., and will go
on for several years.
Sugar Sales in
New Zealand
Sales of refined sugar
products from our Auck-
land refinery were 95,600
tons, as compared with
96,000 tons for the pre-
vious year.
Sales of Distillery
Products Increase
Sales of industrial alco-
hol and other products are
increasing and plant exten-
sions to keep pace are being
planned.
Record Sales of
Building Materials
The value of sales of our
building materials was
24% higher than for the
previous year and passed
the £4m. mark.
Prospects for the current
year are good, as house
building continues at a
reasonable level and there
is considerable activity in
the office and commercial
building field.
C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd.
The Tariff Board has just
concluded a second hearing
of C.S.R. Chemicals’ appli-
cation for assistance for
cellulose acetate production.
Demand for all other
chemicals continued at a
high level throughout the
year and extension is tak-
ing place at both the Lane
Cove and Rhodes factories.
New plant for the pro-
duction of polystyrene, an
important plastics material,
was recently brought into
production. The trade name
“Starex”, has been chosen
for this product.
C.S.R. CO. IS
100 YEARS OLD
This is the Company’s Centenary year.
The Company was formed on the Ist Janu-
ary, 1855, to take over the business of the
Australasian Sugar Company, which had
commenced refining sugar in Sydney in
1842. Sir Edward Knox, who had been
manager of the Australasian Sugar Com-
pany for some years, was Chairman of
Directors and one of the principal share-
holders of the Colonial Sugar Refining
Company when it was formed.
The new Company ex-
perienced great difficulties
in its early days, mainly
because of limited capital
and the vagaries of the
world’s raw sugar markets.
After some hard lessons
from this kind of experience
Sir Edward Knox followed
a policy of holding a pro-
portion of the earnings in
the business. The share-
holders received a meagre
dividend indeed by the stan-
dards of the times, but the
policy of ploughing back
earnings was maintained
throughout his lifetime and
gave the Company, in due
course, a degree of stability
which its predecessors and
many of its contemporaries
did not possess.
In 1869, the Company
erected several raw sugar
mills on the Macleay and
Clarence Rivers in Northern
New South Wales. The pio-
neering of cane growing
and of the raw sugar indus-
try then taking place was
mainly by planters who
operated their own small
mills. The Company’s new
mills were larger and were
supplied with cane by inde-
pendent farmers.
During the early 1880’s,
the Company built a num-
ber of large up-to-date mills
in Queensland and Fiji, and
a refinery at Auckland, New
Zealand. About the same
time, several industrial
chemists were engaged from
Europe and instituted a
system of chemical control
which resulted in large
savings of sugar during
manufacture. This, with the
self-generated financial re-
sources and good manage-
ment, enabled the Company
to survive the sugar slumps
of the 80’s and the general
depression of the 90’s, when
many less efficient mills
were forced to close.
For the first ten years in
Queensland, although not
in New South Wales, the
Company adopted the cur-
rent practice in the north-
ern industry of growing
cane on its own plantations.
But in the early 90’s the
Company adopted in Queens-
land the same system of
small farms which it had
pioneered so successfully
since 1869 in Northern
New South Wales.
Indentured Indian
labourers were employed on
the Company’s Fijian planta-
tions until the early 1920’5,
when these properties were
sub-divided and leased in
small blocks to Indian far-
mers, and, to a lesser extent,
to Fijians. This step has
been described as a bold
experiment and has since
been the basis of cane grow-
ling in Fiji.
The Company’s refining
business was expanded in
1887 by amalgamation with
the Victoria Sugar Company,
Melbourne. New refineries
were built later in Adelaide,
Brisbane and Fremantle.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LIMITED
TOTAL SALES REVENUE AND DIVIDENDS
Millions of £’s
This diagram compares dividends received by share-
holders wjth the Company’s total revenue. The fig-
ures for total revenue from sales of goods and services
include investment income.
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
> X;X;X X;
! j j |
Pre-war- average for 1937-38-39
Sales: £27,320,052 Dividends: £853,125
Last 3 years- average for 1953-54-55
Sales: £94,705,858 Dividends: £1,392,300 (Including Centenary Bonus £351,000)
Dividends
Sales
MMI.V Tim* *
v.v.v.'.v.v.v v.v.v.v.;
X;X;XvX;.v.> .v.v.v.v.
;.v.
m
ULi.in
\ .V.V.V.V.'
XwXv:
.y.v.v.v.v.v
.v.v.v.v.;.;.;.;
W
In an Adelaide Inn
MINE'S A QUART
By JOHN GARDNER
TTINDLEY-street, Adelaide . ..
the Castle Inn . . . blokes
ordering a pewter quart of beer
and downing it... 3s. lOd. a go!
Rows of pewter pots hanging
behind the bar give you some of
the atmosphere of an English
pub—though I’ve never met any-
one who knows of an English
pub serving pewter quarts as
part of its regular daily trade.
The idea among some of the
locals is that the quarts were
specially obtained years ago to
cater for the thirst of the
foundries which, for generations,
have functioned near the pub.
Actually, the story, as I piece
it together from talks with
present licensee John Clarke and
his predecessor, Councillor Bert
Edwards, is this:
When Cr. Edwards, in his own
words, was a “bottle-gatherer
some forty or fifty years ago,”
he salvaged two ancient quart
tankards from junk he was on
the point of selling for melting
into solder.
He filled them with OK Hop
Beer at 4d. a quart when he
opened a tiny shop in Compton-
street near the Central market.
Many budding West Adelaide
football champs drank from
them.
When Edwards took the Duke
of Brunswick Hotel in Gilbert-
street he took his quart pewters
with him and acquired two more.
The idea of drinking from
such hefty vessels appealed to
the patrons of “The Duke,” then
a kind of unofficial headquarters
for the West Adelaide Football
Club, at the time around its
heyday.
Somewhere or other Edwards
got six more quarts: then there
were 10, but the customers still
wanted more.
Next move was when, some
20 or so years ago, Edwards
became mine host of the Castle
Inn and took his 10 quarts with
him. The “big drinkers” fol-
lowed him and there were not
enough quart pewter-tankards to
go round.
Thirsts were satisfied when a
departmental manager who
drank at the pub bought two-
dozen quart tankards from
abroad to Edwards’s order. Thus,
the big collection was completed,
to become a sort of local legend
in the founder’s lifetime, with
sometimes 30 tankards in use at
the one time.
Edwards recalls that five of
his “quart regulars” were three
bricklayers and two laborers
engaged on building S.A.'s
Parliament House about 20
years ago. Every Thursday night
the five would drink five quarts
each—two standing and three
sitting at the marble-topped
tables then in the bar.
This former licensee claims
that he never saw a regular
quart-drinker under the influence
of liquor. (He says his eyesight
is good.)
Today the drinking clientele
of “The Castle” is a mixed one,
with a good leavening of the
New Australians who live in the
locality. The present licensee,
John Clarke, says that some of
his foreign patrons call for
quarts.
Some “white-collar” old Aus-
tralians call in on their way
from the office and down quarts
without batting an eyelid.
Not all of the tankards are
quart-size. There are rows of
pints and half-pints, all carrying
the patina of age. Some are
engraved, having been won in
inter-hotel sporting contests.
Some play tunes. All are
numbered.
Some of the original collec-
tion of quart-pots are, however,
now at the old Black Lion Hotel,
on the Port road at Hindmarsh.
Licensee Edwards split the col-
lection of big-’uns when he
changed pubs some years ago.


There'll be one
next door to
you soon!
because
Life is easier with »
J
WOBIICO
Oep
o**'
Ta*
LIKE A DEMONSTRATION
I would like a demonstration of the
Mobilco Motor Mower at homw
Name
Address -
Mobiles is right out in front with its big 9! c.c.
Villiers engine ... its special clutch which lets
the cutting blades drive without the ground roller
being driven - excellent for neat trimming under
trees, around shrubs and along edges . . • if*
splendid performance and absolute ease of
handling. SIX MONTHS GUARANTEE AND YOURS
FOR CASH OR EASY TERMS.
LONG-GRASS CUTTER
■
H
I
y- f > •' ,1 ■ '<■>*
I
Bl§islgpffgiij|M ' h'-ofi .■'•■liey.
££fPSi] M 0 8 S !. E
■ :
I
50-54 SILVERWATER
RD., AUBURN.
Phones: YX 1244-5
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"BIG FOUR" TALKS
'T'HERE is a lot of doubt in
even the most optimistic
American comment on the pros-
pects of the proposed “talks at
the summit” between Britain,
France, the U.S. and Russia.
Roscoe Drummond (New
York “Herald Tribune”) sug-
gests that the talks will aim to
achieve three things—to decide
which cold-war issues can use-
fully be negotiated; in what
order the issues shall be taken-
up ; and what procedures and
agencies shall deal with any
issue. He thinks “the Soviets
have laid a deed, not merely a
word, on the line.” That deed is
the Austrian treaty, which, “for
the first time since the war,
liberates a nation held in partial
bondage by the Red Army”:
“The removal of Soviet troops
from Austria gives both Czecho-
slovakia and Hungary a frontier
on the free world. The freedom
Austria has won may be a
tempting sight to the satellite
peoples and may loose forces
which the Soviet Union will have
to respect.”
Another N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” commentator, Walter
Lippmann, also sees a glimmer
of hope—in the fact that “there
has come up, comparatively
recently, a new political force
with which all the Governments
have learned that they must
reckon”:
“It is a feeling which is not
merely the ordinary popular
war-weariness and dislike of the
horrors and costs of warfare..
Something new has happened.
That something is the revolution
in the technology of war.
“Churchill was the first among
public men to realise the con-
sequences of this military revo-
lution, and two years ago he
started acting upon it in his
epoch-making speech of May 11,
1953. It was in that speech that
he called for ‘a conference at
the highest level.’
“A few months later President
Eisenhower had realised what
had happened, and in his speech
last autumn (October 19, 1954)
he summed-up his conclusions in
a sentence which may well prove
to be the utterance for which he
will always be remembered:
‘Since the advent of nuclear
weapons, it seems clear that
there is no longer any alternative
to peace.’
“In recent times this view has
taken hold of the masses of man-
kind. To this view all the Gov-
ernments are now responding.”
A third N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” commentator, Ansel E.
Talbert, is not very impressed by
the Soviets’ “deed on the line.”
“The sudden removal of
Soviet pressure on Austria,” Tal-
bert comments, “and the Soviet
Union’s announced eagerness for
a top-level Big-Four conference
to discuss disarmament are moti-
vated primarily by a desire to
block West German rearma-
ment.
“If West Germany’s proposed
400,000-man Army and the pro-
jected German Air Force of
1400 planes could be prevented
from joining the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation and plug-
ging its most dangerous gaps,
the present United States con-
cept of Western defence certainly
would be destroyed.
“Soviet respect for German
military efficiency, particularly
if joined to the vast resources of
the West, and the Kremlin’s
knowledge that the German
people have a deep-seated dislike
for Communism, based on post-
war experiences, clearly are be-
hind the current campaign for
‘peace.’ ”
Editorially, the N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” notes that “the West
has very moderate hopes and
very restrained expectations” of
the talks, while “New York
Times” comments that “the
President and his Secretary of
State do not believe that the
Soviets have suddenly ‘got re-
ligion’ and been converted, and
they hold the American people
to be mature and sophisticated
enough to see through the Soviet
schemes” :
“But that is not necessarily
true of the less-well-informed or
more wishful European and
Asian public, and this raises the
danger that the conference might
produce hopes so high that these
hopes might in themselves turn
into pressure for unwarranted
concessions to Communist
demands.
“That danger is all the greater
because both the Soviets and the
Chinese Communists are con-
stantly publicising impossible
‘peace’ programmes and are
thereby putting the West into
the psychologically disadvan-
tageous position of having to
say ‘No.’
“Indeed, the other side of their
brutality is that they can be
cheered as benefactors, as Mr.
Molotov was in Vienna and Mr.
Chou in Bandoeng, if they
merely stop beating their vic-
tims quite so hard, while the
Western Powers remain sub-
jected to constant criticism for
not doing enough for others and
for peace.”
Possibly the least optimistic
American view of the proposed
talks is that of “U.S. News and
World Report.” Looking back
over the records, it finds that
“in talks with the Soviets during
the last 22 years Americans have
used up 106-million words —at
a minimum”:
“Those talks, extending from
1933 to date, have taken place
in some 3400 meetings lasting at
least 10,200 hours. The words
of those meetings are enough to
fill a library with 620 volumes
of 400 pages each.
“Out of the 106-million words
of talk came 52 major agree-
ments. Of these agreements, the
Soviets have honored only two
New York “Herald Tribune”
“CERTAINLY CHANGES HIS PROGRAMME IN
A HURRY."
—violated 50. One of the two
agreements kept was that to
enter the war against Japan,
which involved only 14 days of
Soviet fighting and yielded to
the Soviets vast booty. The
other was the agreement to per-
mit the West air-corridors to
Berlin.
“If history is a guide, the
chances are 25-to-l that any
agreement reached will be
violated by the Soviet Union.
Those odds favoring a violation
go up to almost a ‘sure thing’ if
it appears to Russia that there
is more to be gained than to be
lost by violating the agreement.
“After 22 years of experience
in dealing with Russia, it is
now an axiom of American
diplomacy that an agreement is
a device used by Russia to tie
the hands of the United States
while Russia does what she
pleases.
“One subject of the 1955 Big-
Four talks is certain to be Ger-
many. The record shows that
the U.S. already has held 1200
talks with the Russians about
Germany.
“These talks date all the way
back to 1944. They produced
more than 43-million words —
and many ‘agreements.’ Russia
promised to treat Germany as a
whole —then promptly sealed-off
its Occupation Zone. Russia
promised to disarm Germany—
and built up an East German
semi-military police-force of
more than 100,000 men. Russia
promised to encourage all demo-
cratic parties in Germany, and
to maintain freedom of speech
and press. It banned all but
Communist and fellow-travelling
parties in East Germany, and
suppressed democratic freedoms.
“Russia promised to restrict its
reparations from Germany, then
proceeded to strip East Germany
of plants and goods without
any accounting. The Soviets
promised four-Power rule in
Berlin and joint government of
all Germany—then walked out
of the Allied Control Council,
set up separate Communist
regimes in East Berlin and East
Germany.
“Russia promised free travel
between Berlin and the West. It
broke this promise with a
blockade of Berlin.
“World peace is another sub-
ject sure to be high on the Big-
Four agenda. This subject, too,
is a familiar theme in Russian-
American talks. In some 1400
meetings around 45-million
words have been used in dis-
cussing peace.
“In all these talks, Russians
spoke incessantly for peace.
After each they returned to their
constant policy of stirring-up
trouble.
“The Russians made one big
promise which, if kept, might
have made all these peace-talks
unnecessary. In 1942, in a joint-
declaration with its war-time
allies, Russia promised to seek
no territorial aggrandisement.
Since then, the Soviets have
taken over control or domina-
tion of 11 countries, 750-million
people.
“Disarmament and control of
atomic weapons are other sub-
jects that come up repeatedly
when Americans and Russians
talk —and are likely to come up
again in the talks just ahead.
“History’s record on these
subjects shows more than 350
meetings, words in excess of
10-million—and no agreements.
“Russia began breaking its
promises to U.S. as far back as
1933, before the ink was dry
on the agreement by which the
United States first extended dip-
lomatic recognition to Russia’s
Communist regime.
“In exchange for this recog-
nition, Russia pledged:
‘“To refrain from interfering
in any manner in the internal
affairs of the United States.
“ ‘To restrain all persons....
under its direct or indirect con-
trol.... from any agitation or
propaganda having as an aim
.... the bringing about by force
of a change in the political or
sodal order of the United
States.’
“ ‘Not to permit the formation
on its territory of any
organisation.... which has as an
aim the overthrow of the
United States.’
“Within a few months after
these pledges were made, Sec-
retary of State Cordell Hull was
reporting ‘evidence tending to
show violation of the pledges.’
Within a year, the U.S. Ambas-
sador to Russia was talking of
severing the new diplomatic
relations if the violations con-
tinued. The Soviet record, ever
since 1933, is replete with in-
stances of active plotting to
undermine the Government of
the United States.
“On agreements concerning
other nations, the record of the
Soviet Government in violating
pledges to the U.S. is equally
bad—or worse.
“Repeatedly, from 1942 until
1946, Russia promised to
guarantee freedom and free
elections in Hungary, in Bul-
garia, in Poland, in Czecho-
slovakia, in Rumania. Result:
All these countries wound-up
with Communist dictatorships.
“Russia promised to take no
final action on Poland’s western
border until a peace treaty was
signed. Almost as soon as the
fighting ended, Poland’s western
border was moved far westward
into Germany.
“Russia promised to support
the Chinese Nationalist Govern-
ment of Chiang Kai-shek and
to restore Manchuria, Formosa
and the Pescadores to Chiang.
Here’s how these promises have
been broken: Russia backed
Chinese Communists in over-
throwing Chiang’s regime, and
continuously since then has sup-
ported the Chinese Com-
munists.
“Russia promised freedom for
Korea. Instead, Russia set up
a Communist puppet in Korea’s
northern half, then master-
minded an attempt to take the
rest of Korea in war.
“Russia promised indepen-
dence and a nation-wide demo-
cratic Government for Austria,
then sabotaged the national
Government for years, and only
now, after 10 years, has dropped
impossible demands and agreed
to an Austrian peace treaty.
“Russia pledged to repatriate
all German war-prisoners. It
held millions for years, still holds
thousands.
“The one really big promise
that Russia kept with the United
States was one that yielded the
Russians profits out of all pro-
portion with the cost involved:
Russia’s pledge to go to war
against Japan, once Germany
was defeated.
“Here is the record on that
one: On August 6, 1945, the
U.S. dropped the first atom-
bomb ■ on Japan, ensuring
Japan’s defeat. Two days later,
on August 8, Russia declared
war on Japan. Next day, Red
troops invaded Manchuria. On
August 23 —14 days later—
Premier Joseph Stalin announced
complete victory for Soviet
forces.
“In return for this belated, un-
needed assistance, Russia, by the
Yalta Agreements, got huge ter-
ritorial concessions that enabled
it to dominate the Asiatic con-
tinent —and to menace the United
States.
“This, then, is the record that
Russia will carry into the new
Big-Four talks 106-million
words of talk in 3400 meetings,
52 agreements made, 50 agree-
ments broken, only two promises
kept.”
German Neutrality
Is German longing for the
unification of the country
strong enough to balk the
rearmament of West Germany?
Practically all British and
American papers are speculat-
ing on that point, and the con-
sensus of opinion would seem to
be that so long as Chancellor
Adenauer holds the reins Soviet
offers of unification at the price
of Germany’s unarmed neu-
trality will not persuade West
Germany to abandon its pros-
pective role as an armed mem-
ber of Nato.
That, though, may be a sim-
plification of the issues, particu-
larly as various shades of
German opinion are looking for
other alternatives.
Commenting on “the possible
perspectives” for Germany, Lon-
don “Economist” points out that
“most of Dr. Adenauer’s critics
in the Federal Republic now
claim to share the Chancellor’s
insistence that Germany must
hold fast to the Western partner-
ship ; but where he intei prets


» Powered, sized, equipped &
priced for versatile work!
fV s>/<f
m
<st*f
Ul
It’s right-it’s FARM-RIGHT!
With more farm-right features than any other tractor, Fordson Major is unequalled for all-
purpose capacity and all-job economy. The latest overhead valve, low-friction engines
deliver much more power, use less fuel and work longer ... 6-speed transmission .. - “touch-
control” hydraulics . . . 3-point linkage . . . range of “Crown” and matched implements and
equipment, and many other advances result in savings of time, labour
Fordson Dealer, he will show you, feature by feature, why Fordson
is farm-right for you.
and money, bee your
TWO
,a K'di»
KEROSENE MODEU
£9lB
with pneumatic tyre*
DIESEL model
*1077
with pneumatic tyres^
Optional equipment—
Hydraulic lift and 3-point linkage only £76*
rgrerarngireica
Your Fordson Dealer will supply further details .
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 64 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
that straightforwardly as mean-
ing full loyalty to the Atlantic
alliance they concoct tortuous
‘third solutions’ under which
Germany would, they claim,
achieve a special position per-
mitting it to be reunited with
the agreement of the Russians.
“Herr Ollenhauer, the Social-
Democrat leader, rejects neu-
tralisation but insists on
Biindnislosigkeit (freedom from
alliances), a subtle variant of
neutrality which would leave
Germans free to follow an
‘active policy’—presumably, to
play off East against West.
“Others argue that the
Americans and British must, of
course, retire, but only from
German soil, being morally
bound to protect Germany from
other bases in Europe. As the
leading military expert of the
Free Democrat Party puts it:
‘America has taken on the
responsibility of defending free-
dom in Europe. We cannot and
will not release it from this
responsibility.’
“Meanwhile the German
public quietly continues to vote
Dr. Adenauer’s party into power
in Land elections, the Social-
Democrats seeming unable to
win more than a third of the
votes, and the smaller parties
losing ground.
“This apparent confusion,”
the “Economist” adds, “reflects
the simple fact that many Ger-
mans share the universal human
desire to have one’s cake and
eat it too. Their longing for
reunion is genuine, but at the
same time they do not want to
imperil their present prosperity
and political liberty.
“They would like to keep out
of any major conflict between
East and West, but they also
want to retain American mili-
tary protection. They want
to be of the West but to
get a foothold in the East;
while rejecting Communism,
they are confident that they can
get the better of the Russians in
negotiations and profit from
trade with them.
“They seem blind to the
harsh lesson of experience, that
people who try to have their
cake and eat it tend to find both
their stomachs and their plates
empty.”
Better Times in Europe
The report from “New York
Times” correspondent Michael
L. Hoffman of an upward move-
ment of wages in manufactur-
ing-, transport- and mining-
industries in Europe moved the
same paper to comment edi-
torially that “past European
economic history would lead us
to expect that higher prices
would follow these increased
labor-costs, with a consequent
reduction in sales, increased
unemployment and unbalanced
trade.”
That, however, does not look
like happening, and the “N. Y.
Times” suggests that “the
increased productivity of Euro-
pean labor seems to be exorcis-
ing these old-time bugaboos”:
“Probably because of greater
mechanisation and more efficient
management, labor-costs per unit
of output seem not to have
increased as might have been
expected—possibly they have
even decreased, in spite of the
higher wages. We Americans
take hll this process for granted ;
but, with some notable excep-
tions such as automobiles, it is
an innovation for Europeans.
Also, judged by our own experi-
ence, it can bring increased liv-
ing-standards to which no one
can set a limit.
“But there seems to be one
European barrier that stands in
the way—inadequate power. The
Twentieth Century Fund’s re-
cent monumental report on
‘America’s Needs and Resources’
has strikingly documented the
intimate correlation between the
use of inanimate energy and
industrial productivity. In 1850
human beings and animals per-
formed 65 per cent, of our
[American] work, but in 1950
only 1.5 per cent. —with power
derived from coal, oil, natural
gas and water doing all the rest.
And, as among these, the role
of coal has sharply decreased
since 1910 because of the
increased use of oil and gas.
“Today West Europeans use
less than one-half the inanimate
energy per capita that we do.
For any massive increase in pro-
ductivity abroad vastly more
energy resources plainly must be
found. Even with imports from
the United States, coal cannot
possibly meet new demands on
any such scale. Yet the great
potential of oil has hardly yet
begun to be realised —partly be-
cause of the fear of unemploy-
ment among the large numbers
employed in the mines.
“And beyond oil, of course, is
the eventual possibility of atomic
energy. In any event, increased
power—from whatever practic-
able source —will be a grow-
ingly insistent European need,
and one that calls for thorough
exploration.”
Paper-work
The report of the commission
headed by ex-President Hoover
on the massive accumulation of
paper-work under which the
U.S. Administration labors has
already been noted here.
In a further comment on the
same report, Sir Carleton Allen,
Q.C., recalls in London “Specta-
tor” that, “when I first took the
shoes off my feet to enter the
holy places of Washington, they
were sad and empty fanes” —
they were “like a graveyard
peopled by the ghosts of the
yet unborn.”
“But soon to be born, and in
what quantity!” Allen remarks.
What with the New Deal and the
“gathering host of officials,
advisers and Best Brains,” and
then “a war and another huge
proliferation in which continen-
tal bounds were transcended and
everything went ‘global,’ the
resulting and permanent monu-
ment is the Pentagon, which, as
an anthill of bureaucracy, has no
peer in the world today.”
Allen notes that within 22
years the civilian employees
within the orbit of the Pentagon
have increased from 583,000 to
2,300,000, and military per-
sonnel from 245,000 to
3,300,000; then, to illustrate
what paper-work means to
Washington, he quotes the com-
mission’s report:
“The Government creates and
handles some 25-billion pieces
of paper each year, exclusive of
the tons of paper used in print-
ing technical - manuals, pam-
phlets, periodicals and the like.
This requires the services of
more than 750,000 full-time
employees and an expenditure
of more than $4 billion annually,
a sum about equal to the whole
Federal Budget prior to 22 years
ago.
“Some 18-billion of these
papers are printed or mimeo-
graphed forms. The Federal
offices turn out more than a
billion individual letters each
year. Federal agencies produce
for their own use about 127,000
reports each year. There are
25,000 employees engaged in
sorting Federal offices’ mail
alone.
“The Government’s total in-
vestment in office - equipment
runs into hundreds of millions of
dollars. Rental of tabulating-
machines alone costs in excess of
$36 million annually. These
machines punch more than five-
billion tabulating-cards a year.
Office-space for full-time paper-
work employees costs the ‘Gov-
ernment $lBO million. There are
more than 24-million cubic feet
of Federal agency - records,
enough to fill seven buildings the
size of the Pentagon.”
To that, Allen adds “two-
million filing-cabinets, occupy-
ing 16-million square feet of
office-space and demanding the
whole-time work of 159,000
persons”:
“Correspondence costs $lOOO
million a year and the remaining
$3OOO of administrative expendi-
ture goes upon forms, reports,
directives and instructions,
record - keeping, mail - handling
and ‘supervisory and miscel-
laneous.’ The commission
makes a number of detailed
recommendations which it be-
lieves would effect an annual
saving of $255 million. That
leaves a bill of $3745 million
dollars for every year of Federal
administration, which seems
enough to be going on with.”
Most impressive figures, but,
as Allen concludes, a similar
investigation in Britain might
produce something similar if not
quite so spectacular.
In Australia, too, possibly.
Various Voices
U.S. Army Chief -of- Staff,
General Matthew Ridgy;ay:
“Not before on this earth have
the potential consequences of
rash and precipitate actions been
so potentially staggering in their
societal effects as they are today.
We have not grounds for com-
placency, but we have many
sound reasons to look ahead
with the firmest confidence.”
Lewis L. Strauss, chairman of
the U.S. Atomic Energy Com-
mission : “The improvement in
the economic conditions of the
people of Western Europe, as
contrasted with an observation
of only a few years ago, is so
marked that no resource to
statistics is needed to sub-
stantiate the proposition that
prosperity is associated wth
peace and not with war.”
Major Tufton Beamish's ad-
vice to British electors: “Make
Socialism a ‘wasm.’”


THE OT HER FELLOW'S MIND
Quality—at a Price
I wouldn’t expect too much from
“showing farmers and processors where
the goods fall short of overseas
standards” (B. 25/ 5/ ’55). For the most
part we know already ; if we want any
more information it shouldn’t be hard to
get. Whenut pays us, as individuals, to
do so, we apply the knowledge. It is as
simple as that.
Take pigs. For many years we have
been told, without result, not to send in
overfat pigs. From time to time grading-
systems have been tried; they soon
broke-down, because curers would not
co-operate. Last year, however, the posi-
tion had become so bad —the market
glutted with overfat and almost unsale-
able bacon —that the curers, in despera-
tion, agreed on a grading-system. A
premium over first-grade price is paid for
“prime” pigs, while second-grade,
seriously over fat, are docked.
Now, in less than a year, the percent-
age of prime pigs received by the factories
has jumped from 10 to 75. Obviously
everyone knew how to produce them
that way, but most farmers preferred to
put on every pound they could before
sending them in—until it became a losing
proposition, not so much for the industry
as for them as individuals.
Of course there are other factors —
price-fixing, for instance, whether by
Governments or by agreement between
producers. I know a prosperous cheese-
factory which produces nearly all first-
grade mild cheese, very little choice or
second-grade and no matured.
The manager claims that he could raise
his grade just by working the curd more
thoroughly. This would reduce the
moisture-content, involving a loss of one
or two per cent, in weight, and increase
his labor-costs, and the small price-
margin allowed would not repay him.
Maturing, too, involves expensive storage
and a further loss in weight, which, he
considers, cannot be recovered at pre-
sent prices. If people want really high-
grade foodstuffs they must be prepared
to pay a bit extra for them, and elect
Governments that will recognise and
protect their right to do so.
In America, I believe, Jersey milk sells
at a 10 per cent, premium over standard
milk, and plenty of people are prepared
to pay the extra for quality.
For our exportable surpluses the ques-
tion of costs assumes first importance.
We cannot control overseas prices, nor
can we expect our own taxpayers to sub-
sidise export losses indefinitely. The
only way out is to keep our costs down,
“What’s the matter with you? Never seen a typewriter before?”
but the farmer has no control over many
of these. If all our efforts to build a
profitable export trade are frustrated by
the cost of a bloated public service,
social services of all kinds, high wages
and short hours in secondary industry,
loafing, pilfering, careless handling and
strikes in the transport services, then we
>vill soon lose interest in overseas trade.
From there it is only a step to restricting
production to our local needs.
It is futile for others, particularly those
who are responsible for increasing our
costs, to tell us to reduce costs.
Magnoon (Q.).
Buying a Home
I’m a little tired of these complaints
about how hard it is for the newly
engaged to get a home together now
that the banks are restricting credit for
housing-loans. The fact is that, except
for the wool-boom and the war-gratuity
years when overtime was thrown at
workers and thousands were cashing
Government cheques, the position was
never better.
, For a start, the average engaged
couple would be pulling down between
them at least £25 to £3O a week. If each
boarded at home, giving Mum a fiver a
week, they could still bank a tenner a
week between them and have enough left
for comfortable living.
It would mean, of course, that the
man could not run a car, or have a drink
with the boys every night after work. It
would mean that the girl could not expect
an expensive outing each week, nor could
she outdo everybody at the office in dress,
or load her friends with the lavish pre-
sents that have become a kind of social
blackmail in recent years.
Two years of that saving would pro-
vide £lOOO towards a home, roughly a
third to one-quarter of the total cost.
And that, even allowing for the depreci-
ated pound-note, is a darn sight more
than Mum and Dad had to start with.
Far too many engaged couples want
a home, a car, expensive furniture and
amenities all at once, with plenty of
spending-money thrown in. On the other
hand, almost every weekend in the outer
suburbs you can see couples working like
beavers to build houses on blocks of land
which they have bought with savings.
Significantly, New Australians are much
in evidence at these weekend activities,
either for themselves or their friends. —
John Hogarth (Vic.).
Blame the Management!
In our never-ending industrial strife,
and particularly when wage-demands are
in the air, it has become the habit to
blame the management for the alleged
inefficiency which prevents demands for
higher pay being met as a matter of
course.
If trade-union leaders are to be
believed, every branch of business enter-
prise is struggling along under the dead
hand of inefficient management. Nor are
the union leaders alone. Nearly every-
body who has the opportunity to air views
on the national economy and the
dangerous effect of low production-rates
on our overseas trade —all of them have
a bash at management for the inefficiency
that lowers production and increases high
costs.
No doubt this is supposed to be dip-
lomatic. It might be dangerous to put
all the blame for our troubles on one
side of the industrial fence. Those who
expect a fat pay-packet whatever happens
might not like it.
How much industrial difficulty can be
blamed upon bad management and in-
efficient methods? How much of it,
rather, is due to the uncertain conditions
that come with industrial unrest and
strife? . ~
The best management in the world
can easily be ruined by the frustrations
caused by strikes and unrest among
workers. The best-laid plans can all be
destroyed by stoppages.
It is high time we realised that, how-
ever inefficient the management may be,
we get our pay-packets just the same,
with overtime if we choose to earn it.
Good industrial management is not a
day-to-day business, but the result of
planning in which every member of the
“ ‘Forward to TV!’ he says; ‘Backward to T.P.!’ I replies.”
organisation is expected to play his part
regularly in his particular section. Any-
thing that interferes with that adds some-
thing to the cost of production, that vital
element, which, as time goes by, will be
the deciding factor in our national
economy—whether we can sell our
produce or not.
If the day dawns when world markets
close against us there will be no fat pay-
packets to look forward to. We may not
always be able to ride upon the backs
of our sheep.— Shellback (N.S.W.).
Decentralisation in Queensland
“D.J.K.” (B. 18/5/’55) admits, despite
his earlier wholesale denial, that some
“attempts” have been made in Queens-
land at decentralisation, but derides them
as being “of little account.” Then he
makes a most unfair attack on Queens-
land railways.
The bald statement that Queensland
has “one of the worst transport-systems
of any State in the Commonwealth” gets
nowhere if it is unsupported by facts.
Queensland’s 6560-mile railway-system
serves over 670,500 square miles (the area
of the second-largest State in the Com-
monwealth), with a population of only
1,322,000. In the year ended June 30,
1954, more than 35,700,000 passengers
and 7,850,000 tons of goods
and livestock were carried,
and the system paid
£1 Bs. 7fd. per cent, interest
on capital.
Working - expenses per
train-mile for the same year
were 295. lid. compared
with 38s. 6fd. in Victoria,
41s. 10*d. in S.A., 365. 9d.
in W.A. and 345. s£d. in
New Zealand. In the same
period percentage of work-
ing-expenses to earnings
was 96.76, compared with
106.72 in Victoria, 126.10
in S.A., 120.95 in W.A. and
99.74 in New Zealand.
Earnings per head of
population were the greatest
of any State —Queensland
£23 Is. Bd., N. S. Wales
£2l 4s. 9d., Victoria
£l3 7s. 4d., S.A. £l5 15s. 3d.,
W.A. £lB Is. Id. and New
Zealand £ll 6s. lid.
The tremendous effort of
Queensland railways during
the war-years was widely
praised, yet in 1953-54 they
handled traffic equal to that
of the 1943-44 peak war-
year —a fact ignored by critics.
Provision of luxury air-conditioned
trains to serve a relatively small popula-
tion spread over an immense area —and
in particular to serve sparsely settled
western areas —and the introduction of
the most modern types of diesel-electric
locomotives scarcely squares with
“DJ-K-’s” assertion that the system is
“one of the worst” in the Common-
wealth.
The truth is that the State is develop-
ing so rapidly that the principal transport
instrumentality is hard-pressed to keep
pace with the development. The vigor
and drive with which the Queensland
railway-administration is tackling the
problem of effective transport —much
more difficult than that faced by any
other State —is demonstrated by the fact
that, since July, 1949, no fewer than 153
new locomotives, including 20 of the
diesel-type, and seven air-conditioned
trains (a greater number than any other
State) have been placed in service.
The statement that Queensland roads
are a “scandal” is distorted and unreal.
“D.J.K.’s” “snail’s pace” of road-
construction, on checking with the facts,
becomes 1791 miles of construction-
work performed in three years —hardly
snail-like construction.
Moreover, in the same three years
over 1000 miles of previously constructed
roads were resheeted, 3.7 miles of bridges
were constructed and maintenance of
21,000 miles of roads undertaken.
The charge that urgent road-works
were ignored, although there was nearly
£l£ million surplus in the Main Roads
Fund, is another distortion. There was
no “ignoring” of “urgent road-works,”
or deliberate curtailment of road-
maintenance last year. Shortage of labor,
difficulty in obtaining bridge-timber and
cement, and failure of contractors to
tender for works were responsible for the
unspent balance. Before the Government
established the Main Roads Department
good roads between towns were non-
existent.
“D.J.K.’s” assertion that the Queens-
land education-system is “a sorry set-up
is also wrong. Far from being “anti-
quated,” teaching-methods under the
modern syllabus are well in the van of
world education progress, and the prob-
lem of school-accommodation, which is
being progressively overcome, is nowhere
near as acute as in other States.
A building programme costing nearly
£l£ million to increase accommodation
in Queensland State primary and high
schools is being pushed vigorously ahead.
The programme for 1955 provides for
21 new primary schools and additions
to 124 schools ; five new high schools
and additions to 28 existing high schools.
No other State is doing more for the
education of its people than is Queens-
land.—Clem Lack (Q.).
Clem Lack makes Queensland’s decen-
tralisation sound pretty good (B. 4/ 5 / 55),
mainly by comparing it with the southern
States, which are about the world’s worst
examples of maldistribution of popula-
tion. There is another side to it. Most
of Queensland’s cities are within 15U
miles of Brisbane (Ipswich, Toowoomba,
Warwick, Gympie), or on the coast
(Maryborough, Bundaberg, Rockhamp-
ton, Mackay, Townsville, Cairns), lhe
only other city, Charters Towers, was
founded on goldmining and appears to
have passed its peak.
Yet an awful lot of Queensland is a
long way from the coast, and about hai
our coastline is north of Cairns, the mos
northerly city. Three towns are pushing
towards city status. Two of them, Re -
cliffe and Southport, are merely Bris-
bane’s seaside resorts. The other, M-
Isa, is the one bright spot in the north-
west, but it is founded cm mining, ana
mining-towns are usually transitory.
The worst position is in the rural
shires, particularly in the north-west. Ah


Check SRffISH BEQFORP FAOS
before you buy any truck
It is significant that, as official registrations show, more
Australian truckmen buy Bedford than any other make.
Why is Bedford so popular with truck owners and drivers ?
Let’s look at the FACTS about this great money-earning
proposition.
FACT I . Bedford matches
power to payload throughout the
range with three extra-duty low-
revving 6 cyl. O.H.V. engines to
save fuel, save time.
FACT 2. With B.H.P. develop-
ments from 76 to 114.6 and maxi-
mum torque outputs from 168.5 to
236 lb. ft. the Bedford range pro-
vides outstanding flexibility in
power and pulling ability for any
job.
FACT 3. Bedford suspensions
and chassis frames are engineered
to suit each model with generous
body space for each capacity.
FACT 4. All Bedfords offer a
big 3 seater all-steel cab for easy
comfort—surer handling.
FACT 5. Bedford cab, body and
chassis design permits shorter
wheelbases for time-saving man-
oeuvrability.
FACT 6. On first cost, running
and maintenance cost, and man
hours, Bedford saves you money.
FACT 7. Bedford gives such
features as worm and sector steer-
ing, synchromesh gearbox, and
triple-safety Lockheed hydraulic
brakes (vacuum assisted on all
models above 30 cwt.).
FACT 8. Backed by over 20
years of truck manufacturing ex-
perience, you can’t buy better than
British Bedford.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE « SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
LTD.
• PERTH
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
sc
Q
©
*
CHECK BEDFORD’S PRICES FOR
CHASSIS AND CAB
if Ask your dealer for details of the
NEW Bedford $-ton van.
S&?Z<£rS
■ ***&£%.
if G.M.A.C, Confidential Hire Pur-
chase arrangements are available
for your convenience. Ask your
Bedford dealer.
if Bedford is backed by a nation-
wide service organisation.
841/36R
Build your Business on British Bedford-Australia's Favourite Truck
of these have been steadily losing popula-
tion for 20-odd years, the Mt. Isa area
excepted. And Government services to
these areas are not improving.
We are told that atomic power will
bring wealth and population to these
empty spaces, yet there is plenty of cheap
power at Blair Athol and Callide, for
example, and never a secondary industry
to take advantage of it.
Closer-settlement is not always the
answer. The large stations of the past
supported quite a number of employees.
Minimum living-aieas are often so large
that when these are cut-up into one-family
holdings they still support few, if any,
more people. And where subdivision is
carried a little too far, it can cause wide-
spread disaster, as in the Blackall area in
the ’twenties.
Irrigation can never touch more than
a minute fraction of Queensland’s total
area, but its effects could be out of all
proportion to acreage watered. Land
that precariously feeds one sheep could,
if adequate water were available, provide
a good living for several families. Some
people, like K. B. Cameron, of Thallon,
have been experimenting along these
lines. Results so far have been inspiring,
but their reward is usually a threat to
resume their land for closer-settlement.
Apart from the psychological effect on all
men of enterprise, such a move could be
disastrous if the new settlers had not the
large capital needed for irrigation-works.
There are many places in Queensland
where water is available, or could be
obtained, to irrigate a few square miles,
or even a few acres, of rich soil. These
areas could become centres of population,
supplying both fresh food and some of
the amenities of city-life to the surround-
ing arid areas. Some might give rise to
small secondary industries, supplying
mainly, but not entirely, the local market
and recruiting their labor locally, thus
helping to counter the drift to the city.
But no! The Government would rather
spend our money on an electric-railway
and a TV-station for Brisbane. People
represent nothing but votes to a politi-
cian, and voters are more easily organised
in one large mass than in a number of
small and scattered communities. —■
Magnoon (Q.).
Indentured Chemists
In these days, when particular emphasis
is being given to apprenticeship, condi-
tions applying to trainee-chemists do not
measure-up to those in other callings.
First, the boy or girl entering the call-
ing must matriculate. For the commencing
year of the course the employer provides
some training, but has the full use in the
shop of the trainee at a salary less than
one-half of that which a boy or girl with
only Intermediate standard obtains in
office or shop while being trained.
Part of the second year is given to
university studies, followed by nearly
similar conditions for the final year, with
small increases in salary each year.
Generally the embryo chemist will
work diligently and for long hours, as
he feels that he is under an obligation to
his master, which is probably the right
spirit.
The argument that more-or-less similar
conditions have applied over many years
cuts little ice these days in any walk
of life, and here is one instance where
review is urgently needed. —C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Compulsory Blood-tests
On that question of blood-tests in
drunken-driving cases, “Macropus” (B.
18/5/’55) forgets the main point—
compulsion.
The assessment of drunkenness is
neither a chemical nor a medical ques-
tion. Like insanity, it is a legal finding
“’E Went that fast ’e Was out o' sight ’foore I seen ’un.”
based on evidence of fact and behavior,
and here the ordinary man may be as
sound a witness as the specialist.
Voluntary alcohol-tests can play an
increasing part in law administration,
particularly in traffic cases, but to make
them obligatory on drivers suspected of
intoxication, as is contemplated in
N.S.W., is entirely another matter.
Compel a suspect to supply evidence
against himself! That has been long out-
dated under our system. As hopeful to
suggest the discarding of Rules of
Evidence, or the compulsory use of
truth-drugs and lie-detectors, or the
cheaper technique of bashing it out of
him if he won’t talk.
The answer lies in the provision of
means for voluntary acceptance of blood-
tests by alcohol suspects. Then avoidance
of that issue would strengthen the prose-
cution. Further, such a challenge would
save a lot of time now wasted in hearing
obviously futile defences, as its non-
acceptance would be pretty close to an
admission of guilt.— Apemantus (W.A.).
The Cost of Living
The report that the new British cost-
of-living index, to be issued later this
year, may be compiled on a basis includ-
ing provision for expenditure on hair-
perms, television-sets and football-pools
illustrates the problems involved in fixing
and maintaining so-called “cost-of-
living” figures.
The Australian statistics —officially the
“C”-series Retail Price Index —have
often been challenged on the ground that
the regimen on which they are based
makes no allowance for fresh fruit and
vegetables and other items common to
the family budget. The statistician’s
answer is that such commodities, being
seasonal in supply and difficult to
measure in standard units, cannot be
readily priced on a uniform basis, and
in any case form so small a proportion of
total spending that their omission does
not materially affect the index.
A more valid objection is that the corn-
munity’s living-habits are constantly
changing, and while some items in the
official regimen rarely figure in the
domestic budget, other expenditure
common to most households is ignored.
Apparently the new British index will
attempt to bring the measurement of cost-
of-living, now based on 1938 conditions,
up to date, having regard to the changed
pattern of spending since the war. The
Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics might well consider making a
similar review of the retail-price index,
for it is obvious to everyone that spend-
ing-habits have changed during the last
decade.
A substantial proportion of the average
family income is now devoted to hire-
purchase payments on refrigerators,
washing-machines, cars, etc. These days
they are regarded as essentials, whereas
pre-war they were the envied luxuries of
the few. Other items, now commonplace
but previously the subject of relatively
low spending, can be readily called to
mind. If our cost-of-living figures are
to be realistically based they should be
constantly reviewed in the light of the
community’s rapidly changing ways.—
Doynest (Vic.).
Colombo Plan Report
The third annual report of the
Colombo Plan shows how much develop-
ment has been made possible in Asian
countries by the plan.
The following table indicates the
amount of money spent on developmental
projects:
£ million
19M-52 1952-53 1953-54 1954-55
India .. .. 196 205 287 419
Pakistan .. 44 81 97 123
Ceylon ... 20 23 26 30
Malaya and
Br. Borneo 27 21 28 32
Burma ... 11 25 49 56
Indonesia .. 37 68 57 44
Total . .. 325 423 544 704
Percentage
increase over
previous year 30 27 31
Not included in the table are Cam-
bodia, Laos and Vietnam —all of which
are carrying out development projects,
although progress has been hampered by
Communist insurrection —and Nepal,
which spent £BOO,OOO on development in
1952-53 and £700,000 in 1953-54.
Asian leaders who find attraction in
the glittering array of Communist
promises would do well to realise that,
whereas the Kremlin seeks subservience
in return for its succor, there is no quid
pro quo in the Colombo Plan. The
design of the Soviet is ultimate dictator-
ship over all Asian countries; the inten-
tion of the West is ultimate enlighten-
ment for them. The distinction is
important.—D. J. K. (Q.).


A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
m
m
m
IHg
SSSS
i
<
m
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. 'This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
• DISTRIBUTORS'
4 |. e cost of
Down «owes
b uiio ,h6 vl:
ms
0>W
B»¥*
oiS'**
mv
bid' 10 ®!"'
1 ft’*' 0
I ,1'tvo «
... UM'^
Write to Wunder-
lich Ltd., Dept.
“D," Box 474,
G.P.O., Sydney, for
copy of SMALL
HOMES BOOK.
0 oW
6*0*
>c*
, t R«
WHEN YOU USE "DURABESTOS"
FOR EXTERIOR WAILS, INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS.
you get right down to bedrock cost. You gain
Doth ways, because you obtain a modern, colour-
ful home, a home that is attractive, permanent
and just right for Australian living conditions.
Easy to handle, your carpenter quickly fixes
"Durabestos" Asbestos-Cement Wall and Ceiling
sheets for you—there is no waiting on other
trades. No waiting for "Durabestos" either, as
ample stocks are held by authorised timber and
hardware merchants.
DURABESTOS,
SHEETS
GUILDS MODERN HOMES
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
TUERRYVILLE (Yass, N.S.W.)
IVJ- won the Stonehaven Cup
and took the awards for grand
champion Merino ram and ewe
at the Sydney Sheep Show —
an outstanding treble.
The Stonehaven Cup (presented
by Lord Stonehaven when he
was Governor-General) is a
special prize for the best exhibit
of five Merino sheep (three rams
and two ewes), any age, bred
by exhibitor and from one stud,
selected from general classes.
Sheep need not have the same
strength of wool, but they are
judged “with due regard to type
and uniformity in breeding.”
Previous winners of the Stone-
haven Cup were: 1930, W. T.
Merriman ; 1932, Estate of F. E.
Body; 1933, H. E. Kater and
Son; 1934, W. T. Merriman;
1935, Estate of F. E. Body;
1936, T. Starr and Son; 1937,
Estate of F. E. Body ; 1938, H.
E. Kater and Son ; 1939, H. E.
Kater and Son; 1940, H. E.
Kater and Son; 1941, Estate of
F. E. Body ; 1947, Estate of F.
E. Body ; 1948, Merryville Pty.,
Ltd.; 1949, Merryville Pty.,
Ltd.; 1950, A. Hordern; 1951,
A. Hordern ; 1952, A. Hordern ;
1953, Merryville Pty., Ltd.;
1954, Merryville Pty., Ltd.;
(No shows in 1931 or 1942 to
1945 ; no competition in 1946).
It took judges J. Chick (Bur-
rington, Gurley, N.S.W.), W. H.
Ingrey (Yarraglen, Grenfell,
N.S.W.) and M. Swain (River-
view, Peak Hill, N.S.W.) nearly
an hour to examine the entries.
They reduced the teams to four
—two from Merryville and one
each from Eshcol (T. Starr and
Son, Dalton, N.S.W.) and Echo
(A. Day and Son, Yass, N.S.W.).
One of the Merryville teams was
fine-wool, and included two
champions, super-fine and
fine ; the others were either first
or second in their classes. The
other was medium-wool. The
fine-wool team was awarded first
place, the medium-wool second.
The grand champion ram,
Hercules, is a son of Sovereign
Snowy, sire of last year’s grand
champion also. A medium-wool,
with dense, even fleece which the
judges estimated would weigh
351 b. to 371 b.
Hercules, of course, is a
famous name in the history of
the Merino in Australia. The
first Hercules was bred at the
St. Johnstone (Tas.) stud, from
the St. Thomas line, and was
used at Gatenby’s Rhodes stud
(Tas.) before being sold to J.
H. Angas, of Hill River (S.A.).
Reserve grand champion ram
(also from Merryville) was a
superfine. Generally, the fine
and super-fine rams were big-
framed for the type. Sir Walter
Merriman said, of his own
entries, that they were the big-
gest rams he has shown in
Sydney; superfine rams weigh-
ing up to 2301 b., fine-wool rams
up to 2501 b. The reserve grand
champion weighed 2341 b.
Which, of course, underlines the
work of Merriman over a good
many years in progressively
breeding big-framed sheep in
fine-wool country, without sacri-
ficing fine-wool quality.
The grand champion ewe, a
fine-wool, won from a line-up
of 11 outstanding sheep. The
judges seemed to have some
difficulty in deciding between the
Merryville ewe and the reserve
grand champion—another fine-
wool, shown by T. Hazell, of
Boorowa (N.S.W.). This ewe won
her class in the small-graziers’
section, and had been placed
ahead of the Merryville ewe at
five country shows.
Merryville was the most suc-
cessful exhibitor, and scooped
the pool in the superfine and
fine classes. A. Hordern, of
Mungadal (Hay, N.S.W.), beat
Merryville in the sections for
pens of Merinos. In the
medium-wools, Merryville took
both ram championships, and T.
StaiT and Son exhibited the
champion ewe; reserve cham-
pion was a ewe shown by F. F.
McClung, of Winbri, Gunnedah
(N.S.W.).
A Mullengudgery (Moxham
Bros., N.S.W.) ram won the
strongwool championship, re-
serve champion from Raby
(N.S.W. Pastoral Co., Warren).
This was the third time the two
rams have been shown together ;
at Warren the Raby ram took
first-place, and at Nyngan it was
the other way round. Third-
place went to a ram shown by
M. Thomas, of Stradbrooke
(Clare, S.A.) and Fairbanks
(Keith, S.A.).
Champion strongwool ewe
was from Mungadal, reserve
from Raby, with another Mun-
gadal third.
D. B. Milthorpe, of Somerset
(Jerilderie, N.S.W.), had things
much his own way in the extra-
strong-wool section, exhibiting
the champion ram and ewe and
the reserve champion ewe. A
Raby ram was reserve
champion.
Of late years the small-
graziers’ section has become of
increasing importance. Floods
and other mishaps cut down the
number of entries this year, but
quality was good. Three success-
ful exhibitors in this section —
A. Day and Son, D. B. Milthorpe
and T. R. Hazell —also did well
in the open classes. The novice
classes were also smaller this
year; strongest competition in
the mediums (ewes and rams)
and strongwool rams.
H. J. McDonald, of Glen-
wood (Dubbo, N.S.W.), was the
most successful exhibitor of Pol-
warths, for the second successive
year. M. Carroll and Sons, of
Redbank (Molong, N.S.W.),
were the most successful ex-
hibitors of Corriedales, and also
took the cup for the highest
number of points in pens for
rams; C. E. and H. F. Prell, of
Gundowringa (C roo k w e 11,
N. winning the equivalent
trophy for pens of ewes.
G. Starritt and Sons, of Kelso
Park (Mooroopna, Tatura, Vic.),
were the outstanding exhibitors
of Border Leicesters. There was
a record number of Dorset
Horns. K. G. Luke, of Deep-
fields (Romsey, Vic.), exhibited
the champion and reserve cham-
pion rams ; A. Taylor, of Linds-
bury (Cildal, N.S.W.), had the
champion and reserve champion
ewes.
T. V. Brunskill and Sons, of
Inglewood (Forest Hill, near
Wagga, N.S.W.), were the most
successful exhibitors of South-
downs. In the Romney Marsh
section there were more ex-
hibitors than last year, and the
general quality was higher.
Grand champion ram was last
year’s winner, shown by F. C.
Rowlands and Sons, of Werribee
(W augo o 1 a, near Cowra,
N.S.W.). Reserve grand cham-
pion was lames Robinson’s
(Kimo, Gundagai, N.S.W.) im-
ported New Zealand ram, Alloa
Sunfield.
The Suffolks were small in
number, but judge E. A. Elliott,
of Katoomba (N.S.W.), described
them as “particularly good.”
Dust and Flood
On a wet, black Monday night
after the Sheep Show, James H.
Boulware, U.S. Agricultural-
Attache to the U.S. Embassy in
Canberra, told a Sydney audi-
ence something about soil-
conservation in the United
States, with particular reference
to methods of flood-control.
The lecture was sponsored by
the Australian society “Men of
the Land.”
There has been much talk of
U.S. methods of flood-control
since the latest disastrous flood-
ing of the Hunter; but, as
became plain from Boulware’s
address, many of these examples
were taken from their context.
Filling-in the historical pic-
ture, Boulware mentioned the
agricultural beginnings: row-
crops—cotton and tobacco —be-
ginning in the 1600’s and rapidly
expanding in the 1700’s along
the Atlantic seaboard. Corn
(maize) grown for stock-feed,
but also for human con-
sumption.
In the nature of things, such
methods of cultivation prepared
the way for soil-erosion. As
noted by Thomas Jefferson
around 1790: —
The highlands where I live have
been cultivated about 60 years. The
culture was tobacco and Indian corn
as long as they would bring enough
to pay the labor. Then they are
turned out. After four or five years’
rest they would bring good corn
again and in double that time perhaps
good tobacco. Then they would be
exhausted by a second series of
tobacco and corn.
The quotation is from Jeffer-
son’s letters, in Thomas Jeffer-
son Soil Conservationist, by
Hugh Bennett, former chief of
the U.S. Soil Conservation Ser-
vice. Jefferson was disturbed
about absentee-ownership, and,
after his term as President, em-
barked on a scheme of soil-
reclamation on his own land.
He wrote about “horizontal
ploughing” contouring the
planting of soil - conserving
crops, the necessity of alternat-
ing clover and stock with crops,
and other measures thought-
lessly accepted as modern.
For all that, the United States
only came to grips with its
monumental problems of soil-
erosion with the establishment
of a central Soil Conservation
Service in the 1930’5. Before
that, as Boulware remarked,
some work had been done by
State Experiment Stations and
by individual farmers. But it
wasn’t until 1935 that the work
was tackled on a national scale.
It might be mentioned in
passing that Australia, with
some hefty conservation prob-
lems, has not yet reached this
stage. Isolated —and very good
—work is done by States, but
there is no central authority,
and in some States not much is
being done at all.
Mr. Boulware, on organisa-
tion and techniques in the
United States, emphasised that
it was by no means certain that
the U.S. programme was the
optimum for that country;
therefore, that no hasty analogy
could be drawn for other
countries.
Some N.S.W. soil-conserva-
tionists present were surprised
at the speaker’s frankness in
admitting weaknesses in the
American set-up. But this, so
to speak, academic detachment
and balance seems to be charac-
teristic of the temper of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture
and, in part, explains the breadth
and strength of that great depart-
ment, which, through its
Agricultural-Attaches, keeps in
touch with agricultural ten-
dencies in many parts of the
world.
Erosion in the wheatlands of
the western U.S. during the bad
years of the ’thirties, in a time
of financial depression coincid-
ing with a major drought, was
the genesis of U.S. large-scale
conservation-work. Here Boul-
ware pointed out that “while
soil-conservation is in no sense
completed or near completion
in any part of the United States,
results in the south-east have, in
my opinion, been astounding.
Land which might have been
considered almost worthless 30
years ago is now, with care and
fertilisation, producing well:
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/8.
Send name and address with
postal note.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS
BOY»
ROTARY
BOE,
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Urazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1611
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8651.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:'
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
M Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Nothing cooks as well as an AG A
... and
no cooker
//,'
costs less in the long run
Cooking on an AGA
is a housewife’s dream
• Your AGA has two hot plates and two
ovens —one for baking and roasting —the
other for simmering. • Even oven heat
guarantees fine cooking—-just like a baker’s
brick oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
• Thermostatically controlled the temper-
atures are always right: no pre-heating is
necessary. Put your dishes straight into the
oven. • Hot plates —boiling and simmering—
take three eight-pint saucepans on each. You
can boil a 4-pint kettle of water in 4 minutes.
• Dishes can be left to simmer for 24 hours
without any possibility of burning or thicken-
ing. • So reliable —that from all cookers
offering, the Australian Antarctic Expedition
chose AGAs for all their bases.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details free and
without obligation: —
NAME -
ADDRESS
The AGA is the most
economical cooker in the world . • •
• No matter how often you cook, or how
many you cook for, AGA is guaranteed
not to burn more than a specified small
amount of coke. Over the years, this repre-
sents really big fuel savings and more than
compensates for AGA’s higher initial cost.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually
you get a lifetime of service from your AGA.
• Hot water at will —the AGA is not only a
superlative cooker, but will provide a
continuous supply of hot water to sink,
bathroom and laundry. • Included in the
price of the AGA is a wonderful set of
cooking utensils with specially machined
bases. • Easy terms are available. Fuel savings
provide a substantial part of your payments.
LEVIN at CO. LTD.
61-57 GOULBURN ST., SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS.
S* WILLIAM ST., PERTH
E 152
not necessarily cotton or other
row-crops, but grass.”
But the programme in dry
areas has been less successful.
In a large area of the western
U.S.A., particularly in the south-
west, wind-erosion is still a
tremendous problem. Boulware
quoted a press-report from
Denver, Colorado, of May 5,
1955, on the effect of drought
in the south-western “dust-bowl”
which read, in part: “That vast
area where lack of water has
turned soil into sand and, as far
as the eye can see, has now
expanded some 100 miles to the
very gates of the Colorado State
Capital” ; and another, of May
8, headed “Floods Hit Four
U.S. States,” as an indication
that conservation problems are
still a long way from being
solved in the United States.
Still, the important thing is
that they are being tackled there,
on a large scale.
A great number of agencies
are concerned with soil-
conservation and flood-control
in the U.S. First, the research
and extension services of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Each State has an agricultural
extension service, concerned
specifically with the development
of agriculture in that State and
associated with the State Agri-
cultural Colleges (or Univer-
sities ; the terms are practically
interchangeable).
Within this organisation the
county agent plays a prominent
part. In fact, the county agent
is an important factor in the
American agricultural scene —
the farmer’s direct contact with
a variety of agencies. In theory,
Boulware said, the farmer goes
to the county agent for advice
on specialist services, financial
aid for soil-conservation, and
the like. In practice, the county
agent goes to him.
Second is the Soil Conserva-
tion Service, which works mainly
in Soil Conservation Districts
organised and managed by
farmers and ranchers under State
laws. These S.C. Districts, for
practical purposes, correspond
largely with counties, the county
being an important political
entity in the United States —the
largest within a State. When an
S.C. District is established it be-
comes eligible for certain finan-
cial aid and, in fact, has wide
powers: farmers within the dis-
trict can be restrained in their
use of land.
All 48 States, as well as
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
Hawaii and Alaska, have passed
laws for the establishment of
Soil Conservation Districts.
The S.C. Service is concerned
with the application of various
standard methods of soil-conser-
vation, such as contouring, strip-
cropping, terracing, farm-drain-
age, irrigation, crop-rotation and
pasture-management. It is con-
cerned with flood-control only
on the watersheds of streams,
specifically authorised by Con-
gress.
Recently, a good deal of in-
vestigation has been made of this
aspect of flood-control. “Reports
resulting from these investiga-
tions not only consider the pro-
gramme of the Department of
Agriculture but take into ac-
count the programmes of other
Federal agencies, such as the
Bureau of Reclamation, the
Federal Power Commission, the
Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army,
as well as the programmes of the
States involved. These studies
are used as a basis for obtaining
Congressional authorisation for
flood-control operations.”
In 1954, Congress passed the
Watershed Protection and Flood
Protection Act. Mr. Benson,
U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, in
a recent speech reported a visit
by President Eisenhower and
himself to a demonstration area,
and emphasised the importance
attached to such methods of
flood-control.
Benson made the point that
more than half of the nation’s
annual damage from floods
occurs on the headwater-streams
and small tributaries. “And in
many of the small tributary
valleys three-fourths or more of
total flood losses are caused by
comparatively small storms —
storms which a community can
expect once every 10 years or
oftener. In many instances the
damaging overflows occur once
or more a year.”
Huge dams, then, would not
appear to be the complete answer
to the problem of recurring
floods.
As indicated, many agencies
are concerned in soil-conserva-
tion and flood-control work in
the U.S. The Tennessee Valley
Authority, for instance, has a
special status. The Corps of U.S.
Engineers have wide duties and
powers concerning rivers, har-
bors and shores, derived from a
time when the navigation of in-
land waterways was of prime
military importance. But,
through the interlocking of
departments, the system seems to
be more flexible than it would
at first appear. /
Mr. Boulware mentioned
criticisms of the system ; too
much red-tape; too many
agencies; and a fairly vigorous
recent criticism: Why should
the farmer be paid to do soil-
conservation work which, in
fact, benefits the farmer?
Regarding the last, the roots
seem to lie in the beginnings of
the U.S. Soil Conservation Ser-
vice, when the farmer didn’t
have the dollars to put into his
land. Concerning each, the
speaker put the pros and cons
neatly and clearly. It seems that
the incentives offered to the
farmer are larger than, for in-
stance, those offered by the
N.S.W. Department of Soil Con-
servation. Cash payments of
something like £llOO, with ex-
pert advice and equipment, as
against low-interest, long-term
loans, expert advice, and the
hiring of equipment.
True, work is sometimes done
on Australian farms free, if
the owner is willing to make
his property a “demonstration
plot.” But such cases are in
the minority.
It does not necessarily follow
that the U.S. system of incen-
tives is superior to the Australian
one. And, since Mr. Boulware
so painstakingly avoided analo-
gies, it would be a pity to push
this one too hard. What does
seem plain is the fact that soil-
conservation is a problem which
needs to be tackled on a national
scale. The county agent, too,
seems to be a particularly useful
institution. In Australia one can
spend a considerable time being
referred from expert to expert.
J. F.
Shorn Ewes
“Pasquali”: The unusual num-
ber of shorn ewes seen recently
in paddocks near highways in
southern parts of Australia sug-
gests that more and more flock-
owners are adopting the New
Zealand practice of shearing
their breeding-flocks before
lambing—irrespective of cold
weather.
Advantages claimed for pre-
lambing shearing include:
Freshly shorn ewes always
seek shelter before, during and
after lambing. TTieir woolly
sisters often try to weather a
storm in the open, to the detri-
ment of their lambs.
Fleeces contain less dust and
weed-seeds at that time of year
than in late spring.
Very little trouble is experi-
enced with cast ewes in a flock
recently shorn.
Lambs can find udders of
shorn ewes easily.
The additional activity of
shorn ewes assures a better
lambing-percentage.
Pre-natal shearing averts a
check to lambs at the normal
shearing-time, and saves lambs
from a lot of unnecessary knock-
ing around and bruising during
musters.
After pre-natal shearing it is
much easier to draft a mob into
early, middle and late lambers,
and to give each section its due
attention at the right time.
Warning: A ewe’s appetite
increases by 30 per cent, after
shearing, so be sure it has
enough to eat right through the
winter. Hand-feeding will prob-
ably be necessary.
Scouring
Developments
“Kerogen”: Having recently
patented, in all wool-processing
countries, a new system of wool-
treatment based on solvent-
scouring, I was particularly
interested to read in The
Bulletin (l/6/’55) that
C.5.1.R.0. had devised a jet
system for solvent-degreasing,
followed by a cold-water wash
to remove suint and residual
solvent.
My system goes a stage further
after degreasing by immersion in
cold water containing a very
minute addition of a non-ionic
detergent, which removes any
adhering impurities, plus all
suint and potash-salts, immedi-
ately. The solution can be used
over and over again, with suit-
able means for removing sus-
pended impurities between
times, and the contained potash-
salts and fatty-acids are directly
recoverable by conventional
means.
All by-products are, by this
method, obtainable in their
maximum amounts. As potash is
the only type of fertiliser not
yet produced in Australia, the
system offers a direct method of
obtaining this valuable plant-
food in substantial quantities.
The costs are comparable with
ordinary trap-soda methods, and
the advantages (in addition to
those stated by Whiteley and
Ford) are: A perfectly natural
wool-fibre, in its pristine condi-
tion, is obtained; all other
ingredients of the raw wool are
recovered directly, without
emulsification-troubles and at
low temperatures.
Given additional outlets for
wool-fat to compensate for its
diminishing use by the oil-
industry (and, in this respect, its
utilisation in branding-fluids
may be cited), this method of
processing will, in time,
gradually supersede the conven-
tional cleaning techniques. A
factor will be the increasing
availability of better and cheaper
solvents made by the oil-
industry as the refineries develop
and as demand for locally pro-
duced solvents grows.
Unlike the solvent-extraction
of oil-bearing seeds, nuts, fruits
and animal tissue, which has
reached enormous proportions
on a world-wide scale, the
extraction of wool on a counter-
current continuous principle is
still in the pilot-plant stage. But
there are hopes that a com-
mercial unit will be available in
the near future capable of
extracting a minimum of 10 tons
of raw wool daily, and extend-
able in units. The system, which
is being developed in association
with Australia’s leading manu-
facturer of soapless detergents,
should help, at least, in main-
taining wool on the world’s
market in the premier position
to which it has risen.
Farm Hints
“Net Titre”: Some of those
big trees which resist digging or
pushing with a blade can be
coaxed out by looping the ’dozer
rear-winch-rope up high, and
engaging the winch. It helps if
there’s another big tree within
range of the rope that the ’dozer
can get behind to use as a but-
tress. Most ’dozer-owners frown
on having machines used this
way, but it’s worth trying. A
good shake-up round the tap-
root with a few sticks of
gelignite (best used in conjunc-
tion with a wood-boring augur)
will make the biggest and most
stubborn fall to the thrust of
the ’dozer.
“Metax”: Unsplit sheoak
logs burn well on an open fire
and seldom throw out a
dangerous spark. Split pieces
may throw a few sparks when
first lighted. But dodge sheoak
charcoal for the forge. It will
shower the shop with sparks as
soon as the least blast is applied.
“Q.”: Go easy on that grease-
gun when lubricating tractor
front-wheel bearings. An over-
supply forces grease past dust-
cheating bearing-seals, reducing
their efficiency and shortening
bearing-life.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/6/’55)
To date, the Single Cycle has been conforming to the
seasonal trend, although the record falls in the Northern
Territory and Central Queensland were not indicated on
this cycle, or, for that matter, on any records. However,
when large sunspot-outbreaks occur after a considerable
period of minimum activity, the effects are always more
potent and widespread. .
Queensland should experience poor rainfall during this
month, apart from moderate falls on the coast,. and con-
ditions should be much the same in N.S.W. It is possible
that, with the increasing sunspots, conditions may be better
than expected: this remains to be seen. ....
Reasonably good rain should continue in Victoria and
South Australia, with heavier rains in the agricultural area
of W.A., where a good season seems assured.
LENNOX WALKER.


“He worried, and they tried
to tell him; then they let him
do the directing. ‘Scabble?’ he
told them. ‘Unnecessary! This
rock will hold anything.’
“When you’re putting brick
footings in over rock you must
make a level surface for proper
full footings, and not split
bricks. He thought that too slow
—and within two years a five-
thousand-pound home slid holus-
bolus down the hill into the
lovely scenery” . . .
His contractor welcomed
Smith’s labor when Smith found
the time.
“I don’t like the man who’ll
borrow a couple of thousand
and then never come near the
job,” the former told him. “I’ll
pay you three-pounds a day—
a good deal of this is unskilled
labor; there’s plenty you can
do.”
There were economies worked
out between the laborer-owner
and the builder as the work pro-
gresssed. Smith had dug founda-
tions after clearing the site him-
self, at a cost only of blistered
hands. Footings were cheaply
laid from a ready-mix concrete-
truck. He labored for the brick-
layers who followed; for the
carpenters.
Taste in house-design is as
distinctive as fingerprints. Smith
had tried to wed the best of the
old and the new into a ten-
square weatherboard bungalow.
When he painted it himself he
saved over a hundred pounds.
The block sloped towards the
front, and in the levelling the
overburden was thrown there.
To cover this, far more terracing
was needed than he had antici-
pated—a worry, with flagging-
stones at over 10s. a yard, plus
labor.
“Buy soft-mortared used
bricks,” he was advised. He did,
and laid 800 square feet of
brick terracing at one-fifteenth
the cost of stonework.
Fencing, pathways, a gravel
driveway, drainage-pits, all the
items connected with finishing
a home, are costly. But all of
this is within the scope of the
untrained owner-builder.
• • • •
Smith and his contractor
leaned on the shining kitchen-
sink, sharing a cold bottle from
the gleaming new refrigerator.
“You’ve done all right,” the
contractor admitted. “But we
could have finished her a lot
cheaper without the upstairs
room. The costs come on when
you go for that fancy stuff. I
warned you.”
Smith smiled. “The wife,” he
said simply.
“I might have known it.”
“Yair. The little woman likes
to go upstairs to bed.”
The builder shook his head
sadly.
“The women,” he remarked
heavily, “always the women.”
produce. The result was a loss
of £20,000 in three years.
Becke greatly admired John
de Wolf, whose friendship he
was to renew in London. When
De Wolf wound-up his island
affairs he left Becke in charge of
the remaining station, on Nano-
maga. A letter to his mother
shows him about to land his
goods there from the schooner
Venus.
Nanomaga was a small island
of about 200 people—and no
white-man. The chief had made
a law that only one white-man
might live on the island, “and
that has decided me to remain,
as I think I will be very well.”
He intended to stay for 18
months and hoped in six to be
able to speak the language. He
lived with a Samoan teacher
until a house was built for him.
He explored the island in com-
pany with a huge tomcat, helped
to build a church, learnt to make
coir sennet and to build a canoe.
But after a year he struck
trouble (“Most fortunately I
kept calm, although a few more
words would have brought on a
terrible mess”). He closed his
store, deciding to go “where the
people are free from that curse
of the islands, the missionary
element.”
What Becke deplored beside
this element was men like
George Winchcombe, who after
four years on a neighboring
island could not talk the native
tongue—‘“a fair sample of too
many island traders fond of
liquor and never happy without
a grievance to relate against the
natives ; these are the men that
give the missionaries such a pull
over all traders.”
He visited Nanomea, where a
ship could spend weeks trying to
enter the lagoon, and could then
be imperilled by a sudden drop
in the wind, leaving her to drift
helplessly on the rugged ocean-
beaten reef. Usually a vessel was
only seen about once a year. (On
one occasion, Becke says, “. . .
we in the Mana were 24 days in
sight of this island and unable
to get an anchorage.”)
He wrote to his family again
in 1881 when about to land
trade at Nukufetau, but after
five months there was expecting
to go to the Carolines for the
New Zealand firm of Henderson
and Macfarlane. He was picked-
up by the N.Z. brigantine
Orwell, but within three weeks
was shipwrecked on Beru, one
of the Line Islands, where “I
lost everything I had in the
world” a bitter experience
recorded in another story. He
returned to Sydney on the
George Noble with a poisoned
foot. This vessel stopped at the
Gilberts, where he met the
famous king of Apemama, about
whom Stevenson has much to
say.
After a few days in Sydney
Becke was induced by a trading
colleague to try his luck in New
Britain. He arrived in time to
see the last batch of the unfor-
tunates of the Marquis de Rays’
disastrous colonisation scheme
being sent to Australia. He wit-
nessed the death of Rabardy,
one of the expedition’s leaders.
In New Britain Becke had the
extreme outside trading-station
among headhunting natives, and
some atrocious massacres took
place during his stay. Going
back and forth he made the
acquaintance of Solomon Island
traders, recruiters and head-
hunters.
Broken down after severe
bouts of malaria, Becke sailed
in a German barque to the
Marshall Islands, where he was
nursed back to health by the
chief whom he had succored at
sea many years before on
Majuru, the “Maduro” of By
Reef and Palm. He left eventu-
ally for New Zealand, and then
Sydney, where he married.
Thereafter his wife Sabina, who
had grown up in North Queens-
land, accompanied him as he
wandered about the islands,
living “a lonely but not unhappy
existence on one group and
then another,” until Mrs. Becke’s
health caused him to return to
civilisation once more. . .
There must still be a lot of
unpublished Becke material
awaiting discovery, for the use
of some future biographer. But
it takes an island man to under-
stand Becke properly, and such
his biographer should be. Per-
haps today in Australia his
stories are not much read, but at
any rate he is collected: 50
years ago some of his books
went into several editions, and
until recently these could be
obtained in Sydney secondhand
bookshops for a bob or two —
now they sell for 30s. and are
hard to find.
When white-men meet on
lonely isles, they still tell yarns
out of their experience which
match those of Becke. And
Becke-like characters are still to
be found. On Ouvea, for
example, the French trader
Monsieur Tuband used to have
a pig that followed him around
like a dog. It sat on the seat
beside him when he travelled the
lovely atoll’s one coast road in
his ramshackle car. (Becke once
wrote of a kindred trader’s pet
pig-)
Then again, one never called
at Wae, on Lifou, without taking
a parcel to old “Miss Betsy.”
Daughter of a Sydneyside whaler
who settled there in the 1850’s,
she lived native-fashion with an
adopted native son (grown up
when I knew him) and daughter-
in-law. But she kept her dignity
with her Victorian clothes. The
British Consul in Noumea used
to scour Sydney for whalebone
corsets and other apparel old-
fashioned enough for her taste.
From Trader Becke to the
South Pacific Commission may
seem a long way to travel; Apia,
Suva, Noumea are tamer than
they were; yet gifted story-
tellers in the Becke tradition may
still be found. Alec Waugh called
“Tibby” Hagen, island ship-
owner who died in Sydney four
years ago, the finest raconteur
he ever met; Alain Gerbault
stayed up o’ nights spellbound
listening to Captain Morin, old
sailor of the Solomons and the
New Hebrides; while Georges
Baudoux’s stories are now be-
coming known in Paris, where
new editions of his books, some
finely illustrated, are being
reissued.
These men, like Becke, learnt
their Pacific through long years,
one as trader, one as seaman,
and the last as prospector and
fisherman. Unromantic, humor-
ously sceptical in the island way,
such men are still unrivalled
company on island beach or
sailing solitary under the stars.
And in Baudoux especially the
Stevenson-Becke school of island
story-telling has found a worthy
successor.
The melady linqers on
by KIT DENTON
I CAN play twelve variations
of a simple blues on the
piano; I can beat a set of
drums in a crudely inspiring
manner; I can sing any song
in impressive style in anyone’s
bathroom and I can whistle with
surprising clarity for a man with
all his own front teeth.
I am musical. Not a master,
you understand; just an appre-
ciator with a light sweat of
talent. It will not surprise you
to know, then, that quite recently
I bought a mouth-organ.
I live just outside Port Mores-
by and I’d gone into a store for
something or other my wife
wanted for something or other
when I saw a display of these
organs, leaping with light and
winking at me. For a wild,
heart-starting moment I thought
they were harmonicas, the ones
with studs at the ends which can
be pushed in to vary the whole
sound of the music; but they
weren’t. Just mouth-organs,
priced at ten-bob a time.
Well, you know how it is—
for no apparent reason the urge
to buy arrives and though you
only have twelve-shillings on you
and your wife requires something
that costs three-and-six, it be-
comes imperative that you spend
ten of the shillings on something
quite irrelevant. Like a mouth-
organ. I bought, and left the
shop to enter my car, an in-
credibly aged and slightly in-
sane roadster which had seen
so many better days that it now
functioned on memories alone.
This glorious machine pos-
sessed no warning-device what-
ever beyond its own mechanical
noises, a series of sounds more
in the range of terror than of
caution, and it came to me that
a loud musical blast upon my
new possession at frequent inter-
vals would serve very well in
lieu of the more common horn,
and so it was 1 drove home one-
handed, enthralling' the many
promenading natives with a
spirited version of the scales.
AjrY wife was unpleased. She’s
not musical in the sense that
I am. Listening is her line ex-
cept when, in moments of exuber-
ance, she strikes a single high
note which paralyses all move-
ment in her neighborhood for
up to two minutes at a stretch,
and often causes her to faint
away with the mad excitement.
The idea of an instrument in
the home appeals to her in no
way, save that a piano is good
for leaning on, and besides, I
had neglected to buy what I’d
been sent for. My mouth-organ
was, therefore, an object of im-
mediate loathing, shown by
wrinkling-up of the nose, closing
of the eyes, pursing of the lips
and occasional spitting upon the
floor. I was not deterred.
I used to turn the radio well
up and accompany artists rang-
ing from Paderewski to the
Andrews Sisters in dazzling dis-
plays of sharps and flats, carried
out in a spirit of optimism
which would be delightful in
the United Nations. Often I
would reach a note at exactly
the same time as one of these
artists reached the same note in
the same key, and those were
among the best and freshest
moments of my life.
I would pause and savor the
beauty, cherishing my mouth-
organ in my hand and picturing
in my mind a day, not too far
distant, when two immaculately-
dressed figures would stand
bowing to wild cyclones of
applause from a packed Albert
Hall, while the huge orchestra
added its plaudits.
The other figure would be
Larry Adler.
I must confess that these
moments were rare. It seemed
that there was more to the busi-
ness than suck-suck-blow and
keep-the-gadget-moving'- across-
the-mouth, for I found that,
hard though I tried, there were
one or two notes which just
would not come, like the one
towards the end of “Danny
Boy” where my mouth wandered
clear off the end of the reeds in
an attempt to gain height.
On the other hand there were
notes which came all the time,
notably one which sounded re-
markably like an elderly lady
with wind round the heart. This
confounded thing cropped up
no matter what the tune, and
generally in the middle of a
tender passage, tremolo.
My wife endured, not pati-
ently, not silently, but bravely.
Not so our friends —at first im-
pressed, later amused, they fin-
ally ceased to call and gradually
dropped out of our lives, and I
began to realise why so many
famous men become famous
only when no longer with us.
T IFE, though, is never with-
out its compensations, and
mine at this stage of affairs was
Kabi, my houseboy, a native of
the Central District of Papua, in
his middle twenties, a dab hand
with the laundry, an excellent
maker of omelettes and a devotee
of music. My music.
Whether I was performing
with the London Philharmonic
or -improvising on a simple theme
of Cole Porter’s, Kabi was with-
in earshot, a smile on his face
and an occasional grunt of
appreciation in his throat. If I
was in the bedroom he was next-
door in the lounge; when I
played in the lounge he hung
around the door to the kitchen.
Once I took my mouth-organ
with me to help me through one
of the stages of dysentery, and
Kabi spent a quarter-of-an-hour
cleaning the shower-stall. He
was a music-lover and I admired
him for it.
Thus stood the situation when
the ultimatum was delivered —
my music or my wife. Even then
I hesitated for a brief while. I
was fond of her, of that there
was no doubt, and she was a
very pleasant person to meet
about the house from time to
time, but there was this other
thing, this melody which
throbbed in me.
I admit I was torn, but Better
Self intervened, and I remem-
bered in time that most of our
friends offered us meals mainly
because of my wife’s conversa-
tion. I told her she had placed
me in a delicate situation and
one calling for a painful decision,
but that, since I was no monster,
she could stay. She intimated
that she had guessed as much,
which I thought an unsporting
gesture, following as it did on a
moral victory.
For a space I contemplated
burning my mouth-organ, im-
pressively, making a pyre of
some music-sheets, but I couldn’t
face such wanton destruction.
And while further deliberating
I caught sight of Kabi, his leech-
eyes fastened upon the bright
little instrument in my hands.
No more thought was neces-
sary. Here was an ignorant
savage to whose ear and soul I
had brought the delights of
music, who had followed my
short career with a devotion and
a joy difficult to imagine in these
callous times. That he knew
what the mouth-organ was I
doubted strongly—he probably
associated it with mind-pictures
of some of his old gods, perhaps
with a dark version of the prime-
val Pan ; but that he loved it
I knew instinctively. With one
of those gestures so typical of
my nature I handed it to him,
bowing slightly as I did so, not
in deference, you understand, but
in recognition of the common
spark which had fired us.
He in his turn was overjoyed.
Beyond speech, it was as much
as he could do to refrain from
snatching, but he controlled him-
self remarkably well. I sighed
a little as 1 turned away, for I
knew a part of my life was
ended, and the days ahead would
be duller and longer; but I too
bore myself nobly. I poured a
small drink and stretched out in
a chair, switching on the radio.
T HAVE always liked the Glenn
Miller band beyond all others
of the kind, and of their record-
ings I have always admired most
the one called “Bugle Call Rag”
—it has a zest and a drive which
appeal to me enormously. I lost
myself in the rhythm, beating the
floor with my foot, swinging my
hand and nodding my head.
It struck me suddenly, with
tiemendous force, that I had
never before heard that tune
played by that band augmented
by a mouth-organ. Doubt van-
ished before horror: Kabi was
sitting on the kitchen-floor, eyes
closed, hands cupping the mouth-
organ and cheeks distending and
shrinking like a bellows. He
was playing “Bugle Call Rag,”
playing with a zest and a drive
which seemed barbaric, and
more, playing it in tune, note-
perfect.
He opened an eye and caught
sight of me staring at him
he winked, then he smiled, and
all the time he went on playing.
Perfectly.
I contemplated burning my
houseboy, impressively, making
a pyre of some gallons of petrol,
but I couldn’t face such wanton
destruction. A loan from a
newly-arrived friend enabled me
to buy a second instrument
identical with the first, and now,
secretly, I spend an hour a day
in the boy-house with my tutor,
who is also a dab hand with the
laundry and an excellent maker
of omelettes, but who has de-
veloped a consciously superior
smile of late.


JOHN ARLOTT’S
Australian Test Journal
A day-by-day description of the Test Matches Australia v. England
1954 - 55
Price 10/6 (postage 9d. extra)
160 pages ; cloth binding
With 16 photographs of exciting incidents ; scores and bowling analysis at
end of each day’s play, and at end of each match; and a complete list of
batting and bowling averages for the whole series.
THE CHEAPEST AND BEST RECORD OF THE 1954-55 TESTS
Obtainable from all booksellers
Australian distributors:
GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY. LTD., P.O. Box 52, Albert Park, Victoria
A MAN WITH NO ENEMIES
URSULA TIGHE HOPKINS
A colourful and gripping first novel which opens in a
German concentration camp and finishes at the Old Bailey.
At all booksellers - - - 18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
To be published this month
Ngaio Marsh
A new Ngaio Marsh is to-day as exciting an event as a new
Agatha Christie. Here is a winner!
SCALES OF JUSTICE
PUBLISHERS
COLLINS
BEHIND THE POLITICAL SCENE
THE HYDROGEN BOiMB —The Men,
The Menace, The Mechanism—by James
Shepley & Clay Blair, Jr. —a gripping
account of the events that led to the making
of the hydrogen bomb. Here is the story that
few people know —how a President was nearly
impeached, how one man’s “lack of en-
thusiasm” jeopardized the lives of millions,
and the behind-the-scenes activities of the
Atomic Energy Commission. Illus.
15/6 (post lid.)
SOVIET SPY NET, by E. H, Cookridge
—the first comprehensive account of the
Soviet espionage system, the largest intelli-
gence organization—and at times the most
successful —in the world. The author uses
reproductions of original Soviet documents
to explain the tasks given to spy groups
abroad, and tells authenticated stories of' their
activities.
18/9 (post 9d.)
You’ll find these , and all the books you want at . • .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
establishment, where running-away
seems to have been the only major
crime, incurring up to 500 strokes of
the birch, he was taught the comet by
a Mr. Davis.
He played by ear and, on his enlarge-
ment, while doing any kind of work he
could get —his mainstay was shovelling
coal on to a cart for house-to-house
delivery—he developed as a cornet-
player.
At that time top fee for a gig, or
one-night stand, seems to have been a
dollar-fifty. A lesser performer got
a dollar-twentyfive. Louis formed a
six-piece orchestra, and there is some
account of his duels with other
orchestras in the “tail-gate wagon”
street performances given to advertise
balls and other entertainments. Then
he got a job playing in the honky-tonk
of Henry Matranga, which was not
shut down with the Storyville places
“because it was third-rate.”
In the day-time he unloaded ships,
delivered milk and worked on Govern-
ment building-projects; became a
“bell-hop” fetching beer for the
hustling gals all up and down a tough
street, and gradually got known and
became a member of Kid Ory’s first-
class band. Then the red-headed Fate
Marable bespoke him for the orchestra
of the excursion-steamer Sydney, ply-
ing between New Orleans and St.
Louis; and in that engagement—it was
a foible of Mr. Marable’s —Louis
Armstrong for the first time had to
learn to play notes on paper. The
book ends with the story of how his
idol. Joe Oliver, sent for him to join
his band at the Lincoln Gardens in
Chicago, and of the first ecstatic night
there when the crowd yelled “Let the
youngster blow!”
But between the steps of his career
are the wonderful stories of the two
bad - but - admirable black rufflers,
Slippers and Black Benny; and how
young Louis ran from the home
of the young lady who was to be
his first wife when her then husband
arrived and attacked her; how she
came to his mother’s place looking for
him; how they fought after their
marriage, he knocking her out with
half-a-brick in the stomach, according
to the proper tradition; how, as little
more than a boy, he adopted the baby
of his young cousin Flora, betrayed in
a big house run by a white man, how
she died in a thunderstorm, and how
young Clarence, after Louis’s marriage,
walked out and fell on his head and
was never the same again . . .
How one of Black Benny’s gambling
associates went home for a pistol to
shoot him, and how Black Benny
waited in the dark alley with a bit of
lead pipe to get in first on his assassin’s
return; how Louis’s mother warned
him against getting drunk, and how
they went, mother and son, on a tour
of the honky-tonks to show each other
how to behave, everyone charmed at
this unusual sight of mother and son
parading—and ended up falling flat
on the pavement; how a boy tried to
run away during a Waifs’ Home excur-
sion, and how he was caught by the
fastest runner in the home and
turned back panting:—
“Wha’s the matter?” Houma said.
“Ah wasn’t gwine no whars.”
And two ladies cut each other’s faces
to pieces with knives in an argument
over a man; and Joe Lindsey leaves the
band to become a respectable chauf-
feur; then he marries the woman who
had led him to this good life, and she
gives him a bad time and leaves him
and he tries to cut his throat —for not
the least interesting part of this rich
book to the jazz-addict will be the
short biographical sketches Mr. Arm-
strong includes of men now famous on
dance-band records.
Reviewed Briefly
Bulls of Parral: Marguerite Steen
(Collins). Of recent years Miss Steen
has published a best-seller more-or-
less annually, and this latest novel is
sure to maintain the tradition. She
returns to the Spanish landscape that
was the background to her earliest
successes. Perhaps the writing is less
good these days—down the years one
remembers “Matador” as a stylish
book which this is not; but its 500
pages are crammed with incident,
romance, interest and, of course, bull-
fighting.
* * * *
A Pail of Oysters: Vern Sneider
(Heinemann). Bearing all the marks
of a rush job designed to cash-in on
its Formosan background, this novel
is unlikely to enhance the reputation
Vern Sneider made with “The Tea-
house of the August Moon.” This is
not to refute the publisher’s claim to
its authenticity. All the political
writers more or less agree that things
on Formosa are much as Mr.
Sneider says they are—a danger-spot
in the world where each rival (or
allied) faction must claim a certain
amount of sympathy. But a novel
should not be a political treatise issuing
in comic-strip balloons from the
mouths of a collection of stock-
characters.
*■ * * *
Poetry and the Age: Randall Jarrell
(Faber). In Australia as in England
this witty and companionable set of
essays reprinted from various maga-
zines will be useful as an introduction
to American poetry, taking us (with
many acknowledged gaps) from Whit-
man and Frost to Carlos Williams,
Wallace Stevens and Marianne Moore
and on to Richard Wilbur, “the best
of the quite young poets writing in this
country, poets considerably younger
than Lowell and Bishop and Shapiro
and Roethke and Schwartz.” Dealing
with “the obscurity of the poet” Mr.
Jarrell remarks tellingly; “When a
person says he can’t understand Eliot
his tone implies that most of his
happiest hours are spent at the fireside
among worn copies of the
‘Agamemnon,’ ‘Phedre’ and the
Symbolic Books of William Blake; and
it is melancholy to find that for
months at a time he can be found
pushing eagerly through ‘Gone with
the Wind’ or ‘Forever Amber.’ ”
* * * *
The Darker Traffic: Martin Brett
(Reinhardt). The private-eye in this
story comes to the assistance of the
call-girls of Montreal who are being
forced out of business by a mysterious
organisation which doesn’t stop at
murder. The early parts of the book,
with its keen view of the trade, and
a day and night in the life of a high-
class call-girl, are not too bad; and if
the ensuing thrills are hardly credible,
it is probably because of comparison
with the more realist section.
* * * *
The Female City: Paul I. Wellman
(Shakespeare Head). Venus emerges
from the Sea of Marmora shaking off
a few drops of whitewash, in this novel
based on the life of Theodora, ex-
courtesan and later consort of the
Emperor Justinian. Sexy, without con-
taining a phrase which could offend
the censor; and lengthy (excellent time-
value for the money), this book should
appeal to anyone who wants to curl
up by the fire and forget local weather
conditions in a colorful account of the
life (lowest and highest) of sixth-
century Byzantium.
* * * *
Sydney’s Jewish Community (1951-
53): Dr. Hans Kimmel (author,
Pennant Hills, N.S.W.). Dr. Kimmel
here continues his “materials for a
post-War-II history” on the lines of the
first volume published in 1953. It is
in no sense organised into a historical
narrative, but consists of significant
excerpts from the Sydney “Jewish
News” and other sources. An innova-
tion is a section of “specimens of
writings by Australian Jewish writers.’
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 334
Across
I—A masculine fellow of the
Institute of Chemistry is produc-
ing mischief. (7)
s—Row before batting, according to
this P.M. (7)
8 — Equipment for lifting a monkey’s
neck features which are named
after a famous Anzac V.C. for
this cheeky fellow. (10)
9 South to intimidate a flat-
bottomed boat. (4)
11 — Quadrilaterals with equal sides
but no right-angles. (6)
12— Caramel talk, by gum! (8)
14 — Reed-like plant is the end of
Tom. (4-4)
15 — Spotted rival took a spouse. (6)
17 —The north quiver contents the
bigoted. (6)
19 —Disorderly Negro in a 24th of a
pennyweight. (3, 5)
22 Assaulted and dipped in flour,
egg and milk. (8)
23 Gipsy letter for Latins? (6)
26 Rule .with bait. (4)
27 Nosy Parker magistrate under the
gums. (10)
28— English rover named after
McCabe who doesn’t get a seat?
(7)
29—Cries from the heart of picaresque
Alsatians. (7)
Down
1 — Sweet spread turned up with an
alternative officer. (5)
2 A strike by employers against
employees needs luck, too. (7)
3 9-aoross is thus an off-pitch
Shakspearian with the editor
describing a cubist statue. (4-8)
4 Crack this fellow. (4)
5 They sweeten the air with money
in a steamer. (6)
6 Hair on the chin? It’s a serious
complaint. (7)
7 The tidings we hide out in a
town in Maine. (3, 6)
10 —Stagecraft is your present descrip-
tion of your agent’s activity.
(6, 3,3)
13 — Oriental upset the golfer’s target.
(3)
14 — Orange beauty-spot in N.S.W. to
conserve a Greek coin like
minced bacon, also. (9)
16 —The octopus secretes the black
part of this page. (3)
18 —Famous thermal region. (7)
20 —This makes a crippled U.S.
prosecutor walk between rows of
trees. (7)
21 —Fixed place for driving off some
furniture. (6)
24 Yes, it gets about all right with
marks of servitude. (5)
25 — Cast reconsidered sections of the
drama. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 333


u
yy
BATTERIES
mm.
E .
a?ia-
m&i
sax;::
ip
8?SS8&g»S
gliiiit
mms ji i «p I
m Hfett* i
W‘-m^ : 4rA *-
If*®
?• •:•>:•:••* If
-<pz
*»• !
\ :'.
: r:&
!T:|0?
lia*
II
j
Nis'^
mM
m
1 !
; : : l>;j:;:x. ; :
f£:jili>.
mr
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania :
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
