

/
jw
*
0$
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
JACK READ'S “BEST FIGHTS”— mge27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3924
Wednesday, April 27, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
ANCESTRAL HOME OF AN
ENGLISH EARL, HOLKHAM HALL
HOLKHAM HALL, the ancestral home ot'
the Earl of Leicester, stands near the coast
in the county of Norfolk, 12 miles from
Sandringham. This great Palladian mansion of
white brick dates from 1734, and was the work
of the owner, Thomas William Coke, and the
architect, William Kent.
“Coke of Norfolk,” as he was known, was
a staunch supporter of George Washington
and the man who, in 1782, having successfully
moved the motion in the House of Commons
for the recognition of American independence,
went personally to George 111 with a petition
that the King should bow to the wishes of
Parliament. But Coke had other claims to
fame, for he was one of the greatest innovators
in the history of agriculture and his methods
were adopted by the farmers in many parts of
the world. He was known as the first farmer
in England.
But even without its associations with this
notable figure, Holkham Hall would still be
of outstanding interest, for not ohly is it one
of the finest examples in Britain of a classical
mansion planned on the grand scale, but it is
one of the very few which can be said to have
been built, almost literally, around an existing
collection of art treasures. These had been
amassed by Thomas Coke, the first Earl of
Leicester, during his travels in Italy. He deter-
mined to build a vast mansion which would
rival jn style and magnificence the palaces of
Italy and which would provide a worthy setting
for the Leicester collection.
The austere dignity of the exterior is in
striking contrast to the splendor and the rich-
ness of the State apartments; one of the most
magnificent of which is the Marble Hall. It is
in the shape of a Roman basilica, surrounded
by raised arcades of alabaster columns and is
the finest of its kind in Britain. A flight of
steps at the far end leads up to the Salon.
On the walls are bas-reliefs, one of which
depicts William IV signing the Reform Bill of
1832 and includes the figure of Thomas William
Coke, who played a major part in securing its
passage. From the Salon a vista stretches east
and west through the reception rooms, a
distance of 344 ft. The North Dining-room
still retains its original carpet and is adorned
by a colossal head of Venus from the
Parthenon at Athens.
The art collection is beautifully displayed
and consists of classic sculptures from Italy
and valuable paintings by Raphael, Veronese,
Leonardo, Rubens, Van Dyck, Claude,
Reynolds, Gainsborough and others.
No. 243: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


BOOKS BOUGHT
\ :
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from country or inter-State
invited.
SERKELOUW
THE KINGSWAY,
ROSEVILLE, N.S.W. JYII3I
BOOKHUNTER will save' you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
select and buy vour reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
That secret black and midnight hag
of Australian literature William Gosse
Hay’s The Escape of the Notorious Sir
William Hean*, about which the. con-
noisseurs of rarity—chiefly Miss F.
Earle Hooper and Professor R. G.
Howarth in “Southerly”—have been
writing for years, has at last been pub-
lished by the Melbourne University
Press, and those whose curiosity has
been whetted by the stream of appre-
ciation can now find out for them-
selves what the book is made of.
Hay, who lived near Adelaide, at
Beaumont and Victor Harbor, and who
died in 1945, “like William Bayle-
bridge in consequence of fighting a
bushfire,” completed the novel in 1917.
After many vicissitudes, it was pub-
lished in England in 1919, in a poorly
produced edition which was praised by
Katherine Mansfield and J. H. M.
Abbott, and which soon ran out of
print, so that it has been practically
unprocurable in Australia for the last
35 years.
A sizeable extract from it was
printed a few years ago in one of the
anthologies of Australian fiction edited
by Dr. Colin Roderick; but Hay, more
than mqst novelists, cannot properly
be appreciated in an extract—which,
because of the peculiarities of his style
and method, can only accentuate his
difficulties while minimising the com-
pensations. You cannot judge an
elephant by, merely, his left ear.
In full as in the extract “The Escape
of Sir William Heans” is indeed a
difficult book. It is made more diffi-
cult in this edition by the fact that the
Melbourne University Press, declining
for once from its high standard of pro-
duction, has printed it On paper so
thin that the type shows through from
the back of the page. It is bad enough
to have to read Hay straightforward
without having to face him back-to-
front at the same time. Small type,
narrow margins and Hay’s own some-
times prodigiously lengthy paragraphs
(which a kindly editor might reason-
ably have dared to cut up) add to the
physical handicaps.
But even if Hay were set in 24pt.
on the firmest and whitest of rag-paper,
and if one had a century in which to
distil his meaning drop by drop, the*
novel would never be easy reading. His
style is oblique and opaque, mannered
to the last extreme. It is a disguise, a
mask, a pose; like the conversation of
an old gentleman who has read too
much Meredith and is full of dark
hints of scandal, affecting to believe
that a nod is as good as a wink when
an honest bit of plain-speaking would
be ten times as good as either. It is
like the “ambiguous giving out” against
which Hamlet warned Horatio and
Marcellus on the battlements of
Elsinore:—
That you, at such times seeing me,
never shall,
With arms encumber’d thus, or
this head-shake,
Or by pronouncing of some
doubtful phrase,
As, “Well, well, we know,” or,
“We could, an if we would,”
Or, “If we list to speak,” or,
“There be an if they might,”
Or such ambiguous giving out, to
note
That you know aught of me:
this not to do,
So grace and mercy at your most
need help yOu,
Swear.
Ihe method is as obscure as • the
style. It is Hay’s affectation in this
novel not to know what his characters
are thinking, even at times what they
are doing. He has picked up, so one
is to assume, letters and diaries of Sir
William Heans, the aristocratic con-
vict in Tasmania; he has heard anec-
dotes about him, and about the police
commandant who hounds him. and the
lady with whom they are both a little
in love; and from these scraps of
information he gropes and struggles
towards his story—so he pretends—
knowing no more than the reader . . .
or at best, as when the dying police-
man offers to tell Sir William something
“deeply to his advantage,” and dies
with the information untold, able
darkly to guess that the gesture may
be a last act of malignance.
There are times when Hay seems to
have been reading too much Carlyle
as well as Meredith, and what with
the oddity of the style and the explosive
obscurity of the method the reader
may well be pardoned for not having
any clear idea of what is going on
under the hollyhocks by Mrs. Shaxton’s
veranda: —
Hush! It is a kindly day! How
prettily the near hollyhocks shine
out against the mountains. The
orderer’s stony eyes look out upon
these harmonies of Art and
Nature. How far is he from see-
ing them! He draws from his
pocket a revolving-pistol, and
fixes the paper of caps under the
hammer! This is ready on his left
knee. Half out of his breast comes
an iron gyve.
Tragic—dark—moved! Bah!
A fine business if your Honour
cannot go through with it better!
A more even air—pray. A less
mercurial countenance. For very
dignity, contemn. Scorn them,
justice! Silence in this court!
See, where his Honour crouches
forward. He is about to admonish
—nay, to cry us a mercy—nay, to
grant time —nay, to cry “Death!”
• Grim execratory, if you must
condemn, condemn less implac-
ably. If pardon, come not so
hardly at an admitting—finger not
at credence with so cynical a touch.
O drab judge—O shaken Judge—
O dark, dispirited orderer, what
tone unthought-of, what inhuman
plea has shivered those tense
bands, and frenzied those hard
eyes with hope unwelcome!
Pallid sentencer, what tickle of
compunction stills thee ...
This is, to be sure, an extreme
example of Hay’s eccentricity of style.
He may have been a little embarrassed
at this point by the mechanics of his
plot, in which Commandant Daunt has
to lurk conveniently under the holly-
hocks to hear Sir William asking Mrs.
Shaxton to elope with him when he
escapes; or he may have thought he
was avoiding commonplace melodrama
by plunging into these extravagances
while the policeman debates whether
or not to shoot the convict. But the
rest of the novel, if it seldom bounces
so violently, is hardly less difficult to
follow. How strange, how bizarre is
the style, even when the meaning is
clear and the observation seeking to
be minutely exact!—
“I am afraid the bad one, sir,”
said Miss Towerson, and then
went a deep orange colour and
munched her beautiful lip.
But then, how many of the world’s
classics, from “The Anatomy of Melan-
choly” to “Finnegan’s Wake” are, one
way or another, difficult. Even “Moby
Dick,” with which Hay’s novel has
much in common, is not altogether
easy. The question is, does “The
Escape of Sir William Heans” sur-
mount its difficulties? It does.
Nothing, in this commentator’s
view, can be wiser and sounder as a
general guide to merit in English prose
than Hazlitt’s rule of the “plain Eng-
lish style.” Let a spade be called a
spade; and not. as Hay would prob-
ably put it, “Something—agricultural,
we conjecture—may perhaps have
glinted in the gardener’s hand.” But
there must always be room in litera-
ture, on the fringes of the great central
stream of prose, for the rare, the exotic,
the curious, the original.
There is a relish in oddity of phrase
for its own sake, as there is relish in
a truffle. There is, of course, a virtue
in the search for exactitude, however
bizarre the resultant description may
appear: “He Oughtryn had not
looked round. He had a paper in his
hand, but was not looking at it. He
was standing in his bulbous, bland,
bandy way, masticating and looking
out at twilit bushes.” And it must be
said that this novel rises nobly,
triumphantly above the eccentricities
and limitations Hay has imposed on it.
Even, to some extent, in the earthy,
slightly antiquated flavor of the style,
and in the curious effect of verisimili-
tude created by the author’s pretence
of knowing no more about his charac-
ters than they choose to reveal to
him, and in the deepening of the
atmosphere of mystery by the reluctant
glimmers of revelation. Hay makes a
virtue of his oddities; and his novel
emerges in the end lofty and dark and
massive like the crags that frowned
above their tangle of forest on the
convicts at Hobart and Port Arthur.
Once you have conquered its diffi-
culties, accepted the peculiarity of the
style and recognised the advantages
Hay gains by it, it is a novel of
universal excellence.
It is, to begin with, an exciting—
and, except for a few bits of mechan-
ism, by no means improbable—
romance: how Sir William Heans was
sent out as a convict for having
abducted a married woman; how h
tried again and again to escape fron
Van Diemen’s Land, and begge
Matilda Shaxton to run away with him
to the waiting ship; how, until his fina
success after the policeman has diec,
his plans were invariably frustrated b
his courteous and implacable enemy
Mr. Daunt.
On a deeper level it is a fascinatin
psychological drama of the decline, fa!
and rise again to aristocratic integrity
of Sir William Heans and, mor
tellingly still, of the queer,
hatred between police-officer and con
vict—arising partly from their rivalry
for Mrs. Shaxton, partly because o
Sir William’s arrogance (staring a;
the officer through his monocle) and
chiefly, one suspects, because of some
strange dark twist in his nature tha
made Mr. Daunt, in the first place
choose a career in the police-force
There is nothing crude in the struggle
between these two men. Daunt is no
idle bully. It is, on the contrary, the
politeness with which he treats his
prisoner, the scrupulous justice, even
the mercy, that make his curt reminders
of his authority and his occasiona
swift flashes into action so deadly.
It is a book of brilliant and powerfu
characterisation. At first one is doubt
ful about Heans. Like Dickens’s Sir
Leicester Dedlock he is observed too
much from the outside —painted flat
on the canvas; labelled “aristocrat’
and left at that, hardly more human
than his monocle —to come fully to life
at the outset. But like Sir Leicester he
grows and deepens in tragedy, and in
the end, after he has almost fallen
into ruin through drink, gambling and
the ignominy of being assigned to the
ex-convict Oughtryn in punishment for
one of his attempts to escape from
Hobart, and then has fought his way
back to self-respect through his
championing of Mrs. Shaxton anc
Oughtryn’s daughter, he became all the
more memorable —because it is in
character —for his aloofness. Daunt, in
his weary cynicism, his scrupulous
severity and his basic motive of hatred,
is as powerful a study of a policeman
as one ever remembers seeing since
Hugo’s Inspector Javert; from whom,
indeed, he may remotely descend.
Captain Shaxton, perhaps, always
“chuckling” for no perceptible reason,
does not wholly come to life; but he,
too, when he flounders in adversity
after Daunt has insulted his wife,
would repay study. Oughtryn, the
respectful and timorous ex-convict,
steadily making his way to fortune on
the land, educating his blind daughter
towards gentility and always in terror
of the law, is altogether excellent—and
amusing—in a very different category
from all the other characters: a growth
of the English earth taking root in the
new land; a most significant study of
the redemption of a convict. And the
women—graceful Mrs. Shaxton, half,
or, perhaps, wholly, in love with the
convict with whom she cannot possibly
elope; Oughtryn’s blind daughter, so
terribly tempted towards life, even in
the person of the brutal soldier who
knows too much about the “murder’
of Governor Collins —-are most delicate
and charming portraits.
The construction of the novel is as
admirable as the characterisation
Nothing could be more surprising than
that, after so much darkness, violence
and misery, Hay should eventually
manipulate Sir William’s long tribu-
lations into a happy ending, when
eventually he escapes from Port
Arthur and reaches the ship that will
take him to France; but, if the journey
over the mountains with the old
aboriginal woman who guides him is
hardly credible, the escape into happi-
ness is both plausible and fitting as the
end to a story which is primarily one
of moral collapse, suffering and
redemption. The swiftness and clarity
with which Hay (for once) lets the
reader know what has happened here
—that Heans is safe in France—show
a fine understanding of the dramatic
aspect of his story: for from that angle
the novel is the struggle between the
convict and the policeman; and Daunt
has died, and nothing remains to be
said except to round the story off.
In the last analysis it is supremely
a novel of atmosphere, the creation of
a dark world, flashing with subter-
ranean lightning, which transcends
reality and which seems to be not so
much a picture of convicts in Hobart
as an emanation from profound and
curious recesses in the author’s mind.
It is not —dark and difficult as it must
remain in spite of its many outstand-
ing merits—exactly what one would
call a pleasant piece of reading; or, at
least, that depends on one’s definition
of pleasure. But it is, in its way, a
masterpiece.
The Red Page
IN DARKEST TASMANIA
The edition has forewords by Pro-
fessor R. G. Howarth and Professor
E. Morris Miller, giving information
about Hay and the Tasmania of the
period, and both admirably displaying
the merits of the novel.
Reviewed Briefly
Amateur Astronomer’s Handbook:
J. B. Sidgwick (Faber). A fine large fat
book with fearsome equations in what
appears to be trigonometry, frightfu
diagrams illustrating unnameable
devices, terrible information on “dif-
ferential nutation” and “avoidance of
distortion due to tilting of the Her-
schelian mirrors,” and nothing whatso-
ever about space-travel. Thus, if the
author hasn’t got the answers to the
equations wrong, it may he heartily
commended to amateur astronomers
or, indeed, anyone who will take it
away.
* t- sit *
Adventure obi Land and Under the
Sea: Otis Barton (Longmans). Down
in a bathysphere off the coast of
Florida and up the trees of Africa in
a “tree-climber”—an invention of the
author’s which was hardly as successful
as his underwater machine. With
intervals of film-making, Mr. Barton
has led a most adventurous life,
obviously full of ups and downs,
though apparently made possible by
inherited wealth. The interest of his
material outweighs ?. strange absence
of color and-personality in the writing.
He has inspected the Barrier Reef
and in one chapter is to be found
searching for cassowaries at Cairns.
* * * *
Lorenzo in Search of the Sun: Eliot
Fay (Vision Press ; Lothian). Sub-
titled “D. H. Lawrence in Italy.
Mexico and the American South-West.”
this is an account of the novelist’s,
wanderings in the last few years of his
life, with a very brief mention of his
stay in Australia. It makes an amiable
little essay which, apart from its
amiability, has no perceptible reason
for existing.


Now Anthony Horderns 9 bring you new ultra modern
UNSINKABLE GLASS BOATS
■ . .v
■
t
■ P
m
******
■
PI
• • ;
They’re unbreakable too
Anthony Horderns’ is right on the ball with this latest
innovation. The glass boat is invaluable for the
man on the land and those in flood areas. Being a
one-piece hull, it can be left out of the water
exposed to all kinds of conditions for any
length of time and float away without a leak
when placed in the water. They never need
painting and can take hard knocks without
a mark. They cannot absorb water and so
become waterlogged, they cannot rot dr get worn,
yet have the tensile strength of steel. They do not
need to be painted. Bft., £66; 12ft., £120; sculls extra.
STURDY PLYWOOD BOATS
i
u
y
¥:? mt
%
U
: >
' '
1\ V. JX&j
.. .
:■:■■■■■
»S> 5
: <x xx- F v’W«|
3PI
'Tvi;
m
H
Manufactured by craftsmen from selected timber and
guaranteed proof wood. These boats are exclusive to
Anthony Horderns’ and are ideal for car-top trans-
port. All joints are sealed with Casco plastic glue
and copper fastenings. All together they weigh
only 60 pounds. Two sizes available: Bft. x 4ft.
in 5/16th proof wood, priced £52/10/-; 3/1 6th proof
wood is priced at £45/12/6. Boats are complete with sculls.
A. Galvanised Rowlocks, 7/16in., 5/9 pr.; 3/Bin.,
5/3 pr.; 7/6 pr.
B. A.B.C. Blocks, 10ft.: Old, \ ton, £2O/7/3, to
. 2cwt., £32/12/6.
New, \ ton, £24/15/-., to 2cwt.. £4O/19/3.
C. Load Binder with 25ft. chain at £ll/18/6.
D. Galvanised Anchors from 61b. 4/3 lb.
E. Galvanised Shackles from 2/- to 21/-.
F. Drag Chains, 10ft. x 3/Bin., £3.
G. Rope from 4/3, Chain from 1/9 per lb.
H. Sculls, 6ft., 73/10, to 9ft., £4/8/7.
r
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BOX 2712, G.P.0., 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 27, 1955
Vol. 76—No, 3924
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OF-FICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings {opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
AUSTRALIA "THE ENEMY"
AUSTRALIAN politics are returning to the
focus which they so sharply acquired four years
ago. Communism, and Communism alone, seems
to be the immediate issue. It has for the first time
become a real issue inside the “Labor” party, which
hitherto has been prepared to make an occasional
thrust at Communism while carrying on side-by-
side with the Communist party, inasmuch as
some of its sources of revenue have been the
Communist-controlled unions. It often has drawn
its leaders from the Communist party, whose
techniques develop from their Communist training
and experience.
But now the issue is one that “Labor” and
the country can no longer balk. Only a few hun-
dred miles from Australia’s northern coast,
within an hour’s bomber-flight of Darwin, the
Afro-Asian Conference has been meeting at
Bandoeng, with Communist Chinese leaders
obviously dominating the proceedings and suavely
setting out to capture the leadership of Asia, to
allay fear, to suggest a lamblike gentleness and
innocuous purpose strangely in contrast with their
belligerence of a few weeks ago.
The Mao statement of 1953, revealed in April
last year by Senator Knowland, which envisages
Chinese and Russian domination of South-East
Asia and the creation of a huge fighting-force in
Southern Asia by 1960, is forgotten. Behind the
armed guards who ring Bandoeng, Chou En-lai is
mildly spoken even about the United States. He
has been holding conciliatory'meetings with dele-
gates from Colombo Powers, which Australia,
among other countries, is helping to subsidise
heavily, but for which the Communist bloc is doing
nothing, apart from acting as an ever-present threat
to security. Nobody would ever imagine that Chou
is the same man who issues, almost weekly, deter-
mined statements from Peking to the effect that
Formosa will betaken by force in all due time,
and that the United States is a brutal aggressor
nation whose claws must be clipped.
The Commonwealth’s interest in all this and
in the trends of policy exhibited at Bandoeng are
intensified by the fact that two Australians, the
Professor of Far Eastern History at the National
University, and Dr. Burton, who was Dr. Evatt’s
Secretary for External Affairs, are in Bandoeng as
unofficial observers and apparently acting in a
manner which must suggest to some of the Asiatics
present that they are much more than that. They
are both deliberately running contraiy to Australian
policy and wittingly or unwittingly playing the
Communist game by alleging that their view
that Australia lies in the Asian area represents the
feeling of the Australian people. Their statement
is the more embarrassing because Dr. Burton is
known to be an intimate of Dr. Evatt, a member
of the Canberra A.L.P., yet a man who is constantly
following the Communist line, one who was ready
to propagate Communist “horror” propaganda
when Australians were fighting the Chine se in
Korea, and whose political record is not one to
inspire faith in any security-minded onlooker.
The Bandoeng conference is doubly of import-
ance because it has had the support of Dr. Evatt
himself and of the Federal “Labor” party, which is
now committed to oppose the sending of troops to
help defend Malaya, which has lined-up with Russia
in demanding the admission to U.N.O. of Com-
munist China, as well as other countries of the
Communist bloc, besides inferentially accepting the
Communist viewpoint that the United States is an
aggressor nation.
It is true that American policy is not always
adroit, that it is sometimes busybodying, ahd, in its
operation, sometimes inclined to be dogmatic. The
American State Department not yet got over
the stage of believing that American policy is the
biggest, best and most enlightened in the world.
But if there is any country in the world which is not
naturally aggressive it is the United States, which
literally had to be dragged by circumstance into
both Great Wars, and which has been dragged out
of isolationism in peace-time only by its well-
grounded fears.
If there is anything the United States people,
and particularly the people of its Middle West,
want, it is to be left alone to develop their civilisa-
tion and live comfortably on their front-porches.
And the very fact that they have consented to the
enormous expenditures on world defence in which
they have become involved on a long-term plan
is evidence enough to their sense of the danger to
which civilisation is subject.
. The , sen se of urgency which Mr. Menzies
exhibited in his. speech on foreign policy and defence
on April 20 was of a piece with the feelings of the
whole Western world, and the liaison which he has
established with the United States is part of the
general arrangement for mutual defence, which is
the product of immediate needs and in which the
whole world must quickly take its share.
The essence of the Manila Pact —as he said, not
the kind of agreement to which the United States
readily commits itself in peace-time—was inter-
preted clearly in the discussions which the Prime
Minister had with President Eisenhower and Mr„
Dulles to mean that the United States considered
the defence of Malaya and South-East Asia to be
of very great importance in the task of preventing
further Communist aggression; more, that United
States tactical co-operation in the defence of those
countries would be effective and regarded as an
implicit obligation under the pact.
It is quite clear that not only must Australia
be defended, but that it must take part in the
defence of the approaches which will prevent the
potential enemy coming within effective striking-
reach of our great cities and industrial centres.
Thus our obligation to commit ourselves to a share
in the defence of Malaya and other South-East
Asian countries is a matter of necessity, not choice.
And if the cost is high when it is assessed, it will
still be cheaper than invasion.
The most alarming aspect of the' situation is,
as has been said, the attitude on the question of
official “Labor.” It is unbelievable that any section
in any civilised country could be at variance with
its Government on the need for preparation of
defence to fend off from its shores and forestall
the kind of attack that might otherwise arrive out
of the blue at any minute. It is equally incredible
that any Australian Opposition would not associate
itself with the general world community formed
to prevent further Communist encroachment. Yet
that is what “Labor” is apparently prepared to do
—to play the game on the Communist side. Dr.
Evatt; of course, professes to be averse to Com-
munism, but his actions have belied his assertions
oyer a number of years. And even when expressing
dislike of Communist policies he assumes the
Russians and Chinese to be amenable peoples who
are only waiting for the right approach. They are
not. They cannot make accord with the Western
world without ceasing to be Communists.
Moreover, their position is clear. We are “the
enemy.” It may have escaped public notice, but in
the Moscow documents before the Petrov Com-
mission Australia was actually referred to as “the
enemy.” In those circumstances it is very necessary
that it should be clearly known exactly who in
Australia is in sympathy or in liaison with people
who think of us in this light. -
Elections in Britain
SINCE the war Britain has experienced six years
of Labor rule and four of Conservative. Clement
Attlee’s landslide victory of July, 1945, in between
the German and Japanese surrenders, ended the
long run of National Governments and put Labor
into office for the first time as a majority-party—
the Ramsay MacDonald Governments of 1924 and
1929 had been kept in office by Liberal-party
support. But by 1945 the Liberal numbers were
reduced to 25, divided almost evenly into two
groups. Attlee commanded 392 . votes and the
Conservative Opposition 196. Independents and a
dozen variously labelled members brought the
numbers of the House up to 640
To the older Labor leaders the victoiy marked,
in the words of Dr. Dalton, “the appointed hour
of British Socialist destiny,” and on the first day
of the new Parliament “The Red Flag” was sung
enthusiastically in the House of Commons. The
Socialists did not waste much time before getting
down to the job of converting into reality the policf
they had been dreaming of for 40 years Before
their first year had Fun its course they had
nationalised the Bank of England, the coalmines
the cable- and wireless-services and home Snd
overseas airlines. Shortly afterwards the railways
tmncnnrf norm ic anri Z ul
into fhlref electricity were brought
tj ,r, , - ,
By this time, although those behind were still
shouting Forward, those in front, if pot exactly
crying Back, were at least urging caution. Wage-
earners were beginning to realise that having the
Government for a boss ciidn t necessarily make
work a joy, and, as consumers, they found it hard
to see why, with the capitalist eliminated from the
mines and railways, they should be paying higher
prices for coal and dearer fares on public transport.
By even Emmanuel Shinwell was com-
plaining that . . . there had been too little prepara-
tion of nationalisation-schemes.... We found we
had to complete legislation without blueprints.”
Not that he suggested turning back —just a
slight marking-time. The Government “would not
be satisfied until it had nationalised all Britain’s
major industries.”
Next major industry on the list was steel. Its
seizure was not quite so easy to justify. Production
was at record height, and prices were below Euro-
pean and American levels. The Minister for Supply
explained ingeniously that the workers in the
industry had increased their production-rate be-
cause they were expecting the industry to be taken
over. Failure to meet their wishes would have a
demoralising effect on production.
So the Steel-Grab went through, despite the
resignation from the party of two or three members
who had had enough socialisation. One of these,
Ivor Thomas, farewelled the party by saying
Socialist planning is making Britain a land fit
for zeroes The itching fingers of planners can-
not let things alone. After the last three years I
have doubts both of the competence and inten-
tions of our Socialist Ministers.
But, doubts or not, the majority of the party
were still hell-bent for socialisation. The 1949
conference instructed the Government to push on
with the programme and grab sugar, cement and
industrial assurance. A few months later, in an
election-manifesto, the Attlees agreed to do so,
adding, for good measure, meat-wholesaling and
portion of the chemical industry. The Steel
Nationalisation Bill had been passed, but because
of opposition in the Lords, its proclamation was
postponed until after the general election.
This came in February, 1950, and the Attlees
were returned to office—but only just. Their num-
bers were reduced to 315; the Conservatives climbed
back to 297, and the Liberals, who had put up 400
candidates, saw only 10 of them get home. Partly
as a result of a Labor redistribution which reduced
the membership of the Commons from 640 to 625
and abolished the University seats, there were no
Independents in the new Parliament.
Taking their narrow majority as a mandate,
the Socialists went ahead with the Steel Grab. They
didn’t, however, proceed with any further instal-
ments of nationalisation; their precarious majority
and a tardy awakening to economic realities were
the main reasons for this. Further, the party had
quite enough worries with internal arguments
without buying any more. Aneurin Bevan, in his
self-appointed role of Labor’s next leader, was
already subjecting Attlee to the treatment he has
been repeating this year. Attlee had already said
on the subject of social services that any extension
of benefits could come only as a result of increased
production; he now revealed that even the existing
scale of payments under the health scheme could
not be economically supported. The proposed
remedy—a nominal payment for prescriptions—
caused Nye to hurl himself out of the Cabinet with
shouts of betrayal. After 18 months of nerve-war
Attlee’s second-wind Government again went to the
people and this time was rejected. The swing was
not great, but with 321 seats to Labor’s 294 and
six Liberals, Churchill, back as Prime Minister
after six years, at least had a working majority.
On the hustings, Churchill, in reply to charges
that his party, if returned, would wipe out many
of the social-welfare benefits introduced by Labor,
reminded the electors that
four-fifths of the social legislation since the war
was the agreed policy of all parties in the war-
time Coalition Government.
He added:—
These joint plans were mauled and marred
by the plastering upon them of Socialist party-
politics which added more to the cost than was
gained in benefits.
Churchill had also spoken of the need “for a period
of several years of solid, stable administration by
a Government not seeking to rub party dogmas into
everybody else,” and when the House met he
emphasised that that was what his Government
hoped to give the country.
Three and a half years later, under a new
Prime Minister who has been understudying the old
throughout the period, the Conservative Govern-
ment is again before the electors for a mandate. It
can justly claim that it has, under very trying condi-
tions of universal cold war, with hot-spots in
Korea, Malaya and Kenya, given Britain a large
measure of what it promised. The external trade-
balance, which was running into deficit at an
alarming rate in 1951, was converted into a surplus
in the following year, and that position was main-
tained until six months ago, when a further
threatened crisis was effectively surmounted. The
Government’s promise of 300,000 homes a year,
scoffed at by Labor as impossible, was kept and
bettered. Food-rationing was wiped out, and the
Government retired from the field of bulk-buying
without any disastrous rise in the cost-of-living.
Costly rearmament has kept taxation at a high level,
but Chancellor Butler has been able to offer some
reductions in each successive Budget, including the
“election” Budget brought down last week.
Prime Minister Eden is without the asset of
the Churchill prestige, but he has the advantage
of the solid performances of Butler on the financial
side and Macmillan in the housing field to back
him up. Attlee, on the other hand, still has Nye
Bevan hanging round his neck like a plump but
querulous albatross. The British electors shouldn’t
find it hard to choose this time.


MISSED OUT AGAIN!


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor's" Fate
The “Labor”-party position is brought
nearer to a show-down on the party-
leadership by the defeat of the Cain Gov-
ernment in Victoria —slaughtered at the
hands of its own ex-Ministers and their
followers —and the arrangement for an
election on May 28. That is if the show-
down is not precipitated in the Federal
House, in the Federal A.L.P. Executive
next Friday or in the State A.L.P. Execu-
tives before that time.
The position in N. S. Wales is momen-
tarily the most interesting, and it was no
doubt influenced by the attack on the
Federal leader in the House of Repre-
sentatives.
the Federal Executive’s Commit-
tee of Inquiry into the N. S. Wales Execu-
tive was, appointed it appeared that its
purpose was to restore unity in the party
by allowing naughty waverers like Mr.
Cahill to come before it and recant at
the expense of any Comrades whom they
wished to jettison. This view of its duties
was strengthened by the fact that one
of the four “judges” who were to do the
duty was Mr. Colbourne, a vice-president
of the Federal A.L.P. Executive, who is
also general-secretary of the N. S. Wales
Executive, and therefore one of those
into whom the committee was to inquire.
Hie other inquirers were Messrs.
Chamberlain (W.A.), vice-president of the
Federal Executive, Jack Schmella,
Federal secretary, and Senator Toohey
(S.A.).
However, Mr. Colbourne objected to
an inquiry on royal commission lines
unless the records of Dr. Evatt and his
followers were investigated as well as
those of any persons whom Mr. Tom
Dougherty and his associates cared to
accuse—Mr. Dougherty had spent six
hours producing evidence. The inquiry
broke up, and about the only real fruit
of it was an announcement by the chair-
man that there was no ground for the
belief that Mr. Cahill had put forward
any compromise plan for unity on the
two occasions he had been before the
Federal Executive inquisition.
On Friday night a meeting of the
N.S.W. Executive ordered its representa-
tives at the round-table conference called
to meet the agents of the Federal Execu-
tive on Tuesday not to accept any com-
promise or any agreement providing for
the removal of any members of the
Executive without reporting back.
In the Federal sphere the end of the
Petrov commission will, of course, bring
fresh repercussions, for it is almost cer-
tain that members will face a motion
from some quarter to debate its findings,
with special reference to Dr. Evatt. And
the announcement that he will appear in
the Victorian State election campaign
makes it clear that the issues in that
campaign will be the “Labor” party, and
nothing but the “Labor” party.
It is difficult to see how he can appear
without his becoming the main issue, since
Mr. Cain’s opponents will undoubtedly
do their best to tie him round the luck-
less Premier’s neck. In fact, he has done
it himself already by “unofficially open-
ing” the “Labor” campaign at a special
conference in Melbourne on April 24.
Autumn in Spring-street
The latest Victorian Parliament closed
its doors amid scenes reminiscent of the
closing hours of many of its predecessors
with cries of “Traitors” and “Stabbed in
the back” echoing around the Chamber.
All parties in the Victorian Assembly
have at different times been at the giving
or receiving end of similar charges, and
it would take a close medical scrutiny
of all old wounds to distinguish the
stabbers from the stabbed. One new
note in last week’s scene was the throw-
ing of thirty pieces of small silver on to
the floor of the House, but this may have
been merely symptomatic of the relative
prosperity of today in comparison with
earlier times of crisis.
This is the third time Premier Cain
has had a Government collapse under
him. The first was the five-day Govern-
ment which he led in 1943 while Albert
Dunstan was changing horses, and the
second was wrecked after a two-year run
by Chifley’s Bank Grab. Last week,
although it was L.C.P. Opposition-leader
Bolte who moved the no-confidence
motion and former Health Minister
Barry and his associates who adminis-
tered the stab, the real wrecker was
again the Federal “Labor” leader.
The general election, for which cam-
paigning has already begun, will be held
on May 26, and will be as confusing a
contest as Victoria has ever known.
There will be five parties in the field,
none of them closely committed to co-
operation with any other —though the
Hollway Liberals appear to have been
granted immunity by Cain and abstained
from voting on the motion which defeated
him. It is possible that the Liberal-
Country party and dhe Country party
may find it easier to come to a working
agreement now that former-Premier
McDonald and his deputy-leader Dodg-
shun have retired from politics, but the
L.C.P. has not yet given up hope of
“going it alone.”
The election will be the first under the
new “Two-for-one” system of represen-
tation, so previous voting will not be
much of a guide to prospects. It will
probably also be the last under the newly-
drawn boundaries, as the impending
Federal redistribution will mean the
drawing of another new State map. The
two “Labor” parties will clash in most
electorates where either group has a
ghost of a chance, each trying to convince
befogged supporters that Codlin is the
friend, not Short.
Dr. Evatt has assured the Victorian
Premier of his* 100 per cent, support.
That should be just about the last straw
to the harassed Cain.
Platitudes at Bandoeng
The Bandoeng Afro-Asian Conference
achieved nothing but the recital of plati-
tudes. It showed no new alliances, pro-
duced no Communist gains. It condemned
colonialism. By a majority vote it
affirmed the right of Indonesia to West
Irian (New Guinea) just as the United
States and Australia had made it clear
SO THE OLD VIC’S
IN SYDNEY!—page 25
that they would resist Indonesian aggres-
sion there.
The attempts of the Communist Chinese
Premier with Nehru as his instrument to
take control of the conference failed
when the political committee was elected.
Nehru was nominated by Chou En-lai.
The delegates rejected him and elected
the Siamese Foreign Minister, Prince
Thai.
Attempts to remove the discussions on
human rights from basis of the U.N.O.
Charter principles failed. And the blan-
dishments of the Chinese Premier, who
spent nearly all his time sympathising
with anybody who cared to ask for sym-
pathy, signally failed, though his propa-
gandists? in the guise of visiting journa-
lists and others apparently succeeded in
securing the support of correspondents
and visitors for all sorts of appeals by
giving them presents and asking them to
sign Chinese receipts which in many
cases turned out to be dissertations on
the wickedness of the United States and
protestations of undying adherence to
the causes of peace and liberation as
defined in the works of Lenin and Stalin.
Chou was at his mildest, oozing willing-
ness to confer with even the American
“blood-drunk aggressors” of his Peking
broadcasts.
To save his own face and that of
Nehru, whom he is persistently wooing,
but whom he firmly rebuffed when India
foreshadowed a scheme to deal with
Formosa at the conference, he put out an
offer to discuss the fate of that island with
the United States. But it was an offer
that had no meaning in the light of his
reason for not allowing Formosa to
become an issue at the conference—that
it was an internal Chinese matter only.
In any case, any attempt to secure
support from the conference was clearly
bound to fail, since many delegates,
including those from Siam and the
Philippines, seemed to feel that the
wiping-out of the Chinese Nationalists
would only be a preliminary to attack
on themselves. The Filipinos in par-
ticular have little desire to see Formosa,
which commands their northern
approaches, back in Chinese Communist
hands. ,
Chou must have known that the
United States would not hold any dis-
cussions of the Formosan question. Poli-
tically it is a matter between Chiang
Kai-shek and Chou unless both Chinese
parties ask the Americans to intervene.
Any physical action by the Western
Powers in Formosa would be based on
support of the occupants.
There is nothing more in Chou’s offer
than there has been in 50 other Com-
munist offers to negotiate in the last
decade; nothing more than there is in
Bulganin’s current offer to meet the
Powers almost immediately after Russia's
move to denounce the non-aggression
treaty with Britain and France. His
suggestion of a conference is linked
in the most threatening manner with
hints of the dire action that will be taken
if Germany is rearmed. It seems that the
whole of Eastern Europe will at once
combine into a military bloc with a
unified command.
It is already under unified Moscow
command, every country concerned
forcibly conscripted into Russia’s service.
"We Must Do Our Shar6"
“In the ACT”: Australians did not learn
a great deal more than they already knew
from the Prime Minister’s speech last
Wednesday, but they were given a warn-
ing that although American co-operation
was assured, they had to be ready to
carry a great deal of the burden them-
selves now of the defence of South-East
Asia. “We must not do less than others,”
said Mr. Menzies. “We must be pre-
pared to face-up to our responsibility
even though a price has to be paid ”
This lesson, which Dr. Evatt’s foreign
policy proves still needs stressing, will
certainly require some sacrifices, but
there is the comforting assurance of com-
plete co-operaifon between Australia and
the U.S. “in the defence of our com-
mon security and in resistance of any
further acts of Communist aggression.”
The Prime Minister said that the U.S.
would help in assessing equipment
deficiencies for forces which might be in
the order of two divisions in the event
of a “hot” war in South-East Asia, and
he added that forces or potential forces
of this size would mean complete recon-
sideration of our defence training. This
was accompanied by an acknowledgment
of the need, “having regard to our experi-
ence in the recent past, of ensuring that
an enemy should not have the oppor-
tunity of by-passing our forces. This
in .turn meant sufficient naval power to
allow the interception of hostile naval
craft, as well as “the greatest possible air
force.”
There was much left unsaid, neces-
sarily, both on specific commitments and
on areas and possible areas of operation.
There was a rather grim little statement
that in the event of a major war some
domestic measures would be needed in
“a somewhat fierce time-table.” There
was much, however, on hopes for peace
(“the Communist Powers.... have been
for a decade the aggressors—if there
is to be peace it must come from them”),
and on the disaster which would follow
retreat through weakness, on the good-
neighbor policies being followed with our
Asian friends, on the collaboration be-
tween Britain and the U.S. despite clever
and comprehensive efforts of the Com-
munist Powers to create division. There
were careful references to Formosa and
the offshore islands, and there was a
needed reminder that in sending forces
to Malaya we would not be merely giving
ourselves defence in the greatest possible
depth but also helping to protect the
Malayan people and giving a source of
strength to our Asian friends.
More details of what must be done at
home and abroad will follow, and quickly.
The task in the meantime is to condition
ourselves, in a time of immense pros-
perity, for facing the burdens which must
be heavy, and the “novel responsibilities”
involved. There will be some criticism,
and possibly some grumbling, but the
alternative is too terrible to contemplate.
If, as one of the “Labor-party (anti-
communist)” men said in the House a
few hours before Mr. Menzies’s speech,
Darwin is made our last line of defence,
and simultaneously the Communists are
allowed to sabotage our economy and
industry, then our position will indeed
be desperate. We have no alternative to
the course which the Government has
charted.
.
From Thai 1 RnH FmSnonro"
* i will ■ n«T DQQ eminence
c\” • M/-. nno. TUque
MLO .. JNO One in the House of
Representatives on Wednesday afternoon
could havp n»allv L; tt „
couia nave realty enjoyed the bitter
Spectacle of the two factions of “Labor”
engaged in that most bitter of all struggles
—ClVll War to the death. The Govern-
ment benches were stirred at times to
laughter, or applause, but mostlv the
mpmhprc fltpra _ ’ , .
members there were silent, engrossed m
the unprecedented aspects of the grim
battle. Dr. Evatt was the main target of
attack, and he turned anerilv on his
accusers if !
accusers many times With denials. But
he sat silent as Mr. Mullens described
him as the most dangerous man in public
life in Australia as “a cnlnssal eontist ”
7 ; + colossal egotist,
as a man ot insatiable ambition, a
wrecker and a millstone round the neck
of the party he professed to lead, as one
who had climbed and then -descended
step by step to hell.”
Many of the “Labor” men then still
sitting behind Evatt were taunted with
statements that they knew his hopeless-
ness as a leader, and there was a state-
ment that the “suave sycophant” who
led the party in the Senate was also oJ
that opinion. There were frequent cries
of “Judas”; there were assertions that
Senator Kennelly himself had been
denounced by Dr. Evatt; there were
references to the menace to Australia of
the “Evatt-Burton foreign policy”; there
were the desperate attempts of official
“Labor” to explain that funds could be
accepted from unions affiliated with the
A.L.P.
Mostly, however, the debate and the
frequent interjections demonstrated the
extraordinary personal animosities which
have risen from the deep and funda-
mental passions and beliefs involved. It
was not principally the tragedy of an
explosive disruption of a once-great
political party. It was not politics in the
great sense, except when the issues of
national security came briefly to the
surface of debate. It became largely a
personal drama, centred on two men,
Evatt and Beazley.
As it went on it became apparent that
Beazley would have to speak. He sat
flushed and restive, receiving notes from
other members and listening attentively
to occasional remarks from Evatt and
Ward. He finally spoke calmly, choosing
his words carefully and not wholly satis-
fying either those with whom he still sat
or those who had based their attack on
Dr. Evatt on the reported conversation
with Senator Kennelly in which details
were given of the alleged bargain with
the Communist-party negotiator.
One outcome seemed certain. The
charges made against Dr. Evatt would
become more firmly fixed in the public
mind than ever, and associated closely
with his other curious actions in recent
years. This in turn made it inevitable
that if he remained as head of the Parlia-
mentary section of his diminished band
its electoral prospects would decline still
further. Even those who last week gave
him nominal support must all have
realised this fact —and many of them
undoubtedly had no real wish to give
him even nominal backing. The end of
the journey is in sight.
"Where is the Dough?"
From “Molongloside” ;
it is doubtful whether the Federal House of
Representatives has experienced such a
scene as that on the “Labor” benches on the
afternoon of April 20 since the evening when
Sir Frederick Holder, the Speaker, fed dead
in the precincts after a notorious night of riot
and disorder at the end of the Parliament’s
hrst decade.
It was the first fud-dress appearance of the
new Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist),
It showed its late leader no mercy.
Mr. Bourke, who led the debate on an
urgent motion for adjournment, puded no
punches. He described Dr. Evatt as “the man
who had assured himself a place in history—
by having wrecked the Labor party, the best
friend the Communist party has ever had in
this country.” He accused him of wanting to
make the remnant pf the “Labor” party put
into effect the policies of Marxian Socialism
internally and follow the Communist line of
Red imperialism in External Affairs. He
referred to his honeycombing of the External
Adairs Department with avowed Communists
and the Doctor’s “remarkable appearances
before the Petrov Commission.” He said that
the only reasonable explanation of Dr. Evatt’s
conduct during recent years was that the Com-
munist party “had some hold over him” and
was “able to pud the strings and make him
dance; they are able to exert pressure on him.”
And he stated:
Mr- Beazley [member for Fremantle]
told me that Senator J. P. Kennelly, who
was then Federal secretary of the A.L.P.,
related to him in considerable detail a
conversation which he [Senator Kennelly]
had with Ted Hill, the secretary of the
Communist party in Victoria, and a lead-
ing figure in the Communist hierarchy in
this country, a man who defended the
Communist party in legal proceedings....
The story Senator Kennelly told was that
Sehator Kennelly arranged with Mr. Hill,
at the instigation of his boss, Dr. Evatt,
for Hill to call at Senator Kennelly’s
home in South Melbourne under an
assumed name.... The conversation that
took place there was related in great de-
tail by Senator Kennelly. There was an
argument and bargaining, and the
question was asked who would be in
Pentridge if this legislation went through.
Hill arranged for a contribution of
£13,000 from the Communist party for the
Labor campaign against the Communist
Dissolution Bill. The money was paid
over and paid into the custody of Dr.
Evatt as he directed. Why doesn’t the
Leader of the Opposition produce the
books instead of evading this inquiry?
Mr. Bourke averred that while Dr. Evatt said he
wanted an inquiry he refused to have the
matter discussed in Caucus. He had spoken
about people not getting endorsement if they
spoke about this matter.
Dr. Evatt was obviously badly shaken by the
whole attack, but he said that any story tnat
the Labor party under his leadership had
received contributions from the Communist
party was “absolutely and wickedly untrue”;
that he “did not believe the old story that
Senator Kennedy went to some place to see an
official of the Communist party,” that he him-
self, “with Messrs. Calwell and Senator
Kennedy, had already issued a statement that
the tale was a ‘complete and wicked fabrica-
tion.’ ” He said —amid derisive laughter from
(Continued on next page )


the cross-benches and Government benches—
that “Senator Kennelly had never received
anything or made any arrangements. 1 have
his assurance on that, and I believe him.” He
declared that the Labor party’s opposition to
Communism was just as strong as Mr. Bourke’s.
Mr. Keon supplemented Mr. Bourke’s
allegations by saying that, according to the
story told by Mr. Beazley, Senator Kenneliy
had said to Mr. Hill, in the course of his dis-
cussion with him, “We don’t want chicken-
feed, brother. Come on, where is the dough?”
There had been an allegation that “Labor”
did not get the money from the Communist
party but from the Communist-controlled
trade-unions, but it was completely untrue for
Dr. Evatt to suggest that the amount had con-
sisted of ordinary contributions from trade-
unions; He said that he had minutes of a
meeting of live trade-unions at which every
leading Communist, virtually the general stall
of the Communist party, was present, and at
the meeting decisions were made about the
money in question. He asked whether the
Communist party had handed over £13,000
without getting value for it: “The £13,000 is the
real reason for the attack on the industrial-
groups.”
Mr. Calwell scarcely helped his leader with
his contribution:
Everyone knows my views on Com-
munism—it is a vile philosophy. We re-
ceive affiliation-fees from unions which
choose to affiliate with the Australian
Eabor party. Some of these unions are
Communist - controlled... .If the Prime
Minister will appoint a royal commission
we will welcome it. We will put Senator
Kenneliy and Mr. Hill on the stand and
then we will know the falsity of these
charges....
Mr. Mullens promptly said that he would go
into the box before a royal commission and
swear that Dr. Evatt had admitted that a sub-
stantial amount of money had been received
from the Communist party: “Mr. Beazley told
me the story. I told him to go round to the
leader, and he did. Next day I challenged Dx.
Evatt about the story. I said there had been a
mention of £13,000. Dr. Evatt’s answer was:
‘lf £13,000 was donated I have knowledge ot
only £Booo.’ ” Dr. Evatt called all this “foul
misrepresentation.” He declared, “I never told
him these things. It is pure invention.”
All through Mr. Mullen’s scorching tirade
Dr. Evatt had sat with his eyes closed.
Mr. Beazley made a personal explanation.
He had sat behind Dr. Evatt throughout the
scene and had not responded to prompting by
him to acquiesce at one point of his leader's
denials. He now said that Mr. Bourke had
quoted from a private conversation which he
had had with him two and a half years ago.
Part of the statement, he said, was an accurate
report of the conversation with him which was
based in turn upon a conversation which he
himself had had with a gentleman in another
place —meaning the Senate. “But,” he added,
“I have never said that I knew Dr. Evatt
received £13,000 If there was a Federal
Labor Executive inquiry 1 would give evidence.
Royal commission suggestions have been
bandied about. If my evidence on this matter
were asked for I would give it.”
The result of the attack was obviously
devastating on the “Labor” benches, and
seemed to completely disturb the confidence
born of the arrangements at the earlier day’s
caucus during which, by a surprise otter of
his resignation Dr. Evatt had secured a vote-ot-
confidence from a majority, with only 22 voting
to depose him from the leadership and replace
him with Mr. Calwell —evidence of a remark-
able schism considering the circumstances.
Serious as the repercussions must be, he
must have thanked his stars that the Speaker
firmly refused to allow the Petrov Commis-
sion’s proceedings to be brought into the dis-
cussion. Had his attackers been able to point
to his association with Mr. E. F. Hill, the
Victorian Communist Secretary, and with the
Communist charges of conspiracy against the
Security Department and Petrov; had they
been able to discuss the mysterious £15,0W
which Petrov gave evidence had been received
from Moscow by the Russian Embassy and
handed to Sharkey by Antonov in 1953, the
ambit of the allegations and innuendoes would
certainly have been extended.
Mr. Menzies has made it clear that he has
no inclination to hold an inquiry into the
sources of “Labor” slush-funds. But under all
the circumstances Dr. Evatt and the Opposition
are in the position where it is almost obligatory
for them to ask tor a royal commission in
view of the fact that they have an official
standing in the Parliament. It is unthinkable
that they should leay» the matter where it is.
POLITICAL POINTS
Evatt says “Labor” will wage war on
Communism by “providing conditions
under which Communism cannot thrive.”
Does that mean he is going to resign
after all?
• •
Dignity hasn’t entirely vanished from
the Federal Parliament. While the Reps,
were discussing the Red £13,000 last
Wednesday, the Senate was. placidly debat-
ing the Trade Marks Bill.
• •
No one can accuse Cahill of not being
hospitable. When the Evatt-Dougherty
inquisitors arrived in Sydney to investi-
gate charges of disloyalty against the
men responsible for keeping the
N. S. Wales Government in power, he
put a room at their disposal. The room
was in the Treasury building so the
hospitality was at public expense, but
in matters like this it’s the spirit that
counts.
Opposition-leader Robson didn't
approve Cahill’s kindly thought. He
suggested that the visitors should have
been sent to the Trades Hall or “more
appropriately, to the Communist
headquarters.”
• •
At the opening of the Guthega power-
station Menzies paid tribute to former
Prime Minister Chifley and his Minister
for Works Nelson Lemmon for their
foresight in initiating the Showy Moun-
tains scheme. This was in marked con-
trast to opening-day at the Captain
Cook dock. That project was begun by
the first Menzies Government in the face
of bitter opposition from “Labor.” It
was completed during the “Labor”
regime and its opening was an aIL
“Labor” affair.
• •
A couple of United States officials blew
in the other day, “made a survey” and
then announced that Australia would
become “the boom country of the
Pacific.” Well, boom or bust.
• •
An Adelaide alderman wants a by-law
to protect pedestrians from motorists at
street-crossings. Motorists will probably
agree, provided there is another by-law to
protect motorists from pedestrians at
street-crossings.
• •
The “Doc.” has found another con-
spiracy, this time following the failure of
his own bid to introduce politics into
TV operation. He sees a build-up of
monopoly capitalism in the fact that some
capital associated with British newspapers
will be used by the groups which have
been given licences. He says his own
shareholding would have come from
“the rank and file of industrial and poli-
tical Labor.” In that case, of course,
some of it might well have come from
Moscow.
• •
Ivor Hele’s official painting of the
opening of Federal Parliament by the
Queen is a colorful and animated canvas.
There is a feeling of the intense
concentration on the Queen by all the
members and spectators —or almost all.
Many are shown leaning forward to
watch her as she sits serenely reading her
speech, but the Prime Minister is sitting
gravely thoughtful looking at the table
in front of him. It was inevitable in the
circumstances that only the backs of the
heads of the Opposition should be visible,
but the immense artistic problems pre-
sented by the task have been triumph-
antly overcome. When it is hung in
King’s Hall the new painting should prove
a magnetic attraction for visitors.
• •
The New England New State Move-
ment is no better than existing Govern-
ment departments when it comes to
avoiding plain English. ' An example
from among its objects: “The evolution
of an organisation in main centres or
regions capable of assuming adminis-
trative functions in the event of a break-
down in central machinery as a result of
atomic or other attacks or other causes.”
Next time the Doc. starts talking about
“sinister Right-wing influences” some
Latin scholar should remind him that
sinister means left.
• •
Five hundred ex-gangsters deported to
Italy from U.S.A. plan a hunger-march
on Rome because “we are without work,
money or food, watched by the police,
shunned by Italians, forgotten by
friends in America, and have become men
without hope. Men like that can be
dangerous.” You get what I mean? Sure,
keed, we gotcha. Watcha want is less
scram an’ more scran.
• •
Following Butler’s tax-cuts, the urge
must be strong for Conservative M.P.’s
to indulge in a real May-poll dance.
• •
The Evatt sensitivity must be catching.
When the Doc. told Parliament he pro-
posed to read a statement, Mullens,
M.H.R., interjected?” “Who wrote it, Dal-
ziel or Grundeman?” Next day Evatt’s
secretary, A. J. Dalziel, sent a telegram
of protest to Mullens in which he said that
“to be besmirched by one of. your ilk in
the coward’s castle of Parliamentary privi-
lege” was “a signal honor.” Why a
private secretary should consider his
character besmirched by a suggestion that
he had prepared a statement for his chief
is rather difficult to see.
• t
The Commonwealth Public Service
Board is “concerned over unduly high
THE GREAT CONTORTIONIST
(Sitting on the fence and keeping his ear to the ground at the same time.)
casualties through health - breakdowns
among senior executives of the Common-
wealth Public Service.” Too much tea
and travel never did anybody any good.
• •
The P. and O. line has withdrawn
Stratheden and Strathmore from the
Brisbane service, and Brisbane Chamber
of Commerce president Trout says it’s
caused by the slow turn-round of ships
there. His chamber holds that the Steve-
doring Industry Board is a failure and
should be abolished, and that employers
should have the right to choose their own
wharf-labor. A lot of other people hold
the same views, but it doesn’t do much
good. And when the Federal Government
proposed a few months ago ship-
owners a say io the recruitment of
wharfies, they backed away from it.
Qantas boss Hudson Fysh says that by
1975 aircraft engineers will be working
on satellite space-stations far beyond the
earth. Well, they’d better be fitted with
pubs, s.p. facilities, lottery-agents, and
dog-tracks or the unions will have some-
thing to say about it.
• •
In the course of the Evatt-Joshua argu-
ment Rowley James interjected in the
interests of decency in debate with, “Why
can’t you be fair, and shut your bloody
mouths?” It is understood that he used
the expression in the Parlia-bloody-men-
tary sense.
• •
Vic. Country party will face the electors
with a new leader and deputy-leader, as
both J. G. McDonald and Keith Dodg-
shun are retiring from polities through ill-
health. Herbert Hyland, member for
Gippsland South, has been named as
leader, with George Moss, member for
Murray Valley, as his deputy.
McDonald has represented Shepparton
since 1936. He succeeded Dunstan as
C.P. leader in 1945, was deputy-Premier
to Hollway in 1947-8 and led the 13-man
Spring-street Farmers’ Government
1950-52. Dodgshun was elected to the
Vic. Assembly in 1938 and has held
the posts of deputy-Premier, Chief
Secretary and Minister for Electricity
and Immigration.
• •
Cost-of-living rose slightly in all States
during the March quarter. Food and
groceries rose 2 per cent, on the six-capi-
tals index, items chiefly responsible being
tea, potatoes, eggs and bread. Had quar-
terly adjustments been still in force the
basic-wage would have risen 2s. in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide; Is.
in Perth and 3s. in Hobart.
• •
The throwing of 30 threepenny-bits in
front of Barry, M.L.A., may have been
a dramatic way of insulting the break-
away “Labor” man, but wasn’t it, by
implication, somewhat overpraising
Cain?
• •
Tamworth branch of the A.L.P. seems
to have taken fright at the support
accorded the New England New State
Movement. It recently passed a motion
stating that the establishment of the
Constituent Assembly which met last
week at Armidale “could be a plot to
establish a regime in defiance of the
democratically-elected N. S. Wales
Parliament.”' It decided that the Com-
monwealth Security Director should be
asked to investigate the matter. The
Assembly replied that it made no claim
to be a Parliament and did not seek to
impose its decision upon the New
England people.
• •
At the conclusion of its Armidale dis-
cussions the Constituent Assembly sent
to Premier Cahill a Copy of a bill it had
passed urging self-government for New
England, with a request that it be intro-
duced into the N. S. Wales Parliament
as a Government measure. As a matter
of tactics the move was sound enough,
but no one in Armidale expects Cahill
to do anything about it.
• •
The general manager of the Royal
Automobile Club of Victoria considers
that parking should be an issue at the
State election. It will be—especially the
problem of determining which faction is
to park on the “Labor” benches.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy: New Guinea and
Papua have issued an ultimatum to Aus-
tralia. Unless the price of Australian
rice is made competitive, the Territory is
to issue licences for the importation of
rice from the Far East. The Health
Director, Dr. Gunther, says that Austra-
lian rice, admittedly of good quality and
well packed, costs between £25 and £3O
a ton more than Far Eastern milled rice.
Potential consumption is about 15,000 a
year, so the saving by buying on the world
market would be at least £300,000. The
director says that the “Territory con-
sumers can no longer be used to subsidise
the Australian market.”
• •
The Federal Parliament has as yet no
indication of the trend of the Govern-
ment’s legislation and action save that
defence and foreign politics combined
with plans for British Commonwealth co-
operation will have a foremost place in
the programme.
Nothing has as yet been said about the
Senate, but it may be an issue quite early.
The serious illness of Senator Albert
Reid places the Government in a precari-
ous position, though at this stage he has
a pair.
Whatever happens, the chances of an
election of both Houses within a year
seem to be strong since the step-and-stair
method of election due to Dr, Evatt’s
machinations in 1949 cannot be allowed
to continue, if only on the score of cost,
dislocation and uncertainty which makes
long-term Parliamentary planning impos-
sible under existing conditions. And in
the meantime “Labor” will find itself
manacled to its pro-Communist policy in
Asia, which will be a heavy load to carry
in any election.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
'T'HE Oriental Hotel at King’s Cross,
A Sydney, a temperance pub, has
a notice on the desk saying that
alcohol must not be brought into the
premises; and another notice saying that
the receptionists are named Miss Virtue
and Miss Goodman. So I daresay my
uncle and aunt from New Zealand, on
whose behalf I searched-out this infor-
mation, should be safe enough there. —
“Mac Hoots.”
“Kune”: Miss Irene Missingham, of
Robertson (N.S.W.), recently won 52
cooking-prizes within a fortnight at three
shows (Moss Vale, Robertson, Burra-
wang), her entries including cakes, scones,
biscuits, jams, jellies and preserves.
She’s 11.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Senim”: I witnessed it at a busy inter-
section. The fault was in the floor gear-
change, the lever of which had become
detached. As the horns behind began
their crescendo the driver extended his
arm at full length from the window with
the gear-lever in his hand. The sudden
silence might have meant that the im-
patient drivers at the rear were perplexed
by the new traffic arm-signal—right-hand
turn with question-mark; i.e., die bent
gear-lever with ball-end —or a feeling of
awe might have descended upon them
at the thought of a driver who, nettled by
horn-blowing, could with an angry twist
of the wrist rip out his gear-lever;
tempered, of course, with apprehension
of what such a man might do to a horn-
blower continuing his divertimento.
❖ ❖ ■*
“Renault”: I like this friendly, warm-
hearted personal note which was enclosed
in the latest issue of an excellent trade-
journal, issued gratis to customers:
“Due to increased cost of printing and
mailing, taxes and inflation, the ‘ Journal’
now comes to you twice as free as formerly.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Criticuss”: In the Later-Contempor-
ary Society’s exhibition at the newly-
opened Gomorrah Galleries the young
Sydney artist Kronbuhn Kilmutchgiwilf
seems to be the only exhibitor to have
benefited from the discoveries of
Adranian Stilf, the epoch-making
Czechoslovakian genius who, born
in 1951, ended his comet-like career
in the Seine in the cold Paris-
ian winter of 1954. Kilmutchgiwilf
has yet a long way to go before he suc-
ceeds in completely translating Stilf’s
genius into terms of the Australian myth ;
however, the judging-committee of the
State Abattoirs John-the-Baptist Prize
acted correctly in awarding it to him
this year, for his cold-toned painting
“The Dance of the Seven Veils,” in which
the veils only are shown, as though hang-
ing on a non-existent clothesline, in deli-
cate patterns of religious revulsion,
emphasised by dark combinations of blue
and grey./ The rest of the exhibition
hardly matters; the exhibitors remain-
ing content to remind us of such burnt-
out bonfires as Modigliani, Droloptus,
Klei, and even the veteran Picasso. A
few, indeed, reminded no one of anyone.
An exception may be made for “Damaged
Dahlia” by Adulf Pruf, not, perhaps, in
itself, for those strained planes have not
the strength to carry the unwieldy purple
parallels of his design-—but with the
beautiful Sydney art-connoisseur Mrs.
Palonk-Palonk posed alongside it in her
“Now, young man , it's my turn to listen-in to you”
H-iine ensemble it achieved a complete-
ness and sexual significance beyond any-
thing that has so far been seen of Pruf’s
admittedly undeveloped talents.
“Renault”: Some queer signs noticed
on my Easter tour. A frock-shop in a
big country-town advertised: “Ladies
ready to wear clothes.” Some wag had
pencilled below it, “It’s about time.” A
sign in a milk-bar of the same town read:
“Our 6d. fruit-drinks have been reduced
from Is. to 9d.” The queerest was in the
“Want any help?”
window of a cafe in the main street; it
read: “Closed for lunch.”
*> * ♦>
“T. 2.”: Generally, when a bank-teller
discovers that his cash is out, he is able
to track down where he made the over-
payment. He may not get it back, but
there is some consolation in knowing
what happened to the missing note. I’ye
known tellers to go home feeling certain
that they will never know who got the
extra quid, only to wake the next morning
and say, “If I ask Mr. So-and-so, he will
know about it.” My strangest experience
was to balance £7 short, without a clue.
After tea I went back to check the day’s
work again. At 10-o’clock I gave it up
and went home, to find seven notes stand-
ing on the mantelpiece; someone had
brought them back, and would not even
give his name. It took me nearly a week
of carefully questioning my customers to
find out who the honest bloke was. When
I did find him, he would not even let me
buy him a beer.
❖ ❖ <♦
“J.W.”: To “Mullum’s” essay (B.
6/4/’55) on the appropriateness of Chris-
tian names let me add a Miss Point who
graced the social columns of the Mel-
bourne press some four years ago. Her
Christian name was Decima.
“Metax”: At a meeting in Hobart,
Government action to encourage the
fishing-industry was asked for on the
motion of Mr. Trout.
❖ ❖ *
“Cauboy”: I see that Marjorie Law-
rence is annoyed because M.G.M. didn’t
invite her to represent them at the world-
premiere of “Interrupted Melody,” but,
instead, invited a Hollywood dancer.
Dean’s Marsh, near Geelong (Vic.), is
even more annoyed. It thinks the
premiere should have been held there
instead of at the Metro, Melbourne.
♦Jt
“E. &O. E.”: During their first week-
end Hobart’s parking-meters, though not
officially in use, collected about £lO from
overconscientious motorists, or the merely
curious. Others tried to park and slip
away without paying. The meters also
yielded a harvest of match-sticks, buttons
and chewing-gum that was less pleasing
to the City Council. As well, a party of
nine university students paid 6d. to park
themselves beside a meter. They spread a
tablecloth, squatted round it and ate
lunch in the main thoroughfare at a peak-
hour. A crowd quickly gathered, and all
traffic was held up. Protesting that they
had paid for the space occupied, the
humorists were led away by police.
❖ ❖'
“Pitt-st.”: A Sydney man, owed £3 by
a theatre-owner, helped himself to a door
of the theatre. It cost him £2O in fines
and costs. He confessed to being some-
what drunk when he committed the deed.
Now, if he’d chosen to get in a car while
boozed and had smashed into somebody
else’s car and caused injuries and
damages, he’d have got off much lighter,
provided it was a first offence. Which
seems to prove that in Sydney you can do
a lot of things and get off lightly, but
pinching theatre-doors isn’t one of them.
❖ ❖ ❖
r T'HE catchcry “Who killed the
monkey?”, hurled at Henry Barwell
(B. 20/4/’55), had personal significance
to him alone, but in England a similar
taunt, “Who hanged the monkey?”, is
sufficient to raise the hackles of an entire
town.
According to a story* firmly believed
by everyone on the east coast of England
with the exception of the inhabitants of
Hartlepool, a ship was wrecked near that
port over 150 years ago, and only one
survivor got ashore —a monkey.
England was at that time under threat
of invasion by Napoleon, and the coastal
towns had been warned to be ready to
repel any attack. No one in Hartlepool
had ever seen a monkey before, but no
one had ever seen a French spy, either,
so the townsfolk decided to take no
chances. When the monkey refused to
answer any questions a gibbet was erected
on the cliff and the monk, was hanged
thereon as a warning to Napoleon not to
stick his snout into Hartlepool.
It is useless for the Hartlepudlians to
protest that there is no evidence to sup-
port the story; people from rival east-
coast towns merely reply that they pro-
bably destroyed the evidence in order to
conceal the fact that they didn’t know the
difference between a Frenchman and a
monkey.
A few years before World War I Dur-
ham County’s leading Rugby Union
team, Hartlepool Rovers, putting a bold
front to the slur on their ancestors’ intel-
ligence, adopted a monkey as a mascot.
They took the monk, with them to all
their “away” fixtures; sometimes it
was even chained to the cross-bar of the
goal-posts and perched there throughout
the game. The Bulletin’s Ted Scorfield,
himself an old Rugby international,
recalls sitting next to the monkey at a
celebratory dinner given by the Rovers to
his own team, Percy Park, at that time
champion team of Northumberland. The
animal didn’t enjoy the speeches much,
but drank his beer like a veteran. .
JASBY.
APOTHEOSIS
I only an office nonentity,
A man-in-the-street, more or less,
But I wanted to be an identity
And have the world praise my success ;
So I sweated, I schemed and l swindled,
And falsified all the accounts;
As the cash of my shareholders dwindled
Mine rose by surprising amounts.
The widows and orphans were howling
On every front-page in the land;
The shouts of the shareholders growling
“We’ll jail the Destroyer!” were grand;
My progress to jail was imperial,
The finest that’s ever been seen,
And my life culminates as a serial,
In a “family” “home”-magazine.
I suppose l should rest on my laurels,
I’ve got to the top of the tree;
I’m weary of business-quarrels —
It’s home and the fireside for me;
I’m not up to many old capers,
But often when newsboys go by
With the wonderful afternoon-papers
I feel that I might as well die.
Where a magazine “life” is a coffin
For which good men vainly may strive,
An afternoon-scandal is often
The best proof you’re really alive;
I still could be called a tall-poppy
In my strange and spectacular way,
But I’d hardly make afternoon-copy— r
The rules have been changed since my
day.
For money no longer upsets ’em,
Or dragging your name in the mud;
There’s only one subject that gets ’em,
That's corpses all covered in blood;
And even that subject is dated.
Like quizzes on stocks, shares and
cheques,
Unless it is happily mated
With rapes and perversions of sex.
Well, of course, I’ve played tricks on the
trusting—
That’s the basis of most of my fame,
But I doubt if I’m really disgusting
Enough for the present-day game:
It’s a poem of sex-amateur sensations,
It’s the amateur-hour of the kill —
My art had, I find, limitations,
But I did have professional skill.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AN Adelaide housewife has had the un-
usual experience of finding a rail-
way-locomotive in her front-garden. One
admits to some curiosity as to her
reaction. What comment did she make?
Sydney papers told how the locomotive
got into the garden, and how it got back
on to the rails again; but not a word
about the lady. Anyway, it just shows
how combining two quite ordinary things
—a locomotive and a front-garden—pro-
duces something quite extraordinary.
Years ago a friend of mine looked at Dee
Why Lagoon (which is a quite ordinary
lagoon) and thought he saw some
elephants bathing in the distance. He
got a pair of glasses and found they
were elephants bathing in the distance.
He could even make out the rest of the
circus they belonged to. I asked him
"You weren't crippled with corns and bunions on the Kokoda, Charlie."
what he said about the matter at the time.
“There didn’t seem to be anything to
say,” he said. Perhaps the Adelaide
housewife couldn’t think of anything to
say when she saw the locomotive, either.
—“Metralia.”
»> ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: A card from a friend in
Switzerland reproduces a picture in the
Basle Museum, the dominant feature of
which is a donkey of an incredible blue.
On the other side my friend wrote of his
experiences while ski-ing at Zermatt,
when he had had a bad fall. “I am send-
ing you the picture of the little ass,” he
added, “to indicate the color of my
bruises, and where!”
“Sister Ellell”: My
patient, the Old Digger,
called to tell me that he
is now fully recovered
after his operation. I
admonished him with
“No marching on
Anzac Day,” half an-
ticipating the answer!
I was not disappointed.
“By , I will!” he
told me. “I’ve not been
waiting for forty years
to lead the battalion,
just to give it away,
because of me op. ’N’
it’s my turn to lead this
year.” Then, leaning
towards me, he added
confidentially, “//
you’re not marching
y’self, how about rid-
ing a bike beside me,
with a bottle of com-
fort?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fitz”: Forty years
back, when I was a
nipper attending Surry
Hills South primary
school, in Sydney, my
journey took me along
Devonshire-street, on
the north side of which,
between Waterloo-
street and Adelaide-
place, a blacksmith,
one Edwin Bastard,
had his stand. Further
up Devonshire - street, on the south
side, between Pearl-street and Riley-
street and near Whitefield’s Congrega-
tional Church, Jack Molloy, a farrier,
conducted his business. I do not know
what happened between Jack and Edwin ;
whether or not they had had words at
Mick Halpin’s Clarendon Hotel or the
Royal Arms run by Dan McGoldrick,
but one morning going to school I saw
a large sign outside Molloy’s which read:
“No Connection With the Bastard Across
the Road.”
♦♦♦
“J.W.”: Just to get the record straight,
cannot support statement in “Political
Points” (B. 6/4/’55) that “Never before
has a reigning sovereign dined at the
home of a Prime Minister.” See Sir
Winston’s volume The Hinge of Fate,
Chapter XXVI, in which he writes: “It
happened that on the night of July 28 I
had the honor of entertaining the King
to dinner.”
❖ ❖ *
“An Chuidh”: The query about the
letter “h” in Gaelic (B. 30/3/’55) raises
several interesting problems. The first
and most important is whether the
aspirate is a letter in any language, seeing
that its function is to vary the sound of
another letter without possessing any
sound of its own. If an “h” has a sound
it is a letter in its own right and not an
aspirate, in which case Gaelic does not
possess the letter “h.” But if the aspiration
is indicated and that indication is regarded
as a letter, then Gaelic does possess an
“h,” as Stewart allows in his Gaelic
Grammar, and Stewart remains the
classic in that field. In ancient Irish the
aspirate was indicated by a dot above the
line, as in ancient Greek, but this was
replaced long ago in Scotland by the “h”
as we know it. As modern Irish does use
the “h” The Bulletin answer requires
“ You're okay for a contract if you don't move in the next half-an-hour.
modification. It need not be emphasised
that Gaelic without aspiration would be
impossible, so largely does this enter into
the grammar of the language.
♦> ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Jay”: Is Unk White’s cartoon-page
“Natural Justice?’ (B. 30/3/’55) based on
behavior in American or Sydney Courts?
In Adelaide, without a special reason
such as deafness of witnesses or to refer
to an exhibit, barristers must ask ques-
tions and harangue juries from the Bar
table. Remarks like “take the stand,”
“raise your right hand and swear” and
“your witness” are likely to meet with the
Bench reproof “You’re not at the pictures
now.”
* ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: Come, come, “Villefair”
(B. 30/3/’55); there must have been some
string in that shop! All the frustrated
assistant had to do was wind a few
strands around the lady’s finger, in front
of that stuck curtain-knob. Then unwind
the string from the back, pushing the
knob forward at the same time, and
presto ! off it comes. The wound string
reduces the circumference of the digit;
pulling or pushing the offending ring
against resistance only hills the flesh up
in front.
[The contributor forwards no diagram
of how to wind the string in front of the
curtain-knob.]
❖ * ❖
LONG TIAtE DO READ
“Uncle Joe”: Tell Bioko’s Niece” (B.
23/3/’55) that I have been a subscriber
to The Bulletin since 1899 —56 years.
I don’t think I have missed a copy. Dur-
ing my occasional trips abroad I always
bought a copy if available, but if I
missed an odd one, those which arrived
during my absence were awaiting me on
my return, in Siam once a man hailed me
as an Australian. Asked how he knew,
he pointed to The Bulletin I was read-
ing. Just reminiscing—the difference be-
tween the general run of Englishmen and
Australians. Very few of the former can
appreciate the humor of The Bulletin
and the latter mostly think that “Punch”
is just too silly for words. Ido not in-
clude in “humor” the local or political
portion of each journal.
“Clyne”: When my young brother was
promoted from very junior clerk to junior
in a merchants’ office he decided that such
promotion should be marked in a suitable
manner. What better indication that he
had entered the ranks of men than
a weekly purchase of The Bulletin, and
so the pink-cover became part of our
domestic decoration. Came the First
World War, and Carmichael calling for
1000 volunteers. My brother was one that
answered the call, and on the day of em-
barkation, as the 17th marched down to
Woolloomooloo, he could easily be picked
out, swinging along with the famous pink-
cover of The Bulletin sticking out of
his knapsack, making a splash of color
in the ranks of khaki. The last that was
seen as the troopship pulled out was my
brother’s head through a porthole—the
only one at a porthole on the whole
side of the ship—with the pink-cover still
in evidence.
“Old Pot”: To “Bioko’s Niece”: No,
no, lady, you are very very far from a
record. I was a reader <?f The Bulletin
in my parents’ home in the very early
’eighties, and have been a constant sub 7
scriber, either through agents, or later
years direct from the head-office,
Sydney, since 1887.
“H.C.” Re the record of “Bioko’s
Niece.” I think I can beat that. I was
born in 1892 and Mother (87 years
young) told me that Dad used to bring
home The Bulletin when they were
married in 1889. When I left home in
1910, I started buying the national paper
myself, and in the letters between Father
and myself it was a “must” to discuss the
articles printed in The Bulletin. Since
Dad entered the Silence in 1917, I have
always handed, or sent, my Bulletins on
to Mother, who says her record of having
two blokes of the same name give her
The Bulletin for 66 years will take some
beating, and that if anyone can beat it,
she will wire them a lobster and a couple
of bottles of stout. In conclusion, I
thank you for the many years of interest-
ing and educational reading I have had
from The Bulletin.
“Ida D.”: I claim a longer continuous
association with The Bulletin than
either “Oldster” or “Jobber” (B.
13/4/’55). I was born in June, 1879,
and I do not remember a time when the
“Red Rag” was not brought to the house.
I scanned its pages before I could pro-
perly read, and later, when it was
“hidden” in my Father’s clothes-drawer,
I managed many a secret peep. Its fas-
cination has remained to this day, and
only once do I remember my “morals
being offended,” and that was during a
campaign against .George Reid. I can
look back now, and laugh at myself.
During a five-years’ sojourn in Patagonia
The Bulletin was read from cover to
cover, and then passed round, though
sometimes.for weeks there would not be
one in the mail, and then half-a-dozen
together, transport being so irregular
during those snow-bound winters.
“Retarf”: Mine dates from 1893. Son
of Barbara Baynton, read The Bulletin
at Woollahra (Sydney) till 1901, went to
Queensland and subscribed to it ever
since. Missed fewer than 20 copies in 61
years. Each week it was posted from
Brisbane, 1914-1920 —France, Salonika,
Italy, Alsace-Lorraine. Missed a couple
copies when in hospital at Malta, but was
able to read them at the Queensland
Agent-General’s office in the Strand. Was
in England again 1929-1934, and was
able to buy them at Australia Flouse.
Since returning have sent them to Tun-
bridge Wells and get in exchange “Punch”
and “Country Life.”
J. Fitzpatrick (aged 83): For continuity
of association with The Bulletin,
“Bioko’s Niece,” “Oldster” and “Jobber”
are eclipsed by the family to which I be-
long. I remember my father, Thomas
Fitzpatrick, of Erin Vale, Junee (N.S.W.),
being a subscriber in 1880,. and The
Bulletin has been coming to the old
home every week since—7s years.
FRUSTRATION
Here is contentment, utter and complete.
Curled at my feet
My hound, heaving a periodic sigh
The while he’s drowsing;
Full glass close by, its pleasure to
command;
And, in my hand,
A fascinating tome upon which l.
Am quierly browsing.
The softest and mellifluous music near
To charm the ear
(/ don't regard this, as some others
might,
As a distraction ).
Ensconced thus in my cushioned ease I
find,
Though, that my mind
After a while is gripped, and pretty
tight,
By stupefaction.
Oh, while I’m in this soporific state
Waft me out straight
To that enchanted realm wherein I’d
win
To dreamland’s border !
Placed horizontally upon my bed,
Pillowed my head,
I’d care no jot were I parked there still
in
Full marching-order.
But, dammit, by the time I’ve put the tyke
Out, done the hike
With the milk-bottles, cleaned my
tombstones — oh,
I’m feeling lousy.
I’ve “murdered sleep” as much as did
Macbeth
That night of death.
Now, what’s the good of reading your-
self so
Deliciously drowsy ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEM!
At Sydney’s Victoria Barracks the other
day General Woodward, G.0.C., Eastern
Command, pinned on the chest of Captain
George Cartwright the Efficiency Decora-
tion for 20 years as an officer of the
C.M.F The E.D. went on beside the
crimson ribbon, of the Victoria Cross,
won when, at 22, Cartwright shot three
German machine-gunners belonging to a
nest holding up two companies near
Peronne, bombed the post and captured
nine. He hobbies with stamp-collecting.
• •
Henry Newland, of Adelaide, for long
at the top in Australian medicine, gradu-
ated at Adelaide University, continued
his studies in London, Paris, Prague,
Vienna and the U.S., and in War I
served on Gallipoli and in other parts in
the A.A.M.C., with the rank of colonel
and the D.S.O. as legacy. Knighted in
1928, retired in 1952, he has now had
one of the highest medical honors come
his-way: the Gold Medal of the British
Medical Association, an award held a,t
present by only four other men —three
Englishmen and a New Zealander. One-
time president of the B.M.A. Federal
council, he’s just over 80.
• •
Many a loanee will recall the business-
like face and tight smile hereunder
attached —they’re the property of George
Henry Vaughan Newman (answering to
“Bill”), lately chief executive officer in
charge of the ’Wales’s 127 Westralian
BANKER
offices, now head-office manager in
Sydney. Born in Brisbane, 33 years with
the ’Wales, he knows most of outback
Queensland, a good deal of New Zealand
(four years there), was in Fiji a spell, and
as inspector-in-charge of southern N.S.W.
learnt much of the men of Monaro and
the ways of Riverine. Round about 1940
he walked into a Martin-place office,
directly opposite his present address, and
emerged private, A.I.F. He ended-up as
captain in Army Intelligence.
• •
“Pawang”: The mid-twenties seems
a good age for mathematicians. At 24
Newton had discovered the binomial
theorem and the principles of integral cal-
culus —two years earlier he had been a
farm-hand with two years at a grammar
school to his credit. Galileo was 19
when he discovered, by watching the
oscillation of a lamp suspended from the
roof of a cathedral, the value of the
pendulum for the exact measurement of
time, and at 24 he was a Professor of
Mathematics at the University of Pisa.
Albert Einstein, gone on at Princeton
(U.S.A.), was very bad at arithmetic at
school in Ulm (Germany); at 26 he be-
came world-famous with his theory of
relativity, which astounded scientists
innured to Newton’s law of gravitation,
because it added a fourth dimension —
time—to the trinity of length, breadth and
width.
It is their obsession which distinguishes
geniuses from ordinary people, but what
gives them their obsession nobody knows.
Actually Newton was more interested in
proving the chronology of the Old Testa-
ment than in the higher mathematics:
Einstein always wanted to be a musician.
He was only an average violinist, which
accounts for the comment of an un-
mathematically-minded critic, who, when
Einstein gave a recital in aid of American
war-charities, remarked that he was at a
loss to understand how the performer got
his world-fame. Before cremation*
Einstein’s brain and other vital organs
were removed for medical research and
study. The one thing they won’t discover
is how he got his obsession.
• •
Sydney Vincent Weare, appointed sub-
warden of St. George’s College, Univer-
sity of Westralia, graduated with honors
in theology from Lincoln College, Oxford,
and trained for ordination at Westcott
House, Cambridge: he had previously
been a prize-winner in the Law School
of the University College, Southampton.
In War II with Army Intelligence in the
Middle East and Western Europe (cap-
tain’s pips on demob.), he was one of the
contingent selected by Archbishop
Moline in England last year for church
work in Westralia.
• •
Arthur E. Hartley, first to be awarded
a Master of Education degree by the
Westralian University, has been combin-
ing theory with practice for more than
30 years. Landing in Perth from Lon-
don in 1925, he became a student-
teacher ; took an arts degree, lectured
in economics in the Tasmanian Univer-
sity, and returned to Perth as part-time
lecturer in the Westralian University and
lecturer in education at the Teachers’
Training College. At present he’s head-
master of the Eden Hill (W.A.) State
school.
• •
What is claimed to be the biggest deal
of its kind in Australia’s history was
brought off by Sir Frank Richardson the
other day in Melbourne when he outbid
G. J. Coles and a powerful American
retailer for Foy and Gibsons —final bid,
£4,669,950. He is used to bidding in
millions —he bought Sydney Snow Pty.,
Sydney, for £1,500,000 in 1953. Bom in
Bendigo, and a hale and hearty 53,
Richardson started as a junior salesman
with Cox Brothers when that firm of
universal providers was starting in a
small way in Fitzroy, Melbourne. Now
he is managing- director of the firm,
owners of one of the biggest stores-chains
in Australia. In War II deputy-chairman
of the Business Board of the Defence
Department, after the shindy he was sent
to Canada, the U.S. and South America
on a mission for Commonwealth
Disposals.
• •
One satisfied migrant, C. S. Eadon-
Clarke, of Geraldton (W.A.), has returned
from a visit to the U.K. with a very poor
opinion of our publicity-work on 4he
other side. Now a Geraldton municipal
councillor, F.R.G.S. and Fellow of the
Royal Empire Society, nine years in
Westralia, he was shocked by British
ignorance of Westralia and the Com-
monwealth, and the way the press plays-
up the wails of returning disgruntled
migrants. He did his best to correct this
in 67 lectures, given, under Australian
Government grant, in various parts of
Britain.
• •
“S. Quire”: “Piptok” (B. 13/4/’55)
was a bit out in his geography in stating
that W. S. Lonnie won his M.C. as a
lieutenant of the 2/43rd Battalion on
Tarakan. The 2/43rd landed on Labuan,
and later, as part of 24th Brigade, went
on to capthre Beaufort in British North
Borneo. Lonnie, captain in the 2/43rd,
was awarded his M.C. at the end of the
campaign. He will long be remembered
in Beaufort as the organiser of that Chil-
dren’s Day Carnival, held in August,
1945, at which some 4000 people were
present.
• •
Appointed to lecture in the department
of English at Adelaide University, K. G.
W. Cross. A graduate of Trinity College,
Dublin, he comes from lecturing at
Rhodes University, South Africa.
• •
“R.G.”: Retiring after 26 years with
the Commonwealth Lighthouse Service —
last nine at Gabo —55-year-old Keith
Hamilton is determined to honor an odd
vow. Torpedoed by one of the Kaiser’s
subs, in the North Sea, he floated for
three days, and when rescued swore he’d
get the traditional pair of oars, head away
from the sea, and hang up the blades
when someone asked what they were.
Now he’s caravan-travelling, with the oars.
Mrs. H. has her foot on the brake: “We’ll
settle Where there’s plenty of electricity.”
Appointed South Australian Attorney-
General and Minister for Employment
(succeeding R. J. Rudall, lately passed
on), Colin Rowe is the youngest in the
State Cabinet. Midland District’s Legis-
lative Councillor since 1948, lawyer by
training, he hails from Ardrossan, in
Yorke’s Peninsula. Just turned 44, the
new A.-G. has weighed-in willingly on
his district’s hospital and local-govern-
ment boards.
• •
Back from a busman’s-holiday in
Britain, Dr. D. H. Curnow, biochemist of
the Royal Perth Hospital. In three
months abroad he studied new bio-
chemical techniques involving the use
of radioactive isotypes in expediting
diagnosis and treatment in cases which
are sometimes beyond the reach of
medicine. He’ll use isotopes in Royal
Perth’s biochemistry department. Also,
in England, he studied the uses to which
a biochemistry department could be put
in Westralia’s future medical-school.
• •
Navigation specialist Galfrey George
Gatacre hasn’t needed his navigation
in Washington, where streets are straight,
and where he’s been Naval He’ll
be brushing-up on the science now, and
no doubt doing some reading on ship-
handling : his last seagoing command
destroyer Anzac, and captain of the 10th
Destroyer Flotilla, he has been given
command of Australia’s newest aircraft-
carrier, Melbourne; her acreage of
flight-deck and wall-like sides something
of a chaage from the long slim length of
the destroyer. The carrier is fitted with
all the latest British aids, including the
angled flight-deck and the steam catapult.
Though essentially a destroyerman,
Gatacre owns fair knowledge of the big-
’uns. He was War II navigating officer in
Renown and Nelson, and conned battle-
ship Rodney’s enormous turretted foc’s’le
through gale-driven seas to finish-off
Bismarck. D.S.C. for that, a Bar to it
off Guadalcanal, and D.S.O. in Korea.
• •
“Coll”: Old Digger, C.M.F. lieutenant-
colonel, and retired postal official, T. C.
Wilson, of Caversham (W.A.), has made
a second marriage in England, at 77. He
and the bride were childhood friends in
Yorkshire 62 years ago. In Westralia in
1893, he’d had years of militia service
there before commanding the old Third
Div. Sigs. in France and Flanders. His
property at Caversham, near Perth, in-
cludes the early Caversham House (partly
built by convicts), an orchard and a vine-
yard. The first Mrs. Wilson was for years
a leader of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, and Slate president of the Wes-
tralian R S.L. Women’s Auxiliaries.
• •
When George Middleton went to Israel
in 1953 under United Nations auspices
his mission was to apply a new technique
to what was there an age-old craft. Bom
in Wales, architect by profession, he per-
fected his “stabilised-earth” technique
while working at the Common-
wealth Experimental Housing Station
at Ryde (N.S.W.). His Build Your
House of Earth, published in 1953,
BUILDER
was an eye-opener to those who had never
seen an adobe or pise house. Most earth-
built houses in Australia are the work of
individual homebuilders; Government
housing-authorities and building-contrac-
tors haven’t taken to the idea. But in
Ceylon, where Middleton has spent the
last 12 months demonstrating his methods
and training instructors, the Government
intends to use the Middleton-technique
in large-scale housing projects.
“M.”: Naval officers, when they do
branch out from Service confines, hobby
strangely—one I know pens verse, an-
other practises (presumably in the bilges)
the bagpipes. Lieutenant-Commander N.
W. Rockingham, R.N. (here pictured), is
a flying-man, so it’s perhaps not so
strange that he looks for his hobby in the
air—collecting butterflies. A top-flight
lepidopterist, Fellow of the Royal Enty-
mological Society, he owns (by virtue of
his wide-ranging profession) a very com-
BUTTERFLIER
prehensive collection, and exchanges
specimens wherever he goes. He has
specialised, and is an authority on, the
distribution and dispersal of the various
species. As for his own winging, present
posting is training-officer in Australian
carrier Vengeance, with, late in War 11,
a bit over two /ears with R.A.F. Fighter
Command. Experience of normal execu-
tive-officer’s duties was gained on Russian
convoys, in the Mediterranean, and in
H.M.S. Scylla (flagship of Vian of the
Cossack) at the Normandy entry.
• •
Naturalisation has brought Polish-
born Stefan Fordymacki within reach of
a Government job. Captain in the Polish
Regular Army in 1939, he was captured
in the siege of Warsaw, and spent five
and a half years as a p.-0.-w. In 1945
he was given major’s rank in the
American occupation forces in Germany.
He has now applied for a position as a
postal-officer in W.A.
• •
“Abie”: New editor of Melbourne
Harbor Trust’s small-circulation, high-
quality magazine “Port of Melbourne
Quarterly” is exile Kiwi journalist Bill
Jordan. After about five years of editor-
ship Tom Dwyer has gone up to assistant
to the chairman of the Harbor Trust
Commission. Hefty, jovial, Jordan para-
chuted into hair-raising escapades in
Nazi-occupied territory and was de-
mobbed with M.B.E. and M.C. and, from
the Greeks, the Golden Order of Valor
and the War Cross.
« •
The faith of Westralian citizens who
provided funds to send brilliant 16-year-
old pianist Wendy Nash to continue her
musical education in London has been
justified. She has won this year’s award
of the Franz Liszt Scholarship in the
Royal Academy of Music. The award
will give her three years’ free instruction
and further assistance for another two
years.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 76, in Adelaide, Vernon Bruer, born in a
migrant windjammer, and for 26 years secre-
tary of Advertiser Newspapers, Ltd. One-
time president of the Adelaide division of tne
Australasian Institute of Cost Accountants.
In Sydney, at 66, Rev. C. H. Tomlinson, for
just under 40 years a C. of E. clergyman, and,
at the end, rector of St. Mark’s, in the Sydney
suburb of Northbridge. For the past 15 years
he had presided over the N.S.W. Temperance
Alliance.
At 73, in Melbourne, Don Blackie, the
olf-spin bowler who, at 46, was the oldest
Australian to make his debut in Test cricket.
He skittled the wickets of the English team
of Percy Chapman in 1928. Among his later
victims were Sutcliffe, Hammond, Jardine,
Chapman, Larwood and Duckworth. In Tests
he took 14 wickets for an average of 31.7.
At Whangarei (N-Z.), at 102, Jessie Winifred
McKenzie, one of two survivors of the
Scottish emigrants who, dissatisfied with condi-
tions in Nova Scotia, where they had gone
under the supervision of Rev. Norman McLeod,
sailed for South Australia to form a community
there. The scheme failed, the vessel conveying
them was sold for debt, and under McLeod
many of them sailed for the Bay of Islands,
N.Z. The Government, under Sir George Grey,
allotted the party 47,000 acres in 1856. So was
established the township of Nova Scotian
Scots, in Waipu, near Whangarei.
At 62, in Melbourne, John Bevan Cussen,
-leading Melbourne lawyer and former associate
to Justice Gavan Duffy. Second son of the
late Sir Leo Cussen, he flew with the R*A.F.
in War I.


A DISTURBING QUESTION
v
txcuse me, centcemen, but
Mo\N MAN/ H-BomBS wouuP IT TAKE
TO ALL KHOVJLZP6E Of
'P v
H-BPM6S f


ABORIGINALITIES
ATATURALISTS all over Australia are
becoming alarmed at the indiscrim-
inate shooting of our wild-life by New
Australians. Many migrants from
densely-populated European countries
are completely devoid of any love of
Nature as we know it, and they’ll shoot
anything-that moves. They’re not wan-
tonly destructive—they shoot mainly for
the pot—but they’ve got no respect for
our game-laws, and they’ll eat anything
in fur or feathers, not excepting the crow.
The kookaburra is a particular favorite,
and perhaps understandably so—the
blacks held him to be the tastiest bird
in the bush, as the crow was the most
despised. But what logical pothunter
would shoot a willy-wagtail for a stew?
Yet these people do. The same thing
occurred during the Italian invasion of the
Westralian wheatbelt during the depres-
sion. They denuded the bush of its wild-
life and there are still districts where there
still isn’t a bird to be seen, 25 years after
the massacre.—“Kelms.”
* * * *
“Cock-a-doodle”: My neighbor told
me his rooster is so lazy that every
morning, when the one on the farm
next to his crows, he just listens and nods
his head in approval.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: A pair of peewees, old
friends of mine, returned to the garden
after a fruitless breeding-season. Two
lots of eggs had been taken by curra-
wongs ; the third clutch hatched-out, but
butcher-birds devoured the babies. Both
birds were lean and battered and, in
addition, the cock had acquired a badly-
injured leg, probably in one of his many
tussles with predators. The injury appar-
ently made him morose, for while his
wife followed me around as before, watch-
ing for what the spade might uncover,
he sulked in a near-by tree. It wasn’t until
his leg had healed that he accepted me
again as a trustworthy friend.
* * * *
“Alp the Adrian”: Rather surprised to
read in the “S. M. Herald” report of the
plane-disaster in the Warwick district of
Queensland (off-track on the way l from
Townsville to Brisbane) that it occurred
on “Mount Superbus.” Though I’m a
Warwick native and lived there for a big
slice of my early life — non Superbus!
The explanation could be that some cub-
reporter took liberties with Mount
Dumaresq or Mount Sturt —they are the
only two “mountains” within the limits
indicated —or maybe some zealous pro-
gress association has been attempting a
bit of renaming. Sturt and Dumaresq are
two historic names in Australian annals,
and should certainly be maintained.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat broke out in a
rash, and, after applications of milk-
thistle sap, wet tobacco-ash, vaseline,
mutton-fat, Stockholm-tar and some other
things failed to do any good, he went to
the nearest doctor. After putting Mat
through the hoop, the doctor got on to
his diet. “You could have an unsuspected
allergy,” he explained. “What’s that?”
“Oh, you can be allergic to certain
things. Sugar, perhaps, or some kind of
soap. We have to try to find what it
it.” Mat couldn’t get it. The doctor
explained some more, then, “It’s like the,
way some people affect other people,'
see?” “Oh, you mean when somebody
gets on your pulse?” “Er, yes. I sup-
pose there are men, for instance, who —
er—upset you, so to speak.” “That’s
right,” Mat declared. “Well, what do you
do? Avoid them, don’t you?” Mat
thought hard. “Howinell can you avoid
a boss?” he demanded.
s * * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: What is—or was—
Bainigan Day? As a kid I was camping
with an old chap who was reputed to be
the product of an English public-school,
and talked like it. At one stage we were
short of tucker and the ’roos were shy,
and as we tumed-in on an empty pantry
the old bloke said that it looked like the
next day would be Bainigan Day. I
wasn’t in the mood for asking questions
then, and I never got around to it. Any-
body got a clue?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A little addendum to A.
Holmes’s excellent description of the
bandy-bandy (“Snakes, Fact and Fiction,”
B. 23 /3 / ’55). It is also known as the
moonlight-snake, though whether it
travels about in the moonlight more than
"See them two houses? Well , Trelooars' ez the middle Wan.”
any other foraging snake is doubtful;
possibly the bands make the bandy-bandy
more visible. In my youth nobody
doubted the reptile’s deadliness, and only
the hardened cynics questioned the
universal belief that the victim threw a
fit for every white band on the snake’s
body. I recall a young blood standing
in the doorway of the local school of
arts, quietly skiting by idly running a
dead bandy through his hands. “Where
This policy also gives you complete
cover against flying-saucers
did y’ get the string of beads, Jack?”
asked a belle archly. “Y’d think it was,
wouldn’t you?” grinned the young fellow.
“But it’s a snake.” “Snake, my eye!”
scoffed the damsel. “Think I don’t know
a string of wooden beads?” She snatched
the black-and-white loop. That was the
first time I saw a girl faint.
“H.E.”: In his “Snakes Fact and
Fiction” (B. 23/3/’55) A. Holmes states
that there are no black-snakes in Tas-
mania. It seems to follow, then, that the
sable slitherers with the red undercarriage
that we used to shoot around the button-
grass swamps on the Specks’ wild West
Coast must have been a new kind of
water-buffalo or something.
* * * s
“Kelms”: Establishment of the age of
the Keilor Skull —found in 1942 in a sand-
pit at Keilor, near Melbourne —at a mere
9000 years (B. 30/3/’55) doesn’t destroy
the skull’s value. It may not have be-
longed to one of the earliest arrivals;
in any case it’s still a valuable link. It’s
similar to the skull of an ancient Javanese
type known as Wadjak Man, which is
linked by another type, Solo Man, to a
far more primitive being, known as
Pithecanthropus. That bloke probably
existed about 150,000 years ago and is
closely related to Sinanthropus, a skeleton
found near Peking. This gives us a pos-
sible line of descent from well inside Asia
down the Malayan Peninsula, through
Java to Australia. Supporting evidence is
that tools similar to those used in Malaya
and Java some 40,000 years ago were still
in use among Australian aborigines after
the arrival of Europeans.
* * * *
“Burna”: A presentation-set of drums
(B. 6/4/’55) would tell the Weather
Bureau nothing new. The principle that
many substances react according to
moisture-content of the air is used in the
hygrograph, an instrument which traces
on a chart a permanent record of varia-
tions in relative humidity. It consists of
a small bundle of human hair, usually
about Bin. long—it might possibly come
from the head of an orchestral drummer
—chemically freed of grease and fixed at
one end. The other end operates a pen-
arm through simple lever arrangement.
Only requiring that the hair be washed
occasionally, it is very accurate except in
the extreme ranges, and is also the prin-
ciple usually used in the ordinary clock-
face type of hygrometer. That grinding
noise is not the machinery. It is meteor-
ologists raging because the public just
will not understand that although high
moisture-content accompanies rain, it
does not necessarily rain because the
moisture-content is high.
* * * *
Mention of the discovery
of an old Cobb and Co. coach in Vic-
toria set me wondering whether the one
I saw about a decade ago is still in a
back annex at the Sydney Technical
College. One side had been restored to
all the glistening splendor that became a
carrier of Her Majesty’s mails ; the other
was left untouched —a reminder of road-
conditions in those brave old days. One
point struck me: no springs. Instead,
body was slung on wide leather-straps,
six thicknesses on each side, and they
were still in good condition.
* * * *
“Spooks”: The £l2OO Westralian Gift
footrace has attracted an entrant who
describes himself as a kangaroo-shooter,
aged 64, a veteran of World War I. The
local butcher at the address given has
stated that he knew him ; he called almost
daily for chops, of which the butcher
guessed he ate about 21b. a day. “He is
short and wiry, looks about 50, and
is never seen without his pack of
billies on his back. He once told
me that he was a good runner, and
a couple of years ago he challenged
a man- at Waneroo to a race. The
man was on horseback, and was
about to dismount to accept the
offer, but was told to stay on the
horse for the race.” The billies
seem to have hallmarked the ’roo-
shooter, as several housewives have
noticed them, and commented on
their spotless gleaming appearance.
The general opinion is that he lives
in the open. We in the West are
looking forward to the event, and
the entrance of the Mystery
Stranger.
* * * *
“Roni”: Jacky, the small, skinny
70-year-old abo. who always wore
the cast-off boots of his two 6ft.
stockmen sons, was criticising some
of the young fellows on the station
for the way they mounted. “Cripes
you’d think you was climbin’
ladder!” he growled. “I’ll show you
how it should be done.” He clutched the
reins, grasped the saddle, put one foot in
the stirrup, paused a moment, and made
a tremendous spring. It almost tore his
right leg out of the socket. The horse
was standing on the toe of his outsize
boot.
* * * *
A/TENTIONED by Peter Bladen (B
16/3/’55) kangarooer Tom Kent
after whom Kent Town, near Fowler’s
Bay (S.A.), was named, was one of Aus-
tralia’s finest bushmen and horse-lovers.
His stamping-ground extended from
Port Lincoln, in S.A., to Israelite Bay, in
W.A., and as far north as desolation and
the meagre water-supplies would permit.
His bushcraft, integrity and personal
charm were of such high order that he
was gladly accepted as the intimate coun-
sellor and friend of every native tribe in
that wide area; he and they freely
exchanged smoke-signals or yabber-sticks
when any information was required.
This unusual collaboration helped in
the arrest of Josh Beard, the S.A. mur-
derer, a contemporary of Butler; the
technique of these two murderers and
the sequels followed very much the same
pattern.
Beard—like Kent, a kangarooer—in-
duced a prospective victim to finance and
accompany him on a kangarooing expedi-
tion into the outback, starting from
Streaky Bay (S.A.). Beard returned alone,
and later on, imbibing too freely in Tom
Mudge’s pub, tried to sell sundry articles
of jewellery. When he sobered, Beard
became alarmed over this, and, leaving
word that he was travelling west, left the
town in that direction, but about 25 miles
out turned sharply and travelled north-
east, evidently making for Port Augusta,
Because of something he picked up
by smoke-signals from the tribe, on
walkabout, concerning Beard’s partner,
Kent left the bush beyond Wilgena and
made for Streaky Bay. Meantime Ser-
geant Clarke heard from his black-
trackers that Kent was returning and
intercepted him, and they both struck
through the bush to cut Beard’s tracks.
With Kent’s blackboy and the police-
boy leading, they covered over 50 miles
before sighting Beard. They arranged
that Kent, unarmed, should ride around
through the scrub and disarm him whilst
Sergeant Clarke came up from the rear
at the appropriate moment. This worked,
and the murderer started on his one-way
trip to Adelaide.
F. G. W.
HARVEST STORM
The cloud’s long arms embraced the hills
(The acquiescent earth lay under);
It poured its lifeblood in her creeks
And shook with passion in its thunder.
While we who watched were greatly moved;
• So many times we too had loved.
The wheat, that had through winter strained,
Had clutched the earth to feed its grain,
Had pressed the more when came the spring
(But rare and meagre came the rain),
Lies with its head bowed to its root;
Rank, green weeds sprawl upon its fruit.
The cloud at last exhausted goes;
Reluctantly its fingers cling
To the last hill. The golden sun
Shines but to sink. Enough to bring
Felicities to lovers’ joys.
Across the paddocks shout ovr boys.
That night the cleanest, shining moon
That ever left the earth came out,
It drew my love and me to look;
A thousand frogs woke up to shout
In silver nets of raindrops drawn*
To sjng and mate and lay their spawn.
The earth still tingled from the rain,
It stirred and moved with growing things.
Tne kind of night when men slip out,
rhe kmd of night when wives grow wings.
We, heedless on the still-wet grass,
Like a young lover and his lass.
N.S.W.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.


Old lush songs
ANOTHER FALL OF RAIN
Tune collected by John Meredith from Leo Dixon, Balmain, Sydney.
Mr. Dixon learned this song from his father in the Orange (N.S.W.) district.
The tune is a variant of an Irish song, “The Little Old Log Cabin in the Dell”
( or « on the Hill”). The words are in “Banjo” Paterson’s “Old Bush Songs.”
TACKY LEE, singer of bush-songs (B.
J 23/3/’55) has a pleasant memorial
near Booligal (N.S.W.). On my old home
one of the paddocks has a comer named
after him —he had camped there when he
was tank-sinking with his team.
The corner is a claypan rise, providing
a run-off for the cane-grass swamp on
the western side, which is in turn circled
by a good stand of saltbush to the south.
Another depression grows old-man salt-
bush and a scattered clump of box-trees,
known as the Wild-horse Clump—it
derived this name from a short-sighted
parson who mistook the spindly outlines
of trees on the horizon for galloping
horses.
Jacky Lee’s Swamp used to be a
favorite nesting - place for emus; a
couple of good kicks from a hoary claw
served to batter a cluster of cane-grass
into a nest for the lazy birds. The
area was always a favorite place for the
spelling station-hacks, too; they often
poked-up in search of the green pick that
grew in the swamp after a shower of rain.
Alma.
* * * *
“Hortus”: That photographer in
Rhodesia wasn’t the first to discover the
useful properties of The Bulletin’s red
cover (B. 30/3/’55). Dr. W. E. G. Sin-
clair, of Fairfield (Vic.), while attached
to a wireless-unit in the Mesopotamia
campaign of World War I—he wasn’t a
medico then—developed films in his tent
by the light of a BuLLETiN-wrapped hur-
ricane-lamp. His vest-pocket camera
did a good job. On his return he made a
series of lantern-slides from his negatives,
tracing the campaign up the Tigris and
Euphrates. I projected them for the lan-
tern-lectures he gave.
* * * *
“Lancewood”: That small bird whose
cheerful song induced “Zanda” to join in
the chorus (B. 30/3/’55) was the im-
ported goldfinch (thistle-finch). It is
native .to Europe, Egypt and Persia, and
doubtless its song was a paean of joy at
finding here so much food with so little
effort.
* * * *
“J.W.”: Delegates from Townsville
and branches near by travelled to Hugh-
enden on the first stage of their journey
to the 38 th Annual Conference of
Diggers at Winton in Queensland’s west.
Winton Diggers arranged road-transport,
cars leaving Winton at 5 p.m. Thursday
to meet train arriving Hughenden 3 a.m.
Friday; expected time of arrival back
in Winton, 7 a.m., Friday. Rain between
Winton and Corfield was the first spot
of trouble, and drivers had to return.
Transport-officer had a friend in Hughen-
den, a pastoralist with two small planes,
and this bloke promised to fly the chaps
over in relays. Next spoke in the wheel
was over an inch of rain in Hughendett,
which prevented his getting the planes off
the drome. As a last resort a special
train was commissioned. It jumped the
rails between Alba and Stamford.
Diggers in Winton shrugged their
shoulders, and left the Commissioner of
Railways to get the delegates to their
destination, which he managed to do
about 8 a.m. on Saturday morning. The
Winton blokes, having just built a new
memorial hall, which was due to be
opened by State-president Sir Raymond
Huish, were mainly anxious because they
wanted as many of their comrades as pos-
sible to be present. Hall duly opened, with
everybody present; nobody injured in
any of the mishaps.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Twenty years ago the
youngsters on Eyre’s Peninsula (S.A.)
used to call the brown currawong, or rain-
bird, by the native name Cooladie.
Would this help Peter Bladen in his specu-
lation as to source of the name Coorabie?
ANOTHER FALL OF FAIN
Oh, the weather had been sultry for a
fornight’s time or more,
And the shearers had been driving might
and main,
For some had got the century who’d
ne’er got it before,
And now all hands were wishing for the
rain.
Chorus:
For the boss is getting rusty, and the
ringer’s caving in,
For his bandaged wrist is aching with the
pain,
And the second man, I fear, will make it
hot for him
Unless we have another fall of rain.
A few had taken quarters and were
coiling in their bunks
When we shore the six-tooth wethers
from the plain,
And if the sheep get harder, then a few
more men will funk,
Unless we get another fall of rain.
But the sky is clouding over, and the
thunder’s muttering loud,
And the clouds are driving eastward o’er
the plain,
And X see the lightning flashing from the
edge of yon black cloud,
And I hear the gentle patter of the rain.
So, lads, put on your stoppers, and let us
to the hut,
Where we’ll gather round and have a
friendly game,
While some are playing music and some
play ante-up,
And some are gazing outwards at the
rain.
But now the rain is over, let the pressers
spin the screw,
Let the teamsters back the wagons in
again,
And we’ll block the classer’s table by the
way we’ll put them through^
For everything is merry since the rain.
And the boss he won’t be rusty when his
sheep they all are shorn,
And the ringer’s wrist won’t ache much
with the pain
Of pocketing his cheque for fifty pounds
or more,
And the second man will press him hard
again.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each week.]
AFTER GALLIP.
WHEN fighting ceased on Gallipoli
’ * towards the end of 1915, and the
evacuation had been ordered, the medical
services at the base on Lemnos had orders
to prepare field-hospitals for the large
“That concludes our actuality broadcast from the nuclear
proving-ground ....”
casualties which we expected the Turks
to inflict on the departing troops.
To our surprise there were no casual-
ties ; the island filled with British and
Australian soldiers; there was a real
holiday feeling as the New Year
approached.
Captain Fletcher and I were two Scot-
tish medical officers in one of the field-
hospitals; the rest of the staff were
Englishmen, who did not seem to regard
the coming of the New Year as worthy
of a celebration such as Fletcher and I
were in the habit of enjoying in the Old
Country.
On New Year’s Eve, about half-past-
eleven, two disconsolate Scots wandered
in the dark. They could be heard ex-
changing. in Gaelic remarks on the
absence of a drop of the sacred fluid, the
Water of Life. Then sounds of revelry
came to them, and
they made for the
large marquee near
the road.
The miserable
Scots, ourselves,
found a crowd of
Australian soldiers
celebrating around
what looked like a
cask of beer. A
red-headed Austra-
lian medical officer
hailed us with, “Are
you Scots?” We ad-
mitted it. He asked,
“Highlanders?” We
said we were. His
name, he said, was
Cameron.
“And when,” I
asked, “did you leave
the Old Country?”
“I was never in
the Old Country,” he
told us. “Neither
was my father, but
my grand father
came from Locha-
ber.”
When we told him
our names, he made
no remark upon mine, but at once asked
Fletcher, “Are you by any chance a
Fletcher of Achallader?”
Fletcher replied, “Well, though I was
born in Mull, my father was born and
brought-up at Achallader.”
Cameron grasped him by the hand, and
said, “Shake again! My mother was a
Fletcher of Achallader. Come with me!”
He conducted us to a bell-tent about a
hundred yards away, and pushed us in.
There we found another Australian, at
a table reading a book by candlelight. We
were introduced to Robert Mclntyre. We
were within a quarter of an hour of
January, 1916.
“Now, Bob,” said Cameron, “you know
what is wanted!”
Bob pulled out a kitbag, extracted an
unopened bottle of Johnny Walker, col-
lected tin mugs and thermos cups.
At this point, the sound of bagpipes
could be heard, at no great distance.
Cameron rushed out; in a few minutes
he was back, with two pipers, one of
them a young lad who could dance.
Cameron got him to put off his boots,
and we were able to bring in the New
Year with music and dancing and a dram.
And at this stage, as we were wishing
yet another Happy New Year, the most
awful language broke through the door
of the tent —an officer of the Highland
Light Infantry, telling us the Colonel was
furious because the pipers could not be
found when he wanted them. Cameron
came to the rescue, “Do have a dram
while I apologise and explain. We are
all Highlanders and when we heard the
pipes . . .”
Peace was restored. The officer drank,
and went with his pipes.
I will say no more, except that I learned
next day that one of the party fell into
a pond, wandered further in the night, fell
two steps down into a pen of goats, and
stayed with then), for their warmth.
We parted with our friends next day
and never met them again, although our
Division (29th) and their Division went
off to France and fought near each other
through the Somme.
McN. (Scotland).


Have you tried
e ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers ! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke —and to offer
—these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
HR
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street,
London, W.l.
AS PULL OP CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
Missing Friend
PATTERSON, Ernest R.,—Will ERNEST
PATTERSON, or anyone knowing his
address, please (fontact his brother Jack
at 133 Main Street, Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane?
Established 1863
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
35-
jACKSOPi $
OSUMJVAff
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
'PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Coal Output and Shares
nrHE improved figures of Cale-
-*■ donian Collieries, Ltd. (page
16, this issue), have created a
flutter of interest in coal shares.
Coal companies in N.S.W. have
been doing bfetter generally
since tlje beginning of 1952, as
comments in The Bulletin on
the affairs of J. and A. Brown
Abermain-Seaham Colliers, Ltd.,
have indicated.
Though it has been found
necessary to restrict output of
certain types of coal, demand
for high-quality gas-coal, such
as Greta coal, continues to
increase. In the six months to
December 31 last production of
black coal in Australia was
10,314,000 tons, compared with
9,992,000 tons in the relative
period of 1953-54. In New
South Wales corresponding
figures were 7,824,000 tons and
7,753,000 tons respectively. In
1953-54 output of black coal in
the Commonwealth was a
record at 19,419,000 tons, and
nearly all the output was con-
sumed within the country or sold
abroad.
New South Wales is the chief
coal-producing State, and since
March, 1947, the N.S.W.
industry has been under the
supervision of the Joint Coal
Board,. an authority controlled
jointly by the Commonwealth
and N.S.W. Governments. It
is the responsibility of the board
to “ensure that the coal of the
State is conserved, developed,
worked, distributed and used to
the best advantage in the public
interest, and to promote the wel-
fare of the workers in the
industry.”
The board regulates produc-
tion and controls prices and dis-
tribution. Two significant de-
velopments in the industry
occurred at the end of 1951 and
me beginning ot 1952.
In December, 1951, follow-
ing recommendations from the
Coal Board, the Common-
wealth Government amended the
Income Tax Assessment Act,
with effect as from the beginning
of the 1951-52 income-year The
main purpose of (his amendment
™ the coal industry was to
a^ow expenditure on mining
P lan > “““ devel °Tw An
mining - The principal result is
to rec j uce the burden of taxation
permitting the writing-
off wast j ng an( j special assets
essen tial to development. The
g rea t e st benefit is received by
new m j nes an( j those which are
un( jergoing reorganisation and
development.
The other move was the deci-
sion of the board, in January,
19 5 2 j to revise its price-fixing
policy. Prices are now fixed at
a level designed to provide a
profit, before income-tax, of 6s.
a ton, or 25 p.c. on capital
employed, whichever is the
greater. In addition, dividends
are limited to 10 p.c., unless the
approval of the board is
obtained. These principles apply
only to underground mines.
Between 1950 and 1952 coal
prices in N.S.W. took a leap to
nearly double their former level,
but in 1953 and 1954 there were
successive declines in the price
because of lower costs of pro-
duction.
As a result of the taxation
concessions granted in 1951,
large capital expenditure out of
revenue has been a feature of
the N.S.W. industry over the
past three years. During 1953-54
the total outlay was £3,991,000,
the highest figure since the Coal
Board began operations. “If the
industry is to continue to
improve its efficiency, continu-
ing expenditure on at least this
scale will be required,” the Coal
Board reports. It approves
particularly the large expen-
diture on coal-washing plants
(apparently by J. and A. Brown,
principally).
The Miners’ Federation im-
peded the mechanical extraction
of pillar coal for 13 years, but
on September 20, 1954, work
began at 10 mines either on
actual mechanical extraction or
preparation for it. The federa-
tion withdrew its ban following
“Live more quietly , and no running wild when Marilyn
Monroe comes to Australia next July."
an award of the Coal Industry
Tribunal which increased the
rate of attendance-allowance.
One result of the mechanical
extraction of pillar coal should
be a greater incentive towards
mechanisation in mines which
hitherto have been cautious in
their approach to such expendi-
ture Another should be
increased efficiency in mines
where mechanisation is now
complete.
Some interesting production-
figures for 1953-54 from the last
report of the Joint Coal Board:
Output Average
per Price
Output Man- F.o.r.
(’OOO shift. Colliery.
Tons). Tons. s. d.
Joint Coal Board 974 5.81 54 10
J. & A Brown . . 1,472 2.48 68 6
A. I & S. . . 1,283 3.86 50 6
Caledonian .. 1,196 2.57 70 7
B. 1,192 2.60 62 8
Hebburn .. . . 564 2.47 69 9
State Mines . . 554 3.38 63 8
All others . . 6,113 3.44 59 2
The precise reasons for the
higher manshift output and
lower prices in the collieries of
Joint Coal Board subsidiaries
isn’t clear, but manshifts lost
through strikes, compensation,
sick-leave, absenteeism, etc.,
were much lower than in the
other mines.
From the investor’s point of
view, conditions in the coal
industry have improved dramati-
cally over the past four years.
But there is still much rehabili-
tation and reorganisation to be
achieved before it can be said
to be in a strong position. Then
there is the ceiling of 10 p.c. on
ordinary dividends. This may
be raised with the consent of
the J.C.8., but in what circum-
stances is not clear.
The position of coal com-
panies should, nevertheless, con-
tinue to improve over the next
few years, provided existing
conditions remain. So long as
costs go on being reduced the
demand for coal should steadily
increase.
Ampol
Last week the shares in Ampol
Petroleum and Ampol Explora-
tion sold at the same figure (165.)
for a time. The Exploration
shares are now ex rights. When
the new issue is taken up there
will be 12,000,000 Exploration
ss. shares, of which Ampol
Petroleum, assuming it takes up
its full quota, will own
8,400,000. Ampol Petroleum
has an issued capital ot
10,942,400 ss. fully-paid ords.,
650,000 f.-p. £1 6 p.c. cum. prefs.,
and 1,500,000 option-certificates
—the holders of £1,500,000 of
6 p.c. unsecured notes are
entitled to convert into ss. ords..
at a premium of 10s. between
December, 1959, and December,
1961.
Northwest Tantalum
Operations have come to an
abrupt stop at Wodgina (W.A.),
where Northwest Tantalum,
N.L., began mining tantalum
early this year. During the period
January to April 2 it milled
1743 tons of ore for concentrates
estimated to contain 22811 b. of
65 p.c. tantalite, valued at £4500.
Operating costs were twice this
return at £9OOO.
The yield of 1.31 b per ton of
ore cannot be improved upon
from the Wodgina material,
the directors state, and that
grade of ore obviously will not
pay. . . ,
The Wodgina mine in the past
was responsible for most of the
tantalite that has beeh. produced
in Australia —270 tons out of
293 tons —and it has been the
world’s greatest single source of
tantalite. The area has been
worked since 1905, but most
intensively since 1931, when Dr.
Buller Murphy’s co., Tantalite,
Ltd., took over.
From July, 1938, to December,
1940, Tantalite, Ltd., treated
1940 tons of an average grade of
9.41 b. concentrate per long
ton. A wartime Commonwealth
Government project from May
to October, 1944, treated 2507
tons of an average grade of 31b.
concentrate a ton. Recent re-
coveries have been far below
these averages.
Northwest Tantalum was
floated in December, 1953, and
its prospectus mentioned con-
fidently a profit of £206,000 in
the first year of regular opera-
tions, and smaller but substan-
tial profits in subsequent years.
A mining engineer spoke of it
as an attractive proposition and
sound mining venture. An issue
of 253,200 ss. shares was quickly
oversubscribed in Melbourne on
the strength of the prospectus,
and another 280,800 were taken
by Blue Spec Mining Co., 60,000
fully-paid shares were taken in
part-consideration by the ven-
dors, and another 6000 fully-
paids were allotted to the
University of W.A. The vendor,
Tantalite, Ltd., got £37,740 in
cash.
The Wodgina property appears
to have been worked-out, on the
basis of present recoveries and
costs, at the time it was
taken over. The co.’s direc-
tors state that any reduction
in expenses would not be
sufficient to offset the disappoint-
ingly low grade of the Wodgina
material. To operate the co.’s
Tabba Tabba and Strelley de-
posits would call for additional
plant and water-supply to pro-
duce a field concentrate which
would need transporting to, and
upgrading at, the Wodgina mill.
New estimates of capital expen-
diture are awaited.
The ss. shares, paid to 4s. 6d.,
sold at 3s. in March. They
dropped to Is. last week.
Oil Search
The decision by Australasian
Petroleum to abandon Omati
No. 1 well is undoubtedly dis-
appointing. The well was
drilled to 14,352 ft. —“as deep as
is operationally possible”—and
testing of some upper forma-
tions will be carried out before
the hole is finally plugged.
It was about a year ago—in
May, 1954 —that enormous gas-
pressure closed the hole at
13,743 ft., jamming a drill-pipe,
and operations were suspended
until surface-control equipment
could be brought from overseas
to enable drilling to be renewed
—in dogleg fashion around the
stuck drill-pipe.
But when the gas-horizon was
reached in the dogleg, only a
small pressure of gas, with evi-
dence of condensate content, was
found. It appears that the
Papuan mudstone, or “heaving
shale,” which had closed-in on
the stuck drill-pipe in the first
place, had shut-off the gas from
the second drill-hole also.
“Heaving-shale” has been a
menace in all Papuan drilling
operations, and it has been en-
countered in many parts of the
country and at all depths. It
makes drilling slow, difficult and
expensive. At Omati No. 2
drilling is still going on, and the
hole is now down to 9581 ft. —an
increase of 747 ft. in the month.
This drilling-rate is slow by
mainland standards, apparently
because of the different nature
of the country through which
the drill has to pass. Omati 140. 2
is not far from the No. T hole,
and it should be possible to
anticipate strata - difficulties to
some extent from the experience
gained in the first hole.
A new well has been spudded-
in at Aramia, 25 miles north of
the Fly River, and 80 miles west
of Omati. Recently it had
reached a depth of 259 ft.
Oil Search, Ltd., has a 10 p.c.
interest in Australasian Petro-
leum and Island Exploration.
Its ss. shares have dropped to
under 10s.


UVHMI
batches of fashion
% . \
s xX'f/y
' 1 fi
c V,.
' ■> V'-Wi
4
B;
*>2l\
Wi<
mm
\
'VU>
iilllllil
■^jzssat
-jp* *S-7 '■■ ,*.Z Jl
«ilw||ippli®
X, /V. ' / x**»
r. /
H
3S>
1:
Wi
wm
A Lavina Watch
is not only the per-
fect timepiece, but
also an odornment, a
piece of jewellery
0? created for the cur-
rent mode.
Here are shown two
of the latest Lavina
models that conform to
the trend of daintier
watches for ladies and
larger watches for men.
Ask at your favourite
jewellers or watchmakers
tP see the newest Lavina
17-jewelled Swiss Master-
piece.
Laznna Prices range from:
Men’s— £l4/5/-; Ladies’—
£l4/10/-.
Choice of Millions since 1852
L31.&2
a
SKIS
Circular Chart* for ail typ««
•f Recording liutrumonti
to# Mf cUua 9* MidMwqf
METER CHARTS • Spociakj
JACWMO^ULUVAN^t^
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLAUDIO GUGA late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that WILMA LOUISE
GUGA has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1825 of 1954 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 6th day of
July 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN
HICKEY & SON, Solicitors, 11c Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DO'UGHAN,
Registrar.
16,000 helping hands...
You don't need to be "a captain of
industry" to have an account with the
Bank of New South Wales every
responsible person can enjoy its advan-
tages. Businessmen big and small,
farmers, housewives, employees, even
juniors can open their own accounts,
and already more than half-a-million
customers know that "you can bank on
the ’Wales'
In Australia, New Zealand, Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea over 8,000
pairs of hands are at your service when
you consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5507C
in * business
on the land
in the home
when
travelling
TOLLEY’S
SMC I At
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
TOLLEY’S...
THE WORD
FOR BRANDY
T5T.38.12
THE FUTURE OF AUSTRALIAN STEEL
By J. P. ABBOTT
IN the excellent article under
the above title published in
The Bulletin on March 30,
1955, it is stated inter alia: “To
this former Federal Member
J. P. Abbott, who has accepted
the Dickinson reports in toto
has an answer.”
My reply to this is that while
I accepted the factual data in
Mr. Dickinson’s brilliant reports
on the steel industry, I disagreed
with some of the suggestions he
made to overcome the shortages.
And, as far as possible, I used
“It costs a darned lot of money these days to live
on the breadline
the RHP C'omnanv’s own
figures to "establish the that
ngures to establish tne case that
it was impossible for it to meet
Australian steel requirements in
the near or distant future.
. .
I suggested private capital
investment in Australia of new
integrated steel plants, to be
fabricated overseas, with the
capital coming from the same
sources. But I would not sup-
port Mr. Dickinson’s suggestion
of a mixed company, with part
of the capital supplied from
private sources and part by the
Government. For I believe that
Government intrusion into any
industry dooms it to almost
certain failure.
The other portion of The
Bulletin article that I would
comment on is:
Unfortunately, Mr. Abbott, like
Mr. Dickinson, wants the South Aus-
tralian Government to tear up its
iron-ore agreemefit - with the B.H.P.
Failing that, he wants the Common-
wealth Government to seize the
leases (also those in Westralia) ™ der
its defence powers and sub-let them.
such action would not only be dis-
honest; it would be lacking in
commonsense. What reputable com-
pany in its right senses would place
any value on a contract which was
basi r d on the repudiation ot another
"om™“bS‘ h on “bfoseS
promises?
The criticism that I would
make with regard to this is that
when one party fails to carry
out the terms of its contract,
then the other party should be
in the position to cancel in
whole or in'part the breached
contract. Also, when people
obtain a contract by giving
certain undertakings or repre-
sentations, then if these are
broken, although they may not
be embodied in the final con-
tract, I submit that a Court of
Equity would give relief.
At page 12 of the Annexure
to the 1950 Report, Section 9,
“Establishment of Steel Industry
at Whyalla,” Mr. Dickinson
writes:
The establishment of a steel-
industry at Whyalla was first sug-
gested by Mr. Essington Lewis, chair-
man of directors of the Broken Hilt
Pty. Co., Ltd., in 1937, when the
Indenture Bill was passed by the
South Australian Parliament. This
Act gave the company special rights
to iron-ore deposits in the Middle-
back Ranges and for the establish-
ment of a blast-furnace and shipping
facilities at Whyalla. In evidence
before the Parliamentary Select
Committee Mr. Lewis stated that:
“We [the directors of the Broken
Hill Proprietary Co.] feel if a steel-
works is established subsequently....
an enormous benefit will be derived
by the primary producers round the
coast to Whyalla.... There is no
reason that I can visualise why a
certain number of industries should
not develop from the establishment
' of steelworks in this State.”
That was never done.
On June 10, 1948, Mr. Essing-
ton Lewis, in the Joseph Fisher
Memorial Lecture on “The
importance of the Iron and Steel
Industry to Australia,” said:
The Broken Hill Pty. Co. is now
planning: a development of peculiar
significance to South Australia,
namely, the establishment of a
steelworks at Whyalla.
Seven years later this has not
been done.
In the 1953 Annexure Mr.
Dickinson wrote:
The Act [1937 indenture Act]
stipulated that there would be certain
developments in South Australia as
a condition of the private title.
Experience, however, has shown that
there are strict limitations to the
compatibility of private and public
motives.
From all this it would seem that
there has been some repudiation
by B.H.P. of its evidence before
the Select Committee, whose
report brought about, no doubt,
the passing of the Indenture Act.
Mr. Dickinson adds:
The facts clearly show that a com-
pany has never received so much tor
so little, for so long, from such a
valuable natural resource, essential
to social existence and wellbeing—
and, he might have added, for
the defence and security of this
nation.
Further, he says:
The essential criticism is that the
Act gives special privileges to a
favored party. No other mining
company in Australia has sought or
received special privileges of the type
set out in the Broken Hill Company’s
Indenture Act.
To talk about repudiation,
when the above facts are brought
to light, is just rubbish, par-
ticularly when it is proposed
that Broken Hill’s own supplies,
according to the company’s
plans, are guaranteed, and
when new adjacent sources of
supply are already being proven.
May I add, in conclusion, that
if the B.H.P. took the same
course of action as the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Company
did many years ago, the prob-
lem would be solved.
In 1831 the A.A. Company
took over the Government’s
mines at Newcastle, and till 1859
was given a monopoly of coal-
production. But in 1845 James
Brown opened a pit at Four
Mile Creek, near East Maitland.
Proceedings were initiated
against Brown by the A.A. Co.
But while the case was on
appeal it agreed to terminate its
alleged monopoly.
If the Broken Hill Pty. Co.,
Ltd., acted in the interests of
Australia, and not its own, then
it would agree to allow other
companies to have access to
some of the leases, to provide
that steel for the nation and its
defence which it is now unable
to do.


Does your WILL
still express your intentions?
, The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY ITD.
1
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
TR.ta.3S
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you ,
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as* your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over 77 years’ specialised experience in the Administration of Estates,
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following—
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £971,002.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairrtan); G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.B,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Pdtter.
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
IF profit-earning remains constant, and
capital expenditure stays around the
present level, the ord. shareholders in
Caledonian Collieries should come into
the picture at the end of the 1956 term.
They have had no dividend since 1928.
At the close of the last accounts (Decem-
ber 31, 1954) there was 20 p.c. owing in
pref. div. arrears (£92,859). The contract
rate on the prefs. is 6 p.c., but it was
reduced to 5 p.c., participating with the
ords. up to 6 p.c., under the N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act.
Over the past three years the co., which
is Howard-Smith controlled, has handed
out £92,859 a year in distributions of
20 p.c. p.a. on* the prefs. Continuing
that rate of distribution, - there would
be £23,214 div.-arrears.,, outstanding on
December 31, 1955, and at the end of
1956 it would be possible to pay arrears
and current pref. commitments, plus 5
p.c. on the ords., with an appropriation
of £97,610. Afterwards an • all-round
6 p.c. would call for £89,274 a year.
Latterly the co. has been earning con-
siderably more than that. But in 1952
it set aside £146,500 of its profit for
future capital-expenditure on power-
plant and collieries, and last year it ear-
marked £200,000 for the same purpose.
These large appropriations followed the
Federal Government’s action, in 1951, in
legislating to allow certain capital-expen-
diture in the industry as a tax-free deduc-
tion, and a new basis of price-fixing was
introduced (see'page 14 of this issue).
Operations of N. S. Wales collieries
remain under the control and direction of
the Joint Coal Board with regard to
price, distribution, etc. Profit-margins
are more or less fixed. But the efficient
colliery may now reap some reward for
its efficiency, and since the amending
legislation of 1951 there has been a
change for the better in most colliery
earnings.
Caledonian operates seven pits on the
northern N. S. Wales coalfields. Two of
them have been fully mechanised, and
other mechanisation is going on. -Last
term output showed “satisfactory im-
provement” over the previous year’s
figure of more than a million tons. (J. and
A. Brown, biggest in the' industry, turns
out a million and a half tons.) While
production from the co.’s four Aberdare
pits on the Greta seam was in keen
demand, there was a surplus of Maitland
and Newcastle coals, and output from the
co.’s Waratah pit (on the Burwood seam)
was reduced at the request of the Joint
Coal Board.
After setting aside £213,000 (up
£115,000) for taxation, reserving £BB,OOO
(up £28,000) for future income-tax, and
allocating £194,040 (up £5479) for depre-
ciation and amortisation, net profit for the
year was £57,778 higher at £320,087:
f Dividends N Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948.. 36,549 7i Nil 34,822 182,523
From insurance provision, £14,948 197,471
Loss.
1949.. 23,006 Nil Nil Nil 174,465
From contingencies, £41,292 .. .. 215,757
Further reconditioning, £46,092 .. 169,665
Profit.
1950.. 28,108 5 Nil 23,215 174,558
Further reconditioning, £40,843 .. 133,715
1951.. 94,068 10 Nil 46,429 181,354
1952.. 248,129 20 Nil 92,858 336,625
Deferred tax in respect of previous
years, £95,000 241,625
1953.. 262,309 20 Nil 92,859 411,075
1954.. 320,087 20 Nil 92,859 638,303
On the net-profit figures claimed, last
year’s taxation provision is astonish-
ingly high, especially when it is noted that
of the year’s earnings, £200,000 was set
aside for future capital expenditure, which
is presumably tax-free.
“The modernisation and mechanisa-
tion programme being followed by your
company is still involving heavy capital
expenditure, but results to date fully
justify the steps being taken to improve
the efficiency. The liquid resources of
the company, after payment of arrears of
preference dividend, are being fully
utilised for this purpose.” That is the
only comment in the directors’ report on
what is an obscure but interesting finan-
cial situation. It would appear that when
capital expenditure ceases not only should
appropriations now made for that
objective be free for div. purposes (subject
to limitations imposed by the Joint Coal
Board, described on p. 14), but earning-
capacity should increase as well.
Last term the net expenditure on fixed
assets was £139,774:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Reserves .. .. 336,625 411,075 638,303
Creditors . . . . 623,108 597,105 676,954
Tax provision, etc. 334,311 373,069 558,924
Pinal div. . . 46,429 46,429 46,429
£2,828,367 £2,915,572 £3,408,504
Fixed assets . . 1,517,958 1,550,260 1,690,034
Stocks and stores 378,626 395,609 482,049
Debtors . . . . 667,248 693,874 939,494
Cash, bonds, etc. 264,535 275,829 296,927
£2,828,367 £2,915,572 £3,408,504
There was a growth of £86,440 in stocks
and stores, and a large increase of
£245,620 in debtors.
Howard Smith, Ltd., owns 69 p.c. of
the Caledonian prefs. and 85 p.c. of the
ords. At 12s. now the ords. that are
offered on the open market will probably
show a satisfactory yield in two or three
years, subject to (among other things) the
attitude the Howard Smith board adopts
towards div.-policy.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd. (Syd.)
TANNERS and manufacturers and
distributors of industrial leathers
and power-transmission equipment, J. C.
Ludowici and Son, Ltd., discloses sub-
stantially higher net earnings for the year
to December 31, 1954, than for the pre-
ceding term. Trading operations have
lately been much freer from bureaucratic
restriction than they were.
From the improved volume of sales
which accompanied the quickening in in-
dustrial activity last year, profits rose
£15,273 to £36,379, after providing £4636
for depreciation (1953, £2590) and £18,750
for taxation (£8500):
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946 .. 11,589 17$ p.c.*= 13,878 3753 63,710
Share premiums, £4140 .. .. 67,850
1947 . . 11,589 12$ p.c. = 12,500 66,939
1948 . . 19,478 15 „ „ 15,000 4478 71,417
1949 . . 25,715 15 „ „ 16,875 8840 80,257
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 55,257
Pref. Ord. Total.
p*c. p.c. /•
1950 .. 25,312 5 15 20,000 5312 60,569
1951 . . 31,375 5 15 21,250 10,125 70,694
From staff funds, £915 .. .. 71,609
1952 . . 30,289 5&6 15 23,416 6873 78,482
1953 . . 21,106 5&6 12 20,500 606 79,088
1954 . . 36,379 5&6 15 24,250 12,129 91,217
* Includes 5 p.c. bonus.
After paying the preference dividends
the profit showed a return of 24.7 p.c.
on ordinary capital, compared with 12.5
p.c. in 1953, 20.5 p.c. 1952, 23.1 p.c, 1951,
and 19.2 p.c. 1950. On total shareholders’
funds (preference and ordinary capital
and reserves combined) the return was
11.5 p.c. in 1954, as against 6.9 p.c. 1953,
9.9 p.c. 1952, 12.7 p.c. 1951, 10.7 p.c.
1950. The dividend has been restored to
15 pc., the rate maintained by Ludowici’s
over the five years preceding 1953 when,
because of reduced earnings following
export problems, the distribution was
lowered to 12 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures reflect Ludowici’s
improved financial condition:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. . . £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Reserves .. . . 78,483 79,089 91,218
Mortgage .. .. 14,904 14,234 13,560
Overdraft • • . • 100,159 101,363 94,140
Creditors* .. .. 60,982 45,999 72,519
Final div. •• •• 9,800 7,925 11,675
£489,328 £473,610 £508,112
Freeholds .. .. 114,967 114,967 119,109
Plant, etc 38,387 40,838 46,008
Loan 1.557 1,461 1.269
Stocks .. .. 224,938 199,910 191,600
Debtors .. .. 88,367 96,517 124,272
Cash, etc 21,112 19,917 25,854
£489,328 £473,610 £508,112
* Includes an unspecified provision for taxation.
The co. reduced its liability under mort-
gage and bank overdraft £7897, spent a
net £4142 on freeholds, £5170 on plant,
and added £27,755 to debtors and' £5937
to investments, including 5250 £1 ordinary
shares (777 were bonus-shares) taken up
in A. Flavell Pty., Ltd., Melbourne sheet-
metal worker, in which it acquired an
interest in 1950. These movements were
financed by undistributed earnings
(£12,129), an extra £30,270 creditors,
by a reduction of £B3lO in inven-
tories, and £192 in a debt due to the
company under mortgage. At £191,600
and £124,272, respectively, stocks repre-
sent 37.7 p.c. and debtors 24.4 p.c. of
total assets.
Good results are reported from the
company’s branches in Melbourne and
Adelaide, where several new sections are
said to be operating profitably. Present
high manufacturing activity in the
southern States and New South Wales
should ensure a continued satisfactory
demand for the company's ■ products.
Only by maintaining the present high
level of sales, says chairman F. J.
Ludowici, can the co. hold its earning-
rate against increased operating-costs.
Quoted around 41s. 6d., the co.’s £1
ords. yield 7.2 p.c. on the basis of the
15 p.c. dividend. Last sales of the two
classes of preference capital were recorded
in 1954. The £1 5 p.c. first cum. prefs.
at 17s. 6d. and the £1 6 p.c. second cum.
prefs. at 21s. were each priced to yield
5.7 p.c.
Net tangible cover for the 50,000 5 p.c.
prefs. is £6 6s. 6d., and for the 50,000
6 p.c. prefs. £5 6s. 6d. Net cover on
conservative book-values for the 1,250,000
ords is 345. 7d, a share.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
FOLLOWING the marked revival of
business activity in 1954, the accounts
of Sydney retailer McDowells, Ltd.,
operating in the medium-grade field, show
another steady lift in earnings for
its trading-year ended February 28.
Gross profit rose from £799,368 to
£854,355, but heavier operating expenses
kept the net to £122,022, an improvement
of £20,692. Depreciation (£5000) and
taxation provision (£65,000) were un-
changed from the previous year:
r — Dividends — N To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946 .. 69,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
1946 .. 61,830 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 7,121 258,016
1947 . . 76,328 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 31,619 289,635
1948 .. 87,737 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 43,028 332,663
1949 .. 89,530 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 44,821 377,484
1950 . . 70,868 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 26,159 403,643
1951 .. 78,910 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 25,419 429,062
1952 . . 72,187 8 „ 15 „ 53,490 18,697 447,759
1953 .. 70,398 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 16,907 464,666
1954 ..101,330 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 47,839 512,505
1955 ..122,022 8 „ 15 „ 63,491 68,531 581,036
After satisfying the pref. charges (£800)
the return on ordinary capital of £351,271
was 34.5 p.c., as against 28.6 p.c. 1954,
18.2 p.c. 1953, 20.2 p.c. 1952, 22.2 p.c,
1951, 23.9 p.c. 1950, boosted high by the
sizeable accumulated surpluses employed
in the business (£581,036 at balance-date.)
On total capital and reserves the return
was 12.9 p.c. 1955, 11.6 p.c. 1954, 8.5 p.c.
1953, 8.9 p.c. 1952, 9.9 p.c. 1951, 10 p.c.
1950.
In April last year the company bought
the freehold of No. 386 George-street,
Sydney, adjoining its present frontage,
for £lOO,OOO. The price is payable by
instalments over two years, at the end
of which McDowells will get vacant pos-
session of the property.
This is the second move by the com-
pany to consolidate its position in what
is one of the busiest sections of Sydney.
In April, 1953, the co. bought the freehold
of Nos. 78-80 King-street previously
occupied on a leasehold basis, and later
gained vacant possession of adjacent No.
82, which it had bought through its sub-
sidiary, W. T. Waters and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
in 1938. Demolition of No. 82 has
already begun, and when rebuilt the store
will provide additional retailing-space
serviced by escalators.
The heavy outlay on property is re-
flected in balance-sheet figures:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £361,271 £361,271 £361,271
Reserves .. .. 464,666 512,505 581,037
Overdraft, etc. .. 87,450 55,772
Sundry creditors . . 173,746 191,539 191,921
Tax reserve . . 171,250 167,291 185,030
Final div. . . 35,527 35»527 35,527
£1,306,459 £1,355,583 £1,410,558
Freeholds, plant .« 427,696 596,477 637,759
Stocks , . . . 293,079 302,611 304,934
Debtors • • .. 180,336 212,533 196,184
Investments .. 135,594 16,797 19,188
Cash, etc. •• 78,851 137,362 161,590
Shares subsid. .. 90,903 90,903 90,903
£1,306,459 £1,355,583 £1,410,558
Net expenditure on freeholds and plant
was £41,282, stocks were £2423 higher,
and £3391 was added to investments.
These additions were financed out of the
retentions for the year of £68,531, by an
extra £18,121 added to the amounts due
to creditors and a reduction in debtors of
£16,349. At the same time the company
reduced its overdraft £31,678 and had
available £24,228 more cash in hand and
at short call.
Up to the present stage providing funds
for development has been no problem.
Whether the cost of the new King-street
building and payment of balances out-
standing from the recent property-deals
will be more than the company can
finance from internal resources alone will
depend to a large extent on how well
last year’s trading results are maintained
over the next year or so. The recon-
struction-work itself should not affect
business adversely. On the latest available
figures the overall trend of retail-sales is
favorable, although consumers are becom-
ing more price-conscious than before.
The index compiled by the Com-
monwealth Bank and the Research
Bureau of the N.S.W. Retail Traders’
Association from figures supplied by a
number of major city stores shows a
TO p.c. increase in sales during November,
1954, above November, 1953, sales ; which
compares with increases of 4.1 p.c. for
October and 8.3 p.c. for September, 1954,
over the corresponding months of 1953.
Increases in wages following the Arbitra-
tion Court’s margins decision should
further benefit store-turnovers.
Improved earnings, combined with the
prospect of even better returns when new
store-space becomes available and the
possibility of a share-issue to help finance
the costly task of rebuilding, have lifted
the price of McDowell’s £1 shares from
645. in April, 1954 (50s. 6d. in 1953), to
the present level of 735. 6d., to yield 4.1
p.c. on the 15 p.c. dividend. Last quoted
in 1954 at 375. 6d., the £1 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. yielded 4.2 p.c.
Net tangible-asset backing for the
10,000 £1 prefs is £94 4s. 7d., for the
351,271 ords. 535. Id.
Linoleum Holdings, Ltd.
FOR about two years the floor-covering
industry in Australia has been boom-
ing. Towards the end of 1954 an accumu-
lation of imported stocks, following the
freeing of import-controls in March,
made the outlook a little uncertain again.
But there has been a reimposition of


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 80
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the Directors have declared an
INTERIM DIVIDEND in respect
of the year ending JUNE 30, 1955,
of NINEPENCE Sterling per share,
less United Kingdom Income Tax at
standard rate in force at date of
payment, payable MAY 24, 1955.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from: April 29, to May 2, 1955, both
days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on APRIL 29,
1955.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
R. J. AGNEW,
FIMISTON,
April 12, 1955.
* Attorney.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
tamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ SAFE —SIMPLE —CANNOT SPILL
★ 12 LIGHTER HOURS BURNING ON
ONLY l£ PINTS OF KEROSENE
★ NO SMOKE —NO SMELL
★ WILL GIVE A LIFETIME OF SERVICE
★ 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C l.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of gTeat value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
Advertisement.
Having considerable plant with
enough Horsepower to trans-
form good country into produc-
tive land quickly, the Writer
would be interested to contact
and negotiate with Landholders
desirous of improving their hold-
ings with large earthmoving and
other equipment, is prepared to
purchase land and finance all
operations to mutual satisfaction.
At present in South Australia
but interested in any area in the
Southern half of Australia where
rainfall is reasonably ample and
sure, or other waters below the
the surface are reqrdily available
to irrigate large areas.
The idea is something large
enough to justify yoking up at
least a 1000 horsepower or, in
other words, to absorb fifteen or
thirty thousand man-hours a
year. With that effort much
grass can be grown—much stock
can be fed to not only Aus-
tralia’s advantage.
Write to —
EARTH IS GOOD
C/o “BULLETIN”
Faith lit the
. \
Future
Such an enormous vista has opened to human
sight through the splitting of the atom that Man is
still wondering: To what use will this great power
be put?
For my own part, I believe that in this —as in
many ranges of power that God has given to man
through the ages—there will be an increasing
instinct to its use for proper ends.
Britain has set a magnificent example in its
building of nuclear power stations for commercial
use, at an ultimate cost of £300 million.
The United States Atomic Energy Commis-
sion is sharing its richly-bought knowledge with 39
countries. It has sent more than 2400 shipments
of atomic materials for scientific and medical
research in many parts of the world.
Scientists and technicians have been brought
from 46 countries to join Americans in courses of
instruction in peaceful uses of the atom at the
laboratories at Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
The interchange of knowledge is growing.
Medical scientists are developing their work
on the effect of atomic radiation in the control of
disease.
Agricultural research-workers are applying its
effects to plant life and growth, to the end that
food crops may be nourished and famine expelled.
In the realm of power, it has been demon-
strated that a mere 151b. of concentrated atomic
fuel will produce as much energy as 18?000 tons of
coal.
Radioactive materials are being used now to
test many industrial products in the United States.
And the scientists in every department know
that the real power of the atom is only beginning
to be known.
That is the positive side of the Atomic Age —
an age which Australia has the uranium to fuel into
new wonders of achievement.
////(isfu^s
import-controls, and though the
effect of these will not be
immediate, they should, in the
end, strengthen the hand of the
Australian manufacturer.
The only asset, apart from
“petties,” owned by Linoleum
Holdings, Ltd. (capital £106,666
in £1 shares), is 106,666 £1
shares in Michael Nairn and Co.
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., representing
21.3 p.c. of that operating co.’s
£500,000 paid capital. The rest
of the scrip is owned mainly by
the Naim cos. in Scotland and
Canada and by Meggitt, Ltd.,
which also has an interest in
Linoleum Holdings itself.
Stability has come to the
organisation only after a long
building-up period under expert
and canny Nairn management.
The Australian Michael Nairn
offshoot was set-up in 1927, and
it took over from Linoleum
Holdings (then the Linoleum
Manufacturing Co. of Australia)
what was originally the business
of the Australian Linoleum Co.,
Ltd., at Auburn (N.S.W.), and
which had got into deep water.
Meggitt had been also interested
from the linseed-oil angle. Divi-
dends started to come from the
new manufacturing co. in 1936,
and the Holding co. paid its first
div. in 1939. During the war
profits of the operating co. de-
clined, and distributions from
Linoleum Holdings were infre-
quent. All Lino, shares were
converted into ords. in 1949, and
a 5| p.c. distribution was made
that year, dropping to 3 p.c. in
1950, rising to 5f p.c. in 1951
and to 7| p.c. in 1952. During
the term to September 30, 1952,
the Michael Nairn co. felt the
effects of the sharp business
recession that followed the fall
in wool prices and the introduc-
tion of economic controls in
1951, and a loss of £117,669 was
shown after writing-down stocks
to “current values.” No divi-
dend was paid.
Since then there has been a
smart recovery in earnings.
Though trading results have not
been disclosed for the past two
years, from balance-sheet figures
it would appear that the Michael
Nairn co. has been privately
revealing profits averaging about
34 p.c. on its capital. In respect
of 1952-53 it passed on an 8 p.c.
div. to its shareholders, and for
the latest term 10 p.c. Linoleum
Holdings has paid 7.4 p.c. and
9.6 p.c. respectively in those
years.
The Nairn co.’s report reports
a “very satisfactory” past year
and an uncertain future —
Your directors are pleased to re-
port that during the year profit
earned has been very satisfactory.
It is difficult to forecast for the year
ahead because of the enormous
quantity of linoleum imported into
this country since March, 1954, when
imports were freed from control.
An immediate effect was a serious
decrease in orders, and consequent
increase in the value of finished
goods we were forced to carry.
When the full impact of the reim-
posed import-restrictions is felt,
these tendencies should be reversed.
We face the future with reasonable
confidence.
Balance - sheet figures of
Michael Nairn and Co. show
that a large business indeed is
carried on with a small invest-
ment in fixed assets:
Michael Nairn and Co. (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd.
1952. 1953. 1954.
£ £ £
Paid capital 500,000 500,000 500,000
Reserves .. 348,119 521,493 651,311
Overdraft .. 285,174 64,009 396,228
Creditors, tax,
etc. .. 675,694 575,135 650,890
1,808,987 1,660,637 2,198,429
Freeholds .. 148,723 155,146 159,5/1
Plant, etc.. . 174,782 173,917 184,332
Stocks . 1,185,831 888,516 1,521,070
Debtors .. 262,277 412,386 302,499
Cash, etc... 7,372 670 955
Goodwill .. 30,002 30,002 30,002
1,808,987 1,660,627 2,198,429
“Freehold land, roads and build-
ings” appear at “written-down
valuation and cost, less deprecia-
tion.” Plant appears “at cost,
less depreciation.” There are
indications that fixed assets are
in at a fraction of present-day
valuations. The largest item is
always stocks, which rose
£632,554 last term, and involved
a substantial addition to the
overdraft and sundry creditors.
Reserves are now in excess of
paid capital, and, allowing for
the div. paid after the close of
accounts, amount to £601,311.
Net tangible backing (on con-
servative book-values) for each
£1 Nairn share is now 445., and
since the Lino. co. holds one
Nairn share for each share of its
own issue, the backing per £ of
Lino, capital is about 445., too.
This is an increase of 10s. Id. a
share in two years.
Linoleum Holdings has no
reserves of its own; they are all
in the operating co., which has
built up its strength over a num-
ber of years, when average divi-
dends were kept low. If the
existing hurdle of excessive
stocks is safely negotiated the
future should be a good deal
more remunerative to Linoleum
Holdings shareholders than the
past has been. The Scottish
control in Nairn’s over the years
has made it quite plain that it
believes in building-up financial
strength before becoming liberal
with dividends. But assuming
that Linoleum Holdings for the
present will continue to pay 9.6
p.c., the scrip at 295. 3d., yield-
ing 6.6 p.c., is an attractive and
ing 6.6 p.c., should be attractive
and remunerative holding.
Westland Oil
Westland Oil Co., Ltd., reports
that at Warbreccan (Q.) the No. 1
hole is over a mile deep.
Drilling finished at 5433 ft., and
an electric log will be used to
test the significance of the
potential oil - bearing strata
encountered.
Geological formations pene-
trated during the drilling
have thrown “new light”
upon the structures in this area,
and, “if certain formations passed
through between 4500 ft. and
5055 ft. and lower prove on
analysis to be they appear
to be, it could mean that marine
beds (almost certainly of Per-
mian Age) occur immediately
above the bedrock, and this
would be a most significant indi-
cation, in that the Clematis Sand-
stones and the other sandstones
immediately below them are also
potential beds for oil-storage, if
oil should be present.”
The co. is undertaking a
geophysical survey of the permit-
area in order to map folds which
might develop suitable oil-
traps. ,
Ncf. 2 hole, a mile from the
No. 1 site, is down to 3421 ft.
The co. intends to drill three
holes in its Queensland area.
Westland also has three
uranium leases in the vicinity
of the Mary Kathleen lease (Mt.
Isa-Cloncurry area) in which
Rio Tinto recently acquired an
interest. The co. has an applica-
eion for an oil permit-area of
700 square miles in Papua.
Oil-drilling
Australasian Oil Exploration,
operating near Springsure (Q.),
is to commence drilling its No. 2
well on the crest of Reid’s Dome,
about three miles from No. 1,
where some slight oil-showings
were encountered at shallow
depth. It is expected that a
3000 ft. hole will prove the zone.
Longreach Oil Well’s No. 3 hole
has reached rock-bottom at
3490 ft., and has been abandoned.
No. 4 well is being drilled 500 ft.
s.-e. of the original Longreach
bore put down in 1930. At
Susan Creek (near Mary-
borough), Lucky Strike (0.D.E.)
is drilling at 890 ft. At Kurra-
jong (N.S.W.), 0.D.E., drilling
on behalf of Australian Oil and
Gas, has been held up by an
obstruction in the hole. In W.A.,
Associated Freney’s No. 1
well at Nerrima was at 6208 ft.,
on April 14. W.A. Petroleum’s
drilling activities are now mainly
at Warroora (Saltmarsh) and
Grant Range (Ki/nberleys), with
Cape Range No. 2 to start soon.


Women's Leters
SYDNEY
Sydney welcomed the first of its cool,
sunny, autumn days during the week, and
spirits and energies went up as the
temperature went down. Sometimes it
seems that those lagging sultry days of
February and March are specially
designed to reconcile us to the loss of
summer and to convince us that the
Sydney autumn, with its touch of coral
on the Illawarra flame-trees and its
poinsettias flashing even in drab city
gardens, is a time for revival and
endeavor. It is a pity that the New Year
does not come just now. What resolu-
tions we could make!
* ☆ ☆
Certainly there were many signs of
energy in town during the week. There
were many more than 2000 women at
the opening of the Country Women’s
Association’s annual conference at the
Town Hall. The president, Mrs. W. H.
Cullen, reported that in the 33 years of
its existence the C.W.A. had raised over
a million pounds in this State.
Members showed that their generosity
has not diminished over the yedrs, for by
the third day of the conference they had
contributed £2500 to the new residential
club at Potts Point, where it is intended
ail the association’s administration offices
will finally be located.
The Challenge Cup for the
greatest proportionate increase in num-
bers was won this year by the Culcairn
branch, whose representatives, Mrs. N. G.
Schultz and Mrs. H. Paul* received it
from the donor, Sir Charles Lloyd Jones
☆ ☆ ☆
The school pipe-band, always a
dramatic feature of the Scots College
Ball, this year again set the Scottish blood
tingling. The band marched into the
Trocadero for the first waltz, led by
drum-major Anthony Coote (son of Mr.
and Mrs. Roy Coote), who had rowed
bow in the college eight at the recent
Head of the River regatta. A feature of
the decorations this year was the 15ft.-
high school-flag specially made by mem-
bers of the Younger Set.
The 860 guests were welcomed by Mr.
Justice Ashburner and Mrs. Ashburner
(whose elegant dress was of bronze and
black brocade), and by the Deputy-
Principal, Mr. W. G. Rankine, and Mrs.
Rankine. Among the dancers were Dr.
George Bell and Mrs. Bell; Mr. and
Mrs. E. A. Burbury; Mr. and Mrs. J. B.
Maltman; Mrs. George Elliott, whose
daughter Faye wore an attractive dress
of grey lace and organza over pink; Mr.
and Mrs. E. R. Reddel, whose party
included Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Murie;
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Vandervoid; and
Mr. and Mrs. George Burrows (their
daughter Jocelyn wore a ballerina of navy
organdie.)
About that headline, “Fed. Members
Seek Higher Pay,” would not “hungry
members” be more appropriate?
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Fort-street ball, says a report,
“six debutantes were presented to an Old
Boy—Sir Garfield Barwick.” But, then,
all men over 21 are old boys to a
debutante.
☆ ☆ ☆
When speaking at the inaugural meet-
ing of the Sydney Y.W.C.A.’s Centenary
Finance campaign, the Governor, Sir
John Northcott, drew attention to the
tremendous increase in the influence of
women that the past hundred years has
brought.
The “Y” was founded in the year fol-
lowing the outbreak of the Crimean War,
and was primarily intended to accommo-
date the young women who were going
out to work with Florence Nightingale.
It is now found in 67 countries, and its
members are too numerous to be
counted. It has fought women’s battles
throughout the hundred years ; introduced
women to professions (as in New York,
where it started the first typing lessons—
“only the physically strong need apply”);
fitted them to take an active part in
public life, and. encouraged the equal
development of the three main aspects of
being: the mind, the soul, the body.
This year “Y” is appealing for £30,000
to help carry on this work. It is depend-
ing mainly on direct giving in this appeal,
and donations may be sent to the director
of the fund, Mrs. C. P. Johnson, whose
office is in Kyle House, Macquarie-place,
Sydney.
☆ ☆ *
Mission-life in Papua, New Guinea and
Japan was the theme of an interesting
exhibition which occupied the entire
fourth-floor of David Jones’ Market-
street store during the week. Exhibits
ranged from primitive weapons, fishing-
baskets and ceremonial dress of the
native way of life to religious paintings
after the European style and embroidered
supper-cloths and table-centres.
The boys of a Papuan village had
specially made a model of their little
settlement, and there were some interest-
ing examples of native designs incor-
porated in finely embroidered church vest-
ments. Hundreds of very fine photo-
graphs gave a vivid impression of work
of the missionaries and of the peoples
among whom they work. The exhibition
was arranged by the Missionaries of the
Sacred Heart, an Order originally founded
in France and which is this year cele-
brating its centenary.
Recently engaged is Pamela Barker,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Barker,
of Waverton. Her fiance is Ted Hall, son
of Mr. and Mrs. F. G. Hall, of Coobag
Ootha, Condobolin. The young couple
plan to marry at Shore Chapel in October.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Betty Hutton says that-she will bring
to Australia “four musicians, two chorus-
boys, my mother in charge of my ward-
robe, and my husband.” That’s how
Hollywood husbands get lost, you know
—just tagged on at the end.
☆ ☆ ☆
It would take a long memory to recall
so many happy faces in the Town Hall
as there were at the recital given by
musical-satirist Anna Russell on Saturday
night. The audience became so infected
by her warm personality and clever wit
that during the second half they were
ready to laugh at anything at all. But
her jokes are always good. An example:
“On my good days I can sing notes so
high that they can be heard only by
dogs.” Anna Russell is an entertainer
not to be missed.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two paintings were unveiled at the
Royal Empire Society’s party in honor
of the Queen’s 29th birthday on Thurs-
day, when over 150 guests saw a screen-
ing of films relating to the Royal family.
One of the paintings is a print of the
Coronation of the late King George VI,
by Frank Salisbury, and the other is
Terence Cuneo’s painting of the Corona-
tion of Elizabeth 11. The new president
of the Royal Empire Society, Dr. Garnet
Halloran, received the guests.
☆ ☆
On the same day the Victoria League
in N.S.W. held a late-afternoon party at
which deputy-president Mrs. H. H;
McNall welcomed Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. H. J. Buchanan as guests-of-honor.
Among the guests were Dr. Mary Booth,
Mrs. Robert Dixson, Mrs. Michael King,
Mrs. R. T. Russell and Mrs. Reg Harris
(who will shortly be returning to live in
Adelaide). An attractive Victorian posy
of pansies and yellow roses was presented
to Mrs. Buchanan on her arrival.
The Coral Sea Victory Ball is to be
held at the Trocadero on Thursday, April
28, and the decor promises to be some-
thing really striking and elaborate. There
is to be a coral-island on the dance-floor
and a tropical jungle, with frangipani,
hibiscus and other flowers in the foyer.
Each table will represent a ship that took
part, and there will be large pictures of
ships and of personalities who led the
battle. President of the committee is
Mrs. lan Jacoby, and Mrs. Howard
Steiner is in charge of the decorations.
MELBOURNE
The premiere of “Rigoletto” at Her
Majesty’s brought out many attractive
ensembles, among them the small ermine
cape and short black-faille frock worn
by Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh ; colored beads
highlighted her shoes. Sprays of ospreys
were set in front of the tiny black-velvet
curvette worn by Virginia Paris with
her black ensemble. Betty Inwood
matched her moonlight-blue satin frock
with long gloves. In a box with Nevin
Tait and his daughter Mary were Dr.
and Mrs. Arthur Joyce (her lovely coat
of peacock-green duchesse-satin featured
a deep shawl-collar). Ann Curtis’s
bouffant ballerina frock was of pale-
blue quilted silk. Sir Robert Knox was
accompanied by his daughter, Mrs.
Robert Lindsay. Mrs. A. G. Silk, her
daughter Mrs. Peter Kiernan and Mrs.
Frank Foley were an attractively dressed
trio.
The dressing for the first night of
“Tosca,” in which Elisabetta Barbato
sang the title-role, was a mixture of the
formal and the short theatre-frock. Mrs.
Gladys Myer’s short sheath-frock was of
black velvet, the strapless bodice covered
with a mutation-mink stole. Evelyn
Scarfe (Adelaide) chose a short rust-red
shot-taffeta frock, the matching cape
trimmed with pleated ruffles. Thelma
Halbert’s blue-lace frock was worn with
a full-length mink coat. Madame Mario
Vigano’s short frock of cognac-brown
taffeta had the full skirt intricately
shirred, the bodice featuring a deep
shawl-collar. Mrs. Eric Fowler’s sequin-
trimmed, iridescent deep-blue taffeta
frock was full and short.
Mrs. John Chaldjian’s short frock of
chocolate-brown lace had a tiny bolero.
Mrs. John Shaw’s was of black Chantilly
lace. Mrs. Frank Tait wore rich-brown
taffeta with a brown-and-white-striped
silk stole. Mrs. Claude Kingston’s
turquoise-blue satin gown was em-
broidered with gold-ringed sequins, Mrs.
M. Sloman chose jet-embroidered tulle.
Mrs. John Bacon wore pink organza
patterned with a large white flower ; Mrs.
A. T. Smithers white satin brocade.
Mrs. Jack Stringer, the only country
entrant in Victoria’s Loveliest Mother
Quest, which is being organised to assist
the building-fund for Prince Henry’s
Hospital, is a well-known worker for
charitable organisations and is the mother
of three children. She lives in Sunbury,
in Holly Green, one of the oldest houses
in the State; it is visited yearly by almost
10,000 sightseers. While her husband
conducts the visitors on tours of the
house and grounds, Mrs. Stringer serves
afternoon-teas, all proceeds going to
charity.
The Consul for Italy, the Marquis
Giorgio Serafini, was host at a cocktail-
party and buffet-supper at his South
Yarra home, at which the guests-of-
honor were members of the Italian
Grand Opera Company. Dr. I. Fabiani,
Chancellor of the Italian Consulate, and
his wife assisted the Marquis entertain
the guests.
Opera-singers present were Rina Mala-
trasi, attractive in a dark-blue-brocade
cocktail-suit, a stole of white mink, and
a tiny white beaded cap; Elisabetta
Barbetta, who wore a hat trimmed with
sweeping pastel-toned ospreys, a mink
coat and a black frock; Gianetta la
Bianca, in a cream-and-gold-brocade
cocktail suit; Gabrielle Tucci, who allied
a black silk skirt and a blouse of white
guipure lace, and added a small white
feather-cap ; Maria Huder, whose green-
shot tie-silk frock was worn with a black
velvet picture-hat; and Madame Vaccari,
her steel-grey satin frock having a full-
length matching coat, topped with a small
cap of rose-pink satin.
Other guests were Signor and Madame
Mario Vigano, Mrs. Gordon Chirnside,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Tait, Mr. Nevin
Tait and his daughter Mary, Dr. and
Mrs. George Santoro, and Mrs. L.
Withers, mother of actress Googie.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
patron of the British Memorial Fund,
was present at a late-afternoon party
given at the Union House, University, by
the Fund Council. Guests-of-honor,
who were presented to his Excellency,
were the four Fund Fellows, here to do
post-graduate work: Miss Sheelagh
Bramley, Miss Penelope Byers, Mr. John
Ellingsworth and Mr. David Meeks. The
chairman of the fund, Prof. J. T. Burke,
with Mrs. Burke (she wearing a cognac
lace-frock with a black-wool stole) and
the vice-chairman, Mrs. Gillam Hunt,
received the guests.
At the party were Sir Edmund and
Lady Herring, Mr. Justice Sholl and his
wife, Judge and Mrs. J. G. Norris, Mrs.
H. F. Creswick, * Mr. and Mrs. Arnold
Isaacson, Associate-Professor Kathleen
Fitzgerald, and Mrs. lan Connell.
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of the French-Australian
Association gave a party at the Lyceum
to farewell Australian Ambassador to
Paris Alfred Stirling, whose sister
Dorothy will act as hostess for him.
Both lately returned from Holland,
where he had filled a diplomatic post.
Particularly chic was Madame Cyrille
Le Bas De Plumetot, wife of the French
Consul. She wore a draped frock of
lightweight woollen fabric and tiny
platter-hat of white flowers nestling on
green leaves.
Mrs. J. G. Norris, who was with her
husband, Judge Norris, chose a suit of
mist-blue tweed and a cloche of cerise
felt. Mrs. W. K. Burnside added to her
leaf-green cocktail-frock a brown Mary
Queen of Scots bonnet covered with
pearls. Mrs. Maurice Belz wore a navy
faille suit with a small electric-blue hat.
Lady Scott’s garnet-red silk frock was
spotted in white. Others noted were
Madame Gay and daughter Lilliane, Mr.
and Mrs. John Scarborough, Lorna and
Marjorie Stirling (cousins of the guest-
of-honor), Italian Consul-General the
Marquis Giorgio Serafini, Mrs. F. H.
Wright, and Mrs. John Casson and her
daughter Penny.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. W. G. Goddard, an Australian who
has taught in Chinese universities, was
guest-of-honor at a late-afternoon party
given by Chinese Consul T. W. Liu and
Madame Liu in their Ivanhoe home.
Dr. Goddard, here for a series of lectures,
was accompanied by his wife, who chose
a slim suit of black faille and a small
white cloche embroidered with sequins
and gold beads. Madame Liu’s national
costume was of almond-green satin
woven with a tiny gold flower ; her short
box-jacket of black satin was embroidered
in gold and green and lined with lambs-
wool.
Among the guests were Sir John and
Lady Latham, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. R.
R. Dowling, French Consul M. Cyrille
Le Bas De Plumetot and his wife (her
Pierre Balmain frock was of rich-brown
velvet with an unusual apron-effect
achieved by matching fringed brown
wool-jersey), Dr. and Mrs. A. E. Coates,
U.S. Consul J. Wiedenmyer and his wife,
Canadian Commercial Counsellor Roy
Blake and Mrs. Blake, the Chancellor of
the University, Mr.* Justice Dean, * and
Mrs. Dean (she in grey wool-jersey frock
and tiny black-velvet hat) the Austrian
Consul and Mrs. Berger, the Denys
Jacksons (she wearing Parma-violet wool
coat and a powder-blue hat), Mrs. T. J.
Ryan (whose orchid-pink crepes were
matched with a tiny toque), Mrs. H.
Leber (reseda-green frock and orchid-
pink cloche), Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Horan,
Mr. T. B. McManus, and Mr. and Mrs.
M. F. Lucy.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director.
JJ. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States
Agencies in all Country Centres
CHROME FURNITURE
at Factory Prices
Write to —
BENNETTS,
60 Arundel St., Glebe, Sydney,
N.S.W. MW 3958.
Missing Friend
WILL any person knowing the where-
abouts of EDWARD KAVANAGH (age
72 years), formerly of Wirrabara, last
heard of at Grafton, New South Wales, in
1921, please communicate with the under-
signed.—FAßMEßS’ CO - OPERATIVE
EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES LIMITED,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide? S.A.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDMOND JOSEPH MARTIN—TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE EDITH MARTIN
has filed her Petition for Divorce No.
1152 of 1955 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you intend to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th June
1955 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MR. G. M.
STAFFORD, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
?6y Appointment
H. M. King *
Frederik IX
By Appointment.
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment?
to hi. M. the
Queen of th*
Netherlands*
m
cu.» M#i*»
sfo
K
iili? r iceiir! °Hh»j£
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark'*
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
(fry*'
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Boats for the Dunlop
There cometh the blessed day
of Sunday and the painter seizeth
his brushes and goeth forth to
paint. . .
The Harbor being the
Harbor and the Pittwater the
Pittwater what should he see but,
tied by the leg to jetties for
him to capture, Hauled up
on skids, anchored by the
nose in still waters or,
happiest of all, imprisoned on
racks in boatsheds, boats and
boats and boats? And boats
doth he paint.
Thus in the N. S. Wales entries
for the Dunlop Prize at Anthony
Horderns’, Tom Hockey’s “Pitt-
water” is a stiff pale launch
bailed-up on the skids; Jean
Hill’s “Swelling Tide” is a boat
pleasantly moored to the rocks ;
George F. Lawrence’s “The
Basin, Kiama,” an ambitious and
effective oil, is larger and redder
boats; Betty Miller’s “Pittwater
Panorama” is yachts at anchor in
a large thin oil; Frederick Bates’s
“Rusty Trawler” is adequately
described by its title ; T. de Roty
Fodone’s “Activity, Port
Kembla” is boats in a painty and
colorful explosion ; T. J. Santry’s
“Woolloomooloo” is that salu-
brious and boaty suburb seen
cheerfully through the eyes of
Monet.
And there are boats on the
grass in Alison Faulkner’s “Win-
dang Boatshed,” boats in lively
water in Claudia Woodgates
“Skiffs in Westerly,” creamy
boats in a nice dark interior in
the same painter’s “Loft Work-
shop,” somebody paddling a
canoe in Janette C. Stedman’s
“Down the River,” many boats
in lurid evening light in Florence
Broadhurst’s ‘TEvening at Long
Reef,” and the yachts at the
boatshed again in Elsie Danger-
field’s competent “At Mosman
Bay.”
What boots all these boats?
Would it not be tactful, at least,
to paint a Dunlop'-rubber boat?
Is the right of the matter, after
all, with the surrealist who
stayeth home all Sunday and
broodeth upon his navel, or the
abstractionist who broodeth all
day resolutely about nothing?
But as, thinking these dis-
turbing thoughts, one strolleth
homeward through Anthony
Horderns’ large cool store, be-
hold, there are two white
dinghies anchored, Heaven
knows what for, in the garden-
department. Someone, really,
should paint them.
❖ ❖ ❖
Tropic Color
The brightest, gayest and most
vigorous display of paintings
Sydney has seen for many a
day is in Margaret Olley’s
exhibition of Queensland and
New Guinea still-lifes and land-
scapes at the Macquarie
Galleries.
Like so much contemporary
art that stems from the cafes
of Montmartre —the obvious in-
fluence here is Gauguin, who
practically invented the tropics—
the paintings seem especially
designed to hang on the walls of
cafes, or to be reproduced as
posters.
The bright colors lie shallow
on the canvas; the limitations
of the oil-technique are instantly
revealed whenever the human
figure is introduced; there is no
attempt, as in the exquisitely
delicate Gruner flowerpieces
lately seen at the National
Gallery, at capturing the subtle-
ties of light, paint or flower-
texture: everything is sacrificed
for the single quick impact of
color and design.
But within its limitations the
method works with quite
astonishing force and charm.
The prosaic title of “Still Life
with Kettle” is a mask under
v which golden oranges, yellow
pears, purple grapes, orange
marigolds or zinnias, willow-
pattern cups and saucers, glass
decanters and colorful porcelain
vases —and, of course, the kettle
—burgeon and flare in the most
vivid yet admirably controlled
profusion.
“Hibuscus and Cannas” —
glaring enough flowers in them-
selves —fight a battle of color
with intensely green apples and
settle their differences in com-
plete amity. “Zinnias and
Apples” is a huge harlequinade
of every color under —or out of
—the sun. “Lilies and Grapes”
sets white November-lilies to
compete with crimson hibiscuses
in a striking pattern.
* ♦♦♦ +s'
Holly Group
The Holly Group, which had
its genesis in a well-known cafe,
is holding its sixth annual
banquet at the Athanaeum
Gallery, Melbourne. Graham
Moore serves the best-cooked
dishes. “Bush Track,” “Land-
scape” and “Toni” are seasoned
with observation. They look
as if they had been baked in a
quick oven. Don Morrow
dishes up some soggy hors-
d’oeuvres in six studio sketches.
In “George Court, London,”
“Lakes, Mt. Gambier” and
“Flinders” F. M. S. Rossiter
serves sausages-and-mashed
and Gordon A. Speary’s eight
views of Victoria, N.S.W. and
Queensland are cold rice-
pudding. The street-scenes of
W. V. Manders look as if they
needed more salt and pepper.
The most progress in the art
of cooking-up Nature seems to
have been made by Reschid
Bey, whose “John Casson, Esq.”
is strongly handled—at least, the
face is. In the figure some of
the ingredients don’t seem to
have run together.
Stage and Music
Anna Russell
l n show-business hens’-teeth,
emaciated publicans and self-
conscious estate-agents are much
more likely to be .encountered
than the female comic who can
really rock an audience. Now
Anna Russell has swum into our
ken, that axiom needs revision.
Anna, who opened her Aus-
tralian season for A.B.C. at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday,
specialises in musical satire ; and
the one who would poke borak
at the pompous pianist and the
well-nourished and tempera-
mental diva needs to have a good
command of keyboard and voice.
The comedienne is sound in both
departments.
She hit-off in devastating style
with a crack at the “mouthy”
prima donna tackling a juicy
aria.
Exponents of the Russian
song, the German lied and the
French art-song next came under
tire. She contrived impossible-
to-pronounce Russian; her
German was liberally sprinkled
with “Schnigels” and other
comic-sounding and equally
unauthorised additions to the
Teutonic language.
A whole tribe of easily-
recognisable piano-virtuosi were
given the works, from the
exhibitionist who raises his hands
two-feet above his head and
pounces dramatically on a high
note, or nearly runs off the end
of the keyboard as he chases a
fast scale-passage, to the dead-
pan who regards the audience as
non-existent. Also, the kid,
tongue poked out the corner of
his mouth, earnestly murdering
Mozart’s “Rondo Alla Turca.”
Anna wound-up with a spark-
ling tour de force —an ingenious
compression into about 20
minutes, complete with illustra-
tions by voice and piano of the
various liet motifs of Wagner’s
20-hour four-opera “Ring of the
Nibelung”; and behind this
uproarious nonsense was a pretty
shrewd appraisal of that over-
blown fantasy of gods and
Rhine-maidens by the little man
of Bayreuth.
❖ ❖ ❖
Rudolf Pekarek and Max
Rostal
In the rather solemn pair of
concerts which opened Bris-
bane’s subscription-season, Max
Rostal expounded Beethoven’s
Violin Concerto in a manner
decidedly reticent after the usual
flamboyance of visiting fiddlers.
There was little of the normal
concert-room tenseness in the
air as Rostal showed with
unshakeable calmness what
lovely lyrical moments there
are in this concerto. In these,
and especially in the song-like
slow movement, the tone of his
violin sounded crystal-clear
through the big hall.
In Beethoven’s grander
moments he lacked the neces-
sary majesty of the composer’s
inspiration, and was too much
dominated by the orchestra.
Yet it was a performance with
many moments of fascination,
the so as this Beethoven
concerto is the one most often
played hereabouts, and Rostal
had a welcome freshness of
approach.
Rudolf Pekarek, who con-
ducted, brought Dvorak’s First
Symphony out of retirement.
His vigorous beat and obvious
keenness showed that Dvorak
could compose with ease and
skill long before his music
acquired an American accent.
But that did not prevent atten-
tion from flagging in several
places where Dvorak could have
exercised the same ruthless self-
criticism which made him scrap
five earlier symphonies before
presenting this one to a
publisher. —D. J. M.
♦
Musica Viva
The M.V. Society gave good
artistic value in its first Sydney
concert since it resumed activi-
ties. Violist Robert Pikler was
the chief dispenser, collaborating
with Joyce Hutchinson (piano)
in sonatas by Leclair, Schubert
and Hindemith and a suite by
Max Reger, and with clarinetist
Gabor Reeves, in Mozart’s Trio
in E Flat, K 498.
This latter is one of the most
unusual combinations of instru-
ments in all chamber-music
literature, and its stately lyricism
flowed serenely in the first and
last movements, with the true
dancing quality held in the
extended Minuet.
In the sonata field, Schubert’s
engaging little A Minor, written
originally for the six-stringed
arpeggione, carried the night’s
banner of light - heartedness.
Reger’s Suite in E Minor brought
from Pikler’s viola a beautifully
broad tone.
“La Traviata”
Traditional as ever, Verdi’s,
consumptive opera was third in
the procession at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne. It provided the first
real thrill of the season in
Gabriella Tucci.
She is a tall, magnificently-
proportioned woman, the per-
fection of whose body belied
the ravages of phthisis in Violetta
and whose lovely voice made its
undulatory progress through the
maze of Verdi’s music with
superb directness.
Not so her pie-faced lover.
For some reason or other, Danilo
Vega had made himself up to
look as if it was he, not Violetta,
who had one foot in the grave
and was making a distressing
effort to get through the evening
with a minimum of physical
exertion.
Apart from these incongruities,
and the fact that the male mem-
bers of the staff seem to have
graduated from the same school
of acting as Melbourne traffic-
policemen, the opera was as well
done as it could be. Maria
Huder was a vivaceous Flora
Bervoix, Adelio Zagonara was
suitably pompous as Baron
Douphal and Afro Poll played
and sang the role of the heavy
father with much emotion.
❖ ❖ *
“The Prisoner” Again
Bridget Boland’s play put on
by Frank Thring at the Arrow
Theatre, Melbourne, was dis-
cussed on this page last week in
a review of the production by
Sydney Genesians. What Bridget
Boland endeavors to do is to
contrast two types of believers—
the believer in Christ and the
believer in Marx.
Frank Thring was a majestic
presence, but he didn’t act the
Cardinal as well as he formerly
did King Herod, and one never
felt much sympathy for him.
That emotion went more to
Frank Gatliff, who, as Interro-
gator, had the unfortunate job
of asking questions from which
his intelligence revolted.
Talkies
“Interrupted Melody”
Ostensibly on the life of
Marjorie Lawrence, this is the
best film on a great person seen
for a long time.
It begins with first successes,
love and marriage. Then, after
the crash with polio, the
singer has completely lost
hope, attempts suicide, and
refuses to make a single effort.
Her husband plays a record of
her own voice, and she screams
to him to stop it. “If you dislike
it so much turn it off yourself,”
he says, and walks out. She
drags herself from her couch
across the room, upsets the table
and smashes the record, and the
doctor comes in delighted—“So
you can move.” In these ways
he builds up her spirit along the
lines of singing.
Present commentator would
have liked the film to show
her return to the concert-
platform in Melbourne, but her
tour in an invalid-chair singing
to American and Australian
soldiers is just as good.
As Marjorie Lawrence,
Eleanor Parker could not have
done better. She has a voice
possibly as good as her model’s,
is as robust and vivacious, and
sings the songs supremely well.
Glenn Ford, as Dr. King, is
intelligent and understanding.
At Melbourne Metro.
❖ *l*
“The Strange Desire of Mons.
Bard” (Sydney Savoy): This
French film is billed only as
support to “Sadko,” a poorish
Soviet item in which Rimsky-
Korsakov’s opera has been
hacked about to give the hand-
some hero a chance to make
speeches against the plutocratic
merchants of Novgorod who
grind the faces of the medieval
poor. But the French picture is
excellent. M. Bard, a super-
annuated bus-driver with a weak
heart, wins a poultice at roulette
and seeks before he dies to beget
a child to whom he will leave his
money. He is a bachelor, but
fat and ugly. How he resolves
his difficulties and achieves his
ambition is told with rich
humanity and a fascinating
mixture of drollery and
poignancy.


BRASS HORSEMAN
by Bant
Singer
THE room they gave me in
the Hotel les Alpes,
La Mure, district of
Dauphine, France, was
over the street. The hotel was
in two parts. On the corner
where the road swung south
out of the village were the
restaurant and kitchen, bar and
office. On the opposite corner,
the bedrooms.
The girl put my bags down
and withdrew. I looked out
the window. There was the
hotel opposite and below it a
large church on a mound. When
I leaned far out I could see the
mountain of l’Obiou some miles
away, beyond a valley.
My car, a small Austin,
black, OXV-148, carrying a
G.8.-plate, stood in the street
below the window. The girl
had gone over to the office to
get the key of the garage. I
lit a smoke and dawdled at the
window, waiting to see the girl
come from the office.
Three men came round the
corner, crossed the road, stood
by the car.
There was a blue twilight. The
swifts were screaming above the
wheeling and darting.
I wasn’t watching the swifts.
Because one of the men put
his hand on the roof of the car
and bent down and looked
through the window at the
inside.
Because of the blueness in
the twilight it was hard to see
things clearly, even a few feet
below. But all three wore
English clothing and were out
of place in La Mure. And what
the hell were they looking in
my car for?
The one in the tweed-cap
looked around and up, and saw
me in the window. “This your
car?” he called. He had a
hard, flat voice. Not English,
not American. He could have
been Australian, only Austra-
lians seldom wear tweed-caps.
“That’s right,” I said.
He spoke to the other two,
and the one wearing a panama
stepped to the hotel-entrance
and entered. The others stood
by the car. There was some-
thing about them. Watchful.
Nervous.
I could hear Panama-hat
coming up the stairs. My door
wasn’t locked. He opened it
and walked in. He had a
parcel, tied with string, in his
left-hand, in his right a short,
black automatic.
“Don’t get excited,” he said.
TTIS voice was very soft and
casual. He wasn’t point-
ing the gun at me. But I didn’t
have to be told to keep still.
The brim of the panama was
turned-down over his forehead.
His eyes watched me.
He leaned a little towards me
and threw out his left-hand so
that the parcel fell on the bed.
It made a soft thud. He
reached behind him with the
left-hand and pulled the door
shut and turned the key. He
pulled the key from the door
and held it. All the time he
w;atched me. There was noth-
ing I could do. Only sweat
under my shirt and try to keep
from yelling.
“Sit on the bed,” he said,
“and keep quiet.”
Nothing I could do, except
walk sideways from the window
and sit on the bed. He walked
sideways to the window and,
without turning away from me,
called, “All right?”
“Yes, but hurry it up!”
That one was American.
Panama-hat said to me, “Let’s
have the ignition-key.”
“Look, what the” ?
“Don’t talk,” his voice
deepened a little. “The key!”
My nerve was coming back.
“Go to hell!” I said.
He studied . me. His eyes
narrowed. His underlip came
out. “Look, man,” he said,
“we can’t wait. If you want
I’ll call King up here and he’ll
beat the key out of you. If
you want.”
All I wanted was to get him
a little nearer. It was getting
dark, and from where I was. he
was outlined against the window,
whereas I was in the gloom.
“Somebody coming up,” the
flat-voice called from below.
Quick footsteps on the stairs,
a small knock on the door.
Panama-hat was by me in a
flash, hit the light-switch,
unlocked the door and opened
it. His right-hand was in his
coat-pocket, holding the little
gun there.
It was the girl with the
garage-key. It hung from the
big piece of wood in her hand.
She was tall,' slim, brunette,
with flashing eyes. She was
astonished to see him there, and
said something in French.
He replied soothingly, reached
out a hand, took her by the
wrist, and started to draw her
into the room.
That was where he slipped.
Because she was Gallic,
excitable, unpredictable. She
snatched her arm from him
and went back through the half-
closed door like a flash. She
ran down the stairs,. shrieking.
He stayed in the doorway long
enough, with his back to me,
staring after her.
I jumped into him with my
knees doubled together. They
hit him in the kidneys, and he
grunted and went down on his
face in the passage.
I fell on him and rolled and
chopped him and got the gun
and scrabbled away from him
and stood up. He half-turned
on the floor and looked at me.
His face was grey and sick with
the kidney-blow, but he tried to
get up. Then he saw the gun
in my hand and eased himself
and lay there, on his side, look-
ing at me. The panama-hat
was over against the passage-
wall.
Down in the street there were
shouts, and feet running. Along
the passage a door opened and
a Frenchman and his wife,
half-dressed, put their heads out
and then stood, looking at us.
Three gendarmes rushed along
the passage. The leading one
threw his baton underhand. It
hit me across the face, and two
of them whipped an armlock
on me so fast I yelled. They
helped Panama to his feet and
dragged us both downstairs.
Downstairs the population of
La Mure milled about in the
street-lights. They gave a big
sigh when they saw us. The
gendarmes cleared a way.
Beside my car the other two
characters stood, gendarmes
and civilians holding them. The
brunette girl stood near them.
She flashed her eyes at me and
spat something.
TN the police-station they lined
the four of us up before a
desk and a sergeant said things.
Maybe the other three knew
French. I didn’t, except
enough to ask for a room or a
drink or pick out things on a
menu. If the others knew
French they played dumb about
it.
So they sat us on a wooden
bench and talked among them-
selves and used the telephone.
They’d emptied our pockets in
four separate heaps on the desk.
When I made signs they let me
have a cigarette from my things.
“You mugs’ll get plenty for
this,” I said to Panama.
A gendarme jumped me. We
were not to speak with each
other. This was because the
village gendarmes couldn’t
understand English.
The noises outside died down.
I wondered about my car and
my bags. Wondered what the
devil all this was about. After
a while I got sore with sitting
on the hard bench, retried to
think of some French. I
couldn’t even think straight in
English. My mind darted all
over the place. The gendarmes
lazed about. They didn’t seem
to worry about me or the other
three. Panama stretched his
legs out and folded his arms and
dropped his head on them. The
light brought out a silver
hair or two in his head. He had
thick, brown, swept-back hair.
His hands, on his folded arms,
were big and strong.
I couldn’t see the other two
very well without leaning
forward to look past Panama. I
couldn’t be bothered leaning
forward. I was tired and sore
and worried.
Time went by. We got some
relief by pretending we wanted
the toilet and being led there
by a gendarme, but after a while
the gendarmes knew about it
and simply sneered when we
made signs. A couple of times
I tried to speak to them, but it
was no good.
It had been a little after ten-
o’clock when they lugged us
into the station. My watch
crawled towards midnight.
Just after midnight there was
a commotion outside and two
police-officers and two men in
plainclothes came in.
They talked in French to the
station-officers, looked at us,
looked at our things. The taller
of the plainclothes men took
charge. He pointed to Panama,
Tweed-cap and the one called
King. The gendarmes took
them through another door.
A gendarme brought two
chairs. He put them facing me.
The two plainclothes men sat
in them, the tall one facing me,
the other sitting to one side. A
young gendarme I hadn’t seen
before brought another chair
and sat just behind the tall one
and opened a notebook.
I watched all this. I didn’t
like it. I was a long way from
home. In this village I was a
foreigner. The detectives and
the gendarmes eyed me coldly.
Earlier, the girl had spat at
me and > the villagers were
hostile. All I knew was that
Panama had stuck a gun in
my face and demanded the keys
of my car.
The one sitting to one side
said, “Deutsch?”
“British,” I said.
“Ah. Pardon, m’sieur. lam
Detective Corot. My superior
is Inspector Pardi. We
shall”
“Look. If you speak English
for Pete’s sake tell these cops
“M’sieur. Please be quiet!
We”
“Quiet be damned!” I roared.
“A mug walks into my room,
sticks me up, wants my car-keys.
I get a chance to jump him and
do it. Then the cops rush in,
grab him and me, grab his two
pals, hustle us all in here. And
I’m treated like I was a”
I might have known it
wouldn’t get me anywhere.
Cops are cops, wherever you go.
They have a way of doing
things and nothing anybody can
do about it. These French let
me yell myself out, and when I
was done they just went on the
way they’d started.
“pIRST they wanted my pass-
port. I told them it was in
the glove-box of the car, and a
gendarme took the car-keys and
got it. It was with my carnet
de passage, international driving
licence, green card for insur-
ance, sundry other papers, all
in the yellow pouch the British
Automobile Association gives
you when they handle your
arrangements for taking a car
into Europe.
They go through all this, the
young cop making notes. They
learn I’m Denis Delaney, British
subject, tourist, and all the rest
of it.
I learn that the girl and her
family have accused me and
Panama and his pals of trying
to abduct her. White-slave
traffic, that’s us, the way they
see it.
I tell them I never saw
Panama or his pals until this
night. They bring Panama in,
talk at him in French. He talks
back. They take him away. As
he went out he gave me a funny
kind of grin.
Then they brought my two
bags from the hotel-room and
opened them and looked at
everything I had. They brought
the girl and her father and the
hotel-register and asked me
questions and translated my
answers.
After a jvhile they left me
sitting on the bench, with a
gendarme standing by, and went
through the door where Panama
and his pals were.
It was two-ten a.m. by my
watch when the English-
speaking detective came back.
“It is all clear, M’sieur,” he
said. “This trio has admitted
to being robbers. In Lyons
they beat a traveller, stole his
money and his car. They were
trying to get south, to Mar-
seilles, perhaps. Keeping to
lesser roads, you understand.
So they came to La Mure. But
the car will not go. It breaks
down on the outskirts. They
walk into the village. There is
your car. True, it is small, but
it is new and capable of great
speed. Also, because it is small
it may not be noticed. So they
think they will take it from you.
But then the girl came to the
room” he smiled at me and
shrugged his shoulders.
“All right,” I said, “so you
got them. Maybe I can go now
and get some sleep. It’ll soon
be dawn.”
He looked worried. “M’sieur
proposes to leave La Mure?”
“Sure. I’m on my way to
the Riviera. Soon’s I have
about five hours’ sleep.”
“Pardon. It will be neces-
sary for M’sieur to be in Gren-
oble on the sixteenth, ten days
from now, to give evidence
against these bandits.”
“Hell. What does that
mean?”
“If M’sieur will give himself
the trouble of reporting to the
police each day so that we may
keep in touch with M’sieur, and
if M’sieur gives his word to
report to the Prefecture at
Grenoble on the sixteenth.”
“But you’ve got their
confessions. Surely”
He pulled his mouth down
and shrugged. To show that
we were both helpless, I guess.
So I had to make the
promises.
A gendarme carried my bags
back to the hotel. The girl’s
father came to help me, full of
apologies. He and the gendarme
helped me put the car in the
garage and lock the big door.
After some trouble I managed to
make the hotelkeeper under-
stand that I wasn’t to be
wakened until nine-o’clock.
Then I locked myself in the
room, peeled-off and fell into
bed.
TPHE way the French try to
- 1 - repay you when they dis-
cover they’ve done you wrong
is nobody’s business.
When they awoke me at nine
that morning the hotelkeeper
and his wife and daughter fell
over themselves to serve me.
They brought me coffee-and-
rolls to the room, ran a bath,
raided my bags and laid clean
clothes on the bed for me. My
suit had been cleaned and
pressed. As soon as I was
decent the daughter rushed in
and packed my bags, while the
father led me downstairs to the
garage and indicated the car,
all cleaned and polished.
When I drove round to the
entrance the girl had my bags
down and lifted them into the
boot herself. I went in and
paid the bill, gave the mother
F2OO, came out, gave the girl
F2OO. Then the mother ran
out and gave me a bottle of
red-wine and three ripe peaches.
We sang farewells at one
another and I headed down the
long slope towards the bold
head of l’Obiou.
I took it easy. The day was
fine, National 85 was a fine
road, with the car and F 40,000
the Riviera looked fine, I felt
fine. I waved to the two
fellows sitting in a big green
car about ten kilometres out of
La Mure. One of them waved
back.
Between Sisteron and Digne
a big green car overtook me and
the fellow beside the driver
leaned across and stared at me.
I waved to him. This time
neither of them waved back. A
little way ahead the green car
faded round a bend.
In Castellane I wrapped
myself round a bottle of Stras-
bourg lager, an omelette and
coffee, lazed in the boulevarde
cafe, talked to the proprietor
about the Virgin on the Rock
that towers over the town,
smoked. Then I saw the green
car across the square and a face
peering at me through the rear-
window.
I got up, got in my car,
turned it round, and shot out J"-
Castellane like a bat out of hell,


back towards the De Leques
pass. There was a sharp bend
three kilos out and I rounded
it and pulled-off the road under
a rock-shelf and stopped. About
two-minutes later Jhe green car
tore round the bend.
They were almost past when
they saw me. I saw the mouth
of the man beside the driver
fall open. The driver hit the
brake so hard the tyres
screamed. They almost stopped,
then went crawling on.
I turned my car and drove
back to Castellane and pulled
up at the same cafe. The green
car had kept me in sight all the
time.
It was a gopd thing the
proprietor knew English. In
the cafe I said to him, “I
cannot speak French, Please
call the police - station at
La Mure and ask for Detective
Corot.”
“You are of the police,
M’sieur?”
“Not on your life. Get me
that detective.”
TTE studied me for a moment,
then went into the back of
the cafe. I followed and stood
near the wall. I could see part
of the street and the square
opposite. The green car had
gone round the square and
stopped. I could see its nose.
The proprietor called me. I
took the phone from him.
“That Detective Corot?”
“But yes. Who is that,
please?”
“Look, Corot, I’m Delaney.
You remember? The fellow
was mixed up with that”
“So! Mister Delaney. Have
you some trouble?”
“Maybe. I don’t like being
tailed.”
“Tailed, Mister Delaney?”
“Followed. Watched. Two
birds in a green car. Tailed me
from La Mure. They belong to
you?”
I could hear him speaking
fast to somebody.
“They are not of us, Mister
Delaney. Are you sure they
follow?”
“Sure I’m sure. Who the hell
are they? What should I do?”
He didn’t say anything for
a while.
Then, “We do not know of
them, Mister Delaney. Perhaps
you should report to the
gendarmerie in Castellane.”
“What does that get me?”
“You should lay a charge.
They offend you. They threaten
you. They would be held for
questions, yes. And”
“Hey! Wait a minute. Does
that mean I’d have to hang
round here and wait while they
get the business?”
“But, of course, Mister
Delaney. You see”
“Say, what sort of a country
is this! I’m a tourist, see! I
come here for a holiday. Good
for France. Good for every
innkeeper and wine-waiter and
gas-station and everybody else
I pay and throw extra francs at.
I even pay for my visa and
insurance, and in some of the
damn’ towns they slap on a
sojourner’s tax. Do I mind!
Like hell I mind. But that’s the
way it is. So I pay and like
it, and like the country and the
people and having myself a good
time. Then what happens.
You”
“Mister Delaney. Please,
sir! Mister Delaney.”
“Don’t you please me. I’ve
had it. I’m not chasing about
these Alps with queer birds on
my tail. If you can’t get ’em
off I’ll shake ’em myself.”
I ram the telephone down on
its cradle, throw a hundred-
franc note at the proprietor,
surge out and into my car and
swing her out of Castellane and
head for the coast. Hell with
it!
Four kilometres out the green
car showed in my rear-vision
mirror. Cooled ipe off some.
Because if I was going to
shake these birds it would take
wits, not heat.
I could have pulled up and
asked them what the blazes
they wanted.
I thought of doing just that.
But there were two of them and
the way they acted meant they
weren’t friendly. Whatever they
were aiming at it didn’t mean
any good for me, the way I saw
it.
CO I thought about shaking
them. It’s about sixty-five
kilometres from Castellane to
Grasse, with the three passes of
Valferriere, La Faye, and Pilon
to go through. That meant
plenty of cMmbing, plenty of
hairpin bends.
The road is narrow. Already
the little car was twisting on the
first bends. Sixty-five kilos is
about forty miles. I didn’t
have to swing as wide as a big
car to cut the bends and I could
take them faster. With luck,
provided nothing much was
coming the other way, I could
shake the green car.
Modern baby-cars hold the
road well. Once the engine is
hot they’ll accelerate in top on
pretty steep climbs. I’m no
slouch as a driver. The green
car was ’way ahead of me on
horsepower, but you need some-
thing more than horsepower on
an alpine road if the baby ahead
of you is well handled.
I took a bet with myself I
could handle mine better than
the green-car driver could
handle his.
The way I took some of those
bends still gives me a kick.
Right up Valferriere the needle
never dropped below thirty on
even the tightest turn and
jumped near sixty on the short
straights. I could smell my
brakes burning going down to
Escragnolles, and nearly got a
cyclist in that village. On a
short one above St. Vallier the
car screamed sideways across
the cambered turn and my
throat went dry as she bounced
into and out of a narrow road-
side ditch and metal screamed
where -a tiny point of the rock-
wall scored the wing on the
offside front-wheel. I got her
out of it by blind luck and went
through St. Vallier yelling like
a crazy loon, because of the
excitement and the way the baby
was beating her guts out to
make it.
We nearly got it just out of
Grasse, where the dropping
road takes a couple of savage
bends. I heard the bus horn’s
high-pitched barking a little too
late, and when it swung wide
to take the bend I was tearing
straight at it. That bus-driver
was good. Somehow he
tightened his turn enough inches
for me to flash by. Had mine
been a bigger car it would have
been curtains, but my baby just
had that little bit to spare, hung
on to the last four-inches over a
five-hundred feet drop, and got
back on to the road.
In Grasse I saw what I
wanted —a service-station with a
concrete apron and wide doors
behind it. I swung the car
round the pumps, in through the
door and shot her close to the
long work-bench behind a
dismantled truck.
The mechanics still had their
mouths open when I climbed
out, ran to the door and peeped
round the edge. I heard them
crying at me, but kept my eyes
on the road. There was a little
traffic, but no green car.
Somebody plucked my elbow.
The service-station boss spoke
in French. I made noises at
him and watched the road. He
saw this and began to look
worried. I got out my wallet,
peeled off a five-hundred and
gave it to him. He stopped
looking worried, spoke to the
staring mechanics, put the note
in his pocket, and went away.
I guess he was used to mad
tourists on that road, and for
five-hundred francs he was
ready to tolerate my form of
madness for a little while.
For half an hour I stood by
the door, watching. I smoked
three cigarettes. The green car
didn’t show. They ought to
have got to Grasse by then. I
knew there wasn’t another road.
They had to come in the way I
did. Either they’d turned back,
or stopped, or hit something.
IX7HEN they still didn’t show I
* got in my car, backed-out,
waved to the staring mechanics
apd drove sedately into the
town-centre.
I told myself I needn’t worry
about the green car any more.
But I wasn’t happy. All the
excitement of the drive had gone
and I felt like something the cat
had dragged in. Besides,
getting away from them was one
thing, trying to guess why
they’d trailed me was another.
The more I wondered about
it the less happy I felt. What
was • going on? Who were
they? Maybe I’d got it wrong.
Maybe them acting like they
did had nothing to do with me ;
I just happened to be there. I
parked the car and went into a
bistro and got a drink and sat
over it. But I couldn’t get rid of
it. Because deep inside me I
knew I hadn’t got it wrong;
about them trailing me, I mean.
I’d have given a lot to sight
somebody I could talk to. But
there wasn’t anybody. And if
I went to the police what could
I tell them? If I hadn’t been
driving I would have got good
and drunk.
Brooding over it wasn’t
getting me any place, so I
decided to drift. There were
two ways down to the coast. A
short run straight to Cannes or
a longer one by way of
Le Rouret to Cagnes. I went to
Cannes.
It was early afternoon —a July
afternoon—when I ran into
Cannes. I hadn’t any plans. I
had to be in Grenoble ten days
hence. I had to report to the
French police once a day. Fine
way to spend a holiday.
I parked on the waterfront
and walked about, looking at
the bathers, the crowd on the
concrete-walk, the sea, the
traffic, the cafes. The place was
crowded. Every time I saw a
car that looked green I stared at
it. But the one I was looking
for wasn’t there.
Then I got fed-up apd got in
the car and pushed off along
the coast-road, heading for
Antibes. I didn’t stop there.
There was a lot of traffic and
I took it slow. I was flat, like
stale beer. I was so damned
lonely and downhearted I felt
like getting out and starting a
fight, just for the hell of it.
Near the big casino in Nice
two black-headed girls dressed
in nothing much gave me the
come-on. I spat out the side
of the car. That’s how I felt.
Maybe if the green car had
suddenly appeared on my rear-
bumpers I’d have cheered up.
Two American sailors stood on
the kerb.
“Hi, Mac!” I yelled at them.
They stared at me.
I drove on.
I don’t know why Beaulieu-
sur-Mer looked nicer than any-
where else. But it did. Maybe
because it was quiet. Maybe
because the Med. was
bluer where it came in the little
artificial harbor. Maybe
because the golden mimosa
hung over a high stone-wall and
behind it a dark, feathery
eucalypt trembled in the breeze.
Maybe because I was ready to
stop any place.
The Hotel Frisia is a small
place, standing over the road,
with a narrow road running up
the side to the terraced streets
and villages above the coast.
They gave me a room at the
rear, on the first-floor. One
shuttered - window overlooked
the narrow street, the other
looked over a small yard with
peach-trees to houses higher up
the cliff. The land rises very
sharply from the sea along that
coast.
There wasn’t a garage. They
conveyed to me that guests
either parked their cars in the
side-street or took them to a
lock-up back towards Ville-
franche. I sent my bags up and
took the car back to the lock-up.
If anyone came around looking
for a black Austin, OXV-148,
with a G.8.-plate, it wasn’t
going to be parked where any-
one could see it.
I walked back to the Frisia,
opened my big bag, pulled out
my swimming-trunks and then
stood still.
Then I dropped the top of the
bag, went to the windows and
looked out. The room was on
the south-east corner of the
hotel. Too high for anyone to
see through the windows. The
sun was into the west and the
room was a little dim. I went
and opened the bag again and
stood there.
TIECAUSE I’d forgotten about
** the parcel Panama had
dropped on my bed, back in La
Mure, when he had to have a
free hand to open the door.
It had been overlooked in the
excitement which followed; The
gendarmes had missed it when
they collected my bags from the
room. Maybe it fell off the bed.
The girl must have found it.
When she was packing my bags.
She must have thought it was
something of mine. She’d simply
put it in the bag, believing it to
be mine.
I picked it up. Its weight
startled me. I undid the string
and unwrapped the paper. Then
I sat down on the bed and looked
at what I held in my hand. My
mind kind of stopped, then
raced.
Because now I knew why
Panama and his pals had been
in such a hurry to get a car after
the one they’d hoisted had
broken down. Now I had a clue
the green car and the way
it had tailed me.
What I held didn’t tell me
everything. Not by a mile, it
didn’t. But it told me a heck of
a lot. And it told me I wasn’t
in the clear yet. I stood the
thing on its four feet on the
dressing-table and pulled up a
chair. Then I locked the door
and made sure the windows were
locked. I sat in the chair and
looked at it.
It was a beautifully-made
figure of a Tartar rider on his
Mongol pony, done in beaten
brass. It stood about seven
inches high from the hooves to
the crown of the rider’s helmet.
It weighed fully a pound. The
rider was part turned in the
saddle, a proud, scornful, alert
man, sitting the horse as though
he feared nothing on earth. It
was like his wild personality had
come down the centuries from
Genghis Khan, as though he’d
swept up to a hillcrest in the
Jura and halted to peer disdain-
fully at the land ahead, knowing
it would soon be under fire and
sword and the galloping horses
of his fellows.
The forgotten workman had
caught the man and fixed him
in brass for ever. The long,
sweeping moustache and chin-
whiskers, the broad, heavy,
armored collar of the corselet,
the dragon’s head on the breast,
the long kilt, the armored leg-
pieces above the felted boots,
the harness of saddle and bridle,
breastplate and crupper and
backhand, the old Tartar decora-
tions on all the gear.
Just as a brass figure it was
worth maybe a hundred-
thousand francs. Nothing for
Panama and his pals, and the
green-car birds, to get excited
about. Not until you saw the
jewels. They made it different.
I’m no jewel-expert. But I
know emeralds, rubies and
amethysts when I see them. And
I was seeing twenty-one of them,
every one the same size, every
one as big as a dress-stud head,
faceted and matched. An
emerald in the helmet, rubies for
the dragon’s eyes and on the
pony’s headstall and saddle-
trappings, amethysts and
emeralds on the shoulder-armor
and the legplates, rubies on the
pony’s breastplate. Maybe I was
wrong, but I reckoned I was
looking at nothing under two-
million francs, two-thousand
quid English, say five-thousand
dollars to the right buyer.
It was guineas to gooseberries
Panama and the rest knew the
right buyer. Only now they
hadn’t anything to sell him. /
had it. By blind chance and the
assumption of a village inn-
keeper’s daughter when she
packed my bags, I had it. It
was a safe bet that, even if she
was a little astonished by the
weight of the parcel, she didn’t
even wonder what it could be.
It stood on the dressing-table
in this room, the brass horse-
man staring arrogantly into the
distance, and I looked at it and
knew what to do.
Because what I had to do was
wrap it up and go downstairs
and call up Detective Corot at
La Mure or Grenoble and tell
him about it. Or take it to the
nearest gendarmerie and tell them
about it, and get a receipt for
it and leave it with them.
I threw a towel over it and
got up and opened the window
(Continued on next page)


over the side-street and looked as hundreds of cars tried to get
out. through the crowds.
A MAN was digging in the
*** garden of a villa beyond the
high wall across the street. In
the street below me two cars
were parked. A girl in a faded
red beret passed the cars, walking
up the hill, carrying a string-
bag full of something. I closed
the window, pulled the shutters
in, and went to the other window
and looked out. The peach-trees
trembled. Shadow was on them
now, because the sun was low.
A blackbird walked the grey old
ridge-cap of a shingled roof,
.digging with its beak into cracks
in the wood,
I closed windows and shutters,
lit a cigarette, took the towel
from the figure, sat down and
looked at it and smoked and
thought about taking it to the
police.
After a while I opened the
window over the peach-trees and
looked out again. The blackbird
wasn’t there any more. The blue
twilight was forming in the
depths of the little garden. I
knew there was a high, narrow
gate into the peaches from the
side-street, flush against the rear
wall of the hotel. I knew that
the hostess and most of the hotel
staff would be out front, where
there were a glassed-in cafe and
an open-stone terrace with tables
and chairs overhanging the coast
road and the sea, and where at
this hour hotel guests and others
would be drinking and lazing in
the last of the sunshine.
I sank the horseman in the
water in the china ewer in the
room, locked the room, and went
down the stairs and out the side-
door and into the side-street and
tried the gate. It opened easily.
I closed it again and went back
to the room, fished the horseman
out, dried him off, wrapped him
in the paper and tied the parcel
with the same string. Then I
opened the window over the
shadowed garden and tossed the
parcel on to the soft earth under
the nearest peach-tree.
The side-street was deserted
when I opened the narrow gate
and slipped into the garden. It
was hot in the enclosed garden,
and there was a strong smell of
compost. The garden-shed on
which the blackbird had walked
was very small, built close against
the two stone walls that made
a corner of the garden. I pushed
the parcel between the shed and
the stone wall, threw some
garden rubbish over it and went
away.
I went upstairs and out on to
the stone terrace among the
people. When the waiter came I
ordered a double Scotch, and
asked for a bath to be ready at
seven-thirty. I sat there, drinking
Scotch, and my nerves started to
jump.
So I drank more Scotch. It
started to make me glow. It
made me feel good and be-
damned to everybody. Some of
the people at near tables looked
at me and the Scotch, and caught
me looking at them and smiled
like they were sorry for being
rude. But I didn’t care. Because
I wanted to keep the brass
horseman.
In the bath I was singing. But
every time somebody went , along
the passage outside I stopped
singing and listened to the
footsteps.
When I was dressed I went to
the cafe and gave the waiter
three-hundred francs and said I
was in a hurry. Funny how a
few francs makes them under-
stand English. Even talked it
back at me a little.
TUST after nine-o’clock I
J caught a blue bus to Nice and
went among the crowd along the
promenade. It was a hot, still
night and the place was packed.
Every cafe and dance-floor was
full, thousands jostled along the
pavements and over on the wide
promenade. The orchestras were
drowned in the beeping of horns
I thought I’d pick up a girl and
go dancing or to the casino or
just push through the crowds
with her. But every time a girl
gave me the look something
clammed up inside me. I gave it
away and found a table in a cafe
and ordered a Scotch. A dark-
faced man sitting there looked at
me and said, “Didn’t I see you in
Grenoble? On the sky-lift to
Chamrousse?”
Somehow I didn’t jump up and
rush away.
“Not Grenoble,” I said.
“Some place?” he said.
“Where you from?”
“Pretoria is where I live. My
firm sent me to England and then
down here. I’ve been here five
weeks. It’s a lousy place. Have
a drink with me. How do you
manage with the lingo? I can
handle Basuto and some
Afrikaans but over here”-
“Whisky,” I said.
He went on talking. Him talk-
ing and the noise of the crowd
and the heat and the bursts of
music and the way my mind was
all mixed up and the whisky I
knew I had to get out of there.
Get out and away from the
crowds and the lights and into
the dark. Get away and fast.
“Be seein’ you, pal,” I said
and stood up.
I could see the table rushing
up at me, but I couldn’t do any-
thing about it. Because of the
whisky, I guess.
I was out for three hours. The
South African stayed with me.
He and a waiter got their arms
round me, and took me across
the promenade to a seat on the
waterfront, and the South
African stayed with me till I
came out of it, enough to tell him
where I lived. Then he got a
taxi and rode me back to the
Frisia and dug the concierge out,
and they undressed me and put
me in bed.
I didn’t wake till about eleven
that morning; and there was a
note from the South African left
with the concierge, telling me to
come to the Hotel Brice in Nice
and ask for George Cochrane.
I was pretty shaky when I got
up, and I thought I’d go into
Nice and find Cochrane and
bring him back and get the brass
horseman and have him come
with me to the police. Because
the thing was driving me crazy.
But when I got to the Brice
they told me he’d been called
urgently and had caught a plane
to London. I felt very lonely
and went and had a stiffener. It
stopped me shaking and I started
to worry.
A gendarme on traffic duty
told me where the prefecture was
and I started to go to it. Then I
got scared. I don’t know why. I
just got plain scared. So I went
into a park and sat on a seat and
tried to force myself to snap out
of it.
TTe more I tried to snap out
of it the worse I got. A spiv
came and sat on the seat and
offered me twelve-hundred francs
apiece for sterling pounds. I
told him to go to hell, and he rose
and smiled and bowed and went
away:
The brass horseman kept call-
ing to me. I could see his proud
face. I could see the jewels
studded about him. Suddenly
it was like I’d been doused with
cold water. My mind was clear.
I could feel strength running
back into me. Some queer
notion got into me that if I went
back to Beaulieu and got him
and looked at him for a while
it would be all right.
I left the park and went and
drank some black coffee and
went to the autobus port and got
a Mentone bus back to the
Frisia. I hadn’t used my car
because of the way I felt and
because it was easier to travel
by bus.
It was about two-o’clock in
the afternoon when I got back
to my room. The windows had
been opened to air the room.
Down in the peach-trees a man
and two women were pottering
about and chattering and laugh-
ing. They stayed there all
afternoon.
I had some lunch and sat on
the terrace and smoked. I tried
to write a couple of letters, but
my mind kept going down into
the peach-garden. The hostess
came and sat with me for a
while. She had enough English
to get by and we talked about
this and that. If the concierge
told her about me getting drunk
she didn’t speak of it.
About five-o’clock I got into
my trunks, put on a dressing-
gown, and went down and dived
into the sea off the wall of the
little man-made harbor. That
did me good. It also made me
sleepy.
I went back to the room, and
with just the gown on I lay down
on the bed and slept. The room
was dim when I awoke. I
wondered who had shut the
windows and drawn the shutters
to. I looked at the door.
There was a little, bright-eyed
man sitting on a chair with the
back against the door. He had a
long-nosed gun in his right hand.
“How do you do, Mr.
Delaney,” he said.
TXE said it in a kind of whisper.
His face creased up in a
smile. Then it uncreased and
went sort of dead.
I didn’t say anything.
“Do not leave the bed,” he
whispered. “You may sit up.”
“Thanks.” I meant it to be
sarcastic, but it sounded like a
frog with laryngitis.
“Let us not delay,” he
whispered. “Trouble yourself to
indicate the position of the
figure.” The smile creased his
face. Then the face went dead
again. He hadn’t moved a
muscle, except to whisper.
Don’t think I’m kidding when
I say that right then I wanted to
laugh. Because him sitting there,
and the gun, and his dead face
watching me, washed all the
worry out of me and I wasn’t
crazy or scared any more. My
mind couldn’t go past him and
his gun. It didn’t want to. For
the time being there was just that
—nothing more.
Because he wouldn’t shoot
until he got the horseman. And
to get the horseman he’d have to
scare it out of me or beat it out
of me. I was past scaring, and if
he tried to beat me up that would
be just fine, and then
“Let us not delay, Mr.
Delaney.”
“Look, Ugly. Why don’t you
put that cannon in your pocket
and clear out? I dunno how
you got my name or who you
think I am, but”
“I know who you are and I
know you have the figure of
brass. I also know that you
will die, most certainly, unless
I leave this room with the figure.”
It wasn’t the words that
rocked me. It was the way
he said them. Each one came
in a sharp, bitten-off whisper.
Each one was like a short-arm
jab. They hit me. I could feel
them. Feel the cold certainty of
him. He was very still, sitting
there, but it was like he was
coiled and tense and would do
what he said he’d come what
may.
“You wouldn’t shoot —here!”
Now I was whispering.
“Not here, perhaps. No, that
would be foolish. But some-
where, sooner or later, we would
pick you off. You would die in
France, M’sieur. Believe me.”
I believed him. But I wasn’t
dead yet. “Look, what’s this
figure of brass you’re talking
about? What makes you think I
know where it is?” I forced
myself to look right at him,
forced myself to look kind of
puzzled and innocent.
He kept his eyes on me. I
kept mine on him. His eyes
were very bright in the dim
room. I wanted to look away
from him, but stopped myself
doing it. Suddenly his own eyes
blinked and then darted round
the room and back at me.
“Search the room, if you
want,” I said.
“Why did you flee from us,
in your little car, on the passes?”
he said.
“I thought you were detectives.
There was trouble in La Mure.
I was mixed up in it. I thought
you were detectives, following
me. That’s why I”
Suddenly he stood up, held up
the gun. He was only about
sixty-five inches high, but *he
looked bigger.
“You will dress,” he said. “Be
careful and quick, if you please.”
While I did it I hoped he
would take me somewhere.
Because that would mean we’d
have to go down the stairs, and
there could be a chance to jump
him.
But he was ahead of me. When
I was dressed he made me lie on
the bed again. Not taking his
eyes off me, he went to the
window over the street, opened
it, pushed the shutters out, called
out something in French. All the
while he watched me. I heard
a car start and then die down
to the idling murmur. He came
back across the room and stood
by the door.
“When my companion comes,”
he whispered, “we will go down
and get in the car. You will not
make trouble.”
“Where are we going?”
Somebody had come up the
stairs and tapped lightly on the
door.
“It is possible,” he said, “that
the people did not tell us the
truth. We shall learn that.”
He opened the door. A heavy
youth in a black beret and dark-
blue, baggy suit looked at us.
Behind him the passage was dark.
He kept his eyes on the little
man, ignoring me. His face was
dull and heavy. One side of his
mouth was pulled down as
though too heavy for him to
hold up. I could smell his sweat.
“This is Paul.” He spoke to
Paul. Paul nodded and stepped
back a little.
“You will go now,” the little
man said.
It came to me that this had all
been planned. They’d intended
two things. One was to put the
gun on me and ask for the horse-
man. The other was that, if I
didn’t come through, they would
take me out of there, probably
to some place where they could
give me the business without
interruption.
I wasn’t expecting it then. Not
when I stepped out the door. I
was being smart, playing for
time, waiting for a break of some
kind. I ought to have known
these fellows never gave anybody
a break.
T)AUL had stood back a little.
A I went out. I thought the
little man would follow, keeping
his distance, knowing I knew he
had the gun and would use it if
he had to.
He must have clubbed it and
then stepped cat - footed
close up behind me. The
blow didn’t knock me out.
It wasn’t meant to. It was
timed and weighted to hit
the back of my neck and numb
my reflexes and slow me with
pain and shock and not knock
me out. That’s just what it did.
I felt Paul take my arm and
hold me up. Heard the little
rpan say something and laugh
and Paul laugh. Paul led me
down the stairs. At the bottom,
where the hall opened out and
there was more space, the little
man took my other arm. Both
of them kept talking and
laughing. They took me past
the open glass doors leading into
the public lounge. The lights
were bright in there.
People sat around and a
waiter moved about. I got my
head up and called out to them.
I thought I called out. Some of
them looked at us and then
politely looked away. I knew
what was going on, but I couldn’t
do anything about it. They held
me up and dragged me by the
doors, laughing and talking. To
the people in the lounge we were
just three drunks going off some-
where together. It was the
Riviera and summer and three
drunks going somewhere was
nothing.
They put me in the front seat
of the green car. I heard its
engine idling and tried not to
get in, but I was too numb and
sick with the pain. Paul got
under the wheel and the little
man got in the back. The car’s
amber headlights went on and
Paul eased it out of the side
street into the traffic on the coast
road. I could see the yellow
headlights and the orange street-
lights and moving shadows.
Then the car turned sharply
up the escarpment, on a narrow,
twisting road between villas and
stone walls a darker road.
Darker till a blinding flash
dazzled me and a bolt of pain
shattered me and it was all dark.
He’d hit me again. This time
to knock me out.
When I came to I didn’t even
wonder where I was. I was too
sore and my head and neck
pained and were hot and heavy.
All I knew was that it was day-
light and all my body ached and
darts of pain ran behind my eyes
and across my head and
shoulders and my stomach was
sick and all I wanted to do was
lie there and keep still and try
not to feel the pain.
After a while somebody came.
A big youth. One side of his
mouth hung down. He didn’t
say anything. He gave me strong
ON A DAY
On a day of extreme heat I laid my head
Cool in her lap, in her soft hands I lay.
If it had chanced that I had raised my head,
I could have had the trembling air of day.
From the leaves, the tree-runners’ water-sound
Of cool and cool was liquid green and green.
If it had chanced that 1 had made some sound,
She would have laid her lips where sound had been.
But to tell truth the languid heat of day,
The net-li'ke cool of that bird cry and cry,
Held both of us within, without, the day,
And we stayed still as the unmoving sky.
It seemed that I could see from place
Outside the glass that pupilled on my eyes,
And holding both of us, and three the place,
I seemed to hold the world at its true size.
It seemed that never had we ever loved,
And never had 1 moved within her breath
As I did then, for we two deeply loved
Although we stayed as still and separate as death.
Then, somewhere, near the sun, an atom moved.
Skylark or angel, which one could it be?
And crying to her eyes I also moved,
And pointing upward turned upon her knee.
That bird-thing sang as it approached its sun,
And I too uttered more than I could say.
The bird and I approached a separate sun,
Till I found love was deeper, was the day.
n. s. wales.
RAY MATHEW.


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947 as a ProDrietarv
Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.) y J
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2.000.000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £1 each )
577,045 New Ordinary Shares of £l eachf
NOW OFFERED
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each
FOR SUBSCRIPTION
1,505,500
494,500
2,000,000
Shares of £1 each
HELD IN RESERVE
• • • • •• >•.*) •< • *, •.
£1,205,500
300,000
£1,505,500
494,500
£2,000,000
CAPITAL Required to Operate Valuable "Caterpillar" ★
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to secure the greatest possible
returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of the valuable franchises held by the Company and
its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS PEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY. LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria, U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.,
ON TRACKS
!®€>4'i9s4
"Caterpillar" Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment fori
STATE OF QUEENSLAND
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
CLOSING ON OR BEFORE
30th June, 1955
DEERE AND COMPANY of Illinois, U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for
the whole of Australia.
“CATERPILLAR'S"
WORLD STATUS!
# Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on
tracks is "Caterpillar."
# In Australia, too, "Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by
far the highest user preference, as every year more
"Caterpillars" are sold than any similar type.
Caterpillar is a registered Trade Mark.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of 300,000 New Ordinary Shares
are proposed to be applied as working capital for the
Company and its Subsidiaries. Shares are of 20/- each,
payable in full on application.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form
accompanying the Prospectus, dated 28th February, 1955, and
must be lodged direct with the Company’s Office. Copies of
the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained
upon application to the Company’s Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Diesels Limited will be given
absolute priority of allotment of shares applied for not later
than the 31st March, 1955. Any shares not then applied for
by such shareholders will be dealt with as the Directors may
determine. The Directors reserve the right to close the issue
at any time without notice, whether the issue be then fully
subscribed or otherwise. In the event of applications being
received for more than 300,000 New Ordinary Shares, the
Directors reserve the right to allot additional shares ranking
pari passu in all respects with the New Ordinary Shares
offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such additional
shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing further
working capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors,
must be raised by the issue of shares offered for subscription
by this Prospectus is £20,000, being required solely as working
capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
1951
1952
1953
Year ended 31st August, 1954
Net Profit
.. £11,790
. £48,779
.. £58,870
. . £111,398
Ordinary
Dividends
9.2%
39.0%
12.5%
12.5%
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of valuable franchises
augurs well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 77 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W., Chairman and
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR,> Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General Manager.
LESLIE EUGENE BRANDON, 61 Seventh Avenue, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Qld., Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W., Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.,
JOHN DUDLEY LOBB, Lum Road, Wheeler’s Hill, Victoria, Architect.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE. 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN PEARSON, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Manager.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin Place,
Sydney. *
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES, F.C.1.5.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s Registered Office.
Thin advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been fully complied with)
is published for information only and. is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe. The.
Prospectus, of which this is an advertisement, is dated 2,Sift February, 1955, and copies thereof have been filed
respectively with the Registrar-General in New South Wales (who tabes no responsibility as to its contentsy, the
Registrar at Companies in Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania and the Registrar-
General in Victoria.
Applications will be received qnly upon one of the forms of applications referred to in and endorsed upon a
printed copy of the Prospectus.
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE ON OR BEFORE 5 P.M., ON 30th JUNE.
1955. THE ISSUE IS ALREADY OVERSUBSCRIBED AND THE DIRECTORS HAVE DECIDED TO
ACCEPT AN OVERSUBSCRIPTION, PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT THE
REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY BEFORE CLOSING DATE.
NOTE: The issue has
been over-subscribed
and the Directors are
accepting an over-
subscription!
black coffee that burnt my throat.
Maybe it had something in it. It
did me good. He gave me a roll
that had been split and had
cheese put in it It was no use to
me. All I could do was drink
the coffee and lie back on what-
ever I was lying on and close my
ey ?\ k , .
Later when I opened them
again, I felt better. It was a
small room with whitewashed
stone walls. It had no windows.
The light came through a sky-
light in the sloping roof. The
walls were about ten feet high.
One of the panes in the sky-
light was broken. I was lying
on the floor, on some old sacking,
There was nothing else in the
room. There was no way to get
up to the skylight. I got to
my feet. I was shaky and my
head and neck ached, but I was
much better. There was a
narrow door made of heavy
timber. Locked. I kicked it.
Shouted. Cursed. Nobody came,
Then I caught the smell of
lavender. It was coming through
the broken skylight. I knew I
must be somewhere up m the
hills, where the lavender-farms
are. My watch was still going,
The time was eleven and be-
cause it was daylight that made it
morning. I wound the watch and
lay down again. There was no-
thing to do but wait. I thought
that by lying down I could get
some strength back. I knew
they’d be back. I didn’t wonder
where they were or what they
were doing. I just lay there,
knowing they’d be back.
vyHEN I* woke again it was
still daylight. The cheese-
roll was on the floor. I ate it.
There were cigarettes and my
lighter in my pocket. I lit a
cigarette and then went over to
the wooden door and tried to
set fire to it with the lighter. It
wouldn’t burn. I screwed my
handkerchief tightly and lit it.
While it burned I pulled the
bottom off the lighter and got
about two drops of spirit and set
the spirit-soaked flock against the
bottom of the door and put the
burning handkerchief to it. The
flock flared up and the handker-
chief flamed and the fumes made
my eyes smart, and I got down
and blew the fire against the
wood. It glowed for a second
or two and then the whole thing
died down, except for a spiral
of smoke.
I kicked the door and yelled
some more. But it was no good.
About four o’clock 1 wanted a
drink. I shouted and called. My
throat got sore from the yelling.
I walked round and round the
room, wanting a drink. Then it
struck me that this was what they
wanted. Get me thirsty and keep
me that way and there’d come a
time when I’d tell them anything
for a drink. I sat down on the
sacking and put my back
against the wall and kept still
and tried to keep my mind still.
I thought that doing that would
help me not to be thirsty. .
But my mind wouldn’t keep off
it. It kept seeing water and re-
minding me how good a drink
would be. I remembered read-
ing somewhere that your tongue
swells first, and I put my tongue
out and felt it and screwed my
eyes down to look at it. To find
out if it were swelling. Some-
times I thought it was, then I’d
know it wasn’t. But I kept
wanting a drink.
The light started to go.
It scared me to see the light
going. I kicked at the door and
cried out.
Nobody came.
My head began aching badly
and I lay down. I suppose ]
was sore and exhausted. ]
thought I was in London, walk-
ing past the statue of Nurse
Cavell in St. Martin's Place and
she was holding a brass horse-
man in one hand and one of the
pavement artists was screaming
at me and three men walked by,
in Indian file, each with the
number three on his back.
The door opened and there
were voices and a light, and
somebody came into the room
and it was like when you wake
in the morning and everything
is sharp and clear and you feel
good.
There were the little bright-
eyed man and the youth'named
Paul and the girl from the hotel
in La Mure and her father. The
father was so scared he put his
back against the wall, with his
hands behind him, and shivered
and looked sick. Paul had a
hand-lamp and wasn’t .looking
anything because all the upper
part of him was in shadow.
I stood up and my heart gave
a start and then,raced. Because
I still felt good and my head
wasn’t aching.
The girl stood near her father.
They must have taken her as
she worked, because she still
wore an apron and her hair was
done up in a pale scarf.
Bright-eyes let me see the long-
nosed gun in his hand.
“The girl says she knows no-
thing of the figure,” he said.
She has told us how she found
a heavy parcel on the floor and
put it in your bag. Now we
shall see who is telling the truth.”
The girl stepped forward a
little and spoke to me in
French. I shrugged my
shoulders.
“Ma’m’selle says she is sorry
to create you trouble,” Bright-
eyes said. He laughed a little.
The French beat me. She was
sorry to cause me trouble!
“You’re the swine that’s
going to get the trouble,” I told
him.
“You are stubborn,” he said.
His face went dead and he turned
the gun and shot the father.
o Continued on next page )


m
fly
Sgg
The world’s largest aircraft—
1931 pattern
7 o’clock on a June evening, 1931. There
Is a stir in the crowd waiting at Croydon
Airport, London. The Press photographers
get their cameras ready. The world’s largest
aircraft, the fabulous Junkers G3B, is coming
in to land.
The enormous machine touches down as
gently as a swallow landing in its nest. It
dwarfs other aircraft on the field: its single
wing covers an area of 3,120 sq. ft. and spans
148 ft.; the whole machine weighs 15 tons.
For the waiting crowd at Croydon in
1931, the Junkers G3B was the shape of
things to come. Its clean single wing, unen-
cumbered by a latticework of struts, was
indeed an important step towards the sleek,
supersonic aircraft of today.
BP aviation spirit fuelled the Junkers G3B not
only at Croydon, but in all its flights between the
capitals of Europe. Wherever it went, BP spirit
was ready, providing the perfect fuel for the
world’s largest aircraft.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready at
all times to provide aviation .fuels speedily and
efficiently.
AVIATION
1 M
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for the British Petroleum
Co. Ltd.
* 4/54
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OLIVER AMBROSE SINCLAIR late
of Newcastle.—TAKE NOTICE that
ANNE ELIZABETH SINCLAIR has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3496 of 1954
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the '27th day of June 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. WILSON AND
THOMSON, Solicitors, of 155 King
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RUSSELL HENRY McCORMICK late
of 89 Bronte Road, Bondi. —TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN MARGARET Mc-
CORMICK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4699 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the First day of
July 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, of 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney. —
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2
Foreign
.«>• £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
'T'HE old man spun round and
yelled and sat down, holding
his right arm with his left hand
and moaning. I moved, but Paul
stepped to my side and held me,
and Bright-eyes swung the gun
on me. The girl had a hand
dapped to her mouth and stood
there, looking at her father, look-
ing at us. Thin screams came
from behind her hand. Then
she dropped on her knees beside
her father.
“To shoot you would be
foolish,” the little man said.
“Unless we have the figure. But
these two, would you see them
hurt, Mr. Delaney?”
His face creased and un-
creased.
I didn’t siay anything. I
couldn’t. Because, with the old
man on the floor moaning, and
the girl beside him, it hit me
what kind of a man held the gun.
Up till now I hadn’t realised
what he was. Now I knew. It
held me shocked. In a kind of
trance.
My eyes went past him, down
to the girl. Then the trance went
away. Because she was looking
at me. In the light of the hand-
lamp her face was all broken up.
Her eyes were big and deep,
appealing to me. She was hold-
ing her father and looking at me.
I opened my mouth. To tell
him. I couldn’t stand it any
more. The old man there, and
the girl. They were there be-
cause of me. Bright-eyes was
right. I wouldn’t see them hurt.
Not the way he meant to hurt
them. Because now I realised
what he was. So I started to tell
him.
But he couldn’t wait. He
thought I meant to hold out some
more. He spat out words in
French.
Paul left my side and bent and
took the girl by an arm. He
held the lamp in his left hand
and tugged at her with the right.
She shrieked at him and fought
him. She bucked and kicked at
him. I watched this. Bright-
eyes’watched me. He didn’t turn
his head. Paul was slightly be-
hind him, to his gun side. But
he ignored the struggle and
watched me, keeping the gun
steady. I guess he thought Paul
could handle her.
Paul could handle her. He
changed his grip. Still holding
the lamp in his left hand he
grabbed the front of her dress
with his right, bunched it up,
and pulled her upright. Her face
gagged with terror. Then it went
wild and she showed her teeth
and spat in Paul’s face. When
he jerked his head back she
dropped her own head and bit his
hand. He shouted and pulled his
hand away.
All this was within six feet of
Bright-eyes. He never turned
his head. Kept his eyes—and the
gun—on me. He had confidence
in Paul.
But —like Panama—he didn't
know about the girl.
Paul bunched his right fist and
threw a punch at her. She
ducked and ran forward under
his left arm, the one holding the
lamp. He tried to keep hold of
the lamp and block her at the
same time.
His forearm hit her. But it
didn’t stop her. It caught her off
balance and swung her against
the little man’s gun-arm and
pushed him sideways. He swung
the gun-hand up to get the hand
clear.
And I hit him in the throat,
just under the jaw, with every-
thing I had. It knocked him
sideways, and I went after him
and grabbed the gun-hand and
threw him The gun
bumped on the floor and ex-
ploded. The girl screamed and
I ducked and Paul rushed into
me and went over me. He kept
hold of the lamp. All I could see
was the gun, and I pounced on it
and swung round, getting a shoot-
ing grip on it.
The little man looked like he
was flying, the way he came at
me. He held a stiletto straight
in front of him.
The gun jumped in my hand.
Jumped again. The noise was
deafening. The little man paused,
looking all round him, groped as
though in the dark. Then he
jumped straight up in the air
and fell over and twisted on the
floor. Somebody was screaming
curses in English.
Me!
I looked for Paul. I’d have
shot him, too, the way I was.
He wasn’t there.
'THE girl was there, holding the
-*• lamp, looking at me.
“Paul?” I said.
She kept staring at me.
“Where’s that bloody Paul?”
I yelled.
She said something in French,
in a whisper, a wondering
whisper. Then she pointed past
me and made like, she was
running. I whirled about. The
door was wide-open.
Before I could start towards it
a car started up outside. The
engine roared. It was no good
running. Paul was driving away
like a bat out of hell.
We did what we could for the
father. He had a big hole in his
left arm, high up. We bound
it with my handkerchief and her
scarf. But the blood kept coming
through.
Bright-eyes was dead.
The girl knelt beside her father
and began to cry. I went out-
side and vomited.
After a while I came out of it.
There were lights about a mile
below me.
I went in and got the girl and
led her outside and showed her
the lights.
“Docteur,” I said. “Le mdde-
cin. Gendarmes. You go.”
She got it after a time, went
back and spoke to her father.
Then she hurried down the hill.
She was a good, game kid.
\\7HERE this all happened was
*' in a deserted stone farm-
house above Espinasses. When
they got us down there, in the
police-office, they took a long
statement from the girl. Her
name was Marie Benaud.
They couldn’t get anything
from me because none of them
spoke English. So they fed me
and let me lie down. Because
my head was aching.
In the morning a bunch of
detectives and more gendarmes
came. Corot was with them.
After a while he came and asked
me how it had happened. I told
him about the brass horseman.
He knew about that. It had been
reported stolen from a private art
collection in Grenoble. He
scolded me for not reporting the
discovery at once. I let that go.
He waited for me to say some-
thing. When I didn’t he sighed.
“You have given, us much
trouble, M’sieur,” he said.
“Who, me!”
“You did not report every day,
as you promised.”
“Oh, that. You just listen to
this.”
So I told him the score. Every
inch of it. Then I had to tell it
again while he translated into
French and they got it down.
After it was all told, he said,
“You will not again fail to re-
port, M’sieur?”
“Have the Benauds gone back
to La Mure?”
“They have taken the father to
a hospital in Gap. The daughter
will go home, to aid her family.”
“After we go to Beaulieu and
get the figure I’ll get my car and
go to La Mure. Then you’ll
know where I am.”
“La Mure, M’sieur?”
“Sure. I like that Marie girl.”
He looked at me. Then he
said, with a weary kind of smile,
“Ah, M’sieur, toujours l’amour.
Toujours!”
But he wouldn’t tell me what
he meant.
Marie told me.
DECIDUOUS TREE
This morning, to the light of the air
the tree brought something more than light,
as if, the last leaf put away,
blossom appeared before its hour.
A symbol stood above the day.
Robbed by frost and the south wind
no one could live so nakedly.
To the bone each bough was bare.
Nothing could be so well-defined,
and still be of the mist and air.
It was winter’s one mirage—
this body deprived, this quietude.
Winter and death in the frozen night
chain it# meaning to their own,
and yet its truth surpassed the light.
How shall I tell you what I saw?
Bareness, whipped to prophecy,
grew tall with time and great with flower.
The chain was broken between the world
and death in that unnatural hour.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


From London
So the
Old Vic’s
in Sydney!
By HERBERT HOLMAN
WHEN I asked Michael
Benthall why no tragedy
was included in the
repertory for the Old
Vic tour of Australia he
explained that problems of cast-
ing were quite teasing for an
extended tour and that the
rarely-performed “Measure for
Measure” was chosen because
it is a “dark” comedy or near-
tragedy.
This play promises to be the
most controversial of the three
that are to be put on. It is a
very “strong” play and some-
thing in the nature of an
experiment.
Michael Benthall has prod-
duced all three of the chosen
plays, and will be with the
company for its first five weeks.
He is young (36) and, despite
Army service during the war,
has a versatile and distinguished,
record in the theatre.
His first production was,
jointly with Tyrone Guthrie,
“Hamlet” for the Old Vic. He
has also produced several operas
and written the scenarios for the
ballets “Miracle in the Gorbals”
and “Adam Zero.” He is an
old associate of Robert Help-
mann and of Katharine Hep-
burn, whom he directed in “As
You Like It” in New York, and
in Shaw’s “The Millionairess”
in London and in New York.
The players are enthusiastic
about the acting possibilities of
“Measure for Measure.” I well
remember a production at the
Vic in 1933, when Flora Robson
played Isabella to Charles
Laughton’s Angelo. The seamy
corruption of the part suited
Laughton well. Isabella’s
cloistered, troubled innocence
should put Miss Hepburn on her
mettle by virtue of its contrast
with Portia and Katharina.
The fact that the two stars
are not English pleases the Vic.
Indeed, the idea of an American
leading-lady, world-famous as a
filmrstar, is a two-edged tribute:
to the . Vic because of her
co-operation, and to herself,
because —well, not every product
of Hollywood would be
accepted.
Having never seen Miss Hep-
burn on the stage, and rarely
on the screen, I could speak to
her without prejudice. She was
not inclined to discuss her inter-
pretations of the three roles;
largely, I feel, because she
hadn’t then formed them. She
gave the impression of bringing
deep thought to her characterisa-
tion and of looking for meanings
in every line. I am told that
she soon won the respect of the
most discerning of critics, the
backstage staff, both by her
stage presence and by her
meticulous attention to detail.
Robert Helpmann is return-
ing to Australia after an
absence of 22 years. He talks
about his return as if he had
been away on a routine business-
trip or as if nothing had
happened to him in the
meantime.
He is, in fact, quite unaffected.
He laughs robustly at the fan-
tastic idea of “Helpmann’s son
taking up ballet,” talks easily
and freely about Adelaide and
his old connections there, and,
with the same shrewdness that
has marked his career, gives
little away. But we struck one
loud chord of agreement on his
assertion that Shakspeare
should be forbidden, by decree,
from being taught in schools.
It was written, he affirms, by a
man of the theatre to be acted,
not to be learned, parrot-
fashion, off by heart.
I saw Helpmann on his first
appearance in Shakspeare as
long ago as 1937 and was
impressed by his dynamism. He
is a slight man with a wry face
that might well have typed him
as a comedian. His muscular
control is uncanny and his
power visibly to “grow” is
miraculous. To my mind, his
best performance was the
vehement and terrible Flamineo
in Webster’s “The White Devil.”
He is in demand as a producer
as well as a choreographer and
likes to slip unobtrusively into
the gallery to test its reactions.
A down-to-earth man. It is
possible that he may also appear
in the concert-hall —as narrator
with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra.
A shortcoming of touring
companies in the past has been
the comparative thinness of the
supporting players, making the
productions uneven and top-
heavy. This one, lam delighted
to note, is quite as strong as any
that appears in the Waterloo-
road.
Andrew Leigh is the oldest
member of the party—an alert,
twinkling 67, with three columns
to his name in the reference-
book. He has been on the stage
for nearly 50 years, mainly in
comedy-parts, has a 40-year
connection with the Old Vic,
including stage - management
and four years as producer.
He is also a writer of both verse
and prose.
Ernest Hare first played at
Stratford-on-Avon in 1924 and
at the Old Vic in 1933. He
was one of the company to go
to Eteinore, has toured in India
with John Gielgud, and has
played several parts at the Vic
within the last few years.
I have seen Robin Bailey fre-
quently since the success which
won him an award in “The
Cocktail Party.” (Too fre-
quently, perhaps, for his liking,
since he has had the misfortune
of being involved in short runs.)
His Mark Antony at the Vic
was something of a sensation
because of its oratorical fire. He
is a young actor of charm and
originality.
George Benson is versatile in
that he is one of our most
sought-after revue-comedians as
well as a classical actor. Indeed,
Home Address
he seems to have kept these
dissimilar activities side-by-
side for some 25 years. To
Launcelot Gobbo, Grumio and
Pompey he may be expected to
bring a finesse that is rare on
the serious stage. He must have
played Gobbo more times than
he can remember.
Benson is the only member of
the company who has been on a
previous tour of Australia. This
was in 1932-33 with Nicholas
Hannen and Athene Seyler’s
company. He recollects it with
some discomfort because it was
a sad affair. The talkies having
come in, the theatre was at a
low ebb and audiences were
poor. But, he says, Australians
were hospitable and kind.
nf rßrnninino 18 nlavprs
a few are established The
others have survived competitive
and selective castine One only
“SMS
from S.A.), but he will be joined
iw q further civ in <wHnp\/
Austrahan Loudon
Anomer Australian, luuuuu
Sainthill, from Sydney, is respon-
sible for the designs for “The
Merchant of Venice”-; Peter
Rice for “The Taming of the
Shrew” ; Leslie Hurry for
“Measnre for Measure ”
'
H L . X
'
Here, then, is an English
company (and English it
remains, despite cognate and
alien influxes) which began pre-
cariously and obscurely in the
outback of theatreland, which
has earned international
renown, which is chosen to play
“Hamlet” at Elsinore, and which
is regarded as the cradle,
nursery and living-room of
classical drama.
The Old Vic, moreover, is the
only “straight” theatre in the
world which purports to serve
a public far beyond access
to its doors. This is another
facet of the tradition. An Old
Vic tour is not a quest. It is a
homecoming.
The unique and unparalleled
influence of the Old Vic can best
be affirmed by posing a ques-
tion: What management, on
either side of the Atlantic, or,
for thaf matter, anywhere else,
could overcome the practical
difficulties of presenting all the
plays of William Shakspeare?
Where would it get the money,
the players, the support?
The Vic has given the answer,
for not only has it gained this
end but is currently on the way
towards a repetition of the
achievement. A State subsidy
of £25,000 a year helps, of
course, by meeting production-
costs which otherwise would
have to be spread over long
runs. But it does not pay for
empty seats. The theatre is
near-capacity booked through-
out its long season, and it is
recorded that over 1,000,000
people attended 28 productions
of Shakspeare and other classics
in the three-and-a-half years
since the reopening in Novem-
ber, 1950.
As to the players, invitation
to join the company amounts to
no less than high honor both to
the up-and-coming for their
promise and to international
film-stars for their humility to
the art of acting. (This is the
Old Vic tradition at its
strongest: stars forgo their
fabulous salaries for a compara-
tive pittance, and, more import-
ant, so strip themselves of the
glamorous trappings that have
brought them fame as to appear
colorless ; and those who are too
inflexible have to go.)
During the Kaiser’s war the
Old Vic purveyed “culture” (a
play a week) cheaply to a near-
local public. Between the wars
its audiences spread to the outer
suburbs and, later, wider. The
prestige gained in the ’thirties
was enhanced during the middie-
’forties, perhaps by the still
wider audiences, uniformed in
the Allied cause. Materially,
the Old Vic was finished. The
building was a burnt-out shell
in the Waterloo-road. Its
creator and owner had died in
1937. It survived because of the
generosity of a West End
manager, the practical and
assiduous concern of its alumni,
and, above all, because its hard-
won tradition was made to
endure.
The astonishing thing is that
this tradition, when you look
into the record, is anything but
longstanding.
It might have been, though, if
the roads had been cleaner and
artistic rivalry less fierce. For,
it seems, a manager with the
promising name of Junius
Brutus Booth put on Shak-
spearian plays in 1819-20 soon
after the theatre (ihen called the
Coburg) was built. Macready,
Phelps, Sullivan and Edmund
Kean were guest-artists, the
last-named receiving as much as
£lOO for two performances.
But the gentry from over the
river liked neither the muddy
approaches nor the unsavory
district. (Their Elizabethan
forebears, who flocked a mile
eastward to Bankside, must
have been less squeamish.)
Booth ignored the fact that he
had no royal patent, and, at the
instigation of Drury Lane, was
prosecuted and fined,
The Coburg the: sfore reverted
to type and became a music-hall,
local in character and an
unsavory resort of larrikins.
Tbat perspicacious delineator
of low-lrfe in the dghteen-fifues.
Henry Mayhew, wrote.-
There are few grown-up men that
go to the “Vic” gallery... .Though
a few black-faced sweeps or whitey-
brown dustmen may be among the
throng, the gallery audience consists
™taly °|ih i‘ waSSh
t j me one reaches the gallery door-
way, a furnace-heat rushes out
through the entrance that seems to
force y° u backwards, whilst thet
o dor p oS itively prevents respiration.
A x
Mayhew s restraint was over-
generous. This was a '
bo^ se , a^ d a tough-house, _bot
b ehmd the cur .am and in fr . ,
Wldl thievery, drunkenness, vice
anb squalor,
In £ue time the Royal Vic-
tona a 8 ll was . no , w ca ’
was reclaimed from its degenera-
bon b Y Emma Cons, who, for
her high sense of social purp se,
reabsed .that the lower orders
ave amu sement. e
P™ b lem was how to Provide this
f bea Ply and also how to _P
tbe aa^ie^ ce |’
In 1880 she bought the fr >
soberly renamed the ea re
Victorian Co e
Hall >, and , offered a " d
P°P ular P l^8 .’
a stron S mOTa \ h *L' h LTVe n
j. he ceatur Y a . K
f° rme( J and S Y P Y
we J? J[ lvea - IQI4 the
t( Even as c , n
passes wer ®. r , ,
lheir ways. ,
new scheme for their salvatlon ’
(Continued on page 27)


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAL.ES OFFICE:
19 BBIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
SPORTING NOTIONS
One of the best performances
anywhere in Australia last week-
end was Hellion’s win in the
Caulfield St, Kilda Handicap,
carrying 9.5 over 2m. 65yds. to
notch his third consecutive
success. Prior wins were in the
Australian Cup (2m. Hf.) and
the Sandown Cup (13f). Maybe
he will have an excellent show
in the Brisbane Cup, to be run
on June 13. Wodalla, 1953
Melbourne Cup winner, missed
a place in Hellion’s race.
Bred at Rossendale stud,
Albury (N.S.W.), Arlunga
improved quickly on prior form
to win Caulfield’s Katandra
Two-year-old (7 furlongs). He
beat prior-start winner Gun-
cotton and outsider Solgleam.
Raced by J. P. Stratton and
trained by P. Burke, Arlunga is
by Sun Storm (imp.) from Crown
Appeal, a Law Maker (imp.)
mare from Crenelle by Mani-
toba (imp.). Crown Appeal
wasn’t raced, and the colt is her
first progeny. He belongs to the
family which produced Aristo-
crat, an A.J.C. St. Leger winner.
An interesting feature of
Arlunga’s pedigree is that it
includes Apelle, a brilliant
staying-performer in England
and Italy, and winner of the
Italian Derby.
At the City Tattersall’s Club
meeting at Randwick on Satur-
day all but one of the favorites
—and that one a co-favorite —
were downed, and, to rub it in
so far as punters were concerned,
two supposed no-chances,
Shirlard and Silver Wolf,
bobbed-up. Silver Wolf carried
the confidence of his stable, but
even the stable didn't greatly
fancy the other one.
Magic Carpet 11, having his
first Sydney start since coming
from New Zealand, put up a
good performance when third
to Illinois and Astron in City
Tattersall’s Byron Handicap. In
the final stages of betting his
price firmed sharply from 12’$
to 6’s, but he looked a bit burly,
and no doubt will be better for
the outing. A grey colt, he won
the Dunedin Guineas last Sep-
tember by eight lengths in
record time. He is by Pheroz-
shah (imp.) from Eastern Charm
by grey Nizami (imp.). His
dam is a half-sister to Dalray.
When riding as an apprentice,
Jack O’Sullivan piloted Mel-
bourne Cup winner Hall Mark
in 1933. Now, 20 years later,
he is still riding at top form,
landing two winners at Rand-
wick on Saturday, Sundisc and
Winged Glory. He also won
a double on two-year-old
Tranquil Lass at the A.J.C.
autumn meeting, and showed
skill to score on Premise at the
Randwick mid-week fixture.
One of the unlucky runners
in the Sir Ross Juvenile Handi-
cap at Randwick was Royal
Edward—fourth after meeting
with more than his share of
trouble through the race, par-
ticularly near the half-mile.
Royal Edward, from the M.
McCarten stable, was ridden
by N. Sellwood, and there was
good backing for him at 10-to-l.
However, supporters may soon
get their money back, as the
colt has engagements at immedi-
ate fixtures. By Edwardsii
(imp.) from Goorama, he was a
costly yearling—3ooogns. His
half-brother, Prince Dakhil, was
a smart galloper, winning, among
other races, the Canterbury
Guineas. Prince Genius,
runner-up to Shirland in the
same race, is another that may
soon score in Maiden company.
He finished fast.
Oldest progeny of imported
sire Brimstone are now two-
year-olds, and one of them, the
filly Fire Scout (from Vigilant),
carried topweight (8.12) and won
the Maiden Two - year - old
for fillies at the Randwick mid-
week fixture. She is a member
of T. J. Smith’s extensive Rand-
wick team, and as she has the
Carbine blood in her make-up
she could develop into a useful
staying filly. Her dam is a Mid-
stream (imp.) mare from Verity
by Constant Son (imp.), and
traces back to Wallace (son of
Carbine). The filly is a half-
sister to Krakatoa, now in the
Far East.
Premise, who created a favor-
able impression when he won in
Novice company at Randwick
a week ago, cost 700gns. as a
yearling. He is a three-year-old
gelding by Jambo (imp.) from
Precede by S.. Magnus (imp.),
and is expected to win in much
better company. He has been
taken back to Melbourne, where
he is owned and trained. The
Jambos are speedy types and
include Love To All and Prince
Jambo.
Starting at 100-to-l, Gently
Bred beat Gullungen (10/9 on)
by a neck in the second division
of the Two-year-old Handicap
at Doomben. A Queensland
product, the winning filly is by
Lord Nearco (imp.) from Dinky
Dame by Dink (imp.) from
Good Gal by Beau Pere (imp.)
from Galmar by Manfred.
Another Doomben winner
was Fort William, who recently
raced in Sydney without success.
Fort William was backed to
favoritism for the Flying Handi-
cap and was ridden by Noel
Best, now back in the North
after some riding in Sydney.
The big-racing scene next
moves to Brisbane for the
£lO,OOO Q.T.C. Stradbroke
Handicap, the £12,315 Brisbane
Cup and the £2500 Moreton
Handicap. Most of the best
gallopers from Melbourne and
Sydney have been nominated,
as well as Brisbane’s own best
sprinters and stayers. The Ascot
meetings on June 11, 13 and 18
will be followed by Doomben’s
Ten Thousand and Cup.
* * *
Flying Halo, whose retirement
is announced from Melbourne,
competed in 86 events for 24
firsts, 18 seconds and eight
thirds, and he won £36,615 in
stakemoney. He had a habit of
downing the best in training, and
in recent seasons he created a
number of surprises, the latest
his defeat of Rising Fast. Flying
Halo won under both handicap
and weight-for-age conditions.
The only time he was given a
run outside the Melbourne
metropolitan area was in a
Ballarat Cup. He was unplaced.
Thoroughbred breeders, the
auctioneering firms and Turf
circles generally were quite
happy over the excellent
aggregate of 357,020gn5. realised
for the yearlings at the Rand-
wick Easter sales. The returns
indicated confidence, and stake-
money will be retained at its
present high level. Randwick’s
record yearling sale was in 1950,
when the aggregate was
375,655gn5.
Shannon’s brother Canute cost
5200gns. as a yearling. Failing
as a racer—he won one event
only, a Two-year-old Maiden at
Rosehill —he was sold again at
auction in the same ring last
week, as a stallion, and realised
only 325gns. He goes to Queens-
land as a sire.
As a less-exalted example, the
yearling colt by High Caste from
Painted Veil was sold at the 1953
Easter sales at Randwick for
300gns. In the intervening space
he hasn’t won a race. Paraded
again, as a gelding, in the same
sale-ring last Friday, he found a
new owner at 22£gns. About a
week earlier his yearling sister
was sold at auction for 350gns.
The dam, Painted Veil, is closely
related to record-breaking two-
year-old New Slipper, lately gone
to America.
* * »
Victorian trainer-driver W.
McKay triumphed in the week-
end’s trotting. All three of his
representatives qualified for the
"Chop out th' romantic stuff, boys and girls, an
let's git started”
N.S.W. Derby Final, to be
decided on Friday night. Mighty
Warrior and Explicit, driven by
McKay, won their heats. Pac-
ing Gift, driven by D. Fitz-
patrick, was third to Explicit.
Not content with Friday’s bag,
McKay returned to Melbourne,
where he piloted Argent to vic-
tory in the Victorian Sapling
Stakes Final. The Melbourne
reinsman was successful in the
last of the Sydney “day-trot”
Derbies with Tivoli Star.
• - •• •
Yet unbeaten, Argent skipped
away with the Victorian Sapling
Stakes: McKay had little else
to do but tease the other runners.
Argent is by Silver Peak out of
Scottish Maiden. Her sire won
the Sydney Derby of 1946.
Though most of his stock have
been speedy but erratic, this
filly is proving reliable enough.
She clipped f. sec. off stablemate
Explicit’s record of 2.12.
First heat of the N.S.W. Classic
was a foreign affair. From the
Leger, Mighty Warrior and Wes-
tralian Marine Dealer left early-
leader Frisco Sky in their wake.
The Victorian, who won his
State’s Derby as a “green” horse,
bravely fought off the challenge
for a half-head victory. These
are two great colts. The robust
W.A. youngster verified all
boasts about him. McKay’s
rangy Sky Charter colt must be
improving with every run. Local
colt Frisco Sky may have had a
run too many. Springfield Globe
colts Spring Level and Banna-
lagh ran on well into the other
qualifying positions.
In the second heat Explicit
gave a faultless display of trot-
ting to lead all the way. Last
year’s Sydney Sapling annihila-
tion and her more recent Lady-
ship Stakes win were guides
enough for followers, who kept
her an odds-on favorite. Those
prepared to support chancy First
Variety were again disappointed.
Running into everything but the
near-by tram-depot, he finished
a remarkable fourth. Fettle
showed great promise to be
second, and Pacing Gift’s third
proved he’s not far behind his
brilliant stablemates. Again
throwing the long ones at the
finish, Sky Charter was the third
Sky Raider colt in the final ten.
' The N.S.W.T.C. £3OOO stake
for the Derby Final has paid
well. Ten fine three-year-olds
will go to the barrier, and a
spectacular race looks certain.
Running their heat in 3.15 f,
Mighty Warrior and Marine
Dealer look the threats to prob-
able favorite Explicit.' But First
Variety could still get there.
-+" *+■
Sydney University Rugby
Union club has a tradition of
strong finishes. A typical
grandstand gallop late in the
second half on Saturday gave
University the game against
Gordon, 14-3. Nothing much
between the forwards, and hard
tackling by both sides. Univer-
sity is unbeaten so far this
season.
Randwick had its first win
this season, Northern Suburbs
the victims, 13-8. Easts, also
on the losing end, showed
form to beat till then unbeaten
Manly, 20-9. Tight forward-
play by Easts, and the tried
combination Of halves Bosler
and Tate, with the versatile
Ray Smee as fullback. But
Manly had players on the
injured list among others,
Tony Miller.
In other R.U. club games in
Sydney on Saturday, St. George
beat Parramatta 20-11, and
Eastwood beat Drummoyne
19-14.
• • • •
Country Rugby Union has
been flourishing lately. In Syd-
ney, at the Country Carnival,
Central West beat Southern
21-11 in a good solid game.
Canberra beat Western 21-3,
and Riverina beat New England
9-3. Three members of the
Country team which toured New
Zealand last year—Morton,
Maguire and Hawke —played
for Canberra.
** * *
“J.H.”: Adelaide football
clubs stick to their captains.
Brian Faehse is West Adelaide’s
skipper for the fifth time, Fos
Williams is in his sixth year as
captain-coach of Port, last year’s
premiers, and Bob Hank, of
West Torrens, has been captain
for nine years. That’s a West
Torrens record and perhaps a
record for any Adelaide club.
Any Croweaters remember
“Redwings” Perry, the parson
who used to play a good game
for Norwood in the Adelaide
league round about 1914? Well,
Norwood seems to have found
another —Rev. Geo Wood.
In trial games he’s shown such
form that he looks like playing
centre-wing.
* * ♦
“A.L.D.”: For lack of a
linguist, an Eastern suburbs
(Sydney) Soccer-club had a
peculiar experience. A player,
Guiseppe Cosatto, promising left
fu'll-back from New Caledonia,
turned out in a trial game. After
half-time he did not change ends,
thus playing with both sides —a
record very unusual, if not
unique. Easts’ officials thought
he had decided to play with the
Casuals, but on next training-
night he turned up at Easts'
ground, and has played with that
club since. As he cannot speak
a word of English, club officials
know nothing of his background,
not even where he works. The
captain, Bill Lawther, has
evolved a system of sign-language
to communicate with him in the
field. Club officials say he is a
naturally brilliant player.
* * *
“C.A.A.” Centuries by Weekes
and Walcott were their 11th in
Test matches, equalling the
record established for West
Indies cricketers by George
Headley. Walcott’s century was
his fourth consecutive Test hun-
dred. Australian openers
Morris and McDonald set a
new opening record for Aus-
tralia in matches against West
Indies, their 190 beating that of
172 set by Jackson and Pons-
ford in 1930-31. The respective
team - totals were the highest
compiled in matches between
the countries: West Indies’ 382
exceeded by 30 runs the previ-
ous best made in 1950-51, and
Australia’s 600 was 42 better
than the 558 made in 1930-31.
* * *
The McWilliams Wines golf-
tournament having faded, a firm
making sportswear has come
up with a £2OOO “Speedo”
tourney, to be played (presum-
ably in N.S.W.) in October. The
Ampol show will follow in
November, and from now till
then apprentice pros, will play
fortnightly stroke-play events,
the best averages to play in the
Ampol.
“Tee”: A visiting woman
pro., Jean Donald, says Aus-
tralia’s golf - standard would
improve out of sight if minia-
ture courses were built for
children. She learned golf on a
children’s course at North Ber-
wick, in Scotland, where
youngsters play with miniature
clubs on holes ranging from 40
to 130yds. The lady has won
three Scottish Opens and a
French Open and finished
second in the 1948 British Open.
I suppose the woman pro. had
to be, once the sex was allowed
to invade what had become
man’s last refuge from women.
* * *
“Speed”: An athlete carrying
the Olympic torch will probably
arrive in B r is b a n e at
5.40 p.m. on November 14,
1956. He’ll be the last of about
1237 runners who’ll carry the
torch the 1308 miles from
Cairns to Brisbane in 114 hours
five minutes. Another 68
Queensland runners will carry
it from Brisbane to the N.-S.W.
border at Tweed Heads. There’ll
be a reception at Cairns as soon
as the torch arrives by plane
from Athens. Amateur sports-
men, including hockey-players,
boxers, wrestlers —and even life-
savers —are being recruited as
runners. Women sporting bodies,
who have been politely told they
will not be permitted to partici-
pate, are burning with rage. They
want to know who they’ve been
carrying the torch for, anyway.
*. * *
Bantamweights Peter Ellston
(8.6) and Johnny Jarrett
(8.5) put on a good scrap at
Leichhardt Stadium. After 12
full-of-action rounds Ellston won
well on points. Ellston, who
began boxing as a flyweight,
displayed plenty of promise in
out-pointing Jarrett in practically
every round. Frank Maguire
(>0.6), a son of the late Dave
Sands’s manager, Tom Maguire,
could not cope with George
Locke (10.8) in a 10-rounder,
and was well beaten on points.


and was backed by Carl Rosa
' and Sir Arthur Sullivan. This
was “to provide for the working-
and lower-middle-classes recrea-
tion such as the music-hall
affords, without the existing
attendant moral and social dis-
advantages. It is believed that
this may best be effected by
opening music-halls in various
parts of London, where the
prices of admission shall be the
same as at those now open, and
at which a purified entertain-
ment shall be given, no
intoxicating drinks be sold.”
To help her in this project,
Aunt Emma summoned her
niece, Lilian Baylis, from
Johannesburg, where she taught
music and ran a ladies’
orchestra.
So to the great Lilian, under
whose individual and idiosyn-
cratic rule the Old Vic (and
Sadler’s Wells) grew to eminence
—because of her, and in spite
of her.
I cannot remember ever
having seen her, except as a
portrait in the foyer: an austere-
looking lady in academic robes.
But her legend is at once the
oddest and most captivating in
the history of the theatre. She
would never have fitted into the
kind of constitution that
manages artistic enterprises of
today. A trust or selection-
board, with trick questions and
similar expertise, would have
antagonised her at once and as
quickly turned her down.
If, by some mischance, she
had passed the board, her
security of tenure would have
been precarious. Her autocracy,
self-will, defiance of external
authority—even her rigid devo-
tion and steak-frying in the
prompt-corner —would sooner or
later have brought her appoint-
ment to an abrupt end.
The tales about her are
legend. How many impresarios
have called Queen Mary “dear,”
made critics pay for their seats
or linked God with running a
theatre, praying for guidance at
every anxious juncture? She is
said to have gone down on her
knees as to the rightness to
present “Henry V” and, as a
rider and in view of the large
cast, prayed for actors, cheap.
The public does not know, nor
care very much, about back-
stage politics and happenings.
But Lilian Baylis has been well
documented and several of her
early associates are still alive to
keep the legend furbished.
Dame Sybil Thorndike, for
instance, was at the Vic from
1914 to 1918. The mother of
three young children, she
augmented her husband’s
Army allowance by appearing
in plays at 10s. a time. And she
has acknowledged the artistic
debt she owes to those forma-
tive years.
One aspect of Miss Baylis’s
policy which did come over to
her public and which has
become part of the Old Vic
tradition was her democratic
(Continued on page 30)
Three Furious Engagements
Jack Read’s “Best Fights”
Written by the Former Champion
Former Australian lightweight champion Jack Read here
describes three memorable fights: the best Australian fight he
can recall having seen; the fight in which he won the light-
weight title; and the toughest fight he ever had and won.
Jack, who has been writing boxing pars, and answering box-
ing queries in “The Bulletin” for years, was bom in Hobart
on March 31, 1889, and started off as an amateur in 1906, when
he won the Tasmanian bantamweight championship.
In 1910, still an amateur, he won the N.S.W. featherweight
championship at Sydney, and the Australasian featherweight
championship at Auckland (N.Z.).
Turning professional in 1910, he beat Herb McCoy for the
Australian lightweight championship in 1913, after which he
went to America. Altogether he had 63 contests in the U.S. and
Canada and one each in France and England before having his
last fight at Matamoros, Mexico, on July 4, 1919.
FOR one reason and another,
what still seems to me the
best Australian fight I ever
saw was at the Sydney
Stadium on Boxing Night, 1913
—Australian Herb McCoy
versus American Harry Stone;
lightweights.
McCoy had a great reputation
and Stone brought a pretty good
one from New York.
The Sydney Stadium’s regis-
tered seating-capacity is some
13,800, but there seemed to be
more than 15,000 squeezed into
the big arena that night. Having
beaten Hock Keys, Australia’s
most scientific lightweight, in his
first Sydney fight, Stone was
tipped to beat McCoy, and sup-
porters had to take 5 to 4 on
about him. For about a minute
these odds looked right, but
McCoy then attacked, instead of
boxing defensively, edged ahead
on points and Stone blew a little
in the betting.
Offensive boxers generally do
better than defensive ones, and
from the third round on both
boxers went on the offensive.
To do this, Stone introduced his
“Kangaroo hop,” which after-
wards became famous, and
earned him the nickname “Hop
Harry.” The time came when,
in fights around Australia,
Stone’s fans, seeing him in a
spot, would yell “Hop Harry!”
to spur him on. Some yelled it
simply to see his peculiar antic
and, in time, the crowds simply
yelled it from habit.
Stone was likely to hit while
hopping, but McCoy quickly
woke up to him and, as round
four ended, pinked Stone on the
wing, as it were. After which
Stone do so much hop-
ping in that fight.
The New Yorker had proved
to be very elusive in previous
contests, but McCoy kept crowd-
ing after him and fought Stone
all around the ring. A right to
fhe jaw so rattled Stone in round
nine that if McCoy had followed
up his advantage he might have
scored a clean knockout.
The bell came to Stone’s relief
before this could happen, and it
was early in the eleventh before
McCoy caught Stone with
another right.
This seemed to make “Hop
Harry” lose his head. He rushed
in recklessly, with both fists
flying from anywhere to every-
where, and McCoy must have
imagined that a cyclone had
struck him. Across the ring they
fought, McCoy in retreat and
Stone fiercely at him.
The ropes brought McCoy
up short, and that was a
moment in this fight which
makes it specially memor-
able. For fully two minutes
they stood and swapped punches.
The howling thousands became
nearly hysterical.
McCoy recovered from this
sluggery quicker than Stone dur-
ing the rest between rounds, and
“Hop Harry” had to hop plenty
to keep out of trouble. He
came back and stood toe-to-toe
with McCoy in round 14, to
win the points for that round,
but it was his final effort.
McCoy connected with clean
punches so often in the last six
rounds that referee Arthur Scott
promptly declared him winner on
points at the final bell.
The contest was such a nerve-
tingler that spectators cheered
both boxers continuously as they
left the ring and didn’t stop
cheering even after the men were
back in their dressing-rooms.
McCoy’s display against
Stone made many experts declare
him the best lightweight Aus-
tralia ever had. Stone after-
wards outpointed him a
couple of times —victories which
proved what a wonder “Hop
Harry” was when right at his
top.
* * *
TN the days of Larry Foley
Australasian heavyweights
were the best anywhere. When
Bob Fitzsimmons, Bill Farnum,
Peter Jackson, Tom Lees, Joe
Goddard, Mick Dooley and Billy
McColl were at their top they
wiped out all opposition. Aussies
in lighter divisions were also of
world class, and American
critics still say that Young Griffo
was the cleverest boxer ever seen
in that country.
From 40 to 45 years ago light-
weights were the leaders of Aus-
tralian leather-pushing, and top-
liners of the 9.9 division (it was
then limited to lOst.) could more
than hold their own with
champions from other countries.
At that time imported light-
weights usually returned to their
homelands with more defeats
than victories. The two who
cut down most of these
invaders were Melburnian Herb
McCoy and (so say the record-
books) a chap named Jack Read.
These successes naturally made
McCoy and me great rivals. We
met for the first time at Sydney
Stadiurii late in 1911. I myself
felt absolutely sure McCoy
had been well outpointed, but
the referee didn’t think so. We
met again about a year later, and
W. F. Corbett, the departed dean
of boxing-writers, in his descrip-
tion of the contest said: “Jack
Read twice beats Herb McCoy—
first on a foul, and then on points
—but McCoy receives the
referee’s blessing.”
The foul occurred early in
round nine, when I swung a
right at McCoy, missed and fell
on my hands and knees. While
I was down McCoy just grazed
my hair with an uppercut. Had
I been bowled over, or craftily
rolled myself over, McCoy must
have been disqualified. I jumped
to my feet and claimed a foul,
but referee “Snowy” Baker said:
“You’re not hurt, fight on.” I
fought on, and lost.
• “Snowy,” a great all-round
athlete, died in California
not long back and left, I under-
stand, nearly £40,000. Ah,
well . . .
My two fights with McCoy
were such battles that
not another spectator could have
been squeezed into Sydney’s
biggest arena on the night of
January 29, 1913, when we
fought once more.
This, though our third fight,
was the first time the Australian
lightweight championship was
on the line.
An inch or so shorter in height
and reach, Herb McCoy had
a slight edge in boxing skill. But
I was faster, and after six or
seven rounds (as they told me
afterwards) it became so obvious
that I’d win by a wide margin
that the bleachers, where the
really good judges sit, might have
done something serious had I not
got the decision.
Both McCoy and myself had
been taught boxing properly,
McCoy by Sam Gray in Mel-
bourne, myself by Sydneysiders
Wally Weekes and Joe Goode.
The 40 rounds McCoy and I
had already fought had made us
familiar with each other’s style,
and we lost no time in finessing
after the first bell let us loose.
Arthur Scott was referee, and
his leniency allowed us to fight
so fiercely that the crowded
house roared with appreciation
as we apparently tried to punch
each other to pieces.
The original McCoy
(American Norman Selby, who
called himself “Kid” McCoy)
was full of tricks, but the Aus-
tralian McCoy (whose real
surname was Wilson) was a clean
fighter, and both of us stuck
strictly to the rules. With an
advantage in height and reach
I continually beat McCoy to the
punch, and his only way to win
was by knocking me out.
McCoy tried hard to kayo me
in the final rounds, but I was
too fast for him to connect with
a convincing punch. I went on
to win what was described as
one of the best lightweight bouts
ever seen at Rushcutter Bay.
Up to this time I’d come
through without getting my
features permanently marked.
Shortly, with the Australian
lightweight championship in my
war-bonnet, I went to America.
It was remarkable how quickly
the Yank pugs wiped away what
good looks I had. Perhaps they
thought one Rudolf Valentino
was enough.
Shortly after my return from
America I again fought McCoy
in Melbourne, but a gash on the
bridge of my nose (given to me
as a Christmas-present at
Providence, Rhode Island, on
December 25, 1914) was re-
opened by McCoy early, and I
had to surrender.
I’m sure McCoy never forgot
the beating he got when I won
the lightweight championship
from him at Sydney Stadium.
He might have gained some satis-
faction by stopping me —a thing
he could not d<? in our earlier
encounters —but I like to believe
he’d rather have done it some
other way.
* * *
'THE boxing business is hard
on the features. The practi-
tioner’s comeliness quickly loses
caste. Even when a fighter wins,
his face sometimes is in a bit
of a mess when the final
bell rings. In the “good
old days” that was at the end
of round 20. Until I went to
America my face was almost
unmarked, but, back again, I
took plenty from Californian
Frank Picato at Sydney Stadium
on January 4, 1913, when we
fought 20 furious rounds, not
one of which was marred by a
single clinch.
At that time the Australian
lightweight limit was 10-stone,
and Picato tipped the beam at
9.11|, while I weighed 9.8 y.
Picato was also taller and longer
in reach, though I had a decided
edge on him in speed. It was
my very fast moves that
won me the points decision.
Sydney Stadium had just been
roofed, which was just as well,
for, as round 9 ended, the
heavens opened, and the deluge
would have drenched every
patron had the roof not been
there. About all Picato and I
seemed to be thinking about was
fight, however, and the bell-
echo for round 10 had barely
died away before we were bang-
ing away at each other with
every punch we could command.
This contest was my first after
joining Sam Langford’s camp at
Sutherland, and “The Boston
Tar Baby’s” influence so helped
me that I fought like one pos-
sessed. I seemed to have about six
left-hands that were all landing
simultaneously. Picato was also
perpetual-motion personified,
and when his right hit me on
the mouth in round four, it
knocked my two front teeth out
by the roots. In these genteel
days, blood from my gums
would surely have caused the
referee to call a halt, but neither
of us let up and we kept flinging
our fists about as if every second
was the last.
Incredible speed, as it was
described, marked the first
seven rounds, which my
cleaner punching appeared to
win, and we fought so furiously
in round 8 that spectators went
close to raising the new roof
with applduse. I had enough
speed to beat my opponent to
the punch, and my varied attack
to head or body kept me forg-
ing further ahead on points, but
Picato’s right to the chin sent
me reeling back to the ropes in
round 11, and his supporters
were hoarse roaring for him to
finish me off.
As a North Sydneyite lately
publicly reminded me, I might
not have been able to fight much,
but I “certainly was game,” and
as Picato came at me with all his
artillery in action I straight-
lefted him from one side of the
ring to the other.
Boxers in those days used to
train properly at a camp well
away from the city, and it was
remarkable the stamina that
both Picato and I possessed. All
speed-limits had been exceeded
from the first bell, and we made
the tempo even faster in the last
nine rounds. On more than one
occasion Picato’s powerful right
appeared to have me tottering
on the verge of a knockout, but
I kept fighting back and we
never stopped swapping punches
from anywhere to everywhere.
During the first 15 rounds
Picato tried hard to score a
knockdown, but was unable to
floor me, and in round 16 he
tried to choke me with a
stranglehold. The usually fair-
fighting American was finally
ordered to release me, and I
quickly recovered. Sparks then
flew as we cut each other
to pieces, and the fight became
so furious that it would have
shocked present-day poseurs.
The clanging of the final bell
found us still whanging at each
other. As hostilities ceased,
referee Arthur Scott walked over
to crown me winner on points.
I unquestionably deserved the
decision, but I’m doubtful if it
was Picato or I who felt the
happier because we had to fight
no more —that night, anyway.


THE AU-BRITISH
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
7/A
n
Prices from
25'- to 90'-
Gives Character
to your Writing
c o n * 4 » invtn i co. i to. i o h o o h
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHURCHILL TRIBUTES
Sir Winston Churchill’s re-
tirement having come in the
middle of the London newspaper
strike, it was left to the weeklies
and papers like “Manchester
Guardian” and Edinburgh
’’Scotsman” to pay him tribute.
Some typical comments:
London “Economist” : “There
are three ways in which a Prime
Minister makes—or should make
—his impact upon public affairs.
They are as leader of the nation ;
as co-ordinator of administra-
tion and of policy; and as chief
of one of the two great parties
in what is nowadays the almost
constant electoral struggle. How
far will Sir Winston be irre-
parably missed in all or any of
these functions? The answer
seems to be that in the first role
he has fitted superlatively well;
in the second —during his later
years—with increasing difficulty ;
and in the third probably very
much better than most of his
party realise.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“What an extraordinary career!
He [Churchill] had held the fore-
most posts in peace and war ; he
had seen the Victorian world give
way to the harsh imperatives of
the 20th century, yet had re-
tained his capacity to imagine,
to enjoy and dare ; he had kept
the resiliency of his mind and
spirit, and had lived on in perfect
harmony with the new age when
virtually all his great contem-
poraries had left the scene. Few
men in history can match the ex-
ample he has set, so many-sided,
so indomitable, so triumphant
over vicissitudes and changes
and so true to an inner light.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “A
lesser man than Sir Winston
would probably have retired 10
years ago. After his prodigious
services as a war-leader, he suf-
fered a resounding political de-
feat. If he had then abandoned
politics, disenchanted with the
fickle public, and busied him-
self with the writing of history,
his attitude would have been
understandable.
“But Sir Winston was too mag-
nanimous, and too good a demo-
crat to feel any lasting resent-
ment at the people’s choice. He
accepted defeat with a good
grace, and waited his turn in
patience. That he did so was a
gain both for his own reputa-
tion and for the country. His
four years as Premier in peace
have shown that his gifts were
by no means of the kind that
need an emergency to call them
forth.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” edi-
torial comment: “Sir Winston
has chosen his hour well: He
leaves with his party all set for
an election &nd the Opposition
in disarray. He leaves with all
the personal honors that can
come to a commoner and with
marked goodwill and friendship
of his Queen. (What a contrast
with Queen Victoria’s shabby
treatment of the departing
Gladstone!)
“But this is no moment for
taking the change tragically.
The resignation is not the end
of Sir Winston’s public life.
The House of Commons, we
may trust, will hear him again
and he will be at hand to guide
and strengthen his successors.
He has a part to fill as an elder
statesman above the battle.
There is no telling what fresh
bursts of energy may come,
what new phase of his incredible
career open up. He retires with
his spirit undimmed, his wit
unquenched, his broad grasp of
affairs scarcely lessened.”
* * *
Harry Boardman, in “Man-
chester Guardian”: “He
[Churchill] and an English
friend were lunching in Paris
with M. Paul Reynaud after the
war. In the conversation over
cigars and liqueurs Reynaud got
a clean start and went on pouring
out a torrent of French. Sir
Winston likes to be the talker,
not the auditor. Reynaud’s
outpourings had to be dammed-
up somehow, so, holding out an
arresting hand across the table
towards Reynaud, as he at the
same time turned to his English
friend to ask: ‘What’s the
French for ’arf a mo?’
“And who before, as Leader
of the Opposition, would have
dreamed of putting his tongue
out at the Government? Is there
any doubt that he is the most
engaging human being the House
of Commons has seen in our
day or perhaps any day? If
Peel, Gladstone or Disraeli ever
put their tongues out it was
only before a private mirror to
see how things stood with their
livers.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Inspiration yes, but also realism.
These are the essentials for the
great statesman, and how rarely
they go together. These are the
two qualities Sir Winston
Churchill outstandingly possesses.
Something of an Elizabethan
again in this, it is not for nothing
that he is a master of English
prose and a painter. Study his
writings, study his bold and
vivid canvases: there is the
imagination, the courage, the
acceptance of challenge; in
writing and in. painting the good
performer must take risks, must
see and feel things in a new
manner. But there also is the
discipline, the control, the accep-
tance of the limitations imposed
by materials or subjects. Trans-
late this into terms of politics
and we can understand both
how he came to use that phrase
‘blood, toil, tears and sweat,’
how he fashioned it into a
message of leadership and hope,
not of despair; and how he did
both these things because it was
true. He deceived neither him-
self nor us [Britain] as to the
magnitude of the danger, the
arid, harsh, exhausting years
that lay before us.”
* * *
Henry Fairlie, in London
“Spectator ” : “Churchill is, first,
and last, the historian, and his
political career has been the his-
torian in action. It is this which
gives his oratory its power to
move men, to persuade their
hearts as well as their minds. In
New York “Herald Tribune ”
IF HE’S REALLY SCARED WED BE GLAD TO
mmmm
rJiWsIMKE
SOME &IPLOMAJS F££L
YOU SHOULD GIVE him
SOME SORT OF GUARANTY
. YOU WONT
Attack him 1 ,
his greatest speeches he lifts
men’s eyes to the horizon of his-
tory, where they may see the long
caravan of mankind toiling—
but bravely toiling, for Churchill
has never in 80 years lost his
hope—into the unknown terri-
tory of the future. ‘Le Monde’
knew what it was doing when it
called his last speech on the
hydrogen-bomb, ‘Reflections on
the theme of the Apocalypse.’
There is the hint of revelation,
of pushing back the boundaries
of time, in all Churchill’s greatest
utterances.
“He surveys the world in an
hour; but not the world alone.
All the centuries are at his com-
mand. He is steeped in history.
Charlemagne and Napoleon,
Richelieu and Lincoln, Attila
and Frederick the Great, there
is not a great figure in history
which has not become a part
of his own distinctive composi-
tion, not a passage in the whole
story of a man’s greatness and
man’s mischief which has not
been poured into the crucible
of his mind. There for 80 years
it has been fermenting and,
though he may change his
address, the process will go on.”*
* * *
London “New Statesman ”:
Under the new Prime Minister
[Eden] the Tory party reverts
after 15 years to traditional
Tory leadership. The new
management is, in fact, a return
to the old management. Sir
Anthony Eden, closely flanked
by Mr. Macmillan and Mr.
Butler in the Commons, and
sustained by Lord Salisbury in
the Lords —is most unlikely to
inaugurate any of those adven-
turous policies which have —at
least spasmodically attracted
Sir Winston throughout his life.
These young men are far older
at heart than the boyish
buccaneer of 80 who has just
given way to them. They are
capable and conscientious party
politicians—replacing a national
prodigy.”
Japan
The “nub” of the Japanese
problem, as summed-up by the
Cincinatti (U.S.A.) “Post” :
“Japan is the natural and ulti-
mate target of Communist
aggression in the Orient. This
newly independent nation has the
greatest concentration of indus-
trial plants and industrial skills
in Asia, including the capacity
for developing atomic energy. A
combination of Japanese tech-
nique with Chinese manpower
and resources is about as fore-
boding as can be imagined.
“Japan is teetering right now
as between clinging steadfastly to
America and the West, or turn-
ing toward Communist China in
the hope of life-saving trade.
Before our Japanese friends drift
into decisions from which there
is no returning, [U.S.] Senator
Mansfield thinks we ought to do
something about it —at least
focus attention on objectives
which might tip the balance of
Japan’s future.
“In general terms, the Senator
lays down several of ‘the tangible
ways’ in which the realities of the
Japanese situation can be trans-
lated into positive action for a
stabilised Far East. He favors,
too, steps to open South-East
Asian markets to the Japanese
and a series of conferences to
deal realistically with Japan’s
troublesome reparations prob-
lems.
“The point is to put up a flag
on the subject of Japan. That is
what Senator Mansfield is doing,
and we hope it is alarming
enough to bring early response.
“A Red China trade-mission
is scheduled to tour Japan and
then negotiate an $84,000,000-a-
-year trade-agreement with Japan-
ese industries. In a dozen other
ways, the storm-signals are up.
Are we to wait until ‘the Japan
crisis’ succeeds ‘the Formosa
crisis,’ and we are shocked into
another sense—of futility?”
The German Voice
London “Economist” on a new
voice in Nato:
“Now that the French and
Germans have completed ratifi-
cation of the Paris agreements,
there is every reason to en-
courage the remaining countries
—Belgium, Holland and Luxem-
bourg—to follow suit as quickly
as possible. For until they do,
the forthcoming Atlantic Council
meeting must be delayed.
“Apart from welcoming the
Germans as members, that
session is bound to be used for
talks between all the Nato
Foreign Ministers on the sub-
stance and manner of negotiat-
ing with Russia; and, as M.
Faure has put it, not only France
but the West as a whole ‘can
wait for a few weeks more or
less, but we must not wait too
long.’
“Although the three main
Western Powers America,
Britain and France —are jealous
of reserving their right to de-
termine the scope and timing of
talks with Moscow, full consul-
tation and complete understand-
ing with their allies is an essen-
tial ingredient of the preparatory
stage. And several prickly ques-
tions of procedure have already
appeared:
“How far is Western Germany
now to be included in the inner-
ring of top-level negotiations?
How far is the new Western
European Union (W.E.U.) to be
encouraged to form a distinct
group l —part way between the
committee of the Western ‘big
three’ and the Nato club as a
whole? How far can the three
be expected to bow to general
Nato views anyway?
“The rise of Germany adds a
new bite to all these questions,
and Dr. Adenauer’s voice must
certainly have a prominent place
in the preliminary discussions,
even if he can play no more than
the role of ‘consultant’ when
dealing across the table with Mr.
Molotov. If the officials cling
to the legal position, then they
should leave Germany out when
that country’s own future comes
up, since the letter of the W.E.U.
treaties stipulates that it is pre-
cisely on matters concerning
Germany as a whole that the
Bonn Government is not sove-
reign and the three former Occu-
pation Powers retain their rights.
“Nevertheless, whatever some
people in Paris may feel, it is to
be profoundly hoped that the
other Governments will have the
good sense at this stage to draw
Dr. Adenauer in as an equal on
all matters in which Germany
is concerned. Even before the
Federal Republic was an ally, he
had come to be regularly con-
sulted. There are now even
stronger political reasons for
showing the Germans that they
have gained from the Paris
alliance and are full partners of
the West.”
Red Imperialism
Although one of the Soviet’s
favorite charges against the
West is “imperialist aggression,”
its own record in such matters
is more than impressive.
A Milwaukee (U.S.A.) “Jour-
nal” summing-up points out
that since 1939 Russia has


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
r'6
'9 -
>'7
' *' 3 y' s i
'e~9 /:* *
;
vv:
A £> *
<?. a
X
Additions
take care of themselves
w»h a CONTEX
Adding Machine
Yes, you can relax and know that your figure
problems are a thing of the past when you
own a speedy, accurate Contex.
So simple to operate you can master your new
Contex in 5 minutes.
Contex adds in whole numbers, £s. d.,
decimals, weights and measures. Investigate
this essential personal, portable adding machine
to-day.
£23'lo'-
Handsome
carrying
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
PHONE M 0425
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Contex.
NAME
ADDRESS * C 029.16
“forcefully expanded its terri-
tory by 204,200 square miles
and its population by
24,000,000”:
“Here is the record of the
U.S.S.R.’s territorial victims and
acquisitions (in square miles):
Finland 17,600
Poland 69,900
Rumania 19,400
Germany 5,400
Estonia 18,300
Latvia 25,400
Lithuania 21,500
Czechoslovakia 4,900
Japan 17,800
Tanna Tuva 64,000
“Communist leadership, also
since 1939, has expanded its
Moscow - directed domination
over another 4,770,800 square
miles and at least another
675,000,000 people.
“There are Russia’s European
satellites of Albania, Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland
and Rumania. There are the
Asiatic satellites of China, the
the Mongolian People’s Re-
public, North Korea and North
Viet Nam. (This does not in-
clude the Russian - occupied
areas of Germany and Austria,
which total 53,200 square miles
and some 21,000,000 people. The
United States, Britain and
France also have forces in parts
of these countries.)
»“While Russia proper and its
Communist world have been
expanding at a pace unequalled
in history, what has the West
been doing?
“The United States granted
final independence to the
Philippines.
“The Netherlands freed
Indonesia.
“Great Britain freed India
and gave up colonial control
over great ; sections in South
Asia.
“France yielded its hold over
Lebanon, Syria and territories
in South-East Asia.
“New and free Governments
were established in many parts
of the free world. Peace-agree-
ments were reached with the
major enemies of World War II
—ltaly, Japan and West
Germany.
“So who’s the imperialist and
the aggressor?”
Survival
Commenting editorially on the
grim facts and figures of H-bomb
damage as assessed by the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission,
New York “Herald Tribune”
opines that “the big fact” is that
“war has become an absurdity, a
crime, an act of race-suicide”:
“How to translate this realisa-
tion into policies that ensure
peace and disarmament is the
question that defies any single
answer. On one level it must be
worked at day by day, with
perseverance and imagination by
those who, like President Eisen-
hower in this country and Prime
Minister Churchill in Great
Britain, have dwelt with a con-
sciousness of man’s vast danger.
“At another level it must be
worked upon in the minds of the
people themselves all the
people, on both sides of the Iron
Curtain, whatever their ideologies
or their creeds.
“For the peoples are con-
fronted with the issue of their
own survival. It is impossible to
believe that at the edge of the
abyss they will not wake up,
draw back and reassert their
reason. Vague fears must be
made articulate ; longings for an
existence which promises a
decent security for themselves
and their children must find
expression. Such a ferment
cannot but affect the rulers even
in countries where tyranny has
been the rule.
“It was out of man’s search
for protection from the deprada-
tions of his neighbor that the
civil order first arose ; and it is
from his search for a protection
from a power inimitably great in
its capacity for destruction that
world peace must be bom.”
Hong Kong and
Formosa
London “Financial Times” on
“many Socialist politicians, and
some who ought to know better,”
who are “busily engaged yap-
ping and sniping at the activi-
ties of the United States in
sustaining the defences of
Formosa”: *
“Many of these same people
declare their willingness to sup-
port a Government that would
defend Hong Kong against any
depredations that the Chinese
Communists might attempt.
Without help from the United
States it would be impossible, in
the event of attack, to maintain
Hong Kong, which is, among
many other things, a valuable
earner of dollars for the sterling
area.
“When Mr. Attlee was in
office, he said, to his credit, that
Britain intended to preserve her
position in Hong Kong; but
when harassed by his back-
benchers he sometimes not only
asserts that Britain should play
no part in the defence of For-
mosa, but also that the Govern-
ment of Formosa should be de-
ported, in order to please the
Chinese Communists.
“This constant abuse of
American policy in regard to
Formosa may have sad conse-
quences for Hong Kong, and
for what is left of British
interests in the China Seas. It
should be remembered that,
though there may be complica-
tions about the legal status of
Formosa, there are also compli-
cations about Hong Kong.
“By far the greater part of
the colony’s area consists of
territories held on a lease from
the Chinese Government which
will end in about 40 years. These
‘New Territories,’ as they are
called, are of considerable im-
portance. They contain most of
the colony’s agricultural and
fishing resources; the main air-
field is built on them ; they are
the principal source of the
colony’s water and power, and
they include a large suburban
overspill from the town of Kow-
loon.
“Though the lease under
which we [Britain] hold these
territories does not run out until
1997, the Chinese Communists
could cause, if they chose, a
good deal of trouble about it
before then. We should then be
much in need of the kind of
general support which many
Americans expect of us in regard
to Formosa.”
Top-level Talks?
It’s not a fresh observation
that in most of the talks, con-
ferences, etc., since World
War II the West has generally
gone along with the intention
of solving one problem or
another, white the Soviet has
St. holds “ Globe-Democrat”
THE GOAL
entered the lists with the fixed
intention of, giving nothing
away and snapping-up any con-
cessions may be going.
The Berlin conference was a
good example. It was initiated
by the West with the idea of
discussing the German and
Austrian problems ; all it pro-
duced was the Geneva Confer-
ence, from which Russia went
home with half of Indo-China.
Lately there has been talk of
a top-level conference between
the leaders of the West and of
Soviet Russia, but the Commun-
ists, apparently, have been
playing “hard to get”—as they
did before Berlin. Possibly they
can see nothing to. gain ; possibly
they prefer to be difficult, so
that, when and if they do come
along, the West can feel it has
achieved a “diplomatic victory”
—as it felt about Berlin.
Whatever their tactics, it is,
in a London “Time and Tide”
view, “quite clear that it is the
Russians, either because of their
own internal dissensions or
because of Mr. Molotov’s deter-
mination to keep the flag of
militant Communism waving
freely, who have set their faces
against a meeting of East and
West”:
“This does not, of course,
prevent them from proclaiming
their desire for ‘peaceful
coexistence,’ or welcoming
assistance, from whatever
quarter it may come, in casting
the blame for the world’s ills
on to other shoulders.
“Western Europe is now on
the verge, ten years after the
end of the war, of achieving the
unity without which it cannot
hope to resist further inroads by
Soviet Communism. If that
unity is realised in the next few
weeks the Western world will
perhaps be able to speak with
one voice again. And inevit-
ably the demands for a top-level
meeting with the Russians will
become even more insistent.
“We may, of course, find that
Mr. Molotov is even less
disposed to enter into such
negotiations than hitherto.
That depends entirely upon what
he thinks his country and the
Communist world in general
might get out of such talks. If
the Soviet leaders think that
they need .a few years’ breathing-
space to finish putting their own
house in order, that East-West
talks might confirm their hold
on the territory they have
acquired since the war and that
they can avoid an agreement
which would prejudice the
advancement of world Commun-
ism in the future, they may well
be prepared to enter into
negotiations.
“There are few indications
that this is the direction of
thought in the Kremlin. The
whole tone of Soviet policy since
Mr. Malenkov’s removal has
turned away from conciliation
in the direction of the old
Stalinist tub-thumping.
“Talk of ‘peaceful coexistence’
has given place to the equally
vague but more sinister ‘peaceful
competition,’ which is presum-
ably a step closer to ‘unpeaceful
competition,’ or war. Mr.
Malenkov’s talk of the disastrous
consequences of a war with
modern weapons is now dis-
missed as defeatism of the worst
kind. Not world civilisation,
but the Western capitalist world,
will be destroyed in the next
world war,, according to Mr.
Molotov.
“But supposing the Russians
do decide that a top-level meet-
ing is a good idea? Supposing
they decide that they have more
to gain than to lose from such a
meeting? They have, after all,
only to lift their fingers for the
statesmen to rush to such a
conference.
“Are those in the West who
would welcome such a sign
clear in their minds about what
should be discussed and what
should be the aims of talks with
the Russians? If we go into
such talks with nothing more
than the feeling that any talks
are better than none we are
certain to be out-manoeuvred by
Mr. Molotov or find ourselves
in the position of rejecting
Soviet demands and thus provid-
ing Soviet propaganda with
material for charging the West
with insincerity and worse.
“If we go into them expect-
ing to persuade the Russians to
change their nature and their
ways, or give up their possession
of the hydrogen-bomb, we are
doomed to disappointment. If
we go into them hoping only for
an agreement about ‘coexistence’
we shall find ourselves under-
writing Soviet domination of
Eastern Europe. If we seek no
more than the signature of the
Austrian peace treaty, we shall
be sidetracked on to secondary
questions which do not justify a
high-powered meeting.
“If a meeting is to take place
the whole Western world must
be agreed on the aims of such
a meeting and on the demands
to be put to the Russians. And
they must not be small
demands.”
Various Voices
British Labor M.P., Emrys,
Hughes, on Churchill’s resigna-
tion : “Is the Government going
to bury Qesar in the House of
Lords or is he going to be
allowed to come back here to
bury Anthony?”
Sir Anthony Eden: “We all
say ‘ban. the bomb.’ But we
and our Western allies also say
that' armies and armaments
must be reduced to a point at
which no country can threaten
its neighbor. That is real
disarmament.”
U.N. Secretary-General Dag
Hammarskjold: “There is, in
international politics as in the
lives of all of us, a tendency to
engage i n wishful-thinking
when what we are striving for
seems too distant. In that mood
politicians and diplomats may
publicise as a great victory
agreements which are accept-
able to all parties only because
they read them in different
ways. In that kind of self-
deceiving impatience, a
semblance of unity, which in
the depths of our hearts we
know covers a deep disunity,
may induce us to believe that
the millenium is just around the
corner. Such false optimism is
just as dangerous, just as great
a hindrance to true progress as
false pessimisrh.”


zeal on behalf of the “masses.”
Though she was a persistent and
successful writer of begging
letters, she despised the wealthy
box-holder and was always
loyal to the cheap seats. So
deep-rooted was this conviction
that the Vic never seemed at
home in the “commercial” West
End.
Besides Sybil Thorndike,
others who influenced the
growth of the Vic were her
brother Russell, Matheson
Lang, Ben Greet, Robert Atkins
and Andrew Leigh.
All this was before my time
and consequently is largely
hearsay. But when I came to
London from the provinces in
the late ’twenties the Old Vic
was at a turning-point in its
artistic fortunes. By then,
established actors and actresses
were bringing their fame to its
boards. Edith Evans had, a
few years before, set the
example.
Corporate acting was not then
of as high a standard #s now.
Performances were musty but
warm. But seats, happily for
an impecunious young man,
were cheap, and there was
atmosphere. The poetry so
tedious at school came rich and
glorious through the tobacco-
smoke ; the drama, so lost in
dry-as-dust examination-papers,
quite overpowered the tinkle of
“pop”-bottles and the consump-
tion of. light refreshments.
It was a new and fascinating
and inspiring world. It was the
Theatre.
That is digression. The
turning-point was due to the
talents of two men, Harcourt
Williams as producer, and John
Gielgud as leading actor.
Though he had first appeared
at the Vic in 1921 in a
walking-on part, Gielgud, too,
had already made his name
across the river. There has
been no actor in my time to
compare with him in the succes-
sive performance of classical
roles. His one rival, perhaps,
might have been Forbes-
Robertson had they been con-
temporary. And Gielgud’s 1930
Macbeth has since never even
been approached.
This period, 1929-1934, was a
vital one, both for the Old Vic
and for the classical drama,
because Shakspeare became
fashionable. Indeed, the Old
Vic was sometimes cast into the
shadows by the starry glitter of
West End performances. It
remained, nevertheless, the
origin and the point of return,
and it had to do some
rethinking.
Throughout the ’thirties the
Old Vic, now given also to
opera, maintained its course.
Edith Evans played for two
seasons, Charles Laughton for
one, and Robert Helpmann was
seconded from ballet.
The outbreak of war sent the
Vic-Wells to East Lancashire,
where the depleted companies,
with Burnley as base, performed
Shakspeare and opera on one-
night-stands. In 1944, back in
London, it was realised that
artistic life was more complex
than ever, the war notwithstand-
ing, and that no longer could
opera and drama be contained
under one roof.
The Vic, by courtesy of Sir
Bronson Albery, went to St.
Martin’s Lane. The names of
four men, Tyrone Guthrie,
Ralph Richardson, Laurence
Olivier and John Burrell, come
to mind during this transitional
period. And the more discern-
ing theatregoers, impotent
because of the flimsy, anything-
will-do-for-troops-on-leave con-
fections, remember some superb
productions.
Meanwhile, artistic minds, as
they are wont to do, conceived
grandiose plans. The Vic Com-
pany would remain in the West
End, but the building would re-
emerge as an “experimental”
theatre. Happily, this did not
come about. The Vic was
rebuilt and modernised (with, of
all things, a licensed bar.) The
experimental side was also given
a trial. A school was opened at
Dulwich and a Young Vic Com-
pany formed. Both were admir-
able and worthy projects.
Unfortunately, because they
were so perfect in conception
they were also fantastically
expensive. They had to be
dropped.
At this time there was a good
deal of trouble behind the
scenes (considering the set-up —
an administrator, four artistic
directors and a board of govern-
ors —it is surprising there wasn’t
more). It became apparent, too,
that committees, boards and the
like, however distinguished and
impartial they may be, are not
at their happiest when running
a theatre. Perhaps there was a
lot to be said, after all, for a
solitary lessee —for the single-
minded fervor of Miss Baylis.
Guthrie, fine administrator
that he is, came back ; smoothed
things over and restored the
esprit-de-corps. Then came
visiting companies from Bristol
and Birmingham. They were
rather rough, by the best
standards, but the eloquent
simplicity of the direction made
way for the direct, full-blooded
acting which is the essence of
Shakspeare. And, fitly enough,
some of these actofs from the
provinces were invited to stay.
Thanks to their experience at
the Vic they have since risen,
or are rising, to eminence.
An assessment of the pros
and cons of a National Theatre
is outside the scope of these
comments. The Old Vic is the
nearest thing we have to it and
must of necessity serve as a
nucleus if ever the project goes
forward. What lessons are
there? It is fair to say that a
magnificent building, a wealthy
foundation and an affair run on
Civil Service lines would be
.doomed from the outset.
Artistic enterprise, if it is to be
vigorous and worth while, seems
to demand new- energy, new
ideas, new inspiration and new
blood at not too frequent
intervals.
Moreover, the competitive
element is to be considered.
Contrary to the popular idea,
the Vic’s subsidy is not magnani-
mous. About £lO,OOO a year is
a debt on the building, leaving
£15,000 or so" towards produc-
tion overheads. This means that
75-80 per cent, of what is
needed must come through the
box-office. The continuance of
the Old Vic is thus no sinecure.
The company opens in Sydney
on May 14, and in Brisbane on
July 18. The three plays will
be “The Merchant of Venice,”
“The Taming of the Shrew” , and
“Measure for Measure.”
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Gent. (Sydney), middle-aged, seeks
full board and lodging, light washing,
own room, with private family in
quiet locality on north side of
Harbor. Home with telephone
preferred.—6040.
To exchange for other books
Dickens’s Prose Plays and. Poems (2
vols.), Queen Victoria’s Letters (3
vols.), Mermaid Series of English
Drama (4 vols.), Compton Mac-
kenzie’s Gallipoli Memories and
Athenian Memories, Marie Bash-
kirtseff’s Journal, Lionel Tennyson’s
Life of Tennyson, George Bernard
Shaw’s Intelligent Woman’s Guide to
S ocialism .—6041.
To exchange for other books
Aphra Benn’s novels in one volume,
Vernon Lee’s Essays on , Genius
Loci, H. G. Wells’s Boon (under
pseudonym Reginald Bliss) and other
works by Wells, and Dr. Angus’s
Alms for Oblivion. —6042.
To buy copies of Eve Langley’s
The Fed Pickers, also the later novels
of Rose Trevelyan and George
Moore. —6043.
To buy copy of Those Were the
Days by George A. Taylor. —6044.
To buy copy of Mrs. Musgrave’s
Diary. —6045.
To buy copy of The Harp in the
South and Poor Man’s Orange by
Ruth Park. —6039.
Information Sought
Please give some short notes on
William Etty, the English painter ?
Born at York, 1787, died 1849. A
fine painter of subject-pictures noted
for their beautiful coloring, repre-
sented in many European galleries.
Worked as a printer in his youth,
removed to London, entered the
Royal Academy School as a pupil of
Sir Thomas Lawrence. Travelled
extensively, especially in Italy. A
few months before his death held
an exhibition of his collected works,
an immense number. Recognition
was slow in coming to him, but his
position is secure in the realms of
British art.
* * * *
A brief list of some of the more
important books on style in writing?
Walter Pater: Appreciations (with
an essay on style), 1889; John
Addington Symonds: “Motes on
Style” in Essays, Speculative and
Suggestive, 1890; Herbert Spencer:
The Philosophy of Style, edited by
Fred. Newton Scott, 1895; Walter
Raleigh: Style, 1897; Robert Louis
Stevenson: Essays on the Art of
Writing, 1905; A. Quiller-Couch:
On the Art of Writing, 1916; Fred.
Newton Scott: Contributions to
Rhetorical Theory, 1918 and after;
J. Middleton Murry: The Problem
of Style, 1922; Vernon Lee: The
Handling of Words, 1923; Herbert
Read: English Prose Style, 1928;
John Brophy: English Prose, 1932;
Bonapay Dobree: Modern Prose
Style, .1934; Eric Partridge: English:
A Course for Human Beings, Book
III, 1949; G. H. Vallins: Good
English, 1952, and Better English,
1954.
* * * *
History of Cranbrook, now a boys’
school ? Was it ever the Sydney
home of Hon. James White, and was
one of his racehorses named after it?
In December, 1854, Edwin Tooth
(one of the Tooth brothers, the
brewers) bought 19 acres of the
Point Piper estate. After his death
in August, 1858, his brother Robert
acquired it, and in 1859 began to
build a home, which he named
Cranbrook after his birthplace in
Kent. About the time that Robert
Tooth retired from the Kent
Brewery (1864), he transferred the
property to Captain Robert Towns,
a ship-captain and founder of the firm
of R. Towns and Co., a concern that
traded with the South Seas and had
business interests in Queensland.
(Townsville is named after hiim.)
Towns died at Cranbrook on April 4,
1873, and the Hon. James White,
M.L.C., then became the owner.
White was a well-known pastoralist
and* racehorse-owner, and there can
be no doubt the horse Cranbrook
was named after the house. White
added to the building and made many
improvements. He died in 1890, and
Cranbrook became the property of
his widow, who remarried. In 1901
Cranbrook was leased to the State
Government as a home for the State
Governor, since Government House
was used by the Governor-General.
In December, 1907, the State Gov-
ernment bought the property for
£22,500. Three Governors lived at
Cranbrook —Sir Harry Rawson,
Viscount Chelmsford and Sir Gerald
Strickland. After Sir Gerald Strick-
land’s departure in 1917 Cranbrook
was sold by the Government, and on
July 22, 1918, the present Cranbrook
school was opened.
* * * *
(7) Particulars of a beauty-contest
once run by the “Lone Hand,” a
monthly published by The Bulletin ?
(2) Was a Mrs. C. I. Blake a
contestant ?
(1) The Oct., 1907, “Lone Hand”
carried a notice that the “ ‘Chicago
Tribune’ has by a process of
exhaustive inquiry decided that Miss
Marguerite Frey is the most beautiful
woman in America, and, going
further, that she is the most beautiful
in the world. The ‘Lone Hand’ has
been challenged to contest an Aus-
tralian against her, and takes up the
challenge cheerfully the ‘Lone
Hand’ is confident that it can produce
a more beautiful woman than Miss
Marguerite Frey Every good-
looking woman in Australia should
be a contestant.” From Dec., 1907,
to Sept., 1908, photos of various
beauties were published each month.
In Oct., 1908, Miss Alice Buckridge
was announced as the Victorian
winner and Mrs. Alice Hoppe {nee
O’Neil) as N.S.W. winner (the S.A.,
W.A. and Tasmanian entrants were
judged with N.S.W. and Victoria, not
being in sufficient numbers to be
separately judged). In Feb., 1909,
Miss Daisy Clifton was announced as
Queensland winner, and Miss Baby
Mowat the N.Z. victor. Miss Buck-
ridge was finally adjudged to be the
Australasian winner. (2) Photo, of
Mrs. C. I. Blake,- a Queensland
entrant, was published in the May,
1908, “Lone Hand.”
* * * *
(7) Has shark-skin any commercial
value? (2) Is there a market for
shark-fins and -tails ? (3) Price per
gallon of shark-oil ? {4) How many
gallons of liver-oil can be obtained
from a shark ? (5) Is shark’s-flesh
suitable for converting into meal or
fertiliser? (6) To whom could I
write for further details ?
(1) The skins of large sharks would
have high commercial value if they
were properly treated by removing
the shagreen and then tanning, but
the only commercial tanner to under-
take this in the past was Chaffer and
Sons, of Willoughby, Sydney, who
will no longer undertake the work.
It is unlikely that any tanner would
be interested because of the uncer-
tainty of supplies and the individual
attention each hide must receive. (2)
There is a market in Singapore for
the dried fins. The fins used are the
dorsal (top) fin, pectorals (side), and
the lower lobe of the caudal (tail-fin).
The Chinese Chamber of Commerce
in Brisbane or Sydney should be able
to indicate firms in Singapore which
trade in shark-fins. (3) The market
for shark liver-oil is very weak,
mainly owing to the discovery of a
synthetic vitamin A, and there would
be difficulty in disposing of it. (4)
The yield of liver-oil varies greatly
with the species and the size of the
shark. It would probably average
about 18 gallons per ton of shark. (5)
The flesh is suitable for conversion
into meal or fertiliser, but this would
not be profitable unless large quanti-
ties of sharks were handled, and a
market found for the other products.
(6) Further details will be found in
T. C. Roughley’s book Fish and
Fisheries of Australia.
* * * *
What is the significance of grati-
cules in the right eyepiece of German
service binoculars ?
Graticules (graduations or signs
placed at the focus of eyepieces of
certain instruments) are to help in
the calculation of distances. The
binoculars in question were probably
used to assist in gun-laying, the
graticule being of special design for
use in conjunction with rangefinders
to indicate the mark of the projec-
tiles fired. It has no purpose for the
civilian owner of such binoculars,
and, if desired, can be removed by
unscrewing the eyepiece and remov-
ing the small cell containing the
graticule.
Brief Answers
J.H.: There is nothing to stop a
person in the circumstances going to
another State, and applying there for
a driver’s-licence; but, on the form
of application, he would have to
confess to his previous suspension,
or falsify his declaration. In the
former case he would undoubtedly
be refused; in the latter, particularly
if his offence had been serious,
suspicions would probably soon be
aroused and he would hardly, in
practice, “get away with it”
R.T.: Write Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Mines, Box 48, G.F.O.,
Sydney, for leaflet “Samples of Ores
and Minerals for Free Assay”
C.G.S.: Maybanke Anderson’s
maiden name was Wolstenholme.
She was the first wife of Sir Francis
Anderson, who held the chair ot
philosophy at Sydney University and
who died in Sydney on June 24,
1941 A.C.: Write J. Lindsay, Sec-
retary, Wine and Spirit Merchants’
Association, 23 Macquarie-place,
Sydney.. . .G.S.: As far as we are
aware, it is not usual to bronze cast-
iron to prevent rusting of the iron,
although no doubt it could be
carried out. It is more usual for
cast-iron components to be hot-
dipped in tin, and the ordinary
kitchen meat-mincers are very often
treated in this way C.S.McK.:
A description, with illustration, of a
bale-loader made by P. 'Donovan,
Learmonth (Vic.), appeared in the
“Man dn the Land” pages of The
Bulletin of July 28, 1955 M.M.:
Bombs can normally be set in “sate
condition” and remain on the plane
during landing. In exceptional cir-
cumstances or if a plane is damaged,
bombs can either be used on alterna-
tive targets or dropped in a “safe
condition.” The position regarding
atom-bombs, of course, has yet to
be stated... .C.W.: Rationalist Press
Association, Ltd., 4-6 Johnson’s
Court, Fleet-street, London, E.C.4.
G.W.B.: Information is avail-
able from Department of Trade and
Customs, Customs House, Circular
Quay, Sydney J.H.J.: Write
Gaston C. Renard, Antiquarian
Bookseller, P.O. Box 529588,
G.P.0., Melbourne A.McL.:
Write Secretary, Forestry Commis-
sion of N.S.W., Box 2667, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for price-lis’t of tree and
shrubs available from nurseries at
Pennant Hills, Narrandera, Forbes
and Dubbo... .J.D.M.: There is no
known way of poisoning snakes, and
they are most difficult to trap. There
have been several cases where rat-
traps were set at entrances to
burrows, etc., where it was known
that snakes lived, and they have been
caught when crawling out over the
trap, but baited traps will not attract
them... .N.R.K.j (1) The expression
derives from the “convict days” in
Australia. (2) He is looking at a
picture of his son.... Les D.: (1)
Enrolment and voting are compul-
sory for the House of Representatives
and the Senate and all the State
Lower Houses, (Qualifications for
franchise are possessed by any
British subject, not under 21 and not
disentitled on racial or other ground,
who has lived in Australia for six
months continuously.) In N.S.W.
the electorate for the Legislative
Council comprises the members of
both Houses, in Queensland' the
Legislative Council was abolished in
1922, and the S.A., W.A. and las.
Upper Houses have various property,
professional and other qualifications
required .for franchise. Such was
also the case with the Vic. Legislative
Council, until the Legislative Council
Reform Act (1950), which instituted
universal franchise. (2) Voting at
N.S.W. local-government elections is
compulsory for resident electors,
voting being first made compulsory
in 1947 H.C.: He was a lieuten-
ant in the Commonwealth Military
Forces, but did not go overseas..
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.C.: Private Byrd got his dis-
charge A.L.8.: The comical hen-
pecked husband, the nagging wife,
the old so-and-so of a mother-in-
law, the wildly improbable domestic
discord are all there. Heaven knows
how often we have met them all
before D.L.: When the handsome
young doctor asked the pretty young
nurse to view his collection of paint-
ings we guessed that something was
in the air A.M.S.: So you came
to Sydney and saw the Harbor
Bridge, the monkeys at the Zoo,
Luna Park and the snake-charmer at
La Perouse. How very delightful it
must have all been F.T.S.:
“Crime Does Not Pay”—certainly not
the crime of writing such atrocious
fiction A-S.F.: So, you have
plenty more like that sample? You
may keep them J.C.J.: Have you
ever read Henry Lawson’s “The
Union Buries Its Dead”? R.A.:
You must have had the world’s worst
hangover when you wrote that piece
of misery H.E.: All that long
introduction is so much dodging
around the gumtrees W.T.N.:
Cannot remember how many times
this year that self-same drunk has
turned over a new leaf H.V.A.:
When last seen that mob of wild
brumbies were galloping up George-
street on their way home P.E.C.:
Not falling for that elderly and faded
coquette H.S.F.: Not the sort of
story likely to set Sydney Harbor
aflame, or even the Yarra, for that
matter... .M.H.: It uplifted the
Religious Editor to learn that “in
Mulligully the sole occupation of the
entire male population appeared to
be the consumption of rum”
8.C.L.: When we sighted that old
bore looming in the distance we
ducked for cover T.J.: We are
still wondering what was the reason
for Grandpa’s extraordinary be-
havior J.N.: In future stick to
what you have seen or experienced.
H.A.R.: We don’t like haunted
houses; nor do we extend the hospi-
tality of our pages to such ghosts....
R. “Murder Will Out” finished
on the outer... .D.T.: Yes, we do
admit that it came as a mud shock
to learn that “lovely Loma Gale,
captain of Redwater Ladies’ College,
was, in fact, a gunman’s moll ....
E.W.8.: What surprised us about
Bullocky Bill was the limited extent
of his vocabulary... .A.M.: Very
well, then, let us all sing it
together:
Hoorah for dinky-di Woolloomooloo!
Hoorah for a feed of kangaroo stew!
Hoorah for a boat to Timbuctoo.
Hoorah for the monkeys at the Zoo!
p.S.: You’re a trifle late -with
that New Year poem... .J.P.C.: “Ihe
Wanderer” is wandering home
S. : It flickered feebly for a
moment, then went out... .A.C.P.:
Not the kind that sticks in ones
mind... .N.T.V.: Why not sing it
to her? E.T.: Tootle away to
your heart’s content,’ but tootle some-
where else.... C.L.: Bill is making a
slow recovery in the basket—.C.B.:
Fairies are not wanted at 252 George-
street... .N. 8.: At least you’re a
trier, but you’re still off-target
M.H.: Took a dim view of “Dim
View” T.F.: Made a minute
search, but could not tind any of the
“joy of life” you raved about in
your covering-letter... .C.M.: Give
us time to pack our asbestos suit:—
She tore to rags the Answers page:
“Slayer of scribes, go hence,
To a spot much warmer than Marble
liar!”
E.P.: “The Carpenter” might
suit a religious journal R.A.:
Next time you feel tempted to “gaze
at the setting sun,” make for home
and stay indoors until darkhess
descends D.J.G.: They missed,
but not by a great distance. Try
them elsewhere... .M.C.: It has an
air of manufacture about it
S.K.C.: We gave it a good send-ott.
. ...C.8.: Rang the curtain down on
“Author! Author!” L.R.M.H.:
Not sufficient amusement in that tall
story Old Bert: Forget it
L.S.: By now your “happy jingle” is
“over the Hills and far away.”


Missing Friends
WILL descendants, or anyone knowing
the whereabouts of descendants, of MARK
FOOTS arid his daughter or niece, SARAH
FOOTS, of Seaham Harbour and Murton
Colliery, County Durham, England, who
came to Australia, believed to be
Western Australia, in or about the year
1875, please contact a grandson of the
youngest sister of MARK FOOTS, C/o
BOX 569 J, BRISBANE.
WOULD any next-of-kin of ANINE
THEODORE (also known as THEODORA)
HANSEN, (nee TALLACKSON), born in
Grimstadt, Norway, and widow of GAB-
RIEL ENERVAL HANSEN, formerly of
Stavanger, Norway, later of Melbourne,
Victoria, and Goomalling, Western Aus-
tralia, please communicate with the
undersigned.—JACKSON McD'ONALD,
CONNOR & AMBROSE, Solicitors, 55 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia f
What do
they take me
for?
By JOHN ABERNETHY
ANY other Thursday after-
noon Frank Selby would
have been walking on air,
for it was the flay his
mother always gave him his
weekly “pay” of two shillings,
and only one day separated him
from the seemingly infinite
freedom of the weekend.
Any other Thursday he would
have dropped his schoolbag and
raced to the shopping-centre to
inspect carefully the offerings of
every lolly- and toy-shop,
tingling with a pleasant anticipa-
tion as he compared prices with
weights, colors with sizes. That
was always the best part: the
contemplation and the feeling of
power as he clinked the twri
coins in his pocket and listened
to the salesman’s patter. What
matter if the salesman winked
secretly at the other customers?
For Frank never noticed it, so
intent was his study of the
article under consideration.
On this particular Thursday,
he could take no pleasure either
from the money or the prospect
of freedom ; both seemed merely
part of a drab routine, lacking
excitement or any sense of
power.
So he could only amble
towards the shops, knowing that
nothing there could possibly
please him: going only because
there was nowhere else to go,
and gazing unseeingly at each
shop-window only because there
seemed to be nothing else to do.
And soon he tired of the walk-
ing and turned irritably back
towards home, scarcely aware in
his boredom of the things that
usually struck him as lively and
vital: the hurrying feet, the wail-
ing traffic, the smells of petrol
and dust.
He was sick of all that kid-stuff
of lollies and toys, and he felt
somehow that the two shillings,
now hot and wet from his tight
grasp, could be put to more
useful account. Surely such a
large sum wasn’t intended only
for buying playthings. Surely
it was meant for something more
exciting, adventurous! He
pondered the feeling . . .
He had heard his father say
that money could be made to
increase itself; what were the
words again? Invest . . . invest-
ments. That was it! Deals, too,
and capital! Yes. He rolled the
words in his mouth, liking their
manly and important sounds. It
struck him that he had a capital
of two shillings, and that by
making a deal he could increase
it to three, or perhaps even four.
Yes—that was what he wanted
to do.
But how?
TJE bit his lip and looked
_ A about, as if expecting a deal
incarnate to rear up from a drain
or hedge. Details like this always
annoyed him.
“Pipeahhhh! Pipeahhhhsss! ”
This piercing cry preceded
Alan Kelly, the boy from
Flynn’s, the local newsagency,
as he swung around the next
corner and approached Frank,
slowing-down hopefully as he
passed each pedestrian. Not a
few people stopped to buy the
evening paper, and Frank
watched with admiration as Alan
each time whipped a paper from
his bundle and in one motion
had it folded and wedged under
the customer’s arm, then took
the money, dropped it irito his
bag and flashed the change into
the waiting palm. Very smart
and businesslike.
And it gave Frank an idea —
an idea which grew so intriguing
as he considered it that he almost
ran towards Alan.
“Hey! Hey, Alan! Wait a
tick,” he called.
This part of the affair did not
take long. Alan was at first
suspicious. “Are you havin’ me
on?” he asked. And he wanted
to know more of Frarik’s motives
than Frank was prepared to tell.
But when he saw the money,
Alan became more tractable. In
fact he became violently
enthusiastic. He snatched the
coins, thrust the papers into
Frank’s arms and was gone.
It was the time of tuppenny
papers.
Frank gave no more thought
to Alan Kelly. He checked the
papers with elaborate care,
adjusted them in a thin sheaf
under his arms, and set bravely
out. And even as he did so,
he became aware of some un-
expected difficulties. Firstly, he
was not and did not even look
like a paperboy, having no
experience, no carrier-belt, no
money-bag. Could anyone take
him seriously? And, more dis-
turbing still, how could he give
change?
To reassure himself, he began
calling his wares; a loudish
croak was the best he could
produce. Some discouraging
minutes later, he heard a voice
calling: “Boy! Sonny! ”
His stomach tightening with a
fearful joy he saw a fat woman
on the front steps of a house
across the street; she was
beckoning vigorously. He
crossed over fighting for control
of his legs, which somehow
wanted to go the other way;
while the woman flapped down
the steps to the front-gate.
“Come on,” she grinned.
“Have to get a move on if you
want to sell all your papers. I’ll
have a ‘Chronicle,’ please.”
With relief Frank noticed that
she had threepence in her hand.
“You’re new on this run,
aren’t you?” she asked while
Frank fumbled for a
“Chronicle.”
“Yes,” he said, handing her
the paper. He took the three-
pence, dropped his eyes and
moved away. Now was the time
to bawl “Papeahhhs!” and to
strut confidently. But appre-
hension weakened him . . .
“Hey! Wait a minute!” the
woman called. “Where’s my
change?”
Frank said to the footpath:
“Er —papers are threepence
now.”
“Oh, yair? Since when?”
“Since today . . . they went up
today,” Frank blurted.
“First I’ve heard of it. Still
says twopence here on the
paper . . . What game are you
up to, sonny?”
“No game, missus,” he
stammered. Oh, how easily these
adults found you out! “Mr.
Flynn said ...” he continued, in
fresh defence.
“Oh? So Mr. Flynn said, did
he?” The woman took Frank
by the drm, firmly. “Well, you
just come inside with me and
I’ll ring Mr. Flynn and we’ll see
about this.”
Frank was too afraid to resist
or to speak; completely routed
he allowed himself to be led into
the house, longing now for his
two-bob and a cosy confec-
tionery-shop.
“Now. Sit there and don't
move,” she said, thrusting him
into an armchair in the gloomy
lounge-room.
She marched back to the hall.
■pRANK heard her dialling,
then talking in little sharp
jerks. He trembled. The room
smelt thickly of wax polish, like
his mother’s, and it made him
long for the safety of home.
Shortly the woman banged
down the receiver arid stamped
back. For a moment she just
stood there, hands on hips, her
“You’re dead lucky, sport — she’s a non-venomous type.”
eyes angrily bright, her mouth
tight.
“I thought so,” she fumed,
“I thought so.”
Frank cowered under her cold
rage. So many questions, accusa-
tions, reproaches! And she used
words he had never heard of
before, words long and ugly and
terrifying, like “reformatory”
and “delinquent.”
“Anyway,” she said, “Mr.
Flynn is coming down to have a
r A •/? t,_„
few words with you, me boy
Serves you right if he gives you
in charge. Then what 11 your
parents say? You little . . .
And again those ugly words.
Frank could only stare at the
carpet. He was beyond even
tears. To think that such a
simple little plan could have such
terrible consequences.
And soon Mr. Flynn arrived,
“This is the little wretch, is
it?” he grunted.
He was a huge, balding man
with a loud voice, and he seemed
to fill the little room. But he
seemed to take a different
attitude from the woman. He
wasn’t angry, and he didn’t talk
about police or reformatories.
He seemed rather to be amused,
patronising. Frank was sur-
prised. And now his tears came,
partly from relief, partly from
humiliation.
“What’s your name and
address?” Flynn at length asked
him.
Between sobs Frank told him.
Flynn rocked judicially on his
heels. “Tell you what I’ll do,
boy. I’ll be lenient with you.”
He had squeezed out all his
anger, and since, after all,
Frank’s act hadn’t cost Flynn
anything, he was prepared to be
expansive. “I won’t give you
over to the police. I’ll forget it.
Won’t even tell yer parents —
that is, if you promise not to do
a dishonest thing like that
again.”
“He don’t deserve it,” the
woman said. “Look at him.
Not a bit grateful, even now.” •
“Will you promise?” Flynn
said, ignoring the woman.
Frank sobbed that he would.
“Right. That’s that. Come
on, now. I’ll drive you home.”
"OUT as far as Frank was
concerned that wasn’t that.
In the big car he still couldn’t
lift his eyes against the weight of
shame, though he did stop
weeping.
Flynn shot him an amused
glance. “Tell me, son. Why
made yer do it?”
Frank swallowed and said
nothing.
“Come on. Speak up. I won’t
tell anyone else.” Flynn was sure
that he understood children, and
by now he’d taken a liking to
this one. There was a note in his
voice that placed Frank more at
ease. A little of his courage
returned. Slowly at first, then
with gathering confidence, he
explained the details of his
business-venture.
Flynn laughed for a long
time ; Frank flushed and wished
he hadn t spoken,
“So you wanted to make a
deal, eh? You wanted to make
two-bob into three. Hah! How
do you like that! Talk about
initiative!” He pondered this a
. ,
„„ Tell.you what 111 do, though
111 make a deal with you. 11l
a ance t 0 mi f ke three _
bofe / Come an<J papers for
me t omorrow afternoon after
school, and we’ll see if you can
earn three-bob. How’d you like
that?”
Frank thought about it. Yes,
he badly wanted his money back,
He agreed,
“O.K. Quarter-to-four up at
the shop. Got it?”
Frank nodded.
Of course he told the story to
his parents—with a wealth of
detail and tears —hoping thereby
to bleed himself of the poisonous
humiliation and to have those
deep wounds in his pride dressed
with sympathy.
But it didn’t work. All his
mother said was, “Serves you
right for being such a little ass.”
And his father, “Well, see that
you do earn a few bob, because
/ certainly won’t be giving you
any more this week.”
No, there was no relief from
that burning shame. Frank
couldn’t help hating both Flynn
and the woman, though he knew
both had acted reasonably. If
only tomorrow would hurry up
and come, so that he could show
both of them that he was neither
a criminal nor a laughing
matter!
He laid his plans feverishly,
noting the busiest intersections,
mentally rehearsing how he’d leg
on and off the trams and buses,
missing no one.
TTE had a. bad time at school
next day. Time and again
he was reprimanded for wool-
gathering. He could only squirm
in his seat with impatience.
At three-thirty he burst out of
the school-grounds and ran all
the way to Flynn’s to ensure an
early start.
When he had not come home
by six-thirty his parents did not
worry. They ate their meal as
usual, and his plate was kept
warm over a saucepan on the
stove. Indeed, they had almost
finished washing-up before the
back-door squealed open and
Frank shuffled wearily in.
“I’m hungry,” he said.
“Well, imagine that,” his
mother said. She uncovered the
plate, laid it on the table, and
buttered some slices of bread.
Without so much as a glance at
his parents, Frank began to eat,
apparently absorbed by some
profound speculation. His father
looked intently at him, puzzled.
“How did you go?” he asked.
Between mouthfuls Frank said
quietly, “I made it.”
“Good. How much? Three-
bob?”
Frank paused. Then, with a
grin: “More. I made five-bob.
Mr. Flynn said I sold more
papers in the time than any boy
he can remember, and he says I
can come and sell papers for
him every afternoon.”
“We-11,” his father said.
“That’s the stuff. If you’re as
good as you say you can earn
your own pocket - money.
More ...”
“I’m not going to, though.”
“You’re not?”
“I wouldn’t work for ole
Flynn if he was the last man on
earth. And I didn’t take his five-
bob, either.”
He took three coins from his
pocket and laid them on the
table. “I just took three and
told him to keep the other two.”
His parents looked at each
other. “Well, good gosh,” his
father began.
His mother shrugged her
shoulders. “What can you do
about him?” she said. “I told
you: he’s too stupid for words.”
But nothing they said had any
effect on Frank. He finished his
meal in silence and with a kind
of dignity.
“What do they take me for?”
he murmured to himself, and
while he ate he thought of the
infinite liberty of the weekend
and of all the good things three-
shillings can buy.


PHENOVIS' Brand of phenothiazine
ritie
s'PHfNOVIS
r
//
m
A
rN
m
v-' v
FINE stuff this ‘PHENOVIS 1 . . . yes “fine” is the right word. No ready-
to-use worm drench on sale in Australia contains phenothiazine more finely
ground than ‘PHENOVIS.’ For the treatment of gastro-intestinal worms in
livestock, there is nothing as good as ‘PHENOVIS,’ containing extremely fine
ground phenothiazine particles.
ORDER
'PHENOVIS'
LIQUID or POWDER
from your supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
mPHE.34X.H6Bj
ICI
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOSS A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach - l
m en t illus - jj
trated is the S
world *
famous
“FARMERS' |
BOY” '
rotary
SCYTHE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you’.
N.S.W.: (irazeos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: GrazeoB Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Bozacbtt’s (g’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2681.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castleteagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOX."
TT’S a common human weak-
ness to accept a label for the
genuine article. Words, once
they acquire popular currency,
tend to lose their original mean-
ing. In agriculture it’s import-
ant to know what we mean when
we use such terms as “pasture-
improvement.”
Half-truths can be dangerous.
My own opinion, based upon
observation and conversation
with farmers in four States [Mr.
Dillon, a New Zealander, has
business interests in both Aus-
tralia and New Zealand which
keep him on the move between
the two countries; he has a
special knowledge of pasture] is
that the generally accepted
meaning of the term is a very
modified version of the real
thing.
Officers of State Agricultural
Departments have followed
closely New Zealand methods,
and, where possible, these
methods have been demonstrated
to farmers. The size of Aus-
tralia makes impossible such
close liaison as we have in New
Zealand between scientist and
man-on-the-land. Taking into
account the geographical diffi-
culties, State and Common-
wealth extension-services do a
good job.
Nevertheless, the common
acceptance of the meaning of
the term is related to pasture-
management and grazing-con-
trol —in fact, improvement of
pasture through replacement of
native grasses by English or
N.Z. grasses, and control of
grazing through rotational or
break-feeding.
So far, so good. It is com-
mon-sense, within climatic
limits, that teaching and prac-
tices of New Zealand’s grass-
land-farming should be studied
thoroughly. Since 1938 our
scientists, under the leadership
of Dr. Riddett, have streamlined
application of established prin-
ciples of grass-farming. These
have been subjected to field-test
study, and, over the years, the
findings have been adopted by
our primary producers.
This information is available
to any Australian farmer who
cares to make application to his
State Department. It will
certainly help to reduce produc-
tion-costs.
But for the few who under-
stand and employ the principles
involved there are hundreds who
have half-formed ideas, quite
out of focus with the true
picture. For instance, soil-
fertility largely governs what
type of plant-life may be
developed in a pasture. Each
species demands a degree of
sustenance, and when this is sup-
plied the plant thrives. White-
clover, H.l. and perennial rye-
grass, for instance, need a high
degree of fertility: if it is avail-
able they more than hold their
own against types needing less
food.
Pasture-management, in the
full meaning of the term, em-
braces the sum-total of a plant-
population to its environment.
The greatest environmental
force is climate.
The important climatic factor
in the Southern Hemisphere is
water. Next is degree of fer-
tility, influenced by depth and
type of soil and water and
oxygen content. When plants
are established, degree of pene-
tration of light into the sward
has a bearing on the persistency
of growth. Temperature plays a
part. Palatability of growth is
vital. And successful combina-
tion of species, so that feed shall
be available throughout the
seasons, is a necessity.
The New Zealander reasons
that soil-fertility is the founda-
tion of good pasture. The main-
tainance of this factor is a
“must.” He further reasons that
the greater the quantity of
quality - feed produced the
greater the number of stock that
may be carried and the greater
the amount of conserved fodder
that may be stored against need.
He has long accepted the
principle that profit should be
calculated in terms of return per
acre, rather than return per
beast. He expects —and gets —
a greater return per acre than
the Australian.
Admitted, he has many ad-
vantages : temperate climate and
spread rainfall. Better access to
scientific extension-services, due
in part to size of country, and
backed by a Government de-
pendant on money earned by
sale of foodstuffs overseas (in
Australia it’s wool —a different
set of circumstances). But, as
Australians are now becoming
more conscious of pasture-
management, it is reasonable to
assume that there is an equal
desire to understand the full
implications of the term.
The individual is well aware
of the vagaries of the local
climate. And as fertility is
influenced by it, the problem
seems centred around harnessing
water. Rainfall must be con-
served within the soil. Where
possible, it should also be stored
so that irrigation shall be avail-
able. With adequate moisture
there will be vegetable-growth.
Moisture plus fertility should
develop the desired type of
growth. From such sward, or
crop, and sound grazing-control,
should also come profit. It’s a
matter of putting first things
first.
At this stage let’s look at the
teachings of the soil-microbi-
ologists. They say that without
moisture high fertility is not
possible. Why?
We laymen accept the pro-
position that within the soil is
vegetable and mineral matter.
We also realise that bacterial life
is a component. We have been
taught that these cell-like beings
convert such substances into
plant-foods. In fact, they make
possible by such functions the
perpetuation of Nature’s cycle
of life. But, say the scientists,
water is not the only need. Of
equal importance is oxygen.
This, too, must be in association
with moisture if bacterial life is
to trigger-off the yeasting con-
version of organic and mineral
matter, from which come chemi-
cal salts on which plants exist.
Oxygen, as a fundamental in
the workings of Nature’s cycle,
is often disregarded by the
farmer. But it is very important,
on a practical, economic level,
that the farmer should under-
stand the reasons why water and
oxygen should be present in the
soil at depth. These provide
Nature’s reactors, bacterial life,
with the primitive tools by which
mineral and organic substances
may be converted into plant-
foods. Soil must be conditioned
so that such absorption will
make possible the completion of
the cycle of birth, growth, death,
decay and rebirth. Not just
rebirth of any type of plant-
life—but the particular species
wanted. Soil-fertility governs
birth and persistency of such
plants as white- and red-clover,
perennial- and H.l-ryes and
cocksfoot. Absorbed fertility.
Chemical fertilisers also play
a part in the maintenance of
desired species; but if New
Zealanders err in any phase of
fertility replacement it is in the
practice of farming the top four
or five inches, and reliance on
manure from the bag and
animal-droppings as means of
holding soil-nutrient. The result
has been that shallow tillage-
implements, and decades of
cattle-weight, have caused in
much of our country a compac-
tion pan. Disregard of dormant,
primitive nutrient beneath this
“pan” is, in my opinion, a
mistake.
Pasture-management, pasture-
improvement—call it what one
will—has gained wide interest.
I believe that the label has been
accepted far too literally. Soil-
fertility is the factor which
creates rich-in-nutrient pasture.
Soil-improvement makes pos-
sible establishment of desired
species. Pasture-control is a
secondary stage. An important
one, no doubt.
But the first step is that of
gaining fertility within the soil.
F. G. DILLON.
N.Z. White-clover
“Jubilee”: Early claims for
N.Z. white-clover in the U.S.
are now being disputed.
Probably for the usual reason —
overstatement. A pity ; but it
seems to happen with anything
new in agriculture.
The U.S. Department of Agri-
culture advises farmers to con-
sult experts at experimental-
stations before sowing white-
clover. Apparently it’s been
hopefully sown with little regard
for climatic conditions. In some
areas, mainly America’s eastern
States, the D. of A. does not
recommend it, but in some of
the western States it has been
found superior to ladino for
maintaining a proper balance of
clover to grass; yield 30 per
cent, higher, and much more
resistant to slugs.
Research-workers hold out
hopes of breeding the last qual-
ity into local varieties more
suitable for extreme climates.
Bruce Levy, a world-authority
on pastures, makes the comment
that it was to be expected that
a clover bred for N.Z. conditions
would not be suitable for a wide
range of U.S. conditions, but,
after the seed-salesmen have had
their say, the clover , will prob-
ably have a steady success in
suitable districts.
Parakelia
D. D. Mackinnon, Pinnacles
Station, Leonora (W.A.), comes
in fighting:
“The best paper in the world
should not publish misleading
piffle such as ‘Quo Vadis’s’
item headed ‘Fats Without
Water’ (B. 9/3/’55).
“Parakelia, well known all
over the Australian back-
country, is a refined sort of pig-
face. The large amount of rain
it requires to start it puts
surface-water around the coun-
try until the stuff has grown
high enough for feeding. While
it is in existence neither sheep
nor cattle need a drink, because
the plant is full of water. But,
like all its family, its life is
limited, and the implication that
drinking-water is entirely re-
dundant is rubbish.
“P.S. Congratulations to
E. O. Schlunke on his ‘Farm
(and Station?) Labor’ (9/3/’55).”
Straining Barbed-wire
“Joe”: Reeling-out and strain-
ing barbed-wire is easier with a
tractor, though some who have
tried this method have repeatedly
broken the wire and have gone
back to more tedious methods
With a Ferguson, it’s best to
use third-gear and run the engine
at idling-speed. At the first sign
of the engine beginning to labor,
disengage the clutch and put on
the brake. The wire can then be
suitably tensed and stapled to
the post.
Other tractors are just as
suitable for the work once the
right gear is found and similar
practice carried out.
The Agricultural Bee
“A.M.N.”: In Australia there
is little appreciation of the
importance of honey-bee pol-
linisation in agriculture. Pol-
linising of fruit- and vine-flowers
by bees is important: not so
well known, but also important,
is the job they do for clover,
lucerne and various other pas-
ture - species dependent on
flower-pollination to produce
seed. Similarly, bees assist in
reafforestation.
We have not yet reached the
stage of putting apiculture in
its true perspective, but the
U.S.A. has been busy success-
fully developing the science,
with considerable benefit to the
man-on-the-land. Apiarists who


SHEEP MANURE, COW MANURE,
HORSE MANURE, POULTRY
MANURE.
V* e desire to purchase the abovementioned
manures in full rail truck lots. Please
advise price, rate, quantity and continuity
of supply.
GARDEN FERTILIZER CO.,
15a Cunningham St., Sydney.
MA 6584/5/6.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage i»
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet!
f- "DISTRIBUTORS: j
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.). 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wick-
ham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lorne Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
AN EXCAVATING TASK FORCE
&
m
ssm
m
m
* « -9SC «*? ~ ■ * * >»
i
~. -: '\ -' . •:
The Nuffield
Universal Tractor
shown excavating
with a front-mounted
loader, hydraulically
operated from the
internal hydraulics.
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
The Nuffield Universal is a thoroughly
efficient, reliable and easy-to-handle tractor.
It is a Task Force in itself and, combined
DO YOU KNOW THESE
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear
and 6.00 x 16 front tyres, sells at only
£l,ol s'lB'-
F.0.R., F. 0.8. Capital Cities.
(Plus Sales Tax only where applicable.)
At this, price your Nuffield tractor is ready to go
with the comprehensive range of "approved-
after-test” matched implements, speeds up
your work . . . makes it easier.
MONEY-SAYING FACTS?
to work, and includes the following equipment:
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage and power take-off,
belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor fover, electric starter,
electric horn, headlight, agricultural rear light,
tail light, side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters.
BMC
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
-3KSSKI'3&.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
*on -Aij (vnvaisnv) Noiivaojaoa aoiow Hsuiaa 3m jo nitn w ‘ on ‘Aid wnvHisnv)'mauißN
NT29.32
lease or rent bees are encouraged
to make certain that the bees
have sufficient feed in the winter
so that they will be strong and
healthy when flowering com-
mences.
The bees are scattered at
various points throughout the
field of operation, and usually
remain under the control of the
apiarist. Farmer and beekeeper
enjoy mutual advantages—the
farmer in getting a full crop-
setting, the bee-man in having
an assured run of honey-
production.
The advantage of organised
pollinisation of crops is so
marked that some farmers, be-
sides paying the hiring or rental
fees, guarantee a percentage of
the increased production to the
bee-owner.
The training of bees to favor
particular flowers has met with
some success. The bees are
confined to their hives for a few
days and fed with syrup flavored
by the particular flower. After
release they will mostly seek this
flower, which they have come to
associate with food.
Of all the vast numbers of
insects that visit flowers, none
is so important to man as the
honey-bee. Man is the chief
enemy. Poisonous dusts and
liquids sprayed to kill pests kill
bees. One suggestion to mini-
mise losses is to confine spraying
to night-time —but this, of
course, is only possible in certain
rare cases.
The tendency nowadays is
to evolve selective sprays. It’s to
be hoped that the importance of
bees is recognised in any future
developments.
Pig-raising
“Myrr”: Where pigs are kept
mainly to drink skim-milk,
there can be trouble at the
piggery when milk-supplies
diminish in autumn and winter.
Having but one calf a year,
a cow produces one annual
crop of milk compared with a
sow’s two crops of pigs, the
autumn - born litter coinciding
with a greatly diminished milk-
yield. A feed-mixture for this
time of year: crushed wheat or
crushed barley or pollard, 1 bag
(crushed oats, or rye, can be
used to replace one-third of the
wheat, barley or pollard); meat-
meal, 101 b.; lucerne-meal or
lucerne-chaff, 101 b.; ground-
limestone, 31b.; salt, lib.
The mixture is fed as a dry-
or wet-mash, with drinking-
water freely available. Young
pigs up to porker-size, and
suckling sows, should get all
they will eat; dry sows, and
boars, enough to keep them in
good condition.
A growing or fattening pig
from weaner-stage on will eat
about |lb. of the mixture for
each week of its age; that is,
a pig 12 weeks old will eat about
31b. a day.
If igal. skim-milk per pig is
available for young pigs or dry
sows, or 2gals. daily for sows
and litters, the meat-meal can
be dropped from the mixture;
but don’t leave out the lime.
Milk Utensils
“Myrrhee”: To clean milk-
utensils, free them from milk-
solids and destroy bacteria by
using heat-treatment. Rinse
each utensil in cold or luke-
warm water, then scrub with a
brush, inside and out, in hot
water to which a little washing-
soda has been added; the soda
emulsifies the grease.
Cold or lukewarm water is
used in preference to hot
because scalding water or steam
causes the albumen to stick to
the utensil, giving it a mottled.
scaly appearance, and makes it
difficult to clean.
Complete the cleansing by
thoroughly rinsing and scalding
in boiling water or, if steam is
available, placing the utensils
over a jet for two or three
minutes ; then place them on a
clean metal rack, unexposed to
dust and fliesl
Crosscuts
C. M. Williams, 0.8. E., presi-
dent of the National Farmers’
Union of Australia, in an
address to the annual meeting
of the N.F.U., on the Inter-
national Federation of Agricul-
tural Producers: “It is not
sufficient to leave our overseas
problems wholly in the hands
of Governments and their trade-
officials. We do not want to be
regarded as an organisation
which is approached by Govern-
ments from time to time for the
rubber-stamping of plans which
they have formulated without
consultation. We want to be
able to work in close co-opera-
tion with the Government and
make worth-while contributions
to the formulation of sound
policies.”
Same: “It is difficult for me to
understand the indifference of our
organisation towards I.F.A.P.
In view of our huge stake in
overseas trade, the expense of
membership is negligible, and
our attitude is even more
anomalous when we realise that
many smaller countries, such as
New Zealand and Kenya, play
a much more active part in
I.F.A.P. and spare no expense
in doing so.”
* * *
“Aim”: In the U.S.A.
molasses is popular as a live-
stock food. In 1954 no less
, , ,
than 391 million gals, was used
for this purpose. Reason—
food-value is fairly high, and it’s
much cheaper than nm
Seven gals, equal in food-value
one bushel of maize, but 14 gals
can be bought for the price of
that bushel..
* * *
“B ill j i m”: Very great
differences in the absorption of
water from early heavy rains
have been observed at Man-
nanarie in S.A.’s lower-north.
Where stubble had been burnt,
rain penetrated less than lOin.;
on unburnt stubble the soil was
wet down to 18in. to 24in.
Contour - furrows on steep
grazing-land had a similar
effect. Soil beneath the furrows
was often wet to a depth of 2ft.,
while ground between furrows
had been wetted only to about
lOin. deep.
* * *
“Big Billy”: New U.K. process
for extracting nutrients from
green-crops has big possibilities.
Essence of process is separation
of material into its constituents.
Final product of normal green-
crop contains some 45 per cent,
protein, 4 per cent, fibre, with
the balance carbohydrates,
minerals and oils. Up to 80 per
cent, of the nutrient in any
material, from green-crops and
beet-tops to fish- and meat-
offal, can be extracted. Part of
the British drive for self-
sufficiency in high - protein
foods.
.“Shell”: Japs, still lead the
world in chick-sexing. One of
their inventions (electrically
operated) has an illuminated
microscopic eye with a tiny
glass-tube attached. Tube is
inserted into chick’s cloaca and
placed against genital organs.
Magnification and intensity of
light enables operator to see the
organs through the wall of the
intestine. With an efficient
operator, 100 per cent, accuracy
is common,' at rate of up to 600
chicks an hour.
* * *
“Shadow”: Good seasons
breed indifference to food-con-
servation. The present run of
good seasons in N.S.W. are
akin to the seven years of splen-
did rain in Victoria prior to
the 1944-’45 drought in which, in
less than 24 months, sheepl-
- was down 4? million,
cattle 185,000 and pigs 65,000.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(17/4/’55)
To date the seasonal trend has been conforming to the
Single Crohamhurst cycle, and this would suggest that
May will be a wet month in Sydney, with general rains
extending through from southern Queensland to South
Australia. Rains may be particularly heavy on the coast
of N.S.W., and further flooding is possible.
Apart from two small transitory sunspots early in April,
no spots have been observed on the sun for some time.
Both the Main and Uranian cycles indicate heavy
rains in Sydney between the 26th and. close of April,
although the Single cycle suggests that these will be deferred
to the beginning of May.
LENNOX WALKER


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Brains Behind Brawn
Australia seems bent on maintaining
her manufacturing industries —good in
the present world-situation, such indus-
tries being essential to defence. Up to
now we have been able to maintain
them and secure a high standard of
living, to a great extent because pro-
duction-methods were superior to those
of countries where cheaper labor was
available. That period is rapidly passing.
If Australia is to keep its secondary
industries there are two alternatives. The
first is to increase working-hours so as
to ensure that the labor-cost of an
article does not exceed the overseas cost to
such an extent that production is com-
pletely impracticable; for protective
tariffs and other forms of economic
manipulation only work satisfactorily on
a limited scale.
The second alternative is to capitalise
on the lead we already have in scientific
research and make specialist-ability and
“know-how” our most important manu-
featuring asset. Yet the 1954 annual
report of the Melbourne University
Appointments Board reads: “For 380
vacancies (303 last year) only 57 engineers
were available after deducting the 23
men committed under cadetship and in
other ways to Government and other
employers.” The board reports “An
acute shortage of trained scientists,”
which is likely to last for some time.
The truth is that we are not producing
anywhere near sufficient trained men to
meet our immediate needs, while the
paucity of graduates continuing with
research-work can only be described as
shocking.
Undoubtedly Australia has the people
with ability and general education to meet
this demand, but the rewards, during the
long and arduous University course and
after, are not sufficient to attract them.
Unless Governments and the community
recognise that technical knowledge is a
most important, if intangible, national
asset, the future of all secondary industry
is in jeopardy.— MacD. (Vic.).
The Q.A.T.B.
The Queensland Ambulance Transport
Brigade, pioneers of civil-ambulance
services in Australasia, began as the City
Ambulance Transport Brigade (Bris-
bane), and has come up from hand-
stretcher, mining-stretcher, stretcher on
wheels, sulky and pony with horse-drawn
wagons, to motor-wagons, cars, rail-
vehicles and aerial-services. It is a story
of progress made possible by the self-
sacrifice of the founders and the deter-
mination of officers and staffs to main-
tain efficiency and live up to the motto
“H’m—sounds like crib-time .”
—Ready Always to relieve suffering
irrespective of time, distance, fee, or
reward.
The Q.A.T.B. started its service in
1892, and although the British Ambu-
lance Association was formed some 14
or 15 years earlier it was then not as
efficient as the Queensland service. Early
this century, appreciation of the Q.A.T.B.
was strikingly illustrated by “First Aid,”
a London journal devoted to ambulance
services in England, with this inquiry:
“We learn with great interest that you
have a unique installation of ambulance
service in your city much in advance of
what we have here We should much
esteem it if you can give us information
respecting your corps, and also lend us
illustrations or blocks of your litter-sulky
and other appliances. We shall be pleased
to record the work you are doing.”
In 1910 Dr. Graham Bell, inventor
of the telephone and a keen observer,
said in an interview in
Brisbane: “Your ambu-
lance-brigades are ahead
of anything I know of
and worthy of being
emulated in America. I
know of nothing else
like them.”
Brisbane was the first
place in Australia to
undertake civil-ambu-
lance work; and it was
due to the example set
by the Q.A.T.B. that a
similar system of ambu-
lance - transport was
established through-
out the Commonwealth.
The Q.A.T.B. now has
in all 94 centres, 17 sub-
centres, and 79 honorary
centres, extending from
Thursday Island in the
north to Coolangatta in
the south, and as far
west as Mt. Isa. The
brigade employs 432
permanent and 458
honorary officers: has
337 ambulanc e-cars
seven rail - ambulance
cars, two aircraft, and a
number of amphibious vehicles and
boats. During 1954 the brigade
attended 458,151 accidents and medical
cases, and travelled 3,068,286 miles by
ambulance-cars and 52,144 by their own
aircraft. And that does not include
mileage covered by public conveyance.
A truly remarkable achievement.
-Ex-Banana (N.S.W.).
Housing in Queensland
Although strictly opposed to profiteer-
ing by private concerns, Queensland’s
Labor Government apparently feels the
rule should not apply to itself.
A case in point is the recent move
to sell Housing Commission homes to
tenants, under a new agreement, at cur-
rent values —houses built years ago, when
the cost of building them, with money
advanced by the Federal Government,
amounted to a much lesser sum. The
lesser sum, of course, is the amount that
is required to be paid back to the Com-
monwealth. What of the difference —
could it honestly be called anything other
than unreasonably excessive profit?
A Governmental body certainly should
not be allowed to do business in that
fashion, particularly when that same body
is so emphatic in its views regarding
“unearned increment” as far as private
outfits are concerned. Considering the
nature of the housing-scheme, one would
think the tenants’ interests deserved first
consideration in any such agreement,
Indeed, here was an excellent opportunity
for the Government to show itself in a
favorable light by enabling tenants to
purchase homes on a reasonable basis,
The excuse that a fair current-value
price was decided on, in the proposal, is
scarcely acceptable to those who are
capable of working out that two and two
make four. While a Government is ex-
pected to be businesslike in its dealings,
the effort should be on behalf of the
citizen ; the tenant, in this case, should
benefit.
In defence, it has been stated that there
would be nothing to prevent a tenant
acquiring a home and reselling at a large
profit. But surely it would be a simple
matter to ensure against such a happen-
ing by stipulating that before resale
approval must be granted by the
Commission. If subsequent opposition to
the move proves sufficient to bring about
a fairer deal—good. But the fact that
they “had a go” is what should be remem-
bered.—Clyde (Q.).
Margarine
Margarine, being wholesome, palat-
able and, above all, cheap, is a serious
rival of butter, which, at 600,000 tons a
year, has not now such a decisive lead
over the other two of the world’s main
fats: whale-oil, 500,000 tons, and
coconut-oil, 350,000 tons.
Whale- and coconut-oil are the chief
sources of margarine, which, discovered
by a French scientist, improved by a
German, proved fit for human consump-
tion by a Norwegian, and marketed in
really serviceable form by an English-
man, may truly be called an international
product.
Economic pressure induced Napo-
leon 111 to commission the scientist
Mege-Mouries to find a new edible fat;
and Mege-Mouries, by his invention of
margarine, started a vastly increased
demand for whale-oil. Then the German
chemist Normann hardened this fat and
so raised its melting-point.
There were many scientists, however,
who warned a suspicious public of dire
effects this new fat would have on human
organs. Offerdahl, an Apothecary of
Larvik, a Norwegian town which lived
largely by whaling, was one of the few
who believed in margarine, and offered
himself as a human guinea-pig to prove
it harmless. He had to travel to
Germany for the experiments. There he
ate bread-and-margarine freely—and
survived. Indeed, he liked margarine,
and went on eating it, as did more and
more other people.
In 1919 the English firm of Joseph
Crossfield bought Normann’s patent and
established margarine firmly on British
markets, where it still flourishes.
Lever Bros, (or Unilever) are now the
world’s greatest buyers of whalemil for
their factories, the chief products of
which are soap and margarine. These
two commodities, for which there is a
world-wide and growing demand, can
as easily be made from vegetable-oils
derived from coconuts, soya-beans,
cotton-seeds, olives or ground-nuts (pea-
nuts). These comparatively cheap
alternative sources give margarine a
tremendous advantage.
Butter faces a very real challenge in
margarine, and lower prices look like
the only way to meet it. — Ymar (Vic.).
Furniture
Lack of skill and craftsmanship be-
cause of keen competition and price-cut-
ting in the furniture-trade (“Clyde,” B.
16/3/’55) is no fault of the cabinetmaker.
The man who survives in business today
is the one smart enough to give the
public what it wants. The cabinetmaker
who tries to retain a reasonably high
standard of workmanship is meeting
bankruptcy half-way, because the' public
neither wants nor appreciates good
furniture.
Overseas, particularly in Europe, the
householder’s attitude is reversed. Furni-
ture is chosen with great care and appre-
ciated both for its quality and design. A
walk through European shops proves that
their lowest grade is far better than our
good average quality. It’s not cheap, but
Europeans are prepared to pay high
prices for good workmanship and design,
even though their standard of living is
far below ours. We can afford good
furniture, but prefer to spend our money
on other things, the luxuries which
Europeans buy only when they have
furnished their homes.
In our grandparents’ day the average
working-man couldn’t afford ' much in
the way of furniture, and what he had
didn’t do much to enhance his home,
although it was probably well made. The
iron-bed, marble-washstand and seagrass-
chair were not very elegant.
Today young couples furnishing their
homes seem to manage much better.
They expect and have bedroom-, lounge-
and dining-suites. Although not the acme
of good furniture, these items represent
a tremendous improvement on conditions
prevailing in their grandparents’ day.
Factory mass-production, time-payment
and the improved standard of living have
made this possible. They are not so
much concerned about quality or design
as with the fact that they can fill the
house and have the convenience of all this
furniture.
They start married life this way,
skimped in quality but not in quantity.
From that stage their savings go towards
the motor-car and other luxuries which
give them prestige in the community.
While the furniture holds together they
won’t think of replacing it, because it
doesn’t have much prestige in this
country.
In Europe young couples start married
life with the barest essentials —but these
are good. There’s no sale for suites as
we know them. Individual pieces are
bought as funds become available, and
each item is selected with the greatest
care for its quality, usefulness and design.
This is where we find the main differ-
ence between our countries. We, with
the continual improvement in our living
conditions, have formed a habit of furn-
ishing a house in a day, so we can get on
with the business of saving for our
luxuries. We expect a houseful of furni-
ture as our right. We know nothing of
good design, as we’ve neither background
nor training, but we’re aware that we are
doing better than Grandfather.
The shops and factories are in business
to satisfy the people who buy in this
way. They realise that they have to keep
prices down to enable people to buy in
bulk, and they know people are not very
concerned about the refinements of good
furniture; so the refinements are the
first things to go. If it’s a Queen Anne
bedroom-suite the only resemblance it
need have to the Queen Anne period is
the cabriole legs and the darkly-stained
timber. So-called “Swedish modern
means that you have only to put splayed
legs on a box, using light-colored timber.
All the rounded edges, shaped rails and
moulded tops are superfluous, because
the average buyer does not care if it
isn’t authentic Swedish. Anyway, all
those extra processes cost money that
people will not pay.
I know, because I design furniture. We
produce a sample article with all the
refinements, and add up the cost. Then we
start to strip it of most of its beauty to
enable us to sell it cheaply.
While I believe that shops and factories
should accept a lot of the responsibility
for improving the standard of design and
quality, I can assure you it’s a heart-
breaking job to see your best designs


finally produced to represent a mere shell
of the original because the buying public
is quite happy with the shell and won t
pay for more. It can be bought without
depriving the couple of their motor-car.
All these things tend to keep our
standard down, and until there’s a better
appreciation for good furniture our
standards will continue to deteriorate.
Joyce Brown (N.S.W.).
One may buy in almost any furniture-
shop a piece stamped with the seal of
approval of a particular association
and yet find that all too soon the three-ply
bottoms of the drawers will fall out under
the weight of even the lightest of clothes,
taking their pathetic little brads with
them, and revealing the inadequate
grooves on which they had rested. Comes
a season even half as humid as the one
we have just had and drawers stick,
doors refuse to shut and veneers stand
up and sneer at the unhappy owner.
Improper seasoning of the raw wood
and poor craftsmanship are often dis-
guised from the inexperienced buyer by
beguiling design and heavy coats of stain
or enamel.
I agree that some salesmen could sell
dress-suits to penguins, but after ’a few
months of furniture-buying the women
get hardened to their techniques. Sales-
men will never succeed in selling to a
woman of decided tastes something she
really doesn’t like. And they will never
convince a woman who has a poor color-
sense and a hopeless shape-sense that
anyone’s taste is superior to hers. Hence
the continued manufacture of those ugly
1920-design lounge-suites in geometric-
ally-patterned Genoa-velvet, teamed, no
doubt, with violently floral carpets.
Furniture-design and craftsmanship
have improved in Australia since the war,
but too much shoddy stuff is still being
pushed at us by store-buyers who should
know better, and who should also now
realise how much they can influence the
general taste. A cheap piece by a decent
craftsman could, if standards were en-
forced, last as long as an expensive piece.
Then the poor would not eventually have
to pay double by frequent replacements.
Unfortunately, most of these good simple
pieces are sold by arty interior-decorating
shops, and the price is high. “You pay
for our taste,” one smug fellow in such a
shop told me.
Incidentally, I don’t agree with that
idea of combining kitchen and dining-
room mentioned by Graham Phillips (B.
9/3/’55). If one can’t afford a dining-
room, let’s please eat in the living-room,
or part of it. Here I put the housewife’s
viewpoint. When she cooks she wants,
Garbo-like, to be alone. How many times
have you heard, as a child, “Run out of
the kitchen, I’m busy”? How much worse
it is to have friends, even strange guests,
to distract one from the job in hand, and
smell the burnt results of that distraction!
The cook wants to get away from the
kitchen with its used pots and grubby
plates once the meal is served ; away from
the fumes from the grilier; well away, in
this country, from the heat of the stove.
To my mind the first essential in a kitchen
is a door one can shut between it, and
the eating-room. Incorporate your kitchen
in your dining-room and you’re halfway
to getting a bad-tempered wife with indi-
gestion. All she may be cooking is a
peptic ulcer! — Thea Harker (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Blood-tests
Motoring organisations which oppose
the introduction of compulsory blood-
tests for drivers suspected of being under
the influence seem to think it would be
an interference with the democratic
rights of motorists. In actual fact it
could be the greatest protection a
wrongly-charged driver could possibly
have.
This was proved in a case heard in a
N. S. Wales country court, where the
police charged a driver with being under
the influence because they had observed
him weaving in and out of traffic, on the
Great Western highway for a consider-
able distance. Sometimes he crossed the
centre-line for no apparent reason, and
then almost immediately veered back on
to his correct side.
The driver stopped immediately when
ordered to do so ; said he was very tired,
as he had been driving all night; He
admitted having had a couple of beers
about four hours earlier, but wasn’t con-
scious of having meandered across the
road as the police had alleged. When
told he would be charged with driving
under the influence, the man asked to see
a doctor, and a sample of his blood was
taken.
When the case was heard the Govern-
ment analyst said the analysis showed
only .055 per cent, of alcohol and agreed
that even this small quantity could cause
the smell to linger in the breath for four
or five hours; when asked what effect a
concentration of five milligrammes of
alcohol would have in’ 100 millimetres of
"I don't believe you've heard a Word I've said since breakfast."
blood the analyst replied, “Absolutely
none.”
The magistrate, in dismissing the in-
formation, said he had no doubt the
police had genuinely believed the man
was under the influence of liquor and
had charged him in good faith. “It is
just one of those cases,” he added, “where
a person is mistaken and shows that in
some circumstances there is some value in
blood-tests.”—M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Housing
The housing shortage will be overcome
only by up-to-date methods. We should
be utilising the materials available in vast
quantities, such as wood-fibre, fibro-
cement, steel frames, sugar-cane residues,
gypsum components and even pise
(rammed earth)—not conservatively
sticking to bricks and weatherboards.
The writer has recently put up an excel-
lent building on a £lOOO block of land
at Beaumaris (Vic,), only to be notified
that no sewerage can be provided and that
a septic-tank will not be permitted.
Apparently authorities controlling credits
are less afraid of increases in labor- and
material-costs than of the inability of
local councils to cope with developmental
work, which presents a terrific propor-
tion of the costs of home-building. A
glance at increasing council-rates, which
were once only a fraction of these costs,
verifies this alarming fact.
The point is whether we heed detached
units of orthodox construction which
cause enormous sprawls, necessitating 10
to 20 miles of transport, and longer and
longer electric, water, gas, sewerage and
telephone connection. Most owners and
tenants of large allotments have declared
their inability to tend gardens or improve
their grounds. Few can afford to hire
labor. In all the capital cities land within
three to five miles of G.P.O.s realises, or
is valued at, £5O to £7O per foot. Often
this valuable land is cluttered up with old
single-storied dwellings or shops. On '
such areas it would be sound policy to
permit the erection of multiple-storied
flats, offices, or shops. The wealthier or
leisured classes could enjoy their larger
allotments in the more distant areas.
This country certainly has not the
means to provide individual housing for
everybody. Good living-units (flats) can
be built—such as are now being con-
structed in England, Sweden, Germany
and America —at reasonable cost to the
individual and community, councils, water
boards and housing commissions. These
flats are comfortable and healthy, and
will last longer than many of the houses
in our new housing-districts—houses
which will look as dilapidated in 10 or 15
years as some of the old slums look now.
Besides economy in construction, rates,
taxes, upkeep, and cost of transport, such
flats would have the advantage of being
close to amenities. The unsolved housing-
problem hampers development, checks
immigration, produces unhealthy physi-
cal and mental conditions, and upsets
peace, contentment and prosperity. It is
also the cause of colossal traffic-jams.—
Podmore (Vic.).
Road Maintenance
Under the latest methods of road-
maintenance a grader is driven along the
side of the road, sweeping all the loose
earth on to the bitumen surface. Then it
goes down the other side, sweeping as
much as possible of it back again. The
result is a smooth surface which lasts as
long as the first heavy shower of rain,
when men have to go along putting up
notices —“Soft Edges”—as a warning to
motorists not to stray from the bitumen
surface at the risk of a bad skid or
bogging.
This is happening all the time on
the Great Western Highway in N. S.
Wales between Penrith and Springwood.
Often, men with brooms go along sweep-
ing back to the sides all the loose earth
which the grader failed to pick up. When
rain is falling all work is suspended and
men and machines go home. It is a costly
and futile method of maintenance.
Forty or 50 years ago councils employed
maintenance-men to look after the roads,
and on the whole they made a good job
of it. Each man was allotted a certain
length of road and he patrolled it con-
stantly, in fine weather and wet, filling-in
tiny holes as soon as they appeared and
draining-off water which threatened to
damage the road-surface. These men
were particularly active in wet weather
—they could see then where drainage was
needed, and were able to apply the “stitch
in time” theory with excellent results.
Today, the surface of most main roads
is sealed, but, because of the vast amount
of capital tied-up in road-plant, there is
no money to keep many secondary roads
in even passable condition. If council and
the Main Roads Board were to sell the
bulk of their plant and use the money to
seal secondary roads, we should all be
much better off.
A council-engineer told me that it costs
£2O a day to run a big grader ; and yet all
it does is fill the holes with loose earth
which is pounded out again in dry weather
or washed out by rain. It would be
interesting to know how much money is
tied-up in road-plant throughout N. S.
Wales. I fancy it would run into millions
of pounds.
Councils always seem to have money
for kerbing and guttering, and will estab-
lish libraries and playgrounds at the
merest suggestion, but they are incredibly
stubborn when it comes to the bread-and-
butter task of building and maintaining
better roads.—Peter Simple (N.S.W.).
Is Opera Worth It?
Revelation of the losses sustained by
the National Opera Company is a
stunner. An earlier attempt, in 1944
the Krips-de Vries venture of 26 per-
formances —went down the drain to the
tune of only £3OO or so, but the principals,
chorus, orchestra, Henri Krips and the
late Sydney de Vries received handsome
remuneration.
The writer, like Mrs. Lorenz more
recently, worked for fun and had a lot
of it. But together with more pleasant
memories he recalls vividly soloists who,
with a few exceptions, never felt them-
selves adequately rewarded in applause,
prestige, or cash. •
Opera seems to be the sacred cow of
certain culture-hunters, but the question
is, is it worth all that money? Wouldn’t
an equal amount spent on other projects
produce more excellence and fewer
squabbles?
Nobody grudges, for instance, the
money the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
takes out of the public purse, because it
pays for a musical team which is one of
the best in the world, which provides
musical opportunity in Australia, and
which gives great pleasure to a very large
part of the community.
When opera can do that, or else pay
its way from its box-office takings, it will
have my blessing. Right now I believe a
lot of better things could be done with
such vast sums of money.—Eugree
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 327
Across
I—Snake-killers on poultry in
manuscript. (9)
s—Check turned the east spider-
watcher. (5)
B—Tug insufficiently round wet but
turbulent hazards for bathers.
(8)
10 — Thickset beds backing Kentucky.
(6)
11— Who wrote no nonsense in it?
(2)
12— A wrong way for a horse to run
back. (4)
13— This makes a show post-office’s
total feign, deceive, and contest
a game with a four-legged
Aussie. (4, 6)
16— The most vital garment for Mr.
Baba. (7)
17 — Central American to ring a
horseshoe for an elk. (7)
19— The north way out for L6na
Horne, perhaps, or Ethel Waters.
(7).
20 — This makes part of old India see
Baba operated on. (7)
22—Pedestrian confused by the rate
of progress on the railways.
(5-5)
25—Needle-case direction to a N.Z.
bird. (4)
26 Madame Gide takes me back. (2)
2° Recess for the Jolson bloke. (6>
29 — He very, much regrets the writer
meeting' one by the marquee. (8)
30 — -Engine dictum, otherwise a
“toothbrush” crag. (5)
31— Cub-reporter has to serve this
bounder and the French vessel
also. (9)
Down
1— Part of Australia which might
help to prevent Mohammed going
to the mountain. (5, 6)
2 This makes a wicked fellow
turn in redback fish. (9)
3 Whose is the Chaldean capital
in the bone bear of the French?
(4)
4 Grimace of a monk’s hood to
the south. (5)
5 But it might turn out to be the
top part in “Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” (6, 4)
6 Last of the Mohicans carries a
case for a Frenchman. (5)
7 Centre of Hereward the Wake’s
resistance. (3)
9 —Carry on the body friction’s
result. (4)
14— Peak riding-horse isn’t a piece
of published music. (8-3)
15— Bush is not once doubled. (5, 5)
18—Dentures for a dollar? (9)
21—Hold on to the castle strong-
hold. (4)
23 Course where there is a Caledon-
ian like a place to sleep. (5)
24 — Fix up the death of Emily? (5)
27 — I am surrounded by some
dripping pronouncement ot
authority. (4)
28 — Point the weapon towards the
first-class score of quarter-
centuries. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 326


a
GLclss Ui^suXcitexi
HYPLATE with SILVIUM batteries
. . . the only batteries containing
. . . the only batteries with the HYPLATE
■ • • the only batteries GUARANTEED 3 YEARS
NEW types of CENTURY BATTERIES—the finest ever made in Australia —arc the
FIRST TIME™° S *ONLY C O;N™URY m H IYPLATE,^IT l YPLATE ,^ITH ea sn^lUY| now ava “ able in A " s , lralia F <® ™E
in hatforv ifoemn «r.ei .. " r a,™, BATTERIES provide these revolutionary advances
batted C 7T i 0 "’ g 7 m ? y ° U ?^ a S?J VI SS H raGHER of batteiy performance and much longer
BECAUSE:- y k ° r CENTIJRY HYPLATE WITH SDLVIUM BATTERIES LEAD THE FIELD
SILVIUM
mm
mmm
Pff| t I
They contain SILVIUM—the amazing new additive
developed by Century engineers.... increasing the life
of grids and plates and ensuring GRF ATER START-
ING CAPACITY.
2 They are equipped with HYPLATES these are
much larger than the plates in any other battery
thus they provide much GREATER P-O-W-E-R.
3 They have GLASS INSULATION... .this prevents the
plates shedding active material, thus ensuring LONGER
EFFECTIVE PLATE LIFE.
4
They are fitted with the famous “CENTEX” high
porosity SEPARATORS which ensure LOWER IN-
TERNAL RESISTANCE and enable Century batteries
to deliver high current rates for LONGER PERIODS
.... and they’re backed by Century with a THREE
YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Glass Insulated
HYPLAT£ wm SUVIUM
BATTERIES:
Available in 6 v. 13 plate. 6 v. 15 plate and 6 v. 15 plate
Ford, 6 v. 17 plate, 12 v. 9 plate, 6 v. 25 tractor and
12 v. 25 tractor are made by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED
SILVIUM
NEW
ADDITIVE
Alexandria, N.S.W.
(Century also manufacture a complete range of STANDARD (HJZAVY DUTY) Batteries, available at slightly lower prices).
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS, TRUCKS, TRACTORS, EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT, MOTOR CYCLES,
RADIO, HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage
Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham Street,
Alexandria. Smith Sons & Rees Ltd., 30-32
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley Bros.
Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty.
Ltd., Parramatta Road, Lidcombe. Motor
Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Commonwealth
Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic. )
Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillip* Battery
Supplies Pty., 458 Brunswick Street, Bris-
bane. Plant & Plant (Machinery) Pty.
Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. t Advanx
Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan Street,
Cairns. Lawrence Motor Company, Bols-
over Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough.
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy.,
Mary Street, Gympie. Jas. Croker &
Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co.
Pty. Ltd., Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries
(S.A.) Ltd., sole concessionaires, 1 5
Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors
Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86
Bathurst Street, Hobart; 224 Brisbane
Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros.
(Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
<b
ft*
<'v*J
lb
MILES AN D MILES
BETTER
