

f
e
t*
SOLERO
SWEET
R
DRY
The Bulletin
NORTHERN TEMTORY’S FUTURE PAGE 4
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76 —No. 3921
Wednesday, April 6, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 240: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
A FORTIFIED MANOR HOUSE BECAME STOKESAY CASTLE
THERE are many examples in Britain of a simple manorial-hall of purely
domestic type whose owners found it expedient, at some critical period,
to fortify in some degree. Perhaps the best specimen to be found is that
of Stokesay, near Ludlow, in Shropshire, which is a unique example of a
small mansion of the 13th century subsequently fortified. Even in those
early days such additions required a licence and the one for Stokesay is
dated 1291, and was granted to Lawrence de Ludlow. His father, a wealthy
wool-merchant and financier of Edward I, built the original manor-house
about the year 1250. .
These buildings include a great-1 .all and a tower, and to these were added
a second tower, a curtain-wall and a moat for defence purposes. The
spacious banqueting-hall rivals that at Winchester. It is about fifty feet long
by thirty feet wide and, thirty feet high. This was overlooked by the lord’s
apartment.
One of the most picturesque of the castle buildings is the black-and-
white Elizabethan gatehouse, which superseded an earlier entrance.
During the Civil War Stokesay was besieged by the Parliamentarians,
but after two shots had been fired the defenders promptly surrendered, and
this accounts for the fact that no destruction of the manor-house occurred
at that critical time, although the curtain-wall was later demolished and the
moat has since dried up.
Stokesay has been occupied by the de Says, the Verduns and ten genera-
tions of Ludlows. During one period the castle served as a farm-building,
but later it was restored and is now owned by Lady Magnus-Allcroft.
Other good examples of a fortified manor-house are to be found at
Ightham Mote in Kent, Broughton Castle in Oxfordshire, and Wingfield
Manor in Derbyshire.


freelance
.vL 0U J iave urge to write and the
ability to. express j our thoughts on paper
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
from “y writing total almost
it 0. ’ (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/0.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
T had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
TOO Russel] St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaoh St
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane ; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St, Perth
Ct/T AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— ——
To STOTT’S: Tlease send me, without any obli
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.R. 755) AGE
Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney. Quick
service moderate charges.
The Red Page
CLASSICS AND REPRINTS
Mo Roads Go By
Myrtle Rose White’s little book
about running a cattle-run in the Aus-
tralian desert, No Roads Go By
(Angus and Robertson), is ojie of those
quiet successes that do much better
than more highly praised works; it
had three printings in 1932, was
reprinted in 1933, 1934, twice in 1936,
and published overseas in 1948. This
edition has illustrations by Elizabeth
Durack.
The simplicity and sincerity of this
story by the wife of a manager of an
8000-square-mile South Australian
station is no doubt responsible for its
success; while the dramatic interest
of the book is heightened by a travel-
ling vermin-inspector who told the
author, some years after she had left
it, that to get into her former home you
had to climb through the top half of
the window, over the sand.
Such places are that part of the Aus-
tralian legend most welcome to over-
seas readers; but how much conditions
have changed since then! The Out-
back has now to be taken with a post-
war prosperity-loading; and there are
already signs that the book of pioneer-
ing deprivations and hard-time suffer-
ings may be replaced by a more cheer-
ful spirit—of farmers and station-
owners long and happily established on
the land; assured of the future, and
with time to look around and value,
sometimes critically, sometimes satiri-
cally, their properties as places where
comedies may happen.
The past is with the saga-writers
and with Myrtle Rose White; but the
future may well be with writers exploit-
ing the Vein of E. O. Schlunke’s novel
“Feather Your Nest,” which, serialised
in “The Bulletin,” could be the first of
a new kind of Australian outback
comedy.—R. McC.
Tolstoy and "Anna"
I have been re-reading “Anna
Karenina” in a new translation by
Rosemary Edmonds in the Penguin
Classics series. It is a terrific work-
-853 pages—and must have required an
enormous concentration on the part of
Tolstoy. It was written in the midst
of domestic turmoil, and yet what a
perfect work pf art it is.
It is mainly his own life Tolstoy is
describing, and he described it mag-
nificently down to the last detail,
although it is obvious that he didn’t
understand a thing about it—how
Kitty, the aristocratic little housewife,
tyrannised over Tolstoy and how
Tolstoy, the genius, tyrannised over
Kitty, while each was being tyrannised
over by their own conception of them-
selves. Tolstoy tyrannised over. the
countess with his sweetness and for-
bearance and she tyrannised over him
with her pretty little ways and her
commonplace ambitions.
Apart from Levin, the whole boo]
is a projection on a vast scale of every
one of Tolstoy’s feelings. The exclu
sive Karenin, the sensual and self
indulgent Oblonsky, Anna, the deserter
and the easygoing Vronsky are al
aspects of Tolstoy; and, of course
Levin is Tolstoy himself, the whole
complex box of tricks, the passionate
individual pulled one way by his feel
ings and another way by his beliefs
and sometimes running to his art for
solace and sometimes to less respect-
able forms of solace, but never able to
reconcile one with the other. He was
the artist type, not the thinker
although he believed himself to be the
latter, and came to the conclusion that
his novels should never have been
written, and would have burned them
if the countess had let him.
When Anna tells her husband that
she is in love with Vronksy and is
pregnant Karenin chokes with rage but
immediately feels guilty. He can’t
look Anna in the eye and he can’t
even look Vronsky in the eye, although
in terms of his belief it is Anna and
Vronsky who have offended. From
his own point of view he has done
nothing wrong: it is Anna who is the
guilty party. Why, then, doesn’t he
feel justified in his hatred? Why does
he feel that his lawyer and subsequently
all Russia are laughing at him when
he asks the lawyer to divorce Anna?
If he felt justified in taking reprisals
on Vronsky and his mistress, why is
he so irritated when the Countess Lydia
Ivanovna comes and commiserates
with him and praises him for the
nobility of his action? He believes
Anna is a wicked woman, she believes
she is herself, and the morality they
both believe in says she is, so why is
he infuriated when the countess tells
him he is the epitome of virtue and a
shining example to all Russia in his
high position? Why doesn’t he feel
complimented instead of humiliated?
Isn’t there evidence here of a conflict
similar to the conflict in Levin with
regard to Dolly?
Before his marriage Levin had led
the gay life of an average Russian man-
about-town. On the eve of the
wedding for which the ecstatic Dolly
is making elaborate preparation, what
must he do but take the diary he kept
at that time to her and ask her to read
it, and she becomes distraught with
horror. Tolstoy actually did this, as
recorded in Countess Tolstoy’s diary,
and the bitter resentment she felt at
this blow persisted right through their
married life, building up more and
more hatred and misunderstanding
until Tolstoy ran away at 84 and died
on a railway-station with the whole
world looking on at the domestic
drama, —F. S.
Bunyan
Arrival of “The Pilgrim’s Progress”
in Dent’s and Dutton’s “Illustrated
Children’s Classics” series suggested
the question: Is it abridged? Next
arrived the Everyman Library edition,
with introduction and notes by Dr.
G. B. Harrison, which made compari-
son easy—and complete; because page-
for-page they are the same, and, except
for a slight difference in title-types,
printed off the same metal. '
So the difference is between Every-
man at 6s. net (English) and Children’s
Illustrated at Bs. 6d. net (English), with
Pape’s illustrations on color-plates;
very delicate work for Pape, having in
mind his “Jurgen” and “Rabelais”
black-and-whites.
Reading Bunyan again one cannot
help feeling that Mr. Christian made
too much of a business of Salvation;
he hoarded it up as another man might
hoard money. His religion was less a
light for his life than a substitute for
his life, and he thought because he was
virtuous there should be no more cakes
and ale:—
Then Mrs. Light-mind added as
followeth: Come, put this kind of
talk away. I was yesterday at
Madam Wanton’s, where we were
as merry as the maids. For who
do you think should be there but I
and Mrs. Love-the-flesh, and three
or four more, with Mr. Lechery,
Mrs. Filth, and some others. So
there we had music and dancing,
and what else was meet to fill up
the pleasure, and I dare say my
Lady herself is an admirably well-
bred Gentlewoman, and Mr.
Lechery is as pretty a fellow . . .
When we come to Bunyan’s idea of
what a really gay party should be, it’s
full of com:—
My good Landlord, while we
are cracking your Nuts, if you
please, do you open this Riddle:
A man there was, though
some did count him mad,
The more he cast away the
more he had.
Then they all gave good heed,
wondering what good Gaius would
say ; so he sat still a while, and
then thus replied:
He that bestows his Goods
upon the Poor,
Shall have as much again, and
ten times more.
Then said Joseph, I dare say,
Sir, I did not think you could a
found it out.
On the other hand there, is his
hessian nobility, and his shrewd dissec-
tion of fallers-by-the-wayside, like
Obstinate and Pliable; and at least
one charming passage of observation
like those frequent sketches of simple
life that are said to liven-up Dante
and make his metaphors; the scene
where Mr. Skill the Physician is trying
to make young Matthew take the holy
medicine:
Oh, Matthew, said she, this
Potion is sweeter than Honey. If
thou lovest thy Mother, if thou
lovest thy Brothers, if thou lovest
Mercy, if thou lovest thy Life, take
it. So with much ado, after a
short prayer for the blessing of
God upon it, he took it, and it
wrought kindly with him. It caused
him to purge, it caused him to
sleep and rest quietly, it put him
into a fine heat and breathing
sweat, and did quite rid him of
his Gripes.
And though Bunyan was little
enough of a poet, he put at least one
great song into this book; in fact it is
almost the epitome of the book, as
Ibsen’s little preliminary poems were
for his dramas:—
Who would true valor see,
Let him come hither ;
One here will constant be,
Come Wind, come Weather.
There’s no discouragement
Shall make him once relent
His first avow’d intent
To be a Pilgrim.
In its traditional setting this old
hymn embodies all the harsh, bare,
sturdy philosophy of the Puritan.
Malory the Bushranger
As the greatest of all bushrangers,
Sir Thomas Malory should perhaps
have a special claim to the affection
of Australian readers ; for as Eugene
Vinaver relates in his foreword to the
new _° xford edition of The Works of
Sir Thomas Malory:—
No doubt at a time when legal
process was not uncommonly used
as a means of achieving private
or political vengeance an innocent
man might well find himself
charged with any crime; but in
Malory’s case the charges are so
multifarious that it would be
hazardous to ignore them
altogether. The records allege that
he lay in ambush “with other
malefactors” with the intent of
murdering the Duke of Bucking-
ham ; that he broke into the Abbey
of Blessed Mary of Coombe and
did there steal money and valu-
ables from the abbot’s chest; that
a few days later he returned and
insulted the abbot; that on two
occasions he stole the property
and forced the wife of Hugh
Smyth; that he frequently led
extensive cattle-raids, and that he
“with others” extorted money by
threat.
Thus—though not, as it happened
for bushranging, but for his part in the
Lancastrian insurrection of 1468—-
Malory shares with Cervantes the dis-
tinction of having composed his master-
piece in prison . . . though, unless it
was an infinitely more comfortab
lodging than that into which S
Tarquyn was accustomed to thrust tl
knights of the Round Table when ]
“bete them with thornys all naked an
aftir put them in a depe preson whe
there were many mo knightes th
made grete dole,” it is difficult to se
how Malory could have worked in h
captivity on the old English ep
poem and the long French romanc
from which he translated and re-shape
his stories.
One is not altogether able to sha
Professor Vinaver’s surprise th
Malory should have made a (compara
tively) compact and orderly job of h
reconstruction of this traditiona
material, “a 15th-century author
instinctive understanding of th
principle of ‘singleness’ which underlie
the rhythmical structure of any moder
work of fiction.” Chaucer also unde
stood the principle of singleness, as di
Homer centuries before. But certain'
Malory did reconstruct his “Noble Ta
of Sir Launcelot” with remarkab
skill into the “three judiciously chose
short episodes which in the Frencl
‘Lancelot’ were hundreds of page
apart” ; and there is this much room
for surprise at his artistry, that th
simple boyish pugnacity which is on
of the principal charms of his tale
must undoubtedly reflect the genera
primitiveness of his own epoch, as doe
Chaucer’s delightful bawdiness.
It is this amiable boyishness in th
knights of the Round Table, sue
grave and elegant citizens in Tenny
son’s version, which strikes the reade
most forcibly in this admirable one
volume edition. (It is taken from the
Winchester College 15th - century
manuscript which was published by
the Clarendon Press in three volume
in 1947, and is said to be closer than
Caxton’s text to what Malory actually
wrote.) No sooner does one knigh
meet another anywhere in these
stirring pages than they prickle up like
a pair of bulldog-ants and are into the
fray at once, almost literally “hammer
and tongs,” such a clatter their armor
must have made. Sir Lionel and Sir
Lancelot cannot even rest for half an
hour in the “fayre shadow of the grete
appyll-tre” without adventure burst-
ing upon them:—
So sir Launcelot slept passyng
fast. And in the meanewhyle com
there three knightes rydynge, as
fast fleynge as they myght ryde,
and there folowed hem three but
one knyght. So within a whyle
this stronge knyght had over-
taken one of the three knyghtes,
and there he smote hym to the
colde erth, that he lay stylle ; and
than he rode unto the secunde
knyght and smote him so that
man and horse felle downe. And
so streyte unto the thirde knyght
and smote hym behynde his horse
ars a spere-length.... Whan sir
Lyonell had sene hym do this, he
thought to assay hym.... and so
mounted uppon his hors and over-
take the strong knyght. He bade
hym turne, and so he turned and
smote sir Lyonell so harde that
hors and man he bare to the
erth.
It was this same scoundrelly Sir
Tarquyn who gave “sir Ector” such a
buffet that “his horse was turned
twyse about,” after which he tucked
the knight under his right arm and rode
away with him to his “depe dongeon” ;
a twofold feat of strength which might
be compared with the astounding
device of Sir Mordred, who, when King
Arthur ran him through “more than a
fadom” with his spear, “threste hymselff
with the myght that he had upp to the
burre of kyng Arthurs speare” until he
could reach his opponent with his
sword ; whereupon, having delivered
a mighty buffet, Sir Mordred fell dead,
while King Arthur, not surprisingly,
“fell in a swoughe to the erthe.” But
perhaps the most typical example of
these knights’ wholehearted readiness
for action is when Sir Lancelot asks
the poor wood-carter to carry him
secretly into the castle of Sir Mellya-
gaunce (where he is to have the
( Continued on page 35)


% •
mmm m
\
vmiiik
/
• r :
tes
h:
23
tss
©
■C
Si
:g£sj;
S*»
<*3l
t\
*gj9g
3v
m
Hzk
H
e%
:T
0
X
*2
2*
<4
%
E
rv
35
ft
Si
St
m
m
m
i
.«
25^
ggiiiiiiLjWfr
m
rim
**Sit ~***4£r'
at
•r-^Ptf.
s&y - “£"
* < * ,!| W
r
&
Si
if
£
SS
The split corner is tailored to fall
gracefully.
See the return sham that covers the
pillows, leaving skirt level all round.
Introducing the new tailored chenille
Jeldi “Triple Ripple” Spread!
in a wonderful range of pastels and colours
Jeldi Chenille’s enchanting new "Triple Ripple” Bedspread has an easy-to-make TURNATOP . . . it’s tailored
it’s even fringed ! Now, of all the beauty features you love —in the Jeldi Chenille you will love this best of all!
Wonderful for wear and washing ! So wrinkle-proof, it never needs ironing ! See "Triple Ripple” now at
Anthony Horderns’ in colours of rose, green, blue, gold, beige, mushroom, champagne and all pastel shades
and white. 3ft. 6in. Doubles priced at only £9/9/9 each. 2ft. 6in. and 3ft.,, £9/6/9 each.
UJ
it-m?
& J
r
“T" .. , ‘.". M> .". ■'■.. .‘... ci..jjTirrrr
T.O.P.S.
It’s the easy, modem way to shop, if you can’t
come to town. Just dial 80951 and ask for T.0.P.5.;
they’ll do all your shopping in the store for you.
Cross-over
Butch sets in
imported Voile
30'-
In attractive red, blue, green, green/
gold, green/red wavy stripes. Sizes:
3ft. 6in., 30/-; 4ft. 6in., 35/-; 6ft. at
45/- ea. Dutch Sets: 3ft. 6in., 32/6;
4ft. 6in., 37/6; 6ft., 49/6. 3 sway
X-overs: 3ft. 6 in., 42/-; 4ft. 6in.,
47/6, and 6ft. priced at 59/6 ea.
rgUTrt (N ADV£«?TfSmo
,nthony Horderns
DEPARTMENT, THIRD FLOOR. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
’PHONE: 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 6, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3921
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;,
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
NEW ERA IN THE NORTH
THE opening of the Northern Territory Legislative
Council by the Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, on March 25 marked a date in North
Australian history.
The Territory has had a sort of Legislative
Council before, but it was conceived tongue-in-
cheek and died in childbirth without more than a
single moan. It was regarded by Territorians in a
manner to be expected of a jeering, Communist-run
majority which had virtually chased out of
Darwin the one attempt ever made to establish
major industry there, and which had driven
shipping from the port by dint of insolence and
industrial sabotage.
The atmosphere then was one in which any-
thing that smacked of orderly government was
regarded as a menace to the power of the unionist
saboteurs. Indeed, there was little for the Territory
to look forward to. Its staple industry was cattle.
Its holdings were the size of European countries
like Belgium and Denmark. The Government
policy under Ministers like Senator Pearce rendered
the chance of small settlement a matter of no hope.
There was, in the years immediately following
World War I, capital available for intelligent
development. The late J. B. Cramsie, then chair-
man of the Australian Meat Council and a man of
great pastoral experience in the North before he
acquired even greater marketing experience in the
south, formed a plan in 1924 to convert the Barkly
Tableland to sheep, provide it with adequate water
from sub-artesian pumping-wells and fence it off
into comparatively small holdings which were
gradually to be sold to private owners as they
were fenced and given water and shade through
judicious tree-planting. He interested a syndicate
in London. But Senator Pearce refused to give
them security of tenure for 42 years; the Govern-
ment even refused to say what part of the properties
under lease it would elect to resume in 15 years.
The scheme died, and the option-money was handed
back to the disillusioned London backers.
The interval of 30 years has seen a great
change in the outlook of the Government. Its
policy at present, though subject to criticism, is
enlightened. The present Minister, Mr. Paul
Hasluck, has not had much personal experience
of the tropics. But he is a Western Australian
—not an immigrant to the West like Senator
Pearce and he sees the North through
the eyes of a citizen of what was for long a
Cinderella State written off by the east as largely a
waste of barren lands which could never be
improved, even to economic pastoral carrying-
capacity. He has seen his State lifted by its boot-
straps to a point at which its future is assured on a
basis that some other States envy.
The Territory has in two decades aided the
Government in framing a policy by proving a
surprise-packet of riches. Added to the fact that
war left it with a modicum of good long-distance
roads and a large number of involuntary advertis-
ing-agents who gained experience in the defence
services, attention had been focused on the area by
Japanese bombing and by the growth of overseas
civilian air-services, which turned Darwin into one
of the great aerodrome-centres of the world. And
this happened contemporaneously with the exploita-
tion of the silver-lead deposits of Mt. Isa across the
border in Queensland, and with a world boom in
meat and the discovery of promising uranium, the
most sought-after mineral, in a number of localities.
The air-services made Darwin and The Centre a
thriving tourist district.
It is difficult to believe the progress which has
been made in the last generation. It will be 31
years ago at the beginning of June that the first
motor-car set out from Sydney to achieve the double
crossing of the continent to Darwin and back via
the MacArthur River and the Limmen and Roper.
It did the journey in under four months of hard
plugging. The Territory civilisation was then repre-
sented by a few huddles of dwellings which could
be scarcely called villages. Alice Springs had only a
dozen whites, Newcastle Waters not more. Tennant
Creek township was not there at all. The O.T. Line
was a length of singing wire over trackless sand,
broken occasionally by lonely wells and isolated
telegraph-stations. Camel-teams and mobs of
parched cattle were the intermediate signs of life.
The Arunta still went naked in the environs of
Alice Springs. The battered vehicle which made
the journey found a place in South Kensington
Museum in London.
Today the Northern Territory is a changed
place. As Field-Marshal Slim pointed out, 310,000
square miles of its 520,000 square miles are
pastorally occupied and carrying 1,000,000 cattle.
In addition, there are 30,000 sheep on six properties
—one of the pioneers, a school-inspector, took his
flocks out like Laban to look for country, and found
it far from rail or road in a so-called dead
heart. In the past two or three years tenures have
been revised and 34 new pastoral leases granted.
Experiment in pastoral improvement, water-provi-
sion and -conservation have moved ahead. Freight
subsidies have been arranged to encourage the use
of stud stock. The field service of the C.5.1.R.0.
is hard at work on stock-diseases, plant-economy
and pasture-improvement. The staff travels a
quarter of a million miles a year. A division is
engaged studying pests and diseases. In 1953-54
cattle to the value of £2,400,000 were exported, and
the Government has set a target to double beef
production in, fifteen years. In the last five years
total mining production, other than uranium, was
worth £5,200,000.
Alice Springs, the Tennant, Newcastle Waters
and the Katherine are thriving towns or townships,
while others are growing up. The population, which
was only 7300 in 1939, has risen to 16,500, and there
are now 2000 children attending public and private
schools, evidence that the increase in whites is
largely native to the soil.
Government expenditure is necessarily heavy
in the nature of things. In this and the next financial
years the Administration expects to compete or
start capital works in the Territory vamed at
£6,900,000. It is beginning the construction of one
of the greatest aerodromes in the British Common-
wealth for the use of jet aircraft of the heaviest
types, and it is in process of rebuilding Darwin
wharves at a cost of £1,000,000. It is natural, there-
fore, that Territorians should at times feel that they
are overrun with public-works employees, but at
this stage it is also inevitable, and such staff is
better used there than polishing seats in Canberra.
The N.T. Legislative Council has come into
existence with a planned structure which the
Governor-General told the members “follows a
pattern that has been the customary prelude in the
British Parliamentary system to growth towards
responsible government.” He said that “it was clear
that Statehood and membership of the Federation
is the goal towards which the Northern Territory is
working.”
The time when it is a wholly elected council
should be within measurable distance. Then it
will be not only within the competence but the duty
of the Commonwealth to grant responsible govern-
ment. It should not be forgotten that Queensland
had only 25,000 people when it first became a
colony, and that its greatest and swiftest period of
growth came after it received its independence.
Left-wingers and Arbitration
WITH rival factions in the A.L.P. waging a species
of Corsican vendetta against each other, it would
take a team of crystal-gazers or Indian thought-
readers to say just where “Labor” stands today on
arbitration. Although both sides give lip-service to
the principle of arbitration for the settlement of
industrial disputes, and the party-platform supports
it, there is a wide divergence of opinion within the
party on the extent to which the support should be
given. A year ago, with Federal polling-day draw-
ing nigh, Dr. Evatt said that if returned his party
“would take administrative and legislative action
on margins.”
On this subject, he said, the political and
industrial wings were in complete agreement. If
that was so, then it must have been the last time
they were in agreement on anything. When Evatt
made that promise the whole question of margins
was in abeyance, the Federal Arbitration Court
having adjourned the hearing of the metal-trades
case until November. That being so, his promise
to take “administrative and legislative action”
could only mean that he planned to short-circuit
the court in some way in order to appease a
section of his supporters. If this should seem a
strange intention in the leader of a party pledged
to arbitration, it is only necessary to recall some
of the actions and utterances of some of his
followers—particularly those who are still travelling
under his tattered banner.
Evatt’s present henchman and erstwhile
adversary, Eddie Ward, has never made any secret
of his distrust of the Arbitration Court and his
belief that the Government should be the wage-
fixing authority. Even when Evatt’s famous stream-
lined arbitration bill was before the House in 1947,
Ward was not enthusiastic. He then said: “There
are certain matters upon which this Parliament
should adjudicate, for example, a standard working-
week, and the basis upon which the basic wage
shall be determined.” It should be remembered
that when Ward speaks of Parliament he means a
“Labor”-dominated Parliament, which means a
Parliament whose industrial policy is determined
by the A.C.T.U.
When the Arbitration Court “froze” the basic
wage in September, 1953, there was a wave of
strikes staged by Left-wing unions—whose Parlia-
mentary mouthpiece Ward has long been, and who
now provide the main support for Evatt in his
fight against the “subversive” forces he nourished
for so long and discovered so dramatically. These
strikes were not directed against employers, though
employers, industry and the whole community bore
the cost; they were direct attacks upon the
arbitration court and system.
There is a large section of “Labor” which con-
siders that the proper function of an arbitration
court is to act as a kind of extension of the industrial
and political wings of the “Labor” party; that its
duty is not to arrive at a decision which weighs
the balance fairly between all parties concerned,
but to grant any demands the unions care to make.
For this reason there was great rejoicing when, in
1947, much of the work of the court was handed
over to the newly created conciliation-commis-
sioners, most of whom were ex-trade-union offioials.
But the hats were thrown in the air a little
prematurely. It was a former trade-union secretary.
Conciliation Commissioner Galvin, who originally
refused to increase the metal-trades margins on the
grounds that increases would feed inflation and
inflate living-costs. In the Left-wing unions’ view
such things should have been ignored—a claim
having been made, it should have been conceded as a
matter of course. Because of his refusal to accept
this view of his duties, Galvin’s name became
anathema to a large section of the “Labor” move-
ment, and he was reviled as savagely as any so-called
Tory judge had ever been.
This one-sided conception of the function of
arbitration was again exemplified last week in the
reaction of the Seamen’s Union to an order by Mr.
Justice Foster inserting in the seamen’s award a
clause prohibiting strikes and other forms of direct
action. E. V. Elliott, the union’s Communist secre-
tary, told the court that his union “would fight the
imposition of penalties within the ambit of the
court and outside.” He added that the union had
come to the court reluctantly, seeking better work-
ing-conditions and wages. It had not come in order
“to be shackled with penalties.”
Previously the seamen had passed a resolution
threatening direct action if the projected new award
were not favorable to them. The judge asked Elliott
for the wording of the resolution, saying that he
was “not going to be pushed around by threats.”
Elliott quoted the resolution, which said, in part:—
Failure by Mr. Justice Foster to give a favor-
able decision on the year-long argument in court
means we will return to our ships and ports to
put in operation the organisation for immediate
industrial action to gain our just claims.
The judge replied:—
They not only want a decision, but it must b 0
a favorable one from their point of view. And
if they do not get that, they will turn the country
upside-down. Do you suggest that I should go
cap-in-hand to Jack Tar and say “Is this favorable
to you? If not, I will alter it.”
Describing the resolution as an improper threat,
he said that the court would not continue with the
hearing while the threat continued.
The question posed by the judge accurately
sums up the attitude not only of the Seamen’s
Union, but of the whole Left-wing movement, on
the subject of arbitration. Its force is given added
emphasis by the fact that Foster, J., of all judges
who have sat on the Federal Arbitration bench, is
least open to the charge of “anti-working-class
bias.” He was at one time vice-president of the
Victorian Labor Party and was for many years a
prominent industrial advocate.
In the course of considering the seamen’s case
he has spent considerable time examining working-
and living-conditions on the ships. That a man with
his training and background should be brought to
the point of issuing such an order and making such
a statement should be sufficient to convince all
sensible trade-unionists where the fault lies if a
hold-up occurs in Australian coastal shipping.
A stopwork meeting in Sydney thereupon
decided that the union should not pay any fines but
that officials should accept jail rather than pay
union funds to “the enemies of the working-class.”
That at least defines the position of the Arbitration
Court in the eyes of one Left-wing union. Another
meeting two days later allegedly repudiated the
threats, but after reading a copy of the resolutions
his Honor said, “Nowhere is the threat repudiated.
In fact the court is repudiated.” He declined to
issue an award until the “improper threat” was
retracted. If the seamen persist in their attitude
Evatt, Ward and the A.C.T.U. will shortly find
themselves compelled to state whether they, too,
regard the arbitration judges as “the enemies of the
working-class.”


THE WRECKER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Troops for Malaya
The first-fruits of Mr. Menzies’s consul-
tations abroad came during the week
with the announcement that this country
would co-operate with the United King-
dom and New Zealand in establishing a
strategic defence-reserve in Malaya.
As the Prime Minister declared,
“things have no doubt quietened on the
Western front, for the very good reason
that the Paris pacts have been ratified
and defensive strength under the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation has grown
dramatically.” At the same time, there
is obvious truth (and his statement of it
is conservative) in his assessment that “it
would be a very confident man who
undertook to say that some of the prob-
lems of South-East Asia could not touch-
off a great and disastrous war”:
There was a time when we permitted
ourselves to think that we were remote
from the dangers of the world and that
any great war would be thousands of
miles away from us. But that day has
gone.
China’s armed power, held under rigid
Communist control, is “enormous.” And
Chinese Communism “has in one respect”
—if not in all respects—“elected to follow
the Russian line.” It seeks to “expand
and to divide and conquer.” He might
have added that any Communism which
does not follow that policy ceases to be
Communism. Thus it certainly would
be a “dreamy optimist” who believed
that Chinese aggression had reached its
frontiers.
If the Mao programme promulgated
from Moscow in 1953 and exposed by
Senator Knowland in the United States
has validity the Prime Minister’s asser-
tions are not based on mere circum-
stantial appearances. Siam, Malaya and
adjacent countries are to be attacked or
otherwise subdued and a great Com-
munist military force created in them
before 1960 for the complete Com-
munisation of Asia and the world.
Under such conditions the policy
which prepares to defend Australia by
stopping the attack before it reaches
these shores is the only one that a sane
man could be expected to follow. It
would, indeed, be a “sorry day for the
security of Australia if we were driven
to defend ourselves on our own soil,”
and that situation could only arise out of
“the most disastrous defeats abroad and
the most incredible difficulties for our
friends and allies desiring to help us.”
Comprehensive defence of the world
is the only defence against comprehensive
Russian imperialism. For that is what
Communism is. Mere regional defence
is no use. The free world must be ready
to close the gate wherever an attempt is
made to push it open. The united defence,
ready to operate with a long arm, must be
one which will drive straight home to the
peoples of the aggressor nation the mis-
takes of lashing out at peaceful countries.
Australia’s contribution in Malaya at
present will be a battalion, two
destroyers or frigates, an aircraft-carrier
on annual visit —probably the new Mel-
bourne—and emergency ships, plus two
fighter squadrons, a bomber wing of one
squadron and an aircraft-construction
squadron. It is small, but will provide
a cadre of experience and an earnest of
the Commonwealth’s practical intentions
in support of its allies. And its dispatch
correlates the defence of the British
Commonwealth in the danger area and
ends the division of forces which
orientated our actions with those of the
United States, apparently in a separate
compartment, from those of the United
Kingdom. The Second Battalion of the
Royals, a veteran Korean-war outfit, now
doing jungle training at Canungra, is
entirely suitable for the work, and will
certainly do this country credit whether
its mission is confined to goodwill or
whether it is used against insurgents.
Little Lesson to the Soviet
“In the ACT”? Some Soviet impertin-
ence has been promptly and properly
rebuked by Ceylon, and the incident
should provide a useful lesson for some
other people in South-East Asia and
elsewhere. The Soviet newspaper
“Izvestia” recently complained that
Ceylon had refused permission for a
visit from a team of Russian astronomers
wishing to observe the solar eclipse in
June. It said the Ceylon Government’s
refusal was without any plausible explan-
ations, and surmised that the real reasons
were political and “dictated from out-
side.”
The Soviet was thereupon sharply
reminded that one of its chickens had
come home to roost. The Ceylonese
Ministry of Defence and External
Affairs said that, apart from the facts
of the case, “Izvestia” had overlooked
the point that in the matter of allowing
or refusing permission to foreign
nationals to enter Ceylon, the Ceylon
Government, as a sovereign Government,
was under no obligation to offer any
“explanations” at all. But perhaps, the
Ministry suggested crisply, the Russian
newspaper still believed the fallacious
theory that Ceylon was not an indepen-
dent State, put forward by the Soviet
Government to justify its veto of Ceylon’s
application for membership of the United
Nations.
This should prove a useful little
reminder to Moscow that a bully must
suffer sooner or later. The Ceylon Gov-
ernment, incidentally, deemed it unneces-
sary to comment on the Russian surmise
that refusal of permission was based on
political considerations dictated from
outside. Ceylon, it reminded the Soviet,
is not a satellite State of any other Power,
and “neither requires any inspiration
from nor tolerates any interference by
any outside source in .its affairs.” This
was good, straight talk. It is to be hoped
that Ceylon’s fellow-members in the
“Colombo Powers” group, and, indeed,
all the nations to be represented at the
Bandoeng conference take notice of it,
and absorb its lesson.
Sitting on a Hair
The splits in the “Labor” party have now
ceased to be cracks and have become
chasms. The Victorian State party has
been ripped in two, with four Ministers
out and Mr. Cain in a mortal dilemma.
He cannot meet Parliament with safety
to himself and followers and the new Vic-
torian A.L.P. And the recent by-election
for the Legislative Council in Monash
shows what will happen to “Labor” if he
decides on the general election which his
opponents challenge him to call for. The
result showed an amazing swing, which
turned “Labor” out of what seemed a safe
party seat.
The Q.C.E. in Queensland has sewn
the warring sections together with red-
tape which is so rotten that it will break
the moment the Federal A.L.P. executive
blunders into it. It has approved the
Federal conference and executive view
and at the same time patted the rebel
Gair on the head approvingly. In W.A.
two of the men most dangerous to their
leader, Burke and Beazley, the former Mr.
Chifley’s white-haired boy until he de-
serted him on the Communist issue, are
out in the cold. At the Federal rooms in
Sydney the attempt of the Evatt staff to
live with Senator Armstrong’s staff in the
same rooms results in much of the busi-
ness of the party being done in passages.
The N. S. Wales executive was prepar-
ing, when this was written, to discipline
six Federal members —Leslie Haylen, Dan
Curtin, J. F. Fitzgerald, E. G. Whitlam,
C. A. A. Morgan and Senator W. P.
Ashley—for attending rebel rallies in sup-
port of their official leader, Dr. Evatt.
Messrs. E. J. Ward, Da Costa and Eli
Harrison were too ill to attend these
gatherings, Mr. Dalziel, Dr. Evatt’s
remaining secretary, also is ill, though up
and about—so ill that it was considered
necessary to take his evidence before the
Petrov Commission in private. Dr. Evatt
did not appear for him.
Meanwhile, the intriguing question
whether Dr. Evatt is still a member of
the party is becoming a subject of first-
rate importance. The officers of the N. S.
Wales A.L.P. executive hold that, since
Canberra is Dr. Evatt’s nominated place
of residence, and he failed to renew his
membership there in January, he has lost
continuity which entitles him to “Labor”
nomination at the next elections. He can,
they rule, rejoin, but this still would not
qualify him.
Mr. A. D. Fraser, one of his erstwhile
followers, who has ceased to be a
follower since he has become an
aspirant to his leader’s shoes, broadcast
from Canberra the news that between
December 31, 1954, and March 31, the
final date, there have been five meetings
of the Canberra A.L.P. branch, each
advertised. Notices of each had been
sent to Dr. Evatt, with two specific re-
minders to renew his membership, with-
out effect.
But Dr. Evatt announces, with the
support of a secretary, that he registered
in January in his own electorate. As a
democrat with almost as many domiciles
as a cat has lives, he seems to hold an
advantage, and the branches in the vicinity
of his political lair are indignantly de-
manding, in the name of democracy and
free speech, the expulsion from the move-
ment of those A.L.P. officers who have
ruled against his membership.
Mr. Cahill is no longer sitting on a
political fence; he is sitting on a thin
hair in a high wind. Some of his followers,
including Mr. Clive Evatt, are openly
defying him. He is more positive than ever
that there will be no election till next
year—as late as possible. He has been
endeavoring with breathless speed to
beat Nemesis into recess. The Legislative
Council had no fewer than ten bills, some
of them large and complicated, before it
one night last week. Early in the week
one of his Ministers collapsed, but there
has been a strange silence about the
matter.
Meanwhile the A.L.P. executive is
rolling up its sleeves getting ready to
throw Dr. Evatt and his followers out of
the branch. The drums of the Federal
A.L.P. are heard approaching as they
march on Room 32 at the Sydney Trades
Hall to cast out the branch executive.
As an explosive force it is clear that
Dr. Evatt has achieved the great success
of his long career.
Easter Thoughts
Easter comes to Australia in the midst
of flood-disasters, with a sectarian-v.-
Communist political upheaval, inflation
raising its ugly head, the boom-and-bust
philosophy rampant, Government
lotteries running mad. A murder is
reported almost every day, horror-and-
agony stuff is a special feature of Syd-
ney’s afternoon press, the road-toll
mounts, and in spite of high and still
higher wages only a proportion of the
people can be said to be living well.
This is not to say that all is lost, the
nation doomed and all should be in sack-
cloth and ashes. On the contrary, there is
much to be thankful for, and seeing that
it is Easter it is worth remembering that
this Christian festival has survived nearly
2000 years of human agony and betrayal.
Christian festival? That’s right. Let
who will say that it was a pagan festival
long before the advent of Jesus Christ;
the fact is that we know it as a Christian
festival celebrating sacrifice, redemption
and resurrection, and if these terms do
no more than define the great qualities of
the human spirit the annual celebration is
worth while.
A lot of people busy themselves far too
much in trying to belittle and destroy the
beliefs of other people; sometimes simply
to satisfy an urge to destroy, more often
in order to impose their own particular
belief, which they have usually accepted
without question. But if a man be con-
firmed in a faith that is a beneficent one
and gives him comfort during his life,
and shows by his conduct that he is
devout in his own and tolerant of the
faiths of others, then it is unnecessarily
cruel to seek to upset him.
Which is only a rather longwinded way
of saying that intolerance works as much
evil in the world today as ever it did. It
has become somewhat frighteningly pro-
nounced in Australia at present, a land
above all other lands where it should not
be so. For there is a good living and
plenty of opportunity for everybody in
Australia, and the essential character of
the Australian —if left to himself —is as
tolerant as any on earth.
What’s more, the Australian has a
great capacity for sacrifice, very often
extreme sacrifice, in the service of others.
He redeems himself again and again by
voluntary and spontaneous acts of cour-
age, charity and goodwill. His capacity
for spiritual resurrection, aided by the
divine quality of humor, has been demon-
strated amply.
Ship-of-all-work
In the last two or three years, with
regular expeditions going to and from
Heard and Macquarie Islands, and,
during 1954, to the newly-established
base at Mawson, on the Antarctic main-
land, Australians have become familiar
with the name Kista Dan, borne by the
Sturdy vessel which noses its way among
the floating ice to land relief-parties and
stores at our southern bases.
Most people probably assume that
Kista Dan is an Australian ship. This
is not so. The vessel is Danish-owned,
and works for the Commonwealth
Government under charter. Its assign-
ment in the Southern Hemisphere is only
for the duration of the Antarctic
summer, during which relief-parties have
to be taken south from Australia and
the previous year’s teams brought out
before the ice closes in for another
season. Her work in these climes over
for the time being, Kista Dan then
returns to Denmark, refits and makes
her way into high northern latitudes
along the coast of Greenland, where she
spends the northern winter on work
similar to her southern duties.
But it appears that Kista Dan’s work
doesn’t end with this dual role. On the
evidence of a film at present going the
rounds of Sydney suburbs she is also a
movie-star. The film tells a tale of
goodies and baddies in the rather unusual
setting of an Antarctic whaling-fleet.
And into the picture at intervals, smash-
ing her way through the ice, comes the
Kista Dan. Of course, it may be another
Kista Dan, or a different ship altogether
masquerading under the name, but it
looks mighty like the Heard-Macquarie-
Mawson ferry. Nor does the vessel’s
versatility end there. Last week a small
vessel of unusual design tied up at the
wharf at Port Pirie (S.A.). It was Kista
Dan, come to pick up a cargo of barley
for Europe.
Farthest south, farthest north, film-
star and grain-carrier—all in one year—
must be a hard record to beat. Good
luck to Kista Dan’s Danish elbow! But
she’d better not try any of her tricks in
New South Wales waters or every man-
Jack on board, from the skipper to the
cabin-boy, will find himself haled before
the courts and fined for working when
he should be on holidays!
Cain's Problem
This week should see a decision whether
Victoria is to have an early general elec-
tion or whether Premier Cain, by keeping
Parliament in recess until the end of June,
when his current Supply Bill expires, will
borrow a few more months from the
electors.
“Labor” had a smashing victory at the
last poll, in December, 1952, and, until
the party break-up a week ago, had an
overall majority of nine in a House of
65. In the Council it depended on the votes
of the two Hollway Liberals, but these had
always come up to scratch when needed.
But “Labor’s” family squabble has
changed all that. When the trouble first
hit Victoria Cain, like Cahill, seemed to
be casting himself for a tight-rope role,
but events forced his hand, and he decided
to ring out the old and ring in the new.
But when four of his Ministers and 13
other members announced they would
stick to the old executive and he re-formed
his Cabinet without the four Ministers,
he was left in command of only 25 votes
in a House of 65.
Parliament has been in recess since
December, and was to have reassembled
on April 13. With the present alignment
of forces this would almost certainly
mean curtains for Cain. The Liberal
Opposition-leader is naturally demanding
an immediate election ; so are the dis-
sident “Labor” members. Hollway has
announced that his party will still sup-
port the Government, but with six of the
Coleman-Barry “Laborites” opposing
Cain in the Council the Hollway vote
loses its importance.
Cain’s problem at his first Cabinet-
meeting this week will be to decide
whether to oall Parliament together on
the date originally fixed and let matters
take their course, or whether to stall for
time in the hope that some miracle will
heal the party-split. An indication of
what the electors think of the barney was
given on Saturday in the Legislative
Council by-election to fill the vacancy in
Monash province, caused by the death
of Sir Frank Clarke. At the only previ-
ous poll under the new franchise held in
1952, “Labor” won by 6312. On Mon-
day, with only postal and absentee votes
to be counted, the Liberal candidate was
14,000 votes ahead of the “Labor” man,
and nearly 9000 in front of the combined
“Labor” and Independent vote. At a
general election a swing of those dimen-
sions would be sufficient to sweep “Labor”
out of office even if what was left of
the two contending wings reunited.
Let the Electors Speak
If Mr. Menzies wishes to have a Federal
election in 1955 or early next year,
“Labor’s” new foreign policy is provid-
ing him with sound grounds.
With the development of its leader’s
opposition to the sending of troops to
Malaya to fight the guerillas “Labor” has
become Communistic in outlook. Dr.
Evatt speaks in Communist labels and
tries to whoop-up fear and opposition to
his opponents by Communist-like tactics.
He uses words like “colonialism” in a
horrified whisper to induce the impres-
sion that there is something malign and
terrible about them. It horrifies him to
think that the Malays of the Peninsula
(<Continued on next page).


might be antagonised through the A.I.F.
being sent to support them against Com-
munist Chinese infiltrationists.
The evidence before the Petrov Com-
mission, which has adjourned to prepare
its report, has been such that there is
small reason to doubt that if the High
Court had had it before it when it con-
sidered the Communist-party Dissolution
Act its members would have taken a far
different view of the Act than they did.
And it is such as to modify considerably
the past view of Dr. Evatt.
Dr. Evatt’s intrusion into the foreign-
policy field has brought the “Labor”
situation into the national sphere from
the party sphere.
In opposing the sending of troops to
fight guerillas who have been murdering
his fellow-countrymen in Malaya he
follows the Communist line. He knows
that the guerillas are Chinese, Com-
munist-organised and -financed; that the
bulk of their bands are Chinese or
Chinese-led. He knows they are served
from a Communist base outside Malaya ;
that Malaya is the stepping-stone to attack
on Australia. He himself was one of
those who execrated the unfortunate
British for having failed to detach their
desperately needed resources to defend
Australia in our interests by saving
Singapore in 1941. He, with his then
leader, Mr. Curtin, claimed to have saved
us by turning to the United States and
securing President Roosevelt’s aid —it
was, of course, untrue. He now supports
the admission to U.N.O. (at a moment of
crucial danger) of five Communist satellite
nations ranging from Communist China
to Rumania. And he has supported the
Moscow viewpoint that Asian nations
which have been involved in aggression in
the past year are merely concerned with
their dignity and independence and
“struggling for self-government against
the last vestiges of colonialism.”
This coming from a former External
Affairs Minister and one of the founders
of the United Nations will have a stronger
impact abroad than here. His viewpoint
is already being publicised throughout
the world through Communist agencies.
Our allies must stand aghast. And it is
a matter on which for the sake of both
our internal security and our external
relations there should be no doubt about
the national outlook.
In the circumstances, the sooner an
election is held on this specific issue the
better. The electors should be asked to
state clearly where the country stands on
the issue of defence against Communism.
POLITICAL POINTS
Calwell says he is neither anti-Evatt
nor pro-Evatt. That’s more than Dr.
Evatt can say.
• •
Unless all the signs and omens are
wrong, Wins! on Churchill will announce
his resignation as Prime Minister of
Britain today. The Queen and the
Duke of Edinburgh were scheduled to
dine at No. 10 Downing-street last night.
Never before has a reigning sovereign
dined at the home of a Prime Minister,
and this departure from precedent would
seem a fitting tribute to the 80-year-old
leader on the eye of his laying-down his
office.
• •
The way things are going the Victorian
Parliament will soon have as many parties
as the French Chamber of Deputies.
Present line-up: Cain Labor, 26; Cole-
man-Barry Labor, 11 ; Independent
Labor, 1; Country party, 12; Liberal-
Country party, 11; Victorian Liberal, 4.
In the Legislative Council there is a
similar set-up: Cain Labor, 9 ; Coleman-
Barry Labor, 6; Country party, 8;
Liberal-Country party, 8; Victorian
Liberal, 2 ; Independent Liberal, 1.
• 0
After expelling Coleman (Transport),
Barry (Health), Hayes (Housing) and
Scully (Honorary Minister) from hi 6
Cabinet, Cain sought and gained vice-
regal approval for choosing another team.
Caucus gave him a new quartet, and he
distributed the portfolios: V. J. Doube
(Health), J. J. Sheehan (Housing), G. L.
Tilley (Mines and Forests) and R. J. Gray
(Honorary Minister). D. P. Ferguson,
former Minister for Mines and Forests,
was given Transport. The new Ministers
will take over their duties right away,
but they aren’t likely to be troubled with
Question Time for a while; it seems
almost certain that Cain will keep
Parliament in recess until the middle of
June.
0 0
Federal Parliament will meet on April
19 for a session that is expected to last
until the middle of June.
• •
Office- and party-space in Parliament
House at Canberra, already at a premium,
is likely to be more strained as splinters
of “Labor” arrive for the next session.
At least one new party-room may be
needed,. and as two members usually
share one office some room-mates may
find themselves at loggerheads and seek
an internal redistribution.
0 0
In opposing the dispatch of troops to
Malaya, Evatt claims to be speaking for
“Labor.” Is he also speaking for the
Communist party, or is the Communist
party also speaking for “Labor”? It
must be one or the other, as there was
hardly a thought in his Friday-night
statement that hasn’t been expressed in
recent “Tribunes.”
0 0
There’s something baffling about the
language of diplomacy. There was an
example in the announcement of the
appointment of a new Ambassador for
Eire —which won’t settle the dispute
between Canberra and Dublin concern-
ing the title of the Australian envoy.
Announcing that Mr. Brian Gallagher
would be the new Irish Ambassador in
Canberra, Mr. Casey said the new envoy
“could be assured of Australia’s welcome
in the spirit of the special relationship
which existed between Australia and Ire-
land.” Now just what did he mean by
that?
-0 0
Marlon Brando got an “Oscar” for his
acting in “On the Waterfront,” but there
won’t be any “Oscars” handed out to the
Seamen’s Union for their act on the
waterfront.
0 0
Every “Labor” member in Victoria,
State and Federal, has now been either
suspended or expelled. The new executive
dealt with all who supported the old
executive, whereupon the old retaliated
by expelling those who supported the
new. If the thing goes much further a
properly authenticated expulsion-notice
will be considered the equivalent of a
membership ticket.
o •
Coal brought from Callide (N.Q.) to
Gladstone by rail is unloaded into hop-
pers on the wharves by Gladstone Har-
bor Board men. Objecting to this the
wharfies put a ban on Callide coal. But
very little of the coal is carried by train;
most of it comes the 76 miles by road-
truck. No road-trucks are running be-
cause of the ban, four ships waiting to
complete a coal-contract for Victoria are
idle, a contract for a further 150,000 tons
with Victoria has been held up, and the
Harbor Board’s coal-loading plant (cost
£200,000) has been idle for more than
a month. It’s called cutting off your
nose to spite your face. But, unfortu-
nately, others beside the wharfies are hurt
in the process.
• •
Professor Gilbert Murray warns us
that the world, even if saved from the
H-bomb, still faces the danger of
“rebarbarisation,” which, he explains,
SAINT CAHILL
means a return to a form of barbarianism
by a “society without morals.” True
though this may be, it is still pleasant
to contemplate a world where nobody
would invent words like “rebarbari-
sation.”
• •
“In the ACT”: If Dr. Evatt goes to
Bandoeng he will probably find many
people there prepared to echo his plati-
tudinous statement that SEATO is not
,a satisfactory alternative to collective
responsibility through U.N. Casey
answered that one when he said it might
be possible to rely on U.N. in a perfect
world, but we had to realise that U.N.
could not agree on action to meet Com-
munist aggression without the willing
consent of the Communist aggressors
themselves, who are members of - U.N.
The “Doc.” had no comeback for that.
• •
Seamen and others harp regularly on
“the right to strike.” It never seems to
strike them that when they strike, other
people want to strike back!
• •
The Taxpayers’ Association is asking
Federal politicians to set the nation an
example of a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay! What more do they expect
than at present for a mere three thou, a
year? After all, Parliament has only
been on holidays—sorry, “in recess” —
since November 12.
• •
Pained and shocked at the assertion
that he had described the “Doc.” as “the
worst leader that ‘Labor’ had ever had,”
Eddie Ward said it was “a deliberate lie.”
Perhaps he didn’t say it. But who, in or
out of “Labor” ranks, could avoid think-
ing it?
Protests against the proposed new
boundaries of Federal electorates are now
being considered by the electoral com-
missioners in the various States. Prob-
ably the most elaborately organised
objection is that from Rockhampton—a
petition signed by more than 8000
electors, protesting against a line which
puts part of Rockhampton in Capricornia
and part in Dawson.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Some hitherto unrevealed
aspects of the Jap bombing of Darwin were
mentioned by Territories Minister Hasluck at
mentioning that the occasion
pro voked individual acts of heroism, he
remarked that the anniversary of the bombing
national’ shame/’ oSTSpiS" wa’“that'“failure
to , he war cargoes during the previous
months had meant dangerous congestion of
the harbor, accentuated by the presence of the
convoy which had turned back after repeated
airoraf J t _ attacks on the way to Timor . The
u.S. Kittyhawks had been unable to make
height for lack of warning—“and the reason
for 8 that lack of warning is another sorry
story.” The three services gave the casualties
a s 195 killed and 443 wounded, but a report
after the Lowe Commission put the figures at
243 killed and 350 wounded. Damage included
eight ships lost and seven damaged, and more
than a score of aircraft destroyed.
The Curtin Government announced that
there had been 17 killed and 24 wounded,
gSS
po i nte( i ou t that harder work in Darwin in the
preceding months would have minimised the
disaster. The comparative defencelessness of
the town was but a reflection of the defenceless-
ness of the whole nation, “in which for more
than 20 years political parties had argued
against each other as to whether any defence
at all was necessary.” The Government’s
secrecy had been due to the fact that it doubted,
rightly or wrongly, whether the Australian
people could stand up to bad news, and was
itself fearful of what was about to happen.
Hasluck added that we should ask ourselves
if we were in better shape now, if political
parties were still arguing whether defence was
necessary, if we were working hard enough
now. “We have had one warning about what
followed on past failures. What happens next
depends on us all.”
• •
Who called this member a leader?
Who called this leader a member!
© •
The proposed exchange of visits
between delegations of Australian and
Indonesian M.P.s is off, owing to diffi-
culty over the composition of the
Indonesian party. It appears that the
Opposition in Djakarta boycotted the trip
because of a difference of opinion on
how the team should be chosen. In so
doing they missed an unrivalled oppor-
tunity of watching an Australian Opposi-
tion party tearing itself to ribbons.
• •
Lies, assorted:
Eddie Ward, commenting on a statement
that he had described Evatt as the worst
leader Labor ever had: If Mr. McManus has
been correctly reported, then he has been
guilty of a deliberate lie.
Premier Gair, replying to Evatt’s charge that
he had been in secret alliance with Menzies
and Fadden: A cold, calculated lie.
• •
Because the noxious weed, groundsel,
rampaging in Brisbane suburbs, “has
spread to near-by rural areas and is
becoming a serious menace,” Australian
Sugar Producers’ Association demands
that Queensland Government, should
subsidise fully the cost of poison used
for spraying groundsel.” Probably feel-
ing that that satisfactorily solved the pro-
blem the delegates then went home, pre-
sumably to look at their groundsel and
wait for somebody to buy them some
poison to spray it with.
• 0
“F.S.” : Cain’i Government has bowed
to public opinion and will not renew
leases for business buildings on the
Wirth’s Park site it reserved for the new
cultural centre. There is another aspect
of the row, however. The winning entry
in an architectural competition for the
art-centre was published in the Melbourne
“Herald.” By the look of it much less
harm would be done to culture if Warner,
M.L.C., were allowed to finish his com-
mercial building—it is no uglier than the
other. Melbourne already has a mag-
nificent home for its pictures in the
National Gallery, a beautiful building. If
any shifting is to be done the pictures
should be consulted. Most of them, if
shown the design for their proposed new
home, would prefer to stay where they
are.
• •
Tiger Moths, for years the standard
elementary trainers for R.A.A.F. pilots,
will no longer be used when Winjeels are
available from Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation, which has just built 62 of
them. In these machines instructor and
pupil are seated side by side, and there
is a third seat for a second trainee. But
it will probably be a few years yet before
Aero Clubs discard the Moths.
• •
Communist “Tribune” on Australian
troops for Malaya:
the only persons in Malaya who want
Australian troops there are the imperialist
brasshats, the whisky-swilling planters and
tin tycoons and (maybe) a few feudal
sultans”.... Menzies and the pro-Ameri-
can clique imperialist police-State
colonial rule... .mantle of imperialism.
Dr. Evatt on Australian troops for
Malaya:
colonialism... .reactionary Governments
... .militarist swashbuckling foreign
intervention


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
AS the fire-bug is rampant throughout
Australia, assistance to find accom-
modation should be found for the adver-
tiser whose appeal is appended:
Expelled Pub. School Boy, cashiered,
ex-R.A.AJF., wants unfurn. Flat for doting
wife and self, both staunch Atheists. Keeps
bad company. Drink heavily, but defin-
itely do not smoke. 4748, Age.
Melbourne’s stadium has recently been
destroyed by fire. A serious attempt has
been made on Sydney’s stadium by the
same method. At Camberwell (Vic.) a
beautiful church edifice has been
destroyed by fire; nearly opposite a Sal-
vation Army hall has been demolished
by fire; around the comer a
Baptist church has met the same fate.
Again, in High-street, Northcote, a
church has become a useless shell through
fire ravage, and at Burnley (both also
Vic.) a vain effort was made to destroy
by fire a church hall. How gratifying
for a property-owner to be assured of a
smokeless tenant, one, moreover, who is
so obviously certain of combustion in
the next world that he may be reasonably
expected to avoid it in this. —“O’Dea.”
♦> ♦♦♦
“Viper”: Sydney bookshops are just
now ankle-deep in copies of the works of
Rabelais and Boccaccio. Wonderful what
even high-minded publicity will do. Both
medieval gents must be chortling—in
Hades we presume—over the upswing in
sales.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Baka”: Our latest Government-office
addition is a New Australian who is
studying political economy and obtains
special privileges, such as time off for
university, no inconvenient shifts, and
so on. Our printing-carbons cost nearly
Is. each, and I mentioned an economy
could be shown by using them twice. He
laughed at the idea. “What?” he asked.
“Is thq, Government going broke?”
Which proves that he is no longer an
N.A. and knows that politics and economy
do not go together— not here, anyhow.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Pitt-street”: Returned pianist, inter-
viewed by A.8.C.: “Oh, yes, while I was
domiciled in England I was mostly con-
certising.” Your guess is as good as mine
—which is that he had his concertina
with him, too.
♦♦♦
“R.E.H.” [This contribution came to
The Bulletin in these smoking capitals]:
CURSE THE BLUNDERING, FLAT-
FOOTED “B.M.s” (B. 16/3/’55) OF
THIS WORLD THAT WOULD
RATTLE US OUT OF THE NOSTAL-
GIC OPENEYED DREAMS THAT
THE PETER BLADENS INVOKE FOR
US! “8.M.” says, forsooth, “You can
see Bladen’s ‘Walkabout’ country by bus
—with ice, money, reclining seats,”
Gawd! Pray give “8.M.” his cheque and
let him depart—but with a single-ticket!
❖ ❖ *
“Bo”: The beauty of the automatic
stamp-machine, from the point of view
of the P.M.G., lies in its chief charac-
teristic: that it can never yield more in
value than is put into it, and that it can,
and often does, yield less. I put my three
browns into one on Sydney’s Wynyard
Station. There came a lot of rattling
from its innards and then a clatter in the
cup. No stamp, one penny returned. I
tried the next, but a warning “Empty”
saved me at least another tuppence. I
tried the third of the battery. No warn-
ing notice that it had dried-up, so in went
the three coppers. More rattles; no
stamp, one penny recovered. From that
little effort the monopolistic department
made a clear profit of fourpence. I now
buy books of stamps.
❖ *i* ♦>
“Jaydee”: As “Benbow” said (B.
16/3/’55), water-powered organs (special
"I had THIS model made specially for Wearing in the beergarden."
article, B. 16/2/’55) were not unknown
in Australia. St. Mark’s Church of Eng-
land, Granville, had one. My earliest
recollection of it was about 1912, and
from about 1915 to 1917 as a choir-boy
I did my share of hand-pumping in
summer, when the water-pressure was
low. On these occasions the water-engine
was left connected and was augmented
by a choir-boy’s efforts on the bellows-
handle —a long wooden shaft to which
the water-engine was attached. Occasion-
ally the engine broke-down, and then
the shaft was disconnected and the pump-
ing done entirely by hand. Heavy work
for a 14-year-old. Each year the choir-
boys were treated by a parishioner to a
week’s holiday at Collaroy. Don’t know
if this was because of our singing or in
appreciation of our efforts on the bellows-
handle, but there was never any lack of
volunteers to man the pump. When I left
Granville, about 1917, the water-engine
was still going strong.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Metralia”: So Lady Godiva was “at
least 60” when she made her celebrated
ride (B. 30/3/’55). This is an unchival-
rous disclosure by the Chancellor of
Coventry. Darkly he adds: “I can find
no good reason for her making it.” We’re
used to squabbles over beauty-queens.
Miss Egypt was last year criticised on the
curious grounds of having too much sex-
appeal. Mayhappe the Lady Godiva thus
did shewe contempt for Coventry selec-
tion-committee’s choice of Ye May
Queene. More like she did shame the
Lord Godiva —for refusing her a new
summer outfitte.
»!♦
“The Red Dam”: Westralian Gover-
nor Sir Charles Gairdner, replying to an
address of welcome at W.A. sheep- and
wheat-town Lake King, said: “Your
children are unique.” The kids had
lined-up in the school-yard, listened to
what Governors usually say on these
occasions, and, when asked on show of
hands to decide, holiday or no holiday,
had voted, no holiday. Don’t let the
wharfies hear of this.
“Deess”: Adelaide is*not alone in hav-
ing a name-changing controversy (R.
16/3/’55), one being current in Tassie,
where the Launceston Marine Board has
proposed changing Port Dalrymple, the
Tamar estuary, to Port Launceston on the
ground that use of the two names is con-
fusing to overseas shippers. To date no
one has produced any reason why it
it should be any more difficult to link
Dalrymple with Launceston than Jack-
son with Sydney or Phillip with Mel-
bourne, or again, nearer home, Emu Bay
with Burnie on the Speck’s n.-w. coast.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Uramao”: On the country “Buster,”
where I served my apprenticeship the
editor did not write his leading articles,
as he had other duties to perform, such as
making-up the formes, helping in the
machine-room and several other tasks. He
got a city-daily leader, and taking the
ideas from it, set up his leader in type
direct from the case. Which has its
advantages. When the press was fighting
for its liberty in the early 1800’s Thomas
Jonathan Wooler ran a journal called
the “Black Dwarf,” a vicious critic of
the Government of the day, and landed
himself in jail often. At one trial the
indictment was that he had written in the
“Black Dwarf” articles that were
libellous. Wooler made the plea that he
had not written the articles, but had set
them up in type, as he frequently did.
The nonplussed jury acquitted him.
* *
“Murph”: Add to flood-damage in the
Hunter Valley the ruin of Joe’s
reputation. Joe lived with his mother,
a regular church-goer and strict temper-
ance advocate, in a cottage built up on
piers near the river. A care-
ful chap and a non-drinker, he saved
his wages as a carpenter and collected
such trifles as old iron, bottles and rags.
Over the years these made a sizeable pile
under the house. Joe and his neighbors
on high ground missed the full force of
the river, which merely isolated them
and lapped their doorsteps. But a couple
of days later, when the water had gone
down, Joe was awakened by the lamen-
tations of his mother: “Heavens! What
will people say about us?” Outside,
lining the street, filling the tennis-court,
surrounding the house, was the evidence
of a gargantuan binge: bottles set free
from beneath the house lay in disgraceful
heaps or poked accusing heads from the
mud. Joe thinks it may be simpler to
justify rather than to refute the judgment
of the neighbors.
♦+♦ +jt
“Mullum”: When the “Hatched,
matched and dispatched” columns of my
morning daily informed me that a Mrs.
O’Dea had named her daughter Dawn,
I thought I had seen everything. But
the other day I met a Miss Early who
admitted that her Christian-name was
Rose.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Selina”: Excitement ran high in a
Melbourne suburb after a local delicates-
sen-shop received a telephone-call
arranging for “Mr. Emotion” to call
at the shop at 10.30 a.m. on Friday morn-
ing to collect a kangaroo-tail. The firm
made arrangements with the police for
an orderly reception then rang Johnnie’s
manager. Anticlimax! The previous call
had not been from Johnnie’s manager.
But “Mr. Emotion” will get the ’roo-tail.
Although he did not accept the challenge
to collect it, the delicatessen-shop pro-
prietor is sending it to him, with cooking-
instructions, and a list of the well-wishers
among the shop’s customers.
“Equinox”: Michael Silver, drummer
with the Norma Miller colored dancers
appearing at Melbourne Tivoli, men-
tioned during a radio-interview that the
tension of his drums tells him whether it
will be wet or fine. “The Melbourne
Weather Bureau might like a set of your
drums,” said the compere. But their
theatrical associations would spoil every-
thing: a whiff of Johnnie Ray singing
“Ker-ry” through the weather-bureau
window, and all Victoria’s weather-
predictions would be out of joint.
H.M.A.S. AUSTRALIA
[Awaiting breaking-up, March, 1955]
So they fish for little fish, off the petrol
pylons
{Yankee tankers anchored there, in the
second war)
At Lady Gowrie’s lookout; refugees in
nylons
Sip the Sydney elixir on Kirribilli’s shore.
Pietro gets an octopus, shoves it in the
fish-sack,
Finds the fish are biting now, sees a profit
showing,
Rows his boat alongside, by the after
smokestack,
Lights his pipe contentedly, a south breeze
blowing.
There she lies in misery, waiting for a
high tide,
Far beyond Balmain the tugs hasten to
their coaling,
Silent guns at fore and aft cannot voice
her old pride,
When the salvoes left her in the far seas’
rolling.
Men who died upon her bridge gather in
the moon-dust,
Men who died upon her decks link their
souls in hailing;
Men who died on other ships frown upon
her peace-rust,
And the moaning in her cordage is their
far-off wailing.
Send her to the knackers’ yard; strip her
of her glory.
Leave her naked, waiting for the tugboats’
halter.
Who upon the ferries knows her shining
story ?
{Getting and his company died but did
not falter.)
God be with “Australia” straining at the
tug-ropes,
Bless her, Lord, in this her doom, lighten
then her load.
Sanctify her agonies, let her feel her past
hopes,
Fly her ensign natheless on the long sea
road.
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.
AT THE HEADS
Someone spilt ink and called it night
and cut stars out of tinsel paper,
and set a watermelon rind of light
in the night’s vapor.
Someone wound springs and made things
move;
sending small ships from bay to ocean
and making cars like beetles shove
each other in slow motion.
Someone hushed sea, and cradled wave,
and gave two lovers cause for laughter,
and sent to an aluminium grave
escalators of light upon the water.
N.S.W.
PIXIE O'HARRIS.


A YACHTSMAN, he had lately
launched a neat 26ft. cruiser. Going
to have a look at it, he parked his car,
leaving two old gin-bottles full of dis-
tilled-water for the boat-batteries on the
back-seat of the car. When he returned
the bottles had disappeared ;■ but a con-
science-stricken thief had left thirty-bob
and a note which read: “My need is
greater than yours/’—“Tassie.”
“A.C.T.”: Three postage-stamps to
mark the Olympic Games will be issued
in October next year, each with a differ-
ent design. No competition is proposed
for designs, but the stamp advisory com-
mittee of the P.M.G.’s Department will
consider any designs or ideas submitted
"I don't Want that seat — it's right over the wheels."
by the end of next July. The fact that
these are to be Olympic Games stamps
practically ensures that they will break
all records —in size if nothing else.
♦> ♦> ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: A few years ago no-
body would have considered £6OOO small
in any sense other than as a small for-
tune. Producing a pound-note, I recently
sought to buy a ticket from a suburban
Sydney lottery-agent. Sighting my money,
he asked as a matter of course: “Which
lottery do you want it in—big, medium,
or small ?”
❖ ❖
“F.H.”: Did “Stanford” (B. 2/3/’55)
happen to notice the endearing habit of
of water. The fleet uses about two million
tons of distilled water a year.
such refreshment-rooms as do sprout
along Queensland rail-tracks of decanting
their tea and coffee into cups ahead of
the train’s arrival? Evidently they syn-
chronise their activities with the time-
table ; the trains do not. The weary
traveller is frequently confronted with
cups whose content is rapidly turning
blue with cold, but for which he is still
required to pay anything from lid. to
Is. 2d. a time.
*Z* ♦> ♦>
“Zorok”: The idea of breaking into
Pentridge is not so ridiculous (B.
30/3 / ”55). Just reported that four of the
inmates of Salisbury county-jail (Mary-
land, U.S.) used to break out almost every
night, rob the local stores and whatnot,
and break in again, having disposed of the
booty, before roll-call next morning.
And they got away with it for nearly six
weeks.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Stuie”: Looking over some old photo-
graphs brought back from my soldiering
in Palestine I came across several taken
on the Way of The Cross. Those who
had traced out the journey to Calvary
with me had thought (as I had from the
Biblical account) that the distance was at
least three miles, and they got a shock
to find it was about three-quarters of a
mile. Another surprise was the discovery
that Bethlehem was only about three
miles from Jerusalem, while many other
places mentioned in the Biblical narrative
in a connotation implying that they could
be reached only by weeks of travel were
accessible by motor-vehicle within twenty
minutes. Immediately after the shocks
there came to us all the recollection that
any false impression of the distances was
due to no exaggeration in the Scrip-
tures, but arose through the reader’s
failure, in an era of mechanical transport,
to comprehend the ardors which would
attend journeys on foot or on asses’
backs.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Not long before
Gothic sailed on the Queen’s Common-
wealth cruise in 1953 it was found that
the ship’s two evaporators, meant to pro-
duce 40 tons of fresh-water daily, could
not produce more than ten. A compound
developed by the Royal Naval scientific
service was used and gave 64 tons of
water a day. The compound, which
increases the life of an evaporator five-
fold and raises efficiency by 30 per cent.,
is saving the Admiralty £500,000 a year.
Cost of making saltwater into fresh is
now 12s. a ton, a fall of 65., and the
saving in fuel-oil is 34 tons ner 1000 tons
JOB-CONTROL
“A spokesman for the glove-making industry
says that women’s hands have in the last
decade become larger, and he attributes this
to increasing participation in industry.”
“The woman pays!” So often have
Those words been heard from ill-starred
charmers
Who’d fallen for some smooth-tongued
knave
In old-time lurid bellowdramas;
And in this modern age the dame
Still has to make her immolation,
Although it isn’t quite the same;
But in a way it’s still her shame —
All caused by her emancipation.
When portals of man’s realm were thrust
Open for her, she made it plain
She’d match him at His work, or bust.
Whether it’s been a social gain
Or bane, is anybody’s guess,
This fruit of an aggressive Movement;
She claims it as a great success.
In one particular, they stress,
It’s been for her a big improvement.
Where once the hands of Jean and Jill
Were tiny, soft as down of dove,
Likened to petals, now they’d fill
Primo Camera’s boxing-glove.
To bang, and shove, to pull and grasp
Doesn’t encourage manual midgets.
Handling a hammer or a rasp
Leads to a hearty masculine clasp,
Development of iron-hard digits.
There are advantages, of course :
When man (the brute) again proves base
And she to sobbing has recourse,
One hand’s enough to hide her face.
You’d think this trend might make Eve
glum,
This spreading of her dooks—l wonder.
One comfort —and a fair-sized crumb —
It means she has a bigger thumb
With which to keep her husband under.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
CLEAN-SHEETS DAY
“Well!” I said.
My friend took his beer-glass from
the counter and sucked it dry. Then he
put it back, fished in his pocket, put down
2s. and gestured to a barmaid swim-
ming in the clamor of the evening swill
to bring two more.
“Must be years since you’ve been in a
bar,” I said. “They told me you’d given
it away completely.”
He shrugged. “Cheers,” he said, rais-
ing his glass. That’s how long it was
“Have you got a pair of flippers to go with this outfit, please?"
since he’d been in a bar —back where
they used to say “Cheers.”
We stood each other in silence for a
while, and then he said, to explain
matters: “It’s clean-sheets, day. I don’t
want to go home.”
It was some years since I’d seen him.
Had he quietly taken to drink? Had his
mind begun to play him tricks? He had
always been a little strange. I said, to
get the conversation on reasonable
ground: “Someone told me you’d taken
to making furniture.”
“Not making it,” he said. “Doing-up.
A bit.”
“Yes,” I said, “the plywood stuff they
sell you now, it needs a lot of fixing after
a few years.”
“Plywood nothing,” he said. “Who’d
waste his time on ply? Cedar; nothing
but cedar.”
“Bit dear, isn’t it?”
“We got a chiffonier for 12s. 6d.,” he
said. “Cedar-fronted; sides were pine.
That was my first effort. Trouble is, if
you saw it now, you wouldn’t believe
what I’d done to it—that’s the trouble
with repairing and remodelling, the better
you do it, the less your work shows. We
were looking for a cheap chest-of-drawers
for the kids” —he was warming to his
subject—“and you know the sort of thing
you’d get for £8 or £9. So I said to my
wife, find me an old broken-down cedar
chest. We got one for £9.”
“Cedar?” I said.
“Solid cedar except the drawers —sides,
back and bottom—and the back. Split
down both sides —they used to join wood
at an angle in those days; and one side
was of two pieces of different thickness.
Had to make wedges of thin cedar and
drive them right down the cracks where
the glue had loosened. Ploughed the
bottoms of the drawers flat and fixed new
runners inside the chest for the drawers
to run on; then sandpapered all the old
polish off it. Backbreaking job. Think
you’ll never get it off.”
“And then you french-polish it again?”
I said.
“Not this one,” he said.* “I just ran it
over with linseed-oil —that’s the classical
finish for cedar. I do something new
every spring. Last spring I turned a
cedar chest-of-drawers into a radio-
cabinet. Huge thing. Biggest chest-of-
drawers I’ve ever seen. Cut the two top-
drawers off their fronts and used the
fronts as doors opening downwards on
piano-hinges. Replaced the two small
middle-drawers with a panel-door. I cut
the grooves for the panel with a ss. Wool-
worth’s tenon-saw, sitting on an arm-
chair in the living-room, with the board
held between my feet. The things you
do . . . Anyway we put the radio at one
end, the speaker hung from the top, which
is a- panel of solid cedar 4ft. 6in. by 2ft.,
and an inch thick, facing out the other
end, and the radio-gramophone in the
middle. That leaves three long drawers
in the bottom for stowage-space; and
believe me, in these small flats you need
it”
“But instead of going to all that trouble,
wouldn’t it be better to get a cheap radio-
gramophone, and buy records with the
difference?” I asked.
He was so delighted with this question
that he clamored for two more beers, out
of turn. “How much is what you call a
cheap radio-gramophone?” he said.
“Somewhere round £50.”
“Forty-seven-pounds-ten,” he said.
“That’s just the radio,” I said.
“Radio, gramophone, speaker, and
chest,” he said, and reeled off, as a care-
fully-memorised recitation: “Radio and
speaker, £26; three-speed gramophone-
engine and turntable, £4; that’s £3O;
turnover pick-up, £5 ; that’s £35; cedar
chest, £l2 10s.: that’s £47 10s. Sides of
the drawers are cedar—l got a clock-case
for an old American clock out of the top
drawers I cut away—only the back and
bottoms and the back of the chest aren’t
solid cedar. Cedar knobbly-turned legs
. . . but I had to put on a new base in
cedar. Polished it in french polish, that
one; you should see the selected cedar
they used to put in their drawer-fronts! ”
“Besides,” I said, “they made them
properly in those days. Dovetailing and
all that.”
“Compared with contemporary stuff,”
he said judicially, “yes. But they weren’t
equally good makers. Now, the old
chiffonier was just knocked together. It
still hasn’t got a straight line in it. And
the big chest I was telling you about —
wonderful cedar, has only a couple of
narrow planks dovetailed in at top and
bottom. And the pedestal-base is only
slummed-on. No ; the only bit of classical
making I’ve got is the little four-drawer
chest I did up this spring. The carcass-
making is magnificent; dovetailing
almost right across top and bottom;
wide planks and dowelled angle-planks
. . . The pedestal isn’t exactly perfect,
but at least it’s properly joined, and the
cedar legs actually screw on —solid cedar,
that one; back is half-inch cedar, even ;
nothing but cedar in it. Cost us £2 10s.
about 14 years ago.”
“Well,” I said, “I suppose, like Shak-
speare, after you’ve learned the elements
of your craft from doing-up old plays
you’ll soon be making something of your
own.”
He frowned moodily. “I was thinking
of a couple of bed-platforms,” he said,
“But I don’t know.”
“Next spring, of course,” I said. “I
suppose you’re tired out with this year’s
efforts.”
“You do get tired, working in a small
flat,” he said. “Not even a bench. Then
there’s the cedar-dust when you’re sand-
papering ; thick on the carpets ; all over
the furniture and shelves; all over every-
thing.”
I thought I saw the light. “Gets all
over the clean sheets, eh?” I said.
“Sheets?” He started as though I had
tapped him on the shoulder from behind.
“Oh, yes. No ; it’s the little new old chest
I’ve been working on. I looked every-
where, and finally got some solid brass
handles —it deserved the best —and hur-
ried home to try them on. You bore a
hole and screw them tight with a nut on
the other side of the drawer-front. Well,
when I’m working on a bit of furniture
that will hold things, I always like to get
it back into commission as soon as pos-
sible. Back goes everything into the
drawers as soon as I get this little chest
finished and polished. I got out my drill
and went through the three upper
drawers all right, screwing on my
handles; but I had a bit of trouble
drilling through the bottom drawer. So
I pulled it out. My wife had stacked all
the household linen back into it . . .”
“You drilled through a sheet!” I said.
“Two sheets,” he said. “Several folds
of two sheets.”
“I see,” I said. “And today’s clean-
sheets day.”
“Yes,” he said. “Clean-sheets day.”
So at any rate he was perfectly sane,
and in the relief of this realisation I in-
sisted on buying the next three rounds
myself.
R. McCUAIC


The pick
of fte bunch
since
mz
o\[&iub
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
If anyone should sight a member of
The Bulletin literary staff going up
George-street, Sydney, mumbling foreign
words and talking to nobody with his
hands, it might possibly not be a case
to* c sr could Bant Sl ? g "
(Charles Shaw) training for a spot of
browsing among books from his own tub.
One of the Delaney books is now running
as a serial in Sweden, and it and the
others are being published in Swedish in
book-form. Two of them have already
been done in Italy in that country’s
language. Also, Shaw’s earlier Heaven
Knows, Mr. Allison has been done in
Spanish (in Mexico) and in Dutch.
Successor to M. C. Alder, just retired
from the general-managership of M.L.C.
Assurance after 51 years' service, 14 of
them as g.-m„ Arthur Frederick Deer has
been wtth the company since 1930. Dur-
mg his early years in the life-policy
game he made a hobby of collecting
Sydney University degrees—Arts, 1930 ;
Law, 1934; Economics, 1936. However
this may have contributed to the success
of his career, it seems a safe bet that the
powers of concentration thereby developed
were largely responsible for the hole-
d"i°e n GC Another tobby’'S’' Deer's'
dale G.C. Another hobby of Deer s,
POLICIES
though not officially acknowledged as
such, is a collection of birth-certificates.
Those of his children were issued by
Registrar-Generals in Sydney, Brisbane
and Adelaide; his own is stamped
Nebraska, U.S.A., and was brought back
by his father—along with 3|-year-old
A.F. —as a souvenir of several years’
sojourn in the U.S.A.
• •
*
Sir Douglas Copland has been elected
president of the U.N. Economic and
Social Council. He has authored a
baker’s-dozen of books on his subject.
• •
“Macnell”: Many naval officers aim,
on retirement, at a secretaryship, prefer-
ably to do with a golf-course. Harold
Bruce Famcomb, at one time (rank of
rear-admiral) leader of the Australian
Fleet, has his Civvy-street sights on a
somewhat more difficult and original
target—at 56 he’s studying to be a barris-
ter. He has passed the Barristers’ Admis-
sion Board examination and hopes shortly
to be appointed a judge’s associate. The
duties of an associate include, among
other things, research in looking up law-
cases and such ; he is also in a favored
position to hear the learned haranguing
of Q.C.s and the summing-up of judges.
Present writer has had one or two very
personal experiences of the would-be
associate’s own summing-up and judging
qualities.
Here because three of his plays are being
staged in various cities, Terence Rattigan
is the British tax-collector’s best-loved
playwright. Now 43, since leaving Oxford
he has written 13 successes, from which
he collected half-a-million and the Trea-
sury £420,000. He will see the curtain
go up on “The Sleeping Prince” in
Perth, and will watch Sir Ralph Richard-
son and his company, including Sybil
Thorndike and Sir Louis Casson, rehearse
“Separate Tables” ; also Googie Withers
acting in “The Deep Blue Sea.” Then
Rattigan goes to Arabia to write the
script for a film on T. E. Lawrence,
in which possibly two versions will
be given—Lawrence’s own and Richard
Aldington’s.
• •
Sir Rupert Clarke goes on to the board
of directors of the National Bank,
succeeding Sir Frank Clarke, who died
recently. The new director is nephew
to the old.
• •
Captain Hans Christian Petersen,
master of the Kista Dan, elbowed his
ship further south on the just com-
pleted Australian Antarctic expedition
than any other ship had yet gone into
our South Pole sector. After a refit he
is off to the opposite Pole to cut the
ice between Iceland and Greenland.
Directed by Dr. Phillip Law, the expedi-
tion pushed on from there by a hit-and-
run method of Antarctic exploration.
Lightning-survey dashes were made into
stretches not previously penetrated, and
the “ducks” and “weasels” used scampered
back just as the weather started changing.
One missed, and Hugh Oldham, the geo-
physicist of the party, was stranded on
a melting ice-floe. An Army “duck” got
him off a piece of ice which was rapidly
reducing to the dimensions of an ice-
cream. A vast and as yet unnamed moun-
tain-range 20 miles wide and 150 miles
long was discovered and photographed
from 5000 ft. up by J. M. Bechervaise, the
Geelong schoolmaster - turned - explorer.
Mailman Bill Storer, radio-operator to
the Mawson party, who handled 40,000
letters, jammed his right hand in a trac-
tor and had to “Morse” Heard Island with
his left hand for instructions how to treat
it. An ex-P.M.G. man, he was one of
the party that narrowly missed having
to spend the winter at Scullin monolith
when their “weasel” fell through the ice
last May.
• •
Calling it a day as Chancellor of N.Z.
University, the Very Rev. Dr. Herron.
A son of pioneers, he was educated at
Otago University and polished up
at Glasca Uni. Chaplain to the Enzed-
ders 1916-19, he next preached to Pres-
byterians at St. David’s, Auckland, for
eleven years until Knox Church, in
Scotchbyterian Dunedin, called. He has
been in Dunedin ever since.
e •
Mr. Justice Alan Mayo Webb climbed
from a clerkship in the N.S.W. Education
Department up through various posts in
the Industrial Registrar’s office to the
Bench of the State Industrial Commis-
sion. A son of a one-time Second Chief
Officer in the N.S.W. Fire Brigade, he
got close to his dad’s profession early—
born in Fire Brigade headquarters in
London. Seventy this year, he’s just hung
up his wig.
• •
After devoting his high legal qualifica-
tions and humane attributes to service on
New Zealand’s Supreme Court Bench for
six years Justice Hay is stepping down
for health reasons. Born in Lawrence,
Otago, in 1886, he gravitated through the
Public Trust Office, as solicitor, to a
partnership in the firm of Mazengarb,
Hay and Macalister, of Wellington. He
was Mayor of Lower Hutt when appointed
to the Supreme Court in 1948.
Succeeding Major-General F. Kingsley
Norris, who retires in June, Colonel
William Dudley Refshauge steps into the
job of Director-General of Army Medical
Services, with promotion to major-general.
Born in Melbourne and educated at
Scotch College and the Uni. he was
with the Second A.I.F. in the Western
Desert, Greece, Crete, New Guinea and
Borneo, earning 0.8. E. after Salamaua.
After the war he was in private practice
for three years, with honorary positions
on the State Committee on Premature
Babies, Women’s Hospital and half a
dozen other bodies. He has served in
Japan and Korea and two years ago
undertook a tour of inspection of military
establishments in Britain, Canada, Wes-
tern Germany and Italy.
• e
Percival C. Massey, appointed senior
lecturer in civil-engineering in the Wes-
tralian University (from which he gradu-
ated), has packed much academic and
practical know-how into his 36 years.
From 1942 to 1944 he was production-
engineer for small-arms ammunition, first
in Adelaide, then in Perth ; the next two
years lectured in civil-engineering in his
present university, after which he held
a similar appointment at Canterbury
(N.Z.) University College. From there he
went to design-engineering with a Sydney
firm of consulting engineers. While at
Canterbury he worked under Professor
H. J. Hopkins, Westralian graduate and
Rhodes Scholar, who once held the
appointment Massey takes over in Perth.
• •
A two-decker under-secretaryship—■
Chief Secretary’s and Medical and
Health —lands shortly on J. J. Devereux,
who has been having a breaking-in as
Assistant Under Secretary of both depart-
ments. Now 49, he has been in the
Westralian public service since 1923 —20
years in the Lands Department, secretary
of the War Funds Council in War 11,
with time in as secretary to one or two
State Ministers.
• •
Twenty years in England fill the gap
between Rudolph Simmat’s first experi-
ence in the business world—at Anthony
Horderns’, fresh from Sydney University
with an M.A. degree with Honors in
Psychology trailing behind him—and his
return to Australia as representative of
British interests on the board of Taub-
mans Industries, Ltd., of which he has
been managing-director since 1953. The
London period included experience in
vocational-training and market-research.
As a management-consultant he worked
from 1939 onwards on problems con-
PAINT
nected with the changeover of British fac-
tories from peace- to war-produc-
tion ; later on problems of productivity
and supply. Somewhere along the
line he sandwiched-in a double
life as writer of detective thrillers.
Anyone who has read a book by Phillip
Conde, Peter Ren wick or Trevor Wallace
has read Simmat. Under his own name
he has also published books on marketing
and advertising.
C. R. S. Colyer, general-manager of
the S.A. Electricity Trust, began as a
junior clerk with the old Adelaide Elec-
trie Supply Co., and at its demise was
cost-accountant. When the Trust was
formed he was appointed assistant-secre-
tary, in 1953, became assistant g.-m., and
on the passing of R. H. Lea went up to
the top job. In the 1930’s Colyer was a
POWER
prominent Aussie Rules footballer; he
played for Glenelg and Sturt and repped
for his State against Victoria and W.A.
Also an A-grade cricketer; wicketkeeper
for Glenelg.
• •
Kenneth Frank Coles, of Sydney, a
director of the erstwhile nothing-over-
two-and-six concern, becomes president
of the Associated Chambers of Com-
merce. He’s been retailing since 1918,
and has done years of good work for the
physically handicapped.
• •
Vacant since the resignation of Profes-
sor J. K. Rideout in 1950, the Chair of
Oriental Studies at Sydney University is
due for warming, by Englishman A. R.
Davis, aged 30. At present the new man
is lecturer in Classical Chinese at
Cambridge.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 75, H. T. (Bert) James,
noted Victorian rowing administrator, member
of the V.R.A. committee since 1913 and of
the Henley Regatta committee since 1921.
Well known to old Public School boys as
judge of Victorian head-of-the-river races, he
was much sought after by clubs for his efficient
organisation of combination eight-oar races in
the days when these events attracted 20 or
more entries. He was a life-member and vice-
president of the Amateur Sports Club of
Victoria, and rowing-correspondent for the
“Argus” and “Australasian” for many years.
In London, J. H. Jennings, works-manager
and a director of the Golden Bay Cement Co.,
Nelson (N.Z.). An Englishman, and a recog-
nised cement-expert, he was in England on
business connected with the company’s
£1,200,000 expansion-programme; he joined
the N.Z. concern in 1930 and pepped-up pro-
duction of cement from 20,000 to 165,000 tons.
Earlier he had been with the Australian Cement
Co. in Geelong.
In Hobart, at 92, Edward Archibald Stacey,
whose activities as an actor-producer extended
from a tour of South Africa in the Boer War
to Shakspearian productions in Hobart in 1937.
He was the first manager of His Majesty’s
Theatre, Hobart, and also managed the old
Prince of Wales (now the Prince).
In Fremantle, Mary Humble, granddaughter
of pioneer John Hole Duffield, who reached
Fremantle in 1829; widow of Major John
Humble, last C.O. of the old Fremantle
Rifle Corps; and mother of Fremantle harbor-
master, Captain F. H. B. Humble. For 29
years she was social reporter on the “West
Australian.”
In Chelsea, London, Dora Meeson (Mrs.
George J. Coates), doyen of Australian women
painters. Getting her art-training at the National
Gallery School in Melbourne, the Slade
School and the Academie Julien in Paris, she
painted for most of her life in Europe, exhibit-
ing at the salons and the R.A., and contributing
murals to many public buildings. Her work
is in English and Australian war-museums and
in the national galleries in Melbourne, Sydney,
Perth, Adelaide and Brisbane. She married
artist George J. Coates, and wrote His Art and
His Life and A Historians History of the
World.


A TURN OF SPEED


ABORIGINALITIES
IyfALE cats seldom take an interest
in their progeny, but our Persian
tom, having sired Fluffy-over-the-road’s
kittens, used to trot over and baby-sit by
“Come on—only another two-bob an hell start the oxy-w eldin'!"
the hour. The attractive half-Persian
kits were soon commandeered by neigh-
bors, thus depriving Omar of his spare-
time job. One night at the height of
the floods, when the rain was pelting
down, we heard persistent wailing out-
side. We opened the back-door, to find
that Omar had rescued and brought home
three tiny stray kittens for us to feed. He
is having a wonderful time training the
flood-victims for boxing championships,
but just how much longer the butcher
will tolerate my excessive demand for
scraps I know not. —“Recla.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Evening near the head
of the Tumut River (N.S.W.); a storm
rolling over from the nor’-west; the
honey-eaters subdued, the robins silent;
then the pre-thunder hush is cut by an
eerie WISS-wiss-wiss-wiss.. Spine-tailed
swifts. Strange how you usually see them
just ahead of a storm. They cross and re-
cross the gorge, sometimes swooping deep
and fanning the snowgums. Then, with
wingtips less than a foot apart, away they
hurtle, keeping formation like well-
trained pilots in jets. It is said that swifts
don’t alight during their stay in these
parts. I’ve never caught them at it, but a
couple of nights later I brushed against
a sapling, and from its lower branches
something took wing and with a startled
WISS-wiss-wiss-wiss streaked down the
darkened gully. No other fowl of similar
size that I know makes anything like the
same sound, at anything like the same
speed. Nocturnal birds are silent fliers.
If not a swift, what?
* * * *
“Eyenan”: A rainbow-trout which
shares with 150 other trout a pool at
Taniwha Springs, near Rotorua (N.Z.),
has been insured by Lloyd’s against “all
risks of mortality” for £lOO. The fish is
named in the policy as “Harvey, a two-
toned trout”; the front half of his body is
dark-green, the back half lemon-yellow.
But twice daily at feeding-time Harvey
achieves stardom and consequent
increased value by switching colors:
lemon in front and a dark green or khaki
rear. The change takes place in about
five minutes, and lasts for about 20
minutes more before changing back again.
Scientific theory is that the switchover
is due to excitement.
* * * *
“8.M.”: On the Pacific Highway, near
Mt. Gravatt (Q.), an enterprising garage-
owner is wooing motorists with a notice
embellished with a red arrow boldly
printed with the words “3,000,000,000
years old.” Arrow points to a cement
bed supporting a four-by-two fossilised
rock brought from a station property at
Cracow. Investigations by Professor
Whitehouse, Professor of Geology at the
University of Queensland, prove the rock
to have come from the bottom of the
inland sea which 3000 million years ago
covered the east coast of Australia from
Bowen to Kiama, spreading as far west
as Cracow. The rock, studded with
fossilised shells of a variety now extinct,
is reckoned about one-tenth the age of the
earth.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The blue-black-tipped
orange wings on the little mason-wasp
were swept-back like those of a super-
sonic jet-plane to allow folding in close
to the black-banded orange body. He
was making his plaster nest, carefully
lining the old bolt-hole with the correct
proportion of stone, sand, cement and
moisture; trowelling the mixture with
his mandibles. With folded wings he
couli work in a close space, even stand-
ing on his head. He cleaned his trowel
with his forelegs. Next time we met he
was filling the nest with food: four
minutes between grubs, hanging in the
undercarriage like green torpedoes. I
placed a piece of paper over the hole.
Frustrated? Never! He backed towards
the nest and, using the torpedo-grub as
anchor, he blew the paper off in the
slipstream of his motor. What a
tradesman!
* * * *
“R.C.H.”: Allan Cunningham, ex-
plorer and botanist, used to carry small
bags of peach-stones, quince-pips, seeds,
etc., on his various trips. Wherever he
“’COURSE I walk funny — I've got a corn !"
found suitable soil and locality he would
plant some in the hope of providing some
day “nourishment for a famished Euro-
pean or hungry blackfellow.” In his
Journal there are constant references to
this practice. As a member of Capt.
P. P. King’s party on a naval-survey trip
to north-west Australia, Cunningham,
whilst the Mermaid was anchored in
King George’s Sound, went ashore to
form a “small garden, containing stones
or seeds of peach, apricots, lemons,
loquats as well as various vegetables.” On
the Lachlan, whilst a member of Oxley’s
1817 party, he planted some acorns.
Whether or not the bush has obliterated
Cunningham’s efforts, it’s a pity wander-
ing Australians don’t make a habit of
dropping seeds in likely places. In time
it might make up for the bad national
habit of rushing for an axe when a tree
heaves in sight.
“Kune”: As a cageful of lions were
being removed, after their act, from a
circus-ring in Sydney, an announcement
over the loud-speaker plugged: “The
proprietors of this circus use only So-
and-So’s tractors.” The cage slowly
disappeared through the exit —hauled by
an elephant!
* * * *
“Mangold”: Four a.m., and we were
fishing four miles out to sea. A Douglas
flew overhead, and immediately after jets
of steam began to rise from the grey
waters. “Stewardess emptying the
teapot,” said Bill. Herb declared it was
an incendiary bomb or two, and was all
for writing to the Air Ministry about it.
Further jets of steam ; so it wasn’t the
plane. “Must have been that last joke
you told us, Mac,” said Bill. Then a big
wave nearly tipped our launch over, and
there, 15ft. to starboard, was a whale!
If you think there’s anything hilarious
in the idea of fleeing ashore from a whale
at 4 a.m. you’d have reckoned it was
damn’ funny.
* * * «
“Kate”: Adoption of atheism by the
indignant sparrows of Armadale (Vic.) is
expected to follow the sad experience of
one of them. Any spag might reasonably
expect that a House of God would pro-
vide sanctuary for him ; yet one of them,
fluttering about during the sermon,
alighted on the Bible at the very instant
that the clergyman brought down his fist
on it to emphasise a point.
FLOOD TRIBUTE
There have been a lot of chapters (though we’re
nationally young)
Full of courage, in our history to date;
Some like Anzac have been celebrated; some
are still unsung;
But their spirit is the same: Man helps his
mate!
Now another chapter’s added, quite as grim
as any yet,
Of disaster to our land, our flesh and blood.
And our hearts thrill at our heroes —though
our lashes are still wet —
And the men who manned the ’copters in the
flood.
We have fought in battle oftentimes against our
common foes,
We have linked against aggression on our
shores,
And when fires have made their holocausts,
we’ve rallied, goodness knows,
With the sweat of love to cleanse our
clogged-up pores.
We have faced our storms together, but we
never yet have seen
Towns and farmlands steeped so deep in
slime and mud,
And we all would work together, in the
desolated scene,
With the men who manned the ’copters in
the flood.
When the work of years was swept away, when
precious lives were lost,
Homes were scattered, and their treasures on
that tide,
There were countless men of courage there,
who did not count the cost,
As they faced up to disaster, side by side.
There were surfers and policemen with their
flimsy rescue craft,
There were clergymen without a collar-stud,
Rubbing shoulders with the mayors and miners
—men aghast; who laughed—
And the men who manned the ’copters in
the flood.
And the doctors and the nurses fought,
preventing the disease
Which the waters of the flood swirled in
their wake,
Army men and plain civilians —they were
heroes, all of these,
Who forgot themselves for one another’s
sake.
People danced waist-deep to show their heart,
almost too tired to stand,
They still sang although their lives had
fallen thud!
The telephonists could whistle—there was
always hope at hand, ,
And the men who manned the ’copters in
the flood.
All the world has quickly rallied—not alone
the sister States—
With kind offers of assistance and supplies;
And the flood of help increases as the flood
of woe abates;
Till emotions more than grief bedim our eyes.
How the Hunter Valley suffered, and the lands
for miles around,
We will long recall, with pride in our own
blood
For the men who gave, the men who toiled,
the brave men who were drowned,
And the men who manned the ’copters in
the flood.
VICTORIA.
PETER BLADEN.
FURTHER FLOODLIGHTS
A FEW more personal-experience notes
on the N.S.W. floods to add to those
of R. D. Murphy on Maitland (B.
30/3/’55) —from a different setting:
Narrabri, on the Namoi, in the heart of
the nor’-west sheep-country. Population.
5550.
On the Saturday we were asked to
move from our boarding-house on the
bank of the river. The river was rising
fast.
Trucks, cars, vans, horses and about
every other kind of vehicle you could
mention were carrying people and children
and personal belongings out of imme-
diate danger. I was fitted-up with a
camping-place at the Namoi Hotel —the
downstairs lounge-bar.
We watched the floodwaters increasing
till after midnight; then, a bit bored at
waiting for something to happen, went
to bed. Through the night I could hear
the water flowing past in the street, but
decided to stay in my “room” till I could
hear it on the footpath. When I woke it
was coming under the door.
In less than an hour it was 4ft. deep in
the hotel. I saw the hotel’s pet lamb
struggling in the water outside, and car-
ried it upstairs with me.
Narrabri was now a river, with the
street-lights still on. People were clam-
bering on to housetops or fighting their
way through the water to higher ground.
Two cattle passed the hotel about
breakfast-time, struggling in the current.
It was a breakfast-time without food.
The hotel’s supplies were under water.
By lunchtime some of us had got into
swimming-togs to go out looking for food.
Before we left we had a swim in the
hotel-bar.
Motor-cars were floating down the
streets like clumsy boats. A Ford Custom-
line was tied to a lamp-post outside the
post-office.
The hot sun was savage on those who
had sought refuge on the iron rooftops.
Goods, clothing and the like floated as
debris out through the broken windows
of the shops.
Making our way along I was swept off
my feet and carried into the kitchen of
a hotel where the water was 6ft. deep.
The Scout Hall near the river left its
foundations with a loud crash and floated
like a toy ship till it disintegrated against
the town bridge.
I crossed the street with the aid of a
rope tied from a shop-door to a lamp-post
on the opposite side. Hundreds of men,
women and children were gathered in
distress at the Town Hall. At the Salva-
tion Army Hall, where there was nowhere
to get on to out of the water, women
had been holding their children in their
arms for as long as eight hours. A woman
gave birth to a child at the Town Hall.
The police had a couple of boats, but
they were useless in the racing currents.
They overturned or were carried away.
Helicopters came, and carried out
remarkable rescues. One of these was
to take off a farmer who was sitting on
his horse in the flood, afraid to move for
fear he would be swept away.
In the food-dropping a man was hit
on the head with a loaf of bread and
suffered for a week afterwards.
The girls at the post-office switchboard
gave it away when the water was 4ft.
deep.
The loud roar of R.A.A.F. and news-
paper planes came above the noise of
the flood. A Lincoln bomber dropped
food by parachute to a family living on
a tank-stand. On that tank-stand, too, a
child was bom.
ROY A. WHITNEY.


m .
■
■#
!
H
car of immense strength and power yet retaining all the
traditional Humber dignity and luxury—this new Super
Snipe was designed for outback Australia just as much as for
the great cities of the world. The new dynamic O.H.V.
6 cylinder 4 litre engine—so smooth, so silent and so con-
spicuous for its flashing acceleration —is the result of years of
research and testing by Humber engineers.
The massive chassis, with cruciform cross bracing to resist
In town or outback the Super Snipe is supreme
torsional strain, combines with ultra low pressure tyres,
superb suspension and high capacity shock absorbers to
smooth road roughness away. Light yet absolutely accurate
on the steering, the Humber Super Snipe is rock-steady even
at the highest speeds. You ride in supreme comfort and
safety on the luxurious, soft hide upholstered seats—and arrive
fresh and free from fatigue after the longest journey.
A test drive is yours-without obligations
PRICE £1595
plus sales tax
Confidential terms. Accredited Finance Company
—lndustrial Acceptance Corporation Limited.
QUEENSLAND : John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
324 Wickham Street, The Valley, Brisbane. L 4871.
NEW SOUTH WALES : John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd.
2SS-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 6838.
VICTORIA * Neal's Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street,
. Melbourne. FB 3481.
DISTRIBUTORS :
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd.,
165 Franklin Street, Adelaide. LA 2201.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.,
900 Hay Street, Perth. BA 9361.
TASMANIA : D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd., York and
St. John Streets. Launceston. Tel. 1676.
I
Si
a i
11
Htisi
t .
BY APPOINTMENT TO THE
MOTOR CAR MANUFACTURERS
m,
m
LATE KING GEORGE VI
HUMBER LIMITED
MUM
SUPER SNIPE
Old lush songs
Collected by John Meredith from the singing of Mr. Goodwin of Leichhardt
(Sydney). This version of “Bold Jack” differs from the popular ballad in
Paterson’s “Old Bush Songs.” The rather mournful tune is derived from “Irish
Molly-O,” the tune for “Jim Jones at Botany Bay.” Mr. Goodwin first heard
the song on the N.S.W. North Coast’s Nambucca River in the early 1900’s.
"COOTNOTE to jazz rhythm. Our local
-*• milkman’s horse pulls the milkeart
all the week looking like any other old
moke. At the weekends he appears at
provincial shows about the district, where
he steps out like a thoroughbred and
generally wins half the prizes. His owner
tips the band 10s. to play a certain Cuban
rhumba. —“Bumpkin.”
* * * *
“Morayda”: Want a driver’s-licence?
In this perhaps somewhat remote part of
Australia (N.T.) you tell your boss you
want one. A policeman visits once a year
to pay dingo-bounties, renew licences,
register firearms, etc. The boss informs
him of your desire. You are asked your
age and if you wear glasses for driving.
Then you sign a form, pay a pound, and
in a month or so the mail-plane will
bring you an envelope containing your
hard-earned driver’s-licence.
* * * *
“Cham”: Most South Australians will
tell you that their State ceded the
Northern Territory (which is so named
because it was originally the Northern
Territory of the Province of South Aus-
tralia) to the Commonwealth on condition
that the Federal mob extended the line
from Oodnadatta to Darwin, but that
when the Canberra crowd had forked
out for the stretch as far as the Alice they
discovered there was no time-limit in the
agreement. So they permanently shelved
all plans for completing the job.
* * * *
“L.H.8.”: Touching on a reference by
Peter Bladen to boiling the billy with a
couple of sticks across it, my investiga-
tions have unearthed this explanation:
Western Australia was the State in which
the question “Bond or Free?” was most
recently heard at night; asked of people
in the streets, to see if they were private
free people or Crown prisoners at large.
When in the bush and boiling their billies
the Crown prisoners at large put a stick
across the top of the billycan. This was
to signify “bond” to their brethren at
large. If anyone asked “Why the stick
across the billycan?” he was obviously not
one of themselves; and was told the tale
about the sticks keeping the smoke out of
the water. The lore of the billycan is:
No lid; slow boil; no smoke.
Loose lid; quick boil; smoked.
Tight lid; quick boil; no smoke.
.Lids are soon lost in the bush, and the
original billycans had no lids anyway.
BOLD JACK DONANOE.
If you’ll but listen, a sorrowful tale I’ll tell,
Concerning a young hero in action lately fell;
His name it was Jack Donahoe, of courage and
renown,
He’d scorn to live in slavery or be humbled to
the Crown.
On the twenty-fourth of August, it be his fatal
day,
As he and his companions were cruising the
highway,
He was hailed by the horse-police, he stood
with heart and hand,
“Come on, my lads,” cried Donahoe, “we’ll
fight them man-for-man.”
Says he to his companions, now if you’re only
game—
You’ll see there’s only three of them, our
number’s just the same,
...... [This line forgotten by Mr. Goodwin.]
For today it’s life or liberty, or fall upon the
plain.
“Oh no,” says cowardly Walmsley, “your laws
we’ll not fulfil,
You’ll see there’s eight or ten of them
advancing on yon hill.
If it comes to an engagement, you 11 rue it
when too late,
So turn about and come with us—we’ll form
a quick retreat.”
“Begone you cowardly scoundrels, begone I
pray from me, .
For if we were united we d gain this victory,
Today I’ll fight with courage bold that all
the world may see,
For I’d rather die in battle than be hung on a
gallows-tree.”
Soon they commenced their firing; poor
Donahoe did say:
“My curse lay on you, Walmsley, for from me
you’ve run away!”
The one played-off in front of him, the other
at each side, .
At length he received a mortal wound and in
his glory died.
The e q Ua j s G f Donahoe this country has
never see,
He did maintain his rights, my boys, and that
right manfully ;
He was chased about by hundreds, for three
long years or more,
Until at length the heavens decreed that he
should roam no more ‘
j be aw f u j end Q f Donahoe, the truth to you
j’ ve to j d)
And hope that all good Christians will pray
for his soul,
May the Holy Angels guard him, likewise our
Heavenly King,
And our Saviour dear who died for us redeem
his soul from sin.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each week.]


VALUE
IS THE KEY TO
HOLDEN POPULARITY
More people buy Holden than any
other car because Holden is
Australia’s finest value. It is the only
car designed and built for Australia and the
only car offering this ideal combination—
six cylinder performance, six passenger
comfort, low first cost, high resale value,
outstanding dependability and 30 m.p.g.
economy, as reported by owners.
If you are buying for the future as much
as the present there’s no better choice than
Holden. One Melbourne fleet operator of
40 Holdens has written that Holden is
“The only car we can afford to run because
of its great resale value'”. With Holden, you
can also count on ready availability of low
cost factory guaranteed parts and service.
him*
mHP
Mg
111 l* 1
IHM
HIM*
HI!
©
* Convenient hire purchase arrangements are
available through G.M.A.C. General Motors’
own hire purchase company.
• There are two Air Chief car radios specially
designed for Holden.
In view of the very heavy demand for
Holden Sedans may we suggest that you
place your order as soon as possible.
Holden’s Sales Leadership —Official sales
figures for 1954 show that 39,263 Holdens
were registered in the year compared with
11,717 registrations of the next most popular
model. To speed up delivery and meet the
ever increasing demand for Holden, GMH
is proceeding with a further £7i million
expansion programme.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Car
LIST PRICES
from £B7O plus tax
•registered trade mark
All 4
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
GUARD
Ca*it
PROTECTA ,
6t*nl- RtgUtiAl*ig
TILL
Suitable for every type of business ll recorda
alt Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Btrori*ly built,
pleasing In appearance. Bcnd for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd*
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*-
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Lty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vsrdon A Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
COMPLETE FELLMONGERING WORKS
Recent Construction
NAVAL BASE ROAD, COOGEE, W.A.
6
Land 5|- acres, Building 9700 sq. ft., ample water supply,
adjacent railway. Fully equipped with plant for
fellmongering but premises readily usable for other purposes.
Attention invited to closing of Tenders—l3th April, 1955
—for whole or part of assets. See Tenders Column.
Business, Rollery, Etc
Economic Gear-changing
TN the first issue of The
Bulletin in 1955 it was said
that the following 12 months
would be a period- of consider-
able economic gear-changing,
“with varying scenery, but the
trip on the whole should be
satisfactory so long as the
passengers behave themselves
during the tight pinches.”
Of the year 1954 it was com-
mented :
The past year has been notable
for its record rate of factory produc-
tion, another lift in the price of steel,
fairly steady primary production,
lower prices for wheat and wool,
more stable costs of production, a
year-end rise in some wage-margins
(and more likely to come), a sudden
drop in the export income (with a
consequent need to curtail import-
ing), a drain on our overseas funds,
a policy of restricting bank-credit
again towards the end of the year,
unprecedented use of hire-purchase
facilities, higher profits and divi-
dends by public companies (the
result of the increased activity, more
stable costs and lower taxation), an
only-moderate rise in the prices of
shares of dividend-increasing com-
panies, longer yields generally from
Stock Exchange investments, a bond-
rate stable at 4i p.c. (though the £5O
million Commonwealth loan was
undersubscribed by £l3 million), but
with hire-finance companies offering
6 p.c. and 7 p.c. for four-five-year
money.
Most of those conditions still
obtain. But the export-import
situation has come to something
of a crisis, and, with London
funds running down and a large
balance-of-payments deficit in
prospect for the year ending
June 30 next, there have
been fairly severe import-cuts
(through the licensing system).
The bank-credit situation has be-
come tighter, and interest-costs
have risen. The building industry
is already feeling the impact of
tighter credit and rising costs.
Marginal pay-rises are having an
overall effect on wage-costs.
Some internal prices are still
going up while overseas markets
are falling. Trade throughout
the sterling area has been
restricting, and the Bank of Eng-
land has lifted its discount-rate
from 3 p.c. to 4\ p.c. in an effort
to protect sterling in the foreign
exchanges and to damp-down
inflation at home.
Altogether, a fair amount of
economic gear-changing already.
But the underlying tone of busi-
ness conditions is still one of
high activity. Only an odd
industry here and there is not
maintaining its sales. The Stock
Exchanges have experienced
greater activity since 1955
opened, with generally higher
prices for front-rank stocks. This
has been partly the result of
heavy buying of particular
shares by fixed-unit trusts.
Full effects of import-cuts,
lower export prices, wage-margin
increases and tighter credit con-
ditions have not yet revealed
themselves. “Passengers” would
be wise to prepare for gear-
changing on the tight pinches,
because there are bound to be
pinches ahead.
The huge lag in constructional
activity in Australia has been
one of the factors which have
maintained a high level of em-
ployment throughout the country
during economic conditions
which would otherwise have
caused industrial uncertainties.
This lag has also been a
factor in the maintenance of
inflationary conditions. For a
while following the recession of
1951-52 there was an improve-
ment in man-hour production in
the construction industries, but
slackness is again starting to
creep in, and wage-premiums
often have to be paid in the
building and similar trades.
Young countries, such as Aus-
tralia, going through a period of
expansion which makes a heavy
demand on labor, almost invari-
ably suffer inflation. In the
Commonwealth the position has
been made worse by the inci-
dence of the economically crazy
40-hour week. And the recent
increase in wage-margins, how-
ever equitable they may be
(some, in fact, were long over-
due), will have the effect of
increasing costs at a time when
our export trades are in a diffi-
cult position, largely because of
our high production-costs.
The responsibility is now on
the “passengers” to reduce costs
by producing more. That is
what is required during the pre-
sent and forthcoming “pinches.”
No amount of currency-juggling
will avert that responsibility. De-
preciation of the currency would
be an act of weakness and folly.
Given adequate man-hour
production, Australia’s position
should quickly change for the
better, “A fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay,” combined with
technical efficiency, is the answer
to most of our economic
problems, '
Share-prices Weaker
The state of Australian share-
markets over the past few days
is perhaps best illustrated by
the reaction to the increase in
the B.H.P. div. from 8y p.c. p.a.
to 10 p.c. p.a. The scrip at
first strengthened from 40s. to
425. 3d., then dropped back
to 41s. 6d. (cum Is. in div.). It
now stands at around the average
level established during the first
three months of 1955. The in-
crease in the div. was largely dis-
counted in advance, or else the
unusual strength exhibited in
the market over the last two
“Wonder who the estate-agent is?”
or three months has begun to
wane.
Nearly all stocks which
recently reached a peak for the
first quarter of 1955 have
dropped back a little. Equities
which showed signs of pro-
nounced exhilaration only a week
or two ago are now offering
in buyers’ favor.
Caution is spreading through
the sharemarket. Although there
were slight pauses in the advance
earlier during the year, this is
the most notable check to
market buoyancy that has yet
occurred.
In the oil and uranium section
some heavy market losses have
taken place. The failure of the
Rough Range oil-strike to have
developed into a commercial
field has shaken the confidence of
the whole mining sharemarket,
which works very much on the
principle of a State lottery any-
way. And the big qualifications
which have come to surround
the uranium areas held by
N.A.U.C. and A.O.E. have
brought shares that were previ-
ously soaring to dizzy heights
back to within falling-distance
of par.
To restore any spirit to the
market for speculative mining
scrip, some real (and obviously
profitable) values will have to
be produced from either an
oil-well or a uranium-mine.
Accommodation Aust., Ltd.
The immediate objective of
Accommodation Australia, Ltd.,
is to establish a wholly-owned
subsidiary, AA Motels Pty., Ltd.,
which will operate a. chain of
“motels” under lease from the
parent. The motels are to be
established progressively
throughout the Commonwealth
on sites within or near cities and
principal towns.
Motels, the prospectus tells us,
vary in size. The average in
the U.S.A. (where they
originated) has less than 20
units. The largest has several
hundred rooms. The motel en-
ables the car to be parked close
to living-quarters, where it does
not need to be completely un-
packed, and can be used as a
wardrobe-on-wheels. A pay-in-
advance, leave -as - you - please
informality tends to make die
system attractive to tourists.
The co. proposes to have a
bathroom and toilet in each
motel unit, which may be single
or double. Each bed will have
an inner-spring mattress, and
each room bed-lamps, writing-
desk, easy-chairs and full-length
mirrors, as well as air-condition-
ing. In some cases restaurants
and service-stations will be
operated by wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries or leased to outside
operators.
The board is satisfied that
there is an extensive field in
Australia for the establishment
of motels on the American
principle.
The large number of new cars
being registered in Australia
each year encourages the pro-
moters to believe that there will
be an increasing army of
motorists seeking accommodation
along the highways, where at
present hotel - services are
generally inadequate. “The
liquor-trade is the prime con-
cern of most licensed hotels,”
says the prospectus. “The
prime concern of motels will be
the provision of maximum com-
fort for travellers.”
The public is being offered
2,000,000 ords. of ss. each.
There are no promoters’ shares.
The co. may go to allotment on
the subscription of a million
shares, which would provide
£183,750 for property-purchase
and erection of buildings and
£50,000 for working capital.
The prospectus puts the cost
of a motel of 30 rooms at
£50,000. The aim of the present
capital-offering is to put up 12
motels, with the help of £150,000
of bank - assistance. A net
profit, after tax, of £85,595
is expected from the operation
of a dozen motels. That would
be equal to 17 p.c. on the
proposed capital.
Directors of Accommodation
Australia, Ltd., are F. M. Felton
(real-estate man, and a director
of President Consolidated, Ltd.),
R. D. Haxton (director of James
Sandy Industries, Ltd.), Lyle H.
Moore (president of the Real
Estate Institute of Australia),
C. R. Strangward (g.-m. of H. C.
Sleigh, Ltd.), and D. C. Harper
(of Caltex).


“ATLAS” C0 2 KILLS
BLAZE IN SECONDS
DRAMATIC FLAMING
PETROL TEST!
The pictures at right were taken
recently in the A.F.S. testing
chambers. A 44 gallon drum was
cut down, filled with petrol, a
lighted match thrown in and the
flames in an instant were as you
see them.
The three nozzles from their pre-
arranged positions emitted CO2
gas at between 900 and 10001 b.
pressure directly at the seat of
the blaze. The right hand illus-
tration shows the result.
,* ' %
■ ■ '■ / ""' ■ .’ ■ ■■■'"
V:.".; : «?1
' -
'mm
€
M-
/$& ■•**; >*
GOODYEAR FACTORY INSTALLS
"ATLAS" C0 2
Like many factories, Goodyear relies
on smooth assembly line progress for
peak production. The continuous belt
which constructs the well-known Good-
year Tyre enables the tyre to be
fabricated layer by layer. At points
along the line a highly inflammable
adhesive solution is applied and only
“ATLAS” CO2 can guard the danger
spots. The top left illustration shows
3 open jets distributing the adhesive
solution. The lower picture shows the
two cone shaped CO2 outlets aimed
directly at the combustion area.
i
wm
c?:?. ihh
8
: 1
m
i 1
WM
ml
>
'
"ATLAS" CO2 GIVES ROUND-THE-CLOCK
PROTECTION FOR INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
ELECTRIC GENERATORS, SWITCHBOARDS
A lon& list could be written here of the hazards that could be covered by CO2
protection. However, you can say that where fire can be expected in a limited
location —such as wheat dust in a silo, chemicals in the mixing stage —and where
water or foam would do damage, there’s your task for ATLAS C0 2
An automatic system also incorporates manual operation or a purely manual unit
like the Goodyear installation pictured at left can be provided in special cases.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS PTY. LT
%
pROl
HEAD OFFICE: Alexandria Works, 618 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. Telephone: MU2476
BRANCH OFFICES AND WORKS
VICTORIA: Carlton Works, 179 Berkeley Street, Carlton. D. W. Roberts, Director.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Edwardstown Works, 663 South Road, Edwardstown. N. R. Dowling, Director.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 18 Irwin Street, Perth. D. I. Murray, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: Hendra Works, 456 Nudgee Road, Hendra. J. E. Robinson, Manager.
NEW ZEALAND: Penrose Works, 17 Beasley Avenue, Penrose. G. K. Bunce, Manager.
MAITLAND RENASCENT
By “Abdul Assiz”
-fO anvone who has witnessed,
T both from air and ground, as
I have the flood-devastation of
the Maitland district,
it is easv to appreciate the urgent
it is easy to app t
demand by hpvond a
they should be p ,
tragedy and loss which have
often bee _ Tt is
Hunter River i p •
aiso easy to u J f
fh° S bnlpsale removal of the citv
the wholesale reinoval ot the city
,o Ugher ground found early
fa On more mature consider
tion, however, it has been
realised that both cost and senti-
ment will operate against the
success of such a scheme. In
fact any unbiased observer who
troubles to find out the opinions
of the Maitlanders will soon be
convinced that a very consider-
able majority of the residents
would like to see only a limited
retreat from the river. The
question thus becomes one of
finHincr nnt hnw the Hunter can
finding out how the Hunter can
be controlled, and the damage
caused by recurrent floods nun-
gated, so as to avoid the transfer
of the heart of the city at a com-
pletely uneconomic figure to
what will be—for the com-
mercial fraternity of Maitland —
an uneconomic location.
From the dawn of history
most of the world’s cities have
grown up on plains which
rendered them liable to destruc-
tion by flood, if not by fire and
sword, and their story has been
one of repeated demolition fol-
lowed by rebuilding on what
was essentially the same site,
Cities like nhilosonhies “grow
SrihZ g r= S of SE
but grow correctly in the main.”
And Maitland, with only its first
.
century as a sizeable town jus
completed, has survived w
suffering, but with no mean sue-
c^u Se \T the nrivilene
which shou § unheaval
of security without upheaval.
A town forcibly located on an
a rtificially chosen site has rarely
Proved successful-witness the
derelict collectio ns of bungalows
° n England’s south coast which
were to have blossomed into
thriving communities. Witness,
nearer home, Canberra. And so
j ht tra nsnl a n t ed Maitland be,
rra of muni-
ctpa. buildings - the hilltops,
and its business section -
bornly braving destruction on
flats. .
Far better, then, to tame the
river than to blast the town ; for
the river is tameable, as hun-
dreds of riverside communities
have proved the world over, and
most spectacularly and notably
in the Americas. The Dutch,
under rather different conditions,
have even solved the problem
of living and thriving on land
ot living and mriving on lanu
at a level permanently below
that of the sea.
In cold fact, only a small sec-
tion of the business part of
Maitland suffered damage in any
degree commensurate with the
cost of demolishing, moving and
rebuilding (particularly with
present-day costs) on a high-level
site unsuitable to its financial
survival. The present business
centre could be given nearly 100
per cent, protection by efficiently
dredging the river downstream
from below Okehampton and
building adequate levees with
the dredged silt now wastefully
and harmfully allowed to be
carried downstream. The toes
of the levees should be pro-
tected by reaction-jetties which
would make the main channel
self-scouring.
Obviously flood-plain build-
ings ( man y on abandoned water-
courses) which suffered total
destruction, notably in the
neighborhood of Long Bridge,
nQt be replace |. Many
of them were shacks long over-
due for demolition, and it will
, individual and
_ wn to rer ,i ace them else-
by decent homes The
wgch boffi
Long Bridge and tfae railway
crosSj should be drained by
adequate storm-channels; in
normal periods these would flow
direct into the main Hunter, but,
in flood-time, their discharging-
gates would be closed and the
SaudT o«r the levee m tie
highef level 0 f t he swollen
stream.
All this is going to take
mone y 5 but the cost will be only
a f rac tion of that of the forceful
uprooting of a large section of an
established town and its removal
to a site unsuited to the condi-
tions which caused its growth.
Dredging and the construction
of reaction-jetties particularly
m conjunction with the dam-
building programme m opera-
tioQ _ would br ing yet another
benefit t 0 the Hunter Valley and
to the Commonwealth as a
whole> for thus the Hunter River
wou ld be re-established as an
efficient and very economical
artery for transport.
Today—to quote M. F. Dixon
(B. 23/3/’55) the Hunter is,
shamefully, “a shallow, narrow,
winding watercourse, an d m its
upper reaches in dry weather is
little better than a string o
waterholes.
Incidentally, that string or
waterholes is the surface mam-
festation of a flow of water, now
hidden, and rendered useless for
commerce or irrigation, by
gravel and silt which clutter up
the bed of what was once a
noble stream.
SEARCH AT DAWN
By Charles Meeking
A S we waited on the dingy
railway - station
platform for the night-train from
Sydney, the eastern sky over the
Bungendore hills was glorious
with a golden sunrise. The chap
from the newsagent’s yarned
about Malaya as we waited, and
the postal-truck backed through
the gate. A sleepy porter
arrived and greeted us.
I’d got up at 4 a.m. On
several occasions in recent weeks
they’d told me at the news-
agent’s that The Bulletin
* availab i e because thev
S' bdn able tfgtTt from
van. This seemed a C
stor y> and the facts might be
worth getting. They were.
At 5.15 a.m. there was a king
rm g m tbe stationmaster s office,
to say the train was on the way
from Queanbeyan. Punctually
at 5.23 a.m. it wheezed up the
s i ope i n to the station, and
stopped with the goods-van
directly opposite the gate.
“p re tty good for early in the
mo rning,” said one of the
pos tal-boys approvingly.
F Th f ' b learv-eved second-
Zt ont Those
aUowed to lie-in
“ s “® p “ s a “ ow The d
unlocked t h e van. “There she
. g b „ be rem ‘ arke d
’There indeed she was. She
j am med almost to the roof
boxes bags bundles building-
. ’ d w hatnot, thrown
De ll-mell. Most noticeable
was a stack G f boxes of
resb bsb ” i eak j ng badly, and
doubtless giving the mail-bags a
_ urm i easant but quite
• _* rOD _: ate o d o r.
xhp newsagent’s man climbed
g boxes bent
hi on top ot the box ,
double betweenUheJoad and the
r ■ =, ’ ne
started heaving boxes on
side > and eventually contrived
some sort of excavation. In the
meantime the postal chaps were
discovering some of their bags
ai ) d grumb 1 i n g, about the
slippery floor. “It’s like this
ad the time > one of t^ m said)
“but up at the post-office they
complain that we arrive late
At the end of the van, almost
out of sight, the newsagent s
man tossed up a bundle which
I was' glad to see contained
Bulletins. Then he found
another bundle of magazines,
and we took them to the utility.
Ad thls bad taken twenty-
mi™fes - ,
There s another lot some-
where,” he said, but there sno
nlTat to^baek
to °P en ibe shop. We’ll have to
pick it U p later when sopie of the
other stuff is cleared away.”
This happens, I learned as we
drove back, three times a week,
The waste of time and effort is
constant—and every so often
bundles of papers are spoiled
by leaking goods piled higgledy-
piggledy on top of them,
Surely, I thought, some better
system of loading could be
devised. The freight, of course,
comes in all shapes and sizes,
but surely it could be stacked in
a manner which would permit
access to it from a cleared space
down the centre of the van. If
that is not thought practicable,
then the mail and papers, needed
as soon as the train arrives,
should be loaded last.
They should be near the door,
and protected from damage by
other freight. I don’t know how
many other consignees require
their goods before the freight is
transferred from the van to the
station goods-room. But the
newsagents—and their cus-
tomers—deserve a better deal,
Does the Railway Department
/. f v
ol KS.W. do to I.T
, ’
oerra.


Aik
rg
I*l 5 1
Br
!SK
;Pts m
=ri:':n r, i'N'j -§
rr&^fiisaat
Sj
-** ffl r
llaillUif
T®
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000
jauaui ssaujsnq a jsouiajoj pue isjjj sj him nflOA
'VT'OUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family,
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.” 'Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
A MONG the most popular and highly
_ priced equities-in the market is the
scrip of the big variety-chain-store
groups—Woolworths and Coles. Behind
the popularity lies a long and unbroken
run of robust earnings and dividends,
sweetened with periodic issue of bonus-
scrip and of new shares for cash on
favorable terms, and a big programme of
expansion, which is yet far from
complete.
The Woolworth group, with head-
quarters at Sydney, consists of parent,
seven subsidiary and two associated cos.,
which together operate some 180 stores —-
10 of which were opened last term —
scattered throughout Australia and New
Zealand. Since the public became
interested about 27 years ago, paid capital
has rocketed from £63,264 to £4,558,649,
of which £1,630,368 (38 p.c.) is bonus-
scrip, and the balance brought with it
£894,270 of share-premiums, which have
taken only part of the gilt off the ginger-
bread. The growth has been most marked
over the last decade, during which
£3,169,650 (including £685,656 of bonus-
scrip) was added to the register, the last
£856,164 being gathered at par during
the 12 months to January 31, 1955.
Sales and profits have risen in almost
uninterrupted trend over the last ten years.
Last term merchandise came forward in
better supply, employment remained
high, and wage-rates and other costs
were steadier. Turnover of the old
stores increased substantially, and the
total (amount not stated) received a
further lift from the new stores already
referred to.
After allowing £93,260 (down £3790)
for depreciation and £300,000 (up
£70,000) for taxation, the parent’s net
earnings increased by £249,299, reaching
£876,383:
/ Dividends —^
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1960 . . 323,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
Share premiums, £382,828 ~ . . 1,665,132
1951 . . 359,882 7500 14,000 286,438 1,717,076
Reserves capitalised, £685,656 .. 1,031,420
Added insurance reserve, £98,488 ..1,129,908
12 p.c.
1952 . . 516,533 7500 14,000 411,298 1,213,645
Reserves drawn upon, £20,784 ..1,192,861
1953 . . 454,915 7500 14,000 411,298 1,214,978
Reserves drawn upon, £29,151 .. 1,185,827
1953 tax provided, £350,000 .. .. 836,827
15 p.e.
1954 . . 627,984 7500 14,000 514,122 928,189
From development reserve, £61,172 .. 867,017
1955 . . 876,388 7500 14,000 599,739 1,122,161
* After deducting goodwill (£165,227).
Earning-power showed more vitality, too.
On shareholders’ net tangible funds
(capital and reserves combined less
intangibles) the year’s profit was 15.4 p.c.
as against 13.5 p.c. for the previous term ;
and there was a lot of money, both in
the bank and represented by new stores,
which had not developed full earning-
power. After paying the pref. divs.
(£21,500) the balance of the year’s profit
was 21.3 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 17.7 p.c. for the preceding
12 months. Profit-figures before that
are not strictly comparable with those
of the last two years because of differ-
ences in the method of treating taxation.
The div. was kept at 15 p.c., making the
average 14.2 p.c. over the last decadel
Excluding the New Zealand co., and
after setting aside £579,394 (up £79,774)
for taxation, combined net earnings of
the group were £988,188 (up £190,898),
subject to divs. on £1,273,394 of pref.
capital of subsidiaries held by outsiders.
In addition to the fresh share-capital
(£856,164), the co. raised £600,000 by the
issue of 6 p.c. unsecured registered notes,
redeemable 1956-64, and has arranged
for the issue of a further £500,000 of
similar paper before 1955 runs out:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £3,702,485 £3,702,485 £4,558,649
Reserves . . . . 1,380,202 1,093,413 1,287,388
Depreciation . . 550,776 619,525 690,600
Staff fund.. .. 48,000 48,000 48,000
Notes . . . . 600,000
Creditors, etc. .. 776,586 1,444,619 952,440
Tax provision .. 410,362 561,539
Final divs. .. 250,674 353,498 439,115
£6,708,723 £7,671,902 £9,137,731
Freeholds .. 10,583 10,092 13,814
Leaseholds . . 240,725 253,204 275,458
Plant . . .. 933,115 991,047 1,156,830
Shareholdings* .. 2,776,259 3,891,871 3,888,692
Stocks . . . . 1,195,695 1,787,247 1,935,221
Debtors! . . . . 388,222 343,048 867,663
Cash . . .. 998,897 230,166 834,826
Goodwill .. .. 165,227 165,227 165,227
£6,708,723 £7,671,902 £9,137,731
* Subsidiary and associated cos., etc. t Includes
advances to subsidiaries—£363,637, 1953 ; £235,808,
1954 ; £812,896, 1955.
The reduction of £492,179 in the credi-
tors item and addition of £524,615 to
book-debts relate mainly to movements in
current accounts with subsidiaries. The
net growths of £191,759 in properties and
plant and of £147,974 in stocks reflect the
opening of the new stores and brisker
trading. Seven more stores are under con-
struction, and more yet are to follow. But
the big holding of cash, etc. (up
£604,660), and additional note-money
already mentioned make it unlikely that
shareholders will be asked to assist at an
early date.
The current term has opened with
turnover at a high level, and since about
80 p.c. of the merchandise handled is
bought on the local market, the tighten-
ing of import-restrictions is not likely to
seriously affect net earnings. It may not
be long before the variety-chains begin
to turn attention to self-service stores,
which are a natural extension of their
present self-selection shops.
Prepared to wait for its benefits, the
market prices the co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. at
18s. 3d. to give an immediate return of
4.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (parent’s accounts) is 6s. 3d.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
T USTRE is one of Australia’s leading
producers of hosiery, lingerie and
men’s-wear, and enjoys a strong position
in the trade, technically and otherwise.
To keep abreast of the ever-changing
demands of fashion, and at the same
time make an incessant assault against
costs, the management has, since the war,
replaced most of the co.’s old plant with
fast, labor-saving, more-or-less automatic
machines, capable of dealing with nylon
and other synthetic fibres. And output
and costs have further benefited from
adoption of the latest techniques in pro-
duction-planning and -control. It is diffi-
cult to overemphasise these matters in a
market which is already keenly competi-
tive, and promises to become more so.
Features of the latest accounts are (1)
reconstruction and enlargement of the
share-capital, and (2) contraction in net
earnings, despite brisker trading. At the
end of 1953 paid capital stood at
£483,333 in 83,333 10 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 400,000 ords. In October, 1954, the
prefs. were converted into ords. on a par
basis, and 100,000 £1 bonus-shares were
handed out. The gift came from a reserve
of £200,000 created in 1951 by writing
up the book-value of Sydney factory-pro-
perty by that amount, which was part of
the revaluation surplus.
Then, to help finance further additions
to and modernisation of plant, and pro-
vide more working capital, those on the
register at January 7, 1955, were offered
116,667 new £1 ords. at par. That will
lift paid capital to £700,000, on which
a p.c. distribution will call for £515
less profit than was earned last term, or
£6546 less than average net earnings over
the last five years. And that makes no
allowance for any net return from the
new capital when it is put to work.
Last term output increased, but trading
became more difficult and profit-margins
narrowed as the year advanced. Local
selling-prices had to be cut in order to
meet a growing volume of imported fin-
ished goods, especially women’s hosiery,
and a cut in the price of imported nylon
and rayon yarns. So, although wage-
rates were relatively steady, there was a
slip of £49,893 in Lustre’s gross profit
(£438,309), of which £28,783 was offset
by savings in exes. (£350,294). The con-
traction in net earnings was thus
£21,110:
f Dividends —>,To Re- Re-
Dec,, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
Sj £ £ £
1950.110,074 10 p.c. 12ip.c. 55,332 54,742 249,311
Unexplained addition, £28,000 .. 277,311
Proceeds revalued assets, £200,000 .. 477,311
1951.. 89,487 10 p.c. p.c. 49,333 40,154 517,465
1952.. 74,123 10 „10 „ 48,334 25,789 543,253
1953.109,125 10 „ 12* „ 68,333 50,792 594,045
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO . . 494,045
1954.. 88.015.10* p.c. 12i p.c. 61,874 26,141 520,186
* Six months only. Prefs. converted to ords.
as from July 1, 1954.
The £88,015 of profit, which was £7687
less than average net earnings for the four
preceding years, was equal to 15 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the close of accounts.
So maintenance of the 12£ p.c. distribu-
tion presented no difficulty, and, con-
sidered in conjunction with the bonus-
scrip issue, might be taken as an indica-
tion that the board is not unduly
perturbed about the future.
Here is the financial structure as the
published accounts show it:
1952. 1053. 1954.
Pref. capital .. £83,333 £83,333 f „ fas
Ord. capital .. 400,000 400,000 j
Reserves .. .. 543,253 594,045 520,186
Mortgages .. 195,000 190,000 185,000
Overdraft .. 269,189 245,272 401,889
Due to subsid. . . 8,183
Creditors .. .. 51,787 73,283 94,355
Tax provision .. 108,417 113,867 94,850
Final div. .. 24,167 34,167 32,708
£1,675,146 £1,733,967 £1,920,504
Freeholds .. 425,882 503,906 516,728
Plant .. .. 174,752 167,864 222,646
Shares subsid. .. 17,210 17,210 17,210
Stocks .. .. 781,234 785,730 932,476
Debtors . . .. 275,426 258,598 230,712
Cash, etc 642 659 732
£1,675,140 £1,733,967 £1,920,604
Outstanding feature there is the growth
of £146,746 in stocks, which are conser-
vatively valued both in respect of finished
goods and raw materials, the chairman
says. To help meet the outlay, and add
£67,604 net to the book-value of premises
and plant, the co. went to its bankers for
an extra £156,617. The addition to plant
(up £54,782) was on account of new full-
fashioned hosiery machines and nylon-
fabric knitting- and finishing-equipment.
The new factory at Newcastle is just
about complete, and no major capital out-
lay is contemplated during the current
term. Later on it is proposed to erect a
warehouse at Brisbane, where a freehold
has been acquired.
As for the outlook, the recent strength-
ening of import-restrictions is expected
to benefit sale of the co.’s products con-
siderably. But some increase in costs
can be expected to follow pending in-
creases in marginal wage-rates. Though
last term’s rate of distribution cannot be
regarded as secure, the market expresses
its confidence in the undertaking by
pricing the f.-p. £1 shares at 355. 6d. to
return 7 p.c. on a \2% p.c. div. basis.
Including the new share-issue, net tan-
gible cover is 345. lOd.
Capel Court Investment Co. (Melb.)
HARES in these investment cos. are
essentially a holding proposition,
offering comparatively good security for
income and capital, with gradual appre-
ciation of both as long-term targets.
Among other things that means that the
co.’s investment policy should be soundly
based, that the portfolio should consist of
securities which offer reasonable oppor-
tunities of reaping whatever income and
capital-gains may occur over a period
of years. Hence much depends upon
whether those in control are good
“pickers.” The co.’s performances to date
and an examination of its portfolio con-
firm these requirements.
One of the Capel Court group, spon-
sored by J. B. Were and Son, the co. has
been a regular but modest dividend-
payer from the start. Average rates were
approximately 3 p.c. for the ten years to
1946 and 5.4 p.c. for the eight years to
the close of last accounts. The rate
climbed by halting steps from 3 p.c. in
1944 to 5| p.c. in 1953 and to 6i p.c.
last term. Over the same period £59,706
was added to reserves, which are still
slender, and £280,000 of fresh capital was
gathered at par, making the total on the
register £400,000, last £40,000 of which
was issued in April, 1954.
The business is handled at low cost,
and net earnings come from a widespread
portfolio. Of the 361 securities held at
December 31 last 90.6 p.c. consisted of
ordinary and 8.7 p.c. preference shares
and 0.7 p.c. bonds and debentures. Com-
monwealth Bank statistics show that, in
a representative sample of 578 cos., net
earnings in relation to shareholders’
funds rose from 8.2 p.c. for 1953 to 9.5
p.c. for 1954. Capel Court’s profit in-
creased by £8390, and there was a small
capital gain of £79 from sale of securities,
which was added to reserves:
To Re- Re-
Dec. 31, Profit. , —Dividends—-j serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
1947 .. 8,922 ii 6,038 2,884 7,222
Net profit on sales, £312 .. .. 7,534
1948 . . 12,707 5 9,000 3,707 11,241
Net profit on sales, £741 .. .. 11,982
1949 .. 17,011 5 12,250 4,761 16,743
Net profit on sales, £6l .. .. 16,804
1950 .. 25,764 5i 16,275 9,489 26,293
Net loss on sales, £l4 .. .. 26,279
1951 .. 33,103 5$ 19,800 13,303 39,582
Net profit on sales, £l7l .. .. 39,753
1952 . . 25,144 5 j 19,800 5,344 45,097
Net profit on sales, £63 .. .. 45,160
1953 .. 27,494 6f 20,700 6,794 51,954
Net profit on sales, £79 .. .. 52,033
1954 .. 35,884 6$ 25,133 10,751 62,784
The £35,884 of profit was 9.3 p.c. on
average capital as against 7.6, 7, 9.2,
8.3 and 6.9 p.c. back to 1949. The div.
was lifted from 5f p.c. to 6-j- p.c., leav-
ing. £10,751 to plough back into the busi-
ness, thus lifting reserves to 15.7 p.c. of
paid capital.
The amount of outside money in the
business is moderate, so there is no undue
risk from that quarter:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. .. £360,000 £360,000 £400,000
Reserves .. .. 45,097 51,954 62,784
Overdraft .. .. 72,279 76,837 81,236
Creditors, etc. .. .. 1,741 6,463 3,009
Tax provision .. .. 4,808 4,468 4,868
Final div 19,800 20,700 25,133
£503,725 £520,422 £577,030
Investments .. .. 499,788 514,292 574,659
Debtors .. .. .. 2,513 5,355 845
Cash, etc. .. .. 1,424 775 1,526
£503,725 £520,422 £577,030
When the books closed the market-value
of the securities held exceeded cost by
£118,599, or 20.6 p.c., thus providing a
satisfactory margin to cushion inevitable
fluctuations in market-prices.
Commenting on the changing economic
background, chairman Staniforth Ricket-
son sounded this note of warning:
The amb'er light has been shining with
increasing brilliance over several months
now, and, in more thoughtful circles, there
' is a fear that it may turn red unless
general economic conditions change radi-
cally for the better, and unless curbs are
placed on extravagant expenditures and
soaring costs Major elements causing
concern at the moment are the growing
adverse external trade-balance, the conse-
quent fall in our international reserves,
increasing financial stringency, and the con-
tinuing trend toward higher cost-levels
The affluence of any community depends
primarily not on quantity production but
on economic production—its capacity to
dispose of its products at remunerative
prices.
Only a hard-boiled optimist would
question the soundness of such a timely
warning against seeing the glow of the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.I.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
•°!9e
K
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY
Increased Production and Turnover
The 36th annual general meeting
of The English Electric Company,
Ltd., was held on March 17 in
London, England.
Sir George H. Nelson, F.C.G.1.,
M.l.Mech.E., M.I.E.E. (Chairman
and Managing Director), in the
course of his speech, said:
The Board recommends a final
dividend of per cent, less tax on
the Ordinary Stock, making a total
of 12Jr per cent, for the year. I must
point out that this slight increase in
dividend over 1953 is not the result
of higher percentage of Group profits
on turnover. On the contrary, due
to the increased competition in the
export market, the percentage
earnings on turnover show a decline
from 6.15 per cent, in 1953 to
5.85 per cent, in 1954, which is
appreciably lower than in 1939, when
it was 9.81 per cent.
I am again able to tell you of a
further substantial increase, both in
volume and value of the production
and turnover of the Group. This
increase in our rate of production
has enabled us to keep pace with our
expanding order book.
I am also pleased to say that the
volume of export orders in 1954
shows an improvement over 1953
(which itself was lower than 1952).
The Chancellor has recently drawn
attention to the increase in imports
and the need to expand our exports
still further to close this gap.
We shall do our best to respond to
this appeal, but with greater competi-
tion in our overseas markets and
with the problem of obtaining addi-
tional workpeople in a situation of
full employment, this becomes more
and more difficult.
Our products go to every corner
of the world and competition in the
export field has become more and
more severe, particularly from
European countries. The demand
for capital goods overseas continues
to be unsatisfied and will remain so
in this modern world where the
development of every country is
dependent upon adequate and efficient
systems of power, transport and
agriculture. There is every reason
therefore to both buyer and seller
why this business should be on an
economic basis.
AUSTRALIA: Australia has had
its ups and downs due to problems
of finance. Our Brisbane factory is
equipped to give the fullest service in
peace or war to clients who honour
us with their business.
TRACTION
The English Electric Company has
had 72 years of continued experience
in design and manufacture with
electric traction locomotives and
equipment of all sizes, which have
been supplied all over the world.
We have electrified 53 railway
systems in 16 countries. We have
also supplied several hundreds of
main line and shunting diesel elec-
tric locomotives to 29 railway
systems in 18 countries —a very great
record.
By our offer to acquire the control
of Vulcan Foundry Limited and its
subsidiary, Robert Stephenson &
Hawthorns Limited, both old-
established locomotive manufacturers,
we axe adding the facilities of these
companies to our own very extensive
facilities which will put us in a good
position both to contribute to the
very necessary rapid modernisation of
railways in this country, and at the
same time to continue to obtain
orders from all parts of the world.
WIDE AVIATION INTERESTS
The outstanding event in the Air-
craft Division’s activities in 1954 was
the first flight, on August 4, of the
“English Electric” P.l, which is an
experimental prototype machine. It
is the first British aircraft to exceed
the speed of sound in level flight.
Since then it has already flown more
than 70 times and most of such
flights haye been at supersonic speed,
something that I believe has never
been done before in so short a time
after first flight.
The world-famous Canberra has
continued its successful career. The
Royal Australian Air Force is now
taking delivery of Canberras built
under licence in Australia.
The English Electric Group is
playing a leading part in the most
difficult field of development of
Guided Weapons. We already have
a research and testing unit estab-
lished in Salisbury, South Australia,
to handle weapon trials at the
Woomera rocket range.
It is not generally realised how
great are this Company’s interests
in the aviation field. We have an
active and successful department
developing and supplying aircraft
electrical equipment. Through our
subsidiary, D. Napier & Son, we
have a growing and active participa-
tion in the aero engine field, and
through Marconi’s Wireless Tele-
graph Company we play a leading
part in the development and supply
of both military and civil air radio
and radar equipment for both ground
and airborne use.
POWER GENERATION
EQUIPMENT
HYDRO-ELECTRIC INSTALLA-
TIONS : Our contribution —by plant
commissioned during the year—to the
world’s hydro-electric power capacity
is some half million kilowatts made
up by 12 turbines and 14 alternators
in Portugal, Spain, Scotland, Canada,
Rhodesia, New Zealand and India.
The Company is very actively
engaged in preparations for making
a powerful contribution to the future
atomic industry of Great Britain. A
substantial development team is now
at work on this important new field.
Australia wide chain of motels to be established through
ACCOMMODATION AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
(Authorised Capital: £2,000,0001
Gssue of 2,000,000 SHARES OF 5/- EACH
(payable 1/- per share on application, 1/- per share
on allotment, and the balance in calls of not more
than 1/6 per share at intervals of not less than
three months.)
DIRECTORS!
FRANK MAURICE FELTON (Chair-
man and Managing Director) Director,
President Consolidated Ltd., Sydney
and Governing Director, Frank Felton
Pty. Ltd.
"Noojee-Lea," Canowindra, and 24
Corona Avenue, Roseville, N.S.W.
LYLE HOWARD MOORE, C.8.E., Man
aging Director, H. W. Horning and
Co. Pty. Ltd., and Partner, Moore
Bros., Bellevue Hill, Sydney 15 Martin
Place, Sydney.
CHARLES ROBERT STRANGWARD,
F.A.S.A., A.C.1.5., Director and Gen-
eral Manager, H. C Sleigh Ltd., Mel-
bourne. 455 Glen Eira Road, Caulfield,
Victoria.
DUDLEIGH CHARLES HARPER,
A.A.S.A. Assistant General Manager
and Secretary, Caltex Oil (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. Sydney and Secretary of Cal-
tex Associated Companies in Austra-
lia. 15 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W.
ROBERT DOUGLAS HAXTON, Execu-
tive Director, James Sandy (Indus-
tries) Ltd., Sydney. 268 George Street,
Sydney.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUEt
Ralph W. King & Yuill
113 Pitt Street Sydney
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Bankers for the
Company and the Issue!
Bank of New South Wales
Immediate Intentions: The immediate intention of the Board is to establish
a wholly owned subsidiary company to be known as A A Motels Pty. Ltd.
which will operate a chain of motels under lease from the parent company.
These will be established progressively throughout the Commonwealth on
sites within or near the cities and principal towns.
It is proposed that these should incorporate the best and most modern
features of motel accommodation in the United States, based on a thorough
survey which has already been made of the motel system there and in so
doing establish such a high level of friendly service, comfort and efficiency,
as has not been envisaged by the Australian public and has not as yet
been enjoyed in this country by overseas visitors.
The Board envisages the provision, where necessary and desirable, of first-
class quality restaurants and first-class quality motor service station and
garage facilities. These will cater primarily for the motels and will be
located conveniently nearby. They will be controlled by the parent com-
pany either through subsidiaries or by lease to outside operators who will
be required to observe the high standards set by the Company for the
convenience of the travelling public.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The Company has been formed
primarily to provide throughout Aus-
tralia residential, commercial. Indus-
trial, tourist, and recreational accom-
modation of a type and nature not at
present available, and for the objects
set out in the Memorandum of Asso-
ciation of the Company.
In so doing it will be the aim of the
Company to bring to the Australian
public and to overseas visitors stan-
dards of service and efficiency which
will:—
Popularise travel in Australia and
attract overseas tourist traffic by pro-
viding comfortable and convenient
travel accommodation based upon the
modern methods employed in the
United States of America and other
overseas countries.
The Board is convinced that there are
enormous opportunities in Australia
for the provision of accommodation of
all types. The Board is further con-
vinced that the provision of accom-
modation planned and executed as a
great national undertaking will not
only be profitable, but will bring into
being another great Australian indus-
try which cannot fail to play an im-
portant part in the nation’s develop-
ment.
APPLICATION FORMS
and copies of the full Prospectus may
be obtained from any Branch of the
Bank of New South Wales throughout
Australia. Members of any recognised
Stock Exchange throughout Australia,
and the Registered Office of Accom-
modation Australia, Ltd., c/o J. M.
Greenwood and Co., Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allotment is
Applications for 1,000,000 Shares in this issue. Applications will be received only
on the form as attached to the printed copy of the Prospectus. This is an abridged
Prospectus only and does not comply with the provisions of Section 137 of the
Companies Act, 1936, of New South Wales.
immediate past reflected too far
into the future. At the moment
both world and local indicators
point to a gradual tightening of
trading conditions rather than to
the development of a major
slump. Two factors which have
helped to strengthen industry’s
home market over the last couple
of years, and to drive security
prices upward, have been the re-
vival of activity in the building
and ancillary trades and the
growth of credit on the hire-
purchase basis. Combined with
the speculative element in
security-prices, it all suggests
that a sharp reaction could take
place if developments in the ex-
ternal sector of our economy
continue to worsen, and if costs
in the internal sector are not re-
duced.
Import-restrictions are a tem-
porary palliative, providing a
breathing-space in which to re-
duce our present high level of
costs. Failure to take advantage
of the opportunity thus provided
would ultimately mean deprecia-
tion of the currency, and all the
evils which accompany it.
The market prices the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares at ss. 2d. to re-
turn a satisfactory 6.3 p.c. on a
6 i p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is ss. 9d.
Consolidated' Tin Dredging
'T'HIS big Melbourne - con -
trolled holding co. (paid
capital £2,713,569), which in
September, 1951, merged the
interests of nine Australian-
owned tin cos. operating in
Malay and Thailand, has been
a disappointment to share-
holders, and the immediate out-
look for the group is anything
but bright. At the start, which
was at the peak post-war tin
boom, expectation ran high, and
dividends of something
approaching 15 p.c. were spoken
of—no prospectus covering the
merger was put out.
The seven operating concerns
are four Tongkah Compound
cos., Kuala Lumpur, Satupulo
and Ronpibon. The Tongkah
Compound No. 5 co.’s property
(Thailand) has been sold for
$450,000, payment to be com-
pleted by July 20, 1956. Tin-
songkhla’s dredge (Thailand) is
on a care - and - maintenance
basis, and seems likely to remain
so under existing conditions. Of
the seven operating cos., Kuala
Lumpur, Tongkah Compound
No. 2, Satupulo and Ronpibon
are profit-earners; the other
three are lame ducks.
Consolidated accounts show-
ing the financial position and net
earnings of the entire group are
not presented to shareholders,
and they should be. Separate
accounts for each of the nine
subsidiaries are published ; but
owing to inter-co. holdings, wide
differences in balancing-dates
and other technical difficulties,
it is not possible for the outsider
to arrive at the overall position
with any degree of accuracy.
Estimated net earnings of the
group were 1952, £187,000 (6.9
p.c. on capital), 1953, £245,000
(9 p.c.) and 1954, £182,000 (6.7
p.c.). For the first two months
of 1955 net earnings totalled
about £33,000: The holding co.
paid its first div., 6d. P er l°s-
share (5 p.c.), in January, 1954,
and another 6d. a share was sent
out in February, 1955.
At the annual meeting last
week it was suggested that funds
now held in bonds should be
put into industrial securities, and
that the board should consider
selling the group’s dredges in
Thailand and Malaya. The
chairman said liquid funds
amounted to about £BOO,OOO,
mostly in long-term bonds,
immediate sale of which would
result in a considerable loss. He
added that it was doubtful
whether the dredges and leases
could be realised at satisfactory
prices. Owing to terrorist activi-
ties, prospecting was practically
at a standstill. Because of this
about 10 p.c. of the dredges in
Malaya were now idle.
The market prices the co.’s
f.-p. 10s. shares at 2s. 7d.
The recent meeting of repre-
sentatives of cos. on the hunt for
payable uranium-ore deposits in
the South Alligator River area
(N.T.), and their agreement, in
principle, on a basis for joint
exploration and operation of
their areas, highlights the crucial
problems of production and
transport costs, and of obtaining
ore of an average grade accept-
able at the Rum Jungle concen-
trating plant. The cos. concerned
are NAUC, NUD, Uranium
Development, Uranium Mines,
Uranium Holdings and Austra-
lian Uranium Corp., an offshoot
of Uranium Development.
Rumor is that the cos. intend to
erect their own treatment plant
on the spot. But the cost, likely
to be well over a million pounds,
combined with the absence of
definite knowledge of the ton-
nage of payable ore available in
the area, is likely to prove a
stumbling - block. The dis-
appointing Rum Jungle assay of
Uranium Development’s first
parcel of ore also emphasises the
need for careful sampling and
testing at the mine.
* * * *
Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
Oil Co., N.L., expects its drilling
equipment to arrive from U.S.
about the third week in April,
and preliminary work on the
camp-site is now practically
complete. The co.’s leases cover
some 200 square miles of the
South Gippsland Basin, and
adjoin those of the powerfully
backed Frome-Lakes Co., in
which D’Arcy Exploration,
Vacuum Oil and Consolidated
Zinc are interested. Geological
investigations indicate a reason-
able prospect of obtaining oil at
depths not exceeding 6000 ft.,
but only the drill can prove
whether the stuff is there in
payable quantities.
* * * *
Western Uranium Mines, the
jointly owned subsidiary of
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.,
and Uranium Mines, N.L.,
which is on the hunt for
uranium-bearing material in the
Ravensthorpe area (W.A.), has
run into what it hopes might be
a worth-while copper deposit.
The core-assay of one drill
averaged 1.2 p.c. copper between
512 ft. and 554 ft., true width
32ft. A section of 7ft. assayed
3.1 p.c. copper. A second drill-
core averaged 2.4 p.c. copper
between 70ft. and 176 ft., true
width 12ft., with a 6ft. length
going 4.6 p.c. copper. The drill-
holes are on the edge of the old
Elverton mine workings.


Divorce Notices
wat«S E SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
av^P?T)Pr?m rC pT? S Eederal Jurisdiction in Divorce.
£°. AL PERT GEORGE PATCHING late of 145
Hyde Road Yarraville Yi'ctoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARGARET JACQUELINE PATCHING has
hied a Federal Petition for Divorce No. 793 of
1905 on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards (as provided by the law of Victoria)
. e l -» be asked to exercise its discretion
in Petitioner’s favor under Section 84 (1) of- the
Marriage Act 1928 of Victoria If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
20th day of May 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from N. S. COTTER & CO ,
Solicitors, of 54 Oxford Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALAN REID late of Belmore.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARY KATHLEEN REID has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1220 of 1954 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 20th day of May
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HICKSON, LAKEMAN & HOLCOMBE,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, whose work for
Prince Henry Hospital as president of
auxiliaries is well known, is also presi-
dent of the Almoner Auxiliary of Royal
Melbourne Hospital, and it was there last
week that, on behalf of her auxiliary, she
“gave” an ambulance to Sir Dallas
Brooks for him to present to Sir Victor
Hurley, who is the hospital’s president.
It replaces an eight-year-old vehicle
which had done more than 200,000 miles.
The Governor was accompanied by his
daughter, Mrs. Robin Byrne, who wore
with her blue-and-white-spotted silk suit
a small white curvette. The vice-regal
party was received by Mrs. Burnside,
Mrs. Roy Chambers (president of the
council of auxiliaries), Miss H. D. Grey
(lady-superintendent of Royal Mel-
bourne), Sir Victor and Lady Hurley,
the medical superintendent, Dr. P. N.
O’Donnell, and the manager, Mr. A.
Morcom. After the handing-over
ceremony afternoon-tea was served in
the sunken garden outside the nurses’
home. Lady Beaurepaire, Miss Annie
Danks, Mrs. S. P. Kroussos and Mrs.
S. E. Brunning were among those
present.
V- V *
In the Ada of California collection of
swimsuits and sunfrocks seen at the
Hotel Ausralia the fabrics were from
world-famous textile-houses in Switzer-
land, France and Great Britain. There
were also several local prints, which
compared favorably with overseas de-
signs. The longer torso-line was featured,
with some emphasis on the H- and A-
look; also the bloomer-suit and the
cummerbund, which may be draped
around the bustline to form a halter-
neck. Built-in bras, most suitable for
the strapless swimsuit and sunfrock, were
used ; also, most of the styles showed
elasticised backs.
An attractive bloomer-sunsuit was
made in a cotton which began in palest-
pink at the top and finished in dark-
maroon at the hem of the skirt. The
full bloomer-effect began low on the hips
to give the long torso-line. The A-line
was seen in a strapless navy-poplin suit,
with slim top and flared A-skirt banded
with white. “Drama” was the name
given to a black poplin suit in which
the draped hipline was caught with a
large diamente buckle. A very saucy
swimsuit in pink and white cotton had
a tiny “tutu” pleated underskirt and a
frill across the front of the strapless
bodice. A grey - yellow - and - black -
patterned sunfrock carried a citron-
yellow cummerbund which could be
draped through and across the bust to
form a halter-neckline. Another attrac-
tive strapless H-line sunfrock in various
shades of blue had a bow at one side of
the hipband ; it was patterned in grey,
lemon, pink and green, and with it went
a matching bolero.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Dare Holyman is arranging a
display of antique silver in the library
at Tintern C.E.G.G.S., Ringwood East,
on Friday, April 15, between 2 p.m. and
5 p.m. A feature will be a dinner-table
set with pieces of the George 111 era, and
a table set for dessert will display some
beautiful needlework based on heraldic
designs. Admission-cost (including after-
noon-tea) is only 3s. 6d. Proceeds will
be devoted to providing amemues tor
the school’s new boarding house.
☆ ☆ ☆
The marriage of Shirley Sturrock and
Robert G. Haisman was quietly celebrated
at the Toorak Presbyterian Church, with
the Rev. Dr. Watson officiating. The
bride, who is the only daughter of Mrs. E.
B. Sturrock, of Dandenong-road, Wind-
sor, and the late Mr. Leslie A. Sturrock,
was given away by her brother, Mr. W. E.
Sturrock, and attending her was Pauline
James. The bridegroom is the only son
of Mr. E. C. Haisman, of Toorak, and
the late Mrs. Haisman. Best man was
John Byers.
June Davis, who will be appearing in
Christopher Fry’s “The First Born” (to
be staged by the Marlowe Society at the
Union Theatre on April 20), was with
Union Theatre Repertory during its
1953-54 season and also went on tour
with the Council of Adult Education’s
company in “Pygmalion.” Shortly after
the play ends June will leave for England.
Kenneth Ross photo.
Last week Mrs. E. A. Jones, whose
husband is managing-director of Vacuum
Oil, was a busy hostess. She and Mr.
Jones gave a theatre party in honor of
distinguished visitors from New York
here for the opening of the new
£20,000,000 Standard-Vacuum refinery at
Altona; included among these were
Mrs. M. J. Rathbone, Mrs. G. S. Dun-
ham, Mrs. H. F. Prioleau and Mrs. Harold
Rabling. Later in- the week Mrs. Jones
entertained at her Toorak home. In
addition to the ladies abovementioned,
the guest-list included Mrs. J. G. Braun
(San Francisco), Mrs. B. H. Pease (Wel-
lington, N.Z.), Lady Latham, Lady Mar-
tin, Mrs. Cecil N. McKay, Mrs. F. H.
Moran, Mrs. M. A. Nathan, Mrs. Givon
Parsons (wife of the U.S, Consul), Mrs.
R. B. Price and Mrs. H. C. Smith.
☆ ☆ ☆
Madame Andree Macdonald, vice-
president of the French-Australian Asso-
ciation, will sail with her husband for
Europe this month. To wish her bon
voyage members of the association enter-
tained at a late-afternoon party. Profes-
sor A. R. Chisholm received the guests
with the guest-of-honor, who chose a
shot-green taffeta frock and full-length
matching coat topped with a green
feather-cap. Her daughter, Mrs. Warren
Kennedy, wore a grey and head-hugging
white melusine cap.
Among the guests were Senator and
Mrs. Spicer, she wearing a bronze
tie-silk ballerina frock and a black velvet
sequin-trimmed cap; the wife of the
French Consul, Madame le Bas de
Plumetot, who wore a grey-and-white-
speckled tweed frock, tiny jacket, and
currant-red straw hat; Mrs. Maurice Belz,
whose choice was a navy-blue paper-
shantung frock with a wide white organdie
collar and a small navy hat; Miss D.
Nelson, who wore a brown-and-red floral
sheer frock and brown hat; and Miss N.
J. Denehy, who offset her pale-blue silk
shantung jacket-suit with a white hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Soprano Sylvia Fisher and conductor
K. Woess were guests-of-honor at a
cheery late-afternoon party given by
members of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestral Subscribers’ Committee at
Majalla, St. Kilda-road. Sylvia wore a
black faille suit and a small gold-trimmed
blue cloche. Noted were Mrs. E.
Chappie’s small turquoise-blue straw hat
finished with a large pink rose; Mrs.
John Chaldjian’s brown-and-white-check
suit; Mrs. Berger’s silver-grey Swiss
eyelet-embroidered frock and. large black
velvet hat; the small coral-pink hat which
Mrs. Guy Bakewell wore with her floral
silk ; the white pique piping on the cross-
over front of Mrs. Adrian Acock’s black
tailored suit; Mrs. A. T. Smithers’s dove-
grey frock and small white straw boater
with a pink rose at either side.
SYDNEY
New glass-cases with fluorescent light-
ing have made the handicrafts exhibit at
the Royal Easter Show much more attrac-
tive this year, and well justify the £14,000
said to have been spent on them. The
hand-weaving section is outstanding, both
for taste and workmanship, which seems
to indicate that this form of handicraft
is superseding needlework in popular
favor. Mrs. N. G. Armstrong’s prize-
winning apron in fawn-and-sunset color-
ings is particularly charming.
The champion-piece prize went to Mrs.
O. I. Braun for her suppercloth with
clusters of tulips finely shaded and em-
broidered in satin-stitch. Mrs. A. C.
McMahon won a prize again with her
applique of The Canterbury Tales (it
seems an improvement on, her last year’s
entry, which won a special prize). There
are some beautifully knitted pullovers
by Mrs. G. J. Teale and Miss M. Kenne-
bury, and the general standard of the
hand-made glove is improved.
The iced cakes show an amazing variety
of subjects, among them a Punch-and-
Judy show, a swimming-pool, a willow-
pattern plate, a Dutch scene, a petit-point
handbag (the winner), and the Cenotaph.
The most beautifully iced cake in this
Letter’s opinion was Mrs. K. M. Jones’s
christening-cake for Maree, with exquisite
rosebuds decorating the top of the cake
and the base.
There are many old-fashioned designs
in the needlework section. Some of the
crochet patterns are over 35 years old, and
dull at that, while a few aprons go back
to the ’twenties. There is one entry in the
babywear section in which the silk is
beginning to yellow with age, and several
of the dolls are of the “beloved, bat-
tered” type. Still, if everything were per-
fect much interest would be lost from the
exhibition and certainly a good deal of
fun.
Miss Lesley Scroope, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. F. T. Scroope, of Bondi,
recently announced her engagement to
Mr. Robert Ellis, of Canberra; they plan
to marry towards the end of the year. In
the meantime Lesley, a graduate in art
from Sydney Technical College, is devot-
ing herself to teaching applied-art to
patients at the Repatriation Hospital,
Concord. Her fiance is the son of the
late Dr. L. E. Ellis and Mrs. Ellis, of
Woollahra. Lesley’s photograph is by
Hugh Spencer.
Some lovely white dresses were seen
at the Peter Pan Ball at Prince’s on
Friday in aid of the Peter Pan Free
Kindergarten. Jill Campbell’s classical
satin dress and Judy Crossing’s white tulle,
with its pink sash, were especially striking.
Judy was accompanied by her fiance,
Michael White, of Belltrees. Another
newly-engaged girl who wore white satin
was Jennifer Chapman, escorted by her
fiance, Sam Walder. Mrs. Russell Nash’s
white broderie anglaise was highlighted
by emerald-green chiffon, and Mrs.
Harold Bishop’s black-and-white-spotted
organza had a cummerbund of black.
☆ ☆ ☆
Notable engagement of the week was,
of course, that of Miss Heather Menzies,
the attractive daughter of the Prime
Minister, whose fiance is Mr. Peter Hen-
derson. They plan to marry in May or
early June, when Mr. Henderson returns
from Djakarta, where he is third-
secretary at the Australian Embassy.
They will be married at St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian Church, Canberra, and will
go to live in Djakarta, where Mr. Hen-
derson’s term has about two years to run.
☆ ☆ ☆
The march of democracy! At the Show
on Monday one entry was listed as “Cats,
Royal and Sacred Siamese. (All classes.)”
☆ ☆ ☆
Arrival and departure seemed to be the
theme of the party given to farewell
Miss Leila Bridgman, formerly national
general-secretary of Y.W.C.A., who has
retired and leaves shortly for Auckland
(N.Z.), her home-town. Mrs. C. P.
Johnson, at whose home the party was
held, and who was hostess with Mrs. N.
Harding and Miss Meysie Law, is her-
self setting off soon for the Continent,
where she will put her two daughters
into finishing-school in Switzerland and
will attend the World Centenary Celebra-
tions of the “Y.” Other guests with
thoughts on travel were Miss Isabel
Nesbit, who leaves for five months abroad
with her brother Mr. R. H. Nesbit, and
Mrs. A. Tregoning, who will return with
her family to live in Melbourne late in
April after many years’ association with
the “Y,” in Sydney.
* * * ■
“The Cavalcade of International
Music” is the attractive name given to the
concert to be held in the 2GB auditorium
on Saturday, April 16; it will feature
music, song and dance from many lands.
The function will benefit the funds of
the International Ball, which in turn
will aid the Australian Association for
the United Nations.
Mrs. Lucille Rath, who is the producer
of this concert, is also the president of
the flourishing Cammeray Music Club
which last week held its first celebrity-
concert, with tenor Patrick O’Hagan,
pianist Hal Stead and Nerissa Niblo.
Mrs. Rath says that Hal Stead was the
first Australian she met in London, where
he was her coach and accompanist, and
that it was he who first interested her in
/his "country. It is expected that the Inter-
national Concert, under her guidance and
that of Mr. Victor Lloyd of 2GB, will
be something extra-special in Sydney’s
world of entertainment.
Mrs. Alan Smith, the dynamic English
businesswoman who is visiting Australia,
says her chief impression of Australian
women is that they live “incredibly well-
organised lives in spite of difficulties.”
Mrs. Smith is a public-relations officer for
Uhilever, but is on leave at present and
is seeing Australia while visiting her
husband, an engineer, at present stationed
in Melbourne. She spoke at the Penguin
Club’s No. 1 Group luncheon on Thurs-
day, when Mrs. Barbara Bennett was in
the chair. Mrs. H. C. Coombs was also a
guest-of-honor. Mrs. Smith and Mrs.
Coombs are old friends, the original bond
between them being that both their hus-
bands attended the Perth Modern School,
an institution which seems to have pro-
duced more than its fair share of out-
standing citizens.
☆ ☆ *
Fashion holds its breath for a space
at this time, awaiting the verdict of the
Easter Meeting on winter styles. Note-
worthy, however, on this front was the
showing of samples of the Isle of Bute
handwoven wool fabrics and tweeds
which are being introduced to the Aus-
tralian market for the first time. These
are high-fashion fabrics, some of which
have been chosen by the Queen Mother
and the Duchess of Kent, and this week’s
showing included the tartan specially
woven for Prince Charles, who is Duke
of Cornwall and Rothesay (capital of the
Isle of Bute). The fabrics, ranging from
gossamer-fineness to sturdy country-
weight, are claimed to be 100 p.c. flawless
by the founder of the industry, the
Marquess of Bute, who established it in
1947 to rehabilitate the ex-Services
people on his estate.


qUAI^
swi&m-
WAICH
5 YEAR GUARANTEE
r'V
*ni‘\
P/,55
Doiirfy gold ladios' 17-jewclled
levee Watch. Although quite tiny, the
figures are raised gilt and easily seen.
Clack cordette band.
IfiUei
[£IQ
A pretty and most durable ladies'
/watch. 15-jewelied lever movement.
/Chrome ease, filigree lugs. Hack
cordetfe band.
CALENDAR WATCH. Slim Calendar
,Wateh.: Two windows show day and
month,, arrow date. 15*jewelled lever
movement, raised gilt figures.
Chrome £l4/10/0
Rolled Gold,: v £l6/0/0
The latest Continental fashion the
SKELETON. The back is transparent.
You do not have to remove back to
see the movement. Jewelled lever
escapement ( in assortment of colours
and rolled gold £. centrepiece. With
small second -p- £l2/0/0
(With sweep second £l3/0/0
(Includes leather band.)
ONLY
*6
MUSICAL ALARM CLOCK. Awoken*
you to the tinkle of delightful music.
Really fine docks' in assortment of
colours or plain chrome finish. Cases
are square, round or octagonal. State
your preference. About 3J in. x 2} in.
Luminous hands and figures. Price
®"|y - £6/0/0
Write us for all types of
watches, rings and
jewellery
MERCURY!
MAIL ORDER
pty.Ytd. I
710 George St., Sydney.
All prices include registered post, but
not C.O.D. charges.
Cut out this advt., mark the items you
want, attach p.n., m.o., or cheque, or
order C.O.D. and post NOW.
NAME
ADDRESS
B3
Missing Friend
TO CLIVE PERCIVAL THIBOU formerly
of 1 Lawn Grove, Camberwell in the
State of Victoria, Fibrous Plaster Fixer
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ESTHER
LOUISA _ THIBOU of 4S Shower Street
Preston in the said State Married Woman
has instituted proceedings against you
for divorce on the ground of your
desertion Unless you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the said
State on or before the 15th day of May
1955 the Suit will proceed in your
absence and a Decree for dissolution
of marriage may be granted and you
may be ordered to pay costs If you
wish to defend this Suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or
before the 25th day of May 1955. —
CLEARY ROSS & DOHERTY of 40
Queen Street, Melbourne, aforesaid.
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Tenders
TENDERS ARE INVITED AND
will be received by the Liquidator up
to 13th April, 1955, for the purchase
of his right title and interest in:
(1) The whole of the assets including
Goodwill of COOGEE FELLMONGERING
CO. PTY. LTD. (In Liquidation),
situated at Naval Base-road, Coogee,
Western Australia.
(a) Factory Land (area 5| acres) and
Buildings (97 Squares).
(b) Nissen Hut 24ft. x 16ft.
(c) Fellmongering Plant and Steam
Master Boiler.
(d) “Garnet” Cott Opening Machine.
(e) Sundry Equipment, tools, etc.
(f) Office Equipment.
(g) Goodwill.
All situated at Naval Base-road, Coogee.
Tenders, which shall be in sealed
envelopes marked “Tender Coogee
Fellmongering Co. Pty. Ltd. (In
Liquidation)” and on the form
provided may be for the whole or part of
the Assets referred to and must be
accompanied by a deposit of 10 per
cent, of the total amount of the
tender.
Conditions and form of Tender
are available at the office of the
Liquidator.
Inspection can be arranged by the
undersigned who will make full in-
formation available on application.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
H. B. HALVORSEN,
Liquidator of Coogee Fellmongering
Co. Pty. Ltd. (In Liquidation). Care
W.A. Carcary Halvorsen & Co.,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Warwick
House, 63 St. George’s-terrace, Perth,
Western Australia.
a GIANTofa chain saw
..in a ONE-MAN package
When you receive your Mobilco in its fitted timber
case with fuel tin, oil measure, high quality tool kit
and guarantee card, it's a good enough sight and it
spells quality all the way through . . . But it is not
until you take this mighty little monster and press
the chain deep into a hardwood log that you realise
what a good machine you have got. There is light
weight here and full genuine five horsepower
performance . . . enough to keep a man going day
after day, year after year, turning timber into
profit at a minimum of toil and sweat.
Write for all the details now. They
will be posted to you right away.
\
- i
&
■stmm&k l
mt
Mobilco
ONE-MAN
CHAIN SAW
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name
Address
You can get your Mobilco on terms.
A reasonable deposit and monthly
payments well within your reach will
start earning money and saving effort
for you right away. There's the
coupon at the left. Fill it in and post
it for full details on the Mobilco.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: IF 4209 .... TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH .
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Easter Art
The astonishing thing about
Arthur Murch’s conception of
love on the beach, which con-
sists of a mother and child with
sometimes another girl, usually
blonde or hedhead, all caught
up in a lyric of sunlight, foam,
White sand and tenderness, is
that, having stated it so often
before, he can go on saying it
With such intense feeling and
such fineness of craftsmanship,
as if each time he is seeing the
subject for the first time.
His “Summer Idyll,” even if
one has seen almost precisely
the same painting a score of
times, is unquestionably the
outstanding contribution to an
exceptionally interesting “Easter
Exhibition” at Sydney Gros-
venor Galleries; Norman
Lindsay and Lance Solomon
being represented by their
slighter pieces.
But perhaps, Murch’s capacity
being known, the most pleasant
discovery of the show is Garrett
Kingsley’s emergence to a very
high standard in the double
fields of portraiture and land-
scape. That Kingsley can paint
a small head in oils with rare
sensitivity and a fine effect of
modelling is hardly news, since
he has often done it before,
though never better than in the
present sensuous “Head” with
her golden hair, closed eyes,
full lips and charming air of
abandon; but that he could do
a landscape of the size of
“Macquarie Creek” (bought for
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment) so full of quiet poetry
and so delicate in its handling of
tone, is a considerable
development.
Other painters well repre-
sented include G. K. Townshend,
Adrian Feint, James R. Jackson,
Margaret Preston, Leonard Long
and, in his report on Mont-
martre, Douglas Pratt.
❖ ❖ *
Moomba Fun
In proper Moomba spirit, the
artists of Melbourne got together
to have fun at the “Herald”
open-air art-show in the Treasury
Gardens. With its swards of
green grass inhabited by noisy
crickets, its background of
stately public buildings inhabited
by civil servants, and its magnifi-
cent poplars, elms and ashes, the
Treasury Gardens certainly pro-
vide a lovely place for artists to
have fun —so long as they don’t
make themselves feel miserable,
like Corot, by comparing the
infinite variety of Nature with
the lack of variety in their
pictures.
When I looked in, the paint-
ings—no fewer than 1500 of
them —’Were concealed behind
long rows of green curtains
against which the sun was
fiercely beating ; the only objects
of art which were unself-
consciously flaunting their
charms in the face of Nature
were the sculptures ; and what
fun they were having !
Like larrikins at a picnic, they
could be seen, if not heard, a
mile off, disporting beneath the
gracious shade of an enormous
elm - tree rectangular nymphs,
ci r oju 1a r Madonnas, Judas
Iscariots and Ned Kellys with
noses a yard long, cubes, tri-
angles and rhomboids, pieces of
blackened iron apparently picked
up from a junk-yard, a lady in
green plaster suffering from
smallpox and excessive elonga-
tion, something that looked like
a rain-gauge built by a demented
meteorologist, a reasonable
attempt to model a woman’s
body, a woman athlete which
had some vigor, lumps of clay
and terracotta and blocks of
wood and baulks of timber
butchered into Euclidean figures
and polished out of recognition
and an affair of wire and plaster
aptly named “Genius Extinct.”
They all seemed to be having
great fun and filling the air with
their noiseless laughter, like so
many dummies at the circus.
In that sweet arboreal land-
scape it looked as incongruous
as a top-hat on a naked savage.
“Spare my trees that hat,” Bis-
marck once said to an English
Ambassador in a topper whom
he was showing over one of the
beloved forests. “Spare my trees
your sculpture,” was the thought
that came to mind as I contem-
plated all this fashionable
junk.
But, after all, it was Moomba,
and why shouldn’t the sculptors
have fun together?
M. G. S.
Stage and Music
Art Gallery Proms.
The lunchtime promenade-
concerts in Sydney’s Art Gallery
were resumed last week with a
small orchestra under the baton
of the Conservatorium’s Pro-
fessor of Violin, Eugen Prokop.
The Suite No. 1 from Purcell’s
“Fairy Queen” held in its four
movements the spirit of the
dance, disciplined rather than
abandoned, and the tone in the
strings was quite creditable.
The other offering was
Mozart’s Symphony No. 29 in
A Major, a sunny little work
replete with 18th-century grace
and elegance, and containing a
Minuet which has quite a
military flavor about it. Only
weakness in the playing in this
work was some ragged sounds
from the French horn.
<&
“The Prisoner”
On walkabout while its new
playhouse is building in South
Yarra, Brett Randall’s Mel-
bourne Little Theatre will stage
Brigid Roland’s “The Prisoner”
for a three-we.eks’ season at the
Arrow Theatre. This play,
inspired by the imprisonment
and trial of the Hungarian
cardinal Mindszenty, was a high-
light of London’s West End
theatrical season last year with
Alec Guiness as “The Prisoner.”
The play is also due for a
Sydney airing in the capable
hands of the Genesians, at whose
theatre it opens on Friday,
April 15. There are only three
speaking parts: the prisoner, the
interrogator and the warder.
They will be played respectively
by David Butler, Bruce Stewart
and James Dibble.
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases
“Golden Marie” (Savoy): One
of the best-acted and most poig-
nant film-dramas yet to come out
of France. Dealing with love,
hate, treachery and murder
among petty criminals, it owes
its excellence to sensitive direct-
ing by Jacques Becker and the
acting of two of French film-
dom’s most gifted players:
Simone Signoret and Serge
Reggiani.
The atmosphere of moral
decay and insidious threat is
maintained even when the scene
shifts from slum-alley to sylvan
areas; and the inevitability of
the final tragedy is built up with
unassailable logic.
* * *
“Sabrina” (Prince Edward):
Screen playwright Billy Wilder,
who also produced and directed
this Paramount film, has notched
a winner with a wittily-dialogued,
polished comedy about the devas-
tating effect wrought upon the
two sons of an enormously
wealthy industrial-emperor when
the Cinderella daughter of their
very correct English chauffeur
returns, beautiful and sophisti-
cated, from two years of cooking-
lessons in Paris. Audrey Hep-
burn is charming and vivacious,
and William Holden and Humph-
rey Bogart give suave perform-
ances as the totally dissimilar
sons who share the same
ambition.
* *i* ♦♦♦
“The Barefoot Contessa”
(Century): Humphrey Bogart,
abandoning for the nonce his
tough-man roles, takes here, with
authority, the part of a fatherly
mentor to a Spanish nightclub-
singer who catches the cold, pre-
datory eye of a vicious young
mogul of the film-industry for
whom Bogart is script-writer
and director. Told in an effective
series of flashbacks from the
young lady’s graveside, and the
proceedings taken generally on
a cynical note. The characterisa-
tion is sharp, and, in the lead,
Ava Gardner makes good use
of her considerable gifts, not
least of these her dark and
sensuous beauty.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
Now in the closing stages of
his free-and-easy travel-trip from
Perth to, Adelaide (via the West’s
goldfields, thence south and skirt-
ing around the Bight), Peter
Bladen has just been to and
described Port Pirie and is at
the old Cousin Jack town of
Moonta, heading for Kadina and
places thereabouts.
MOONTA TO KADINA
HAVING pictured Moonta
as a fishing-village with
thatched cottages and
old sea-captains lurching
out of picturesque wharfside
inns, muttering colorful phrases,
with parrots on their shoulders
and cobblestones underfoot, it
was a shock to find a respectable
and ordinary-looking town, a
mile or two from the coast, with
people who dressed and talked
like most other people.
A few of the older men were
wearing peaked caps, but they
could have been taxi-drivers, and
the greeting “G’day, Cap’n,”
referred back to the old days of
“mining-captains,” not “sea-
captains.” Most of the romantic
past is passed.
Moonta (“ Moonta moon-
terra,” “the place of impene-
trable scrub”) was originally part
of a sheep-run leased by Walter
Watson Hughes, who was aware
of the green stones found on the
beach, and of wood that burned
with a greenish flame, telling of
the presence of copper in the
area; but a wombat made the
first real discovery.
In 1860, James Boor, a
shepherd, found the mound
which the wombat had raised
strewn with pieces of copper-ore,
at a place six miles inland from
Wallaroo. Not long afterwards
Patrick Ryan, another shepherd,
made a find near Moonta. It is
said that the race to register the
first claim in Adelaide was as
exciting as the ride from Ghent
to Aix. Another report says that
Joe Gillard had a find when his
“favorite gin” stubbed her toe
on a fine piece of ore. Some of
the early miners called them-
selves “wombats” after the
original discoverer.
The mines prospered, to
become the biggest in South Aus-
tralia. At first the ore was
shipped to Swansea, in Wales, for
smelting, but Cornish miners
arrived in great numbers, and
soon a smeltery was opened at
Wallaroo. The mines paid for
themselves from the start, so
rich was the ore, and no calls
had to be paid on the shares.
The quality of the copper became
world-famous. Other Cornish-
men came from the Burra Mines
and the Victorian goldfields, until
a unique community had been
formed, 100 per cent. Cornish,
or, as Cousin Jack said, “a bit
mooar.”
The Wallaroo company
amalgamated with the Moonta
company in 1889, and this was
the first mining company in
Australia to pay out over a
million pounds in dividends. The
company was finally liquidated
in 1923 and the mines closed
down, though not for want of
copper.
The miners were allowed to
build their homes anywhere out-
side the municipality, and
irregular settlements sprang up
near the mines. At Wallaroo
Mines there were areas known as
Jerusalem, Jericho and New-
town. Cap’n Hughes established
“COPPER!"
a private township at Dustholes,
called after his birthplace,
Pittenweem, in Fife, Scotland,
while another settlement, Wheal
Hughes, on a site where once
corroborees were held, was later
to be known as Crossroads. At
Moonta Mines, clusters of squat
cottages sprang up, made of pug
and stone, and “temp’ry for the
time.”
Cousin Jack’s cobbers would
help him to build, without scaf-
folding and making the walls as
high as they could reach. Extra
rooms would be tacked on when
needed.
They were poor folk and life
was hard for them, and they were
dour. One is tempted to think
that as figures of fun most of the
humor was in the eye of the
beholder.
They were strict Methodists
and Wesleyans, especially the
mining-captains, who had power
of life and death over their
employees. They would say:
“When I say a thing is, it is, even
if’t edden.”
There were churches galore,
with long sermons and religious
revivals. One fervent preacher is
said to have thanked the Lord
for the small spark of grace
which he possessed, ending with
the exhortation: “Oh, water that
spark! ”
Cornishmen are famed for
their voices. Kadina was the
home-town of the celebrated
Mendelssohn choir. Funerals
were lusty events, and at
Christmas carol-singing was the
rage. Many carols by local com-
posers were presented.
Cockfighting was popular,
and so were billygoat-races. The
goats were kept for milking.
Water at first was so scarce that
no gardens were possible, and
after rains the water would even
be scooped from the wheel-ruts
with saucers.
On midwinter’s eve, following
the age-old custom of lauding
the sun, giver of heat and power,
bonfires are still lit, on Billygoat
Flat, as though to encourage the
sun to rekindle its failing fires.
There were horse-drawn rail-
coaches, and ore was lifted to the
surface by means of horse-
whims, to be dressed by hand.
The sites for new shafts were
frequently selected by swinging a
pick and digging where it fell.
The miners went below with
sperm-candles encased in clay
stuck on the front of their
characteristic hard headgear.
Anywhere there was a hole there
was sure to be a Cousin Jack at
the bottom of it, as the local
saying went.
There were accidents, such as
the one when a miner and his
lad fell asleep leaving a candle
burning on a box of dynamite,
and frequently women and
children were drowned inland,
when the covers of underground-
tanks collapsed. Goods were
bought at the Nimble Nine-
pence store, illicit liquor at the
Kiddlewink, and the pasties and
saffron-cakes cooked by Cousin
Jennie were famous. The little
homes were spotless. Moonta
became, for many, the “hub of
the universe.”
Among the famous characters
were Elizabeth Woolcock, who
murdered her husband at a place
since known as Poison Flat, and
had his tombstone inscribed:
“Dangers stand thick through all
the ground to push us to the
tomb,” before becoming the
only woman ever to be hanged
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
in South Australia ; John Lord,
who took over a hotel and
advertised: “Sinners come in, the
Lord is here! ”; and Cap’n
Hancock himself, not a Cornish-
man, having been born five miles
beyond the borders of Cornwall,
but “near ’nuff to wan,” the
manager at Moonta Mines for
34 years.
Cap’n ’Ancock’s Pig was the
name given to the locomotive at
the mine, and Cap’n ’Ancock’s
White Cow, which gave more
milk than any other cow, nearly
all “crame,” was the mine
itself. His name is now legend.
Looking for echoes of the old
days I had noted the name
Barbary over one of the shops,
reminiscent of sea-pirates, the
street-comer posts as solid as
capstans, and the cobblestones
in the old hotel-stables, but one
night I went in search of Cousin
Jack, or, to be more exact, a chap
whom I thought might turn out
to be my own distant Cousin
Joe ; some of my forefathers had
lived near here.
It was cold and windy, and
the road was puddled. It was
dark away from the town.
Because the leather coat was
looking worn I had given it a
coating of boot-polish as a pro-
tection against the rain, and it
squeaked at every movement. It
seemed a long distance out to
the Moonta Mines.
Many times I called at cottages
asking directions, meeting people
who were descended from the
old Cornish folk, still living in
the types of dwellings which I
had expected to see, with slat-
roofs, some sheeted over with
iron, old fences of driven stakes
interlaced with pieces of wood,
white stone-walls and paved
yards, little white porches and
gates which wouldn’t open, wire
doors at the low doorways,
fastened from the inside, which
had to be rattled to gain atten-
tion, as there was little woodwork
on which to rap; and very old
ladies would answer the
summons, or people carrying
lamps, directing me by landmarks
which couldn’t be missed, they
said, but which were, by me, in
the dark.
There were great old buildings
lurking in dark silhouette, and a
mournful clanging as ghostly as
the bell of some ruined chapel.
Having at last found the turn-
off and the solid block of the
Methodist Church, with its stone
wall and dark towers and the tall
pile of gloomy trees, I was lost
in a maze of puddled lanes,
among clusters of white stone-
cottages with lumpy chimneys
like children’s houses of
plasticine.
Most people X asked about
Joe said: “I don’t know where
he’s to!” and when at last his
home was located, he was out.
It was good to return to the
hotel, via many more puddles, to
the cheery fire.
A later visit was to the news-
paper office. The files, dating
back to 1872, were kept upstairs.
“Watch out!” said the editor,
and, remembering the collapsing
covers of the underground-tanks,
I did. Visitors to the changing-
sheds on the Moonta Bay jetty
should also watch their step or
they will swim without changing.
The jetty is now a shambles, no
place for a walk on a windy
day. Many of the planks have
been removed for repairing boats
and sheds.
There were references in the
papers to the Wombat Hotel at
Kadina, with the largest room
on the peninsula, for balls and
stage-shows; the Globe Hotel
at Moonta, with every conveni-
ence for watering horses and
livestock; and advertisements
for “stiff felt hats, which can be
used as lifebuoys—which are
commonly worn.”
Having taken a brief journey
into a past I had no longer
expected to glimpse, I felt it
would be better not to return to
Moonta Mines by daylight,
afraid of being disillusioned, but
I did return, and the dark piles
of buildings were found to be a
stately old school, while the
mournful bell was a maypole in
the playground, the Methodist
church was a fine old building,
and near by were the extensive
ruins of the old mines-office,
heaps of rubble and cellars and


one or two towers and chimneys
still upstanding.
On the way back I met, living
in a beautiful home in a grove
of tall trees, the widow of
a former mine - manager.
Thousands of people came from
far across the world to Moonta,
and when the mines closed down
they were scattered to many
places, save those who were
buried here, and the few who
had sent down their roots too
deeply to leave.
The widow, and her com-
panion, the one in a knitted
beret, and the other wearing a
Puritanical black-brimmed hat,
even indoors, told me they liked
growing old among the trees,
living on memories, and sur-
rounded by old photos and cases
of specimens, the beautifully
polished malachite, crystals and
copper-ores, the treasures from
the earth which had brought
Moonta to life.
When I told the widow that I
had wanted to hear about the
past, she said that she hoped I
would be enlightened. “I like
people to know,” she added, and
her laugh was surprisingly gay,
like the call of a small impulsive
bird.
At the cemetery there are
echoes of the past in names
we would now think a little odd,
the Polgreens and Beagleholes,
Polkinghornes and Chewings,
people from Gwennap and St.
Just in Cornwall, and Abigail,
Hannah, Sabina, Keturah and
Dorcas, Josiah, Ephraim,
Abraham Nayram, Reuben,
Abel, Methuselah and Job,
Charity, Honor, Grace and
Patience, and such combinations
of names as Peter Knight
Champion, Ruby Hand and
Temperance Warn. One grave
has a cement chimney-place as a
headstone, another commemor-
ates a “musical leader,” and
another the secretary of the
Knitting League, a man.
There are many parklands in
and around the town. Some
were once among the State’s
finest gardens and some are
merely paddocks of trees ; Jones
Park, and Nankivell Park and
Victoria Park, while Queen
Square used to be a quarry.
At the Town Hall there are
prints of some of the cartoons
with which Oswald Pryor has
helped to spread the fame of
Cousin Jack. There is a well-
known one about two miners
who didn’t meet: “I thought it
was Billy Bilcock goin’ up ’long,
and ’e thought ’twas me cornin’
down ’long, but when we met’t
wadden neither one of us.”
People still tell many of the
Cousin Jack sayings, while some
are part of everyday speech in
places where the miners’
descendants have settled.
Workmen still mimic: “How
many of you down that hole?
Five? Well, half of you come
up! And don’t climb up the
ladder, it’s been taken away! ”
It is said of one of the cap’ns
that he was on the phone and
admonished a boy who entered
the room for not removing his
cap, because a lady was on the
line.
ease ’” some folk say, for
Make haste,” and “Fore-side
back, and even, when it is cold,
like the barman at Melrose, “Put
wood in hole, boy! ”
Like some of the other com-
munities in South Australia,
which for many years preserved
the customs and distinguishing
features of their places of origin,
in language or dialect, and
activities ranging from the burn-
ing of bonfires to the fostering of
hunt-clubs, Moonta is losing
many of its individual charac-
teristics.
With the fall in population,
and a greater stability, brought
about by the gradual change-
over from mining to agriculture
—a change leading up from the
first reputed crop at Green’s
Plains in 1866 to the present era
of farming prosperity—the town
is now reaching a respectable
middle-age, with a richer past
than the visitor would imagine
from its rather plain appearance.
It was cold and wet when I
returned to Wallaroo, and my
wheels were grating. Anyone
remembering me in the town
would picture me striding along
with bowed head but with my
eyes well open, because that was
the best way to keep my hat on
in the wind, and to save falling
over the edges of the kerbs,
which at places are like miniature
cliffs.
Wallaroo (a drastic rendering
of Wadla - waru, “wallaby’s
urine,” shortened for the con-
venience of stamping woolbales)
is still a port of consequence, for
the shipment of grain instead of
copper, and though the smeltery
has fallen into ruins, the
fertiliser-works have flourished.
To the south is Ardrossan, the
home of the “stump-jump
plough.”
Typical of many towns in our
agricultural areas, Wallaroo is
fairly contented and prosperous,
with little excitement to offer the
casual visitor. The shops are
scattered and hotch-potch—the
chemist sells the newspapers, for
instance. And the tourist takes
his life in his hands at the
railway-crossings, where his only
warning against the diesel is a
honk like that of a thwarted
swan.
At night at the milk-bar I
met a sailor. He said: “Out in
the bay we counted 45 lights.
But what is this, a ghost-town?
You’re the first bloke I’ve seen
alive! Did they forget to put
out the lights when they died?
We’ve been to Casablanca and
the States. Boy—that’s where
you can have fun! Life and a
bit of color! And South
America! But, ’struth ”
Somebody else said that
Wallaroo is noted for its hospi-
tality to sailors.
Kadina (or Caddy-yeena, “the
lizard plain”), to where I went by
the night train, is the district’s
shopping-centre. There, W. G.
Grace once captained the first
English cricket-team to play in
South Australia. He com-
mented : “I fervently hope I
shall never again have to play
cricket on such a ground.”
But Kadina has come a long
way since 1874. It is one of the
most fashionable of the State's
country centres, with modern
emporiums, a floodlit racecourse
and trotting-track, professional
men in residence instead of pay-
ing monthly visits, and in recent
times there was even a brass-
band. Perhaps it is still in exist-
ence. I would have liked to stay
at the Wombat Hotel.
Even in the centre of the
town there are gardens and
parks, with solid and defunct
fountains to the memory of
worthy departed citizens, a notice
that warns: “Keep clear of trees
when windy,” and unheralded
drains to break the legs of the
unwary. Near by there is a
church, lit-up at night like a
castle.
Perhaps some of the elegance
of the town can be traced to the
fact that George Garnett lived
there. He was court-decorator
in England, and designed decora-
tions for Robert Louis Steven-
son’s home at Santa Barbara,
California, and for the home of
the author of “The Rosary,” as
well as the decorations for the
visits of Royalty and Papal dele-
gates to Australasian cities.
My visit was brief, but my
memories of Kadina are
pleasant. When a town is so
attractive it doesn’t take long
to form a good impression, and
even in one evening I made
friends I well remember, who
also remember me.
My cold was still a good
enough excuse for continuing the
journey to Clare by train. On
board the train, lamenting that
there had been so few echoes of
the early days at Moonta, I was
regaled with the conversation of
"Anyone try to knock you down?”
three elderly locals, two ladies
and a man. They were discussing
Cornish-pasties.
“Most of the things they call
pasties nowadays are only
sausage-rolls,” one lady com-
mented.
“I can remember my mother’s
pasties,” said the gentleman.
“Now, they were pasties! She
used to cook them in sections
with one end hanging out of the
oven on a chair.”
“Remember old Mrs. P ,”
said their companion. “She once
put an old boot in a pastie for a
joke. But she could really make
them. She put sauerkraut at one
end, meat and potato at the
other, and rhubarb and apple at
the other.”
The countryside sped by while
I marvelled at the three-ended
pastie, and the people from
Moonta - Wallaroo - Kadina
argued which spot for them was
“the hub of the universe.”
KADINA TO WATERVALE
TPHE train sped through grey-
whiskered paddocks, pock-
marked at times with rabbit-
burrows, and through little town-
ships hiding behind their
unsightly iron and hessian grain-
stores, Thrington and Pasker-
ville, and on the plains near the
gulf, Melton, South Hummocks
and Port Wakefield. The skies
were grey and birds hovered
around the train like flies about
a caterpillar.
Lurching over the bare hills
towards St. Vincent’s Gulf, to the
shallow green and turquoise
waters, ending’ in marshes, with
wide panoramas of ploughed
fields, shadowed by cloud, and
ranges in the distance, we came
to the port. From the railway
Port Wakefield is not a pleasant
spectacle, with its unprepossess-
ing backyards fenced with rusted
iron, and huge heaps of old carts,
wheels and motor-tyres. This
was once the port for the Burra
mines. The road in parts still
follows the old bullock-tracks
with their snakelike wanderings,
but the railway is more direct.
At Bowmans, named after
Edmund Bowman, the first
traveller in these regions, who
came through with a packhorse,
we lost half our train, and at
Saints, named after a pioneer
family, the country looked pretty
drab, but, like the life of most
saints, the harvest is said to be
good.
Balaklava (though nobody
knows why the “k” was sub-
stituted for “c”) is thought to
have been a corruption of “bella
chiava” (beautiful quay), the
name of a Crimean trading-post.
The inhabitants often call it
“Balak” for short.
In the absence of a direct line
it was necessary to go south to
Gawler, 26 miles from Adelaide,
then north again to my destina-
tion. At Hamley Bridge the
creek was bubbling with muddy
water. We crossed the River
Light, named after the surveyor
of Adelaide, and once referred to
by a wag as “The Dirty Light.”
It is said that Colonel Light
was disappointed when Gawler
was named after the Governor
instead of himself. Gawler was
one of the earliest towns in
South Australia, and was called
not only “the key to the North”
but also “Colonial Athens.”
Many “Athenians” travel to
work each day in the city. The
shopping-centre is some distance
from the station, set in a pleasant
spot between two rivers, with
parklands fringing their banks.
Colonel Light’s “Pork and
Pickle Expedition” passed this
way about 1837. An unknown
wanderer, who was found in the
scrub, later died in the expedi-
tion’s dray and was buried at
a place still known as Dead
Man’s Pass. The township was
born in 1839. Its municipal seal
is Governor Gawler’s family
coat-of-arms: “Sans Gauler
point de fruit.”
It is a place of quaint and
romantic memories. The Old
Spot was once a famous estab-
lishment. .Mr. Square was an
early landlord of the Globe Hotel
and a Mr. Cradle was the car-
penter. A lady called Alley-eyed
Sally sold confectionery, while
the Auld Hoose, now crumbling
and supported mainly by vines,
a relic of the old days and once
occupied by Mrs. Crackle, whose
name lives in Crackle’s Hill, is
still a treasured landmark, with
its memories of “the auld hoose”
covered with roses and jasmine
in one of the old Scottish songs.
Only five men remained in
Gawler during the gold-rushes,
but later many returned, and
champagne flowed rathe/- freely.
It was said: “If you would not
drink it, it was poured over you.”
The town prospered. It was a
great milling-centre, and “The
Bunyip,” a popular publication,
recorded much of the fun and
merriment of the times.
John McKinlay, the explorer,
who went in search of Burke and
Wills in 1861, was buried near
Gawler 11 years later. There is
a McKinlay monument, a tall
spire with a porch, outside one
of the parks looking down
through the main street. In a
smaller park a plaque com-
memorates Eyre’s passage in
1844. An iron railing outside
the institute was “cast from the
first iron smelter in the colony
at the Phoenix foundry, 1871,-
from ore raised in the district of
Barossa.”
There are orchards and
nursery - gardens, and green,
shady retreats. I watched the
hens scratching on the river-
banks, and cattle fording the
stream, and saw the old flour-
mill. Out of sight, I believe, in
the back-streets, there are slum
areas. At the library I waited
for quite a while, and could have
taken any number of books.
Nobody seemed to be in charge,
and the citizens wandered in,
helping themselves. At a shop
which sold buns, the assistant
said with decided emphasis:
“But we don’t sell buttered
buns.” So I returned to the
unsheltered centre platform at
the station of “Colonial Athens,”
feeling as cold as Greek marble,
and ate unbuttered buns until
the train for the north arrived.
It was a dark journey, and as
we went north it grew colder.
We could feel the temperature
dropping. Clare is proud of its
reputation as one of the coldest
towns in the State. At times the
engine was laboring on hillslopes,
and lights glimmered out in the
darkness, or at a station doors
were opened and cold blasts of
air came in.
At Stockport there were lights
and voices and cars, a couple of
each. My journey from Perth to
Adelaide could have been such a
journey as this, extended for
several days. I was glad that my
walkabout had been less involved
with trains.
Beyond Tarlee we changed
again at Riverton. There were
large refreshment-rooms on the
station. An old chap, fairly
drunk, came up to me and
asked: “Anyone try to knock
you down?” I said: “No!”
“Well,” he replied, “I’m going in
to have a pie!” The conversa-
tion was mystifying, and I
thought I must be getting tired.
The Broken Hill express went
through while we were waiting.
(Continued on next page )


CHATEAU TANUNDA
No. 2
I
■=>
rrt^
V
£
BEGINNINGS OF AN ERA
The first authenticated discovery of gold in
Australia was made by James Mcßrien, a sur-
veyor, in 1823, between Rydal and Bathurst, but
his report was ignored. Worse befell a convict
who found a nugget while at work the same
year ; he was flogged.
Official opposition to any talk of gold was summed up
by Governor Gipps when the Polish explorer Strzelecki
reported in 1839 that he had found traces of gold in
iron ore at Hartley in the Blue Mountains. The Gover-
nor said that, if the discovery became generally known,-
“transportation would become a premium on crime and
cease to be a punishment." To The Rev. W. B. Clarke,
who also found gold in the Blue Mountains in 1841, the
Governor said : “Put it away, Mr. Clarke, or we shall
all have our throats cut 1"
An unexpected threat from abroad put an end to the
official policy of silence. In 1848, gold was found in
California and the resulting fever threatened to drain
away a large part of the male population of New South
Wales. This drift became a source of official anxiety.
A solution came in 1851. On April 3 of that year,
Edward Hammond Hargraves, who had recently re-
turned to N.S.W. from California, notified the Colonial
Secretary that he had found gold near Bathurst. The
announcement caused an immediate rush. In an effort
to prevent the population of Melbourne from being
drawn away, a Gold Discovery Committee in Melbourne
(on June 9, 1851) offered a reward of £2OO for the dis-
covery of gold within 200 miles of that city. It was
claimed almost immediately. The Victorian dis-
coveries proved so rich that £900,000 in gold was
taken from them by the end of the year.
The “gold standard ” of Brandy .
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W -
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838 5
Jli. . .1 ,/M . Ml Li LiAlilU
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF REli
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HARRY LEWIS late of 129 Broad
way George Street West Sydney.
NOTICE that MAGDALENE LEWIS ha-
filed a Petition for Divorce No. «U»
of 1948 on the ground of desertio
without just cause or excuse for ,
years and upwards If you wish t
you may enter an appearance -
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Sydney
by the 6th June 1956 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge
MESSRS. VINCENT J. BK^ D L? 0 5tr e et!
& CO., Solicitors, 60 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—-J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
It was raining still, and when
the train stopped, the water on
the roof kept going, occasionally
drenching passengers on the
coach ahead who were waiting to
alight. Everyone kept saying:
“The farmers were singing out
for rain.» Well, here it is!” An
overcoat would have been a
blessing!
At Clare I made for the nearest
hotel. In the morning, I parted
the curtains anxious for my first
look at Clare. There was a high
brick wall opposite.
On the 738th of the Arabian
Nights, the story was related of
Gulnare, a daughter of one of
the Kings of the Sea, a beautiful
slave-girl at the court of the
Persian King Shahzeman, a
worker of miracles, later .to
become his favorite concubine.
Horrocks named his favorite dog
after Gulnare, and north of Clare
bestowed the name on Gulnare
Plains, where the dog provided
the explorer and his party with
sustenance by the wonders he
displayed in killing emus, their
only food for several days.
On the road five miles north of
Clare there was an old hotel,
built on to a three-roomed
cottage at Stanley Flat in 1881
by a man called John Edwards,
and known to the bullock-
drivers as “Tlie House That Jack
Built.” The licence expired
nearly 50 years ago, and the
sturdy old building is now a
private residence, but there are
reminders of its past in the
legends of an early murder, and
on the stones of the walls and
the veranda-bricks old names
and dates are inscribed, as legibly
as though they were traced there
only yesterday. In some of the
underground rooms there are old
pine-racks, perhaps used once
for the storing of vegetables or
perhaps as bunks for unconscious
inebriates.
The road used to take a
dangerous turn near The House
That Jack Built, and because the
initial letter was missing from
the “Shell” sign erected there
everyone said it was most
appropriate, and the spot was
often known as Hell Corner.
The new road by-passes the
bend.
These places, Gulnare Plains,
and The House That Jack Built,
were to be visited later with my
friends from Wirrabara, but at
the present time it was Clare
itself that I was setting out to
explore.
Clare is a picturesque town.
I remember it as a paradise of
autumn leaves and misty hills.
People in the streets are friendly
even to strangers, and away from
the main thoroughfare pleasant
green lanes ramble up the hill-
sides to orchards and vineyards,
and the timbered summits, after
crossing the little wooden
bridges over the narrow Hutt
River.
Three brothers run the local
newspaper. One of them accom-
panied me on my ramblings.
Our first visit was to the historic
gumtree in the Pioneers’
Memorial Park. The committee
of the bowling-club would like
to see the tree removed because
of the leaves which are blown
across the green, but it seems
likely that their efforts will be
frustrated. A tablet on the tree
records: —
The explorer Edward John Eyre
in May 1839 was the first white man
to pass this way. Edward Burton
Gleeson and John Maynard camped
beneath this tree in 1843 when
Edward Gleeson named the spot
Clare after his native county
Ireland and later built near here
the first residence. It also com-
memorates that the camel funeral
party with the remains of the
explorers Burke and WiUs rested
here on the way from Innamincka
to Melbourne in 1863.
John Maynard carved out a
seat in the base of the old tree.
His friend Gleeson, known as
Paddy, or “the founder of
Clare,” later to become the first
mayor, named his homestead
Inchiquin after his old abode in
County Clare, and also bestowed
the Irish names of Armagh and
Donnybrook on near -by
settlements.
Inchiquin was the first
gazetted name of the town, estab-
lished in 1838, and renamed
Clare, becoming a corporate
town in 1868. Gleeson is said
to have imported a number of
coolies from Asia, and to have
reaped the first grain-harvest in
South Australia. The locality
was later known as “The Garden
of the State,” and the crops have
never suffered a serious failure.
Later we went to the Council
Chambers. On the walls there
were historic photographs,
including one of Ulrich Hubbe,
a fine old German intellectual,
who came out from Hamburg to
South Australia, and in associa-
tion with Sir R. R. Torrens
originated the famous Torrens
system of land-title.
At the Church of St. Michael
Archangele there is a cairn
erected to the memory of the
early Catholic pioneers. Most
of the headstones have been
removed to the monastery at
Sevenhills, but the steps leading
up to the schoolchildren’s play-
ground are made from grave-
stones, and set in the wall about
the playground are some of the
more historic stones. They
include the memorials to the
infant Marie Antoinette and
Michael John Dennis, whose
stepbrother, C. J. Dennis, be-
came one of Australia’s best-
loved poets.
My wanderlust was fostered at
the age of ten, when my parents
allowed me to journey from
Perth to Sydney with a party of
schoolboys the year the Sydney
Harbor Bridge was opened. We
were members of the Young
Australia League, popularly
known as the Y.A.L. It was a
wonderful trip. As the youngest
member of the party I was well
looked after by the leader of the
group, a giant among men in
stature and geniality.
We called him “Boss.” I can-
not remember any man with such
an amount of fair wavy hair, and
kindness, and blue-eyed humor as
“Boss.”
He was the founder of the
league, originally a group spon-
soring interest in Australian
Rules football, in the belief that
Australians should give allegi-
ance to things Australian if they
were comparable to those which
were imported. He is beloved
by generations of the Young
Australians who were introduced
by him to the wonders of the
other States, and even on
occasions to those of lands
beyond the seas.
“Boss” Simons died in Perth
several years ago, and at Clare
I made a sentimental journey to
the little farmhouse in the hills
where he spent his early
childhood.
Past the old police-station and
the pines on the outskirts of the
township the road winds through
timbered hills as pleasantly
beautiful as any National Park,
and out beyond the cemetery in
a quiet valley we came to the old
farmhouse.
The place is now abandoned
and falling into ruin. The walls
are crumbling, and the weeds are
encroaching. A few cattle graze
in the surrounding paddocks.
Few ever visit his birthplace.
His memorial will be the Y.A.L.
headquarters in Perth, and the
memories of countless of his
“boys,” and the servicemen who
were made welcome there during
the war. He never forgot a name
or a face, and his handshake was
as warm and vigorous as a bear-
hug. “Boss” was the .kind of
man other men remember with
deep affection.
Before leaving Clare I was pre-
sented by the wife of the news-
paperman with a “snack for the
road,” which turned out to be the
most wonderful cut-lunch
imaginable. Some distance out
of town at the park opposite the
showgrounds, where the largest
one-day show in Australia is held
annually, I staged my own
private show, with sandwiches
more relishihg and made with
more imagination than any I
could remember.
Sevenhills, a few miles south
of Clare, is a small settlement of
stone buildings. I was directed
to the monastery, about a mile
up the road, but out of sight
between the hills. /
Sevenhills must have been
named by a bad mathematician.
Forty sevenhills would have been
a truer name, but the allusion
was to “little Rome,” the
monastery having been founded
before the township by Jesuits,
who also renamed this section
of the Hutt River the Tiber.
The settlement was founded in
1848 by a Silesian landowner
called Wiekert, who financed a
group of about 80 migrants,
accompanied by two priests.
Once aboard ship many of the
group revealed that they were
Protestant, and on landing most
of them were soon widely scat-
tered, but 14 remained faithful
to their benefactor and, with
Father Aloysius Kranewitter,
settled near Clare. Three years
later they moved to Sevenhills.
Two lay-brethren Jesuits later
arrived, and largely through their
untiring efforts the little settle-
ment prospered. Brother Johann
Schreiner used to carry butter
25 miles on his back, for sale at
the Burra mines.
The monastery buildings, built
of sandstone and grey slate from
the adjacent quarries, mellowing
with age, seem almost to have
grown out of their green hill-
sides. The buildings are sur-
rounded by autumn pome-
granates, and old pines, in a
vividly beautiful setting, with
moss-covered rocks and our
strange Australian mixture of
winter vines and evergreens.
At the main building, a great
two-story place with old-style
dormer-windows, I rang the bell,
clawing at it frantically when it
stuck, and one of the brothers
came down and offered to take
me on a tour of the grounds.
The church is fronted with a
square tower and rich stone carv-
ings about the windows and the
portals. Much of the stonework
was done by Brother Waldmann,
a sculptor, who went blind before
the work was completed. The
church was 20 years in the build-
ing, work progressing as money
became available, and was
finished in 1875.
Within, the ceiling is lofty,
with massive beams which the
early workmen placed in posi-
tion by means of primitive block-
and-tackle. The seats were
carved from timber from the
cedars of Lebanon, and the floors
paved with Mintaro slate.
Above the altar hangs a large
painting of the Virgin Mary, by
Zimmermann, presented by
Ludwig, “the mad King” of
Bavaria. In the vaults below
there are tombs, and priceless
vestments and altar-hangings,
worked long ago by the nuns of
a Silesian convent.
Some of the vines have been
bearing for 80 years, and are
still tended for sentimental
reasons. Long ago the first
grapes were harvested for the
making of altar-wines for the
monastery, and the work
extended until now the winery
in the monastery - grounds
supplies the altar-wines for
Roman Catholic churches
throughout Australia.
We went to the winery, and in
the great dim rooms saw the
presses and the vats, and the
great oaken casks, some large
enough to hold 800 gallons, the
rich raisin-smelling sediment,
resembling kelp, and when drying
out, like large flat pieces of
nutmeg, from which cream-of-
tartar is produced.
The impress, S.A.W., could
have signified South Australian
or St. Aloysius’ Winery, but
actually refers to Sweet Altar
Wine. Usually altar-wines are
matured for only two years, but
in the testing-room I was allowed
to sample wine too rich and
mature for the altar.
We stayed chatting in the
testing-room for a while, and
savored the wine, a Tokay known
as “the drink of the Gods.”
In the monastery - grounds
there are several shrines. One,
erected by one of the brethren in
1872 in honor of St. Ignatius,
founder of the Jesuit order, was
built of small stone-pieces, with-
out mortar, the walls and the low
ceiling held together by the inter-
locking stones.
Another, with slate-roof, and
with mossy boulders around it,
was once a bacomcuring hut,
until, after long disuse, some
zealous younger members of the
college converted it. Small steps
lead up to the shrine, which is
open at one side, revealing a
white Madonna with out-
stretched arms.
Each year on May Day for
the last 87 years thousands of
people have flocked to Sevenhills
from all over the State, celebrat-
ing Corpus Christi, and if I had
visited the monastery a few days
earlier I might have seen, as
symbolic as the maypole-dances
in other lands, the crowning of
the Virgin, Queen of May . . .
It wasn’t far from Sevenhills
to Tatkana and Penwortham.
Here, on the banks of Skillo-
golee Creek, John Ainsworth
Horrocks made camp and
founded the village named after
his English birthplace. The creek
was named after “skilly,” a thin
porridge, which was all that the
party had to eat while camping
there.
Penwortham is a settlement of
scattered houses, a place of
orchards and honey and encirc-
ling hills. A cairn in memory of
Horrocks stands by the road,
and behind it, sheltered by trees,
is the cemetery where he lies
buried, and the venerable old
Church of St. Mark.
The graves are in several
clusters separated by trees and
wild, profuse gardens. I don t
know of a prettier cemetery.
Some of the old families sleep
together in fenced-in rose-plots,


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOIs $
osuixrvAv
„ vnm ■ <,
Vessel*®-*" 1
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL/" BRISBANE
NABa
FLY TO
rn
NORTH AMERICA
BY MIGHTY SUPER GOHSTELLATION
WORLD’S MOST MODERN AIRLINER
1
f »
» I
sum.
> a $
%
■& s «
ms $ s
ooq aqn tg/vfs (
aao no o fpiC'iaf
□nr. DP'il,
' r*.« Em* 9 8
m
mm
*- JCIlv'U
1
I !i »&£?*»«
' V
J - ~
n\"
Pfca&a+t
■
at a DOWN-TO-EARTH FARE
To U.S.A. or Canada ... at a fare
you can now afford . . . perhaps even
take the family, too! Fly QANTAS
money-saving Tourist Service—2o%
lower fare!
Enjoy luxurious Super Constellation
aircraft, reclining seats, complimentary
meals, famous QANTAS hospitality,
bar service—all on QANTAS trans-
pacific Tourist Service and, you
call at a first class Waikiki Hotel
in Honolulu.
Fly this money-saving way to North
America . . . fly Australian by
Australia’s Overseas Airline.
FLY ON TO ENGLAND-
RIGHT ROUND THE WORLD !
Enjoy the same money-saving Tourist
fares to U.K. via America. (Special
dollar allowance provided for transit
across North America). Stop-overs at
no extra fare. Prompt connections
across U.S.A. and Canada—and, by
8.0.A.C. low-fare Coronet Service,
across the Atlantic.
nr^miAS
TOURIST SERVICE ACROSS THE PACIFIC
Luxury “Connoisseur” and Regular First-Class Services also available.
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (Incorporated in Queensland) in assoc . with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
34 YEARS OF F LYING EXPERIENCE
and a knight, Sir John Duncan,
of Hughes Park, rests there
beneath the green lawns of the
family enclosure. There are
Dukes and Hunters and
Messengers and, surrounded by
beautiful pines and ancient gums,
the Hills, Greens, Fields,
Ashtons and Jordans.
I was carried away by the
beauty of names and creepers
together. There was poetry in
the memorial to Turlon Deprose,
“gathered home as a shock of
corn fully ripe,” and I thought
the final touch of beauty was
added by the name of Solomon
Sky.
Brushing the leaves and pine-
needles from the tombstone, I
deciphered the mossy
inscription:
Anthony Solomon Sky M.D. 1862
age 44. long will he live in the
memory of those whom he relieved
and the tears of his mourning
widow, and of the suffering Poor for
whom he spent his life will long
yet witness his truly Christian
Charity. May he rest in peace.
And even though I was to
learn that his widow later re-
married, and that the moss had
deceived me, and the name was
Sokolowsky, I haven’t forgotten
the beauty of that day and of the
lush garden-cemetery.
The grave of Horrocks is there,
with the tombstone facing, like
the tombstones of most
explorers, in the opposite way to
those of their fellow-men. The
wind in the trees and birds and
children’s voices whisper there.
And I turned, away from the
graves of the pioneers, of the
explorer and the knight, and
another forgotten young man
who died through “a melancholy
accident,” from the trees and
flowers and creepers, thinking
that it was right that they should
rest in the heart of the village,
lulled by its voices, instead of on
the usual isolated hilltop.
Opposite there was an orchard,
strangely beautiful, with autumn
leaves still clinging to painted
blue limbs, and remembering the
story of Horrocks’s camel, and
that Edward Gleeson had under-
taken to shoot it, following its
master’s request, and that he had
been so affected that his aim was
bad and someone else had to
finish the job, I wondered
whether one of the many low
hills indicated its final resting-
place.
Misty rain was falling, but it
seemed little more than a mile,
and mostly downhill, through
this crowded countryside, to the
playfields and the Quelltaler
Winery, and the outskirts of the
pretty little village of Watervale.
There were two smali cannons,
symbolic perhaps of a less-
peaceful past, housed beneath
wooden canopies in front of the
bank, and the hotel was a
picturesque building at the end of
a street of pines.
They are friendly folk at
Watervale, and I felt aglow in
my room with the sheepskin rug
and an inner-spring mattress;
and remembering the day, the
kindness of strangers and the
beauty of the countryside, old
cottages and little villages, the
monastery and the garden-
cemetery, I felt so dizzy with
excitement that I had to lie down
for a while, and I felt that it
couldn’t all be due to “the
drink of the Gods.”
WATERVALE, on Eyre
* ” Creek, originally a part of
Horrocks’s selection, celebrated
its centenary in 1947, It rose
with the development of the
Burra coppermines to the north,
and seemed destined to be a
place of some consequence. But
Watervale, in the 1920’5, had
dwindled to a picturesque village
lit by gas-lamps, and at the
present time, despite the coming
of electricity and its position on
the highway, it is little more than
a cluster of farmhouses with a
post-office and a hotel. Life
there is pleasant and leisurely
and the people are friendly. It is
a closely-knit community. The
motto in the lounge of the hotel
reads: ,
This is our Home and so you’ll find
In every room a welcome kind,
and the promise is more than
fulfilled by the kindly folk who
live there.
Mine host, unlike his fellows in
more progressive settlements,
seems more intent on the pro-
vision of added comforts for his
guests than on any charging of
fees. The children were holding
a birthday-party on the evening
of my visit and the general
atmosphere was one of happiness.
After tea I went visiting. The
roads were dark, and once,
investigating what seemed like a
signpost in the shadows, I found
myself stroking the white leg of
a cow. It is hard to say which
of us received the greater
surprise.
A motorist rescued me from
the darkness and set me down
at the entrance to Fairfield. A
long drive led through avenues
of beautiful trees and puddles
galore to lights which seemed
miles away, but at last my
destination was reached and I
met the Moyles.
Mrs. Moyle has published a
book called Portrait of a Village
which tells the story of Water-
vale. Her home, and the family,
and the evening we spent together
before a cheerful fire, were a
fitting illustration of the pleasant
way of life her book has
described.
I would have liked to stay
longer in Watervale, but I was
on walkabout, and in the morn-
ing other places beckoned. The
road wound gently downwards,
six miles through orchards and
vineyards to Auburn, and, as I
cycled, the words of Goldsmith’s
poem ran through my mind:
Sweet Auburn, loveliest village of
the plain,
Where health and plenty cheered the
laboring swain,
Where smiling spring its earliest visit
paid
And parting summer’s lingering
blooms delayed,
while I half-wondered whether
the village which had trans-
planted the Irish name in this
quiet countryside could also, by
some miracle, have brought back
to life the village schoolmaster,
and the little church, and all the
vanished beauties of Ireland’s
“Deserted Village.”
This country is famous for its
stud-sheep and dairy-herds.
There were vines, pruned in
orderly rows, and others still
frowzy-headed in their winter
beds, and there were many
Cardoon-thistles at the road-
side —in places, as someone said,
as thick as the hairs on a dog’s
back —and on one of the hilltops
a lonely tree stood in silhouette,
like a galleon with sails in
ribbons on the crest of a vast
green wave. There were also
tiny settlements, Mingro and
other small clusters of farm-
houses.
The site of Auburn, originally
known as Tateham’s Waterhole
on Morphett’s cattle-station after
a pioneer settler, was included in
a land-grant to a chap affection-
ately known as “Piebald”
Williams, and the township came
into being in 1856.
It is a village set among trees
in a pleasant valley, as lovely
as I had imagined, with a wind-
ing creek, and a picturesque
church beyond the little bridge,
and with the Rising Sun Hotel,
and, relics Of the old days, slate-
roofs on some of the houses, and
hitching-posts in the main street,
and even mounting-steps once
used by the ladies of the district
when riding side-saddle.
Like Goldsmith’s village,
Auburn has seen more pros-
perous times. From its quarries
stone was used not only locally,
but for the foundations of many
of Adelaide’s public-buildings.
The mail-coaches used to change
horses here, and there were flour-
mills, a butter-factory, and a
couple of breweries, as well as a
coach-building and implement
factory which sent reaping-
machines all over the State.
During the last war a flaxmill
was in operation.
From early times it was a great
wheatgrowing centre, and annual
ploughing-contests were held.
The showground was established
on the site of an old corroboree-
ground. Musical and Dramatic
Societies toured neighboring
towns, a Hunt Club was formed,
gay with the traditional scarlet
coats, and in family albums you
may still see copies of pro-
grammes advertising the Great
Phantasmagorias on Wheels at
the Skating Rink, with apple-
races, tugs-of-war and “skating
round the maypole.” The New
Year was welcomed in with fire-
works, the blast being detonated
from an anvil at the smithy.
Those were the good old days,
and “times aren’t what they
were”:
111 fares the land to hastening ills a
prey,
Where wealth accumulates and men
decay,
Princes and Lords may flourish or
may fade,
A breath can make them as a breath
has made ;
But a bold peasantry, their country’s
pride,
When once destroyed can never be
supplied.
Auburn has not suffered as
severely as its namesake, but to
some extent the same centralisa-
tion of industry in the city has
caused a decline here and in
neighboring villages, set in a
countryside which could support
far more flourishing townships.
Many famous men have come
from Auburn, champion athletes
and cyclists, and members of
Parliament, including the one
credited with having made both
the longest and shortest speeches
on record in the South Australian
Parliament, but the most famous
of all her sons is surely “Den,”
the creator of The Sentimental
Bloke.
{To be continued next week)
WATERVALE TO
AUBURN
Another day gone by; another
night
Creepin’ along to douse Day’s
golden light;
Another dawnin’, when the night
is gone,
To live an’ love — an’ so life
mooches on.
C. J. Dennis.


Jkeltju
Newly Engineered for
This new, precision-built tyre pro-
vides a greatly increased margin of
safety. There’s no tube to blowout!
In case of damage by bruising to the
tyre carcass (the cause of most blow-
outs with conventional tyres and
tubes), the Goodyear Tubeless lets
air out s-s-s-l-o-w-l-y. There’s no
sudden explosion.
Newly Engineered for
You’ll get puncture protection of a
kind never offered before by any
tyre! Nails or other sharp, puncturing
objects are gripped by the tyre,
preventing loss of air and annoying
road delays. Puncture protection is
engineered right into these tyres.
INCREASED
BLOWOUT
SAIETY a
FAR MORE!
PUNCTURE
PROTECTION
Newly Engineered lor—
“Ply-Welded” construction pro-
duces the strongest, most efficient
tyre body ever made. It prevents
tyre “growth,” carcass separation
and consequent air loss in a way
never before possible. Complete
integration of the rayon cord
fabric with the new and improved
rubber compounds makes the new
Goodyear “Ply-Welded” Tubeless
airtight giving, at the same time,
completely new standards of tyre
performance and long life. Yet,
this amazing new tyre costs you
no more than a conventional
tyre and tube.
LONGER,
SAFER
TYRE LIFE
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS
costs no more than a conventional tyre and tube
LOBC
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Sharefarmer wanted for large
N.S.W. North Coast dairyfarm.
Cows and pigs, Milk Board licence
applied for. Approximately 80 acres
good alluvial flats. At present 90
head of cattle, will carry more with
pasture improvement. Owners pro-
vide milking machines, sharefarmer
to provide tractor and plant. Apply
with copies references. —6027.
Married couple with three children;
wife (Australian), ex-W.A.A.A.F.;
husband, ex-R.N., now bricklayer;
arriving Sydney on April 26, want
furnished cottage, preferably on
Illawanra or Cronulla suburban
line. —6033.
Words of parody on Henry Law-
son’s poem “The Captain of the
Push.”—6o32.
To buy copy of History of the
McLeods by H. H. Mackenzie. —6026.
Information Sought
(I) Which is the correct plural of
“handful” — “handsful” or “hand-
fuls" ? (2) In such cases what
authority is the final arbiter on the
correctness of the English language?
(1) Fowler’s Modern English Usage
says, “The right plural for such
nouns as handful, spoonful, cupful,
basketful, is handfuls, etc., not
handsful, etc.” The Oxford English
Dictionary, Webster’s and Collins’s
.
Authors and Printers Dictionary aU
agree with Fowler. (2) The Oxford
tn sh£i Dictionary must be regarded
EnSSTandthe preservation ofthe
purity o£ th language are desired.
F B S
* * * *
Who made the final winning-stroke
for Australia in the 1953 Davis
U P-
When Hoad beat Trabert in a
hard-fought marathon contort, it
was 2-all with Rosewall-Seixas the
decider. Rosewall won 6-2, 2-6, 6-3,
6 ‘ 4 -, ,In the fourth set, with R9se-
wall leading 5-2, and serving .Seixas
ave f
i
deuce, J advance;
court, and then, with a well-placed
service, forced Seixas to net. ?
Was the Beagle, in which Lieuten-
°nt Stokes surveyed the Torres
Strait and the Gulf of Carpentaria
m 1841 the same vessel as the one
commanded by Captain Fitz Roy
which arrived at Sydney m 1836?
H.M.S. Beagle .belonged to a much-
abused class referred to as “10-ton
brigs,” and they were sometimes
called “coflin ships.” She was, how-
ever, a good sea-vessel. Built at
Woolwich (England), in 1819, she
was the first rigged man-o’-war to
pass through the old London
Bridge. On May 26, 1826, she
sailed from Plymouth under the
command of Captain P. P. King on
a surveying voyage. She returned to
England in October, 1830. The
Beagle was recommissioned in July,
1831, and was commanded by Cap-
tain Fitz Roy, and spent six years
on survey work. She visited Sydney
in January, 1836, and returned to
England in November, 1836. In
June, 1841, she again left Woolwich
on another surveying voyage under
the command of Commander Wick-
ham. Afterwards Lieutenant (later
Captain) Stokes assumed command.
* * * *
CO Was there a hill in Moore Park
( Sydney ) called Mount Lang, and
after whom was it named ? (2)
Where is Mount Rennie in the same
park situated and after whom was
it named? (5) Are there any other
hills in the same park that carry
names ? ( 4 ) When was Moore Park
proclaimed, what is its area, after
whom was it named, and was it ever
part of the suburb of Waterloo ?
(1) Mount Lang was what remained
of a natural sandhill in Moore Park
opposite the Sydney Cricket Ground.
It was transformed into a circular
hill with a plateau on top, 80ft. in
diameter, with a main terrace
beneath, 35ft. wide, and was named
after Dr. John Dunmore Lang. The
hill was recently removed. (2) Mount
Rennie is a natural sandhill in Moore
Park to the west of Anzac-parade
and south of Cleveland-street. It
was named after W. Rennie, who was
Mayor of the City of Sydney in
1870. (3) Mount Steele is a natural
hill slightly north-west of the Moore
Park golf-house, towards Dowling-
street. (4) An area of approximately
1000 acres was proclaimed on Octo-
ber 5, 1811, for common pasturage,
and was known as Sydney Common,
and included what is now Moore
and Centennial Parks. Moore Park
forms part of 490 acres dedicated as
a permanent common on October 5,
1866. Its present area is 263 acres,
and it was named after C. Moore,
who was Mayor of the City of Syd-
ney from 1867 to 1869. Neither
Moore Park nor Sydney Common
was ever within the municipality of
Waterloo.
’P mm " " '■»
Brief Answers
G.McK.: Write Georgian House
Pty., Ltd., 296 Beaconsfield-parade,
Middle Park, Melbourne, 5.C.6; and
F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., 388 Little
Collins - street, Melbourne G.H.:
(1) Archie Moore and Ron Richards
met twice at Sydney Stadium in
1940. Moore won both bouts—the
first on a technical knockout (round
10), and the second on points (12
rounds). (2) Vic Patrick and Tommy
Bums met at Sydney Stadium on
February 2, 1946. It was a Saturday
night J J. : Write Gordon Hors-
well, secretary, the Arts Council o
Australia (N.S.W. Division;, /
Hunter-street, Sydney.... H3U.: I
Any softwood is suitable. Lnut-tree
woods, such as pear and citrus, are
easily worked in the hand. All wooos
for^Jjf
coSd appily toThe Public
Librirv of NSW., Macquane-
r'^f y c vd °ev for books under fne
rmait r v Sy ßcference Secaon, a lendmg-
yof textbooks for country
stU( ] en t s . This is a free service and
j s excellent... .H.C.: Write Mrs.
Thistle Y. Harris, Hon. Secretary,
t he Wild Life Preservation Sooiety ot
Australia, Science House, Gloucester-
street Sydney H.M.F.: Australian
Government and Politics by J. D. B.
Miller, price 18s. 9d., obtainable
from Angus and
inc ? AfLhnm thev are granted,
>£ «c S a wife and
and the 60 p.c. rate ror a
child is £2 2s. Id. and‘l6s. . P
fortnight respecti y. •• ■ • •
“Free verse is p reeular
loo , k . , ik ® t L e ri ? e Bruce 1 Beaver’s
a in tolerably regular
P meters and is to be
H«SfieH P a ? Sdard English blank
wrse 6 like that of “Paradise Lost.”
Faith in the
Future
Every year at Easter, Sydney quickens to the
holding of its Royal Show.
A great metropolis, living all the year to the
seeming extent of its energy, somehow gathers
new pulse for the occasion.
What is there about a Show that compels its
attractions upon a community year after year?
The sounds and the sights, the parade of the
choicest of our animal and industrial wealth, the
carnival that accompanies it all?
More than that, I believe; the knowledge that
here is a concentration of everything that makes
Australia.
It is a materialising of the national spirit.
The same scene, sketched to a different scale,
is to be seen in Brisbane in August; in a host of
other cities and towns throughout the year.
Behind every one of them —behind each
department within them—is a story of someone’s
life-work.
This handful of grain proclaims the labour of
a man who turned the soil to plant the mother
seed. These aristocrats of the herd are products
of a stud breeder’s building.
This fine-fleeced wool, this machinery, this
factory exhibit, all tell of men and women who go
about their day-to-day work faithfully and
undramatically.
But here is the drama of it: Bring the results
of their labours together, and they form a picture
that inspires afresh with its rich reflection of the
Australian opportunity.
This is a quintessence of our life, an institution
we could not afford to be without. Its lasting worth
is not in the ribbons, the gaiety, the crowds, but in
the quality of what is arrayed —and in the hearts
of the toilers who work to produce it.
Yes, “the Show”—whether it be held in a
city’s well-nursed arena or in a paddock on the
fringe of a small town —is a token of everything
we are and everything we hope to be.
H. Hastings Deening.


Easter Island
By DOUGLAS STEWART
Why, look, the kings of stone, they are standing yet
Where the Sun is shining on the tussocks this black
morning,
Not one of them even shaken. You brown men let
Me look up at them, away from what you have done,
Dead men everywhere, dead women, homes still burning,
For these still stand in a Sun that has not set.
How can you conquer, chieftain, our kings of stone?
I drink their huge serenity into my heart,
Bearded, enormous, the former heroes of my race,
Masses of rock shaped human by our art,
Titanic still, rising beyond the slaughter,
Watching without one tremor, not a twitch of the face,
The burning island, our whole life shattered apart
While they go marching on on the hill by the water.
Go marching where? I think that one by one
I see them crash face-downward in the grass
Never again to look on the light of the Sun ;
Or tearing with a stony hand their red stone
hair
I see them roll like boulders down the pass
Hurtling and leaping till with one last groan
They find in the sea the dark that we must
share.
They leap. And not one moves. Nothing moves here
Where only yesterday there was so much life,
But smoke and brown men, brown men everywhere
You hunt my people still? That is well indeed,
That is the life today. But, past belief,
Where has yesterday gone? The soft red hair
Of our women shone in the sunlight; not one took heed
Of how that very hour was bringing them doom.
They laughed with their children, they cooked their
menfolk’s food,
They walked by coconut palm and hibiscus bloom
Across the white sand, chattering one with another,
All loving their life, and surely their life was good,
And gave their creamy bodies to the kiss of the foam.
How could they dream what was coming over the
water?
And that was you, you strangers with bloody hands.
We should have remembered men without law or pity
For we have known such a thing in other lands.
There was a lake, in mountains lofty with snow,
And on that lake an island, and there a city
Where white-robed priests fulfilled the Sun’s
commands.
God knows what massacre happened so long ago
But all that fell in ruin. And we have spoken
Of a most distant land, in an older tale,
Where there were temples of gold; when that was
broken,
By foes themselves long since to ruin hurled,
They say Atlantis sank like some great whale
Drowning its wound, while sounded from the ocean
The heaviest sigh that ever was heard in the world.
“Look, the canoes! The sea is swarming with men!”
So we cried out when you rushed in in your fury.
And did not know what had happened even then
But stood amazed, startled, half-ready to be pleased,
And died on the beach, in the town, in the fields and
the quarry
In terror never known before, horror never seen;
As though a skyful of lightning, a whirlwind seized
Flowers, fruit-trees, crops, houses, temple,
Paths we have trod, fishermen’s boats by the shore,
Priest’s life, king’s life, life most sturdy and simple,
And hurled it into the ocean... to what strange destiny?
Never to live our lives here any more ; ©
Everything in one short day to burn up and crumple ;
Gone in a flash, our life, our future, our history—
But it is not believable. There is the hill
Covered with its short brown turf, tussock and heath,
Nearing its massive shoulder into heaven still;
There is the sea from which our ancestors came,
Tlunging in foam on the wet red rocks beneath ;
i here is the dark ploughed earth we tamed to our will;
here is the Sun our Lord shining in flame . , .
But not now shining on us. In fire and blood
I gone then, blackened and destroyed utterly,
n y the great stone kings still firm where they stood
As if to speak one solemn word of faith
Somewhere in all this chaos. Oh, we worked mightily
In the hearts of mountains to cut that stony word
And shall not wholly perish this day of our death.
Why even here some few have lived to be slaves
Where they stood free, and some to share your couches,
Our women fair as moonlight whitening the waves
Of your deep darkness ; and surely on other islands
There will be some of my race will break from your
clutches
And be a mysterious thing like a lire in the caves,
Shadows with auburn hair in the leafy highlands.
The flesh of the stranger shall bear us down to
morning;
The giant stones shall roll in his mind down the years ;
We shall be wisdom, gentleness, and surely a warning
Of the wave of the sea that strikes men down to their
fate.
Our word of consolation . . . But who cares, who cares,
When the men are all dead and the roofs of our
homeland are burning,
To be living in a fairytale or some half-caste brat
A thousand years from now? Keep faith who can,
But I am lost, so lost. And my people, lost.
Live, do you say? With the women, and the slaves
who ran?
As priest of the Sun, teaching your barbarous tribe?
To be old, and live . . . There is indeed some taste
Of pleasure in being a dog where I was a man,
Licking the bones from your feast, with life for my
bribe;
Horrible, impossible pleasure. You must comprehend
There has been, since you came here, a kind of
pollution,
Things out of custom; your fires in the night, my friend,
The feast of human flesh. The smell of meat,
Like the smoke of the burning village drifting to the
ocean,
Remains a little in my nostrils ; and will to the end.
It is the barbarian with us, not the defeat
Of the men of my race in battle that makes my life
In no way possible. And I to learn afresh
Some way of existing with murderer and thief,
Am I to sit in peace and hold fair speech
With the mouth still greasy from gnawing at my
brother’s flesh,
With the blind hot beast ravishing my sister’s grief
Or clubbing my mother to the earth? Teach you!
Teach . . .
Why, so I will; for things are near their conclusion
And the stone kings are silent, and you have come far,
Eastward out of the Sun’s death over the ocean,
To learn what wisdom I have ; which is not much ;
Except that here we had no god called War
Whom you invoked with so much vile commotion
Dancing in animal frenzy on the beach,
Nor yet your impossible bogies, spirit and demon,
Who lurk, you say, in cavern and tree and stream,
Pouncing on men. God indeed knows what inhuman
Shapes of green leaves, grey stone or golden light
May glide through our earth fulfilling their Master’s
dream,
But God himself is one, both man and woman,
And shines so clear and strongly in all men’s sight,
Being our Lord the Sun, and blessed be the
Sun, /
Only the fantasy of your savage soul
Could dream of any other. What wood or
stone,
Concealing some inward phantom or hewn
to an idol
Squatting with lolling tongue on top of a pole,
Could match the power of the Sun? What
god of your own,
Ape, crocodile, woman with the head of an eagle,
Could live in the blaze of his truth? Think, poor
heathen,
From what but Sun and Sunlight are all things born?
He rules the silver stars wheeling in heaven,
He sired the moon our sister and in his breath,
From whose great side our earth itself was torn,
Shimmers the lightest gnat on the stream at even:
What imaginable shape of man, so soon for death,
Could have his infinite majesty? Will you set up,
To justify yourselves in man’s worst crime
When yelling on our smiling land you leap,
Some naked savage named War? That thing to fashion
The earth and its seas and mountains rolling through
time
And light the song of birds? Shall he have some shape
Twenty feet high, ridiculous? Will you find the passion
That burns all day through our earth and towers on
high,
Kindling its flame in lover and star and flower,
In a gentler god, some old man such as I?
I am his creature. And he—no man can name
What shape he wears, whirling in his golden shower,
Incredible splendor of force and fire in the sky,
The roaring beautiful godhead, all spiritual flame.
Oh sparkling runs the river of life and joy
From that high source whose ecstasy is creation,
And dark is the fate of men who dare destroy
With doubt, with despair, with hate, its radiant peace,
Even to the sudden massacre of a nation.
Blessed is the mother with her children, the girl with
her boy,
The husband sowing in the field, all those who increase
To yet more life the world's great total of delight.
It is the new hibiscus planted to blow r
Its rosy fanfare in the dawn, and the tree’s green flight,
And the night of love and the new child suckled at the
breast;
It is the carving, for fear all else may go,
Of the strange still life of stones to stand on the height;
These are the things that flow with the sun and are blest
... As we are blest. And then should heaven’s great
Lord
Stand over us with his light’s colossal shield,
Brandish over our coast his rays’ long sword,
Because too long at peace, too free from fear,
Too happy in our homes, too busy in quarry and field,
Too far from the sight and memory of your brown
horde,
We failed to keep watch from the headlands? It is
well with us here,
Dying the death we deserved. Well, and not well.
We were no enemies of man, bursting out in murder,
No rotting jungle of decay that the axe must fell
Clearing a space for new growth ; but here in the Sun
We had, with our griefs and quarrels, ritual and order,
Song, wisdom, all that our stone kings tell:
Calamity has fallen upon us ; evil is done ;
And if it shall be undone as you grow wise,
Inheriting our spirit, a thousand years from now,
I cannot see so far. In what disguise
Could I bear to wait to see it? My friends are dead
And I, their priest, will join them. All that I know
Of heaven and earth I have told you. I shall close my
eyes
And now . . . now . . . some barbarian do the deed.
I wait . . . Bright, unreal, and the blow not come.
So you have made a fool of the old priest
Who thought to be now a seagull over the foam
Flying to the blaze of the Sun where all souls fly,
Even of birds and flowers, from earth at last,
And there come home and are consumed in flame;
Perhaps renewed . . . Then if I may not die,
I have made you sport enough. Put me in a boat,
A raft, a canoe, with twenty of my people,
Those who escaped your massacre, and let us set out
Away from this place, burnt-out, trampled by strangers.
We could drown, at best, when the waves turn black
and purple
And the golden track leads straight to the sun ; or float,
Meeting for sure no fate, no men, no dangers
Worse than we know, to some new lump of rock
With trees and a spring, and lead a life of fishing
That will serve well enough. Where is my flock
Of seagulls for this venture? We shall forget
All we have been ; but with the Sun still flashing
Silver on clean blue waters, and the foam’s white shock,
And green trees growing, life must be possible yet,
Though here there is so much death. Then, come, the
raft!
And you, destroyers of my people, takers of my land,
Keep well your watch to seaward, master our craft
Of carving the eternal rock ; for sooner or later
You too shall have the invader; and nothing shall stand,
If you should fail in that day, of all you have loved
But the wonder of the stone kings on the hill by the
water.


£ztqep
as you
//fast/
0
re.s»
Tooth's
BREWED
m
AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIM
Lager
ED
KB-157-18
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
AUTUMN MEETING
TO BE HELD AT RANDWICK RACECOURSE
9th, Uth, 13th & 16th APRIL, 1955
PRINCIPAL EVENTS
First Day—Saturday, 9th April
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP. £5,000 added. One Mile.
THE A.J.C. SlßfeS’ PRODUCE STAKES. £5,000 added.
Seven furlongs.
Second Day—Monday, 11th April
THE SYDNEY CUP. £12,500 added and a Gold Cup
valued at £5OO. Two Miles.
Third Day—Wednesday, 13th April
THE ALL-AGED STAKES. £2,500 added. One Mile.
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES. £2,500 added. Six Furlongs.
Fourth Day—Saturday, 16th April
THE QUEEN ELIZABETH RANDWICK STAKES. £B,OOO
added. One Mile and Threequarters.
The Adrian Knox Stakes. £3,000 added. One Mile and a
Quarter.
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
W. N. Parry-Okeden, Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Popular Doncaster candidates
Gay Vista, Karendi, Prince
Morvi and Raconteur were
non-runners at Warwick Farm,
but Fire Dust galloped his way
into the betting with a stylish
win in the 7fur. Liverpool
Handicap. As 11 horses were
in front of Fire Dust at the
half-mile and he covered more
ground than any other runner
bar Plato, his win was full of
merit. With 7.10 he has a nice
pull in Doncaster weights.
Connaught’s second was a
sound run.
Warwick Farm form didn’t
affect Sydney Cup betting.
Finito, heavily backed for the
Cup beforehand, lost nothing
when beaten by the unbeatable
Carioca in the Chipping
Norton. Prince Delville, who
looks to be overshadowed by
Pride of Egypt in the St. Leger,
is expected to do well over the
two miles of the Sydney Cup, in
which his weight is 8.2. Eight
Bells ran only moderately, but
Earldom and Talisman both
firmed for the Cup. They were
minor placegetters to Beaupa,
whose all-the-way win in the
Autumn Handicap, l|m.,
shocked the pundits. Beaupa
has 7.4 in the Cup, and F. Reys,
another of those Queensland
jockeys who know how to get
the best out of a horse, got the
Cup mount after the Warwick
Farm win.
KARENDI for the Doncaster,
from Fire Dust and Raconteur.
• • • •
FINITO for the Sydney Cup,
from Rising Fast and Talisman.
Carioca, rising eight, winner
of £35,137 in prizemoney, made
light of the w.f.a. Chipping
Norton Stakes. His only two
opponents, Finito and Gallant
Archer, were rewarded with
placemoney for running along
behind. Carioca will be set for
the £BOOO Queen Elizabeth
Stakes on April 16 at Rand-
wick and, meantime, will fill in
with w.f.a. gallops.
Pride of Egypt was always at
odds-on for the Champion
Stakes, and Cook’s riding, com-
bined with the colt’s stamina,
brought about an easy win.
Pride of Egypt has now earned
£17,919 in stakes. His owner,
E. A. Williams, raced Hydrogen,
who won nearly £60,000 for
him. Nilo (imp.), sire of Pride
of Egypt, had another winner,
Devil Dancer, at Warwick
Farm. Several of his get will
be offered at next week’s
yearling-sales.
In winning his fifth race from
eight starts, brilliant two-year-
old Sir Newton galloped his
way right into the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce picture. Three of Sir
Newton’s wins have been run-
away affairs, and prior to
scoring on Saturday last he won
at Flemington up the straight
six. Sir Newton is a handsome
individual and in his present
form could make it interesting
for Kingster, Aboukir and
Knave. It is a question of
running out seven furlongs; he
has won easily enough at six.
There was little cheering
when outsiders Beaupa and
Green Tea won the last two
events at Warwick Farm. The
latter’s runaway success brought
a mild outburst of disapproval
from backers who’d lost on him
at Rosehill. On that day the
track was rain-soaked and
Beaupa also failed. Both had
a track to their liking at the
Farm, and no doubt the better
going had quite a lot to do with
the improvement in form.
William Inglis and Son’s
yearling-sales at Randwick will
offer some youngsters linked
with noted Turf names. The
progeny of sires likes Nilo
(imp.), Delville Wood (imp.),
Genetout (imp.), Damnos (imp.)
and Beau Son are sure to bring
keen bidding. Segenhoe stud,
Scone, is offering a bay sister to
Pride of Egypt, while the early
Delville Wood’s from Kia-ora
stud include a brother to Forest
Beau, a brother to Hydrogen,
and a brother to High Forest. A
brother to Columnist is among
the draft from Aluinn stud,
while the Beau Son’s include
relatives of several winners.
* * *
Trainer-driver J. C. Caffyn
was rewarded for his labor and
patience when one-time rogue
Daredevil won the £lOOO
Trotters’ Cup at Sydney’s
Harold Park. A “devil” from
stable to race-track, he was one
of the State’s most unreliable
trotters. But trot-fans now see
a different horse. Sandan was
in more trouble than any horse
deserves to be, and would have
worried the winner with a better
spin. S.A. Trotters’ Cup winner,
Novel Count, lugged badly and
broke early, but showed class
to run second, three lengths
ahead of Sandan.
Leading S.A. reinsman K.
Webster shot stocky little Mer-
chant to the front and main-
tained his solid pace to the post
to take the £lOOO Free-for-All.
The lOf. distance hardly gave
the Sydneysiders time to realise
what was happening. Andi and
Brucus were surprise placings.
The former idol, Ribands, was
slow from the mark, and did
not look the all-conquering
Ribands of the past. Tuesday’s
Flying Mile winner, Bruce Hall,
raced with Merchant for a lap,
but was shaken off into fourth
place. Neither of these short-
distance warm-ups was a good
guide to Thursday’s £5OOO
(13f.) Lord Mayor’s Cup.
Twenty-to-one chance Mighty
Warrior led throughout the Vic-
torian Derby Final. Zammitt
chased the Sydney colt, Frisco
Sky, alongside him, only to feel
the pinch over the final stages.
Slow away, Marine Dealer
(W.A.) did not get close enough
to challenge. Favorite at 7 to 4,
the other Sydney horse, Set
Point, was on the bank all the
way and did well to run third,
five yards behind Historic
Crown. The time, 3.27 f, was
two seconds slower than Frisco
Sky’s record-run last week.
+ +
Stawell (Vic.), in the Gram-
pians (not far from Great
Western where they make the
wine), is the gateway to the
Wimmera which produces
wheat, star Aussie Rules
footballers, cricketers, Prime
Ministers, and towns with names
like Minyip, Rupanyup and
Natimuk —is the scene of the
famous Stawell Gift, and was
lately (as reported in the Fleet-
wood-Smith paper, “The Stawell
News and Pleasant Creek
Chronicle”) the scene of an inter-
state polocrosse carnival. Polo-
"It's a no-throw. His shoulders aren't touching the canvas.
crosse is a hybrid of polo and
lacrosse, played on horseback,
and teams turned up from Yorke
Peninsula, Naracoorte (that’s in
the Tantanoola Tiger country),
the Vic. centres of Hexham,
Ballarat, Dunkeld and Ararat,
Sydney’s Kuring-gai and a place
called Eldorado —though whether
the mythical one or an Austra-
lian one isn’t clear. Anyhow,
Stawell Olympic-pool officials
staffed the gates, half the pro-
ceeds went to the pool, who beat
who will “be published in our
next issue,” and a good time was
had by all.
* ♦ *
In support of the American-
sized golf-ball—it’s no heavier
but a sixteenth of an inch
greater diameter Australian
pro. Peter Thomson is quoted
as saying that it is “the better
ball for putting,” Henry Long-
hurst (Eng.) says you can get
better control of it, and Ed.
Furgol (U.S.A.) used it “to win
the 1954 American Open.”
Australian N. Von Nida was
then heard: “I hope they all
use the bigger ball. I’ll stick to
the little one. It’s easier to score
with.” And U.S. champ. Ben
Hogan weighed in with the
statement that the smaller ball
is three strokes a round better
than the larger one. Now will
everybody please sign their cards
and put them in the box!
* * •
“Maros”: Top of the West
Australian C.A. first - grade
batting-averages this year was
18-year-old South Perth bat John
Parker (404 runs, av. 67; 111
not-out in the last qualifying-
round). But he’s not the youngest
-to have done so. Merv
Inverarity, the Fremantle all-
rounder who was a mainstay of
the W.A. side in the ’thirties, was
only 16 when he topped the Perth
averages back in 1923-24.
“Mid-on”: When Appleyard
was picked for his first
Test against Australia last
November, a Sydney critic noted
for turnstile-jumping and £5OO
challenges said, “Appleyard
would be the lucky man of this
team, firstly to have made the
touring side and secondly to have
played in a Test.” Appleyard
gave solid support to Tyson and
Statham all through, broke the
back of Australia’s second
innings in Adelaide, finished with
England’s best bowling-average
againslt Australia and did
famously in N.Z.
• • • •
“Tas.”: Your contributor (B.
23/3/’55) failed to mention
among Tasmanian Test-players
the man who was “picked direct
from Tasmania” for the first
(white) Australian XI that went
to England in 1878, G. H. Bailey.
I wasn’t born when he went to
England ; but a few years later
he was often pointed out to me
as the only Tasmanian who had
gone to England to play with the
Aus. XI. His record was not
to be scoffed at, either. He
played in 12 of the 15 matches:
21 innings, 254 runs, highest
score 40, bowled 10 overs and
took one for 17.
* * *
Coleman, Essendon and Vic-
torian star forward, has suffered
an injury fairly common in
Aussie Rules —a “crook knee.”
He got it half-way through last
season and it hasn’t mended
properly, needs an operation, and
Coleman will miss at least the
first half of the season. Which
could mean more restful sleep
for some fullbacks for a while.
* * *
Country middleweight Clive
French (11.2) was too classy
for Bill Blacka (11.41) at
Leichhardt Stadium, and de-
feated Blacka so decisively on
points that experts think it will
not be long before he becomes
an Australian champion in his
division. Plenty of ■ action
marked every round of the
match. Taller and longer in
reach, Blacka was very busy,
but French continually beat him
to the punch, and as the fight
progressed forged further ahead
on points. Realising his only
chance to win lay in landing a
knockout, Blacka tried des-
perately to do it, but all of his
many wild swings were made
to miss, and French ran out an
easy points winner.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING —INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
The BULBOUS LADY
by
GraRam
Phillips
JT\ HIPPO surely, large as
aH life, and walking along
I the Brompton-road. The
fog’s stifling white-black-
ness then cleared for an
instant, and the hippo resolved
itself, perhaps even more
incredibly, into a monstrous
female in a grey tweed costume.
At that time I still enjoyed
London’s November fogs. Their
novelty helped me to feel I was
getting my money’s worth in
travel and, as I groped my way
through them, I busied myself
with composing letters calculated
to rouse my friends in Sydney
to jealous anger.
But the fat woman drove all
thought of letter-writing from
my head. That she could walk
at all was sufficient marvel; but
she darted through the fog like a
mammoth grasshopper. Her
four-inch heels beat a brisk
tattoo in which there was no
hint of the oleaginous torpor
becoming such overblown girth.
I’d begun to feel that in the
huge, fogbound silence the fat
girl and I were the only living
things when, with damp halos
round its friendly lights, the
Brompton pub swam two-
dimensionally at us through the
swirling murk.
This pub was the friendly
island for which I was bound,
as was, apparently, the fat girl;
for she bounded up the steps with
determination, and as though
she’d never for a second doubted,
as I had done, that she was going
to find her way there.
Inside, all was almost as usual.
The pubkeeper was composedly
pulling his Wedgwood beer-taps.
The red young man was mourn-
fully sitting alone. The man
with dundreary whiskers was
mopping up adoration from the
girl in purple. Others were
pursuing their usual winter
occupation of contriving to look
well-bred in cheap and shapeless
duffle-coats.
The fat girl had already joined
the party which I’d braved the
fog to meet. Somewhat crossly
I realised that Paul Munro had
been putting one over when he’d
assured me that he had an attrac-
tive girl lined up for me.
Paul had the assurance that
comes of being both a promising
artist, one who actually sold pic-
tures, and a wealthy squatters
son. He introduced me to
the fat girl. Her name was Ruth
Painter. From the occasional
polite phrases with which she
greeted me, I gathered she was
one of the comparatively few
expatriate Australians who beef
out their “dreadful Australian
accents” shamelessly and without
compromise. She wore a thick
“suntan” make-up, beneath
which her skin was pockmarked
by acute acne. However, she
had a wide mouth that grinned
readily, showing pearly (but
large) teeth.
WITH the party, too, was
* * Nerida Smith, a Canadian
girl who’d come over to swim
the English Channel, and, having
done so, had stayed on with the
intention of marrying Paul
Munro. She exuded good health
and snobbery, though where
she’d got the notion that
channel - swimming was an
aristocratic occupation eluded
me. That she had any other
motive for doing anything I
found impossible to believe.
“Have Scotch Ale?” asked
Paul.
“No. I’m going to have a
stingo.”
“Be careful.”
Stingo is an alleged beer that
comes in tiny bottles, tastes like
fizzy port, and is strong enough
to blow your head off. From
some vague sense of the fitness
of things, the breweries sell it
only in wintertime.
Because I’d not made a success
of anything and was quite poor,
at least by her standards, Nerida
looked on me with distaste.
However, since I was Paul’s best
friend she was forced to hide
her distaste beneath a civilised
veneer —as thin as she dared
make it.
Nerida forced a note of friend-
ship into her voice as she turned
and summarised their conversa-
tion up till the fat girl and I had
joined them.
“I was saying it’d be nice if
we could go skiing in Switzer-
land, and get away from these
horrible London fogs.”
“Can’t afford it,” said Paul.
Though his father was rich,
from some notion of character-
building he kept Paul on a
breadline allowance.
“We could all stay at a youth-
hostel,” said Ruth.
Everybody turned and looked
at the fat girl. I could see that
Nerida was furious, not only at
the mere thought of a hostel,
but that the newcomer should
so easily assume she was to be
included in the party. She was
obliged to swallow her chagrin,
however.
“What a good idea,” said Paul.
“You must be one of the few
people who live up to their
letters of introduction: yours
said you had tons of spirit.”
“Did it say I had tons of flesh,
as well?” Ruth asked, and
drained her pint of bitter.
“Well, if we stay at a hostel
we can’t go to Switzerland,” I
broke in. “You’ve got to be
under twenty-five to stay at
youth-hostels in Switzerland*
That rules out both Paul and
me ...”
Ultimately it was settled that
we should all go to Chamonix,
the town that broods in the
shadow of Mont Blanc, and,
though one of Europe’s most
fashionable ski-resorts, has an
“Auberge de la Jeunesse” or
youth hostel.
“D UTH was sick on the Channel
steamer, and there was some-
thing more than usually obscene
in the sight of her gargantuan
illness over the steamer’s
side. Paul held Nerida’s hand,
and I noticed him trying to
control the revulsion he felt.
Nerida, however, looked scorn-
fully at Ruth, with open con-
tempt for her shuddering bulk.
Though it was a French boat,
presumably equipped with
French cooks, the third-class
luncheon gave only a dreary
foretaste of their vaunted cuisine.
The lady Customs officers
passed us through the “douane' 5
at Dieppe with no more than a
glance and an irritable scribble
of chalk on our shabby luggage
that proclaimed us as being no
dollar-rich tourists, itching to
line the coffers of La Belle
France.
After a long, grey journey
across a wet and dripping France,
we came in the evening to Paris.
The humdrum Gare de l’Ouest
might have been Sydney’s Central
Station. Its homeliness
emphasised the unfamiliar,
inverted sensation of being
foreigners.
Though for no logical reason
it seemed unlikely, Ruth had
been an honors-student in
French. It was she who gave
the taxi-driver the address of the
cheap, left-bank hotel to which
we had been recommended. He
did not understand her. Then,
with that brisk competence which
is the prerogative of North
American women, Nerida gave
directions in crisp, nasal French
which, whatever its shortcom-
ings, the driver immediately
understood.
The three of us went out into
the famous, evil city that night.
Ruth said she had a headache
and wanted to lie down.
We could not afford the Bal
Tabarin, or any other of the
famous nightclubs, but contented
ourselves with drinking beer in
such bars as looked encourag-
ingly vicious. We found the
French beer too weak to run out
of the bottle. We talked to
sundry Londoners. The evening
became tiring and boring.
I remember with pleasure only
the Place de la Concorde, with
its view up the Champs Elysdes
to the Arc de Triomphe (much
bigger than I had imagined),
There were many lights, and I»
reflected that the Municipality
of Paris (or whatever it called
itself) must have a shocking
electricity bill.
The Metro, Paris’s under-
ground railway, ceases to run
about twelve, and we had to
walk miles to get back to our
dingy hotel. Paul was suffering
from an attack of economy and
refused to let us catch a taxi,
The walk was redeemed by only
one thing: the night view from
the bridge by which we crossed
the Seine. Whether it was the
lights and graceful bridges
reflected in its waters I don’t
know, but it did seem possessed
of the authentic, storied magic—
a river of eau de Cologne.
PAUL and Nerida went straight
upstairs, but I felt, by the
time we had found our obscure
hotel, the need for a really potent
drink, and went into the bar. It
seemed deserted, but after a
second a waiter appeared: in
this respect at least, Paris was
living up to its reputation.
It was a large, old-fashioned
room with faded lilac wallpaper,
and, for some obscure reason, a
picture of Queen Victoria over
the hideous granite fireplace.
There were a good many large
but sick-looking palms in pots
on smutty gilt stands.
After a moment I became
aware of someone quietly
sobbing in an alcove behind me.
The waiter succeeded in under-
standing that I wanted a double
cognac, and when he brought it
motioned towards the alcove
from which the sobbing came.
I gathered he wanted me to do
something about it, but failed
to see why I should ; the evening
had already been quite
sufficiently tiring.
But the cognac loosened the
springs of human kindness, so
that I at last got up and tiptoed
across to the alcove, wearing, I
hoped, a properly sympathetic
expression.
It was Ruth, slumped across
the table like a bloated version
of Picasso’s “The Absinthe
Drinker,” every line of her
immense body a curving misery.
She had not been drinking
absinthe, but she’d certainly
drunk a good deal of something.
I touched her on one puffy
shoulder and she looked up with
red-rimmed eyes. We both felt
the embarrassment of near-
strangers thrown together into an
emotional crisis. I asked
awkwardly what the trouble was.
I don’t know why, but her answer
seemed curiously unexpected:
“I’m too fat,” she said.
“Rubbish, what’s it matter?”
I said. “Let’s both have another
drink.”
Her size made her grief
unbearable: it was like consoling
an elephant in tears.
“I didn’t care about being fat,”
she said, her voice thick with
{Continued on page 34)


?7
0®
77ie world’s largest aircraft—
1931 pattern
7 o’clock on a June evening, 1931. There
is a stir in the crowd waiting at Croydon
Airport, London. The Press photographers
get their cameras ready. The world’s largest
aircraft, the fabulous Junkers G3B, is coming
in to land.
The enormous machine touches down as
gently as a swallow landing in its nest. It
dwarfs other aircraft on the field: its single
wing covers an area of 3,120 sq. ft. and spans
148 ft.; the whole machine weighs 15 tons.
For the waiting crowd at Croydon in
1931, the Junkers G3B was the shape of
things to come. Its clean single wing, unen-
cumbered by a latticework of struts, was
indeed an important step towards the sleek,
supersonic aircraft of today.
BP aviation spirit fuelled the Junkers G3B not
only at Croydon, but in all its flights between the
capitals of Europe. Wherever it went, BP spirit
was ready, providing the perfect fuel for the
world’s largest aircraft.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready at
all times to provide aviation fuels speedily and
efficiently.
V MUTinNfjgf SERVICED
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for the British Petroleum
Co. Ltd.
4/54
Preview of
fhe next 25 years
We’ll live ten to 15 years
longer. We’ll have a much
shorter working week. Our
cars will run on atomic power;
guided missiles will shoot
mail vast distances in minutes;
ocean floors will be harvested
for food.
April Reader’s Digest brings
you a noted scientist’s dazz-
ling peek at the 1980 world.
Thirty other stimulating
articles in April Reader’s
Digest, including “There is
no unanswered prayer,” “Do
dreams come true?”, “How to
help someone in grief,” plus
a 14-page book condensation
of “Assignment: Churchill,”
by Inspector W. Thompson of
Scotland Yard. On sale now,
1/6,a1l newsagents, bookstalls.
BRANDAUERS
PENS
V,
m
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPANESE ELECTIONS
Various findings on the Japa-
nese elections, in which, as Lon-
don “Economist” puts it, “Mr.
Hatoyama, the leader of the
Democrats, has been confirmed
in office in so far as his party
has captured the lead with 185
seats (last Parliament, 124) to
the 112 (180) of the Liberals,
from whom he broke away at
the time of Mr. Yoshida’s resig-
nation”:
“New York Times” : “Premier
Hatoyama and his Democrats
will be back in power. With the
support of the equally conserva-
tive Liberals he will have a good
working majority. On the other
hand, the two Socialist groups—
with an assist from the Com-
munists have made enough
gains to block constitutional
amendments, since these require
a two-thirds vote. At this stage,
the first of these developments
seems good. The second is dis-
turbing.
“The fact that the Premier
can command a solid majority in
a coalition that will be less un-
easy than its predecessor means
that for some months at least
Japan will have a relatively
stable Government. It will not
be faced with the constant threat
of overthrow and the divisive
shadow of another general elec-
tion.
“On the other hand, the fact
that the Socialist groups can
muster more than one-third of
the Diet means that the consti-
tutional processes that are neces-
sary to the rearming of Japan
may have to wait, unless there
are serious Socialist defections.”
*, * *
Kingsley Martin in London
“New Statesman” : “The funda-
mental issues of post-war Japan
have not been involved in this
election. The dilemma which
affects every party and every
problem is whether the existing
Japan, which has lost its food-
producing territories of Man-
churia and Formosa, is economi-
cally viable. The population has
expanded rapidly. There are now
85 million people in an area
smaller than the State of Texas,
with only 17 per cent, of its area
arable land, and that already in-
tensively cultivated.”
« *
Patrick O’Donovan in Lon-
don “Observer” : “The business-
men of Japan are now con-
vinced that the West, particularly
this country [Britain], does not
intend to allow them to trade as
equals. In their desperate search
for raw materials they have
turned to China. They will
probably be disappointed. At
present the value of Japan’s
trade with China is only some
£7 million a year each way, with
China selling more than she buys.
Japan wishes to sell consumer-
goods ; she is likely to find
Chinese customers only for the
machine-tools necessary to build
up a competing economy.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“Mr. Hatoyama has promised to
hold fast to the alliance with
the United States and to press
for rearmament. At the same
time he has called for trade with
Red China and friendly rela-
tions with Russia. These objec-
tives are not necessarily incom-
patible. It will, however, be a
matter of some difficulty to
reach agreements with the Com-
munist States without com-
promising Japan’s position
among the Western nations.”
*. * *
London “Spectator”: “Both
the Democrats and the Socialists
have gained at the expense of
Mr. Yoshida’s Liberals, and this
defeat of the man who was. most
closely associated with a policy
of Japanese-American co-opera-
tion would seem to indicate that
public opinion is now deter-
mined, if not to move out of the
American orbit, at any rate to
remain there on Japan’s own
terms.”
♦ * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“At the political crossroads
where Japan now stands, she is
most unlikely to swerve violently
away from the West. But a
deliberate waywardness might
well be expected, and, as Mr.
Dulles is reported to have indi-
cated to the Bangkok Conference,
the economic price of keeping
Japan out of the Communist
camp may be rising.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“One of the main, though least
noticed, reasons for the ‘strong’
line in Washington on Formosa
and the coastal islands has been
rooted in the feeling that Japan
is approaching an important
crossroads. The reasoning in
Washington has been that any
sign of Western weakness—any
yielding of fresh territory to
—New York “Herald Tribune”
ONE-MAN ACT?
the Communists—would be cal-
culated to convince more and
more Japanese that the West is
the wrong horse to back.”
* * *
London “Economist ” : “It
would be a disaster to the cause
of the free world if the Japanese
were not to understand in time
the definite limits they should set
on their rapprochement with the
Communist Powers. At the elec-
tions the Japanese people have
rejected Communism as such.
They should never forget that,
in the eyes of the ruthless men
in Moscow and Peking, their
country represents the fattest
prize in Asia.”
Formosa
Britain and America have
noticeably closed ranks on their
Formosa policies, arid, as London
“Economist” notes, “there is
now a more encouraging under-
tone of co-ordination between
British and American day-to-
day pronouncements than there
has been in the past”:
“Leaving aside the specific
question of the offshore islands,
both regard a cease-fire as the
essential preliminary to any
further negotiation. And it is
possible to regard the latest Eden
and Dulles statements as com-
plementary to one another. On
the one hand, Sir Anthony was
re-emphasising the British official
view that there can be no sudden
or complete solution to the For-
mosa problem, while at the same
time holding out an olive-branch
to the Communists if they care
to take it.
“On the other, Mr. Dulles
was warning Peking of the
dangers of war, while also em-
phasising that neither the Ameri-
cans nor the Nationalists would
start it.”
Further to U.S. policy in the
Far East, London “Time and
Tide” adds that “It should be
apparent to even the most ardent
and backbiting of critics of
United States foreign policy that
Mr. Dulles has done more than
any other statesman to bring the
Chinese Communists to their
senses and prevent the conflict
over Formosa from growing into
something more dangerous for
the peace of the world. Of
course, there are some who would
be happy only if the Americans
would agree to restore a \Molo-
tov peace’ in the Far East by
withdrawing all their forces and
leaving the Communists to do as
they please.
“To believe that such a ‘peace’
would do anything but encourage
Communist ambitions in Asia
and weaken the free world is to
ignore the whole history of Corn-
munism and Communist dip-
lomacy in Russia and China. If
we stand firmly for the defence
of Formosa from Communist
aggression we shall find it much
easier to devise means to put our
policy into practice. And we
shall be less inclined to urge the
Americans to declare in advance
which they are and which they
are not prepared to defend of the


\
r
82%
of
AUSTRALIAN MEN
wear
Self-supporting
Trousers
A recent survey reveals that a
man’s first concern is the fit, then
the color, then the material. This
explains why so many Australian
men wear only STAMINA Self-
supporting Trousers.
Yes! What you want, what you
rightly demand, is yours when
you INSIST on getting Stamina
Trousers. A comfortably stylish
fitting —lO attractive colors to
choose from Crusader Pure
Wool Worsted Cloth. Yes! you
certainly buy well when, you
ASK FOR buy STAMINAs
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
T2-lIS
offshore islands. It is well that
the Chinese Communists should
be left guessing on this point.
“The leaders in Peking are, of
course, in a much more for-
tunate position. Free from the
pressure of public opinion, they
are under no obligation to limit
their objectives and will never
abandon their ‘claim’ to For-
mosa. And, if once they get
their hands on it, they will pro-
duce similar claims to the
numerous other territories where
their nationals are living.
“When asked in later life
what would happen if the
Western Powers made the con-
cessions demanded of them by
the Soviet Government, Maxim
Litvinov, the former Foreign
Minister, said flatly that they
[the Russians] would merely
make further demands. That is
the essence of Communist dip-
lomacy. The only way to meet
it is to be as firm and as strong
in resisting their demands as the
Communists are in making them.
The Americans are trying to pre-
vent war in the Far East, the
Chinese Nationalists have
accepted the American re-
straints. The Communists are
the only ones who have no in-
terest in a settlement.
“But they are unlikely to risk
a war. However vast in terri-
tory and population China may
be, Sir Winston Churchill has
now made it clear that great con-
tinental Powers are just as vul-
nerable as the more compact
nations—perhaps even more vul-
nerable. It is to be hoped that
the significance of this remark
has been absorbed in Peking.
“The prime objective of the
Chinese Communists at the
moment is not really territorial
expansion but industrial con-
struction. War would put an end
to their plans for the foreseeable
future. There is therefore no
reason at all for encouraging
them in their Moscow-inspired
ambitions. There is every reason
for talking to them in their own
language.”
Korea
Noting a “steady build-up of
Communist forces in North
Korea in violation of the armis-
tice agreement,” and “the in-
ability of the ‘Neutral Nations
Supervisory Commission’ to pre-
vent, or even to inspect and re-
port, these violations because of
the obstructionist tactics of its
Communist members,” “New
York Times” comments that “the
Communist build-up has also
brought a whole air-force, in-
cluding jet-fighters, to forty new
airfields within easy striking-
distance of the United Nations
lines.
“Since the Communists reject
any peaceful settlement of the
Korean problem and continue to
proclaim their ambition to con-
quer all Korea, the possibility of
a new flare-up in Korea cannot
be ignored.
“In view of this danger the
United States and its United
Nations allies in Korea are re-
ported to be coming to the con-
clusion that unless the Com-
munists halt their violations the
only way to save the armistice
will be to balance the Com-
munist build-up by a like build-
up of their own.
“This would involve a denun-
ciation not of the armistice itself
but of the armament-limitation
provisions of the armistice
agreement, which the United
Nations Command has thus far
observed. It would also involve
serious strategic considerations
concerning the distribution of
our [U.S.] forces and the manner
of waging local war.
“The Korean violations have
demonstrated again that agree-
ments with the Communists are
worthless unless they are self-
enforcing. The failure in so
limited a field of the ‘Neutral
Nations Supervisory Commis-
sion,’ freely admitted by its Swiss
and Swedish members, who took
the initiative for its abolition,
provides an ominous com-
mentary on disarmament pro-
jects which would stake the life
of the free world on the effec-
tiveness of an international
inspection and -control system
with Communist membership and
applicable to Communist terri-
tory.”
Soviet Policy
The reshuffle of Soviet leaders
was accompanied by the an-
nouncement of a return to a pro-
gramme of heavy-industries pro-
duction, instead of the producing
of more consumer-goods for the
Soviet people.
Quoting the latest annual re-
port of the Economic Commis- 1
sion for Europe, however, Lon-
don “Financial Times” comments
that, although the Russian con-
sumer derived some benefit over
the last year from increased
production of “kitchenware and
the like,” it was not at the ex-
pense of heavy-industry:
“The available statistics show
that the main branches of heavy-
industry working for normal
civilian purposes—electric-power,
coal, oil, engineering, etc. —also
managed to increase the volume
of their investment at the same
time. Where, then, did the extra
resources devoted to the expan-
sion of consumer-goods output
come from?
“The E.C-E. survey's answer,
based on a series of ingenious in-
ferences, is that the necessary re-
sources were released by cutting-
back investment in the industries
producing goods for the Russian
Ministry of Defence. The 1954
Soviet Budget did, in fact, show
a reduction of around 10 per
cent, in the defence estimates —a
reduction which has, incidentally,
been more than made good by
the increase in defence-spend-
ing in this year’s Budget.
“Thus, so far as 1954 is con-
cerned, the evidence suggests that
the only substantial benefits to
the consumer were provided at
the expense of work connected
in one way or another with the
Russian armed services. Here,
indeed, may be the clue to the
motives of the military leaders
who helped to bring Malenkov
down. For the rest, the benefits
obtained by the Russian con-
sumer in the form of clothing
and food as a result of the post-
Stalin policy are singularly un-
impressive.”
Following much the same
line of reasoning, Milwaukee
(U.S.A.) “Journal” notes that “A
year ago, the Soviet Government
promised its people increased
production of consumer-goods
and foodstuffs to raise the general
standard of living”:
“There has been little improve-
ment, however. Some goods did
come in from satellite nations.
But Soviet leaders still point to
deficiencies in crops, livestock-
production and other consumer-
goods arrears which worried
them a year ago.
“Perhaps announcement of a
‘return’ to heavy-industry is a
cover-up for failure to produce
consumer-goods. In any case,
there is no evidence that there
ever was any let-up in heavy-
industrial production.
“Turn now to another area of
Communist world production.
In satellite nations great efforts
have been made to build up
heavy-industry. The effort has
run headlong into obstacles.
Take Hungary. Historically, it
has been an agricultural country
It lacks iron, coke and coal. Yet,
under Russian urging, the last
several years saw great indus-
tries rising there. People were
moved off the land to the fac-
tories.
“The industrialisation hasn’t
worked. As Istvan Kovacs, Com-
munist leader in Budapest, said
recently: ‘For years we have
been repeating the slogan “Pro-
duce more, better and cheaper.”
In reality, we are producing less,
worse and dearer. This year we
have lost nearly 4,000,000,000
forints ($365,000,000) as a result
of low productivity, squandering,
rejects and high production-
costs.’
“As a result, too, Hungarian
food-production has fallen off
dangerously. People are hungry.
Unemployment—caused by in-
dustrial lay-offs—plagues Hun-
gary with the disease the Com-
munists say is peculiar to capital-
ism. Hungary has now started
on a big ‘return to the soil’ move-
ment in an effort to keep people
busy and fed.
“Might not both Russia and
Hungary—and similar conditions
in other satellites as well —be in-
dications that Communist
grandiose planning runs far
ahead of Communist ability to
carry out plans?”
Various Voices
Harold Wilson {in the Com-
mons debate on the cotton-
industry): “It would be wrong
to look at Lancashire as a
nursery for fast-bowlers and wet
weather.”
John Hall {British Conserva-
tive M.P.): “If Russia alone held
the secret of the H-bomb, peace
would reign on earth —a peace
akin to death. The Kremlin
would be the seat of the first
World Government, ruling a
slave-population.”
"Ted” Leather {British Con-
servative M.P. ).* “To watch Mr.
Bevan for the last five years has
been like watching the inevitable
catastrophe of a classic Greek
tragedy: the flatterers, misfits
and people with a grudge against
society, who have become his
closest associates, have pressed
him on from one wild excess to
another. If ever a man was
ruined by his friends, it is
Aneurin Bevan.”
Martin Redmayne {Lord
Commissioner of the British
Treasury): “The value of the
atomic weapon as a deterrent is
not ‘that it is terrible and that
you are known to possess it,’ but
that ‘it is terrible and it is known
that you will use it.’ Both we
and an aggressor must be
crystal-clear as to our firm in-
tention to use it if attacked
Pacifism as a personal gesture
can achieve little towards world
peace.”
Menzies {in Ottawa): “It may
be that the development of these
dreadful weapons may turn out
to be the thing that abolished
war from the face of the earth
and established peace, based on
the instinct of ordinary selt*
preservation.”
British nuclear scientist Dr.
Peter Alexander: “Atomic
energy is here to stay, and we
might as well learn how to live
with it and how to protect our-
selves. Eventually it seems that
we will have to establish
standards of safety and I think
it would be valuable if these
standards were international.”
Herbert Agar (former editor
of the “Louisville Courier-
Journal,” U.S.A.): “I have spent
most of my adult life defending
the British Empire to America.
I shall regard it as a terrible bore
if I have to spend my declining
years defending the American
Empire to Great Britain.”
Sir Winston Churchill:
“Russia would be ill-advised to
embark on major aggression
within the next three or four
years. We may calculate that
world war will not break out
within that time. Let us not
waste this interlude. Let us
hope that we shall use it to
augment or at least prolong our
security and that of mankind.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Our Destiny to Northward
Quite properly, Mr. Menzies has not
returned home flourishing a list of
promises made and received in Washing-
ton concerning the Australian and
American shares of the task of
defence of South-East Asia. The draft
commitments must go first to Cabinet,
and then to Parliament, which has heard
too little of the strategic aspects of the
situation, although many members are
well qualified to discuss them. Neverthe-
less, it can be assumed that the Prime
Minister considered the Australian politi-
cal outlook sufficiently stable —or at least
the Government’s majority sufficiently
assured for a long period for certain
assurances to be offered tentatively in
Washington.
What those assurances may involve by
way of troops in Malaya and elsewhere,
the use of bases in Australia and New
Guinea by U.S. forces, the modernisation
of R.A.A.F. squadrons, the revision of
the National Training scheme and the
judicious assistance of secondary indus-
tries has yet to be disclosed. The great
thing is that at last some progress is being
made.
It was a little unfortunate that Sir
Arthur Fadden’s declaration that Aus-
tralia had applied an unprecedented pro-
portion of its resources to strengthening
the armed forces coincided with sugges-
tions that the defence-vote had been sub-
stantially underspent. However, if there
is a good sum in kitty, the prospect of
buying an adequate number of modern
aircraft will be less formidable, and so
will the task of bringing ground forces
up to modern standards in equipment as
well as training. What Australians must
be told is the way in which the “Power
vacuum” south of Communist China (the
phrase of Washington correspondents) is
to be filled. Mr. Casey referred signifi-
cantly the other day to the British Borneo
colonies, and there is some reason to
believe that Dutch New Guinea may have
been discussed by Mr. Menzies in
Washington, following his visit to The
Hague.
It would be interesting to learn if any
representations have been made to
Indonesia for the use of bases against
aggression. At first glance such a
proposition might appear hopeless in view
of Indonesia’s declared neutrality in
foreign policy, but Indonesia’s need for
foreign capital and other assistance would
appear to offer at least a possible
bargaining-point if Australia and the U.S.
were prepared to take the initiative.
There may be another bargaining-point
in the general set-up. Recent reports
from America suggest considerable
behind-the-scenes activity aimed at a
cease-fire in the Formosa Strait, and
some statements by Mr. Dulles could be
interpreted as a hint to Peking that ulti-
mate disposition of the offshore islands
could well be a point for negotiation in
cease-fire talks. However, a cease-fire
will not mean any relaxation of Aus-
tralia’s defence efforts. It might even
intensify them, in the knowledge that
Formosa would no longer be an active
distraction for Communist forces, and
that force seems the only effective
deterrent to Communist moves elsewhere
in the area which must be protected for
its own sake —and for ours. — Mugga
Way (A.C.T.).
No Help to Home-builders
A Melbourne suburban health-inspec-
tor has drawn attention to the absurdity
of municipal authorities insisting on a
minimum area for houses built within
their local boundaries. Ten squares —i.e.,
1000 square feet —is the smallest permis-
sible in most Melbourne municipalities ;
in some areas the limit is twelve-and-a-
half squares or more.
The inspector criticised the snobbish
and unreasonable attitude of local coun-
cils on this matter, pointing out that the
minimum areas were, generally, pre-
scribed in the pre-war era when building
was relatively cheap, and an extra room
or spacious veranda meant little addi-
tional cost. He added that the excuse
made for maintaining the present restric-
tions was that councils could not counten-
ance the erection of dwellings that might
eventually degenerate into slums.
How the dimensions of a dwelling can
have any bearing on the question of
slums is a mystery. Some of the worst
slum-dwellings in Melbourne are large
houses in the inner suburbs which have
fallen into decay and are occupied by a
number of families, too poor or too
indifferent to their surroundings to try
to improve their lot. In ordinary residen-
tial suburbs, slums are practically non-
existent ; the construction of smaller
dwellings than now permissible could not
conceivably add to their numbers.
About 25 per cent, of the population
(elderly and childless couples, single per-
sons and others) do not require 1000
square feet of floor-space —and insistence
on this high minimum prevents many
people from ever acquiring their own
homes.
It is high time that restrictions other
than those relating to health and sound
construction of dwellings were removed.
Nothing could give greater impetus to
housing development in the present era of
rising costs. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Eggs
The W.A. Egg Board has devised
a brilliant method of dealing with
poultry men who send it fertile eggs.
They will be fined and the offending eggs
confiscated. That this will materially
damage hatcheries which reject eggs for
hatching because of shape, size and
color, but not because of their eating
qualities, will not deter the board.
Hatcherymen lose heavily every season
because they cannot tell fertile eggs from
infertile before incubation, but the board
has got over that with nothing short of a
flash of genius. No, they won’t put the
eggs in an incubator. They will keep them
a week, then candle them. If this is on
top of the usual fortnight delay the board
has between delivery and dispatch of
eggs it should do well out of the sale of
day-old chicks. Cock-o’-the-Walk
(W.A.).
Dangerous Reading
The fuss and bother created by the
N. S. Wales “obscene publications” legis-
lation has brought to light the usual army
of defenders of the “comic”-reading habit.
It was ever thus, they say. Didn’t
Grandma read the romantic novelettes
and blush over the indiscretions of Lady
Ermyntrude? Didn’t Grandpa soak him-
self in the adventures of Deadwood Dick,
Buffalo Bill and Frank Reade with his
comic henchmen, Barney and Pomp, and
the airships and steam-men invented by
the hero? Of course they did—and came
to little harm from reading these hair-
raising adventures.
Ever since people could read, rubbish in
“Answer your names as they're called."
one form or another has been provided
for them. But never before has it been
so widely circulated, and never before
have civilised communities been so
saturated with tales of crime of every
description and of demoralising sex-
adventures, provided particularly for the
adolescent.
Something is wrong with the working
of our cherished state of democracy. We
are getting too much of the wrong kind
of freedom, and the results of it are wide
“Now that you’ve joined the Medical Benefits Fund, let's dash down to
the Doc.’s surgery — it’s more fun than the pictures!"
open to public scrutiny. The daring
indiscretions of the old-fashioned
novelette are today so commonplace that
the divorce-courts cannot cope with the
business, while the statistics of illegitimate
births soar ever higher. The “de facto”
wife is accepted as an element in our
modern progress rather than a sign of our
moral decadence.
With the jails of the country accom-
modating far too many of our young
men, and with juvenile delinquency so
common that more jails may be necessary
to house the bad lads of rising genera-
tions, it would appear that our social
morality is on the down-grade.
It is pure self-delusion for anybody to
assert that the modern flood of American
crime-comics has no bad effect on the
juvenile reader. Even the U.S.A. is
alarmed by the unprecedented rise of
juvenile delinquency among the
adolescents so widely addicted to reading
the so-called “comic-books.”
Democratic freedom is a fine thing,
so long as it is not taken as a form of
licence to disregard the conventions and
flout the laws of the land. As we look
about us it is often difficult to see spring-
ing from these freedoms all the good we
are entitled to expect. We are forced to
the conclusion that man may still need a
firmer hand than he gets to keep him in
order.
And that goes for the publisher who
discards the common decencies for the
sake of the profits— Shellback (N.S.W.).
“Clinics”
A development of doubtful worth, and
one that appears to be extending rapidly
in various parts of Australia, is the medi-
cal partnership or group-practice, com-
monly known as “the clinic.” In most
instances it consists of three or four
doctors, who are usually general prac-
titioners, though it sometimes includes a
specialist of one type or another.
The basic idea, apparently, is to enable
work to be undertaken in rotation, so
that harassed g.p.’s may enjoy something
in the nature of regular hours. That is
fair enough. Many doctors in both towns
and cities are, or used to be, grossly over-
worked through being on call every day
and at all hours.
As for the patients’ interests, it is
argued by supporters of “the clinic” that
doctors are in better trim when given
reasonable time off-duty; that a group
is able to afford better equipment than
that of an individual; that prompt service
is more assured from a partnership than
in the case of a single doctor, and that
any one trained man on the job is as good
as another.
Superficially, those points appear to be
sound; but, in fact, only the first two
have any real substance. Certainly it is
not true that a group-practice ensures
prompter service, the actuality being that
in most instances only one doctor is on
duty at any given time, and, as he has to
cope with patients who would normally
be distributed over three men, he is often
“snowed-under.”
There is also something askew in the
argument that one trained man is as good
as another. In particular, it overlooks
the personal factor. The average patient,
of course, has a preference for a certain
man —-“my” doctor, who “understands my
case” —and, accordingly, unhappiness
frequently results when that particular
medico is not available. This is indeed
a handicap to medical efficacy, if only
from the psychological aspect.
Patients who pay full medical fees are
entitled to have their “own” doctor. They
should not be regimented. Moreover,
professional ethics surely demand that
the interests of patients should be placed
first and not be subordinated to doctors
convenience.
Even when group practices are well-
conducted they cannot be wholly satis-
factory, but not all of them are operated
on sound principles.
Consider, for example, a doctor who
sets himself up as a “clinic” and runs his
show with the aid of young graduates,
each of whom works on a salary, with
regular hours, and for a limited tenure.
All fees, of course, are collected by the
leader of the band. This scheme, no
doubt, suits the young doctors, since it
gives them both pocket-money and
experience, but, far from suiting the
patients, it resolves into the fact that they,
the paying customers, are used simply as
material for youths to practise upon.
(N.S.YV.).
SIOSAL


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, as a Proprietary
Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000.000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £l each ) , ... ...
577,045 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each) ” " “ *' *<>205,500
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each.. .. .. .. ~ 300,000
.1,505,500 £1,505,500
HELD IN RESERVE
494,500 Shares of £ I each .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 494,500
2,000,000
£2,000,000
CAPITAL REQUIRED to Operate Valuable "Caterpillar"*
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to secure the
greatest possible returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of the valuable
;^ n ™i es he * d b . y the Com Pany and its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS PEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY.
LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CATERPjLLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria. U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD n
Caterpillar" Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment for
STATE OF QUEENSLAND
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
COMPANY of Illinois. U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for the
whole of Australia.
300,000 NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/- EACH, PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
TRACKS
ON
1904-1954
"CATERPILLAR'S" WORLD STATUS!
• Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on tracks is
"Caterpillar. 11
t In Australia, too, "Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by far the
highest user preference, as every year more "Caterpillars"
are sold than any similar type.
Caterpillar Is a registered Trade Mark.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
1951
1952
1953
1954
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS’ REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of valuable franchises
augurs well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Net Profit
£11,790
£48,779
£58,870
£111,398
Ordinary
Dividends
9.2%
39.0%
12.5%
12.5%
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of new Ordinary Shares are proposed to be applied as
working capital for the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompanying the Prospectus,
dated 28th February, 1955, and must be lodged direct with the Company’s Office.
Copies of the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained upon application
to the Company’s Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Diesels Limited will be given absolute priority of
allotment of shares applied for not laier than the 31st March, 1955. Any shares not
then applied for by such shareholders will be dealt with as the Directors may
determine. The Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without
notice, whether the issue be then fully subscribed or otherwise. In the event of
applications being received for more than 300,000 New Ordinary Shares, the Directors
reserve the right to allot additional shares ranking pari passu in all respects with
the New Ordinary Shares offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such
additional shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing further working
capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must be raised by the
issue of shares offered for subscription by this Prospectus is £20,000, being required
solely as working capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 77 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W., Chairman and
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General Manager.
LESLIE EUGENE BRANDON, 61 Seventh Avenue, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Qld., Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W., Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASS ALL, 36 Trelawney Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
JOHN DUDLEY LOBB, Lum Road, Wheeler’s Hill, Victoria, Architect.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN PEARSON, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Manager.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES, F.C.1.5..
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company's Registered Office,
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been
information only and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe,
advertisement, is dated 28th February, 1955, and copies thereof have been filed respectively
Wales (who takes no responsibility as to its contents), the Registrar ol Companies in
Australia and Tasmania and the Registrar-General in Victoria.
Applications icill be received only upon one of the forms of applications referred to
of the Prospectus.
fully complied with) is published for
The Prospectus, of which this is an
with the Registrar-General in New South
Queensland, South Australia, Western
in and endorsed upon a printed copy
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M., ON 30th JUNE, 1955. CONSIDERATION WILL BE
GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED, PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT
THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
NOTE: The
minimum subscrip-
tion having been
received the
Directors have
proceeded to
allotment.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address
State
B-30


LYSAGHTS
PRoor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products arfe
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
fflm.: m&. ;: ■ &: : ® W%% ■ v m&m
1H
m :: ,
■
m
m
WBH
i ■ %
m
/.d
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackball Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS”
BEEF CATTLE AT SYDNEY ROYAL
pRIDAY, opening day, and the
-*• right sort of weather for it
—a cloudless blue sky after
rumors of rain—and, over where
the Herefords and Shorthorns
and Aberdeen-Angus were being
judged, a respectable line-up of
baldys and reds and whites and
roans and blacks, despite the
floods.
Fats were judged on Thurs-
day, Aberdeen-Angus breeder
H. G. Munro, of Booroomooka
(Bingara, N.S.W.), taking the
championship with a 17-month
steer.
Broadcast comment by the
judges as the prize-winners in
each class file past in order of
merit is an excellent idea. Sur-
prising how a beast’s good and
bad points come out under this
treatment; and how a judge’s
preferences come out, too.
H. W. Yelland (Vic.), who
judged the Herefords, is, for
instance, keen on nostrils (a fair
indication of constitution), and
G. M. Rankin, from Scotland,
faulted a number of Shorthorns
on nose-color.
These are mere examples. Re-
peated many times, the com-
ments built up a pattern of
values.
Herefords were a bit light-on
in numbers, but of good quality.
Victorian breeders W. L. and
D. B. Johnson exhibited the
champion bull, Rylands
Kingsley, one of the heaviest-
fleshed bulls the judge had ever
seen. Rylands Kingsley is by the
imported bull Fenhampton
Broadside, out of the imported
cow Shrine Dearest. Last year
he won a first at Sydney, under
12 months.
William Mcllrath (N.S.W.)
took the reserve championship
with his Windsor Talisman, and
the junior championship with
Windsor Consul. Colly Creek
Estate (N.S.W.) exhibited the
junior reserve champion, Colly
Creek Diplomacy. There was
little between the two, the
Windsor bull being softer to the
touch.
Over at the other ring there
was a fine parade of Shorthorns
—one of the best yet. Champion
bull, Woomargama Supreme,
was one of a strong team from
the Woomargama Estate (C. P.
Fairbairn and Co., N.S.W.).
Junior champion Wongala His-
torian (J. Kemelfield, Woodend,
Vic.) is one of the first sons of
the £BOOO imported bull Cruggle-
ton Pandelus.
Shorthorn cows and heifers
were not quite so strong. Alberni
Bros. (Ferntree Gully, Vic.) took
the senior and junior champion-
ship with Fulham Noble Gaiety ;
Sir Rupert Clarke’s (Clarkefield,
Vic.) Bolinda Alicia Butterfly
was reserve both times.
The Aberdeen-Angus were
weaker than usual —Wallah Pas-
toral Co. and Kahlua Pastoral
Co. didn’t exhibit. Cows and
heifers were on the whole
better than the bulls. N.S.w!
Department of Agriculture
.5 “ ni or Agricuiiure
cattle, from the Trangie stud,
handled well but the chamuion
bufl TraTgie Anthonv was a
u/’,. iT 7 s , . J n °ny, was a
blt b ght behind. The Depart-
™ ent of Agriculture, H. G.
R i?’ B °f Y BStatC
had the major share of prizes—
the latter collecting both
champion and reserve for cow
or heifer. H. G. Munro was the
most successful exhibitor.
Ban Ban Masterman (C. D.
W. L. and D. B. Johnson’s Rylands Kingsley, champion Hereford bull,
Sydney Show.
Judge Estate, Ban Ban, Ben
Lomond, N.S.W.) was the
champion bull; junior champion
bull, Table Top Estate’s (N.S.W.)
Table Top Roman, was reserve
champion also; junior reserve
was Havilah Candidate 53rd
(Havilah Pty., N.S.W.). Ban Ban
Princess 6th was champion cow,
Ban Ban Norah 2nd reserve, and
another from Ban Ban, Banoole
Ficus 6th, was junior champion,
with Retford Town Jenny (Gib-
raltar Pty., Ltd., N.S.W.)
reserve. [When this went to
press judging was continuing, in
light rain.]
Cattle-tick
npHE conflicting opinions of
A R. C. Pearce (B. 16/3/’55)
and J. F. Doyle (B. 26/l/’55)
on cattle-tick control are con-
fusing, to say the least, but to
some extent they are both right.
Mr. Pearce, with his experi-
ence of Queensland cattle-
country away from the coast,
where the cattle-population is
light in terms of beasts to the
square mile and seasonal grass-
fires are the usual thing, could
get away with his non-dipping
methods. He would not see
many ticks or notice pronounced
harmful effects to his stock.
But similar methods in the
heavy-rainfall areas on the coast,
heavily stocked with dairy-
cattle, would end in disaster.
The arsenical dip kills by
absorption as much as it does
by ingestion, but there is no
doubt that in large areas of
Queensland it is now useless.
After an insect (or animal, for
that matter) develops an immunity
to arsenic, no amount will affect
it. On my property [Mr. Mul-
holland writes from Gympie,
Q.], after an arsenical dip had
been used for 45 years with
fairly good results, the ticks
gained an immunity which could
not be overcome even by
increasing the strength to a
level dangerous for the cattle.
Five years’ use of B.H.C. pro-
duced a similar immunity to that
insecticide, and ticks in the fifth
year thrived on a double-
strength solution.
Then a costly change-over to
D.D.T. saved the day, and after
three years the results are still
excellent. Where D.D.T. has
been used for as long as seven
years the kill is still completely
effective.
It costs £l5 to charge a
plunge-dip with arsenic and
about £§o to charge with D.D.T.
in the form of one proprietary
line. Many stock-owners still
persist in the use of arsenical
preparations, but they little
realise how much more expen-
sive it is in the long run. Even
when the arsenic killed the ticks
satisfactorily my cattle had to be
dipped 12 to 14 times a year,
and now six or seven dippings
in D.D.T. give a far better
control.
But here an even balance
must be preserved, as the
hidden enemy, tick-fever, is
always ready to pounce on the
overzealous farmer’s herd. Im-
munity to tick-fever in cattle
lasts only a few months, and to
preserve their immunity they
must be exposed to infected ticks
at short intervals, or re-inocu-
lated with blood from animals
carrying the disease in a mild
form.
If D.D.T. is used too vigor-
ously the tick-infestation on the
property is practically elimin-
ated, and then a few infected
ticks from a neighbor’s paddock
or travelling stock can let loose
the disease on cattle which no
longer have any immunity.
Until a concerted effort is
made to eliminate all ticks in
the area, the safest course for
the stock-owner to adopt is to
dip his cattle as soon as he
notices ticks on them, be the
interval between dippings three
weeks or three months. In this
way the ticks will be held in
control, and yet efficient num-
bers will still be present to
preserve the immunity of his
cattle.
W. E. Mulholland.
Bruises Cost Money
“Bingo”: Bruises cost the
Australian beef-cattle industry
about £1,700,000 a year. The
Australian Meat Board advises
that bruising can be minimised
by:
1. Not using dogs during
mustering.
2. Removing loose paper,
tins and other litter from yards
and stock-routes.
3. Checking all gates for
protruding gate-stops. It’s best
to have a horseman near every
gate to stop cattle crowding
through.
4. Driving cattle very quietly
on the last stage of journeys.
5. Giving cattle a drink four
to six hours before loading
them, then - keeping them off
water before the journey.
6. Resting cattle in good
paddocks, but without feed, be-
fore loading. Load cattle quietly
into trucks as soon as possible
before moving off. Don’t over-
crowd cattle in yards. Begin
rail way-journeys as soon as
possible after loading stock.
7. Trucking cattle quietly and
easily. Don’t allow them to mill
around or crowd in the corners
of the yards.
8. Using canvas slappers.
The “electric-dog” can be used
judiciously.
9. Loading lame and crippled
cattle in separate trucks.
10. Not loading horned and
polled cattle, or mixed sexes, in
the same truck. Best to keep
bulls and steers separate. If this
is impossible, tie the bulls up.
11. Not overloading or under-
loading trucks.
12. Keeping cattle on their
feet throughout the journey.
13. Untrucking carefully and
quietly, and moving cattle
quickly to good paddocks for
water, feed and rest.
14. Being careful when
untrucking and reloading at
rest-periods during journeys.
15. Feeding and watering
judiciously at all times.
Orient Oats
“Wymlet”: For a good all-
rounder among oats, Orient is
hard to beat. Bred by the Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture, from Palestine and Dawn
varieties, Orient was released to
farmers in 1947.
It gives a high yield ; grain
is plump and a deep-honey
color ; straw is short, but hay-
yields are very little below those
of the recognised hay varieties.
Having a high proportion of
grain to straw, Orient gives a
high-quality chaff.
But Orient gives its best value
in winter-grazing. It makes a
nice early sward and keeps
grassy for a long time before
running into ear quickly. It is
specially valuable in dry seasons.
If you take the sheep off it
in early spring, Orient will
recover well to give good grain-
yields. Orient has done very
well in the best parts of Vic-
toria’s granary —the Wimmera
and Mallee.
Goaf Hints
“Warrakoo”: About this time
of year goat-breeders in the
wetter areas have to be particu-
larly careful, and depart from
rule-of-thumb methods with their
herds.
Regular dosing with pheno-
thiazine can be ineffective if
paddocks are liable to retain a
lasting dampness at root-level,
and the three-monthly drench
can be safely replaced with a
five- or six-weekly dosage. In
the North [“Warrakoo” writes
from North Queensland], worms
are the goat’s worst enemy, and
the extra trouble and expense is
amply repaid by healthy stock.
At this time, too, look well to
the hooves of your stock. A light
paring weekly is far better than
a heavy going-over at a later
date, and is a sure preventive of
footrot.
In the December-March rain-
fall-areas it is wisest to mate the
does at the earliest possible time
—say, mid-February or as soon
as the season opens (Uncle


FOR SALE AUSTRALIAN COPYRIGHT
Annual Publication
The Proprietors wish to dispose of the Australian rights of a Farm Publication
which has a wide and successful circulation in New Zealand. Would suit active
retired Farmer or Business Executive prepared to travel. Bank references required.
Reply to Publication, care of this paper.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
ROTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
the grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and for demonstrations:
ITS
e
i
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE
■ ■ ■
IS*,
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorhed into the soil.
llhrivE
snn:
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore
N.Z.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Ooulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
° r Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
, ® ee Kee « Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
v&.W .'<& K
Established lisOH in Reion of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
Wm
m
m
THE SOONER YOU
INVEST IN
HADDON RIG BLOOD
THE MORE YOU
STAND TO GAIN!
Today, the pastoralist who invests in Haddon
Rig Blood is in a singularly enviable position.
He is ready to profit by the Stud’s 73 years
of continuous research and highly-skilled breed-
ing— a lifetime of mating “like with like” that
ensures that every Haddon Rig Ram is a par-
ticularly sound investment. It is not surprising
that, each year, more breeders and more
growers are capitalising on Haddon Rig’s
remarkably successful methods. In 1954, they
added 4,157 Haddon Rig Rams to their assets—
clear proof of their determination to gain the
substantial rewards brought by more wool per
head and more pence per pound.
Spirited bidding has won top aggregate for
Haddon Rig at fifteen consecutive Sydney Ram
Sales. Last year, five Haddon Rig Special Stud
Rams averaged 3,340 guineas. The Stud’s
117 rams realised £57,676 more than
27% of the entire sales, a figure surpassed only
at the 1954 Brisbane Ram Sales, where Haddon
Rig gained over 31%.
Make certain that you will share in the extra
return per head made possible by rams from
Australia’s premier Merino Stud.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
HRI-55
William’s effluvium will give you
the exact date), so that kids
dropped in July will be well
grown before the “wet” starts.
July - November matings leave
you with a paddock of young
stuff at the most trying time of
the year.
For milk during the whole
year, let one of your old, reliable
does have a year off. She’ll keep
the milk running right through
the year.
Crutch Ewes Before
Lambing
“Capilano”: Advantages of
crutching lambing - ewes —well
known to Australians and advo-
cated in a recent Canadian
publication—include:
1. Gives lambs easy access to
the udder.
2. Prevents lambs choking or
sucking daggy-wool and sweaty-
ends.
3. Reduces udder soreness.
4. Prevents ffystrike in the
crutch.
5. Enhances the value of
fleece-wool.
Wigging in conjunction with
crutching helps ewes of the
woolly breeds to see clearly.
When crutching, it is wise to:
1. Do the job at least a
month before lambing, but not
too early.
2. Clean wool well away from
the insides of the legs and up
around the topside of the tail.
3. Make clean blows around
the udder.
4. Clear up all hanging pieces
of wool.
5. Be sure not to injure any
teats.
6. Handle all pregnant ewes
carefully.
Damaged Grain
“Sunset”: When wheat or any
other grain is damaged by rain,
mould, rust, smut or fire it is
usually thought to be unfit for
human consumption and is
offered for sale as stock-feed —
at a price below the ruling rate
for an f.a.q. sample.
Canadian research-workers say
that such damaged grains are
satisfactory feeds for all classes
of farm-livestock if certain pre-
cautions are taken.
Mouldy grains are usually not
harmful but can cause trouble
occasionally.
Ergot-infested grains should
be fed with extreme caution,
They must not be offered to preg-
nant animals. Wheat should
always be fed in small amounts
at the start. The amount can be
increased as animals get used
to it.
Mouldy and burnt grain are
less palatable to livestock and
poultry than normal grain.
Rusted grain has a low bushel-
weight and often contains a lot
of chaff.
Taking these things into
account, the economics of the
whole business depends, of
course, on the comparative prices,
for damaged and f.a.q. grain.
Dieldrin
“Jubilee”: Dieldrin, the new
insecticide, is giving good results
for a period of 16 weeks here in
New Zealand. Cost, l|d. per
lamb for one pint of solution,
the minimum amount for control
of crutch-strike. For a heavier-
woolled lamb up to two pints.
At docking, hindquarters
should be immersed; this will
control maggots until a later
possible strike will make com-
plete saturation advisable (one
to two pints).
For body-strike, later in the
season, jetting is sufficient. The
fly will still strike treated sheep,
but the maggot won’t survive.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: Addition of
potash to the fertiliser on sandy
country will induce a greater
response from the pasture. On
heavier sandflats, where the
water-table is fairly high, it is
possible to maintain a strong
ryegrass - clover cover with
phosphate dressings of 3cwt. per
acre, as well as lcwt. per acre
of muriate-of-potash.
“Sundowner”: Spread lime on
unoccupied garden-patches to be
washed into the soil by winter
rains. Recommended application
is {oz . per square yard. Lime
thus used will also hasten the
decomposition of plant-material
turned-in during the autumn.
“Decidus”: Internal heat of a
fowl is 106 deg. to 107 deg. Fahr.
compared with 98deg. in a man.
As a result, there is a rapid rate
of breakdown of tissue, which
must be replaced. To do this the
fowl must eat equal to 6.7 per
cent, of its body-weight daily,
excluding liquids. If growing
stock are underfed, the age of
maturity of six to eight months
may be lengthened considerably.
And they’ll never be as good as
birds that have been fully fed.
“Bill C.”: Barium-carbonate,
strychnine, phosphorus, Ml 09
are effective rat- and mouse-
poisons, but there’s some risk
of the rodents carrying away the
baits and dropping them where
pets or children may pick them
up. A rasher of bacon spread
with poison and tacked firmly
to a high shelf will be gnawed,
but not carried away. To meet
the problem of placing rat-bait
in fowl-runs, tack the baits to
the floor of a big wooden box in
which a number of small holes
have been bored to admit the
rats —far enough in so that a
chook can’t reach. Close-in the
top of the box.
“Nosey”: To beat the nasal
bot-fly in your flock: Provide
trees and plantations in all
paddocks ; plough furrows across
paddocks where the nasal bot is
active (sheep can push their
noses into the soft earth); smear
sheep’s noses with Stockholm-tar
or glycerine.
“Luke”: When the batteries
go flat on your portable- or all-
dry - battery - radio using two
45-volt B-batteries and a sepa-
rate A-battery, don’t
buy a complete set of new ones.
The A-battery gives out first, par-
ticularly if the set uses a “battery-
saving” switch. The old B-
batteries will often see out a new
A-battery (filament) fitted at this
stage.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/3/’55)
The heavy rains now falling in Queensland are
associated with the Single cycle, and. in this case, they
would substantiate the heavy rains which are anticipated
in southern Queensland and throughout N.S.W. during
May. General rains should also be recorded in Victoria
and South Australia during the same month.
In Sydney, further rain and showers should fall early
in April, and there is a possibility that very heavy rains
may occur on April 5 [see time of writing, above].
Fortunately—perhaps—for Sydney’s Royal Easter Show,
this heavy-rain-group is not indicated on the other cycles.
LENNOX WALKER


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
■ mm
S
I i
■
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In' Divorce.
TO STANLEY RICHARD SUMMER-
HAYES late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that LAUREL SUMMERHAYES has
filed her petition for Divorce No. 518
of 1955 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you intend to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 6th June,
1955, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MR. G. M.
STAFFORD, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MYRTLE MARY BEAVIS BOX
formerly of Wollongong New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE
BOX has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1266 of 1937 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 10th day of June, 1955, and obtain
a copy of this Petition without charge
from H. WILSHIRE WEBB, Solicitor of
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
I No Pads —
' No Springs
The NEO-BARBERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3t), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
—
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. O. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States •
alcohol, “until I met Paul. But
what chance ’ve I got? What
chance with any man ever?”
I knew it was useless to offer
any practical advice about diet:
I’d already noticed that she ate
less than anybody I’d ever met.
I just let her cry herself out,
until, at last, she went exhausted
to bed. I hoped that I had at
least been of some use in acting
as a wailing-wall.
Next morning, Ruth joined us
at breakfast —or at least at the
French nation’s sketchy idea of
breakfast —showing not a trace
of her emotional volcanics of
the night before.
The day was mostly devoted to
shopping for a particular type of
ski-boot that Nerida insisted she
had to have. She talked a good
deal about someone called
Pierre who’d taught her to ski
in the Canadian Laurentians.
Even women of Nerida’s
calibre find it hard to badger
salesmen in an unfamiliar
language, but at last we ran
these vital boots to earth in one
of the giant department-stores
near the Palais Royale. We had
not ljeen to the Louvre, Notre
Dame or any other tourist
Mecca.
“Is there anything you need,
Ruth?” Paul had politely
inquired.
“No, thank you. The hand-
book says you can hire skis and
boots at the hostel.”
It’s a nasty thing to admit,
but I’m afraid we greeted this
announcement with a silence that
verged on the ironic. That Ruth
might actually venture on to the
snowfields was impossible to
visualise. She had, it was true,
muttered of past expeditions to
Kosciusko, but we presumed it
was in days before she herself
became so mountainous.
CO crowded was the train from
Paris that we stood for
twelve hours in the corridor. At
intervals during the night, parties
with haversacks and skis boarded
the train. Ruth had now adjusted
her school-French to real French
people, and managed to strike
up a conversation and to find out
something about our destination.
She was somewhat comically
aided in breaking the ice by the
constant “pardons” of people
climbing past her on their way
to the lavatory.
“The ski-runs of Chamonix,”
she reported, “are amongst the
longest and steepest in Europe.
They say it’s no place for
beginners.”
Was there just a hint of malice
in her voice? I saw Paul flush
beneath his dark curls, for he
was, of the four of us, the only
absolute beginner. I knew his
lust for beating everybody at
everything. Someone has said
that very old friends are almost
indistinguishable from enemies.
I became extremely curious to
see how Paul would react to a
sport that humiliates the beginner
as can no other.
The Alps shoot abruptly sky-
ward from out of the flat land of
France. We completed the last
laps of the journey in some train
of French invention: from its
jolting progress, it ran on square
wheels, evidently to obviate the
risk of backsliding down the
sharp gradient. We crossed and
recrossed the gorge on bridges
of so lacy and unsafe an appear-
ance that they seemed to be made
of Meccano—like Eiffel towers
laid out flat. “Danger de Mort”
hysterical notices screamed at
intervals beside the line ... a
Gallicism for “Pull y’r ’ead in.”
And suddenly the pinnacles
were white, and the air began to
claw and bite the flesh and to
sting like iodine in the nostrils.
Chamonix is distinguished, I
believe, by being the only word
in the French tongue with a final
“x” that is not silent. It is both
expensive and fashionable, but,
though the valley in which it lies
is less a valley than a spectacular
gash riven deep between awful
pinnacles, the township itself is
remarkably suburban, and quite
without the picturesque note of,
for example, St. Moritz.
The hostel occupies half a
farmhouse, in a village called Les
Pelerins, about a mile from the
smart heart of Chamonix itself.
Nerida’s lips curled with dis-
taste as we entered. Doubtless
this shabby barracks of a place
offended her North American
sense of hyper-hygiene. Nor had
she yet learnt that she was to
spend the night listening to the
cattle lowing on the other side
of the wall!
Pere Auberge (Father Hostel)
greeted us solemnly. He had
once learnt English, we later
learnt, but refused to speak it
on the ground that it was not
pretty. Solemnly he fitted us
with skis, but I thought I caught
him shooting one or two dubious
glances at Ruth as he did so.
TlfE had lunch. In England the
hostels are said to be clean,
but the food is bad. On the
Continent the food is good . . .
There was red wine from the
local epicerie that hosteliers took
it in turn to buy. It cost one-
shilling and threepence a bottle
—and you got threepence back
on the bottle.
The French telegraph their
skiers to the mountain-tops. A
device like a super flying-fox,
and which is known as “le
teleferique whisks them to a
fifteen-thousand-foot pinnacle in
five minutes; but even experi-
enced skiers may take half a day
to come down.
“I suggest we all go up, Paul,”
said Nerida, “and I can give you
some lessons on a gentle slope at
the top, without actually coming
down the mountain. We can
come down again in this cable-
car affair.”
Ruth said nothing, but got her
skis and came with us.
The view from the top was
criticised by Paul: “Vulgar,” he
said. “The mountains look a§
though they’d been ordered by
Cecil B. de Mille. No wonder no
great painter bothers with them.”
Nonetheless, I looked at the
valley-floor so far below, saw
monster hotels dwarfed to the
size of a matchbox, and shivered.
I, too, decided to practise on
some gentle slope, and afterwards
to descend by the teleferique.
Ruth said she was walking up
a little higher, and disappeared.
Nerida took charge, and we
started a small, private ski-school.
"MOW, the skier’s equivalent of
the golfer’s “Fore!” is the
warning cry “Track!” shrieked
out as he descends, for the
benefit of all whp may be in his
cannonesque path. In France,
this cry is translated as an urgent
“ Attention : At-on-shy-on,” and
at its sound we scuttled out of
the way as, at intervals, skiers
more dashing than we; came
hurtling down the mountainside
to vanish over the lip of a near-
vertical slope just below us
(known, somewhat ominously,
as “The Wall”).
For one who was an expert
dancer, and who had distin-
guished himself at many sports,
Paul was a remarkably clumsy
beginner on skis. As I had
anticipated, too, he did not
submit gracefully to his dis-
comfiture ; he was accustomed
to succeed easily at things he
tackled.
A cry of “Attention!” again
interrupted us, and this time our
shocked eyes saw that it was
Ruth who was plummeting down
the slope. She skied with a
virtuosity that seemed almost
indecent in one *so huge. She
even found time to wave as she
passed, before disappearing over
the precipice.
Nerida continued with her
instructing, but her voice had lost
some of its note of authority.
To understand what followed,
you must know that once skiing
grips a victim, it becomes his
sole object in life. And, inept
though he was, Paul had indeed
been gripped by the ski-bug.
ATEXT morning, seated at the
trestle-tables, over the break-
fast of dry bread, jam and cocoa
made with water, Paul turned to
Ruth: “I was wondering if you’d
have time to give me some lessons
today?” he asked point-blank.
“Of course,” she said.
Nerida and I spent the rest of
the holiday in unwilling com-
panionship. At times we’d pass
the practice-slope, where the big
and tireless girl was giving
lessons to her handsome young
lover —for lover in due course he
became ; and on the day when,
under her guidance he negotiated
his first Christiana-turn, he
asked her to marry him.
BY CORRESPONDENCE
The Principal,
Boobe Correspondence School.
Dear Sir,
I have been a subscriber to your course,
“How to Become a Social Lion,” for
several terms, but I feel I am not making
the headway I should. This I suspect
from the following incident.
At a party to which I was invited L was
introduced to a young lady, and the con-
versation turned to facial characteristics.
She expounded her theory that people with
narrow, low foreheads would have
criminal tendencies.
Wishing to create a good impression
with her by “agreeing amiably with her
views” (see Lesson 6 of your course), I
sought to add confirmation to her theory
by drawing her attention to a woman on
the opposite side of the room who
appeared to have these same lineal
characteristics.
I pointed out how the close-set eyes
denoted low animal cunning, that her
short ear-lobes undoubtedly pointed to
homicidal tendencies, and expressed the
forcible view that were I her husband
I’d make sure no thallium ever entered the
house. I was just going on to say she
Was probably a shoplifter when I
received a stinging slap in the face. I
learned later it was her mother I’d pointed
to.
What should I do to avoid making such
a faux pas as this in future?
Yours faithfully,
R. PHWITT.
Mr. R. Phwitt.
Dear Sir,
Referring to your letter regarding your
unfortunate remarks at the party.
Surely the matter even now is not
wholly beyond redress. You could get the
lady’s address from your hostess (a
dubious point, certainly) and seek her
out at her home.
Wear something extraordinarily droll:
say, a dinner-suit with an open-necked
Hawaiian shirt, football boots, ox-blood
gloves, and carrying a large bulldog in
your arms.
This will immediately create the im-
pression that you are a fellow of infinite
jest, and it will subtly suggest that your
remarks concerning her mother were all
a joke.
It would be as well, however, to leave
the laces of the football boots undone,
so that they may be the more easily jet-
tisoned for swifter flight should the young
lady’s father follow her to the front-door.
Yours faithfully,
S. TOOTLE, Principal,
Boobe Correspondence School.
St. Blink’s Hospital,
Ward 11.
The Principal,
Boobe Correspondence School.
Dear Sir,
I feel strongly that the fees incurred
by me as a temporary inmate at this insti-
tution should be paid by you, or at least
that I should be allowed to offset them
against my fees due to you, in view of
the fact that had you not tendered the
advice you did I should not be here. I
await your advice on this matter.
In the meantime, I have been beset
with another social problem which does
not seem to have been covered in your
curriculum.
At picnic-races recently I was so over-
wrought by excitement as the horses
thundered towards the finishing-post that
I leaped up and down, and on one of the
down-strokes landed fair on the foot of
a lady in the party. Testily she reviled
me for what she termed my clumsiness.
I was so incensed at this patent injus-
tice (for I pride myself on being light
and even graceful on my feet) that I was
stung to retort that had she not grown
along the ground so far it wouldn’t have
happened. The resultant scene was pain-
ful in the extreme.
What should I have said or done in
such a case? >
Yours faithfully,
R. PHWITT.
Mr. R. Phwitt.
Dear Sir,
Regarding the picnic-races incident.
Such a possibility is covered in Lesson
18 (“Getting Out of Bother-spots”). In
such a case as yours it would have been
best, immediately you had landed on the
lady’s hoof, to have fallen over and
clutched your own heel, at the same time
groaning in simulated agony. This would
have diverted the lady’s wrath (theoretic-
ally), and in the ensuing tender regard for
your own welfare she would have over-
looked your faux pas, and also (possibly)
the inference that her foot was so hard
it caused you a heel-bruise.
Yours faithfully,
S. TOOTLE,
Principal.
The Principal,
Boobe Correspondence School.
Dear Sir,
I append herewith receipt for fine and
court-costs totalling £5 155., and demand
reimbursement by you for same without
delay.
I would point out that had it not been
for your putrid advice, contained in Lesson
21 (“Dress for All Occasions”), I would
not have had to submit to this humiliation.
You advised that it would help in
attaining popularity, especially among
girls, if one were to go to a party
“dressed daringly.” (
This advice I took at a recent function,
when my sole habiliment was a handker-
chief, tied napkin-fashion with a huge
safety-pin, which at a vital stage belied
the front half of its name, and I was
arrested.
Yours indignantly,
R. PHWITT,
per
BO.


Available at all booksellers
Bulls of Parral by MARGUERITE STEEN
Her magnificent new novel that surpasses even “The
Sun is My Undoing.”
Not since Scarlett O’Hara has there been a heroine
so memorable in a story so colourful. Over 500 pp. 18s. 9d.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
SOLDIER OF FORTUNE by Ernest
Gann —a new novel by the author of The
High and the Mighty. It isfthe story of
a woman who went to Hong Kong to
search for her husband. “A thrilling
success, displaying authority, observation
and sympathy.” (Daily Telegraph). Re-
commended by the Book Society.
15/6 (post 9d.).
THE VETERANS foy Eric Lambert.
The pursuit of the Japanese armies in New
Guinea, and the atrocities of the Japanese
soldiers, are related with brutal and con-
vincing realism, and the author describes
wartime Sydney, the black market and
American “occupation,” through the eyes
of a returned veteran.
15/6 (post 9d.).
CLOSE TO THE WIND by js. g. porteous —a new collection of short stories about
the sea. The author’s previous books, Little Known of These Waters and Sailing Orders,
have been widely acclaimed as thrilling and exciting stories of high literary quality.
15/6 (post 7d.).
You’ll find all the books you want at .. .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
privilege of committing adultery wit
Queen Guinevere). One particularly
likes in this anecdote the prudence o
the second carter: —
“And with hym wolde I speke,”
seyde sir Launcelot.
“Thou shalt nat go with me!”
seyde the carter.
Whan sir Launcelot lepe to hym
and gaff hym backwarde with his
~ gauntelet a reremayne, that he
felle to the erthe starke dede, than
tothir carter, hys felow, was
aferde, and wente to have gone
the same way. And than he
sayde,
“Fayre lord, sauff my lyff, and
I shall brynge you where ye woll.”
It would be a mistake, of course, to
value Malory simply for his bounding
and buffetings and bangings ; which
to be candid, become a little tedious in
the mass, like the battles in the “Iliad.’
The great book contains at least one
moment of supreme poetry, more
effective in this simple, direct prose
than in Tennyson’s harmonious verse
the death of Arthur, the white arm
and the return of Excalibur to the
waters:—
Than sir Bedwere departed and
wente to the swerde and lyghtly
toke hit up, and so he wente unto
the watirs syde. And there he
bound the gyrdyll aboute the
hyltis, and threw the swerde as
farre into the watir as he myght.
And there cam an arme and an
honde above the watir, and toke
hit and cleyght hit, and shoke
hit thryse and braundysshed, and
than vanysshed with the swerde
into the watir. So sir Bedyvere
cam agayne to the kynge and tolde
hym what he saw.
And there are other moments, if none
quite so magical as this, of great
beauty: the fair Elaine dying of love
and sailing down the Thames, like
Ophelia on a barge; the four queens
of great estate who came to Sir
Lancelot when he was asleep under
the apple-tree, four knights riding
with them who “bare a cloth of grene
sylke on four sperys betwyxte hem
and the sonne.” And there are the
dramas of crime and passion: Sir
Patris of Ireland slain by the poisoned
apple ; Sir Lancelot refusing the love
of “quene Morgan le Fay, the quene
of North Galys, and the quene of
Estlonde, and the quene of the Oute
Isles” and falling in the end for
Guinevere for which impassioned
affair Sir Mellyagaunce, rather unfairly,
having merely told tales to King
Arthur, perishes in the usual clatter of
buffeting . . .
Altogether, it is an extraordinarily
good book for a bushranger to have
written. The 15th-century text,
illuminated with Professor Vinaver’s
excellent introduction, is in no way
difficult to follow.
French Love-story
One by one as they are translated
from the French the novels, short-
stories and autobiographies of Colette
have come to us in the pleasant
standard-edition of Seeker and War-
burg; and readers who were enchantec
by the exquisite childhood memories
of “Cheri” and “My Mother’s House’
will welcome the latest addition to the
series, a novel entitled The Vagabond.
But the novel is, unfortunately,
rather disappointing. It is a very thin
story, narrow in compass, with an
obviously autobiographical flavor,
about a dancer of the Parisian music-
halls who is pursued by a handsome
and wealthy lover to whom, after weeks
of hardly credible she eventu-
ally submits, only to reject him later in
favor of her career.
Written with passion and credibility,
'the story might conceivably have made
another “Sappho”; but something is
missing from the portrait of the dancer
—we have only the half-truths of semi-
autobiography—and so there is little
real interest in the central situation . . .
a viewpoint which was apparently not
shared by the jury of French writers
who selected “The Vagabond” as one
of the twelve best novels France has
produced in the first half of the present
century.
The incidental portraits of music-
hall artists, especially in the first half
of the novel, are in Colette’s best vein:
the old-hand mime Brague, who is the
dancer’s partner, saturated with years
of greasepaint, wise and weary in the
ways of women, still rousing himself
with a sparkle for the footlights; little
Bouty the funny-man with his chronic
enteritis and his bottle of tested milk;
handsome Stephen-the-dancer, who
lives on women, loves bulldogs and
has tuberculosis; the mysterious and
melancholy “archduke,” who may
really be an archduke, with his per-
forming dogs; and Jadin, the vulgar
and vital little singer whose disappear-
ance with a lover, and carefree return
to the theatre with a handful of money
which she promptly gives away, makes
a charming short-story which Colette
might well have substituted for the
novel.
Masefield on Shakspeare
William Shakspeare, by John Mase-
field (Heinemann), rewritten from an
earlier book, might well have been
a set of prefaces for a complete edition
of Shakspeare. All the plays, as well as
the poems and plays sometimes ascribed
to Shakspeare, are considered; every
play is considered separately for a few
pages, and as a preliminaiy there is a
small-print recapitulation of times of
writing, production and publication,
source of plot, etc.
Masefield is at his best with the greater
plays, “Julius Cassar,” for instance, or
“Macbeth.” He by no means follows
the beaten track, but is continually
pointing out scenes and passages that
have been neglected by commentators,
or might be passed over by the reader.
His seagoing experience is used to
deny strongly the claim that Shaks-
peare could have been a sailor, as in
the first scene of “The Tempest”:—
No sailor would have let the
ship strike without letting go an
anchor, or at least trying to.
But here—not that one would insist
that the playwright went to sea—Mase-
field has overlooked a point tha
destroys his argument: namely, tha
Ariel has driven all the sailors out o]
their wits, so there is no need to suppos
that they would let down the anchor
or try to do anything sensible anc
seamanlike.
Prospero.
My brave spirit,
Who was so firm, so constant
that this coil
Would not infect his reason?
Ariel.
Not a soul,
But felt a fever of the mad,
and play’d
Some tricks of desperation.
A distaste, a critical distaste, for
the crude lusts of life that may be
found in Masefield’s tiny edition of
Restoration poems may be responsible
for his opinion that the entry and early
appearances of Falstaff are only “hard
work and dreary going.” Who, even
of Shakspeare’s creations, leaped so
alive and of a piece on to the stage as
Falstaff in the Prince’s speech on
clocks and leaping-houses?
Reviewed Briefly
Dent’s admirable collected edition of
Conrad has been completed by the
publication of Tales of Hearsay and
Last Essays in one volume.
* * * *
Recent Everymans include: Plays,
Prose Writing and Poems by Oscar
Wilde; Mary Wollstonecraft’s The
Rights of Women and John Stuart
Mill’s On the Subjection of Women in
one red-hot volume edited by Pamela
Frankau ; Scott’s The Bride of Lam-
mermoor and The Antiquary (respec-
tively the least and most readable of
his novels); Meredith’s The Ordeal of
Richard Feverel, a very fluffy novel;
Mrs. Gaskell’s delightfully firm anc
simple Cranford; Barbusse’s classic
of World War I, Under Fire; and
Stories and Fpisodes by Thomas
Mann, very dark and Freudian.
* * * $
Early Christian, Byzantine and
Romanesque Architecture: Cecil
Stewart (Longmans). This is the
second volume of a set of five on
architectural development which is
intended to replace the standard three-
volume textbook of Simpson’s
“History.” The material has been
revised throughput, and an entirely
fresh volume, edited by Thomas
Howarth, will deal with 19th and 20th
century architecture.
* * * *
Marryat’s The Children of the New
Forest, illustrated by Lionel Edwards,
has been added to Dent’s “Children’s
Illustrated Classics” series. These are
the children of a cavalier family, hiding
in the woods and living “off the
country” on venison and wild cattle.
# * * *
The Mind of Kierkegaard: James
Collins (Seeker & Warburg). An
American study of the Danish
philosopher of last century, as one of
the forerunners of existentialism;
though, Mr. Collins points out, Kierke-
gaard’s theory of “contemporaneity
with Christ,” and his intense preoccu-
pation with Christian ethics, have slight
representation in the atheistic existen-
tialism of Sartre. Mr. Collins limits
his interest to the philosophy, and
devotes only a few preliminary pages
to biography ; though a young man who
could steal the affections of a 14-year-
old girl from another man and then,
feeling he had done wrong, consider
avoiding the marriage by taking her as
a concubine is not to be sneezed at as a
subject for biography.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 324
Across
I—Luther1 —Luther changed to speed forward
with a rattle to injure the French.
(6)
3—A monkey to spoil the moustache
clique. (8)
9—Thus New Guinea lied, for
example. (4)
10—When summer comes too soon
for Rotorua features. (3, 7)
12 — One defames people noted for
their insularity? (9)
13— Luggage backing a sharpener. (5)
15— Age. (3)
16 — One who can destroy a forest
dog by telephone. (4-6)
19— The seventh letter like petrol. (3)
20— Pick a horse. (3)
23- —Secretly ate my rifle pedigree.
(6, 4)
26 —Elizabeth participates in activity
at Ascot? (3)
28— Pacific island is north with the
heart of Taurus. (5)
29 Anchorage ways to drink with
coppers. (9)
30— An overpowering topic by
Idriess. (10)
31~ i -Composer of “Wozzeck” often
seen with Heidel. (4)
32—Aged outcry due for settlement.
(8)
3.3—This Forsyte curtailed Joe Lyons,
too. (6)
Down
1 — Rasher has a, row. (7)
2 Festering fish in English films?
(8)
4 Like the south-east’s beasts of
burden. (5)
5 Gloomy moustache grew. (6)
6 A Spanish lady with disordered
reason. (6)
7 Boozer drunk-up a drink. (7)
8 — Act with a cog to spoil page’s
corner. (3-3)
11—Prigs hold the bigshot in the
steamer. (5)
14—Negotiate with some party shout.
(5)
17 — King George swallows a monkey
who looks open-mouthed with
crushed grape. (5)
18 — Kipling character. (3)
20— New York like a lake in Africa.
(5)
21— Vernal vegetation has misplaced
energy re-interrupted. (8)
22 — Day without a quite unpleasant
line of kings. (7)
24 — Imagines another form of these
perfect forms of insects when I
talk a lot on bone. (6)
25 — Gen’s passing a monocotyledon.
(7)
26 Fruit-eating bird starts with an
onion, for instance. (6)
27 — Ox duet, (anagram) (6)
29 —Again bind about a sleeper. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 323


w
r m
BBS
l\
m
3/
Jpg
tfttWStefe’iDlM
»•<••••*>.
iT-S/V
il
rzr 7.
Vi
wv»
STrt*"
\\
5
m
m
A
::
tr
■
t*.
Al'/
V*
A
,Z
ft
W
—*
‘ ‘Opera tion Gillespie 9 9
It sounds very much like a forest fire—the sharp, fierce
crackling, punctuated by the tearing crash as a large tree
comes down.
Facing the wall of Gidyea trees, you see through the haze of
dust an undulation along the feathery tops and, as the move-
ment becomes more violent, a shuddering vibration sways the
trunks, almost as if the trees could sense the doom behind.
Then, above the staccato, snapping treble, you hear the steady
deep bass throb of powerful diesel engines.
The waving undulation becomes a tumultuous tossing and
suddenly the wall of trees disintegrates in a final shattering
of sound and down, flattened, smashed, they go to earth.
Rolling, hounding like a live thing, appears their destroyer—
a gigantic steel ball, centred on a heavy chain and cable. Away
to right and left the two big yellow tractors, to which the cable
ends are attached, slow to a stop. Between them, along a three
hundred yard front, the forest has been laid low.
★ ★ ★
“Gillespie,” a thirty-two thousand acre property outside
Blackall, in the heart of Queensland’s sheep country, is land
recently acquired for addition to well-known “Northampton
Downs.” It is being cleared as part of a huge developmental
scheme to turn waste land into profitable pasturage. The
timber will be burnt as it lies, grass will be sown and the lush,
transformed “Gillespie” will be capable of carrying ten
thousand sheep. Twenty-six thousand head already pasture on
adjoining “Northampton Downs.”
The method of clearing is simple but spectacularly efficient.
Clearance is at the rate of 20 acres each 10-hour day—and in
one particular pass nine acres were cleared in a fantastic
eleven minutes!
Two heavily-armoured Caterpillar D 8 Track-type Tractors are
doing the job. A heavy steel shaft is mounted through the giant
9-foot diameter steel ball; to this shaft, on either side, is
attached a ship’s anchor chain, followed by a 2-inch steel cable,
which is in turn fastened to the drawbar of each tractor. The
approximate length of the cable and chain on either side is 150
yards; the total weight of ball, chain and cable is 14 tons!
Credit for “Operation Gillespie” must go to Major H. Rubin,
principal of Queensland Pastoral Estates. Behind the spirit
of this tremendous enterprise are two men of vision: Hon.
H. H. Collins, Queensland Minister for Agriculture and Stock,
and Mr. H. Hastings Deering. Both have long advocated the
conversion of the land to its full productive use by the most
modern methods.
“Operation Gillespie” is a re-sounding success. Playing a
major role are the “big yellow machines”—rugged, powerful
diesel-powered Caterpillar Track-type Tractors—helping to
transform Queensland’s vast western lands into rich pastures.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD., ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED, LAE.
