

v- *5
1* .t*
«.ts
r
THE HOUSE
sdf
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
THE HAUNTED TYPEWRITER -p4ge 20
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3910
Wednesday, January 19, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspape^
ST. PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL STANDS ON ARMAGH SOIL THE SAINT ONCE TROD
FOR fifteen centuries Armagh has been the ecclesiastical capital of Ireland
and for two thousand years much of the country’s history has been
written in and around the city. Its origin is lost in the mists of the past ana
although it was a place of great importance in the pre-Christian era theie
are no records to show the date of its actual founding before ->5O b.c. What
is certain, however, is the fact that St. Patrick built a church in Armagh 1
the fifth century on the hill-top site where nojv stands the Cathedral of St.
Patrick.
Around the original church of St. Patrick there grew up many religious
houses, monasteries and nunneries and also a great school which was famous
throughout Europe. At one time there were seven thousand students, includ-
ing many from England and the Continent, at the college in Armagh.
Armagh’s fame and prosperity, however, did not survive long, for in
the year 830 a party of Norsemen captured and sacked the city. Two years
later they returned in greater numbers and pillaged the monasteries, burned the
priceless manuscripts in which the monks had chronicled the legends and
history of the country and, finally, the bishop, the monks, priests and student.
were driven from the city. Many battles were fought in and around Armagh,
but, though often defeated, the invaders were always reinforced from beyond
the North Sea. Finally, in 1014, the Irish under Brian Boru defeated the
Danes so decisively at Clontarf that their power over Ireland was at last
broken for ever. In this historic battle Brian himself, his son and his nephew
were killed and all three were buried in the Cathedral where a tablet marks
the site of Brian B'oru’s grave.
Part of the Cathedral, as it stands today, dates from 1268 but great
improvements were carried out by Archbishop Robinson m 1765 and most
of the fabric dates from that time. Further rebuilding was carried out in
182-2 when £lB.OOO was spent on renovation. The Cathedra , which has a
battlemented central tower, is in the Perpendicular Gothic style and contains
some verv fine marble monuments and sculptures by Roubiliac and Rysbrack.


Learn
Story Writing
y at HOmE
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
| Stotts Correspondence College 1
100 Bussell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CVT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -----
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 255)..... AGE
You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you—any book from any-
where Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road,
Darling Point.
The Red Page
EVEREST AGAIN
If the Everest story is now familiar to
those who read Sir John Hunt’s book and
the newspaper accounts and saw the film,
there are still perhaps enough crumbs of
information to be picked up from Wilfrid
Noyce’s South Col (Heinemann) to make
the book worth while for the general
reader as well as the mountaineer. Mr.
Noyce, now a master at Charterhouse
School, was a member of the victoriou
expedition, and the first man of the tean
to climb to the high plateau of the Soutl
Col and see the tattered remnants of the
Swiss tents from the previous year.
To a reader whose interest in Abomin
able Snowmen is second only to his en
thusiasm for flying-saucers, it is, fo
instance, pleasing to learn at differen
places in South Col that the yetis o
which one has heard before, playing
about the monastery of Thyangboche
“sometimes eat yak, which they skin care
fully, leaving the horns stuck in the
ground”; that Mr. Noyce heard one
“whistle” outside his tent in the night
that their normal food is said to be the
tailless -Tibetan rat, “an attractive smal
creature built on the lines of a guinea
pig”; and that at the village of Pang
boche Charles Evans was showed the
scalp of a Snowman, “a remarkable
object, conical and leathery, covered with
reddish hairs of which he brought two
home.”
More to the point, there is the infor-
mation that it was Mr. Noyce whom Sir
John Hunt would have chosen to make
the expedition’s third attempt on the sum-
mit had Hillary and Tensing failed. This
reviewer had supposed that George Lowe
the other New Zealander, might have
been the man, on account of his great
performances on the Lhotse Face and the
South Col, cutting steps for Hillary, but
Mr. Noyce writes, after describing the
return of the conquerors to the South
Col: —-
They came on down, very tired, not con-
scious of the greatness of the achievement.
We knew the rest. Both Ed and George
generously said that it was bad luck on me
not to have the chance of a third shot; but
I cannot recall any feeling of disappoint-
ment at all at the idea; nor, later, when I
wrote in my diary next day, “Ed and
George very generous on me, say bad luck
I can’t do third assault and fittest to go
high. But after all I think my feeling is of ■
great relief, the thing is done and I have had
a good run.” At the time all I knew about
the third party was that I believed I would
be on it. Only afterwards John confided his
secret hope that he and I might make that
last attempt.
There is a vivid description of the
white granite of Nuptse, a strange rock
to read about when all the Himalayan
crags look so black in the photographs.
We meet again the gentler, always capti-
vating landscape of the Lobuje camp
where the tiny mauve primulas lit the
grass beside the stream. There are notes
on the heat of the high mountains ; and a
most interesting report of a conversation
in the tent one night, underlying the
drama of the adventure, about “the
chances of survival if the closed-circuit
[oxygen] apparatus failed at the summit.
Could one get back over fche South
Summit? Would one climber be justified
in leaving another if that other were
doomed?”
Other stories are of a Sherpa falling
into a crevasse ; of the author’s first view
of the South Col -; of the exhaustion of
the heights when the most he could do,
without oxygen, was three steps at a
time; and of Smythe’s invisible com-
panion on Everest in 1933, a phenomenon
of which Mr. Noyce thinks he may have
an explanation:
It is usual for me, as I think with many
climbers, to be two people at once on a
climb, particularly when I am alone. Here
1 was in several senses alone. One half
watches and criticises the fumblings of the
incompetent other, and is itself removed
and remote from the physical conflict. In
high climbing this schizophrenic condition
becomes more pronounced, as I noticed on
Pauhunri in 1945. I believe that such a state
led to Smythe’s strange act on Everest in
1933, when at 28,000 feet, alone, he broke a
piece of mint-cake and turned to give half
to his supposed companion. On the Spur
half of me hovered airily above the slope,
wondering why in the name of everything it
was tied to this grinding, panting creature.
Even, as we turned left towards the orest,
it admired the hanging wonder of Everest’s
final pyramid, now clear of snow-plume.
The rest of me labored painfully, gasped
and groaned; abominated the horrible hole
that the sacks seemed to be making in the
small of my b’ack; pleaded with the superior
partner, “I can’t, I can’t go faster”; and
yet felt a thrill of subcutaneous joy not to
be going slower.
There is also Hillary’s comment on his
knighthood, “You go and have a good
time on a mountain and then this happens
to you. How on earth am I going into the
grocer back home now in my old trousers
to ask him for pots for my honey?”; anc
there is the fullest and most colorfu
account one has yet seen of the fantastic
uproar that burst out in Nepal when
Tensing came down to Kathmandu to be
welcomed with flowers, cavalry and
white-robed maidens, while the crowds
chanted (in English usefully acquired for
the occasion) “Hail Tensing, first man to
conquer Everest!” The walls along the
streets of the capital were also usefully
inscribed in English with such legends as
“Hail Tensing, Star of the World,” “The
Unprecedented Hero Tensing” and again,
“Welcome, Tensing, first man to conquer
Everest.” “Hymns,” says Mr. Noyce,
“were being sung to a god, not to a mortal
man.”
However, in spite of such rewarding
moments, it cannot be said that South
Col adds very much to what has already
been published. On the strength of one
published book and some verses written
high up on Everest (more interesting,
with the exception of “Walking to
Everest,” for the circumstances in which
they were composed than for their in-
trinsic quality) Mr. Noyce is described as
a “poet,” but his difficulty with South Col
is that he was unable to let his poetic
talent go. He has written it too near to
the event, too much at the mercy of his
diary and too much under the influence
of the “Mass Observation” school of
writing in which it is assumed that every
cough and every step up Everest is worth
recording; so that instead of the clear
distillation of scenery and adventure one
might expect, the book is quite as
crammed with facts and details as, with
more reason, was Sir John Hunt’s.
Every step of so supreme a feat of
mountaineering may indeed be worth
recording—once : but even if Mr. Noyce
watches a different pair of feet, and
different lungs and a different head, from
Sir John’s, the effect is largely of reading
the same story twice over.
Convolutions
For those who like their spying com-
plicated, The Sosnowski Affair by
Bernard Newman (Werner Laurie) should
be more interesting than the Petrov
inquiry.
Sosnowski was the son of a Polish
specialist in bathrooms and lavatories ; he
served in World War I in the cavalry,
which made him fashionable, and a post
of riding-instructor was created for him ;
he dabbled in horse-racing; and in 1924
he took a year’s leave in Berlin, returning
there in 1925, at his own request, as a
spy for the Polish intelligence-service.
He soon reported that he was getting
information from a clerk in the German
war-office; then Baroness Benita von
Falkenhayn, wife of a general’s nephew,
became his mistress, presided at his enter-
tainments, and introduced him to Renata
von Natzmer, who was the daughter of a
general and a war-office typist. Later, he
mentioned two other women as
informants ; and then a Persian Princess
who had a dress-shop in Berlin, and a
Jewish dancer, on the night of whose
triumphant Berlin debut in 1934 he was
arrested and put on trial.
A shocking story got round that as a
result of the trial the beautiful baroness
and the general’s daughter were
beheaded ; and, says Mr. Newman, maybe
so, but not for the reasons given. From
the first, he considers, the war-office clerk
and the two ladies were in German pay,
and under instructions to give Sosnowski
only such information as the Germans
wanted Poland to get. Not only this, but
two other women Sosnowski mentioned
as sources of information probably did
not exist at all —for which reason Mr.
Newman considers it likely that
Sosnowski himself was in German pay.
This possibility certainly occurred to
Sosnowski’s Polish employers. Before his
arrest in Berlin, they had made repeated
efforts to get him to come back to Poland.
He preferred to stay in Berlin and be
arrested because, says Mr. Newman, the
Germans were prepared to put him on an
elaborately staged trial, condemn him as
a dangerous Polish spy, and then let him
go back to Poland in exchange for
German spies, and there continue in
German pay, as a trusted high official of
the Polish intelligence service.
He was tried all right and, says Mr.
Newman, the execution of his baroness-
mistress and her friend was staged to
lend verisimilitude to the story of the trial.
But on his return, after two years in a
German prison, the Poles put Sosnowski
on trial again, and in May, 1939, he was
sentenced to 15 years’ penal servitude.
Some say he was shot dead escaping when
Russians and Germans advanced on
Poland; others that the Russians were
using him as a stoolpigeon; others that
he became lieutenant-colonel in a Polish
army created by the Russians.
More Mercier
Emile Mercier’s cartoons in Sydney
“Sun” are, of course, about what goes
on in the big, bad city. Well, then,
what does go on?
An oddment at the opening of his
Hang On Please (Angus and Robertson)
shows a batsman looking pensively at a
duck; nothing more. The enormous
hairy workman looking like Dobell’s
“Billy Boy” says to the inquiring lady
amongst the notice-boards, cavities anc
lanterns, “The main street? This was it
sister! This was it! ”
The parking-cop says to the driver
“No! You’re not allowed to park here,
you’re not even supposed to stop —as
matter of fact, you can think yourself
lucky that you managed to get into the
city at all!” One bedraggled harridan
from the slums says to the other, “Well
there’s one bit of good this crook bread
does for you—you don’t eat so much of
it.” •
The exasperated waiter, bringing the
diner a live bullock on a tray, shouts
“Here! Is that underdone enough for
you?” One radio man, seeing the
demented-looking actors armed with
knives, blunderbuses and a hangman’s
rope, says to the other, “Ah, they’re just
about to broadcast our latest children’s
mystery-thriller! Ear-plugs ? ”
Bert, leaning against the back fence of
his Baccarat and Swy Social Club, says,
“It’s a bit risky now because I’m only
small time, but when I get enough dough
in to pay for graft, I’ll be sweet for life.”
The estate-agent assures the young
couple, at the gate of “The Ants Manse”
(1891), “And you’ll be glad to hear that,
contrary to usual sharp practices, there’s
absolutely no key-money involved in this
deal! —Now, about the furniture . .
The winning jockey apologises to the
owner, “Gee, boss! I’m sorry to do that
to you, but I couldn’t help it —the reins
broke.” The old gentleman says to the
two inquiring strangers at the bus-stop,
“The nearest S.P.? —I don’t know—better
ask a policeman! ” And one of the three
perfectly crazy citizens riding motor-bikes
in mid-air says to the others, “Of course,
the advantage of inflation as against de-
pression is that with inflation you go
broke in a more affluent way.”
Thus, enlivened from time to time by
the apparition of Old Vic and the electric-
brougham, Sydney is a city where they
play cricket and they swim; where you
can’t park your car, where the streets
are always up, where the bread is crook,
where the waiters browbeat the diners,
where children are fed on horror-serials,
where police are gravely suspected of
frowning with insufficient fervor on bac-
carat, swy and sly-grog, where some land-
agents are sharks, where horses run dead
and where we are all going broke in a
more affluent way. And such it is, and
such we are; and, for some reason which
one leaves to the psychologist or the social
historian to unearth, one cannot help
sharing Mercier’s affection for it.
Reviewed Briefly
The Curate of Wakefield: David
Emerson (Hurst and Blackett). A most
enjoyable and uncommon novel, which,
however, bears no likeness at any point
to Oliver Goldsmith’s masterpiece.
Thomas Baldrey, curate of Great Wake-
field, was a cultured scholar and a pains-
taking clergyman, living quietly in com-
parative financial hardship, with his wife
and daughter. The period is early nine-
teenth-century. But his daughter’s love-
affairs stir up memories of adventures of
his own youth in Jamaica. These legacies
of his youthful idealism and violence
produce some oddly far-reaching results
and, eventually, an acceptable solution of
most of the Baldrey family’s problems.
* * * *
Profiles: Sebastian Haffner (Heine-
mann). Mr. Haffner “compiled” these
toity little studies of famous Englishmen
and institutions from the London “Obser
ver” ; there is no statement that he wrote
them, but one presumes he did. They
are quiet, careful appraisals of such
people as Mr. Attlee, Sir Winston
Churchill, Margot Fonteyn, J. B. Priest-
ley, Augustus John, Aneurin Bevan
Ernest Bevin, Sir Thomas BeeCham, R. A
Butler, “Max,” Sir Gladwyn Jebb, etc.
and institutions like “The House,” “The
Oval,” a music-hall (the Leeds City Palace
of Varieties) and Westminster Abbey.
They have neither the wit and brilliance
which made such little things glitter in
the hands of Guedalla, nor the patient
quest for stories and background which
make the suave “New Yorker” “profiles”
such good entertainment; but as assess-
ments they should be of interest to any-
one who is interested in history as it is
being made in the newspapers. Additions,
often wry, bring the remarks up-to-date
from time of first printing; and most of
the people are shown in first-rate photo-
graphs, many by the “Observer’s” own
woman-photographer.
* * * *
City Dog : Gerald Raftery (The Bodley
Head). A big collie is taken from New
York into sheep-country where it snows
in winter ; at first he is at a bit of a loss,
and then he begins to deal with foxes
and bobcats; and eventually saves his
masters from a big bad bear. An excellent
boys’ book (and dogs’ book also), well
and copiously illustrated.
* * * *
The Toll-gate : Georgette Heyer (Heine-
mann). Captain John Staple, having
recently left Wellington’s victorious army
after the Peninsular campaign and now
pining for adventure in England’s green
and pleasant land, comes to a toll-gate
which is being looked after by a terrified
urchin whose father, the true gatekeeper,
has disappeared. Curiosity aided by a
glimpse of the local and unmarried lady
of quality lead him to decide to take over
the gatekeeper’s duties temporarily. And
during the next few days he becomes
involved in all sorts of extraordinary
happenings. Who is the uncouth pseudo-
gentleman staying with the heir-pre-
sumptive to the local manor? What hold
has he over this easily-led-astray weak-
ling? Apart from anything else he is
undeniably a threat to the virtuous per-
son of the statuesque Miss Stornaway,
granddaughter of the barely alive old
squire, and it is with this lady that the
handsome and gallant captain has fallen
in love. It is all very entertaining—
as good as a dictionary of thieves’ cant
to boot. Miss Heyer always constructs
really strong and convincing plots and,
while she can continue to dream up yarns
as good as this one, her books will no
doubt continue to be bestsellers.
* * * *
Case File: F.B.L: “The Gor-
dons” (Macdonald). A husband-and-
wife collaboration; Gordon Gor-
don did counter-espionage for the
F. 8.1. during the war. This is
an exact work-out of F. 8.1. methods in
the solution of three different cases that
came in to the bureau: a hunt for a big-
scale murderer; a threat of kidnapping
against the child of a war-widow; and
the strange matter of a lad serving a
sentence for car-stealing which his blind
wife knows he did not deserve. The three
cases run together through the book, as
one F. 8.1. man’s assignment. A great
number of suspects and witnesses are well-
characterised ; the reader is in constant
suspense, especially in the kidnapping
scenes —the scene where the widow is to
throw the package of money from the
end of a train when it passes two red
lights beside the track is first-class
and altogether, this is as novel a detective
novel as has been seen here for a long
time.


HORDERNS’ BOX 2712, 6.p.0.; SYDNEY
COVERING FOR HOT PLATE
TWO OVENS
FINGER-TIP TEMP. CONTROL
For Immediate delivery the famous Scotch made
E' EESTOI I f’s” COOKER-HEATER
One of the most popular of the Esse products, the "Wellstood” is perfect for country homes. It has two
roomy ovens and ample hot plate space, maintaining balanced temperature necessary for ~
well-cooked meals. The ' is available with either cream or green stipple
finish (hot water storage extra), and it’s available
ON THE EASIEST TERMS IN SYDNEY AND COUNTRY AREAS!
£l2O
HOT WATER IN THE BATHROOM.
You have hot water 24 hours a day in your bath-
Enough hot water for a family of six, too!
room.
KITCHEN. Hot water is always at hand for
washing up, washing clothes and for its dozens of
other uses in the kitchen. All this with a “Wellstood .
AND LAUNDRY. The “Wellstood” will burn
almost any type of fuel. Burns wood, coal or coke.
Whatever you use turns out hot water economically!
“MASTERS OF MUSIC”
Join the thousands who listen each Sunday night at 9.30 p.m. to
hours of uninterrupted Classical music. Tune in to 2SM each Sunday.
■- TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
Anthony Horderns’
gsd
’PHONE: 80951.
• . v. i , . . v • ; •
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ DO NOT PAY FREIGHT.
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 19, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3910
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams . K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
AWKWARD PROBLEMS
MR. MENZIES is on his way to the London
Conference, with Mr. Athol Townley just ahead of
him in the air. It will be no pleasure-trip for either,
but a preliminary discussion of what may turn out
to be one of the most awkward years the Common-
wealth has faced since 1939. Certainly the economic
circumstances will seem unusual in the eyes of the
younger generation.
It will be the more difficult because of the
casual optimism with which some Australians face
the future. Having gone through a number of years
during which there has been no real drought and
the world has generally been ready to pay any
prices for Australian produce, they have as little
realisation that prices may fall or rain not fall as
they have that the Communist bloc edging towards
them might feel that the time has come when the
great assault in the interest of world” Communism
should begin.
The cry of “wolf” has gone up so often that,
as in 1939, there are millions who have come to
believe that there are no real wolves in the world.
But the Communist bloc is not in the position of
the West. Its preparations for attack are so large
and widespread and civilian needs are so secondary
with it that its military organisation is always ready
for the task, and so are its nations psychologically.
The Western nations are not. If the U.S.S.R.
and its allies were to strike now most Australians
in particular would be astonished and pained.
The popular attitude is probably responsible
for the trip overseas of Townley, Minister for the
Air, whose visit is believed to be connected
largely with the manufacture of defence air-
craft, which proceeds so slowly and on such
unoriginal lines in this country that by the
time new types are produced they are usually
at least obsolescent. It is a striking fact that in the
post-war years Australia, which produces the best
human flying-material in the world, has lagged in
manufacture far behind other countries.
Perhaps Mr. Townley will be able to do some-
thing about this all-important matter, since he is
a man of vigorous mind; but whatever he does he
will certainly need to advance the types of machine
now in use in the R.A.A.F. in the same way that
Australian Army tactics will need to be improved
and modernised rapidly to catch up with world
thought and reorganisation.
On the financial and economic side Mr.
Menzies and his Ministers have an anxious year
ahead, with a shrinking primary-production market
and price-range and Budget commitments which
every month seem to become more expansive. So
far nothing much has emerged about the plans for
discussion at the financial conference. There is
talk of a sterling loan about which the Prime
Minister is vague and of an Australian effort to
mould Gatt in such a way as to make tariff-
protection f|exible. But these are subsidiary issues.
The main matters which call for attention are
overseas markets and our cost-ability to compete in
them; imports from overseas, and their control
within economic limits; also the relation of wages
to costs and prices generally.
The position is one of drift. There is only
one major market which shows promise, and that
fortunately the largest one—wool; and even that
has not been satisfactorily stable since the Russians
deliberately climbed out of it in the hope of damag-
ing Australian economy, and, through it, its seller-
customers. It has sagged, though it keeps at a
sufficiently high level not to scare the optimists as
yet. The margin between safety for the economy
and dangerous sag is, however, thin. And if next
season the wool-market should open low and in a
period of drought the effects might be disturbing.
The wheat position is worse. With the big
surpluses held by the United States and Canada, the
Argentine coming back into competition to some
extent, and the world wheat organisation robbed of
the support of Great Britain and other countries, the
difficulty of dealing with the situation has increased
greatly during the last 12 months.
Dried-fruits and wine are in the doldrums.
Dairy export-production is on the wane, but costs
are not. It is no wonder that we cannot secure
overseas markets with the scale of production and
wages-expense which now rules. One large dairying
concern in N. S. Wales, which fortunately does not
have to export, estimates that it costs £lBOO a year
to maintain the average employee, wages and
award comforts and facilities included.
The situation of the Government—any Gov-
ernment, Federal or State—is not enviable at the
present juncture. Defence and maintenance charges
and transport costs at existing levels are inescapable,
and even rising, with a deficit in overseas trading
which seems likely, according to one banking
authority, to reduce external reserves by the
end of the financial year by about £150,000,000,
while costs in general are going up and the local
buying-spree seems no more likely to abate than
shortages in some materials to meet the needs of
a rapidly growing population.
As usual, present troubles seem to arriving all
at once. And not the least danger to it is from
within, where a desperate “Labor” party sits ready
to rise with a screech and create panic at the first
sign of recession. It is an irresponsible body with
one objective: the destruction of the present
Federal Government. It is not too much to say that
its most raucous elements would welcome even a
depression if it would put “Labor” into power. '
The economic, defence and Constitutional prob-
lems—the last as urgent as any since, under present
conditions, the Commonwealth is not a nation but
only the shadow of one which cannot deal through
Parliament with its main difficulties—are enough
to strain the back of any Government this year.
Bqt they must be tackled firmly, and it will be
healthier for the country if the Ministry, as the
result of the London Conference, shortens the focus
of its eyes and concentrates on local Common-
wealth affairs and on closer defence and economic
integration in the Anglo-Saxon group of nations.
Fishing Rights and Wrongs
IN the squabble that has been agitating sections of
the press and public as to whether it is the responsi-
bility of the Federal Government or the States to
take action against Japanese fishing-boats allegedly
trespassing in Australian waters, no one, until the
Prime Minister and Mr. McEwen spoke up, seems
to have thought it necessary to find out what con-
stitutes marine trespass or to consider what are and
what are not Australian waters. In consequence,
the finding of Japanese-type marking-buoys
believed to have been set about 25 miles off the
coast of northern New South Wales has been
reported almost as if the placing of them amounted
to an act of war; one paper even quoted the
manager of a fishing co-operative as saying that
his “boys” were arming themselves with rifles and
shotguns.
New South Wales has only come into the
picture in the last week or so; before that most
of the reports came from Queensland or New
Guinea waters. A proper appraisal of them was
made harder by the difficulty of ascertaining
whether the alleged offenders were fishing or intend-
ing to fish in Queensland or New Guinea waters and
whether their hoped-for catch was pearl-oysters
and trochus on the one hand or tuna and similar
fish on the other. In popular conception these
points are immaterial; every craft is regarded as a
unit of Hirohito’s navy, manned with expert
cartographers whose real purpose is to prepare
charts of the Australian coast for use in the next
war. That approach is all very well for headline-
writers and sensation-mongers or for politicians
wanting to pose as wideawake patriots, but it can-
not be accepted by those charged with the
responsibility of framing national policy.
When in mid-December it was reported from
Mackay that marker-buoys had been found “three
miles inside the outside barrier of the Barrier Reef”
and a Queensland Minister repeated earlier
demands for Federal Government action, Treasurer
Fadden replied that it was up to the Queensland
Government to police its own Fish and Oyster Act
if it was being violated. This brought an angry
response from Premier Gair, and after further
reports of buoys and ships and further recrimina-
tions, Commerce Minister McEwen, newly returned
from abroad, said:—
It can do nothing but harm in the long run
to the interests of Australians for people in
responsible positions to be suggesting that we
should arrest or harass Japanese who choose to
fish in waters far off our own shores .... The
Constitution gives the Commonwealth power to
control fishing activities of Australians in waters
adjacent to Australia, but beyond the territorial
limits of the States. The recent law was passed
to make such regulation possible. The Common-
wealth cannot control the activities of alien
fishermen beyond the 3-mile limit merely because
they are operating on the continental shelf.
This gave Dr. Evatt the opportunity to jump in
with a typical tirade against “a repetition of the
weakness and appeasement of an anti-Labor
Government which actively encouraged Japan’s
aggression southwards against Australia and its
territories in 1941.” He called for early action “to
define and limit the fishing-rights of Japanese in
Australian waters, both outside and inside ordinary
territorial waters.”
Japanese rights inside Australian territorial
limits can be easily defined—they have no rights
at all. But when Evatt asks the Government to
define fishing-rights outside the limits he is asking
it to do something beyond its powers.
Generally speaking, countries have complete
rights over fishing within three miles of their own
shores; beyond that limit the seas are free to all,
except to the extent that certain areas have been
made subject to international agreements and con-
ventions. The three-mile limit for territorial waters
was adopted by Britain and the United States
towards the end of the 18th century, possibly
because that was about the limit of cannon-range
at the time. Most countries have since agreed to
it, though there are exceptions—the Scandinavian
countries claim an extra mile because of the broken
nature of their coastline; France, Spain and Portugal
claim six miles.
Over 70 years ago Britain, France, Belgium,
Holland, Germany and Denmark signed an agree-
ment .regulating North Sea fisheries in which they
defined territorial waters as those “within three
miles of low-water mark and from a straight line
drawn from headland to headland at the points
where they are 10 miles apart.”
As to bays and gulfs, it is fairly generally
accepted that where the gap at the entrance does
not exceed six miles the whole area is territorial
water; but where the gap is wider there is no
unanimity on the subject. The Firths of Forth and
Clyde and the Bristol Channel are territorial waters,
although in a British court in 1926 a case was dis-
missed because the incident it arose from—a marine
collision—occurred at a place in the Bristol
Channel where the channel was 20 milss wide; it
was ruled that this “was not within the limit to
which the territorial sovereignty of his Majesty
extends.”
In Australia the subject has not arisen much
in the past. Our sovereignty over the whole of the
two South Australian gulfs would probably be
upheld; the position of the Gulf of Carpentaria is
more dubious. It has long been assumed that
Queensland can rightly claim control over all the
waters within the Barrier Reef, but it may be
necessary, at some time to argue this before the
International Court. In that event the court’s
decision in the Anglo-Norwegian Fisheries case
would probably be closely studied. Britain dis-
puted Norway’s claim to exclusive fishing-rights
in an area defined in a Norwegian decree in 1935,
which laid down that the outer limit of Norwegian
territorial waters should run parallel to “straight
base-lines drawn between fixed points on the main-
land, on islands, or rocks.” Britain held that the
base-line should be low-water mark, as in the
North Sea Convention. In 1951 the court gave its
decision in favor of Norway partly because of “the
special geographical character of the Norwegian
coastline.” Bearing this in mind, there are two
points in the judgment of particular interest to
Queensland and Australia:—
(1) Where there is a fringe of islands off the
coast, the base-line may follow the outer edge of
the fringe.
(2) The waters between an island-fringe and
the mainland may be claimed as internal waters.
On these grounds the claim of Queensland
sovereignty over Barrier Reef waters would seem
fairly safe.
The Australian claim to control over waters of
the continental shelf, shortly to be contested by
Japan before the International Court, is something
new in fisheries law, although the United States and
Mexico, among others, maintain rights over oil,
coal and other natural resources of the continental
shelf extending from their shores. Australia’s
continental shelf—the sea-bed out to the 100-fathom
line—varies considerably in width. Off Sydney
Heads it extends only four or five miles, but in the
north it stretches a couple of hundred miles out
into the Arafura Sea and right across to the New
Guinea coast. Rights claimed are over “sedentary”
life only—pearlshell, trochus and similar creatures
attached to the seabed. There is no claim to
proprietorship over swimming fish. This is the
point completely overlooked in most comment on
the activities of Japanese ships.
If the verdict of the International Court goes
in our favor it will confirm our rights over “sitting
targets,” but fishermen of Japan (or of Russia or
any other nation) will still be free to engage in
surface-fishing outside our territorial waters,
irrespective of whether they are inside or outside
the limits of the continental shelf. The question
of conservation of the fishing resources of the oceans
around Australia is another matter. It could be
dealt with by a convention of all nations interested,
but Australia has no right or power to take
unilateral action.


BIRDS OF A FEATHER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Supply and Demand
It was announced over the weekend that
Australia and Maoriland have expressed
concern that the United States should
consider “dumping” its surplus farm
products, exporting to the highest bidder
butter, dried-fruits and perhaps wheat
(of which it holds about five or six years’
Australian output), with the prospect of
adding a huge quantity each year from
now onwards. It is hinted officially that
the purchase of these commodities by
Britain would be considered in Australia
and N.Z. an “unfriendly act.”
Mr. McEwen chides the United King-
dom and says that the practice of selling
extremely heavily subsidised and virtually
distress-priced goods must adversely
affect the market outlook in Britain for
Australian export production, and raise
the question whether Britain can at the
same time expect to enjoy heavy protec-
tion on the Australian market for its own
exports.
The United States, which has played
the game in attempts since the war to
destroy the law of supply and demand by
fixing a minimum export price in the
interests of its farmers, has discovered
that the law is apt to operate in any case,
and that, in the ultimate, artificially high
prices must be paid for just like any other
luxury.
Mr. McEwen says that the American
move “violates the Australian claim that
sales should not be made at prices that
could distort the normal pattern of world
trade,” and that Australia is “adamant
that U.S. and other surpluses should not
be marketed at prices or in quantities cal-
culated to disturb the ordinary pattern of
trade.” He thinks it the duty of the
world to keep the prices of products
likely to compete with Australian
products as high as is necessary for the
Australian economy to live on its present
scale.
Every nation, like every individual,
would prefer to be able to fix the price
of its own goods in the way in which the
Australian unions seem able forcibly to
foist their own standards of luxury and
wage-levels under an anomalous arbitra-
tion system. But unfortunately Australia
is small potatoes in a very large world
market. Outside its shores, now, war-
time artificialities are being liquidated,
the rule of supply and demand is begin-
ning to operate, and will continue to
operate whether we like it or not.
The greatest essential at the moment is
to get organised to gear the demands of
the people of the Commonwealth to a
shrinking price-level and open markets.
This can be done successfully by a longer
working-week, the abolition of absentee-
ism, a standard of wages in keeping with
the national income from abroad and
real material production.' This does not
call at present for any recession to depres-
sion standards or even deprivation of
comfort. But it does involve a realisation
that unlimited wages, luxuries, leisure,
loaf and gambling for the people of this
country are not going to be paid for by
overseas customers who find that they can
obtain the materials we have been supply-
ing at lower prices even “dumping”
prices—which in the case of the United
States appear to be the highest obtain-
able in the world market.
At the moment Australian conciliation
commissioners and civil-service arbitrators
are lightly awarding millioris in wage-
rises, our wool prices are down 15 per
cent, on last season ; wheat prices are
precarious. Yet at the same time
the United States Commodity Credit
Corporation is holding, at the expense of
the American taxpayer, about £3214-
million-worth of farm commodities
still steadily piling-up—and at the lift
of a finger can change the whole com-
plexion of the world’s primary-product
markets.
These commodities are fortunately
under the control of people who realise
what the effect of an uncontrolled release
of such assets would be on world markets
and on their own. They represent, as
Mr. Butz, the U.S. Assistant Secretary
for Agriculture, remarked last week, “a
dangerous and tragic concentration of
power.”
But they also represent a warning—•
again to use his words—that the U.S. and
other Governments have maintained the
war-time system of protected prices too
long and that the road to safety lies in
“working back in the direction of free
prices and free markets.” The only safe
economy is one that is built on demand
and availability. Against the impact of
these factors the will of Ministerial fixers
is no more effective than Canute’s edict
to the waves.
Profit-sharing and the Unions
The scheme under which two Newcastle
engineering firms are sharing profits with
their employees—with a possible third to
follow soon—points the way to better
relationships between employers and
employees, provided it is fairly based
and rightly administered.
The union involved is the Federated
Ironworkers, which, under Mr. Ernie
Thornton, didn’t believe in sharing. Tts
motto in his day was, “Soak the employer
till he strangles—all profit to the Soviet.”
The Newcastle scheme involves, it is
reported, a payment to the workers of 25
per cent, of net profit before taxation,
distributed on the basis of gross earnings,
less overtime. The payments are arranged
—they are already being paid—on a six-
monthly basis and are linked with a
weekly attendance-bonus directed against
absenteeism. Employees with 12 months
of service and leaving before the end of a
six-monthly period would be paid pro
rata.
The union’s local organiser describes
the method as “down to earth” and a
“direct counter to industrial agitation.”
Nothing could be more refreshing than
to hear the organiser of a big union,
formerly Communist - run, deprecating
agitation. It is against every principle of
official “Labor” and Communist policy
in a movement which over recent years
has been shouting defiance and fighting
an enemy which is not only dead but
biiried.
Profit-sharing has been accepted in
almost every industrialised 'Western
country except Australia, along with
factory advisory committees and other
modern devices for keeping the wheels
turning.
In this case it is claimed that the
approach came from the union and is
said to be thoroughly endorsed by the
work-participants.
The firms’ sacrifices are obviously paid
for in continuity of work, in less
absenteeism and in the incentive pro-
vided by personal interest to employees
as partners to add to their incomes by
adding to production and overall profits.
The test, however, cannot be fully
applied in times like the present. The
moment of trial will be at some future
—and it is hoped distant —date when
profits fall and perhaps become losses.
Dr. Evatt and his followers of the
Ashley-Calwell classes will not like the
change. It robs them of their reason
for political existence. But it should
strengthen the industrial-groups if they
can adopt it as general policy. And it
should enrich the unions adopting it be-
cause of continuity of work and expan-
sion of employee earnings, not to mention
a. disappearance of the liability to provide
strike-pay arid expenses. It should enable
the unions, in fact, to devote the funds
they now use for war on the employer to
develop social services, homebuilding and
improvement schemes.
Restlessness and Insecurity
The restlessness and insecurity of the
world, unstable politically in the danger-
spots as volcanic ground, is emphasised
by a number of trends and incidents
during the past week.
One is the continued rumbling in the
Moluccan area adjacent to Australian
territory in which the Indonesian Govern-
ment, served entirely by Dutch shipping,
is trying to quell a rebellion which it un-
tiringly insinuates to be of Dutch origin,
but which it can scarcely put forward by
way of support for its claim to Dutch
New Guinea.
Another is the rebellion in Costa Rica
which, a five-nation commission has de-
cided, is supplied from abroad, with
Nicaragua as a base. The casualties of
this affray so far would scarcely fill a
sentry-box, but it represents part of a
diarrhoea of wars and disturbances which
have been rather mysteriously generated
in republics adjacent to the Panama Canal
and of vital interest to British Common-
wealth-American defence. The interest
of Moscow in the region was clearly
demonstrated last year in British Guiana
and in the wars of the isthmus republics,
which were being openly munitioned on
the trouble-making side by the Iron Cur-
tain bloc.
Major indicators of the atmosphere are
the alarmism pervading the press about
the condition of Britain’s defence (par-
ticularly H-bomb defence), which has a
strong Soviet smell about its misinterpre-
tatlons and resembles somewhat the
alarmism which the editors of 1938 used
to show about ordinary bombing—great
capitalist newspapers then as now fever-
ishly taking their tone from the “Moscow
News,” though it must be said in justice
that most of them did not realise the origin
of their fellow-traveller “experts’ ” in-
spiration. Under the impulse transmitted
Via these sort of advisers and their, agents
the press immediately before World War
II was perfectly convinced that a force
of the bomber types then available—
Junkers, Blenheims, Ansons, Hudsons —
could win any war in a weekend.
Clear in the memory is one story pub-
lished in Moscow and circulated widely
by the Australian Communist party in
1937 in which a squadron of Soviet
bombers from Moscow was pictured as
sailing gaily out one night over a defence-
less Berlin and before morning blotting
its sprawling square miles flat into a
smoking ruin with “giant” bombs weigh-
ing as much as 5001 b limit reached
by aerial imaginations at the time. While
the H-bomb is a weapon to be taken with
grim and apprehensive seriousness, it is
reassuring to remember that the Euro-
pean pictures of the probable results
of the bombing of cities against
which there supposedly was no defence —
proved just as ludicrous amid the actuali-
ties of World War II as did the jeering
contempt of every American aviation
expert for the futility of the British
policy of building “interceptors”—Spit-
fires and Hurricanes. There was a rush
in U.S.A. to build interceptors when the
Battle of Britain was over, though not
till it was too late to compete with the
early flights of Zeros.
The third indicator of world precari-
ousness is the forecast of the United
States Budget for 1955-56. In the face of
continual assurances from optimists that
the world position is improving, it is
semi-officially forecast that this week
President Eisenhower would ask for
£15,500 million or thereabouts for
defence, mostly to be spent on aerial
organisation and aircraft.
The President himself said that global
strategy demanded unprecedented
emphasis on military training and recruit-
ing, and the selective draft law has been
extended for four years.
The point of the greatest danger in
world affairs has clearly not been reached.
It will not be until the German, Formo-
san, Japanese and Indo-China situations
have been resolved and until the attitude
of India has been fully defined. The
flame of war might be lighted at any
instant by a false move m the German and
East-Asian zones.
TV for Olympic Games?
“Peter Simple”: If the Commonwealth
wants to start television off on the right
foot in Australia it should move heaven
and earth to get the service going for the
1956 Olympic Games in Melbourne. This
opportunity to advertise TV is too good
to be missed ; but from what one hears
and reads it is likely to be missed unless
someone gets a move on soon.
The Broadcasting Control Board has to
consider applications for commercial
licences ; but as powerful combinations
have already been lined up in Sydney and
Melbourne, there should be no great diffi-
culty in allocating the limited number
available.
The A.B.C. has already been told it is
to run the national service, and it recently
brought the general-manager of the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Mr.
A. Ouimet, to Australia to tell it how he
has been able to make such a spectacular
success of TV in Canada. Contrary to
British and United States experience,
where heavy losses were incurred at the
outset, the Canadian Broadcasting Cor-
poration showed a net surplus of nearly
£3,000,000 for the 1953-54 financial year
-—its first full year of the television ser-
vice. This was 18 times greater than the
surplus for the preceding year. Revenue
from television rose sharply in the second
year, but broadcasting revenue declined
just as sharply. The plain truth is that
broadcasting all over the world is “on the
down.”
Managing-director L. A. Hooke, of
A.W.A., said at the co.’s annual meeting
in Sydney that before television could
begin in Australia sites would have to
be selected, buildings and masts erected
and equipment manufactured and in-
stalled, and he would be surprised if this
could be done in much under two years.
At a guess I should say that sites for
national TV-stations in Sydney and Mel-
bourne have either already been selected
or the department has a pretty good idea
where they will be, and that all we are
waiting for is the green-light from the
Federal Government. There were rumors
a couple of years ago that tests had shown
Glenbrook, on the lower Blue Mountains 1
of N.S.W., to be a likely site for a TV-
station to cover the metropolitan area of
Sydney and provide the first link in a
chain of stations to serve such thickly
populated areas as Katoomba, Lithgow,
Bathurst and Orange.
Overseas experience has shown that
news and sporting events are extremely
popular with television audiences ; and
the Melbourne Olympic Games will pro-
vide a concentration of this type of pro-
gramme such as we are not likely to have
in Australia again for many years. An
announcement that TV would be ready
for the games would almost certainly
start people saving now for a set to watch
the big events; and if TV is to be a
success here, that is what must happen.
The 8.8. C. has already prepared a
television programme covering prepara-
tions for the games, for immediate release
in Britain; and it can be taken for
granted that every country in the world
in which television is operating, with the
possible exception of Soviet Russia, will
“see” the Olympic events in 1956. It
would be ironical indeed if Australia,
where the games are to be held and which
is already committed to TV, should be
one of the few countries not able to enjoy
the service simply because of Government
inertia.
o-
An Old Proposal Revived
Melbourne has been discussing the
roofing-over of Jolimont railway-yards
for almost as long as Sydney has been
talking about digging a harbor-tunnel or
building the northern loop of the City-
railway. With the last span of the over-
head bridge at Circular Quay now in
position, it seems that the railway will
win the race, but if recent developments
in Melbourne come up to their promise,
Jolimont may run it a close second.
In the past many City-councillors and
State Ministers have interested them-
selves in the proposal to make use of
the space above the network of railway-
lines running parallel to Flinders-street,
but considerably below its level. The
advantages of the scheme are obvious at
a glance ; the stumbling-block is the cost.
No city council has ever got further than
saying that the surface so created might
help to solve the parking problem, and
the Railways Department, chronically in
the red, has never felt like financing it.
Last week Councillor Higginson came
forward with a plan whereby the A.M.P.
Society would supply the finance as a
business proposition reminiscent of its
deal with the South Australian Govern-
ment for the development of the area
formerly known as the Ninety-mile
Desert.
To a comment by a Treasury official
that all finance “for Government, semi-
Government or municipal projects must
go through the Loan Council,” Higginson
replied that no question of a loan was
involved. The scheme, in which the
A.M.P. Society had expressed interest,
was for a lease of the area by the society,
which would pay an annual rental to the
Victorian Railways. The A.M.P. would
then roof-over the 25 acres and construct
office-buildings and parking-space along
the 1500 ft. frontage. The society had
no desire to manage the project itself,
but would sublet the whole structure to
the City Council, which would recoup
itself out of rents and parking-fees. The
proposed term of the lease would be- 95
years.
The plan sounds worth taking-up. Mel-
bourne. would gain the equivalent of a
couple/, of city blocks, Russell-street,
Collins-place and Spring-street could be
extended across Jolimont to Batman-
avenue and thus relieve traffic congestion
in Swanston-street; the railways would
receive a handsome ground-rent, with the
ultimate reversion of the buildings.
Where Is Our Defence?
“In the ACT”: No one expected that
Cabinet, after the talks with the Service
chiefs which preceded the departure of the
Prime Minister and the Minister for Air
for London, would announce any details
of Australia’s changing defence strategy.
Many aspects of that strategy, in fact,
must await the Seato decisions next
month, and some of them may have
to be revised when assessment is possible
of the results, if any, of the Afro-Asian
conference in Indonesia in April. Yet
the general picture is becoming fairly
clear as one of defence in great depth
and with considerable mobility well to the
north of the Australian continent. It
will certainly involve some radical changes
(Continued on next page )


in Australian thinking on adequate de-
fence against any possible enemy, who
must strike from somewhere in Asia. It
is time, surely, that the Government gave
some lead in general terms on these
changes, so that Australians may be pre-
pared for them and ready to accept what-
ever they may involve.
Changes in Army training and pro-
cedure, “because of requirements imposed
by the possible tactical employment of
atomic and thermo-nuclear weapons,”
are one pointer which has appeared, a
little belatedly. (The Army Minister said,
rather regretfully it seemed, that the new
planning “would mean the breakdown of
many procedures which had become well
established in the last 20 years.”)
Our only possible immediate enemies
are, quite obviously, Red China and
Soviet Russia. A rearmed Japan may be
} a long-range threat, but it does not
f enter into any current speculations. Any
attack by sea would probably be tried by
submarine, but air and land attacks would
come towards us from South-East Asia.
The increasing range of planes and sub-
marines and other weapons makes dis-
tance of far less defensive value than in
the past, but it is still of some use, and
our front line of defence must therefore
be as far to the northward, eastward and
westward as possible. It must be linked
with New Zealand and the United States
lines in the Pacific, and with the Seato
plans still to be discussed. It must be inti-
mately associated with growing British
strength in Malaya, and with the bases on
Cocos, Manus and New Guinea. Any
extension further to the north at present
would encounter political difficulties, and,
therefore the alternative appears to be
some consolidation of mobile strength
between our comparatively distant front
line and the main centres of population
and industry on the Australian mainland.
On this aspect the economic and politi-
cal situation in Indonesia becomes of
immense importance to us. Trouble in
the South Moluccas has probably been
exaggerated, but the dispute over West
New Guinea still poses problems of
security for ourselves, as well as for the
Dutch and the Indonesians. In our own
sector of New Guinea, as The Bulletin
pointed out last week, the trusteeship in
the northern h'alf imposes defence as well
as other limitations. All these are aspects
which Mr. Menzies will doubtless discuss
in London, complicated in the setting of
the Prime Ministers’ conference by the
adherence of India, Pakistan and Ceylon
(in their role of “Colombo Powers”) to
the Indonesian view on West New Guinea
and by the refusal as yet of India and
Ceylon to join Seato, on which Pakistan,
like Australia, is represented.
In other words, our defence problem
cannot be defined in simple terms, and
there is no easy solution offering either
immediate safety or the necessary flexi-
bility to cope with changing international
alignments or increasingly potent and far-
reaching weapons. Yet the problem
should be placed before Australians as
clearly and even as starkly as possible, so
that any lingering illusions of security
may be dispelled, and the true nature of
the threat faced with the necesary
determination.
POLITICAL POINTS
O’Dea. O, Yea? O, Nay!
At midnight on New Year’s Eve in-
dustrial-groups in Victoria were supposed
to dissolve into thin air. They didn’t do
so, and the air is getting thicker and
thicker.
• •
Jack Lang’s “Century,” explaining the
Evatt-Dougherty application for TV-
licences:
The Evatt application was intended to
alter all that, so that Labor would have
its own cutlet in Melbourne.
Crumbed?
• •
Frank Forde, ex-High Commissioner
to Canada, ex-Minister for the Army, ex-
Deputy-leader of Federal “Labor,” ex-
M.H.R. for Capricornia, ex-Prime
Minister (seven days), is seeking nomina-
tion for the Queensland Assembly seat
Flinders, vacant through the death of
Mines Minister E. J. Riordan. Flinders
is one of “Labor’s” ten pocket-boroughs
in the Western electoral zone, of which
six, including were uncon-
tested in 1953.
• •
There’s a full-time job awaiting the all-
party committee of Federal Parliament
which will review the working of the
Constitution and recommend changes—
if possible in time for a referendum to
coincide with the Senate election next
year. All that remains to be seen, when
the necessary legislation is introduced in
April, is whether “Labor” will play ball.
It is possible, of course, that by that time
there will be two or three branches of
“Labor” in Parliament. In such a case
an “all-party” committee should be in-
teresting.
• •
Dogs (of uncertain pedigree) are
barking that the Doc. intends to desert
Barton when Federal-election time comes
round and seek a safer hideout, possibly
Hunter, where Rowley James usually has
close on 20,000 votes to spare. This
would depend on James’s willingness to
retire, on the condition of Evatt’s stocks
when the current fight is decided and a
lot of other things, including the look of
the electoral map after the new boundaries
are drawn and the reaction of others
who have had their eyes on the seat.
• •
“Labor” eyes are still anxiously cocked
in the direction of Hobart, waiting for
Premier Cosgrove to announce the date
of the State election. Their hope is that
he’ll get it over before the “Labor” con-
ference, due to open in Hobart on March
14. The feeling is that there’ll be enough
name-calling going on in the conference-
room without inviting partisans to carry it
on to the hustings in an election-cam-
paign.
• •
Sir Douglas Mawson has a long
memory. Commenting on an earth-
tremor in South Australia last week, he
said, “These tremors have been occurring
for the past 15 to 20 million years. They
are usually Accompanied by a loud rumb-
ling noise.”
• ft
There must be something wrong with
this story of Jap shirts selling at a shilling,
made possible, it is said, because “the
average earnings of Japanese clothing-
workers are 1 l%d. an hour.” The average
earnings of Australian clothing-workers
are about 7s. 6d. an hour, but we don’t
get shirts for eight-bob.
• •
To give the Russkis their due, it was a
Russian expedition that first sighted
land in the Antarctic circle. In 1820-21
two ships under the command of Admiral
Fabian von Bellingshausen crossed the
circle several times at different points,
cruised extensively in the area and pene-
trated almost as far south as Latitude 70
degrees. Bellingshausen discovered and
named Peter I Island and Alexander I
Land. Unless the Reds have altered
them in honor of Lenin and Stalin, these
names are still on the map, and the sea
in their vicinity bears the name of its
discoverer.
Bellingshausen visited Sydney in 1820,
and his Vostok and Mirni were probably
the first Russian ships to enter Port
Jackson.
• •
N. S. Wales has removed another 21
items from its price-control list. Prices
Minister Landa is very particular about
the way people speak of the move—the
items have not been “released”; it is
merely that control over them has been
“suspended.” Abie wants the public to
realise that “there is no desire on the part
of the Government to retain controls any
longer than they are necessary.” Does
that mean a change of heart? Many of
the items just liberated could have been
released —or put on the suspended list —
long ago.
• •
The Central Executive of Victorian
A.L.P. has instructed all branches and
affiliated unions to defer arrangements
for selection of delegates to the State con-
ference ordered by the Federal executive
for February 26 for the purpose of
electing a new Victorian executive. Next
move is up to the Doc. and Dougherty.
• •
Latest Australian Gallup poll shows
“Labor’s” popularity at its lowest ebb
since 1934. Calwell and others who were
willing to believe the figures when
“Labor’s” star was rising in 1952 aren’t
so sure now.
• •
No one seems to know who objected
to the Jap idea of putting on the pro-
jected Japanese memorials in New Guinea
ROLL OUT THE BARREL!
the words, “In memory of those who fell
in World War 11, with ardent prayers and
hopes for the eternal peace of the world.”
In Tokyo it was said there had been a
complaint from Australia, but Interior
Minister Kent Hughes, in the Far East,
said he knew nothing of it. It’s like the
acdon of a boorish official with mistaken
ideas of the meaning of patriotism.
• •
Victorian M-P.s, who recently voted
themselves increased salaries, are costing
the taxpayer an additional £14,000 a
year on top of that. This is because of
the al most-free meals they get in the
Parliament House refreshment-room,
part of Melbourne’s most ornate club.
Spurred to action, the joint House com-
mittee has decided to raise the charges
by a shilling—not for the politicians,
but for the taxpayers they invite to dine
with them!
• •
“Melbn”: Former Melbourne engineer
A. J. Smith would have been tickled pink
to hear of the A.M.P.’s offer to finance
the roofing of Jolimont shunting-yards ;
he was the man who first propounded the
idea. He used to stand on the corner
of the Flinders-street intersection gazing
at those 25 acres and dreaming of what
could be done with them and at least
once a week he used to come in and talk
to The Bulletin about it. A million
pounds would have fixed it in those days,
but successive Governments pigeonholed
the plans he submitted and he died with
his dream unrealised.
• •
A manifesto issued by the so-called
“rebel” unions—i.e., those who support
Evatt and oppose the industrial-groups
—says that since 1950 “Labor” hi? been
through “an unprecedented period of
ideological conflict, intrigue and
character-assassination.” That’s strange.
In the electibn campaigns of 1951, 1953
and 1954 the theme-song was the indis-
solubility of the “Labor” movement. The
manifesto concludes:
The question is not whether Labor is to
the right or left. The sole issue is whether
Labor is to be Labor.
All very well, but who is going to define
what “Labor” is?
• •
A demonstration in Melbourne against
the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland
brought out the fact that there is an
“Australian League for an Undivided
Ireland.” Replying to criticism that this
meant that Australians owing allegiance
to the Queen were trying to bring the
Queen’s subjects in Northern Ireland
under the rule of the Irish Republic, the
secretary of the league replied that
“the fact that the Six Counties of North-
east Ireland are occupied by British forces
as such .... is by the way. The league
would still be in existence if the Six
Counties were occupied by, say, Russian,
French or German forces.”
That may make sense in Ballymullion,
but not in Melbourne. “The league
would still be in existence”? Perhaps so,
but would the Irish Republic?
• •
If, as someone suggested, the Jap fish-
ing-markers are really being used in a
smuggling-racket, then either the
smugglers have been made desperate by
the efficiency of the Customs inspectors
at main ports or they are displaying a
flair for publicity as effective as it is
astonishing.
• •
“Stromlo”: The “cold war” is well on
in the Antarctic, with an American expe-
dition on the way, the Kista Dan headed
south from Australia, and a thousand men
being sent by Argentine military authori-
ties to attend to “scientific tasks.” There
is some talk of a group of nations, includ-
ing Norway, France and Australia, spon-
soring a move before the International
Court on the subject of sovereignty. The
sooner some positive action is taken the
better.
• •
There’ll be no cheers in Malaya at
Lord Baillieu’s announcement that the
rubber-industry has changed from one
resting on the two agricultural products
of natural rubber and cotton to one in
which “man-made chemically manufac-
tured rubbers and fibres make an ever-
increasing contribution.” He added that
the industry was using twice as much
rubber as pre-war, and that small-sized
synthetic-rubber plants were being
erected in Britain.
• •
In 1954 the Australian whaling indus-
try caught 2040 whales, which yielded
100,000 barrels of oil, 5000 tons of meat-
meal —used for stock-food and fertiliser
—and 1400 tons of other products. Total
value of the catch was £1.6 million. Each
whaling-station is allotted an annual
quota which may not be exceeded.
These are: Point Cloates and Carnarvon
(W.A.) and Tangalooma (Q.), each 600
whales; Albany (W.A.) and Byron Bay
(N.S.W.), each 120. All stations filled
their quotas last year.
• •
Transfer of sovereignty of Cocos Island
to Australia is still awaiting enactment of
the necessary legislation by the British
Parliament. R.A.A.F. construction parties
built the airstrip there, and in 1951 agree-
ment was reached in principle between
the U.K. and Australian Governments
for the transfer. The next step was the
passing by the Federal Government of
the Cocos Islands Request and Consent
Act, without which it was felt by the
British Government’s Constitutional
authorities that an enabling Act by the
Parliament at Westminster might be of
doubtful validity. The Australian Act was
passed in November last, and, despite a
request from the Singapore Government
for further consideration of the question
before the transfer is completed, it seems
likely that the Commons will debate a
bill early this year.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
/~\UR boss was waiting for a man to
come and fix the machine that had
gone phut. They had promised—three
days before —to send a mechanic.
“Ach! Such slow comings in Europe
ve nefer haf,” the boss angrily averred.
“Again I vill the telephone ring.”
And then came the maintenance-van.
The now-smiling boss welcomed the big,
cheery man in white overalls. The
mechanic immediately took a liking to
our boss, and treated him as an equal.
“Just call me Jack,” he boomed.
He made a leisurely inspection of the
factory and told the boss: “You’ve got a
beaut set-up in this little joint.” And, in
his nice, friendly way, he asked: “ ’Ow
long ’ave yer been ’ere? Were yer in the
same game on the other side? Got any
competition? Makin’ a lot of dough?”
Not such much,” the boss admitted
impatiently. And then: “Please —please
to come ; the failed machine you vill see?”
Jack ask.ed to see the operator.
“Ach ; joost a boy,” said the boss.
That’s O.K. with me,” said Jack,
“and if I can on’y find out what ’e done
to make it fail, I’ll be jakerloo.”
After grilling the boy for five minutes
he started to unscrew a nut.
“Widow, too!”
The boss put his hat and coat on,
and went to his car in the yard. Jack,
watching from the door, called out:
“Where are yer goin?”
“To the main street only,” the boss re-
plied.
“ ’Ave yer got a quid in yer pocket?”
“Maybe I haf —vhy the askings?”
“I’ll come up to the pub with yer.”
And Jack had one foot in the car before
the boss could say: “Nefer in the work-
ing-times do I to the beer-house go.”
“Why not? You’re yer own boss —•
ain’t yer?”
“Not\so —the pizzness my boss iss,” the
boss snapped, and drove away.
Jack went back to the failed machine.
“Blimey!” he said to the foreman. “Yer
do strike some queer blokes among these
New Australians, don’t yer?”
O. G.
♦>
“Tar”: The Admiralty News Summary
mentions, as an exhibit in the National
Maritime Museum, “one of Thomas Row-
landson’s delightful sketches of maritime
life, showing a pressgang at work.”
+♦♦ <+ »
“Macquarie”: The expressions that
become tagged to cricket change with
every Test-tour. The present series has
produced a crop of: “A splendid ball—it
beat both the bat and the wicket! ” Hav-
ing always been the kind of batsman who
“hits where it ain’t” I. can readily under-
stand the first part, but a wicket that
rushes forward and flings itself at the
ball, only to be neatly foiled by a cunning
side-twist or slick duck is, as far as I
know, unlike any I have ever had behind
me. Still, in Melbourne, where pitches
improve without being watered, such
wickets may flourish.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fairf”: If entering a building through
a second-story window constitutes “break-
ing and entering” our local police were
guilty recently, after borrowing an exten-
sion-ladder from an electrician. But a
charge is not expected to be laid. The
building was our police-station, and the
Johnhops had lost their keys—or maybe
had ’em pinched.
*+♦
“Sister Ellell”: The A.G.H. being next-
door to an R.A.A.F. camp, we were
coming off night-duty one wet morning,
with the pleasure of a good day’s sleep
before us, when one lass espied R.A.A.F.
clothes strewn around her room, and in
her bed a gent., obviously blown off-
course on return from a bender. Yanked
out of bed. by a hastily summoned
R.S.M., the poor fellow was bemused at
his surroundings and foggy with the grog.
He had donned the lassie’s pyjamas, but
apparently was not familiar with such
things as placket side-fastening; in his
endeavor to get it in its proper perspec-
tive at the front, he had his two legs in
one ’jama leg, and the other flapping at
the back like a train. What the sequel
was for the man I don’t recall, but as
for the lass, she put the pink-and-blue
stripes on to boil, and what should emerge
but a delicate shade of mauve!
“Corpus”: For some years, in the
pairs-competition of the Christmas Bowl-
ing carnival in one of S.A.’s provincial
cities, among the entrants have been one
of the local'padres and the local under-
taker, who are great friends. On the
greens they have become kijown as the
“Death and Glory” pair. This year, as
usual, their duties interrupted their pro-
gress in the game.
* * ***
“Metralia”: Corpulent American
G.l.s have been ordered to eschew bread,
potatoes and (presumably) beer. The
Doughboys (0.5.) might learn from a
“May I borrow it for the weekend? I've promised to take the
wife and kids for a picnic."
whale-shaped R.S.M. of last war. On
parade the old fire-eater was elegant—in
corsets,
- *Z* ❖ s
“Mick O’Melbourne”: “Mississee’s”
item (B. 5/1/’55) on “Hoisenlopp”
(should this not be “Hossen Loff”?) is
interesting and recalls many old memo-
ries, but he is wrong in one or two of
his statements. The name of the restaurant
in Little Collins-street Melbourne, was
the Savoy, not the Vienna. The Vienna
was originally known as Gunzlers and
occupied the site of the present Hotel
Australia in Collins-street, which is a
descendant of the old Vienna, the name
having been changed during World War
I. The Savoy had a very lively reputa-
tion, and a cracked mirror in one of the
rooms was by tradition always ascribed
to a champagne-bottle hurled in the midst
of a bright party. Police-raids were fre-
quent, but the story goes that the estab-
lishment was under vice-regal patronage
and raids never took place when the
young bloods of Government House
were celebrating.
“Selina”: How the get-rich-quick idea
has seized Victorians since Tatt.’s was
imported to Melbourne! A radio-session
included asking for three ladies with hand-
bags. When three volunteers had “gone
into the soundproof room” it was an-
nounced that the lady whose bag con-
tained a Tatt.’s ticket of three numbers
would be given a generous prize. Then,
as an afterthought, the announcer asked
all the ladies in the audience who had one
or more Tatt.’s tickets in their bags to
hold up their hands. About 95 per cent,
of the large studio-audience did so. Each
of the three ladies whose bags were
searched had one or more tickets in her
bag, but none with three numerals. Each
received a consolation-prize.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Halleraft”: The firm (Victorian) was
in the middle of a drive on overdue
accounts when a letter was received from
one of its dealers down Morningt'on Pen-
insula way. He is one of the silver-lining
type, who always seems to have some-
thing else on and can’t pay his bills.
“Things could be worse,” he wrote. “It
makes my blood run cold to think how
terrible I’d feel if I were one of my
creditors.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Siosal”: I think it likely that, as “Bo”
predicted in his latest edition of “Old
Bore’s Almanac” (B. 5/1/’55), a major
crisis will occur before long through a
Sydney newspaper failing to apply the
adjective “attractive” to a girl who has
gained notoriety. Already there are
portents. On January 9, among my rest-
ful reading for Sunday, I came upon the
tale of a Brisbane woman who got three
years for bigamy after “marrying” seven
times in five years. Inevitably, she was
“attractive” in the double-column intro-
duction to the story, but—and here is
what the sporting-writers would term a
“shock” development—a bit lower down
she became merely “not-unattractive.”
That, surely, indicates that the scribbling
boys are weakening somewhat. It seems
possible that the day may come when
one of them, in a moment of either
aberration or desperation, will fail to
describe an accused wench as “attrac-
five”; and then, since jazzy writers are
a sheeplike lot, others will follow suit,
and so a national crisis will develop.
Although all my scientific research has
never enabled me to ascertain on what
grounds (other than notoriety) a Sydney
newspaper determines a female of the
species to be “attractive,” I’m disposed
to think that there was justification for
the word in the case of the specimen
who “married” seven men in five years.
She must have had something.
+s> -ijf »!♦
“Jimmy Woodser”: Blanco is no
longer to be used by British soldiers at
home-stations. Its successor as “Reno-
* Coming Serial
"LAZY WALKABOUT"
by Peter Bladen
First instalment, February 2
vator, web equipment” is a boot-polish
type of job: brush, tin and no water.
From the variety of shades offered —olive,
dark- and light-green, as well as khaki —
it seems that the most fastidious taste
is catered for ; many, however, will be
relieved to learn that, as the white version
is less effective, the original Blanco will
continue to be used by the Brigade of
Guards (for full-dress buckskin), and,
inevitably one feels, by that fine body of
men the Royal Military Police.
“Hallcraft”: Can any Bulletin reader
explain, please, how it is that most people
start their conversation or interviews
on radio (and TV) with “Well . . .”?
How has the word come into everybody‘s
vocabulary?
♦♦♦ * ❖
“C.A.L.”: The staff-manager declares
the jet-age has come to our department-
store, and further maintains, since watch-
ing a group of young salesmen at knock-
off time, that Superman, with his powers
of levitation, is not a lot of boloney.
When the siren blows, the s.-m. takes his
position on the stairway between the first
and second floors to watch his jet-assisted
take-off personnel’s reaction. He swears
that, at the first wail, each man rises
slowly from the floor, levels-off and
soars over counters and fixtures at super-
sonic speed towards one of the store’s
six exits. One evening the g.-m. joined
him in watching the fly-past. “Have you
any suggestions to make about this un-
seemly departure of the staff?” he asked
the staff-manager. “Yes, sir,” answered
the latter. “Put tills at all the counters,
for one day some member of the Jato
squadron will be decapitated on the wires
which carry the money-trolleys.”
SENT TO SEND US
“You jest got to do Australia.”
—Nat “King” Cole.
When the big-time throat gets husky,
When there ain’t so much applause,
If you’re white or dark or dusky
A man must sorta pause;
Ya don’t know what may ail ya,
But ya gotta week to spare,
So ya bop off to Australia
And think it out right there.
Ya gotta do Australia,
Where the grass and goons are
green,
Where the teenage hep-cats hail ya
As the knockout jazz-champeen;
They’re the last of the hicks a few
hot licks
Will lay out in the aisles,
And when they’re through there’ll
be no one new
But lions and crocodiles.
When a fella can’t remember
If he’s married or divorced,
When the old love’s jest an ember
And the new one can’t be forced,
Ya can always do Australia
And give yourself a wrench
From your Hollywooden dahlia
Or your million-dollar wench.
Ya gotta do Australia
And sell ’em a bit of love
With a limelight-moon to trail ya
From a shop-soiled heaven above ;
And when they’re made, and you
have paid
Their alimony-cheques,
There’ll be nothing new for a man
to do
But have a change of sex.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


'T'HOSE Yank pilots were beauts. I
remember old Poppa Gunn, sea-
soned and cool as ever a pilot was —no
glamor in flying for him. He was bring-
ing his crate down at Laverton on the
strip that leads straight into the hangar
and misjudged his touch-down, so that
there was only half of the runway left
when his wheels touched ground. I was
expecting some last-resort ground-loop
to save the plane, and wasn’t looking
forward to it, for they are pretty chancy
at the best of times. But he did nothing.
A hundred and fifty yards to go, and he
drawled, “Not much runway left, is
there?” No answer. He reached coolly
“Is THIS the boy you told me about?”
for a button and pressed it. Next thing
I knew we were sliding along on our
belly. He’d pulled the undercarriage up
underneath us. We stopped with yards
to spare, but the plane was in a bit of a
mess. I mentioned and asked why
he hadn’t ground-looped. “You get killed
that way. They’ve plenty of crates, but
there’s only one Poppa Gunn.” Of that
I was certain.—“ Vermouth.”
♦♦♦ +X* +>
“Aussie”: A Sydney Sunday-broad-
caster suffered a fit of coughing during his
fifteen-minute talk. After several vain
attempts at continuing, with resultant
breaks in transmission, plus the an-
nouncer’s apologies, it finally developed
that he “could not continue.” This was
confirmed by the announcer and the ses-
sion ended with more pauses and recorded
music. I am puzzled to know why the
announcer on duty did not finish reading
the script.
*> *4 <4
“Abel Baker”: “Wavy N.” (B.
15/9/’54) should »certainly add the
Japanese to his special-matchbox list.
Every bar (and there are hundreds in the
Occupation centres), every hotel, and
even the lowly “asahimachi” (brothel to
Westerners) has its own distinctive
matches. Once, on shore-patrol in Kure,
it was our job to close all bars at 11 p.m.
As we cleared each bar I asked for, and
received, a box of matches, which I
dropped down the front of my shirt. By
the time all were shuttered and barred
for the night, my stomach had assumed
the most noble proportions. As a matter
of fact, I don’t recall buying a box of
matches in the nine months I was in or
around Japan.
♦ 454 4*4
“Tas.”: Thanks for the memory,
“W.P.T.” (B. 5/1/’55). One of those
Paddington (Sydney) barber-shop shav-
ing-mugs and brushes must be mine! I
worked in Victoria Barracks, Padding-
ton, from 1905 until 1912, and was a
“member” of that shaving-club. And a
shave was threepence in those gorgeous
far-off days. I’ve sent in my claim to
the barber already: had forgotten I left
the things there when I was transferred
to Melbourne in 1912. Oh yes, you could
get a pot for threepence, too, in the
R.A.A. canteen at V. 8., and a soft-drink
for 2d., split bottle! On tick, too —till
pay-day, once a month!
■|J4 <s4 -Ijjt
“Hist.”: The lass who was entertained
by the English Melbourn (B. 5/1/’55)
forgot to tell “Melbn” that there the
name is spelled without the final “e.”
My acquaintance with the place was
confined to passing through in a motor-
coach. It lies not far north of London
on the Great North Road (Britain’s
Route A.l), and the entry in my diary
says: “Quite a small village with a lot
of old thatched cottages.”
❖ *l* *X*
“Pat”: He arrived out at the ground
an hour and a half before play was due
to begin. For minutes we watched him
fiddle around, trying this seat and that,
finally selecting one with an uninter-
rupted view of the pitch directly behind
us. During the waiting interval he
amused himself training his powerful
binoculars on the other stands, occa-
sionally recognising some celebrity or
other. Play began and he lowered the
glasses. “Bit heavy to hold, these things,”
he said ; “and no sense in it when the.
commentators can tell us just what’s
happening.” After which we had his
portable-radio blaring a ball-to-ball
description in. our ears for the rest of
the day.
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“Piper”: The taxi-driver’s wife who
refused a donation to an ambulance-fund
(B. 5/1/’55) reminded me of when I was
selling buttons for a Red Cross day dur-
ing the war. A formidable elderly female
approached, asked the price of the buttons
*4
and, learning they were 6d., Is. or 25.,
recoiled in horror, declaring that she dis-
approved of the Red Cross anyway. This
would not have been much loss had she
not lingered to explain her reasons for
refusing to buy a button, her presence
discouraging numerous prospective
buyers while her tirade lasted. “But,”
“I couldn't stand the embarrassment of a torn costume!"
she said finally, “for taking up your time
I shall donate something.” She opened
her purse, extracted two pennies, dropped
them singly into the box, looked me
straight in the eye, and spat out, “And all
I hope is the soldiers get it!”
♦+♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Mugga Way”: That portion of wide-
spread Canberra which surrounds what
is popularly, but inaccurately, called
“Civic Centre” is officially known as
“City.” The postal authorities decided
sometime ago that mail could be directed
more expeditiously to this area if marked
“Canberra City.” Residents of this
sector are discovering, however, that
ignorant persons outside the A.C.T. are
apt to regard the “City” as a harmless
form of skiting on the part of the inhabi-
tants of a town of only 30,000 people.
Hence these outsiders tend to leave the
“City” out of addresses, and the “City-
ites” now mostly get their mail just as
late as people living in the other suburbs
of the national capital.
♦♦♦ ❖ *X+
“Tas.”: The fabulous “salaries” paid
to American “stars” who come to Aus-
tralia for a few days—to favor us with
their “art”—bring to mind the Edwardian
era and the beauties of London’s Gaiety
and Daly’s theatres who were not paid
at anything like the same rate. George
Edwardes tried to persuade one of his
leading-ladies to accept £lOO a week (a
high salary at that time) for an Indian
tour. She wanted £2OO. But Edwardes
tried to point out to her that “rajahs are
very kind to young ladies. They give
wonderful jewels and could easily be
worth an extra hundred a week.” Her
terse reply, next day, was :
Dear Mr. Edwardes,
If you will accept my terms, you can have
the rajah’s presents. Yours sincerely....
“Sister Ellell”: Reports of the Korean
boys’ march reminded me of the reper-
cussions of the Victory march, for me.
We —the Nursing Service —never too
strong on the marching, flapped on our
fallen arches in a strange city and then,
tired, stood on the side to watch the boys
go by. A huge provost-corporal stepped
back, and remained, quite oblivious, on
my feet, giving me a short spell in hos-
pital. The half-kernel surgeon on his
rounds questioned me, and I replied that
the largest soldier with the largest boots
in the A.I.F. had stood on my feet. He
did not reply, mumbled the treatment
and then bumbled off. Next morning he
came around again, and in a tired voice
said, “Now, Sister, what’s your
trouble?” I had my mouth open about
to reply when he cut in with, “Don’t
tell me, I remember —just overexuberance
in the Victory march!”
❖ »>
“Ceg”: A Ron Broadley sketch a
while back, depicting a woman sitting
at the receiving-end of a vacuum-
cleaner —having been copiously sprayed
with black dust —reminded me of a cold
winter’s day in a fashionable hair-
dressing salon. The building was heated
with warm air pumped by machinery in
the basement, the furnaces of which were
fired by crude oil. Several society-dames
were seated in the cubicles reading
fashion-magazines, while their hair was
being dried by warm air blown through
those metal affairs like divers’-helmets
which covered their heads. In the base-
ment an oil-burning furnace discharged
clouds of dense, black and very sooty
smoke; this was promptly sucked into
the heating system and so into the ladies’
helmets. The result was too, too
devastating, as they emerged with jet-
black and greasy wigs. It took the
frantic proprietor some time to soothe
them down. They all had to be washed
and done again, “on the house.”
CATCH IN IT
“Widower, middle-aged, fond dogs, keen
football fan, would meet ref. domesticated lady
(not widow), abt. 30, with same tastes. View
mat.” —Personal Column ad.
He is out to save some dame
From declining on a shelf,
Giving six to her , his aim,
And a dozen to himself.
For he’d seek a lengthy spell
From his household chores. As well,
He’s sick of living off the frying-pan,
So he’ll chance “for good or ill”
If she demonstrates the skill
To fix him long-forgotten fancy scran.
But he still reserves the right
A proviso yet to make:
Even though her cakes be light,
She a wizard with a steak,
As a marriage-candidate
She’ll be shown straight out the gate
If in the test he gives she badly fails
By believing full-backs score
With a fine-leg glance for four,
Or the centre-forward must whip off
the bails.
He’s as clear as pea-soup fogs
When he makes the point that he
Likes the company of dogs.
It’s ambiguous, you see.
Is he meaning that o’ nights
On the carpet he delights
To pull the ears of his ecstatic pooch,
Or that towards where tykes so thin
Rush round after hares of tin
He loves on every meeting-night to
mooch ?
*
She might span, for all he’ll care,
Three axe-handles round the hips;
Poker-straight may be her hair,
Chin like bow of battleship’s.
He’s not fussy HOW she looks,
But he is on how she cooks.
From ranks of widdies, though, won’t
come his mate.
Their experience has been such
That he knows they know too much
About the fine points of the married
state /
N.s.w.
S. W. K.
PANAMA
'T'HE assassination of President Remon
of Panama brings into prominence a
small Central American State where, once
the U.S. quarter is left behind, one enters
a Spanish-Indian world.
In the Cathedral Square on warm
Sunday evenings the population gathers
to listen to classical music played by a
first-class orchestra, while along the walks
surrounding the park promenade the
young folk in old Spanish style—girls
walking in one direction, youths in the
opposite. Later, the sexes mix, and boy
and girl move along arm-in-arm.
In one old church is the famous golden
altar which once adorned an edifice in
Old Panama, sacked by the pirate Henry
Morgan. A trip to the ruins of the old
city is well worth while, if only to con-
vince us how thoroughly Morgan and the
ravages of time have done their work.
I visited a private zoo some miles from
the capital where I saw the tiny honey-
bear curled up in a golden ball, and the
two-toed and the three-toed sloth, the two-
toed fellow suspended from a tree outside
the gates. When I asked the proprietor
whether he was not afraid the sloth would
escape, he laughed and said that in six
weeks the creature could not travel more
than a few hundred feet.
In the snake-pit, separated from the
path on which we stood by a wall only a
foot or so in height, was the most fear-
some collection of reptiles I have seen.
Their venom was very profitable to the
proprietor. However, the business had its
drawbacks, for he displayed to me his
fingers, most of which were missing to the
first joint; the result of not-altogether
successful “milkings.”
I went at midnight to an Indian market
where the natives sang ancient songs as
they prepared for the sales which would
begin at daybreak ; and watched young
Indian boys in the streets, where, during
the daily thunderstorm, they plunged
naked into the flooded concrete gutters
and allowed themselves to be carried
along on their bellies by the force of the
torrent.
From the white houses along the water-
front, splashed with the red and purple
of the bougainvilleas, could be seen the
North American mountains, while to the
south were the peaks and ridges of the
Andes —an awe-inspiring sight.
MAITRI.


The fastest, smoothest airliner in Australia
TAA
pressurised, propeller-turbine
RESERVATIONS: TAA Booking Offices all States or your nearest Travel Agent.
\ — Aiu>fca£i<x \ - -
wGmrnmmiwmmmmmtwmUZig*
PERSONAL ITEMS
Nice proportion of educational and
radio experience goes on to the Broad-
casting Control Board with appointment
thereto of Dr. J. R. Darling and Randal
White. Object of the additions (part-time
members) is to speed-up the board’s
licensing of commercial TV stations, and
supervising TV programmes. English
and Oxonian, Darling first set foot in
these parts in 1929; 0.-i.-c., tour of Eng-
lish public-school boys. He returned the
following year as head of Geelong
Grammar, where he still is. The immortal
Dr. Squeers asked his boys to spell
“winder,” and then told them to go out
and clean ’em. Darling, too, puts the
emphasis on practical experience, setting
his lads up in well-equipped carpentry-
shops, machinery-sheds and so forth.
They wanted a new classroom; he told
them to go ahead and build it. He was
awarded 0.8. E. in the 1953 New Year
honors-list.
Randal White is a B.A. of home-town
Dublin ; at 19 was a lieutenant with the
Leinster Regiment in War I —France,
Belgium and Germany; at 30 was
appointed sales-manager in South Aus-
tralia for General Motors; while in Adel-
aide shifted to radio, managed a broad-
casting concern for a bit, and had three
terms as vice-president of the Australian
Federation of Commercial Broadcasting
Stations, He retired a few months back,
with eight years in as g.-m. of Melbourne’s
3AW station.
• •
Here with his wife to study Kimberley
rock-paintings and other aboriginal art,
Dr. Andreas Lommel, deputy-director of
Munich Museum. Not altogether a
stranger to the Kimberleys ; he was there
with Professor Frobinius on a scientific
expedition in 1938. Mrs. Lommel, por-
trait- and landscape-painter, has been
with her husband on other expeditions.
During their 12-months’ walkabout in
Australia she will make watercolor
copies of the rock-paintings, which, with
landscapes, will go to the Munich
Museum. Information garnered by both
will go into a book.
• •
“C.A.”: Back in Melbourne with his
portrait of the Queen, William Dargie,
eight times Archibald Prize winner, and
on his latest job the first Australian
artist to be flown to London to paint
Royalty. J. P. Beveridge, the Melbourne
citizen who commissioned the portrait as
a gift to the nation, never saw it —he died
soon after making his gesture, but his
son was there to receive the painting, and
gave as his opinion that his father would
have been delighted with it. Dargie
has a technique which enables him to lay
down the broad essentials of his study in
a few minutes; he painted the Queen in
three sittings.
• •
Back in 1939 two Sydney men, Stephen
Stack and William Wood, Diggers
familiar through years of Legacy work
with the tragic lot of old soldiers disabled
or broken in health, conceived the idea
of founding a home which would be an
object-lesson to Governments and public
alike in what could be done to make life
worth while for these men. Gathering
a few enthusiastic helpers, they set to
work to raise money and kindle interest
in the scheme. Out of this grew the War
Veterans’ home at Narrabeen, handy to
Sydney, which so impressed Montgomery
on his 1947 visit that he expressed his
intention of seeing that the idea was taken
up in Britain, To the original plan have
been added Linton, a convalescent home
at Yass, and Bare Island, La Perouse.
Stack, who has passed on in Sydney, ran
an importing business before he settled
down full-time to Digger welfare.
Artilleryman of Fourth Div. in War I, he
was connected in War II with the pro-
duction of two fine documentaries—
“ Sons of the Anzacs” and “We of the
A.1.F.”
New Year Honors added 0.8. E. to the
D.S.C. and R.D. already worn by Com-
mander (E.) John Charles Balfour
Anderson, R.A.N.R, In War II he served
in the R.N. aircraft-carrier Furious, and
later was on convoy work in the North
Atlantic and Mediterranean in destroyer
Hesperus. His D.SXX was for keeping
Hesperus afloat after she had been
rammed by a German U-boat. The new
award is for “outstanding zeal and ability,
and devotion to duty.” This included the
founding, two years ago, of the Westra-
lian group of Sea Cadets, of which he
is still senior officer. His job now ashore
is chief-engineer of the Royal Perth
Hospital.
• •
Crossing from India (High Commis-
sioner) to Indonesia (Ambassador), Walter
Crocker —born at Broken Hill; in the
British Colonial Service, 1930-34 ; some
more of international affairs on the
League of Nations’ secretariat, followed
by a wider coverage of the same subject
with six years in the War II British Army,
ending as lieut.-colonel. After the war
he was with U.N., chief of the Africa
section; then was Professor of Inter-
national Relations at the National Uni-
versity in Canberra, and thence to India.
Now 52.
• •
To keep the Service hereabouts on the
ball, the Mother Navy is lending Ray-
mond Gossage to Navy Office for three
years. One of the most senior officers of
the R.N. Scientific Service, Gossage will
advise on the development of new and
improved weapons and equipment, and
be the Naval Board’s representative on
proposed research-projects. Passed
through both the normal Royal Navy
and Joint Services staff-courses, Gossage
has been chief scientific officer attached
to the Home Fleet, and comes to Mel-
bourne from the huge Admiralty gunnery-
establishment at Portland (Eng.).
e •
“Uramao”: Maharaia Winiata, Maori
adult-education officer in Auckland, has
been awarded a Doctorate of Philosophy
by Edinburgh University—the first Maori
to achieve the distinction. He had spent
two years as a Nuffield scholar in Edin-
burgh. His thesis dealt with the chang-
ing role of the leader in Maori society.
KENNETH MITCHELL, big in Bris-
bane business, chairman of the Spastic
Childrens Appeal Committee in Queens-
land since its inception, raised upwards
of £70,000 in the past three years, is
working for more.
David Lord, who has given millions of
Australian money away in prizes, will
cease to be fairy-godmother in April.
A Tattersall’s man in Hobart for 47
years, manager of the business in Victoria
since its migration across Bass Strait, he
will be succeeded by Donald Spotswood,
secretary to the George Adams estate.
Anthropologist Dr. Donald Thomson,
0.8. E., has been granted £lBOO by the
Nuffield Foundation to help his studies
among Northern Territory abos. Before
the late war he led three expeditions to
Cape York Peninsula, where he lived
among the wild natives, sometimes alone
and sometimes with his wife. Then,
wing-commander with the R.A.A.F., he
ran his own lugger between the Japanese
and Australian lines, and was dropped
by plane into occupied jungle-country to
get in touch with the natives. Invalided
out with bad spear-wounds, he got back
to civilisation on a stretcher and with a
collection of snakes which he kept in a
suitcase under his bed. One of his
toughest jobs was to get the snakes
through one hospital after another. He
landed them all alive- at Melbourne
University.
• •
The chair of Physics at Canterbury
University College, New Zealand (made
vacant by the death of Dr. F. C. Chalklin
in the Constellation crash at Singapore
early in the year), will be filled by Dr.
Victor David Hopper, senior lecturer in
physics at Melbourne University. Earlier
lecturing at the Westralian University,
he was with the Birmingham Uni. in
1948-9, working there with Professor
Oliphant on nuclear research. The new
prof, is a Fellow of the Victorian division
of the Institute of Physics, of which he
has been secretary and vice-chairman.
He came to Australia under the Big
Brother Movement.
• •
Gone on in Adelaide, Reginald John
Rudall, lawyer, LL.B. Adelaide Univer-
sity, B.Litt. Oxford, and Old Digger.
In War I with the 50th Battalion, just
before the Armistice he was assistant-
director of A.I.F. Education Service,
London. He was one of the few Rhodes
Scholars to take up the leading of the
country in the way Rhodes intended —dis-
playing those qualities which “would
guide them to esteem the performance of
public duties as their highest aim.” When
he was elected to the South Australian
Assembly in 1933 he was the first Rhodes
man in that State to become a legislative
recruit. He went on to be Minister for
Crown Lands (1940), Minister for Repat-
riation, and at the end —at 69 —was
Attorney-General. Two sons were killed
on active service.
• •
W. S. Johnston has been appointed
commercial-relations officer of the ’Wales.
A specialist in foreign-exchange and
trade-promotion, hd has had wide experi-
ence in London, Fiji and Australian
States. Last year he represented the bank
on the first Australian trade-mission to
Africa.
• •
Appointed to the administrative staff
of the Demoridrille Shire Council (south-
west N.S.W.), L. H. Stuckey, of a family
long connected with local-government in
N. S. Wales. . Recently with Willoughby
(Sydney) Council, he is a son of R.„ D.
Stuckey, town-clerk of Hunter’s Hill
Council and president of the Local Gov-
ernment Clerks’ Association. A brother
is shire-clerk of Imlay Shire, and another
accountant of Kuringai Council.
• •
“Cauboy”: The theatrical Tait and
Tallis families' stand to lose at least
£lOO,OOO by the sale of the Tivoli in
Bourke-street to a new company headed
by David Martin, managing-director of
the Tiv. circuit. For business purposes
the site would be worth half-a-million,
but the Taits want to keep the theatre
going; John Tait (at 81 the patriarch of
the Firm) doesn’t want to see the old
stamping-ground of Harry Rickards given
over to the sale of lingerie and ribbons
and is selling because the new co. intends
,to carry on show-business. The Tiv. was
built in 1901 as the Opera House, on the
ruins of a former opera-house which was
burned down. The new’ showhouse is
expected to be finished in time for the
Olympics.
Hereunder Ulsterman Viscount Brooke-
borough; no trace of brogue in his
Oxford-Sandhurst accent; long, thin,
suave; Prime Minister of Northern
Ireland; descendant of Anglo-Saxon
settlers in Ireland dating back to the 16th
century. The Brooke family, with all its
variants, has supplied Ireland with states-
men, soldiers, sailors and administrators
for three centuries. The visitor entered
politics from the Army, he having been
with the 10th Hussars in War I, A.D.C.
to Lord French, with M.C. (Gallipoli) and
IN FROM IRELAND
Croix de Guerre. He lost two of his three
sons in War 11. After a year in politics
he became head of the Special Constabu-
lary in County Fermanagh, and returned
to politics as Unionist member for Lis-
naskea in the Northern Ireland House of
Commons in 1929. He became the third
Prime Minister of the State in 1943.
Hobbies with shooting, fishing and boost-
ing Irish linen.
• ®
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 75, Eugene Albert Levinson, a
leading Westralian jeweller, who left Ballarat
in 1894 to found his business in Perth. Be-
sides training many jewellers, he was foun-
dation-president, and for many years chairman,
of the Federated Retail Jewellers’ Association,
and member of the State branch of the
Gemmological Association. Rotarian also.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), Captain William
Moody Bell, in War II commandant at Trentham
training-camp, later with the N.Z. Rifle Brigade.
He was appointed Resident Commissioner of
Nuie Island in 1931.
In Sydney, at 76, David Clark Pagan, engineer
to the shire of Waradgery, at Hay (N.S.W.),
for just under 40 years, as well-known down
that way as the Riverina roads he laid. Son of
a surveyor-general of the Gold Coast, he him-
self engineered in India when young, built the
railway between Delhi and Marradabad, and
landed in Australia from the Waratah shortly
before the ship was lost with all. hands between
Durban and Cape Town. His eldest son, Jock,
got his lieutenant-colonelcy in the War II
A.1.F.; another, Peter, is acting in Hollywood.
At Kaitangata, Otago (N.Z.), James Marshall,
councillor of the N.Z. Friesian Breeders’ Asso-
ciation and one of the best-known exhibitors of
the breed. He was widely successful at
Dominion shows, and took off a championship
at a Royal Agricultural Show in Adelaide.
At Yowie Bay (out of Sydney), Wallace G.
Pooley, who knew everything knowable about
the 400-odd building-societies in N-S.W. For 18
years he was secretary of the body which con-
trols the lot of them, and was for almost the
same time secretary of the Building Societies’
Association. Born in New Zealand, he crossed
to Sydney as a lad, served in New Guinea and
overseas with the Ist A.1.F., and also had had
five years with Sutherland Shire Council.
In Melbourne (aboard the Himalaya),
Alexander Knox Anderson, widely experienced
educator in New Zealand and for the past 20
years head of Scots College, Sydney. A specialist
in history, Fellow of the Royal Historical
Society since 1916, he enlarged “Scots” both in
enrolments and prestige. He had been chairman
of the G.P.S. Headmasters’ Association of
N.S.W. and president of the Teachers’ Guild,
and was a crack rifle-shot in his day.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 54, Robert Cecil Silver,
Professor of Modern Languages at Otago Uni-
versity. A native of Glasgow, he went to Paris
to gain experience of Languages, taught at the
St. Louis Lycee, then joined the- teaching-staff
of Glasgow University, southing to Otago in
1945. His wife, whom he met at the Sorbonne,
graduated Doctor of Literature, and is a journal-
ist in Dunedin.


FOLLOWING THE FLAG


ABORIGINAHTIES
OUR launch was anchored off the reef
at Henning Island, in Whitsunday
Passage, waiting for the turn of the tide,
when a big loggerhead turtle slid under
the reef beside us in about Bft. of water
and settled down for a spell. Four hours
later it was still there, and when I gave
it a prod with the boat-hook it made off,
having sufficient breath in reserve to
carry it a couple of hundred yards before
it surfaced. Apparently the turtle can
stay submerged for so long only when it
is undisturbed. If hunted or chivvied its
limit underwater is around four minutes.
The estuarine crocodile has the same
characteristic. —“Carapace.”
* * * *
“Jeol”: Pity the poor captive fowl!
Arrived at the emu enclosure at Adel-
aide’s zoo in time to see one of the big
birds pick up and swallow a colored
handkerchief. A woman watching the
bird said triumphantly: “I generally
bring bits of old rag for the emus, but I
forgot, and so I had to feed them my
hanky!”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: There’s an intensive
search going on in the Australian sheep-
lands for a “mosaic” sheep, which grows
two distinct types of fleece. Only five
to 10 “mosaics” have been found in the
last 30 years in Australia’s sheep-popula-
tion, which now numbers around 127
million. These, freaks are of great value
in research-work, and the animal-genetics
section of Sydney University’s zoology
laboratory wants a number for study
purposes. Lots of graziers have not even
heard of them!
“F.S.”: I’ve always hated these modem
textiles with their self-conscious designs
of kookaburras and koalas done by
white artists, and I’m glad to see that this
may all be changed by a move to open
the Leroy-Alcorso textile-design compe-
tition to amateur and commercial artists
throughout Australasia. This year, by
permission of the Native Affairs branch
at Darwin, aboriginal artists are to be
allowed to compete. Judging by the
beautiful way they decorate their shields
and dilly-bags, the results should be
alluring—provided, of course, the prize
doesn’t go to some cultivated Binghi who
has been instructed in abo. art at a
commercial college. Prizemoney totals
£6OO, with a first-prize of £3OO.
* * * *
“Max”: Of all the pitfalls for the
amateur horticulturist or writer of plant-
notes, the botanical terminology of tree-
families seems to be the deepest. To say
(B. 29/12/’54) that a cypress is not a
true cedar but a conifer is something like
saying that a man is not a human being
but a person; for cypress, cedar, conifer
are very vague names (differing in differ-
ent countries or even different States) for
members of the great family of pinales.
Fir and pine are other terms, and the
family includes also spruce, juniper, yew,
araucaria, and many others. All are
coniferous trees in general. Half an hour
with a good dictionary is illuminating,
using these names as guides ; or will lead
to the inquirer’s becoming hopelessly
bogged. Considering the importance of
plants in our lives, elementafy botany
should be taught in schools. It is a fascin-
ating subject, opening up a world of
interest, and one whose study can be car-
ried on alone in the country to the better-
ment of our gardening and farming.
* Hs * *
“Dicky”: The blue wren isn’t quite the
Don Juan he is often given credit (or
blame?) for. That was probably a family-
party which enjoyed “Quo Vadis’s” hospi-
tality (B. 15/12/’54)., The young male
takes three years to attain the brilliant
dandyism of his father. All the young-
sters take after Mother at first, wearing
the same prim, soft brown, then the boys
sport a darker tail and bill, then the be-
ginnings of waistcoat, then blue cap, back
and cheeks. After every breeding-season
the young males moult back to brown
again, until they are round about three;
then they are saved the bother of these
constant clothes-changes, and at last take
after Father for keeps.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: There are a few loose
threads hanging from “Millicent’s” com-
parison of man’s sight with that of birds
(B, 29/12/’54). It is not the man with
normal sight who can, without artificial
aid, “write the Lord’s Prayer on a trey-
bit.” But it is every hawk than can see
a newt in the grass at a range far beyond
the sight of civilised man; and all
kookaburras can perch on a fence and
see a worm wriggle up out of a hole 20ft.
or more away. The Taj Mahal was less
the result of man’s —one man’s —optical
"I've HAD the new chief-clerk; he keeps an eye on us all day.”
vision than of his mental vision. It was
his mind’s eye that first saw it; his train-
ing and abiltiy that enabled him to draw
the plans—by measurement, not eye. Nor
could the structure have been built by
sight: the line, plumb-bob, square and
trammel are infallible; the eye is far
from that. As for man’s knowledge of
geometry, it is the product of thought;
it is not £ God-given gift. The un-
schooled aborigine has remarkable eye-
sight, but he would not know an isosceles
“ Doesn't it ever run out of petrol , Dave ?”
from a scalene triangle; nor could he be
expected to be able to bisect an angle or
describe an arc. On the other hand, the
greatest authority on geometry I ever
met could not see across the class-room
without his glasses.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: When ant-caps were first
evolved as baffles for termites they were
merely flat pieces of galvanised-iron lin.
bigger all round than the stump, pier or
wall on which they lay. They were com-
pletely effective. The turned-down idea
came later, mainly for appearance ; but,
since it brought the edge of the cap
closer to the pier, the termites’ workings
could , be built out wide enough to allow
the pests to bridge the obstacle, as “R.Q.”
describes (B. 22/12/’54). However, it is
rare for termites to cross a pier-cap;
I’ve seen it only once in 30-odd years of
working amongst buildings in termite-
infested areas. The fact that a pest-
exterminator photographed the pier and
workings for use as publicity-propaganda
indicates the rarity of the occurrence.
“M.”: The heavy beams supporting the
clock-chimes in the belfry of Sydney’s
Town Hall have had to be removed be-
cause of termite damage; but before
debunkers of the “termites-must-make-
contact-with-earth” theory rush in, a
little reminder might be in order: Ter-
mites can live without moisture if they
can keep contact with earth ; if they can
keep contact with moisture they don’t
need earth. The openings in the Sydney
Town Hall belfry allow the rain to blow
in, no matter from which direction the
storm comes.
* * * *
“Byramine”: If W. E. Mulholland (B.
22/12/’54) had crossed Cape York Pen-
insula to the eastern side he would have
found an identical railway-service to that
he describes, operating between Cook-
town and Laura. On train-days the
stationmaster and his assistant become
enginedriver and guard, but, speed being
the essence of the contract here, the
journey out and back, about 150 miles,
is done in the one day. After running
up the valley of the Endeavour River for
about 12 miles the line enters an almost
unbroken wilderness. Here and there
men appear out of the silent bush, collect
a bit of mail or a parcel of supplies, and
disappear again. In some 50 miles I saw
about three head of cattle, one horse and
a few pigs and dogs.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Cats in the
outback (B. 22/12/’54)? At the stud out-
camp on Toorak station (Nelia, N.Q.) 25
years ago Jimmy Shedden, the manager,
had 19, and he milked extra goats to
feed them. And how my mate and I
hated those felines! Until the drought,
when we were domiciled out there killing
flies and hand-feeding stud-sheep, those
little tigers had never been shipmates with
anyone but their master. They meowed
during all meals, leapt on bunks, and any
brick-throwing at night to stop catmos-
pherics brought rowings with Jimmy, who
had been nearly 30 years at the lonely
outpost. Jimmy told us he kept them to
keep away the snakes; and they certainly
knew how to kill longtails. Their method
was to keep ringing around Joe Blake
and leaping on him till they’d worried
him to the point of exhaustion. Then
they’d go in for the kill with their claws.
There was a lot of cracked ground there,
too, and the marvel was the way those
felines manoeuvred the snake to a non-
holey arena.
* * * *
“Villefair”: The ibis isn’t the only
wading-bird that will leave the source of
its usual food-supply to “get it easy”
amongst the grasshoppers (B. 22/12/’54);
the blue crane—heron if we must be
ornithologically correct—also does a good
job on the pests. Both ibis and heron
stalk their titbits with reverent and dig-
nified gait; if ever Walt Disney wanted
a bird to cast in the role of the perfect
dinner-is-served-my-Lord butler he would
find the character ready-made in the Aus-
tralian heron.
THE COLONIST
He came to Van Diemen’s Land in the Baroda
In 90 days with Advice to Immigrants;
Drove his bullock-team along the beach
To a hundred acres of bush and the Primitive
Methodist Church,
To the new and savage island if Hell’s Gates
and Black Charlie’s Sugar Loaf,
Poverty Plain, One Tree Point and Grindstone
Bay,
Deception Range and Trywork Point and Lake
Nameless * **
To the old island of Mount Heemskirk, Mount
Zeehan and Cape Fredrik Hendrik,
Maatsuyker Island and Recherche Bay and
Cape du Nord,
Strzlecki Point, Schouten Island and Cape Raoul.
With a gun on the plough, his coulter and share
crunched through the middens,
The shell middens of a lost people who owned
only dogs.
And he wondered as he guarded his haystacks
from their anger
How they lived in the winds and snow that came
across the Antarctic Ocean.
He saw the frightened* black-men shot among
the celery-top pines
Till only one was left, not knowing where to
run.
“We called the place Cooee Creek because he
cooeed to his tribe that was dead.
He was killed like the rest of them, poor devil.
Old Elijah Douglas pickled his head and sent it
home to Scotland.”
TASMANIA.
L. L. ROSON.
CUT-THROATS
THE cut-throat razor synonymised in-
correctly by “Bo” (B. 22/12/;54) as
the “Bengal” may be obsolescent, but is
by no means obsolete.
Barbers still use these weapons, and
blokes like myself with whiskers of No.
8 wire could hardly do without them.
Recession in sales (if any) is not the fault
of the razor, but entirely the fault of the
strop.
The proper angle of stropping is about
45 degrees, so that the length of strop
used is equal to the width of strop.
Allowing for idiosyncrasies, a strop 2£in.
wide should be no more than sin. long.
In fifty years of shaving I have seen
only one barber whose strop met this con-
dition —a Kling who shaved me in the
Batu Gajah Hospital during the ’flu of
1918. He carried his shop on the palm
of his hand. I assumed the device to be
strictly ersatz, fitting to the financial
status of “Lo, the poor Indian.” After 30
years of travail and about 4000 execrable
shaves it dawned on me that Lo really
had something.
I now use about 4in. of strop, and
over the last few years my shaves have
been the equal of any I ever had at the
hands of a barber. I have a collection of
about a dozen first-class razors, garnered
for the most part from the dustbins of
old cobbers, who were quite unable to
strop them correctly.
If a razor is slightly dull I strop it for
a few strokes on canvas webbing that has
been rubbed-down with jewellers’-rouge,
and the edge is then super-dooper. If I
come across a razor that needs the stone I
don’t sharpen it with the scythe-stroke
but polish it with a trombone-stroke—
the old “from and too’ee” of the Moonta
Band.
The stone is a Scotch Water of Ayr,
and the lubricant is cold tea.
After stropping I test on the
hairs of the forearm, keeping the
edge about |in. above the skin. The
effect must be compared with a known
keen cutter and will need a little ex-
perience.
RAMESES.


JIMMY the Welshman had gone home
to Wales, but within six months he
was back again, working for his old
cocky. “Couldn’t y’ stand the climate?”
asked his employer. “Aw, it wasn’t that
so much,” replied Jimmy. “I was stoppin’
with me sister, an’ she made me clean
me fingernails and wouldn’t let me spit
on the floor. It was that really that made
me homesick.” —“Palaver.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: Touching on Binghi’s ability
to use his lachrymal gland, duct, canal or
sac (B. 29/12/’54), some time after
Buckley, “the Wild White Man,” was
“rescued” by Batman’s party from the
blacks he was out riding with a com-
panion when they came upon three bucks,
five gins and about 12 children, all former
companions of Buckley. At once he dis-
mounted, and “they were all clinging to
him with tears of delight running down
their cheeks,” Weeping for pleasure, cer-
tainly, but that is as much an emotion
as sorrow. It is just that, in sorrow, the
abo. is a stoic, as many white-men are.
* * * *
“Sebak”: I can believe that Michael
O’Connor’s horse shied away from him
when he was clad only in a pair of cash-
mere socks, as told in the story “Shan-
non’s Foolish Ways” (B. 22/12/’54), but
surely the nearly-nude man was never in
danger of being bitten by his own dog!
After all, if a dog got close enough to
bite, he could smell; and no pooch would
rather trust his eyes than his nose. Nor
is the preference confined to canines.
A possum sniffs everything before tasting
it, the tame possum relying even more
on his sense of smell than his wild
brother, because he is abroad by daylight
more often and, being a nocturnal
creature, is uncertain of his sight. A pet
silver-grey I had was customarily very
quiet, but once when I was showing him
to a visitor he went into a blind panic,
trying to burst through the top of the big
cage in his terror. I was completely
flummoxed as to the reason —until I
noticed the dog sniffing at the visitor’s
overalls. The chap was on his way home
from work —at a wool wash. To the pos-
sum the smell was apparently the Un-
known ; and Nature instils into her
creatures that the unknown is to be
feared.
* * * *
“Fair M.”: That Victorian gardener who
went to the circus—next morning—and
got five barrowfuls (B. 22/12/’54) may
have a wonderful garden now, but it
should be far more wonderful in 1955.
Every weed that seeded where the cara-
vans had rested should be represented.
It should be the finest collection of mis-
cellaneous botany in the whole Cabbage
Garden. If he has a scientific mind he’ll
be able to spend many an enjoyable hour
identifying the newcomers to the district
as they appear.
* * * *
“K.McC.”: Bill Reed (now a soldier-
settler on Woodhouse Estate at Dunkeld,
Vic.) and I were droving down the
Darling (N.S.W.), and when we hit Nel-
yambo station the bulb read 132 under
the iron-roofed veranda of the home-
stead. Riding back along a river-bend
of dead rushes and leaves one of us tossed
away a cigarette-butt, and within a few
minutes the bend behind us was a roaring
inferno. There was a fair breeze, but
somehow we eventually got the fire
under control with saddle-cloths on a
kangaroo-pad. But carting up buckets
of water all the rest of the day in that
heat to douse the stumps was a lesson
we never forgot.
* * * *
“Columba”: There is a creek on More-
ton Island (Q.) near the Yellow Patch
(the world’s highest sandhill), and to its
waters, at the place where it is almost
fresh, come sick and injured sea-fish of
all kinds to await recovery. It is the salt-
water cure for “B. A. Ker’s” sick gold-
fish (B. 29/12/’54) working in reverse.
* * * *
“Uramao”: There are plenty of remote
areas in Maoriland where the “sunrise
chorus” of birds (B. 1 /12/’54) is as strong
as ever. A Public Works engineer on the
Haast Pass-road, which will link South
Westland with Otago, said recently that
the dawn chorus of tuis and bellbirds at
Lake Ellery, South Westland, was so loud
that a man’s shout couldn’t be heard
above it. It is the same sort of avian
choir as that which entranced Captain
Cook and Joseph Banks in Queen Char-
lotte Sound and fascinated Russian ex-
“Must be gittin' bit shaky, Tummas—got stull-piece under un."
plorer Belinghausen in 1820, when he
said “it enraptured ,our ear long disused
to such pleasure.” Austrian naturalist
Reischek described the bellbirds which
gathered near his nikau hut as
the tenderest and most wonderful of all
singers in the N.Z. bush....By a tap with
its beak the bird sitting on the highest
branch gave the signal to commence. Then
the chorus started in unison, to be brought
to a pause again by another stroke of the
choirmaster’s beak The harmony is like
notes of little silver bells.
* ,* # *
“Saaedi”: Nominate the voice of the
koel as the farthest-carrying of bird-
calls. The explosive crack of the whip-
bird, the guffaw of the kookaburra, the
whoop of the swamp-pheasant and the
“chu chu” of the lyre-bird may sound
more impressive, but they achieve only
short-range compared with what the big
cuckoo can manage. Our early settlers
could have been aware of the carrying-
capacity of the koel’s voice, for the bush-
man’s “cooee” is an almost exact imita-
tion of its call. The cock-bird is a striking
dark-blue; his lady dresses in a jumble
of mostly dull colors that serve to camou-
flage her perfectly, though why a bird
that refuses to accept family responsi-
bilities needs camouflage is difficult to
say. Perhaps its parasitism is a com-
paratively recent development.
* * * •
“D.C.N.”: The coming Olympic Games
bring to mind Toothy, who thinks he’s
the champion axeman and mattock-
swinger in the west. Listening to wireless
results of the events at Helsinki, he said :
“It’s a wonder they don’t have ringin’ and
grubbin’ at the Olympics.” “Why?”
asked the boss. “Well, they have fencin’,”
said Toothy.
STORM WARNING
Snake weather, she said. The corkscrew sun
Curls into the cracks of earth and draws him
out,
The brown snake, spitted on brightness, to our
bright
And ever-leaping fear.
Bushfire weather, she said. See how the grass,
A rippling hurting flame to the mind, calls down
A spark of the sun to run with the gust from
the north
In this dry year.
Strawberry weather, she said. The fat small
fruits
Of summer, hot and .blight in the leaves, to lure
The mind and feet of us, of the young people,
Where the snake may curl and the wild fires
run in the grass.
Will this heat ever pass?
S.A.
AINSLIE ANDERSON.
WITH REFERENCE TO REFERENCES
nrHERE are those who make a hobby of
A collecting family photos and thus
become able later to give their Sunday-
aftemoon visitors a good laugh. Others
go for crested teaspoons, old china or
new banknotes.
My own urge to collect has centred
on those document's headed “To Whom
"He's had his nose stuck in a book all day.”
It May Concern.” I have quite a noble
collection ; a tribute, I think, to the high
speed of the job-changing which has ever
been a strong family trait.
As a reference-fancier I have had ample
opportunity to observe the ways of the
reference-giver. Usually his reaction to
the announcement that the applicant for
it is leaving his employ is one of such
enormous relief that he gives way to quite
unaccustomed geniality, and gladly pays
tribute to qualities which he was never
able to observe up till then. By so doing
he can taste the savage delight of letting
some other poor unsuspecting cow put
up with what he had to.
One of my prized possessions is the
first reference I ever got.
My employer, a skinny, gaunt man
whose face invariably became more
lugubrious every afternoon as the time
for him to return to his wife came nearer,
repelled me utterly because of a coihplete
absence of a serise of humor.
Once, when I strolled into work at
about quarter-to-10, he looked meaningly
at the clock, then barked:
“I hope we're not getting you up too
early. If you feel you’re too tired from
slinging pen-nibs into the ceiling or read-
ing comics under the vouchers you’d
better come in a bit later. Don’t mind me
—I only pay you! ”
Next day I lobbed in at eleven, and
when he blew his top I reminded him
icily of his remarks of the previous day,
and added, pertinently I think, that if I
were to indulge in such fuzzy-minded
thinking he’d be the first one to go crook.
There were several other incidents
which led up to cool relations between us.
He used to send me out to buy his lunch
—the lousy old sod only had a couple of
fur-pies and a rock-cake —and one day
I didn’t get back till about four-o’clock.
I had just come out of the shop with his
meagre repast when a couple of fire-
engines had tom past, and naturally I
had followed them. I remember it was
a beaut, fire, and I had to wait till the roof
fell in.
The boss seemed more narked because
I had scoffed his lunch than about any-
thing else—perhaps he hard-heartedly
expected me to starve while looking at a
lire —and he made me work back that
night to cut it out.
I had my revenge by screwing his Glad-
stone-bag to the floor, so that when he
bent down to pick it up he sprang back
on. to the handle. One thing led to
another, and I said I was leaving and pro-
posed going to a rival firm, and demanded
a reference.
A look of unholy glee came into his
usually cold eye then, and in the reference
he described me as reliable, conscien-
tious, indefatigable, honest and painstak-
ing. and one in whom any employe*
could repose the utmost confidence. I
often wondered how he got his hat off
that night, because I’d gummed the sweat-
band of his bowler.
My career with the rival firm might
have been long and bright had I not
yielded to an urge to find out what would
happen if I unwound the boss’s swivel-
chair until only the tip of the threaded
stem was barely resting in the slot.
After one of the typists had brushed
him down, and while his blood-pressure
was well on the way to establishing a
new altitude-record, the boss rushed out
into the general-office. I could deduce
by the wild glare he fastened on me that
some phase of my work must have dis-
pleased him.
I’d been getting fed-up with the job,
anyway, as there was no other office-boy
there to chuck wet sponges at, and every-
one else seemed to be mad on work, so
I hopped in first and announced that I
proposed terminating my valuable ser-
vices, and that I would appreciate it if he
would give me a reference.
At that a strange change came over
him.
“You are going, are you, son?” he said
brokenly. “Of course I’ll give you a
reference! , But, you will go, won’t you?
Remember you’ve made a promise.”
It was with no little dignity that I told
him I invariably honored a promise, and
it was with considerable emotion that he
handed me the reference, in which he
became quite lyrical about my sterling
qualities..
The other 18 references I hold vary in
encomiums, but all are agreed on my
worth—all, that is, but one.
I don’t know quite what went wrong
there., Perhaps it was a typist’s error,
for in it the boss described me tersely as
“Of his office-staff, undoubtedly the
pest.” Obviously he had intended a “b”
instead of a “p,” and I thoughtfully
altered it accordingly,
BO.


A BANKING TRADITION
... down through the Changing Years
m
39
•'I
THE
SAME EFFICIENT
FRIENDLY SERVICE
TO CUSTOMERS
BOTH LARGE
AND SMALL
Many of our customers, who founded industries and commercial
enterprises in the early days, began in a small way. Their
banking transactions were often modest, though important to them.
Our policy, down through the years, has been to offer the same
friendly, efficient service to all our customers, whether their banking
needs be large or small. Thus, we have aided many enterprising men
and women to achieve their goal.
To-day, we of this Bank,
owned and staffed by Austra-
lians, are proud to carry on our
traditional service.
Head Office, or the Manager
of our branch nearest to you,
will gladly give particulars of
our service.
f
m
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
By Appointment
to H. M. King *
JFrederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointmenlf
to tf- M. the |
Oueen of the
'Netherlands'
6c
*lB
m
II—BBWI'TW
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark'!
liqueur delight.
for your after
dinner enjoyment
Qilf*'
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Higher Salaries
'T'HIS calendar-year will see
many increases in marginal
rates of pay—that is, in the
premium over and above the
basic wage that is added for skill
or other special ability or
responsibility.
Before any marginal increase
can be criticised it will need to
be studied on its merits. But in
Australia, generally speaking, it
can be accepted that margins for
real skill are kept at a compara-
tively low level. The unfortunate
thing is that where one really
“skilful man is awarded a just and
due increase, perhaps two others
not so justly entitled get it also
because of “grading,” precedent
or some other such fortuitous
circumstance.
In the civil service there will
be many cases where, even after
this year’s marginal increases, the
really skilled man will get no
more than the politically
appointd job-filler or mouth-
piece. That is the part that hurts
in the rather dazzling programme
of salary-increases with which
various Governments have
greeted this new year.
. But for many people marginal
increases are overdue. War-time
wage-pegging ceased about 10
years ago, and for rather longer
than that the average salary-
earner and skilled worker has had
to help carry the burden of the
inflating basic wage and the 40-
hour week. Whilst he may have
received his basic-wage adjust-
ments, he was rarely able to
maintain the purchasing-power
of “margin for skill.” In many
cases a salary-earner has seen a
100 p.c. inflationary increase in
his salary, including basic-wage
increments, where the basic-
wage-earner has had a lift of
200 p.c. Now some attempt is
being made to set right the
anomaly in some cases it
may even go to excess.
But the superannuated and the
earner of interest and dividends
are likely to be worse off than
ever.
The superannuated is usually
on a fixed pension that is not
adjustable like the old-age
pension. _ And the holder of
shares in a company usually finds
that his income has risen little
since 1939. There are cases
where dividends have lifted very
appreciably; but over the entire
list of investments it would be
found that the average owner
of 100 shares is not now getting
in dividend anything like twice
the amount he received in 1939,
whereas his living-costs, like the
basic wage, have trebled in that
time. And the owner of
property for rent may be even
worse off.
For most of the post-war
period our economy has been
one of dog-eat-dog. The lower-
income-earners are those who
have done most of the eating
The other poor dogs have been
pretty well masticated.
Official statistics have recently
shown that Australian factory
production per worker employed
is bigger than it ever was. That
means that we have managed to
get back, in terms of output from
each worker, to where we \spre
before the 40-hour week was
introduced. But in the mean-
time most overseas countries
have made just as much technical
progress as we have and at the
same time have not reduced their
working-hours per week. As a
result they are much more com-
petitive in world trade than we
are, and able also to plough-back
a higher percentage of surplus
production into capital invest-
ment.
The increases in marginal
rates this year are not in any
way warranted by the produc-
tivity of the Australian economy.
They are simply an attempt to
rectify an injustice. But it is
possible that they will promote
greater incentive and efficiency.
If they do not, then their weight
will press down on the rest of the
economy at an inopportune time
—when wheat prices have fallen,
when wool is weaker, and when
Australian manufacturers, but
for the artificial restriction of
imports, would be feeling severe
competition from goods pro-
duced more abundantly and
cheaply in overseas countries.
This year calls for the greatest
co-operation by skilled and
unskilled workers and manage-
ments. Productivity needs to be
increased if the economy is not
to go into another inflationary
spin. To the extent that increased
margins raise costs of produc-
tion there will be just that much
extra economic pressure under
the “frozen” basic wage, and
the political pressure is likely to
be even greater.
A foundation for increased,
more efficient production has
been built up in Australian
industry over the last two or
three years. It needs to “pay-
off” now in no uncertain way if
what the Federal arbitration and
other authorities have granted
skilled and salaried employees in
the way of increases is to be
backed by production and not
merely by inflation and economic
disturbance.
Half-a-year’s Wool
Australia received £159.5
million for 1,761,576 bales of
wool during the six months to
December 31. That compared
with £200.8 million from
1,895,983 bales during the same
half of 1953-54. The drop in
"It’s a forgery !”
the return for the latest period
was £41.3 million, or about a
fifth.
The average price fell from
85.8 d. a pound to 72.6 d. (greasy
by itself from 85.3 d. to 72.1 d.).
Wool in store at Dec. 31 last
totalled 1,425,296 bales—l99,lo3
bales more than in December,
1953.
Omati No. 1
L. Owen writes: The news
that a packer has been lost dur-
ing a formation-test in Omati
No. 1 well in Western Papua is
annoying in so far as it defers
the evaluation of what can only
be a very considerable reservoir
of petroliferous gas. Such a loss,
however, represents a normal
risk in such operations, especially
when they are being carried out
at depths approaching 14,000 ft.
Operations are in progress to
recover the packer stuck in a
4jin. liner, and, in view of the
past record of the technical staff
employed there, there is a very
good chance of success. Further,
the trouble-free drilling of the
near-by Omati No. 2 well down
to 8041 ft. has been made possible
largely by the experience gained
during the sinking of No. 1, and
it is reasonable to assume that
full advantage of this experience
will be taken as No. 2 well
penetrates the column still
separating it from the gas struck
at 13,743 ft. in No. 1 well.
Cement Companies
The benefits of plant-expansion
and higher output have at last
shown up in the dividend-rates of
Kandos Cement and Australian
Cement. Partly because expan-
sion has been financed mostly out
of profits over many years there
has been only a small increase
in the capital of each company—
between them they control Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty.,
which operates plants at Kandos
(N.S.W.) and Fyansford (near
Geelong).
As suggested in B. 5/1 / ’55,
dividends of both the control-
ling companies were lifted last
week —Kandos from 10 p.c. to
p.c., Australian Cement from
8 p.c. to 9 p.c. (with probably
10 p.c. next year). Capital of the
controlling cos. together totals
only £1,696,000, and plant-
capacity of the operating co. is
about a third of the whole Aus-
tralian industry. Almost the
entire Victorian market, except
for imports, is looked after by
the Geelong works, and the
Kandos plant supplies a large
portion of the N.S.W. demand.
There is still a shortage of
cement in Australia, most acute
in Victoria, North Queensland
and W.A. Only Tasmania has
a surplus. The Division of
Industrial Development, Can-
berra, recently reported that “the
cement industry continues to be
one of the most prosperous and
stable in the Commonwealth.
The considerable increase in pro-
duction during the past year will
continue during the next few
Imonths as new plant comes into
operation. Generally, demand
is rising and the outlook for the
industry is favorable.”
The abandonment of price-
control in Victoria should allow
a greater flexibility in trading in
that State, which may be
followed in N. S. Wales. And
the drain of capital expenditure
out of profits should be fust
about over.


THE FINEST AUTOMOBILE HIRE SERVICE
to Britain and the Continent
m
mm
Py '
UNUW»IID
NllUftG £
at an all-in rate
Full 5/6 Seaters
Radio
Mr Conditioned
and MANY other EXTRAS
1955 VAUXHALL CARS
Here’s a luxury self-drive hire-
car at economy rates. Big car
comfort, speed and amenities at
one all-in charge. A week’s
travel wherever, whenever you
like for £2O (Stg.). Whatever
the mileage there are NO
EXTRA CHARGES. 1955
Vauxhall 5/6 seater cars backed
by General Motors service in
Europe, ensures economic,
trouble-free travel. Book
GOEDENWAY for faultless
service throughout your stay.
Write, phone, cable or call
NOW for details.
WE EXCLUSIVELY
USE and RECOMMEND
PETROL
GOLDENWAY
AUTOMOBILE HIRE COMPANY LIMITED
(Aust. Div.) St. John’s Wood Roundabout, London, N.W.B
‘Phone: PRIMROSE 6412. Cables: GOLWAYHIRE, LONDON.
’Grams: GOLWAYHIRE, NORPHONE, LONDON.
m
H M you a
BIG farming
joblocfof
fgs
• Bedrock economy.
• Absolute reliability.
9 Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
• A full range of
"MATCHED - AFTER -
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
in Itself I
NT.27.32
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and
Dealers everywhere.
.h. NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basic Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
DOWN PAYMENTS FROM
£345
with generous Terms of Repayment
Your local Nuffield Dealer will be glad to discuss
a trade-in of your present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., ft UNIT OF; THE BRITISH MOTQB CORPORATION (AUSTRAL|ApPTY^^7
London Oirmail
From Herbert Holman
TJEING in that state of happy
transition which marks the
school holidays, the theatres are
largely given over to family
entertainment of a seasonal
nature. It may be that this
rightful and worthy service has
occasioned a heavy casualty-rate
among straight plays or it may
be that those of 1954 were simply
not good enough to stay a long
course.
At all events, a retrospective
glance at last year’s playbill gives
rather a shock, for it proves that
no play which might be loosely
defined as having literary merit
has managed to live. In fact, not
a single one of the “quality”
plays of early 1954 has survived
the year.
The names of many estab-
lished writers, both British and
American, were noticeably
absent from the playbill. Of the
younger men who have made
names for themselves since the
war, Peter Ustinov, trying to be
funny, and Warren Chetham-
Strode, trying to be serious,
suffered disastrous flops.
Wynyard Browne, who takes
about three years to write a
play, had to be content with a
West End run of six months.
So, too, had Charles Morgan,
John Whiting and Christopher
Fry. Clearly, plays that require
a degree of intellectual co-
operation from the audience are
losing appeal.
Even more disturbing is the
flagrant dearth of new dramatists,
of whom not one has succeeded
in reaching out beyond the Little
Theatres. And even this state-
ment is misleading, since the
Little Theatres now have scant
influence on the West End.
For this unfortunate and
shortsighted concentration upon
a few “safe” authors, alive and
dead, indigenous and foreign,
managements are largely respon-
sible, if not exactly to blame.
They read scores of new plays
every year, many of them worth-
less. But if the odd one shows
promise, excessive though under-
standable caution invariably
prevails upon them to turn it
down.
Roving Spotlight
Neither Agatha Christie’s
name nor her stock-in-trade is
generally linked with the theatre.
She is, notwithstanding, our
most successful playwright, with
three qf her thrillers currently
appearing in the West End ; and
she is the first woman to earn
this distinction.
“Seagulls Over Sorrento”
came off during the summer,
making Hugh Hastings the
second Australian to join the
select few with runs of over 1000
performances (the first was
Oscar Asche).
A notable feature of the year
is the resurgence of the British
“musical.” High production-
costs rule out musical comedies
on the lavish scale. Instead, the
intimate revue seems to have
come to stay. The latest of
these, “Pay the. Piper” (Saville),
marks another development by
striving, not With the fullest
success, to be at once intimate
and gregarious, chiefly by the
addition of spectacle and by
borrowing from the music-hall.
London has seen no Shak-
speare, except at the Old Vic,
which is steadfastly plodding
through the First Folio. Audi-
ences are good, but too many
deliberate effects and furious
tricks of production tend to sully
the essence and destroy the
poetry.
There can be no question that,
from the actor’s point of view,
a thorough classical training is
the only sound basis of his art.
This is proved again and again.
The Bristol Old Vic’s home-
created but certainly not home-
made musical extravaganza,
“Salad Days” (Vaudeville), is a
meritorious example. And a
Christmas show at the Prince’s
is another. Here, appearing in
London for the first time outside
Shakspeare, the Stratford Com-
pany have gone to town with
“Toad of Toad Hall.” The
polysyllabic whimsy may fall a
little flat to our television- and
space-conscious youngsters, but
where there’s action there’s still
excitement. If some of the
players have yet to acquire an
edge to their stylism that
deficiency would soon be
remedied by a longish run. But
the extensive classical experi-
ence of such players as William
Squire and Leo McKern makes
them instantly “right to the
fingertips.” McKern’s “Toad,”
longer and more exhausting
than a brace of Hamlets,
is a remarkable display of
singing and miming, as well as
acting, in the grandest of
manners. Such a performance
in a new and adult play would
rightly be acclaimed as a
sensation. «
Master-craftsman '
Lastly, because it is the best
production of the year, is
“Separate Tables” (St. James’s).
Here Terence Rattigan shows
the perfection of his craft. As
with “Playbill,” he has defied
the rigid convention of the three-
acter and written two short plays
but with the difference that they
both have the one setting—a
Bournemouth guesthouse. The
supporting characters are
unchanged throughout, but the
principals (doubled by Eric
Portman and Margaret Leighton)
are widely contrasted types.
“Table by the Window”
concerns a fallen Labor ex-
Minister who writes political
comment for a Left-wing weekly
and who is a confirmed
drunkard. By a coincidence
(which later turns out to be
nothing of the kind) his late
wife, a sorry butterfly who seeks
power through sexual conquest,
comes down for a short stay.
The two are so oddly dissimilar
a pair as hardly to be credible.
He is a wurking-class intel-
lectual while she is an empty
socialite. Yet this disparity is
never evident in the performance.
“Table Number Seven” is by
far the better drama. In cold
print the theme is not promising.
This is merely the unmasking of
a brisk, chuffy, most-frightfully-
pukka major who plainly is an
impostor. He is soon disclosed
as an ex-ranker who had risen
no higher than lieutenant, and to
no level of heroism beyond an
R.A.S.C. depot in the Orkneys.
Through the persistence of a
sour and mischief-making
woman fellow-guest he is unable
to conceal a far graver
dereliction —that he has just been
boupd over for importuning
women in a cinema. All the
guests turn against him except
the woman’s daughter, a plain
and pitiful creature who has been
stunted by her mother’s frighten-
ing possessiveness. Mr. Rattigan
resolves this situation with a
tenderness that is immensely
moving. It is no small tribute
to his craftsmanship that he not
only grips his audiences, but
moves them to sympathetic tears
at the unhappy “major’s” plight
in society.
The acting uniformly is
superb. Of the virtuosi, Eric
Portman lives his characters
right down to their obscurest
mannerisms, from the ex-
docker’s Yorkshire accent to the
jerky athleticism of the officers’-
mess; Margaret Leighton’s
approach is more inward, but
she seems to convey even her
thoughts. Peter Glenville’s pro-
duction is at one with the
author’s mood: thorough,
precise, inventive and wholly
creative.
Is this mild distress, we may
ask, also the mood of contem-
porary drama? Here are people
who are all unhappy or, at least,
less than happy. Most of them
have virtues, but these are buried
underneath a facade of person-
ality. And our interest in them,
dramatically, depends upon their
becoming more and more tangled
in their errors, inadequacies and
the cruelty of life’s impact.


thin
■v n,J
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
XAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000
% _
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
OUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.” ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
ONE after another the trading banks
are becoming more widely interested
in the field of hire-purchase finance, or
consumer-credit. The reasons, among
other things, are firstly the extension and
preservation of goodwill by further
widening the constantly expanding field
of services now being offered by the
banks, and secondly the attractive returns
to be won from financing h.-p. contracts.
Recent growth of h.-p. credit been,
and still is, a powerful factor in stimulat-
ing trade activity. The general as distinct
from the industrial side of this class
of credit —purchase of motor-cars, furni-
ture, washing-machines, radios, etc. —
falls outside the scope of orthodox bank-
overdraft accommodation to the indi-
vidual. And, under existing conditions,
general banking policy and the liquidity
position of the banks have retarded fur-
ther expansion of overdrafts to cos. en-
gaged in granting h.-p. credit, for which
there is still a very strong demand.
The Commonwealth and the London-
controlled E., S. and A. banks have each
set up separate departments to transact
h.-p. business, mainly of an industrial
character —purchase of plant, etc., by
corporate bodies and primary producers.
The National and now the Adelaide
decided to widen their interests in the
field in another way, namely, purchase
(from bank-shareholders’ own funds) of
a substantial part of the share-capital of
cos. specifically engaged in vending all
classes of h.-p. credit, which is not sub-
ject to the same limiting controls by cen-
tral-bank directives, etc., as are trading-
bank overdrafts. Furthermore, h.-p.
business yields a net return many times
greater than is to be won from ordinary
trading-bank business.
The Bank of Adelaide has just sub-
scribed for 40 p.c. (£200,000) of a £500,000
new share-issue by the recently formed
Finance Corporation of Australia, Ltd.,
an Adelaide concern which is to write
all classes of h.-p. contracts through-
out South Australia. Others in-
terested in the hew co. are Auto-
mobile Finance (an old-established
Melbourne motor h.-p. finance co.), John
Martin and Co. (Adelaide retailers) and
Pope Industries (Adelaide makers of
washing-machines, lawn-mowers, etc.).
Together these other cos. have taken
£200,000 of the new shares, leaving
£lOO,OOO to be subscribed by the public.
To help finance continued expansion
of its own services, etc., the Bank Of
Adelaide, which does about nine-
tenths of its business in South Australia,
issued £500,000 of fresh share-capital
in May, 1954, at a premium of 7>l\
p.c. —it was the first time shareholders had
been asked to assist since 1927. Paid
capital was thus lifted to £1,750,000, and
reserves benefited by £187,500 of share-
premiums, which make the 10 p.c. div.
worth only 7.2 p.c. on the £500,000 of
new capital.
The co.’s banking activities during the
12 months to September 30 last con-
formed broadly to the general pattern. A
marked growth in advances was accom-
panied by a slight contraction in deposits,
with a consequent reduction of free liquid
resources, which, however, were well in
excess of minimum official requirements
when the books closed. After allowing
whatever was considered necessary for
taxation and all foreseeable contingencies,
the cautious board wrote net earnings
£38,885 stronger at £163,859:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946.. 69,585 5 p.c. = 62,500 7,085 1,052,547
1947 . . 79,970 5} „ „ 71,875 8,095 1,060,642
From inner reserves, £250,000 .. 1,310,042
1948 . . 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,269
1949 . . 101,675 '8 „ ~100,000 1,675 1,313,944
1950.. 104,678 8 „ ~100,000 4,678 1,318,622
1951 . . 108,008 8 „ ~100,000 8,008 1,326,630
1952.. 110,344 8 „ ~100,000 10,344 1,336,974
1953.. 124,974 9 „ ~112,500 12,474 1,349,447
Written off premises, etc., £30,000 .. 1,319,447
Share premiums, £187,500 .. •• 1,506,947
1954 .. 163,859 10 p.c. =137,500 26,359 1,533,306
Net returns from Government securities
(in at £3,857,803), Treasury bills
(£2,750,000) and deposits on special
account with the Commonwealth Bank
(£6,668,000) appear to account for the
bulk of the £163,859 of profit, which was
equal to 11.9 px, on average capital as
against 10, 8.8, 8.6, 8.3 and 8.1 p.c. back
to 1949, Another point was added to the
div., making it 10 p.c., which was the
rate paid for the 12 years to 1929. For
the intervening period the average rate
was 5.9 p.c.
The year’s growth in advances was
£1,531,526, and the contraction in free
liquids was £1,387,808 and in deposits,
etc., £436,753:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,750,000
Reserves .. 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,437,500
P. and 1.
balance .. 86,974 69,448 95,806
Deposits, etc. .. 29,446,922 34,850,255 34,413,502
Notes .. 6,489 6,489 6,489
Due other banks 1,035,304 1,650,705 1,070,320
Final divs. .. 50,000 62,500 75,000
£33,125,689 £39,139,397 £38,848,617
Liquids .. 14,237,889 16,299,035 14,911,227
Special
account .. 5,218,000 7,268,000 6,668,000
Due from other
banks . . 1,570,096 1,768,913 1,755,032
Advances . . 11,419,049 13,065,047 14,596,573
Premises .. 567,722 573,663 733,813
Dther assets . . 112,933 164,739 183,972
£33,125,689 £39,139,397 £38,848,617
Of the deposits free liquids represented
43.3 p.c., advances 42.4 p.c. and amounts
frozen on special account with the Com-
monwealth Bank 19.3 p.c. From the
banking point of view the co. is thus well
equipped to expand its business still
further.
At 38s. 6d. (same as a year ago) the £1
shares return a satisfactory 5.2 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 375. 6d.
Hardie Trading, Ltd.
SINCE the public became interested in
this old-established and widespread
merchandising and manufacturing group
in 1945 —it was then owned by the
trustees of Andrew Reid, together with
members of the Reid family and their
friends—the undertaking has expanded
rapidly, by absorption and otherwise, and
shareholders have joined in the prosperity.
Those on the ord. register have had divs.
averaging 11.6 p.c., the rate being steady
at 12i p.c. for the four years to June
30, 1954. Paid capital has grown from
£150,000 to £614,053, shareholders hav-
ing put up £150,060 of 5 p.c. pref. money
at par. and £313,993 of fresh ord. capital,
plus £179,382 of share-premiums, which,
of course, takes some of the gilt off the
gingerbread. And at June 30 last the
£614,053 of capital—lso,o6o prefs. and
463,996 ords. —had the support and
assistance of £737,716 of reserves, subject
to £199,106 of intangibles. Moreover,
there is a wide margin between earnings
and distributions, and, under existing con-
ditions, the outlook is encouraging.
The group consists of parent and eight
subsidiaries —four manufacturing and
four merchandising—whose activities are
spread throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand. The subsidiaries
are:
Spartan Paints Ply. (all States except Tas-
mania), makers of paints, enamels, varnishes,
and specialised automobile finishes, etc.
L. Horcroft Pty. (Melbourne), manufacturers
of dry-cleaning and laundry machinery.
Proud Bros. Pty. (Melbourne and Sydney),
acquired in April, 1954, is an old-established
producer of foundry facings. Australian
Bobbins Pty. (Melbourne), in which a half-
interest is held, is the largest Australian
manufacturer of bobbins for the textile
trade. Hardie Trading Co. Pty. (Sydney),
Hardie Trading Pty. (Brisbane), Hardie
Trading ( N.Z. ), Ltd., and Nason Paints and
Color Pty., in addition to distributing the
products of the manufacturing offshoots,
import a wide range of industrial chemicals
and allied raw materials, dyestuffs, textile
mill and tannery supplies. The Sydney co.
also makes industrial adhesives and
polishing-compounds.
In 1951 turnover took a leap of 96 p.c.,
and net earnings of 127 p.c., following
purchase—on unstated but obviously fav-
orable terms—of the Sydney and Brisbane
distributing cos. and of the other half-
interest in the then-jointly-owned New
Zealand offshoot. Other pleasing fea-
tures are .the way in which net earnings
stood up to the trade and other difficul-
ties of a couple of years ago, and their
resilience since. Although profits got a
jolt in 1953, they remained comfortably
in excess of the 5 p.c. pref. and 12£ p.c.
ord. div. requirements.
Last term all units in the group showed
an “appreciable increase in turnover with-
out a corresponding rise in costs.” After
allowing £50,105 (up £25,579) for depreci-
ation, sending £11,899 (up £4306) to the
staff fund, and setting aside £126,755 (up
£39,411), or over 9s. in the £, for taxa-
tion, declared net earnings advanced by
£51,123, of which £22,190 was on account
of overprovision taxation in 1953:
Hardie Trading, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends —>
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit.* 5 p.c. f- I—Ord 1 —Ord- ——\ serves, serves.f
30, £ £ p.c. £ £ £
1950.. 57,972 6136 10 = 36,812 16,024 308,384
Share premiums, £71,194 .. .. 379,578
Profit sale assets, £3836 .. .. 383,414
From tax reserve, £4213 .. .. 387,627
Unexplained addition, etc., £74,101 . . 461,728
1951.. 6461 12J = 49,944 75,302 537,030
Profit sale assets, £1703 .. . . 538,733
From tax reserve, £10,189 .. .. 548,922
Unexplained reduction, £2119 .. 546,803
1952.. 166 7503 12i = 58,000 63,663 610,466
Profit sale assets, £2123 .. .. 612,589
Unexplained reduction, £2338 .. 610,251
1953.. 517 7503 12i = 57,999 34,015 644,266
Profit sale assets, £6479 .. .. 6575,745
From tax reserve, £22,190 .. . . 672,935
Unexplained addition, etc., £26,043.. 698,978
1954.. 640 7503 12i = 57,999 85,138 784,116
Reserves capitalised, £46,400.. .. 737,716
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests and
contributions to staff fund, f Subject to intangibles,
£199,106 at 30/6/’54.
The £150,640 of profit, which leaves out
of the reckoning an unexplained addition
to reserves of £26,043, covered the pref.
div. and 29.5 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 19, 25.1, 31.4, 14.1 and 13.8 p.c.
back to 1949. And a one-for-ten issue
of bonus-scrip (£46,400) in October, 1954,
will make 12\ p.c. worth 13£ p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood before the gift. Any
further action of this sort, the cautious
chairman says, will of necessity await
similar suitable opportunities.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances, and assets appear to be con-
servatively valued in the books:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital ..- £614,053 £614,053 £614,053
Reserves .. .. 610,466 644,266 784,116
Outside shareholders 51,250 61,250 51,250
Mortgage .. .. 13,783 13,782 13,782
Overdraft . . .. 554,766 213,772 194,294
Sundry creditors . . 415,289 510,809 719,126
Tax provision, etc. 158,310 99,934 128,961
Final div. . . 61,750 61,750 61,750
£2,479,667 £2,209,616 £2,567,332
Freeholds . . .. 295,563 337,038 407,802
Leaseholds .. 14,306 18,646 249
Plant, etc. .. 176,516 175,531 175,399
Shares other cos. 13,000 13,000 13,000
Stock . . .. 1,195,531 870,206 1,057,414
Debtors . . .. 631,627 643,792 708,258
Cash . . .. 3,482 1,983 6,104
Intangibles .. 149,642 149,420 199,106
£2,479,667 £2,209,616 £2,567,332
To carry an extra £187,208 of stocks,
add £64,466 to book-debts and £70,764
to freeholds as well as clip £19,478 off
the overdraft, the amount coming to
sundry creditors was increased by
£208,317. The co. now owns the freehold
of 20 of the 23 separate establishments it
operates in Australia. The more-or-less
liquid surplus, or working capital, was
£37,929 stronger at £666,863.
Turnover has been maintained at a
“satisfactory level” since the close of
accounts. At 455. 6d. (475. 6d. a year
ago) the f.-p. fl ords. return 5.5 p.c. on
a 12i p.c. div. basis, with what look like
satisfactory long-term prospects. The
prefs. at 18s. 3d. yield 5.5 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover (book-value) is £5 12s. lOd.
prefs. and 425. lid. ords.
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
T>IGGEST thing of its kind in the
" southern hemisphere, this closely
integrated group of parent and 30-odd
subsidiary and associated cos. together
operate 41 separate plants, of which 32
are in Australia, five in New Zealand and
four in South Africa. Activities fall into
four main divisions —wool, felts and
carpets and plastics, textiles and footwear
—and each division turns out a wide
range of individual products.
Since the public became interested in
1936 growth of the undertaking has been
very rapid, and, excepting 1952, profitable.
For the 10 years to 1946 the ords. received
a steady 10 p.c., followed by 12} for the
five years to the close of accounts in
1951. Then raw-wool prices collapsed,
and rising costs and other difficulties, in-
cluding the need to write-down inventory
values and reduce stocks, aggravated the
position. Thus, in 1952, combined opera-
tions resulted in a loss of £473,577, and
no ord. div. was paid.
However, the recovery was prompt and
pronounced, thanks to a combination of
fortuitous circumstances and steps taken
by the management to correct weaknesses
in the structure which the change in con-
ditions disclosed. As the 1953 term
advanced wool prices strengthened, and,
with the- help of import-restrictions, etc.,
turnover gathered momentum. Thus the
threat to two of the largest and most
vulnerable of the co.’s assets —stocks and
book-debts —was removed. At the same
time reorganisation of manufacturing
and distributing units, which is still in
progress, improved productivity, with
consequent benefit to costs.
Trading conditions further improved
during the 12 months to June 30 last, and
so did operating costs. Turnover of the
group increased by £5,088,190 (18.5 p.c.),
reaching £32,497,787, and the moderate
fluctuations in raw-wool prices had little
effect upon inventory values or profit-
margins. The leap in the year’s declared
net earnings was £196,640. That was
after allowing £405,350 (up £13,633) for
depreciation and £410,369 (up £358,868)
for taxation:
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.
, Divs. >,
Net Pref. Ke-
June, Profit.* 6& 4 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
1951. .6727851 64,800 12J p.c. = 379,957 3,969,248
From tax reserves, £50,000 .. .. 4,019,248
Unexplained reduction, £2698 .. 4,016,550
Loss.
1952.. 473,577 64,800 Nil 3,478,173
Added intangibles, £3200 .. .. 3,474,973
Unexplained additions, £8064 .. 3,483,037
Debenture sinking fund, £18,145 .. 3,501,182
Profit.
1953. .506,054 64,800 8 p.c. = 303,965 3,638,471
From contingencies, £44,261 .. .. 3,682,732
Tax underprovisioh, £23,629 .. .. 3,659,103
Added capital reserves, £176,773 .. 3,835,876
Added general reserves, £14,036 ..3,849,912
Unexplained additions, £21,617 ..3,871,529
Net addition intangibles, £6027 .. 3,865,502
1954. .702,694 64,800 10 p.Cv - 379,956 4,123,440
* After deducting Outside shareholders’ interests.
t After deducting goodwill, etc., £166,827.
The £702,694 of profit covered the pref.
divs. and 16.7 p.c. on the £3,799,565 of
ord. capital as against 11.6, a loss, and
profits of 20, 18.6, 26.3 and 20 p.c. back
to 1948. So nothing had to be strained
when a couple of points was added to
the div., making it 10 p.c.
Adjustments to various reserve accounts,
etc., which are interlined in the table,
are not of particular significance so far
as trading profits are concerned. The
previous underprovision of £23,629 for
taxation was more than offset by transfer
of £44,261 from the inner provision for
contingencies. Most of the net addition
of £176,773 to capital reserves was due
to internal book-adjustments.
The wool, felt, carpet and plastic sec-
tions appear to have been the biggest


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Position Vacant
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
Applications are invited for the
above executive position for duty
at the Mine Office, King Island,
Tasmania.
Applicants must be fully experi-
enced in office management,
staff supervision and costing.
Must be member of recognised
Accountancy Institute. Mining
experience an advantage. Age
group 35-45 preferred.
Accommodation : Unfurnished
house at nominal rental. Removal
expense allowance and fares by
arrangement.
Salary: A good salary commen-
surate with experience and
qualifications will be paid. Non-
contributory Provident Fund.
Applications: Confidential. Please
give full particulars of past
experience, qualifications, per-
sonal data, when available, etc.,
and address to: —
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
King Island 1 Scheelite (1947)
Ltd., King Island, Tasmania.
TO ANY EXECUTIVE
FROM HIS SECRETARY
I read that advertisement
recently, and I must say I feel
sorry for you! How you
manage to carry on under that
awful pressure, I can’t imagine.
We all worry about you—we
hate to see you looking so
tired and old, because you’re
a nice, kind person, even if you
do get irritable at times. But
it’s really your own fault. Why
don’t you do as the ad. says
and get a Dimafon?
Apart from what a Dimafon
will do for you, think of what
it will do for me. Don’t you
realise how much better I
could handle your correspond-
ence if I could transcribe it
through the day, instead of
popping in and out of your
office whenever you have time
to dictate? You could get it
off your mind at any old time.
I could type it off while you’re
busy doing other things, or
out on business. There’d be
no five o’clock rush, no frantic
last-minute scurry to get the
mail done. Your letters,
reports and what-not would be
done on time—and done
accurately.
Am I boasting? Not a bit!
You see, it’s so easy with a
Dimafon. Every word comes
out clearly. I can take a few
words—or a phrase—or a
sentence —at a time just
whatever I can type comfort-
ably. If there’s anything I
don’t understand, I can go
back over it to make quite
sure. No tricky gadgets to
operate either—just that simple
foot control for start —stop —
reverse.
Believe me, Boss, a Dimafon
would make us both a lot
happier.
Phone Chartres Ltd. for a
demonstration— Mo42s
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phofles: BU 3445, BU 3446, BU 1409.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/
6 months 18/6
9/6
3 months
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin’ or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire
Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 765 Wellington, N.Z.)
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for
contributors to the year’s profit,
and seem likely to remain so
during the current term. In the
textile division the woollen and
worsted units had a “somewhat
difficult year,” and, owing to
strong overseas competition,
local manufacturers have asked
for additional tariff-protection.
The clothing units, which also
experienced “heavy competi-
tion,” are expected to earn
“reasonable profits” during the
current term. In the footwear
division, which had a “fairly
satisfactory year,” the manage-
ment is concentrating on mass-
production methods, and elimin-
ating some of the less profitable
lines. The N.Z. subsidiary, in
which 52.8 p.c. of the £475,000
of ord. capital is held, paid a
steady 8 p.c. from substantially
increased profits. The million-
pound South African associate,
in which a 41.3 p.c. interest is
held, “maintained the recovery
experienced in 1953,” and paid
8 p.c. for the year, which will
benefit the Australian co.’s
accounts for 1955.
There was a marked improve-
me'nt of £786,650 in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£2,797,537):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £5,299,565 £5,299,565
Reserves .. 3,929,013 4,290,267
Outside interests 1,078,034 1,201,888
Debentures .. 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages . . 2,591,730 2,635,657
Overdraft . . 1,961,374 1,635,313
Sundry creditors,
etc 1,128,755 1,298,209
lax provision.. 267,025 426,187
Final divs. . . 335,165 221,178
£17,590,661 £18,008,264
Freeholds . . 3,898,379 3,908,642
Plant .. .. 3,419,868 3,471,665
Shares other cos. 447,057 447,049
Stock .. .. 6,097,890 6,616,696
Debtors .. 3,375,161 3,192,827
Cash .. .. 3,418 1,580
Sinking fund in-
vestment .. 168,145 193,947
lnter-co. balance 10,502 9,031
Intangibles .. 170,241 166,827
£17,590,661 £18,008.264
The growth of £518,806 in stocks
was due to bigger turnover. This
item, equal to 36.7 p.c. of total
assets, appears at the lower of
cost or market-value. To carry
the extra stocks and slash
£326,061 off the overdraft,
debtors’ balances were reduced
by £182,334, and £169,454 was
added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors.
Since the close of accounts
there has been a persistent easing
of raw-wool prices, which thus
far has not been of major
concern, thanks to maintenance
of last term’s better rate of turn-
over and the fact that the finer
wools have suffered more than
the medium-grade and carpet
types which constitute the bulk
of the co.’s purchases.
At 31s. 3d. (295. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 6.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c.
second and 5 p.c. third prefs. at
21s, and 13s, 3d. yield 5.7 p.c.
and 6 p.c. respectively. Net
tangible cover is £46 18s. 3d.
seconds, £7 ss. 9d. thirds and
41s. Bd. ords.
Radium Hill (S. Aust.)
Radium hill, about 290
miles n.-e. of Adelaide and
70 miles from Broken Hill, is
Australia’s major uranium-pro-
ducer. The project is owned and
operated by the South Australian
Government, which has spent a
lot of money over the last three
or four years on very thorough
investigation and preliminary
development of the mineral
deposit, and on installation of an
ore-treatment plant at the mine.
The State Government, acting
through the Federal Govern-
ment, has also entered into an
agreement with the Combined
Development Agency of the
U.S. and U.K. for purchase of
the uranium-oxide produced.
The price to be paid is related
to costs, including allowances
for capital redemption over a
period of seven years.
The ore-bodies at Radium Hill
are very different in character
from the radioactive deposits
thus far located in the Northern
Territory and in the nor’-west of
Queensland. In the lodes at
Radium Hill, which dip at 30deg.
to 70deg. and have an average
width of about 4ft., the uranium
is present in the mineral
davidite, which contains up
to 9 p.c. uranium - oxide
per ton in some parts of
the mine. Other constituents of
the ore are titanium-oxide' iron-
oxide, rare earths and minor
quantities of chromium and
vanadium. The davidite is coated
with a canary-yellow incrustation
near the surface, due to weather-
ing, but has a black shiny appear-
ance below water-level.
The main shaft is equipped to
a depth of 750 ft., and the method
of mining and development is,
in the main, similar to that fol-
lowed by other well-equipped
hard-rock mines in Australia.
Provision has been made to sink
the main shaft to 2000 ft., but
deepest known ore at the
moment is at 1500 ft.
The ore is treated at the mine
by a heavy-media separation-
plant, and water for the
purpose is pumped from
Umberumberka reservoir, 53
miles away. The tailings are
dumped, and the concentrate is
railed to Port Pirie for chemical
extraction of uranium-oxide in
a newly constructed plant.
Continuing its hunt for worth-
while deposits of uranium-
bearing ore, Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.
(Q.), has just taken options over
four leases about 25 miles south
of Duchess. Surface-sampling
has begun, and, if indications
look promising enough, test-
drilling is to follow. The co. has
already examined some 30
uranium prospects in the Mt.
Isa-Cloncurry area without
hitting upon anything of com-
mercial importance. In order
to test continuation of the big
lead-zinc and copper ore-bodies
at Mt. Isa, the co. has also
applied for a mineral lease
extending for about a mile north
of its present lease boundaries.
This area was previously held by
the co. under authority to
prospect, but was relinquished
because the prospective net
result from the combined factors
of average ore-values, metal
prices and costs didn’t offer
sufficient encouragement at the
time to go ahead with the costly
programme of test-drilling and
shaft-sinking, etc., involved.
Owing to the recent strengthen-
ing of metal prices, and the
successful opening-up the copper
ore-body and production of
blister, the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares,
which sold as low as 41s. during
1954, recently fetched 60s. 3d.
Faith in the
Future
In the ceaseless translations of Time, 1954 has
gone into the past. It was a year that brought many
changes, most of them, we hope, for the ultimate
good.
The most profound change, as affecting Aus-
tralia internationally, seems to me to have been
that the world looked increasingly to this country
to provide leadership in her own sphere of influence.
The South-East Asia Treaty Organisation
was set up. Australia had a prominent part in
forming it.
It brought us closer to 625 million neighbours
in South-East Asia whose numbers, it is estimated,
will have grown to 775 million' in the next 15
years. They are people whose goodwill Australia
must win. *
I believe that the friendship of very many of
them can be won, not by an attitude of patronage,
but by proving that Australia is sincere in wanting
to offer something permanent to the cause of
human welfare.
We have started on the way, with the Colombo
Plan, under which Australia is to contribute nearly
£35 million in economic and technical aid spread
over six years.
One of its admirable departments is the
arrangement by which hundreds of young Asians
have come to study in special subjects for their
countries’ development.
Britain and the United States are contributing
generously to the Plan; but for all the £2230
million that the expanded programme envisages, it
is still a comparative gesture to a vast section of
the human race.
Its fruits will be seen in the years beyond
the period of actual aid; and by then, I believe,
Australia will have emerged as a still stronger link
between the great democracies and Asia.
That role is going to be part of our national
future, as much as the land, the industries, the free
way of living we enjoy.
H. Hastings Deening


Woman’s Letters
SYDNEY
The H-line drew a step closer during
the week, when the New York dress-
designers announced that in 1955
fashionably dressed women will look
long and lean, that there will be higher
necklines to go with higher bosoms,
that sleeves will be “skinny” to
point-up the “skinny look,” and that
blouses will be worn outside the skirt, not
tucked in. The last item is the only
comforting one, as the blouse that
wouldn’t stay tucked in has always been
a major worry.
As it was the New York Dress Institute
which made this announcement, and as all
the news from the Continent is that the
H-line is everywhere and being worn even
by children, there seems little hope for
the curvaceous and the well-upholstered.
The “H,” by the way, stands for
“haricot,” or bean ; the “bean-pole line’
is another way of expressing it.
Meanwhile Mr. Myron Ackerman, an
English expert in men’s ready-made
clothing, says that men are to have a “new
look” also, with natural shoulders, easy
chest, tapered back and narrower
trouser-cuffs. Double-breasted suits are
going out, said Mr. Ackerman, and there
will be velvet collars worn in the evening,
contrasting waistcoats, sports-coats in
black with pearl-buttons, pale ties and
the “washed-out look” in colored shirts.
If both Mum and Dad have to catch up
with the new fashions it is clear that the
“washed-out look” will win through in at
least one direction —the bank-balances.
☆ ☆ ☆
An attractive and unusual color-scheme
was chosen by Patricia Burke, of New-
castle, for her marriage to Max McGuigan
on Saturday. The bride’s gown of parch-
ment pure-silk toned with the bridesmaids
dresses of white nylon patterned with
cinnamon roses worn over cinna-
mon slips which matched their sashes
and shoes. All the flowers were white,
and the bride carried a prayer-book with
a trail of gardenias. The bride is the
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. J.
Burke, of Newcastle, the ’groom the only
son of Mr. and Mrs. A. L. McGuigan, of
Gordon. Bridesmaids were Geraldine
Burke and Mrs. V. J. l’Estrange, and the
flower-girl Catherine Burke. After the
marriage at the chapel of the bridegroom s
old school, St. Aloysius’ College, the
parents of the bride welcomed about 100
guests to a reception at Windsor Gardens,
Chatswood.
☆ ☆ ☆
A book to keep you laughing and
quoting, and to remember, is My Mother-
in-law, by Celeste Andrews Seton. In
spite of the perhaps misleading title, it is
a lively picture of an exasperating,
lovable, unusual and surprising per-
sonality.
The mother-in-law is Helen Gould
Shepherd, daughter of millionaire rail-
road-magnate Jay Gould, who has
brought up four orphan children as her
own according to her own very definite
views on what makes a good citizen and
human being.
She has a passion for conformity,
which extended to having all four children
taught the same pieces when they were
learning music and practising the same
exercises, so that the household nearly
goes crazy listening to them. She is the
soul of generosity, and cannot be pre-
vented from giving her fortune away
to “deserving causes,” including “the
crusade against Mormonism.” Once,
arrested for speeding (her chauffeur was
doing 30 m.p.h.), she was very distressed
by the shabby condition of the local
police-station and sent them down some
nice Chinese scrolls and a red Kazak
carpet.
Her hatred of liquor is intense, and
whenever the subject comes up she
quotes: “The drop leads to the glass, the
glass to the bottle, the bottle to the
drunkard’s death remember Uncle
Harry”; no one ever finds out who
Uncle Harry was. She is sweetness incar-
nate, but so much of a despot that if she
were to say, “Gentlemen, the earth is a
parallelogram,” no one would dispute it.
When she sees her son giving his fiancee
a gentle kiss she is gravely concerned.
“I hope and pray,” she says, “that in the
future you will learn to control your-
selves”; and points out how hard it is to
chaperone them all the time.
The surprising thing is that as the
book develops one can understand why
her daughter-in-law came to love her so
much and how the rounded character
presents itself as a work of art, har-
in every point. It’s a book well
woldb read i n g 5 light and amusing, and
wrdten wdb simplicity and understanding,
☆ ☆ ☆
Twq matrons . o f.honor and two flower-
girls attended the bride at the marriage
J f Jennifer Streetj only daughter of Dr.
Mrs _ T R Streetj of Darling Point,
Graham Thorp) only son of Mr . an d
s Q Tho of Neutral Bay. They
Mrs John Allen, Mrs. Bill Gordon,
Vikki James and Jennifer James, and
dresses were ad G f pale-blue silk-
organza WO rn with coronets of tiny
dowerSi The tall and graceful bride wore
a dr£SS of wh it e silk-organza misted with
tude ved jng. The bridegroom was
attended by p eter pi ay f a ir and John
g treet After the ceremony at All Saints’
£hurch, Woollahra, a reception was held
at t h e Royal Sydney Golf Club, Rose Bay.
Diana Meyers, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. WilfredfMeyers, of Wahroonga,
has chosen the Congregational Church,
Killara, for her marriage to Tom Nelson,
of Heidelberg (Vic), on February 4; she
will be attended by Suzanne Pascoe and
Valerie Spier. Tom is the eldest son of the
late Dr. W. T. Nelson and the late Dr. Edna
Nelson, of Roseville (N.S.W). The young
couple will make their home in Melbourne.
Diana’s bridesmaids are arranging pre-
wedding teas in her honor; Mrs. John
Tanner (Lindfield) gave a linen-tea for
her on Saturday, and there will be a
shower-tea at the home of Mrs. E. G.
Hellstrom ( Castlecrag ) today {Wednes-
day). Photo by Falk.
Those who have resented some Ameri-
can claims to have the biggest everything
in the world will not challenge the report
that American women have the largest
feet. They have, according to an
American authority on women’s shoes,
grown by approximately during the
last 30 years, and seem to be getting
bigger. It has been thought by men
there for some time that American
women were getting too big for their
boots.
* ☆ ☆
The Leaving Certificate results have
been dominating conversation in families
with teenage children, and now the dis-
cussion on “What are you going to be?”
flares up vigorously. The announce-
ment during the week, too, of increases
in judges’ salaries up to £6O per week
has made one or two mothers say
thoughtfully “Well, you know, the law
—that might be a good thing to go info! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
It is rather disturbing to hear that the
toast of London, the beautiful Italian
fiancee of Lord Hambeldon (heir to
eight-million pounds), Donna Maria
Carmella Attolico de Adelfia, is 6ft. 2in.
tall. In view of this, what chance has
the local girl got of being the toast of
London?
☆ ☆ ☆
The banner of the Far West has added
a pleasant note to Sydney of late. It is
borne by ranks of lively faced youngsters,
10 to 12 years old, who are attending
the Far West 30th annual camp at Manly,
and who come to town to see the
theatres, the picture-shows and the city
generally. They also have a chance to
inspect an aircraft-carrier and visit
Taronga Park. They all come from
places more than 300 miles from Sydney,
and none had ever seen the sea before.
Of all the remarks they make when first
viewing the ocean the one that remains
most delightful is, “Oh, what a big water-
hole!”
MELBOURNE
Mr. Sam Hordern, Federal president of
the Equestrian Federation of Australia,
and Mrs. Hordern came from Sydney to
attend the dance at Greenknowe, the
Toorak home of Sir Robert and Lady
Knox, guests-of-honor at which were
members of the team that will represent
Australia in the equestrian events of the
1956 Olympic Games.
The Victorian branch of the Federation
arranged the dance, and guests were
received by branch-president Colonel
A. V. Pope and Mrs. Pope.
The ballroom was appropriately decor-
ated with a large hunting-scene, and in
the dining- and drawing-rooms bowls of
lovely flowers had been arranged. Before
coming on to the dance some of the
guests had been to see the Australian
reps.’ horses embarked on the Port
Alma; Gwen Stead will have charge of
them during the voyage and during their
training overseas. Mr. Hordern asked
guests to drink a toast to the horses right
on the hour of their departure.
At the dance Lady Knox wore a beauti-
ful gown of orchid-pink satin brocade
and pinned a large mauve orchid to one
shoulder-strap. The front of Mrs. Hor-
dern’s short frock of pure silk taffeta
was mist-blue, the back portion of the
skirt ink-blue. Ticket-secretaries were
Mrs. W. Rolfe (who wore a bouffant
frock of dove-grey nylon-tulle and lace
over pink taffeta) and Jane Luxton
(in iridescent green organza embellished
with diamente embroidery). Mrs. A. V.
Pope’s black gown featured lace-petal
shoulder-straps, with stole of apricot-
tinted ostrich-feathers.
Mrs. Frank Watts and Mrs. A. E.
Hotchkiss wore short black frocks.
Wanda Shilliday’s bouffant black organza
gown was trimmed with white-lace
daisies. Mrs. David Knox wore white
Chantilly lace, Mrs. David Wood black
chiffons highlighted with a back drapery
of aqua-blue satin. Mrs. Alec Creswick
chose bouffant grey tulle over pink
taffeta, the strapless bodice embroidered
with opalescent sequins. Mrs. Ross Grey
Smith’s slim gown was of black velvet,
Mrs. Nan Maloney’s short frock of brown
shot-taffeta. Mrs. Bridgford, wife of
Lieut.-Gen. W. Bridgford, chose a gown
of powder-blue crepe.
Back home on a brief holiday with her
husband, Sir John Lienhop, Victoria’s
Agent-General in London, Lady Lienhop,
who is tall, slim and brunette, is a most
popular hostess in England. A well-liked
event is the tea-party she gives at the
Savoy for Victorian girls about to be
presented at Court, and at which, she is
able to give the girls advice on Court
etiquette. Lady Lienhop's clothes are
made by Robert Schultz, a young Adel-
aide man who trained with English de-
signer Charles Creed. Photo by John
Warlow.
When she was married at St. John’s,
Toorak, Mary Elizabeth Lacy, of
Balwyn, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
H. M. P. Lacy, of Wallal Downs, via
Port Hedland (W.A.), wore a gown of
white pure-silk French duchesse satin,
the folded collar extending over the
shoulders, and the full-flared skirt
falling into a long train. A rhinestone
tiara held the fingertip veil, and she
carried a small posy of white waterlilies
and frangipani.
Mrs. Peter Crabtree was matron-of-
honor and the bride’s sister, Annabel,
was bridesmaid. They wore ballerina
frocks of pale-blue brocade and tiny caps
of brocade, and carried small bouquets
of waterlilies and delphiniums. The
bridegroom, who is second son of Mr.
and Mrs. W. List, of Charlottenburg,
Germany, had his brother Wolfgang as
best man. Edward Bates was grooms-
man. Reception was at the Savoy Plaza.
☆ ☆ ☆
On February 26 the Royal Melbourne
Hospital Fair will be held in the grounds
of Cranlana, the Toorak home of Mrs.
Sidney Baillieu Myer. The Canterbury
auxiliary of the R.M.H. is offering five-
guineas for the most attractive afternoon-
apron sent in, two-guineas for the best
utility-apron and a guinea for the best
child’s apron. Entries should be sent to
the auxiliary organiser, Mrs. V. B.
Stephens, Auxiliary Officer, Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital, Parkville. Only con-
ditions: aprons must be the work of
the sender, and they shall be donated to
the hospital for sale at the fair.
☆ ☆ *
A family dinner-party at the Hotel
Australia was given by Cr. and Mrs.
Fred Hardy, of Brighton, to celebrate the
birthday of their elder daughter Margot,
who will marry Dr. John Officer on
February 16 at St. Joseph’s Church, East
Malvern.
☆ ☆ ☆
Primrose Buchanan is one of the ticket-
secretaries for the informal night the
Melbourne Grammar boats-and-oars
fund committee will stag© on January
22. Open-air movies, buffet-tea and
dancing will be on the programme, and
the function will be held at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Davidson, Long
Inland, Frankston. For those who wish
to lend support, Primrose’s phone-number
is UY 5000.
☆ ☆
Wanda, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. E.
Shilliday, will marry Bruce Nelson at St.
John’s, Toorak, on February 16. Several
parties have already been given for Bruce
and Wanda, including a barbecue by
Geoffrey and Elizabeth Johnson. Mrs.
R. E. F. Smith will give a luncheon at her
Tullamarine home, and other hostesses
will be Mrs. Patrick Maplestone, who is
to give a pantry-tea, and the bridesmaids,
who will give Wanda a luncheon on
February 13.
☆ ☆ ☆
It came as a surprise to her friends
that Sheila Scottar, well-known fashion-
expert, is also an aeronautical engineer.
She qualified in England, where she
topped all entrants in the advanced course
of metallic materials. Sheila, who was
fashion-adviser for Myer’s and later for
George’s, has been appointed promotion-
director for cotton-fabrics and -fashions
for Australia, New Zealand and Japan
by the U.S. firm of Joseph Bancroft and
Sons. Sheila is off on a six-weeks’ flying
visit to the fashion-houses of U.S., Lon-
don, Paris and Zurich.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, entertained a large
party at luncheon prior to the first race
at Caulfield on Saturday. Mrs. Robinson
wore a white pure-silk frock sprigged
with pink roses and green leaves and a
large picture-hat of jade-green straw
swathed with tulle. Mrs. Kenneth Mc-
Lean, wife of the deputy-chairman, chose
grey crinkled nylon patterned in narrow
white circular stripes and a tiny hat of
white quilted straw massed with white
flowers.
Lady Lienhop’s frock of white French
pique was flower-patterned in royal-blue
and black. Janet Power wore white
silk, patterned in a scenic design in grey,
black and lime, and Margery Newton
lavender-blue shantung with a small
cirrus-yellow hat.
Mrs. G. R. Davis Goff matched her
white silk frock with a panama planter’s-
hat draped with white chiffon. Lady
Robinson’s tailored frock was of beige
linen trimmed with black buttons, her
wide-brimmed hat of black straw. A
jacaranda-blue silk-shantung frock was
the choice of Mrs. Leonard Darling,
whose white straw hat was lined under
the brim with jacaranda-blue straw.
Lady Linton chose an all-white
ensemble. So did Mrs. G. A. Davis, her
frock being of eyelet-embroidered linen.
Mrs. Harry Way’s frock was of grey,
white-patterned silk.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LE-ARNA LESLIE ADELAIDE
KOKORZYCKI late of 13 Murriverie
Road Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE that
HENRYK JAN KOKORZYCKI has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4717 of 1953
on ttie ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-1951 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 18th March 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from ARTHUR R.
PRITCHARD & CO., Solicitors, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO CECIL FLOYD BAILEY formerly of
Grenfell in the State of New South Wqles
and BenaUa in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife JOHANNA BAILEY' has
commenced proceedings against you for
a divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the 15th day of
March 1955 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that if you intend to defend the said
proceedings you must file an answer in
the said office on or before the 25th day
of March 1955.— TH1S ADVERTISEMENT
is inserted by C. M. S. POWER, of 283
Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solicitor,
solicitor for the petitioner.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 TEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Research in Industry
No. 9 of a eerie*
*
**3*3 m&Zkr.
&
•<*>»*
63*5!
Pastures Green
Grassland is one of Britain’s greatest national resources, for grass
is the natural food of cattle and sheep, and upon its abundance
and quality depends the production of more meat and milk.
—in a world seriously short of these things the improvement
and development of grassland is recognised as the foundation of
our agricultural expansion. 1.C.1. was among the first to apply
scientific methods to the many problems connected with growing
grass, raising its nutritional value and ensuring that the most
efficient use is made of it. As long ago as 1928, an 1.C.1. experi-
mental farm was established at Jealott’s Hill in Berkshire where
practical research in grassland management was undertaken.
J.C.l.’s “Nitro-Chalk”, for example, has shown remarkable results
as a grassland fertiliser. Its use not only raises the food value of
grass, but makes it grow more abundantly and for a longer period,
thus extending the grazing season and helping to save imports of
cattle feeding-stuffs. Another 1.C.1. development is the drying of
grass by machines, a method which makes it possible to preserve
its full nutritive value almost indefinitely. I.CJMs still pioneering,
and the new knowledge of grassland problems that it is gaining will
help the British farmer to produce still more from British acres.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
1L.65C.282i
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Davis Cup in Miniature
Invitations,' with their gold
crest, seemed rather formal.
They said:
The Ambassador of the United
States of America and Mrs. Peaslee
request the pleasure of the company
0f....t0 meet Mr. Vic Seixas and
Mr. Tony Trabert and other Davis
Cup tennis players at an Exhibition
Tennis Match at the Embassy on
Monday, 10th January. Two-thirty
to six o’clock.
Canberra’s grapevine said
1500 had been asked, but there
was a little heart-burning here
and there. When the guests
drove up the sweeping driveway
leading to the hilltop Embassy
they found there was no check-
ing qf invitations. There could
have been some gatecrashing.
One newspaper said 800 were
present; a radio-station put the
number at 2000. Correct figure
was probably around a thousand.
The day was perfect, with
bright sun, a wisp or two of
cloud and a cool breeze. There
were, of course, millions of
sticky little flies. At one stage
Seixas appeared to swallow one.
He grimaced in mock horror and
shook his shorts.
There were several hundred
gay, canvas-covered chairs on
the western side of the court,
which is on the edge of the hill,
but most of the guests preferred
the sloping lawn in the shade of
two big gums. The Embassy
staff seemed to have expected
this, because they handed out
cardboard office - folders to
protect frocks and suits from
grass-stains. (At the close of the
day the same folders, a little
crumpled, were left, in typical
Australian fashion, to litter the
lawn.)
The Embassy has magnificent
-views of tree-covered Mt. Ainslie
and Black Mountain, and the
sunlit plain stretching to the
Bungendore hills. From the
lawn near the tennis-court hardly
a house can be seen —but two of
Canberra’s blots are apparent,
the ancient construction-camp
known as Westlake and the
hostel on Capital Hill (where
there may be a new Parliament
House some day).
The guests enjoyed the view,
and also the antics of the kids
from Westlake, who climbed the
wire-netting ©f the court, and
even sneaked in to sit beside the
line - umpires. They were
repulsed by a couple of worried
Embassy secretaries, but returned
more than once.
The audience included most
of the diplomatic missions, many
of the Asians being in picturesque
national dress. Most of the
public service seemed to have
taken a half-holiday. There was
polite applause when the
Peaslees arrived with Lady Slim
and Heather Menzies, followed
by Trabert and Roy Emerson,
the promising Queensland
junior.
The Ambassador, cool in a
cream suit, welcomed the guests.
He said the Embassy had been
described as the most beautiful
in Canberra —with “the worst
tennis-court in Australia.” How-
ever, Canberra enthusiasts had
been working on it, and its earth
surface was now fairly level. He
added that at the end of play
there would be “cups of tea” on
the terrace, an announcement
that caused a doleful sigh from
most of the audience.
Mr. Peaslee also recalled that
at a similar affair last year he’d
asked the players to line-up after-
wards to shake hands with every-
one. He’d been told this was
the worst thing he could have
done, so this time they’d just
mix around later on the terrace.
The play itself was typical
exhibition-tennis in a sylvan set-
ting. There were gasps and
applause at good shots on the
tricky surface. Sometimes a
distant magpie would disturb a
tense silence. There were
occasional planes, and once a
jet from the R.A.A.F. station at
Fairbaim did a spectacular roll
above the Embassy as a reminder
that there are other things in
the world besides sunshine and
tennis.
Trabert, trying to retrieve a
corner smash, fell into the arms
of a woman in a chair, but she
seemed a little pleased. The
standard of play was better when
Seixas played Rosewall, but the
Australian served a lot of
double-faults. The Prime
Minister arrived for the doubles,
“Australia” versus “America,”
after talks in preparation for his
trip to London, on which he was
to start the next day. At the close
of play he was asked to present
the cups which the Ambassador
had provided.
Mr. Peaslee said the Prime
Minister was not only a great
spokesman for the English-
speaking world, but also “a
great sportsman in this sporting
country.”
Mr. Menzies looked very
cheerful. He greeted the four
players as old friends, and
handed out the cups. “As Can-
berra people know,” he said,
“there’s nothing politicians like
better than giving away someone
else’s property.” Speaking “as
one highwayman to other high-
waymen,” he reproached the
Americans for getting away with
the Davis Cup.
As he gave Seixas his cup,
Mr. Menzies said, “As always,
Victor, I am happy to see you,
and I am your humble admirer.”
The crowd laughed, and a couple
of kookaburras down the hill a
bit echoed in rollicking fashion.
Relieved guests found, on
reaching the shady terrace with
an orchestra in full play, that
there was unlimited beer, as well
as tea, cakes and sandwiches.
The politicians, the public
servants, the diplomats, the press-
gallery boys, and the wives and
daughters of all of them, fell to
with alacrity as the shadows
grew longer. The players came
out looking cool and fresh —
and had to give some autographs.
It took a long time for the
crowd to drift away down the
lawn. It was a beautiful and
mild evening and the hospitality
was unstinted.
If the scores are needed for
the record, they suggest that the
United States is still on top.
They read: Trabert (U.S.) beat
Emerson (Australia), 6-1, 8-6;
Seixas beat Rosewall, 6-2, 6-2;
Seixas - Trabert v. Rosewall-
Emerson, 4-6, 6-4.
Perhaps, at the Australian
Embassy in Washington, the
results will be reversed later this
year. Perhaps.
CHARLES MEEKING.
Talkies
“Of Mice and Men”
The screen version of John
Steinbeck’s story of the protec-
tive friendship which develops
in the heart and mind of a lively,
smart young chap for a giant of
a man of limited mental growth,
both laboring on an American
wheatfarm, is notable for some
splendid character-studies and
for the feeling of deep com-
passion which pervades it.
The director, Lewis Milestone,
reaches the peak of his art in the
scene in which the old farmhand,
Candy, is persuaded into having
the old dog he lovfes destroyed,
and in it Roman Bohnen gives
an unforgettable study in dumb
agony.
Burgess Meredith is admirably
cast as the quick-witted George
who patiently steers his big dull
friend around the snags of life,
and another good performance
comes from Bob Steele, as the
vicious, cross-grained son of the
ranch-owner.
Betty Field, as the neglected
wife of the farmer’s son, mixes
a mild wantonness with coarse-
ness, yet succeeds in arousing a
certain sympathy. Lon Chaney’s
big, amiable and slow-spoken
half-wit is admirably sustained.
At Sydney Capitol. '
❖ ♦J*
“Caspian Oil Men”
This Soviet documentary is a
record of the successful sinking
for oil in the Caspian Sea, an
operation similar to that carried
out by Americans in the Gulf
of Mexico for some years.
The photography in color is
good, and the project is shown
step by step and explained with
admirable clarity. A peculiar
feature about Russian oil-men is
that one, from the bosski
up to the laborovitch, never
ceases smiling ; all are obviously
happy just to be working like
mad for the glory of the State.
The happy workers are also
shown relaxing after their
strenuous efforts to stop the oil
and water from mixing. All
gather around, positively beam-
ing, while they are entertained
by a troupe of collectivised
acrobats. Then to their luxurious
cabins, built out on the water,
where they twirl the knobs of
their wireless-sets to select any
programme they like so long as
it comes from behind the
Curtain.
Apart from its scenes of
Russian workmen welding steel
pipes under water and doing
other incidental chores, the film
is remarkable for allowing a
swift glimpse into a hitherto
secret aspect of the Russian
character. When the oil, gushing
for the first time, gives proof of
the success of the venture, does
the burly, iron-faced engineer
give the foreman a hearty slap
on the back,' punch him
delightedly in the slats or give
him a bone-crushing hand-grip?
Not a bit of it—he gives him a
kiss on each cheek!
At Sydney Savoy.
“A Bullet Is Waiting”
Tension is kept at a fair
voltage in this drama, in which
a sheriff and his prisoner, after
a plane-crash, cast-up at a small
isolated Californian sheep-ranch,
where the only occupant is the
ranch-owner’s daughter. Does
the cool, self-possessed, wilful
girl become romantically
interested in the rather righteous
sheriff or the handsome, devil-
may-care prisoner? And is the
prisoner really as black-hearted
as he seems?
Jean Simmons’s performance
is crisply intelligent, and Rory
Calhoun, as the good-baddie,
and Steve McNally, as the good-
goodie, are adequate. Brian
Aherne is the girl’s old Oxonian
father, who returns to straighten-
out the % tangle—apparently a
character dumped in as an after-
thought to justify Jean
Simmons’s so-English accent. At
Sydney Capitol.
*z*
“Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe”
This film in Pathecolor can
best be described as beaut.
The fact that Luis Bunuel
resisted the temptation to add a
Hollywood star to the popula-
tion of Juan Fernandez Island
alone indicates that he is a great
producer.
Bunuel tells the story visually
as simply and directly as Daniel
Defoe did in writing, and
Daniel O’Herlihy acts the name-
part in the same spirit, making
you feel his isolation acutely.
As Man Friday, James Fernan-
dez gives a sensitive perform-
ance. The whole makes an
absorbing adventure-story.
Altbursts
Melbourne Exhibitions
The number of pictures that
came off the production-belt in
Melbourne last year was tremen-
dous, but the figure is likely to
be surpassed this year. Where
they are all to be shown will be
a problem. Tye’s Gallery, one
of the largest in the city, is
shortly to close, and the old-
established Athenaeum, fully
booked to next Christmas, is to
make way for extensions to a
cinema.
Local artists anxious to show
their wares to a discriminating
public might well emulate what’s
done in Paris. It has been esti-
mated that at any one time
there are 60,000 paint-torturers
in that Mecca of the arts, most
of them living in attics on a
sausage ; few can afford to hire
a gallery, so they show their
pictures in little booths on the
famous quais along the Seine
bank, with a striped umbrella to
provide shelter.
The Yarra isn’t a very salu-
brious waterway, and most of
the beauty it once had has been
effectually removed by the
official beautifiers, but there is
a stretch between the Princes-
street bridge and the Swan-
street bridge which could be
made attractive. It would be
difficult to get important per-
sonages to open art shows in
such an unfashionable locality,
but that might be an advantage.
The current season opened
with a double-barrelled show at
the Athenaeum. Mrs. Malvine
Petersons shows sculpture and
Viesturs Petersons paintings.
They are mother and son, New
Australians. Their art is con-
ventional and academic.
F.S.
Stage and Music
“Cauboy”: Australian opera
will have to overcome some
deep-rooted prejudices if it is
ever to become a national insti-
tution. Generally speaking,
Australians have a great respect
for instrumental music and for
solo singers, but they are inclined
to snigger slightly at the men-
tion of grand opera—no doubt
a legacy from half a century
of Gilbert and Sullivan. Gilbert
poured verbal ridicule and Sulli-
van poured musical ridicule on
the traditional Italian opera.
They parodied the stories, the
sentiments, the scenery, the
methods of singing; and Sulli-
van even parodied the music.
Sullivan being himself a fine
musician, he could not help
sometimes making even his
parodies lovely music, and
sometimes he bettered the music
of his victims. But as the result
of their joint operations, opera
is indelibly associated in most
people’s minds with the ludi-
crous, and not without some
reason. Has anybody ever seen
the swan in “Lohengrin” make
a successful passage? Some-
times it has made the distance
by fits and starts, like a jibbing
cart-horse, sometimes it has
stuck half-way, and sometimes it
has had to be pulled ignomini-
ously backwards by a prop.-
man in shirt-sleeves.


The Haunted Typewriter
by John
Fountain
MY name is Bill Newing-
ton. I live in a flat at
King’s Cross with Joan,
my wife. But perhaps I
should switch to the past tense..
Although, a couple of hours
back, what I have just written
would have made excellent
sense.
I read somewhere that the
short-story of today is hard to
find. I’ve found it. I’m tapping
it down, now, with two fingers,
on my Remington portable, my
breadwinner. My typewriter is
only lately mine again, rescued
with interest this afternoon from
Sennacherib, a silver-haired
ogre in a den of pledges down
the road a bit. Old Wolf-on-
the-Fold. Joan says I shouldn’t
call him that —he’s good to his
family, fond of classical music
and what-not. I’ve known him
for years, and I know he has a
heart of ice. I’m a family man
myself.
I’m letting this story develop.
Marika is asleep in the front
bedroom, Eddie is dead. The
clock ticks tremendously, and
presently I will hear the bang
and whine of the ancient lift.
You might call it a story of
tomorrow.
Meet me morning train love
Joan, says the yellow paper
with the time-stamp. I just dis-
covered it. My finger found the
button click and the big,
shabby, distinguished room
sprang to life, like a face caught
in a flashlight, a scream in the
night. Say what you like, a
dead man makes a difference to
a room. Trifles are magnified—
the water-stain on the ceiling
becomes suddenly sinister, the
Indian lovers on the tapestry
sneer. Yet it is a charming
room. Was. The telegram was
the second thing I saw —no, the
third. The Smith and Wesson
was the second —or was it the
feather-duster? Anyway, imme-
diately after I walked into the
hall—why?—and saw the enve-
lope under the door. Funny I
had missed it before.
What will infuriate Joan’s
mother is the fact of Joan’s being
unable to remarry. Joan’s
mother has always believed in
capital punishment—a double
exasperation. They don’t hang
people now in New South Wales.
There is, of course, divorce. On
what grounds? Desertion, per-
haps ; constructive desertion.
Destructive desertion of how-
ever many years a person con-
victed of murder may expect to
serve. So Joan’s mother might
manage it: a managing woman
arranging people’s affairs with
all the zeal and delicacy of a
stud-groom. Mr. Right will woo
my Joan discreetly, wed her with
circumspection. Marriage and
myxomatosis. He’ll take her to
picnic-races, trips to Sydney,
shout her a new dress. Unhappy
past forgotten, like on the films.
Only life isn’t the films. Per-
haps he’ll remind her, some
time, when he’s feeling out-of-
sorts, or neglected, or just small.
She can make people feel small,
innocently.
Perhaps he’ll come home
drunk, a devil of a fellow, and
she won’t be impressed. Nothing
much to getting drunk when you
can afford it—about as exciting
as overeating. To drink a
month’s rent —that’s dissipation.
He won’t know this, and will
feel hurt at her lack of interest.
There’s something else: some-
thing secret, wild, fierce, which,
pushed too far, could become
anarchy. A flame behind the
dark, ironic eye—what will he
make of it, this rich fellow?
Poetry, under the prose of com-
monsense, refusing compromise.
She couldn’t say thank you, sir,
for the pretty dress.
Her mother thinks she’s a
sensible girl. She is, too. She
is also generous, and gay, and
honest. Like most of us, she’s
complex; and only one or two
people ever take the trouble to
really look at us. She has more
strength and more weakness
than her mutton-headed family
can see. She’ll have a miserable
time.
You have to live with a
woman to know her; and then,
very often, you don’t. But for
a woman, perhaps, it is of
supreme importance that the
man with whom she lives—hus-
band or lover —should know
her. Imperfectly, naturally:
more a matter of touch than of
sight, blurred outlines, rough
charts of feeling. But the sense
of being valued, central, unique,
seems necessary. Whether the
man is good or bad is less im-
portant. The other is important.
Then, at least, there is an occa-
sional touching of hands, a
spark of recognition in the night
of the world.
T DIDN’T kill Eddie. But I
anticipate some difficulty
explaining this simple fact to
the police. It won’t be simple,
any more, with questions barked
at me —why?—when?—how?—
who? Even Joan might find it
all a bit hard to believe.
Marika—if anything were
needed to hang me (so to speak)
it would be for Marika to walk
in on a conference of homicide-
experts, fingerprint-men, photo-
graphers, and the detached
blokes who take plaster-casts,
Marika rosy with sleep, Joan’s
wrap pulled half-heartedly
around her. That would be the
stone end of it. They’d suspect
their grandfathers of crimes of
passion after one long look at
Marika.
Not, as it happens, that any-
thing of the sort will be neces-
sary. They’ll make up their
minds, quickly enough, when
they see this flat ...
Meet me It’s good fun
coming into Central in the grey
morning, the raw giant stirring,
ugly as smoke-blackened hoard-
ings, urgent as the hiss of steam.
Sydney. One aspect of the
place, anyway, as the lovely
misted harbor seen from our
bedroom window at the same
hour is another: both welcome,
after a month in the bush, when
this is your home. Like milk-
bottles, and the 311 bus, and
the Armenian grocer at the
corner, and walking up to the
Cross —the real Cross, the hub
of this district—on Saturday
nights, for the sake of the absurd
luxury of reading the Sunday
papers in bed an hour or so
before Sunday. All this, or
something like it, a confetti of
emotions blown in the face with
the soot and the morning breeze.
There’s a buoyancy, too, an
anticipation, a feeling of some-
thing around the corner, for
people like Joan and myself. We
mightn’t always be aware of it,
and we sin against the convic-
tion in our daily lives: but for
both of us, fundamentally, Syd-
ney is the Promised Land. In
the freshness of the morning we
recapture something of the
freshness of that moment when
we first stepped off a country
train, irrevocably, success or
failure in our own hands ; when
adventure lurked behind the big
clock, and was inextricably
mixed up with the man who took
our tickets. In these things we
think and feel alike.
A bit dismal, though, at bay
with luggage, waving away the
trundling porters ; ffien feeling
silly as the tide of travellers
ebbs, marooned with the cyni-
cal cleaners on a desert of plat-
form, dying for a cup of tea.
She’ll realise something is wrong.
She’ll get a taxi. I’ll hear the
cranky lift, her quick step and
the key in the door.
Telegrams, letters, bills . . .
Something else, something
important, something on the tip
of my memory, eluding me. But
what —except murder —is more
important than bills? More
imperative, anyway? They’ve
cut off the telephone. Bills —
gas, electricity, telephone, rent
and others—came floating in, as
they always do, when I was least
able to pay them, all at once.
The one from David Jones I
thought had been paid: and the
Medical Benefits payments were
six weeks in arrears, and made
a hole in the light bill.
And eating out was expensive,
but better than eating alone in
this mourning flat. All the life
went out of it when Joan went
away. So the bills —most of
them —were ignored, but not dis-
couraged. They came back,
thicker than ever, stiffened with
final notices, regretful demands :
a white storm, a snowstorm in
“Do I know ‘Waltzing Matilda? Corblimey , she
Was me first wife!”
my letter-box. That’s why I had
dealings again with Old Wolf-
on-the-Fold. Borrowed sunshine
to melt the snow. To melt
Marika. That’s the real reason,
the typewriter insists, slender
metal fingers striking coldly, tap,
tap, tap.
My typewriter has a mind of
her own (she is, of course,
feminine), and sometimes she
revolts at the rot I force her
to turn out for our daily bread.
The comic-strip dialogue is the
worst, she says. It’s a sort of
rape, she says, this midnight
union of precise, delicate
mechanism and crude words ; or,
at best, prostitution. We could
do better, she taps seductively
in the wan morning, you and I.
Something worthier of dedicated
hours, words to fit the effort,
thoughts like shafts of light. She
probably lies.
But usually she is truthful.
And this, of course, is different,
not commercial at all. Her revolt
is more fundamental. She in-
sists: let’s face it, she advises
coldly, Marika was the real
reason —wasn’t she? Consider
the facts. Yesterday was pay-
day. The bills aren’t paid. But
Marika was taken to a night-
club.
There’s a touch of asperity to
these remarks, the ancient
impatience of Martha for lovely,
useless creatures like Marika;
a very feminine typewriter.
If this is fantasy it is, any-
way, logical and self-contained
fantasy. No more fantastic, and
a lot more logical, than some
occurrences of tonight—last
night. The clock tick-ticks and
the typewriter tap-taps and Mac-
beth hath murdered sleep, and
who’d have thought the young
man had so much blood in him,
poor bloody young man? Hold
it, chum.
I’m tired. This is down to
bedrock. You’ve been there
once or twice before —remem-
ber? Quite. For all that, a
Sepik axe can make a mess of
a mail’s face, and doubtless I’m
soft. Women, and clean shirts,
and one-thing-and-another are
necessary and desirable, but
they soften a man ; and so it
takes a wrench of the imagina-
tion to go back to that other
time, when a dead man for a
companion wasn’t anything out
of the ordinary. Or were they
ever so very ordinary? Wasn’t
it, rather, that you shut your
mind to ghastly things? But
you could shut your mind —
that was important.
It does no harm, sometimes,
to look back. This is like then.
There were occasions, then, too
serious for heroics, too frighten-
ing for fear. Although the pale
fellow was there all the time,
locked up, waiting to spring. But
you held the door. He wasn’t
allowed to gibber in your ear,
grab the wheel. The grand
hierarchy of survival kept every-
thing disciplined, in its place.
The bad bend passed—let the
idiot out, let him rave to the
moon. Better still, get him
drunk.
This is a time for thinking.
Take it steady. Have a smoke.
nrHAT’S better. Logical. The
delusional system of a
paranoic is self-sufficient and
logical, but rests on a blind
spot, a primary error. Am I a
paranoic? I think not. If I
were I would probably have
killed Eddie, and would know 1
had killed, and wouldn’t be
sorry. My faulty premise would
be a belief that it was necessary
to kill him, that he was an enemy
to be feared.
The fact of thinking these
things is not, in itself, insanity.
It is a faltering of the mind, a
tiny tear in the envelope of
commonsense, of everyday
living. But, possibly, everyone
has these thoughts in moments
of stress, although they don’t
admit them; afterwards, they
forget. I feel clear-headed now,
for the moment, and can see
clearly. And Eddie . . . Sitting
here, facing the door, I can’t
see him; by moving my head,
just a little —I can. Eddie isn’t
pretty.
War and peace. A civilian
corpse involves another set of
conventions, a different sort of
responsibility. War is a mass
folly with responsibility shared-
out ; like other public utilities,
everyone accepts any credit that
is going, nobody really takes the
blame. But this is private mad-
ness. I am not mad, but the
situation, the fact of murder, is
raucous with insanity. The
madness of murder fills the
room, the flat; presently it will
leak through the floor and drip
into the room downstairs, where
quiet pipe-smoking Peters, the
electrical engineer, is listening to
the radio, and his wife is knit-
ting.
What nonsense! What bloody
nonsense! Thou’rt mad to say
it. Because, of course, Peters
and his wife are long abed. But
the fact of murder seeps and
creeps, like a serpent, like blood,
and it will overflow into the
street, and lie in pools in the
police-station, and presently the
sane and civilised newspapers
will advertise it to the world in
deep black headlines. This holy
city disapproves of murder.
And even if I could get rid
of the body somehow
mightn’t the blood have seeped
through the floor, somehow, and
be already spreading like queer
rust on Peters’s ceiling? Hardly.
Still, this old building leaks
amazingly—remember mopping
the balcony?—and Eddie had
a terrible amount of blood in
him, for such a pale young man.
But the rug absorbed most of
it. This is roaring nonsense-
nerves. If, for the sake of argu-
ment, one could get rid of
Eddie, what about Marika?
Anyway, how get rid of Eddie?
Even in King’s Cross a corpse
is a fairly noticeable burden.
As for Eddie himself—l don’t
care a damn about Eddie. The
sanctity of human life doesn’t
appeal to me, either, as an abso-
lute argument. After all, there’s
been a war. But this black thing
will touch and destroy my small
world. There’s an argument
that moves everyone. Barricades
against naked force, barricades
against the destroyer, behind


M
f =1
2
m
good/tear
Proof? People have bought multi-millions more Goodyear Tyres
than any other tyre! This means that people find
Goodyears the most economical, the safest and the most trouble-free.
AND NOW—BETTER THAN EVER!
To-day, the “ ply-welded process—a unique Goodyear process
which virtually welds together the plies of rayon in the carcase—
nas enabled a new, tougher tread compound to be used. These
improvements have made Goodyear Tyres longer wearing, safer,
better value than ever. Make the world’s favourite
your favourite, too!
fg
that's why
"More people, the world over, ride on
Goodyear Tyres thaa on any other tyre!"
K9BA
which crouch the tribe, the
family, the pair. There, you have
it, the knot and beginning of all
law, all society. Scratch
ordinary, careless people, shake
’em in the excitement of a riot,
a war, or a murder, and the
ancient institution stands erect,
armed with a club. The tragedy
is, the positions are reversed.
Society is the destroyer, the
hairy beast, and the little man
with a club. A multiplication
of little men armed with an
almighty club ; a juggernaut, a
collective barricade, a common-
wealth of judges. Even if I am
acquitted this affair will stain
our lives. The evening papers
will serve it up hot and strong,
with photographs. Eddie, dead,
is merely an arrangement of
limbs, gaping mouth, bloody
mask. He has ruined a good
rug. But the shadow of society
rises, like a genie, like smoke
from a bottle,, like a mist from
the stagnant pool of the odious
blue rug, and dead Eddie fills
this echoing morgue of a flat.
Alive he was a little man.
I have no barricade that will
serve: only my wits and this
typewriter. Like confronting an
elephant in musth with a stock-
whip. Shoo jumbo, shoo
juggernaut: a lonely feeling.
I saw a man do it once, in a
country town: round-up on a
pony, with a stockwhip, an
elephant after it had killed a
man. But the elephant had
already killed, and had vented
its rage by piling a stack of
sleepers on the victim. They
gave the elephant enough poison
to depopulate a town, and in its
death-agony it drove a tusk
through the floor of a railway-
truck. An imperfect analogy:
analogies, and images, get
mixed. Some frighful images
of death are floating around
this room, ones I had long
forgotten. But one never per-
fectly forgets, and Eddie has
resurrected them, He poisons
everything.
I cling to my typewriter. It
has a new ribbon —black. I
changed the ribbon just before
I delivered the typewriter to the
Assyrian. That was fortunate,
because it is a job I hate, and
often I bang away until the
ribbon wears thin. To have the
frayed ribbon sticking now
would be a final exasperation.
But she runs smoothly tonight,
the characters are clear and
plain, she’s tart but eloquent.
She is a better companion than
Eddie.
I’m not mad. I recognise the
mechanism, the trick of the
subconscious. It may be healthy :
an outlet for the dualism, the
eternal yes-no deep in all of us.
Yes, no? Joke. Me, that is to
say, not the typewriter. She
never jokes. But, knowing all
this, it is amazing how the harm-
less fancy can take hold. Some-
times, and especially when I am
tired, the typewriter is a person:
a feminine person. Why not?
TXA-HA from Eddie. But
Eddie is a person of no
consequence. He’s dead. There
was always a fundamental
coarseness about Eddie, which
would make him the last person
on earth to whom one would
confide anything as intimate as
a fantasy.
In any case, I have confided
this particular one to nobody—
not even Joan. But I really
don’t mind opening my mind
on these matters, now, in the
presence of Eddie. He is, so to
speak, vital to the plot. He’s
the central fact: which is as
queer as life and as sad as the
sea when you stop to think what
Eddie was.
The shock, the vodka, live
Marika and dead Eddie, all
contribute at the moment, no
doubt. But there is no denying
that strange twists are given to
thoughts by this typewriter. I
have no name for her, by the
way. To call her “Betty” or
“Jill” or something of the sort
would be pandering to my
foible, I feel; vulgarising it,
perhaps. She is simply “she”—
the unknowable, the universal
and illimitable feminine. In
certain moods, that is: in others
she is simply a typewriter, a
tool-of-trade. She’s not a magic
typewriter nothing so
ambitious. Merely odd. I
bought her, originally, from Old
Wolf-on-the-Fold, as an un-
redeemed pledge. She hates going
back there. I sometimes wonder
who owned her. No use asking
the Assyrian. He has the virtues
of his trade ; he’s discreet.
Tapping it down, everything
is subtly changed. Motives come
unstuck. The keys flash and
strike, leaving neat black
characters on the virgin paper,
letters, words, sentences, para-
graphs, a sort of life tumbling
and jostling and turning somer-
saults, hobgoblins of the mind.
Colon: semi - colon ; comma,
full stop. One after the other, in
rigid parallels, characters too
neat, absurdly precise ; as unlike
an honest human hand as I am
unlike Eddie. Yet, such is the
printed spell, that after a time
one distrusts the human scrawl.
I grab my pen now and then,
scribble something on a sheet
of paper, cross-out, shape.
nothing I have written looks
authentic until it has been
through the machine. Then, as
the black-and-white words dance
across the paper, they become
real, fixed by the busy keys. My
role seems purely manual.
The reason for taking Marika
to a nightclub, and out again
tonight—last night—was not the
one I had supposed. It was not
to get background, color, for
that ambitious article about New
Australians (lushy, corny in the
right way, topical), but the more
common impulse to adultery:
the more human impulse.
To call myself a writer would
be true only in a wide sense of
the word. Although we —the
lady and I —do an immoderate
amount of writing. We move
on the bastard fringe of litera-
ture, which has its own standards
and its own rewards. An article
such as the one I had in mind
is hard to sell to the magazines
with pretty pictures because that
kind of article is usually done
by staff-men, as a follow-up to
something in the news.
Then, too, there is always
plenty of syndicated stuff avail-
able. A sub.’s pencil can delete
San Francisco and substitute
Sydney very quickly, and this
material is cheap. As the
friendly chap in the bow-tie
said the other day: “I can get
a signed story by Somerset
Maugham for thirty-bob. How
much is a Bill Newington
worth?”
Not much. He was trying to
help me —to warn me against
butting my head against a brick
wall. It wasn’t necessary; I
know the ropes. Apart from a
limited quality - market, there
isn’t much room for stories or
articles by a freelance. So it
isn’t perversion, writing frankly
commercial stuff. What the man
in the bow-tie knocked back was
a reject from the quality-market:
I do such things, now and again,
as a gesture, a form of appease-
ment to old ambitions. So far
I haven’t had much luck. It is
for the good of the soul—our
joint-soul. To see if there is
anything to those tapping
promises in the dawn. Not
often: if a man really pursued
the promises, he wouldn’t eat
very often, or well, and they
could torment him into madness
in a world of bow-ties and news-
angles. Or, perhaps, into some-
thing he might not be ashamed
to sign ...
But eating is important.
Mostly I stick to trash. The
New Australian article was to
have been something in between.
It’s a toss-up which is worse:
the adultery or the adulteration.
It’s a hard life. We pour it
out. Millions of words. Some-
times I think I should give it up,
get a job in a factory. Somehow
I never do.
So it was planned. All that was
eyewash. Perhaps. Although,
doubtless, the professional
motive was there dll the time,
in the heat of everything, a
cold and secret eye. Not that
that is anything to be proud of,
particularly. There is something
repellent about the idea ; a sort
of cold betrayal of the warm
current of life. It’s not that,
exactly; it’s unconscious,
mostly. There is a touch of the
diabolical to most trades, when
you tear the surface away: so
that many men, at some time,
stare wildly into a mirror and
say to themselves: Is it my
mak f me lke
or did I embrace this trade
because I am like this? An
unpleasant moment. My mirror
is the typewriter. My defect is
an occupational warp.
What occupation? What
trade? The typewriter jeers
unbecomingly, rubs it in. Im-
possible to ignore her. Very
well. The one we aspire to, you
(and I.
This isn’t the famous article,
topical, tropical, folksy, bags of
color, just a whiff of sex—
could it, perhaps, be linked with
the Petrov Case? Too late, too
late. Must be topical. January,
1955. Anyway, this isn’t it. This
is a story of today, tap-tap-
tapping itself into existence in
Mrs. Forster’s flat. What the
pretty magazines think of it,
ironically, doesn’t matter. But
it is modern, because I don’t
know how it will end Its tied
to the remorseless ticking of the
clock, the key m the door, and
other peoples reactions to
Eddie. What is it, then? It is,
perhaps, a purging of the mind,
a gettmg-things-straight. Or is
this another excuse As Joan
says, I m a great one for excuses.
It is anyway, a way of ridding
one! *lf of Eddie, lightening, for
a while, the dead weight of
Eddie from the mind. Then,
perhaps, it will be possible to
think, cleanly, clearly. Thinking
is a sort of fighting, and I must
think hard. Eddie is dead —
monumentally dead. As dead
as a battlefield of corpses, a
graveyard of headstones. But
these, at least, left a legend of
honor, a homely tradition. Any
h . onor there was in Eddie is long
since washed away. There was a
s P ark once: bu * ®f late years
there wasn’t much more to Eddie
than what remains - on Mrs.
Forster’s blue rug.
1
A/TRS. FORSTER is the old
IVA party who owns this flat,
a home-unit, she told us: “I
paid too much for it.”
We took it for 12 months,
last January, when Mrs. Forster
went overseas. She looked at
us keenly and said, yes, we
could have it, provided we got
out when she came back. Pay
the rent to her sister—a Mrs.
Black, living in Elizabeth Bay.
She gave us the address. “He’s
a martyr to rheumatoid
arthritis,” she said irrelevantly.
“Poor Ethel. She leads a
dreadful life. Should be well-off,
but isn’t. He couldn’t hang on
to his money. Men like that
should never come to Sydney.”
I liked Mrs. Forster, but I felt
sorry for Mr. Black. She was
such a brisk, confident woman ;
if her sister was anything like
her, she would have no patience
with a husband who lost his
money. Although, no doubt,
she would do her duty. Mrs.
Forster picked up my thoughts.
“I don’t mind a man not having
money,” she said crisply. “But
to have it, and lose it, that’s
ridiculous. Fancy anyone
finishing like that —well, of
course they own the house —but
that’s about all —after the start
* (Continued on next page).


Rib
BE
Good
Mixer
WITH g
CHATEAU
BRANDY
TANUNDA
Brandy Crusta (For the Cocktail Hour )
Moisten rim of glass with lemon juice and dip in
castor sugar; line inside of glass with peel of
fresh lemon thinly cut in spiral fashion. Place
tablespoon of fine cracked ice in mixing glass, add:
1 teaspoon Maraschino
3 teaspoons Curacao (white or orange)
A dash of Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy
Stir well and pour into the prepared glass (4 ozs.)
and add \ slice orange.
V
sdf
L-o-n-g Brandy (Serve in 6-7 oz. glass)
1 or 2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy,
cubes of ice, 1 oz. lime or lemon
cordial; fill with soda-water or
water —or 1 or 2 ozs. Chateau
Tanunda Brandy, cubes of ice;
fill with Dry Ginger Ale.
sd
“Good brandy ds a healthy drink
CKATEAUTANUiDA
The Brandy of Distinction
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY. AGENTS
* Write for free Brochure with selected recipes by famous Bartender.
WJTFAU TAHUHD
BRANDY
lie had, when Billabarooka was
cut up?”
She smiled, inviting in-
credulity. I was incredulous,
aided by Joan. Where on earth
was Billabarooka?
Thus, almost casually, Mrs.
Forster left us in charge of her
treasures: Buddhas and brooms
and Eastern carpets, and mouse-
traps, heavy-crusted silver and
jugs from Woolworths, Streetons
and Gruners and an exquisite
Percy Lindsay, and huge, gilt-
framed paintings by forgotten
R.A.’s. Dickens and Thackeray
and Scott and Trollope and
George Eliot, cheek-by-jowl
with Agatha Christie and Peter
Cheyney.
And photographs —row after
framed row of them, wedding
groups, babies, young women,
and young men in a variety of
uniforms: A.1.F., R.A.N.,
R.A.A.F., and the old Australian
Flying Corps. The War I
Digger in puttees, solemn before
a decorative background, the
close-up of the young squadron-
leader grinning like a film-star.
I know he’s a squadron-
leader, because there he is again,
over the fireplace talking to
another young man with a
commander’s rings. There’s a
family cast to most of the faces—
a dark alertness. A martial
family. Most of them live in
the front part of the flat, among
the assegais and boomerangs,
and the bows and clubs and
stone-axes from New Guinea.
The New Guinea collection is in
the majority.
An astonishing mixture. This
magnificent cedar writing-desk,
for instance, and the chair which
doesn’t really match it —the
desk is massive, a desk for a
Churchill to lean on, dictating
his memoirs, the chair is
fragile. High-backed, distinc-
tive, with an autocratic, feminine
charm, a w<?b of wood lovingly
spun by some old patient
craftsman. But beside these
some of the tourist pieces from
Ceylon, and Japan, and Egypt,
look a bit odd.
No deposit. No contract. It’s
nice to be trusted. One doesn’t
expect it, in this part of the
world. The rent is a bit more
than we can afford, really, but it
is not high for a place this size.
All of which makes this mess, if
possible, worse. A murder sen-
sation is a nice way of repay-
ing trust and fair-dealing.
The rug, too—Mrs. Forster is a
great one for rugs, and cushions,
and little tables. Absurdly, I
worry about the rug. Perhaps
I could make arrangements with
the caretaker or someone to have
it cleaned after I am arrested.
Joan, I suppose, will go home.
I wouldn’t want her worried
about that sort of gruesome
tidying-up, anyway. But what
about the police? Won’t they
take anything relevant? Exhibit
B. Exhibit Ais the stone-axe.
I found it in the bath.
Joan and I warmed to the
flat as soon as we saw it, knew
we must have it, if only for 12
months. It’s not everyone’s idea
of a perfect flat. It isn’t at all
modern, and there are all sorts
of modern inconveniences. But
we had room to move, and
after the way we had been living
we loved that, and there was
something about the place . . .
This room—the blue room we
call it was our favorite.
Now . . . Ugh.
Lots of people—people like
Joan’s mother and people from
the suburbs call anywhere
between Darlinghurst fire-
station and Garden Island
King’s Cross. So when people
ask me where I live I say “King’s
Cross” automatically. But this
place is really Pott’s Point, a
quiet little tree-lined street,,
rather like Macleay-street before
they finished the Burma-road.
Now, of course, the traffic
sweeps through Macleay - street
at peak hours, to and from the
city, making the place just
another thoroughfare. But this
little street preserves its dignity.
At night, after a certain hour,
the street fills mysteriously with
cars, jammed echelons, down
both sides and in the middle;
every now and again the owners
are booked.
The prim tenement-house over
the way, with its virtuous brass
knocker and ostentatious gas-
meter and swept look, houses
a baccarat school, we think.
But this, of course, does not
explain the nightly congregation
of cars,, although it contributes
to the number. The radiant
blonde and the raven-haired
beauty who promenade every
night may well be what Joan
suspects. But this is a street
that minds its own business, and
even a naughty Helen of Troy,
doubled, could hardly attract all
the parked cars! They are
merely a symptom of the
teeming life of the area, over-
flowing into this quiet back-
water, no great distance from
the brazen heart of The Cross.
Despite Neon - signs, the
Splendide on the corner, spec-
tacular cliffs of masonry
shining in the sun, lights
blazing in the sky at night, des-
pite everything, the prevailing
mood is of yesterday; attuned
to the trees, and this golden
ruin, the long, dim, tiled corridor
and the lift with the “No
Tradesmen” sign. A touch of
autumnal sadness in the evening,
a touch of lyricism in the
“Did you notice what Was on that sign on the bridge , Charlie?”
flaring pot-plants, the odd,
surprising gardens, But, after
all, perhaps, it is the contrast
which we like, Joan and I.
I MUST bend my mind to what
happened. There was, first,
the nightclub. The party was at
Eddie’s place, at Killara; his
father’s place. But Eddie’s
parents were in Victoria. Eddie’s
mother is a nice, motherly soul
who can see no evil in Eddie,
Eddie’s father is a gambler of
some sort, or is interested in
pubs, or bdth.
Anyway, he has money, lots
of it, and I sometimes think he
has an uneasy feeling that the
way he has made money has, in
some way, contributed to the
making, or unmaking, of Eddie.
Not, exactly, a moral condemna-
tion of his own way of living.
But a troubled feeling that the
sight of big sums of money as
a child, the free-and-easy way
in which rolls of notes were
emptied on tables, counted,
flashed around, bred»something
slack in Eddie.
This is a mere impression,
hard to pin-point. A word
dropped some time, a tone of
voice, an anxious, guilty expres-
sion on the older man’s face,
when he was watching Eddie.
All these things seem, somehow,
Out of character. Eddie’s father
is tough, outspoken, choleric;
and, at bottom, honest. Not at
all the type of man to suffer a
son like Eddie in silence. Yet
he does.
Seeing them together, one can
appreciate the worth of the old
' man, the solid rock of character
which, according to his lights,
remained uneroded. Not ac-
cording to everyone’s lights, of
course, not, for example, by
Mrs. Forster’s standards of con-
duct. But, compared with Eddie,
what a triumph! He has kept
business and his private life
relatively separate. And now he
feels, poor puzzled old fellow,
that the waters in which he
fished so industriously have
washed away the character of
his son. But, against that,
Eddie’s brothers and sisters have
fulfilled all the old people’s
ambitions. Blooming, respect-
able matrons, solid professional
men and men of business. A
large family, with only one no-
hoper; not, perhaps, after all,
a bad average.
why Eddie is what he is, and
has been, I don’t know. Any
more than I know why I am
as I am, sitting here with the
grey morning brushing against
the window, seeping into the
room: what a mess it’s in! Not
just Eddie, but dirty glasses,
brimming ash-trays, bottles. A
sad time to investigate the
mystery of character. But
suppose—just suppose—boiling
it all out of my system does
lead somewhere, gives some
answer? That’s the idea, isn’t
it?
But first a cup of tea 111
leave this and put the kettle on
I’ve reached the stage where I
can’t think, where I come to a
sort of road-block—Eddie—at
which I get stuck, bog down.
Time is running short, but I
must think. I’ll make myself a
pot of tea.
The kitchen was in a horrid
mess, too. I hadn’t realised how
everything had deteriorated.
Normally, with Joan coming
back, I’d be cleaning-up, caught
in a last-minute panic. I even
began washing-up, before I
remembered. What’s the use?
But the tea was good. Another
cup? I’ve had three already; a
feverish thirst.
The fourth cup was cold. So
quickly the time goes. I had a
look at the ash-trays, all around
me, all full. There’s a circle of
cigarette-ash around me.
Not much time now, the
morning flowering, the little
boats at the bay emerging from
dark and grey shadows, light
sparkling, scattered, on water
and roofs, and the leaves of
trees ; as much as I saw when I
brought in the tea, eyes turned
away from Eddie. From now
the morning gallops ; the golden
chariot galloping across the sky,
golden spears splintering win-
dows, shattering shadows. The
terrible and beautiful morning.
NOW, the facts. Marika and
Eddie and I came into the
flat some time in the early morn-
ing. The back door was locked
from the inside —no one could
get in. No one could get in the
front door without a key, or,
for that matter, into the build-
ing without a key. The door
downstairs is locked about 10
every night.
Marika went to bed. Eddie
and I sat drinking, and Eddie
wanted to continue his absurd
revolver game. I told him to
stop, he refused, one word led
to another, we wrestled. Eddie
is much smaller than I am, but
wiry. Finally we fell on the
floor with a terrific thump—
what did the Peterses think be-
low?—Eddie underneath. I fell
with my full weight on him, and
tried to hurt him. He lay still,
and scared me for a moment;
then I decided he was only
pretending to be knocked-out;
a childish joke.
I’m satisfied he was alive
when I left him. Perhaps he
was shaken up a bit; perhaps,
lying there, the drink made him
drowsy and he just went off to
sleep. I pottered round for a
minute, keeping an eye on him,
but he didn’t stir. Still, he was
alive. I could see him breath-
ing. Then I went to bed; with
Marika. That will sound odd
—“What sort of a party was it,
anyway?”—l can imagine the
questions But, actually, I
simply collapsed on the bed in
my clothes,
Marika, I noticed out o a
dazed eye had disrobed , less
from wantonness, I imagine
than because it was her haPit
to sleep in the nude and be-
cause she was particular about
the state of herclothes. Her
un derdot hes we e neitly fo d d
on the dressing-table her t oc
was on a coat-hanger. nan
thoughtfully placed Joans new
satin dressing-gown, the one she
never wears, on a chair beside
the bed, handy. She moaned
and. buried her fair head under
the sheets at the light.
Still odd, they will say; very
odd. So you and Marika
retired, leaving the deceased—
the lady’s husband —in the next
room.
Odd, all right. I’d forgotten
about Marika and Eddie having
been married. I only knew, as
a matter of fact, last night,
when they made some joke
about it. They had half-
forgotten themselves. So Eddie
was the “bad Australian”
Marika had married when she
first came here, the one I had
heard about.
I sometimes wonder how bad
Eddie was, really. It was hard
to read anything behind those
wide blue eyes. Bad enough,
anyway, for Marika to leave
him. By “bad” she didn’t mean
just drunkenness, or wife-beat-
ing, or gambling. Marika, for
all her glamor, has tolerant ideas
of what might be expected from
husbands ; rather conservative,
old-fashioned ideas. By bad
Marika meant something
criminal.
What annoyed Marika, par-
ticularly, was the fact that after
first-hand experience of some of
the worst men in Europe, she
should marry a bad Australian.
Marika’s experience has been
unhappy, and most of it was
beyond her control. She was
caught up in the flood of war,
as a girl of 12, and dumped at
ebb-tide in a D.P. camp with
memories which could have sent
another girl mad. But she is
young, and healthy, and either
coarse - fibred or amazingly
brave; she’s of peasant stock,
very strong physically, and, per-
haps, beautiful. She has, any-
way, a magnetism, a triumphant
and primitive appeal, which any
man in her neighborhood feels
immediately. She is a magnifi-
cent young animal, with a
gaiety and a touch of melan-
choly which might intrigue a
man for a lifetime ; or it might
not.
Sexual jealousy from Eddie
would have been ridiculous. He
was attractive enough to women


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .., 2/-
Yearly L ._._ 22/6
THE BOSS KNOWS
, MM | m i r
LOOK AT OUR FLEET -
ALL
k
mm
INTERNATIONALS
THE AUSTRALIAN-MADE
INTERNATIONAL LINE INCLUDES
AR-110 Utility, 12-cwt. capacity, 115-in. w.b.
AR-110 Chassis and Cab, 18-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b.
AR-110 Chassis and Cab, 19-cwt. cap., 127-in. w.b.
AR-112 Utility, 15-cwt. capacity, 115-in. w.b.
AR-112 Chassis• and Cab, 21-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b.
AR-112 Chassis and Cab, 23-cwt. cap., 127-in. w.b.
AR-130 Chassis and Cab, 35-cwt. cap., 134-in. w.b.
AR-131 Chassis and Cab, 35-cwt. cap., 134-in. w.b.
AR-160 Chassis and Cab, 3-4 ton cap., 153-in. w.b.
AR-160 Chassis and Cab, 3-4 ton cap., 172-in. w.b.
AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5 ton cap., 154-in. w.b.
AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5 ton cap., 172-in. w.b.
AR-162 Chassis and Cab, 5-6 ton cap., 154-in. w.b.
AR-162 Chassis and Cab, 5-6 ton cap., 172-in. w.b.
“We changed to International two years ago. We’d had a
mixed fleet until then—just trying them out. Figures proved
there was only one in it—lnternational. With a show like
ours, when men handle all types of loads in city traffic and
on long country trips, every truck must be ready for any job,
any time. Internationals are built to take all the rough
knocks! The big thing the boss liked about Internationals is
the range of Australian-made trucks. This means a con-
tinuous supply of both trucks and parts. So we all agreed,
International is the best truck investment today!”
There’s an INTERNATIONAL for every job I
4
There’s also a line of heavy-duty imported
International models. Call, phone or
write your International Branch
or dealer about the right
truck for your job.
Note: Chassis and cab capa-
cities include body weights.
Model AR-130
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. {lncorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works: Dandenong and Geelong.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
... THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
—good-looking in his thin-
faced, anonymous way—and he
liked women, quite simply, as
he liked beer and food. But
there was a basic coldness, a
lack, which made him incapable
of any deep emotion. Between
Marika and Eddie, of late years,
there had grown up a sort of
wary understanding, a business-
like give-and-take. They were
useful to one another, in some
unspecified way, I understand.
They hadn’t been divorced,
mainly, I suppose, because
neither had bothered. But they
were married. How explain all
this to a policeman?
It’s a mess. Then the childish
scuffle with Eddie —will I admit
that? —will be dignified into a
fight. The pistol . . . Every-
thing seems a shade too insane
to explain.
YX/HAT woke me was a noise
like an aeroplane. I
thought an aeroplane was diving
into the room. Then a steady
bumping. I ran into the kitchen
and found the works of the
refrigerator had come loose —a
bracket had snapped—and the
active engine was thrashing
against the floor, making a
tremendous row.
I switched off the current and,
coming back, switched on the
light in the lounge-room, to dis-
cover Eddie dead, his face
smashed, the Smith and Wesson
on the rug beside the feather-
duster. The light had been on
when I went to bed. I found
the weapon soaking in the bath.
The question is: Who would
believe me?
Another question: What to
do?
And again: Who did it?
Eddie was always fiddling with
firearms. It was a mad night,
all round. There was a Russian
at Eddie’s party, a tall, good-
looking young fellow with a
sunny blue eye and a military
moustache. An Australian,
really: his parents were White
Russians who had settled here
after the 1917 Revolution. The
boy had been educated in Syd-
ney, and he had served in the
Australian Army. He was so
obviously Australian that his
name seemed ridiculous, some
sort of schoolboy joke.
He was too young for World
War 11, but had served in the
Army somewhere —possibly in
Japan. He was very military-
minded. But he spoke Russian,
and I thought he and Marika
would get on well together.
They didn’t. A few words, and
a sudden coldness blew up.
Yet they were much alike,
and, as we drank more, the
resemblance increased. We
were drinking vodka. Eddie
liked vodka. Most of us drank
it broken-down, with cordial;
Eddie and Marika and the young
Australian-Russian drank it
Russian-fashion, neat. First
they were gay ; then sad. Eddie,
if anything, was more melan-
choly and Slavonic than the
others.
They talked about life, and
death, and morality, and the
eternal sadness of things:
Eddie, perhaps, was a shade
more brilliant than the others—
he was more literary. Eddie, at
one time, had been a writer of
sorts. He was a man of parts.
I met him first, I remember,
just after the war, when I had
a little money to spend. He
was always very well dressed,
always to be seen in bars and
nightclubs, and he had a mild,
pleasant manner.
He was the man at a party
who suddenly pulls his chair up
and begins talking in a low,
earnest voice, the soldier on a
troopship who provokes a riot
from the depths of his
anonymity. He had served as a
soldier, and later as an airman,
creditably; something which.
surprised everyone who knew
him later. As a matter of fact,
he saw a good deal of action in
both services. But he had a
spirit of cold anarchy, the more
dangerous for his mild appear-
ance. Later he disintegrated
morally.
When I first knew him he
still had his writing—some good
critics had said he was brilliant
—and his war service was fresh
in people’s minds. Taken all
round, he was a pleasant com-
panion.
y\AY is brightening, and he is
U still there, and I am still
here, staring at the typewriter.
The sort of situation which
would have amused Eddie. They
talked and talked: life and
death. Straight out of a
Russian novel. It was fascinat-
ing to witness. A triangular
conversation, Eddie the link be-
tween the other two, who were
still a little huffy with each
other. Then, someone else said
something about Russian
roulette, winking.
Mad Russians. Eddie egged
him on. The young fellow men-
tioned a more exciting game.
Cuckoo. The lights are put
out, the players tiptoe around
a room, revolvers in hand. One
cries “cuckoo” and ducks. The
other fires at the sound. He
mustn’t try to anticipate the
duck —that’s unsporting.
They played their game,
Eddie and the young fellow,
upstairs in a darkened room. At
least, I imagine they did. After
the first shots the party broke
up. I found myself in a car
with Marika Eddie’s car.
Eddie joined us, pale, breathing
hard, his blue eyes shining.
“Where’s Paul?” we asked him.
Eddie grinned. Marika began
to cry, quietly, then wiped her
face with a crumpled handker-
chief and sat upright, her wide
mouth set sternly, staring ahead.
But as we drove off I thought I
saw Paul’s tall figure getting
into another car. I hope so.
We drove to Bondi, of all
places, and Eddie went to sleep
in the car while Marika and I
wandered up and down the
beach. Then we came here. I
feel I have the answer under
my hand. And there’s the lift.
npHEY have gone now, all of
them. The police, Mrs.
Forster, Marika. Eddie has
been removed. It’s about 11
o’clock, and Joan is in the next
room, packing. Joan came in
later, when they were all here.
Marika wearing her dressing-
gown was the final straw, I
think.
It was perfectly simple. The
feather-duster should have told
me. Mrs. Forster had come
home. She’s like that. She
said twelve months, and meant
it. She probably thought we
had found other accommoda-
tion. She let herself in and
poked around in the kitchen.
Coming back, she noticed the
Sepik axe, which was usually in
the front room, on the tray-
mobile.
She picked it up, and with it
the duster. Went into the big
room and switched on the light.
Eddie, thinking it was me, poked
his pistol at her. Said “Stick ’em
up!” or something of the sort.
She is a forthright lady. She
hit him with the axe. She tried
to ring the police, but the tele-
phone was cut off. She caught
a taxi to her sister’s place, had
a cup of tea and rang from
there. She and the police
arrived together.
It’s all over, and I should
feel relieved. I feel half-dead.
TQERHAPS if I asked Joan to
stay she might. But the
whole business is so tangled
and painful I can’t. Not at the
moment. And perhaps it would
be no use. As she said, some
things are inexcusable. How an
admission of private wrong-
doing came out of all the con-
fusion I’m not quite sure. But
Joan was present when Marika
and I were answering all the
questions. Adultery is a nasty,
court-reporter sort of word. Too
harsh a name for that wild
mating by the edge of the sea.
Marika, dressed, spruce and
imperturbable, had the last
word. I was still sitting like an
idiot at this desk, fingering the
typewriter. She came over and
touched it: “Where did you
get Eddie’s typewriter?” she
demanded. N
“Eddie’s typewriter?”
“But yes. Certainly. Look.”
She pointed to something
scratched on the black surface,
a mark I had noticed, and idly
wondered about. “See. I wrote
that. In cyrillic characters. I
gave him this typewriter.”
I peered. She was probably
right. She could hardly be mis-
taken. There was no reason
why she should lie . . .
Eddie’s typewriter.
“Well ...” I hesitated. “Do
you want to take it? You’re
next-of-kin. I suppose . . .”
“Poof! ” A white glove tossed
up, a bate shoulder shrugged.
“Keep it.”
PLACE OF THE TUBE-WORMS
Where the cathedral-pipes of the tube-worms on the rocks,
Bare at the low spring-tide, I gather a fancy of churches
Old and lichen-encrusted. In lonely searches
Of these Sunday-placest, where the tide mocks
Sabbath-cycles of worship, I come in my search,
Inwards, as outwardly, it seems, looking for crustaceans,
Molluscs, brown sea-weeds; and, finding them, what each
means.
It is this asking for living’s reason, makes this seem
church:
And, not unlikely, the mosaic of the tube-worms’ casts
Surmounted by the barnacles. Still at a lower level,
The brown gloom of the sea-weeds hints of the devil
Devising graves in these catacombs of the tide, as
some fiend blasts,
Comes at me with a crash of columns and light;
Comber from the unknown, with Samson’s might.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


TWO FINE CARS WITH
style, performance
and proud heritage
—-
w «
mm
VELOX SALOON
Brilliant 6 cyl. 23.44 h.p.
O.H.V. “ over-square ”
engine; luxurious 5-6
passenger roominess;
ample luggage capacity;
easy jacking system.
List price £9Boplus Tax.
The Vauxhall tradition of over 50 years
engineering excellence reveals itself in the
beauty of styling, flashing performance and
remarkable economy and value of today’s
Vauxhalls.
Their popularity can be measured by the
many testimonial letters received from
delighted Vauxhall owners . . . the very
high resale prices Vauxhall models com-
mand . . . and the eager demand for these
two fine models.
Your Vauxhall dealer will be glad to
demonstrate the fine qualities of Vauxhall
to you and discuss delivery requirements.
smzmm
WYVERN SALOON
Economical 4 cyl. 15.63
h.p. O.H.V. “over-
square” engine, comfort-
able 5-6 passenger room-
iness, truly the “happy
medium ” family car.
List price £ 92oplus Tax.
gfe Cngltef) as Cnglanb
Ask about the G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase Arrangements.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
V3I/33.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Between
Ourselves
f
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
KFFP mom SAFE!
SANDERS!
tf^FILES
Correspondence, lo *ol C-e ».
statements, etc., filed In the
"Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of. reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
v;s
'WFB
Price* and far-
ther iBform»tlo»
IpOD *ppll«»llOO
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pn. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. LM.
ADELAIDE .. Pardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.J
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Married couple, small child, want
furnished flat or cottage, anywhere
Sydney. Cannot afford fancy rentals.
—5980.
To buy copy of Capt. Stormfield’s
Visit to Heaven, by Mark Twain, and
David Harum, by E. N. Westcott.
5981.
To buy Regal Zonophone recording
of “Sand in My Shoes,” sung by
“Chick” Henderson. —5975.
To buy Rogue’s Paradise. —5976.
To buy The Collected Verse of
George Essex Evans. —5977.
To buy Australian Barkers and
Biters, by Robert Kaleski. —5978.
To buy copy of The Adventures of
Chunda Loo, by Ernest O’Ferrall
(“Kodak”), illustrated by Lionel Lind-
say, published by Blyth and Platt,
Sydney.—s 979.
Information Sought
What significance did Freud attach
to “slips of the tongue” ? Revealing
a closely guarded secret, wish or
guilt ?
All those things. The closely
guarded secret, the wish and guilti-
ness, in Freud’s terms, are deep in
the unconscious. There is r*- conflict
between the individual’s beliefs and
feelings and in the crisis of speech it
finds expression in the distorting of
a word or the substitution of one
word for another, or in mishearing.
He says, “In some forms of speech-
blunder we may assume that the dis-
turbing factor is the result of striking
against obscene words and meanings.”
See Freud’s Psychopathology of Every-
day Life (Penguins).
* * * *
What was E. J. Banfield’s occupa-
tion in Townsville before he went to
Dunk Island?
E. J. Banfield ( Confessions of a
Beachcomber ) went to Townsville in
1882, becoming a sub-editor on the
“Townsville Bulletin,” remaining on
the staff till 1897; then, suffering a
nervous breakdown through overwork,
he obtained a lease on Dunk Island,
and lived there with his wife for more
than 25 years. He died on June 2,
1923.
* * * *
Difference between a motion and a
resolution ? Authority ?
The Shorter Oxford English Dic-
tionary defines “resolution” as “a
formal decision, determination or ex-
pression of opinion on the part of a
deliberative body or other meeting; a
proposal of this nature submitted to
an assembly or meeting.” It defines
“motion” as “a proposition formally
made in a deliberative assembly.”
Webster’s says a “resolution” is “a
statement or verdict—now, specifically,
a formal expression of the opinion
or will of an official body or public
assembly, adopted by vote”; it defines
a “motion” as “a formal proposal
made in a deliberative assembly.” A
‘‘resolution” would therefore be a
“motion” that has been carried; but,
as can be seen from the Oxford defi-
nition, the two terms are more or less
interchangeable. Everyman’s Encyclo-
paedia also defines “resolution” as
either the “formal decision” of a
legislative or corporate body or of a
meeting or of the “formal proposi-
tion” brought before them.
* * * *
(1) From whom did Max Schmeling
win the world’s heavyweight boxing
championship ? When and where was
it fought, and what were the weights ?
(2) Was Griffo ever beaten in Aus-
tralia by a Perth aboriginal named Joe
Pluto ? (3) What were the attendances
and “gates” at the Jack Dempsey v.
Georges Carpentier and Dempsey v.
Tunney contests ?
(1) From Jack Sharkey (foul, round
4) at New York City on June 12,
1930. The New York Boxing Com-
mission dethroned Schmeling on Janu-
ary 7, 1931, for refusing to fight
Sharkey again, but the pair eventually
did fight a second time (in New York
City on June 21, 1931) Sharkey out-
pointed Schmeling over 15 rounds.
Weights were Schmeling 13st. 131 b.,
and Sharkey 13st. 31b. (2) No de-
cision was ever given against Griffo
in Australia, although Pluto is be-
lieved by some to have beaten him at
least once in their five contests (over 8,
6, 23, 13, and 70 rounds respectively),
all of which were declared draws. (3)
An official crowd of 79,222 (who paid
$1,789,238) saw Jack Dempsey defeat
Georges Carpentier at Jersey City on
July 2, 1921. Dempsey and Gene
Tunney drew 120,757 (“gate”
$1,895,733) in Philadelphia on Sep-
tember 23, 1926, and 104,943 (“gate”
$2,658,660) to their second clash in
Chicago (Sept. 22, 1927).
Brief Answers
W.G.W.: Write to the Director
Australian National Antarctic Re-
search Expedition, Dept. External
Territories, Canberra, A.C.T
M.T.L.: Handy Hints for the Farm,
published by The Bulletin, is now
out of print C.K.: “Australian
Highway” is the official organ of the
W.E.A. (Workers’ Educational Associ-
ation) of Australia; it appears
monthly.. . .J.H.: (1) Wife wouldn’t
need to prepare a separate return.
In the case of a married couple claim-
ing an age allowance, if their com-
bined income is not more than £750 no
tax is payable. (2) One’s debts and
obligations can’t be avoided by the
ruse you suggest. Such a conveyance
of property will not escape legal enact-
ment. The circumstances would be
fully investigated by the court, and
taken into consideration when it was
making its award. The man’s wife
woulcf not suffer were she a com-
pletely innocent party J.K.M.: At
Dec. 30, 1953, Australia had a popu-
lation of 8,917,763, an increase of
169,944 during that twelvemonth (the
figures exclude full-blood aborigines).
Populations of the various States
were: N.S.W., 3,472,294; Vic.,
2,405,296; Queensland, 1,270,381;
S.A., 765,520; W.A., 633,531; Tas.,
322,812; N.T., 16,946; A.C.T.,
30,983 W.E.: By an agreement
early in 1953 between the Common-
wealth Government and Vestey’s, Ltd.,
the company surrendered 14,000
square miles of its Territory holdings
but was given 50-year leases over
nearly 17,000 square miles of its
other Territory properties. Cattle ex-
perts believe the agreement will con-
siderably boost N.T. cattle turnover
within five years MM.: Point
Charles Lighthouse (N.T.), 15 miles
westerly from Darwin, was erected in
1893 S.F.: Waldemar Kaempffert,
science-editor of “New York Times,”
suggested recently that a point
would be reached with the hydro-
gen-bomb where there would be
no increase in destructive power by
increasing the size. The reason he
gave for there being a limit to de-
structiveness is similar to that of a
body falling from a height—“the
speed of the body increases rapidly,
but finally a point is reached where
air-resistance is so high that there is
no longer an increase in speed. In
the case of the hydrogen-bomb it is
dissipation of energy upward that
limits what is called a blowout.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.N.: Elves and fairies come not
near C.T.F.N.: So she’s a
“glorious mystic sprite,” is she?
J. 8.: Thought twice about your
pleasantly sentimental bjt of Parra-
matta. .. .C.H.: “Let Me Dream” is
prosy D.K.: “Corner Post” the
nearest, though the style’s jerky and
the end, with the kneeling flowers, an
example of the “pathetic fallacy”
W.J.L.: It hardly exists as verse, but
the keen observation suggests you
could write interesting prose W.R.:
“Desert Flower” is born to blush un-
seen K.J.W.: If you’re very young
there may be hope for you G.C.:
“Rain” needs a stronger ending; and
what about a rhyme or two? J.S.:
Woes of washing-up might suit a
women’s paper... .Peter the Rhymer:
It seems too late to wish you a
Merry Christmas in return for “Merry
Christmas”; but perhaps we could
wish you many happy returns of the
manuscript... .8.C.: The first two
stanzas of “Oodnadatta” have possi-
bilities ; but, seeing you’ve started it as
a poem about the stockman, stick to
that theme; and keep it short
J.R.: Well, it’s your first attempt, so
here’s a little of “The Convict’s Tale”:
Into the convicts’ cemetery
The homeward travelled came,
He heard the clink of dragging chain
But continued onward unafraid
With death all about him on parade
For fear he had not any.
His home lay in the bush ahead
Mid the gumtrees and the wattle,
But he first must cross, this place of the
dead
For his evening meal and bottle.
A spectre white bathed in starlight
Stands before him on the path, .
This spectre grim with shackled limb
Gazed on him with great wr|th.
[The spectre speaks ]
“Fear not! No wrong to me have ye
done,
Or to this place you dare not come,
But a tale to you I have to tell,
Listen, and mark ye well!
“In old Ireland I was reared
And for the theft of a loaf o’ bread
To this island tomb I came
Bound by shackle and by chain.
“The great Blue Mountains were as yet
uncrossed,
And convicts ! We the legion of the lost
Were set to build a mountain road
With the o’erseer’s whip to act as a goad!
“ ’Cross the mountain range we push
Reclaiming land from the bush,
Slaughtering the gumtree and the wattle
With the forward surge of battle.
“The whipping-post and the hanging-tree
Were common sights for us to see,
Each mile won saw another begun,
Each day, another man hung!
“Many a modem home is built on the
spot
Where a convict’s bones were left to rot,
And at many and many a front door
Sleeps an ancient transgressor of the law!’’
A.J.W.: First stanza excellent.
Then you get over-compressed in both
style and meaning... .M.U.: Mere de-
scription of the weather, even when
it’s “Rain on Lamington,” isn’t
enough... .T.G.: What evidence can
you produce that trees really “embrace
like lovers”? E. 8.: Humorous
poems long-winded. But we’d be glad
to see others F.J.P.: There’s a
glimmer in all three J.S.: Afraid
we have no vacancy for “Someone’s
Teenage Daughter” J.G.: The
rhyme of “tools” and “jewels”!
Have a heart! A.McD.C.: No
Pan-pipes W.M.D.: Your clouds
that change at will “As to greater
or lesser admixtures they mill” look
more like a pudding... .D.G.E.:
Rain-poem very watery... .N.E.S.:
We’ll wait for Aldington’s biography.
... .B.L.K. :
Softly over still nights
Mincing steps of goblins fall.
Take them away quickly, or we’ll
mince them K.M.R.: A touch of
song in “My Love, Hear Me”
8.P.: Can’t be done... .H. 8.: Poem
on 10-o’clock closing should never
have opened.


Visit to a Jet-fighter Base
R.A.A.F. Williamtown
By JACK LUSBY
THE vapor-trails make lazy
swathes in the sky, high
above Williamtown, north
of Newcastle (N.S.W.). On
the big airfield R.A.A.F. teams
go about their work almost
unconscious of the vicious
scream of jets. •
Seventy - seven Squadron’s
Meteors, back from a cracker-
jack job of work in Korea,
Vampires of 2 Operational
Training Unit, and Aussie-built
Sabres screech across the sky.
Occasionally there’s a dull thump
as someone knocks on the door
of the sound-barrier.
R.A.A.F. Williamtown, as
Norman King remarked in his
flashback article “Flight: Full
Circle” (B. 24/11/’54), is an
important place these days. It
is also, for a person like myself,
a fascinating one. I went up
there, to kink my neck peering
at the sky, and to hear the music
of the jets. They even gave me
a ride in one.
The Royal Navy and the U.S.
Army Air Force are represented
at Williamtown, but it’s an all-
Australian show. And it’s the
only station in Australia where
officers of the three Services
undergo dovetailed training, and
synchronise principles in all
matters relevant to the air-
support of armies.
C.O. is 42-year-old Group-
Captain R. H. Davis, 0.8. E. He
was one of the 10-Squadron
pilots, who went to England just
before War II broke, to bring
the Sunder]ands back. They
and the Sunderlands stayed, and
were very useful to Coastal
Command, and bad for Jerry
submarines.
Davis’s job is to co-ordinate
and direct the work of the
following:
School of LandfAir Warfare,
under which comes the Air
Support Wing (air-support of
armies), Air Portability Wing
(shifting war-equipment by air),
Paratroop Training Wing, and
an Airborne Platoon for para-
troop demonstrations.
Fighter Operational Training
Unit, which, apart from teaching
pilots to fight, is giving the new
Sabres operational trials.
Base Squadron, which provides
the essential facilities for all
units and handles aircraft-
control.
Also present, very much so,
is 5 Airfield Construction
Squadron.
Under the School of Land /Air
Warfare are different courses of
study for officers grouped
according to rank, and nobody
seems to have been forgotten —
commodores, brigadiers, air-
commodores and ranks above toe
the line for the annual senior-
officers’ study period.
These courses cover just about
everything in Air-Army rela-
tions ; including special opera-
tions and clandestine operations.
The W.R.A.A.F.S., too, are at
Williamtown in considerable
force: looking as nice and as
efficient as the excellent lasses of
War 11. In fact, the whole
station is efficiency and purpose.
All round, a pretty big show.
At Williamtown, too, some
interesting work is being done
in aviation medicine, one of the
newest of the medical specialities.
Aviation Medicine is a subject
which seems‘to demand separate
treatment. But, in passing, I
might remark that flying combat-
planes, whether the enemy is in
the same sky or not, exerts a
certain strain on the human
mechanism.
It was the experience of a good
many fighter-pilots in War II
that flying at a home-station, in
certain circumstances, could be
more trying than actual combat.
Now with jets, all sorts of side-
effects have to be watched by
the medical blokes, assessed and
filed for future reference.
Williamtown is a good place to
do it.
Some of the young pilots I
met showed signs of strain. Very
competent young men, cool, calm
and collected. Speaking purely
as a layman, I’d say that collect-
ing the calm costs them plenty,
at times. But it would be wrong
to feel sorry for them. They’re
not sorry for themselves—far
from it! The life has its com-
pensations.
The jet in which I was allowed
to fly was a two-seat Vampire
trainer; it gets along as fast as
a single-seater. My guide and
VAPOR-TRAILS
philosopher was an English
visitor, Flight-Lieutenant Price.
Flight-Lieutenant Price has had
900 hours on jets. He is a pale
young man with a light touch.
I sat beside him and, after
take-off, “had a go” to compare
the jet “feel” with that of War II
fighters. It’s , easier to fly than
the touchy Spitfire ; because of
the greater speed the controls are
more “gluey.” For ordinary
getting-about purposes the
Vampire is a ladies’ aeroplane.
Quite unnecessary to touch the
rudder-pedals < — the machine
handles perfectly on stick alone.
But these comments are on
ordinary flying-qualities: leaving
aside strains imposed on a pilot’s
judgment under extreme condi-
tions in a jet.
Mach 8 means 80 per cent, of
the speed of sound—which is
about 600 miles an hour. We
dived slightly to pick up a speed
just a needle-flicker below
mach 8. Yet in landing the jet
touched-down at about 105 —no
faster than the old fighters. A
remarkable speed-range.
In the cockpit you’re right up
in the nose, and the unimpeded
view of the hurtling terrain at
low altitude, combined with the
uncanny silence and complete
lack of vibration, makes you feel
you’re riding on a magic-carpet.
'From Newcastle we were over
Sydney’s northern suburbs in
about egg-boiling time, and
turned seawards from a racing
ribbon of surf-beaches. Pro-
pellerless planes have no torque ;
child’s-play to roll the Vampire
into steep turns, even for a pretty
rusty pilot. Amazing how higher
speeds and cleaner shapes,
combined with absence of pro-
pellers, have eased control. I
imagine the Vampire’s two little
rudders would be used only for
evasive-action skidding.
On this flight the jet was
“talked” back to earth in a
ground - controlled approach.
Hardly any kind of weather
could have prevented its safe
arrival. Radar-men in the
control-tower took over when
the plane was some miles short
of the strip, and you had the
feeling you were coming in on
rails. Price’s touch-down was
of the angel’s-kiss variety. And
that was that.
Dressed for flight and topped-
off by a pumpkin-size helmet, the
jet-pilot looks like something
from another planet, a man from
Mars. Back in the early ’thirties,
when backyard-built gliders were
the order of the day for
impecunious would-be aeronauts,
we weren’t game to wear any
headgear—having no instru-
ments, we went by the wind on
the face. Wouldn’t care to have
a 600-m.p.h. breeze fanning the
brow. Still, men baling-out in
ejection - seats have to face
something like that.
Flying-Officer Stoney, now at
Williamtown, is one who had the
experience of being cast into
space in this violent fashion. It
doesn’t seem to have done Mm
any damage. Still, Squadron-
Leader Lane, the station’s sandy-
headed senior medical officer,
reckons a ride in an ejection-
seat must be really something to
write home about.
Squadron-Leader Lane, in
passing, can give you a studied,
shrewd and interesting chat
about He winds
it up with “Why not?”: and you
leave him pretty well convinced
yourself that there’s something
whizzing around, in friendly
fashion, that we wot not of.
The air over the big field is
continually rent with the whistle
of jets, but there was a new
sound when the Sabres arrived.
Even the ground-crews, blase
enough where noise is concerned,
stopped, looked and listened.
The Sabres come under the
loving care of Wing-
Commander Dick Creswell, an
old hand with fighters, who runs
the Operational Training Unit,
Last time I saw him, back in
1941, he was giving advanced
instruction on > Wirraways at
Wagga. He hasn’t changed
much: stocky, black-haired, with
FROM MARS
matching moustache. He had the
first night-success against the
Japs over Darwin.
Among the chaps in training
at Wagga at that time were some
of the eight who later attacked
the big mob of Japs at Rabaul,
in Wirraways . . ;
Watched a Sabre take-off. It
seemed to leave the ground in
about three seconds, and was
immediately in business, going
full blast. Mighty hard to follow
with the eye. Made the
Vampires look as though they
had air-brakes. A staunch old
Dakota on the ground seemed
to watch the performance with a
jaundiced eye.
At the Operational Training
Unit, young trainees were being
briefed. Before reaching
Williamtown they’d learned to
fly jets. Here they were being
taught to fight in them. The
standard is high. Creswell said
failures at Williamtown were
practically nil. Modern planes
are so costly that only the best
human material can be entrusted
with them.
Keenness is hard to analyse,
but unmistakable. Everyone I
met at Williamtown seemed
keen. The ground-staff, for
instance —I had a yarn with
Corporal McConnell, who was
enthusiastic about a jet-engine
he was vetting: 5000 horses
weighing only 16401 b. No
wonder jets go. No piston-
engine h.p.-weight ratio got
anywhere near that.
Heard a song at Williamtown
referring to recent action in
Korea: “Fighting for that ——
Syngman Rhee.” Reminded me
very much of the sentiment in
an older air about King Farouk.
The songs of fighting-men are
not always as polite as diplomats
might wish. Still, they do the
fighting.
Major Nicholas, M.C. and
Bar, explained the training of
paratroops. He’d had a lot of
experience in Korea. The major
has a slight limp and what looks
like an undousable grin. He ran
a film showing the whole gamut
of English jump-trainiiig. It
varies only slightly from ours.
All Australian jump-men, of
course, are volunteers, and of
those accepted for training about
97 per cent, qualify. Major
Nicholas showed how his men
are staged-up through learning
to hit the ground from a few
feet to dropping from a tower,
thence to the real thing. When
trained, a “stick” of 20 men can
abandon ship easily in 14
seconds.
Jumping is no more than the
paratrooper’s method of trans-
port. It gets him to where he
starts soldiering, and he has to
be an above-average soldier. It’s
expected that Williamtown
shortly will double its yearly
output of fully trained men.
In the parachute section a
forest of ’chutes hung from the
high ceiling for regular drying.
Others were stretched on the
packing-tables. ’Chutes are all-
nylon now. Looks like a new
name’s needed for the Cater-
pillar Club. The illustrious grub
hasn’t even a claim to the cords.
An interesting gadget is the
“Porosity” machine which tests
the strength of fabric used in
parachutes. A forceful breeze is
directed at a small section of
the material, and the poundage
of air that gets through per
cubic-foot per second is
recorded.
At Air Portability Wing (the
names!) a sergeant demonstrated
to an officers’ class the art of
getting a jeep into a Dakota with
all dispatch and without damage
to either vehicle. Colonel
Rennick, O.C. the elements
forming the School of Land/Air
Warfare, pointed out a field-gun
installed so neatly inside a near-
by fuselage it .looked like a. ship-
in-a-bottle. The colonel, a big,
kindly chap, should know land-
air liaison—he wears pilot’s
wings on his Army tunic.
At Air Support Wing people
from the three Services learn a
common doctrine in all matters
relating to air-support of armies.
You see “teams” studying a
problem with the aid of a large
contour-model of the territory
and large-scale maps. The teams
separate to work out solutions.
Later they meet and thrash the
thing out. The aim is to wipe out
all inter-Service differences in
thinking, so that in war com-
bination will be perfect . . .
Seventy - seven Squadron
returned from its Korea job
almost unnoticed on the
carrier Vengeance. With two
additional squadrons it will form
78 Fighter Wing at Williamtown.
Seventy-seven had a long and
brilliant career up there.
Engaged constantly in strafing,
it also bagged some MiG’s. All
its pilots learned their fighting
at Williamtown. Among the
squadron’s leaders have been
Lou Spence (killed strafing), Dick
CresweU, Ron Susans, and its
present commander, Wing-
Commander Royston. Most of
77’s people are on leave at time
of writing: but the Meteor-jets
which they used in Korea are
arriving at the station as fast as
reassembled.
Can remember Lou Spence
(when flying was held-up at a
training-station last war) teach-
ing fighter-formation on push-
bikes. I can also remember
wearing a uniform which had
grown old so gracefully that its
condition was not apparent to
wearer. It had oil-stains on it,
and the cloth on the cap-peak
had peeled to reveal the card-
board beneath.
I was humping my ’chute along
the tarmac, and, too late to
dodge, passed bang in front of
Spence, who was pointing out
this-and-that to the visiting
A.O.C. “This officer i§ neat, but
not gaudy,” just reached me.
And I once heard him thanking
a pupil for finishing a spec-
tacular Spit.-prang outside the
flight-office window: “I had a
very good view of it.” He was a
very nice fellow . . .
No. 5 Airfield Construction
Squadron is doing quite a job.
A self-contained and independent
unit, it is working at top-pressure
to make this the biggest, and
probably the best-equipped, air-
field in Australia. One able to
(Continued on page 34)


lin convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobnccor
“For me the Capstan blend has all the qualities
to make my smoking enjoyment complete.
“ Capstan’s own blend of fine Virginia leaf
maintains a consistent standard—fine flavour,
fresh fragrance and smooth smoking.”
Ask everywhere for —CAPSTAN
!P“
CAPSTAN
_ better tobacco
€3
m.
fis-
m
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
205D.10.54
SPORTING NOTIONS
Encouraged by the success of
New Zealanders in the major
Australian handicaps during
1954, owners of top-class per-
formers in the Dominion have
nominated freely for the A.J.C.
Doncaster Handicap (April 9)
and the richer Sydney Cup
(April 11). The meeting could
see the first Sydney outing of
Rising Fast. Gold Scheme,
winner of the Sydney Cup last
autumn with 8.7, is another
among the entrants. This year
there is no fixed maximum for
the Cup, and it will be interest-
ing to see the handicapper’s
assessments. Certainly, in Rising
Fast, he has a ready-made top*-
weight. Weights will be issued
on Monday, February 7.
New Zealand reports concern-
ing Rising Fast are that he has
been in steady work for two or
three weeks as a preliminary to
his return-visit to Australia. It
is expected he will first race in the
£5150 Alister Clark Stakes (li
mile), run under Quality Handi-
cap conditions at Moonee Valley
on Saturday, February 26.
Winner’s share will be £3500,
plus a £l5O trophy. The condi-
tions provide for a 9.7 maximum
weight. However, Rising Fastk
most important Melbourne
engagement will be the weigh’-
for-age Queen Elizabeth Stakes,
£lO,OOO m mile), to be run at
Flemington on March 19.
Pacenna, Rillsdale, Dark
Prince and Nagpuni, winners at
Canterbury last Saturday, are
among the entrants for the Don-
caster, but their prospects of
winning that mile event appear
remote. In fact a punter want-
ing a price about any of the four
would be accommodated at
extravagant odds. In former
years doubles’ bookmakers used
to issue charts on the Doncaster-
Sydney Cup immediately entry-
sheets were available; they have
changed that scheme because so
many doubles in recent years
have been won by heavily backed
horses, some of the first picks
remaining on top or near top of
the lists almost throughout ante-
post wagering.
When a top-class sprinjter, or
any other horse of note, drifts
in betting, early backers fear the
worst, but the drift doesn’t
always indicate that the runner
isn’t fancied by connections or
isn’t 100 per cent. fit. For
example, Nagpuni, outstanding
performer of the six starters in
the Canterbury Flying, looked a
certainty when pre-post favorite
My Hali was taken from the
race. Early backers rushed evens
and 5 to 4, but to their dismay
Nagpuni “blew” in betting to
7 to 2. Their fears were ill-
founded : Bill Cook got Nagpuni
away fast, and the smart sprinter
led all the way.
The Frank Underwood Cup
—named in honor of the former
chairman of directors of Canter-
bury Park racecourse, who is on
the board of directors of the
Sydney Turf Club —was won at
Saturday’s Canterbury meeting
by the well-performed Persian
Link, the second grey to win
the Cup in four years, the other
being Grey Theo. Persian Link
(raced and bred by Mrs. A. W.
Murrell) is a four-year-old by
Persia from Two’s Company.
He has now won at his last four
starts, three .of them at Eagle
Farm (Brisbane), and in his pre-
sent form he could- make it
interesting in important autumn
handicaps. Brisbane jockey Noel
Best rode a 1 splendid race on the
gelding in the Cup.
Ezra Norton appears to have
secured a smart colt in the Faux
Tirage (imp.) youngster Straight
Draw, impressive winner of the
Canterbury Two-year-old Novice
for colts and geldings. Straight
Draw looks a staying type, and
when the longer two-year-old
events come round he should
make it interesting for
opponents. Bred in New
Zealand, he cost 2000gns. at the
1954 auction. He is trained at
Randwick by Jack Mitchell, who
also won the fillies’ Two-year-old
Novice with Fairy Dream. Sun-
bride, dam of Straight Draw, is
an imported mare by Tai-Yang
from Graceful Bride by Golden
Grace. The colt was bred by
Mrs. Alister Williams at Te Parae
Stud, Masterton.
Dark Prince, winner of the
Second Belmore Stakes at Can-
terbury, probably wasn’t much
fancied by the stable ; he started
at 12 to 1, and there were no big
bets against his name. He hadn’t
raced since the end of October,
and his only prior win (also at
Canterbury) was back in Sep-
tember last in Maiden com-
pany. Cragsley, also resuming
after a spell, started favorite, but
his condition gave out. He will
be better for the run, as will
others who resumed racing at
Canterbury, including Rickaday,
Osborne and Fort William. The
last-named, from Brisbane, a
stablemate of Persian Link,
should soon win ; he has a Rand-
wick win to his credit.
Bred by H. G. Raymond at
his St. Alban’s stud, Geelong
(Vic.), Melbourne-trained two-
year-old filly Smart Dress ended
an unlucky run of minor plac-
ings when she won the Caulfield
Second Juvenile Stakes (5£ fur-
longs). J. Besanko trains the
filly for A. and N. Calvert. She
is a daughter of Ottoman (imp.),
a son of Blue Peter, and is
from the Enfield (imp.) mare
Field Dress, a half-sister to
Burberry, winner of the Oakleigh
Plate, Cantala Stakes and Toorak
Handicap,
Young Sydney trainer Stan
Wheeler is doing well with a
small team at Rosebery. Rills-
dale has won six races for him
from 11 starts. The gelding is
owned by a Mudgee grazier,
W. T. Rayner, who also races a
brother, Blazeaway—four wins
from nine starts for Wheeler.
Durabay, a half-brother to the
pair, has done even better, with
13 wins. Wheeler has been
training for only a couple of
years, but has had 35 wins—an
excellent record.
Foreign Exchange, disap-
pointing in Sydney, has been
doing well in Brisbane; he won
another sprint at the Doomben
meeting. Pipes of Pan, who also
had raced in Sydney recently,
started equal-favorite, but missed
a place. Among other Doomben
winners was Rose Cherie, in the
Juvenile for fillies. A 225gns.
yearling at the Randwick sales
last Easter, she is by Precotant
(imp.) from Matrona by
Harinero (imp.). An interesting
pointer about her pedigree is
that she comes from the family
which produced Yentoi, a
winner of the Cesarewitch Stakes
(2i miles) in England.
Thoroughbred-breeder Lionel
Israel, of Segenhoe Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), declined the bid of
275gns. for the yearling colt by
Emperor (Fr.) from Posture by
Spiral at the Randwick Easter
sales last year; racing as The
Corsican the youngster won his
first race, a Newcastle Maiden
Juvenile, in easy fashion. The
colt belongs to the family which
produced Nizam’s Ring, Cul-
tured, Commendation and Battle
Dress, the last-named two being
New Zealanders. Posture, dam
of The Corsican, wasn’t raced.
She traces back to Eulogy
(imp.), ancestress of many good
winners.
Wal Short, who won the 1947
A.J.C. St. Leger with Vigaro,
won a seven-furlongs Newcastle
Maiden with a daughter of that
classic winner—Vigaro’s Lass,
raced by Short in partnership
with .W. L. Coulton. The filly
“C’n I put over a birthday-call?”
is from a mare by Haripur. In
the 1947 St. Leger Vigaro beat
Proctor and Sweet Chime, and
a couple of days later Proctor
won the Sydney Cup.
* * *
The N.S.W. v. Victoria
Sheffield Shield game in Sydney
was over in two days (Victoria
86, 158 ; N.S.W. 234, 1-11). On
the fast Sydney pitch the pacy
men dominated the show. Miller
again got away with sending-in
the opposition, his invariable
procedure on winning the toss
in Sydney. The match couldn’t
have helped Australia’s Test
selectors; it’s batsmen, not
bowlers, that are needed, and
only one or two of them did
anything.
In N.S.W.’s last two Sheffield
Shield games a special rule has
been invoked which allows an
extra half-hour’s play on the
second or third day if a deci-
sion appears likely in the extra
time. A sensible enough rule. In
the Queensland game the
Northerners were 9-166, 48 be-
hind, in the final innings of the
match, when stumps would have
been drawn on the third day.
Playing on, N.S.W. got the last
man out five minutes later. On
Saturday there was an extra
quarter-hour to enable N.S.W.
to defeat Victoria within a
record two days.
Tall N.S.W. fast-man Craw-
ford continues on his wicket-
taking way. He now bears the
tag “Lindwall’s successor,”
which had been bestowed a year
or two back on Victorian John
Power. Power hasn’t done
much this year, but he hasn’t
always had the luck. For
instance, in his first over in
N.S.W.’s first innings he had
Morris caught for a duck, but
Briggs and Watson were both
dropped in the same over!
• • •
“Mid-on”: It’s not age, any-
way, that was responsible for
Victoria’s two collapses. Only
two members of the side, skipper
Loxton and spin-bowler Hill, are
in the thirties. Actually the
emphasis is on youth right
through Australian cricket, des-
pite some opinions to the con-
trary. N.S.W., too, had only
three men over 30 —Miller and
Morris, and spinner Jack
Treanor, who is in only his first
Shield season, having, after the
manner of Grimmett and
Iverson, developed late. (Miller
and Loxton, incidentally, both
had excellent bowling-figures.)
It’s the custom nowadays for
tailenders to make the best stand
of an innings. In the second
Test, in England’s first-innings
154, the highest partnership was
Wardle and Statham’s 43 for the
last wicket. (In the second
innings the last-wicket was
worth 46, third-best stand of
the ' innings.) Australia’s best
stand in the second innings of
that Test was Harvey and John-
ston’s last-wicket 39. Similarly
Victoria’s best second-innings
partnership was the 45 for the
second-last-wicket by Power and
Hill; Power, a left-hand bat,
equal - top - scored with Neil
Harvey (43), and looked safer
than most of the recognised
batsmen.
* * *
In the N.S.W. women’s swim-
ming titles, 17-year-old Patti
Moran twice bettered her Aus-
tralian record in the 220yds.
medley (55yds. each of butter-
fly, backstroke, breaststroke and
freestyle). Last year her time
was 3min. 2.25ec.; this year she
clocked 3min. lsec. in her heat
and 3min. exactly in winning
the final. Lorraine Crapp won
the 220yds. freestyle when still
weak from a stomach-upset,
I.6sec. outside her Australian
record of 2min. 29.6^sec.
Sixteen - year - old swimmer
Murray Rose on Saturday night
set a new Australian record for
440yds. (4min. 37.25ec.) in the
N.S.W. championships. Gary
Chapman, previous record-
holder (4min. 39.25ec.), in which
time he also set a new Empire
Games record in winning that
event at Vancouver, was second.
Both Rose and Chapman have
a good chance of winning the
400 metres at next year’s
Olympics.
* * *
John Purdy, Australian chess
champion since the Perth title-
play, isn’t old enough to vote:
19-year-old, he’s the youngest
ever to win the championship.
Purdy’s is inherited ability:
father C. J. S. Purdy was four
times Australian champion and
grandfather Spencer Crackan-
thorp twice held the title.
* * *
• Last March the Australian
six-mile running record was
broken more-or-less acci-
dentally. Neil Robbins had
started in a run merely to “pace”
Geoff Warren for a while, but,
when Warren dropped out, con-
tinued and set the new time
(29min. 26.25ec.). Last week
48sec. was knocked off that time
by a man who hadn’t been able
to last-out the distance in any
six-mile run he’d started in over
the last couple of years. Dave
Stephens won easily in 28min.
38sec., with Warren (in 29min.
2sec. also beating the previous
record) and Robbins behind
him.
South Australian lan Bruce,
who lately set a new Australian
record when he won the State
decathlon, joins brother Theo
in the list of record-holders —
Theo has to his credit the best
Australian broad-jump (24ft.
10fin.), set in Perth in January,
1947. Before this there were
already two brothers on the list
of Australian record-holders.
Tom Mullins holds the hammer-
throw record (174 ft.), but his
brother Peter is no longer
listed —he having held the
decathlon record.


Where Catches Are "Not Out"
Cricket By Ear
By "MID-ON"
A PACKED leg-side field
behind the wicket (in-
cluding two silly-legs), a
silly-point almost on the
batsman, slips standing deep and
backed by a “gully,” and only
one man in front of the wicket.
Tyson and Statham reviving
leg-theory, with intimidatory
field-setting?
No, sir. The trundler bowling
to that field may, in fact, be as
slow as (and have perhaps some
of the guile of) an lan Johnson.
Whatever his pace, he’s bowling
underarm —in cricket played by
the blind.
This field-placing is the ortho-
dox one in blind-cricket. Most
of the runs scored come from
hits and taps behind the wicket,
mostly to leg. It’s not hard to
understand why. To get in posi-
tion for a drive requires sight of
the ball pretty well as soon as it
leaves the bowler’s hand: not
possible to a blind-man.
The rules of the game are, of
course, somewhat different.
Each side in blind-man’s cricket
is made-up of six partially- and
five totally-blind (in that, fixed,
proportion always). Only one
man is in at a time, and the
whole eleven men have there-
fore to be dismissed.
The captains toss, as usual;
and the captain who wins the
toss has the usual prerogative of
batting first. In which case the
losing, or fielding, captain has
a choice, too —of what end to
bowl from. That choice being
made, every over in the innings
must be bowled from that one
end (obviously the constant
changing-over at the end of each
over would be impracticable).
If the captain winning the toss
decides to field, he then, as the
fielding captain, also nominates
the bowling-end.
Catches are not out —and
catches are, by the way, held.
All the other usual ways of get-
ting a batsman Out apply—
bowled, 1.b.w., stumped and run-
out. Bowled is the commonest
form of dismissal. In l.b.w.
decisions the umpire gives the
batsman out without an appeal
haying to be made. If the ball
strikes the batsman’s leg (he
doesn’t wear pads) the umpire
either passes it by or calls that
he’s out. (The wicketkeeper, too,
is not gloved or padded.)
Thirty is the “blind-man’s
century”—that is, for the
“partially,” who must retire
then. A “totally,” on the other
hand, can bat on, but it’s rare
for one to do so. On a rough
average three “partiallys” reach
30 each innings. Most of the
runs come from singles, though
fours are quite possible. The
boundary is only 30yds. out
from the pitch, well inside the
fence of an ordinary oval.
+ +
A “totally” has a runner to
run for him, who’s also known
as a “caller.” He helps the
totally” to take his stance,
and then stands close to him to
advise him on decisions and
suchlike: stands so close that
the outsider’s first thought is
that he’s sure to be hit as soon
as the batsman has a “go.”
But of necessity there aren’t
many lusty swingers” in blind-
cricket, and the caller is in no
danger.
There are no byes or leg-
byes ; no-bqlls are the only
And there are no
overthrows.” Once a ball is
fielded no other run can be
started. Consequently there’s
the strange sight of the umpire
backing-up and stopping the ball
thrown to the bowler’s wicket
in an attempt at getting a run-
out ; though, of course, he only
handles the ball when the chance
of run-out is past. If the return
is too wide of the stumps, or he
misses it, the ump. has to “fox”
it. The ball, when fielded, must
always be thrown-in underarm,
whether the fieldsman is striving
for a run-out or not.
Bowling, too, must be done
underarm. Overarm bowling is
not allowed, nor yet roundarm.
Halfway down the pitch a white
line is drawn (for the umpire’s
guidance), and each ball must
first land on the bowler’s side of
the line or it’s a no-ball. There
is, too, the equivalent of the no-
ball of the sighted—if a bowler
goes too far past the stumps to
bowl, but he’s allowed fair lati-
tude. To get direction bowlers
aim at the sound of the wicket-
keeper’s voice.
There are recognised “fast-
bowlers” and “slow-bowlers,”
and those who bowl medium-
pace. Some of the trundlers
have the hops and trips, the
waving of the arms, side-steps
and the like of the O’Reillys and
the Wrights: perhaps not so
exaggerated.
The ball —of cane-wicker ;
made by the blind themselves—
is hollow inside, and in it are
placed a lump of lead and some
bottle-tops, to give it the rattle.
Balls not in use are kept' soak-
ing in water. A “new ball” can
be taken, not after a fixed num-
ber of runs or overs, but when-
ever the one in use becomes too
dry and brittle. It’s been known
for a couple of new balls to be
called for in the one over.
+ +
)
Stumps are regulation-size.
Formerly the ordinary wooden
ones were used, but some of
those now used are of tubular
steel —a modern hearing-aid for
the “death-rattle.”
Held recently at Wiley Park,
a Sydney suburban oval, was
the Australian blind-cricket
carnival, with teams from
N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland
and Tasmania competing for the
John Woods Cup. Victoria won
the tourney, with N.S.W.
runner-up.
This is only the second such
carnival held. The first one was
in Melbourne in 1952, when
Victoria also won. Just before
the 1952 carnival the Australian
Blind Cricket Council was
formed; it hopes to make
the carnival an annual, or at
least a regular, affair from now
on —a blind-man’s “Sheffield
Shield” competition.
Before 1952 there were inter-
state visits. N.S.W. and Vic-
toria have met regularly since
the 1920’5. The first N.S.W.
team to go away, to Victoria,
went in 1925. It included, inci-
dentally, Roy Kippax, brother of
Alan, and now president of the
N.S.W. Blind Cricket and
Athletic Club. Roy was a
passable bat, with, it is said,
some of Alan’s classical grace
and artistry.
The first Victorian side to go
away went to South Australia,
in 1926. The South Australians
were not represented at this
carnival in Sydney; they’ve
“given away” cricket for indoor
bowls, the other most popular
of blind-men’s sports. (A brand
of football, compounded of all
the codes, has also been played,
but it hasn’t been a success.) As
for the South Australians, it’s
hoped to entice them back to
the cricket fold.
The beginnings of the game
are uncertain ; but it seems defi-
nitely to have been an Australian
invention somewhen in the
1920’5, either in Victoria or
'N.S.W. (both States claim to
have been “the first” to play
it). The Victorian Association
of Blind Cricketers was estab-
lished in 1922, and seems to have
the stronger claim.
Victoria, anyway, now has the
best-organised set-
up. The association in Mel-
bourne owns its own ground, the
Recreation Ground for the
Blind, in Glenferrie-road, Koo-
yong, opposite the tennis-courts.
The ground is divided into two,
the 30yd. boundary permitting
this, and the four clubs (the
Association Advancement Blind
Cricket Club, the Blind Insti-
tute Royals Cricket Club, the
Braille Library Cricket Club and
the Institute Cricket Club) play
a regular grade-competition
throughout the summer. It’s
the only blind grade-competition
in Australia, and it’s been held
every year without fail since
1922. This season there are 10
rounds, each match over two
afternoons, and the same system
of points are awarded (4 for
outright, 3 for a first-innings
win, 2-each for. a draw, 1 for a
first-innings loss) as in many
junior cricket-competitions.
It’s not known whether blind-
cricket has much of a hold in
other countries. The game is
played in Britain and in Ceylon,
but probably nowhere else.
There’s no contact between
blind-cricketers here and in
Britain,' but Vic Henderson,
publicity-officer of the N.S.W.
association (and member of the
N.S.W. team), hopes to meet Len
Hutton when the M.C.C. men
return to Sydney for the fifth
Test, and will try to arrange,
through him, contact with the
game in Britain.
So far no “blind Bradfnan”
has arisen; but over the years
there have been some good-
’uns. The names of some of
today’s best players are: for
N.S.W., Phil McNamara, prob-
ably its highest-scoring bats-
man ; Barry Ward and Les
Clark, all-rounders ; and Charlie
Beatty, its best “totally.” Charlie,
too, is the oldest man in the
N.S.W. side (at 56), and one of
his sons, Pat, also totally blind,
played for N.S.W. at the recent
carnival, too.
Victoria’s best batsmen are
probably Bob Boulter and
George Jones, and its best
“totally” Charlie Bradley. Best
bowler from the southern State
is Ivor Molloy; a “totally,”
he’s a medium-pace bowler, one
of whose best performances was
to take 7-6, all clean-bowled, in
the Victoria-Tasmania game at
the recent carnival. Victoria at
the carnival also had an over-50
player, Bill Casey, a “totally,”
who is 54.
+ +
The blind men, who have
shown such courage in playing,
all patently enjoy every ball
bowled. Barracking and chiack-
ing—good-humored all of it—
is an integral part of the game.
The 670,000 Square-mile University
By RON HARRISON
“T"HE External Studies De-
/ nartmpnt of <=lanH
f partment of Queensland
2JJET tn
within the State’s 670 000
an Y on e within the State s 670,000
miles. It does, in fact, cater for
td t f ’ ’ Tndia and
dents
£ eyk f’ and m Papua ’ a « d on
board ships going about her
J£ a J esty s business to waters far
fr °“ tbe Queensland coast.
The department is the largest
Jdnd-in Australia, and one
of the largest, in the world,
Educationists from the U.S. and
other countries have visited the
P artl Y completed university
buildings at St. Lucia, Brisbane,
to learn how it is all done, and
Brisbane professors and lec-
turers have learned from visits
abroad.
External Studies was started
in 1912 ’ onl Y .two years after
Queensland University itself was
founded. It now occupies a
large suite of rooms on the top
the marble-lined main
building at St. Lucia. Director
of the department is Associate
Professor E, C. D. Ringrose.
Although the department
caters for students from all over
Australia and from Asia and
Oceania (and even two in South
America), most of the more
than 1200 enrolled each year
live within Queensland or the
Northern Rivers district of New
South Wales.
As far as possible, courses
offered to external students are
synchronised with those taken
by internal students. But ex-
ternal students are not allowed
to take more than two subjects
at the same time if, as most of
them are, they are studying in
their spare time.
Two subjects are considered
sufficient burden for anyone by
the External Studies organisers ;
PYtprnal tfnrfpntc attending the
external students attending t e
to do the iob nrooerlv thev
to do the job properly they
should take only one subject
npvt vear
S, Y •u a c
The main body of the courses
is contained in the lecture-notes,
mailed to students every week.
They form quite a formidable
body of reference by the time
the year is through-History I
last year totalled 250 pages,
plus 150 pages of references,
plus nearly 100 pages of “Study
Guide.”
As far as possible the lecture-
notes march with the internal
lectures given in the University
proper, but they are specially
written with the fact in mind
that the external student is on
his own and usually unable to
study his subject in the company
of others, or to talk it over with
them.
Sometimes, however, when a
number of students in or near
a town or city are studying the
same subjects, tutorial-classes
and discussion - groups are
formed. Attendance at these
is compulsory, just as attendance
at lectures is compulsory to
internal students.
Apart from the lecture-notes,
the external student leans heavily
on the books supplied by the
Thomas Thatcher Memorial
Library. This library was estab-
lished in 1948 and named after
a former director of External
Studies. It is well stocked with
reference - books on subjects
ranging from journalism through
philosophy and economics to
Greek literature and geography.
Use of the library is limited
to external students. By an
efficient system of card-indexing,
books are kept circulating be-
tween students throughout the
year. Quite often a book that
has left the library does not
return to it for six to nine
months. The first student to
receive the book is instructed to
forward it on to the next
student within a set time, and
forwarding-notices are sent to
each student in turn, the final
one being instructions for return
of the book to the library.
Postage on books is paid by
the University on the first dis-
patch, but students pay their
own postage in sending the
books on. A student can spend
as much as £5 a year on postage
this way.
Borrowing from other
libraries is encouraged—particu-
larly from the excellent Country
Extension Service operated by
the Queensland Public Library
from Brisbane —to reduce the
strain on the Thatcher Library,
which is not yet nearly as fully
stocked with books as the Uni-
versity library used by internal
students.
Every August a vacation-
school for external students is
held at the University. Lectures
and discussion - classes are
arranged in as many subjects as
possible. Distance, again, is a
great deterrent to full attend-
ance, but upwards of 100
students attend each year, most
of them living-in at the Uni-
versity colleges during the
school.
External Studies offers almost
100 subjects each year. Students
can gain Bachelor-degrees in
arts, commerce, law and edu-
cation, diplomas in journalism,
commerce and music, and cer-
tificates in accountancy and
music. Master-degrees cannot
be taken without residence at
the University.
Some external students take
only one subject, or group of
subjects, without any idea of
gaining a degree, or diploma.
These students need not have
matriculated, although matricu-
lation is essential if a Bachelor-
degree is aimed at, for the
external as well as the internal
student.
Organisers claim that benefit
given by External Studies is not
all one way. Students benefit by
the education offered and by
whatever value a degree or
diploma may have for them in
their careers, but the University
itself benefits by the acquisition
of a more serious-minded body
of students (average age is over
30), and one which is more
critical and less easily satisfied
than most.
x
BLACKBERRY PIE
Blackberries glistening under the moon,
Plucked and cooked to eat with a spoon—
Oh, my!
Blackberry pie,
Blackberry pie and cream . . .
Who’d have thought, my lovely la'dy,
(Midnight hair and milkwhite body)
To sup in bed on such a dish
All that hungry love could wish,
Any time this side of dream?
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


a GUNTofa chain saw
..In a ONE-MAN package
When you receive your Mobile© in its fitted timber
case with fuel tin, oil measure, high Quality tool kit
and guarantee card, it's a good enough sight and it
spells quality all the way through . . . But it is not
until you take this mighty little monster and press
the chain deep into a hardwood log that you realise
what a good machine you have got. There is light
weight here and full genuine five horsepower
performance . . . enough to keep a man going day
after day, year after year, turning timber into
profit at a minimum of toil and sweat.
Write for all the details now. They
will be posted to you right away.
Mobilco
ONE-MAN
CHAIN SAW
'
w
1 1
ilk
§
me
IM
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name
Address „
You can get your Mobilco on terms.
A reasonable deposit and monthly
payments well within your reach will
start earning money and saving effort
for you right away. There's the
coupon at the left. Fill it in and post
it for full details on the Mobilco.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 .... TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 2878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
S'fRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M- DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In ail States Agencies in ail Country Centres
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NATO AND ATOMIC WEAPONS
London “Economist” com-
ment on the question of who
decides to pull the first atomic
trigger:
“The problem is by no means
the simple one of controlling
trigger-happy generals. Nato’s
generals may sometimes talk out
of turn ; but General Guillaume,
speaking for a unanimous Mili-
tary Committee, has pointed out
that the soldiers had no wish to
hold the atomic baby, and Lord
Ismay, the Secretary-General,
confirmed that some sort of
instruction to commanders
would have to be issued by the
political authorities before long.
“The difficulty is obviously to
devise instructions that will not
cripple the ability of S.H.A.P.E.
[Supreme Headquarters Allied
Powers Europe] to hit back the
instant the West is attacked.
Hitherto it has been possible to
draw a fairly clear line between
tactical and strategic weapons.
The atomic bomb, although the
West’s ultimate defence, has not
been Nato’s weapon; the
bombers capable of delivering
it upon distant targets are con-
trolled from the Pentagon, not
from S.H.A.P.E. But as new
atomic weapons of all types take
their place in S.H.A.P.E.’s
arsenal the distinction between
tactical and strategic, conven-
tional and atomic, becomes
blurred.
“The difference between a
super-bomber carrying a hydro-
gen-bomb and a guided-missile
with an atomic warhead is one
of range and destructive power ;
it is no longer one of kind.
Atomic weapons from the least
to the most destructive form
a continuum, and it seems
highly unlikely that any enemy
will observe nice distinctions
about the size of the atom-
weapon by which he is exploded,
and respond only in strict pro-
portion. *
“Furthermore, once Nato
accepts a strategy based on new
weapons, will it in fact be pos-
sible for S.H.A.P.E. to fight a
non-atomic war? It seems
doubtful whether anything ex-
cept small-scale police-action
could be undertaken without
using some types of atomic
missiles, once they have replaced
conventional weapons, to
any appreciable extent, in
S.H.A.P.E.’s arsenal.
“No alliance is wealthy
enough to add a new type qf
weapon without some displace-
ment of the old. And then
what? Are the little wars,
which are the only kind of wars
that we can afford, to prove
also the kind of war that we
are not equipped to fight?
“Nato’s defences ought to be
in readiness for any one of three
main types of emergency: a
‘sneak attack’ out of a clear sky,
far more devastating than Pearl
Harbor ; a threat of major war
that takes shape fairly slowly
and thus allows time for politi-
cal consultation as well as mili-
tary mobilisation ; and a limited
scuffle on some relatively
obscure border. There are
clearly great differences between
the most suitable ways of
reacting to each of these
developments ; and it is to be
hoped that the instructions of
which Lord Ismay spoke will
distinguish accurately between
them, and bring about a per-
fectly clear understanding
between Ministers and com-
manders as to the choice of
methods.”
Soviet's Foreign Aid
expanding its efforts and its
expenditures in Asia. We can-
not afford to lose this new phase
of the cold war. Actually, it is
difficult to see how we can lose
it unless we bungle terribly. We
have the advantages in material,
techniques and know-how.
“One thing is sure, as long as
the Reds pursue this line. Talk
Economic aid is, of course, a,
weapon that both sides can use
in “cold war” (or “peaceful
coexistence” or whatever other
name happens to be convenient
at the moment).
While the U.S. and Britain are
wooing Asia with financial and
other assistance, Russia has not
been slow to follow the same
line. India, as the “Milwaukee
Journal” (U.S.A.) comments,
“has been offered Russian help,
materials and technicians to
build a giant steel-mill. Indo-
nesia has been offered long-
term credits at 2 per cent,
interest to pay for Soviet
machinery and for Soviet
experts who would run new fac-
tories and train technicians.
Afghanistan has accepted a Red
loan of $3,000,000 to build silos
and food-storage facilities.
“Red Czechoslovakia has
offered to supply material and
experts for Indonesian exploita-
tion of Sumatran oil-deposits.
The Czechs would accept pay-
ment in oil-products.
“Western policy-makers are
seriously concerned with this
new policy twist. Is it primarily
a means of infiltrating political
and espionage agents into
Asiatic countries? Or is it the
signal for an extended economic
struggle between West and East,
with the foes challenging each
other with vast credits, capital
goods and technical assistance?
“Either way, the United States,
which started this type of con-
tribution to the industrialisation
and development of under-
developed lands, is already
— N. Y. "Herald Tribune"
FRIENDLY FRONT PARLOR
getting the United States
old 0 f the foreign-aid business
j n the near future is premature.”
quarters need not affect the issue
But the British fear any yielding
to the Cypriots will stimulate de-
mands for self-determination in
Malta and Gibraltar. Mean-
while Greek leadership has
catered to popular emotions.
Athens’ efforts to force the issue
in the U.N. are stupid because
Greece knows it can’t make
Cyprus
Although the Cyprus issue was
shelved by the United Nations
Political Committee, it is, as the
following press-comment indi-
cates, still a problem:
“New York Times”: “Cyprus
is a British Crown Colony whose
inhabitants are ethnically 80 per
cent. Greek and for the rest
almost entirely Turkish. For
generations the Greek Cypriots
have longed for ‘enosis,’ or union
with Greece, and they seem
almost unanimous in that desire
now. The Turkish Cypriots
(Cyprus is only 40 miles from
the Turkish coast) oppose enosis.
“The British say flatly and
rather convincingly that Cyprus
is too valuable strategically to
the Commonwealth and the West
in general to be given up even
nominally. The island , lies
athwart the sea- and air-routes
through the Mediterranean and
is the only remaining British
territory in the Middle East. The
British argument is that leases
are impermanent by definition,
Greek Governments can and do
change, and Britain’s responsi-
bilities are world-wide in scope.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
demand for ‘enosis’ in Cyprus
reveals a weakness in the strategic
system of this country [Britain]
and Nato, for it does not seem
possible to contemplate the estab-
lishment of a base in a country
where discontent is rife.”
« •* *
"New York Times” correspon-
dent, C. L. Sulzberger: “It is
difficult to see why strategical
requirements cannot be met with
Nato bases on Cyprus and Greek
territory. The transfer to Cyprus
of Britain’s Middle East head-
Britain evacuate. The Turks,
prodded by London, are hopping
mad, and some of their leaders
mutter that they will land divi-
sions in Cyprus if the British
dare to leave.
“The situation is a mess. The
Balkan pact is paralysed. The
United States, Britain’s greatest
ally and sponsor of the Truman
Doctrine that built up Greece
and Turkey, is in the middle.
We champion self-determination
but don’t want to sacrifice poli-
tical or military strategy to ab-
stract principles.”
* * *
London “Observer” : “The de-
cision of the United Nations to
shelve the Cyprus issue indefi-
nitely is a tactical victory for
Britain that is not likely to solve
our real problem in this field.
The object of British policy
should not be to prove our legal
right to rule a population against
the will of its majority ; it should
be to seek a way of reconciling
our interests with those of the
people of Cyprus and those of
the allied ‘parent’ countries to
which they naturally turn. Britain
should, without further delay, in-
vite representatives of Athens
and Ankara to discuss possible
solutions which might be accept-
able to both those Governments,
and to the Greek majority and
Turkish minority in Cyprus.
There is no basic difference of
interest between us all —although
by now feelings have been
allowed to rise to the point where
that fact has become much
obscured.”
United Nations—1954
In editorial comment on the
end of the ninth regular session
of the U.N. General Assembly,
“New York Times” notes that
there were some “areas of agree-
ment” —“at least on , the
surface”:
“The Assembly voted


SHEEP ON
DOT HEN
need
VITAMIN A
HIGH POTENCY
7
\
TRADE MASAI
—easily given by drench is the
most economical, accurate
and convenient method of
supplying vitamins A & D
Sheep subjected to dry feeding are liable to suffer vitamin A
deficiency. Vitamin A is essential for top fertility, good
condition generally, and the healthy growth and development
in young stock. One gallon of High Potency 'VETEMUL'
(£13.13.0) is sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep
(rams, ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs—only 1 /3d. each for
sheep or lOd. each for lambs. Each dose supplies total vita-
min A requirements for 3 MONTHS. High Potency 'VETE-
MUL' contains 25,000 i.u. vitamin A and 2,500 i.u. vitamin
D per gramme.
O dO
High Potency 'VETEMUL' is obtainable from your Pastoral
House or usual Station Supplier. Write for brochure ( B. )
for full information.
*
TUeA&IaA Pitf. -£td/.
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swanston St., Melb. Branches in all States.
unanimously for the substance
of the Eisenhower atomic-energy
programme. It voted for a new
attempt by the five leading
atomic Powers, meeting behind
closed doors, to reach an agree-
ment on disarmament and a pro-
hibition of atomic weapons. It
unanimously approved the
appointment of a 14-nation Peace
Observation Commission. The
Russian bloc agreed to most of
these proposals with evident
reservations. Still, it was some-
thing of an experience to sit in
the spectators’ galleries and
observe the taking of a
unanimous vote, with or without
some abstentions.”
There were, however, “areas
of :
“The Soviet bloc used substan-
tially the same old arguments to
prove that the United States was
encouraging piracy in the
Straits of Formosa and dropping
imperialist spies into Red China.
The late Mr. Vishinsky’s caustic
wit never shone more brilliantly
than when he was misrepresent-
ing our [U.S.] foreign policy.
But somehow the Communist
power of linguistic inventiveness
seems to have weakened. Some-
times the Russian spokesmen
sounded like schoolboys who
had used up all their swearwords
and couldn’t think of any more.”
Notable Constitutional issues
“not necessarily” connected with
the cold war included the debates
on Cyprus, New \Guinea,
Morocco and Tunisia.
As the “N. Y. Times” points
out, “the seventh paragraph of
Article II of the Charter forbids
the United Nations ‘to intervene
in matters which are essentially
in the domestic jurisdiction of
any State.’ However, since the
United Nations is bound in all
its activities to ‘maintain inter-
national peace and security,’ the
existence of conditions in any
country that threaten interna-
tional peace and security must
be considered a matter of
concern to the U.N. The
Assembly dodged this issue in
four instances by postponing
action ‘for the time being.’ In
the case of South Africa it con-
tinued the position of treating
the policy of ‘apartheid’—that
is to say, the enforced separation
of the races, with the white race
dominating the great colored
majority—as a matter of interna-
tional interest.”
“The Assembly,” the “N. Y.
Times” concludes, “is not a
Parliament of mankind, since it
represents Governments, not
individuals. It is not, and seem-
ingly cannot be, organised in a
purely democratic fashion, since
the smallest country has just as
much voting-power as the giants.
But sometimes, in other sessions
and in this session, observers had
the feeling that a kind of
democratic process was at work.
“The reporters, the photo-
graphers, the radio- and
television-operators were on
hand whenever anything
important was happening. More
even than in previous sessions
it could be said that there was
no speaker in the Assembly
sessions, or in the sessions of its
important committees, who was
not talking for the effect his
words might have on numerous
and remote audiences.
“The heavy battalions were
being mobilised, the stockpiles
of atomic weapons were being
increased, but the power of ideas
remained, and those in the stately
rooms of the United Nations
capitol could not help knowing
in their hearts that it is ideas
and convictions, not explosives,
that will determine the future of
the world.”
British Living
Standards
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer R. A. Butler’s sug-
gestion that Britain might double
its standard of living within 25
years has been under fire from
one quarter or another ever
since he made it. One of the
latest critics is Professor Arthur
Lewis, whose analysis of the
prospects is presented by the
financial editor of the “Man-
chester Guardian.”
Professor Lewis is quoted as
contending that it would be
more reasonable to attempt a
raising of living standards by
about 2 per cent, a year, which
is the American rate; that even
this would require a steady rise
of 3 to 4 per cent, a year in
industrial production and of 3
per cent, a year in exports. He
questions if it is possible.
“Professor Lewis points out
that the share of manufactures
in world trade has remained con-
stant at about 37 per cent, ever
since the 1870’s. Leaving out
war periods and the slump of
the ’thirties, one can see inter-
national trade in manufactures
increasing over the whole period
by an average of over 3 per cent,
a year, and there is much to be
said for the estimate that it will
continue to grow at some such
rate in the next decade or so.
“Britain would, therefore,
have to do no more than hold
her present share of world trade
in manufactures constant at
about 20 per cent, in order to
achieve the objective.
“But Britain’s share of world
trade has been falling for 80
years. Even after the great post-
war exertions it is smaller than
it was in 1937. This trend would
have to be reversed.
“Professor Lewis has looked
into history to discover how
other countries succeeded in
increasing their share of world
trade. His impression is that
this was done by determined
‘trade drives.’ First there was
the British drive from 1820 to
1860. Then the Germans started
in the ’seventies, followed closely
by the Americans in the ’eighties.
Finally there was the Japanese
drive after the First World War.
“Success was achieved in each
case by ( a ) keen prices, ( b) a
flood of salesmen, (c) large-
scale organisation of selling,
(d) attention to customer detail
and (e) liberal credit. If this
country [Britain] is to recapture
the spirit of commercial expan-
sion it must break new ground
in all these respects. ‘But how
do we get it started?’ asks Pro-
fessor Lewis. Many people
would like to know the answer.”
Brazil
As summed-up in a “U.S.
News and World Report” survey
Brazil is a country bigger than
the United States and with a
population of 57 million; U.S.
and European investors keep
pouring-in money, banking on
Brazil’s future as a great Power ;
development on a vast scale lies
ahead once Brazil can solve its
economic, political and social
problems.
Its area is so large that quite
a bit of it has not even been
explored; its resources include
mineral wealth so great that its
full nature and extent are still
mysteries ; large pools of oil, in
the opinion of experts; water-
power to generate many millions
of kilowatts of electrical energy ;
uncounted square miles of land
suitable for farming not yet
touched by plough ; and a popu-
lation of 57 million increasing all
the time —Brazilians hope for
100 million by 1980.
The present boom “runs
strongest in the city of Sao
Paulo”:
“For years, Sao Paulo was
content to be a State capital and
financial centre of the coffee-
trade. Then immigrants started
coming: Italians, Germans,
Japanese, others. Together with
North Americans and some
Brazilians, the newcomers began
building industrial-plants. The
city started to grow.
“Today, Sao Paulo has nearly
3,000,000 people and ranks
among the first five or six cities
of the Western Hemisphere. It
is believed to have more sky-
scrapers than any other city
except New York and Chicago.
Buildings are going up at the rate
of more than 1,000,000 square
feet of floor-space monthly.
“People keep moving into Sao
Paulo to get jobs in the mush-
rooming factories. The city is
one of the biggest textile centres
in the hemisphere. There are
several automobile - assembly
plants; others are planned.
Factories make chemicals,
plastics, building - materials,
home-appliances, parts for cars
and trucks. So expansive is the
Sao Paulo industrial boom that
it is overflowing into several
interior cities.
“In Rio de Janeiro, too, the
boom is going strong, even
though the living-space of this
national capital is hemmed in
by mountains on one side and
by Guanabara Bay on the other.
“A Government oil-refinery
and more new factories are going
up in Rio. So are tall apartment-
buildings and busines&-blocks.
Quiet residential areas of sedate
homes are being transformed
into apartment-districts teeming
with people.
“Greater Rio now claims
2,600,000 people and is still
growing.
In the interior “coffee is king,”
and plantations are thriving
where only a few years ago there
was only virgin forest. Steel,
too. Brazil apparently has
“seemingly unlimited” quantities
of high-grade iron-ore and
manganese. Twelve years ago
the site of Volta Redonda was
like any other peaceful farming
district in the Parafba River
valley; today an “industrial-
complex” stretches for a mile
along the floor of the valley and
supports a modern city of 40,000
people.
“The Volta Redonda steel-
plant now has a capacity of
700,000 tons annually. To the
north-east, in the Statp of Minas
Gerais, another steel-plant is
expanding. It wijl have an
output of 400,000 tons.”
Against that boom and
promise, Brazil’s troubles are
many and complex. It suffers
an acute dollar-shortage, partly
because it priced itself out of the
U.S. coffee-market and has not
got back in it, despite a cut in
coffee-prices, and partly because
it spends about $250 million to
import petrol—although Brazil
is believed to have plenty of
petrol it expressly forbids
foreigners from prospecting for
it or refining it once it is found.
Inflation is another headache.
The late President Vargas raised
wages by up to 100 per cent., but
prices have gone even higher;
“Brazilian business follows the
doctrine that it’s smart to charge
all the traffic will bear”;
dividends of 50 per cent, a year
are not uncommon and an invest-
ment that doesn’t pay 25 per
cent, is considered poor.
Other major troubles are poli-
tical corruption and Com-
munism. Although the Com-
munist party was outlawed in
1947 it has continued to grow,
and in the Congressional elec-
tions at the end of last year
45,000 votes were cast for known
Communists running on other
tickets —that against 18,000 votes
for Communists in 1950.
“The Communists,” “U.S.
News and World Report” con-
cludes, “are trying to get control
of organised labor, and they are
making some progress. But they
have a long way to go. At
present, fear of their possible
inroads is not holding back
foreign investment in Brazil.
“Foreign capital, much of it
German, is coming in to build
more industries. U.S. business
is increasing its stake from 10
to 20 per cent, each year. Some
of the investment is being made
by companies that want to hold
their Brazilian markets by build-
ing plants inside the country.
“Brazil is a big market, with its
large and growing population,
even though average purchasing-
power is low. Moreover, its
untold resources can provide the
raw materials for enormous
expansion.
“Americans with long experi-
ence are certain that Brazil,
despite its current headaches and
the problems inherited from the
past, is moving ahead. Some
day, they predict, the country
will rank as one of the great
Powers of the world.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Trade Competition
Australia, they say, is a fine country
for laborers, and the wage-scale quoted
by “D.J.K.” (B. 15/11 / ’54) seems to
prove it.
Someday, however, someone will assess
the value of the brains lost to Australia
by the departure of so many of our bril-
liant men as a result of our pampering of
brawn.
The social and economic mistake of
overpaying the unskilled has resulted in
the need for the recent salary-increases to
the skilled —at a time when price-stability
is of the highest importance to our
economy. Overpayment for short work-
ing-hours and penalties for overtime have
created a malady which we will feel to an
increasing degree as world competition in
trade increases.
In trade we are already out of tune
with the rest of the Western world. Our
goods are overpriced, despite the depreci-
ation of our currency against sterling. It
is all very well for Ministers and others
to object to what other trading countries
are doing to help a fall in prices, but in
no other country are goods priced on a
basis of a very short 40-hour working-
week with all the expensive trimmings
granted to labor by our Arbitration
Courts when the sellers’-market was in
full swing.
Different nations have different ideas,
and it can hardly be expected that great
communities overseas will be prepared
to change their ideas to conform with
Australian conditions. It is rather for
Australia to fall in line with the ideas of
the older world. — Shellback (N.S.W.).
Road Safety
In the year ended June, 1954, 1898
people were killed and 44,085 injured on
our roads; 6000 of these casualties were
between the ages of five and 17.
In 1951 the Queensland Traffic Act
was amended to provide for a speed-
limit of 50 m.p.h on the open road and
30 m.p.h. in built-up areas. Despite an
intensive road-safety campaign launched
at the same time, the road-toll soared by
almost 50 per cent, in the next two years,
to 301 killed and 7152 injured, although
the number of registered vehicles increased
by only 15 per cent, during that period.
The drunken driver deserves no mercy
and receives none in Queensland. Fines
range from £4o' upwards (often £lOO or
more for a second offence), with auto-
matic cancellation of licence for three
months —or more, at the discretion of the
magistrate. Yet drunken motorists are
still being charged daily in the courts,
“Snug at the neck—sleeves right. And plenty here to tuck in.”
though they are, of course, only a small
fraction of road-users.
The major contributing cause of
accidents is claimed to be inattentive
driving, while excessive speed, dazzling
lights, railway level-crossings and faulty
vehicles all take their toll.
But quoting statistics will not save
lives. Modern cars and motor-cycles are
capable of speeds far in excess of safety
on our roads, and there are always some
who will use those speeds regardless of
consequences. But to limit the develop-
ment of modem vehicles would be to
limit progress.
The road, as with every other..means of
transport, will always claim its victims,
but the present accident-rate might
more suitable for modern
y cIC-S
Impressing on every road-user that he,
and not the other fellow, is the one
vitally concerned.
Continuing to teach the young genera-
tion that the road can be safe or perilous
for both pedestrian and motorist, depend-
ing on how it is used. ,
Inflicting on those who will not heed
advice the heaviest possible penalties.
Vega (Q.).
Steam and Diesel
I must protest against “M.L.M.’s” im-
plication (R. 29/12/,’54) that diesel-haul-
age is now costing only 25 per cent, as
much as steam-traction in Australia.
After all, the large orders for steam-
locomotives placed since 1945 were not
aimed at securing the more expensive
method of operation. Nor is it likely
that relative fuel-prioes have changed so
much since 1948, when the small diesel-
locos in N. S. Wales were reported as
costing more than a C3B to run the diesel
itself, of course, has hardly changed in
25 years.
Nor again is there much truth in the
statement that the diesel per se gives
faster operation, for the only important
operating characteristic is the ability of
the electrical transmission to give high
tractive-effort at starting and low speed.
When it comes to ordinary haulage up
hill and down dale the extraordinary thing
about the diesel is its complete inability
to compete with anything like a compar-
able steam job, and there’s no better
example than the much-publicised Trans.,
where it now takes two 1600-horsepower,
£103,000 diesels to run the schedule
originally operated by a single £17,000
coal-burner. At that rate there should
be a tremendous improvement, but you
can’t laugh off capital charges of that
magnitude— Transporticus (Singapore).
Publicity Overseas
There are two national organisations
which could promote Australian tourism
overseas (B. 5/1/’55), but because of
restricted finance they have fallen down
on the job in recent years.
The first is the Department of Interior’s
News and Information Bureau, the re-
mainder of Mr. Calwell’s Department of
Information, which, in its short life, pro-
bably did more to publicise our country
overseas than any oth"er organisation.
The second is a little-known body with
headquarters in Melbourne—the Austra-
lian National Publicity Association, pub-
lishers of “Walkabout.” This association
was founded by the late Sir Harold
Clapp, when chairman of the Victorian
Railways Commissioners.
Clapp thought big, and he had big
ideas for the association, but he could
never get a Government willing to back
it long enough to allow a full-scale inter-
national-publicity campaign. Today the
association obtains a small annual grant
from the Commonwealth Government
and a few small grants from various State
Railway Departments.
News and Information nowadays does
little more than send out “releases” to
the overseas press and distribute Aus-
tralian documentary films ; the Melbourne
association is so hard put for funds that
it charges a nominal fee for the posters it
distributes to overseas railway-organi-
sations and tourist-agencies for display
on platforms.
Throughout Europe, America, Africa
and South America tourism is
big business. Italy has its own
Minister for Tourism, and his
department produces some of
the finest of all tourist-literature.
“Italian Life,” its monthly organ,
has perhaps the best color-
photography in the world today
—prints of the Masters and
color-shots of the country which
almost put the “National
Geographic” to shame.
Australia has much to sell the
tourists without taking them to
the “dead heart” to see
aborigines throwing boomerangs.
The Blue Mountains, Victoria’s
Grampians, South Australia’s
Mount Lofty Ranges have scenery unique
in the world, but what do overseas people
know of any of it?
If overseas people are to become in-
terested in Australia we must “sell” the
country. There’s plenty to sell to interest
the inquiring mind. The present Govern-
ment could well take over from where
Mr. Calwell left off, and build-up his
department, instead of cutting it down.
—Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
“Suicide of Cricket”
I don’t know about no-balls in “Mid-
on’s” reply to me (B. 29/12/’54), but
there are certainly some wides.
I would not have been one of the
cheerers for Alex Bannerman’s 91 in
three days. I did cheer Jack Lyons, who
made 134 while Bannerman scratched-up
about 20 in that same match against
Stoddart’s side. “Mid-on” neglects to
mention that. I also cheered Lyons for
hitting 104 out of 125 against Victoria
before lunch in Adelaide. There seems
small prospect these days of having that
sort of cricket to cheer.
My cricket memories go back many
years, and I say that Giffen, the Trotts,
Trumper, Clem Hill, Noble and others
of their day did not regard off-the-wicket
balls with suspicion, but stepped across
and hit them.
One of the glaring defects of many
batsmen today is that they stick, as if
nailed down, behind the block-hole, and
so make mediocre bowling look good.
And I repeat that many of our writers on
the game discourage enterprise in young
batsmen, and that there is more of the
new-ball and opening-batsmen fetish to-
day than in the past.
As to reporting of “big cricket,” there
are 23 English commentators with the
present M.C.C. side. “Mid-on” declares
that just as big an army of correspondents
goes to England when Australia tours.
All right—name ’em.
Test-matches still have their pull be-
cause of the international flavor, but.
attendances at Sheffield Shield games have
dwindled deplorably because of the
stodgy batting against innocuous bowling.
Interest in Test-cricket is liable to wane,
too ; the public will not sit ail day on
a hard seat to watch half-volleys patted
gently away, and off-the-wicket bowling
left strictly alone. —G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
If “Waddlin’ Willie” can go back 20
years (B. 29/12/’54) he must have seen
a young fellow named Bradman who was
guilty of all the cricketing sins that
“W-W.” deplores—“the hard-hitting, the
almost monotonous fours and the quick
scoring.” I have yet to learn that the
greatest batsman the world has ever seen
did the game any harm.
As for personalities nowadays making
the news more than the team, there’s
nothing new in that. Bradman himself,
Larwood, Jardine, Trumper and the
venerable W. G. Grace were all person-
alities in their way, and were featured
accordingly in the press. They were per-
sonalities, be it noted, because they were
great cricketers, and not because they
“did a Compton” by jumping over turn-
stiles in defiance of the gatekeeper.
And that is “W-W.’s” widest wide—his
insistence that the recording of these
picturesque sidelights is more important
than the story of the game. That sort
of thing is, of course, wanted by readers,
but it can be and has been overdone.
Take the exhibition by some English
cricket-correspondents at the beginning
of the first Test at Brisbane. Hutton won
the toss and, mistakenly as it turned out,
sent Australia in—with unfortunate
results for the M.C.C. Immediately these
sensation - mongers attacked poor
McAndrew, the Brisbane curator, im-
plying, if not saying straight out, that he
had deliberately misled that cricket
novice, Hutton, as to the state of the
wicket.
Hutton was decent enough to deny
that he had consulted McAndrew at all;
but the damage was done. Millions of
English readers of some of these “mass-
“Hold it!"
circulation” papers must have formed a
poor opinion of Australian cricketing
ethics.
If cricket should ever suffer a real
decline in popular estimation it will not
be due to the ascendancy of the bat over
the ball or the ball over the bat, but to
the irresponsible statements of so-called
popular writers obviously out to magnify
incidents into sensations and, if necessary,
to create sensations out of nothing. This
sort of thing may be magnificent from the
circulation-manager’s point of view, but
it isn’t cricket.
These writers would do the game a
service if they kept their “personality
cricket-reporting” within bounds and
told the public more about the match.—
Bullswool (Vic.).
Not in Our Stars
I can’t find any reference in geophysi-
cal literature to, H. A. Brown or his
theory that an accumulation of ice at
the earth’s Poles may upset the earth’s
axis of rotation (B. 8/12/’54).
The dynamical principle underlying
such a theory is sound, but when you get
down to figures the ice-layers would have
to be at least 12 miles thick before
instability set in. At present the thick-
ness is at most one or two miles. Lati-
tude measurements over the past century
show that the earth’s axis is very stable
—the Poles do not move more than a
few yards from their average positions.
Touching on this subject, the eminent
astronomer Harlow Shapley wrote in the
“American Scientist” last July:
There is so much known about the isola-
tion of the sun in space, the constancy ol
its radiation, the stability of the earth s orDit,
and the long-term stability of ocean deptns
and continental locations, that we are con-
fident of the comfortable future existence
of the sun-fed earth for untold millennia.
If man is to disappear during the next
geological era it will be through his o
folly and inherent weaknesses rather tnan
through the non-co-operation of tne
heavenly bodies.
At this point the words of Sir Winston
Churchill (B. 15/12/’54) are worth
repeating:
If the human race wishes to have a
prolonged and indefinite period of materia
prosperity, they have only got to behave
in a peaceful and helpful way towards on
another, and science will do for them an
that they wish and more than they can
dream.
Begone, prophets of doom! Tidbin-
billa (A.C.T.),


LAVINA
&
sP
m
Perfect craftsmanship which the particular will
appreciate i.. Beauty in design the discriminat-
ing demand . . . Faithful reliability based on
Swiss Chronometer standards . . . Priced to
suit keen judges of value.
Here are illustrated two new Lavina models in
the modern trend of larger watches for men and
daintier watches for ladies.
Lavina prices range from—
Men’s: £l4/5/-. Ladies’: £l4/10/-
LAVINA
srg
d
Since 1852
gr
L3Q.62
ENVELOPES
of every type
and
size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3j ins.,
6| x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ĝr
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Small is big —
sometimes!
a m
m
m
W/f
If
beiXS
©V
Wk
%
*OO% SCOTCH WHIUjjS
®*ST|JLIED AND BLENO { ®
jIHICOTIAND
JIM p
DISTILLERS •
established
PRODUCT OP
ffl
A paradox? Perhaps! But
there are times when a tape-
measure is not the truest
judge of stature. Take
Scotch Whiskies for ex-
ample. Bell’s is one of the
oldest of the independent
firms of Scotch Whisky dis-
tillers. Their output is by no
means the biggest, but the
whisky they make is ‘big’ in
the best sense. Carrying in
the heart of it the heart of
the Highlands. Those who
take whisky seriously, take
Bell’s with delight.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BEIL’S
OLD SCOTCH
wmstY
Arthur Bellds Sons Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. ■
Established 1825
13
Management
Of the three “M’s” that spell achieve-
ment, management is the most adroit
with alibis. The other two, materials and
men, are usually at the receiving-end
when it comes to explaining why things
cannot be done. The Australian work-
man is usually criticised for lack of
energy and for wanting something for
nothing, while materials are always in
short supply, as well as being of poor
quality and expensive. Management is
always the shirt-sleeved, valiant figure
contending with these difficulties and,
because of the odds, inevitably just short
of success.
Superficially this is a convincing pic-
ture, but it has some blemishes. In Mel-
bourne there is being built, to the
triumphant fanfare of municipal trumpets
and severe dislocation of traffic, a subway
not a big job, but one that drifts on in
the way these jobs do. The Russell-street
Telephone Exchange building is almost
completed, but has been so long in the
building that it belongs to an architectural
style of the past even though not yet in
use. A bridge was also built over the
Yarra at Swan-street . . .
Two other projects, both of noble pro-
portions, one completed and the other on
schedule, are to be seen in Victoria. One
a refinery at Altona; a colossal job—
was completed on time ; the other, at
Eildon, is going well despite delays not
attributable to the company engaged
there, and it, too, will be completed on
time.
These two projects used men and
materials of the same sort as the others
used, but they had the tremendous advan-
tage of managements possessing a skill
acquired overseas in the handling of men
and materials. We need more of this
approach to work in Australia if we are
to hold and build a nation.— lago (Vic.).
Public-service Strength
Despite “Keima’s” criticisms (B.
22/12/’54), several Government and
semi-Government services are under-
staffed; these include post-offices and
telephone-constructions, railways, de-
fence-projects, road-transport and water-
conservation. Some of these are not the
responsibility of Prime Minister Menzies,
of course, but it is equally true of both
State and Commonwealth departments
that they are in fair and crying need of
labor, particularly skilled labor, to meet
the public demand on utilities under their
several authorities.
It seems to be the right of those not
on the Government payroll to take a
crack at those who are. I could quote
figures to “Keima” proving that, on a
man-power/man-hour basis, several Gov-
ernment projects have outstripped
corresponding private enterprises in
production. Housing, for example, ranks
high in this respect.
When every major industry in the
country is begging for staff it is silly to
accuse employers, Government or private,
of overstaffing. Mr. Menzies sidestepped
his promise to reduce the numerical
strength of public services because it
would be a national mistake to do so.
Broadly, public utilities in Australia are
seven years behind, and the estimated
public works for the next 20 years, at
least, will absorb all the labor available.
—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
“The Biggest Thing”
The death of a young N.Z. doctor and
the subsequent arrest of a woman doctor
on a murder charge is a major tragedy,
and should be treated as such. Some
Sydney newspapers, however, reported
the first day of the hearing as though it
were a social tea-party.
“The courtroom,” said one report,
“has been specially redecorated and
“He insisted—something about union principles ."
lighted.” It “has been painted green
halfway up the walls, topped by dark
green and an egg-blue ceiling.” The
accused “faced the lower-court hearing
from a mushroom-pink dock,” her
“brown-gloved hands clasped tightly.”
The description continues: “.... her
blonde, shortcropped hair was worn in
a straight bang over-the forehead with
a small white-felt skull-cap, on which
were two yellow tulips. She also wore
small silver earrings, a pale-lemon
chiffon scarf and oatmeal-colored frock
and coat.”
A witness, “a slim strawberry-blonde,
with dark, lustrous eyes, her smooth hair
in a Dutch bob, wore a navy-blue velvet
coat.”
During the morning break the accused
“sat tensely on the edge of her chair
sipping her tea and nibbling at a choco-
late-biscuit.”
“This,” said the report, “is the biggest
thing that has happened in Dunedin for
years.”
I don’t know about that, but the
report of it is certainly a sickening
example of the lengths to which some
papers will go to make news out of
human suffering.—W. N. P. (N.S.W.).
Army Training
Training methods used in the Aus-
tralian Regular Army (R. l/12/’54)
leave little to be desired.
Korea and present happenings in the
jungles north of Australia show that
infantry, with air-support, still holds the
spotlight. It’s a pity that more people
concerned with Australian defence did
not witness the largest Army peace-time
exercise at Green Hills (N.S.W.) last
October. Even “Mugga Way” would
have applauded the faultless co-opera-
tion of R.A.A.F. strafing-jets and of the
aircraft dropping supplies to the attack-
ing ground-force, which, for its part, made
every use of the latest in tanks and
artillery bombardment. It was all for
the benefit of the two National Service
battalions in training at Ingleburn.
Even if National Service trainees gain
only “some appreciation of discipline”
during their three months they will be
well on the way to becoming efficient
enough to take part in exercises similar
to those held at Green Hills when they
continue training with the C.M.F.
Incidentally, troops of the 3rd Bat-
talion, Royal Aust. Regiment, blackened
their boots and shaved every morning in
front-line winter positions in Korea. —
Swaddy (Tas.).
Languages
Three Baltic girls passed out tops in
nursing the other day and not one has
a discernible accent. They average 22
years. How would an Australian fare in,
say, Indonesia, or in India?
It is most important for Australians to
be able to talk the same languages as their
neighbors, and it is time our schools
forgot about French and Latin and got
down to modern times and modern
languages just north of us.
We have men and women here study-
ing under the Colombo Plan; they could
be used as tutors in their languages.
Actually, there’s not much difficulty in
language, once you get the “tune” —that
is, to speak colloquially; reading and
writing takes years.
There should be large groups of Aus-
tralians, outside the Services, fitting them-
selves in Chinese, Urdu and Javanese
for trade purposes, at least.
Australians are really not bad at
languages, and it’s time they took advant-
age of that ability.—Snips (Vic.).
Leather
Although there has been a scarcity of
hides, and consequently of leather, for
many years, it is not likely that the
industry will suffer a permanent recession.
It never has.
Our immigrant population, which has
increased the demand for leather, also
increased the call for more mutton and
beef, creating an extra residue of hides.
Splitting-machines now help to meet the
shortage by splitting hides into two oi;
three sheets,
Despite pustic and rubber, leather is
still paramount in the shoe-trade, especi-
ally for soles. Saddlery, once a mainstay,
is now almost gone, but the slack has
been more than taken care of by the
motor-trade.
The Defence Department has swung
away from leather to webbing for belts,
shoulder-straps, anklets, pouches, etc.,
and ti .vel-goods are now using a lot of
canvas and fibre-board and, in the U.S.A.,
aluminium.
Against that there is an increased
demand for good leather belts, wallets,
tobacco-pouches and brief-cases, etc.
Finally, there are export prospects for
leather in addition to hides, too many
of which are shipped away.— Simon the
Tanner (N.S.W.).


'Phenovis' Brand of Phenothiazine
4W
IN PHENOTHIAZINE IS-
FINE PARTICLES
“If was mentioned last year that very finely ground phenothiazine
appeared to be more effective than commercial grades of the drug.
Trials carried out during the year have shown clearly that large
particle size greatly detracts from efficiency ... It was also found
that an unsatisfactory commercial preparation of phenothiazine con-
tained nearly 40 per cent, of particles exceeding 40 microns and
a further 30 per cent, which exceeded 20 microns in diameter.’’
—4th Annual Report C.5.1.R.0., 1 952.
A
* *
* 4
»
<• a
• *. * * “ •
THESE MICROPHOTOGRAPHS,
GREATLY ENLARGED,
SHOW
A. The coarse particles in
samples of old Pheno-
thiazine.
B. The extremely fine
particles in the New
‘Phenovist’
B
1.C.1. GUARANTEES
80% FINE PARTICLE SIZE IN
‘PHENOVIS’ powder
THE MOST EFFICIENT DRENCH FOR WORMS IN SHEEP
Now available from your Usual Supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
All Capital Cities
I
ICI
-PHE.30X.387-
The "FARMERS' BOY"
:V ’ k ■ ■ ■ » . i
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
JEtOTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines pasparum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
the grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and for demonstrations:
[Si
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD,, 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
MU8551. Q’land : BUZACOTT’S (Q’LAND), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
FA2631. Tas.: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. JOHNSON & SONS, LTD., 200-204 Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DONT WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MILK AND FODDER
DAIRYFARMERS, by and
large, can afford to feed
supplements and to sink fairly
large sums per acre in pasture-
improvement, where the grower
beef cannot: a matter of costs
and returns.
In Feeding for Milk Produc-
tion—a N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture booklet —G. L.
McClymont, o.i.c. of the Glen-,
field Nutrition-research Labora-
tory, (jarries the argument a little
further. Better feeding means
more expenditure on pasture-
improvement, fodder-crops, con-
centrates. It might be argued
that the increased production
might not pay; but, although
higher production requires more
feed, the amount of feed per
gallon, and consequently the cost
of production per gallon, is less.
A 4gal. cow requires about
one-and-a-half times as much
feed as a 2gal. cow, but produces
twice as much milk. In an
American farm-survey it was
found that the cost of feeding
cattle on farms producing 2501 b.
of butterfat per cow was one-
and-a-half times per head the
cost of feeding cattle with an
average of 1501 b. However, on
the 2501 b. farms the net return
per head —that is, gross returns
minus feed and running-costs —
was four times greater than on
the 1501 b. farm. Running-costs
are no higher for a sgal. than
for a lgal. cow.
Breeding, of course, comes
into it; but considering feeding
on a cost-basis, the following
table indicates the approximate
cost of food-units in different
tvpes of feed:
Cost
Per
Feed. Food-
unit.
Pasture, grazing crops .. to Id.
Hay produced at £lO per ton,
or silage at £4 per ton ..
Home-grown grain (e.g., maize,
grain-sorghum, wheat, etc.).. 2d.
Bought grain—
Wheat at 15s. per bushel .. 4*o.
Oats at 11s. per bushel .. • • sd.
Pollard at £25 per short ton ..
Mixed concentrates, grain or
meals, at £3O per ton . • sd.
The same, at £4O per ton .. .. 7d.
Bought hay, landed at £25 per
ton . • 7d.
The same, landed at £35 per ton 9d.
From these figures the follow-
ing facts emerge:
1. Pasture and grazing-crops,
being the cheapest source of
food-matter, should form the
bulk of the ration.
2. Roughage and concentrates
produced on the farm are the
next cheapest.
3. Bought cohcentrates are, in
real costs, cheaper than bought
roughage.
A good deal of work has been
done lately on the varying feed-
value of pastures. Taken all
round, of course, pasture is the
best and cheapest feed for cattle.
Young leafy pastures of mixed
grasses and clovers can provide
all the feed milkers need for high
production.
In New Zealand, an average
production of about 2301 b. of
butterfat per head comes almost
entirely from pasture, and some
of the best farms have produced
more than 3001 b. of butterfat per
acre. This against 1201 b. of
butterfat per head and 601 b. of
butterfat per acre from paspalum
country on the N.S.W. North
Coast.
But pasture can vary from
material as low in food-value and
protein-content as straw to
material as high in food-value as
maize and as high in protein-
content as linseed-meal.
Young, leafy grasses and
clovers have a very high protein-
content —20 per cent, or more —
and, being highly digestible, have
a high food-unit value: up to 70
units per 1001 b. As the grasses
mature, protein-content and
digestibility fall, so that at seed-
ing the protein-content may be
only 4 per cent, and the food-
unit value only 20 per 1001 b.;
same as straw. Legumes don’t
lose protein-content quite so
dramatically.
Natural pastures have very low
value for milk-production. They
are usually low in the protein-
rich clovers, and the grasses are
usually the stalky, quick-
maturing types. Also, autumn
and winter growth is virtually
nil in the colder climates.
Here, perhaps, it is well to
consider the digestive processes
of ruminants as outlined by Dr.
Lorraine S. Gall, a Fulbright
Scholar from New York, who is
studying rumen bacteriology in
New Zealand.
Microflora and microfauna in
the rumen break down fibre into
propionic-, butyric- and acetic-
acids, which are digested and
used as energy. The organisms
also up-grade a ration, because
ruminants can do quite well on
proteins of low biological value ;
organisms convert them into
proteins of high biological value.
The organisms also manufacture
many vitamins bel origin g to the
B-group, which include ribo-
flavin, thiamin and the animal-
protein factor, 812.
Different organisms are found
in the rumen when different
rations are fed, but the best types
of organisms are found when
the ruminant is fed a ration con-
taining a large percentage of
digestible fibre. Lactic-acid types
of bacteria are found in the
rumen when starchy, concen-
trated foods are fed, and these
interfere with the normal rumen
flora and fauna, which require
an alkaline medium in which to
work and break-down the fibre.
The organic-acids formed by
the normal organisms are
absorbed nearly as fast as they
form, under normal conditions,
and don’t cause acidity.
It follows, then, that there is a
limit to the feeding of concen-
trates, etc., imposed by the cow’s
physiology, as much as by the
economic factors stressed by Dr.
McClymont.
Pasture is the cow’s natural
food: so give her as much of it
in the best (food-value) form as
possible. Indiscriminate feeding
of minerals can cause an
imbalance in the rumen and
inhibit fibre-digesting bacteria.
So, of course, can antibiotics
(the cow produces her own),
although the feeding of 50
milligrams of antibiotics in a
supplement per day does not
seem to affect a 10001 b. cow very
much.
Dr. Gall doesn’t agree with
the heavy grain-feeding of cattle
in the U.S.; thinks Australian
and N.Z. methods better. It
takes about three weeks for a
grain-fed cow to get used to
roughage-feeding. Normally, the
right types of organisms would
develop and gain control three
weeks after the change-over to
roughage. Sometimes it may
be necessary to cud-inoculate a
cow.
Dr. Gall’s comments seem a
useful corrective to any tendency
to overdo supplementary feed-
ing. But, as Dr. McClymont
points out, pastures, particularly
natural pastures and paspalum,
rarely provide a year-round
supply of high food-value graz-
ing. If cattle aren’t fed while
pastures are deficient, produc-
tion drops, and they ultimately
dry-off; then, when pastures do
improve, it may be a matter
of weeks before the cows
respond.
Bulkiness and high water-
content of young pasture may
prevent good milkers from get-
ting all the feed they need; so
crushed-grain (starch) may be
needed. Protein - concentrates,
under such conditions, are
unnecessary there’s enough
protein in the pasture. But,
generally, when pastures are
poor, supplementary feeding
should be heavy; then tapered-
off as the pastures improve.
Supplementary feeding with
grazing-crops, conserved-fodder
and concentrates is essential for
high production per lactation
and greatest returns from
pasture. Cereals (oats, wheat,
barley, rye, Japanese-millet) or
legumes (field-peas, red-clover
and vetches), or mixtures of
these, will provide feed during
winter, when pastures are at a
standstill. Lucerne, Japanese-
millet and cow-peas will provide
a large bulk of feeding during
spring and summer.
Since pasture is often deficient
in protein (milking-cows need
at least 13 per cent, in their
diet), it’s wise to grow legumes
in grazing-crops whenever
possible.
Grazing habits, too, need to
be taken into account. A cow on
good pasture spends only about
one-half of the day grazing and,
on poor pasture, only increases it
to two-thirds. Thus cattle cannot
remedy the effects of sparse
pasture by spending a greater
time grazing.
Roughages must be supple-
mented with concentrates if cows
are to produce to full capacity.
Besides increasing the food-
value of the ration, concentrates
often result in more food being
eaten. A cow might eat 301 b.
lucerne-hay, but if given con-
centrates as well as hay she might
eat 241 b. of hay and 101 b. of
concentrates.
However, the efficiency with
which cattle convert feed to milk
becomes less as the feed-intake
is increased and milk-production
approaches the maximum. This
is partly because they use some
of the extra food for putting
on condition.
In deciding amount of concen-
trates to be fed, three factors
must be taken into considera-
tion: how much feed cattle are
already getting; returns from
milk ; cost of concentrates.
On an average, about 2\ food-
units (supplied by about
41b. of concentrates) and \
protein-unit are required for
production of lgal. of 3.8 per
cent, fat-content milk. Thus, it
is possible to work out roughly
the total food-requirements of
cows by adding together the
food- and protein-units required
for maintenance (food required
to' maintain the weight of the
cow and keep it alive) and for
production:
For Maintenance.
Live- Food- Protein
Weight, lb. units. units.
8001 b. „ 5 0.5
10001 b. * 6 0.6
12001 b. 7 0.7
For Production.
p a t Protein
Percentage Food-units units
of Milk. Per Gal. Per Gal.
3.8 2.5 0.5
4.2 2.75 0.55
4.7 3.0 0.6
5.3 3.25 0.65
A 10001 b. cow giving 3gal. of
3.8 per cent, milk would there-
fore require approximately 13.5
food-units and 2.1 protein-units.
The table is presented here
mainly as an illustration. To
utilise it one needs to refer to the
tables giving food-unit and
protein-unit values of each food-
stuff. But the system is simple
enough, once it is understood.
Two very useful tables are
those relating to cost of concen-
trates with economic rate of
feeding, in terms of returns for
milk and butterfat. The one is
for concentrate-feeding when
cows are getting plenty of
roughage, the other when they
are on limited roughage.
Feeding concentrates accord-
ing to production is the most
efficient method (otherwise poor
producers are overfed, good pro-
ducers underfed); it is not as
much trouble as might be
expected. No need to record
production at frequent intervals;
once a month will do. Hand-
milking is a fairly accurate test.
A blackboard and chalk, or a
piece of paper pinned to the
wall, will do for a record. Divide
into three columns ; put name or
number of cow in the first, pro-
duction in gals, or pounds per


CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric:
SURE' trlpq 1 ™ PARTIES AND PLEA-
ffii!W ff rni?r oUß OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOR HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved bp A.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
m
fdtgy
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore:
N.Z.:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St.. Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart,, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), WeUesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
“Since we bought THE WORLD’S
FINEST COOKER we have a
WONDERFUL HOT WATER SUPPLY!”
m
<rv (*>
(Q
AGA
COOKER ...
Regd. Trade Mark
si
&
r
>
THIS IS AN
MODEL CB
G 0
Ap
rp
,n »f.
A *s
Wy
*°rt
m <*i,
m
m 4*
Wt
%//
m i
7
The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
“It not only cooks the most delicious
ideals effortlessly, but it supplies all the
hot water we require . . . direct to our
kitchen, laundry and bathroom.”
“And that’s not all! Its fuel consumption
is incredibly low ... in fact, it’s guaran-
teed never to exceed 5 tons of coke per
year.
"Our AGA has two hot-plates and two
ovens, one oven for roasting and baking,
and the other for simmering. It can cook
a meal quite by itself, and creates no
fumes, smoke or soot.
“Believe it or not, AGA even helps to
‘air-condition’ our kitchen.”
“There were no extras when we purchased
our AGA. Levin & Co.’s expert installed
and demonstrated the cooker. They
supplied a wonderful set of utensils and
all the flue materials, which were in-
cluded in the price. AGA to me has been
a wonderful investment.”
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in t 841)
Sole Australian Agents for
ASA Cooler and Bendix Home Washer
XF3
POST TO-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
N. S. WALES: 51-57 Goulfourn St., Sydney
VICTORIA: 432 II our Ice St., Melbourne
Q’LAND: Cnr. Margaret & Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: 113 Grenfell St., Adelaide
T’MANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart
West Aust. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
Sole AGA Agents for W.A.
Learn ALL the facts
about AGA, including
the details of other
outstanding models.
NAME
ADDRESS
day in the second and concen-
trate-allowance in the third.
Divide cattle into groups, and
milk and feed them in their
groups.
No need to weigh each feed.
Use containers of different size
for different weights of feed.
Check accuracy of containers
when the concentrate-mixture is
changed, or when a new batch
of feed comes in.
S.J.
Housing Machinery
“Boone”: Machinery repre-
sents a tidy investment on most
properties these days. It’s worth
protecting in a good strong shed
—or sheds.
Proper storage lengthens the
me of machinery on the
average, by about 28 per cent.
The University of Missouri
(U.S.) found that adequate pro-
tection could add four years to
the life of a cultivator, nine years
to the life of a wagon and 10
years to a grain-drill. That
would save hundreds of pounds
in machinery-replacement alone.
Good storage also saves
repair-costs.
Underground Reservoir
“Border”: While engineers
are building bigger and bigger
reservoirs and farmers are
“harvesting” water on the
surface, more and more people
are tapping Australia’s great
supply of underground water.
Powerful turbine-pumps are
pulling 20,000 and more gallons
of the precious fluid from the
earth in an hour and gushing it
over lucerne, pastures and vege-
tables.
You can irrigate as many
acres as you can pump
thousands of gallons in an hour.
That means that a 20,000ga1.-
an-hour pump will irrigate 20
acres—more if you water
efficiently.
Bordertown (S.A.) farmers are
making £lOO and more net an
acre from their bore-irrigated
areas. Once you have installed
a bore, your only charges are
what it costs to pump. Wear and
tear are negligible.
Wheat Estimate
“In the ACT”: The Common-
wealth Statistician’s estimate of
the current Australian wheat-
harvest is 155.1 million bushels,
an average of 14.8 bushels per
acre over the 10,449,000 acres
planted.
This is nearly 44 million
bushels less than the last harvest,
and the smallest crop since the
drought year of 1946-47. The
average yield is the lowest since
the same year, and 4.3 bushels
oeffiw the record of 19.1 in
The average varies from 10.9
in W.A. to 24.3 in Queensland.
Hybrid Sorghum?
“North”: Hybrid-maize, here
and in the U.S., has just about
revolutionised maize - growing.
Now a report comes from
America of work done so far
on the hybridisation of grain-
sorghum.
Male-sterile plants of the milo-
sorghum variety called Day were
isolated at Texas Experiment
Station two years ago. This
cytoplasmic male-sterility was
then bred into several desirable
kaffir varieties, notably Com-
bine 60. The male-sterile Com-
bine 60, then crossed with other
varieties, produced hybrids
yielding 25 to 30 per cent, above
standard varieties. The experi-
ments were similar to those that
proved the value of hybrid-
maize.
The new sorghum hybrids are
now being watched. If results
are as good as first indicated,
the male-sterile line will be
planted this year for seed-
increase. It is hoped to have
hybrid seed for U.S. farmers to
plant in 1956. If successful,
there will naturally be a time-
lag before it is grown com-
mercially here. But not, per-
haps, so long as one might think.
Australian Agricultural Depart-
ments were very quick off the
mark with hybrid-maize.
Maize hybridisation was prac-
tical, commercially, because the
male and female flowers are
separate. Easy enough to pull
out the unwanted tassels, leaving
in the field only tassels of the
male parentage wanted. Self-
fertilisation is prevented. A
seed-breeder chooses the line or
single cross to grow for pollen,
and thus controls hybridisation.
But sorghum produces the
stamens (male) and pistils
(female) in the same flower. So
it has been impracticable to
remove pollen manually.
Seed is borne in the pistillate
part of the plant. Both self-
pollination and cross-pollina-
tion commonly occur in perfect-
flowered plants. But when the
seed-bearing parent (female) is
pollen-sterile, the pollen must
necessarily come from another
plant which is pollen-perfect.
The male-sterility in some grain-
sorghums is the key to the whole
project.
Important in the picture is the
fact that male-sterility can be
passed to various kaffir varieties.
But milo varieties restore fer-
tility. So the new kaffir strain
is used as the female parent, and
a milo as the male to restore
fertility— to give the crop hybrid
vigor, perfect flowering, self-
pollination fruiting, and, it is
hoped, increased yields.
The experiment is interesting,
particularly, because of the
potentialities of grain-sorghum
in the development of much of
our northern cattle-country.
These potentialities are not, as
yet, fully appreciated. Obvi-
ously increased yields through
hybridisation would have con-
siderable significance.
Hay with Silage
“Callaway”: Silage is not a
substitute for hay. It is better
when fed as a supplement.
Overseas experiments show that
cows give more milk when they
get some hay with their silage,
no matter how good the silage
may be.
Quality of grass-silage depends
on the quality of the grass it is
made from ; when it is cut; and
how it is preserved. You get the
most from a crop which is cut
between budding and early
bloom.
Let cows eat as much silage
as they want. Its quality will
determine amount and kind of
supplementary ration needed.
N.Z. Experiments
“Jubilee”: Papers read at the
N.Z. Grasslands Association
gave details of recent research
on the relation of soil-tempera-
ture to vegetative cover.
Temperature of a sandy-loam
soil under hard grazing was
118.5 degrees nearly hot
enough to kill many plants—yet
with a 3in. grass-cover the
temperature was only 88.5
degrees. On a silt-loam near by
temperatures on a bare soil, and
under a 4in. pasture, were from
10 to 25 degrees lower than on
the sandy-loam.
Rye - grass, white - clover,
cocksfoot and sub.-clover grew
better at 70 degrees F. than at
90, but paspalum grew better at
90 than at 70.
These figures indicate that for
most imported grasses and
clovers a hot climate is a handi-
cap, especially under hard-
grazing conditions. This applies
particularly to rye-grass, even
when ample moisture is avail-
able. Cocksfoot will beat rye-
grass if sufficient cover is main-
tained.
Although paspalum thrived in
the higher temperature, there is
a danger of too much cover
smothering the white-clover.
Expert opinion prefers a 4in. to
6in. cover of a paspalum, white-
clover and rye-grass mixture,
which will give enough cover to
retain coolness and moisture,
and will give the white-clover
and rye-grass a chance in com-
petition with the paspalum.
New Fumigant
“C.A.A.”: According to pest-
control experts, results from the
new fumigant, methyl-bromide,
are extremely good. The
fumigant controls not only grain-
weevil but also the hardy nut-
grass, the persistent onion-grass
and the prolific oxalis, as well as
soil-inhabiting pests and fungi.
Farmers and Agricultural
Departments in most States
report that they have found the
chemical most valuable; the
Commonwealth Quarantine
Department now recommends
methyl-bromide as the standard
control for imported timber;
and the Australian Wheat Board
o Continued on next page )
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, dassers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


handle any aircraft existing
today, and any types likely to
pop-up in the foreseeable
future.
It’s a £3,000,000 job of work
and involves the moving of
1,500,000 tons of material. In
the 450 men engaged there are
no loafers, no go-slow, no
unions. The thing is going ahead
at a pace that would astonish
some civilian contractors.
The concrete “apron” serving
two hangars alone is 30 acres.
And the concrete must be of
sufficient quality and depth to
bear the standing-weight of the
heaviest modern planes. About
the laying-down of this tarmac
area you hear figures like 180,000
tons of gravel, 200,000 cubic-
yards of gravel; that sort of
thing.
A new 8000 ft. runway is
another job for A.C.S. Jets play
havoc with ordinary surfaces.
Parallel and interconnecting
taxi-ways double this job.
Graders, 40-ton rollers, bull-
dozers and other earthmoving
juggernauts make the scene like
a hand-to-hand tank-battle.
Moving a civilian road back a
bit and putting down experi-
mental concrete-areas are all in
the day’s work. But the squadron
has equipment worth about
£750,000 to perform these
chores. The squadron’s C. 0.,
Wing - Commander Arthur
Harrison, had a Pacific-war
“mention” and this year got the
0.8. E., for his know-how and
achievements in airfield-con-
struction.
Five A.C.S. was formed in
1942, and hasn’t stopped since.
At times it took part in the
Pacific in Allied “D Day” land-
ings. Detachments have done
engineering jobs at M6nte Bello
and in Central Australia. It
must now cope with weights up
to 60 tons per undercarriage rest-
ing on the tarmac. A long way
from the days when a plane
simply chased the sheep off a
paddock and landed.
All the highly skilled people
have to be kept happy in the
Service. Some of them prob-
ably wonder at times whether
the rewards are greater in Civvy-
street. A close watch is kept on
the reasons for any applications
for discharge. Housing for
married members is difficult, but
housing’s a tough problem any-
where. Rates of. pay and allow-
ances are Federal Government
matters. But all that can be done
to make life pleasant on the
station seems to have been done.
Quarters are much more com-
fortable, for all hands, than the
huts we knew. Most of them
are divided into flats for privacy.
There’s a cafe, and a goOd-
looking mess for the airmen,
bar’n’all. There are psychologists
out to have everyone in the job
that’s most suited to him or her.
The airmen held a first-class
Christmas Ball in a hangar with
about an acre of floor-space.
And there’s hard work and dis l
cipline. Dare say it just depends
whether you like being in the Air
Force or not.
Flight-Lieutenant Fred Kahn,
the long, cheerful fellow who
showed me round most of the
time, is education-officer. His
domain is an up-to-date library
with comfortable reading-room.
Padre Henderson struck me as
being a tireless worker for the
good of all.
Altogether, throwing in buck-
shee medical and dental care and
freedom from high rents, there’s
little reason to look enviously at
the people “outside.”
Wing-Commander John Hand-
bury looks after Base Squadron
at Williamtown, and Base
Squadron looks after everybody
from a W.R.A.A.F. with tooth-
ache to an incoming jet.
Nothing’s a trouble. Visitor
from Venus in a flying-saucer?
You’re clear to land. Ask Base
Squadron about accommodation.
Ulcer playing up, sir? Base
Squadron will direct you to the
MO. A car to Katoomba for
you? See Base. Haven’t had a
feed for three days? Dear me!
Base will fix that.
If some dare-devil snuck off
with all the Sergeants’ Mess
beer Base Squadron would no
doubt reach out and retrieve it;
with the greatest good humor.
A . suggestion was made that
single-seater fighters may soon
give way altogether to two-
seaters, two men working
together being a force incom-
parably more effective than the
solo fellow. There are argu-
ments against: two men aren’t
as individually alert, the plane
would be heavier and less chuck-
aboutable. But with the power
new engines have the plane
Should have the same height and
manoeuvrability, and there’s a
spare man if one’s hit. And
surely two trained men can see
more than one? Just a snatch of
Williamtown shoptalk. Flying
shop is mostly pretty practical
stuff. About how to do things
better.
The flying dreamers are par-
ticularly interesting. Their
dreams have a way of rocketing
into reality. So the story of the
world’s Williamtowns will be a
rapidly changing one.
and the Queensland Grain-
sorghum Pool are using it
extensively.
The board recently treated a
stack of 146,000 bags of wheat
with the chemical; the Queens-
land Pool treated 5000 tons of
grain-sorghum before export to
the U.K.
The grain was divided into
four sections and the treatment
was notably successful: cost was
a little more than 2\d. a bushel.
Another line on costs can be
gauged from an Adelaide
nursery’s treatment of a 15,000
sq. ft. area at a sq. ft.
According to the summing-up
of expert pest-exterminators, the
chemical is simple, relatively
cheap and 100 per cent, effective.
However, it does need very
careful handling, because of its
“H’m! The sleeping-bag must have shrunk a bit."
toxicity, lack of odor and taste.
So a mask is imperative whenever
it is used.
The gas is packed in 1401 b.,
501 b. and 151 b. cylinders; but
for smaller jobs a lib. can cost-
ing 12s. 6d. would provide
sufficient gas to fumigate
500 cub. ft. of grain.
A heavy demand caused
supplies of the smaller quantities
to become exhausted during the
Christmas holidays, but addi-
tional supplies should be avail-
able about now.
To fumigate grain-sheds and
wheatstacks, enclose them com-
pletely in air-tight plastic-sheets
or heavily prepared tarpaulin-
covers and then pump in the gas.
When fumigating bagged grain
in sheds, bags should not touch
the walls.
The gas also simplifies fumiga-
tion of goods on warehouse
floors. Normal rate of applica-
tion is to 31b. per 1000 cub.
ft. Fumigation does not affect
the germination, palatability,
baking-quality or feed-value of
the material treated.
In the nursery seed can be
sown or transplanted within 48
hours of soil-treatment.
For control of nut-grass,
onion-weed or oxalis increase
dosage-rate to 41b. per 100 sq. ft.
of surface-area, applying after
cultivation to a depth of Bin. to
lOin.
Cause of Bushfires
“M.F.D.”: The bushfire
season is with us again, and the
usual appeals are being made to
the public to extinguish all traces
of picnic-fires, not to throw
lighted cigarettes or matches
into the bush from motor-cars,
and, generally, to take all possible
precautions against starting fires.
Preparations are also being made
to fight fires.
This is all to the good ; but too
little attention is given to the
cause of bushfires. Many people,
in my experience, are not as
careful as they would be were
it not for a feeling that fires will
break out in any case, if the
season is hot enough and dry
enough ; and that a few extra
precautions on their part
wouldn’t help much, anyway.
I know that fires are started
by lightning- and sparks from
steam-trains ; I am convinced that
all other outbreaks stem, in the
first case, from human thought-
lessness and carelessness. I
could be wrong, of course, but
I am completely sceptical of
stories that fires are started by the
sun shining on bottles and broken
glass, and that accumulations of
moist leaves in creeks and gullies
will generate sufficient heat to
cause, an outbreak.
I was in the thick of the fires
which devastated the lower Blue
Mountains of N.S.W. three years
ago ; and I don’t think anyone
would claim they originated
from any of the so-called
“causes” mentioned.
Much earlier, in the mid-
’twenties, I was living in Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.) when on Black
Friday, with the temperature at*
108 and a howling north-
westerly gale sweeping the
countryside, fire broke out a few
miles from town and swept
hundreds of miles before a
change of wind early the follow-
ing morning enabled firefighters
to get it under control. Some
hours before the fire broke out
people were freely talking about
the inevitability of an outbreak
on such a blistering day, and
there was little or no surprise
when, shortly after midday,
smoke was seen billowing into
the sky. But it came out after-
wards that the cause was human
—workmen on a small station lit
a fire to boil their billy and
neglected to extinguish it. A
sudden fierce gust of wind carried
sparks from the fire into grass a
few yards away, and in a matter
of minutes the outbreak was out
of control.
In my experience bushfires are
like road-accidents —they can be
prevented only by a stern resolve
on the part of every man, woman
and child to avoid doing any-
thing that might cause an out-
break. Firefighting equipment
and the people to handle it, we
must have, but prevention is a
thousand times better than cure.
If people would refuse to accept
the ideas that fires are inevitable
I am confident we would have
far fewer outbreaks.
Crosscuts
“C.A.A.”: Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture expects in-
creased demand this summer for
seed-wheat of the new variety,
Sherpa, which has performed so
well in the Mallee and north-
eastern districts that many
growers will harvest more than
100 bags. The variety, which
outyields Quadrat in the dis-
tricts mentioned, will again be
distributed through research-
stations and agricultural col-
leges, but supply is limited.
* * *
Wool Statistical Service (Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau) reports
that the proportion of fine wools
(60’s and up) in the 1953-54 clip
was 77 per cent., as compared
with 75.6 per cent, the previous
season. This continues a trend
towards fine wool, and brings
its percentage of the clip to the
highest point since War 11.
* * *
Cactoblastis (which destroyed
millions of acres of prickly-pear
in the 1920’5) failed in a recent
test on prickly-pear in the
Mudgee (N.S.W.) district.
. * * *
U.S. Forestry Service is using
aerial photographs, taken from
14,000 ft., in order to get infer-
mation about soil-conditions at,
and below, the earth’s surface.
* * *
C.5.1.R.0. reports develop-
ment of a portable resistance-
measuring bridge, for measuring
soil-moisture, soil-temperature
and soluble salts in soil. Earlier
equipment was effective, but
bulky. National Instruments
Pty.„ Ltd., Sydney, are the com-
mercial suppliers.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 313
Across
I—Conspicuous1—Conspicuous away from home
with the prestige remaining un-
paid. (11)
6 —Dye the little leading aircraft-
man. (3)
B—Exciting the wrath of the ruler of
the military police, by the sound
of it. (9)
10 — But this Sydney baritone’s voice
is quite heavy. (5)
11— It is abusively reproachful for
nothing but the pianissimo pinch
to stream to Columbia. (11)
12 — The old west tree. (3)
13— They might be expected to anaes-
thetise figures. (7)
16 —Part of India is like a boy
donkey before morning. (5)
18—Who lassoes a Sydney judge in a
North Australian river? (5)
20 —Does not accept the domination
of sisters in hiding. (7)
23 —Took first-prize, but it is now sent
back. (3)
25 —Bird has half a day with a French
doctor and a country-town of
N.S.W. (11)
27 — Influential Nazi makes France tie
back the Queen. (9)
28 — Mount a branch which is past the
century. (5)
29 — The night before a gardener’s
wife appears. (3)
30 —Acrobatic feats pass the source
of power for clockwork toys.
(4, 7)
Down
1 — Bird in the bone quarry. (6)
2 This is it, a contradiction of
3-down. (3, 4)
3 Gambling game nwodowt, no
doubt. (3, 2)
4 Evil-smelling number is to love
me. (7)
5 Scottish horses with French
customs? (9) ’
6 Experts in the law limb before I
stand over the thoroughfares. (7)
7 A place to entomb a malicious
gossip with a hairdresser. (8)
9—Dresses. (5)
14 — River named after me with snare
aspiration between Montgomery
and Cardigan in Wales. (9)
15— You’ve heard of a pocket full of
this beach resort on Port Phillip.
(3) ...
17 —Adjourn a Parliamentary sitting in
favor of scoundrel. (8)
19 — A trouble-maker on old Britain’s
northern border stands over you
about a movie. (7)
20 — Cook, as* in nonsense. (5)
21— Bribes. 16, 36, 64, 81 and such-
like. (7)
22 — A European to test Craig s
sputum? (7)
24 —Halo cloud upset Ginger Meggs’s
girl on a conveyance. (6)
26 —Cried for this chopper of meat
and carrot suchlike into cubes.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 312


GOVT. DISPOSAL DEALERS
CAMPING SECTION
AND TARPAULINS
IS
«"/»> *« fc
EX-ARMY
EX-ARMY
Cottage Type Ten!
Size 14 x 13,
Made from heavy-duty
canvas. Will stand any
weather.
£l2*
EX-ARMY TARPAULINS
Heavy duty. Size 18 x 12.
Special Price £lO
Don’t delay.
FOLDING TABLES EX-ARMY
Size 6x3. Price 70/- each.
Solid Wooden Top.
EX-ARMY MESS TABLES WITH
STOOLS ATTACHED
Size 7x3. Price £4/10/- each.
CLOTHING SECTION
THIS COLUMN OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO GUESTHOUSES,
SHEARING PROPERTIES, WEEK ENDERS, ETC.
TS
/
25
R
&
EX-ARMY BLANKETS
Pure wool, laundered, perfect condition. Single-bed gfcy.
Price 25/- each
DRINKING GLASSES
10oz middy size.
Price 6/- doz.
FOLDING STRETCHERS
TUBULAR STEEL
Suitable for residential, shearers’ sheds.
Diamond wire. Every bed guaranteed.
Priced af £2/10/- each
GOOD CONDITION.
All-steel SINGLE BEDS
Price 49/6 only
Steel, diamond spring wire.
These beds are new and never
been used. Repainted black.
Standard single-bed size.
Ex-Army STRETCHERS
Canvas top, 4 legs. Perfect
condition. Comjjletely folding.
Price 37/6 each
Ex-Army Damaged Sheets
that have been repaired
Price 19/6 pair
MATTRESS
Ex-Army heavy - duty Fibre
Mattresses. Single-bed size only.
Price the two
XXX SPECIAL
1 Folding Bed.
1 pr. repaired Sheets.
1 pr. Blankets.
1 Mattress with Cover.
1 Pillow.
Take advantage of our enormou
stocks.
£7/10/- the lot
BRAND NEW
TRUCK TYRES
At a fraction of list price!
we#
111
122-124 DEVONSHIRE STREET, CITY
16in x 4in, suitable for Light Trailer or Wheelbarrow at £5/10/-
complete, tube, tyre and hub.
27in, suitable for Trailers, to carry up to 4 tons. £lB per pr. or
£9, tyre, tube and hub.
1400 x 14, to carry up to 10 ton. Complete with disc wheel. £25
each. Or £5O per pr. All new.
We carry the largest stock of second-hand tyres in N.S.W. We can
supply any sizd made. Please write for quotation of price and size
required. Tractor and Aero tyre specialist.
EX-ARMY KHAKI DRILL TROUSERS
Brand new. 5 pockets.
Two hip, two side, one
on knee. Size 23 has 41in
waist, 50in outside leg,
36in inside leg. 32 has
40in waist, 51Viin outside
leg, 39in inside leg. 34
has 42in waist, 47</2in
outside leg, 37Viin inside
leg.
Price 35/- pr.
Post 2/6 extra.
, Unlimited stocks.
»\
EX-NAVAL
SQUARE RIG SHIRTS
I
White (laundered). Heavy duty. Ai
Weal work shirt.
Price 10/- each
All Sizes.
Post 2/6 extra.
Wool and Cotton Knee-length
UNDERPANTS
. Brand new.
Price 15/6 pair
lst-class quality.
Post 2/- extra.
EX-ARMY SLOUCH
grh
Used.
Good condition.'
Renovated.
25/.
Post 2/6 extra;
BRAND NEW
Ex-American
Army
Boots
Suede, Leather, Rubber and Leather
Soles. Sizes 10, 11, 12.
Price 40/* pair
Post 3/6 extra.
2 HOLE COOKER
Ideal for camping. Can be
used with primus stoves or
•Den fire.
Price 10/- each.
WOMEN'S
ALL WOOL
CARDIGANS
Sizes SW» WJ
OS. Cotews'
Maroon, Light
Bine, Greens
Grey, Browns
Navy Blue.
PRICE
: : -
Be Earlyi
Slfllv
WOMEN’S
SHOWER-
PROOF
GABERDINE
RAINCOATS
Single-
breasted
Shoulder
pads,
complete
with belt. i
I Women’s '
| size only, <■
Price
39'6
Post 3/6
extra.
rt
M
jti
m
mm
m
— **
\\ :
10*+'
Grey
Oitskin
Type
Raincoats
40 Sizes.
Price
75/- each
'ost 3/6
yh
RIFLE SPECIAL
Including gun buck-
et 30/ - (new),
Cleaner 3/6, Rifle
Oil S/6, bandolier
3/11.
LOT 37/6
Only Mail Order
this line.
Kit Bags
Heavy Duty
Canvas.
10/- each.
Post 3/- extra.
BRAND NEW EX-ARMY HAMMOCK
Or can be nsed as a Stretcher Cover. Made
from heavy quality Jute. 10ft 3!n x 2ft 3in.
14 Eyelets either side. Reinforced. 2 ropes
llin long. A first-class buy.
each
19/6
Post 3/6 extra.
SKID CHAINS
BRAND NEW
ALL SIZES
1050 x 20
1000 x 20
900 x 20
825 x 20
750 x 20
700 x 20
600 x 20
£B/10/-
SUIT
rtd
m
€3
BRAND NEW FORD CYLINDER
HEADS
24 stnd holes; cast iron. FORD
Price £l2/10/- each
Including Sales Tax.
Catalogue
CANVAS FOLDING CHAIRS
Arm-rest type.
Condition perfect.
Ideal for week-enders,
camping, leisure.
Price 30/- each
S
m
NX'S’
EX-ARMY GIGGLE JACKETS
All sizes.
Price 9/6 each
Ideal for work or fishing.
Post 2/6 extra.
EX-ARMY DRILL JACKETS
Men’s size only.
Price 14/6 each
Post 2/6 extra.
EX-ARMY KHAKI PULLOVERS
15/- each Men’s Size
SPANNtR SPCCIAL
V
10 SPANNERS of various
SIZES and TYPES.
PRICE
49/11
Never been used.
WOODEN TOOL BOXES
Ex-Army Ammunition Cases.
21 x 11 x 15,1 5/- 36 x 15 x 9, 15/.
33 x 8 x 7, 7/6
Can be used as large store chests.
Ideally suited for car tools, etc.
ex-army web gaiters
Good condition, ideal for bush walkers,
muddy work, etc.
WALK (N COM FOR }
X'i
%
Price 3/6 pair
Post 1/- extra.
WOODEN BABY COTS
Also
Ift
4.6 x 2.6 Drop Side.
•sPrice £4/10/- each.
Perfect condition.
PLEASE WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS
CO D - “ MAIL ’ PHONE, OR CALL - NO C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding please add Freight.
KING’S
LEATHER GOODSTYRES
m
£cuUUeSu{
GENERAL MERCHANTS
122-1241
■
lire St.
Sydney
A doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station
Phones: FA 7691—MX 3954. After hours only: MX 1269
GYPROCK
. AND CEILING
BOARDS
■ WmM
6ft long by 2ft wide. PRICEB/6 PER SHEET.
New Ex-Army Release. Unlimited Stocks Available.
In crates of 15 or 50 sheets. Packed ready for despatch.
Country Orders.
fg
Ideal for bakers,
carts, etc.
37/6 set
‘Trace extensions
7/6 pr.
MILITARY BRITCHENS
Brand new.
Price 25/- each
New and used Collars, all
sizes.
Price on application.
Second-hand, renovated, repaired where necessary, Spring Cart and
Sulky Harness.
Price £l3 per set
Tip Dray Harness, repaired and in perfect condition.
Ex A.J.C. and Council harness.
OIL PAINT
PAINT
OIL
»*§§J2
OIL
base
19 / 6 Per GALLON
Oil Paint Clearance!
PAIIVT
Special clearance of old stock. Ideal
for first coat or undercoat. Colours
dark grey (earth), chocolate, green,
red oxide, brown.
The manufacturers’ names indue
Balm, Sherwin & Williams, Jenso:
& Nicholson, etc.
Special price 19/6 gall.
In 5 gall, drums.
Zinc chromate yellow Primer in 5-
gall. only. Spartan brand. Perfect
undercoat for a high-class job.
Price 25/- gall.
LEATHER STRAPS
In perfect condition.
Size 30 x 3 A.
Complete with brass
huskies.
Price 15/- dozen
Post 2/6 extra.


sueid
• •
ed;d -uiet||
■ ' f ■ : - •’■-'.s ' '
- t
it
-
mm
" - : ■; : r
- r - ••• ' • • ' : ~'J
tT
v
Sf^Sfis
$&? Jgr -
>
mm*
i
:•■ W|j
:-r
,: **
Mm
;3
; V' ?:.
□
•r '
.: m
.
11
■
il
*
gg&l&g&Jt
.1
w
■I
o''
:
liili
•44fcSi^
you’ve seen it dozens of times . . . young Jolmny
threatening to “blow” your daughter off the map . . . the wife endeavouring
to prevent the “disaster” and yet be on both sides at the one time . - - great
family, aren’t they? Yes, and don’t forget they’re your responsibility for life
and even . . . well, none of us can escape it, you know ... Incidentally, there’s
a point —why not provide for that family of yours should things go haywire
sometime . . . it’s easier than you think, too. Have a chat to the M.L.C. man
—you’re under no obligation.
Even as a form of old age invest-
ment for yourself, or a means to
easier, systematic saving, you’d be
well advised by the M.L.C.
repr esentativ e.
(Hope your daughter gets away
O.K. . . .)
fg
BE WELL ADVISED
BY THE M.L.C. MAN
The
MIC.
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS'
• . *
Assurance Co. Limited
ML3S/PJ.
