

/
!
A H a O 133^S
The Bulletin
WIMBORNE MINSTER, WHERE,
SIDE BY SIDE,
IS THE OLD AND THE NEW
KOKODA EPlC—m© e 2s
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3938
Wednesday, August 3, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W„ Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
AT the junction of the Rivers Wim
and Stour in Dorset is Wimborne
—an attractive market town of great
antiquity which had its origin in Saxon
times. Later it became an important
Roman station, and relics of their
occupation can still be seen.
The chief feature of Wimborne is
the Minster. It stands upon the site
of a nunnery founded about the year
705 by a sister of Ine, the great West
Saxon king. The first religious house
was destroyed by the marauding Danes
and a new church was founded by
Edward the Confessor in A.D. 1043.
The oldest part of the present church
is the massive central Norman tower
which at one time had a spire, but this
collapsed in 1600 and was replaced
four years later by the existing battle-
ments and pinnacles. It is supported
by huge Norman arches; three bays of
the nave are of Transitional Norman
workmanship. Other impressive
features of the interior are the choir
and presbytery. The Minster, which
underwent considerable restoration in
1855-57, is built of the locally quarried
rich brown sandstone and Purbeck
marble.
Here can be seen an interesting 15th-
century altar-tomb, with remarkably
well preserved effigies commemorating
John Beaufort, Duke of Somerset and
grandson of John of Gaunt. Near the
tomb is a slab of Purbeck marble with
a brass inscription which replaced an
older memorial to King Ethelred, who
was buried there in 872; he was the
immediate predecessor of Alfred the
Great. Particularly noteworthy is the
east window containing 15th-century
Flemish glass.
The vestry is of 14th-century
construction, and from it a stairway
leads to the library above in which are
preserved medieval manuscripts and a
volume of Sir Walter Raleigh’s
“History of the World.”
No. 257: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


zmm
[Learn
at HOME
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaeh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell’
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— —.
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
my name
I address
I (S.B. 15/55)
AGE
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
MISS TOY IN BAGHDAD
At the beginning Miss Barbara Toy’s
A Fool on Wheels (Murray) is like any
other bright run-of-the-mill travel-
book. A lovely blonde in the Rock
Hotel in Gibraltar rejoices that gin is
only nine shillings a bottle; Tangier
turns out to be “a bustling polyglot
city” where “the European hotels are
good, expensive and always full”; and
even if she takes tea in Fez seated on
a divan and waited-on by a girl in
brightly-colored trousers, or in the
“slick modern French town” of Algiers
inspects a house of ill-fame, one has
very much the feeling that one has read
all this before.
It is the ordinary world of the
tourist and, if it is a little out-of-the-
way—Miss Toy is driving in a land-
rover from London to Baghdad —it is
still that too-familiar world where all
that is really to be said about the
Hotel of the Monkeys, except that it is
in a far place, is that, “After waiting
about threequarters of an hour I
was served with a badly-cooked
omelette, a steak that was decidedly
‘off’ and some dried tangerines . . .
They charged me 1500 francs (£1 11s.).”
But then, after the ruins of Carthage
have turned out to be nothing but the
shadow of a great name, Miss Toy
begins to become more interesting, for
she is travelling through places where
stirring battles were fought much more
recently than at Carthage: Benghazi,
Dema and Tobruk of imperishable
memory, where even today:—
As I came into the office I heard
a faint bang, and now the bell of
an ambulance could be heard. I
looked inquiringly at the manager.
“It’s some Arab who’s blown himself
up,” he said. “They go looking for
scrap in the desert and pick up live
shells, or run into landmines or
booby-traps. It happens all the
time.”... .Salvaging contractors are
making fortunes. Big lorries lumber
in with wings of aeroplanes, rusty old
lorry-engines, jerry-cans and barbed-
wire. Donkeys carrying a tangle of
wire and iron, piled high on their
backs, are prodded along and the
Arabs stagger in with fantastically
high loads on their backs.
It is somewhere between Misurata,
“the centre of Mussolini’s vast settle-
ment scheme,” and Sirte that Miss Toy
strikes trouble in a sandstorm; some-
where between Benghazi and Dema
that, after inspecting the Grotto of
Lethe, she meets on the lonely road
her Abominable Sandman; and between
Dema and Tobruk she hears the hoot-
ing of a phantom lorry which, even if
one finds the ghost of a motor-vehicle
difficult to swallow, makes quite a
story.
Then, after she has seen the rose
rocks of Petra, where “three lanky
eucalyptus-trees” grow and where the
tombs carved in classical Greek style
out of the red cliffs are decorated with
Egyptian motifs—everywhere in her
book one keeps meeting the earlier
explorers of those ancient lands, the
relics of the Romans and the Greeks—
Miss Toy becomes genuinely exciting.
Travelling alone into those remote
places where the people are at any
moment likely to leap into hostility
against the British—she was in bother
in Damascus when a guide led her
into a mosque at the wrong moment;
and again in trouble when she ran over
a dog, which fortunately wasn’t hurt—
she really was taking a considerable
risk (hence her title, “A Fool on
Wheels”); and when she is driving 250
miles through the night on the desert
track from Petra to Amman she begins
to feel the drama of her situation, and
the writing takes on a corresponding
intensity. It becomes not a tourist’s
but a traveller’s story: for even if she
had a merchant and a sergeant for
company on that journey, the mer-
chant, who was supposed to know the
route but who always said “left” when
he meant “right,” wasn’t really much
use; and the country was wild indeed:
After leaving the cafe we lost the
tracks again, and from now on the
whole journey became a nightmare.
The wadis got steeper and sharper.
The little merchant kept falling
asleep on my shoulder, only to wake
with a jolt and shout. “Half left!”
or “Half right!” Or occasionally
he would waken and murmur that we
would never get to Amman alive.
My only guide was to cross the
wadis. Wadis come from mountains,
and the mountains should be on my
left. For seconds I would go com-
pletely blind and have to shake my
head to get the sight back. At last
I had to stop, I was frightened of
falling asleep at the wheel. I didn’t
care at that moment if we were in
Israel, Saudi Arabia, or even on the
right track.
On the last lap to Baghdad, alone
now and still writing with this
heightened tension—“ Did no one live
on this vast stretch of earth?”—Miss
Toy is reduced to bursting into tears
because she runs over a frog ... And
then, comfortingly returning to the
familiar world of the tourist, there is
the bar of the Zia Hotel in Baghdad,
a nice little run out to the ruins of
Babylon, where the inevitable lying
guide points out “the writing on the
wall,” and where Nebuchadnezzar’s
Sacred Procession Street still runs
impressively through its towering red
walls; and another nice little run out
to Nimrud, where—of all people!—
helping her archaeological husband,
there was Miss Agatha Christie to say
“Oh, hallo, Barbara,” to Miss Toy.
For the benefit of those who like a
little romance with their travel-books
Miss Toy includes a love-story about
an Englishman who kept flying to
outlandish places to propose-—in vain
—to her; and she also seems to have
had some mystical reason for visiting
in Baghdad an old lady who had once
been of great help to her. But what
this reviewer will remember of the book
is that drive through the desert by
night ... It will add to the interest of
“A Fool on Wheels” for Australian
readers that Miss Toy, who has been
running repertory companies for J.
Arthur Rank, was born in this country.
Her father was, in fact, no other than
Bert Toy, a “Bulletin” staff man till
he' became the first editor of the
“Woman’s Mirror”; and she is the
sister of the “Mirror’s” original Sister
Sadie.
Art, Politics, Lipstick
Mr. E. T. Brown’s Not Without
Prejudice (Cheshire) is a pleasant little
collection of essays, rather like lay-
sermons, on such subjects as women’s
fashions, smoking, religion, detective-
stories and the defects and virtues of
Parliamentary government:—
To arrive at power demands either
force or fraud on a large scale.
Those who understand these instru-
ments best understand little else.
Those who do not understand them
remain powerless outsiders.
At times, in common with a thousand
essayists since Lamb Hazlitt,
Macaulay and Milton are much safer
models —Mr. Brown goes in for wordi-
ness, generalisation and waggishness,
with the result that he does not follow-
out his thoughts to their logical con-
clusion. For example, if it is true, as
he says in his essay on Dobell and
the Archibald Prize controversy, that
“all our appreciations are individual
and inconvertible”—meaning, presum-
ably, that there are no fundamental
principles in art, but all values are a
matter of individual taste —then there
can be no difference in value between
Rider Haggard and Homer . , . not
that one would wish to compare Dobell
with either of those exemplars in the
sister-art of literature.
Is it true, again, as he says in his
crack at historical novelists in favor
of historians, that the falsification of
history begins with the epic and the
ballad:—
The truth may not be edifying ;
what is exciting or inspiring may be
false. To the poet it makes no
difference, truth and invention serve
the same purpose, and both are only
the raw materials of enthusiasm.
Surely there is no particular attempt
to be “edifying,” and thereby to
corrupt truth, in either “The Iliad” or
“Glasgerion.”
And again, is it the logical conclu-
sion to the extremely interesting essay
on the detective-novel, which Mr.
Brown sees not so much as an intel-
lectual exercise as a kind of blood-
sport, to convict of savagery all the
readers of these curious trifles on the
grounds that the ultimate hanging or
electric-chair is always omitted? Does
not that most significant omission
rather prove the opposite: that modern
man, though he may enjoy a sublim-
ated version of the manhunt, has
become too civilised to stomach the
spectacle of execution, banning it from
his fiction as he has banned it as a
public entertainment?
But one must not go on asking Mr.
Brown questions, since he is not under
one’s typewriter to answer them. It is
gently stimulating to have such ques-
tions raised; and one should also
express gratitude for such pieces of
clear-thinking as the analysis of the
tipping-habit as our desire to buy not
so much service as servility; the demon-
stration of the futility of pacifism; the
understanding of true democracy in the
essay on Churchill and the washer-
woman; and the survey of the power
of mass-advertising in the notes on lip-
stick —though in his observation at the
top of page 18 Mr. Brown seems to
imagine that these cosmetics, which,
perhaps, are really out of his field, are
applied in a very odd place.
Shaw on Theatre
The letter from George Bernard
Shaw to J. C. Williamson which the
Talkarra Press (Sydney) has published
under the title A Letter from Shaw is
a timely little offering when the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust is presumably
formulating its policy:—
Where do you expect to go when
you die? How do you expect to
make money? How do you expect
me to live? You must get out of
this frame of mind, You must
repent and be born again. You must
acquire a genuine liking for my plays,
and a cheerful readiness to ruin
yourself for my sake. This is the
way so much money has been made
for me and out of me.
The letter was written partly in reply
to a letter from Williamson in which
it seems that the Australian entre-
preneur had defended a piratical per-
formance of “Candida” on the grounds
that it was in aid of the Women’s
Hospital, “a very deserving charity”;
partly as a reproach for an interview
which Williamson gave to the Mel-
bourne “Argus,” in which he spoke
somewhat disparagingly of Shaw’s
“intellectual drama” and expressed his
own preference for “the play that gets
below the collar-button.”
Mr. Walter Stone, who has written
the foreword as well as printing the
book, reveals that the interview was
written by none other than A. G.
Stephens, and he suggests that the ideas
in it were at least as much Stephens’s
as Williamson’s. It is quite possible,
of course, that Williamson never had
any ideas; but if he did they would
surely have been very much like those
which Stephens put into his mouth.
Printed in an edition limited to 100
copies and hand-bound by Allan
Cross, the letter makes an exceedingly
slender book; but it is certainly an
interesting bit of Australian theatrical
history, and every word of it —par-
ticularly the indignant words about the
performance of “Candida” for the very
deserving charity—glows and crackles
with Shaw’s wit as freshly as if it had
been ’written yesterday.
Six Great Novelists: Walter Allen
(Hamish Hamilton). There are times
when Mr. Allen, perhaps lacking space,
seems inadequate: as when he says
that Squire Western represented all
that Fielding most “detested,” without
adding how profoundly Fielding also
relished the old oaf (next to Falstaff
the greatest piece of incarnated Eng-
lish earth in the language), or when
he discusses Stevenson without men-
tioning his masterpiece “The Ebb
Tide.” But one is not going to quibble
too much with a critic who has the
courage and acumen roundly to de-
clare that Conrad is “the greatest of
the English novelists of this century.”
And, indeed, the book is, on the whole,
an admirable set of essays, designed
to introduce the young (but not too
young) reader to Defoe, Fielding,
Scott, Dickens, Stevenson and Conrad.
SARCOCHILUS FITZGERALDI
Here’s a word for you Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald:
I met your grandfather living under a
stone,
Changed to a small green orchid; where
the knobbled
Dripping red cliff-face towered and the
creek fell down
Through bracken and wattle, rock-fall
and wilderness
To the chasm where the lyrebird sang;
yes, there he stood,
Safe on the very brink of bushfire and
flood,
Sarcochilus fitzgeraldi, no less!
Who would have thought a man could
shrink so small?
Deputy Surveyor once of New South
Wales,
Now all he surveys on the edge of that
wild rock-fall,
In his sandstone crevice where even the
sunlight pales,
Is a trickle of the creek, one yard of
shadowy sand
Under his golden roof; small space enough
For the tall man striding the mountains,
urgent with love
For all those rocky miles could put in his
hand.
Yet what’s the size of the spirit, and
what’s its shape?
Here in the spring, forever eager and
young
While still that’ lyrebird breaks the eternal
sleep
Of the depths below with sweet and
radiant song,
N.S.W.
Note upon note in one long crystal shower,
And faint tongue-orchids wake in their
cover of moss,
He shall be still what most he loved and
was:
Deep under rock, sarcochilus in flower.
Wherefore these words, Fitz Gerald. It
was high time,
After these twenty years, to write acknow-
ledging
Your company in our craft and struggle
of rhyme
Where we, like the strider of mountains,
have gone foraging
By cliff and creek for the flower among
the stones,
That shower of delight the lyrebird sings
so readily;
So now I salute you both, all his green
family,
In this small tuft of leaves, your grand-
father once.
It is like his own hand rising through
the rock
With cool green fingers flourishing there
most secretly
To startle the traveller with a dead man’s
look
And move in his mind with images of
eternity.
And may you, too, and so may I be seen,
In a hundred years when we have fallen
in our turn
Down the abyss where the lyrebird sings
in the fern,
Green as sarcochilus, orchid of the ravine.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Tri ; i'S
Genuine hand-woven Harris Tweed Sports Cosjt,
two-button style with flap pockets. Fawn, Grey,
Blue, Green, Brown. Si2;es: 34-44". £ll/11/-
All'wool Pebble Twist tweed Sports Coat, expertly
tailored, in colours of Fawn, Blue, Grey, and
Green. Sises: 34 to 44 inches. £l3/13/' each.
TRUTH IN ADVtRTISINC'
The amazing, new, Zealon Sports Trousers that
outwear three ordinary trousers. Tailored by
Varley. In Grey, Blue/Grey. Price, £7/12/6 pair.
Quality Sports Trousers in flannel worsted. Self-
supporting. In Light Fawn, Dark Fawn, Light
and Dark Grey. All sizes. Priced at £7/5/- pair.
MEN’
GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. MAIL TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE 80951 AND ASK FOR T.O.P.S.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 3, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3938
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior P v H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
MiAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;,
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
"UNITED FRONT" ARRIVES
THE N. S. Wales A.L.P. conference, which is to
meet in Sydney on August 13-14, will be a sight for
sore eyes of old Communists and fellow-travellers.
For a few years, since the amendments to the
Arbitration Act passed by the Menzies Government
made it possible to eject the Communist control
from the big unions, they have been in the
wilderness.
Now they are coming back in a big way under
the wing of Dr. Evatt and his followers. They are
no longer the enemies against whom Dr. Evatt
announced himself compelled to protect the rocket-
range by special legislation. They are the Doctor’s
allies against the fearsome “Menzies-Fadden-
Santamaria-Fascist group,” the bogy which is now
held up to frighten unionists into the Leftist fold.
They are, indeed, once more part of the “United
Front,” their tactics of the lightning strike and
every other illegal measure to hold the community
to ransom, apparently backed by “Labor’s” Federal
leaders, and full partners with “Labor” once more
in campaigns “against the atom-bomb” and “for
peace” against the “warmongers,” who have the
temerity to insist that Australia shall have an
effective defensive force.
They are back in their spiritual home with a
“Labor” party which agreed at its Federal confer-
ence in January to oppose the sending of Australian
troops to Malaya to stem the Communist advance
towards these shores. They are once more in full
communion with a Leader of the Opposition in the
Federal House who follows the Moscow line in
holding that the bandit organisation of Malaya is
purely nationalistic and has no Communist
ingredient, and with Brother Clive, who told an
audience at Sydney University the other day that
Malayan women and children were being killed in
thousands by bombs dropped by the Australian
squadron there.
True, Dr. Evatt has described Mr. Menzies’s
statement that he is helping to promote the resurg-
ence of Communism as “an absolute falsehood”;
but if he isn’t, what is he doing? Throughout his
history in politics he has had the closest conjunction
with the Communists whenever they needed him*
His association with Communist counsel and in
the Communist plans to disrupt the Petrov com-
mission and wreck its inquiry was plain for all to
see. And when his charges of conspiracy, unbacked
by a single piece of evidence and wanton and
untruthful to the last word, were exploded it was
to the Communist and Leftist wings that he turned
for succor,
It is the Left that has rallied behind him, and
he who has condoned the movement to revive the
United Front, which was so evident in Victoria
within the past few days in elections in which the
official “Labor” branch of the A.R.U. backed candi-
dates for office who included Comrade J. J. Brown,
one of the most notorious and active Communists
in the country. The result of the election as a
whole has been to create a United Front manage-
ment for the Victorian A.R.U. in place of the
previous industrial-group control; and within this
executive management, by grace of Dr. Evatt’s
followers, the administration will be in the power
of the Communists. In the Waterside Workers’
election in Victoria the results have been very
similar for the same cause. The Communists could
not have hoped to win on their own, but it is clear
that Dr. Evatt’s A.L.P. would officially sooner
support a Communist than an industrial-grouper or
a Liberal.
Mr. Menzies says that he is alarmed at the
position which is developing, and puts the case
squarely;—
When Dr. Evatt set out to launch public
attacks on the industrial-groups, which had been
the spearheads of the attack on Communists and
who had made full use of the secret-ballot law, he
must have known he was promoting the interests
of Communists. . . . To split the trade-unions is
the Communist objective. Those who help the
splitting are the Communists’ friends It
becomes abundantly dear that the assoriation
between the Labor party at Canberra and the
general Communist policy is extremely close.
This is a new line for Menzies. He has in
the past been inclined to deprecate the views of
those who associated the “Labor” party in general
terms with Communism, though he conceded
occasional associations of opportunism.
Dr. Evatt’s own reply is entirely irrelevant It
means nothing to say that the Prime Minister’s
statement is a falsehood when the facts are con-
sidered, and it is no refutation to claim that “what
I have steadfastly tried to do is to prevent the
Australian trade-union movement falling under the
control of the outside anti-Labor and semi-Fascist
Santamaria group.” Yet this group’s political
leaders were all men who had recently been elected
to Parliament as members of the “Labor” party,
on “Labor” tickets, sitting behind an acquiescent
Dr. Evatt as their leader for years until suddenly he
needed victims to sacrifice.
There is real cause for alarm. At a time when
the economy is becoming unstable it needs cool
heads on all sides to prevent inflation from getting
out of control. But the Evatt party has little regard
for what happens to the country, and neither has
the Cahill party, which is bringing back price-
fixing with all that that implies in blackmarketing
and bureaucratic injustice.
So far from fearing an economic crash, there
are large elements in Dr. Evatt’s present United
Front which would welcome one with open arms,
since it is out of social and economic distress that
revolutions are made and dictatorships of the
proletariat established. Dr. Evatt has shown him-
self throughout his career an opportunist and quite
careless of public interest where the party has had
something to gain. And he has nothing to say at
present against the industrial disruption which is
being organised by such unions as the watersiders,
boilermakers, building-workers, basic public-utility
and transport and other labor, all aimed to black-
mail out of the community wages which the
economy can’t carry for long without having its back
broken.
A former High Court judge, Dr. Evatt knows
very well that all the present disturbance is aimed
at the authority of the arbitration court, and tends
to produce a contempt of the law and its penalties.
But he himself lends his influence to the encourage-
ment of this lawlessness by giving general support
and allowing his followers to associate themselves
closely with the people who are seeking to destroy
the court and the Australian way of life with it.
It is to be hoped that the Federal Government
does not intend to allow the matter to drift. If it
does it will find itself next year with a Senate so
changed as to be able to block its legislation and
cause a deadlock in Parliament in the interests of
the United Front of Leftist “Labor” and Com-
munism which supports the Opposition. An early
general election after a reform of the Senate method
of election would be salutary. It would certainly
cleanse the “Labor” party of some of its more
politically undesirable elements.
White or Brown Sugar?
THIS is the season of the year when flocks of
migratory birds and out-of-session politicians have
gone north, the former under their own power, the
latter chiefly at public expense. In due time both
types of travellers return, apparently glad to be
back, the main difference between them being that
the birds maintain a discreet silence about where
they have been and what they have seen, whereas
the politicians make speeches about the “magnifi-
cent potentialities of our undeveloped north.” But
when it comes to taking practical steps to convert
potentiality into fact the politicians, like the birds,
might just as well have stayed down south. North
Australia is undeveloped, north Queensland under-
developed.
Last year’s census showed that the growth of
population in Queensland above the Tropic of
Capricorn had not kept pace with the rate of
increase below that line. For that matter Queens-
land as a whole increased its population at a rate
slower than that of every State except New South
Wales, and this notwithstanding that its birth-rate
is considerably above the Commonwealth average
and its death-rate slightly below it.
At one time our “empty North” was explained
away with the story that white men couldn’t work
and thrive in the climate, but the prosperity of the
sugar-industry and the health and vigor of second-
and third-generation North Queenslanders long ago
made nonsense of that argument. A slow rate of
population-growth is not peculiar to North Queens-
land. It is a trend noticeable in most rural districts
of Australia; almost the only exceptions are those
parts where expansion has been made possible by
irrigation-schemes—e.g., rice in the Murrumbidgee
area —or where local secondary industries have been
developed.
In competing with the southern States for
migrant labor, Queensland has suffered two
disadvantages. Distance is one; the other is that
cane-cutting, the chief employment offered the new
arrivals, is much more arduous than most of the
jobs offering down south.
Two critics recently advocated Asian immigra-
tion as a solution to the “empty-north” problem.
A Marist missionary, Father Marsden, urged
Australia to “open the gates” to Asian immigrants.
as it was impossible for this continent to continue
for ever as a white country.
The second proposal came from Mr. L. C.
Canfield, general-manager for Australia and New
Zealand of the Prudential Assurance Co., who
considers that indentured Asiatic labor is the answer
As reported in the Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” he said
that he had seen in the Middle East, the Sudan,
Egypt and Palestine “what could be done with the
type of cheaply paid work-force which Australia
could never provide.”
Laborers more suited to the climate than the
majority of white men could be brought in batches
of 10,000 for periods of from three to five years.
Strict supervision could be an effective counter to
their spreading outside the limits of their working
area, and they could be replaced periodically by
fresh batches of workers. ...I feel that the
unions are taking a shortsighted view in opposing
this policy, which, in the long run, will prove
against their best interests. ,
It is Mr. Canfield who is taking the shortsighted
view; he is not looking far ahead or far back. The
policy he favors had its advocates in Australia a
century ago, but even then the majority of opinion
was against it.
In 1839 about 1300 indentured Indian laborers
were brought put to work on pastoral holdings, and
during the 1840’s Chinese coolies were introduced
in an attempt to solve the labor-shortage consequent
upon the cessation of transportation. The plan was
neithei successful nor popular, and after the dis-
covery of gold most of the Chinese drifted to the
diggings, their numbers greatly enhanced by
thousands of their compatriots who came in
unindentured and unasked. In 1855 Victoria
passed an Act restricting Chinese immigration, and
in the following years all other States followed suit.
Westralia, the last to do so, experimented with
indentured Chinese coolies on a small scale, and
South Australia recruited 200 in 1874 for tropical
agriculture in the Northern Territory and a larger
number for the construction of the Darwin-Pine
Creek railway. By 1888 restrictions were extended
to the Northern Territory.
Shortage of labor was also behind the first
importation of Pacific-islanders to Australia in
1842, when Ben Boyd brought some natives from
the New Hebrides to work his property in southern
New South Wales. Landholders in the Riverina
followed his example, but the experiment was not
successful, and it is the sugar-industry that is mainly
thought of when speaking of indentured Kanaka
labor. Between 1864, when Louis Hope imported
54 islanders to work on his sugar plantations in the
Moreton Bay district, and 1890 close on 50,000
Kanakas were recruited for the sugar-industry; they
came from the New Hebrides, the Solomons, New
Britain and New Guinea. Opposition to the system
grew; in the 1890’s Queensland began to talk of
abolishing recruitment, and after Federation in 1901
this was done by an Act of the Federal Parliament.
In 1902 Queensland’s production of sugar was
78,000 tons, of which 85 per cent, was produced by
colored labor. Fifty years later, under white labor,
the output was 704,000 tons, with a record, in the
1948-49 season, of 910,000 tons.
To reintroduce indentured labor would not
only be putting the clock back; even if it were
desirable from an Australian viewpoint, it is most
unlikely that such a plan would be acceptable to
the new nations of Asia. Mr. Nehru, for one, would
scarcely agree to Indian nationals coming to this
country on any other terms than equality, and most
Australians would agree that we have no right to
offer them anything less.
A scheme now being tried out in Queensland
offers much more chance of success than this Asian-
labor proposal. In co-operation with the Govern-
ment, three canegrowers, all of Italian descent, were
sent to Italy to select New Australians for work
on the canefields. They interviewed 5000 would-be
migrants in all parts of Italy and chose 1500, mostly
between the ages of 22 and 25, all farm-bom and
all keen to work on the land in Australia. A'
specially chartered ship brought 950 of these
migrants to Caims and Townsville direct, sailing
round the north of Australia instead of the
customary southern route. Most of the newcomers
were single men, but not all; the party included 150
women and children. The. remainder of the
selected migrants followed in a later ship, disem-
barked at Newcastle and at once entrained for the
canefields.
It is hoped that this scheme will solve the
immediate problem of finding people who .are pre-
pared to stay in the cane-country and make their
homes there. The wider problem of further
augmenting the population of the north depends on
an extension of cultivation and the establishment
of secondary industries and provision of amenities-
Plans now maturing may provide the answer to this.
The Mareeba-Dimbulah irrigation-scheme and the
Burdekin irrigation - project envisage greatly
increased acreage of tobacco, cotton and other
crops, and the Tully Falls hydroelectric scheme,
which will feed its first power into the north
Queensland electrical-system next year, is expected
ultimately to give electricity to every farm in the
north. Cheap power is a prerequisite of all modern
development, and the money spent at Tully will
bring more benefit to the north than any scheme for
indentured labor.


BACK AGAIN!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Not Co-operating
False prophets are already at work in
the “Labor” party now that the effect
of marginal-increases in pay is being
felt in the general cost of living. (Also
adding to costs is the “equalisation” that
has followed a fall in the overseas price
of butter and wheat.) The Premier of
Tasmania wants the “frozen” basic
wage defrosted so that quarterly increases
can catch up with the comparatively
small lift in living-costs over the past six
months. So it is with other “Labor ’
leaders. But nowhere, in such company
has it been mentioned that the increase
in living-costs which has so far not been
compensated for by a higher basic wage
is still more than offset by the “prosperity-
loading” of 1950. “Labor’s” attitude is
that what was given in a period of
unprecedented prosperity (the wool-
cheque for 1950-51 was almost twice that
for 1954-55) must be retained in times not
nearly so prosperous. In fact, grab,
grab, grab all the time.
It is an irresponsible and sectional
attitude, reeking of the pressure-group
technique. Whatever the grievances of
trade-unionists, their leaders, from Dr.
Evatt downward, have done little to lead
them along lines of rational co-operation
with the rest of the community. Wage-
earners, under a benevolent arbifration-
system, have been given an unprece-
dented opportunity to work out their
own economic destiny—but the important
word still remains work. Australia is a
backward country industrially, and the
40-hour week was introduced long before
its time. It remains the chief factor in
Australia’s high cost of living and
poor standard of essential services. We
are not working hard enough to maintain
our standard of living and at the same
time build for the future.
The middle-classes, whose skill and
perseverance have done so much for the
betterment, of the unskilled and, in the
past, often “downtrodden” wage-
earner, have always been thoughtful of
the economic and political welfare of the
wage-plug. But the wage-earner hasn’t
worried much about the burden which
the middle-classes have had to bear
during the inflation of the past 10 years.
And his “leaders” have encouraged him
to resent the recent attempts at restoring
margins for skill and special ability.
The trade-union movement, in effect,
exhorts its members to loaf and to
spend, and to hang the other fellow. This
may indeed be militancy, but it is very
close to being economic civil war which
cannot help impoverishing the country
and retarding its progress in relation to
other civilised communities.
Fresh Wind Down South
A fresh breeze seems to be blowing out
of Victoria over the somewhat stale out-
look of Australian Governments. While
other States almost fell over themselves
to restore price-fixing—as an easy way
of avoiding unpleasantness and as
another feeble flutter of the moribund
notion that anything can be fixed by
socialising it —the Melbourne Govern-
ment boldly rejected it.
Then Mr. Donald Mackinnon, chair-
man of the rural-policy committee of the
Liberal party, blew into Cowra (N.S.W.),
and told assembled Liberal Agrarians not
to be tempted by “small measures of
Socialism which might suit their
pockets.” All these little “measures,”
added-up, would total a police-State in
the finish. Any more boards to “control
primary production” would be, in his
view, a great danger.
A bit of Mr. Mackinnon’s philosophy
among the hierarchy of the party in Can-
berra would be welcome. It would restore
the wavering faith of many who flocked
to help Menzies form the Liberal party
in 1944, believing it would shock Socialism
out of the national system. They’ve lived
to see too much of what they rose against
perpetuated by successive Liberal Gov-
ernments since the Federal party gained
power in 1949.
To get back to Victoria, Agricultural
Minister Chandler has subtly suggested
to farmers that unless they make some
practical provision for the inevitable
drought they can scarcely expect the
Government to rush to (heir aid when it
comes.
And Mr. Warner, the Vic. Transport
Minister, went home from the Brisbane
conference of Transport Ministers talk-
ing about freedom for intra-State as well
as inter-State private road-transport,
abolition of the permit-system, and the
only charge a “fair wear-and-tear charge”
for road-building and upkeep:
Road-freedom cannot be granted if the
railways are handicapped by continuing
the present political instructions to under-
charge and thus to continue subsidies to
sectional interests in some cases and to
overcharge in others. Railway finances
will wreck State Budgets if the railways
are forced to pay current wages, subsidise
fares to assist political parties and com-
pete with private hauliers under the
proposed new freedoms.
“Proposed, new freedoms” from what?
Well, mainly from the Socialistic notion
that private enterprise must be penalised
and banned where it competes with Gov-
ernment enterprise. If it should strike
Dr. Evatt, the archpriest of Socialism-
cwm-whatnot, that Victoria has be-
come a chilly place for creeds such as his,
it may be wry consolation that he was
the deus ex machina of the change.
Morning After
In retrospect, the most enthusiastic
of the critics of the Geneva Conference
seem to be the Russians, and their com-
mentator who joined in the 8.8.C.’s
round-up of European opinion on the
results could say no more than that the
Ministers of the four Powers “would
accomplish much if they could keep the
spirit of goodwill.” Sir Anthony Men’s
contribution on a television-programme
was that the visit to Great Britain next
year of Khrushchev and Bulganin
“could open a new era,” but that “there
was long, hard difficult work ahead,”
though the Geneva spirit might “solve
problems which had baffled Europe and
bring a sense of security to our people.”
They might, but, wisely, nobody
seems to be banking on it.
The day’s news during the afterglow
which illuminated the hopes of the 8.8. C.
and British television contained the
following items:
The United States has sent a field-artillery
regiment with six atomic 280 mm. cannon
to Okinawa. United States guided-weapon
equipment may be installed in Japan.
A Vickers Valiant, one of the fusion-
bomb carriers in service in the R.AJF., is
to try for a record to Australia. One wiU
be Stationed at Woomera.
The British are developing an atomic
guided-missile which can travel half-
way round the world and guide itself by
the stars.
The United States Government is buying
£68,000,000-worth of British Hawker-
Hunter fighters as part of the set-up for
the arming of the Nato nations.
In Poland three Bast Buropeans were
sentenced to death as alleged British spies.
The United States Congress approved
a compromise Foreign-aid Bill to provide
£1,205,000,000 for assistance to United
States allies.
Protests from the United States, Britain,
Canada and Israel were lodged against
the brutal shooting-down by the Bul-
garians of an IsraeU passenger-plane with
51 passengers aboard under circumstances
inspiring amazement and horror.
The sailing-date for the advance party
of Australian troops to serve in Malaya
was fixed for August 31.
Lastly the cool-headed Republican-
party leader in the U.S. Senate, Senator
William Knowland, damped-down the
enthusiasm of parlor-Pinks with a sober
speech in which he declared that the
United States must not lower its guard
because of the ostensibly friendly
approach of the Soviet leaders at Geneva.
“Neither we nor the free world,” he said,
“must lull ourselves into a Little Red
Riding Hood complex and a belief that
because the wolf has put on grand-
mother’s cap and nightgown his teeth
are any less shaip and his intentions any
less menacing.”
He asked the Senate and the free
peoples of the world to remember that
“the Government that held millions of
its own people in slave-camps was still in
power in the Kremlin.”
Unfair Rents
Of all the items that contribute to the
make-up of the retail price-index, which,
although no longer used as an automatic
measure for basic-wage variations is
still generally accepted as recording
changes in the cost-of-living, the rent
component has risen least in the years
since wartime-controls were imposed. In
April this year the index-number for
food-and-groceries had, on the basis of
1000 representing the average of the
three years to 1939, increased to 3124. On
the same basis the figure for clothing was
3934 and for miscellaneous items 2132.
In contrast, the rent-index had only
reached 1310.
Clearly, no matter what might have
' been said of grasping landlords in days
gone by, owners of house-property in
postwar years have not had much to
grasp. Not that high rents are not a
problem to thousands of Australians, but
these are usually victims of the furnished-
room racket, under which tenants, them-
selves protected by rent-control, put a
few sticks of furniture into a room and
collect twice as much for its rent as they
pay to the real landlord for the whole
house. Rent-control, imposed to protect
tenants against rapacious landlords who
might have taken advantage of the war-
induced shortage of houses, has dealt
very harshly with the honest landlord.
Gradually the States have been relaxing
rent-control, but the process has been
slow —tenants have more votes than
landlords. Victoria, under the Cains, was
the tardiest in relaxing rent-control.
Some relief was granted last year, but
only in the higher bracket; rents up to
£2 10s. a week remained pegged at 1940
rates.
The Bolte Government has now
announced further amendments to the
Landlord and Tenant Act. Rents which
have been fixed at less than £2 10s. since
1940 will be increased by 25 per cent.
Tenants affected will probably feel the
rise rather a slug, but they will find it
hard to dispute that they have in effect
been accepting a living-subsidy from the
owners of their homes for many years.
Rents of business premises will be
increased by 30 per cent, and rent-
control will not apply to new lettings.
Another overdue reform will enable
owners to secure undisputed possession
two years after giving notice to tenants,
while the room-racket may be overcome
to some extent by a provision which
permits subletting to be taken into
account by the Fair Rents Court. When
the amendments come before the Vic-
torian Parliament “Labor” will no doubt
raise a songandance about increased
burdens on the workers, but the new
Government is merely doing something
to correct an unfair and unjust anomaly
which political expediency has permitted
to masquerade under the name of fair
rents.
Who Helped the
Communists?
“In the ACT’ : Does Dr. Evatt deceive
himself or anybody else? His latest out-
burst is another desperate effort to deny
that his attack on industrial-groups pro-
moted the interests of the Communists
in the unions, with results now starkly
apparent in a long-suffering community.
No better illustration of clotted think-
ing could be provided than his prepos-
terous suggestion that Mr. Menzies “is
very disturbed at the world-wide support
given by the Big Four to international
peace and understanding,” which per-
haps arose from the Prime Minister’s
rightly cautious comment on Geneva.
An equal degree of misunderstanding or
of wilful distortion of the facts is appar-
ent in the Doc.’s claim that the Prime
Minister is also disturbed at the fact that
the Australian “Labor” movement “will
not tolerate the influence or control of
any outside factions.”
This is either the frenzy of fear or the
outpouring of a brand of fanatical
egotism on a scale never seen before in
Australian politics. Evatt’s role as leader
is still highly uncertain, as more and more
of his critics in the party’s ranks are
purged by the “rebels.” As he and those
still willing to support him, for their own
purposes, chip away at the party struc-
ture they resemble the building-wrecker
who stands on top of the chimney and
breaks away the bricks below him.
The only people who will benefit from
the current troubles and the coming
crash will be the Communists, who are
again finding their union activities sub-
ject to less restraint and their advocacy
of industrial lawlessness subject to less
effective answers within the union ranks.
The calamitous results which Mr.
Menzies deplored, the “monstrous things”
which included the joint Communist-
“ Labor” ticket in the Victorian Railways
Union election, are the best answer to
the Evatt line. If the Evatt purpose is not
the promotion of Communism in the
unions—and he denies it, of course—then
what is its objective, and why have the
Communists thus suddenly launched their
present attack on the community?
Evatt supporters, it is reported, are to
hold a mass-rally in Sydney a week before
the special conference of the State A.L.P.
It is stated that all “Labor” members of
Parliament are to be invited. It would
be an achievement of the utmost public
importance and value if at least one of
the members still sitting behind him at
Canberra but completely aware of where
his wrecking is leading Australia were to
attend, determined to tell the truth. Such
a member would get a hostile reception
from a section of the rally, no doubt,
although he could surprise himself and
others by the support which might be
forthcoming for a courageous leader of
opinion of that sort. But even if police
protection were needed —and it might be
on such an occasion—the results would
be \ worth it, as demonstrating to the
Australian people and the world that
more and more of the rank-and-file of
official “Labor” are fed up with Dr.
Evatt’s words and works.
A Commonwealth Court
The proposal of Sir Hartley Shawcross
to form a Supreme Court of the Com-
monwealth is unlikely to meet a very
friendly response from any quarter.
Canada, India and Pakistan have
already withdrawn from the Privy
Council, and Australian politicians
are divided on the question of whether
matters should remain as they are.
There are always Australian High Court
judges who are de facto Privy Council
members who could sit if they were on
the spot; but they never are, being occu-
pied with their own duties.
One of the great difficulties in Aus-
tralia lies in separation of the State courts
and the growing tendency to make politi-
cal appointments of men who are poorly
fitted for judicial service on an appeal-
court level.
The High Court is a specialised body;
a court of interpretation. In fact, in
some ways it might be said that it is a
revisory legislative body whose decisions
sometimes seem to have more effect in
defining Commonwealth Statute-law than
Parliament itself. Its own mother would
scarcely know Section 92 as seen through
the eyes of the High Court and the Privy
Council.
At this stage it is perhaps healthy that
the present system should be continued.
Australia and other growing colonies have
not the fund of judicial experience—and
judges—available in London, and if for
nothing else it is good for constitutional
counsel in Australia to have the oppor-
tunity to whet their minds on the hard
institutions of the Old Land where they
have to argue before a tribunal abso-
lutely detached from local views.
Apart from this, it is healthy at this
formative period for the High Court to
know that its interpretations have the
chance of being turned over by others.
It is, of course, in most cases the preroga-
tive of the High Court to say whether
the appeal shall be allowed to go beyond
itself or not.
And if appeals are to go from the
High Court there seems to be little doubt
where the average judge or the average
man would prefer them to go. Certainly
if the choice were between the estab-
lished Privy Council with its long tradi-
tion and immense reputation and a
British Commonwealth Court, the Privy
Council would win hands-down. A
Commonwealth Court would have to be
a Commonwealth Court —not one repre-
sentative of parts of the Commonwealth
only. And if it were an all-Common-
wealth court it would be somewhat diffi-
cult to determine its membership unless
appeals from a particular section of the
Commonwealth were set down before
judges approved specifically by that sec-
tion ; in which case each country might
just as well cut the painter from the
British judicial system and go alone.
If that system were not followed, it
certainly would not have a hope of work-
ing unless there were freedom of roster
under which any members of the Bench,
from wheresoever appointed, might sit
in any cause. And this does not seem
to be practical politics.
However, the existing position is not
without its difficulties. At the rate at
which prosperity is sending appeals to
the Privy Council from Australia the
council will soon have to shift to Mel-
bourne or Alice Springs to do its year’s
work. If the Australian business expands
much more it won’t be able to do any-
thing else.
New States in the North
The new-State movement is becoming
activised so that politicians are having
to sit up and take notice. The New Eng-
land Constituent Assembly, which has
been described as a “shadow legislature,”
has begun to put its propaganda on a
practical basis with the drafting of bills
and the devising of measures to facili-
tate the quick achievement of separation
once it has been agreed to.
The Liberal party has at last begun to
lend its cautious support to the move-
ment. It is beginning to realise that
stable government must depend from now
onward on the Federal idea and that
with States receding to a subordinate
position which was unthinkable at the
time of Federation, the more States the
merrier if government is to react to the
need of regional development, which
seems to be the essence of healthy
growth.
In a few years at the present rate of
progress country districts will be unable
o Continued on next page)


to achieve anything in Parliaments—even
now their influence is only sporadic. The
weight of votes which puts “Labor” per-
manently in power —with a little shame-
ful gerrymandering —in Queensland and
which makes it difficult for any party but
“Labor” to win in New South Wales,
is all in the cities and manufacturing
and mining districts. These set the
country’s economic policy and determine
the extent of the burdens which primary
production shall carry and which loads
on it the burden of high wages—with
margins—strikes, the 40-hour week and
grossly inefficient rail- and sea-transport,
with the length of haul to the coast deter-
mined not by the shortest approach to a
good harbor, but by the need to feed
everything possible through Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide. The
Queensland Government, by way of
example, actually gives freight-conces-
sions to encourage the carriage of
northern wool the whole length of the
State to Brisbane instead of to Towns-
ville, its natural port.
With the increasing cost of long hauls
the subdivision of States economically
becomes more and more important.
Armidale, Tamworth, Walcha and
Glen Innes can all reach the coast with
runs of not much more than 150 miles.
But Sydney is their port. When money
is spent on port-development it is spent
on Sydney, and when rolling-stock has
to be provided it has to be provided with
the knowledge that the hauls will be
twice that which would be necessary if
the New England coast were the point
of shipment. *
Where there are ports outside the
Great Wens they are apt to receive a
minimum of consideration from State
Governments. Newcastle is a case in
point. Though it handles about 4,000,000
tons of coal a year it is about the most
out-of-date port in the world, controlled
by nine authorities and particularly by
the Railway Department, which has
little wish to see it modernised and put
under a local port authority. It is for
reasons of this sort that there is a
considerable new-State following in
Newcastle.
The New England movement has been
the storm-centre of agitation for new
States during the post-war years, largely
because it is one of the two most suitable
areas in the Commonwealth for immedi-
ate separation. Even the London “Times”
recently devoted a two-column article to
its plans and to the influence which the
new Armidale University was having on
political thinking in northern N. S. Wales.
The second most suitable area—or
perhaps the most suitable—is North
Queensland. Its new-State disciples will
next week hold a conference at
Mareeba, the tobacco centre. At present
North Queensland, with an area well on
towards .280,000 square miles, has 16
members in a State House of 75. Bris-
bane has 24 in an area of about 400
square miles. The North has'no chance
on- a vote against the rest.
The North Queensland conference is
only a beginning, but its reorganised
movement should have more chance than
those in most districts because of the
solid support \of party organisations.
Mr. Hanlon, when Premier, in 1949, said
that there would not be a properly
balanced outlook in Canberra till there
were three States in the North. And the
Liberal and C.P. parties in 1950 issued
a manifesto offering to fix new-State
boundaries and call a Constitutional con-
vention if returned to office.
POLITICAL POINTS
On Monday Sydney was enduring a
24-hour power-house strike staged by
members of 13 unions in protest against
a refusal to pay penalty rates for August
Bank Holiday. What puzzles most folk
is why there should be such a holiday in
the calendar at all.
• •
General Motors seem to believe in
Holden on to it.
• • -
In the time of Gladstone and Disraeli
“Bulgarian atrocities” meant the massacre
of Bulgarians by the Turks. Last week’s
Bulgarian atrocity was the senseless and
inexcusable murder of 58 people, the
passengers and crew of\ an Israeli air-
craft which was shot down for allegedly
venturing on the wrong side of the Bul-
garian-Greek border.
• «
Malaya’s first election resulted in
almost a clean-sweep for the “Triple
Alliance,” the combination of Malay,
Chinese and Indian organisations which
fought as one party. It won 51 of the
52 elective-seats, the odd-one going to
the Pan-Malayan Islamic party. During
the election-campaign the Alliance advo-
cated self-government by 1959, but the
Prime Minister-elect, Prince Abdul
Rahman, who was due to meet Colonial-
Secretary Lennox Boyd at the weekend,
now talks of independence as “the first
task of the new Government.”
• •
If some political speculators are right
the balance of power in the Senate after
July 1 next will be held by King Cole.
• •
Reimposition of price-control in New
South Wales and South Australia will
provide an interesting test of its worth,
as Victoria, sandwiched in between the
two, has refused to revert to controls.
Acting-Premier Rylah, when urged to do
so, said that his Government would not
be stampeded into a hasty reintroduction
of price-control, which it regarded as an
inefficient method of price-fixing.
It encourages blackmarketing, creates
shortages, and does not in any way control
the pressures which cause inflation.
The Premier north of the Murray takes
a contrary view. We’ll just-have to wait
and see which one’s right.
• •
News that Russia contemplates launch-
ing a satellite into space within a couple
of years has caused considerable per-
turbation in Prague and Budapest.
• •
Most injured innocent in Australia at
the moment is Premier Cahill, who is
jarred to the roots of his sensitive soul
at the reception Menzies gave his sug-
gestion of a Premiers’ Conference to
consider industrial unrest. Menzies
replied that he saw no reason for a meet-
ing ; that at the June conference no
Premier, not even Cahill, had mentioned
industrial unrest; that Cahill’s State was
the only one in which unrest was on the
increase. These facts suggested there
was a local factor present in the N. S.
Wales industrial situation alone.
Earlier, Holt had spoken of Cahill
“playing politics” in suggesting a con-
ference. Quoth Cahill: “All I ask is
that some positive steps be taken to
grapple with the problem.” On Monday,
with all the power-house trade-unionists
idle on an issue that was purely a State
one, Cahill had an excellent opportunity
to take a few steps and do a little grapp-
ling. But not a step and nary a grapple!
• •
Slices of wisdom from Dr. Evatt:
Mr. Menzies has always acted in the
interests of the Santamaria clique because
its objectives are the same as his own —
the indefinite continuance of international
tension abroad and resort to the methods
of the police-State at home.
The plain truth is that Mr. Menzies is
very disturbed at the world-wide support
given by the Big Four to international peace
and understanding.
Can this be the same Dr. Evatt who was
once a Justice of the High Court?
• 9
Australian Paper Manufacturers, who
make paper out of gumtrees in Gipps-
land, are burnishing up their halo. They
have just planted their ten-millionth tree
in five years—three planted for every
one cut down.
• •
Brighton Council (Melbourne) is to
sue the Victorian Railway Commissioners
for alleged neglect of and damage to parts
of a street along which the Commis-
sioners’ trams run. It arises out of an
agreement made in 1906. What N.S.W.
Transport Commission will be up for if
Sydney councils start the same thing is
too horrible to contemplate.
• •
Under its own form of what we call
“stabilisation of primary production”
the U.S. Government found itself with
huge surpluses of farm-produce. So now
the Senate has authorised Washington to
increase the amount it may sell for for-
eign currency from £313 million-worth
to £670 million-worth. This has raised
a howl of protest from other countries,
including ours, which go in for “stabilisa-
tion” —which seems to have become very
unstable indeed.
• •
Everyone’s heard of Joe Blow, that
poor old citizen who’s always being
pushed around. Mrs. Joan Blow is made
of different stuff. She’s principal of a
"PEACE AND CO-PROSPERITY"
Melbourne girls’ school, and when ’teen-
age pupils tried pushing her around she
not only put them in their place, but told
their protesting parents something must
be dashed wrong at home for them to
behave as they did. So far, she’s way
ahead on points.
• •
Bert has rebuked Casey for being quite
unconscious of the “new spirit of con-
ciliation which is sweeping the world
today.” Perhaps Casey has been watch-
ing Bert, who shows no sign of applying
the new spirit to his dealings with the
industrial-groups or with anyone else
except J. J. Brown and others of his color.
• @
Now that F.D. has been restored to
all Australian coins the P.M. has dis-
closed, that the reason for its omission in
the first place was that coins were wanted
in a hurry for the Coronation, so the
Government “decided to adopt an inscrip-
tion which could not conflict with the
Royal style and titles soon to be deter-
mined but at that date still not settled.”
Well, why wasn’t that answer given in
the first place instead of inquirers being
fobbed-off with stories about the difficulty
of fitting the letters on the coin?
• •
“Bass”: Clement Johnston, chairman
of U.S. Chambers of Commerce and
President Eisenhower’s goodwill envoy to
Australia, introduced a Perth audience to
big money, and wanted to be sure he was
understood. To illustrate his point he
envisaged a business enterprise which
kicked-off with a billion dollars in 45 b.c.
and lost money at the rate of a thousand
dollars a day from then till now. It still
has 270 million dollars to lose. That s
based on the Yankee billion or a
thousand million —not the English billion
of a million million —and it represents
what Uncle Sam pays each year m
subsidies to his primary producers.
• •
Latest victim of the Melbourne City
Council’s no-parking policy is the Mel-
bourne City Council. It has just come
out that the city daddies are paying
£llOO a year for parking-space in the
Eastern 1 Market, said space being an area
it lets to a private parking firm for £676.
• •
Red is still the color for danger on
the Victorian railways. Brown means
danger, too.
• •
Latest move towards self-government
for New England is a suggestion to have
a bill introduced into the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council as either an Opposi-
tion or a private bill and to ask the
N. S. Wales Government to treat it as a
non-party measure. Cahill isn’t likely to
agree. A better plan might be to point
out to him that by allowing New Eng-
land to secede he would be reducing the
numbers of his political opponents in
the N. S. Wales Assembly—the Country
party holds most of the electorates
covered by the proposed new State. Once
rid of them, Cahill’s chances of winning
the State election would be muclfr rosier.
• •
While schemes are revived from time to
time to divert water from Queensland
coastal rivers into central Australia a
plan with a somewhat opposite purpose
has been proposed in Victoria. The idea,
sponsored by the Australian Primary
Producers’ Union, is to drain Lake Coran-
gamite, in the Western District, by means
of a tunnel which would lead the water
through the Otway Ranges into Toma-
hawk Creek, whence it would flow to the
sea. Cost, estimated by a Melbourne
University lecturer in mining-engineer-
ing: between £2 million and £3 million.
Purpose: to make available 250,000 acres
of rich soil.
• •
“Fuzzy-Wuzzy”: One little problem
with far-reaching implications is coming
up for Canberra. The representative for
the New Guinea islands on the Papua
and New Guinea Legislative Council,
Mr. D. Barrett, told the Council recently
that Asians and “mixed-blood” persons,
while appreciating their status as Aus-
tralian Protected Persons, were asking
why they should be denied the right of
becoming Australian citizens. He
appealed to the Administration to press
the matter most strongly in representa-
tions to Canberra.
• •
A Mr. Turtle, who is president of the
Associated Poultry Farmers of Australia,
says an egg-shortage is imminent in Vic-
toria and poultry-farmers forecast a
“mass exodus” from egg-production.
Well, as long as they take the Egg Board
with them nobody will grieve very much.
• •
“X.S.”: Melbourne General Sessions
recorded the first severe sentence for neg-
ligent driving. A carrier drove his truck
at 40 m.p.h. through a crowd emerging
from a picture-theatre, although he knew
his brakes were defective, and killed an
engaged couple. Judge Mulvany took
into account the driver’s previous blame-
less character, the jury’s mercy-recom-
mendation, and the fact that the man
stopped and was not affected by liquor.
Sentence, 18 months’ jail.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
T ACCEPTED a lift home from a
sociable bloke who regaled me with
his account of when a Young Aus-
tralia League Continental touring-party,
of which he was a member, had
an audience with the Pope. Rather
overawed by the spectacle of the Swiss
Guard, the youthful party was waiting
to be shown into the pontifical presence
when his Holiness emerged unexpectedly
and, in perfect English and informal and
jovial tones, addressed a young Adelaide
hopeful: “Good-morning! What are you
doing here?” With the alacrity born of
surprise, the lad said “I’m minding the
mob’s coats, sir!” “And a very wise
precaution, indeed! ” his Holiness replied,
and passed on to talk with the other
members of the party. —“Curate’s Egg.”
❖ . *
“Fay O’M.”: A New York television
fan writing to a radio man in Australia
says: “I trust your TV will be an im-
provement over some of our rot Our
commercials are so noxious that I have
put a blab-out in the 12in. speaker of my
TV set. I have attached a snap-switch
to two long wires. One wire is connected
to the speaker, and the other to the wire
I unsoldered from the speaker. I then
cut out the sound part of the commercial
and watch the huckster flap his mouth like
a fish out of water.”
-)J* H^t-
“Zorok”: As there’s to be a world-
wide investigation into ghosts we may
now see the laying of various spectres,
grisly and otherwise, including Australia’s
own celebrated Fisher’s Ghost —if it
hasn’t already been laid. And, if the
inquiry extends in that direction, it’s pos-
sible a few literary poltergeists might be
run to earth; and we might find out
which of the numerous sportsmen-writers
actually write their own copy ... As
long as they don’t lay the one that walks
on Thursday.
*i* *Z* *>
“Cauboy”: Judith Anderson cheer-
fully admitted in London that on her last
appearance here in 1927 she
was not a hot success. She
certainly wasn’t. Her main
play was “The Green Hat,”
by Michael Arlen, the fabu-
lously fashionable playwright
of the moment. Melbourne
critics held an orgy of moral
indignation, not noticing that
the real charge against the
playwright was not bad
morals but bad art. The
theme of the play was the
same as Brieux’s “Damaged
Goods” and Ibsen’s “Ghosts,”
and Michael had nothing new
to say about it. There was
nothing much wrong with
Miss Anderson’s acting—in
fact, it was much better than
her part.
♦> ❖
“Allan B.”: Victorian
Public Works Department
has put a dirty one over
Ullina, north of Ballarat. For
nearly six years the locals
hammered for a grant to ex-
tend their hall. Losing all hope
of a grant they went ahead on
their own to do-up the old
building. Then, whacko!
out of the blue a letter
came from the department
telling them their application
for a grant of £750 for addi-
tions to their hall had been granted.
Great jubilation in the old town. Plans
for a new fence, repainting the building,
connection with electricity, and other odd
jobs flew around. But gloom has again
descended on little Ullina. The red-tape
narks have sent another letter:
“Apparently a mistake has been made in
writing to the Ullina hall committee, as
no subsidy has been granted. The grant
has been made to‘the Ultimo committee
in the Swan Hill shire.”
♦♦♦
“Stuie”: I was having a Jimmy Wood-
ser a few nights ago when a prosperous-
appearing and vaguely-remembered
citizen joined me with the invitation:
“Drink that up and have one with me.
It’s sixteen years since we had the last! ”
Then I remembered that night in Septem-
ber, 1939, when, a few minutes after Mr.
Menzies announced that Australia was at
war, I was driven home by an official
from the German Club of which I had
been an honorary member for about five
years. On arrival I asked my companion
in for a drink, over which I, with his
permission, read the call-up telegram
which had been awaiting me. We shook
hands as we said good-night. I rang him
at his office next morning, but wasn’t
surprised when a typist told me that he
would be absent for an indefinite period,
which meant his internment for the dura-
tion. This time it’s I who have been in-
terned by the missus as a result of the
reunion session.
♦+♦
“Dorian”: Katchen’s Sydney Town
Hall string-busting demonstration and
subsequent platform denunciation of
“the very best [piano] for hire in Sydney”
shows how little we know about our con-
cert-instruments. It took a blind French
organist, Andre Marchal, to “discover”
a previously-forgotten stop on the Town
Hall organ.
“Awfully sorry, but I promised to have this jumper finished tonight ."
“El Arem”: A New Australian in
Perth was up for assault. His excuse was
that “he had lost his temper.” Lashed to
fury, he had rushed at the object of his
rage, flung his arms about her and tried
to kiss her. Consequence: a month inside.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: Plato and Aristotle believed
music helped to mould character —con-
stant listening to one sort of music
developed a certain type of character;
other music built-up a different kind. In
India, continuous repetition of rhythmical
tunes has long been accepted as a means
by which states of trance or “super-
consciousness” may be induced —dear old
Handel’s “Largo” is supposed to be
efficacious. When I was trying to
teach a young fellow to sing I gave him
an exercise consisting of a string of
vowels to be sustained on each note of
the scale. As we progressed heavenwards,
he stopped and said, “This makes me
dizzy!” “Nonsense!” I replied, and on
we went warbling. Then he started to
sway and I caught him just as he was
about to topple over. The exercise must
have been a mantra /
“H.A.L.”: In reply to
“Nakhoda” (B. 20/7/’55).
The statue of Hercules which
used to grace Adelaide’s Vic-
toria-square now stand's in a
lawn of the gardens between
the main gates of Adelaide
Oval and St, Peter’s
Cathedral. Was it ever fig-
leaved? Before writing this
I had a close look and there
isn’t the slightest sign in
support. My memory goes
back to 1908, and it wasn’t
fig-leaved then, except when
some humorist put on one
from the near-by Moreton
Bay tree. A copy of a bronze
from the Farnese collection
in Italy, it was given to the
city by Horn, the explorer,
who also gave a copy of
another Farnese bronze, “The
Athlete,” and a copy in
marble of the Canova Venus.
This coy lady still stands on
North ( not Victoria) Terrace.
“The Athlete,” a beautiful
little bronze of a nude runner,
which stood in a public
square at North Adelaide,
was wrenched by gentlemen
from the University of Adelaide from its
pedestal and thrown into the Torrens.
Hauled out of the water, broken legs
welded and replaced, it was by another
lot of university-gentlemen wrenched off
again and hidden in a shed. There it lay
until it was found one morning in the
entrance to the cathedral. The Civic
Fathers decided not to risk having it
damaged again ; and ever since then it
has been lying neglected in a shed at a
City Council depot.
❖ ❖ *
“Moorapi”: Melbourne’s favorite
maxim now seems to be that the Olympic
preparations must be seen to be believed.
Overseas visitors of any note are trotted
around the M.C.G., Heidelberg village,
etc., so that they may gaze in wonder at
what has been achieved and carry glow-
ing reports abroad. From Avery
Brundage to the bevy of Italian manne-
quins just shown the works, foremen have
had a procession of conducted-tours on
their hands.
■£+ -l{+ High
“P.0.M.C.”: In a recent tome devoted
to the surrealist school of jugglers in
paint and plastics, modernist Italian sculp-
tor Luciano Minguzzi is quoted as saying:
“All I try to do is to devise the most
apposite ways to say what I mean.”
Surely the key-word of that remark could
have been “opposite”?,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roger Mike”: Soon, gone will be the
days of mirror-typing—when I find my
duplicate neatly typed on the back of the
original, because I have inserted the car-
bon back-to-front. An American woman
has invented a gadget which does away
with carbons. Instead it uses separate
ribbons —six of them, swelpme!
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Piper”: Biggest collection of coins
(florins, zacks and trey-bits winking
among the coppers) I’ve seen lately are
lying at the bottom of the shark-pool in
Taronga zoo’s aquarium. Goodness knows
if the people who chucked them there
thought it would bring them luck —by
the look of the sand it’s a very long time
since anyone felt lucky enough to dive in
and fish them out.
Hjgt HjgH
Thoughtless people who think
Eastern Nigeria couldn’t possibly be
a place for advanced social-thinking will
need to revise their ideas. A Government
committee there has recommended that
the price of wives be “frozen,” and that
they should be subject to hire-purchase.
What a slap in the eye for our own
vaunted enlightenment on the conjugal
state that denizens of the African jungle
have to show us the perfect married
set-up! All the Nigerian buck has to do
is sign on the dotted line, put down his
deposit (or arrange a trade-in with his
old model) and take delivery. Then, if
his new missus doesn’t come up to
specifications, he simply withholds his
instalments and the credit corporation,
following standard practice, repossesses.
In one stroke he is thereby relieved of
both human and financial neck-pains.
Anyone know the fare to Nigeria?
—“Bo.”
LOOSE THINKING
“It is only a pair, but it is the first time in
years that loose slacks have appeared, on these
shores.” Rome correspondent of Sydney
‘Herald:’
Whenas in slacks my Julia tracks,
Toms, Dicks and Harrys, Joes and Jacks
Are taken off with heart-attacks.
But all she thinks of is the news
About the Roman women’s trews:
Should slacks be tight, or slacks be lews ?
Some men might say, it isn’t right —
If slacks are slack they can’t be tight:
You might as well say black is white.
Girls take such hurdles in their strides:
If tights are neither shorts nor wides,
Slacks are a phase of fashion’s tides:
Whatever they decide on, that
Will merit an approving pat —
Which may be thought indelicate,
But when l cast my eyes and see
That undulation, tight or free,
As Herrick says, it sendeth me!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TN July, 1841, The Grange (Vic.)—now
Hamilton —acquired fame by the birth
there of sextuplets. They were all girls.
The first arrival was stillborn ; two died
later. In those days there were no helpful
aids—it is doubtful if even a doctor was
present. The mother was described as a
small woman. The father, a splitter, was
described “as an industrious young
man.” —“G’pa’s Understudy.”
❖ ❖ *i*
“Jindril”: If “Bullswool” (B. 20/7/’55)
had refused the P.M.G. Department
permission to lop his tree, it could have
waved the all-powerful Post and Tele-
graph Act and lopped without permission.
Having been in the lopping and burrow-
ing branch I know that the department
would use the Act in extreme circum-
stances only. When, for example, cost
and practicality dictated a new telephone-
pole route along a main highway bordered
by magnificent tuart-trees, and the resi-
dents objected, the Act was not waved;
“She bumps him off in the finish —I Wont tell you any more”
the pole-route was reconstructed along its
present inaccessible route. Such a policy
pays dividends anywhere.
❖ ❖
“Mac What!”: Queenslanders are
accustomed to hearing from departmental
spokesmen that they have the best
education-system, the most efficient rail-
way-system, or whatnot, in the Common-
wealth ; but a Brisbane city councillor
was rather more modest in his claim that
Queensland has one of the most efficient
police-forces in this State. Recalls the
365 nights in the year I was
responsible for the principal
programmes, engaging artists,
training choirs and other
ensembles, and about once in
the week single-handedly (ex-
cept for the technician) hold-
ing the fort in the studio from
8 p.m. till closing-down time.
I did the announcing, read
stories, gave talks, played
solos on the pianola, sang
songs to the accompaniment
of the same instrument: did
everything, in fact, save dance
the can-can or play records —
somehow records were con-
sidered unworthy in those days
to feature on the main even-
ing programmes! For all this
and divers other jobs I haven’t
bothered to mention I received
£4 a week! The strange thing
is that numbers of listeners —
judging from their letters —
appeared to enjoy the hotch-
notch.
❖
“Sister Ellell”: Driving
amid the peak-hour traffic
on a windy night we
were following behind a
utility, on the back of which
sat Mum, two kids and a baby
in a pram. As we were about
to turn out of the stream of
traffic, I was surprised to see
Scottish policeman who, when asked
“Isn’t this a free country?” replied, “It
will not be a free country at all, but one
of the largest cities in the town of
Glasgow.”
+i+ *** *
“Killar”: In the early days of broad-
casting in Sydney I was director of music
at a now-famous commercial station. For
Mumma take a nappie, and make the first
diagonal fold—none of those newfangled
kite-shaped tailpieces. I remarked to the
others, “Nice time to start topping and
tailing the babe, isn’t it?” One of the men
was intrigued to turn and watch her out
of sight; he announced: “Well, she’s
tricked you all —she’s tying it over her
head!”
»> ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: Melbourne’s mums and
dads had no problems about a Sunday-
afternoon outing the weekend the River
Burnett went aground on a sandbank
off Mt. Eliza. One of hundreds such
family-parties returned home with several
bright-faced kids, all exclaiming what a
beaut time they’d had watching the ship-
wreck; the golden-haired little girl who
hadn’t gone because of a cold raised
innocent blue eyes from her adventure-
story. “Huh,” she remarked, “lousy sort
of shipwreck! There wasn’t anyone
drowned.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: After revelations of the
less-savory aspects of pie and sausage in
Victoria, health inspectors have been on
their toes; one of them has caught red-
handed a tobacconist-hairdresser who
admitted that foodstuff displayed on the
counter of his shop was for sale, although
he had never registered his shop as food-
premises, had plans of the place approved
by the health authorities, or paid the ten-
bob annual fee. The foodstuffs which so
endangered the public’s health by its sale
in unauthorised premises was chewing-
gum.
“Spring's a long time coming this year , miss."
“C.P.G.”: Fellow who went into his
regular barber’s shop for a haircut in
Melbourne relaxed in one of the new
chairs and commented: “Beautiful chairs
you have herb, much better than the new
ones in the picture-theatres.” From a
neighboring chair a voice growled: “So
they ought to be; look how much more
it costs to use them.”
*X* ❖ ❖
“Roirp”: Sir Charles Kingsford Smith
was also something of a prophet.
A prediction in 1933 that air-
craft would carry “one-hundred pas-
sengers or more at speeds in
the upper strata of 500 miles an hour, or
even more,” must have seemed impractic-
able. Bu* Sir Charles made it in the
Australian Year Book of that year, dis-
tributed in N.S.W. by The Bulletin.
And now America has a plane, the XC99,
that can carry 400 passengers on a short
hop, and, of course, speeds in excess of
500 m.p.h. are daily events. As the jet-
engine was not even thought of in Smithy’s
day (correct me if I’m wrong), this was
quite a prophecy.
❖ ❖ <*
“Doric”: What opera-lovers used to
endure! An elderly lady tells me that
during the Melba-McCormack season
about 1912 she and a friend took their
places in a queue outside Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, at about 8 p.m. They waited all
night and were allowed into the gallery
about 2 p.m. next day. All food was
carried, and J. C. Williamson’s kindly
supplied the tea. At long last the over-
ture to “La Traviata” began and ended;
and the curtain rose. “It must have
been a wonderful performance,” I
remarked. “I believe it was,” she replied.
“But the next thing I remember was ‘God
Save the King.’ ” She had slept through
the whole show.
A* *> *>
“One of Them” : At the annual mid-
winter social of our bowling-club the
secretary, in reading the apology of the
club-patriarch who had long passed the
allotted span, regretted his absence.
Owing to the state of his health he was
“hybridising” for the winter at the so-so
rest-home. The address of the home will
not be supplied on application.
* *X* ❖
“Liam”: “Fitz’s” mention of Davison
Symmons (B. 29/6/’55) recalls the former
Melbourne poet’s extraordinary concern
for stray dogs. Never at any time did he
own a well-bred dog, but he always had
some nondescript vagabond which, with
a discrimination often lacking in the
superior animal, had followed him Ijome.
Nothing that friends or dog-fanciers could
suggest was spared to restore the wretched
stray to his best appearance. Such an
unwanted one just taken in hand annoyed
Symmons’s neighbors by howling at night,
and one of them came in the early mom-
ing to remonstrate. “Not your dog, sir?
the neighbor said m amazement when
the ownership was more-or-less truthfully
repudiated by Symmons. “But, my dear
sir, he is on your mat!” “So are you,”
retorted Symmons.
v
According to the programme-
notes of the Borovansky Ballet, John
Auld is becoming one of the finest
character-dancers this country has pro-
duced, his “old man” studies having all
“with which an experienced character-
actor could divest them.” Does this pre-
lude a male strip-tease act?
♦♦♦ * *
“C. 8.”: The cemetery-trustees in my
district decided to chop down a magni-
ficent row of 70-year-old pine-trees
because the roots interfered with the
graves. If they had had a look at Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s grave at Brighton they
might have thought better of it. The
verses inscribed there are Lindsay’s
own:
N Let me slumber in the hollow where the
wattle-blossom blooms,
With never a stone or rail to fence my bed.
The grave has —or had when I last saw
it—a great wattle growing out of it.
♦> <<■
LATEISH in ’42, Boosa racecourse,
near the old fortified port of Galle in
south-east Ceylon, was a mixed Air Force
camp—Australians (13 of us), English-
men and Canadians. Among the Aussies
I owned the only book, a weathered
Here’s Luck, by Lennie Lower
(B. 20/7/’55).
During spine-bash hours I read it
through again, and my snorts and guffaws
didn’t go unnoticed. “Ybsul’s either
round the bend or he’s on to something
good there. Give us a go at it when
you’ve finished.”
By the time all the Aussies had read
or re-read the book the Englishmen were
lined-up waiting. Despite its out-and-out
Sydneyism, Here’s Luck brought delighted
giggles and “Listen to this, Alfies” from
the Oold Darters. And the Canucks
weren’t going to be left out of it. From
time to time one of ’em would leave the
eternal horseshoe-pitching and lounge
meaningfully in the Englishmen’s door-
way eyeing the current reader: “Hi, fella
—you teamin’ that goddam book?” •
Had more-or-less given up hope of
keeping track, but coming out of the surf
at Closenberg beach one day discovered
the book, back in the coconut shade, in
the hands of the dourest of the French-
Canadians. First time I’d seen him
laughing. The book had been so carefully
mended and tended that I still had it
up to a year or so ago.
Lower had the universal touch all
right, and had he turned up in that part
of Ceylon he’d have got an infinitely
better reception in the matter of rupees
than that accorded him by C. B. Fry.
YBSUL.
NOT INCLUDED
Speeding driver, overtaking,
Shaves your fender, sets you quaking
Cutting in.
As he whizzes by he lets you
Have (this is the thing that gets you)
Leering grin.
Well, your gore is just on boiling ;
For a fight with him you’re spoiling.
At the top
Of the next hill you will sight him
Being booked (Oh, won’t this smite
him !)
By a cop.
One lone parking-space; you’ve conned
it.
To back in you go beyond it.
Then some coot
Following up, sneaks in and beats you
To the possie, and he greets you
With a toot.
As he tries, though, to manoeuvre
He gets tangled with some doover
On the bus
Right behind him. It’s just after
That that he will hear your laughter
Riotous.
Well, heart up ! If you are harried,
Don’t be foolish and be carried
Into strife.
For poetic justice, mark you,
Haunts the churlish ones who nark you
In your life.
But such triumphs as I’ve quoted
Heretofore, it should be noted
Carefully,
Apply to you. They wouldn’t —
I would even say they couldn’t —
Happen to me.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
ofThe hunch
since
L j
(yilando
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PETSONAL ITEMS
A recent issue of the internationally-
known scientific journal “Nature” dis-
closes an important discovery in the
workings of a drug called izoniazid, the
most powerful enemy of t.b. bacillus.
The journal states that, to be effective, the
drug must be able to combine with trace-
metals in an animal or human body, and
cites Professor S. D. Rubbo and Dr. J.
Cymerman-Craig as co-discoverers of this
essential developmental find. Rubbo re-
searched on the drug bacteriologically, his
colleague chemically. Rubbo, son of
Anthony Dattilo Rubbo (the Sydney
artist and teacher who passed on
recently), has been in the Chair of Bac-
teriology at Melbourne University since
1945. Cymerman-Craig is senior lecturer
in Organic Chemistry at Sydney
University.
• •
Vice-Admiral J. W. M. Eaton, R.N.,
becomes C.-in-C., America and West
Indies Station, and Deputy Supreme Com-
mander, Atlantic. In 1951 his base was
Sydney, his charge the Australian Fleet.
JACK SHANNON, solicitor, Registrar
of the Supreme Court at Rockhampton
for three years, at Townsville for 15,
now Registrar and Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court and Registrar of
Companies, Brisbane.
“Cauboy”: We’re really in for a dose
of culture this year. On the heels of
Dyason lecturer Kenneth Younger are
coming Miss A. Catnach, of the Head
Mistresses Association of the U.K.; Pro-
fessor N. B. Jopson (Comparative Philo-
sophy, Cambridge); Malcolm Mug-
geridge, editor of London “Punch”;
Bernard Shore, inspector of music in the
British Ministry of Education; and his-
torian Professor Arnold Toynbee. Maybe
we should reciprocate with some of our
own.
• •
“Melbn”: A Melbourne' landmark will
go when a 10-story block of State Gov-
ernment offices is erected on the site of
the Australian Church in Russell-street.
The old fane, built in 1885, was the dream
of Melbourne’s most unusual parson,
the Rev. Charles Strong, who came from
Scotland to Scots Church in 1873, and
then conceived the notion of founding a
church in which he could re-interpret
Christianity in terms of his adopted
country. He was a powerful speaker, and,
though the cynically-minded used to say
they could see no fundamental difference
between his new creed and his old one,
he thundered from his pulpit and poured
out books and pamphlets for close on 60
years. At 97 he was the oldest subject of
biography in the 1941 edition of the
Australian Who’s Who, and he was active
for some time after. The 70-year-old
church closed officially the other day after
a service. The new building is to be
dedicated to the worship of another new
religion—Adult Education, whose high-
priest is director Colin Badger.
a •
Colonel J. R. Broadbent served in the
Sydney University Regiment in Major-
General Windeyer’s time 7 At the end of
War II he commanded the 2/17th Bat-
talion in Windeyer’s 20th Brigade. Now
he gets his own brigade—the sth Infantry,
C.M.F.
• •
Colonel of Sigs.:
Without any need of a key-puncher, the word
has no doubt by now Morsed its own way
round Australia that Colonel Gee Gee Esses
Gordon, Don Esses O, has crossed over in
Sydney. For “my bloody birds,” as Colonel
George Grosvenor S. Gordon, D. 5.0., called
his old Ist Div. Sigs., represented all States
of the Commonwealth, city and bush, and just
about all states, too (sober and otherwise).
When “Gee Gee Esses” (this is Sig. lingo, of
course,’ for G.G.S.) got into uniform again
for World War II (his fourth war), a Bulletin
par. referred to him by that Morse-alphabet
handle and also as “the old man” and “the
old blankard,” stating that legend had it that
he was the first unit-commander of the A.I.F.
to accept that last term “for it really was.”
Met in George-street afterwards, he accepted
the par.-writer’s terms for him with an
adjectival chuckle. There was perhaps more of
affection than anything else in his “birds’ ”
feeling for him. Only a year or so back, when
“Gee Gee Esses” was looking a bit the worse
for age (he was 83 at the end), he stood up to
propose a toast at a reunion of the old mob
and had to stay standing while they beefed-out,
with affectionate mercilessness “The old grey
mare she ain’t what she used to be, many long
years ago! ” and a yard or two more of it. He
took that grim bit of humor as he took his
wars —well.
For a long term he was in the rubber game
with Dunlops, in Melbourne, between his wars,
and for one stretch that he got a lot of fun
out of (if little else) he had a milk-bar-(of all
things wonderful) down Erskine-street way, in
Sydney, near the wharves. And he swore
that his best customers were the wharfies! He
reckoned they liked the stuff.
Though his defence of any of his Ist Div.
Sig. crowd accused by narks ranging from
military-police to generals of doing things not
done in St. Omer or Amiens or some other
sanctified joint was invariably “My birds
wouldn’t do that —not my bloody birds!” more
than one of them dropped in on him at the
milk-bar anji, in a conspiratorial whisper, put
it on him to add a dash of rum to the white
stuff—just to increase their vocabulary (if
possible) from his reaction.
He was (it hardly needs saying) of Scottish
stock; himself born in Bangalore, southern
India: was in Africa to get mixed-up in the
Matabele scrapping, was one of the first in for
the Boer War and again for Gallip. He took
his little crowd —what was left of it —through to
the Armistice; himself collecting his majority
(on Gallip.), lieutenant-colonelcy and D.S.O.
on the way.
• •
I. E. Dunkley, of Perth, who started his
soldiering as a private and finished briga-
dier, is a recent addition to the list of life-
members of the Westralian R.S.L. First
commissioned in the 28th Battalion in the
Kaiser’s war, he was that unit’s O.C. at
the Armistice. Between world wars he
commanded the 13 th Infantry Brigade,
C.M.F.
• •
“Fitz”: Almost 40 years ago I used to
collect copy for The Bulletin’s
“Woman’s Letter” from Mrs. Pattie
Fotheringhame, who was editor of
“Splashes Weekly,” a Sydney theatrical
and social journal. To me, as a boy, she
seemed to be a tremendously old woman
—she was then in her early sixties —and
I little dreamt as I walked up Grosvenor-
street to her office that 38 years later I
would write an obituary about her —she
has passed on at Dee Why (N.S.W.) in
her 100th year. Mrs. Fotheringhame
came to Australia from Yorkshire in
1864 as a girl of eight, and as Pattie
Lewis was the paper’s first social editress.
Mrs. Fotheringhame (as she be-
came when she married Captain
James Fotheringhame, who in 1886 be-
came a national hero for a particularly
daring rescue of survivors of the Ly-ee-
Moon) was related to W. H. Traill,
second editor of The Bulletin,
and was associated with him .in his
experiments with zinc-etching— The
RtTT.T F.TTN was then illustrated with wood-
blocks. The results of their experiments
satisfied Traill, and he went to America
to make a further study of zinc-blocks
and brought back with him artist Living-
ston Hopkins, Tom Gleason, an etcher,
and Charles Shugg, a photo-operator.
In later years Mrs. Fotheringhame was
with George Taylor in his production of
“The Soldier” in World War I, and
edited “Young Australia,” Australia’s
first paper for juveniles. An active press-
woman at 90, she was a prolific contribu-
tor of Bulletin pars., and I particularly
remember her spidery handwriting, a
trial to the comps. So much so that
editor S. H, Prior would have me type
her copy, a distinction she shared with
three other Bulletin writers, whose
handwriting was almost unreadable —
Randolph Bedford, J. F. Hogan and
George Meudell.
• •
“Uramao”: Enzedder P. D. Costello,
product of Auckland University College
and M.A. of Cambridge, takes over the
Chair of Russian at Manchester Univer-
sity. Having acquired the lingo, he was
able to converse with the Russkis while
serving in the N.Z. Division in Italy. This
prompted Peter Fraser, then N.Z. Prime
Minister, to send him to Moscow to open
the N.Z. Legation after Hitler had been
finished. Besides Russian —he has pub-
lished a book of poems in that language
—Costello speaks French, German, Per-
sian, Arabic, Greek, Italian and Hebrew.
For some years he had been first-secre-
tary at the Fernland’s Paris Legation.
• •
Herewith Melburnian Sir Frank
Richardson, known for his red carnation
and his modest deportment when he lifts
a bid for a chain of chain-stores by half-
a-million. In the past three years he has
bought, for Cox Brothers, Snow’s in
Sydney for £1,500,000, the Economic
Stores in Perth for £353,000 and
Foy’s, Melbourne, for £4,750,000. His
bid for the Rex Theatre in Adelaide was
really humble —a mere £lOO,OOO. He
handled a few million during the war as
deputy-chairman of the Defence Board
—£500,000,000 to be precise—and sub-
sequently got some £130,000,000 of it
back per medium of disposals. Borh at
Bendigo in 1901, he sold groceries over
the counter of his grandpa’s store in
Kerang at the age of 10. Then he sold
adding-machines in Melbourne. In 1923
he started Cox. Bros, with a store in
Fitzroy ; annual turnover, £20,000. That
CARNATIONS AND STORES
store has since spawned 46 shops and
offices, reaching out to Tokyo and
London, with a turnover of £15,000,000.
He lives in Toorak and is president of its
Liberal party.
This* is the upper section of the pretty
hefty bulk of Brigadier Fred McAlister,
just taken over the presidency of N.S.W.
Legacy and its 400 voluntarily-working
members —doctors, Carpenters, lawyers,
bricklayers, dentists, laborers; all ex-
Servicemen. Legacy leadership is a solid,
almost full-time administrative job—
McAlister qualifies- through long associa-
tion with C.S.R. in Sydney. He liked
“stinks” at school, joined the sugar-
concern as a chemist, got his science
SUGAR AND LEGACY
degree at Sydney Uni., and now,/based
in O’Connell-street, looks after the en-
gagement, transfer, training, promotions
and other personal problems of the whole
C.S.R. staff, scattered from Wittenoom
in north-west Australia, round to Cairns,
New Zealand and Fiji. The other Legacy
qualification was achieved when, major,
he left for the Middle East with the 2 /6th
Field Regiment. After desert work he
shifted across to Palestine (Nuseirat),
C.O. of the artillery training-regiment
which looked after all reinforcements
bound for their fighting units. First com-
missioned in 1927, he ended the war in-
structing at the tactical school at Been-
leigh (Q.). Now (after four post-war
years in command of Second Div. Artil-
lery), he’s Commander Corps of the Royal
Artillery First Corps, C.M.F. Tennis-ball
trajectories interest him when Legacy and
C.M.F. artillery allow.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Armidale (N.S.W.), Canon Thomas
Hunter Barratt. Retired four years ago, he had
long ministered throughout the New England
area, based at Armidale, Tamworth, Werris
Creek and Glen Innes.
At 83, in Melbourne, O. T. Lempriere,
known in tin-mining circles for the past 50
years. Founder of the firm bearing his name,
he established tin-smelting works in Sydney in
1923: mining and metallurgical experience had
been gained in Westralia, at Broken Hill, and
at Chillagoe and Herberton in Queensland.
Since 1908 a Melbourne resident, he had been
member of the V.R.C. and the Moonee Valley
R.C., captain of Royal Melbourne Golf Club.
He was a former pole-vault champion of
Victoria.
In Perth, at 83, Philip Herbert Taylor, grape-
growing pioneer of the Swan Valley widely
interested in relevant bodies: he’d been a
director of Producers’ Markets Co-operative,
Ltd.', member of the Dried Fruits Board and
vice-president of the Grape Growers’
Association.
In Washington (U.S.), at 83, Cordell Hull,
for 11 years U.S. Secretary of State, a record.
In politics for almost half his lifetime, he is
recognised as possibly the main initiator of the
United Nations, and for his efforts was awarded
the Nobel Peace Prize in 1945. It was nearly
a case of “from log-cabin to White House”:
he was born in a log-cabin in Tennessee, and
before Roosevelt decided to contest the
Presidency for the third time, Hull was the
Democrats’ leading contender.
At Birchip (Vie.), at 93, Joseph Lockwood,
G.O.M. of Victorian local-government. An
original councillor of Birchip Shire, he had
been president of the North-West Shires and
Boroughs Association for 19 years and an
executive member of the Victorian Municipal
Association. He was municipally active to
the end.
At Wangaratta (Vic.), Thcftnas Parkinson, of
Beechworth, garage- and bus-proprietor,
councillor and former president of Beechworth
Shire. He made news in 1935 when (with
passenger) he pushed a wheelbarrow in an
endurance-test from Beechworth to Mt. Buffalo.


IN THE INTERESTS OF THE FIRM
( fyjouip you M(NC? IF you TOOK
jyou(Z. LUKCH-HOufZ Noto ; AH. MftfZTlM 'f/
[T UOOiCS AS (F TH& is G(Oi NG To 6E A


ABORIGINALITIES
nrONGA’S Queen Salote has had to ask
Fiji to lend her a hangman to dis-
patch a couple of murderers, since the
coconut kingdom is unfamiliar with vio-
lence or retribution. But it is not con-
sidered proper for a Fijian to hang a
Tongan.
Not so long ago, though, a visiting
Fijian football-team could cheerfully
have hanged all Tongans. The visitors
were regarded as much the superior team,
but on the 36-hour steamer-trip the Fijians
had had little to eat. On stepping ashore
they were confronted by a gigantic feast
—more roast pigs than ever they had seen
together before yams, breadfruit,
chicken and fish to fill the crevices. When
they went on the field they were rather
like Mark Twain’s Jumping Frog, artfully
weighed down. The crafty Tongans
played on empty stomachs.
Tonga won the second game, too, but
the Fijians could save face. Savanada, the
captain, explained with a dignity worthy
of his rank: “Queen Salote was present,
and it wouldn’t have been courteous of
us, as her guests, to win.”
Motuku.
* * * *
“Burr Imul”: Visiting Sydney’s Tar-
onga Park Zoo, we couldn’t agree which
was the most beautiful animal. Then my
wife spotted the sign “Albino Dingo,”
and there they were, three of them,
shoulder to shoulder, standing rock-steady
in dignified beauty. Our New Australian
guest remarked, “They smell pretty good,
don’t they?” My wife didn’t agree with
that one, but I suddenly realised what
he meant. The dogs weren’t interested in
us; the trio were staring fixedly at the
lunch-basket. Runner-up in our beauty-
quest was a small, white, mouse-like
“Well, the notice on the bedroom-door said 'Do not disturb.' ”
animal which seemed to have the run of
the place. It had a feather for a tail and
a black stripe on head and back, sitting
up like a kangaroo to nibble at some
greenery. The nearest zoo-attendant
didn t know what it was, so has anybody
any clues.
* * * *
ct-£r i • rp ,
Ketvm : 1 ouching on the strange
us ® s wtudi whisky has been put,
adduced from time to time by Aboliars.
*n lorres btraits I met an oldster whose
bald pate was showing signs of a newly-
born fuzz, which regeneration the owner
claimed as due to a nightly massage with
whisky. At Bourke (N.S.W.), I saw the
locals goggle when a visiting team of
Rugby players from Cunnamulla (Q.)
were rubbed-down with the elixir before
they took the field to triumph over the
home side; and in Melbourne recently I
saw an octogenarian lady, who was hav-
ing her cottage painted, pour a bottle of
the best into each gallon of paint, claim-
ing that the admixture would result in a
lasting sheen.
* * * *
“R-herd”: Certain plants have long
been able to turn-off nectar-secretion for
certain periods during the sunlit hours,
and over teoiis of time bees, accustoming
themselves to this, have learned to judge
time pretty accurately. On a silverleaf-
ironbark flow I’ve seen bees work this
heavy-producing tree from dawn till nine,
then start again about late smoke-oh.
Hence, a likely explanation of the bees’
vacating that veranda water-bag at a set
time each day (B. 6/7/’55) is that it coin-
cided with the opening of a nectar-bar.
* * * *
“Brian McN.”: “Candlepower” Watt
had been works-officer of our airfield-
construction unit since the mob was
formed-up early in the show. A good
boss, the blokes reckoned, but he had a
kink. The drivers always drove the
watering-trucks too fast. For four years
“C.P.” stormed along coral airstrips in
his Chev., berating corporals-in-charge,
acidly telling drivers that if they drove
any faster they would take-off. Came the
day a few of us were conducting a post-
mortem on a broken-down ’dozer when
the Chev. arrived, its occupant shouting,
“That’s how I want you speed-merchants
to drive when you’re watering!” We
followed his pointing finger and beheld
a water-tanker advancing at the regula-
tion 4 m.p.h. In triumph “Candlepower”
watched it until it drew abreast, when
he looked to see who the driver was. The
cab was empty. The boss was there
first, and had switched-off the ignition
before he noticed the rope securing the
steering-wheel. It was then that a burst
of profanity issued from the open, square
water-tank behind the cab. “Peanuts”
Murphy’s afternoon swim had been very
rudely disturbed.
* * * *
“Mugga Way”: Now cross-Channel
swimmers are to be medically studied.
The Butlin holiday-camps are sponsoring
an international swimming-race across
the Channel between August 10 and 16,
and those taking part are to be subjected
to physiological investigations, by the
Admiralty and the British Medical
Research Council. The objects are to
determine the effects of prolonged expen-
diture of energy under cold, immersed
conditions, and to study any biochemical
changes. 'One of the doctors in the
accompanying rowing-boat was medical
officer to the last Everest expedition.
From the sublime,.,
“Old-timer”: What’s all this about it
being natural for a bushed man to bear
to the left (B. 20/7/’55) because the left
leg takes a shorter stride, or because “he’s
walking on a globe, beneath a circular
dome, surrounded by a circular horizon,”
or f or any otber rea son? Used to believe
myself that it was natural to bear to the
left—until I got into cities and discovered
that all attempts to make crowds keep to
the left on footpaths, even with the aid of
a painted yellow line, failed. And it seems
to upset the bearing-left belief that the
average motorist, when in a strange
suburb or not sure of his direction on a
country road, will almost invariably turn
to the right.
* * * *
“Jas”: On sunny days a short, plaintive
call sometimes comes from a patch of
casuarina and eucalypts close to my home.
The bird responsible is a rufous-whistler
hen that remained behind when her com-
panions migrated to the north early in
autumn. Every year a number of these
“I think We must have come to the Wrong match."
birds stay south and an odd thing about
it is that, in my experience, the stay-at-
homes have almost invariably been hens,
The few exceptions have been immature
males, probably the outcome of laggard
hatchings.
* * * *
“Del”: As an old Murray roamer I’ve
heard choirs of magpies at their best not
only on the river, but far out on the
western N.S.W. plains, deep in Victoria,
and where the Gumbowie hills flank
Terowie, in S. Aust., the State which
uses the magpie for its emblem. But I
had to be wandering through the beautiful
grounds of the Westralian University to
hear a shower of liquid melody which
seemed to top everything I’d heard previ-
ously. The little group I was with paused,
listened, and then eye met eye with a
significance which was lost to the non-
Australian members of the party. For we
were bound for Europe, and that chorus
suddenly reminded us that in an hour
we’d be pulling out of Fremantle and
would not, perhaps, hear an Australian
bird-song for a long time. But it wasn’t
the final farewell. As we crossed the
wharf to the liner a wagtail dropped on a
rail, flirted his tail, told us he was a
“sweet, pretty little creature,” and
vanished.
* * * *
... _ x - . .
•P C. : Don t know afiout the origin
of the waterbag (B. 13/7/ 55), but I can
testify to its value, at least on a steam-
oco. A 12in.-by-12in. bag holds and
keeps cool, l£gal.; enough water for a
two-day round-trip. The bag is not only
portable but self-cleansing. During a hot
day fi is perhaps a trap for the newchum,
who is likely to get sick trying to empty
it. Here the solution is to wean him on
to cold tea; yet the fact remains, no
waterbag, no tea Some blokes reckon a
drop of whisky kills water-heaviness m the
bag on a hot day, but I suspect the drop
is added for other reasons. Actually, its
not fair to blame the waterbag; the per-
spiring water-fiend gets sick through try-
ing to slake a false thirst which is really
due to a loss of body-salts Remedy is
to use salt-tablets if he can t drink cold
tea. It’s common to see a waterbag
hanging under a shady tree at a country
pub. One I saw had a notice over it
saying: For the man who is dry, not the
man who is thirsty.
* * * *
“Villefair”: The old rattler-jumping
swaggie who was my mentor during the
early-’thirties wouldn’t have betrayed his
presence to that enginedriver who banged
on the side of the truck (B. 13/7/’55).
One night, under the tarpaulin, we were
being shunted around the siding at a
small junction when a billycan rattled and
a voice outside called softly: “Any room
in there, mate?” Before I could extend
an invitation a smelly hand clamped over
my mouth. “Ssh,” hissed the old bird’s
voice in my ear. Footsteps crunched on
outside, the billy rattled again, and the
voice called the same question at the next
truck. “Yair,” came the answer. “Plenty
o’ room in this-’un, cob.” In abrupt
change of tone the voice rang from out-
side: “Right-oh! Out you get! You’re
under arrest; and don’t make it tough for
yourself by trying to bolt.” “See?”
reproved the veteran. “If I’d let you
alone it woulda been us beltin’ into ’is
woodheap f’r a coupla days.”
“Brick E.”: Bricks were imported from
Great Britain until comparatively recent
years (B. 15/6/’55). The cream enamelled-
bricks which face Mark Foy’s building in
Sydney were imported after World War I
because Australian brickyards couldn’t,
or wouldn’t, make them. Thousands of
light-brown enamelled-bricks were
brought from Kilmarnock (Scotland) to
line the walls of the State abattoirs at
Homebush (N.S.W.). Of much blder
vintage are the green enamelled-bricks
which line the stables of Yaralla, the
magnificent old home of the late Eadith
Walker (bequeathed as a convalescent
home to Prince Alfred Hospital). Walls
built of the bricks looked extremely well
an d were as easy to keep spotless as an
expanse of glazed-tiles Today, an
Australian-made adaptation of the
enamelled-brick principle is becoming
almost universal building-practice for the
facing of shopfronts and lofty buildings,
The main difference is that the brick has
been expanded in face-measurement, to
g i ve ail appearance of polished stone,
* * * *
“Endea”: The ’roo’s habit of retreating
into r a river or swamp and holding the
pursuing dogs under till they drown is
we ii known ; but an old mate whom I’ve
always found reliable swears he once
saw a wallaby standing in a stream catch-
ing fish and eating them. Warrigal does
a bit of that, too. He has been known
come down to the beach as the tide
g oes out and SC oop up fish left flounder-
; ia puddles .
“Wippegong”: Scorfield slipped when,
in his “Wedgetail Season” cartoon (B.
13 / 7r55) he gave the eag i e a round tail;
the name itself is a reminder that the
bi g fellow’s rudder tapers to a point,
Wbm in fllght the dark diamon d at the
stern iyes a fine finisb to his noble lines,
Can > t that I’ve seen the neck extended
vu it ure -fashion, as drawn, but, as Ted’s
bird had his dist inguishing feature clipped,
j suppose anyt hing could be excused at
the othef end Most of the smaller eagles
have rounded tails, and one of the clan,
f ork _ ta ji ed kite, goes to the other
extreme> Y ou’ll meet that fellow as you
near the Darling> and then see him all
t he way to the Mediterranean—too often,
in fact He > s the fowl that , in wheeling
flocks, creates a lively hazard above
South-East Asian aerodromes. On our
plains he is a comparatively clean feeder,
but in Calcutta a milling mass of them in
slow progress along any street establishes
the position and progress of the garbage-
cart below. I’ve seen them lift the pie
from the hands of a customer emerging
from a railway refreshment-room a
stationary train draws them like a carcass,
Yet they have their uses, and are accepted
for that in some villages. They could have
been handy in Sydney’s recent sanitary-
strike.
JOHNNY, REMEMBER
Johnny, remember the blue-water bays
By Samarai in the China Straits?
Porpoises breaking the doldrum glaze
On the water’s face; and the brilliant blaze
Of noon, in the days when we were mates?
Remember the frost at Four Mile Creek
And the kelpie bitch with her sharp white grin?
Wind from the west howled dry and bleak
And rattled our teeth till we couldn’t speak
And we boiled our tea in an old black tin?
Remember that night at Hogan’s place
With the woman crying and the old man dead?
When we smoked all night and held our peace;
Tears on the old wife’s wrinkled face
For that sheeted horror on the cast-iron bed?
There’s a sea-wind loud in the leaves tpnight
And my feet would be off on the old, old
track;
To the off-shore reefs where the foam blows
white,
Or the red-soil road to Sandy Blight
On the fenceless plains outback.
I shall fall asleep between two sheets
With both boots off and a roof on top.
But, Johnny, I’ll dream of the trochus fleets
And the wihdy hills where the lost lamb bleats
And the vine-nung beach where the ridges stop.
QUEENSLAND,
W. N. SCOTT.


T'HE rainbow’s end is not fixed; it
moves when the observer moves. It
maintains, I imagine, some relationship
between sun, storm-haze and observer.
A passenger in a car, I noted a rainbow
plunging into houses at the bottom of a
steep grade. Houses climbed a hill behind
it and it could be seen against them. A
mile or so further on we crossed a bridge,
and there again was the same rainbow-
end settling into the harbor. As we sped
across the bridge the other end of the
bow was seen to race along the foreshores
of a peninsula parallel to the bridge and
some distance from it, keeping pace with
the car. According to the Old Testament
the rainbow is God’s symbol of His
promise that He will never again flood the
world. Considering that the end of the
rainbow is everywhere and anywhere, it
could also mean that man’s pot of gold
is the earth itself. —“Vidi.”
* * * *
“Derwent”: Two winners at the Laun-
ceston (Tas.) Canary and Cage Bird
Society’s annual show were T. Bird and
R. H. Chick.
* * * *
“R.H.”: Hat-makers now short of
rabbitskins may not have long to wait.
Already experts have warned farmers that
a few rabbits recover from myxo. As
with insects and D.D.T., a myxo-immune
strain' of bunny is likely to emerge.
Authorities stress that now is the time to
hop in with older methods to kill the
disease-resisting minority. If history is
any guide, this advice won’t be taken
until the country is again crowded with
the rodents.
**V * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We tendered for a
mallee-falling contract and got it. The
night after we set-up camp by the dam a
“No question about it, Benson — We're bushed!”
hefty young bloke dropped in, called us a
pair of so-and-sos for under-cutting local
prices, and dropped out again. Ten days
we toiled, then walked into the near-by
hamlet for surcease and refreshment,
Our hefty complainant appeared, with
sundry colleagues, and loudly told the
colleagues and us what he thought of our
ancestry and characteristics. Behind the
local hall Mat made a chopping-block of
him, whereupon the locals insisted on
snouting wnich is the way of locals, be
they human or canine. Back on the job
a week passed, then a heftier young bloke
appeared, strongly resembling the first,
and ferociously demanded, “Which of you
two blankards is the blankard belted me
brother?” Mat put the axe down, pulled
off his shirt, tightened his boot-laces, and
said, calmly, “Me.” The visitor eyed
Mat’s frame thoughtfully, then got back
into his utility-truck. “Well,” he said,
darkly, “I promised me brother I’d see y’.
So I’ve seen y’. So-long.” Mat put on
his shirt, picked up his axe. “Hell of
a lot of sightseein’ goin’ on round
here,” he remarked, and assaulted the
mallee.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A couple of prospectors
have struck a rich patch north-east of
Leonora (W.A.) and have won over
£17,000-worth of gold in two months—
which gives weight to the old-timers’
claim that there’s more gold to be found
than has been taken out. Probably there
is, but these exceptionally rich patches
have a habit of petering-out. When Lon-
donderry was discovered in 1894 the five
partners who made the find took out
8000 oz. of gold before they even staked
the claim. That took them a fortnight.
After staking it they sold to Lord Fingall,
who had the shaft sealed and guarded
while he formed a company. He needn’t
have bothered. Although they didn’t know
it, the finders had already taken out
nearly all the gold, and the pocket cut-out
soon after the Company started to work
it, the investors getting back less than
half the £lOO,OOO they paid for it. The
Wealth of Nations, another rich find,
yielded £20,000 in short order, including
800 oz. out of one specimen of rock;
but the syndicate that bought it for
£140,000 got very little out of it. How-
ever, this latest find proves one thing—
you never know just how close you are
to gold. The two brothers who made the
find were almost on to it 10 years ago,
when a thunderstorm drove them from the
locality; they’d kept it in mind ever
since.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: The first time I saw a
big Moreton Bay fig growing out of a
decayed cedar-stump in the Nambucca
(N.S.W.) district, I thought I was behold-
ing a freak of nature —a fig-seed carried
by some bird or other. I learned that,
when the cedars were felled early in the
piece, cow-cockies who followed, realising
that shade-trees were essential, planted
Moreton Bays, but many of the saplings
were eaten-off or trampled by cattle.
Hence the planting of seedlings where the
stock couldn’t get at them —in the old
stumps.
* * * *
“Howie Wing”: My experience of 1000
or so of them is that most cows don’t
sleep, but some do. The farmer’s first
reaction on seeing one dozing is that she
may be sick; she is carefully watched for
staggering, poor appetite, swelling of any
part, or other complementary symptoms,
One little Jersey we had used to take a
nap on sunny afternoons or whenever
there wasn’t much to do. As she was
never sick we concluded that, having been
a pet calf and a favorite with the children,
she had acquired, more human traits than
her less-domesticated sisters,
* * * *
“Saaedi”: I watched the peewee give
the hard-backed beetle she had captured
a bashing against the rockery and offer
it confidently to one of the three vocifer-
ous youngsters gathered around her on
the lawn. He gave a greedy gulp, then
spat out the rugged morsel. Another
hammering for the beetle, followed by
an eager but futile effort to engulf the
ruins on the part of junior No. 2. Ma
gave her beetle a further bashing, stared
dubiously at the gaping mouth of her
third youngster, hesitated, and looked
around the garden. Her eyes lit on the
fishpond. She ran over, dipped the catch
in the water, returned, and this time the
squawker swallowed it without demur.
Ma drank deeply from the pond.
* * * *
“Woorara”: Thinking of such examples
as starlings and sparrows we’re likely to
belittle all avian importations, but the
“Get me the catering-officer, sergeant."
goldfinch has a lot on the right side of
the ledger. Crimson face and bright
yellow and black wings give him a gay
appearance, and a blithesome song can be
added to the fine feathers. As to use, a
partiality for the airborne seeds of
thistles, which has gained him the alterna-
tive title of thistle-finch, makes him wel-
come around cultivation paddocks. Add,
finally, a lively disposition, and consider-
able hardihood —unlike most importa-
tions, he is not reluctant to “go bush” if
need be —and you have a bird we might
accept with much cordiality as a dinkum
Aussie.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Reported that
hitherto-unknown aborigines are living
in fertile valleys somewhere in the south-
west corner of the Northern Territory.
They’re said to number about 200, well-
fed and sturdily built, and one of the
valleys is well grassed and has streams
that run all the year. I’d have to see it
first. That country’s been crossed by
some of the best explorers, including
Giles, and at least three expeditions have
been in that locality looking for Las-
seter’s reef. One of these in 1936 left
Alice Springs, struck south-west to the
South Australian border, and finally cut
right across the south-west of the Terri-
tory. Giles had been a little further north
and had covered a lot of ground looking
for a way around the Amadeus sunkland,
a huge swampy area which he couldn’t
cross. None of these expeditions sighted
these fertile valleys, and as for streams
running all the year, that would be prac-
tically impossible in country where the
average rainfall is from nothing to sin.,
though, of course, there may be areas —
big areas —of comparatively good grazing-
land out there, where game, particularly
rabbits and ’roos, could be quite plentiful.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: An American biolo-
gist, Jean Nilsen, has developed a new
hormone which looks like giving us seed-
less fruit, and even some entirely new
sorts of fruit. Taking a strawberry as his
subject because its seeds are on the out-
side, he found that when he removed
some of the seeds that area failed to
develop and the fruit became deformed.
This suggested that the development of
the fruit-tissues was initiated and main-
tained by a hormone secreted by the seed,
and eventually it (naphtoxiacetic acid) was
discovered and produced synthetically.
Nilsen again removed some seeds from a
strawberry, but this time he painted the
area with the hormone, and the fruit
developed normally. Next step was to
apply the hormone to an unfertilised
flower, with the result that the fruit
developed although no seed formed, and
the sterile ovule deteriorated and dis-
appeared. The hormone is too expensive
for wide-scale use yet, but that will come,
and with it coreless apples and pears,
stoneless plums and peaches ; and people
with false teeth will be able to eat rasp-
berry-jam. There’ll also be any number
of new fruit developed from plants which
now produce only inedible seed-coverings.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Emus aren’t the
only Australian fauna that might surprise
with their aquatic habits. One of our
fastest swimmers is the racehorse-goanna
—not the little bloke of the inland, who
really deserves the name, but the big
three- to four-footer, who isn’t as fast
but can still beat a greyhound over
100yds. The two most surprised mongs
I’ve seen had chased a go. along a jetty
at a sou’-Westralian port and were watch-
ing him swim ashore after he’d dived
off the end. He was nearly as fast on the
water as on land —he gave the impression
of running over the water instead of
moving through it. He certainly impressed
the mongs.
* * * *
“Bass”: In evolution’s process a bird
stood a better chance of rearing young
if its eggs were camouflaged to suit the
surroundings, so a bird which nested
amongst greenery and happened to lay a
green-tinted egg was more fitted to survive
than one%iat laid white eggs ; and gradu-
ally the trait was passed down. Which is
all right with a bird that could pick its
surroundings, but what of a ground-
nester like the stone-curlew? It lays on
practically level ground of any color- —but
its eggs always match the ground. If
there’s grass around the “nest” the eggs
will be specked with green; if there’s
gravel the specks will be brown. I’ve seen
the eggs with red blotches when that color
suited. How does this ability to vary the
color at will fit in with evolution?
* * * *
BUNYA-PINES were not our abo-
rigines' only hereditary property.
Tribes were divided into family-groups,
which moved about as small bands. The
tribe gathered into one community only
on special occasions, such as initiation-
ceremonies and for the annual bartering.
Each family-group possessed its own
hunting-areas and fishing-spots, visited on
the annual walkabout. In arid country
several groups might have to camp at
the one waterhole, but when the men
moved out from it to hunt, each party
kept within the portion of the surrounding
territory belonging to the group.
In some cases these hereditary rights
extended to special waterholes, and also
to rock-outcrops which provided good
stone for axe-heads, and to deposits of
the red-ochre used for corroboree-paint.
In some places each family-group had
the sole right to certain trees which bore
edible fruits or nuts, but this didn’t mean
that a family-group whose trees bore
poorly went without. Two or more
groups would meet late in the afternoon
and exchange, say, kunka-berries for
kangaroo-meat, or sandalwood-nuts for
shellfish.
In some semi-desert areas during the
dry part of the year the dew-bush pro-
vided the main water-supply. Normally
the first puffs of the dawn wind shake the
collected dew out of the bush, and it was
the duty of the lubras to put a wooden
dish under each dew-plant as soon as it
was light enough to see. A sharp tap
made the dew fall into the dish, the yield
per bush averaging about a quarter of a
pint.
It wasn’t a case of “first come, first
served.” Right through the tribal terri-
tory each family had its own string of
dew-plants, from which nobody else was
entitled to take water.
H. A. LINDSAY..
WHEN THE CATTLE DRINK
When the cattle come at sunset to the water
at the bore
mere s a soft and gentle padding like the
T . n PPles on the shore;
L,lce a ghostly herd they saunter with a
rhythmic, silent tread
As the zephyr wafts the grasses and the green
leaves overhead.
At the trough the long line pauses; there are
shuffles for a place,
then the quenching draught is taken, water
tv, , lbbling from each face.
there’s a lowing ljke a murmur, toss of head
and flick of tail,
lnen each cow as it’s sated goes returning on
the trail.
As the moqn comes o’er the treetops and the
night-birds sound their cries,
Silently the line of cattle pads along as
daylight dies.
Soon the timber hides the figures; they have
, gone without a trace
A ll4l the moon in shining splendor bathes the
bush in silver grace., 1
VICTORIA.
Z. V. WEBB.


A.C
Opening on 4th August
AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT
TERM to
3
o
4
Interest
(per annum)
4i% .
4% .
n% .
3i% .
Currency
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
LONG
6i%
Interest
(per annum)
«1% •
6% .
51%
5% ■
Currency
10 & 15 years
. 4 to 9 years
. : 3 years
i. : 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES - VICTORIA - QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA - WESTERN AUSTRALIA - TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the public to
subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
SPENDING AND SPECULATION
'T'HE restrictions on spending
which have been introduced
in Britain by the Chancellor of
Exchequer, Mr. R. A. Butler,
have followed a period of
speculation and free-spending in
which money for capital
U.K. purposes tended to be-
come scarce, interest-
rates to rise and costs to inflate.
London Stock Exchange, as
described here last week, has
been booming, though the banks
have been short of funds to lend,
and have been selling securities
—often at a loss —in order to
meet clients’ needs. The
spending-and-speculation vortex
has drawn away an immense
amount of money which might
otherwise have moved at a more
deliberate pace into new and
permanent capital-investment.
Mr. Butler is concerned about
Britain’s export trade. Too much
money was being spent at home,
he said, which meant increased
imports ; but exports were not
rising sufficiently to meet the
cost of these imports. “All who
can must try to spend less in
order to save more,” he added.
The balance-of-payments at pre-
sent was not satisfactory.
Britain’s very prosperity and in-
creased production for home-
consumption were at the root of
the trouble.
Checks to spending which
have been introduced include an
increased minimum deposit of
33y p.c. in hire-purchase trans-
actions involving motor-cars,
radios, teleVision-sets and
refrigerators. (Formerly the mini-
mum was 15 p.c.) Also, banks
are being asked to call-in much
of their outstanding loans and
overdrafts. Government depart-
ments are to authorise “only the
most essential schemes proposed
by local authorities for capital-
spending,” and spending on new
projects within the nationalised
industries will be postponed or
slowed-up, “but will not jeop-
ardise such essentials as coal-
production and nuclear power.”
Mr. Butler regards the im-
mediate future as a period of
hard work and consolidation to
strengthen the home-front before
any forward move is made on
the exchange-front. Strikes had
recently aggravated Britain’s
difficulties.
In the United States, Govern-
ment economists have predicted
heavy inflationary pressure in
the U.S. economy
U.S.A. during the next four
months, but they be-
lieve that the economy is
strong enough to remain rela-
tively stable. Unless there is
scare-buying or other distortions
set in, no restrictive measures
are anticipated. The public in-
stead is being asked to exercise
restraint in buying, especially on
( credit. The Federal Reserve
Bank has applied mild pressure
against spending for some
months, and minimum margins
for stockmarket operations were
increased from 50 p.c. to 70 p.c.
several months back. As in
Britain and Australia, there has
been a wave of Stock Exchange
speculation.
In Maoriland, minimum de-
posits for motor-cars bought on
hire-purchase have been
N.Z. raised to 50 p.c., and to
15 p.c. for other goods.
Terms of repayment are limited
to 18 and 24 months respectively.
The N.Z. Reserve Bank from
August 1 has made its third
increase this year in the minimum
balances the trading-banks are
required to hold at the reserve
bank. The ratio goes up to 21}
p.c. of demand liabilities from
20 p.c. (before June 2 it was 15
p.c.). The reserve bank also
holds 7} p.c. of trading-banks’
fixed-deposits.
The August 1 increase in
statutory deposits is aimed at
restricting lending to bank-
borrowers.
Following a 6 p.c. increase in
hire-purchase outstanding
balances in the quarter to March
31, against a 12 p.c. increase in
the December quarter and a
9 p.c. increase in the March,
1954, period, Dr. H.
Australia C. Coombs, gover-
nor of the Common-
wealth Bank, asked all Aus-
tralian trading-banks not to
make new advances or additional
advances for the purpose of
expanding hire - purchase or
instalment selling.
“It would be in accord with
this policy,” said Dr. Coombs,
“if a portion of any funds which
might be raised by hire-purchase
companies from sources outside
the banking system were applied
towards the reduction of their
existing bank-borrowings.” This
remark is aimed at the practice
which the terms-finance com-
panies have followed recently of
offering up to 8 p.c. for five-
year deposits or debenture-
money, and which has drawn
away many millions of funds
from the money-market, to the
disadvantage of Commonwealth
loan-raising operations, in which
the highest rate is 4\ p.c. for
16-year securities.
A strong wave of Stock
Exchknge speculation and credit-
buying has been almost world-
wide. And almost world-wide
restraining measures are being
introduced. In Australia last
week sharemarkets were starting
to show a quieter trend.
The Maoriland Budget
Maorijand Minister of Finance
Watts has undoubtedly under-
estimated the amount of orange-
juice needed to make the dose
of economic castor-oil adminis-
tered taxpayers more palatable.
His first Budget will assuredly
be called the “twenty-percenter”
by the average man, the fellow
who always has a happy knack
of finding an apt term.
This will be unfair to the
Budget. While, so far as the same
Mr. Citizen goes, it is colorless
and close-handed, it has the un-
popular virtue of being highly
realistic.
Main features were a 20 per
cent, rebate in income-tax pay-
able by individuals, with a ceil-
ing reduction of £75, and a
direct attack on spending through
hire-purchase. From now on
minimum deposits for motor-
cars and other goods will be
50 p.c. and 15 p'.c. respectively,
with terms of repayment limited
to 18 and 24 months.
Maoriland’s Government was
faced with the problems created
by overfull-employment too
much money and not enough
labor. The decreases in taxation
expected by the general public,
if granted, would have added to
the volume of spending-money
and further sparked the inflation-
ary spiral. At a time when the
consumers’ price-index has
shown no significant rise for
twelve months, indicating that
prices are being reasonably con-
trolled, and when industry is
searching for labor and tending
to be over-competitive for it, the
Government is to be acknow-
ledged as brave indeed in not
acceding to the demand for
large tax-cuts.
A lot of people are going to
be vociferous in their complaint
—-farmers will be bitter because
no adjustment has been made
in their basis of taxation of
stock; the average wage- and
salary-earner will derive no
benefit whatsoever from the
income-tax rebate ; local authori-
ties will want to know why sales-
tax wasn’t reduced on public-
transport vehicles ; companies
will be querulous because they
missed out on tax-reductions.
There will be a well-beaten path
up to Finance Minister Watts’s
office.
The medicine will be hard to
take, undoubtedly. But it should
shake Maoriland out of its
present complacency.
As perhaps an extreme
example of present attitudes,
large local bodies have embarked
on big, ambitious enterprises
for which they have neither the
resources nor labor, overlook-
ing the evergrowing difficulties
they face in catching up with
deferred maintenance. In the
same way the man who can’t
buy a house has spent his money
on a motor-car. Rarely, indeed,
are large shortly-maturing loans
mentioned, or the ways and
means of building those power-
stations, homes, schools, and
highways. ,
The Budget, by its very drab-
ness, will serve to drive home to
all sections of the country that
something more is needed than
over-ambitious hopes; that the
man who has his feet on the
ground and works gets the things
he wants quicker than the bloke
with a pocketful of money and a
houseful of chromium-plate
being paid off by the week.
Much of the disappointment
arising fronj the Budget will
spring from a surplus of £2l
million last financial year. Tax-
reductions granted by Watts are
estimated to amount to about
£lO million this year with a
Budgeted surplus of £2.4 million.
It’s an obvious talking-point for
the disillusioned.
For the record, a pretty
analysis of Government spend-
ing came with the Budget.
Deserting the dull millions, it
portrays little piles of pennies
showing where the cash goes:
Revenue.
s. d.
Income tax .. 7 2
Social-security tax 4 9
Customs-duty 2 3
Sales-tax 19
Beer-duty '
Stamp- and death-duties .. .. 1 j
Interest . °
Trading profits 3
Departmental 1 '
Total 20 0
Expenditure.
s. d.
Social-security benefits .. • • 5 9
Other social services 4 1
Defence *2
Administration, etc {
Stabilisation 1 ”
Works-maintenance
Development of industry .. j ~
Debt services .. .. . • •; * y
Repayment public debt and
contingencies * 5
Total 2 _^


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
YOU WILL
STOP SMOKING
OR YOUR MONEY WILL
BE REFUNDED
You can relieve your system of the desire
for tobacco, absolutely and completely,'
or you can reduce the amount of tobacco
you consume to any extent desired.
You can do so quickly in the safe,
mild, pleasant and reliable way under a
money-back guarantee at a cost of less
than one week’s tobacco with
VERMARK
ANTI-SMOKING TABLETS
PRICE 10/- lor bottle of 50 tablets.
20/- for bottle of 100 tablets.
Post Free.
The 50-tablet bottle will be sufficient to
cure moderate smokers, but heavy smokers
will require the bottle of 100 tablets.
Vermark Laboratories,
12A Springfield Ave., Kings Cross,
N.S.W., Box 744, G.P.0., Sydney.
HE HAS A
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BABREEE
acts like a hand
■when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3s), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COIiITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHEKBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/0 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MUEBAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
paiiJt in the
Ftiiure
Hi
■: ■ ...v
Ten years have passed since men proclaimed
their Faith in humanity by signing the United
Nations Charter at San Francisco.
It has been my good fortune to have been in
the United States for that anniversary, and to have
shared in the wholesome spirit it engendered.
America has changed in some ways since my
last visit. Not the least transition has been in the
manner in which it has developed a world sense
that many would have thought impossible under its
former policy of isolation.
One feels, in “the States” these days, that one
is in a world climate. And I believe that this has
been brought about in no small way by the closeness
of Americans to all that pertains to the United
Nations Organisation.
They have provided its headquarters with a
home, and a very imposing one.
They have watched the fountain from which
flows such great agencies as the World Health
Organisation (WHO), the Food and Agricultural
Organisation (FAO), the Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and
the International Children’s Emergency Fund
(UNICEF).
The work of these agencies in establishing
human rights is done in fields far frorp North
America, and other countries besides the United
States are contributing to it.
But here, in the American’s homeland, is the
nerve centre of this greatest experiment in human
history; and one cannot help feeling that
consciousness of the fact has influenced the generous
thinking of the people.
It no doubt explains why the United States
now spends about 4000 million dollars (£AIBOO
million) a year in helping less fortunate countries.
And through it all I discern a strong cordiality
to Australia: another pointer to the world
friendship that is being brought to practical levels
in the work of the United Nations.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £8
.... £2/10/-
Foreign
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
London aiunail
From Herbert Holman
r T'HE Queen of Soho. There’s
a character for crime-
writers! And what a profusion
of seamy low-life, so many-sided
in its preoccupation with vice, is
on tap for the vicarious absorp-
tion of the avid reader!
The mind’s eye sees the
“Queen” operating darkly and
with revolting disregard of all
moral values, in some opulent
den set in the squalor of the
narrow streets that lie behind
Regent-street and Shaftesbury-
avenue. And the organisation
that she would control with such
terrifying efficiency would, of
course, be as “international” and
polyglot as her venue. A lurid
creature up to lurid mischief in
a lurid district.
There is nothing so debunking
to fiction as fact. It is true that
Soho is less Anglo-Saxon than
Chipping Sodbury and that un-
savory characters have been
noticed within its confines. But
it is also true that the notoriety
which infests its name has suf-
fered gross exaggeration and
that most of the residents are
decent, respectable, hard-work-
ing folk.
In understandable indignation
at the implied affront to their
respectability they have, during
this bright summer, risen in
rebellion, made collective
demonstration and won their
case. Led by a Frenchman
(licensee of the York Minster)
they have, by such an entirely
constitutional method as the
formation of committees, pro-
moted a fair in order to parade
their activities before sightseers,
well-wishers and, let it not be
overlooked, potential customers.
Their researches have even
debunked the exoticism of the
very name Soho. This derives
from a tally-ho, “So Ho! The
hare is found!” used long ago
by harriers.
Yes, their carnival and fair
needed a queen. They chose a
seventeen-year-old English
maiden who works in Soho but
lives—in Tooting, S.W. The
Hon. Chairman and Committee
of the Soho Association gave
much thought to the type of
girl best considered to repre-
sent their life and character.
She was, they decided, “the
sort of girl a chap could take
home to motyier.”
Respectability is a great
leveller. The best, perhaps.
Tons of Trouble
Since the nationalisation of
the coal-industry in 1947, there
have been no fewer than 20 in-
creases in price. The latest is
unprecedented. An instance of
its direct and immediate infla-
tionary effect is shown by the
fact that, almost at once, the
National Coal Board is having
to pay 16 p.c. more for its elec-
tricity. This 18 p.c. increase in
the price of coal is expected to
add £llB million to the nation’s
fuel hill and about 1 p.c. to the
total cost of goods and services
and will certainly set off another
round of wage-demands.
It is unlikely that anyone has
been taken by surprise, but, judg-
ing from the angry tone of the
comment, the delayed shock is
a severe one. The facts are not
palatable. Unofficial strikes,
absenteeism and so on cost the
board £2 million a year. Al-
though coal is exported at £1
a ton more than the domestic
price, imported coal accounts for
£2 a ton more, leaving an annual
balance of some £3O million on
the wrong side.
Since the Government fixes
coal-prices it has laid itself open
to the charge, not easily refut-
able, that the hefty rate of in-
crease was purposely held over
until after the general election.
Rather oddly, the Opposition
has been shouting at the Minis-
ter of Fuel to put up the price
still further, on the grounds that
industry pays less per ton than
the private consumer and also
because English coal is still
cheaper than American or Con-
tinental coal.
Industry has long discounted
any hope of improvement
in the coal situation. Now out-
side comment, too, is thinking
in terms of oil-burning and
is muttering, with the help-
less householder, “Roll on,
atomic energy, and the sooner
the better!”
Traitor Redeemed
John Clements, whose excur-
sions into theatrical manage-
ment have never been static or
dull, now intends to fuse the
West End stage with commer-
cial television. He has taken
over the Saville Theatre, where
he will put on plays that will
afterwards be filmed for the new
service—due, we are reminded,
to open in late September.
His first venture, “The Shadow
of Doubt,” is also a first play.
Written by a young civil
engineer, Norman King, it has
the virtues of economy in pro-
duction and presentation costs.
There are eight characters only,
of whom not more than three
are usually on the stage together,
and a single setting, a dowdy
flat in a converted house. But
his economy dQesn’t extend to
the dialogue nor to a second
act, which is redundant, long--
winded and dramatically naive.
Freed of this concession to
playing-time and the three-act
convention, the film should be
tolerably interesting, for the
author has an excellent sense of
construction and a flair for tell-
ing a story. Without the pad-
ding, which is unfunny and
nakedly embarrassing, there is
promise of an exciting spy-
thriller. But after a stimulating
first act the play slowly recedes
into wordy development (why
did the decent and oh-so-brilliant
physicist betray his country and
how will he clear his name?).
Emotional issues of heated in-
tensity are set off, like fireworks,
with much histrionic show but
little dramatic effect. Yet the
acting is so refined as to uphold
the play even when it falters.
Mr. King has devised an in-
genious plot out of a con-
temporary instance. Keeping off
politics, he manages to induce
sympathy for the hapless
physicist, hounded by his past,
M. 1.5 and, most important, pro-
fessional failure. He even con-
trives a happy ending, with
restored conjugal faith, a bright
future, the blessing and senti-
mental unbending of M. 1.5 and,
very nearly, roses round the
door.
John Clements himself plays
the physicist as if he were, truly,
more sinned against than sin-
ning. He misses a great oppor-
tunity for a penetrative character-
study, but is likeable enough in
his way, rather suggesting a
“hammered” stockbroker who in
early fife had toured with Martin
Harvey. Jane Baxter is all she
should be as the conventional,
mousily-true helpmeet, and Ray-
mond Huntley gives a touch of
sinister urbanity to the big-wig
from the Secret Service.
Poet Honored
“Dylan Thomas Growing
Up” (Globe Theatre) is pre-
cisely what Emlyn Williams
claims/ —a theatrical entertain-
ment. Behind these readings
there is a consummate mastery
of technique, theatrecraft and
understanding. At no time dobs
any personality obtrude other
than the author’s or his
characters. Of the baker’s-dozen
of selections, the best are “The
Outing,” “The Fight” and
“Reminiscences of a School-
master.” Mr. Williams’s evident
relish for the highly-charged and
youthfully self-conscious prose
greatly enhances its effect. The
poetry-readings are not as
moving as the prose.


g
Pr
If'r
33-39 HUNTER ST„
SYDNEY
Offices at
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED
£71,000,000.
A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
Perpetual Trustee
(Limited) can be of assistance to you
VOU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” be posted free to you.
•DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Patons & Baldwins (Aust.), Ltd.
CTNCE the present co. took over the
Australian business of Patons and
Baldwins, Ltd. (London), in 1951, and
with it a large 25-year interest-free loan
(£1,678,946 at April 30 last), the rather
violent fluctuations in net earnings have
disappointed the market, whose bids for
the f.-p. £1 shares have oscillated in
this way:
1951. 1952. 1953. 1954. 1955.*
High 38s. Od. 325. 9d. 275. 9d. 30s. Od. 265. 6d.
Low 295. lid. 19s. 9d. 21s. Bd. 235. Od. 225. 6d.
* January to June.
Last week the figure stood at 235., giving
an immediate return of 5.2 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. To obtain a shade
over 7 p.c. on his money the investor
would need to receive an 8 p.c. div.,
which, given stable conditions in both
buying and selling markets, is a reason-
able expectation. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 255. lOd. (At flotation
freeholds and plant were insured, on a
replacement basis, at several times book-
value.) The £l5 p.c. prefs., covered by
£3 11s. 7d. in net tangibles, yield 6 p.c. at
16s. 9d.
The co., which has £2,250,000 of
capital to feed, including 750,000 prefs.,
has exhibited a healthy earning-power
under stable trading conditions. Its big
spinning-mill at Launceston (Tas.) con-
verts raw wool bought on the local
market into a wide range of high-grade
yarns for hand-knitted, embroidery,
mending, Turkey-rug and machine-
knitted goods. On the merchandising
side a number of other local and
imported lines are also handled, includ-
ing knitting - needles, crochet - hooks,
angora yarns, rug-, tapestry- and
embroidery-canvases, etc.
Owing to the precipitous fall in wool
prices, trading for the first year resulted
in a profit only £9169 more than the pref.
div. called for, and the ords. were passed
by. In the following term wool prices
moved upward again, turnover improved,
and the co. recovered “the substantial
write-down of stocks” which so drasti-
cally affected the 1952 figure, and the
ords. were handed 6 p.c. This rate has
been repeated for the two years to the
close of last accounts, though profits
have receded:
f Dividends
Pref. To Re-
May, Profit. 5 p.c. t Ord. N serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
exes, etc., £49,727 .. 49,727
Profit sale assets, £8339 .. .. 41,388
1952.. 38,194 29,025 Nil 9,169 32,219
Added intangibles, £203 .. .. 32,422
Tax overprovided, etc., £80,251 .. 2,171
Reserves.
1953.. 329.605 37,500 6 p.c.=90,000 202,105 199,934
Tax overprovided, etc., £66,454 .. 266,388
1954.. 404 37,600 6 p.c. =90,000 132,904 399,292
Profit sale assets, £619 .. . . 399,911
Tax overprovided, £7B .. .. .. 399,989
1955.. 740 37,500 6 p.c. =90,000 84,240 434,229
Last term turnover continued on the up-
grade, but, after allowing £34,103 (down
£5657) for depreciation and £102,820
(down £65,480) for taxation, the profit
was £98,664 short of the previous year’s
at £161,740.
Again stock-values had to be written-
down, owing to the decline in wool prices.
At the same time competition, both local
and overseas, kept selling-prices for
yarns down, and operating and other
costs crept up. The £161,740 of profit
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 8.3 p.c. on ord. capital as against
14.8 p.c. and 19.4 p.c. for the two preced-
ing years, and an average of 11.7 p.c.
for the three years to 1951. The board’s
declared intention is to “follow a con-
servative policy in ordinary dividend
distribution” and build up reserves. This
and other things make the scrip
essentially a holding proposition.
Finances are comfortable:
Capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Ord 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 199,934 399,292 434,229
Deferred liability.. 1,678,946 1,678,946 1,678,946
Creditors .. .. 148,399 192,068 135,797
Tax reserve . . 299,673 169,148 103,339
Final div. .. 90,000 90,000 90,000
£4,666,952 £4,779,454 £4,692,311
Freeholds.. .. 244,041 294,495 816,390
Plant .. .. 206,876 243,008 295,255
Stocks .. .. 2,434,872 2,705,380 1,905,847
Debtors .. .. 887,916 1,063,237 1,094,581
Advances .. .. 626,769 876,769
Cash, eto 266,478 96,565 1,080,238
£4,666,952 £4,779,454 £4,692,311
The year’s net reduction in stocks (in at
lower-of-cost or market-price) was
£799,533. Together with repayment of
£376,769 previously advanced to the
parent, the co. was thus able to meet a
het addition of £74,142 to fixed assets,
carry £31,344 more book-debts, clip
£56,271 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, reduce tax commitments by
£65,809, and strengthen the holding of
cash, etc., by £983,673. During the year
the chairman visited the British parent
co. to discuss, among other things,
arrangements for ultimate repayment of
the funded interest-free debt already
referred to.
How the current term will pan out
depends largely on what happens to raw-
wool prices. Import-restrictions should
mitigate the effects of overseas competi-
tion, but increases in wage-margins and
other costs threaten to bite deeper into
takings.
Custom Credit Corporation, Ltd.
T AUNCHED only two years ago by the
energetic lan M. Jacoby on the
flooding tide of hire-purchase credit, the
co. (in which the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia holds a 40 p.c. share-interest) is
already third of its kind in a field of 32
whose scrip is registered on Sydney
’Change. Also, the growth has been
profitable as well as rapid. Shareholders
got 10 p.c. for first year, followed by
15 p.c., with a wide margin, for the 12
months to June 30 last. And they could
then see the whole of their capital intact
and £248,167 besides. Altogether a
commendable performance.
Operating in the durable-goods field,
the three main branches of which are
motor-vehicles, furniture and household
appliances, the co. now has branches in
all States. It kicked off with a capital of
£50,000, which had grown by par issues
to £500,000 at June 30, 1954, and to
£3,000,000 a year later, the last
£1,500,000 of which was gathered in May,
1955, too late to have any influence
worth mentioning on last term’s net
earnings.
The bulk of the business is financed on
money raised by the issue of first
mortgage debenture stock and registered
unsecured notes, which totalled
£9,850,192 at June 30 last, when hire
contracts outstanding amounted to
£11,084,947. Interest paid on the deben-
tures, etc., varies with the currency,
ranging from 1J p.c. on demand deposits
to 6 p.c. on money lodged for a four-
year period or more. The rates and
conditions attaching to these debentures,
etc., are so much better than those relat-
ing to bank deposits, or other comparable
industrial securities, especially in the
short-term bracket, that when the co.
came on to the market in September last
with £750,000 of debentures it received
(and accepted) offers totalling £1,645,000-
odd.
From the co.’s own point of view,
these borrowed funds earn much more
than their keep, thus enabling fat returns
to be vvon on share-capital alone:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1954.. £53,457 10 p.c. = £21,458 £ 31,999 £31,999
Prelim, exes, written off, £6982 25,017
1955. . 441,900 15 p.c. = 218,750 223,150 248,167
Despite the expense inseparable from
rapid expansion, and after allowing
£7277 for depreciation and £250,088 for
taxation, profit for the second year of
operations was £441,900, equal to 30.3
p.c. on average share-capital employed
(£1,458,333). Thus the 15 p.c. div. Was
twice covered, and, with things as they
are, it looks like remaining a comfortable
matter. Considering the rate of growth
and the size of capital, more good than
harm would result if the div. remained
steady until reserves, visible and other-
wise, are substantially strengthened.
During the year an extra £7,589,227
was put out under h.-p. contracts, and a
further £7,085,932 was raised on deben-
tures —of the total debenture debt, etc.,
£3,354,612 matures within 12 months and
the balance at various longer periods:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital £500,000 £3,000,000
Reserves 25,017 248,167
Staff fund .. .. .. 7,438
Debentures and notes . . 2,764,260 9,850,192
Unearned income .. .. 560,476 1,388,530
Sundry creditors .. . . 27,411 354,821
Tax provision .. .. 29,153 250,000
Final div 21,458 152,083
£3,927,775 £15,251,231
Office equipment .. .. 39,791 57,509
Shares subsid. .. ~ 250,000
H.P. contracts, etc... .. 3,495,720 11,084,947
Sundry debtors .. .. 6,845
Cash, etc 392,264 3,851,930
£3,927,775 £15,251,231
The growth of £3,459,666 in cash, etc.,
was due partly to the doubling of share-
capital a few weeks before the close of
accounts, and might contain a hint that
the volume of first-class business now
offering is no(, expanding as rapidly as
previously. A year ago down-payments
of a substantial part of the co.’s business
averaged 40 p.c. for motor-vehicles and
22 p.c. for household goods and
appliances.
To keep insurance and the profits there-
from on the hired goods within the
family, a wholly - owned subsidiary,
National and General Insurance Co. (paid
capital £250,000), was formed in October,
1954, and earned a surplus of £13,531 for
the six months to March 31 last, which
was reserved for unexpired risks.
Hire-purchase has lately come in for
criticism on a number of counts. One of
the strongest is that the interest- or
service-charge is too high. Certainly those
in the business seem to be getting it both
Ways; a negligible amount of bad debts
with interest-earnings that can only be
justified on the supposition that bad-debts
experience is going to be very bad. At
the moment it is a highly profitable and
relatively risk-free business. Space pre-
cludes discussion of the economic aspects
of this class of credit. Applied in the
right way at the right time it can be very
helpful; yet, like any other form of debt,
an overdose can prove lethal. It is the
only way young people today can get
their household goods together in time to
marry at a reasonable age.
At 10s. the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares return
7.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is ss. 4d,
Brooklands (Holdings), Ltd.
THE present holding co. bought as
from May 1 last all the £354,813 of
issued capital, including £25,000 of 7
p.c. prefs., in Brooklands Accessories,
Ltd., a highly successful concern operat-
ing in the motor accessories trade mainly
in Victoria. It paid in its own scrip,
exchanging a like amount of £1 7 p.c.
prefs. and six new f.-p. ss. ords. for each
£1 ord. in the operating co. This was
equivalent to one-for-two (50 p.c.) tax-
free bonus share-issue.
The holding co. will thus have
a paid capital of £519,719, in-
cluding 25,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs.
The pref. div. and \l\ p.c. to the ords.
on that lot would call for £88,325, or
£40,031 less profit than wasnearned last
term. And 17£ p.c. would be worth 26.2
p.c. on ord. capital as it stood before
the exchange.
Moreover, the capital - expansion
programmes of the motor indus-
try, and growing number of vehicles
on the roads, augur well for maintenance
of a strong demand for the lines handled
and services rendered by the operating
cos. And since the close of accounts a
new branch has been opened at Ballarat,
where a property has been bought for
the purpose, and new premises are pre-
sently to be erected at North Melbourne
to house the growing activities of a sub-
sidiary, Starting Lighting Ignition Pty.
There has been no actual change in
the organisation or set-up of the group,
the bulk of whose business is done in
Victoria, where there are now eight
branches, with another at Sydney. The
Accessories co. holds a number of well-
known local and overseas agencies for
automobile parts, etc., an engineering
section specialises in engine- and clutch-
rebuilding and electrical- and carburettor-
servicing, and the Starting Lighting
Ignition offshoot holds the Lucas (Eng-
land) agency for the auto-electric equip-
ment with which most British-made
motor-vehicles are fitted, as well as the
recently-acquired Victorian distributing
rights for Smith Motor Accessories,
another English co. which makes speedo-
meters, oil-gauges and car-locks and
-heaters, etc.
To help finance expansion the Acces-
sories co. gathered £109,938 of fresh ord.
capital early last term. After allowing
£13,221 (up £3540) for depreciation and
£91,500 (up £26,500) for taxation, the
operating co. and its subsidiary showed
an extra £10,500 of profit for the year
To April 30 last:
Brooklands Accessories and Subsidiaries.
r~ Dividends —^
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. f Ord. — serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
1952 .. 109,993 1750 17* 38,478 295,269
Tax overprovided, etc., £1521 .. 296,790
1953 .. 111',787 1750 17$ 38,478 3G8.349
Tax overprovided, £21,966 .. .. 390,315
1954 .. 117,856 1750 17* 38,478 467,943
Profit sale assets, £941 .. .. 468,884
Tax overprovided, £ 159 .. .. 469,043
Unexplained reduction, £1978 .. 467,065
1955 .. 128,356 1750 17* 54,969 538,702
* After deducting intangibles (£22,132 at
30/4/’55).
The £128,356 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 40.3 ,p.c. on average
ord. capital employed as against 52.8,
49.2 and 51.9 p.c. for the three preceding
years. On the holding co.’s capital it
was enough to pay the prefs. their 7 p.c.
and show 25.6 p.c. on the £494,719 on
the ord. register. The div. was kept at
\l\ p.c., of which 1\ p.c. is called bonus,
for the fifth year in succession.
The net amount of working capital in
the business (£582,356) increased by
£116,203:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Ord. ... . . 219,875 219,875 329,813
Reserves .. 368,349 467,942 638,702
Outside interests 12 15 15
Creditors, etc. .. 147,614 202,423 223,934
Tax provision .. 94,192 65,000 91,500
Final divs. .. 28,359 28,359 42,102
£883,401 £1,008,614 £1,251,066
Freeholds .. 120,253 161,433 213,167
Leaseholds .. 15,134 14,654 14,174
Plant and fittings 52,365 70,592 83,833
Stocks .. .. 382,078 373,674 531,926
Debtors .. .. 287,590 343,027 369,347
Cash .. .. 25,981 45,234 38,619
£883,401 £1,008,614 £1,251,066
To carry £158,252 more stocks (in at
cost or valuation), £26,320 more book-
debts and add £51,734 to freeholds and
£13,241 to plant, etc., the amount coming
to sundry creditors was increased by
£21,511 and shareholders put up
£109,938.
The market prices the holding co.’s
f.-p. ss. ords. at 14s. 3d. to return 6.2
p.c. on a 17£ p.c. distribution. The £1
7 p.c. prefs. at 245. 6d. yield 5.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £42 3s. prefs. and
10s. sd. ords.


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors. \
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation ■ and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St, Sydney. BU 3445.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal
Directors: I'HOMAS A. MAOIfEY f
Chairman; Alfred S.
settlements of claims
Chairman; F. W. Duesbuty, Deputy
White; A. Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
Branches in all States •
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Mr
r
m
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child’s life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later oil
Protection
from
Babyhood to
Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
. assurance CO.ltd.
HI
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
Car. Hunter and Bligh Sts.. Sydney
ELECTRIC
LIFTS
HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street) Waterloo. MX
Represented in all States.
Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
rouß £l,OOO GROWS TO £1,475
IN 10 YEARS WHEN YOU INVEST IN THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
£4'ls'-% LOAN
You can Invest from £5O upward for 10 or 20 years at 4f per cent—almost double
savings bank interest—with full confidence: the Loan is secured on the Boards
income, while PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST ARE GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT. As the interest tables show, the more you invest, the bigger your
earnings in comparison with savings bank interest.
See how profitable a 10-year investment can be!
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
LOAN INTEREST
On £lOO ..
On £5OO ..
On £l,OOO
On £2,000
£47 10 0
£237 10 0
£475 0 0
£950 0 0
SAVINGS BANK INTEREST
On £lOO ...... £25 0 0
On £5OO £125 0 0
On £l,OOO .. £lB7 10 0
On £2,000 .. £250 0 0
Your Loan interest is payable half yearly direct to your bank account, if you wish.
Subscriptions, interest, and repayment at maturity are free of exchange in terms of
the Prospectus. Instalments are accepted.
MAKE CERTAIN OF THIS GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED INCOME
Call at your nearest Commonwealth Trading Bank, the Sydney Water Board, or apply
through a Stockbroker .
Issued at par for £1,250,000, Loan No. 136 is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., and
closes NOT LATER THAN MONDAY, Bth AUGUST, 1955.
WBLS7-5S
Maryborough Knitting Mills
FOLLOWING misfortune in
1931, when 55 p.c. of the
capital was jettisoned to wipe
out intangibles and write-down
the book-value of fixed assets,
the management set to work to
build up reserves and modernise
and expand plant, the chief earn-
ing asset.
As evidence of the suc-
cess achieved, shareholders
received divs. averaging 15 p.c.
over the last 18 years, sweetened
with a small gift scrip-issue, one
for six, in 1951, as well as occa-
sional cash issues kt par. Over
the same period reserves climbed
from £19,942 to £393,574.
The well-equipped mill at
Maryborough (Vic.), and three
auxiliary plants at Dunolly,
Talbot and Avoca, turn out
knitted underwear which enjoys
an excellent reputation in the
trade, and that is an additional
asset in a competitive market.
However, as usually happens in
such circumstances, manufac-
turers have to carry additional
stocks to ensure prompt
deliveries. So, to help finance
the additions and provide extra
warehouse-space, etc., those on
the register (pref. and ord.) at
August 31 are to be offered
248,248 new ss. ords. (£62,062)
at par, one for three.
That will raise paid capital to
£248,248, of which £26,232 car-
ries a cumulative 8 p.c. and ad-
vances with the ords. in any dis-
tribution beyond that point. An
all-round 12| p.c. div. will then
call for £31,031, or £21,393 less
profit than was won last term.
Both classes of shares are
priced at 10s. in the market.
After exercising the rights and
allowing for brokerage, the net
cost would be Bs. 10d., and the
return a satisfactory 7 p.c. on
a 12y p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover, including the new
issue, is £6 2s. 2d. prefs. and
13s. lOd. ords.
Last term turnover was a
record, but competition and the
fall in wool prices reduced gross
margins, and exes, were difficult
to restrain. After allowing
£24,000 less for depreciation
(£15,000, down £10,000) and
taxation (£32,500, down £14,000),
the slip in profit was £10,339:
, Dividends Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves.
£> £> £>
1952.. 31.678 10 p.c. = 18,619 300,090
From tax provision, £3565.. 303,655
1953.-29,526 10 p.c. = 18,618 314,563
From tax provision, £7859 322,422
1954.. 62,764 10 p.c. = 18,619 368,567
Tax underprovided, £2145.. 364,422
1955.. 52.425 12i p.c. = 23,273 393,574
The £52,425 of profit claimed,
however, was 28.1 p.c. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) as
against 33.7, 15.8 and 17 p.c. for
the three preceding years. Also
the board considered prospects
good enough to lift the div. from
10 p.c. to 12£ p.c. On share-
holders’ funds the year’s profit
was 9 p.c., suggesting, among
other things, that the assets are
not overvalued in the books.
The already comfortable
financial position further im-
proved :
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. .. £26,263 £26,263
Ord. .. .. 159,923 159,923
Reserves .. .. 366,567 393,674
Depreciation res. .. 70,000 85,000
Overdraft . . ... 10,736 24,462
Creditors .. .. 32,977 43,091
Tax reserve .. .. 46,500 32,500
Staff fund .. .. 6,000 6,000
Dividend .. .. 18,619 23,273
£737,585 £794,086
Freeholds .. .. 69,751 74,601
Plant, etc 177,741 193,813
Stocks .. .. 314,247 374,801
Book debts .. .. 153,826 123,852
Cash, etc. .. ... 22,020 27,019
£737,585 £794,086
Despite a growth of £20,922 in
the book-vafue of fixed assets, net
working capital (£396,346) was
strengthened by £20,685. Stocks
Cup £60,544) appear at cost or
under, and book-debts (down
£29,974) less an unstated pro-
vision.
Northern Hercules, N.L., is
offering 300,000 new 10s. con-
tribs., one for five held on
August 11, payable ss. down (6d.
application plus a precall of
4s. 6d.) and the balance as
required. The money is wanted
for additional working capital,
and to finance development not
originally contemplated. The
board “wishes to establish the
existence” of sufficient pyrite ore
for use in a uranium treatment-
plant that “may be built” near
the mine, which lies east of Pine
Creek (NX). Prospectus esti-
mates of capital requirements
were mine preparation and de-
velopment £77,700; plant, build-
ings, stores, water-supply, etc.,
£459,700; working capital and
contingencies £30,000 and
£32,000 respectively. In the three
main lodes there are four known
ore-shoots containing 62,300 tons
ore, averaging 37.2dwt. Recover-
able grade was put at 30.8dwt.,
and costs at £8 per ton. With
gold at £l5 12s. 6d. a fine ounce,
aggregate profit would be
£1,000,000. There is a good
chance that development will dis-
close more pay-ore. The fine-
grinding, flotation, roasting and
cyanidation plants are nearing
completion, and production is
expected to begin about the end
of this month. Present issued
capital is £750,000 in 10s. shares,
which fetch around 10s. 3d.
* * * *
Prospects for London-con-
trolled Paringa Mining and
Exploration look bleak. After
the co. sold its leases and plant
at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) to Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie for £568,000
in 1951, it bought a 60 p.c. in-
terest in the old Wheal of For-
tune Extended lead-mine at
Northampton (W.A.) Here
operations resulted in a loss of
£527,265 for the year to August
31, 1954. The chairman says
there is now no visible evidence
of payable ore in the mine, which
is virtually on a care-and-main-
tenance basis, and litigation with
the vendors, concerning purchase
of the remaining 40 p.c. interest
in the show for £528,000, is
pending. A committee repre-
senting shareholders and the
board is to investigate the posi-
tion. Including the £28,000, the
Wheal of Fortune venture stood
in the books at £S 100,705. Rea-
lisable investments, cash, etc.,
totalled £567,064, and outside
liabilities (including provision for
the £28,000) amounted to
£529,563. In addition the co. had
guaranteed the Wheal of For-
tune offshoot’s overdraft
(£A21,221 at Aug. 31, 1954).
Paringa’s £270,440 of capital is
in Is. stock units, now priced at
2id. each on the Australian
market.
* * * *
Central Radio Mines, N.L.,
should issue its prospectus any
day now. The co. >vas registered
in Adelaide last week to take
over and develop the Radio,
Inspiration West and Volcano
goldmines, near Bullfinch (W.A.).
Shareholders in the two vendor
cos., Austral Mining and
Uranium Oxide, are to be offered
in each case 300,000 of Central’s
10s. shares, and a further 100,000
10s. shares are to be offered to
the general public. The whole
of the issue has been under-
written by the vendors, each of
which holds a half-interest in
options over the mines referred
to. The Radio appears to be the
most promising of the trio. It
has been a profitable though
small producer for many years ;
total recorded production is
28,170 tons ore for 48,7200 z.
gold. Here a small crushing- and
treatment - plants has been
installed, and two trial parcels
totalling 130 tons recently
yielded 2320 z. smelted gold,
valued at £3300. A lot of careful
prospecting work, especially on
the Radio, is known to have
been done over the last six
months. A full review of the
venture will be given when the
prospectus is received.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
At the 73rd annual show of the Aus-
tralian Sheepbreeders’ Association, held
in Dalgety’s wool-warehouse, Mrs.
Charles C. Kelly (wife of the president
of the association) wore a sage-green-
and-brown-flecked suit and a bright-green
cloche swathed with brown chilfon.
Sydney visitor Sara Hordern wore &
clutch-coat of lipstick-red with a shawl-
collar and a grey jersey frock. A bronze-
and-black angora coat and bronze beret
were the choice of Mrs. John Foster, of
Evandale (Tas.). Her daughter Angela
wore a yellow coat over a mole tweed-
suit and a deerstalker hat of tan
tweed. Also from Tasmania were Mrs.
E. J. Prevost, of Epping, knd Mr. and
Mrs. Geoff Lawrence, of Cressy. South
Australians included Mr. and Mrs. Alan
Hookings (Tantanoola), Mr. and Mrs. L.
Spehr (Furner) and Mr. and Mrs. Don
Green (Millicent).
☆ ☆ ☆
Marsha Hunt, wearing a high-necked,
sleeveless taffeta frock in bright navy,
manages to look surprisingly chic for a
woman who has been shipwrecked on a
desert island for 23 days. But this is part
of the gaiety that pervades “The Little
Hut,” which opened at the Princess.
The star had strong sartorial opposi-
tion from the audience. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll wore white Arctic-fox with a
slim black tulle frock that was gently
rucked from strapless bodice to hem.
Mrs. Keith Fairlie’s gown of oyster-white
satin had appliques of black velvet oh
the strapless bodice and skirt. Mrs.
James McGauran’s lovely short theatre-
frock was of mauve faille, with swirls of
the material sewn over the full skirt. The
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. Frank Selleck)
chose a short frock of deep-grey guipure
lace, softly draped.
Mrs. Alex Finlay’s short black-faille
frock featured a bodice and apron-front
of white Chantilly-lace. Mrs. A. T.
Smithers’s gown was of white-and-silver
brocade. Mrs. Richard Linton chose
a full theatre-coat of pale-lilac taffeta.
Mrs. F. W. Parkinson’s black frock was
jet-embroidered. Mrs. Eric Cottrell
wore midnight-blue chiffon with a
matching guipure-lace bodice, Mrs. W.
McDermott a short draped frock of red-
and-black brocade.
☆& ☆ .
The Kayser Silver Jubilee lingerie-
collection for spring and summer showed
several new and charming trends. Slips
were made with the long torso to wear
with A- and H-line frocks/and half-slips
featured swirling frills to add the bouffant
touch to frocks. Eyeletted embroidered
nylon was used to make the new rounded
bra.-line in a supersilk slip with 30-denier
nylon forming the ruffle, trimming the
bodice and the fitted four-gore skirt.
Cotton plisse, which needs no pressing,
was used to make a long torso-slip with
the bodice and swirling skirt trimmed
with fine torchon lace. Plisse was used
also in a nightgown cut on Roman lines.
It was backless, with a deep crossover
bodice; the waist was shirred and elasti-
cised, and the skirt full and gathered.
Unusual trimming was the new Lurex
gold embroidery, which washes as well
as the plisse.
For teenagers there were candy-striped
plisse pyjamas in creme-de-menthe color.
The jacket had a youthful square neck-
line and yoke with self-colored buttons
at the centre-opening. The trousers were
cut on pedal-pusher lines. The answer to
hot summer nights was seen in a pair of
cute pyjamas comprising a full off-the-
shoulder tunic of hearts-and-darts plisse
and little bloomer-pants of plain red
plisse. This fabric has been tested for
laundering, and after a boiling of 90
minutes the colors were still firm. Harle-
quin pyjamas of the same fabric had the
full tunic with a rounded, elasticised
neckline, puff-sleeves and the long
trousers cuffed with plain red plisse. A
set of pirate-pyjamas had a red plisse
tunic and threequarter-length pants tied
with black nylon ribbon.
Moonlight Sonata was the name given
an unusual nightgown in nycelon. The
low-cut bodice had bands of nylotex
forming shoulder-straps and defining the
bust-line. The cutaway-armholes were
trimmed with nylon Alenin lace. Blue
Danube was an appealing nightgown in
pale-blue nylon-de-luxe. Its softly
feminine lines fell from a yoke of nylo-
tex, edged at neck and bust-line with
nylon-net and finished with a nylon-
ribbon tie. Gazelle was a black nylon
ballerina-nightgown with a complete
bodice of nylon Alen?on lace. Skirt and
sleeves were trimmed with nylon-lace.
Can Can was a half-slip of black stiffened
nylon-taffeta with a frou-frou of three
tiers of nylon-marquisette edged with
tricolor binding. Styled on the Italian
line with long-fitted torso, elasticised at
the back and finishing in a deep knee-
flounce, was a woven terylene and nylon.
The combination of the two fabrics gave
a self-striped effect.
Lola Brooks, at present delighting Mel-
bourne audiences with her work as
ingenue lead in “My Three Angels” at
the Comedy, mixes radio- with stage-
work. She toured Australia for the Firm
in “Worm’s Eye View,” and also played
juvenile-lead in a TV film, “Where Men
Are Men.”
Mrs. Edward Campbell, her sister Mrs.
Peter Cox, and Mrs. Gordon Darling
once again are ticket-secretaries for the
Navy Ball, to be held in the Royale Ball-
room on Oaks Night, November 3. The
fourth is Mrs. George Fowle. This year
will crown the work the committee has
done in raising funds for the building of
the Memorial Chapel at Flinders. Ball-
committee president is Mtrs. R. R. Dowl-
ing (wife of the First Naval Member).
Vice-presidents are Mrs. J. C. Morrow,
Mrs. Neil Mackinnon, Mrs. K. G. Luke,
Mrs. C. C. Clarke and Mrs. D. Russell.
* ☆ ☆
A well-dressed typist of 1905 vintage
arrived at the Hotel Australia by horse-
drawn cab. Escorted to the Venetian
Court, she opened a parade in which
Buckley and Nunn were featuring a
variety of attractive office-uniforms.
Colors included larkspur, harmony-grey,
orchid-yellow, carnation-pink, mistletoe-
green, clover-beige and bottlebrush-
green.
Smartness was accented by concealed
buttoning, finely-stitched collars, cuffs
and pockets, the two-way neckline,
detachable collars, the popular mandarin-
collar and the novel back-fastening.
Materials used were Sun Dek, Top Dek,
Ceserine, nylon-craquelle and bengaline
—all color-fast and crease-resisting. A
number of the uniforms could be worn
as summer frocks. An example was one
in pale-blue with a square turned-back
neckline and softly-flared skirt.
* ☆ ☆
To bid “au revoir” to Mrs. Lionel
Newton, who leaves shortly with her
husband for an extended trip abroad,
Mrs. W. H. Horsfall entertained a number
of friends at a luncheon in her Marne-
street flat, where bowls filled with pink
and white blossom were set in the draw-
ing-room and dining-room. On the
dining-table groups of pink and deep-
rose camellias were the decorative note.
The hostess wore a frock of junior-blue
wool-romaine which featured a sash of
matching satin. The guest-of-honor’s suit
was of rust-and-grey silk-tweed. Mother
of the hostess, Mrs. A. Hedley, chose a
grey frock with touches of white guipure
lace at the neckline. Among the guests
were Mrs. A. Colman, Mrs. Frank
Watts, Mrs. Norman Bennett, Mrs. J.
Turner, Mrs. E. Davies and Mrs. W.
Cook.
SYDNEY
The social event of the week was the
opening of the Elizabethan Theatre with
the Richardsons and the Cassons in
Terence Rattigan’s “Sleeping Prince.” All
the prominent first-nighters were there, all
the socialites who have even the faintest
interest in the theatre in Australia, Uni-
versity students and young members of
Sydney’s Little Theatre Groups (mostly
in “the gods,” this group), and an
impressive number of prominent citizens
led by the Governor himself.
Crowds lined the streets round the
theatre cheering the arrivals and com-
menting on cars and frocks; klieg-lights
in the packed foyer were kind to
diamonds and unkind to complexions ;
nearly all women wore ball-gowns rather
than ballerinas (some of which have been
in tissue-paper since the Queen’s visit);
all agreed that the spaciousness of the
theatre was a revelation (though the
chandelier seemed rather lost in the vast
ceiling), and that the fanfares, the lush-
ness of the Edwardian setting, the
grandeur of the acting of Dame Sybil
Thorndike and Sir Ralph Richardson, the
multitude of long white gloves, the opera-
glasses, the elegant programmes, were all
nostalgic of an earlier age of theatre-
going, while heralding, it is hoped, a new
one.
Sir John Latham and Mr. Hugh Hunt
welcomed the Governor, and in the
official party were the Premier and Mrs.
Cahill; the Lord Mayor and his mother,
Mrs. Margaret Hills; Mr. and Mrs.
R. J F. Boyer; Dr. and Mrs. H. C.
Coombs. Mrs. Lionel McFadyen (whose
two daughters, Robin and Margot, were
also present) wore a black lace dress
under her long mink coat; Mrs. H.
Tronser’s glamorous black dress had a
skirt embroidered with gold; gold-tissue
formed the theatre-suit worn by Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere; gold-thread outlined
the pattern in the cream-lace dress worn
by Mrs. Tom Bateman. Vivid notes of
color were the opera-coat in shocking-
pink satin worn by Mr. Bruce Macfarlan,
Mrs. Gordon Johnston’s turquoise-blue
satin and Romayne Hordern’s Ming-blue
stole.
Denise Arrand, who is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. F. G. Arrand,
of Northbridge, is one of the season’s
prettiest and most popular debutantes.
Denise made her debut at the Loretto
( Kirribilli ) ex-students’ ball, and is an
active member of the younger set of St.
Aloysius College Ladies’ Committee.
Her photo is by Norton-Trevaire.
Spring has officially come to the retail-
stores, and their windows have blossomed
out this week in full vigor. In Anthony
Horderns’ Pitt- and George-street win-
dows there is a most unusual and interest-
ing display. Five-hundred miniature
figures, individually clothed and sculpted
by Mrs. Clothilde Highton, show the
effect clothes have had on manners and
deportment from classical times to the
present. Fourteenth-century episodes
show the early origins of the A- and H-
lines which have been revived today, and
(going back further) the modern tennis-
dress is traced to the garment worn by
Spartan women athletes. Some of the
figures are animated by a new process,
and the whole display is of particular,
interest.
☆ ☆ ☆
“In all the years I have known Jean
Derrin I have never suspected her of
painting watercolors! ” said Mrs. Charles
Walton when opening Miss Derrin’s
show at the Grosvenor Galleries on
Wednesday. Mrs. Walton, who was Aus-
tralian Commandant for the Women’s
Air Training Corps when Miss Derrin
was its State Commandant, went on to
say that she had known the artist as a
good organiser, a first-class cook, a
fair hand as a motor-mechanic and as a
golfer, but ,that her charm as a painter
was something new again. Apparently
most of the large crowd who came to
the opening agreed with Mrs. Walton,
for within 15 minutes half of the 40
paintings shown had been sold. This is
Miss Derrin’s first solo show in Sydney
(she has had one exhibition in Brisbane),
and it will remain open until August 5.
☆ ☆ *
Not least among the many lovely
things to be seen at the Karitane Clinic’s
table-setting exhibition, “Dining in
Color,” at David Jones’ Gallery are the
tables themselves, all of which have been
lent by members of the committee (Mrs.
Hullsmith has three in the exhibition,
and her family have been reduced to the
card-table for meals).
At the opening by Mrs. Robert Cleve-
land one heard exclamations of admira-
tion for the subtle coloring of Mrs. A.
Unger’s Victorian after-dinner setting,
with its flower-arrangement of kale,
geraniums and luculia; for the beautiful
Limoges fruit-plates used by Mrs. J.
Petrie; the Moore vase on Mrs. R.
Roberts’s table ; the decorativeness as well
as usefulness of the fingerbowls for Mrs.
R. MinteCs asparagus-setting; how the
ivy, faintly tipped with gold, picked up
the elegant gold design on the plates used
by Mrs. J. Ludowici and Miss Lorraine
Wilson ; the perfect Regency setting with
its genuine late-supper table by Mrs.
G. Auchinachie; the spider-shell as
centrepiece for Mrs. J. Minter’s clever
fish-setting; the consistently delicate
Eastern quality of Mrs. Leonard Plasto’s
table; how the cutlery on Miss Vi
Fuller’s table was turned downwards in
the French manner ; the wooden mirror in
the boudoir setting by Mrs. D. Brown-
hill ; the grapes (collected from old
French wine-bottles) used so artistically
by Mrs. W. Tilley; and a host of other
exquisite details.
The committee of the R.S.L. Victory
Ball, to be held at the Trocadero on
Thursday, August 11, is hoping to make
its presentation of debutantes one of the
most spectacular ever seen in Sydney.
Mrs. Ella Mawer will, as matron-of-
honor, present 16 debs., all daughters of
World War II ex-servicemen, to the
Governor, Sir John Northcott. There
will be a background of masses of spring
flowers and satin banners naming out-
standing campaigns; the debs, will enter
the ballroom through arches of flowers
held by flower-girls in pipk-and-white
tulle frocks; and at the conclusion of
the presentation the debs, and flower-
girls will form a tableau depicting the
traditional “V” for Victory against the
background of floral arches.
* ☆ ☆
Entertainment both solemn and gay
will be provided at the International Ball
on Thursday night (August 4). A pipe-
band will play at 8.30, and at nine-o’clock
a prologue about United Nations will be
read by radio - announcer Douglas
Channel!, after which the Sydney Male
Voice Choir will sing Beethoven’s
“Creation” hymn.
Later there will be a lively cabaret
with music and dances from Russia, the
Ukraine, Switzerland, South America and
France. Also, features oft the ball include
a special “Young People’s” table which
may be joined by any young couples who
wish (the host and hostess are Brigadier
and Mrs. Field), and an American table
to which any Americans > are invited to
come along. Fifteen girls in national cos-
tumes will sell programmes, and all the
tables will be decorated in picturesque
and dramatic style. Altogether it promises
to be a most memorable dance.
* ☆ ☆
The five Australian players selected
to appear with Judith Anderson in the
Australian Drama Company’s produc-
tion of “Medea” in October are John
Alden (remembered best for the brilliant
Shakspearian company he led in Sydney
and took on tour from 1949 to 1952),
Doris Fitton (perhaps the most outstand-
ing person in Sydney’s Little Theatre
activity), Alistair Roberts (who is both
actor and designer), Clement McCallum
and James Bailey, both actors,of distinc-
tion.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 2878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N* E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Missing Friends
WOULD JOHN DENNISON WILTON,
formerly of Fern Tree Gully but now
of parts unknown, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213
Nicholson Street, Footscray, MW 6216?
WILSON, Alexander, a son of JOHN
WILSON and BELLA WILSON nee
McLEAN. his issue, or anyone knowing
his or their whereabouts, please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney, re Estate of
JAMES WILSON.
Public Notice
I, CON (CONSTANTINOS) KRIKETOS, of
Greek Nationality, bom at Acrata, Greece,
resident seven (7) years in Australia, now
residing at 197 Pacific Highway, Hornsby,
intend to apply for Naturalisation under
tiie Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN MCDONALD, RAMSEY late
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE
RAMSEY has filed Petition in Divorce
No. 1447 of 1954 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Seventh day
of October 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from McCAW,
JOHNSON & CO., Solicitors, 75-77 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
TO FRANCIS HENRY SUTHERLAND
formerly of Fremantle W. A.—-TARE
NOTICE that your wife EMUji
EVELYN SUTHERLAND has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the grounds of entire failure by you
for a period of three years at least to
make periodical payments of mainten-
ance under the terms of an Order of the
Court of Petty Sessions at Fremantle ini,
the said State If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within Forty clear days
from the date of this publication In
default of your so doing the action may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
iudgment and make orders against you
in your absence Dated this 18th day of
July, 1955.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
WALKER & WALKER, of Perpetual
Trustee Buildings, 89 St. George’s Ter-
race, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
CHILDREN
by choice, not chance
Humanitarian scientists have discovered a means of
■with certainty the exact time of fertility and sterility in the
individual woman. A safe, natural method allowing one to dis-
pense wilth poisonous chemicals and harmful appliances.
NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
Family Planning enables couples to whom children have been
denied for years to calculate accurately the woman s most iruitiui
time to foster conception. On the other hand, it “courages young
couples to marry early, as they have it a re
the dates for conception and birth of their children, when they
ready for them.
ELIMINATES ALL RISKS
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she
big risk. Now, she can know with certainty. Thousands
clinical tests have proved it.
CHURCHES SANCTION NATURAL METHOD
Medical authorities highly recommend £^ nl^ ex “Jfral
“MARITAL ADJUSTMENT COURSE” S ivi og compiete natural
guidance for the happy and successful re MAN ’S CYCLE
relationship in all its aspects. It containsi the “WOMANS CXUL*
pat rTTTiATOR” invGDtGd by DR. E. ALEXANDKb) '’, A ii ATI7
woman’s fertile and sterile days. Both are easy to follow,
simple and guaranteed reliable.
Price of FUtL COURSE with CALCULATOR £3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept, 8.N.9, Box 3584, G.P.0., SYDNEY
DON’T DELAY—MAIL AT THE EARLIEST
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.SC., Dept. 8.N.9, Box 3584, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
(12 Alan St., Nth. Sydney. Phone XT 6789)
□ Please send further information re both. I enclose addressed,
stamped envelope. T nnrmw OP
n Please send under plain, sealed cover your FULL COLRS
INSTRUCTIONS and your WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCUL
I enclose £3.
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS (State)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursfs
Dattilo Rubbo
If by any mischance he should
not survive in his paintings Dat-
tilo Rubbo lives immortally as
a teacher and a legendary
character in Australian art in
Rose Lindsay’s memoirs, as they
were published in The Bulletin
a couple of years ago: “brisk of
manner, with merry brown eyes
and clipped, pointed beard”: —
“I paint the old man’s head. I
paint the wrinkles. Nobody cares.
Who is Rubbo? Nobody. Bah!”
He always referred to himself as
Rubbo. “Ah, Rubbo, you are no
good. You teach the students, what
for? Nothing. Rubbo, you will
never paint the Masterpiece. They
will come and find you dead. Who
will care? No one.” Haying got
all that off his chest Rubbo picked up
his guitar and sang a merry Italian
air.
Whether the memorial exhibi-
tion arranged by the Dante
Alighieri society in conjunction
with the Centro Itajiano d’Arte
at the Bissietta Gallery, Sydney,
fully and most favorably repre-
sents his art this commentator
does not know. It does not seem
likely. If he could paint one
landscape as good as “Deserted
Land” he must surely have
painted 20, if not 100, like it:
and then what an unexpected
blaze of Australian light and
heat you would find on the
gallery walls!
The National Gallery, able
to give it more space and to select
from a wider range of his works,
should have staged this exhibi-
tion ; as it should also have done
for Percy Lindsay, whose
exquisite small landscapes, the
equivalent in oils of what Hilder
did in watercolors, were never
shown in any memorial tribute.
However, limited as it is, the
Bissietta exhibition was well
worth putting on; and the in-
teresting thing to discover in it,
amongst much indifferent work,
is how well Rubbo could paint
at his best: the powerful face
of the Franciscan in “On the
Index”; the sunlight falling on
the face of the old pensioner
with “His Pet” ; “Long Reef,”
with much of the vigor of
“Deserted Land” ; the charm of
one of the studies of children
and of the girl in the 'bush in
her green dressing-gown in
“Sun Spots.” None of these
seems quite “the Masterpiece,”
but they are sound and likeable
paintings and one would never
be surprised to learn that, some-
where amongst the life-work not
shown here, the masterpiece does
exist.
♦!<
Two McCubbins
A memorial exhibition at
Joshua McClelland’s gallery in
Melbourne of the work of the
late Frederick McCubbin and of
his son, Louis, is interesting. The
father’s reputation is enlarged
and the son’s diminished by the
contrast between the steadily in-
creasing stiffness of the younger
man’s work and the growing
sensitiveness of the other’s.
Frederick was the much-loved
director of the National Gallery
in Melbourne and Louis be-
came director of the National
Gallery of South’ Australia, but
it seems that, while Frederick,
in his old age, was struggling to
escape from the academic con-
ventions that had been taught
him, Louis was content to go
on repeating those conventions.
His “Panoramic View of the
City of Adelaide from Brougham
Place” is as hard and wooden
as his father’s “City Skyline from
South Yarra” is soft and limpid.
There is something inspiring in
the thought of the old man
being so discontented with his
pictures that, instead of resting
on his laurels as a director and
a teacher, he poked about paint-
ing little landscapes like “Har-
mony in Blue, Williamstown,”
“Camp in the Bush” and “Bowl
of Flowers,” sometimes after the
fashion of Turner and some-
times of Fantin Latour, and
sometimes so much in Nature’s
fashion that his later pictures
look as fresh and modern as
his son’s look old and mannered.
M. G. S.
%
Hele in Korea
If the war in Korea as the
Australians saw it was savage,
confusing and exhausting, an
affair of red men crawling in
the red earth, Ivor Hele has
depicted it magnificently in the
set of 33 oils and 26 drawings
which, now at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery, are to be sent
to all States; and one has no
doubt, allowing for a touch of
overemphasis caused by his
angular style, that his report is
as accurate as it is dramatic.
It is curious to see once more
—on the way out from this
violent exhibition of half-naked,
sun-bronzed men, emaciated in
their dugouts or twisting with
bulging muscles in the gestures
of action in shallow trenches or
on jagged hillsides —the luminous
tranquillity, none the less rich in
the study of character and no
less faithfullly depicting men in
action, of Tom Roberts’s im-
mortal “The Golden Fleece.”
Here, surely, in the finer model-
ling, the more subtle handling of
oil-paint, the general air of
mastery, is a technique which
Hele has not yet attained . . >
and which one mentions only
because he is already painting
so well that one cannot help
hoping he will do better.
If he can modify some of
his vagueness and scrappiness
without becoming merely illus-
trative, Hele’s vitality should
carry him a long way in con-
temporary Australian art. Some
of the portraits from Korea,
notably those of Lieut-Colonel
Hassett, Flying-Officer A. R.
Turner and “Pilot, 77 Squadron,”
do in fact seem to have taken
a turn towards a more assured
style: as vigorously alive as any
of his Archibald Prize portraits,
but much more smooth and
unforced.
But in any case you would not
expect to send even a Tom
Roberts to a war and have him
come back with 33 masterpieces
like “The Golden Fleece”; nor,
perhaps, would a luminous tran-
quillity be quite the appropriate
style for war-art. Here, in quick,
powerful impressions, you see
pilots waiting to take-off in the
dawn, tanks crushing their way
down a mountainside, the
wounded being evacuated to
Japan, soldiers sleeping in the
grey-green cavern of their dug-
out or wrestling with barbed-
wire on the Lozenge; and here
in the more patient studies of
the portraits most of them
remarkably serious in expression
—you see the kind of men who
fought in Korea : all in all, a
most enlightening record, im-
pressive in its artistry, and
surely exactly the kind of work
which the Commonwealth must
have hoped to get when
invited Ivor Hele to go to Korea.
*
John Rowell
Despite John Rowell’s tend-
ency to overstate things in
his latest exhibition at the
Athenaeum Gallery, Melbourne,
he has a refreshing ability to
differentiate between moods.
One can feel the still, bitter
cold of “Cold Morning” and
“Winter’s Mantle,” painted
against weak sunlight, and the
wild wind in “Late Autumn,”
just as one can feel the hot
bright sunshine falling on the
sunbakers in “Summer Holiday.”
It isn’t easy to do this—-
Rowell isn’t so positive in his
Centralian landscapes, and his
“Yacka Trees in Bloom” are
more like a seedsman’s catalogue
than an impression—and the
skill seems to desert him when
he comes to still-life. In
“Flowering Gum” and “Cacti”
the facts are all there, but they
are unrelated, and “Gladioli”
haven’t sufficient air in which
to breathe.
Stage and Music
“Separate Tables”
The Elizabethan Theatre
Trust’s Australian Drama Com-
pany is to present its first offer-
ing to the nation in October and
the trust has made an admirable
selection of play and players
“Medea,” with South Australian-
born Judith Anderson in what
is probably her most widely ac-
claimed role and with an excel-
lent choice of local players to
support her.
These include Doris Fitton,
John Alden, Alistair Roberts,
Clement McCallum and James
Bailey. Miss Fitton, serving as
actress, producer and in most
other capacities that a theatre
requires, has made her Inde-
pendent Theatre at North Syd-
ney the home of good plays for
years; Mr. Alden, of course,
took a distinguished Shakspearian
repertoire around the country —
himself giving memorable per-
formances as Lear, Shylock,
Prospero and the rest. Thus Miss
Anderson gets some particularly
able talent to support her, and
the themselves receive
well-merited recognition of their
work for the Australian stage.
In the meantime, the new
Elizabethan Theatre itself (the
old Majestic at Newtown, Syd-
ney, handsomely transformed)
opened last week, and a more
distinguished cast could hardly
have been assembled to mark
the occasion—Sir Ralph and
Lady Richardson, Dame Sybil
Thorndike and Sir Lewis Casson
and a string of very capable
Australians.
The piece put on (Terence
Rattigan’s “Separate Tables,”
already reviewed here from
Melbourne) is a lightweight
account of what the Regent of
Carpathia learned about demo-
cracy from an American actress
during a more-or-less mutual
seduction in the Carpathian
Legation in London in 1911.
Light though it is, however, it
provides all hands with plenty
of opportunities to flash their
talents about, and none flashed
them more impressively than
Sir Ralph, leaving himself wide
open to the suspicion of being
the best actor seen in these parts
for 20 years. There is a seal-like
agility about his histrionics, so
that his Balkan prince flicks
through tempers, petulance,
puckish humor, regality, l° ve
and grief with a satin-smoothness
that gives extraordinary plausi-
bility to a role that has barely
the substance of musicomedy
in it.
The flamboyantly forgetful
Grand Duchess is given the
works with expansive and
generous abandon by Dame
Sybil the kind of full and
fruity acting that can only be
brought off by one who knows
to the last fraction of a hair’s-
breadth how far to go. Meriel
Forbes (Lady Richardson)
seduces the Regent and his
politics with considerable charm
and conviction, and Sir Lewis
makes a gilt-edged diplomat
whose arrangements are con-
tinually being rearranged almost
before he has arranged them.
* ❖ *
Rosfal and Horsley
One and one made music at
the Assembly Hall when violinist
Max Rostal and pianist Colin
Horsley combined to make the
nearest-to-perfect duo heard for
a long time in Melbourne. The
Austrian supplied dash and
polish, the New Zealander cool
exactness, and, as each seemed
to appreciate the qualities of the
other, it was as if two good but
different wines were blended.
The Brahms Sonata No. 1 in
G Major was beautifully
played, with the right emphasis
on the lyrical quality of the
opening, and the final movement
was really lovely. The Duo
Concertante of Stravinsky was
an enormous contrast. Its
broken rhythms and short
movements, with their reminis-
cence of “Petrouchka,” were the
opposite of the Brahms, but
were dealt with in the same
untroubled manner. Horsley was
Outstanding in this item.
Both came together like happy
brothers in a brilliant perform-
ance of the C£sar Franck
Sonata.
Goossens and Horsley
There were vivid contrasts in
the programme launched on
Melbourne by Eugene Goossens
at the latest series of “blue” and.
“red” concerts at the Town Hall.
The “Miracle” symphony of
Haydn led-off the proceedings.
It has all the formality of a well-
cut suit of orchestral clothing,
like the modern concerto of
Alan Rawsthome which fol-
lowed, but there is a variety of
expression and a richness of
harmony within the form which
is absent in the concerto. The
memory of the lovely minuet
seemed to linger in the hall long
after Sir Eugene had finished
with it. »
The Rawsthome concerto
brought young New Zealand
pianist Colin Horsley on to the
platform, and he did a good job,
as thoroughly well-tailored as
the piece itself; and the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra,
reinforced with a lot of cymbals
and triangles, played it with
spirit. The intermezzo and the
violins were particularly good
and the soloist got a prolonged
ovation ; but there was little left
in the memory after it was
finished.
Richard Strauss monopolised
the second half of the pro-
gramme with the symphonic
poem “Thus Spake Zarathustra,”
and the “Dance of the Seven
Veils” from “Salome.” How
{Continued on page 23)


The Interests of the Company
By
R.S.
Pozteous
i i 1E must think of the in-
\A / terests °f tb e com-
V V P an y>” Captain Henty
was fond of saying,
often adding, “That’s what we’re
paid for.”
He said it so often that the
words became a sort of standard
joke aboard the Barmoya. The
third-mate, breaking off a dis-
cussion to stand his watch, would
announce that he was going up
top to look after the interests of
the company. Even the appren-
tices referred to their studies as
blows struck in the interests of
the company, always, of course,
making sure the Old Man was
not within hearing.
Not that Captain Henty was
such a terrifying ship-master or
anything of a martinet. On duty
or off, in fair weather or foul, he
was one of the mildest of men,
fond of company and always
willing to encourage his officers
to talk, so long as the conversa-
tion was confined to serious sub-
jects like ship’s business, the
weather or even the international
situation. Flippancy he never
encouraged. Indeed he was quite
incapable of understanding it or
the mentality of a grown person
indulging in it.
“We must think of the in-
terests of the company and con-
fine our conversation to serious
subjects.”
Oh, no ; he didn’t say that.
Mr. McLennan, the chief-
engineer, said it after relating the
latest joke he’d picked up ashore.
Mac was one of those Scots with
a perpetual twinkle in his grey
eyes, a man with a keen sense of
humor and a lover of witty
stories. His mild crack went so
close to portraying Captain
Henty’s outlook on life that it
brought roars of laughter from
his fellow-officers, the Old Man
being absent ashore.
This almost-reverential attitude
towards his company, of course,
stemmed from sheer gratitude.
Until he was actually offered the
position Henty, with more than
thirty years’ sea-time behind him,
could not imagine anyone en-
trusting him with a command.
He was so diffident, so blissfully
unaware of the inexorable pas-
sage of time whilst he served
contentedly as junior officer and
first-mate.
Shortish, plump, with mild
blue eyes and a prim little mouth,
he would have looked more at
home behind a drapery-counter
than on a ship’s bridge. All his
sea-years had failed to tan his
pink cheeks or harden his cheru-
bic features. Time had whitened
his fluffy hair, but it had not
lined his face.,. Small wonder
that Captain Henty, aware of all
these things and envious of men
of commanding manner and
appearance, felt permanently
grateful to the men who had
raised him to his present position.
It never occurred to him that
those same men had reason to
feel grateful to him, that they
should appreciate his unswerving
loyalty and his ability to keep
his ship out of any sort of
trouble.
“We mustn’t let our personal
comfort interfere with the in-
terests of the company,” he said
to Mr. Calder, his first-mate, at
daybreak one blustering Febru-
ary morning. “1 feel we should
put to sea. If we stay here We’ll
do heaven-knows-what damage
to the wharf, and possibly the
ship. Besides, if this cyclone
were to actually strike here we
might break away and be
aground before we could do any-
thing about it.”
“I don’t think we’re likely to
get the worst of it here, sir,”
Calder answered. “They seem to
have it very well plotted and it’s
predicted to hit the coast well to
the south of us. If you’ll let
me get these extra lines out I’m
sure I can make her snug enough
to ride out anything we’re likely
to get.”
Captain Henty shook his head
doubtfully. “You can try,” he
agreed. “But I doubt if you’ll do
any good. This surging. Very
difficult to keep a ship from
surging with such a heavy swell
coming in. I’ve asked the chief
to get steam up as quickly as
possible, but in the meantime do
what you think best, Mr. Calder.
It won’t hurt to try.”
(Calder, who had already
turned all hands to, nodded im-
patiently and hurried away, fie
not only doubled-up his bow-
and stem-lines ; he put out every
wire he could lay hands on, so
that by breakfast-time the Bar-
moya was as securely moored as
a ship could be. “That’ll hold
her,” he declared confidently.
“She’ll rub a bit of paint off her-
self, but it’s a damn’ sight better
than putting to sea in this trim.”
And the only man who didn’t
heartily agree with him was Cap-
tain Henty.
G ALDER was a good seaman,
young, rugged and full of
self-confidence. “The best mate
I’ve ever had,” Captain Henty
used to say.
But the best mate in the world
could not have held the Barmoya
against the wharf that morning.
The sea outside was thundering
over the breakwaters and forcing
its way through the harbor-
entrance in an uneasy swell so
that the Barmoya rose and fell
five or six feet at her berth. The
wind, which had been rising
steadily since dawn, was forcing
her away from the wharf till the
taut, screaming wires checked her
and brought her back against the
piles with a force that made the
wharf buildings tremble.
At ten-o’clock Captain Henty
rang “stand-by” and sent for
Calder. “We’ll have to cast off
and get out of this,” he said.
“The pier-master is down there
complaining about the damage
we’re doing to his wharf. At
least I think that’s what he’s
saying. It’s very hard to hear
with all this noise going on.”
• Hard! It was impossible.
They could see the pier-master,
an obviously agitated figure in
flapping, streaming oilskins, but
his words were swirled away by
the wind, drowned under the
screeching of mooring-lines and
the agonised creaking of wharf-
piles as the ship flung her five-
thousand tons against them.
“I’m afraid those forecasts
are wrong,” Captain Henty went
on. “The wind hasn’t veered
since daybreak. It’s still coming
from south and increasing all the
time. And the glass! I’ve never
known a barometer fall so
quickly. All the signs say we’re
right in the path of the storm.”
“I still think we’re safer in
here, sir,” Calder protested.
“We’re in no shape to be outside
trying conclusions with a full
gale. The ship is so light she’d
be unmanageable. Make more
leeway than headway.”
Captain Henty shook his head
till his pink cheeks quivered like
jellies. He was well aware that
with most of her cargo discharged
the Barmoya was riding so high
in the water that only half her
propeller was submerged. She
would be extremely difficult to
manage, he knew. But on the
other hand if she broke away
from her present berth she could
easily pile up on the stone break-
water before he could bring her
under control. Sea-room was
what he needed; he was as sure
of that as he’d ever been of any-
thing. “We’ve got to find some
way of managing her,” he said.
“It’s going to be distinctly un-
comfortable outside, but we
must . . .”
He may have been going to
make one of his speeches about
the good of the company or he
may haVe been going to issue a
direct order. Calder never knew
because his words were cut short
by a report like a rifle-shot as a
big wire hawser parted.
Both men> sprang to the wing
of the bridge, but Captain Henty
shouted excitedly, “Never mind
looking at it, Mr. Calder. Send
a hand to the wheel and cast
off everything. Save what you
can and ask the pier-master to
take charge of the rest. Tell him
I’ll reward him when we come
back.”
But Calder, aware now of the
urgency of the situation, was
already half-way down the
ladder, bellowing orders as he
ran, warning men to keep clear
of the dangerous recoil of snap-
ping wires. For the Barmoya
was taking charge, freeing herself
of the puny threads of wire and
rope that sought to restrain her.
Captain Henty rang the en-
gines to “full ahead” and said to
the quartermaster, “Hard
a’starb’d. Let me know when
she begins to swing.” The wharf
was on his starboard hand, but
the Barmoya couldn’t hit it. The
wind wouldn’t let her. Already
it was forcing her away, press-
ing her sideways towards the
dangerous northern wall.
With snapped mooring-lines
still trailing in the water she
gathered headway and swung re-
luctantly in answer to her helm,
To Captain Henty, desperately
anxious for speed to counteract
the wind, she seemed reluctant
also to leave the harbor. He was
heading her for the entrance, an
alarmingly narrow gap between
stone breakwaters half-hidden in
the driving rain. One thing at a
time. Time enough to worry
about the expense of broken
mooring-lines when he’d got his
ship through that gap.
She went through it crabwise,
the helmsman fighting to keep her
close to the southern wall, and
the wind forcing her over to the
northern wall where the breakers
boomed high up over the massive
stonework.
SIGHING with relief, Calder
said to the second-mate,
“Thank God for that much. For
a while I thought we’d finish up
on top of the north wall. Well,
we’re out of the trap ; what now,
I wonder?”
“In the interests of the com-
pany,” the second said, “we will
now proceed to roll our guts out
and take the biggest battering of
our lives.” He clutched frantic-
ally at a stanchion as the Bar-
moya rolled heavily to port.
“God, the old bitch can roll! ”
Very feelingly Calder
answered, “You ain’t seen
nothin’ yet.”
He was right. The Barmoya
wallowed and rolled sickeningly.
Being almost empty and top-
heavy, her movements were exag-
gerated so that each roll dragged
on till it seemed it would never
end. Still, she was answering her
helm and making definite pro-
gress to seaward, two things to
be thankful for.
As Captain Henty had said,
Calder was an excellent mate.
He had a fair idea of what lay
ahead and he kept all hands busy
securing everything that could
conceivably break loose. Then,
satisfied that nothing more could
be done, he reported to the
bridge.
“Everything secure, sir,” he
said. “What’s the glass doing?”
“Still falling,” Captain Henty
told him absently. “Down to
28.85. Did you manage to save
much of our mooring gear? How
much do you think we lost?”
“I’m damned if I know, sir,”
Calder snapped. “We got in
what we could, but I’ve been too
busy securing ship to worry over
the loss of a few lines.” What
did a paltry bit of gear matter
when all the signs said that they
were right in the track of a
cyclone reported to be bringing
winds of more than 100 miles
per hour? Calder could think
of a score of things to worry
over, each one more important
than lost mooring-lines. “It
looks as if we’re right in the
track of this disturbance,” he
added.
“I’m afraid so.” Captain
Henty pursed his lips until his
mouth looked like a small rose-
bud. “But it’s most unfortunate
about those lines, most unfortu-
nate. We should have got away
earlier, even half-an-hour earlier
would have saved them.”
“I should think it would be
more important to concentrate
on saving the ship now,” Calder
ventured. “After all, the lines
have gone and over
them won’t bring Them back.”
“No, no. I dare say it won’t.
Still, Mr. Calder, it’s our duty
to the company to see that such
losses don’t occur. Gear costs
money, a lot of money.”
Steadying himself against the
wild rolling of his ship Captain
Henty moved away and exam-
ined the barometer. “Still going
down,” he announced. “28.80.
I’m afraid we are in for a
tossing.”
He beckoned Calder to the
chart-table and carefully ex-
plained his intentions, the main
one being to get as far as pos-
sible from the land before wind
and sea forced him to heave-to.
Accurate plotting of the ship’s
position, he admitted, would be
impossible. Rain had reduced
visibility to such an extent that
he had lost sight of land ten
minutes after clearing the harbor-
entrance and, since the ship was
not equipped with radar, navi-
gation would be largely a matter
of assumption.
Captain Henty, of course,
would never have permitted him-
self to use the word “guesswork.”
“Would you mind staying up
here with the third-mate?” he
asked. “He’s hardly experienced
enough for this sort of thing. We
should be able to hold this
course.,'for a few hours, but if
you think it’s advisable to heave-
to any sooner give me a call.”
He went below, leaving a very
worried first-mate behind him.
From being confident that they
were well to the north of the
storm-centre Calder had now
become firmly convinced that
they were right in the path of it.
He was quite willing to admit
that they were fortunate to have
escaped from the insecurity of
the harbor, but he wished his
captain would show more appre-
ciation of the gravity of their
situation instead of worrying
over a few broken lines.
The old fool was probably
down in his cabin composing a
letter of explanation to his
precious company. Very feel-
ingly (balder damned the com-
pany and any other company
that neglected to fit its ships
with radar. He admitted, some-
what reluctantly, that in standing
out to sea his captain was doing
the only thing possible in the
circumstances.
Captain Henty, meanwhile,
had wedged himself securely into
the corner of his settee. He was
not composing a letter to his
company; he was reading,
searching with painstaking thor-
oughness through every manual
dealing with the rules of revolv-
ing storms. Most of the subject-
matter he already knew by heart,
but he felt that for the moment
there was no better way of occu-
pying himself. Mr. Calder could
be trusted to do the correct thing
by calling him the moment he
was in the slightest doubt.
Shortly after noon they hove
her to, brought her round to face
wind and sea; and never did a
ship answer her helm so slug-
gishly. It was as if she were
afraid to face up to- the terrific
onslaught. For the wind was
shrieking now as it tore the tops
from the mountainous grey seas
and flung them funnel-high
against the wallowing Barmoya.
A SHIP in normal trim rides
the seas best and most com-
fortably when hove-to, but the
Barmoya was not in normal
trim. She was so high out of
the water that the wind continu-
ously exerted more power on her
than her half-submerged rudder
and screw could counteract.
Successive helmsmen sweated
and cursed as they struggled to
keep her from falling back mto
the trough of the seas.
“She’ll smash her steering-gear
THE PASSAGE
And how to get a boat through the passage
Between black cliffs, eagles waiting for prey,
Spreading their wings of darkness, darker than desolation,
On the coiled serpent sea; and the wind
Doom-crying through the corridors of space.
To the shore where the waves plunge with the wlute-
pure lightness of sea-bird feathers,
Come, we must move on. The light wavers,
A gleam, one lonely gleam before the night
Gathers the earth upon its mourning breast.
The boat leaps forwards . . . mounts the climbing sea.
On . . . on . . . and on.
N.S.W.
PIXIE O'HARRIS.


'
• vi
I
a ;■ m
1
■
H
m.
vs
n
m
\ f .W- 'kjt
:#f : ; H
!
There’s no soloist here
From the first hushed moment when the conductor
lifts his baton, to the last lingering note of the concert,
a symphony orchestra relies on perfect co-ordination
and teamwork.
The conductor is a vital part of the performance. His
is the job of seeing that a group of individual musicians
combine to produce music faithfully and with under-
standing.
But without the skill and close attention of every
member of the orchestra, the conductor could not do
his job, and the performance would fail.
The same kind of loyalty, mutual understanding and
teamwork is essential to successful big business. It
certainly is 'With General Motors-Holden’s. GMH is
the “conductor” of a business which makes or assembles
motor cars, trucks, buses, utilities, refrigerators, diesel
engines, and automotive parts and accessories. But,
apart from the 14,300 people directly employed by
GMH, many thousands more work for the 3,000 outside
suppliers who contribute products or services for GMH
operations.
This great supplier chain, which keeps GMH in
production, traces all the way back to the producers
of the basic raw materials from the mines, forests and
farms of all Australia. Suppliers are important to GMH
—so important that they receive more than 60 per
of the company’s income.
Through the money it spends outside its own organ-
ization, GMH contributes to higher employment and
the strengthening of the country’s whole economy.
GMH —and their suppliers—are combining in doing
big things for Australia and Australians.
C£
858
... a link in the chain of Australia's progress ... a partner in Australia's future
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD. • BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
if she keeps this up,” Calder
declared desperately. “Some-
tning’H carry away before long
and then we’ll be in a proper
mess.”
. pdptain Henty, who had been
thinking exactly the same thing,
said, “I’m afraid you’re right,
, r - Calder. We’ll have to rig
relieving tackle. You’d better
get the bosun and some of the .
best hands and see what you can
do.”
Calder stared at him in amaze-
ment. Relieving tackle! In the
days when he’d been swotting
for his second-mate’s ticket he’d
read about it in a seaman’s
manual. It was a device used
for steadying a kicking rudder
m the old windjammers in the
days when direct steering was
used. But no one had ever
heard of applying it to a modern
steamship’s gear: at least not
until this old fool suggested it
as calmly as if he’d been talking
°f letting go an anchor.
"I’m afraid, sir,” he admitted,
I haven’t any idea of how to
go about it.”
“lt’s quite a simple device,”
Captain Henty assured him.
“Getting it secured to a kicking
quadrant will be the most diffi-
cult part. Good stout 'wire rope
and single-purchase blocks are
what you’ll need: When you’re
ready I’ll come aft with you.”
He spoke with a confidence he
was far from feeling. Like Calder
he had read of the device, but
he’d never rigged one. And it
was many, many years since he’d
owned a manual dealing with
that type of thing. Who would
be the most likely person to
have such a book on board?
Why, one of the apprentices for
sure! Even in these modern
days they’d have to wade through
all the old manuals.
When he went aft to superin-
tend the operation Captain
Henty proffered advice with the
air of a man who knew what he
was talking about. Even with
the rudder-quadrant grinding
and kicking like an angry mon-
ster while the stern rose and fell
sickeningly, at times shuddering
violently as the threshing screw
left the water, he made the whole
operation seem simple.
And it worked. It so obviously
relieved the strain on the steering-
gear that Calder yelled, shouting
to make himself heard above the
wind and noise of vibrating
metal, “Congratulations, sir. A
real seamanlike job. I wouldn’t
have known where to start.”
“Neither would I,” Captain
Henty admitted. Though his
pink cheeks went purple with the
effort and his voice rose to a
high-pitched shriek his words
were scarcely audible. “Bor-
rowed a Nicholl’s Seamanship.
From young West, senior
apprentice. All illustrated. Very
simple.”
Half-blinded by driving rain
and spray they scrambled back
to the bridge. And there,
sheltered behind the heavy plate
glass, they watched the ship’s
movements anxiously.
Movements! She did every-
thing they had ever seen a ship
do and a lot of other things be-
sides. She dipped her nose
beneath boiling combers, flung
them skywards, rolling heavily
as she lifted, and then raced off
in a dizzying swing to port or
starboard as though about to
whirl like a merry-go-round on
her own axis. She shuddered
from the impact of seas and the
vibrations of her own propeller.
She rolled until it seemed to the
watchers on her bridge that she
must go right over. She did
everything, in fact, but answer
her helm and face up to the seas.
That she would not do, in spite
of the relieving tackles.
Captain Henty tried forcing
her and he tried humoring her.
At Calder’s suggestion he even
tried taking her round in a circle
in an effort to get more steerage-
way on her—like wearing ship
in an old windjammer. And
always she ended-up broadside-
on to the seas, rolling frighten-
ingly while wave after wave
pounded aboard her.
AT three-o’clock the chief-
engineer put in an appearance
at the head of the bridge-ladder.
No one had ever seen him
agitated before, but now he was
so taken up with the state of
things below that he forgot him-
self and released his hold. Like
a learner on skis he shot down
the slope of the reeling bridge
and ended-up with both arms
around his captain’s neck.
“Hell and damnation!” he
grunted, not even bothering to
apologise for the crash that had
nearly torn Captain Henty’s arms
from their steadying grip on the
engineroom-telegraph. “H o w
long is this sort of thing likely
to last?”
“I don’t know,” Captain Henty
admitted. “You want to be
more careful, Chief. Barging
across the bridge like that. You
nearly had us in the scuppers.”
“It’s nothing to what ye’re
doin’ tae my engines,” the chief
said. “I’m givin’ ye fair warnin’,
Captain, they won’t stand much
more o’ this sort o’ thing. Some-
thin’ will go soon, and then
where will we all be?”
“I don’t know,” Captain
Henty again admitted. “I really
don’t. We can only try and see
what happens.”
And then, to the amazement
of his officers, he deliberately
moved the telegraph indicator to
“stop.”
“My God, Captain! ” Calder
gasped. “You can’t do that!
She’ll turn right over! ”
Captain Henty shook his head
slowly. He looked worried and
unsure of himself, but he said,
“I don’t think so, Mr. Calder.
She can’t do any more than she’s
doing now. We’ve tried every-
thing, haven’t we? You must
admit that. She simply won’t
face up to it. The engines are
doing themselves damage with-
out ' helping the ship. I don’t
know, but it seems to me that
if we stop them the ship may
settle in the position that suits
her best. Whatever way she lies
she can’t be any worse than she
is now.”
They watched her as the throb
of the engines died and her head
wallowed slowly to leeward,
swinging down-wind till she lay
stern-on to wind and sea. It
took fifteen nerve-wracking
minutes to convince them that
she intended to stay in that posi-
tion and that she was riding
more comfortably than she had
for the last few hours.
“You see,” Captain Henty
said. “The ship knows best.
She’ll ride it out like this.”
Calder said, with deep feeling,
“Well I’ll be !” and the
chief added “That goes for me,
too. And as ye’ll no be needin’
the engines for a while I’ll awa’
and get some repairs done.”
WHEN the second-mate wrote
the log up at four-o’clock
he entered the barometer-reading
as 28.50 and the wind velocity
as 80 miles an hour. There
could be no argument about the
barometer-reading, but there had
been a heated discussion about
the wind force, the three mates
agreeing that it was 90 to 100,
and Captain Henty obstinately
sticking to his opinion that 70
would be closer to the mark.
“We must be conservative in
our estimate,” he maintained.
“It doesn’t do to exaggerate
these things. Remember, this is
an official record.”
So in the end they compro-
mised by logging it as 80. One
thing they all agreed on ; never
had any of them experienced
such wind force before.
During the last hours they had
made two amazing discoveries.
The first was that the ship had
steerage-way on. She was driv-
ing before the gale at an average
speed of two knots and, to a
limited extent, answering her
helm. But since she was driving
away from the land that was all
to the good.
The second discovery was not
so good and it gave very tangible
proof of the force of the wind.
The rain and spray, driven be-
fore the fury of the gale, were
stripping the paint from the ship.
Her funnel-markings were gone
and ventilators and deck-fittings
were steadily being stripped
down to bare steel.
Under Captain Henty’s in-
structions the wireless-operator
sent out a call to all ships in
the vicinity, giving his estimated
position and asking for reports
on weather conditions. The only
reply came from a crack pas-
senger-liner, ironically reporting
that she was on a Pacific pleasure-
cruise. She gave her position as
approximately twenty miles to
the eastward of the Barmoya.
She was hove-to in heavy seas
and winds of over 100 miles an
(i Continued on page 24)


insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
rjm mom diix
in iu
A
Z
<
in
" *
Correspondence. larolc**.
statement*. etc.. tiled to the
"Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each maeih —or
any other period.
tber u»form»tlo*
■poo appil«»Uoß
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents — ,
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.;
a crane on the dam
by CAVINS.
CASEY
IN those days we’d all heard
of Buffalo Bill, and the
Indian Wars, the Pony Ex-
press and all the rest of it.
But for various reasons the
American West hadn’t had the
impact on us it has had on later
generations. For one thing, the
movies were an occasional
novelty for us, not an all-the-
year-round entertainment diet.
For another thing, a lot had
been happening closer to home,
and though there wasn’t much
printed about it and it seems to
have been soon forgotten, we got
it by word of mouth, from the
yarns our fathers told, and we
had our local heroes.
Even on a busy and thriving
goldfield, where things go on all
the time, crises arise in the lives
of the young when everything
that is seems dull, and you
have to escape into some realm
of the imagination or another.
When that happened there was
plenty of country all around
with nothing much in it but
lizards and rabbits and parrots,
and we could withdraw into the
bush.
And when we went off on our
bikes, with our dogs and our
guns, we weren’t cowboys after
the Redskins. We were drovers
just off the Canning stock-
route with cattle for the city,
or buffalo-hunters in the Terri-
tory, or the Kellys on the run,
with a wary eye open for the
troopers and a deep determina-
tion to fight to the last shot.
On the way to wherever we
were going, on our bikes, we
were generally the Bicycle Mail
Riders of our own goldfields,
with only the thin rubber of our
tyres between us and a long
parch, and hostile abos scattered
all over the bush.
/"\NE day Lennie Packet and
Ted McDory went out that
way, their legs pumping hard
to get the letters through to the
White Feather, and to tell the
tale of another strike at Bull-
finch, at a time about 20 years
before the actual date. They had
.22 rifles strapped to the top bars
of their grids, and waterbags
hung between the bars, and a
couple of blankets each were
rolled on their handles. The
precious mails, flapping about
on the back carriers, were really
sandwiches and a bag of the
wonderful pies that Lennie’s
mother made, but that sordid
fact would be pleasant to
remember later on, when they
were hungry.
When they reached the White
Feather —which had for years
now borne the less compre-
hensible and therefore less
romantic name of Kanowna —
they were going through to the
Government Dam that had been
the town’s water-supply when
the place had been more than a
pub, a store, a few dwellings of
sandalwood-getters, and kerbs in
front of nothing but the places
where the Rouses used to be.
But on the trip out they were
in the very early days, when
there was no water-supply at all
at the Feather, and the place had
got its first name because a
mob of miners had rushed there
after gold, and rushed back be-
cause of the lack of water —
shown the “white feather,” in
the vernacular of the time.
The boys—or rather “Plugger
Joe” Matthews and “Hefty”
Bruce of the Bicycle Mail Riders
—didn’t talk much, because the
weather was too hot, the dust
too thick on the pot-holey road,
and the whole business too
much like hard work. Hefty
would have been happy to stop
for a smoke, a breather, and a
yarn at the top of the five-mile
hill, and so would Plugger Joe.
But neither knew that of the
other, and as they watched each
other’s legs pumping up and
down on the pedals each was
determined not to be the first to
give in.
So they pedalled the first 12|
miles non-stop. When they did
stop, it was for Kola Beer, a
refreshment rather unusual for
Bicycle Mail Riders —but kids
can take things like that in their
stride, and be back in whatever
part they are playing before the
taste of a sweet, cool drink has
gone out of their mouths.
AT Kanowna, of course, they
spent their drinking-time
despising the other drinkers
outside the pub.
“Them fellers,” said Plugger
Joe, using the carefully incor-
rect English they favored when
out of the hearing of parents or
schoolteachers, “they’re just the
coves that got left behind.
Couldn’t keep up with th’ real
men after the yeller-stuff.”
“Drunks,” said Hefty.
“Their mates have struck it
or perished in th’ bush, an’ they
hang around a pub,” said
Plugger Joe, indignantly.
“Just drunks,” Hefty soothed
him.
“I reckon even a kid my size
could dong one o’ them,” the
Plugger boasted. “They dropped
their bundle an’ done their
comic-cuts years ago.”
The boys understood a nag-
ging thirst for Kola, but a yearn-
ing for what the men were drink-
ing was not to overtake them for
a while yet. With the uncharit-
able eyes of youth, they didn’t
notice that all the men were old
or infirm, except for a few flash
types from town, the sort on
which the pub survived because
away out there it could trade
after hours and on Sundays.
Then, with the letters delivered
to the Feather, and the place left
in an uproar with the news of
the Bullfinch show, they pushed
along the few miles to the'dam,
and were where they intended to
camp the weekend. To their
delight they were first there, so
the tin shed alongside that no-
body owned was theirs. If pals
arrived, they’d invite them to
share, but strangers or enemies
would respect their right to the
small, bare, leaking place. There
was prestige attached to tempor-
ary possession of the tin shed.
They dumped their bikes and
belongings, except their rifles,
and before them lay the dam,
not an untidy, misshapen
cocky’s dam with a few hundred
thousand gallons of thin mud in
it, but the great Government
dam that was the biggest volume
of water either of them ever saw
except on holidays at the coast.
'T'HE dam was only 75 yards
square, but it was deep—
reputedly 25 feet, and they
hoped it was much deeper than
that, No doubt some Govern-
ment office had the truth, but it
was enough for them that it was
too deep for a swimmer to reach
the bottom, in the middle. You
could dive down and breast-
stroke hard, but before you
could bring up any handful of
mud the cold of the lower levels
in the still, deep water would
grip your lungs and freeze the
breath out of you, and you’d
aim thankfully for the sun-
warmed surface again.
It was a wonder more people
didn’t get drowned in the dam,
but the probable reason was
that its depth and the steep
slope of its sides discouraged all
but good swimmers from bath-
ing in it. It may seem strange,
too, that more of us did not
shoot ourselves or each other
when kids from 12 up took fire-
arms on their wanderings in the
bush, but in those days our
fathers taught us at an early age
how to handle guns safely, and
the lessons somehow stayed
with us through life, unlike the
obligations our mothers laid
upon us never to drink, - or
smoke, or use bad language.
Even then, we were all
smokers, and at the dam Lennie
and Ted had their pipes out, first
thing. They lay on the bank,
sucking at aromatic tobacco that
sizzled and erupted because it
was so full of saltpetre, and
watched the water, and philoso-
phised and tried to decide what
to do with x the long Saturday
afternoon ahead.
“I vote fishing,” Lennie said,
though the inbred and dwarfed
carp that an earlier stocking of
the dam had left weren’t worth
the trouble, really, even if you
could pull them out of the cold
depths on a bent pin.
“I wish we had horses, instead
of the old bikes,” Ted
announced, discontentedly.
“We can go to Johnson’s pad-
dock and catch a couple.”
“Aw, they ain’t proper horses
—they’re just scrub ponies,
practically brumbies. I’d like a
racehorse, like Thunderbolt used
to ride.”
“I’d like pigs might fly,” Len-
nie offered, sneeringly. Then he
perceived that his mate was
downcast and in need of moral
support, so he added, “Come
on, we’ll get some parrots for a
start.”
Getting the parrots was a
murderous business, but the
boys didn’t know it. What they
knew was that it was hard to hit
a little green ringneck with a
.22 pellet, and that if you did
hit him anywhere except
through the brain he could carry
an amazing amount of lead
before he finally dropped. They
went out with eager and savage
cries, and got a few parrots, and
a lone rabbit that had been
above ground at a time of day
when more sensible ones were
under the cool earth. The rabbit
was good, the makings of an
evening meal they would cook
themselves, though Mrs. Packet’s
pies would have tasted much
nicer.
However, the rabbit —game
for the pot—was a great cause
for content, and when they got
back to the dam they had a
swim, and then lounged and
sunbaked in dreamy idleness
until the shadows were long
enough to remind them that the
day was slipping away from
them.
“We’re wastfti’ time,” said
Lennie, suddenly energetic with
the fear that what was left of life
was passing him by. “The tarts’ll
be here in the morning and
it all up.”
The word “tarts” in their
language carried none of the dis-
paraging implications that it
does in some older civilisations.
It just meant girls, creatures of
cream and the elusive pink of
young strawberries, feared and
avoided and longed for, but
never to be admitted as having
anything except nuisance-
importance to a couple of 13-
year-old drovers, stockmen,
bushrangers and Bicycle .Mail
Riders.
And it was as true as the sun-
rise that the tarts, and their
smooth-haired, flannel-clothed
eighteen - to - twenty - year - old
escorts would be along
tomorrow. Saturday was a full
shopping day in town, where
Wednesday was the half-holiday
except on the mines, and most
of the tarts and their boys were
either selling things or buying
them; But on Sundays they
arrived at the dam, in traps, on
the back of belt-drive motor-
cycles, or even in panting cars,
and made the place uncomfort-
able for bushwhackers in dun-
garees and big boots and ancient
felt-hats, and waistcoats for the
pockets to hold their pipes,
tobacco and knives.
WHEN Lennie spoke Ted only
'' grunted his savage dislike
of being reminded of the tarts.
But in reality he was thinking of
Molly Macartney at the dam a
couple of Sundays earlier, of
the pink-and-white translucence
of her flesh, the tantalising music
of her laugh, the whole diaboli-
cally attractive and utterly un-
touchable personality of her.
He’d have liked to talk to some-
body about it, and he had almost
got around to some words for
Lennie on the matter which
would probably have got him
only pitying sneers when he
saw the bird.
The bird was floundering
across the sky, with infinitely
weary wing-beats, and Ted sat
up and pointed, and said, “Look,
Lennie. What’s that?”
Lennie saw the size of the
bird, and said, “Gosh! A high-
flyin’ scrub-turkey.” Then he
saw its length of neck and legs,
and said, “Jeez, it’s not! It’s—
it’s a bloody crane.”
The boys watched the swamp-
bird, for some reason more than
300 miles from the nearest
swamp, as it lurched wearily
closer to the gleam of water.
With a single mind they thought,
“Cripes! It’d be something if we
shot that, here at the dam.”
When the bird was close Lennie
raised his rifle and lined the
sights, but Ted stopped him.
“You won’t hit it flying, you
fool,” Ted said. “It’s goin’ to
land on the dam, anyway. Stay
still and wait.”
The bird seemed to see them
and become cautious. It circled
but its tired wings would no
longer beat enough of the air
away beneath it. It came lower,
and landed on the other side of
the dam in a clumsy, staggering
flurry of long, slender legs that
almost took it face-first into the
water, particularly when it
struck the dam-bottom shelving
so abruptly. Then it stood, wet
and sick with a sort of weary
delight, careless of the boys, not
moving because it had no more
energy for movement.
Lennie once more raised his
rifle, but Ted hissed, “Wait a
minute. See what he'll do.”
Lennie hissed back, “What
he’ll do will be fly away, you
silly cow. Gimme a go at him.”
“Keep your sights on him,
but don’t shoot till we see what
he does,” Ted ordered.
Actually, Ted had lost all
desire to kill the crane, though
nobody would ever believe they
had even seen one so far inland
unless they had the corpse to
prove it. The comparison was
ridiculous, but the crane in its
delicately-colored, awkward
gracefulness reminded him of
Molly Macartney in the dam,
that couple of weeks ago. The
crane was grotesque in shape,
but it had a leggy elegance, and
though that should never have
appealed to a tough bushman
just off the Canning stock-route
from the far Nor’-West, it did.
He didn’t want the crane shot.
“He’ll get away,” Lennie
whispered a warning, but for a
long while it seemed that that
wouldn’t happen. The crane
stood, mournfully lonely, and
then, at last, it plunged its
slender beak under the water.
What sort of food it found in
the mud goodness knew, but it
found some, for it kept on
delving, moving up and down
the far shore. Lennie’s rifle-
barrel drooped from following
the crane’s progress as his arms
grew tired, and he gradually lost
his desire to murder it.
“Pore ole feller!” Lennie
whispered directly. “I don’t care
if they don’t believe us.”
“He’s come a long way, an’
it’s a long way back for him,”
Ted said, warm towards his
mate. “I reckon he deserves a
go. He ain’t like them damn’
parrots.”
OTILL looking seedy, the crane
was obviously a good deal
better when Stinker Ryan and
Lark McDuff came careering
down the bike-pad to the dam.
(i Continued on next page )
Whose fingers used my spoons?
And stirred her tea with them, and whose the
tongue
Explored their delicate silver bowls?
And whose the hands
So polished them and set them down
Lightly at last, unscratched, untarnished?
I think I may have traced her face
From photographs as old as time,
But never saw her hands portrayed
And thick or slim I do not know;
Gloved or ungloved for polishing,
Ringed hands and young, stained hands when old—
I do hot know
What fingers used my spoons.
Or how her supping tongue would sound
In speech.
Now that her spoons are mine
I often ponder over them
And almost hear her astonished voice:
“Who has been using my spoons?”
But not quite heard-
Ancestress ever out of reach.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
THE HEIRLOOMS


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
{lncorporated, in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B\
8131 (4 lines)
W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
w
=3
r<C
\
FLY ACROSS THE WORLD BY 8.0.A.C.
D
I
LOW FARE TOURIST SERVICES
Travel Royal 1 'Travel like a Prince
... at low tourist fares. Fly on
8.0.A.C. Speedbird World Routes
in fully-pressurized, air-conditioned
airliners. Plenty of leg room,
delicious free meals and bar
service. 8.0.A.C. Coronet Services
offer you the finest in economical
international tourist air travel.
See your Travel Agent for trip-
planning help—no charge.
Book from Australia to Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand, Hong
Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India, Pakistan, Middle East, Africa, Europe,
Britain, U.S.A., Canada, Central and South America, Bermuda.
FIY^SOAC
Information and reservations from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
*
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A54/AU
much of Nietzsche’s philosophy
is contained in the poem and
how much of Oscar Wilde’s
thought in the dance can be left
to the imagination. Strauss’s
music here speaks to the muscles,
not the brain, and if the audience
had responded with muscular
movements it would probably
have brought down the building.
Being a Melbourne audience, it,
of course, didn’t.
“You Can’t Take It with
You”
If you believe it is better to
potter round writing plays,
painting pictures or tinkering
with explosives than to feed
stomach ulcers on the anxieties
of Wall-street, then Canberra
Repertory’s “You Can’t Take It
With You” is your cup of tea.
And if you ask what makes this
life of arcadian chaos possible,
then you are obviously a nark.
With Terry Juliff to direct them,
the players and audience hugely
enjoyed an evening of good,
clean fun in a play which
bounces along on that great
myth of the 1930’s that evil and
unhappiness are as ephemeral as
Wall-street.
Max Purnell was admirable as
the grandfather who decides to
give up the pursuit of “filthy
lucre” just when he has made
enough to keep the wolf from
his own door, and the doors of
all his near-relations. Harry
Schmidt had just enough of
caricature in his performance of
the man who comes to deliver
the ice but stays to play with
fireworks.
The only other two to catch
the spirit of the play were
Dorothy Throssel and Terry
Lark saw the bird first, and fell
off his grid. He got ‘out of the
sand and tore a double-barrelled
I shotgun off the machine and
Ted’s heart leapt with fear.
But the startled crane was on
the wing, still weary but resolute,
and once more capable of fan-
ning his way up into the sky,
and Lark was such a poor shot
he missed, even with a shotgun.
The crane went off to wherever
its distant home might be and
left the sky empty except for
ragged clouds in a fading light.
Ted stood up, and bawled
scornfully, “You missed, you
big ape—an’ you spoiled our
shot, too.”
“I never knew you was there,”
I apologised Lark, chastened.
“Anyway, you know .there
was a crane on the dam. You
know we won’t be telling lies
when we say it.”
“My oath, there was!” swore
Lark.
Lark was their witness, their
supporter in an unbelievable
story, but later, when he yelled
from his camp across the dam,
“Hey, youse blokes! What about
me and Stinker coming over to
the hut?” Lennie bawled back,
“Go to hell! We don’t want
y\”
Lennie didn’t quite know what
it was all about, but he had his
own vision of the tired crane get-
ting coolness from the water and
warmth from its food, and he
knew whose side he was on.
In the tin shed, under their
blankets, Ted and Lennie slept
the sleep of the young, just or
otherwise, and Ted had no
dreams of Molly Macartney, or
the crane, or anything else.
The nearest he came to getting
out of unconsciousness was at
some early hour when a little
herd of Johnson’s cows drifted
past, kept from the dam by a
fence, and one of them had a
belL that clanked with the carry-
ing but unobtrusive sound of
any good cowbell. Hearing this
vaguely he thought, in his role
of a Canning stock-route
drover, “The stock’s all right.
That’s good.”
Then he was asleep again, and
so he remained until the slanting
morning sunlight heated the old
tin shed to oven-temperature in
no time flat, and anything with
warmer blood than a snake was
quickly forced out of it.
AND then, inevitably, Sunday
was on, and the tarts spoiled
it. They came with their shrill
noise and affectations of fear and
their whole disturbing presence,
and Ted and Lennie lurked
around and watched them with
surly, scornful jealousy as they
frolicked with the older boys.
They wanted to go away from
the dam, and shoot parrots or
catch and try to ride Johnson’s
scrub ponies.
But they could never quite do
it, on Sunday when the girls
were at the dam. The girls meant
less to them, they swore, than
they, in their hairy, inexperienced
early adolescence could mean to
the girls. But they just couldn’t
go away. ' , .
Ted’s secret fury reached the
boil, because* Molly Macartney
was there, too. She was with
Crisp Fry, from the Farmer's
Bank, a hair-oiled type regarded
with scorn and considerable
envy by ft boilermaker s-
apprentice-to-be and a likely
warehouse office-boy like Lenme
and Ted.
“That big cow with Molly,
now—he pongs,” said Lennie,
feelingly. “How’d he have gone
in the days when a man had t’
face the bush an’ beat it or git
his bones found when they was
puttin’ the railway through years
later?”
“The crows would of got
him,” Ted said, with relish. “The
crows an’ the dingoes.”
“My bloody oath! ” said
Lennie.
Then, when the Sunday-after-
noon light began to fail, the
tarts and their boys went off on
their motor-cycles and things.
After them, to dodge their dust,
Lennie and Ted and Stinker and
Lark set out on their pushbikes.
They had no lights, but on that
sort of a road lights only kept
you nervous by keeping you
aware of the trouble you were
going to hit in a second or two.
They plodded along, skidding
here and there and swearing as
they plunged in and out of pot-
holes. They swore also, with
additional fervor, whenever they
thought of school next day.
At the start of the long ride,
Ted was silent, thinking of
Molly Macartney and Crisp Fry,
and the way she had squealed
provocatively whenever he came
near her, just as if she wanted
to attract the mauling hands of
the overwashed, decadent, bank-
bound animal. Ted wished, for a
while, that he had let Lennie
shoot the crane, or better still
that he had shot it himself, and
had its stiffened, blood-crusted
body swinging from his handle-
bar and bumping his knee as
he pedalled.
But the long, weary ride went
on, and eventually the larger
stars of the town lights twinkled
in opposition to the cold, bril-
liant small ones in the sky. Ted,
like the crane, grew peaceful and
unafraid through the exhausting,
cleansing exercise. He. was glad
they had let the crane go, and if
the podgy, close-shaven bank-
clerk suited Molly, well, that was
Molly’s bad luck.
There were more girls than
there were cranes, and their
ways were even less compre-
hensible, but one day one of
them less freckled and repulsive
than those who seemed
interested in him now would
discover his sterling worth.
Then, he thought, he’d get to
the bottom of the matters that
worried him most.
Juliff —Juliff always had a light
in his eye as though life lived
this way was something tremen-
dously worth while, whereas
some of the others looked as
though their enthusiasm for such
a life did not cut very deep.
Still, all in all, the play went
with a bang, and, thanks mainly
to Juliff and Purnell, one left
with the idea that a light in the
eye was the big thing.
M.C.
<4 ♦>
“The Student Prince”
At Sydney Empire the r Metro-
politan Operetta Company
rolled song and sentiment into
one big ball and bounced through
Sigmund Romberg’s “Student
Prince” in the spirit intended.
As Prince Carl Franz, Michael
Khlentzos butter-fingered the
part with jerky stage-movements,
but decorated it with his fine-
quality tenor voice. Beryl Hardy
was a polished Kathie; James
Stewart led a pleasantly rowdy
lot of uni.-students; an’d Peter
Calrow and Stan Wolfenden
were tiptop in the comic business.
Dimo Galiungi and orchestra
caught the passing moods
although at times they threw the
songsters about in a loud swell.
The “Serenade” was well done
all round.
♦J* ❖
“Our Town”
Thornton Wilder’s “Our
Town” is thickly sugared with
sentiment but seldom with senti-
mentality, and its humor wards
off any emotional biliousness.
It was ably done at Sydney
University by St. Paul’s College
Mummers, who found in it more
than usual scope for their mum-
ming—because mumming had to
replace props and scenery.
Wilder ditches everything except
the actors, thus supporting a
maxim of Greek drama: “The
less imagination is aided the
greater its flight will be.”
N It is a plotless play. The “stage-
manager” acts as narrator and
sometimes takes a minor role or
so. He begins the evening by
reeling-off statistics about “Our
Town.” There are no names on
the programme, but this young
actor could imbue a tax-form
with humor.
A pink mist of idealism softens
all characters. Nobody is ever
selfish, jealous or angry, and
Wilder portrays the youngsters’
loves and wonders a bit about
death. That is all. It should be
a howling bore, but somehow it
is oddly heart-stirring instead.
<£♦
Australian Ballet
Walter Gore, Paula Hintdn
and their Australian Theatre
Ballet made their debut 6n the
stage of the Union Theatre, Mel-
bourne University, and it was
fortunate they did so. The stage
is small, and so is the company
in nuifibers. Most of them
haven’t much skill yet, either,
but they have the potentialities,
and their enthusiasm would blow
the top off a box of vitality-pills.
Walter Gore’s choreography is
also wisely modest; he doesn’t
attempt to carry on the tradition,
unless it is the tradition of the
Ballet Rambert —that cheerful
organisation was light and bright
and joky, never solemn and
heavy-handed.
The most engaging item of the
evening was “Peepshow,” and
the most imposing and least suc-
cessful “Soft Sorrow,” in which
the choreographer gives himself
a small part and most of the fat
to Paula Hinton, whose work
was touchingly expressive.
“Conversazione” was an amiable
trifle.
“High Jinks”
Mosman Musical Society has
now had a quarter of a century
of producing musical-comedy on
an amateur basis. In its current
“High Jinks” stagecraft and
production are
though uninspired, some of the
cast have liveliness and stage-
presence (Betty Cheal as a run-
away wife, George Browne as
an American doctor in Paris,
Terry O’Keefe as a foolish
Frenchman), the ballet is well
drilled, and there is a certain
amount of pleasant singing
(Glen Mildren shines here).
But the company as a whole
seems to have struck a level of
performance which does not
vary from one of its shows (all
passe musical - comedies) to
another. What it needs is some-
thing to challenge its abilities, to
get it away from the dowdy cos-
tumes and hair-styles it now
affects.
“High Jinks” is a fairly enjoy-
able show, but it is not good
enough after 25 years’ experi-
ence. Now, if J. C. Williamson
were to let them try “Annie Get
Your Gun,” for instance. . .


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd.. Sydney and
all States.
hour, she reported, and suffering
some superficial damage.
“Ask him if he’s losing any
paint?” Calder suggested.
But Captain Henty refused to
allow such a facetious inquiry to
go over the air. “He may be in
a worse plight than we'are,” he
said primly.
“Then Heaven preserve him,”
the third-mate muttered. “If we
come through this I’ll put in for
a job as harbor-master of
Cunnamulla.”
Certainly things looked des-
perate enough. Even Captain
Henty had agreed that the visi-
bility should be logged as “nil.”
Looking ahead they could see
the ship’s bows and beyond that
nothing. Looking astern they
could just faintly make out the
shape of the poop. Giant grey
combers leaped out of nowhere,
roared past and vanished into the
greyness ahead. Occasionally
one broke over the poop and cas-
caded in thundering torrents
across the after-deck. And, roll-
ing, groaning and wallowing, the
Barmoya drove blindly on.
At 5.30, nearly an hour before
the time of sunset, it was pitch-
dark. The barometer-reading
was then 28.30, the lowest reading
any man on board could recall.
“We must be very close to the
centre,” Captain Henty said.
“I’ve never seen a glass drop like
this. Have you ever been in the
actual centre of a cyclone, Mr.
Calder?”
“No, thank God,” Calder
answered. “And I can’t say I’m
looking forward to the experi-
ence. The sooner that glass
starts to rise the happier I’ll be.”
“I’ve been reading up every-
thing I could find on the sub-
ject,” Captain Henty told him.
“But most of the works say very
little about the vortex beyond
warning mariners to avoid it on
account of the turbulence of the
sea and the sudden changes of
wind. I don’t know what one
does when it’s impossible to
avoid it.”
“Hang on and hope for the
best,” Calder suggested. “There’s
nothing else we can do.”
At eight-o’clock the barometer-
reading was registered as 27.95
and the only comforting thing
about it was that it had remained
in that position for more than
half-an-hour. When the second-
mate expressed the opinion that
the thing had got sick of falling
and had given up in disgust
Captain Henty reproved him for
his levity.
“It’s a reliable instrument, Mr.
Cook,” he said. “You should
bear in mind that in our profes-
sion distrust of your instruments
can lead to serious and regret-
table errors.”
Being so completely matter-of-
fact and unimaginative himself
he failed to realise that the
second spoke solely to relieve his
tightly-strung feelings. Indeed,
with the exception of their cap-
tain, the nervous tension was
beginning to show in every man
on board. The hideous howling
of the wind, the thunder of
breaking seas and the groaning
of tortured metal all united in a
bedlam of noise that made ordin-
ary conversation, even in the
sheltered wheelhouse, impossible.
Added to that was the feeling of
utter impotency. As Calder had
said, there was nothing they
could do but hang on and hope.
TF anyone had asked the Bar-
-*• moya’s officers when they
passed from noise to silence they
could not have answered with
certainty. The transition was so
sudden, their minds so numbed
by the continued deafening wail
of the wind, that it took them a
while to grasp the fact that it
had ceased.
The third-mate said, “What’s
happened?” and suddenly rea-
lised he’d shouted the words in
an atmosphere of dead calm
where the only noises were the
groaning of the laboring ship
and the thud of waves against
her sides.
Captain Henty said, “God
bless my soul! We must be in
the vortex.” His voice, too, rang
unnaturally loud in the darkness.
Calder, as if to prove that this
was not some trick of their over-
strained ears, moved out to the
port wing of the bridge. There
was no doubt about it. Judging
from the wild rolling of the ship
the sea was, if anything, more
confused than ever, but there was
not a breath of wind. A light
drizzle of rain was falling sound-
lessly straight down. He looked
up to the dark heavens and then
down towards the unseen, heav-
ing sea.
Then excitedly he called,
“Hell! There’s a bloody great
bird here! A bright red one! ”
He realised his foolishness as
soon as he’d spoken, but it was
the practical-minded Captain
Henty who voiced what the
others had by this time realised.
“It’s not a red bird, Mr. Calder,”
he said. “It’s some sort of a sea-
bird. A white one. It’s sitting
on the light screen and the port
light makes it look red.” With
a fluttering of wings and a thud
a second bird landed on the
screen. “Bless my soul! I wonder
where they’re coming from.”
“Drawn into the centre and
trapped here, poor devils,”
Calder said. “Do you think I’d
better make a quick inspection
for damage, sir, while this lull
lasts?”
“A good idea, Mr. Calder,”
Captain Henty agreed. “Take
Mr. Cook with you and be as
quick as you can. I don’t know
how long this calm is likely to
last, but we can expect the wind
to start up from the opposite
quarter at any moment and I
don’t think we’ll get much warn-
ing. And watch yourselves.
It’s very easy to break an arm or
a leg with this violent lurching.”
Both mates were well aware of
that. Following the powerful
beam of Calder’s torch they
moved in rushes, from the safety
of one hand-hold to another.
The torch shone on several more
birds, some fluttering down and
others huddled bedraggled and
bewildered on the deck. Once
Calder tripped over one and
swore loudly.
“The ship’s like a bloody
chookyard,” he complained.
Their hurried inspection re-
vealed no serious damage,
though the second-mate ex-
pressed the opinion that there
was more water inside the ship
than out. Port-holes screwed
down to the last turn had been
powerless to keep it out. Water
sloshed to and fro over carpeted
floors and spilled over doorsills
to add to ankle-deep torrents in
alleyways.
“I dunno where it’s cornin’
from,” the chief-steward com-
plained bitterly. “You screw
everythin’ down and shut every-
thin’ up and then you’d swear it
was blowin’ in through the steel
bulkheads. Blow! In twenty
years at sea I’ve never seen any-
thin’ like it. And then it stops.
Bingo! Just like that. Say, what’s
happened to the wind, Mr.
Calder?”
“It’ll be back soon enough,”
Calder assured him.
“Well, I can’t say I’ll be sorry,
in a way. Fair give you the
creeps this would, wouldn’t it?
It ain’t natural. The ship rollin’
her guts out and not a breath of
wind. Don’t seem like there’s
enough air to breathe, even.”
Which was a fairly good de-
scription. The air was heavy and
oppressive, the silence eerie.
The noises of the ship and the
sea served only to emphasise
rather than relieve the breathless
silence.
“If only the blasted engines
were going it wouldn’t seem so
bad,” Calder said. “Everything
seems so damned dead.”
The second-mate said, “Like a
steam-heated morgue.” Be-
neath their oilskins both men
were sweating profusely.
They were inspecting the
relieving tackles on the steering
when the main engines started
and the quadrant moved hard
over.
“He’s getting under way,” the
second remarked. “Wonder
where he’s heading for.”
“Lord knows,” Calder
answered. “We’d better get back
to the bridge and see what’s
doing. Everything seems to be
afl right here.”
LESS than half-way back they
heard it, a rumble like the
continuous roll of distant
thunder. “It’s the wind coming! ”
Calder yelled. “Run for it.”
Along the slippery, lurching
deck they raced, clutching
wildly at any support, bracing
themselves against the roll of
the ship. But the wind beat them,
Like a living, evil monster it
roared out of the darkness astern
and flung itself on them just as
Calder reached for the handrail
at the foot of the bridge-ladder,
It ballooned up under his oil-
skin and lifted him almost to the
top of the ladder. There it
pinned him, bruised and winded,
incapable of doing anything but
cling to the steps and thank God
that he had not gone clean over-
board, f
He clung there until the
second’s head butting him from
below made him realise that his
strength could be better em-
ployed in clawing up the last
few steps to shelter.
Captain Henty was bending
over the binnacle when they
arrived. He shouted something
that might have been a reproof;
“You got it in, Mrs. Mulloway. It MUST come out.”
for they caught the words “very
worried” and “away a long
time.” The rest was drowned in
the deep drumming roar of the
wind.
Calder shouted, “God, this is
worse than ever. Where’s it
coming from?”
“North,” Captain Henty yelled
back. “I swung her stem-on to
meet it and stopped the engines
again. No use trying anything
e j se »
Too winded and sore for
further shouted conversation
Calder nodded vigorously. If the
ship wouldn’t face up to the
previous wind it was useless try-
ing to head her into this. She
would simply have to lie stern to
it and drive back along her
original course, heading now for
the land she had battled so
desperately to escape.
Their one ray of hope came
from the barometer, which
showed a small but definite rise,
In Calder’s opinion the wind
would soon begin to lose its ter-
rifle velocity. It can’t keep this
up, he reasoned. We’ve been
through the centre and it's now
moving away from us. The glass
will keep onrising and as it rises
the wind vtfmdrop.
In a sense he was right. The
glass rose slowly to 28.50, but
there it stayed. And the wind
fell to the same screaming gale
that had driven them northwards
at a steady two knots during the
afternoon. To all four officers
it was obvious that unless the
wind slackened considerably
during the night the ship would
finish-up on the beach, and in
prder to estimate when she
would strike they made separate
sets of calculations. Averaging
the results afterwards Captain
Henty announced that it should
be between six- and eight-o clock
in the morning,
“There is always the possi-
bility that the wind will slacken
sufficiently to allow us to bring
the ship around,” he said. “But
since we are being carried along
in the same direction as the
cyclone’s progress we cannot
afford to be too optimistic about
that.”
AT midnight he called a con-
ference of his officers and
asked for suggestions.
“Give her another try with the
engines,” Calder said without a
moment’s hesitation. And the
others agreed with him. They
didn’t think that the wind had
slackened and they didn’t think
there was any real hope of the
manoeuvre succeeding, but any-
thing was better than just grimly
waiting for the end.
Captain Henty said, “We can
only try. You’d better tell the
chief about it, Mr. Calder. Ex-
plain the position to him and tell
him what we’re going to
attempt.”
They tried forcing her to port
and they tried forcing her to star-
board. It made no difference.
She would come broadside-on
and not one point further. In
the end they were all thankful
when Captain Henty stopped the
engines. As Calder said, the pro-
peller was spending more time
in the air than in the water,
Much more of that and she’d
snap her shaft and perhaps tear
a hole in her stern,
“Do you all agree that any
further attempts are useless,
gentlemen?” their captain asked,
And when they assented, Very
well. We’ll try flooding the
after-hold.”
His face beaming with relief,
Calder said, “Of course! Get
her stern down and the screw
and rudder will have a better
bite of the water! Why didnt we
think of that before,
“I’ve given the matter a lot
of thought,” Captain Henty in-
formed him reprovingly. “A
great deal of thought. And I’m
doing it because I’m convinced
it’s the only way of saving the
ship. Open the hatches, get your
hoses rigged and ask the chief to
start pumping. The three of you
may as well go There s nothing
y° u can U P k ere>
“Oh, my goodness,” he sighed
when they left. “I do hope I’m
not making a mistake. It s a
dreadful decision to have to
make. General average! What
will the company say about it?”
Every shipmaster is familiar
with the principles of general
average and every one prays that
he will never have a closer
acquaintance of it, for it occurs
only when some portion of the
ship or her cargo has to be
sacrificed to save the rest. The
settlement of the claims involved
invariably bring the wrath of
shipping-company officials down
on the head of the unfortunate
master.
For several hours Captain
Henty had been churning the
idea over and over. The after-
hold still contained cargo—not
a great deal certainly—but it was
valuable cargo and perishable.
As master of the ship it was his
duty to deliver it in good order
and condition. And here he was,
deliberately destroying it by
pumping seawater over it. And
if the wind dropped within the
next hour and all this wilful
destruction proved unnecessary?
To a man of Captain Henty’s
temperament and outlook the
decision was the most difficult
he had ever been called on to
make. First the mooring-lines,
lost through negligence, and now
valuable cargo wilfully de-
stroyed! So much for all his
talk about his duty to the
company!
Dawn dragged itself unwill-
ingly from the heaving sea—a
grey, rain-drenched dawn with
the wind still howling with un-
diminished fury. Calder was
back on the bridge, reporting
with obvious satisfaction on the
weight of seawater already
pumped into the hold, when the
lookout yelled.
“Land! Dead ahead!”
/'"'ATTAIN HENTY sprang for
the engineroom-telegraph,
rang “full ahead,” and after one
quick look ordered “hard a’
port.”
Fine on the starboard bow he
could see the faint outline of
rocky cliffs. There was no hope
that way. But to port the land
faded away until it was lost in
the rain. If there was any sea-
room it lay there.
The Barmoya came round
with her usual reluctance, some-
times giving way to a breaking
sea, sometimes gaining. She
came, as she had so often done
since they staggered out of port,
broadside-on to wind and sea as
the lookout and Calder shouted
together,
“Breakers! Dead ahead.”
“Keep the helm hard over,”
Captain Henty cautioned the
helmsman. “She's coming
round.”
She had to come. She must
pass that critical point and keep
on swinging, if only to vindicate
his judgment and prove to the
company that the cargo had not
been destroyed in vain.
The violent rolling made it
difficult to tell what she was
doing until Calder yelled ex-
citedly, “She’s making it, by
God! She’s coming round. She’s
got the breakers fine on her
starb’d bow.”
“Keep the helm as it is, hard
over,” Captain Henty ordered in
a queer, high-pitched voice.
Under his breath he said, “Come
round, old girl. Please come
round.”
As though straining her very
heart out in answer to his plea
she continued to swing. With
agonising slowness she brought
the breakers abeam, so close that
she almost scraped her starboard
bilge on the sandbank beneath
them. But she gained. She fought
and faced up to the sea that had
so often defeated her, and foot
by foot she-battled her way out
to safety.
At eight-o’clock Calder wrote
in the log, “Wind and sea
moderating. Barometer 28.85.
Vessel now has safe offing and
making good progress.”
“It’s most unfortunate,” Cap-
tain Henty sighed. “All that
valuable cargo ruined. I suppose
we did the right thing, but I
don’t know what the company
will have to §ay about it.”


Jungle Spartan Stand
The 39th at Isurava
By R. HONNER
On the Sunday nearest to August 8, Kokoda Day, former
members of the 89th Battalion, a Victorian unit reinforced
with men from other States and from New Guinea, make an
annual pilgrimage to the Shrine of Remembrance in Melbourne
—all wearing sprigs of lantana—to commemorate not only the
second Battle of Kokoda but all the 39th’s actions in the
Papuan campaigns. The story of one of its most heroic engage-
ments —the Spartan stand of its sick and wearied remnants
against picked, jungle-trained Japanese troops —is here told by
its commanding officer in that fiercely-fought defensive action,
Lieutenant-Colonel R. Honner, D. 5.0., M.C.
1 . x HILE valor is remem-
bered Isurava will not
\/\f be forgotten, for it was
there, in August, 1942,
that Private Bruce Kingsbury of
the 2/14th Battalion won
the Victoria Cross —the first
Australian to earn that honor
on Australian soil. But the
travail and the glory of
Isurava were shared by his
battalion with the 39th, which
had held it for a fortnight in the
face of mounting Japanese
pressure before the 2/14th came
to the rescue.
Two weeks earlier the 39th,
sorely battered in their con-
fused campaign against the
invaders and seemingly cut-off
from hope of outside help, had
fallen back on Isurava from
Deniki. When the 2/14th
joined them some of them
were almost at the end of
their tether after a month’s
fighting. As Major Russell, the
historian of the 2/14th, reports,
they were “depleted by battle-
casualties and malaria, and
suffering from exposure and
exhaustion; but efficiency and
morale were at a high level.”
Indeed, the strangest feature
of their story is that the weaker
they became the stronger and
the fiercer waxed their resolution
to hold on at all costs.
Chi August 1, I had been
appointed to command the 39th,
and, after flying from Western
Australia to Port Moresby,
received my orders as com-
mander of Maroubra Force to
hold the enemy on the other
side of the mountains until
relieved by the 21st Brigade. I
went forward to Isurava to take
over.
It provided as good a delay-
ing position as could be found
on the main track. If the enemy
wanted to advance along that
track they would have to dis-
lodge us. If they should try to
outflank us, they would face a
stiff uphill-climb from the Eora
valley on our right or a struggle
through the dense jungle round
our left. And if they should
choose the easy way in from the
flanks, along the tracks from
Asigari and Naro, they would
walk into our waiting fire.
Physically the pathetically
young warriors of the 39th were
in poor shape. Worn out by
strenuous fighting and exhaust-
ing movement, and weakened
by lack of food and sleep and
shelter, many of them had
literally come to a standstill.
Practically every day torrential
rains fell all through the after-
noon and night, cascading into
their cheerless weapon-pits and
soaking the clothes they wore—
the only ones they had. In these
they shivered through the long
chill vigil of the lonely nights,
when they were required to
stand awake and alert, but still
and silent. Only the morning
brought a gleam of comfort —a
turn at sleeping and forgetting;
a chance, perhaps, to lie and
dry in the warmth of the glow-
ing day. But little light filtered
through the leaf-roofed murk
where Merritt’s men guarded the
front creek cliff, pale ghosts
crouching in the dank-dripping
half-dark, hidden from the heal-
ing of the searching sun.
The remnant of B-company
held the high ground on the left.
Weary from the longest fighting,
it had lost its first two com-
manders, and my predecessor
had recommended that it should
be disbanded and its men
allotted to other companies,
because, in his view, its morale
was so low that it was finished
as a fighting force.
It stood where the main attack
could be expected' to fall —
where, in fact, it did fall, and
finally hammered - down the
Isurava defence. Should I leave
the key to our stronghold in
such frail hands?
I felt that to replace these un-
fortunates with another com-
pany would be destroying where
I should be building. I
appointed Lieut. French to
command them and made it
clear that they now had the most
dangerous sector to hold —the
post of honor. When the testing-
hour did come B-company bore
the heaviest burden and held on
doggedly.
Already there was a burgeon-
ing confidence born of the first
scattered battles, which had
exploded the myths of Japanese
super-soldiers currently used as
bogies to frighten young Austra-
lians. The men of the 39th saw
themselves now as a united
battalion ready to do battle on
an organised plan, as schemes
for mutual support and local
counter-attack were evolved and
practised.
+ +
They were cheered, also, by
the return of comrades given up
as lost; Dalby had come in
from Deniki before my arrival,
Pentland soon after it; five more
struggled in on the 17th and
another six on the 19th. Finally,
there was a promise of relief.
All the news seemed good news,
and courage feeds on hope.
But soon there was disquieting
news, too —of heavy enerrty
reinforcement ahead of us, of
grave supply-difficulties behind
us. I knew that relief could not
come for many days, and I was
determined never to ask for it.
I was equally determined that
we should “stand and fight”—
orders I had heard myself at
more than one pass in Greece,
including famed Thermopylae.
At Isurava the green-clad
slopes and valleys, the tumbling
torrents bright in the morning
sunlight, the keen, crisp moun-
tain air—even the sound of a
place-name like far-seen Pirivi —
were all reminiscent of the glory
that was Greece. Isurava couLd
yet be Australia’s Thermopylae
—but no spy of the barbarians
would see its defenders, like the
Lacedaemonians under Leonidas,
engaged in gymnastic exercises
or combing their long hair. By
day their silence and the secret
trees concealed them, and they
showed no light and made no
sound to mark them in the dark
and quiet' of the night. It would
cost the enemy a fight to find
them.
To hinder and give warning
of the enemy’s approach,
listening - posts were placed
beyond the constant murmur of
the front creek; and a platoon-
strong patrol, provided by each
company, in turn, from - its
fittest men, barred the track
threequarters-of-an-hour down
towards Deniki. When word
came through that in one
skirmish a man had been killed,
Chaplain Earl shouldered a
spade and hurried out to the
forward patrol. Learning there
that Private Hourigan had been
killed at a listening-post well
forward of the drain position, he
marched out alone through
No - Man’s - Land, administered
the last rites, dug a grave and
buried the" dead man. The
enemy were still about, but he
returned unscathed just before
they reopened fire.
Only desultory skirmishing
between patrols went on while
the Japanese were concentrating,
at Kokoda and Deniki, their
force for the drive over the
mountains to Port Moresby.
Then, in the morning of
August 26 —the anniversary of
historic Crecy that tested the
skill and courage of our fore-
bears against an outnumbering
foe —the great Japanese offensive
started. At midday the full fury
of the attack burst on Lieut.
Simonson’s patrol, and the
platoon standing-by as next for
patrol duty hurried out under
Lieut Sword of D-company to
support the forward troops.
Simultaneously with the
attack on Simonson’s men, the
enemy mountain-artillery bom-
barded Isurava village, whose
huts could be seen from down
the Deniki track. C-company
suffered, and Chaplain Earl
buried two more of his
dwindling flock.
When, after a five-hour battle,
the reinforced forward patrol
had beaten off the main attack,
Simonson pushed the enemy
back and advanced 200yds.
along the track towards Deniki
in an attempt to locate and
destroy their guns. But he
decided that they were at least
another 300yds. ahead and,
unable to make further progress
against increasing resistance, he
returned to the security of his
patrol position.
While the main Japanese
thrust was contained by Simon-
son, other enemy forces moved
up into the more difficult high
ground to the west and advanced
southwards through it, keeping
clear of the apparent perils of
the track. To assist them in
their 'assault on Isurava, the
bombardment, which had died
down early in the afternoon
with the failure of the first
attacks, reopened on the 39th’s
main positions at half-past-three
and continued till five-o’clock.
As the shelMng again ceased,
Japanese infantry came down
the Naro track through the cover
of the high-grassed garden
beyond the front creek.
When Sword had left to join
Simonson, Lieut. Clarke had
mustered a platoon from
C-company to stand by as next
for duty. In the afternoon he
had taken out his reconnaissance-
party of section-leaders and
seconds-in-command to view the
forward battle, and he was
returning soon after five-o’clock
when he clashed with the
Japanese force in the garden.
His gallant band swept into a
spontaneous charge that drove
the enemy back in headlong
flight. He and one of his men
killed eight of the Japanese as
they hunted them down through
the long grass while the light
lasted.
By dusk they had cleared the
whole garden, driving the sur-
viving enemy back into the
gloomy jungle without loss to
themselves; and they returned
in high spirits by way of the
creek - crossing which their
prompt and vigorous action had
made safe again.
On reaching their company-
lines they found new faces
there. That morning Brigadier
Potts of the 21st Brigade, now
commanding Maroubra Force,
had signalled Seventh Division
that the relief of the 39th Bat-
talion by the 2/14th was to
commence that day. As a first
step in the relief, Captain
Dickenson’s C-company of the
2/14th, in the late afternoon,
took over from C-company of
the 39th the right forward
locality that included Isurava.
village and covered the Asigari
track.
That night more of the
Japanese filtered through the
timber to the line of the creek
in front of E-company, while
Simonson and Sword still barred
the easier approach along the
Deniki track. There in the
dripping darkness the silent tide
of the attackers flowed un-
detected round the defending-
posts.
Then all hell broke loose as
they stormed over the two
staunch platoons, lurching round
the gnarled tree-roots and leap-
ing over the ambuscading-pits,
shooting, stabbing, hacking, in a
sudden surge of blind and
blazing fury that broke and
ebbed back into the deep dark
from which it sprang, leaving its
jetsam of death behind it.
A few wounded, including
Simonson, returned to Isurava,
the track having remained open
since Clarke had cleared the
garden.
But at first light on the
27th the enemy were swarming
through the garden and the tree-
hidden high ground across the
creek from Merritt’s E-company.
The clearing of the morning mists
was marked by the first shots in
the long fire-fight that was to
shatter the days and startle the
nights till Isurava fell; and it
was impossible now for Clarke’s
platoon to cross the creek to
relieve or reinforce the forward
patrol.
Sword reported his men in
good heart, and I instructed him
to maintain his delaying role
until his position should become
untenable. As the day wore on
and the enemy pressure
increased around us, I decided
that Sword’s men were needed
more urgently at Isurava than
down the track; but when I
attempted to recall them—by
way of the Eora valley—the
signal-line was dead. Two-fifths
of the battalion’s fittest men
were cut off.
+ +
Indeed, three-fifths of the fittest
were now abandoned in that deep
silence of the green mountains
out beyond the strident chatter
of machine-guns and the roar
of exploding bombs; for
Pentland had vanished into the
forest with C-company’s most
mobile troops on a mission,
ordered by Force-headquarters,
to occupy the junction of the
westward track from the garden
with the north-south Naro track,
there to bar any enemy approach
towards Alola.
Late in the morning of the
27th I received another order —
to replace Pentland’s patrol with
a platoon from Dickenson’s
company, so that Pentland
would not be left behind on the
complete relief of the 39th by
the 2/14th the following day.
Lieut. Davis, guided by the
39th’s Intelligence Sergeant,
Buchecker, attempted to lead his
platoon out along the route
pioneered by Pentland ; but on
the other side of the creek the
patrol found the jungle alive
with Japanese. They tried to
fight their way through. Davis
himself was wounded and started
to make his way back unassisted,
but he must have been inter-
cepted, for he was never seen
again.
In the meantime the gallant
partnership of Earl and Sheera,
the 39th’s Chaplain and Medical
Officer, hearing the louder noise
of battle where they knew the
patrol had gone, seized a
stretcher and sallied out, un-
escorted, to give what aid they
could. They found Buchecker
with a shattered thigh, placed
him on the stretcher and carried
him away from the fight through
the jungle, across the creek and
down through our perimeter to
safety. The' leaderless patrol,
unable to make any progress,
also fought its way back, closely
pressed by the enemy, who
followed it over the creek and
occupied the timber above
B-company.
Since early morning the
Japanese had been probing at
E-company and the 2/14th’s
C-company covering the front
On each side of the Deniki
track where it crossed the creek.
E-company was without its
strongest men —opt on the
forward patrol. To replace
them, Sergeant Kerslake, with
the remainder of the 39th’s
C-company—a ft e r Pentland’s
Naro patrol had gone —was
posted in E-company’s reserve-
platoon position with a counter-
penetration role. At the same
time Sgt. Murray’s reserve
platoon of A-company, the rear-
right company, became the
battalion reserve, ready to rush
to the assistance of E-, B- or
D-companies holding the left
flank from front to rear.
With the situation apparently
well under control I went to the
rear creek —outside the peri-
meter, but our only water-
supply—for a wash and a shave.
There were about half-a-dozen
of us there, including Merritt.
A breathless runner brought me
a message that the enemy had
broken into E-company’s
position.
I looked over at the un-
suspecting Merritt. It seemed a
pity to disturb him.
“Captain Merritt,” I said,
“when you’ve finished your
shave will you go up to your
company? The Japs have
broken through your perimeter.”
Merritt didn’t appreciate the
Drake touch. An astonished
look hung for an instant on his
half-shaved face; then it lifted
like the starter’s-barrier and he
was off like a racehorse.
Odd parties of the enemy
were already bursting through
the thinly-held timber, to be
shot down in the open; and
wary-eyed messengers to and
from B- and E-companies were
repeatedly running the headlong
gauntlet of these intruding
groups. Then, in the middle of
the afternoon, the intermittent
bombardment was suddenly
intensified. As a precise Japanese
diarist recorded it: “At 1538
our guns all join in together and
the attack and advance begin
along the whole front”
Mortar-bombs and mountain-
gun shells burst among the tree-
tops or slashed through to the
earth, where the thunder of their
explosion was magnified in the
close confines of the jungle
thickets. Heavy machine-guns
—the dread “woodpeckers”—
chopped through the trees,
cleaving their own lanes of fire
to tear at the defences. And
while bombs and bullets crashed
and rattled in an unceasing
clamor that re-echoed from the
hills, the forest erupted into
violent action as Nippon’s
screaming warriors streamed out
of its shadows to the assault.
No pigmy figures of fun these,
but hardy men of war —tall
veterans of unflinching valor and
powerful physique, trained in the
mountains of their homeland
o Continued on page 27)


SIROMARK
(REGO. TRADE MARK OF C.5.1.R.0.)
SHEEP BRANDING FLUID
Available in three brilliant colours
RED, GREEN and BLUE (L.B.E. BLACK also available)
CAN BE USED ON
ORDER NOW
FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
Marketed in Australia by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
51R.1X.1983
USA
SPORTING NOTIONS
Another Australian racing
year has passed. All horses
had a birthday last Monday,
August 1. Some owners should
celebrate the occasion by retiring
oldsters; winning prospects are
slim for many of the six- and
seven-year-olds now in training.
No new Australian figures
were recorded during the season.
Two were equalled. At Warwick
Farm last month Gallant
Archer ran the mile-and-three-
furlongs in 2.15 L equalling his
own Australian record for the
distance, made at Eagle Farm in
June last year. New Slipper at
Randwick in December ran
sfur. in 58{sec., which equalled
the figures of All Love at Rand-
wick in October, 1940, and later
at Flemington.
• <* • •
Most of the same old faces —
trainers and jockeys finished
the season at the head of the
winning table in the various
States. An exception was Arthur
Ward, Sydney’s leading jockey,
with 66 wins. His previous suc-
cess was during the 1950-51
season. T, J. Smith again led the
trainers.
• • • •
The A.J.C.’s annual report
revealed that fewer tote-bets
were made at Warwick Farm and
Randwick, both win and place
and in doubles, during the
season. Patrons consider they
get meagre returns in some
instances and prefer to accept
odds offered by bookmakers.
For example, when a horse
comes into the market from an
outside price many backers with
bookmakers get the cream of the
market, while tote-patrons are
seldom returned much above the
starting-price, at times less. Also,
the tote takes 12| per cent,
from the pool to meet various
commitments. In past years 10
per cent, was the rule, and divi-
dends were more satisfactory.
Crowds are still at high-water
mark, so it would seem that
many former tote-backers have
changed over. General main-
tenance of Randwick cost the
A.J.C. £96,478 for the season,
but the track never looked better
and is a credit to its curator,
George Johnson, and his staff.
k For the season the A.J.C. paid
£583,356 in taxation, and there
would, of course, be hundreds
of thousands in the aggregate
from the many other racing
bodies in Australia. The grand
total must be a colossal figure.
Feature of the running of
Rosehill Flying Handicap on
Saturday was the forward show-
ing of Advocate, having his
first outing since winning at the
same track in February. Ad-
vocate came from the rear of the
field to run a pleasing third.
The now six-year-old horse is
a Victoria Derby winner and is
engaged in the main staying
events of the spring. His weights:
A.J.C. Metropolitan, 8.11 ; Caul-
field Cup, 8.12 ; Melbourne Cup,
8.10. At this early stage his
form is good enough to suggest a
win in one of the “big three”
of the October-November round.
New Zealander Sobriquet, who
came from second-last at the
home-turn to get up in time to
beat favorite Regal Glitter in the
S.T.C. Cup at Rosehill, is a
Metropolitan prospect. On 7.6
he could be a chance, though
he’s a bit old for such an im-
portant and tough mile-and-
five. Few veterans have won
the Metrop. Last. of the aged
brigade to score was Nightbeam,
11 years back, and before him
Strength in 1931. Most Regal
Glitter backers regarded Sobri-
quet’s S.T.C. Cup as a lucky
break for the New Zealander,
now trained at Randwick by
H. Wiggins, who, as a leading
jockey in N.Z., won races on
Sobriquet up to a mile and a
half.
My Hali, winner of Rosehill
Flying, was the medium of a
iast-minute plunge, and connec-
tions and punters who followed
the lead reaped a harvest. It
seemed clever planning, as My
Hali hadn’t won a race for
several months and had made an
unsuccessful visit to Brisbane
for the mid-winter sprints.
There’s nothing like the bracing
Brisbane air of June to improve
a visiting horse’s condition.
Other trainers have found this
to be so. My Hali was reported
to have run a brilliant sprint two
days before the race. He cer-
tainly showed fitness and bril-
liance on race-day.
Winner of the final two-year-
old event of the Queensland
season in Ipswich was On The
Ball —by former Sydney stayer
Katanga, who went to the stud
in Queensland. Best perform-
ances of Katanga—who is by
The Buzzard (imp.) from Biddy’s
Robe by Seremond (imp.)—
were in the A.J.C. Colin Stephen
Stakes, which he twice won,
1942 and 1943, both with 9.6.
When Irishman finished third
to Kingster and Knave in the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate it was
thought he would soon be a
winner, but it wasn’t till Wednes-
day last that he won his first
race—a minor Two-year-old at
Hawkesbury. However, he hasn’t
raced much and may be all the
better from that angle. He was
a cheap yearling, 210gns. Irish-
man is raced by owner-trainer
W. J. Clancy, and is by Kerry
Piper (imp.) from Cheer Up by
Piccadilly (imp.). He is related
to Rylestone, winner of races at
Randwick a few seasons ago.
In 60 years’ racing the Grand
National Hurdle - Australian
Hurdle double has been landed
only seven times, last horse to
perform the feat being Green
Cape in 1939. Latest winner of
the Flemington event, By the
Way, could join the seven —
Marmont, 1903 • York, 1905 ;
Realm, 1906 ; Arquebuse, 1911,
Mosstrooper, 1930; Pooley
Bridge, 1936; and Green Cape.
By The Way outclassed rivals
in the National, and, though de-
feated many lengths at Caulfield
last Saturday week by El
Tirador, he might prove that run
all wrong in Saturday’s contest.
El Tirador may provide the
toughest opposition.
Hobart racegoers assisted four’
local charities at a meeting con-
ducted by combined T.R.C.,
Hobart T.C., Brighton J.C. and
T.A.J.C. last Saturday. It was
“Here, sport—how about YOU getting into condition ?”
held at Elwick in aid of the
Freemasons’ Homes of Southern
Tasmania, Glenview Home for
the Aged, the Spastic Fund and
the Tasmanian Society for the
Care of Crippled Children.
* • * •
Fifty-seven horses of the huge
Melbourne Cup entry have been
weighted at Bst. or more. Big
weights allotted top-class per-
formers are regularly criticised,
but four of the last five winners
of the two-miler carried more
than 9st.—Rising Fast, 9.5 (in-
eluding 101 b. penalty); Dalray,
9.8; Delta, 9.5; Comic Court,
9.5. Wodalla scored with 8.4
in 1953. It is 32 years since
there was a Cup winner
weighted at 7st. or less. In 1923
Bitalh carried 7st., which in-
eluded lib. over.
*
Leading Melbourne trainer
Fred Hoysted will have a fair
crop of two-year-olds racing in
the early part of this season, and
one of the most interesting colts
will be St. Ermine, to be raced
by Rising Fast’s owner, New
Zealander L. R. Spring. He
paid 2600gns. for the youngster,
top price of the Melbourne
yearling sales last March. St.
Ermine’s relatives include St.
Razzle, a dual winner of the
Futurity Stakes, Sir Simper,
Razzle Dazzle (N.Z. Oaks) and
Flight (24 wins and £30,730 in
stakes). St. Ermine is by St.
Magnus (imp.) from Furrier by
Manitoba (imp.) from Yilderin
by Night Raid (imp.), sire of
Phar Lap.
* * *
Trim in their new-clipped
coats, N.S.W. pacers and trotters
stepped out at Harold Park on
Saturday night on a track all
shiny white after its seasonal
dressing. This being the first
meeting for six weeks, form
looked hard—and proved so.
To ring-off a night of incidents,
one winner was R. E. Fitz-
Patrick’s (yes!) demure black,
Lulin—2o to 1. He forced
through a wall of horses in the
fast-class Ashfield Handicap.
Penrith trainer P. J. Hall, who
stole the march in the Trotters’
Free-for-All on Oban, made
Lulin his second for the night,
....
Only favorite of the night to
beat them in was'veteran trainer
s. Macmillan’s boom horse
Secret- Spring. He gave early
leader Explicit the go-by at the
bell, and from there it was
“Who’ll be second?” He’s a full
brother to Green Lawn, who, as
on Saturday night, hides his
ability under the “barrier
bushel.” They are by Spring-
field Globe out of Seta, a mare
by Prontelmo, who traces to
Huon lunior.
Following his string of seconds
chestnut Finley’s Air hasn’t
looked back. Driven with more
confidence by Daley, he ran
the fastest 13| furlongs of the
night. By Van Ayr out of Miss
Finley, he’s out of a mare of
the same blood as Strathfield
Jack—another of the State’s up-
and-coming. Both Miss Finley
and Lady Luck are by Cobber
O’ Mine.
The Qualifying winners were
interesting: Ronald, a full
brother to topnotcher Uncle Joe
(Robert Derby-Zetland’s Pick),
worked his little legs red hot
over the last furlong to take
the “first.” Like the big brother,
he has kicked-off in the Caffyn
stable—Alley now prepares the
champ.—and like Uncle Joe he’s
taken a. while to mature. An
easy-striding son of New Derby
(a Globe Derby horse), Receiver
led all the way in the “second.”
The Victorian blew in thb bet-
ting, but, despite the minor
smash in the race, he looked a
certainty from the jump. He
was on the bit to clip 2fsec. off
Ronald’s time.
+ +
Having disposed of Mexico,
Brazil and Canada in that, and
pretty short, order, the Aus-
tralian tennisers, as winners of
the American zone, now play
Japan, winners of the Far East
zone. Winner of that match
then meets Italy, European-zone
winner, for the right to challenge
the U.S.A.
* * *
Austrian Rapid beat Australia
4-1 in the fourth Test in Mel-
bourne. It was the same story as
in the earlier Tests: Australia
just about held its own in the first
half (Austria 1-0 at half-time),
but faded later in face of the
Austrians’ superior ball-control
and perfect combination.
* * *
Essendon, by beating Foots-
cray 9.18-5.22, edged into the
V.F.L. “four” and edged ’Scray
out. It was the Dons’ first win
over the Bulldogs since 1951.
With full-forward Collins effec-
tively muzzled by McConnell
and not a straight boot among
the other forwards, Footscray
just couldn’t get goals, even when
it had the run of the game, as in
the second quarter ; jh that spell
11 scoring-shots yielded one
goal. Of the other top teams,
Melbourne, dominating all the
pivots, always had North’s meas-
ure, 12.18-8.15, Geelong wasn’t
particularly troubled at any stage
by Fitzroy, 12.14-9.11, and Coll-
ingwood, putting on eight goals
in a whirlwind last quarter after
an even, slogging game, settled
any hopes Hawthorn may have
still had, 10.11-5.6. Richmond,
giantkiller of the previous two
rounds (Footscray and Geelong,
the victims), just got in, by one
point, from lowly South, 13.16-
14.9, while Carlton kicked badly
but nonetheless got there easily
from St. Kilda, 11.21-3.13.
• • • •
West Adelaide captain .Brian
Faehse played his 200th game
last Saturday against Glenelg at
Glenelg oval, where, against
Glenelg, he played his first game
for Wests back in 1944. Faehse
has been captain since 1951. He
played for S. Aust. at two
Aussie Rules carnivals (Bris-
bane, 1950, and Adelaide, 1953),
and has played in 16 inter-State
games.
• • •
“0.W.W.”: During a second-
grade Rugby match in Auckland
(N.Z.), a general brawl broke
out among the players after a
player struck the referee. One
team involved in the fight was
composed entirely of members
of the Salvation Army.
* * *
“Corpus”: Further evidence
that bowls is no longer an old
man’s game. Notices of the
annual meeting of the bowl-
ing club of a South Aust. city
carry the advice: “The following
Office Bearers retire through
affliction of time.”


/
ENVELOPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. 1 to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application .
Jackson & O'Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturint Stationers and. Printers
M 4 - 308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Lillis WcH
Established ltiOH in Reign 0/
Qeorge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
C England )
HA.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
and the jungles of the East for
just such desperate warfare as
they waged this day.
Across the creek they swept
in a swift thrust that sliced
through E-company’s thin front-
line, cut off Dalby’s left
platoon and a section of the
right platoon and, swarming
behind them, forced them
forward out of their posts.
Through the widening breach
poured another flood of the
attackers to swirl round the
remainder of the right platoon
from the rear. 'They were met
with Bren-gun and Tommy-gun,
with bayonet and grenade; but
still they came, to close with the
buffet of fist and boot and rifle-
butt, the steel of crashing
helmets and of straining,
strangling fingers.
In this vicious fighting, man
to man and hand to hand,
Merritt’s men were in imminent
peril of annihilation. But two
quick counter - attacks turned
that furious tide. Kerslake’s
counter-penetration platoon
drove out the enemy breaking
through the gap and closed it
against further inroads.
Murray’s mobile reserve raced
up to recapture Dalby’s position
and was immediately successful.
The intruders were hurled
back towards the creek, but the
relentless conflict in the shadows
went on through the afternoon
until contact was re-established
with Dalby’s lost platoon,
which, encircled and out-
numbered, had gallantly carried
on the fight.
To the left, B-company was
reeling under ever - heavier
blows. Its forward platoons had
occupied advanced positions
near the timber-edge to obtain
some cover from it and to force
the infiltrating Japanese deeper
into the denser forest; but the
violence of the enemy, onset
pressed them back to a better
line prepared slightly to the rear
to give them more open killing-
space on an occasion such as
this.
There they held, fighting mag-
nificently, while the eiiemy came
on in reckless waves, regardless
of the casualties that soon
cluttered that short stretch of
open ground.
Through the long hours to
sunset French’s men became
more familiar with the vocal
routine employed by the
Japanese in launching their
attacks from thick cover. A
platoon- or company-attack
would sometimes be heralded by
a shouted order from the rear,
echoed by subordinate com-
manders farther forward, and
then succeeded by a wave of
noisy chattering right along the
front, almost as if the men in
the leading sections were assur-
ing each other that they were all
starting out together to do or
die. And as the chatter ceased
they would crash from their con-
cealment, leaping to the attack
in a co-ordinated line.
■+■ 4“
In larger-scale attacks, by two
or more companies, a system of
chanting the orders forward
from the rear was used,
apparently with the same idea
of securing a simultaneous
assault by all the storming sec-
tions emerging from the forest in
which they could hear but could
not see each other. Away in
the distance a powerful voice
would chant an order of half-a-
dozen to a dozen words. Some-
what nearer, three or four voices
would be loudly lifted together
in similar half-sung phrases;
and on a closer, wider line a
dozen junior commanders would
take up the refrain in unison.
Then, right along the front,
the final, urgent order would rise
from half-a-hundred throats, to
be followed by the impressive
sight of the serried ranks of
Nippon rushing to their doom.
As they were mown down, and
it became apparent that to fight
on would result only in heavier
losses, the news somehow filtered
back into the forest. From its
dark recesses a clear bugle-call
would ring out, and the
attackers would turn and vanish
into their jungle fastness as
swiftly as they had come.
These incessant assaults were
slowly sapping B-company’s
strength—and at the end of the
day, when the heaviest attack of
all rolled in over French’s men,
their endurance was stretched
almost to breaking-point. Lieut.
Garland, their second-in-com-
mand, reported that they were
unlikely to hold much longer
unless reinforced. I gave him a
message for French that he
would have to hold —there was
only Battalion-headquarters be-
hind him. But in the light of the
enemy’s obviously superior
strength I recognised that it"
would be only a matter of time
before our small garrison was
overrun —in the evening, the
night, or next morning. There
was only one source of quick
reinforcement to forestall
disaster.
In the middle of the afternoon
Captain Nye had arrived with
B-company of the 2 / 14th, not to
strengthen the defenders, but with
orders to push through to relieve
Pentland on the Naro track.
Davis had already found Pent-
land’s route through French’s
lines impassable, so Nye’s com-
pany started to cut its way west
through the jungle bordering the
creek to the rear of our
perimeter.
It was with considerable mis-
giving that I watched this
formidable force march out of
our lines just as the big offen-
sive was commencing. When B-
company was so sorely pressed
at sunset I resolved to recall
Nye if he could still be reached.
Fortunately the jungle was so
thick that two hours of laborious
slashing had not taken the head
of his column more than a
couple of hundred yards—his
rear troops were hardly off the
track.
They quickly returned to take
part in the fight, and I do not
remember anything more
heartening than the sight of their
confident deployment. Their
splendid physique and bearing,
and their cool automatic effici-
ency—even the assembly-line
touch as two platoon mortar-
men stepped one to each side
of the track to , pluck bombs
from the haversacks of the rifle-
men filing past between them
without checking their pace —
made a lasting impression on me.
And they were to prove evpn
better than they looked.
I sent their first platoon to
strengthen E-company’s left, and
the second to D-company’s right
to close the pincers from either
flank on the enemy still
endangering B-company; and
the pressure had already eased
when the third platoon was
placed under French’s com-
mand.
It was dark by the time the
three strengthened companies
had consolidated their positions,
and the firing died away to a
silence that seemed strangely
eerie after the 12-hour tumult.
The peace of the night was
broken only by an occasional
stealthy foray—as wheh one of
Dickenson’s men was bayoneted
without seeing his assailant.
The 28th —the third day of
the Isurava battle—dawned with
the 39th full of confidence and
hope. The day of the long-
awaited relief had arrived —a
week late, but the more welcome
for that. And strong reinforce-
ments had marched in to ensure
the rescue of the 200 sick and
weary men to which the
battalion had been reduced.
Captain Cameron’s D-com-
pany of the 2/14th had come in
the previous evening and how
took over E-company’s sector,
Merritt’s two platoons digging-
in on its left to link with B-
company. Nye’s three separated
platoons were reunited under his
operational command and re-
lieved French’s men, who moved
to the left to cover Bidstrup’s
right flank in place of Sword’s
missing platoon.
There were already four times
as many men holding our front
and flanks as there had been the
previous day; and when A-
company and part of Head-
quarters-company of the 2/14th
arrived it was possible for the
first time to provide a powerful
reserve.
+ +
So Isurava seemed secure
when Lieut.-Colonel Key of the
2/14th marched in at midday
and took command, relieving the
39th, which was due to leave for
Port Moresby. But I told Key
I considered the holding of
Isurava against the strength the
enemy had shown the previous
day would need more than one
battalion, and I would not leave
him in the lurch. The two of
us then convinced Potts that the
39th must be allowed to stay and
fight.
The 39th retained responsi-
bility for only the quiet rear half
of the perimeter, Merritt’s com-
pany being withdrawn from its
front sector and placed in
reserve. From this day forward
the story and the glory of
Isurava belong overwhelmingly
to the gallant 2/ 14th. They esti-
mated that by nightfall on the
28 th they had inflicted 35(K
casualties on the enemy ; and a
Japanese officer wrote in his
diary: “The enemy is gradually
being outflanked ; but his resist-
ance is very strong, and our
casualties great. The outcome
of the battle is difficult to fore-
see.
On the 29th the Japanese
commander, concerned about his
losses and the delay to his plans
—lsurava should have been
taken and its defenders annihi-
lated three days earlier —threw
two more battalions into the
attack. All day long the noise
of battle rolled across the front
and ever deeper round the flanks.
And, in the slow fading of the
afternoon, up out of the Eora
valley rose a desperate assault
—right to the smoking muzzles
of the guns of A-company of
the 39th and C-company of the
2/14th.
For an anxious time, as heavy
fire cracked about my ears
where I waited, ready, in my
weapon-pit behind A-company,
it seemed that the Japanese
might burst through ; but their
exhausting climb had taken
some of the fire out of them,
and the dogged resistance did
the rest. They were thrown
back, defeated, into the valley.
But the enemy had broken
through at the front, and, to
prevent further penetration along
the main track. Key had been
forced to commit all his reserves.
It was in the desperate fighting
here that Kingsbury, dying, won
undying fame.
At this stage, into Alola, along
the track from Naro, marched
a scarecrow crew of haggard,
hungry men. Simonson’s and
Sword’s platoons had been out
for four days. After a long day
and a night and another day of
fighting, with the enemy between
them and Isurava and their
telephone-line severed, they had
fought their way up the moun-
tain-side, across the path of the
advancing Japanese, to join
Pentland’s platoon on the Naro
ridge. It was a murderous climb,
the sharp scrub tearing their
uniforms and their hands and
hides, and the rocky outcrops
cutting the boots from their
lacerated feet.
Pentland’s men were in not
much better shape—they had
been forced to cut a path
through the jungle for the first
part of their climb. When they
had not been relieved on the
second day, as arranged, or even
on the third day, hunger had
forced the three platoons to
retire to Alola. A corporal of
the 2/16th told me afterwards,
“It was enough to make a man
weep to see those poor skinny
bastards hobble in on their
bleeding feet”
They were greeted with the
news that the 39th and the
2/14th were fighting for their
lives. Without a word, or a
thought for the food fheir
stomachs craved, they turned
and hurried off to Isurava as
fast as their crippled feet could
carry them.
There were other stout hearts
in frail frames at Alola. When,
on the 27th, the complete relief
of the 39th was ordered for the
following day, I had sent back,
under Lieut. Johnston, the
weakest of the battalion’s sick to
have them one stage ahead on
the long march to Moresby—
they were too feeble for the fast-
moving fighting expected at the
front. But they, too, learnt of
the plight of their comrades at
Isurava; and all who could
walk spontaneously volunteered
to return to the battle.
Unprepared for such an
apparition, I was surprised to
see a grimy, bearded figure lead-
ing in a tattered line at twilight.
I did not recognise him till he
saluted and announced: “Sword,
sir, reporting in from patrol.”
There was more than mere
formality in my answering
salute. Pentland and his gaunt
gang were with him, too ; and
then came the pale Johnston and
the last stumbling reinforcement
of the stout-hearted sick—fit for
the hospital, yet worthy of Val-
halla. Key had a reserve again.
-f . +
All day his men had fought
like heroes, and at night they
stood ringed by a scattered ram-
part of the enemy dead. But it
was a narrowing rampart.
Bitterly they had contested every
minute of that day-long battle
and every yard of that desperate
battlefield, causing the enemy
some 550 casualties; but they
had lost vital ground on the left,
and faced the prospect of
annihilation if they tried to cling
to Isurava, which was now worth
nothing in itself. The enemy
could be delayed and destroyed
on another line.
That night the two battalions
moved back to new positions at
Isurava Rest House, and the next
morning the 39th’s sick were
again sent Off, leaving the
battalion 150 strong. The first
Japanese onslaught—again from
the high ground on the west —
fell on French’s B-company, its
strength depleted to only 13 men.
Its forward-posts of three men
each were overrun and their
defenders all killed, but they
went down fighting, checking the
enemy long enough to enable
the remainder of the company
to hold them till Symington’s
A-company was rushed up to
beat off the attack. The 39th
came under heavy fire in two
more attacks before the with-
drawal of the whole force in
the late afternoon.
After such a sustained and
valiant effort that withdrawal
was a heartbreaking experience
—a backbreaking one, too, for
the tired troops struggling and
slipping and falling through the
darkness as they climbed “on
with toil of heart and knees and
hands thro’ the long gorge”
under the added burden of the
wounded they carried on rough
litters built from poles and vines
—concerned, in the extremity of
their exhaustion, only for the
broken bodies of those in worse
straits than themselves.
When, finally, the 39th started
off on its march to Moresby,
Potts sent a message of apprecia-
tion for the splendid service it
had given. From the inspiring
commander of a magnificent
brigade—one of the finest and
most aggressive leaders of the
A.I.F. —this was a valued tribute,
and I passed it on at my first
battalion-parade, at Menari. As
I glanced along the steady lines
of pallid and emaciated men
with sunken eyes and shrunken
frames that testified to the hard-
ships they had long endured, I
saw no hang-dog 100k —only the
proud bearing of tried veterans
who had looked death and
disaster in the face, and had not
failed.


G*
O*
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
YOUR
BREATH
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
it!
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That’s why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save 1/8
TI9
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BLUEPRINT FOR A PAPER
TTHREE U.K. dailies—“ Ma-
n Guardian,” London
“Daily Telegraph” and Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” —lately cele-
brated their centenaries, and nice
things were deservedly said about
each of them.
The “Manchester Guardian”
celebrated its centenary as a
newspaper (not as a daily) back
in 1921, and C. P. Scott, who
had been its editor “for only a
few months short of its last half-
century,” then contributed an
article on newspaper ideals. It
was Scott, as London “Spec-
tator” comments, who revolu-
tionised the “Guardian” and
“gave it that particular drive
which carried it to the very
highest eminence of journalism
—‘by making righteousness read-
able’ it was said.”
On the recent centenary of its
first daily publication, the
“Guardian” reprinted Scott’s
article with the comment that it
“has become something of a
classical exposition of the ideals
of journalism”—a tribute which,
as the following excerpts
indicate, it well merited:
“In all living things there must
be a certain unity, a principle of
vitality and growth. It is so
with a newspaper, and the more
complete and clear this unity
the more vigorous and fruitful
the growth.
“A newspaper has two sides
to it. It is a business, like any
other, and has to pay in the
material sense in order to live.
But it is much more than a
business; it is an institution; it
reflects and it influences the life
of a whole community; it may
affect even wider destinies.
“It is, in its way, an instrument
of government. It plays on the
minds and consciences of men.
It may educate, stimulate, assist,
or it may do the opposite.
“It has, therefore, a moral as
well as a material existence, and
its character and influence are in
the main determined by the
balance of these two forces. It
may make profit or power its
first object, or it may conceive
itself as fulfilling a higher and
more exacting function.
“Character is a subtle affair,
and has many shades and sides
to it. It is not a thing to be
much talked about, but rather to
be felt. It is the slow deposit
of past actions and ideals. It is
for each man his most precious
possession, and so it is for that
latest growth of time the news-
paper. Fundamentally it implies
honesty, cleanness, courage,
fairness, a sense of duty to the
reader and the community.
“A newspaper is of necessity
something of a monopoly, and
its first duty is to shun the
temptations of monopoly. Its
primary office is the gathering
of news. At the peril of its soul
it must see that the supply is not
tainted. Neither in what it gives,
nor in what it does not give, nor
in the mode of presentation must
the unclouded face of truth suffer
wrong. Comment is free, but
facts are sacred. ‘Propaganda,’
so called, by this means is
hateful. The voice of opponents
no less than that of friends has
a right to be heard.
“Comment also is justly subject
to a self-imposed restraint. It is
well to be frank ; it is even better
to be fair. This is an ideal.
Achievement in such matters is
hardly given to man. We can
but try, ask pardon for short-
comings, and there leave the
matter.
“One of the virtues, perhaps
almost the chief virtue, of a
newspaper is its independence.
Whatever its position or
character, at least it should have
a soul of its own. But the
tendency of newspapers, as of
other businesses, in these days
is towards amalgamation. In
proportion as the function of a
newspaper has developed and its
organisation expanded, so have
its costs increased. The smaller
newspapers have had a hard
struggle; many of them have
disappeared. In their place we
have great organisations control-
ling a whole series of publica-
tions of various kinds and even
of differing or opposing politics.
“The process may be inevit-
able but clearly there are draw-
—New York ",Herald Tribune”
EYES FRONT!
backs. As organisation grows
personality may tend to dis-
appear. It is much to control
one newspaper well; it is perhaps
beyond the reach of any man, or
any body of men, to control half-
a-dozen with equal success. It
is possible to exaggerate the
danger, for the public is not
undiscerning. It recognises the
authentic voices of conscience
and conviction when it finds
them, and it has a shrewd
intuition of what to accept and
what to discount.
“This is a matter which in the
end must settle itself, and those
who cherish the older ideal of
a newspaper need not be dis-
mayed. They have only to make
their papers good enough in
order to win, as well as to merit,
success, and the resources of a
newspaper are not wholly
measured in pounds, shillings and
pence.
“A newspaper, to be of value,
should be a unity, and every part
of it should equally understand
and respond to the purposes and
ideals which animate it. Between
its two sides there should be a
happy marriage, and editor and
business-manager should march
hand in hand, the first, be it well
understood, just an inch or two
in advance.
“Of the staff much the same
thing may be said. They should
be a friendly company. They
need not, of course, agree on
every point, but they should
share in the general purpose and
inheritance. A paper is built-up
upon their common and
successive labors, and their work
should never be task-work, never
merely dictated. They should be
like a racing-boat’s crew, pulling
well together, each man doing his
best because he likes it, and with
a common and glorious goal.
“That is the path of self-
respect and pleasure; it is also
the path of success. And what a
work it is! How multiform,
how responsive to every need
and every incident of life! What
illimitable possibilities of
achievement and of excellence!
People talk of ‘journalese’ as
though a journalist were of
necessity a pretentious and
sloppy writer ; he may be, on the
contrary, and very often is, one
of the best in the world. At
least he should not be content
to be much less.
“And then the developments.
Every year, almost every day,
may see growth and fresh
accomplishment, and with a
paper that is really alive, it not
only may, but does. Let anyone
take a file of this paper, or for
that matter any one of half-a-
dozen other papers, and compare
its whole make-up and leading
features today with what they
were five years ago, 10 years
ago, 20 years ago, and he will
realise how large has been the
growth, how considerable the
achievement.
“And this is what makes the
work of a newspaper worthy and
interesting. It has so many sides,
it touches life at so many points,
at every one there is such possi-
bility of improvement and excel-
lence. To the man, whatever
his place on the paper, whether
on the editorial or business, or
even what may be regarded as
the mechanical, side —this also
vitally important in its place—
nothing should satisfy short of
the best, and the best must
always seem a little ahead of the
actual.
“It is here that ability counts
and that character counts, and it
is on these that a newspaper, like
every great undertaking, if it is to
be worthy of its power and duty,
must rely.”
Japan
Louisville (U.S.A.) “Courier
Journal” comment on the vexed
problem of Japanese trade:
“Lacking surplus or even a
sufficiency of natural resources,
Japan has nothing to sell but
the, labor and ingenuity of her
people. This means that, to keep
alive, Japan must import raw
materials, manufacture them,
and export for money to buy the
necessities of life.
“Asia is Japan’s natural
market. When Japan attempts
to export in quantity to the
United States or to the British
Commonwealth, industries of
these two Powers quickly feel
the effects of it. U.S. Senate
Republican leader William
Krfowland, of California, has
just reiterated his opinion that
it is ‘bad public policy’ to pro-
pose that the United States allow
expanded trade between Japan
and Red China.
“The United States is in a
position to allow or forbid such
trade because of restrictions
written into the mutual-aid pro-
grammes. This is in accord with
Senator Knowland’s fixed belief
that this country [the U.S.]
ought to cut off aid to those
nations that don’t do as we say.
“But what of the alternative—
United States aid or a subsidy
to Japan to fill the economic
gap? It is inconceivable that
the United States Treasury
should undertake to support
Japan on a permanent basis. Yet
if it were once started on a per-
manent basis what could invoke
‘economic and political collapse’
morevsurely than its termination?
“Senator Walter George, who
knows the demands of the United
States textile-industry as well as
something of the realities of in-
ternational existence, favors ex-
panded trade between Japan and
Red China. Henry Cabot Lodge,
United States Ambassador to the
United Nations, recognises
Japan’s export necessities.
“One does not have to approve
the Red Chinese Government to
realise the very blunt choice:
Japan must trade with China or
the United States must subsidise
Japan for as long as we can see
ahead.”
Communism in
Indonesia
Commenting on the remark-
ably rapid growth of the Com-
munist party in Indonesia, a
member of “U.S. News and
World Report’s” board of editors
recalls that “less than two years
ago the Communists [there]
were an unimportant group,
struggling for survival”:
“They were still in disgrace as
a result of their 1948 attempt to
seize power,while the Indonesians
were fighting the Dutch. They
were little more than a Parlia-
mentary nuisance to the anti-
communist Government ruling
the country at that time.
“Today the Communists not
only are respectable in the eyes
of the Government, they actually
hold the power of life and death
over that Government. The
hodge-podge of political parties
that makes up the present coali-
tion lacks a majority in Parlia-
ment. It has to have the votes of
the 17 Communist members and
six fellow-travellers in order to
survive.
“The non-Communist politi-
cians heading the Government,
including President Soekamo,
seem determined to stay in
power at any cost. They are will-
ing to pay the Communists a
high price for their support. In
exchange, the Communists now
get something that they have
nowhere else in non-Communist
Asia—freedom to work openly
and unmolested.
“As a result Communist-party
membership is rising rapidly.
The leaders claim 500,000 mem-
bers now, compared with 12,000
before they made their deal with
the Government. Impartial ex-
perts say actual party member-
ship is closer to 150,000 —but
even that is more than a tenfold
increase since the present Gov-
ernment took office.
“Indonesia’s biggest trade-
union federation is largely under
Ways to prevent
motion sickness
Do you get seasick? . . . car-
sick? ... airsick? Any sensation
of motion is the source of sick-
ness to many people. Now,
through studies conducted
among airborne troops and
in the laboratory, science
has discovered why! August
Reader’s Digest tells how
simple preventive steps and
new drugs promise relief to
the traveller’s worst misery.
You’ll find 31 absorbing art-
icles in August Reader’s Digest,
including “Don’t be afraid of
sentiment,” “Facts about For-
mosa,” plus a 25-page con-
densation of “The Lonely
Sky,” epic drama of super-
sonic flight. On sale now
1/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
_ ®I EARS OF SERVICE!
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
'-vojr"
••
V-
r m
sm
W\
-
m
mm
M
fl
"Wbk Spirit ofHappy ftiotorinq
The fittest fuel
with the
Highest Octane
ever sold
in Australia
Get the thrilling feel of it 1 . With your first tankful
of Atlantic; Extra gasoline you'll know the swift surge
of exhilarating power, a livelier, responsive engine,
and just loads of that hard-pulling power that
breezes you over the hills in topi
And from Atlantic Extra gasoline you'll also get
smooth, knock-free performance, rocket-fast
acceleration, more miles-per-gallon, and greater
overall engine efficiency to keep your upkeep down.
Swing over now to the fuel that gives you miles of
extra power, performance and protection.
AND TBATS
ATLANTIC
Get it Today from Your
(mm)
Retailer
AE-1M.55
Communist domination. The
Reds, if they choose, can close
down the docks, the rubber-
plantations and the few factories
operating.
“A war-veterans’ organisation
controlled by Communists has
boosted its membership from
50,000 to 200,000 in less than
two years.
“A multitude of Communist-
front organisations has sprung
up to win-over students, house-
wives, all sorts of groups that
know little about politics.
“Now the Reds are turning
their attention to rural Indo-
nesia, and their opponents con-
cede that they have developed a
political machine second to none.
“In addition to discipline and
a smooth-Working organisation,
the Reds have plenty of money
to finance their work. They
are the only party with cash
enough to maintain salaried
organisers right down to the
village level.
“Much of the money is sup-
plied by wealthy Chinese busi-
nessmen in Indonesia, according
to reliable informants. The
country has a Chinese popula-
tion of 2.5 million and an esti-
mated one-third of them are
loyal to Communist China.
“Indonesia’s Government
leaders say they are not worried
by the Communist gains. Presi-
dent Soekarno and Premier Ali
Sastroamidjojo insist they can
crush the Reds any time they
choose.
“‘After all,’ said one official,
‘we crushed them in 1948. We
can do it again if it becomes
necessary.’
“But up to now President Soe-
kamo has shown no inclination
to curb the Communists, and
they are making the most of
their opportunity. Most experts
do not expect violence tp explode
out of the Communist build-up,
but the way things are going the
day may come when Indonesia
will fall to the Reds without a
fight.”
Atomic Agreement
The agreement among United
States, Canada, Britain and
Belgium for co-operation in
atomic research was greeted
with only mild enthusiasm by
the British press, a fairly repre-
sentative opinion being that of
“Manchester Guardian,” which
described the agreement as
“disappointing,” but “better
than nothing”:
“The disappointment is on
the critical military questions.
The shock to American thinking
caused by the British decision
to build our own hydrogen-
bombs has not lifted Washing-
ton out of its restrictionist ideas.
There will continue to be no
co-ordination of fundamental
research - programmes, no ex-
change of information on the
design and manufacture of
atomic weapons, and apparently
no joint planning of strategic
air-operations.
“On the central part of its
military defences each country
will go its own way alone.
Britain will continue to spend
money and employ scarce
scientific manpower on projects
which the Americans may have
carried through, and the new
knowledge gained in our labora-
tories will not normally be put
at the disposal of the United
States, at least if it has military
applications. Perhaps more
serious, there will not be the
full cross-fertilisation of ideas
which is likely to produce the
most fruitful results in
research.”
* * ft
Other typical press comment:
Edinburgh “ Scotsman ” .'
“There is an unsatisfactory
incompleteness about the agree-
ments. The provisions for co-
operation in the civil use of
atomic energy seem to be satis-
factory enough, but there is a
hesitancy on the military side
which is disappointing. The
Atomic Energy Act which
President Eisenhower signed last
August allowed the United
States for the first time to
exchange information about the
use of atomic weapons with
Allied Governments, but only
under certain security safe-
guards. In other words, the
United States does not
completely trust its allies.”
The same : “There is to be no
disclosure of information relat-
ing directly to the design or
fabrication of atomic weapons.
The development of defence
plans, training in the use of, and
in defence against, nuclear
weapons, and the effects of all
types of weapons are subjects on
which information will be
exchangeable, and the two
countries will be able to discuss
the capabilities of other Powers
in the employment of the new
weapons.
“But evidently it is only when
atomic weapons provide a key
to the development of civil uses
of atomic energy that informa-
tion about them' will be freely
shared. Thus the agreements
do widen the area of co-
operation though at the same
time they set limits to it.”
4* *J»
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“It will now be possible tor a
free exchange across the Atlantic
of all the fruits of Anglo-
American research into the
peaceful uses of atomic energy.
In one sense the Americans will
come off best out of this
arrangement. Whereas they
have concentrated on atomic
energy for military purposes,
which remains highly restricted,
Britain has concentrated on
civilian research, which is now
to be made freely available. We
have outstripped the United
States in harnessing the atom to
industry, if only because the
Americans, with their plentiful
supply of cheap fuel, have not,
until very recently, felt the same
urge to discover new sources of
energy.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Agree-
ments of this kind can be made
or marred by the manner in
which they are interpreted, and
in the past the American
authorities have shown them-
selves adroit in stretching the
letter of the law to its most
liberal limits. The new agree-
ments should therefore not be
prejudged ; if this same liberal
spirit is applied to them, the
two countries may gain consider-
ably from closer co-operation.
The British, on their side, oper-
ate under no such legal restric-
tions as the Americans and are
therefore free to meet whatever
the United States may offer at
every stage.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Those who criticise the new
agreement in atomic co-
operation between the United
States and Great Britain should
remember that diplomacy, like
politics, is the art of the possible.
And at the moment there can
be no question of any exchange
of secrets about the actual
manufacture of atomic weapons.
“Apart from the remaining
legal prohibitions in exchanging
information imposed by the
amended McMahon Act, it is
doubtful whether the American
public would countenance any
large-scale breach in the barriers
of secrecy. On the one hand the
American man -in - the - street
often seems, more concerned
about the destructive power of
the atom-bomb than his British
counterpart; on the other hand
no influential American has ever
been allowed to forget the defec-
tion of Messrs. Fuchs and
Pontecorvo —the public appear-
ances in Russia of Dr. Ponte-
corvo coincided quite neatly
with Anglo - American atomic
discussions.”
Time to Think
writing on “The Next Twenty
Years” in the “Annual Review
of British Industry,” \ published
by London “Financial Times,”
Sir Francis Simon, C.8.E.,
F.R.S., forecasts that there is
“very good chance of quick de-
velopments and quite surprising
progress” in the biological field ;
that “we will progress quickly
along the way” towards stronger
structural materials; that “we
can confidently count on very
much increased air-speeds” ; that
“atomic energy will certainly be
used at sea, mainly for big
liners” ; that “electronic develop-
ments are going to penetrate into
every field of technology” ; and
that “automatic factories will be
run by electronic methods with a
resulting reduction in cost of
the product and in manpower.”
One of the problems in all this
development, Sir Francis com-
ments, is that “the general public
is utterly unprepared for the
times ahead; if proof of this is
needed one has only to look at
the popular press.
“Nor is anything much being
done to switch higher education
from the arts side, where we have
overproduction, to the science
side, where we are desperately
short of men. Science is still the
stepchild, at least in this country
[Britain].
“The question which will first
cause serious worries to industry
is that of scientific and techno-
logical manpower. Twice the
present output of first-rate men
could easily be taken up.
“The position has been aggra-
vated by the fact that American
firms have taken to using this
country [Britain] as one of their
hunting grounds and the latest
development is that American
firms are flying British graduates
over for interviews in the United
States!
“Apart from industry, the
universities and Government de-
partments are also competing—
while the needs of the schools
must not be forgotten. The posi-
tion is going to deteriorate fast
and the question of getting their
share of manpower and making
the best use of it is vital to every
firm. I want therefore to draw
attention to a few points which
one feels are not sufficiently
realised.
“The first point is most im-
portant for attracting the best
people. It should be a matter of
course (although in fact it is not)
that they receive adequate re-
muneration, but there are limits
beyond which one cannot go in
this respect. However, one way
of attracting the best is hardly
realised yet in industry, namely,
to offer sufficient leisure.
“This question has two
aspects: the first concerns the
scientist himself, who can get
more out of life if he is able to
enjoy proper holidays like the
university man or the civil
servant.
“The second aspect is of more
immediate interest to the firms
themselves. While good ideas
only come to the prepared mind,
they generally come during
leisure periods. This is evident
from the biographies of nearly
all the great scientists, and in fact
it was already quite familiar to
the Greeks. Aristotle once re-
marked that the mathematical
sciences probably originated in
Egypt ‘because there the priestly
class was allowed leisure.’
“Unfortunately very few in-
dustrialists draw the' proper
consequences.”
U.K. Shipbuilding
London “Economist” com-
ment on competition between
British and German shipyards:
“British yards get their steel
markedly cheaper than German
yards, and for many of the
bought-out assemblies and fabri-
cations British engineering ought
to be competitive”:
“Labor-costs make up a
large proportion of what the
yards do in constructing and
assembling a ship, but it remains
to be proved that British wages
are very significantly higher than
German wages plus fringe
benefits ; though it is certainly
fair to say that wages in British
shipyards have been rising faster
than in German and shipbuilders
here can reasonably expect only
that they will go on rising faster.
“Germany certainly has more
unemployed; there are enough
men to work shifts and use yard-
capacity more efficiently. In
Britain, whether or not there is
the will, there simply may not
be enough men. Not many
reliable data exist about com-
parable building-periods, but it
is hard for any visitor to avoid
the impression that wherever
jobs are man-paced German
laborers simply work harder.
“And though there have been
certain increases in output in
British yards recently without a
commensurate increase in the
labor-force, there are few signs
that productivity is increasing
enough to offset this extra
manual effort abroad. When
British yards are next able to
compete for orders on equal
terms, with berths to spare, will
they be able to match foreign
prices?”


Calculated risk
the stakes, the law
of averages, and old lady luck • ..
m
'a-' ■.
me
FIRE HAZARD is one risk you
can’t afford to gamble on!
(it can put a company out of business overnight!)
There’s no telling where fire will strike—but official figures tell us when! Every 36
hours, fire threatens industry, leaving behind it disfigured plant, twisted steel and,
sometimes, broken bodies. Every 36 hours someone, too busy to stop and think,
gets hit hard by a risk that was always there, threatening. Stop a minute and calculate
the risk. What would one bad fire to-night mean to your company to-morrow?
Get the facts now on "round-the-clock" "Automatic" Protection.
“Automatic” protection is complete fire protection—split-second guardian of plant
and property every minute of every day —and while you sleep at night! Another
week’s delay could mean unrecoverable loss to your business—a gamble you can’t
afford to take. Call in “Automatic’s” specialists now. “Automatic’s” fire-protection
engineers in your State will help you check up on the danger spots and familiarise
you with the equipment needed to protect it. A telephone call places you under no
obligation.
“AUTOMATIC” Fire Protection Equipment
includes•“ Automatic” Sprinkler and Fire
Alarm Systems: Completely engineered and
installed by us and examined, tested and
serviced weekly, ensuring 100 per cent,
efficiency.
“Oilfyre” (Atomised Water) Systems:
Specialised equipment for extinguishing fires
in oil and other inflammable liquids. Indoor
and outdoor equipment.
“Atlas” CO 2 Gas Systems: Used extensively to
protect electrical equipment—non-conducting.
For highly inflammable liquids—petrol, oil,
paint, lacquer, alcohol, etc.
“Automatic” Hand Chemical Extinquishers:
All types available Soda Acid, Foam,
Carbon Tetrachloride, COj and Dry Powder.
AUTOMATIC
SPRINKLERS PTY. LTD.
■ « ■ " w w amm a w ■ttasimiS BW ■ ■ * ■ mm m v ■
HEAD OFFICE: Alexandria Works, 618 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. Telephone: MU 2476
Ss®
VICTORIA: Carlton Works, 17? Berkeley Street, Carlton. D. W. Roberts, Director. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Edwardstown Works, M 3 South Road, Edwardstown.
N. R. Dowling, Director. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 18 Irwin Street, Perth. D. I. Murray, Manager. QUEENSLAND: Hendra Works, 456 Nudgee Road, Hendra,
). E. Robinson, Director. NEW ZEALAND: Penrose Works, 17 Beasley Avenue, Penrose. ©. K. Bunce, Manager.
BKANDAUERS
mm
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of History of the
Grand Lodge of N.S.W. and other
Masonic books.—6ll6.
To buy copy of Mrs. Bishop’s
Cookery Book. —6117.
To buy scoring-device for the
card-game of Bezique.—6lls.
Secondhand wireless-set, preferably
a mantel-model, required by an old,
nearly blind Melbourne widow on
the old-age pension.—6ll4.
To buy copy of As It Was in the
Beginning, by Dulcie Deamer. —6112.
Words of verse “Come Back to
the Bush,” by Thos. E. Spencer, and
where and when was it originally
published. Verse begins:
I’m what they call a “solid man,”
I’ve made a decent pile;
So I brought my folks to London
And we’ve settled down in style.
—6113.
To buy books by Josh Billings, Sir
Walter Raleigh and George Herbert.
—6lll-
- Sought
Particulars of the International
Wheat Agreement ?
An International Wheat Agreement
was signed in Washington (U.S.A.)
on Mar. 6, 1948, by 33 importing
nations and the three wheat-exporting
nations of Canada, U.S.A. and Aus-
tralia. This agreement was allowed
to lapse, but in March-April, 1949,
another agreement was signed in
Washington by 41 importing nations
and the same three exporting nations,
plus France and Uruguay. The 1949
agreement was very similar to that
of 1948, the aim being to “assure
supplies of wheat to importing
countries and markets for wheat to
exporting countries at equitable and
stable prices.” The agreement
covered the four years from Aug. 1,
1949, to July 31, 1953. The export
and import quotas originally specified
(456.3 million bushels) were varied
because of the withdrawal of various
countries (Uruguay and, of the
importers, China in particular) and
the admission of new members
(Germany, Japan, etc.). The adjusted
quota for 1951-52 was 572.8 million
bushels (Australia’s quota, 72 million
bushels). In April, 1953, a further
agreement covering the three years
from Aug. 1, 1953, to July 31, 1956,
was signed in Washington by all
membersi of the 1949 agreement except
Britain, Australia’s export quota
being fixed at 48 million bushels.
The f.o.b. price at which Australia
was to sell wheat under the I.W.A.
from Dec. 1, 1951, was increased to
16s. 6d. per bushel (Australian cur- •
rency) by adding sd. per bushel
carrying-charge. (After devaluation
on Sept. 19, 1949, the maximum
price permitted by the agreement
had risen from 11s. 2d. to 16s. Id.
per bushel.) The prevailing export-
price for sales of wheat under the
agreement is around 14s. per bushel.
**' * *
My cocker-spaniel has ear-trouble,
presumably canker. Treatment ?
Spaniels are subject to canker of
the ear, and also to a condition known
as haematoma or blood-blister of the
earflap. The latter often follows the
former owing to the continual irrita-
tion caused by canker. For canker,
first syringe-out the ear with hydro-
gen-peroxide, 10 p.c., in warm water,
or a teaspoon of lysol to a pint of
warm water. After the syringing the
ear should be filled with dry boracic-
acid powder, with a little iodoform
added. After a few days vary this
by using sulphur ointment for a day
or two. Dress daily for at least a
week, and thereafter every third day
till a cure is established.
* * * *
Any information about O. W.
Brierley, marine painter ?
He was Sir Oswald Walters
Brierley, R.W.S. and F.R.G.S. He
was trained in naval architecture at
Plymouth, qnd was formally adopted
by Queen Victoria to accompany the
Princes on their sea-voyages. He
accompanied Admiral Sir Henry
Keppel to the Crimea, and made
paintings of the British and French
Fleets in the Mediterranean. He was
a successful exhibitor at all the best
shows in Europe. He became friendly
with Benjamin Boyd, and came to
Australia with him in his private
yacht. While Brierley was in Sydney
Boyd and his yacht disappeared, and
Brierley was given a passage home
in the Rattlesnake. He came to Aus-
tralia again in 1868 with the Duke of
Edinburgh in the Galatea. At a house
called The Rangers in Mosman
(Sydney) he painted a picture on the
wall of the dining-room, “The
Rattlesnake in a Storm.”
Brief Answers
A.R.G.: (1) It is considered that
the New South Wales Milk Board
could not prevent such Victorian
milk being marketed in Sydney. (2)
It is considered that section 92 of
the Constitution would be infringed
by any such use of power by the
Milk Board. (3) No M.F.F.:
The poem you refer to is “The Man
from Ironbark,” by A. B. (“Banjo”)
Paterson. A copy has been posted.
A.B.: The ground you mention
is only available in cases where the
owner requires the premises for
occupation by himself, or for
occupation by a beneficiary if the
owner is a trustee, or for occupation
by a purchaser in certain circum-
stances, or if the building has to
to demolished or reconstructed....
V.W.: The Man that Corrupted
Hadleyburg is a story by Mark
Twain, published in 1899. It displays
the destructive effects of greed within
the circle of a small town A.S. :•
The heroine of Jane Austen’s
Northanger Abbey is Catherine
Morland WJ.McL.: Abraham
Newland (1730-1807) was chief
cashier of the Bank of England from
1782. Bank-notes were long known
as “Abraham Newlands” from
bearing his signature L.L.R.: See
E. Finn’s Chronicles of Early Mel-
bourne, p. 859; W. Westgarth’s
Personal Records of Early Melbourne
and Victoria, p. 164; P. Mennell’s
The Dictionary of Australasian Bio-
graphy; and the Melbourne Wrgus”
for August 5, 1899 G.J.: Write
New England New State Movement,
Box 18, Post Office, Armidale
(N.5.W.)... .T.M.: Write Society of
Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-
street, Sydney P.S. : Kyogle is a
N.S.W. aboriginal word meaning
“wild turkey” A.J.C.: The verse
“With Death’s Prophetic Ear” was
written by John Sandes. It will be
found in his Ballads of Battle,
published in 1900 L. 8.: Steve
Brown's Bunyip and Other Stories
was written by John Arthur Barry,
an old-time Bulletin contributor,
who died in 1911 R.J.8.: The
Textile Institute, 10 Blackfriars-
street, Manchester, is the responsible
authority under Royal Charter for
the supervision of professional status
in the textile-industry in Great
Britain H.L.: The Egyptian flag
is green with white crescent (convex
side to the flagstaff) and three five-
pointed white stars (arranged in an
equilateral triangle) between the
horns H.V.P.: The Third Bat-
talion, Royal Australian Regiment,
returned to Australia on November
20, 1954. It marched in Brisbane on
that day, in Sydney on November 22,
and in Melbourne on November 23
It was led by its commanding officer!
Lieut.-Colonel S. H. Buckler....
A.A.P.: Music for a Hundred Years
by Eva Keane, was published by
Oswald Ziegler Publications, Sydney,
and reviewed on the Red Page of
The Bulletin of April 13, 1955....
R.L.: “Numbers” is a New Zealand
quarterly review obtainable from
Box 5121, Lambton Quay, Welling-
ton (N.Z.); subscription, 10s. for
five issues E.A.F.: According to
Sydney J. Endacott’s Australian
Aboriginal Words and Place Names
and Their Meanings Wyuna means
“clear water” A.L.K.: The Two
Suns Meet, by John Blight, and
Ploughman and Poet, by David Row-
botham; both published by Edwards
and Shaw, Sydney, fpr the Lyre-Bird
Writers; 6s. each H.S.C.: Asso-
ciated British Picture Corporation,
Ltd., Elstree Studios, Boreham Wood,
Herts, England; British Lion Film
Corporation, Ltd., 146 Piccadilly,
London, W.l; Ealing Studios, Ltd.,
Ealing Green, London, W. 5
H.F.: To “jump a claim” is generally
accepted as American slang. It was
current in America at least three years
before being used in this country in
1854....V.W.: C. J. Brennan was
born on November 1, 1870, and died
on October 7, 1932... .A.E.M.: See
A. H. Chisholm’s Strange New
World and Mrs. C. D. Cotton’s
Ludwig Leichhardt S.S.: A fair
price to pay for a secondhand copy
in good condition of Ernest Favenc’s
The History of Australian Explora-
tion from 1788 to 1888 would be £3.
L.H.: There is a portrait of the
artist John Mather, by E. Phillips
Fox, in the Historical Collection,
Public Library, Melbourne J.S.H.:
William Howitt (1847-1929) was bom
at Manchester and arrived in Mel:
bourne in 1887 to carry out the carv-
ings for St. Paul’s Cathedral in that
city. He afterwards settled in Perth,
where he died A.H.L.: The verse
“Ballad of a Squatter’s Daughter”
was written by Lydia M. D. O’Neil,
and first appeared in The Bulletin
■ of December 7, 1938, illustrated by
Percy Leason H.F.G.: Brewarrina
is a .N.S.W. aboriginal place-name
meaning “acacia-clumps” C.H.R.:
The Federal Republic of Germany
(Western Germany) is a democratic
and social federal State. It is in
diplomatic relations with most
countries outside the Soviet b10c..,.
J.D.C.: Write Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany!. ' MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C. 8.: There was no need to take
up all that space to tell us that a
“babbling brook” was a c00k....
E.M.: Your spring poem reads like
an omen of a trying few months
ahead 5,.L.: So that’s what you
do with spare time “down ,on the
farm” So the dawn still
“flashes like a blazing sabre over the
rolling purple hills” and “night
draws a spangled veil over the harsh-
ness of the day” out your way—
A.McM.: It doesn’t say very much.
... C.L.N.:
If only I could find some far-flung isle,
Untouched, unknown by the world.
If only 8.L.A.: We have a strong
aversion to “tall, dark, handsome
looking” strangers M.R.P.: Nr
space for stories that make fun oi
lunatics P.W.: “March to Nation-
hood” verse this week’s most
ambitious effort, also this week’s
biggest flop H.W.: We shy away
from miracles N.N.: Somehow
“The Doss House Philanthropist”
didn’t ring true: —
’E was long ’n’ thin —all bone ’n’ skin,
’N’ ’is ’ands were blue with cold;
’N’ ’e shared ’is wealth with any man,
’Cos ’is pockets were full of gold.
L.O’D.: “Stick ’em up, youse
guys,” he rasped. “I’ll blow youse
full of holes even if dey gives me de
hot seat.” Send him back to Brook-
lyn A.N.A.: You’ve been doing
some steady digging in the cemetery
of buried plots... .M.T.: The inter-
national situation is complicated
enough without your spy-story... •
A.R.: Advise you to turn that
ancient buckjumper out to graze..-
P.S.: The tears of “Audrey Anne
are flooding the waste-paper basket.
M.J.F.: Your resurrection ot
that corpse fills us with dark fore-
bodings... .L.H.V.: That bantam-
rooster has crowed in our columns
before V.C.: “He -staggered from
his bed and cried, ‘Away, away with
your vain dreams.’ ” And that goes
for you, too.


See Btizacott’s “Farmers’ Boy” display at the
al Brisbane Exhibition.
-
m
V
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 1J h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 3
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
■! 'guillotined, l
Rotary Hoe
I*l
Sawbench
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria : GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd.. 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Sth. Ans.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176/ISO Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2031.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmower
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR
tyres, Spray-painting, etc.
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC
GENERATOR for hole-boring,
for inflating
FURROWER
HARROWS,
lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PARAKEELYA
lyfAY I remind “Man on the
Land” readers of some
points raised in the parakeelya
discussion?
“Quo Vadis,” in an item en-
titled “Fats Without Water” (B.
9/3/’55), wrote that the stuff
would keep cattle alive and well
for long periods without drink-
ing-water. D. D. Mackinnon,
of Pinnacles Station, Leonora
(W.A.), later expressed the opin-
ion that “the best paper in the
world” should not print such
“misleading piffle.” The plant,
which was something like pig-
face, held fair quantities of
water, “but, like all its family, its
life is limited, and the implica-
tion that drinking-water is en-
tirely redundant is rubbish.”
“Norque” (B. 18/5/’55) came
in with some description of para-
keelya in north-west S.A., and
some qualifications:
But parakeelya’s life isn’t quite so
transitory as D. D. Mackinnon
suggests. On Andamooka (west side
of Lake Torrens) surface-water
dried-up in a large paddock, so the
wethers were moved from there to
Adelaide markets. Not less than 12
months later we mustered another
dozen or so from the same paddock,
which was still “dry.” One killed
for rations was as good mutton as
could be reared anywhere.
“Breck” (B. 1/6/’55) then
made the sensible suggestion that
it would be a good idea if some
grazier in the parakeelya-coun-
try, in collaboration with a State
Agricultural Department, made
a thorough study of the plant.
With the idea that more re-
mained to be said on the subject,
in the light of existing know-
ledge, I wrote to the animal-
industry branch of the N.T. Ad-
ministration at Alice Springs.
In his reply, Mr. A. L. Rose,
director of the animal-industry
branch, wrote: “I am enclosing
our botanist’s description of this
plant and I add hereunder my
own opinions about its nutritive
value. These views have devel-
oped from discussions with local
pastoralists.” The rest of the
letter—particularly in view of
Mr. Mackinnon’s comments —is
worth quoting in full:
“Parakeelya seems to grow
almost exclusively in red sandhill
country, usually among spinifex,'
and is often associated with pie-
melons. Chemical analyses of
plant-samples have shown that
it contains about 95 per cent,
water, but this water-content
would probably vary according
to the season. Cattle will, un-
doubtedly, live for years in para-
keelya-country without requir-
ing water in tide free state.
“Furthermore, they will fatten
to an outwardly prime condition
in such country, but almost cer-
tainly require roughage such as
they may get from dry grass and
some of the palatable spinifex.
However, the fat which they put
on is not good solid fat, and it
has been found that the animals
are very easily exhausted and
cannot be travelled very far, par-
ticularly during the heat of the
day.
“The pie-melons mentioned
also have a high water-content,
but probably more protein and
carbohydrates than parakeelya
because of their large seeds,
leaves and fibrous stems.
“There are well-authenticated
reports of stock both living and
travelling on parakeelya without
drinking from station or stock-
route waters; e.g., a mob of
Elsey cattle travelled from south
of the Finke to Dalhousie station
’in South Australia on parakeelya
without drinking at station or
stock-route waters.
“There are also reports from
Macumba station, in South Aus-
tralia, of 10-year-old cleanskin
bulls being mustered from the
parakeelya- and melon-country
in the Simpson Desert. Macumba
has also mustered branded
cattle from Loves Creek, 50
miles east of Alice Springs,
which had apparently travelled
through the Simpson Desert'into
country adjacent to Macumba.
“There are a few stations
south of Alice Springs which
actually have parakeelya-coun-
try within their boundaries, and
which regularly muster cattle in
fat condition from this country.”
The botanist, G. Chippendale,
adds to descriptions already
given on this pqge the informa-
tion that there are about 150
species of the parakeelya-group
in America and Australia, about
15 or 20 species occurring freely
in parts of Queensland and the
Northern Territory ; and that the
plant is an annual, but some-
times a perennial, succulent, be-
longing to the same family as
the cultivated portulaca.
H. F.
More Calves
“Jubilee”: At an annual
farmer-scientist get-together at
Massey College (N.Z.), D.
McFarlane, chief vet. for the
Gisborne Club, described what
had been going on in his terri-
tory concerning the getting of
more calves. Gisborne is one
of the best beef-breeding dis-
tricts in New Zealand.
Some Australian readers may
not be familiar with the N.Z.
“club system,” under which
farmers jointly employ veterin-
arians ; the scheme itself is a
bit complicated to describe
briefly, but it has done a lot to
maintain the efficiency of N.Z.
animal-husbandry.
All herds put in McFarlane’s
care must first be inoculated
against contagious - abortion.
Taking a herd of 100 cows which,
on district averages, would yield
up to 80 calves, the farmer mates
all his cull and spare cows, as
well as the 100 selected best,
with proved bulls.
At the appropriate time, offi-
cers of the club examine every
cow for pregnancy. Empty cows
arb branded with a distinctive
mark, and pregnant cows not
required for wintering are given
an “in-calf” brand and sold with
the empties. These command a
205.-a-head premium at local
sales. Late-calving heifers and
cows are detected by a second
examination and sold.
The farmer is guaranteed a
calving of 95 per cent, in the
herd he intends to winter —an
increase of 15 per cent, on the
district average. The c.-a. treat-
ment accounts for 8 per cent, of
this, and is also a check on the
bull. The system makes for the
establishment of a herd calving
uniformly, and the long-term re-
sult is an increase in fertility,
owing to the inheritance of this
factor.
Up to 15,000 heifers a year are
now being treated under the
“I don't like the polka-dot motif. It makes you look
rather ridiculous."
scheme in the Gisborne district,
and the pregnancy-diagnosis
figures have risen in three years
from 700 to 10,000. The fertility-
service costs from 7s. 6d. to 10s.
a year for five years. McFarlane
thinks the scheme should be
made compulsory.
Kill Weevils in Grain
“Waldorf”: Best way of
making sure that stock, and not
weevils, eat your stored grain is
to fumigate the silo and other
storages. Use carbon-bisulphide
(smells like rotten eggs) or
chloropicrin (makes you weep)
—lolb. bf either to 1000 cu,
ft. of storage. Seal the silo or
barn for 48 hours.
Pour the fumigant over the
grain or place it in a shallow con-
tainer. Remember, carbon-
bisulphide is highly inflam-
mable.
Benzene hexachloride (8.H.C.)
dust —fib. per 100 sq. ft. —is
effective when mixed into the
surface-layer of grain in a silo
or other bulk-storage. D.D.T.
Can also be used. Apply accord-
ing to instructions on the label.
Bagged grain can be fumi-
gated by putting a tarpaulin over
the heap. Do the job on a con-
crete floor, if possible, and be
sure the gases cannot escape.
If weevils attack your seed-
wheat, the chances are that it
has not been pickled properly.
Before next harvest, clean
grain from all machinery and
motor-trucks. Get all grain from
silo and spray with weevil-oil or
dust thoroughly with B.H.C.
(0.5 per cent: —loz. to each 3
sq. yds. of surface).
Pampas-grass
“Sundowner”: A North Island
(N.Z.) survey has shown that
pampas-grass has distinct possi-
bilities under certain conditions
on stabilised coastal sand. On
unstabilised sand the tests
revealed that the growing of this
grass is warranted only if there
is sufficient shelter or local
stability to ensure early estab-
lishment and vigorous, even
growth.
The New Zealand studies
indicated that the grass has a
place on stabilised dairying land
to leeward of the foredune and
the unstable area, where it can
be relied on as a producer of
summer and winter forage.
Well-managed, this grass can
be highly productive, and
provide a valuable reserve of
feed for cows in all seasons.
To help the pampas as a
binding agency, lupins were
planted and controlled by
cutting for silage. As pampas
and lupins are complementary
feeds, the one being non-laxative
and the other laxative, the
combination was a most
satisfactory one.
In connection with the use of
lupins a warning is sounded by
W. A. Jaques, agricultural
expert. He says the farmer
who plants pampas must be
prepared to control lupins,
either by cutting or by spraying
with hormones. The lupins
provide wind - protection and
prevent the removal of sand
while the pampas is becoming
established, but they grow so
quickly and spread so rapidly
that control is essential if the
pampas is to survive.
Without such control the
lupins may form a mass of
growth which is almost im-
possible to stock, and, in conse-
quence, there is poor utilisation
of the pampas-grass.
Hay for Pigs
“Sundowner”: In addition to
green pasture, cured hay can be
fed to pigs with beneficial
results. Lucerne-hay is best, but
meadow-hay containing a good
deal of clover is also appreciated.
An ideal way to feed hay to
pigs is by using it liberally as
bedding in their sleeping-
quarters. They will then eat the
best and leave the stalky parts
for bedding. Chaffed, the hay
can be fed dry, separately or
mixed with crushed grain or
pollard, or wet with skim-milk.
A minimum quantity of hay
each day would be |lb., but
up to lib. can be fed to porkers
or baconers, with up to 21b. for
brood-sows.
Poisoning Dingoes
“W.C.Q.”: Perhaps the best
lure is a dead beast. Put the
strychnine into the carcass while
still warm, paying ‘ particular
attention to the back-passage;
also, make a slit in the belly
and get the dope into the entrails.
Then make a small fire against
the carcass, sufficient to fill the
air with odor of roasting flesh,
but built of small wood so as
not to keep burning through the
night. Burn dry grass over the
areas where you inserted the
poison to take away the man-
scent.
If the job is done properly,
the carcass will remain a death-
trap for dingoes for a long time.
The poison goes to the bones and
remains potent indefinitely.
A fish-tin with strychnine
added to the oil in the bottom is
a strong attraction. In fact, any
fat or dried blood in a tin is
attractive, but, all too frequently,
the native cats or bandicoots find
it before the dingoes.
The right place for such baits
is near small soaks or rock-holes
in hilly country.
Where the dogs are known to
follow certain tracks, ride along
at dusk and drop poisoned liver
in little bits wrapped in greasy
paper. Dingoes will often fol-
low the scent of a horse. A trick
that has worked is dragging a
piece of meat that has been
(i Continued on page 33)
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Chfeap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


LIVESTOCK ACCOUNT
A
Number
Value
£
GROSS SALES
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
500
50
70
1,400
400
500
RILLED FOR
RATIONS
Sheep
Cattle
Pigs
30
48
*COST
STOCK tnvmnr
‘\rM* A. r
ON HAND 30/6/’55
*Strike out ■whicheve'r is not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
9,400
448
7
46
12,220
2,688
80
23
LOSSES BY DEATH,
ETC.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
70
2
14
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section B
10,637
Total value Section A
£17,359
B
STOCK
ON HANeTT/7/%4
*Strike out whichever is not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle v
Horses
Pigs
5,000
100
5
50
8,000
400
50
45
PURCHASES—
AT COST
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
2,000
300
2
4,400
2,500
30
NATURAL INCREASE
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
3,000
100
80
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section A
10,637
Total value Section B -
— Deduct
£15,425
Note—The profit on Livestock Account is £1,934,
i.e., Section A £17,359, less Section B £15,425
PRIMARY PRODUCERS ' INCOME-TAX GUIDE
[Specially prepared by a Bulletin expert ]
A primary producer is a person who carries on the business of a grazier, wheat-farmer, poultry-farmer,
apiarist, orchardist, sugar-planter, market-gardener, oyster-grower, etc., but not that of a fisherman. The classi-
fication of a person as a primary producer is not disturbed if he derives only part of his income or incurs a
loss by carrying on a business of primary production, e.g. a “Pitt-street grazier.” Partners and beneficiaries,
where the partnership or trust is engaged in a business of primary production, are also classified as primary
producers.
Income-tax returns of primary producers for the year ended June 30, 1955, should be completed on Form “B”
atwi lodged by August 31, 1955, irrespective of the amount of profit or loss. The Commissioner of Taxation
will grant an extension of time beyond that date if a reasonable explanation is given to him in writing.
Income tax and social-services contribution are levied on taxable income, which is gross income less allow-
able deductions.
Unless a primary producer lodges with his income-tax return an election in writing that he does not wish
the averaging provisions to be applied in his assessment, or unless his taxable and average income BOTH exceed
£4,000, the averaging provisions will apply. Under these provisions the taxable income of the current year is
assessed at the rate applicable to the average income, which is the average of the five years, consisting of the
year of income and the four preceding years.
The making of an election to eliminate the averaging provisions may prove an advantage where current
income is less than average income and a primary producer expects to retire from business within several years.
The following provisions relate to income earned in every part of the Commonwealth by a resident of any
State.
GROSS INCOME
0 Gross income consists of payments and allowances
received in money or kind for work done, profits from
any business activity, and income from investments.
Examples are: —
1. Profit on livestock transactions as calculated in Live-
stock Account.
2. Gross proceeds from sales of any produce—for example,
wool, meat, skins, grain, fruit, fodder and eggs.
3. Agistment fees and timber royalties.
4. Bounties, subsidies and drought-relief.
5. Gross earnings from contracts, cartage or other work.
6. Insurance claims received for loss of livestock, crops,
etc.
[Note: The taxpayer may elect, when lodging his
return, to have insurance-recoveries on livestock losses
spread over a period of five (5) years.] ’
7. Market value of live or other trading stocks given
away.
8. Depreciation allowances in previous years to the extent
recovered by sales of permanent assets.
9. Salaries, directors’ fees and other earnings by the
primary producer.
10. Interest, rent and dividends received by him.
0 Gross income does NOT include: —
1. Surplus of proceeds from sales of permanent assets
oVer original costs.
2. Value of fodder purchased or produced for own use
and on hand at year-end.
3. Gifts received, other than for services rendered, includ-
ing legacies from deceased estates.
4. War-service, old-age, widow’s or invalid pensions.
5. Income-tax refunds.
6. Bonuses on insurance policies.
7. Dividends from goldmining shares.
ALLOWABLE DEDUCTIONS
0 Expenses and losses incurred in gaining or producing
gross income, or necessarily incurred in running a business
for that purpose, are allowable deductions. Examples
are: —
l. Operating Expenses
a. Salaries and wages paid to employees, pay-roll tax,
and cost of food for business employees.
b. Rent (excluding that for private residence), rates,
agistment fees, hire of plant and equipment.
c. Repairs to plant and equipment used in primary
production, but not repairs to own residence.
d. Car expenses, including petrol, oil, repairs and regis-
tration.
e. Power, fuel and light, except that used for private
purposes.
f. Seeds, fodder and fertilisers.
g. Livestock expenses, including veterinary fees, shearing, -
crutching and droving, licks, vaccines, medicines and
breeding service-fees.
h. Selling expenses, including cost of bags, woolpacks,
cases, commission, cartage, freight, advertising and
storage.
i. Travelling expenses, excluding those of a private
nature.
j. Insurance on vehicles, plant and equipment, stock and
crops, and workers’ compensation (excluding domestic
servants in private residence) .
k. Cost of communication, except that of a private nature.
1. Interest on borrowed money used in the business.
m. Accountancy. fees, bank charges, replacement of small
tools, subscriptions ,to trade organisations, etc.
n. Depreciation. See separate heading.
2. Special Capital Expenditure
a. Eradication or extermination of animal or vegetable
pests from the land.
b. Destruction and removal of timber, scrub or under-
growth, indigenous to the land.
c. Destruction of weed or plant growth detrimental to
the land. NL-
d. Preparation of land for agriculture and ploughing and
grassing for grazing.
e. Draining swamp or low-lying land to improve the
agricultural or grazing value of the land.
/. Preventing or combating soil-erosion, other than by
erecting fences.
g. Construction of dams, earth tanks, underground tanks,
irrigation-channels or the sinking of bores and wells
to conserve or convey water for use in primary
production.
h. Construction of levee-banks or similar improvements.
i. The cost of purchase and erection of wire and wire-
netting for pest-prevention purposes.
[Note: The cost of special plant and equipment for
the above operations is not an allowable deduction,
but is subject to normal depreciation allowance.]
3. Personal and Family Allowances
a. The following table sets out the maximum deductions,
allowed for dependants who are residents of Australia
and whose separate net income does not exceed the
specified limits. The phrase “separate net income”
includes exempt income ( e.g., “tax-free” dividends),
but it does not include a legacy under a will, house-
keeping allowance or pin-money. Where the depend-
ant is a wife, husband or daughter-housekeeper, the
deduction is reduced by £2 for each £1 by which
the separate net income of the dependant exceeds
£65, and it vanishes if the dependant’s separate net
income exceeds £129. The deduction in respect ot
a child under 16 years, a student child and an invalid
relative is reduced in each case by £2 for each £1 by
which the dependant’s separate net income exceeds
£52. Proportionate deductions are allowed for depend-
ants who are maintained during part of the year only.
The income derived by a woman prior to her marriage
during a year of income is not taken into account
in the calculation of the proportionate deduction
allowable to her husband for that year:—
Maximum
Deduction
(1) Spouse—wife or husband .. .. £l3O
(2) Daughter-housekeeper of widow or
widower, provided she is wholly
engaged in keeping house for the
taxpayer £l3O
(3) One child under 16 years .. .. £7B
(4) Each other child under 16 years .. £52
(5) Student child—between 16 and 21
years, receiving full-time education
at a School, College or University .. £7B
(Note: Deduction reduced by value of
any assistance given by Common-
wealth or State in connection
with education of child.)
(6) Invalid relative child, stepchild,
brother or sister not less than 16
years, and in receipt of invalid pen-
sion or certified by Department of
Health or approved medical practi-
tioner as being permanently incapaci-
tated for work .. .. .. ~ £7B
(Note: Deduction reduced by the
amount of invalid pension.)
b. Father or mother £l3O
(Note: Deduction reduced by the
amount of the parent’s separate
net income, which would include
an age pension.)
c. Housekeeper —if wholly engaged in keeping
house for taxpayer and has care of children
under 16 years or invalid relative .. .. £l3O
d. Medical expenses—paid in respect of the
taxpayer, his wife and children under 21
years, daughter-housekeeper, invalid rela-
tive, mother or father, to doctors, nurses,
hospitals, chemists, opticians, dentists
(limited to £3O per person) and for the pro-
vision of hearing-aids, artificial limbs, etc.
Maximum p£r person .. £l5O
Note: (a) Expenses in respect of
daughter-housekeeper, invalid
relative, mother or father are
not deductible if the deduc-
tion as a dependant is not
also allowable.
(b) Expenses recouped by a
Government, public author-
ity, society or association
should be deducted from the
gross claim.
e. Funeral expenses—maximum .. .. £3O 1
f. Premiums paid on life assurance and per-
sonal accident and sickness policies, pay-
ments to superannuation funds, and to
medical- or hospital-benefit funds, in
respect of the taxpayer, his wife or children
(no age-limit). Maximum deduction .. £2OO
g. Education expenses—amounts paid for or in
connection with the full-time education at
a school, college or university or from a
tutpr in respect of a dependent child under
21 years. This deduction includes school
fees, cost of board and accommodation,
fares to and from school, college or univer-
sity, text-books, stationery and uniforms.
Maximum deduction per child .. .. £75
h. Gifts of £1 and upwards to certain charities.
i. Rates—water and council —paid on private
residence.
Calls paid on shares in mining companies.
[Deduction is limited to one-third of the amount of calls
(which do not include application and allotment money)
paid on shares in companies carrying on, as their principal
business, mining or prospecting operations in Australia for
gold, silver, base metals, rare minerals or oil and in
companies carrying on as their principal business, afforesta-
tion in Australia.]
4. Trading Losses incurred during the previous
seven years.
DEPRECIATION
0 Primary producers may elect to calculate deprecia-
tion on their working assets by the “prime-cost” of
“diminishing-value” method. Under the “prime-cost”
method the same amount of depreciation is allowed each
year until the cost of the asset has been eliminated. The
“diminishing-value” method provides for the annual
allowance to be calculated on the writteft-down value at
the beginning of each year. Written-down value is cost,
less depreciation allowed to date. Depreciation on assets
purchased on time-payment can be calculated on total
cost, including interest-payments, or on cost excluding
interest-payments. In the latter case, the interest-payments
can be claimed as allowable deductions from gross income.
Depreciation is allowed on an “extent-of-use” basis in
respect of assets used for both business and private
purposes.
0 A special 20% annual depreciation allowance (calcu-
lated on cost) is granted to primary producers on structural
improvements, plant, machinery and equipment, excluding
motor-cars. This allowance applies where the asset has
been purchased after June 30, 1951, and installed by June 30,
1956. In the case of structural improvements, it also applies
where the improvements have been commenced before June
30, 1956, and completed by June 30, 1957.
The allowance is granted in respect of residential accommo-
dation erected on the property for employees, subject to a
maximum cost of £2OOO per employee.
0 Depreciation on plant and equipment purchased prior
to June 30, 1951, is allowable at the following rates;—
Motor vehicles and lorries 15%
Buggies, sulkies, drays and wagons 10%
Motor tractors .. •. . - .. 10%
Boring plant 10%
Agricultural implements 10%
Windmills ..' .. .. .. .. 5%
Barns and stables—
(i) Stone, brick or cement .. .. .. .. 2%
(ii) Wood and/or iron .. 3%
Woolsheds —
(i) Stone, brick or cement .. 11%
(ii) Wood and/or iron ... .. 2%
Iron grain-silos .. .. .. .. 3%
Fences [excluding those allowable as Special Capital
Expenditure (item 2i in first column) ] .. .. 3%
Livestock Account
O Primary producers have the option of valuing
livestock on hand at the end of each financial
year either at “cost” or at “market selling value.”
The method of valuation selected should be stated
in writing at the time of lodgment of the first
return, and cannot be changed unless approved by
the Commissioner in special circumstances.
The “cost” method of valuation, which is
generally regarded as more satisfactory, has been
followed in the above example. Under the “cost-
price” method, livestock on hand at the end of
the financial year and livestock killed for rations
are valued at the average cost of stock on hand
at the beginning of the year, purchases during the
year, and natural increase, which for this purpose
may be valued at any amount per head not less
than the following minimum values: —
Sheep .. .. 4/- per head
Cattle .. .. £1 „ „
Horses .. .. £1 „ „
Pigs .. •• 5/- » »
Sheep on hand at June 30, 1955. in the above
example have been valued at £l/6/- per head,
calculated as follows: —
Stock on hand at l/7/’54 .. .. 5,000 8,000
Purchases .. .. .. .. 2,000 4,400
Natural increase at 4/- .. .. 3,000 600
10,000 13,000
13,000
Average cost per head .. .. £— = £l/6/-
10,000
• If the whole or any part of livestock on
hand at the end of the year can he identified as
livestock on hand at the beginning of the year,
purchases or natural increase during the year, it
is permissible to value the livestock so identified
at “actual cost” instead of “average cost " Selected
values for natural increase would in these circum-
stances be taken as actual cost.


A
.
for &****«*■'
■SkKlan
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIQUID CLUE
Obtainable in 4 oz., 8 oz.,
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM * HARDWARE AND GENERAL STORES
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
3. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H, DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
3. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
RHEUMATISM - - -
ARTHRITIS---
A new highly-active lodised
Salicylate Cream can give you
quick relief from pain and long-
term remedial action.
AMPUSAL
MASSAGE CREAM
Send 6/6 for full-size jar.
Archer Laboratories,
POST OFFICE, PARRAMATTA.
Paint Your Carfor 70 /-
with Sapphire factory finish type car enamel. No brushing ...
No spraying ... No masking ... No streaks or lapmarks . . .
Get beautiful high-gloss mirror finish that looks like a spray job.
It’s amazing! No brushjng or
spraying required. Sapphire
Enamel will iqake your car gleam
like new. This wonderful, free-
flowing enamel is applied with a
special applicator which is far
superior to brushes. Dries quickly
without a brushmark, streak or lap-
mark. No undercoat to apply.
Sapphire Enamel is the result of
a new formula, perfected after years
of research. It flows on so smoothly
without leaving a single blemish.
No previous experience is required
because it’s so easy to use, No
need to remove the old enamel or
lacquer. Simply clean the car, and
then wipe on Sapphire Enamel.
The special applicator wipes the
enamel on so mirror smooth, so
easily that you’ll be delighted with
the brilliant new look of your car.
One quart is sufficient for painting
a car, and one coat covers any other
enamel or lacquer.
Whether your car is an old or late
model, Sapphire will give it that
high gloss, like-new appearance, and
not a single brushmark marring its
surface.
28 POPULAR COLOURS—White,
Off-white, Ivory, Cream, Light
Cream, Rich Cream, Light Stone,
Mid Stone, Fawn, Pastel Green,
Light Green, Lawn Green, Dark
Green, Grey Green, Dove Grey,
Dark Grey, Mail Red, Cherry Red,
Russet Red, Maroon, Dark Maroon,
Chocolate, Sky Blue, Light Blue,
Royal Blue, Navy Blue, Yellow,
Black.
Sapphire Enamel is guaranteed
not to crack, fade, chip or peel
for two years, or your money re-
funded in full.
Sold only by Pacific Auto Sup-
plies. Send now for a quart of
Sapphire Enamel, special applicator,
instructions and 2-year guarantee,
price 70/-, plus postage.
POSTAGE RATES: Vic., 2/11; Qld.
and W.A., 6/-; all other States, 4/4.
Sorry, no C.O.D.s. Post your order
today to:—
PACIFIC AUTO SUPPLIES
Dept. 12-20,
47 McLeod Rd., Carrum, Victoria,
STUD STOCK FROM
TASMANIA
Our Stockmen are in clbse touch with Breeders all over the
Island, s.o if you are interested in obtaining your breeding
requirements from TASMANIA, let us assist you through our
STATE-WIDE ORGANISATION.
FARMERS & GRAZIERS' CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY
LIMITED
87-91 York Street, Launceston, Tasmania
Stud Stock Division
Branches at Hobart, Oatlands, Scottsdale, Burnie,
Wynyard, Deloraine, Flinders Island, King Island.
poisoned, and allowed to become
tainted, behind the horse for
some distance, then hiding it
under soil or grass. Hanging
hunk of brisket from a tree wil
often delude the dog into think-
ing that here is at last a safe
titbit.
Smearing poisoned molasses
on bushes beside tracks known
to be used by dingoes is often
effective, since, no matter how
wary they are of baits, they will
not tolerate the sticky stuff on
themselves. Arsenic may be
used to poison the molasses,
which the dingoes will lick off
after picking it up.
Spraying Cereal Crops
“C.A.A.”: Cereal crops should
be sprayed with selective weed-
killers only if susceptible weeds
are present in sufficient numbers
to compete with the crop or
interfere with harvesting. Cost
of spraying most weeds in crops
runs out at about ss. per acre.
To avoid damage to the crops,
spray only after the crop has
stooled and is about 6in. high,
and before the young head can
be felt in the stem of the plant.
All cereal crops are suscept-
ible to the hormone-type sprays,
so quantities used are important.
M.C.P.A. is the safest spray to
use on oats, but if using 2, 4-D
on oats don’t apply more than
|lb. per acre active ingredient,
and don’t use the ester of 2, 4-D.
As a general rule, keep the
quantities used as low as
possible ; consistent, of course,
with the type of weed.
Feeding Calves
“Big Billy”: Good calves
mean good cows, so special care
should be taken of the new
arrivals. Every calf should be
given enough milk of the correct
temperature —standardised to a
3.5 per cent, butterfat-content—
to fill the flanks on both sides
twice a day, until it is old enough
to eat and digest other foods as
well.
Use skim-milk and gruels as
partial substitutes after the calf
is two weeks old; from five-
weeks little new milk need be
used. A cheap and nutritious
gruel may be made by adding
lib. pollard to lgal. water plus
some skim-milk. Better, and not
much dearer, is a mixture con-
taining soz. dried skim-milk and
lloz. pollard to lgal. water
plus a teaspoonful each of salt
and lime.
Tree-seed
“X.Y.”: In collecting tree-seed
for propagation make sure it is
100 per cent, mature.
When ripe, seeds of eucalypts
are dark-brown to black in
color; wattles, acorns and other
large seeds are well plumped-out
within the hard shells. Seed-
fertility of oak, araucaria, elm
and maple is of short duration;
eucalypts and pines keep well
up to four years, wattles remain
fertile for 50 years.
Hard-shelled seed, such as
wattle and tree-lucerne, should
have hot water poured over it
and be allowed to soak for 24
hours. This softens the coat and
speeds-up germination. The
small seed of eucalypts, bottle-
brush and the like need no pre-
planting treatment.
Good drainage in the seed-box
or -bed is vital to healthy
germination.
Loamy soil is best. When the
soil is clay-like or too sandy and
open, mix two parts of well-
rotted stable-manure through it
and leave it exposed to the ele-
ments for about' two weeks.
(Avoid cow-manure.) Then
spade-up the mixture to a fine
tilth and level-off to a smooth
surface.
Dampen the soil well prior to
planting, and sow seed thinly;
press in -gently with a flat board
and sprinkle a light layer of soil
on top. For larger seed this
layer of soil should be twice the
thickness of the seed sown.
Most seed takes from five days
to three weeks to germinate;
species with hard, woody shells,
up to two years.
Soil of any seed-box or -bed
should be kept moist and not
allowed to dry-out. The position
should not be exposed to full
heat of the sun or to the wind.
If overshadowed by trees, the
seedlings damp-off after rain.
The seed should not be planted
until after the frosts.-
Greening Bulbs
“W. Court”: Losses through
rotting often follow setting
bulbs and tubers without first
“greening” them. If a bulb is
not ready to grow, burying it in
the earth and drowning it in
water won’t make it grow, but
may cause it to rot:
When a bulb or tuber is
ready for re-planting it generally
shoots, or it will soon do so if
laid on damp soil in a dark place.
This treatment is most necessary
when dealing with unfamiliar
bulbs.
Many people lose anemone,
ranunculus and similar flowering-
bulbs through setting them
wrong-side-up. Anemone and
ranunculi, though hardy enough,
cannot turn over if thus planted.
But they are easily “greened.”
Bulbs such as watsonias,
liliums, tritonias and freesias will
often grow and flower well in
warm districts, but trouble starts
when their dormant period
arrives. They require dry
weather, whereas the summer in
such localities is often wet.
In such a climate, lift them
and store in boxes of soil after
the foliage dies. This applies in
particular to the costly liliums,
which soon rot if left foliageless
in over-wet soil. They will, how-
ever, perish if not kept con-
tinuously under a layer of moist
soil.
Clovers
“N.Z.”: Surprising what
people don’t know about pas-
tures —often, because they feel
they should know, and are afraid
to admit ignorance. Take clovers.
Why are they important?
Grasses need large amounts of
nitrogen for growth. The clover-
plant, by means of its root- ,
nodules, supplies almost all this
nitrogen and supplies it over the
greater part of the year.
High-producing clover-strains
are, therefore, essential for high-
producing pastures. A good
strain of clover in a well-
balanced pasture can provide
nitrogen equivalent to a ton of
sulphate-of-ammonia per acre
per year.
Molasses
“Net Titre”: “Bill C.” is a bit
general when he says (B. 6/7/’55)
that Queensland canegrowers
buy molasses in 200 gal. lots from
the mills for sprinkling on
guinea- and para-grass chaff.
The practice is confined to a
few sugar-areas where there is
mixed-farming; elsewhere, in a
highly mechanised industry,
molasses has other uses.
Growers spread nearly 12-
million tons of it on canefields
annually as fertiliser and to pre-
vent soil-binding. The power-
alcohol factory at Sarina, near
Mackay, takes most of the sur-
plus molasses produced by mills
in the Burdekin and Mackay
district for conversion into
power-alcohol and industrial
methylated-spirit. Last year
3,665,000ga15. of power-alcohol
went to oil-companies for blend-
ing with motor-spirit.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: To prevent clover-
seed going in too deep in damp
soil, use a 12in. sectional-roller
behind the sowing-tynes and in
front of the grass-seed attach-
ment. This will allow small
seeds to fall on a firm surface,
to be covered by light drill-
harrows.
“Bill C.”: After floods watch
for pests washed on to the farm
by floodwaters. Root out any
strange plants. You may lose an
odd desirable variety, but that’s
better than having your stock
poisoned by evil strangers.
“Driver”: Unclipping battery
terminal-straps from battery-
poles when storing tractors be-
tween seasons is half the battle in
preventing corrosion. The bat-
tery is better removed from the
tractor altogether and kept
charged. Battery-cradles should
be cleaned-down with a wire-
brush and painted with rust-
preventing paint.
“Wilco”: To clear a blocked
sink-pipe, pour a quantity of
caustic-potash-lye into the pipe
at nightfall. During the night
the potash will turn the waste
into a soft soap, and this will be
washed out when the water runs
through the pipe in the morning.
Don’t use caustic-soda-lye: it
makes hard soap, which would
make the blockage worse.
“Sundowner”: Wing - walls
across an irrigation-channel to
form stops should be well
bedded into concrete at the base.
They should not be made on
soils liable to crack. Stops may
be undermined if the bedding is
not carried downstream far
enough. Keep walls vertical;
otherwise boards of different
lengths will be needed at the top
and bottom of the stop. If
boards of the same width are
used for all stops they will be
readily interchangeable. /
“Big Billy”: To make a new
rhubarb-bed: Examine the
crowns. If the buds are starting
to grow, split crowns and replant
30in. apart with only one or two
buds in each division. Dress
established beds with manure.
Rhubarb needs well-prepared,
well-drained beds free from
perennial weeds. Dress new
beds liberally with well-rotted
farmyard-manure or compost.
Blood-and-bone is also a useful
fertiliser.
“C.A.A.”: Following success
with 1080 in W.A., Tasmania
and Victoria, the S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture has
approved the use of 1080-
poisoned oats for rabbit-
destruction in that State.
* * *
“Billjim”: The first pruning-
competition for women ever
held in South Australia had six
grandmothers among the 10
competitors. It was conducted
by Strathalbyn branch of the
Agricultural Bureau.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(24/7/’55)
Queensland should receive light general rains during
August, although these should be mainly below average.
Reasonably good general rain should occur in December,
with heavy rain and widespread floods during January.
Moderate rain should occur in large sections of N.S.W.
during August, with light rain in the western division.
Rain on the coast from Sydney north may be poor. But,
all round, there should be sufficient rain for a good spring
in N.S.W.
Victoria should receive patchy rain, heaviest in Gipps-
land. There may be floods in part of East Gippsland.
Good rains should fall in a large part of W.A., but falls
on the south coast may be below normal, and light in the
west Gascoyne. Heavy rain should extend from the north-
west to the goldfields.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Competition
With wars over,, armies demobilised
and men back at the job of earning their
daily bread in more normal fashion
economic and financial stability should
return to our way of living. The dark
war-time excesses —blackmarkets, infla-
tion, racketeering, profiteering—should
all die away.
As productivity increases, healthy com-
petition should commence to act on
prices. Slowly but surely the cost of
living should return to the normal levels
which the younger members of our
rising generations have never known.
Given normal conditions, and a good
measure of commonsense among the
people, the £ should once again get some-
where near the 20s. it used to be worth.
But none of that is happening in Aus-
tralia. Instead of costs coming down
they are rising. Our overseas markets
are fading-out. We are reduced to the.
sorry stage when we must attempt to sell
some of our produce overseas on “time-
payment.” We are meeting buyer-
resistance, and the only real solution to
this is lower prices.
There are people in Australia who are
simple enough to think the outside world
is so dependent upon our products that
we can charge anything we like and get
away with it. They refuse to see a
resurgent Germany and Japan and others
working day and night to re-establish
their markets. These people have a
fatuous idea that the organised labor-
forces of this country can continue on
their leisurely way and call the price-
tune for the overwhelming millions who
dwell overseas. Nothing could be more
foolish.
The man who cannot compete on
equal terms with his fellows will soon
have to close his shop. And that goes
also for nations that depend upon over-
seas trade to maintain their standards
of living. If people in other lands are
increasing their own primary production,
or buying from the cheapest markets,
there is a very good reason for it. The
war is over and cheaper food means
cheaper production, and cheaper produc-
tion means more; trade. Only here in
Australia do some people think the
sellers’ market is still in operation and
that Australia, little harmed by the war,
still has' the ball of world-trade at its
feet. — Shellback (N.S.W.).
Road-safety Measures
The suggestion (B. 13/7/’55) that road-
accident statistics, showing the period for
which drivers concerned have held
licences, should be collected and studied
is worth examination, though whether
the information on past accidents is
available is doubtful. If not, a start could
be made by classifying future accidents
for, say, six months. The results should
at any rate settle the frequent claims, by
motorists of long standing, that the newly-
licensed driver is the principal menace
on the road.
My own experience has convinced me
that the novice driver is, as a general
rule, careful and scrupulously obedient to
traffic-rules. The real danger from the
inexperienced driver is not that he fails
to give hand-signals or wilfully ignores
traffic-lights but that he lacks the dex-
terity to control his vehicle properly.
After all, driving is an art that requires
much practice, and the opportunity for
that comes only after the licence has been
v granted.
A possible solution would be to make
all licences provisional, the holder being
required to submit himself for further
tests after, say, six months.
Another basis on which statistics might
usefully be collected concerns the number
of accidents or traffic-offences in which
individual drivers are involved. This
would probably reveal that a small pro-
portion of drivers are responsible for a
disproportionately high number of acci-
dents and offences, and would provide a
basis for tackling the problem of the
“accident-prone” driver.
A few years ago a large public-utility
concern in the U.S.A. made a thorough
survey of traffic-offences and accidents
involving its drivers ; it found that the
bulk of such offences and accidents
related to a small group of employees.
Those with the highest scores were classi-
fied as “accident-prone” and were
promptly transferred to other jobs within
the company which did not involve
driving*
l A subsequent survey of employee
accidents generally within the concern
revealed the interesting point that many
of the employees who had been taken off
the driving jobs continued to have acci-
dents, no matter where they were placed
in the undertaking. That confirmed the
view of psychologists that “accident-
proneness,” or the tendency of an indi-
vidual to incur injury, was a definite
mental characteristic and could not be
cured by training, the threat of penalties
or any other ordinary measures. Intelli-
gence, according to the survey report, had
little bearing on the problem, for some of
the worst offenders, both on the roads and
in the utility’s works, had high I.Q.
ratings.
All of which suggests that it might be
advisable to detect and eliminate from the
roads the accident-prone driver. Appeals
for courtesy seem futile ; so do threats
of heavy penalties. The accident-prone
driver, in short, simply can’t help having
accidents, and the thing to do is to
prevent him from driving at all. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Dyason Lectures, 1955
As Minister of State in Clement Attlee’s
second Labor Government Mr. Kenneth
Younger was in a position to sum up,
from inside knowledge, the British post-
war foreign policy which was the title
of the first of a series of three lectures
given in Sydney under the auspices of
the Australian Institute of International
Affairs.
Clear-voiced and profoundly analyti-
cal, he made an impressive case for the
British Labor policy first with reference
to India and later to Malaya, but his
claim that what he styled the “success”
of the Indian operation was due to the
"Hi-i-i-it it while it's ho-o-o-ot—too late now.”
fact that Labor’s technique was so sound
that it was continued by the succeeding
Churchillian regime caused many an eye-
brow in his audience to be raised. Surely
it has long been axiomatic that the very
slow change of British policy, in all but
outward form, must be credited to the
power of the permanent British civil
servant, which is little affected by the
mutations of parties and Ministers.
When dealing with the problems of the
Far East, it was rather obvious that he
was an observer on the outside,
Admittedly, Uncle Sam backed the
wrong horse when he chose the Chiang
Kai-shek regime, but it was hardly
correct to blame that—and other —
American mistakes on the fact that the
U.S. “had not learned, by experience,
to coexist alongside an active enemy as
England had done.” Elsewhere, he had
commented on the Americans’ over-
whelming missionary zeal, which was by
far the more likely cause of error, and
he must have been aware that that very
zeal had, long before, forced a champion
of Western ideas, Kemal Ataturk, to
close down the American college in
Istambul in 1936, after having tolerated
its interference for many years.
Of course, these and other contro-
versial opinions, fluently delivered with a
dangerously misleading air of authority,
composed only a small portion of a most
instructive series of talks. The rather
sparse attendances, however, suggested
that Dyason audiences demand some
impishness—such as Madariaga gave them
—to fill to capacity the Assembly Hall,
where chill atmosphere and hard seats
are second only in discomfort to Sydney’s
Town Hall—L. O. (N.S.W.).
Lennie Lower
It was good to read Ronald McCuaig’s
salute to Lennie Lower (B. 29/6/’55). We
forget too soon those whose freelance
work is distributed in many quarters.
John Barr was one. Dead only a few
years, his work is nearly forgotten, yet
he wa§ a pretty writer of ballads and of
songs of the sea and one of the brilliant
paragraphists of his day.
11l the case of Lower, the many
editions of his plug of alcoholic dynamite,
Here’s Luck, have kept him in memory.
How many copies of his Here’s Another
can be found today? Long-sleevers of
laughter they were, gathered from his
half-columns in the daily press. How
about another and more complete
edition? Many of these articles will not
date for years. His “Bradman and the
Burglar” was one of the wittiest things
ever written in Australia.
Lennie had a big heart. I’ll not forget
how he took the chance of not being paid
when he sent me a brilliantly humorous
article for my “N.Z. Artists’ Annual”
when its existence was menaced in the
ad.-starved days of the depression. Many
worried men had their only laugh of the
day during the same dark time through
Lennie’s daily half-column in Sydney.—
Pat Lawler (N.Z.).
Free Universities
Now that the Commonwealth
scholarship scheme has been in opera-
tion for several years it is possible to
decide how far we have gone towards
the ideal of providing advanced educa-
tion for everyone of a sufficiently high
mental calibre. Under the Common-
wealth scheme most students under 21
who qualify for admittance to the Uni-
versity receive a scholarship covering all
compulsory fees and providing an allow-
ance for students in financial difficulties,
In the circumstances it is a substantial
advance towards a free University
education.
There are criticisms, however. First,
while the allowances are generous in rela-
tion to previously existing schemes, they
are still insufficient to support a student
who cannot look for assistance from
family or friends. If a general increase
is undesirable, this problem could
possibly be met by special discretionary
grants above the existing limits.
The second criticism relates to a pro-
vision under which a deduction is made
from the living-allowance when any
income is earned by the student during
vacations. Not only does this discourage
students from obtaining valuable experi-
ence ; it also places an impossible burden
on students who are struggling to
continue their course.
Meanwhile, there are many students
who fall outside the Commonwealth
scheme. Although fees have risen to a
socially undesirable level, these students
are unable to claim taxation exemption
for the fees which they pay. Surely this
is a small concession to ask. — Mac D.
(Vic.).
‘The Bungalow”
Rex Battarbee’s decision that the time
has come for Centralia’s Aranda art-
colony to stand on its own feet has a
wider implication.
It could apply with equal justice to
the natives at The Bungalow—a Govern-
ment camp for aborigines just outside
Alice Springs.
Government policy, with the best inten-
tions in the world, has turned them into
a mob of mendicants, content to live in
squalid humpies and eat the Government
rations.
There are many good workers among
them; but there is also a hard core of
drones and idlers. Whatever job the
Bungalow boys undertake, they have at
the back of their minds the comfortable
assurance that, if things get too tough,
they can drift back to The Bungalow and
live on Government beef without the
necessity for working.
The demoralising effect on the native
himself has become particularly notice-
able in recent years. Many native stock-
men have got into the habit of giving
their jobs away at mustering-time, or
whenever things are particularly busy.
As a result many station-owners are now
refusing to employ black labor.
Taxpayers who have to dig deep each
year to keep several hundred blacks at
The Bungalow in comfort and idleness
have coined a new word for the camp
The Bungle-O.— Centralian (N.T.).
Divorce a Luxury?
Some economists profess to regard
the divorce-rate as a useful straw in
the economic wind —presumably on the
ground that divorce is a fairly expensive
luxury. What will they make of the 1954
figures, with a total of 8432 petitions, the
lowest since 1950, and a sharp contrast
with the “peak” year of 1946, with 9915
petitions? The number of decrees granted
last year, 6528, was 19 per cent, lower
than in 1953, and 26 per cent, lower than
in 1947. Decrease for the year was 28
per cent, in Victoria, 24 per cent, in
N.S.W., 6 per cent, in South Australia,
2 per cent, in Queensland and 1 per
cent, in W.A. In Tasmania, on the other
hand, the rate increased by 13 per cent.
Why? Ask the petitioners—or the
economists, — Stromlo (A.C.T.).


Third-party Insurance
Third-party motor-insurance (“Under-
writer,” B. 22/6/’55) was made compul-
sory to protect the third party, not the
driver.
The mother —of a family of young
children—whose husband is killed in a
motor-accident, gets no consolation from
sending a stranger bankrupt. Certainly,
£lO,OOO will not replace the love and
affection of her husband, but it will feed,
clothe and educate the children. It will
save her from the added worry of won-
dering where the next meal will come
from.
If “U.’s” suggestion were adopted,
what happens to the victim of an accident,
where the owner has not bothered about
additional cover? The £2OOO might pay-
off the mortgage on the home. If the
victim was unlikely to work again, the
lender would insist on repayment. The
car-owner becomes bankrupt, and the
victim, in spite of a court-award of per-
haps £12,000, gets not another penny. He
is condemned to a life of poverty and
misery because the car-owner wanted his
motoring “on the cheap.”
The only improvement I can suggest
to the present system is to increase pre-
miums of third-party insurance and pay
“no-claim” bonuses, small for the first
couple of years and increasing to a con-
siderable proportion of the premium after,
say, 10 years of accident-free driving.—
Mullum (N.S.W.).
“Underwriter” should come to W.A.,
where £2OOO per person is the limit. As
£4OOO-odd is a common award for serious
injury, he would then be liable for up-
wards of £lO,OOO if he caused an accident
to a carload of people. If he belongs to
the prudent class of people who rarely
have accidents, he would probably pay for
extra insurance to cover the difference;
if he is one of those who live as they
drive —recklessly—he wouldn’t bother.
In the latter case, should he cause an
accident, he might be made bankrupt,
leaving his victims with a court-judgment,
but no money. That is the situation that
third-party insurance is designed to
prevent.
There should be compulsory unlimited
cover for all road-users, but the method
of charging the premium needs reform. A
man may drive safely for 30 years, and
then, by a slight error of judgment, cause
a bad accident. Another may leave a
trail of smashed mudguards behind him,
but may be fluky enough not to cause
much bodily harm. Proved breaches of
the traffic-laws, whether resulting in
accidents or not, should automatically in-
crease future premiums. And, while there
should be no fixed limit to the insurance
trust’s liability, courts should have the
power in special cases to direct that part
of the award be paid from the driver’s
own pocket.— Howie Wing • (W.A.).
On the Line
I have worked for both Queensland and
N. S. Wales Railways, and I can tell “Quo
Vadis” (B. 29/6/’55) that he is much
better off than his fellow-navvies in
N. S. Wales.
Thousands of N.S.W, fettlers would
gladly pay rent for the wooden, dogbox-
type rooms, with or without back-landing,
mentioned by “Quo Vadis.” In N.S.W.
fettlers live in tents, except for a few
positions out Broken Hill or Bourke way.
If a fettler is lucky enough to occupy a
departmental residence anywhere near
civilisation it is generally because the
Railways want his wife to look after a
set of level-crossing gates.
The majority of these level-crossing
gates are worked seven days a week, 24-
hours a day. The pay usually runs to a
few pounds a week. There are many
crossings on a larger scale where the
wife, though untrained, is required to
perform duties close to those of a station-
master. 1 know of one family which,
after years in tents in different parts of
the State, decided to take-on the level-
crossing gates in order to live in a depart-
mental house. The husband, of course, is
a fettler on the line. The wife, although
untrained, has to act on the small station
in the same capacity as a stationmaster.
She is responsible for the busy level-cross-
ing gates; she sells tickets, issues and
receives parcels and must see to the clean-
liness of offices, waiting-rooms and
latrines—not to mention many other
smaller jobs. She works 13 days a fort-
night, a total of 112 hours, and her pay
averages £8 a week.
I’ve lived with fettlers under canvas
and they’re good chaps, but there’s no
need to feel sorry for them. They picked
the job and they have every opportunity
to advance to positions with higher pay
and better conditions. And why contrast
their pay with that of shearers? The
shearer doesn’t get three weeks’ annual
leave each year, plus the number of public
holidays worked; nor does he get a
guaranteed fortnight’s pay, or sick-pay, if
he is unable to work. Again, a fort-
night’s shearing is tougher than a fort-
“And what racket are YOU in ?”
night’s fettling, and a shearer’s pay, big
though it may be, doesn’t come every
week.—T. M. (N.S.W.).
Hire-purchase
What I object to in hire-purchase is
the exorbitant rates of interest it in-
volves—and so insidiously. Nominally
the charge is 9 per cent., but this is how
it works in practice:
You buy an article and agree to pay
£lOO over two years. The interest, calcu-
lated for the full amount over the whole
period, is £lB. So £llB is divided into
104 weekly instalments of £1 2s. 9d. each.
At the end of 12 months you’ve paid off
£s9—£so principal and £9 interest —and
you still have left to pay the other £5O
principal and the same amount of interest
—£9. But now it’s £9 on £5O for one
year, which is 18 per cent, interest a year ;
and, of course, the interest-rate has been
slowly mounting from 9 per cent, to 18
per cent, ever since you made your first
payment. Similarly, it keeps on mounting
from 18 per cent, upwards during the
second year until, at 18 months, you still
have £25 principal to pay, plus £4 10s.
interest. And £4 10s. interest on £25 for
six months is 36 per cent, a year.
Three months later the interest-rate has
risen, to 72 per cent, and over the last
month you’re paying interest at the rate
of 216 per cent., because, to the last pay-
ment, you’re being charged interest on the
full £lOO you borrowed, although you’ve
already repaid practically the whole
amount. Any private moneylender who
charged that amount of interest on a
short-term loan would be denounced as a
shark.
On each individual purchase the interest
doesn’t amount to enough to break the
average pocket, but multiply the effect by
a million and you’ve got a huge amount
of money lent out continually.
Worse, there is developing too great an
accumulation of wealth and power in a
very few quarters. Already those quarters
are competing with the Government for
the small investor’s money, and when the
accumulation becomes sufficiently marked
a Government in need of money, as Aus-
tralian Governments inevitably will be
for years to come, will have only one
market to approach. You can guess how
interest-rates will rise then.—W. J. W.
(W.A.).
The Commonwealth Bank and the
trading banks have done the right thing
by restricting money to hire-purchase
houses, but the security these places can
offer is so good that capital can easily
be obtained elsewhere.
Soon after the bank’s announcement
the critics of hire-purchase rushed into
print with a barrage of propaganda. Yet,
in my experience, having to meet sub-
stantial weekly payments on essential
household-gear encourages tight self-
discipline and not, as critics have stated,
extravagance.
I know of one Melbourne householder
on less than £2O a week who has to pay
about £4 a week on his refrigerator,
vacuum-cleaner, gas-cooker and an
encyclopaedia. The narrow margin be-
tween his income and unavoidable spend-
ing is so low that hire-purchase is the
only way he can buy what is now regarded
as essential equipment in the home. He
is typical of thousands throughout Aus-
tralia.
Without hire-purchase the cost of
household necessities would be prohibi-
tive, and the money now spent on weekly
payments would probably go in enter-
tainments. The man with hire-purchase
payments to meet does not waste a penny
—there is nothing like a good debt to
keep a man’s nose to the grindstone.
Recent surveys by the Commonwealth
Government showed that well over 90
per cent, of the homes built since the war
are being financed by banks, building-
societies, co-operative housing-move-
ments, etc. Isn’t that hire-purchase?
There are a few minor irregularities in
the promotion of goods on hire-purchase
that could be rectified. Many stores
advertising their wares in the press often
put only the deposit and the weekly
repayments and make no mention of the
cash-price. Some do not ask for a cash-
deposit—old furniture, an old ice-chest,
or something similarly useless is legal
enough for a deposit-entry to be made.
It does not seem much to make it
obligatory for any firm to advertise the
cash-price always when advertising goods
being sold on hire-purchase.
Australia will never rid itself of hire-
purchase ; it has helped us too much
already. The physical comfort of the
Western world has been attained largely
on hire-purchase. Two of the most com-
fortable lands of the West—the United
States and Germany—are both traditional
strongholds of hire-purchase—and both
are traditional strongholds of hard-
work and thrift. Waddlin’ Willie
(Vic.).
Turgenev
In B. 13/7/’55 a “Red Page” critic
said that “Turgenev’s Fathers and Sons is
rather a thin lot of stuff, never to be
compared with the immortal Smoke.”
Edward Garnett, in his volume
Turgenev, said: “As a piece of art
Fathers and Sons is the most powerful of
all Turgenev’s works.”
Janko Lavrin, Russian journalist and
author of several volumes on the Russian
novelists, in An Introduction to The
Russian Novel described the same book as
Turgenev’s “best novel.”
Prince D. S. Mirsky, in Modern Russian
Literature, said of Fathers and Sons:
“Turgenev somehow succeeded in making
it a masterpiece, which has not faded and
probably never will.” Discussing Smoke,
the same critic continued: “It is the least
perfect of his novels.”
Maurice Baring, poet and critic, said,
in An Outline of Russian Literature, that
“Fathers and Sons is as beautifully con-
structed as a drama of Sophocles ; the
events move inevitably to a tragic close.
There is not a touch of banality from
beginning to end.”
Writing of Bazarov’s death, Baring
continues: “Here Turgenev reaches the
high-water mark of his art.”
“Today,” says Baring, “ Smoke seems
the most banal of Turgenev’s novels.” He
then refers to the severe criticism of
Smoke by Tolstoy, who said: “In Smoke
there is hardly any love of anything, and
very little pity ; there is only love of light
and playful adultery; and therefore the
poetry of that novel is repulsive.”
Gilbert Gardiner, who translated On
The Eve for the Penguin Books, said in
his introduction to that volume that
Bazarov is Turgenev’s most powerful full-
length figure. Fathers and Sons, he states,
is “widely regarded as ..Turgenev’s finest
work.”
Natalie Duddington, who has trans-
lated several of the best Russian novelists,
says of Fathers and Sons in her introduc-
tion to Smoke (Everyman’s Library, 1949
edition) that it is “a perfect work of art.”
William L. Phelps, then of Yale Univer-
sity, in his Essays on Russian Novelists,
describes Fathers and Sons as “an immor-
tal work of art” and, “with the possible
exception of a House of Gentlefolk,
his [Turgenev’s] masterpiece.”— John
O’Sullivan (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 341
Across
1 Medley corporation to cause
Rhode Island to flow forth in a
stream. (3-6)
6—Effie and a boy wined and dined
with tea in the fodder. (5)
8— Who is introduced to the French
when complete? (5)
9 Half-century bird takes one to
conserve a tongue for a con-
temptible Southern European.
(3, 5)
11 A European centre of heavy
industry. (4)
12—International brother and
Kenneth are not damaged. (8)
14— Chests containing a god’s wood-
cutters. (8)
16 An organ which is not the heart
io r» nc * * s yet the heart of a dive. (6)
to Road-travel wears away such
manners of walking. (6)
19—Is on a senior duck parent of
Aida. (8)
-Broken idol ain’t swelling out.
. (8)
Jhe air that Italians merely
breathe—but not if they are
dramatic sopranos. (4)
15— Mark a manuscript containing
words of the opposite meaning.
26 — Puissance could and probably
will. (5)
27 — The mien of Amiens is thus a
king with a gilty touch. (5)
28— A good round ex-husband 61
Miss Hayworth has a muscular
twitch when muscles are utterly
immovable. (9)
Down
1— Source of some current place
where passengers leave the train
for Tyrone? (5, 7)
2 Hot-hearted Egyptian god. (5)
3 They can pull the Nof Ok? (4)
4 About two boys are let up. (8)
5 Batting protege in the direction
of the centre. (6)
6 A candid uncle disturbed an
Australian author. (5, 5)
7 Processes in which turps are
added to paint the poetical hand.
(9)
10 —Divining by burning a straw team
keen on kissing a flank Latin
with a twitch. (12)
13 —Flora suggesting that Leo and his
kind keep up with Beau
Brummell. (10)
15 —Bowling against Diana Kelly if
surfeited with dinner. (9)
17—Some sort of relief is to be
expected from this fellow who
makes a slave of Emilv. (81
20—Don’t retire rigging in the air.
(4, 2)
23 — Privilege isn’t wrong. (5)
24 Citrus upset this German boy.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 340


WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA
m
4
1
sr.«
r~imz
m
i i
i i i
ac i if ii
ill!
i
■«SS
in i mi:
MiiiiiiiitiiiiillliiiiiiiiSiiiTiiiiiiiiii iiilimUlT!
lllliifllllllllliiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
* i'l iuil ii«ti till ii Ml! Si; !!*’•; |*i
m
IB
m
Wk
m
■
1
•esa
WMi
M
m
m
«
C
a
•i«\a
■
as>'
KS> V
5^
Sf- X
■
1 *ll*
er cuts building co
TJAPERBOARD* concrete moulds—which are com-
parative newcomers to the Australian Building
Industry—provide a fast, economical method of con-
structing tubular pillars and concrete pipes.
These tubes—made of layer on layer of paperboard—are
set in position, and concrete is poured into them. When
the concrete is set, the tubes are stripped off, leaving a
perfectly round column—a relatively easy way of doing
what used to be a costly, difficult job.
Tubes can also be used as weight saving “voids” in
concrete slabs. In this case, the concrete is poured around
the tubes with consequent saving in building construction
costs.
The paperboard used for the tubes is produced by A.P.M.
—Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.—who annually
make some 200,000 tons of paper and paperboard. This
is converted by other manufacturers into a great variety
of finished products that make work easier, or reduce
costs, or make life more pleasant, in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard, fibreboard and other
heavy-weight papers. Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper .
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street. South Melbourne.
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W. and Petrie, Qld. (under construction)
