

/
!*»
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
SPACE-SATELLITES PAGE 28
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3944
Wednesday, September 14, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W„ Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
DURHAM'S TOWERING WALLS
HOUSE STUDENTS
INSTEAD OF SOLDIERS
■pOR nearly nine-hundred years Durham
Castle has stood on its plateau of rock,
high above the River Wear. Its foundations
were laid by the Normans soon after the
Conquest in 1066 and completed by them in
1072.
In its earliest days the Castle was the key to
the city’s defences, but in succeeding centuries
it became less of a fortress and more of a
residence for the Bishops of Durham, who grew
in importance and wealth throughout the
Middle Ages. The Castle was their principal
seat and many additions and alterations were
made by them, particularly in the 12th, 13th,
14th and 15th centuries. For nearly a year in
1640, during the Civil Wars, Durham Castle
was in the hands of the Scots, and nine years
later, during the Commonwealth period when
the possessions of the Bishops of Durham were
confiscated, the Castle was bought by the Lord
Mayor of London for £1,267. Later it reverted
to the Bishops of Durham. In the 17th
century it is recorded that John Cosin exercised
his power as a prince bishop by demanding
the body of a whale washed up on the near-by
coast, and had it buried beneath the Keep,
where its bones were discovered in 1839; they
were later transferred to the Cathedral-crypt,
where they are still to b’e seen.
The Castle is now occupied by the University
of Durham, which was founded in 1832. Five
years later they moved into the Castle buildings,
and among the alterations carried out at that
time was the rebuilding of the Keep to provide
modern accommodation for the undergraduates.
Many fine examples of Norman architecture,
however, are still to be seen; notably in Bishop
Tunstall’s Chapel, the Gallery, Courtyard and
a magnificent doorway. One of the finest rooms
in the Castle is the Great Hall, built in the 13th
century above a Norman undercroft. At its
southern end is a minstrel’s gallery in which is
displayed 17th-century armour of considerable
historic interest. This magnificent room, which
now serves as the dining-hall of University
College, was the scene of medieval feasts on the
grand scale.
Among the portraits of distinguished men
around the Hall is one of Dr. Samuel Smith,
known as “Presence-of-mind” Smith —a nick-
name based on the legendary story that he, as
a youth, was rowing with a fellow-
undergraduate who fell into the lake. He made
frantic efforts to get back into the boat, which
was in danger of capsizing—“So,” said Smith,
“with great presence of mind I pushed him
away from the boat with the oar, and thus
escaped with my life.”
No. 263: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
JOHN MACARTHUR
Lachlan Macquarie, John Mac-
arthur and W. C. Wentworth are the
three outstanding creative forces in
early Australian history. If a mixed
bag of convicts and free settlers laid
the foundations of a great southern
dominion, these three, more than all
others, gave form and purpose to what
promised to be but haphazard develop-
ment. M. H. Ellis has followed up his
brilliant biography of Governor Mac-
quarie with an equally authoritative
life of that tempestuous character John
Macarthur (John Macarthur; Angus
and Robertson); could he complete his
trilogy and outline for us in equal
detail the Whig-Nationalist evolution
of W. C. Wentworth, the early stages
of the colony of New South Wales
and what was to be the Australian
Commonwealth would be set in new
and better perspective.
John Macarthur was a man of
forceful and impetuous character, not
very lovable, save perhaps in the
bosom of his own family, intensely
quarrelsome towards the world at
large. Nothing can make him
really attractive. Yet his personality
dominates this biography in a very
different way from that in which Ellis
found Macquarie a dominant figure.
For Macquarie, Ellis and the common
reader could find not merely sympathy
but real affection. His character comes
out the more nobly under strain.
For John Macarthur there can be
sympathy but little affection; there can
be admiration for achievement but
little for technique. Patently Ellis
cannot love his subject, but he is
awed, as were contemporaries, by the
very animal spirits of the man. Some-
where that most felicitous of bio-
graphers and essayists Harold Nicol-
son has asserted that no man can
write a good biography unless he feels
real affection for his subject. If this
were true Ellis should be the more to
be praised in his present great achieve-
ment. John Macarthur springs from
these pages veritably alive and verit-
ably awe-inspiring; one grasps instinc-
tively the atmosphere of antagonism,
or fear, or dismay which he ever
created.
But if he is the centre of this notable
biography he is not truly its hero. In
good Irish terms the hero is a heroine.
Elizabeth Macarthur was as steadfast
in work and duty as her husband was
pugnacious and long-memoried. If
John provided, all too frequently, the
inspiration, it was Elizabeth who
steadfastly supervised the day-by-day
activities of home and farm, of
children and servants, of cattle and
sheep, and who throughout her hus-
band’s long absences overseas pre-
served the property, extended the
resources and maintained the regular
transmission of the requisite finances
to support husband and sons in the
more civilised European lands for
whose sight she sighed, but “never
dared to cherish the hope” of seeing.
It is impossible to read these pages
without an unbounded admiration for
the devoted wife who through good
report and evil report remained
mistress of her own scene, yet attached
and indeed obedient to her querulous
husband, cut off for years at a time
from growing sons and a united family
circle.
Elizabeth Macarthur was the first
woman of gentle upbringing to make
a home in New South Wales. Save
Mrs. Johnson, the chaplain’s wife, she
was, after the arrival of the Second
Fleet, alone the model of that respect-
able domesticity which the majority of
those coming to New South Wales
could only recall as a fond memory.
In those early days she was feted and
made much of as something precious
and unique; but her head was not
turned. Left temporarily husbandless
in early middle-age she grew a firm-
ness of character which, first evidenced
on the shocking voyage out, ulti-
mately placed her outside the bounds
°f social criticism. In old age the way-
ward fancies of a mentally-deranged
husband plagued her with memories
and suspicions from a long-distant
Her creation of the first real Aus-
tralian private home, her emigration
half across the , obe wi(h t § e (u „
intention o( ® manent settlement ,
marks her a heroic character
worthy o( a tribute from settled
Australian family . from ha
Austra i ian dome J tic scene . he
in the midst o( ch and was not
defiled . she faced nwonted tria]s and
dangers and was no( dismayed .
John Macarthur goes down to his-
t as the d ® er o( Governor
Bli h> as the cr £ ator , Australia - s
wealth through woo , In both episodes
he played a % acti the maj £ r and
leadin but not a solit ‘ To
set Macarthur > s earl co £ n £, life
perspective Ellis has had to provide
what is almost , he lete o£
the co j £rom the rival
Second F , eet jn j lm to Mac _
arthur - s de p ar t ure subsequent to the
fall of Bligh. in March. 1809. We
watch with amazement the erratic
weakness of Governors like Hunter and
King, the dictatorial irresponsibility of
r
Bligh; the shifting and changing
alliances of military officers, officials,
emancipists, even convicts; we are
brutalised with the ugly scene; and
then we remember the domestic peace
so fully recorded in Elizabeth Mac-
arthur’s letters whether from Parra-
matta, or Camden, or Sydney.
The account of Bligh’s overthrow is
brilliantly written, with excitement
caught and retained at fever-heat. For
Bligh there is no sympathy; the modern
whitewash has not been applied.
Instead we see him in his raging
incapacity, in his greed and in his
friendlessness. Bligh’s 17 months of
active service in the colony were the
most profitable to any Governor’s
family in the whole vice-regal history
of New South Wales. Phillip, Grose,
Paterson, Hunter and Macquarie all
ended their reign landless; King and
Bligh were two veiy unworthy
exceptions.
Under Lieutenant-Governor Grose,
John Macarthur first showed his busi-
ness capacities on Australian soil.
Placed in charge of the regimental pay-
chest, he was soon keenly aware of
innuendo and criticism as he made a
financial and administrative success of
his new office. As the years went on
his talent for organisation was both
obvious and admirable; as Acting
Colonial Secretary under Johnston he
was competent and effective; as a
builder or extender of his property he
was indefatigable. But with compet-
ence in organisation went contempt for
his competitors or opponents, and ulti-
mately a fanatical strain which severed
him from old associates and which
made him regard even the slightest
criticism as a sign of personal enmity.
In his last years we are left with a
pitiable old man whose broken mind
has resulted in permanent restraint.
The final mental breakdown and all
the years of ill-health and anguished
suffering which preceded it Ellis attri-
butes to his illness at the Cape on the
way out in 1790, and the greater part
of his extravagance of conduct, of his
insensibility to other points of view,
Ellis blames on a slow, lingering, pain-
ful breakdown of physique and
character during the long years 1790-
1834. Ellis explains but he does not
excuse.
Yet it is to the obstinacy engendered
by his disease that John Macarthur
really owes his fame as the Father of
Australian wool. He was not the first
man to import Merino sheep, though
he eagerly acquired some of the first
imported. He was not the pioneer of
the idea of an Australian wool
industry. But he was the first to have
a vision of what Australian fine wool
could mean to this country and to
the British manufacturer. Though
Samuel Marsden actually took home
the first wool, to be used commercially,
it was Macarthur during the long
years of 1809-17 while he was exiled
in Ertgland who made the study of
British requirements and marketing
methods which was requisite to the
establishment of a demand for
Australian fleeces.
He learnt to know the English wool
market; to understand how the fleeces
should be cleaned and packed, how
divided, what were the qualities to
draw the highest price. As Elizabeth
Macarthur controlled the shepherds,
the shearers and the store at Camden,
her husband was perfecting his scien-
tific knowledge in England and send-
ing out regular directions to the family
in New South Wales, over whose
policy he continued to maintain control
throughout his absence. He refused
through a long period of years to be
defeated by difficulties and opposition
that seemed insurmountable at times.
It has been said that Australia has
been carried to prosperity on the
sheep’s back. If so, much of that
prosperity is due to the perverted
genius and far-sightedness of John
Macarthur. He deserves a high place
in the roll of great Australians. Those
of the first generations had to be no
ordinary men to surmount the disad-
vantages of their distant exile.
It must ever be recalled that John
and Elizabeth Macarthur came ;l to
Australia of their own free will, confi-
dent of their ability to reach the top
in a way impossible or improbable in
Europe. Far from the ties and the
controls of home, even the officers who
held the King’s commission and the
later free-settlers rarely behaved with
the civilisation and breeding that their
relationship to so many great and
noble families might have implied. The
dividing-line between civilisation and
'barbarism is narrow —particularly so
in a distant convict settlement. In the
early years the educated or governing
group was small and ingrown; with
European mails perhaps a year apart
at a time there was room for irrita-
tion and dissension to a degree which
can only be appreciated in limited
surroundings. The early settlers of
New South Wales, whether convict,
officer or free, were, as groups, average
cross-sections of the similar classes at
home, yet feelings run deeper, passions
are more easily aroused in narrow
confines.
The greatness of Macarthur lies in
his attention to his own interests, to
his family’s interests; and to the fact
that these merged inevitably into the
first plans of Australian development
which were both national and enduring
in their implications. He was a worker
though he talked well, a doer rather
than an observer. His mind filled with
grandiloquent plans; he could not
brook opposition. From Grovernments
and Governors he expected co-opera-
tion, as much in his own as in the
colony’s interests; he expected acres
and cattle and convict servants, and if
they were not forthcoming then his
world was all awry.
It is impossible to summarise all the
richness of this notable biography.
John Macarthur is firmly set in the
background of his times whether as a
young officer of the New South Wales
Corps, as the Perturbator of New
South Wales Government policy, as the
mainspring of the opposition to Bligh,
during long years of exile in the
counting-houses of London or on the
fringes of British politics; finally as
a returned, though not reformed, squire
of his Camden estate. We see the
youthful pair in the squalor and dis-
comfort of thfe stinking outward
voyage; we see them the proud parents
of distinguished sons and attractive if
delicate daughters. Rarely do we see
John in a happy mood, but. always he
is pressed onwards and outwards by
a restless and relentless energy which
made of him an enemy to be feared, a
master to be loved, a father to be
respected, a husband to be humored.
This is no mere biography of a long-
dead Titan; it is the saga of a family,
close-knit and effective, almost a
Highland clan. The achievements of
John Macarthur are lost eventually in
his common achievements with Eliza-
beth and her sons. The Australian
Agricultural Company is one of many
interests as much shared as individual.
In “Lachlan Macquarie" and “John
Macarthur,” M. H. Ellis has made
contributions to Australian history
of great and permanent merit.
“Macarthur” is not only an outstanding
biography, but it will prove indispens-
able to all students of the first 20 years
of the life of the infant colony of New
South Wales. Too much of Australian
history has been written as a compound
of convicts and land-grants, stressing
economics rather than culture, the
prisoner rather than the free. The
Macarthur family .can proudly claim
rank as the first native Australian
family of the new dispensation. Its
progenitor has found a distinguished
biographer in Malcolm Ellis. His
achievement is solid and lasting, his
style bright and scintillating, his wit
sharp and irritant; the book as a whole
a work of art, well produced with
attractive illustrations.
J. J. Auchmuty.
METAMORPHOSIS
Listen
Listen
I was once a man;
My face was harsh as bark, my smile was
rare;
Scarred with the sun 1 was to an earthy
tan
And grey as rained-on stubble was my
hajr.
And I was old, and proud as the only tree
Left standing in a field, unawed by
ploughs;
And I would see myself contentedly,
Pleased with my hardwood heart, my
arms like boughs.
But envious gods, the punishers of. pride,
Came on me in my sleep. I woke to see
Myself transmuted. By a dark creek’s side,
Within a thicket, I became a tree.
Festooned with clematis and old-man’s-
beard,
Angry with wrangling birds, you have
seen me
Preside over a dark pool, where a twig
Goes round, around, circling perpetually;
Where winter mornings clothe my feet
with mist
And sunrise sets the dew-bright grass to
glisten
And nothing can be heard but silence,
nothing
Can be heard but nothing.
Listen
Listen
W.A.
RANDOLPH STOW.
Reviewed Briefly
Inns and Outs: Gwen Meredith and
Ainsworth Harrison (Angus and
Robertson). The travels of the author
of “Blue Hills" and her husband in
England, Europe and the Middle East,
with a guide-book, in one hand and a
tip ready in the other. There is much
about the Coronation, much about
food and sanitation, much about the
things every tourist sees; and if it is
not great travel-writing it is pleasant
and readable of its kind.
* * * *
Smoke Over Sikanaska: John Staf-
ford Gowland (Werner Laurie). Auto-
biography of a forest-ranger in the
Canadian Rockies, with bears,
blizzards, birds and bushfires. An
unexpected discovery—in an excellent
book which searches Nature for such
minutiae as the snow-spider which
“apparently lives on air”, and runs
merrily about over the snowbanks
when all other insects are frozen or
hibernating —is that Canadian cow-
boys still wear shootin’-irons and can
shoot a coyote from the hip as readily
as Hopalong Cassidy ever bumped-off
a bad-man.
* * * *
Zermatt and the Valais: Arnold
Lunn (Hollis and Carter). So few
Australians are likely to be leaping up
the Alps in Switzerland this season
that a guide-book, even by the former
president of the Ski Club of Great
Britain, seems rather too remote to
review. However, for anybody speci-
fically interested in mountaineering,
this book has a lot of personal
reminiscences and alpine anecdotes,
added to its guide-book information,
which make absorbing reading. One
extraordinary story is of Colonel de
Burgh and Captain Phillips, two of
the many British p;-0.-w. who escaped
across the Alps and who saw, as they
trudged on their desperate journey,
other escapees who had not been so
fortunate: “I stumbled over a long
block of ice. I looked down. In a thin
casing of frozen glass lay a man
Suddenly I found that I, too, was
gradually becoming robed in ice.”


PERNS’
ANTHONY
HO
OOX 2712. G.P.0., SYDNEY
COVERING FOR HOT PLATE
TWO OVENS
FINGER-TIP TEMP. CONTROL
*V , • '
For Immediate delivery ■■ the famous Scotch made
WELLSTOOD” COOKER-HEATER
One of the most popular of the Esse products, the "Wellstood” is perfect for country homes. It has two
roomy ovens and ample hot plate space, maintaining balanced temperature necessary for
well-cooked meals. The "Wellstood” is available with either cream or green stipple
finish (hot water storage extra), and it’s available
ON THE EASIEST TERMS IN SYDNEY AND COENTRY AREAS!
£l2O
HOT WATER IN THE BATHROOM.
You have hot water 24 hours a day in your bath-
room. Enough hot water for a family of six, too!
KITCHEN. Hot water is always at hand for
washing up, washing clothes and for its dozens of
other uses in the kitchen. All this with a “Well stood”.
mm
' t
•'
■4T i
f: i:: >
- ' ,
AND LAUNDRY. The “Wellstood” will burn
almost any type of fuel. Burns wood, coal or coke.
Whatever you use turns out hot water economically!
“MASTERS OF MUSIC”
Join the thousands who listen each Sunday night at 9.30 p.m. to
hours of uninterrupted Classical music. Tune in to 2SM each Sunday.
AT R 0 J H I N ADVERT I $ I NC
nthony Horderns’
<
ANTHONY
HEIGHT. ’PHONE: 80951. BOX 2712, G.P.O.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 14, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3944
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 Si
‘Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wbstralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth j
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
REALITY AND ROSY HOPES
IT is one of the difficulties of democracy that, in
dealing with a totalitarian Power, the press insists
on a full knowledge of the negotiations and on the
rightvto advise and to bring pressure. Moreover,
the organs of public opinion in democratic countries
are not only open to friends; they are often open
to the use of enemies during the discussions.
The Soviet advantage in the matter is increased
by three factors. The first is the paradoxical fact
that in the countries which Moscow calls aggressors
there is an almost universal yearning to be done
with War and that in those countries public opinion
responds sensitively to wishful-thinking. The
second is that in some Western countries there are
bodies of trade-unions which are prepared to let
tomorrow look after itself and to urge that money
normally spent on defence be switched to provide
higher wages and more loaf at the expense of
security. When, of course, war comes upon them,
after they have succeeded in forcing modifications
of defence policy, they can always turn round,
forget the past and shriek that “the Menzies Gov-
ernment [or whatever Government is involved] let
you down. Only Labor can defend the people.”
The third factor which advantages the
opponents of Western liberalism in such negotia-
tions as those now in progress is that the Western
public can have no true picture of what the people
of the Communist countries are actually doing and
thinking. There is no free press in Russia or any
satellite country. The outside world must take
the Soviet bloc at whatever valuation the Govern-
ments of those countries care to put on their actions,
conditions and habits.
Thus it is esteemed generally by an all-too-
willing Western press as magnificent progress that
a few delegations—official and high-level on the
Russian side almost exclusively—are being
exchanged to allow inspection of industry and agri-
culture, that missions from capitalist countries, and
some not-so-capitalist, are being invited and going
readily to Moscow for negotiations, and that others,
less mentioned, are being arranged from Moscow,
but always as return-visits, to other capitals.
It is advertised that there is a greater air of
freedom in association in Moscow as between East
and West. The 8.0.A.C. has become so optimistic
that it almost hopes that it may be allowed to fly its
aircraft over Russia, where at present any aircraft
which by mistake in navigation wanders a few miles
beyond the wrong border is pitilessly shot down,
innocent passengers and all. The easier tone of
the Russian and other Communist Governments is
noted. The statements, all nebulous, about the
readiness of the Communist bloc to disarm are
emphasised at every turn. Reductions have taken
place in Soviet-bloc military manpower which
would have taken place anyway by reason of the
changing shape of things in Europe—the concen-
tration of the military command and the consequent
reduction of headquarters and army and corps
troops in Eastern Europe where the military
organisations of several countries have come under
a united U.S.S.R. staff.
Behind the rosy glow which emanates from
Geneva and other centres of joy and accord and the
larger realities of the world situation the curtain
still, however, hangs. It hides the millions of
wretches in the slave-camps of nether U.S.S.R. It
obscures ominous signs that, as in the last period
of rosy glow directly after the war, the disruptive
efforts of Communist parties the world over are
at flood-level. They make hay while the sun of.
hope shines on them. In Australia the fight is bitter
for Communist control of the key unions, and the
Communist party appears to have regained control
of “Labor” foreign policy. In Indonesia a fierce
struggle is in progress for control of the Govern-
ment, the Communists putting every available
pound of weight into their effort. In Malaya the
suggested agreement with the Communist guerrilla
forces is only an aspiration of the new Govern-
ment parties—during the recent election campaign
the three parties which won 51 out of 52
seats were favorable to the continuance of British
Commonwealth, including Australian, troops in
the Malayan area. Dr. Evatt is the ally
of the single sitting member who isn’t favorable.
In Vietnam the Communist-trained Ho Chih-minh,
while acting in direct opposition to the whole spirit
of the armistice agreement, is urging the “scrupulous
implementation of the Geneva agreements” by a
unification of North and South Vietnam, while his
commander-in-chief is urging the Communist troops
in the north to “increase their fighting-spirit.”
Every attempt to expand Japanese defence is met
with an internal blast from Leftist organisations.
And China, like Russia and its satellites, still has
millions of conscripts arrayed and armed on
virtually an active-service basis. In Korea the Com-
munists are still proving themselves Communists
—treacherous, consistent breakers of agreements,
consistently advocating peace and at the same time
sabotaging every move which is likely to rob them
of the excuse of aggression as part of the technique
of world-revolution.
Much has been made of the fact that the
Russians have revealed atomic secrets at the recent
“atoms-for-peace” conference; but they have
revealed nothing and shown nothing with which
the outside world had not been well familiar, and
they have gained much more than they have given
and opened no window on the extent or nature of
their atomic military power, methods or intentions.
The realities which lurk behind the flattering,
friendly and hopeful speeches of the negotiators
at the Four - Power conferences are grim
10,000,000 armed men in the Soviet-bloc forces on
all fronts, threatening the world round a circle of
which the perimeter faces every major national
border of the West.
On the West also lies the warning that there
is no real slackening of precaution. Fresh troops,
including the Australian detachment which is on
its way, piecemeal, to Malaya, are being sent to
man the dike against the tide of Communism moving
southward in East Asia. About 60,000-million
marks is involved in the defence-plan for Western
Germany now being discussed in Nato headquarters.
About 12,000-million marks—about £ 1100-
million sterling—is to be provided by the United
States as part of the scheme to provide 12 divisions
for the Nato forces with sufficient corps and army
troops and a small air force and navy within three
years. Even the United States, which has been
reducing its military expenditure and forces in
accord with achieved development, is scarcely pre-
pared to throw around sums like these when there
is a reasonable hope of peace directly ahead.
Great efforts must be made, of course, to use
the present situation, if it can be used. But there
is a long way to go. No agreement for disarma-
ment is possible except on the basis insisted on by
the major Western Powers —mutual inspection of
defence-equipment and installations on an effective
basis; also, opening of frontiers for trade and travel,
the establishment of a universal free public opinion,
the cessation of Communist infiltration and
organisation in Western countries accompanied by
the dissolution of the Cominform.
It is a tremendous task affecting the whole
world and its daily political life. It amounts, in a
nutshell, to securing the abandonment by the
Socialist sixth of the world of the main tenets of
Communism. Yet there seem to be people—and
some in high places—who actually are so little
realistic as to believe that it can be brought about
effectively almost overnight, even though it means
the surrender of every main principle on which the
Soviet theory of existence and morality is based.
To bet on its achievement within a generation
would be like betting on what Dr. Evatt will do
next.
Youth and Full-employment
WHETHER full-employment is looked upon as a
permanent condition, a fortunate accident or some-
thing which, having been achieved through a com-
bination of good judgment and good luck, must be
maintained as long as possible, it can’t be denied
that it has brought with it many problems.
Recently the Prime Minister appealed to
employers, parents and interested organisations to
help stop the drift of workers from job to job. He
mentioned that not only were the drifters them-
selves relatively ineffective in their contribution to
industry, but the continual training of them in new
jobs absorbed the time of skilled workers who
could not be spared from their own tasks. Time
spent training a youth who intends to become
skilled in his new occupation and to stick to it is
not wasted, but if he walks off the job just as he is
beginning to acquire some dexterity then the whole
time spent training him is dead loss.
Under conditions of full-employment such as
have obtained in Australia since the war the
tendency to drift is not surprising. In one sense it
may even be accepted as a sign of enterprise; there
is nothing inherently wrong with a young man
“shopping around” to find the job and conditions
which suit him best. It mhy be argued that this is
evidence that the spirit of adventure and independ-
ence still animates our youth. The argument would
have more force if the leaving of one job for another
entailed any risk. In most cases it cannot be said
that it does; a lad knows that if he walks out of a
job he can get another almost for the asking—very
often he makes doubly sure by getting the new one
before he leaves the old. With something like
60,000 vacancies registered with the Commonwealth
Employment Service, this is not hard—not that he
has any need to go to the C.E.S., but the figures
indicate the position, though not more so than the
Positions Vacant columns of the Saturday papers.
The tendency to walk out of a job without
notice and without regard for the inconvenience
caused to employer and workmates is very
common. It is indicative of selfishness and.lack
of consideration, but it is not to be wondered at.
Modem youth regards this state of affairs as, if not
permanent, then at least as perfectly normal. It
has experienced no other. Politically, the failure to
realise this contributed to the defeat of the Federal
“Labor” party in 1949—and since. The leaders of
the party claimed they had “given” the workers of
Australia full-employment; they were the party of
youth, and the young people who comprised the
new voters could rely on them to see that there
were no more depressions. The tmth is that the
youngsters of 1949 didn’t give two thoughts to the
subject of depression; the youngsters of today give
less. Youth isn’t interested in what happened before
it was bom; 25 years ago might just as well be 50
or 100. Young Australians have never known a
time when there wasn’t full employment; most of
them doubt whether there will ever be such a time
again.
Yet in one sense the youth of today may be
said to be enjoying prosperity because of the depres-
sion of the 1930’5. There has never been a time
when the services of boys (and girls) leaving school
were at a greater premium than in the last few
years, and a big factor in this is the relative
smallness of their numbers, due to the abnormally
low birthrates of the depression years. For the
ten years 1920-29 Australian births averaged 134,000
a year, but for the period 1930-40 the yearly total
was only 118,000, and for the four years in the
middle of that period, 1932-35, it was down to
110,000.
These figures have been reflected in youth-
employment since the war, and the recovery has
not yet started. Between 1947 and last year the
number of adolescents in the age-group 16-20
decreased from 596,552 to 577,774; the drop would
have been far greater but for approximately 40,000
adolescent migrants who arrived during the period.
Had the birthrate of the 1920’s been main-
tained in the following decade the annual crop of
youngsters seeking first-jobs in recent years would
have been augmented by about 16,000, and on top
of that they would have found a correspondingly-
larger number of slightly older youths already
entrenched in jobs. Not until 1942 did the birth-
tally get back to the level of the late 1920’5. Since
1946 the rate has been consistently high; Aus-
tralians are now being bom at the rate of 200,000
a year. Therein lies the ultimate answer to the
problem of a shortage of youth-labor, though it
may produce other problems just as difficult.
For the next two or three years youngsters
leaving school are still likely to be faced with an
embarrassing choice of jobs, but those who follow
them, say from 1959 onwards, will find things
somewhat different. It may even be that some of
them will have to look for jobs instead of being
besought to accept one. The archpriests of full-
employment may deplore such a thought, but most
thoughtful people would admit that the change
could be good for the youngsters and for the
stability of the country. For although the young
people of the community may be envied because
they have never known any other conditions than
boom and prosperity, there is another side of the
picture. Never having experienced even a mild
slump, they are painfully ill-equipped to meet a
possible economic setback, and, having had their
present conditions served up to them on a plate
without any conscious effort on their part, they are
in no position to know when they are well off.
Mr. Menzies is by no means alone in sound-
ing a warning on problems of full-employment.
The advisory council of the Federal Ministry of
Labor, which is composed of representatives of
employers’ organisations and the trade-union move-
ment, has recently been discussing the question.
Minister for Labor Holt quoted the council as say-
ing that while it would be imprudent not to assume
that variations in economic circumstances could
lead to fluctuations in the degree of full-employ-
ment, problems connected with industrial and
labor-management needed to be considered on the
basis that full-employment had come to stay. That
is a careful and guarded statement which at
least shows optimism for the future. Other state-
ments by the council showed that its members recog-
nised that there are degrees of fullness and that
overfull-employment can be just as uncomfortable
to the economy as an overfull stomach is to the
individual. Recognition of this is a healthy sign,
but the important thing is to make it clear to the
youth of today and tomorrow. It is up to the
parents and teachers of children approaching
school-leaving age to see that they are made aware
of what the future is likely to hold for them, and
it would seem to be the duty of the trade-unions to
acquaint their younger members, somewhat
belatedly, with the economic facts of life.


BOOKS-OF-THE-MONTH


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor" Strip-tease
With December being tipped as the
month for an early Federal election (it
may be a little later), the outlook
is not a happy one for “Labor.”
Blows are rocking into its midriff
from all quarters. The prophets
were confounded by the Prime Minister’s
decision to table the report of the War-
time Expenditure Committee, a document
prepared by a joint Parliamentary Com-
mittee and of which Dr. Evatt’s know-
ledge must be far more extensive than
he admits, since he was Attorney-General
at the time. Whoever actually handled
the issues affecting Raymond Fitzpatrick
which arose from it, he was the Minister
responsible for seeing that they were
dealt with. It is a responsibility that he
can’t escape by attempting to fob* it off
on to civil servants, especially in view of
the debates which were initiated by
Morgan, M.P., in the House of Represen-
tatives early in 1944 and which showed
clearly that there was something very
wrong with Governmental reaction to the
knowledge that Fitzpatrick had acquired
a hangar and a 75ft. crane to erect it
and that he had done considerable work
which required extensive manpower
permits which had not been applied for
or granted.
Brigaded with the Wartime Expendi-
ture Committee Report in the week’s
sensations is the Petrov Report. The
findings do not matter to “Labor” so
much as the evidence. Dr. Evatt can
hire all the loudspeakers in the Com-
monwealth to shout that the commission
is all the result of a foul conspiracy to
ruin him. Nothing he can say can get
over the fact that the evidence shows
that during his reign as head of the
External Affairs Department the depart-
ment harbored Communists and Com-
munist sympathisers. t
Another incident showing the extra-
ordinary bitterness in the “Labor”
camp developed during the week.
This was Mr. Bourke’s challenge
to Mr. Cahill and his Ministers to dis-
close their assets in order to prove that
they have not been in the pay of the
breweries in respect of certain matters
in the recently-passed Liquor Reform
law. Mr. Downing, Minister for Justice
in Mr. Cahill’s Government, is ready to
oblige personally if Mr. Bourke will put
up a stake of £lOOO to be forfeit if he
cannot prove the facts are not as hinted.
Mr. Bourke, who admits that he has no
evidence which would prove his case,
has offered to go to £250, which he says
is all he can afford to risk.
The last embarrassment has been
at the A.C.T.U. conference. There,
as in the inner circles of the A.L.P., the
Communists seem to have taken over,
but more openly. The A.B.C. news-
hawks last week were able to bring back
into the limqlight Tom Wright, of the
Sheetmetal Workers, organiser
of the Communist party ; the ebullient Jim
Healy, of the Watersiders; and W.
Evans, of the Engine Drivers and Fire-
men. They produced a report from the
industrial committee to the A.C.T.U.
Congress in Melbourne, which plumps
for the abolition of the Arbitration Court
and its replacement by a panel of con-
ciliation commissioners and one of
arbitrators to operate within the frame-
work of a delusively-attractive scheme
of collective-bargaining. This scheme
seems suspiciously like the one with
which Comrade Ernie Thornton snared
some innocent employers’-organisation
leaders into supporting. As conceived
by the A.C.T.U. committee, and endorsed
by the United Front of that body
unanimously, together with a vote in
favor of the abolition immediately of
the punitive clauses of the Arbitration
Act, the plan amounts to giving a free
hand to the Communists to take
industrial control of the country.
But, apart from that, the vote involved
a complete repudiation of the arbitration
plank of the A.L.P. platform. About the
only main tenet which justifies the exist-
ence of the “Labor” party now is the
White Australia policy, and, on the basis
of its decisions at the Hobart Conference,
it might drop that too at any tick of the
clock. Then its strip-tease will be
complete.
The Connoisseurs
The tradition of Australian art is so often
under fire these days—as if it were some-
how reprehensible to be able to distil
the lyrical essence of the countryside like
Gruner and Hilder, to draw with the
firm delicacy of Lloyd Rees in his pencil-
studies, to dramatise a watercolor-wash
with perfect control like Blamire Young
or to display the tireless force and flair
of a Norman Lindsay—that it is singu-
larly reassuring to see such a collection
as that of B. J. Waterhouse, now
showing at Sydney Grosvenor Galleries,
and to realise how firmly these paintings
must stand up to all that could possibly
be said against them.
Mr. Waterhouse is president of the
trustees of the N. S. Wales National
Gallery. This, his private collection, or
part of it, is modest enough. There are
none of the masterpieces of the
National Gallery like “Bailed-up,” “Fire’s
On” and “Spring Frosts.” Except for one
Gruner, a Heysen flowerpiece, a Lambert
portrait and one of the larger Norman
Lindsay pen-drawings, there is little
work on the scale of the best pictures
which Howard Hinton sent to Armidale.
But it is, in its way, almost a history
of Australian art over the last 50 years:
chiefly perhaps of N. S. Wales artists,
but with Heysen to represent South Aus-
tralia and Arnold Shore, Harold Herbert
and an excellent early watercolor of
Daryl Lindsay’s from Victoria. And
whether the pictures are large or small,
whether the names are early or recent —
J. Muir Auld, Mary Edwards, Ronald
Steuart and Frank McNamara are some
of the others included—it is fascinating
to see everywhere the unmistakable
stamp of quality. You could hang nearly
all these pictures, without the slightest
fear of disparagement, in any gallery in
Europe.
Whatever the critics too much under
the influence of contemporary fashions
may say—and of course good work is
being done today by some of the so-
called “modernists” as well as by more
traditional painters—Australia has had a
fine record of achievement in art; and
the connoisseurs like Hinton and
Waterhouse who select and preserve the
best of it do an invaluable service to the
community.
Bolte Writes to Cahill
On Friday Premier Bolte of Victoria
wrote a letter to Premier Cahill of New
South Wales suggesting that they get
together to discuss a joint plan for the
abolition of uniform taxation. Cahill
can scarcely decline the invitation, as
he only recently expressed hjmself in
favor of the return of taxing-powers to
the States. But that any workable plan
will emerge from the discussion is rather
dubious. Bolte is apparently in earnest
about the matter; Cahill’s sincerity
is very much in doubt.
The Victorian Premier was outspoken
in his Budget-speech. He said,
Uniform taxation must go. The Govern-
ment pledges itself to take all possible
steps to that end.
He claimed that his estimated deficit of
£1,850,000 for the coming year could be
attributed directly to “this iniquitous
system.”
In the New South Wales Assembly
the following night Cahill was asked his
views on Bolte’s remarks. He replied
that he agreed with them and that he was
prepared to ask that New South Wales
be given back “its own rights of taxa-
tion.” He then reminded members that
at a Loan Council meeting “a few years
ago” the Prime Minister had “threatened”
to hand back taxing-powers to the States.
He said that he had been willing, but
that the smaller States had been
unwilling:
A committee of officers was set up.
They went into the matter, but their con-
clusions were never given us to discuss.
Cahill reminded the House of the
proposal he had made earlier that the
Commonwealth should levy 75 per cent,
of the tax on N. S. Wales incomes and
the State 25 per cent. This sounds a
generous offer, but the catch is Cahill’s
intention that Canberra should get its
share by taxing incomes under £BOO,
while he takes his cut from those over
£BOO. The “tall poppies” would be
among Cahill’s contributors, and he
could sock them as hard as he pleased
without having any qualms on polling-
day, whereas “the workers,” on whom
Cahill depends for votes, would be pay-
ing their tribute to Menzies and Fadden,
who would have to bear the brunt of
the unpopularity in the event of an
increase in tax-rates. In effect, Cahill
would be in the same position as he is
at present, when he and the other
Premiers are able to profit politically
from the popularity that comes with the
spending of tax-money, without having
to take the abuse that comes the way
of the tax-collector.
Premier Bolte would quite conceivably
like to accept the Cahill plan, but he
will probably have too much common-
sense to expect the Commonwealth to
accept it. And he will probably feel,
too, that Cahill has never expected it to
be accepted.
How to Make Asian Friends
“In the ACT”: There is reason to
hope that good will result front the
visit of 14 Asian journalists, despite the
fact that the tour was overcrowded and
too hurried, and although two of the
party sustained injuries, fortunately
minor, in a spectacular car crash in the
Snowy Mountains. The members of the
party were alert, and greatly interested in
all they saw and heard. They admitted
their astonishment at the absence of
any display of racial prejudice, their
gratification at the warmth of the
welcome they received and their
gradually - acquired but now com-
plete conviction that the “White Aus-
tralia” policy is in reality an economic
policy. Most of them had be-
lieved previously that it was merely an
assertion of white superiority. They
admitted that they had never before
accepted the Australian explanation.
This changed outlook, together with
answers from Immigration Minister Holt
when the visitors questioned him in Can-
berra on the subject of “quotas,” should
mean a better understanding in several
parts of Asia of a basic and unalterable
section of Australian policy. Other
tours should be arranged soon to ensure
wider dissemination of such knowledge
—but before anything of the sort is con-
templated it is to be hoped that the
officials responsible for the programme
have now learned what to avoid in such
visits. The party found the official
schedule much too tight and wearying.
There were, for example, far too
many cocktail-parties, especially for
visitors who mostly drink little or no
alcohol and who, rightly, find the con-
versation current at that kind of enter-
tainment of little value or interest. It is
true that the Australian officials who
drafted the programme omitted some
suggested trips and functions, but even
so they made the going too tough for
people who would have appreciated more
spare-time and put it to good use. It
was illuminating to learn that at least
two of the visitors slipped away from
the official shows as often as possible,
and went into near-by bars, with the
object of striking-up acquaintance with
average Australians—and perhaps to
observe our drinking habits. They were
impressed by their friendly reception in
such haunts (even though they had
“soft” drinks), and by the outspoken but
polite answers to their questions.
Fear of a Birthright
“Snow” : It’s a pity we don’t more often
hear judicial utterances like that of
Judge Rruxner during a recent
Quarter Sessions sitting at Coonamble
(N.S.W.). Addressing a party of senior
high-school pupils attending the court
on an educational visit, his Honor said:
“Justice is your birthright under the laws
of the land, and not a subject for fear or
apprehension founded upon ignorance.”
A few downright statements from the
Bench like that might jolt the general
public into realising that, while we’re sup-
posed to be living in an enlightened age,
our psychological approach to the admini-
stration of justice hasn’t come far out of
the Dark Ages.
It’s an awful truth, but modern society
as a whole fosters a common dread of
the seat of justice—the courtroom.
Most people detest the very sound of
the word. They’ll openly manifest their
intense dislike for going near a court
and, should the occasion arise when they
must do so, their attendance, no matter
in what capacity, is usually an ordeal.
The extent to which their dislike or
fear might weaken, directly or indirectly,
the whole fabric of our system of
administering British justice, only those in
court circles —our judges and magistrates,
our police and our legal profession—
would be in a position to say. They’re
the ones who know how difficult it can
be to get complainants to back up their
word in an open court; the trouble
getting witnesses to give evidence; the
thankless search for jurors ; and the court-
shyness of litigants in civil claims. They
know, too, of the many citizens who,
rather than “go to court,” will suffer
loss of honor or property, submit to
insult and slander, or even endure
physical hurt.
There are, of course, a number of
contributing factors, but the misguided
attitude of most citizens is largely, as
the good judge says, “founded on ignor-
ance,” and there is something to be said
for our educationists that an elementary
knowledge of court practices and pro-
ceedings, under the heading of “social
studies,” is now included in school curri-
cula in the various States. Like the party
of Coonamble pupils, who sat out a full
trial by jury, many young folks, on the
threshold of citizenship, are today getting
an early insight into the actual func-
tionings of justice.
The A.C.T.U. Goes Red
An optimistic industrial-grouper moved
at the congress of the A.C.T.U. in Mel-
bourne last week that Communist China
should be recognised only when its Gov-
ernment had proved its intention to
observe international law and morality;
that the sending of troops to Malaya
should be opposed only if the terrorists
there accepted the amnesty offer of the
new locally elected Government.
This move was an amendment to
motions submitted by the executive in
favor of unconditional recognition and
admission of Communist China to U.N.O.
and against sending troops to Malaya.
The suggestion of the mover of the
amendments that Australia should not
allow Britain and the U.S. to conscript
men to defend the barrier against Com-
munism in the South-East Asia without
doing its share was received with proper
scorn by union-leaders who—those of
them who were not calling for defence of
Russia before defence of threatened Aus-
tralia —were in 1942 howling to the
United States and Britain to drop every-
thing and defend Australia.
It is quite obvious, now that the Com-
munists have succeeded in securing the
passage of a congress to
overhaul the constitution of the A.C.T.U.
and appoint a committee to draw up a
plan to give key-union groups direct
representation on the executive, that they
are back in the saddle inside the trade-
union movement.
They are implementing the tenet which
advises the Communist party to take
advantage of disruption wherever it is
found in order to bring about revolu-
tionary conditions and assume control
as the vanguard of the United Front.
The earlier the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment realises that its defence plans
are due to take the shock of a full-scale
Communist onslaught which has been in
process of organisation for the past two
years the better it will be. If there
should be a recession or industrial dis-
location on any scale within the next two
years the Commonwealth may look
forward to a major attempt by the Com-
munist party and its “Labor” hangers-on
to capitalise the situation to the full.
Coonamble Scores a Century
A N.S.W. country town grows up:
A centre of 3000 people, Coonamble is one
of the many Australian inland towns which are
around their hundredth birthday; but the sig-
nificance lies not in the actual age of the place
but in the development that has been packed
into the century.
Coonamble, 359 miles from Sydney, is part
of a shire of 4060 square miles. This area
holds a population of 6200 between the foot-
hills of the picturesque Warrumbungles, a
holiday resort of surprising beauty and charm
held in trust for the future, and part on the
open-plain country bounded by the Macquarie
Marshes on the west. It is a region of limited
rain, about 20in. average, extremes of heat
and cold. Its soils are renewed by the floodings
of the Castlereagh.
The district owes its first description to
Oxley, the least skilled and most unprescient
of explorers, who visited it under the tutelage
of George Evans in 1818 and struck a
relatively wet season with the marsh country
flooding. While Oxley stayed at a camp
pitched on high ground, having become confi-
dent that he had reached “the immediate
vicinity of an inland sea, probably a shoal
one,” Evans was “sent forward to explore the
country to the north-east, that being the point
on which I purposed to set forward.”
Thus Evans, the man who first traversed the
Illawarra, first saw and traversed the Bathurst
Plains and camped on the Macquarie and
found the Lachlan, was also the pioneer of
the Coonamble district and the discoverer of
the Castlereagh, which (it is said) he crossed
about ten miles south of the present town.
Sturt was the first explorer actually to stand
on the site of Coonamble in March, 1829. He
succeeded in getting there when the district
'was running a heat-wave and there was no
water in the river, and the country was bare.
Squatting came in the late ’thirties and
’forties, and one of the earliest in the field
in the district was Walker, of Caigan,
Wallerawang, who pushed out his stock from
his sheep-walks, which were organised on the
lines foreshadowed in the Bigge Report of 1822,
and formed his Coonamble run under his
stockmen, John Ross Patterson and George
Gibson. They first built their huts and yards
around the junction of Eurimie Creek, and
later transferred their headquarters to Coonamble
Creek junction.
These two pioneer stockmen afterwards
moved their own cattle down to Bimble. After
the Lands Act of 1846 was passed, Walker
claimed a lease of 50,000 acres which was
estimated to be carrying 15,000 head of cattle
—a surprising number —centred round the site
of Coonamble. John Hall’s Yoolandry- and
John Merrett’s Warena were, by 1848, going
(i Continued on next page )


as strong as the “Hungry Forties” allowed,
and Reardon had Balagula. The name of
Tailby’s Gulargambone was soon well known,
and Wingadee came later on. Other pioneers
of the squatting age were William and Samuel
Blackman (Bullarora), who belonged to the
first families granted land across the Blue
Mountains by Macquarie some months before
the discovery of the Castlereagh, Nelson
Lawson (Bundy), Andrew Brown (Toora-
weenah), John Jude (Armatree) and Michael
McMahon (Geanmony).
The Coonamble Reserve, part of Walker’s
station and the site of the town, 5000 acres,
was proclaimed on July 5, 1855, but it was
not surveyed till 1859, when there were on the
area “one grave and one mill.” Generally
speaking, the spot remained a myall-and-
dogwood flat bisected by a line of gums along
the river until 1859, when 21 allotments were
surveyed. Ten were offered for sale on
February, 1861, when J. McCubbin, R. R.
Walker and G. White bought six of the half-
acre blocks at the upset price of £8 an acre.
The first pub was John McCubbin’s Red
Heifer —which later matured into the Red Cow.
A German started a store in what is now
Namoi-street. Paddy Burns and William Wally
set up anvils and forges, Harry Broad opened
a saddlery, and John Payne a bootmaking-shop.
Coonamble was on the way.
Before the ’sixties were out there were two
more hotels operating—Patsy McMahon’s
Maitland in Namoi-street, not far from David
McCullough’s Exchange. By 1865 the German’s
store had become something more substantial
in the hands of Arthur Wilmott, who quickly
had competition from Herrmann and Nelson
as the selectors began to flow westward under
the impetus of John Robertson’s Land Act of
1861 and the dying-down of excitement on the
goldfields.
With the change in the nature of pastoral
settlement many new names appear, including
that of the Skuthorps in 1866, and sheep, which
which bad hitherto been unpopular because of,
inter alia, the large and enterprising dingo
population and the complete lack of fences,
flowed in following the pioneer-flock which
went to Wingadee in 1861.
There was a ferment of sales of properties
by the old cattlemen, who did not follow
McMahon of Budgeon and Brown of Tonder-
bine, in changing over from horns to wool.
Budgeon has the local credit for the first shear-
ing-shed in the district. It is surprising, in view
of the happy-go-lucky seasons with their alternat-
ing droughts and floods, that so many of the old
pastoral families have survived successfully.
Colwells, Connells, Taylors, Ibbotts, Fishers,
Wilds, McDowells, Tyms, Landers and Mathes
of the ’seventies and early ’eighties are still
round about.
Coonamble had various small lockups and
temporary court-houses in the ’sixties, but the
public school established in 1869 beat the
arrival of the police to establish a station in
1871. Three years later the A.J.S. Bank
opened, with the ’Wales and C.B.S. hard on
its heels, along with a crop of new stores and
the first telegraph-office and the first Rector of
St. Barnabas. The latter beat the Rev. Father
Meagher, first resident priest, by a couple of
years and that other civilising influence, the
“Coonamble Independent” (publisher, G. E.
Cass) by four years. With the formation of a
brass-band by P. Duffy in 1875 and the found-
ing of a mechanics’ institute and a hall capable
of holding 400-500 people in 1880, the town
reached the point of civic organisation at which
it was possible to declare the Coonamble
Municipal District on May 3, 1880, and hold
the first municipal-council meeting in the
Court House on July 15, with David
McCullough as mayor. The local historian
pays tribute to the results of their early
wrestles with black soil by saying that in the
’seventies and ’eighties Coonamble roads “were
little worse than other roads in the State,
except that they were flatter and longer.”
Then came the great days of wool on the
Castlereagh when the blacks still “used to
ramble” and
The wool-teams in season came down
from Coonamble
And journeyed for weeks on their way to
the sea,
passing on their way the flash coaches of Cobb
and Co., which began to ply in 1870, and the
smart four-in-hands and smarter saddle-horse
ranging ahead for the racing-season—all this
before the railway pushed its way into the
town in February, 1903, after twenty years of
agitation and hope deferred. It was badly
needed despite the fact that the country’s habit
of going dry and bringing the need to move
stock had become a little less irksome after
No. 1 bore —the first artesian bore south of the
Darling—struck 3,000,00 gallons a day in 1894
near the old cemetery.
The subsequent years have seen changes in
water- and fodder-conservation, in communica-
tions and scientific farming and modern com-
munications, pasture - improvement and the
wiping-out of the rabbit, which have revolu-
tionised the rich little district.
It sacrificed a good many of the flower of
its local youth in three wars since 1899, but
has attracted quite a lot more young men
from overcrowded pastoral districts; elsewhere,
of whom Councillor Frank Simpson, now
chairman of the shire, who arrived after the
depression years from Victoria, typifies the
nature of the influx. He is a son of the famous
breeder A. J. Simpson, one of the greatest
Commonwealth beef-studmasters of all time, and
founder in 1897 of the great Clifton Shorthorn
Stud at Hamilton (Vic.).
Today Coonamble is a booming, bustling,
well-kept town packed with motor-cars and
business, and humming with life. It has become
typical of the modern trends in Australian
civilisation which are bringing about slowly but
surely a new exodus to what used to be called
“the outback.”
Coonamble has become so civilised and
prosperous that it even has a local historian,
Mr. Jack Stephens, of the Education Depart-
ment staff, from whose celebratory-book (an
Oswald Ziegler publication) produced by the
Council of Coonamble Shire most of the
information in this article is culled.
POLITICAL POINTS
The new conspiracy season opens this
week.
• •
If the prophets are right and there’s a
Federal election on December 10 it will
be six years to the day from the poll
which brought the Menzies Government
to power in 1949.
• •
R.A.F. planes are reported to have
dropped 40-million surrender-leaflets in
the jungle areas of Malaya. The idea is
said to be to persuade the 3500 terrorists
to surrender, but on that scale it looks
more like an attempt to smother ’em.
• •
Cahill presents his ring-down-the-
curtain Budget tonight.
• •
Advocating flats instead of cottages,
A.C.T.U. secretary Broadby said, “The
flat-system of life would solve the pre-
sent sprawling tendencies of Australian
cities and provide adequate homes at a
reasonable cost to tenants.” Another
thing which should commend the idea
to the A.L.P. is that it would curb the
deplorable tendency of the worker to
acquire his own home and become a
little capitalist.
• •
“Old Army Tanks to Go” says the
heading of an official handout by the
Army Minister. Some Western Desert
veterans may recall vividly occasions
when their particular vehicle wouldn’t go.
But that has nothing to do with the rumor
that one elderly colonel who read the
heading thought it was a notice to quit.
• •
Anyone had a long telegram from
Dr. Evatt lately?
• •
Britain’s T.U.C. has urged its members
to show restraint in their efforts to obtain
higher wages. Its chairman has warned
that higher wages mean higher costs and
that “if we are pricing ourselves out of
export markets, we are pricing ourselves
out of a job—and that is industrial
suicide.” This realisation that the wel-
fare of the wage-earner is bound up with
the welfare of industry is not very
apparent in Australian trade-union
thinking. Almost on the same day that
the T.U.C. heard it? chairman voice this
warning the A.C.T.U. decided to press
for an increase in the basic wage.
• •
“Labor” lost ground in two by-
elections for the Westralian Legislative
Council on Saturday. Liberal candi-
dates won back the goldfields seat lost
to “Labor” last year and retained the
south - western seat with a record
majority. Assembly elections are due
early next year. “Labor” at present has
a majority of two in a House of 50.
• •
Detailing the benefits that might' be
expected from the just-completed Eildon
dam, Victorian Minister for Water
Supply Mibus said it would double pro-
duction in its area. Every new irrigation-
farm meant an additional two families
on the land, two more families to meet
commercial and service needs and four
more for manufacturing- and transport-
requirements. In all, it meant a per-
manent living for an additional 100,000
people. On top of that, the community
gained a hydroelectric power-station of
135,000 kilowatts.
• •
Doc. Evatt, when Attorney-General in
the Chifley Government, introduced
conciliation-commissioners as part of a
plan to “streamline” arbitration. Now
the A.C.T.U. wants to streamline the
judges right off the bench.
The A.C.T.U. suggests that the
Arbitration Court should be abolished ;
panels of conciliators and arbitrators
should replace it; disputes not capable
of being settled by a conciliator to go
to an arbitrator ; alterations to basic
wage, standard hours, female wage and
long-service leave to be decided by a
panel of arbitrators.
It must have been a relief to Immigra-
tion Minister Holt that the “millionth
migrant” since the war proved to be a
young and photogenic British lass, and
not some hard-bitten old bruiser from
the backblocks of Europe. No one would
suggest, of course, that the selection was
anything but fair, and Barbara Wood,
of Yorkshire, typifying “the young,
eager, enterprising migrants,” looks the
right type to be welcomed with the kind
of fanfare that’s being arranged for
November. When the cameras have been
clicking the Minister has been known to
implant chaste kisses on the cheeks of
elderly matrons and attractive youngsters
in migrant-groups, and he now has to
decide whether a kiss or a handshake wilt
be appropriate on this occasion. Maybe
Miss Wood’s husky, 25-year-old fiance
will be asked for advice on the subject.
• •
A committee of India’s Congress Party
has passed a resolution opposing demon-
strations by Indians in Portuguese terri-
tory. From Goa to whoa!
• •
“In the ACT”: From all reports Sep-
tember is the month for reports. Last
week retiring Auditor-General Brophy
PULLING-OUT THE PEG
fired some parting shots (on Saturday
next he’ll appear in a new role as a can-
didate for election to the board of the
Canberra hospital), and yesterday the
Prims Minister was to table the long-
secret war-time-expenditure report, with a
highly-significant time-table of action
(and inaction) about it all. Next for
release is the report of the Petrov commis-
sion, held up a bit by printing delays.
The debate on this may be all that some
political commentators are expecting.
At any rate it’s not likely to heal any of
“Labor’s” gaping wounds.
• •
“Money makes money” is an old say-
ing. Making money makes money, too.
The Commonwealth mints made a profit
of £724,569 last year, all of it, plus
£43,638, on its silver coins. The plus
represents the loss on coppers.
• •
“Froth”: Beer-drinking in Australia
has almost doubled since 1939 ; the
official figures suggest that every man,
woman and infant consumed 24.09
gallons of the stuff in 1953-54. As a great
many babies don’t drink beer, some men
and women are total abstainers, and
many more are temperate quaffers, the
real drinkers must get through an im-
pressive quantity to make up the total
of more than 219 million gallons. One
curious fact disclosed in the official review
of brewery statistics is that Victorian
breweries used materials worth more than
£7 million to yield an output worth £lo|
million, whereas N.S.W. breweries used
about £600,000 less for materials for
brews valued at more than £l2 million.
Drinkers may be able to explain the
difference. Or perhaps Bourke, M.P.,
has some ideas.
• •
The Rising Sun is not to set, after all.
• •
Harry Alderman, Adelaide Q.C., acting
as royal commissioner, yesterday began
an inquiry into allegations of bribery in
connection with tenders for the construc-
tion of pumping-stations and treatment-
works at Redcliffe (Q.). The commission
was appointed as a result of allegations
made at the trial of a man charged with
having corruptly offered the Redcliffe
Town Clerk £lOO “for doing an act in
relation to the affairs of his principal, the
Redcliffe Town Council.” It was alleged
that the offer was made on behalf of “a
top member of Parliament.”
• •
Difficulty of settling some colonial
problems is exemplified by the current
ferment over Cyprus. On the island
itself Cypriotes of Greek descent are
blowing up buildings because Britain
won’t agree to hand over the island to
Greece and in Istanbul Turks are burn-
ing Greek buildings because they’re
afraid she will.
• •
Victorian Over Fiftys’ Association
gave 30 not-so-young typists a three-
months’ refresher-course and then issued
a “Jobs Wanted” announcement. They
got 200 replies and placed the whole 30
in good jobs. Another batch will finish
the course in three weeks’ time.
• •
At the opening of the railways exhi-
bition Cahill, as an old railwayman,
declared his loyalty to the steam-engine,
which, he said, “will go until it falls
to pieces.” That’s all very well, but it’s
not cricket to flog a willing horse, even if
it’s an iron one.
• •
Ex-Premier Cain criticised the habit
of the Victorian Housing Commission
of addressing letters to occupants of
commission homes “The Tenant,” instead
of using the tenant’s name. Doube,
“Labor” member for Oakleigh, also
referred to the practice, whereupon
Housing Minister Petty produced an
envelope posted during the regime of
the Cain Government, on which the style
criticised was used. Obviously neither
the Cain nor the Bolte Government is
responsible for instituting this typically
bureaucratic practice, but now that it
has been publicised it is up to Petty to
see that, in departmental jargon, “it
ceases forthwith.”


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
IN a large Sydney maternity hospital
several fathers-to-be waited ner-
vously. The door-handle clicked; the
desultory conversation ceased; all sprang
to their feet, eyeing the beaming matron.
“Oh!” she cooed, her glance singling out
Sydney’s newest father. “You have such
a lovely little girl!” Before the relieved
and delighted young man could com-
ment, the matron was confronted by
another of the group, his eyes blazing, his
jaw out-thrust, his native amiability
momentarily shelved. “Fair go! Fair go! ”
he snarled. “What is this? What about
me ? He was here last, and, for that
matter, / was here before any of the
others!”—“B.A.C.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pelm”: About twelve months after we
had paid the telephone-rental we began
calling and ringing the department. At
the last visit an official very confidentially
gave us a secret telephone-number to
ring for attention. Three times this
important number was rung, when a
resonant male voice repeatedly stated “The
time is now three minutes past two” . . .
“The time is now five minutes past
two” . . . “Time is seven minutes past
two p.m.” No one could say the depart-
ment wouldn’t give us the right time.
* ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“’Arry Stottle”: I don’t know why
you let past “Swilliam’s” line (B. 7/9/’55)
on the “gay iambic hiccup.” The hiccup
—the act, not the word —cduld be
trochaic, a long, or heavily-accented,
sound followed by a short; but never
iambic, or short followed by a long. The
essence of the hiccup is its sudden
severity; it is doubtful whether it can be
said to have two accents at all; it is
rather a monosyllabic foot, equivalent to
half-a-spondee. I defy anyone to hiccup
in iambics.
♦> '
“Jasby”: I’ve just been having an orgy
of reading—Walt Disney’s Robin Hood,
Walt Disney’s Snow White, Walt Disney’s
Knights of the Round Table, Walt Dis-
ney’s Pinocchio, Walt Disney’s Twenty
Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. Gosh,
what a writer that man is!
<4 4*4
“NarUmee”: Prominently displayed in
a shop-window in our suburb was a large,
brass-nail-studded dog-collar with chain
attached, and a placard describing it as
a “Father’s Day Special.” And I’d always
thought that was one day out of the 365
when Dad was not in the doghouse!
♦♦♦ <♦
“Zake”: Denied the pleasures of
hibernation, I have been forced during
my winter journeyings to and from the
“Trim your hedges , madam? Any design you like."
treadmill to gaze at the same girl who,
despite being clad only in the briefest
G f swimsuits, has managed to greet me
w jth. the same serene smile; and the
sight of her so clad on the poster has
made me shudder into the recesses of my
topcoat. My representations to the rail-
way authorities to compel their adver-
tisers, in the interests of the comfort of
train-travellers, to deck up their models
more in keeping with the season have so
far been ignored —but then what else
could one expect from them ! She is still
there, but this morning a rival appeared
alongside her. Pretty, I’ll grant, yet
somehow, despite her disturbing my
winter journeys, I plump for the one whet
has braved the frosts and the westerlies
with such aplomb. The other is just a
softie who has waited for the spring
warmth to put her bra-top on.
* ♦> . ❖
“In the ACT”: Gone are the days
when a soldier had only to learn how to
fight. The Malaya-bound Australian
troops are being given a handbook.
“Good—now that makes me square.”
covering such matters as what is “done”
and “not done” by a European invited
to a Malay’s house, the system of govern-
ment in Malaya and Singapore, the
national economy, and the background
of the “emergency.” The troops, who
will also be lectured on the voyage on
“local customs, taboos and the political
situation,” are being warned of the im-
portance of observance of local rules of
etiquette and good manners, as well as
of health- and jungle-hazards. It’s all
very necessary and desirable, I suppose,
but what would the Iron Duke have said
about it?
(£♦
“Bo”: He was one of those neckpains
of the road, the driver who almost froths
at the mouth whenever some obstruction
holds up his progress for more than five
seconds; so when the car in front stalled
near the intersection he began furiously
punching his horn-button. In seeming
oblivion to the racket behind, the front
driver got his bomb ticking over again ;
then he walked back to the car behind,
pushed up the bonnet, whipped out the
leads to the horn and without a word
got into his own car and was gone before
the other bloke’s eyes could get back
into their sockets,
* v •
“Mugga Way”: Discussion of the alco-
holic strength of beer leaves me unmoved,
i’ ve tried many brews, from the weak
stuff that is the legal limit in some of
southern U.S.A. to Guiness’s export
stout, consumed on the spot in Dublin,
What really rattles me in Australia is
the knowledge that it’s about 90 per cent.
water and that the Treasurer grabs about
half the price of every schooner, middy,
butcher and “pot.” About 80 per cent,
of Australians drink beer, and yet they
allow politicians and publicans to push
them around. What about a Beer
Drinkers’ League, with a shilling-subscrip-
tion to provide the sinews of war for
some vigorous propaganda on behalf of
the downtrodden in every State —and the
A.C.T.?
♦> ♦♦♦
“Bass”: A bankrupt under examina-
tion in Perth said that during nine years
in the Army he won £4OOO, “mainly by
playing two-up, dice, and card-games
with Americans.” And then, evidently,
he went into business in Australia. There
is food for thought in this.
* ❖ ❖
“Hallcraft”: The London “Times”
carries many queer items, but surely
this is one of the most extraordinary:
111-health necessitates Gloucestershire
lady purchasing a property in Hampshire
Hunt country with 5-6 bedrooms, 3 recep-
tion, 2 baths; stabling; paddocks and land
from 8 to 50 acres. Price to £12,000.
❖ ♦>
“ Villefair”: A plumber-acquaintance
of mine has good money to back his
opinion that the majority of Australians
don’t bathe regularly in the winter.
Ridiculous, I said; so he took me to
where he was working over a ventilator-
shaft in a Sydney film-house. In the
summer, he assured me, it would be
possible to sit there and eat your dinner,
but from May to September or a little
later . . . The manufacturers of certain
soaps must have a lean time in the
winter.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: Signs of the times in
Victoria: near Moorabbin pedestrian-
crossings :
Slow Up.
Let Our Children Grow Up.
And in the main street of Sale: —■
Population, 6547.
We Love ’Em All.
Slow Down.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Sparks”: A New Australian walked
into a Brisbane barber’s-shop, carefully
hung his hat on the peg and settled him-
self comfortably in the operating-chair.
Then he produced a photograph showing
a gorgeous hair-do and explained that
that was how he wanted his cut. He
went on to detail just how the barber
should set about the task. The barber,
listening with growing exasperation,
finally got out, “Listen, mate, youre
trying to get a ten-guinea haircut for
three-bob. Nothing doing. Hop it!” He
was still muttering darkly as I climbed
into the chair hastily vacated by the
bewildered New Australian. I eut mto
his remarks with a very meek “Short
back and sides, please.”
AN UNOFFICIAL REPORT
“The N. S. Wales Railway Commissioner, Mr. R. Winsor, was called before the Premier,
Mr. Cahill, and two other senior Ministers, in an attempt to settle the dispute between Mr.
Winsor and the Minister for Railways, Mr. Wetherell.”
“Allow me to introduce myself; this is Winsor speaking,
The Commissioner for Railways for whom, I believe, you were seeking.**
“And this is Cahill speaking; a quarter-of-an-hour you have made us wait**
“This is Winsor speaking. I’m sorry, but my train was late—
lam less likely to be on schedule on a railway than on a radio-station;
In fact, it might have been more timely if this had been a broadcast to the
nation ” ——■
“This is Cahill speaking—we have been brought together, all
Because of your unfortunate difference with the unfortunate Mr. Wetherell.
It seems there is some tunnel or other that is defying the law of gravity”
“This is Winsor speaking: If you wish to avoid ennui, and yet not engage in
depravity,
You must visit the Elizabethan Theatre — it's good, clean, English fun
With the added value of presenting two knights’ entertainment in one.
You can get there by railway, followed by a short trudge or hike,
Provided that the best railway-workers in the world are not on strike,
And you can bear travelling in the world’s best railway-carriages, packed in
wedgewise”
“This is Cahill speaking, or trying to get a word in edgewise :
Did you or did you not say the tunnel would fall ? —I want the answer sometime
today !’’
" . i
“This is Winsor speaking —/ have said ’most everything, but that 1 did not say ;
Moreover, l have had what I can only describe as an inspiration from above:
lam about to add to rail-revenues by turning the tunnel in question into a Tunnel
of Love,
And to open it, l and Mr. Wetherell will venture into it alone,
And kiss and make friends with no one to observe us but an announcer and a few
technicians with a microphone!”
“This is Cahill speaking. O wonderful solution !No one’ll
Be happy till ‘Labor’ itself is rejoined and reformed in your tunnel!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A PARTY of mothers attending school
during Education Week were seated
near the teacher while the lesson
was in progress. “Now, children, I want
some of you to tell us what you have
been doing. Stand up, Mary Jones —tell
us how you spent last evening.” “Well,
Miss,” replied the nine-year-old, “we had
dinner, Mum washed-up and I helped to
wipe”—teacher beamed —“then we all
went up to the hotel. Mum and Dad
went inside, while me and me little
brother had a lovely time playing in the
sandpit until they came out. Then we
went home and went to bed.” Teacher’s
face went rather off-white as she
changed the subject to Australian his-
tory.—“Croid.”
❖ *l*
“C.P.G.”: Hearing a doctor at the
Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, ask another
when would he be seeing him in Ward
13, and the reply, “Five-o’clock,” a
patient’s curiosity was aroused. “Ward
13?” he asked. “What kind of cases
are in there?” “Cases of Scotch, mostly,”
the doctor said. Thus the patient dis-
covered that “Ward 13” was medical for
the Chevron Hotel next-door.
“Becks”: A British scientist has an-
nounced that through molecular-diffusion
every breath we draw contains a couple
of molecules exhaled by Shakspeare while
he was writing “Hamlet.” It’s an inspir-
ing thought that we who speak the tongue
that Shakspeare spake also breathe some
of the air he breathed—diluted, of course,
with smog, and the smell of stale beer,
new-mown hay, fried fish, garlic or
frangipani according to circumstances
of time and place. But the inspiration is
tempered somewhat by the further
thought that those who speak the
thousand-and-one tongues that Shak-
speare didn’t speak also share the same
privilege and that as they outnumber
us by about fifteen to one they are getting
far more of the Bard’s exhalations than
we. are. Worse than that, any uncultured
hippopotamus gulps in more Shakspearian
molecules, breath for breath, than we do.
In our turn, we breathe hippo breath!
Come to think of it, this breathing of
other creatures’ breath is an unhygienic
praclice. It’s a wonder someone doesn’t
put a stop to it.
* * ❖
“Tos”: On the day after reading
(B. 17/8/’55) about the obsolete (?)
copying-press I received a long letter
from the Ashburton branch of the State
savings-bank of Victoria, written by
hand, in copying-ink, and with the usual
blur which disclosed that it had been
copied in one of the old presses. This
from one of the largest branches of the
bank, with a modern building and a big
staff! Yes, it was written in the most
beautiful copperplate—such as I used to
see in Government offices many years ago.
“Mullum”: Soundproof rooms (B.
24/8/’55)? Our office had to be redecor-
ated. As part of the job, a “soundproof”
ceiling was installed. It certainly made
the office a quieter place but, after re-
arranging the furniture, the boss had a
few words to say about soundproofing.
Seated at his desk, in a partly-enclosed
sanctum, he could hear even the whis-
pered comments of the two typistes, 60ft.
and two partitions away.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Diamondem”: The Middleton Tele-
phone Co. (B. 18/5/’55) mentioned by
“Quo Vadis” has another peculiarity he
did not refer to. The co.’s chairman,
Mr. H. R. Davidson of Menin Downs, is
not himself connected by phone.
*> *
“Ben Ari”: So you think this is an
enlightened age? Four miles from Perth
Town Hall I was quizzed by adults about
how to read water-meters and how
preference-votes worked. But a neigh-
bor’s theory that my electric-lawnmower
costs lots to run because of the volt drop
on its 90ft. cord really rocked me. No
adverse Cinderella - State references,
please.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: Five ancient conical grain-
silos have been converted into a motel in
Mexico, says London “Times” —and
here’s Melbourne’s Olympic Committee
still jittering about accommodation for
1956 visitors! Aren’t Geelong’s silos the
biggest in the world? Conveniently situ-
ated at the dockside, they would provide
a sure-fire attraction converted into a
Hotel for the bedless shiploads.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cutteen”: Recently saw a Contin-
ental film in which the name of the cook
who prepared the sumptuous repast in the
banqueting-scene did not appear in the
long list of credits at the beginning.
Needless to add that everyone else, from
the producer’s barber to the assistant
technical director’s mother-in-law, was
mentioned-in-dispatches as usual.
“Mugga Way”: According to Com-
monwealth Librarian Harold White, Aus-
tralia’s one million theatre-seats are
“Sorry, madam — first-class only this boat."
filled 200 times a year, giving us the
record of being the most movie-crazy
people in the world. This would be
understandable if all films were as good
as that being celebrated where Mr. White
made his announcement—the reception
given by the Shell Co. to celebrate the
winning of the Grand Prix of the 1954
Venice Film Festival by the company’s
documentary, “The Back of Beyond.”
The Italian Minister, Signor S. Daneo,
handed over the Oscar to Shell’s chair-
man, J. R. C. Taylor, and another
to Interior Minister Kent Hughes
for the department’s film, “Down in the
Forest,” which scored in the children’s
section. Prime Minister Menzies praised
both productions, and guests at the show,
held at the Hotel Canberra, took refresh-
ments under the glare of the kliegs and
“Well, Well — it's spring again."
numerous flashlights which accorded film-
honors to those according honor to films.
$ *2* &
“Bagot”: A Perth commercial travel-
ler answered the inquiry: “How’s busi-
ness?” with a fervent: “Things are so
quiet I can’t even land an order from the
blokes who don’t intend to pay.”
♦2+
“Allan B.”: This choice one came
by post from a friend in the U.S. World-
famed Dr. H. S. Leiper, big-shot in the
World Council of Churches, was to preach
at an important New York church. The
notice-board read: “11 a.m., ‘China
Today,’ Rev. Dr. Leiper. 7 p.m. ‘What
Did the Fool Say?,’ the Rector.”
❖ ❖
“Willpar”: Night-driving has its
hazards, and I innocently believed I had
experienced all of them —glaring head-
lights, wet roads, hidden cops—but an
unexpected terror had been kept in
reserve. Late at night I was returning
home through one of our still-unsewered
suburbs when the terror came out of a
side-street just in front of me. I flew
past and into the night. Minutes later I
heard the monster breathing down my
neck. On a down-grade it roared past,
all its little side-doors rattling. Once in
front it sadistically commandeered the
centre of the road. I was immediately
assailed by a powerful incentive to get
in front again. A moment later, and
just in time, for I could hold my breath
no longer, I shot by doing about sixty.
I continued at this speed to get well clear.
Then the Law, astride the motorbike,
ordered me over. “What’s the hurry?”
he demanded. With perfect timing the
van flashed by. “That’s the hurry,” I
said. “It keeps passing me.” “Stay here,”
he ordered, jumped on his bike and set
off. A bit later he returned. “0.K., you
win,” he said, and concluded with a wry
grin: “Think yourself lucky you weren’t
on a motorbike.” And thus I was saved
the embarrassment of telling this story
to a magistrate.
“NX.”: Two friends feverishly searched
their pockets, but had to admit to the
Harbor-bridge toll-keeper that they had
not ninepence between them. He waved
them on, with their promise to pay later.
Perhaps it’s happened before, though
probably not to people in a Rolls-Royce.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mime”: When the new cook arrived
at the local, she informed the missus her
husband was likely to “pop off” at any
time. “Bad heart, you know. But don’t
think it’U upset my work,” she said;
“it won’t. I’m burying him close handy,
and I’ve bought me black frock, so I’ll
only need the one day off.” Six months
later, husband did pop off. Upset the
pub-routine? “Oh, no,” said the missus.
“She had everything prepared and had
arranged for someone to take her place.
A very thoughtful person.”
' ❖
“Doric”: We called at the Island of
Marken in the Zuyder Zee, where Dutch
peasant-costumes are still worn (mainly
for the benefit of tourists). An elderly
woman insisted on showing us the interior
of her home —she unlocked the front-door
and, from the scrupulously clean and
tidy appearance of everything, it was
obvious that it was not lived-in. Three
lovely little girls in clogs and bonnets sat
on one doorstep. No camera-user could
pass them. After my snapshot, I handed
one of them a Dutch coin. Turning back
to have another look at them, I saw
Father approach and collect the money.
The little darlings resumed their pose in
time to catch the next mug-photographer.
♦> ♦>
BACK in the war-years a crack express
of the N. S. Wales southern
system would stop at a small siding for
the benefit of a few soldiers who had
no right to be on the train at all.
Bucking the grade between Wagga and
Kapook a just before the dawn, the tempo
of the “grey-nurse” that hauled the long
string of darkened cars would quicken as
it neared the top of the bank, gaining
speed to race down to Quinty and across
the flats to Albury. Sometimes, though,
like a tired runner pausing for breath,
it would come to a panting halt at
Kapooka to set down its troops, who had
overstayed night-leave in Wagga.
The stop was not tabled, but the engine
allowed the soldiers to board the train
at Wagga.
Once military-police were waiting on
the platform for the “ack-willies,” but
the clever engine, having been warned
by a signal at Kapooka, sailed past the
station and made the stop in a shallow
cutting a quarter-mile further on, allow-
ing the grateful troops to leave the train
without falling into the clutches of the
provosts.
My gratitude will always go out to that
engine. Perhaps it had a young bulldozer
in the islands, or a brother propelling
troopships.
C.A.L.
QUITE REASSURING
“Aries: Good basic vibrations up to
September 21.” “Sun-Herald” astrological
note. ‘
It’s a comfort to know
That some ceons ago,
Just for you, stars were set in their
courses \
To provide you with luck.
It’s a thing you can’t buck,
This power of the firmament-forces.
And ain’t Nature grand!
For she had it all planned —
This using her night-decorations ;
Interpreters, too,
She arranged for, so you
Could be told of these “basic
vibrations.”
All your thinking is mixed
If you deem stars are fixed,
Immobile as rocks in a river.
The plain fact as that
At the drop of a hat
They can set up a jelly-like shiver.
How else would we know
Where with safety to go
If there were no astral pulsations?
Why ! If yorfve a keen ear
And the atmosphere’s clear
You can pick up these “basic
vibrations.”
You can tell-off the boss
Or back any old boss —
That is, if you’re born under Aries
And can still be beguiled
C As you were when a child)
And have touching belief in the
fairies.
It will all come out right
If you bash dynamite
Or use prussic-acid potations —
But only, recall,
If this factor befall:
That your stars have “good basic
vibrations.”
Oh, it’s lovely to think
Your intestines can kink
Or your liver can fail in its function,
Yet you needn’t be scared
That your health is impaired —
If your stars are in happy conjunction.
You may spit in the eye-
Of a bruiser, or try
To leap over deep excavations.
There’s no need for alarm,
You can come to no harm
If your sign has “good basic
vibrations?’!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


(@D
INTRODUCE A NEW ERA OF AIR TRAVEL
The four Rolls-Royce propeller-turbine engines run
so smoothly that a pencil may be stood upright on
the arm of your chair. Research has proved that
vibration causes air travel fatigue. That’s why you
feel so fresh when you step off your TAA Viscount
the smoothest, fastest, most comfortable airliner
in Australia.
IS TAA
Reservations: TAA BOOKING OFFICES AXE STATES
or any authorised Travel Agent.
82 1 Ad M |
PERSONAL ITMS
Out/ of school (he teaches in Mel-
bourne), Bill Bewsher has for years de-
voured any writings on Shackleton and
Mawson he could get his fingers on. The
other day he was given leadership of Aus-
tralia’s 1956 expedition to the Antarctic.
Though he’s not been out of Australia
before, there’s not much of Victoria or
Tasmania he hasn’t tramped over —one
of Victoria’s best-known bush-walkers,
and field organiser for the Federation of
Victorian Walking Clubs, he organised
the last three hunts for hikers lost in the
Victorian Alps, and is one of the few
who have scaled Tasmania’s wild Federa-
tion Peak. On a second trip to the moun-
tain he spent 45 days mapping riotous
bush-country, with his supplies perforce
dropped by air. Leaving in valiant little
Kista Dan in December next, he’ll take
20 men for a year’s geological survey.
Thirty-one.
FRED PACE, half-a-century with the
old Q.N. and National Banks, sometime
chairman of the Associated Banks of
Queensland; deputy-chairman of Queens-
land Red Cross, from 1951 to date very
efficiently in charge of the Flying Doctor
Service.
Charles D. Read, a Harley-street prac-
titioner, has been elected president of the
Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists; he thus brings honor
on Otago (N.Z.) Medical School, of
which he is the first graduate to
be elected to the presidency of a British
Royal college of medicine. Born in
Dunedin, over in the U.K, since 1926,
Read was in at the birth of the obstetri-
cal college, has served on pretty well all
its committees and now directs the obs.
department of London University, train-
ing post-graduates.
• •
In 1931 a 20-year-old from Albury
(N.S.W.), in his first year of Victorian
league football, with Fitzroy, won the
Brownlow Medal (awarded to the best-
and-fairest player, top honor in Vic-
torian football). Albury has given several
stars to the V.F.L., but this one,
Haydn Bunton, was the greatest.
Twice more he won the coveted
Brownlow, in 1932 and 1935, and in 1934
was just pipped for it by Dick Reynolds,
also a triple Brownlow-winner. (As a
measure of his sportsmanship, the first
telegram received then by Reynolds came
from “Bunty.”) Crossing to Subiaco
(Perth), Bunton then thrice won the
Sandover Medal, W.A.’s “Brownlow.”
Settling in Adelaide after the war, an
insurance-inspector, Bunton played a
little, coached a little and umpired, but
his main football interest became elder
son Haydn, who, also a rover, could yet
be “another Haydn Bunton” ; at 18 he
went to Perth this year with the South
Australian team. Last week Bunton, Snr.,
a legend in his own lifetime, died in
Adelaide after a car-accident.
• •
Sighted in Fremantle, bound for a
holiday in the U.K., Captain John King
Davis, one-time Commonwealth Director
of Navigation, and Antarctic explorer.
Now 71, he first saw Fremantle 55 years
ago, as an apprentice in the full-rigged
ship Celtic Chief, one of the first to tie
up at the North Wharf, then only partly
completed. She unloaded iron-sheets
from Antwerp to be used in making the
pipeline for Kalgoorlie’s water-supply.
Davis made four voyages to the Ant-
arctic ; he was Director of Navigation
from 1920 to 1949.
• •
New Zealand’s Chief of Staff, Major-
General W. G. Gentry, has called it a
day after three years as the Army’s head.
Born in England 56 years ago, he’s been
identified with the Fernland’s military
most of his life; a Duntroon man, for
a couple of years he was on active ser-
vice with Indian sappers in Waziristan
and Malabar. At Camberley Staff Col-
lege (Eng.) in 1939, with Hitler’s war he
joined his countrymen, commander of the
6th N.Z. Infantry Brigade, and led it
in Tunisia and North Africa.
. .
Passed on in Perth, at 84, Peter Corsar
Anderson, oldest British amateur golf
champion, and headmaster of Perth’s
Scotch College from 1904 till he retired
in 1945. A son of the manse, he gradu-
ated at St. Andrew’s University in Arts
and Divinity, and learnt his golf on old
St. Andrew’s. In 1893, when only 21,
he won the amateur title from J. E.
Laidley, who had been twice champion.
Off the links, he was a noted Rugby-
player, and a rifle-shot who had been
champion of the Scottish universities. A
breakdown in health brought him to Aus-
tralia in 1897. Though he just missed
national and State titles, his greatest
service to golf in this country was the
help he gave in selecting and laying-out
courses —among them, a new course for
the Royal Melbourne Club, the first nine
holes of the Fremantle course, and the
Cottesloe club’s old course. Earlier tutor
on a Gippsland station (where he met his
wife), then head of Geelong Grammar
Preparatory School, he took over the
Westralian Scotch College, then in Perth,
at 33. During his 41 years at Scotch,
more than 3500 pupils passed through his
hands. To his academic honors of M.A.
and D.D., he added C.B.E. when he
retired.
• •
Dr. Rhodes Fairbridge, who swaps a
lectureship in Geology at the Westralian
University for the professorship of the
subject at Columbia University (U.S.), is
widely-educated. Eldest son of Kingsley
Fairbridge—founder, in 1912, of the
Fairbridge Farm School at Pinjarra
(W.A.) —he was born at the school two
years later. When the family moved
to England he went to Beadles,
the pioneer cO-education school of
the U.K., did his university course at
Queen’s, in Kingston, Canada, and took
his science doctorate at Oxford. First
extra-mural job was as field-geologist
with the Irak Petroleum Company. He
returned to Australia when War II broke
out, and served as Intelligence officer with
the R.A.A.F. in the South-West Pacific
till 1946. During the war he made many
aerial mappings of the Pacific, and his
book on landslide-patterns on atolls and
volcanoes secured him inclusion in the
oceanographic-survey team, which three
years ago went to the Pacific under the
sponsorship of the Scripps Oceanographic
Institute of the University of California.
Notched 90 at Greymouth (N.Z.),
William Meldrum, C. 8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
who commanded the Wellington Mounted
Rifle Brigade in the Kaiser’s war. Six
times “mentioned,” awarded the Serbian
Order of the White Eagle, he rose to
brigadier-general. His civilian services
included the mayoralty of Greymouth,
and a magistracy on the West Coast.
• •
Home from what he called a senti-
mental journey, Professor Walter Mur-
doch, of Perth, visited his birthplace in
the north of Scotland, the little fishing-
village of Rosehearty, where Danish
marauders, he said, “slept well and
rose hearty next morning.” As a lover
of Italy and the Italian people, he was
disappointed to find that country plagued
by tourists, who go there at the rate of
eight-million a year and provide a major
industry. Tourist Murdoch opined that
this industry, and the way businessmen
exploit the visitors, “provided a sordid
touch to many of the remnants of a long-
dead civilisation.”
* 0
“J.D.W.”: One thing about being a
good schoolmaster in Maoriland ; if the
electors turf you out, there’s usually a
job going. T. H. McCombs, a schoolie
who entered Parliament in 1935 for
Lyttelton (held between 1913 and then by
his father), lost the seat on a close vote
in 1951. Then he joined the staff of the
Christchurch Technical College. Next
year he’ll have a school of his own —
appointed head of the new Cashmere
High School in the same city. No slug-
gard, McCombs —won his M.Sc. with
honors in chemistry, landed a national
research-scholarship, and is an associate
of the Royal Institute of Chemistry.
0 0
Summed-up hereunder, Ken Manning
walked into the N.S.W. Attorney-
General’s office the other day one of her
Majesty’s Counsel, and walked out Judge
of the Supreme Court. Sydney-born,
schooled at Sydney Grammar, and a
swimmer of class in his day (till, in a
50yd. dash, he was pipped by a boy
named Charlton), the new judge hung
out his shingle in 1930, was admitted to
the N.S.W. Bar in 1940, and admitted, a
couple of months later, into the R.A.A.F.
Sometime judge-advocate of courts-
martial, sometime administration (with
a “mention” for good work in New
Guinea), he was ranked wing-commander
when he resumed a large equity and
commercial practice. Co-author of
Law of Banker and Customer in Aus-
tralia and writer of the third edition of
Bankruptcy Law and Practice, he was
WIG
well-rigged to conduct, for the Official
Receiver, the inquiries into Woolcott
Forbes and Reginald Doyle: his last case
was to appear for R. A. Pye in his most
recent effort to set aside the resumption
by the State Government of his grazing
property. Judge Manning will, of
necessity, resign his Challis lectureship
in Bankruptcy at the University Law
School, but still looks after the coffers of
the Royal Blind Society. A very fluent
speaker, forty-seven, he has reached the
Bench through sheer personal ability.
It’s been along the paternal path for
H. N. Giles (below), now general-manager
of Elder Smith in South Australia. He
was born at Northam (W.A.) 50 years
back, where his father, J. O. Giles, had
been sent from Adelaide to open Elder’s
first Westralian branch. Young Giles
joined the firm, office-lad, and rose to
manager per medium of the stud-stock
department. Two years after that he was
WOOL
g.-m. in W.A., and has been manag-
ing in Adelaide these three years past. A
break away in War ll,* when his title
was flight-lieutenant, R.A.A.F.; operating
area, New Guinea. He left his sporting
mark over West —played League football
and pennant cricket, and was a State and
international rep. in hockey. Yachting
then took hold for a bit, but now it’s the
garden.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 70, Charles E. Rankin, steel and
structural engineer, associated with the
building-industry in Westralia for more than
50 years. His many important jobs included
large additions to the Royal Perth Hospital,
the new Causeway, and the Bunbury
powerhouse.
In Auckland (N.Z.), Alan Gardner, for 35
years a moving force in surf-lifesaving. Between
1948-50 president of the N.Z. Lifesaving Asso-
ciation, he organised the Fernland tour of the
Australian lifesaving team in 1950, as well as
managing the home team which toured
Australia last year.
In Adelaide, at 83, D’Arcy Wentworth
Addison, one-time Tasmanian Agent-General
in London, and for more than 20 years from
the turn of the century, secretary to the
Tasmanian Premier. He organised the island’s
receptions on two Royal visits —that of the
Prince of Wales in 1920 and of the Duke and
Duchess of York seven years later.
In Sydney, at 92, Sir Henry Yule Braddon,
son of Sir Edward Braddon, Tasmanian states-
man, and himself Legislative Councillor in
N.S.W. for 27 years from 1913. Bom in
Calcutta, schooled in England and Launceston,
he joined Dalgety’s at 21 and ended-up
superintendent for the firm in Australia.
President of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce
and of the Associated Chambers of Australia,
after War I he was Australian Commissioner
in the U.S. A noted Rugby Union man,
representing both New Zealand and N. S. Wales,
he presided over his State’s R.U. for nine
years from 1916.
In London (on holiday), at 78, Sir John
McKenzie, chairman of directors of J. C.
Williamson, and founder of the chain-stores
bearing his name which are Woolworth’s
strongest rivals in New Zealand. Bom in Vic-
toria, started in business in Melbourne, he
left with the 3rd Bushmen’s Contingent for the
Boer War, and after that tried his business-
hand in the Fernland. Last year he made a
gift of £1 million to the Dominion for charit-
able and educational purposes; it topped a
long list of benefactions. One of his two sons
was killed while with the N.Z. Air Force.
In Hobart, at 93, John Swan, of a pioneer
Tasmanian family. A fine horseman and
cricketer, he played against Murdoch’s eleven;
and was a councillor in the Brighton Muni-
cipality for half-a-century and warden for
20 years.
Captain Bernard Bardwell, pearling-pioneer
of Broome, who settled there after serving in
the Boer War. Just before War I he and his
brother Beresford brought in a pearl which
sold for £4000; the brothers joined the A.1.F.,
served on Gallipoli and in France, and
returned to Broome on discharge. Over the
years Bernard hobbied with collecting shells,
not only from Australia’s northern waters but
from most parts of the world; he is recog-
nised as an outstanding conchologist. His
collection will be bequeathed to Melbourne
University.


ILL-STARRED


ABORIGINALITIES
'T'RAVELLING with Bonds to Alice
A Springs, Adelaide journalist Dick
Wordley went about 80 miles ahead with
the stores-truck' to help driver Jack
Matthews prepare lunch for the tourists.
They were near the S.A.-N.T. border and
they had laid-out food enough for 30
people when the blow fell —the tourist-
coach had been delayed. Jack raced
back to headquarters leaving Dick alone
and surrounded by masses of tucker in
the middle of Australia. Dick sat on a
kero.-tin and was drinking a contempla-
tive beer when along came another
vehicle in which was a second journalist
—a man from the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph.” He looked at the banquet, then
at the deserted countryside, and finally
at his fellow-member of the Fourth
Estate. “What’s up, Wordley, old boy?”
he said. “Can’t you make a quid? Not
much of a place for a restaurant, any-
way .”—“K.G. W. ”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Ashburton Road Board, with
headquarters at Onslow, nor’-Westralia,
lately held an election. There were two
nominations, 84 ratepayers, and two
voters. One of these was absent but keen
enough to vote by telegram, which makes
it bad luck that telegraphed votes aren’t
accepted; the other vote was lodged in
the wrong name, so that one was infor-
mal, too. The election was described as
an extraordinary one.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Bream and mullet can live
indefinitely in a bar-locked salt-water
“What a night, Miss Higgins! What a moon!”
lagoon—until an extremely heavy freshet
of water pours in. Then the bream will
die, but the mullet will be unaffected
and will still thrive even until the lagoon
becomes merely brackish. But catch
young mullet in a scoop-net or oyster-
bottle (ensuring that they are not injured),
put them in a bucket containing the same
water from which they were taken and,
within 20 minutes, they will be dead.
Perforate the bucket and stand it in the
shallows and the fish will live. Possibly
the perforations serve a similar purpose
for fish as do ventilators or windows for
humans; possibly, in the absence of
current, the movement of the fish’s tails
and lins drives the “breathed-out” water
through the holes and permits the un-
contaminated fresh to come in. Yet gold-
fish and other members of the carp family
can live for years in the same few gallons,
or even pints, of water.
* * * *
“Moorapi”: Residents of the small
town of Stratford, in the Shire of Avon
(Vic.), are rejoicing upon the restoration
of the licence of their Swan Hotel with
the proviso that a new pub be built forth-
with. Licence was withdrawn six months
ago when the old weatherboard hostelry
was condemned, and the town, on
Prince’s Highway, has since shown signs
of decline. An apt embellishment is pro-
mised to the new building: a statue of
Falstaff on the front lawns, a foaming
flagon held temptingly aloft.
* * *
“0.G.”: Speaking of crossing the
Equator (B. 31/8 / ’55). That’s what pas-
sengers were doing in the Indian Ocean.
One boasted “twenty-six times.” Then
the planter spoke. “For three years,” he
said, “I’ve lived in Borneo, near the
mouth of the Pontianak River. Four-
hundred yards east of my house was the
club. Every night I walked in the middle
of the road, my left foot in the northern
hemisphere, my right south of the line.
Coming home a few hours later, and a
few drinks heavier, my steering was a
bit zig-zaggy ... I reckon I crossed
the Equator a hundred times a night.”
# * * *
“Furneaux”: A muttonbird from the
Furneaux Group, north of Tasmania,
which had been banded as a fledgling by
Dr. D. L. Seventy of the C.5.1.R.0., on
Babel Island last March, reached the
coast of Shikoru, Japan, a little over two
months later. It was picked-up at sea in
a fishing-net, barely alive, and has now
been preserved as a specimen in the Kochi
University. This is said to be the first
time a banded muttonbird has been
found outside Australia, and is claimed
to be proof of the migration-path the
birds work-out by sight-observations.
The homing instinct of the birds is extra-
ordinary. At the end of April, after
nesting on Bass Strait islands, mutton-
birds migrate by way of the Solomons,
around Japan to Bering Strait and
Alaska, and then take a return passage
to Bass Strait about the third week in
September. Once they have selected a
plot of ground for a burrow they return
to the same location year after year-
observers have noted that certain banded
birds have returned to the Furneaux
Islands for the eighth successive breed-
ing season.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: The grey-fantail isn’t a
friendlier and shrewder bird than the
willie-wag tail (B. 24/8/’55), not by a
long shot. Where Cranky Fan does excel
is in aerobatics. It is also a fair song-
ster, though not nearly so good as it
thinks. Sat down to lunch in the bush
with a blue-wren singing its light but
sweet song from a thicket near by ; then
a grey-fantail came along and rattled-off
"It's a grudge-match .”
a few staves in opposition. The wren
finding itself outdone in volume, if not in
music, finally fell silent and Cranky Fan
had the field. And didn’t that blighter
skite! It gave its energetic little song
everything until it rang out like a trium-
phant shout. And every little while just
in case my attention was waning, it would
hop off its twig and, with great gusto,
run through its more complicated aerial
antics right in front of my nose.
* * * *
“Kelms” : A main abo. source of the
luscious bardee was the grass-tree (black-
boy), but it yielded very few grubs while
it was alive. A dead blackboy, on the
other hand, was usually full of them, so
a native would occasionally kill several
by lopping off their tops. They then be-
came his property. When Sir George
Grey, the explorer, was resident-magis-
trate at Albany, one of the cases he
had to settle was brought by a native who
ran 40 miles to complain that some of
his trees had been robbed. Grey fined
the transgressor, who, earlier, would pro-
bably have been speared.
* * * *
“Sister Ellell”: “Tasma Jun.’s” state-
ment (B. 24/8/’55) about testing sad-
irons with a wet forefinger recalled a lass
we had in our unit. She was one of the
few who heeded the warning about
water being a first-class conductor of
electricity. How did she know if the
smoothing-iron—whether electricity- or
petrol-inspired—were hot enough? An
excellent judge of pace and distance,
she’d stand off and the following sizzling
told that her well-aimed directive had
struck home. I never saw her miss.
“Old Mac”: The “sad-iron” is just a
heavy iron. A sad heart is a heavy heart,
and “sad dough,” “sad soil,” and “a hand
sad as a lump of lead” all show the word
in the same sense. In Wycliffe’s Bible the
wise man is said to have built his house
on “sad stoone” (solid rock). So the
//g/zthearted lass in the song goes dash-
ing along with a sad smoothing-iron,
“Max”: The word “sad” had a variety
of meanings, which are given at length in
most of the larger dictionaries. In the
northern counties of England and the
Scots’ Lowlands “sad” is still used to
describe unappetising cookery, such as
heavy, soggy cakes and scones.
“Joel”: It’s a Lancashire custom to
call the smallest iron the sad-iron.
“Side-iron, not sad-iron” we were always
corrected, because the biggest iron was
heated before the fire on the centre of
the jockey-bar, and the small iron’s place
was at the side of it. When not in use
the irons >vere placed, in the correct order,
on the hob above the grate.
“Motuku”: One of the most remark-
able features of the flying antics of the
restless fly-catcher (B. 17/8/’55) is its
unusual hovering attitude while looking
for insects on the ground. While most
hovering birds maintain an almost hori-
zontal attitude, the “scissors-grinder”
holds its body almost perpendicular as in
upward flight, while the neck is bent at
a sharp angle with the head facing down-
wards. It is while thus hovering that the
bird gives its peculiar scissors-grinding
noise.
* * * *
“Roger”: Earned a crust in a butcher’s
shop till 18 years old, then emigrated from
Scotland to Maoriland, in 1908. The old
gentleman had been a customer for years,
but had nfever spoken to me. “I hear
you are leaving for New Zealand, young
man.” “Yes, tomorrow,” I said. “Did
the same myself many years ago. Went
to Australia, but not to dig for gold. I
followed the diggings as a storekeeper
and did very well indeed. You see, I
was the only one on the diggings that
would accept bad money, and when
change was given, it was given in bad
money.” He was about 80 years old.
Can any old-timer define the old gentle-
man’s term “bad money”? I suggest he
meant “foreign money.”
* * * *
“P.W.R.”: Having joined an inter-
island trader as mate I was amused by
the method of disembarking deck-
passengers at places where the ship didn’t
have to load or discharge cargo. At
such places the natives who intended
going ashore, and who seemed fully con-
versant with the procedure, would line
the rail with their luggage—if any-
lashed on top of their heads. About a
mile off the beach the engines would be
stopped; the passengers would plunge
over the side and set-out for home laugh-
ing and chattering and evidently con-
sidering this the best part of the journey.
Before the ship had appreciably lost way
the engines would be started again and
we were off about our business.
* * * *
A GOOD man with horses used to spend
a week gently handling and groom-
ing his charge after he had caught it
with a lasso. To catch a horse in the
race was a slur on his ability.
The animal was patiently mouthed on
foot with long reins and winkers, and not
until that process was entirely satisfac-
tory was it mounted. Then, if it did buck,
the old breaker felt he had been remiss
somewhere in his handling.
Today, in the majority of cases, the
job takes three days. There is no prepara-
tory period of handling. The same day
sees the horse caught and ridden. It is
a case of mount it in the race, open the
gate and “ride ’em, cowboy.”
The bucks ridden to a standstill, the
mouthing is “tackled” on its back, and
after the third day of this treatment the
horse is handed over classified as broken
—an apt description.
The responsibility then rests on the
owner to cope with a nervous, fidgety
animal, which might or might not buck,
and which, as likely as not, will turn left
with alacrity but is indisposed to turn
right. If he is lucky, weeks of persever-
ing will eventually produce a satisfactory
mount, but a superb beast is often ruined
for ever.
In short, horse-breaking is rarely any
longer an art practised in patience by
lovers of the animals ; it is now mostly
only the sport of mere thrill-seekers.
EQUESTRIENNE.
THE SHELL-GRIT MEN
By the peaceful yellow sands
stocky, strong, mahogany men
bare of leg and bare of arm
standing in the waters warm
bend and rise and bend again,
sieves held in their hands.
As the wave slow-rising swells,
in that pause before it falls,
it’s a lovely thing to watch
play of muscles as they snatch
from that mouth the ground corals,
rocks and bones and shells.
On the beach the placid horse
waits to draw his low, square cart
and his friend, the placid dog,
.sniffs around the driftwood-log
till the order comes to start
on their toilsome course.
Then what energy takes place
straining, striving up the road
made of ,soft and yielding sand,
though the men lend helping hand
steadying that rainbow load,
while the dog’s a-race.
Like a song, it seems to me—
rhythm of the waves and men
and their sieves, the pause of beach,
animals and cart; and each
strong, clear, and fitly chosen
as though meant to be.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


You get the First Choice Features
in BRITISH BEPFORO
ft
£
©
©
s
Only Australia’s biggest selling truck*, British Bedford, gives you
so many value features that mean more work per day . . . more
work per pound. Bedford’s popularity with truck men proves
that they appreciate this fact. Compare Bedford with any truck
feature by feature, you’ll make Bedford your First-Choice.
*Based oh official truck registration figures.
THESE ARE THE REASONS WHY TRUCKMEN GO FOR BEDFORD . . .
MONEY SAYING ENGINE PERFORMANCE
You get exactly the right power for your
job. All three extra-duty low-revving
6-cyl. O.H.V. engines deliver petrol
saving, hour saving performance. B.H.P.
ranges from 76 to 114.6 and maximum
torque from 168.5 to 236 lb. ft.
LONG LIFE CHASSIS FEATURES
Bedford chassis frames, suspension,
clutch, gearbox and drive lme are
engineered for maximum capacity work-
ing. Bedford’s body design means that
you haul big loads . . . save time and
extra trips.
COMFORT AND WORK-SAYING FEATURES
The three-man all-steel Bedford cab is
insulated against dust and noise . . .
rubber mounted against vibration.
Worm and sector steering, synchromesh
gears, triple safety Lockheed hydraulic
brakes (vacuum assisted on all models
above 30 cwt.) make for easier, surer
handling.
REPUTATION AND YALUE FOR MONEY
Over twenty years of truck manufactur-
ing experience ensure that you can’t buy
better than Bedford. On first cost,
running costs and maintenance costs
Bedford is outstanding. Many testimon-
ials from Australian Bedford owners
endorse Bedford’s suitability, depend-
ability, economy and performance.
CHECK BEDFORD’S PRICES FOR CHASSIS AND CAB
Model Wheelbase G.V.W. Price
5 tons 167' BT. Scwt. £1,225
5 tons (Eaton 2-speed Rear Axle) £1,377
6/7 tons 116' 10T. 6cwt. £1,505
6/7 tons 156' 10T. 6cwt. £1,525
All prices plus Sales Tax
Ask your dealer for details of the latest addition
to the Bedford range—the new Bedford £ TON
jVAN priced at £BB5 plus tax.
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase arrangements are
iavailable for your convenience. Ask your Bedford dealer.
★ Bedford is backed by a nation-wide service and parts
organisation.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-H OLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
• PERTH
845/36
THE St. Andrew’s Cross spider had
slung his catcher’s net of 33 radial
ribs and exactly the same number of cir-
cular strands across the ravine in the
tomato-vines. Guyed and buttressed
with polygons of rigging from below, the
structure was firmly anchored against
the gusty updraughts of air. Running
repairs only: a new web was spun when
the old one was useless. The spider, a
tiny trapeze-artist in green-watermelon-
striped tights, hung from its under-
surface. As the disturbed mosquitoes or
winged aphides arising from the cool
gloom below became enmeshed, he
plucked the chords like a trained harpist.
And the show went on: miniature life
and death, on a sunbeam-tinted spider-
web. —“Quo Vadis.”
* * * *
“Sinabada”: Here in Port Moresby
the white man is known as Taubada, his
wife Sinabada (literally Great Man and
Great Woman), to my discomfort, 1 eing
an aggressively democratic Aussie. I was
delighted to see in the local paper, the
“South Pacific Post,” a perfect story
about this Taubada-business. Seems a
very much inebriated member of the
white race was tottering about in one of
the pubs. A native attendant made some
sort of derogatory noise as he passed, or
so it appeared to another European at a
near-by table. He called the native over.
“Hey, boy,” he said, “did I just hear
you whistle at that Taubada?” To which
the boy replied with perfect equanimity,
“Taubada? He no taubada, Taubada.
He just white man! ”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In what Westralians
call the Yalgoo district there’s a hill, Mt.
Mulgine, which before long might be
playing a big part in Australia’s defence
and heavy industry. A, granite outcrop
with some quartz and pegmatite veins,
it contains the only known worth-while
deposit in W.A. of molybdenite, one of
the main sources of the metal molyb-
denum. When a steel-manufacturer is
making a special type of tool-steel that
will cut ordinary steels as though they
were soft lead, he adds to the process
about 1 per cent, of molybdenum; if he
wants a steel suitable for permanent
magnets he adds a bit more. The two thin
prongs that support the filament in
electric-light bulbs are made of molyb-
denum, and so are the windings for an
electric-furnace and certain parts in radio-
apparatus and X-ray tubes. There pro-
bably isn’t a car or aircraft that doesn’t
contain a small percentage of this metal,
and there’ll be some at work in every
oil-refinery and in the oil-drilling rigs.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Most parent-birds who feed
their young adopt a harsh and even
hostile attitude towards them as soon as
they can fend for themselves —appar-
ently only tough methods will force the
young mendicants to work for a living.
Fairy-wrens and quail-thrush are among
the few notable exceptions who tend to
hold their broods together during the
colder months. The best-known mem-
ber of the former group, the blue-wren,
has received the alternative name of
Mormon-wren because the daughters with
which the gallant little fellow moves
about during autumn and winter are often
mistaken for additional wives. Fairy-
wrens and quail-thrush get their living
on or near the ground, right among the
insects and insect-larvae which are the
main items on their menu. It is easier
for the babies to learn self-help in those
conditions than in the higher regions
where, to stoke-up, Junior must hustle
round on the wing. Probably that is why
amiable family relations last much longer
than with other birds.
THE MURRAY
Down the Murray glide,
Down the Murray wide,
Down the Murray clear as glass,
Watch dreamy distance pass.
Murray wild and in full flood,
Murray dry and brown as mud,
Murray calm as sleep’s desne,
Murray red with distant fire.
Murray by an old fence-rail,
Murray shares a swaggies tale.
Murray by a farmer’s mill,
Murray lazy, Murray still.
Murray wide, or now a stream -
Murray, one long river dream.
N.S.W.
LUCIEN TURB.
MIGHTY BIG SPADES
I was very young there was a
"" picture in a book called Fairy
Rings that used to fascinate me. It
showed some rather mild-looking giants
digging a ditch with tiny children’s
spades; they had been bewitched into
thinking the spades were giant-sized
shovels, and they could never understand
why the work went on so slowly.
Exactly the opposite situation can be
seen outside my window at the moment.
A group of men, looking like pygmies,
are working on the far side of the pad-
dock with giant steam-shovels, grabs and
mechanical scoops, digging a ditch 12ft.
deep and 15 miles long to take the last
section of the Mannum-Adelaide pipe-
fine.
Since its invasion by the Engineering
and Water Supply Department’s mechan-
ised army, this small township has been
in a state of upheaval. Roads are
blocked to traffic, or if open are feet
deep in mud; the grocer has to walk
across two paddocks to deliver his
groceries and bread; the schoolmaster
has to shout himself hoarse to be heard
over the roar and rumble of machinery.
Water-supplies, electricity and telephone-
services are more often interrupted than
not.
The pipeline—completed far enough
last summer to allow Murray water to be
brought into the bed of the Torrens, and
so to Milbrook reservoir—will eventually
bring water direct to Adelaide consumers
through a series of pumping-stations and
storage-tanks, one of which will be here
in Hope Valley.
It is one of the biggest engineering
works ever undertaken by a South Aus-
tralian Government. The Morgan-
Whyalla pipeline, though longer, has
much smaller pipes, and did not have to
cross the Mount Lofty ranges or pass
through such closely-settled areas. Deep-
drainage, water-supply, gas-pipes and
underground telephone- and electricity-
lines have all been cut at various places
by the deep trench in which the pipes,
6ft. in diameter, are laid. (Other parts
of the line are on the surface.) As each
30ft. length of pipe weighs 15 tons, it is
quite a job to manoeuvre them into
place.
The great scoops dive their long black
necks into the trench, come up with a
ton-mouthful of earth and spit it out into
a waiting truck. Five mouthfuls and the
truck moves on, to be replaced by the
next in the long line of “empties.”
The filled truck carts the earth away,
dumps it, loads-up with sand (of which
there are almost unlimited local deposits)
and returns to the other end of the trench
to unload it on top of a ready-laid pipe.
Each truck moves on in less than five
minutes.
Sand is being used to pack around the
pipes because it will not move with
changing weather conditions as clay
does. Ordinary picks and shovels come
into use here, and also for cleaning-out
the last of the earth after scoops and
grabs have done their work.
The welders go inside as soon as the
pipes are laid, to weld the ends together ;
and far inside the pipe, where it is as
dark as in a mine, the plasterers are
cementing the joints, while cross-traffic
passes over their heads. When the upper
surface has settled, the road will be
bitumined, and there will be no sign
on the surface of the underground river,
except for an occasional turncock.
Even with mechanisation, progress is
slow —about a mile a month. As the
pipeline is being laid along a main road,
which is also the main street of the
township, and as it has been pouring
rain for weeks on end, things are in
somewhat of a mess.
The post-office has been isolated in a
sea of mud, and the school surrounded.
Schoolchildren come home with mud to
the knees; they are probably the only
ones who are thoroughly enjoying it all.
It’s like a gigantic game of mud-pies.
It is rather ironical, when the pipe
is being laid to save Adelaide from a
possible drought, that this should have
been one of die wettest winters on
record. Water has to be pumped out of
the ditch each morning before the work
can go on. It has even been suggested
that the E. & W.S.D. blokes should try
pumping water back into the Murray.
NANCY CATO.


LYSAGHT
ORB
Z€AVy
TO
ffmfV TW
U A AAiA A A
cuvn
31IL1I
mm
\
wj*T’ V-*-*-* : *-V** ■■- •.< ►>«**«
*
I . | . t .*(ijAfwjiYMiipiii 1 1 j i'u i *»»>—yynjwi c a¥ttWAX>j».o.'jj[
K
mWAU* *>W.t .M.M.Wi.i i iwWiWWAMMIMW i.iimi
*0
’l
Makes an ideal storage shed or workshop
roomy enough to accommodate a car
or tractor. Easily assembled by any handy
man! Basic unit includes . . .
• Predrilled support angles and bolts.
• Wall and roof sheets of curved design,
eliminating need for framework.
• Back wall sheets and flashing.
SPECIFICATION: Length, 20 feet. Width, 10 feet.
Minimum Head Room, 6ft. 6ins.
Maximum Head Room, 8 feet.
EXTRAS AVAILABLE
ALL PRICES EX
NEWCASTLE WORKS
Front wall (to take
double doors), £l3.
Double Doors
(8' x 6'6" opening),
£ll/10/-.
Bargs boards, £3/10/-.
Side Door
(5'2" x I'9" opening,
£4.
Window frame
without glass (approx.
3' X 2'), £3/15/-.
Write for further information and Agents’ Names to ;—
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD„ CAPITAL CITIES
II .ill—
li9x
Business, Rollery, Etc.
INFLATION MIGHT BRING DEVALUATION
TTPON the trend of wool prices
during the present season,
and upon the trend of wage-
rates during the present financial
year, will depend very largely
whether Australia will be forced
to devalue the pound in 1956.
It is unlikely that any devalu-
ation will occur before the end
of 1955, and there may be none
in 1956; but, on present trends,
the threat of devaluation now
appears greater than at any time
during the past 16 years.
The index of export prices of
Australian produce in April was
the lowest level (excluding
October, 1954) 'since 1949-50.
But in 1949-50 wage-rates were
only 60 p.c. of what they are
today. Since April this year,
also, wool prices have fallen
further. It is hard yet to gauge
accurately, but if it is said that
they are down 10 p.c. on the
closing prices for the 1954-55
season the statement would not
be far wrong.
The average price of wool
during 1954-55 was 7 Id. Assum-
ing that it is now averaging 60d.
to 65d., it should still be generally
profitable, and in some cases
very profitable. But the season
is not over yet. The price may
improve, or it may weaken
further. The statistical position
of the industry is encouraging.
But Britain’s export-import
situation is unsatisfactory, and
it may not be the buying-force
this year that it has been in
others. (In the period October,
1954, to March, 1955, Britain’s
share of the world’s trade in
manufactures fell to 20 p.c., com-
pared with 25.7 p.c. in 1950
and 22 p.c. in 1951. Germany’s
recovery has been largely
responsible.)
Wool last year accounted for
nearly half our export income.
Apart from whether present
prices are profitable to the
grower, the value of wool ex-
ports is a vital factor in the
availability of overseas funds
with which to pay for imports.
Imports have already been
restricted in an endeavor
to right the balance-of-payments,
which, on current account, was
£256 million to the bad in
1954-55. (On capital account the
favorable balance was £ll4
million, which left the net un-
favorable balance at £142 mil-
lion.) At June 30, our overseas
reserves stood at £428 million.
They appear to have fallen some-
what since, there being an ad-
verse trade-balance for the first
two months of the new trading
year.
Import-restriction has not yet
become fully effective. It may
be used more extensively, before
long, in order to give Australia
a favorable trade-balance during
the current year. While that
would ease the drain on our
overseas reserves, it would
create some scarcity of goods
within the Commonwealth, and
" probably of essential com-
modities, including raw
materials. That might cause
temporary unemployment, but
the long-term probability is
that it would set-up hot-
house conditions of commodity-
scarcity in certain industries,
with perhaps too much money
again chasing too few goods,
with ensuing inflation.
Probably the most disturbing
feature of the present situation is
the increasing pressure of the
trade-union • movement for
higher money-wages, notwith-
standing the urgent necessity of
industry to stabilise costs of pro-
duction. The wage-freeze of the
past year has helped to steady
the inflationary movement,
though by itself it offers no sort
of cure. The cure will only come
when man-hour output rises in
relation to money-wages. In
some industries output has been
rising slightly. But it is reported
from the coalmining-industry,
for example, that mechanisation
has brought a slower rate of work
by a larger number of men in-
stead of a marked increase in
output per man-shift.
The A.C.T.U. is not tackling
the problem of improving living-
standards in Australia from the
correct end. It refuses to admit
that better living-standards de-
pend upon higher output per
man per working-week. It does
not acknowledge the necessity for
industry to plough-back profits
in order to expand capacity and
increase output per employed
man. It has, in fact, been
largely an instrument of econ-
omic vandalism in the past, and
its attitude at the present time
is little better. The demand for
the abolition of the penalty-
clauses in the Arbitration Act
shows just how irresponsible the
A.C.T.U. is.
It is with these problems con-
fronting it that the Australian
economy faces the present
admittedly difficult financial
year. Export-incomes are
declining,, and costs threaten to
rise, more especially so if State
Governments unpeg wage-rates
under their control. An acute
position has not yet been
reached, and if a crisis is to
occur it should not come before
the first quarter of 1956.
It is to be hoped that devalu-
ation of the Australian pound
will not be necessary. It solves
no problems only projects
them a little further ahead. But
if export prices decline much
further and costs start to spiral
once again, there is no question
but that devaluation will become
a hot political and economic
subject when the strain really
starts to hurt.
Sharemarkets Subdued
There has been a further
easing of share-prices over the
past few days, following un-
steadiness in the wool-market,
some reintroduction of price-
control, threats of wage-
unpegging and A.C.T.U. de-
mands of a revolutionary nature
in connection with arbitration.
At the annual dinner of the
N.S.W. Chamber of Manufac-
tures the Prime Minister, Mr.
Menzies, said “I am not suggest-
ing that we should fall into a
panic, but we must learn to
observe restraints in our present
prosperity.” Dealing with the
problem, Mr. Menzies rightly
said, was a task for the whole
community, and “not a task to
be dealt with by blunt instru-
ments.”
Mr. Menzies added that he
was going to confer with the
heads of the trading banks. “I
am going into conference not to
avert something disastrous, be-
cause the country is abundantly
prosperous, but to avoid allow-
ing prosperity to move over into
great inflation,” he said. Mr.
Mepzies could in this
regard have been a little
more blunt. The high costs of
production in Australia, for
which he is not responsible, are
in the nature of an Australian
disaster, and that disaster would
have shown up long ago but for
the world shortage of food and,
raw materials which brought this
country a high export income
and enabled it to import at an
equally high rate for 10 years
after the end of the war.
The danger of higher costs is
the chief danger to share-prices.
If costs can be kept reasonably
stable there is some chance of
productivity being improved;
and if productivity increases
there will be a great deal more
confidence in extending credit,
should a fall in export-incomes
make credit-expansion necessary
within the Commonwealth.
Sharemarkets in Australia had
a long upward movement from
the beginning of 1955 in spite of
changing economic conditions.
There is more sober reflection
now, especially in view of the
varying fortunes of industry
shown in company-accounts
since the end of the 1954-55
financial year.
Frederic Ash, Ltd.
On a turnover 10 p.c. higher,
net profit of Frederic Ash, Ltd.,
Newcastle (N.S.W.) distributor
of building materials and hard-
ware, rose £24,787 in the past
term, reaching £111,804, and
averaging over 41 p.c. on the
paid capital of £270,000. Out
of the preceding year’s profit
£9OOO was set aside for long-
service leave (making £17,115 in
two years); in respect of 1954-
55 no allocation was visibly
made in this respect. To cele-
brate the firm’s centenary a
2i p.c. bonus has been added to
the 15 p.c. div., making 17£ p.c.,
which called for £47,250, and
left £64,554 for reserves (now
£315,177), Profits made by a
subsidiary company were not in-
cluded in the parent’s figures last
year. The co. has interests in
Vencore Veneers, Harlequin
Products (makers of soaps, dis-
infectants, etc.) and Exton’s of
Brisbane. It has its own branches
in Cessnock, Lismore and Wol-
longong.
The £1 shares at 545.,
cum div., return 6.7 p.c. on a \l\
p.c. div. basis, or 5.7 p.c. should
the distribution revert to 15 p.c.
next year.
Associated Pulp
Net profits of Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills rose by
£471,368 to £1,027,575 for the
1954-55 term. An increase in
the div. from 7 p.c. to 9 p.c.
was previously announced. The
fully-paid shares rose to 31s. 3d.
on ’Change, then slipped back
to 30s. Plant-additions and
increasing efficiency are now
literally “paying dividends.”
Minster, Ltd.
Consolidated net profit of
Minster, Ltd., which owns all
the shares in Westminster
Carpets Pty. (Daridenong, Vic.),
showed a rise of £16,703 for
the latest year’s trading, and
represented just under 35 p.c.
on ord. capital at £186,961.
Profit included £21,492 from
stock-reserve, but taxation pro-
vision was £38,692 above the
1953-54 allocation. The 15 p.c.
div. has been repeated.
The operating co. is in the
process of doubling its plant-
capacity. The new unit is to
be financed without asking
shareholders for any further
contributions, and it is ex-
pected to be in operation after
the close of the current year’s
accounts. At present demand
for the co.’s products is far in
excess of supply, partly because
of the boom in the motor-car
industry. (Westminster carpet is
used extensively in trimming
motor-cars.) There is also a
large domestic demand for the
product, which is manufactured
at a comparatively small labor-
cost. Paid capital of Minster,
Ltd., is £535,625 in 10s. shares,


lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON \± PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Public Notice
I, NICHOLAS GEORGE NOWANE, of
53 Shirley Road, Wollstoneeraft, hereto-
fore called and known by the name of
ZBIGNIEW JERZY NOWICKI, HEREBY
GIVE NOTICE that on the Eighth day
of September, 1955, I renounced and
abandoned the use of my said Christian-
names and surname (ZBIGNIEW JERZY
NOWICKI) and assumed in lieu thereof
the Christian names and surname of
NICHOLAS GEORGE NOWANE. AND
FURTHER that such change of name is
evidenced by a deed dated the Eighth
day of September, 1955, duly executed
by me and attested.
Missing Friend
WOULD anybody knowing the present
whereabouts of THELMA ELIZABETH
EADE (formerly JAMES), please com-
municate with J. McNEILL SIMPSON,
Solicitor, Hay, N.S.W. ?
l/L/W
Cg 6»
n
A
&
rv
m
rl
\
BUDGETING
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more convenient
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her
accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. cheque account for your daughter
or for any other member of your family?
A'N-Z
I***l
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London. Agents throughout fhe World.
>ANZ.66.138&
A
0t 0 B
The word,
for Brandy
since 1858
ft
SPECIAL HOSPI
TOLLEY’S
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
T5T.46.t2
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
London aiunail
From Herbert Holman
THIS year’s Radio Show at
Earl’s Court very nearly
had to be cancelled at the last
minute because of a pistol-at-
head strike on the part of the
Communist-controlled Electrical
Trades Union. It is a strange
state of affairs when workers
wilfully prejudice their own live-
lihood. Commercially, the show
is of great value to oversea
buyers because so much is con-
centrated under one roof. Many
who were on their way when the
trouble occurred feared cancella-
tion and went to Dusseldorf in-
stead. But the Radio Industrial
Council and the 8.8. C. agreed,
in the end, to the E.T.U.’s
demands, and the show opened,
two days late. ♦
Apart from the parade of
celebrities and other attractions
for the entrance-paying public,
there are few notable differences
from last year. The Independent
Television Authority which soon
will have command, commer-
cially, of the air was not even
represented, and it was left to
the individual manufacturers to
demonstrate the new wave-
lengths on closed-circuits. There
was only one significant innova-
tion in television. That was a
prototype (by EKCO) of a
portable set, weighing 301 b. and
no bigger than a hat-box, which
will work from both mains and
a car-battery. It has a nine-inch
screen and will be available early
next year at a retail price of
about £6O.
The popularity of the gramo-
phone, despite other more novel
counter-attractions, is quite
astonishing. Sales are high,
especially in the cheaper models
which can be used as auxiliary to
a radio. And the export figures
(£855,000 in 1949, £2,123,000 in
1952 and £2,572,000 for the
first half of 1955) show the
steepest rise of all the categories
of radio products.
H.M.V. have an interesting, if
expensive, development of the
commercial tape-recordings they
introduced last year. It is a
“stereosonic” equipment, con-
sisting of two matched consoles
placed at opposite sides of the
room. The principle depends
upon recording on both tracks
of the tape and playing them
back simultaneously through
separate speakers. This gives an
illusion, especially with opera,
of three-dimensional sound. The
high cost (250 guineas) is not the
only deterrent to the private
music-lover. He will also need a
large soundproofed room to
take the apparatus.
FacO-both-ways T.U.C.
The General Council of the
Trades Union Congress, as the
intermediary between the mass
of workers and the Government
of the day, has not in the im-
mediate past been prone to con-
scious irresponsibility. And
some of its younger members
have not been afraid to speak
the truth in public, showing
that they were not blind to the
economic facts of life.
It is all the more depressing
that the council’s annual report
should have become infected
with the dismal claptrap which,
in the absence of anything in
the form of policy, is turned out
by the Labor-party headquarters
as political propaganda. The
accusations which it knows to be
unfounded (e.g., “As a deliberate
act of policy, the Government
has turned its back oh fair
shares”) are only concessions to
the shop-stewards, made in fear
of being labelled Right-wing or
reactionary for “hobnobbing”
with the Tories.
Perhaps the suggested altera-
tion to the rules, to be discussed
at the September conference, is
considered so daringly contro-
versial as to call for a dose of
sedative to blunt the shock. But
all it amounts to is an extension
of the T.U.C.’s authority to
intervene in industrial disputes.
According to present practice, it
can’t intervene until negotiations
have broken down and the live-
lihood of workers in industries
other than those concerned in the
dispute is affected. The amend-
ments proposed would, if carried,
enable the T.U.C. to Itake
preventive action by issuing
warnings and also by calling
spokesmen into consultation
before deadlock had resulted.
These added responsibilities
(which, in truth, would seem to
be only a part of the T.U.C.’s
normal function) would involve
much closer co-ordination with
the Minister of Labor. The
council evidently is frightened
that this might be misconstrued
as fraternisation.
Farcicalities
The Puritan conviction that
naughty farces in the French
tradition belong only to the easy
or the depraved is entirely mis-
conceived. They are for the
virtuous, not the vicious. The
well-married husband identifies
himself, innocuously and
ephemerally, with the confirmed
philanderer, while to the solidly
respectable wife, a Madame
Bovary in the temporary sub-
consciousness, the alien demi-
monde before her eyes and ears
provokes an enjoyable release of
tonic - giving self - expression.
Even the label, “French,” which
has attached itself to these way-
ward trifles since the days of
Moliere, is indebted more to a
rigid social order than to free
living. For there is no one in
the family circle who has held
more power and commanded
more authority than the tradi-
tional French matron. Since she
managed everything, kept the
purse and even arranged the •
marriages it is not surprising
that her menfolk clamored for a
few contented hours of escape
at the playhouse.
Andre Roussin’s “Nina” (Hay-
market Theatre) has all the con-
stituents of this traditional fare:
a Paris apartment of sensuous
opulence ; a languid practitioner
in dalliance who is satiated with
his preoccupation but who must
keep on; a vengeful husband
who at heart envies the lady-
killer ; and a masterful woman
who is resolutely determined to
retain both husband and lover.
It is not so much a farce as a
stylised comedy.
Despite the author’s high
sophistication of wit and humor
and his agile manipulation of
the classic triangle, the play
cannot avoid seeming old-
fashioned, attenuated and, at
times, embarrassing to the actors.
Michael Hordern does very well
—though he is rather over-
serious—as the lacklustre rou£.
Coral Browne acts the dominant
Nina for all she’s worth, which
is considerably more than the
part has to offer. (It would have
suited Gaby Deslys or Mrs. Pat
Campbell.) But it is James
Hayter’s elegant fooling that
redeems the evening.
Alan Melville’s new farcical
comedy, “Mrs. Willie” (Globe
Theatre), is written to a different
kind of order —as a vehicle for
Yvonne Arnaud. It is ingenious
and of an extremely taut and tidy
construction, with all the ends
neatly sealed off and nothing
overlooked. Miss Arnaud is a
Balkan princess, married to a
tweedy Sussex hearty and given
to touring Europe as a concert-
pianist. This triple revelation is
almost the whole play. She
squeaks and chirrups with
characteristic ebullience and she
plays the piano very nicely.
Comic characters from the
Balkans and the Foreign Office
commingle with comic characters
from the Weald of Sussex.
Everybody has been, or is
about to be, involved with
the other. The humor of
the situations is more subtle than
that of the dialogue, which is
predominantly fleshy, depend-
ing upon such confusions as
that of “car” with “bra.”
The casting is excellent and
the production (by Wallace
Douglas) exceptional, but both
author and star are below their
best.


QUEENSLAND
*
★1
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
"From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
clone provides such complete
Executor end Trustee Services
in ell 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson.
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and (he Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Lear month.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
_ N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair. K.8.E.;
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
„ m „ QUEENSLAND BOARD: „ -
J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman); Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil
, Brenan; A. E. Axon; W. Hamilton Hart.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst. ’
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd.
OAPID and profitable expafision, by
and internal growth, is the
outstanding feature of the business over
the last decade. To help finance further
growth and lighten the outside debt, those
on .the register at February 28 last were
offered 2,826,300 new £1 shares, called
to 125., at a premium of 6s. each—
it was the first time in the last 15 years
that shareholders had been asked to
assist.- Paid capital was thus lifted to
£4,522,080, the last £45,923 of which
came in shortly after the close of
accounts at June 30. The share pre-
miums (£847,890) were added to reserves,
and the cost of the issue, etc. (£64,108),
which was underwritten, was charged
against the year’s earning.
Another important development—
completed since the books were
ruled-off was purchase of the
Commonwealth Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney) by an exchange of
shares, on the basis of seven Elder,
Smith’s (£1 paid to 125.) for every three
Commonwealth Wool shares (£1 f.-p.).
The deal will benefit both parties. The
vendor, which has a paid capital of
£400,000, netted £48,780 for the year to
June 30, 1954, when reserves totalled
£319,154. Of the £400,000 of capital,
E.S. and Co. already holds £lOO,OOO
at a cost of £52,200 (in scrip). The
other £300,000 will involve the issue by
E.S. and Co. of a further 700,000 new
shares (paid-up value £420,000). The
purchaser will thus obtain net assets with
a book-value of over £719,000 at a total
cost of £472,200 (in its own scrip). The
vendor’s shares, priced around 275. before
announcement of the deal, recently sold
at 565. Also, for the year to June 30
last, the vendor and its subsidiary, New
England N. and N.W. Produce Co.,
together sold 125,543 bales of N. S. Wales
wool, as well as a large number of live-
stock and a lot of merchandise, etc.
E.S. and Co., which already sells more
wool than any other broker in South
Australia and Westralia, and is second
bn the list in Victoria, will thus gain a
firm footing in N. S. Wales, and, on the
basis of the 1954-55 season’s figures, will
become by a narrow margin the largest
seller of the staple in Australia. Also,
together with 100,000 new shares to be
offered to members of the co.’s staff on
the same terms as the February issue, the
deal will lift paid capital to £5,002,080,
on which a 12 p.c. div. will call for
£600,250, or £209,900-odd less profit than
was claimed by E.S. and Co. alone last
term.
For the year to June 30 last the co.’s
total turnover was £94,323,000, down
£3,032,000, the contraction being due to
a drop of a shade over 10 p.c. in the
aggregate value of the Australian clip
(£352 million, down £3B million). Here
are the figures for the most important
sections of the co.’s business:
1954. 1955.
Wool £44,841,083 £40,499,022
Merchandise .. .. 21,590,550 23,466,000
Livestock .. .. 19,457,000 19,761,500
Real estate .. .. 6,135,800 5,685,200
Skins and hides .. 2,228,300 1,392,800
Shipping, insurance and sundry activities
contributed to the pool, too. The agency
for the P. and O. Co. in Adelaide has
been held for over 100 years.
After allowing a generous £365,392 (up
£16,075) for depreciation, £688,812 (up
£73,812) for land, income and payroll
taxes, and unstated amounts for bad and
doubtful debts and other contingencies,
net earnings increased by £161,337:
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 727,362 16 p.c. = 423,945 303,417 1,932,242
To provident fund, £62,000 .. .. 1,880,242
1952.. 419,095 10 p.e. = 282,630 136,465 2,016,707
To provident fund, £25,000 .. .. 1,991,707
1953.. 585,740 10 p.c. = 282,630 803,110 2,294,817
To provident fund, £45,000 .. 2,249,817
1954.. 648,854 12 p.c. = 339,156 309,698 2,559,515
To provident fund, £42,823 .. ..2,516,693
Share premiums, £847,890 .. .. 3,364,582
1955.. 810,191 12 p.c. = 434,002 376,189 3,740,771
To provident fund, £52,554 .. .. 3,688,217
Share issue exes., etc., £64,103 .. 3,624,109
The £810,191 of profit was 20.8 p.c. on
average capital as against 22.9, 20.7, 14.8,
25.7 and 22.6 p.c. back to 1951 —the new
share-capital, etc., hadn’t an opportunity
to contribute much to the pool. The
distribution was kept at 12 p.c., which
includes a 2 p.c. bonus. Average rate
paid for the last eight years was 11.1 p.c.,
compared with an average of 6.6 p.c. for
the preceding decade. The board’s
recently declared policy is to pay reason-
ably good dividends rather than make
heavy distributions during prosperous
periods and nothing in lean times.
The year’s growth in total assets was
only £292,595:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £2,826,300 £2,820,300 £4,476,157
Reserves .. 2,249,817 2,516,692 8,624,109
Deposits, etc... 698,563 567,434 1,170,296
Sundry creditors,
etc 12,115,609 12,683,494 9,497,421
Tax provision.. 907,427 632,814 646,500
Pinal div. .. 141,315 197,841 292,687
£18,839,031 £19,414,575 £19,707,170
Freeholds, plant,
etc 2,531,169 2,463,346 2,790,984
Govt, securities
and cash .. 7,259,653 6,605,483 ' 6,845,594
Advances, etc. 6,475,909 8,067,266 9,041,110
Stocks .. 2,074,749 1,794,599 2,063,479
Shares other cos. 497,551 483,891 466,053
£18,839,031 £19,414,575 £19,707,170
The £2,497,747 of fresh capital and share-
premiurps, together with £1,259,889 from
Government securities and cash, an
additional £612,862 of deposits and
surplus earnings, was used chiefly to
reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £3,186,073, increase
advances to clients by £973,854, carry
an extra £268,880 of stocks, and add
£327,588 net to premises and plant.
Overall, the movements reflect the effects
of the fall in wool prices, increased mer-
chandising activity, and additions and
improvements to wool-stores and office
premises.
The current term has got away to a
good start so far as seasonal conditions
are concerned, but wool prices are
down 10-12 p.c. for 64’s-60’s qualities
compared with the closing rates for last
season. And with the international
economic background very fluid, it is
difficult to say at what level prices for
the staple are likely to settle down.
Meanwhile, Wage and other costs threaten
to become troublesome.
At 255. the co.’s scrip returns 5.7 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. distribution, which the
market expects to be maintained. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 21s. '7d.
per share.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd. (Q.)
npHE board’s modest capitalisation of
£50,000 of reserves in February last
has robbed the co.’s shares of but little
of their attractiveness as an investment.
The gift came from a reserve of £51,000
created by writing-up the book-value of
the parent’s freeholds. It lifted paid
capital to £250,000 in f.-p. £1 shares,
which were backed by visible reserves
totalling £619,993 when the books were
ruled-off at May 31 last. The div. was
reduced from 20 p.c. to 18 p.c., but the
lower rate is equal to 22.5 p.c. on capi-
tal as it stood before the gift.
The price of the old 165.-paid shares
rose from 70s. a year ago to 755. shortly
before the bonus share-issue, and then
edged back to 70s. for the new f.-p. £1
shares. The immediate return at 70s.
is 5.1 p.c. on an 18 p.c. div. basis, with
encouraging long-term prospects. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 695. 7d.
Built up largely by the Rudds, the busi-
ness, with headquarters at Rockhampton,
has its roots in Queensland’s pioneering
days, and for the last 50-odd years its
history ha? been a very pleasing one,
financially and otherwise. From the
shareholders’ point of view the most
interesting development has been the
rapid growth and widening of activities
over the last seven or eight years by
purchase (largely out of accumulated
savings) of retail establishments, hotels
and pastoral properties. Subsidiaries
were set up for the purpose, and the
book-value of holdings in the offshoots
(nil in 1947) had reached £500,902 in
1950, and stood at £505,892 at the close
of last accounts. The curtain is kept
drawn over the figures of individual off-
shoots, whose profits are taken into the
parent’s accounts only to the extent of
dividends received, the amount of which
is unstated, but appears to be expanding.
The parent’s own declared profits are
consei*vatively stated:
~ ~ _ To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950 .. 32,521 15 p.c. = 30,000 2,621 451,434
Unexplained additions, £77,000 .. 444,882
Added contingency reserve, £50,000.. 601,434
1951 .. 43,062 20 p.c. = 40,000 3,002 504,496
Added contingency reserve, £7821 .. 511,777
1952 .. 54,876 15 p.c. = 30,000 24,876 536,653
Unexplained additions, £4168 .. 540,812
1968 . . 42,648 20 p.c. = 40,000 2,648 543,460
Unexplained addition, £16,834 .. 560,294
1954 . . 43,241 20 p.c. = 40,000 3,241 563,535
Assets revaluation reserve, £51,000 614,535
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 564,535
Unexplained addition, £48,938 .. 613,473
1955 .. 47,770 18 p.c. = 41,250 6,520 610!993
All-round expansion of earnings 1 ' is
reported last term. But the cautious
board wrote the net figure only £4531
stronger at £47,770, equal to 19.5 p.c.
on capital as now stands, or a modest
5.5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined). That leaves out
of the reckoning £48,938 dropped into
the contingencies reserve, making it
£127,211. Treating this addition as
genuine profit, the year’s net result was
£96,708, or 38.6 p.c. on the £250,000 of
capital, and then the position does not
appear to be overstated. The 18 p.c. dis-
tribution, of which 3 p.c. is called bonus,
thus wears a much more comfortable
appearance than the profit claimed would
suggest. And all the co.’s subsidiary in-
terests might not yet have reached the
peak of their earning-power.
The financial position further strength-
ened, the growth in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£255,994) being £55,327:
„ ~ ... 1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £200,000 £200,000 £250,000
Reserves .. .. 543,460 563,535 619,993
Sundry creditors.. 115,702 108,172 106,923
Due subsids. .. 141,450 150,914 127,102
Tax provision .. 123,944 180,508 172,307
Final div. .. 30,000 25,000 26,250
Total .. £1,154,556 £1,228,129 £1,302,575
Freeholds and plant 62,422 56,980 108,107
Shares subsids. .. 505,893 505,893 605,892
Stocks .. .. 381,948 421,303 446,938
Book debts .. 192,382 212,747 193,048
Cash .. .. 19,631 28,926 46,305
Investments .. 2,280 2,280 2,285
Total .. £1,154,556 £1,228,129 £1,302,575
The addition to freeholds (up £51,127)
was due almost wholly to the writing-up
already referred to. A net reduction of
£32,012 in current liabilities was accom-
panied by a growth of £25,635 in stocks,
contraction of £B2lO in book-debts and
strengthening of the cash holding by
£17,379.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of turnover on
the merchandising side, and excellent
rains have fallen on all the pastoral hold-
ings. But rising costs and the fall in the
wool prices are likely to retard growth
of net earnings.
Meggitt, Ltd.
'ySJITH the substantial post-war addi-
” tions to the oil-refining and other
sections of the co.’s plants, etc., which
were financed largely from surplus earn-
ings, out of the way, declared profits are
responding nicely to the bigger trading
which goes with a rapidly-expanding
economy, and part of the increased
harvest has been passed on to share-
holders. The distribution, which
averaged 10 p.c. for the five years to
1941, followed by 7f p.c. for the next
six years, and 10.7 p.c. for the seven
years to 1954, was lifted from 12i p.c.
to 15 p.c. last term. This might be taken
as an expression of the board’s confidence
in the future of the undertaking.
Heartened by the marked growth in
profits over the last couple of years, and
by the lift in the distribution and dis-
closure of £115,748 of inner reserves last
term, the market has steadily lengthened
its bid for the f.-p. £1 ords. from 335.
two years ago to 38s. 6d. 12 months after
that and to 465. 3d. following publica-
tion of the latest accounts. The return
at 465. 3d. is 6.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis, and the cover (book-value) is
295. 7d. in net tangibles. At 31s. 6d. and
30s. the first and second prefs., each 10
p.c. cumulative, yield 6.3 p.c. and 6.6 p.c.
respectively. Net tangible backing is
£29 6s. 3d. firsts and £2B 6s. 3d. seconds.
The co. turns out and markets linseed-
oil and a variety of linseed-meal stock-
foods from well-equipped factories at
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane. Chief customers for the oil are the
expanding paint- and lino.-industries. The
stock-foods, which enrich butter-fats and
improve the quality of fat-lamb-, beef-
and wool-production, have long enjoyed
a wide market in the dairying- and
pastoral-industries.
One of the chief troubles of recent
years has been irregular supplies of
imported linseed at fluctuating prices.
Small but increasing quantities of home-
grown linseed have helped to fill the
gap. The co. encouraged home-produc-
tion by guaranteeing a floor price of £7O
a ton when imported seed had dropped
to £65 a ton a couple of years ago.
Much of the recent improvement in
net earnings, however, has been due to
the importation and processing of linseed-
oil. And bulk shipments of the stuff
have resulted in considerable savings com-
pared with drummed cargoes, thus enabl-
ing the co. to reduce its selling-prices and
strengthen its competitive position. Also,
operations were recently extended to the
treatment and marketing of safflower-,
coconut- and castor-oil. Safflower-oil,
imported from India, looks like being
the best profit-earner. It is in steady
demand in the paint-industry, and th p
question of growing safflower in Aus-
tralia is being investigated by the
C.5.1.R.0.
After allowing £29,848 (up £4249) for
depreciation and unstated amounts for
taxation and “various” contingencies, the
improvement in last term’s net earnings
was £8982:
t Dividends \
Pref. Re-
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.t
1949.. 46,192 4000 10 p.c. = 32,737 3,612
1950.. 58,786 4000 12J „ „ 46,148 12,250
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 7,250
1951.. 66,593 4000 10 p.c. = 36,918 22,925
1952.. 51,939 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 33,946
1953. . 53,933 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 46,961
1954.. 62,485 4000 12$ „ „ 46,148 59,298
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 49,298
From inner reserves, £115,748 .. 165,046
1955.. 71,464 4000 15 p.c. = 59,378 177,132
t After deducting goodwill (£115,748), which was
written out of the accounts in 1955.
The £71,464 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the pref. divs. and show
18.2 p.c. on the £369,182 of ord. capital,
compared with 15.8, 13.5, 13, 14.3, 14.8
and 12.9 p.c. back to 1949. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 11.5 p.c. The
£115,748 transferred from inner reserves


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN OLIVER JAMES PARK late
of 12 Grenfell Avenue, Narrabeen. —
TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS BERYL
PARK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1312 of 1955 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court
King Street, Sydney by the 25th
November 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
McLEOD WHITE, McKEON & CO., Soli-
citors, of 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.
OPENING 19th SEPTEMBER 1955
■
Registered First MORTGAGE Debenture Stock
LONG TERM "J %
Interest (per annum) Currency
2 years 5i%
3 „ 6%
4 „ 6i%
5 „ to 10 years .... 7%
15 „ .. 7%
SHORT
TERM
4i%
Interest (per annum) Currency
3 months 3i%
6 „ 3i%
9 „ 4%
12 „ 4k%
Interest payable Quarterly, free of exchange
PROSPECTUS may be obtained from branches of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank of Australia throughout Australia, Members of Stock
Exchanges and Offices of the Company.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.
393 Flinders Lane, Melb.
170 St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock mentioned herein.
GCI
L
l
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child’s life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
Protection
from
Babyhood to Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
I
tHE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh Stj.. Sydney
Faith fat
Future
mm
A facet of American life that has impressed
me on my present visit has been the increasing
interest that foremost leaders of industry are taking
in the human side of business.
The sentiment is well expressed by Mr. Larry
Appley, president of the American Management
Association, in a very recent article entitled “The
Spirit Moves.”
When my good friend Mr. Louis B. Neumiller,
Chairman of the Board of the Caterpillar Tractor
Company, passed the script along to me he
remarked that he had found it full of meaning.
The theme of the writer —an authority on
management relations —is that a human being is
much more than mind-power and muscle-power;
he is also motive-power, which finds its source in
the spirit and is the greatest of the three.
Appley sees the realisation dawning in business
that man is not an economic animal. And in the
past 15 years, he says, management has been going
through a revision of its principles in the light of
this truth.
He advises managers to learn that they them-
selves are not economic animals, and that in the
field of human relations the beginning of wisdom
is knowledge of oneself.
Why, he asks, do men shy from morale, spirit,
and inspiration; apologise for them; even pride
themselves on being cold realists, when the very
qualities they shun are needed to influence those
who work for and with them?
Now, I have quoted from this article because
so much of it is applicable to us—whatever our
rating responsibilities —in the task of building
Australia.
We have in Providential trust a country < ii
great beauty and natural wealth. But that is only
the outer part of it, in terms of our destiny as a
people.
To bring Australia to its richest reality we
must draw upon that “motive-power” from within
—and “let the. spirit move.”
// //osfu
7
came from “some of the pro-
visions for contingencies” not
now required for their original
purpose, and was used to rub
goodwill out of the accounts. It
is thus plain that the board has
followed a cautious policy in its
statement of profits.
Movements in balance-sheet
figures mainly reflect bigger
trading and higher prices for
raw materials,:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £409,182 £409,182
Reserves .. 165,046 177,131
Deprec. reserve .. 332,595 360,279
Sundry creditors* 803,616 981,126
Staff fund .. 39,000 39,000
Final divs. .. 29,689 138,919
£1,779,128 £2,005,637
Premises .. .. 152,964 154,834
Plant .. .. 409,392 419,067
Stocks .. . . 329,291 605,085
Book debts .. 173,755 284,390
Cash, etc. .. 597,978 642,261
Goodwill .. .. 115,748
£1,779,128 £2,005 637
* Includes “provisions.”
To meet the year’s net growth
of £266,509 in total assets only
£177,510 was added to the
amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. the etcetera is
sundry “provisions.”
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
The co., whose leases are on
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.), is now on the way to
becoming the second-largest
gold-producer in Australia.
Following purchase of the next-
door leases of Paringa in 1952
for £85,000, all the share-capital
in three other neighbors—
Perseverance (paid capital
£5224,820), Kalgoorlie Enter-
prise (paid capital £275,000, of
which 65 p.c. was held by Per-,
severance) and South Kalgurli
Consolidated (paid capital
£562,502) —was bought in 1954
at a total cost of £1,069,087. Pay-
ment was met as to £332,635 in
f.-p. 10s. shares and £727,321 in
cash.
The aim is to step up ore-
production, centralise milling
operations, and thus reduce
mining, treatment and other
costs to the benefit of net earn-
ings. However, the full effects
of all this have yet to show up
in both tonnage and recovery
figures and in the accounts.
For the year to March 31
last, G.M. of K. itself (excluding
the three cos. just purchased)
treated 211,332 tons (up 12,824
tons) ore, of which 199,950 tons
(up 3479 tons) was from its own
lease and the balance tribute
and customs ore. The co.’s own
ore yielded 55,6030 z. (down
13050 z.) fine gold, an average
of 5.56dwt., which represented
a recovery of 90.3 p.c. Mining,
treatment and development costs
were 3.15. heavier at 74.15. per
ton. The profit was £102,922
(down £81,343), and the div. was
maintained at Is. 6d. per 10s.
share, or 15 p.c., which called
for £133,143. When earnings
get the full benefit of the com-
bined output, and the economies
expected to result therefrom, the
board thinks it should be
possible to increase the dividend-
rate, though there will be a lot
more capital to feed.
Since the close of accounts the
three subsidiary cos. have been
placed in liquidation, and their
assets, etc., are being transferred
to G.M. of K. The intention is
to treat ore from all the leases
at G.M. of K.’s mill, the capacity
of which is being stepped-up
from 15,000 tons to 38,000 tons
per four-weekly period. The
work is scheduled for comple-
tion by the end of this month.
The half-interest in Croesus
Prop. Treatment Co.’s mill,
acquired through purchase of
South Kalgurli Consolidated,
has been sold for £150,000. The
Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co.’s
plant, in which Boulder Per-
severance held a major interest,
is to be closed down-and dis-
mantled as soon as the G.M.
of K. mill is ready to take the
extra feed.
Combined ore-reserves of the
co. and its subsidiaries at March
31 last were put at 1,557,919
tons, averaging s.Bdwt, and the
drill has indicated that there is
a lot more ore, much of it well
above run-of-mine grade, yet to
be developed.
When the books closed
current assets totalled £304,908
(including £145,999 stores), and
current liabilities £926,257, of
which £260,574 was coming to
subsidiaries and £456,891 to the
bank. Paid capital was £934,755
in f.-p. 10s. shares, including
332,635 shares issued in connec-
tion with the purchase of sub-
sidiaries.
To meet the cash portion
of the purchase considera-
tion, financed temporarily
by the bank, and provide for
enlargement of the mill, etc., the
co. offered those on the register
at February 28 last 1,869,510
new 10s. shares at a premium
of 2s. 6d. each, payable Is.
application, ss. June, 1955, and
6s. 6d. November, 1955. The
issue (underwritten) will lift
paid capital to £1,869,510.
The figure will be raised to
£2,012,646 if the co.’s offer,
announced last week, to buy all
the issued shares in New
Coolgardie (paid capital £511,200
in f.-p. 10s. shares) in exchange
for 286,272 of its own f.-p. 10s.
scrip is accepted, as seems likely.
The offer is equal to approxi-
mately 28 G.M.K. shares for
every 100 New Coolgardie. The
latter sold at 3s. 6d. each and
G.M.K. at 18s. before announce-
ment of the offer, which is thus
equivalent to ss. for each New
Coolgardie share.
Formed in 1947, New Cool-
gardie owns four groups of
leases —Barbara, Callion, Bay-
leys and Davyhurst in the
Coolgardie district (W.A.). The
5000-ton-a-month mill treated
66,201 tons ore, for 34,3420 z.
fine gold, average 10.38dwt. (94.9
p.c. recovery) for the year to
March 31, 1955. Costs were
154.35. per ton, profit £20,880
(4.8 p.c.), no div. was paid. Ore
reserves at March 31, 1955, were
65,200 tons averaging 12.8dwt.
The properties are still in the
development stage. Western
Mining Corp. owns 52 p.c. and
30 p.c. of the capital in New
Coolgardie and G.ltl.K. respec-
tively, and is general-manager
and consultant to each co.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Dame Pattie Menzies came from Can-
berra to open the Y.W.C.A. Centenary
Fair in the Lower Town Hall. Wearing
a suit of mist-blue wool and a small hat
in a slightly darker shade, she was
welcomed by the president of the local
Y.W.C.A., Mrs. T. C. Rentoul, and
Mrs. E. Fauser, convenor of the fair,
and presented with a bouquet of mauve
and blue iris, hyacinths and primroses.
After her opening speech Dame Pattie
pressed a button and 100 candles on the
huge birthday-cake blazed into light. The
cake, decorated with the blue triangles
of “Y,” was placed on the official dais,
which was decorated with bowls of crab-
apple blossom. Red, white and blue
flowers were on the luncheon-tables, and
members of the South Yarra auxiliary
waited on table; they had, too, supplied
the food.
Very busy helping Mrs. John Carrodus,
who sold tickets for luncheon and
afternoon-tea, was small daughter
Suzanne. Women of the Canadian Club
ran a well-stocked kitchen-goods stall.
A bright red-and-white-striped awning
decorated the magazine stall staffed by
American women, among them Mrs. J.
Weidenmayer, Mrs. T. Petit, Mrs. C.
Guthrie and Mrs. R. Quigley. Actress
Marsha Hunt, who cut the cake, was
lovely in, a frock of Parma-violet wool
and tiny pink jewelled cap. A novel
feature of the fair was the Kiddies
Corral, where mothers could leave their
youngsters to enjoy the slide and watch
Hettie the Hen “lay” snowballs at three-
pence a time. Mary Lewis was in charge
of the lucky-dip, and the Mothers Club
of “Y.” staffed a fancy-goods stall. Mrs.
Alan Benjamin successfully sold costume-
jewellery.
☆. ☆ ☆
The council of the Victorian branch
of the English-Speaking Union has
established a scholarship fund, and will
offer a number of travelling scholarships
to assist professional men and women
to gain experience overseas. These will
take the form of travel-grants to the
value of £AISO. It is intended to confine
the plan, during the first year, to visits
to the U.K., but later it may be possible
to widen the scheme to include the U.S
or other countries which have E.-S.U.
branches. The Common Interests
Council of the E.-S.U. has arranged for
six-weeks’ hospitality for candidates in
the homes of E.-S.U. members in the
U.K. The scholarships are open to British
subjects between 25 and 35 resident in
Victoria.
* ☆ ☆
To the fine collection of English glass
at the Victorian National Gallery, said
to be the best of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere, has been added a novel
British tankard which commemorates
the Queen’s Coronation. It was sent to
the Premier, Mr. Bolte, by the maker,
A. Brockhurst, of Marldon, Paignton,
England. Mr. Brockhurst made a
similar glass tankard at the time of the
Coronation and presented it to the Duke
of Edinburgh. Around its rim are the
words “To Great Britain, that not only
was, but is, great.” Grouped about
the tankard are the signatures, done by
a secret process, of 15 of Britain’s
greatest scientists, engineers and nuclear-
physicists. This tankard will now be in
the section which already includes com-
memorative engraved glasses of all the
English monarchs since Charles I.
* ☆ ☆
Operatic Redex! Sydney Opera
Group is off on tour to tackle 40 Vic-
torian towns and cram 64 performances
into eight weeks. To highlight the fun
of Menotti’s “The Telephone” they have
dressed it in the manner and manners of
the 1920’s —cloche hats, languor and
drainpipe-dresses.
The group will also do Wolf-Ferrari’s
“The Secret of Susanna” and Mozart’s
“The Impresario.” In the Mozart,
sopranos Rae Candy and Patricia Bon-
nefin pretend # to an eye-scratching
jealousy ; they are, in fact, best of friends
and will alternate their roles. Male singers
will be Geoffery Chard, Ross Whatson,
Robert Tasman-Smith.
‘ # V
Homeden, the Toorak home of Mr.
and Mrs. G. R. Nicholas, was the setting
for a presentation of spring and summer
fashions from the Collins-street house of
La Petite, proceeds from which will be
donated to the appeal for Homes for
Blind Babies. The parade began when
the curtains of the miniature stage in the
ballroom parted to reveal a pretty model
with long blonde tresses reclining on
pink-satin cushions and wearing a
delightful pink chiffon negligee. Behind
her were massed pink magnolia-trees,
concealed in a cloud of pink tulle. Bowls
of pink and white magnolias and blossom
decorated the reception-rooms.
The Governor and Lady Brooks, the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. F. Selleck) and the wife of
the Premier (Mrs. Henry Bolte) attended.
The Olympic theme was used success-
fully. Interlocking circles of guipure-
lace trimmed many garments, including
an afternoon-frock of ink-blue pure-silk
with an elaborately draped skirt. The
drapings were held with a long panel of
the interlocking Olympic circles of
matching guipure-lace. Also featured was
a “fan” motif. One short evening-frock
of Gauguin-pink chiffon was made with a
skirt composed entirely of pleated fans,
by designer Mrs. Neil Rogers. Several
frocks had matching fans —a silk frock
and coat ensemble had a matching fan
to tuck into' the coat pocket when not
required; a long ball-gown composed
of countless Vandyked rows of very
finely pleated narrow bands of black tulle
had a fan to go with it. This was com-
posed of sprays of lily-of-the-valley
mounted on black tulle.
Many short theatre- and race-coats of
heavy - ribbed ottoman - silk were
featured. Rich handwork distinguished
many of the frocks, with roses notably
present. A pencil-slim evening-gown of
white satin was embossed with flame
satin rosebuds on long green satin stems.
A beautiful short evening-frock of blush-
rose silk-organza was appliqued all over
with matching roses which stood out,
petal for petal, as if they were real. It
was topped with a loose coat of roseleaf-
green velvet lined with pink.
An exquisite wedding-gown completed
the collection. Fashioned of white satin
and organza, the long-sleeved bodice was
of satin, and extended into the very
full, bell-shaped skirt, almost to the
knees. Below the knees the skirt was of
organza, but there was no gathering,
just a smooth flowing of one material
into the other, the line marked by a
band of white organza roses, again each
standing out from the material. The
long tulle veil was topped by a white
satin bow which trailed two streamers to
the ground.
Passing through this city on her way
to London, Robin, daughter of Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. A. L. Walters, of
Lapstone Hill (N.S.W.), had several busy
days saying goodbye to friends. Robin
was educated at Melbourne’s C. of E.
Girls’ Grammar School and Clyde,
Macedon. She completed her education
in England, and when her father went to
Washington she and her mother joined
him. Robin is bound for Gothenburg,
Sweden, where she will marry Dr. Carl
Helden, whom she met in London.
September Affair was the name given
to the dinner-dance organised by
members of the Lady Forster Free
Kindergarten Auxiliary at Ciro’s. Large
posters of sunny Italy adorned the walls,
and on stage a large donkey wearing a
straw-hat trimmed with flowers stood
in front of a backdrop depicting a
Venetian scene. Straw-hats and colored
cardboard donkeys carrying baskets of
fruit —all made by auxiliary members —
were set on the walls, and there were
Chianti bottles in attractive straw-
covers. In keeping with the general
theme Italian food was served.
SYDNEY
The sailing season started on Satur-
day, and grey Winter, wearisome guest
that he is, has apparently taken the hint
and gone. At any rate there was a
sparkhngly blue day for the occasion, and
650 guests attended the 93rd opening
day of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
at Kirribilli, when Governor-General Sir
William Slim was present as the newly-
elected commodore of the squadron.
☆ ☆ ☆
Meanwhile hundreds of people went
to the beaches, though few ventured in
and the new season’s swimsuits were not
yet on parade. Hundreds more attended
the races at Randwick, mainly to see
the races, it appears, for spring dresses
and hats stayed home in their tissue-
paper. At the fete and garden-party
held at Fairwater, Double Bay, the home
of Lady Fairfax, lovely summer dresses
by Frank Mitchell were modelled in a
perfect spring atmosphere, with banked
azaleas, budding camellias and wistaria,
grassy terraces and the harbor beyond,
while an oak in its early spring beauty
made one remember that Solomon in
all his glory was not arrayed like one of
these. The fete and parade, in aid of
Red Cross, were attended by about 600
people.
This is charming Helen van den
Elshout, who has recently announced her
engagement. She is the daughter of Mr.
P. A. van den Elshout, Chancellor of the
Netherlands Consulate, and Mrs. van
den‘ Elshout. Her fiance is Lindsay
Munn, son of Mr. and Mrs. S. S. Munn,
of North Bondi. The marriage will take
place next year. Photo by Dayne.
The eighth Younger Set annual con-
ference of the Country Women’s
Association at C.E.N.E.F. on Saturday
was attended by 138 delegates, and it was
really impressive to see the competent
way these girls gave expression to their
opinions, debated points and presented
reports. There are few women who do
not find it agonising to stand up, give
their name and then say something
intelligible, let alone intelligent, so it
speaks well for the experience gained in
C.W.A. younger-sets that the delegates
gave such an excellent account of them-
selves. Chairman of the conference was
Madeline Grant, gaining a few hints
from Mrs. W. H. Cullen, State president
of the parent body, on conducting a
meeting. Guest-speaker was Miss Ida
Elizabeth Jenkins, and Mrs. J. Campbell
presented the Cullen Macintosh Cup to
the Henty branch, and the Gladys
Brookes Cup to the Hunter River group.
Pamela Saunders (Murrurundi) was
elected State leader for the coming year,
and Mary Lambert (Robertson)
conference-secretary.
☆ ☆ ☆
One little thing that raised a chuckle
was Mrs. W. H. Cullen’s handing her
glasses over to Mrs. J. Campbell when
the latter was screwing-up her eyes over
some notes. “Mrs. Gillen and I have
been using one another’s glasses for
years,” explained Mrs. Campbell, “and
it’s so nice to know that if we forget our
own there is always a substitute handy.”
Another amusing note sounded during
the week was Colonel J. J. O’Sullivan’s
“64-dollar question,” namely: “What did
you have to eat last week?” The colonel
says that all mothers ask their sons this
when they come back from camp, and
they always get the same answer, “Oh,
stew, I think.” But obviously if grown
men were to be asked the same question
most would give the same answer, tor
how many could really remember what
they had to eat last week?
Colonel J. J. O’Sullivan, who will be
remembered for the brilliant pageants
he organised in past years for the Royal
Empire Society’s ball, was guest-of-honor
at a luncheon given by the society on
Thursday, when he gave a very interest-
ing account of the history and activities
of the Australian Cadet Corps, with
which he has been closely associated until
his recent retirement from the Army.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mary Edwell-Burke (who has hitherto
painted as “Mary Edwards”) slipped
away just before the opening of her
exhibition at David Jones’ small gallery
on September 5, much to the disappoint-
ment of many who wished to congratulate
her on the show. Among those who were
present was Mrs. E. J. Emanuel, from
Minj, New Guinea, where several of the
paintings had b6en done. Mrs. Emanuel,
who is on furlough with her husband
(he’s an assistant-district-officer) and her
two children Robyn and Warwick, was
accompanied by Margaret Fullerton,
who leaves soon herself for New Guinea,
where she will marry patrol-officer Roger
Claridge, of Adelaide. Others who
admired the paintings were Mrs. H.
Murray, Mrs. Charles Pfeiffer, Miss
Dorothy Smith and Mrs. Lucy Cassidy.
☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting new enterprise is the art-
gallery which Jane Glad (Norman
Lindsay’s elder daughter) has opened at
Hunter’s Hill this week. “It is to be
more of a picture-shop than a gallery,”
says Mrs. Glad, “as I intend to have
paintings by traditional Australian artists
always on show and for sale. Anyone
interested can see them in the afternoons
or by appointment.” Her 100-year-old
stone home at 10 Mount-street is a
charming setting for a gallery, and
Hunter’s Hill itself, which is fast becom-
ing a centre for artists, writers and
musicians, seems an appropriate place,
too. Mrs. Glad (who, by the way, is the
author of that amusing comedy
“Currajong”) is kept pretty busy with
her two small daughters, Catherine (2)
and Helen (4), but a phone-call will be
sufficient for an appointment to see the
pictures, even during the weekend.
☆ ☆ ☆
The firm of J. Fielding and Co,, hav-
ing achieved the sturdy age of 50 years,
celebrated its golden jubilee with a
party for 300 of its executives, directors,
customers, well-wishers, etc., at Prince’s
during the week. The whole of the
restaurant was taken over, a five-course
dinner was served, a four-tiered cake
was cut and the party went on for nearly
six hours.
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Fielding did the
welcoming. Directors present included
Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Ratcliffe, Mr. and
Mrs. R. Burns, Mr. and Mrs. J.
Mcllwaine and Mr. L. M. Triggs. Mr.
N. A. Lees, secretary of the firm, whose
family has been associated with it for
the whole of its life, was accompanied
by Mrs. Lees, who wore pink nylon-net
trimmed with satin medallions. Mrs.
R. W. May, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Leslie Fielding, came from Queanbeyan
with her husband, Dr. R. W. May, for
the party. The toast of the firm was
proposed by Mr. E. Telford Simpson,
who was accompanied by Mrs. Simpson.
☆ ☆ ☆
A gala-preview to look forward to is
that of the prize-winning film “Marty,”
to be held at Hoyts Theatre, Double
Bay, on Wednesday, September 21.
Proceeds are in aid of the Peter Pan
Free Kindergarten, of which Mrs.
Norman Hill is president, and the even-
ing promises to be a truly glamorous and
exciting one.
☆ ☆ ☆
Other interesting coming events include
the Gilbert and Sullivan Society’s presen-
tation of “The Gondoliers” at the Con-
servatorium for three nights from Sep-
tember 29. The Governor-General, who
recently gave his patronage to the
society, and Lady Slim will be present
at the performance on Saturday, October
1. The entire proceeds go to the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children.


Divorce Notices
IN.THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
' SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MILDRED VERONICA RILEY late
of Stanmore. —TAKE NOTICE that
HAROLD KEITH RILEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1946 of 1964 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-1964 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 18th November 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from JAMES E. CARRUTHERS & CO..
Solicitors, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MELINDA BRENDA McLEAN late of
17 Napier Street Concord in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
COLIN HUGH McLEAN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2713 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for a period of three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 21st day of November 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. M. L. F.
GLASHEEN & CO., Solicitors, 3 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney, City Agents for
MESSRS. K. O’MALLEY JONES &
GROVE, Solicitors, 33 Campsie Street,
Campsie.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUPER
'
m Si
v
y
M
m
m
is the OP* spirit
2i litre Maseratti
Optimum
Performance
Any experienced racing driver will
tell you the addition of extra BENZOL
W to his fuel is a must to get OP* from his engine.
Gruelling racing speed won’t interest private motorists
but all the OP* advantages of BENZOL wi11... You’ll appreciate
the quicker starting, livelier acceleration and
smoother,' more positive power of BP
SUPER or C.O.R STANDARD, the
only motor spirits containing BENZOL
BP
SUPER
SUPER
both containing
BENZOL
STANDARD
BPiSUPER, like Special Energol VISCO-STATIC Motor OU—the original 4 grades In I oil
acclaimed by world motorists—ls worth so much more than the extra it costs.
to/caoo
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Co Ltd
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Five Towns, Four Plays
All last week, Sydney’s Inde-
pendent Theatre enjoyed that
sweetest of theatrical crises:
having to keep the “House Full”
sign at the ready. And that must
have pleased members of the
five country play-groups which
brought themselves and scenery
to Sydney for the finals of the
Arts Council dramatic Redex.
Tamworth began things with
“The Heiress.” Henry James
possibly takes the bun as the
most unreadable of famous
writers, and, since he excluded
the novel Washington Square
from his collected works, he him-
self presumably didn’t think
much of it. Nonetheless, Ruth
and Augustus Goetz sluiced
away the verbiage and made a
fine play of it.[
In this Victorian version of
the poor little rich girl, Phyllis
Giblin outshone her fellow-
actors ; though the play teems
with temptations to overact, she
moved through it with a quiet,
gawky pathos which was much
more effective and she hissed
exactly the right amount of hate
at her dying father.
Frank Symes ,was the father,
and, apart from looking as
though his beard didn’t fit, was
credible enough. His steel-grey
dignity was effective, but a flash
or two of gentlemanly bad-
temper would have pepped-up
the role. He overplayed, too, the
dislike for his daughter (he can-
not forgive her inability to
replace his dead wife), making it
seem that it was merely out of
spite that he scotched her match
with a fortune-hunter. That is
wrong. True, Henry James’s Dr.
Sloper despises his daughter, but
he is intelligent enough, and
complex enough, to try to pro-
tect her.
Forbes won the competition
with “The Little Foxes.” This
play revolves about money, and
Lillian Heilman’s characters are
as one-dimensional as dollar-
bills. Rosaleen Morrison brought
a touching quality to Birdie and
earned applause for the drunk-
enness of her drunk scene. As
Regina, the arch-moneygrubber,
Ora Mahlo made a fine job of
being beastly to her brothers and
fiendish to her husband, and
she made it possible to believe
in the climax —when he dies of
a heart-attack while she blandly
refuses to get the medicine that
could save him.
Both Goulburn and Yamba
tackled “Bonaventure.” Yamba
perhaps showed more realism;
Goulburn more theatre know-
how. Since this critic is un-
decided about which town he
will visit in his holidays, he will
make no further comparison.
In the Goulburn production,
Audrey Galland coped very well
as the nun who has the ticklish
job of turning private detective
without causing the audience to
laugh. As the wrongly-convicted
murderess, Lillian Coughlan
prickled her way through the
play, rather like an extremely
pretty hedgehog. And hedge-
hoggery is, after all, just what the
part demands it is a proper
reaction to finding oneself in
such a pickle.
Unfortunately, Muswellbrook
ventured upon a light cpmedy
which calls for heavy guns in the
way of acting. “Two Dozen
Red Roses” starts off with Sig-
nora Verani announcing that
she wants to scoot-off to the Alps
for a holiday alone. She has been
happily married for 20 years and
still loves her husband, but “It
will be like a dose of marital
Epsom-salts.” Signor .Verani,
very properly, finds this remark
indelicate, obscure and ominous.
G. P.
<£♦ ❖ ❖
“Cav.-Pag.”
Powerhouse passions flashed
about the stage of Sydney Em-
pire when the Italian Opera
Company staged the traditional
double-bill, “Cavalleria Rusti-
cana” and “Pagliacci” ; and after
the long Sicilian knives ceased
flashing there were three cadavers
to be dragged off.
Mascagni’s one-aeter didn’t
start very auspiciously. Danilo
Vega’s off-stage singing of the
Siciliana before curtain-rise
wasn’t impressive and he hit
below the middle of the note
several times. But later, in signi-
fying his contempt of Santuzza’s
jealous rages, he sang well and
his big aria, the Farewell to his
mother just before the duel, was
the vocal highlight of the opera.
Elizabetta Barbato was suffi-
ciently combustible as the jilted
Santuzza savagely determined on
revenge, and she led the singing
of the Easter Hymn in a soprano
rich in dramatic quality. John
Shaw, as the cuckolded teamster,
was strongly authoritative and
his baritone virile. •
After a shaky start the chorus
attained good balance and inte-
gration, the setting was reason-
ably good and the liturgical
touches rang true.
The plot of “Pagliacci,”
stronger than that of “Caval-
leria,” is based on an actual case
that came before a court over
which the father of Leoncavallo,
the composer, presided as Magis-
trate. Here again marital in-
fidelity and jealousy are* the
mainsprings, but the play-within-
a-play set-up gives it a greater
dramatic impact. A successful
presentation depends mainly on
a Canio able to project con-
vincingly a growing hatred which
will boil over at exactly the
right time, and on a Tonio who
can mix smouldering virulence
with pretended comedy. Um-
berto Borso and Giulio Mastran-
gelo measured up well to the
demands. In the magnificent
“Vesti la Giubba” Borso
charged his dark tenor with
grief, and his rage was a blood-
boiling affair. Mastrangelo’s
singing of the great Prologue was
as fine a piece of baritone sing-
ing as has been heard during the
season.
Gabriella Tucci, singing
beautifully, was a lovely Nedda ;
Adelio Zagonara’s Beppo was
rather static, but he sang the
Serenade stylishly; and general
details of the production were
well up to standard.
ijt 4*4 »Jt
“Turandot”
Only with this, his last opera,
did Puccini touch the fringes of
Verdi’s greatness. It is his finest
score, and it brought his sense
of theatre, always strong, to
full fruition ; here, too, his writ-
ing for the voice reaches its
highest point.
The Italian Opera company’s
production at Sydney Empire
was brilliantly done the
dressing opulent, the ancient
Peking scene well-captured, the
crowd - scenes handled with
judgment and a greatly-enlarged
chorus singing with thunderous
exactitude. In the best congre-
gation of principals of the
season, Conchita Flores, a
dramatic-soprano, sang the
title-role in strong declamatory
style, and was at her best in
the long and exacting aria “In
Questa Reggia.” Gabriella
Tucci, as Liu, the Prince’s hand-
maiden, made the most of the
pathos and sympathy of the
role and of the opportunities
for delicate use of her lovely
lyric-soprano.
Kenneth Neate was a manly
Calaf, and his singing of
“Nessun Dorma” brought the
house down. Salvatore Catania’s
old, blind Tartar King was well-
sustained, and his bass singing
was something out of the box.
Afro Poli led the Ping-Pang-
Pong trio capably with strong
support from Kevin Foote and
Adelio Zagonara.
The orchestra, called upon
for its most important assign-
ment since “Aida,” responded
well to the adjurations of
maestro Manno Wolff-Ferrari.
♦Jf
Mobil Quest Finals
Three girls and five men faced
the adjudicators at a packed
Sydney Town Hall for the
grand final of the seventh
Mobil Quest. The men were
completely outsung in every
department style, dramatic
emotion and in volume —and
even the bass-baritones had
difficulty in rising above the
orchestra, although the girls
soared easily over it.
The adjudicators had the
easiest task in years in select-
ing Marjorie Conley, 23-year-
old Sydney lyric-soprano, as the
winner. She sang the Waltz
Song from “Romeo and Juliet”
and “Ah! Fors e Lui” and
“Sempre Lib ere” from
“Traviata” with fine style and
assurance and with a voice-
quality equal to that of many
a visiting celebrity.
Queenslander Margaret Elkins
took second-place with a rich
mezzo-soprano rendering of
“Fair Spring Is Returning” from
“Samson and Delilah”; and
Heather Begg, a mezzo-contralto
of fine promise, and Conrad
Berensen, a baritone with a good
forthright delivery and excellent
quality, shared third-place.
Artbursts
Orban in Italy
An artist with a thorough
command of his favorite
medium of pastels, very impres-
sive in his solid and sombre
masses of foliage and masonry
and the occasional groans of
yellow or orange wrenched out
of his prevailing gloom,
Desiderius Orban gives the im-
pression of having so much
soaked himself in the smog of
European industrial cities in his
youth that it oozes out of his
fingertips; and, admittedly with
winter-time as a possible
justification, he has laid an
exceedingly dark hand on green
and golden Italy in his exhibi-
tion at Sydney Bissietta Gallery.
Only “Tuscan Landscape,”
where a ghost of light creeps
from the fine mountains to the
plains and where there are at
least clouds in the sky, has a
touch of atmosphere; for the
rest, the black is so heavily
inlaid everywhere, breaking into
sooty granules with its own
weight, that the pastels look as
lifeless as tapestries.
Never has the view across the
Amo in Florence looked so
dismal; and where, as in the
“Duomo at Siena” where Italy’s
gay religion dances in pink and
green architecture like a
crystallised rainbow, color must
even in winter have thrust itself
upon him, Orban retreats mutter-
ing into black-and-white.
Since “Barbacani Houses in
Florence” is in no way to be
distinguished from a back-view
of Victoria-street, King’s Cross,
on a day of universal mourning,
it hardly seems necessary for
Orban to have travelled so many
thousands of miles to utter these
dejected observations; but it
must be said that, granted his
own heavy terms, he does speak
with force and ingenuity. “The
Old Monastery,” with its curious
stairs and arches and its yellow
walls glaring out of the black
shadows, would make a superb
illustration for one of Grimm’s
fairytales the grimmer the
better.
Private Collection
Paintings from the private
collection of B. J. Water-
house, president of the trustees
of the N. S. Wales National
Gallery, are on display (for sale)
at Sydney Grosvenor Galleries:
most of the famous Australian
names are represented.
♦> ❖ ❖
New Art Gallery
Mrs. Jane . Glad —otherwise
Jane Lindsay, Norman Lindsay’s
daughter—has opened a new art-
gallery at her home at 10 Mount-
street, Hunter’s Hill, Sydney
(phones WX2263 and WX1574).
Except for this week, when there
is an opening show on, the idea
is not to have a succession of
changing exhibitions but to keep
always on display a selection of
good-quality paintings by such
artists as Lance Solomon,
Howard Ashton, Will Ashton,
Nora Heysen, Margaret Coen,
Lloyd Rees, Frank McNamara
and, of course, Norman Lindsay.
Towards Christmas there will be
a show of small paintings at
moderate prices.
Talkies
“Sitting Bull” (Sydney Plaza):
This concerns a noble-minded
young army-officer who pushes
his friendship for the Injun
chief (who wiped out Custer’s
column) to the point where he
assists that warrior’s legions to
escape the white man’s ven-
geance and thereby qualifies for
the firing-squad. And, a
minute before the triggers are
due to be squeezed, who other
than S.B. should cast-up and
persuade President Grant to
pardon him! r
“Mambo” (Sydney Capitol): A
lot of Mambo-jumbo in which
Italian actress Mangano Silvano
decides, after looking lugubrious
for aq hour, that, of two wicked
men, she’ll select the well-lined
one and be miserable in luxury.
The whole thing rings like a
leaden two-bob piece, but some
shots of Venice are notable.


a way of
living
by
E.O. Schlunke
THE Salters lived in a big,
country homestead —about
seventy years old, I should
say, built of pisb, but so
neatly plastered over that until
you went through a doorway
and noticed that the walls were
two feet thick, you had no
notion what it was made of.
It was surrounded by a large
garden ; a wall of trees and creep-
ing roses had grown into the
fence, pushing it this way and
that; then beds of shrubs of
various kinds, and between
these and the house, wide, green
lawns. Nothing ever very neat
and clipped ; a garden that more-
or-less looked after itself; but
it belonged most admirably.
Wide verandas ran all round the
house, and it was fastened per-
manently to the earth by so
many wistarias and other creep-
ing vines, that when you went
inside on a hot day and looked
out of a window, what with the
amazing coolness, and the green,
you had an impression bf being
in a sea-cave opening under the
water.
The first time I saw the house,
I understood a certain with-
drawnness about the Salters,
which I had noticed the first time
I met them; something which
could have been developed in
them by living in that secluded
house. When I got to know them
well, I could never think of them
except in association with that
tranquil old home.
This was at a time when many
of their contemporaries in the
sheep-grazing industry had taken
advantage of the boom to retire
to town, making some kind of
arrangement with their sons or
with employees to carry on their
properties. But every time it was
suggested to the Salters that they
should do the same, they recoiled
with a fine show of horror.
Lindy, who had a dramatic
manner of expressing herself, and
a very expressive and beautifully
modulated voice, had a way of
stating their case without any
great regard for the feelings of
others present who might have
taken the step.
“What? Go and live in Jin-
dulla? That awful place? What
can you do in Jindulla? Play
bowls! Get dragged into that
Country Women’s Asso-
ciation! Have neighbors staring
in on everything you do, every
hour of the day or night!”
Getting more and more out-
rageous if anybody argued with
her; but all the time her ani-
mated face, which had kept its
youthful contours remarkably
well, looking so lovely and like-
able that even the people who
were being attacked smiled a
little.
She was still a very attractive
woman of about forty, and
numbers of men, including, I
have to admit, myself, who had
volunteered to go out into the
kitchen to help her with drinks,
had felt mightily encouraged by
the way her eyes shone and the
way she sparkled at them. But
it didn’t mean anything; .the
Salters were a uniquely well-
mated couple, and he was an
astute and satirical kind of man
who missed nothing, and had a
way of deflating any ambitious
male which had a salutary effect
on all who saw it happen.
During all the time that I was
visiting their place I can’t
remember Alec ever saying
he was fond of his farm; but,
whatever he felt, he wasn’t the
kind of man who would say such
a thing. I knew that he was
tremendously interested in land-
management, because he had
written a book about it, advo-
cating a sort of “Nature knows
best” theory he was practising.
I believe it caused quite a stir in
agricultural circles. Briefly, his
idea was that the less you did
to your land, the better ; that the
whole secret of success lay in
doing none of the things that
were standard farming practice,
and that the quickest road to
national ruin was to follow the
recommendations of the agri-
cultural scientists.
All the efforts of his grand-
father, his father, and himself,
so he told us, had been devoted
to keeping the property as near
to what it had been when only
the aborigines and the kangaroos
had occupied it. I must say that
if his story was true, and I had
no reason to doubt it, the result
was remarkably impressive. The
whole place had a park-like
appearance, with big trees set in
tall, dense, native grasses which
always seemed twice as vigorous
as the grass on the neighbor-
ing properties, and which, in
summer, took on the dazzling
whiteness of snow —it made a
wonderful effect among the wide-
spreading trees. •
T3ECAUSE of his book and his
w newspaper-writing, Alec
Salter had a lot of prestige among
the people they mixed with;
not a great number at any time ;
a few of the older land-owning
families; a doctor or lawyer,
generally, or some other pro-
fessional people, perhaps an
eager young high-school teacher
interested in dramatic art; very
rarely a bank-manager or any
other kind of businessman ; in
fact, unless people had some
intellectual, literary or artistic
leanings, the Salters were not at
all interested in them.
At their place there was
always a lot of talk about books,
about the rare good film or
concert-party that came to Jin-
dulla ; about concerts, plays and
ballet which anyone who’d been
to Sydney lately had seen; and
nearly always lots of recorded
music.
That was Alec’s other great
enthusiasm. He had installed an
elaborate amplifying - system
which reproduced music of a
near-original quality through a
loudspeaker fixed to a hole in
the middle of the ceiling. Listen-
ing to a symphony it was quite
realistic, like sitting close to the
stage and having the music pour-
ing down over you. But when
he put on a vocal record it was
so close and intimate that at
first I used to get an absurd im-
pression that the singer was lying
flat on his stomach on top of
the ceiling with his mouth at
the hole; and with a string-
quartet I’d get a comic vision
of four intense and earnest men
crowded around the aperture
and elbowing each other as they
played their instruments.
If I mentioned this to Alec
he put on a peevish little frown.
Music was a religion to him;
he’d sit completely silent and
tense throughout the whole
twenty-five minutes of a major
work on a long-playing record;
he might nod to a remark of
appreciation, but if anyone
started a conversation he’d turn
his back on them.
The first time you went to
their place you got an impres-
sion of affluence. There were,
for instance, a number of oil-
paintings by quite well-known
artists of the orthodox school on
the walls, which must have cost
an amount that the local people
of both town and country would
certainly have thought com-
pletely crazy to spend on some-
thing which was of no use. There
was the collection of gramo-
phone records, too, that must
have run into hundreds of
pounds.
But while Lindy was some-
times led to speaking in a some-
what grandiose manner about
their treasures, Alec would, in
his deflating manner, illustrate
that over the period of more than
twenty years in which they had
been buying things, most average
men would have spent an
equivalent sum on alcohol,
tobacco, bowling-clubs, gambling
and so on; all forms of indul-
gence from which he abstained ;
not, as he was always quick to
explain, because of any heroic
resolution, but simply because
he didn’t care for them.
TVTEVERTHELESS, we knew
' that they had a fairly large
grazing property and a couple
of thousand sheep, which
naturally entailed a certain
amount of work. Since Alec had
some kind of heart-trouble, and
was getting a bit old for violent
physical effort in any case, there
was a labor-problem to threaten
the felicity of their lives.
We knew from Lindy all about
the big seasonal jobs like
shearing.
“Don’t any of you dare come
near us during the next three
weeks,” she’d warn us with a
seeming despair. “Shearing! A
dozen men for Mary and me to
cook for! Meals all day! Every
two hours, and right on the tick
of time or the shearers go on
strike. I won’t be fit to be seen.
I’ll be a savage woman! I’ll be
as uncouth as a shearer. Better
make it a month until I calm
down again.”
About the regular routine
work we got the information
from Alec.
“I treat my land kindly,” he
used to say. “I don’t crowd it
with stock, so I don’t need to
sow crops or grow artificial
pastures; hence I don’t need
the usual hordes of employees.
They only give you endless
trouble. I have a chance to live
a life of decent calm.”
Still, they had to have at least
one permanent man, and that
gave discord a foothold. Not
many men are prepared to work
on farms, and those who do,
where there is no big establish-
ment of employees, have of
necessity to be taken more-or-less
into the family.
The Salters had a young fellow
they called Tom, of whom we
never saw very much during
visits, but of whose presence we
were frequently made aware by
the noises he used to make.
There’d be a tremendous shout-
ing, rising over a background of
bleating and barking, which
would be Tom moving a mob of
sheep past the homestead. We
might catch a glimpse of him
standing erect in a moving jeep,
a brown sun-tanned body naked
to the waist, hatless, wearing only
shorts and boots, curly close-
cropped black hair, keen-eyed
eager face, one arm outstretched
in a violent gesture of command
as he yelled to the dogs.
A few minutes later there’d
be a different kind of noise; the
farm truck would roar by; we
might see it come to an
abrupt stop; Tom would cata-
pult out of the cab, seize hold
of some great solid fenceposts,
heave them onto the truck with
an admirable combination of
brute strength and skill and roar
away with the posts rumbling
and grinding against each other.
Later the truck would return
empty, bouncing and leaping
with Tom’s eagerness, and after
a short interval there’d be a
different kind of revving motor
and a new scream of accelerating
gears as a yellow streak flew
by—Tom again, this time in his
own car.
“A terrible fellow,” Alec
would say in a half-amused, half-
deprecating way. “He’d ruin the
place in a few years if I let him
have his head. Always wanting
me to run more sheep, or to let
him put in a couple of hundred
acres of wheat.”
We gathered that in the brief
interval between Tom’s return
from work and his departure
in his car, he’d showered,
changed and been fed. The feed-
ing was attended-to in the big
kitchen by a girl called Mary.
Mary was to Lindy what Tom
was to Alec, the buffer between
her and the grinding necessities
of everyday living. There was a
lot of work to be done in a house
as big as theirs, even though it
was well-equipped with elec-
trical aids, and had had some
modifications to make it more
convenient for housekeeping.
There were so many rooms in
use, for instance. You were
always being taken into some
hitherto-unknown den, office or
sitting-room by either Lindy or
Alec, and being told, “This is a
special room I keep where I can
get right away from the sound
of everyone, to do a bit of
private thinking.”
'THERE was a quantity of old
A furniture; polished
mahogany tables and cedar
chests that needed rubbing over
periodically; silver candlesticks,
bits of good china; then there
were the visitors they had stay-
ing with them ; artists or writers
whom Lindy had lured there with
prospects of material; musicians
come to perform in Jindulla for
the Arts Council; in fact, any
kind of celebrify who might be
too exotic for the townspeople to
feel comfortable about
invariably found himself (or her-
self, but not so often) enjoy-
ing Lindy’s hospitality. It all
contributed to what she called
her “gracious way of living.”
A WOMAN schoolteacher
who was taken home by
Lindy, shown over the place and
treated to a quantity of her
enthusiastic conversation made
the mistake of offering to work
out a plan which would halve the
housework. She followed this
with the seemingly reasonable
suggestion that it might be better
for the nation, and for Mary too,
if she was sent away to work
in a shop or a factory.
She was never invited again. If
the women who visited there, the
women who lived in space-saving,
footstep-eliminating compact
houses, didn’t eventually get a
great light in their eyes and say
in awed and envious voices, “It
must be wonderful to live the
{Continued on page 24}
THE BIRCH TREE
To tell of the birch I put away
the image that is uppermost:
the still one of the dancing girl ,
caught between two acts of grace,
and poised in a lifeless spell.
I come then to a drift of snow;
I am driven by wind that parches boughs;
word by word I tell, like the tree,
what leaf by leaf it must reveal —-
the grace most used to poverty.
There are few similes for this.
A fool compares a birch with bone,
its climate with the robbing hand
and the heart turned to stone.
It is enough that the moon-white tree,
meeting the will of winter storm,
is slender, supple and swayed beneath
a dual nature: snow and harm.
To tell of the birch I put away
the shadow, its tremulous watermark,
and the gay leaves applauding spring
leaves that in autumn sound like a bird
beating, half-furled, its injured wing.
In the month when words must weigh the wind,
I make no bones to speak of boughs
that are strong as harm and light as air.
From these the adjectives of summer
fall. Then is their meaning clear.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


SUMMER
WEIGHT
FLYING
SUIT
PRICE
2916
HEAVY
OUTER
FLYING
SUIT
PRICE
8716
PURCHASE OF FLYING-SUITS
★ FLYING CLUB MEMBERS
★ MOTOR CYCLISTS
★ TRACTOR DRIVERS
★ BOAT FISHERMEN, ETC.
Because of the quantities involved, we are able to offer these Flying Suits at keen, impossible-to-'
better prices. They are Standard R.A.A.F. Flying Suits, available in two types. The first (illustrated
top left) is a heavy canvas outer Flying Suit, ideal (in addition to flying uses) for all outdoor uses,
where a strong-wearing, warm, completely waterproof, protective clothing is necessary. Suggested
Uses: Tractor Driving, Truck Driving, Deep-sea Fishermen, Motor Cycling, etc. Price 87/6.
/ ' •
The Second (illustrated lower left) is a light, Summer-weight Flying Suit. Remarkably tough wear-
ing, it is admirably suited for use as an Overall for either outdoor or indoor work. Suggested Uses:
Mechanics’ and Truck Drivers’ Overalls, Boiler Suits, Gardening Overalls, etc., etc. Price 29/6.
• CHECK THESE FEATURES. —(Heavy outer type). Brand new—heavy waterproof
canvas—zippered for quickness and comfort —detachable fur collar (5/- extra). Ample pocket
space (for map stowing, etc.). Available in a wide range of sizes from Size oto Size 6.
• SPECIAL PRICES FOR QUANTITIES . —Attention Country Store Dealers —Aero Clubs
—Motor Cycle Outfitters. Please note we have special prices for quantities. Write us your
requirements and we will forward you a quote on the quantity required.
FLYING ACCESSORIES
• fur collars
Detachable Fur Collars. Simply buttons on to the
collar of the outer flying suit. Good quality fur.
For warmth and snugness you can’t better
these. PRICE, each
5/-
ST •
HELMETS
■Air Force leather helmets, chamois leather lined.
Brand
new, fitted with leather covered zippered ear covers,
which take flat type Gosport earpieces. PRICE, ea.
• inner flying gloves
Lightweight Inner flying gloves. Made from white art silk,
these gloves are available in a large range of fittings. The
ideal glove for driving, gardening, housework,
etc. At the sensational price of, PAIR
2/11
• FLYING GOGGLES
Type Mk. IVB. These goggles were manufactured to
a high quality standard demanded by Air Force
specifications. Complete with adjustable sun visor.
Suitable for a variety of purposes in addition to
flying Motor Cyclists, Tractor Drivers,
Truck Drivers. PRICE, pair
Postage and Packing 4/-. Interstate 6/6.
IMS?
PH > C.
fWrv-
w-
TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT
Needing an efficient, reliable and trouble-free method of inter-phone communication?
Then here is the answer. Easy to instal —foolproof in operation. Save money, time
and labour. Suitable for operation anywhere, anytime—Hotels, Factories, Farms,
etc. Boom to Boom. House to House.
FREDDIE PHONES. As illustrated at left. Entirely self-contained unit, incor-
porating a powerful three-bar jband generator, externally mounted loud-ringing,
double-action bells. Inbuilt battery compartment, containing two standard
1.5 volt X cells. Complete with standard P.M.G. handset.
PRICE (with batteries) £B/10/- ea.
Packing and Delivery to Railhead 5/-.
OIiNEY PHONES. Compact wall or desk Telephone. Built into a polished
wooden box. Dimensions Otins. x Externally mounted double-action, loud-
ringing bells. Fitted with standard P.M.G. handset and generator. Can be used
effectively over distances up to 20 miles.
PRICE (with batteries) £6/10/- ea.
Packing and Delivery to Railhead 5/- extra.
TELEPHONE WIRE. Three-mile reels of single insulated Wire, £l9 10 0 per reel
One-mile reels of single insulated Wire 6 10 0 „
100-yard reels twin insulated Wire 1 7 6 „
60-yard reels twin insulated Wire 1 0 0 „
DELIVERY TO RAILHEAD 5/-
BATTERIES
Brand new—in original storage state—never
been charged. 2 volt 20 amp. hr. (as illus-
trated). In baltelite case fins. x 3ins. x 2Jins.
Weight 321bs. Suitable for Model Aircraft.
Flounder Spearing, Spotlight Shooting,
etc. PRICE, each
24 Volt 11 Amp. hour. Brand
new, lightweight aircraft
model. American made, built
in sturdy metal case. Ideal
for caravan use, small Ship
lighting-, and many
other uses. Price, ea.
Other models in stock are:—
12 Volt 20 Amp hrs., £2/19/6
24 Volt 34 Amp hrs., £4/17/6
for the sportsmen
ENGLISH ANGLE SCOPES—FOR THE MARKSMAN
Hakes right-angle or vertical vision easy. Cuts down eyestrain and
fatigue. The perfect Telescope for the marksman, giving clear
sighting of the target without changing position. Six power magnifi-
cation, fitted with first quality lenses. Ideal also as Sporting Telescope.
Astronomical Sighting Scope, etc. Easily mounted by means of three
bolt holes in mounting plate. Brand new condition.
PRICE £5
Postage & Packing
5/-. Interstate 6/6.
SPOTLIGHT SHOOTERS . . .
ALDIS SIGNAL,LING LAMPS. 12 or 24 volt, 36 watt. The perfect light
for night shooting, mooring light for boats, or any purpose where a powerful
concentrated beam is needed. Pistol grip fitted with trigger switch and
reflector angle adjustor.
PRICE, Complete with Sight, £l2/10/-; Minus Sight, £4/19/6
Packing and Delivery to Railhead 6/-.
LUCAS HEAD LAMPS. Brand new, in original boxes. Sin. headlamp with
plated reflector, adjustable ball joint base fitting. Glossy black finish. 6, 12
or 24 volt, as required.
PRICE £2/17/6 Postage and Packing 3/6. Interstate 5/-.
TRAFFIC CONTROL LAMP. Used for controlling aircraft from ground.
Has facilities for switching coloured filters in front of the globe to produce
clear, green or red colours by the turn of a handle. These are a Signal Lamp
and not suitable for use as a spotlight. Complete with leads, and in solid
wooden transit case.
PRICE £7/10/- Packing and Delivery to Railhead 5/-.
SHOOTERS . . . HERE 8S NEWS!
JUST LANDED! SHIPMENT OF TELESCOPIC SIGHTS
These Sights offer the finest quality for the lowest cost
obtainable anywhere.
Being ex-service equipment only the finest quality lenses
are used.
Magnification of 4 Power.
Provision for altering focus.
Easily adaptable to all kinds of mountings.
Cross hairs fitted.
Dimensions:—
Length, llins.
Diameter Front lens
l-5/16th in. Eye Piece lens
2in. Weight 16ozs.
Price £9/17/6, Reg. Postage & Packing 3/6-Interstate 5/-
• • •
FISHERMEN
If you need a strong, flexible rod, made from super-tempered
costing a fraction of the price of its commercial equivalent,
one of these Aerials. In 4ft. sections, these
Tank Whip Aerials are available in either
screw-in or plug-in fittings. Because of their
extreme strength, lightness and flexibility,
they are admirably suited for use either as
fishing rods or car, truck aerials. The fol-
lowing types are available:—
American screw-in type, 3-section
(12ft.) 35/- per set
English slotted type, 3-section
(12ft.) 22/6 per set
English slotted type, 2-section
(Bft.) .. 15/- per set
Aerial Bases to fit above .. 1/6 each
Packing and Freight all States, 5/- extra.
tubular steel,
then invest in
e=~-
L
WALTHAM TRADING CO.
96 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
MAIL ORDER: P.O. BOX 22, OXFORD STREET
Open Saturday mornings 9 till 12 noon.
319-321 SWANSTON STREET
& 393 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE
MAIL ORDER: BOX 5234, P.O.
★ NOTE
Adelaide clients: We
now have a branch
in Adelaide, at 243
Bundle Street. Tele-
phone W 4690. Mail
Order: Box 1829.
G.P.0., Adelaide.


the cos* of
Down «o*wes
BUIIDING
• •
’ pl>N
LOW-
Pl>N
mW«S
S 5‘ s
m§
t OROOW
aw>
u wino
Write to Wunder-
lich Ltd., Dept.
“D," Box 474,
G.P.0., Sydney, for
copy of SMALL
HOMES BOOK.
een
dOOW
xl*
WHEN YOU USE "DURABESTOS"
FOR EXTERIOR WALLS, INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS,
you get right down to bedrock cost. You gain
both ways, because you obtain a modern, colour-
ful home, a home that is attractive, permanent
and just right for Australian living conditions.
Easy to handle, your carpenter quickly fixesN
"Durabestos" Asbestos-Cement Wall and Ceiling
sheets for you—there is no waiting on other
trades. No waiting for "Durabestos" either, as
ample stocks are held by authorised timber and
hardware merchants.
dubabestos^e^sheets
LOWEST COST
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Once aloard the Dargue
by Naney
Cato
WHEN I was still young
enough to believe that
silver hair necessarily
went with hearts of gold,
and that blue eyes always
denoted a simple and honest soul,
the last of the sailing-ships, one
of the last square-rigged ships
in the world, came to a South
Australian port.
The last of the windjammers!
The romance of sail! The
descendants of Vikings! All the
salt-water in my blood, and
there is plenty from both sides
(wasn’t Great-aunt Julia buried
at St. Helena, and didn’t Great-
uncle Anthony leave his bones
in the China seas?) leaped at the
thought. A real square-rigged
ship, unfurling her white sails
against a blue sea. ..
It was a long journey, by
rail and service-bus, to the little
port where she was taking on
wheat; but I was determined
to see her. The bus-driver was
sympathetic.
“She’s out at the ballast-
grounds, about six mile out, dis-
charging sand,” he said. “But
you just ask Captain Haakison
when he comes ashore; he’s a
nice old chap ; he’ll take you out.
There’s a stewardess on board
who speaks English. She’s got
a little baby.”
Ah! This would be even better
than stepping tamely aboard
from the jetty. It would be
necessary to go out to the ship
in a lighter, perhaps climb a
rope-ladder. ✓
I checked-in at the one hotel
—single-storied, with comfort-
able worn benches along the
veranda for old identities to sit
and yarn on—and went across
to the top of the sandhills to look
for the windjammer.
It was already late afternoon,
and the sky above the deep-blue
sea was pale and suffused with
gold. A long rope of pearly
cloud dipped from north to
south. And there she was, look-
ing frail and unreal against the
sky. Her four bare masts looked
like matchsticks, but the proud
line of her bows was unmistak-
able.
There came a tooting from the
road behind. I turned, and saw
the bus-driver leaning out of his
wipdow.
“Captain Haakison is down at
the jetty now,” he said. “You’d
better go and ask him when you
can go out to the ship.”
I ran down to the jetty and
out to the end. Captain Haakison
and several seamen were just
about to go aboard a little fish-
ing-smack to return to the ship.
They had been getting stores in
the town.
“I would like very much to
see your ship,” I said shyly, in-
troducing myself to the captain,
telling him how far I had come.
TJE was a broad, sturdy man,
not as tall as a Viking
should be, perhaps, and with,
alas! a definite paunch in front;
but with mild, fatherly blue eyes
in a weatherbeaten face, and
white hair. Rather like Santa
Claus without the beard.
“She’s the last of the square-
rigged barques, I believe,”. I
said.
“So? You are interested in
the vindjammers, yess? Vould
you like to coom out in the boat,
und see her plose-to?”
“Oh, I’d love to.”
“So-o? Yoomp aboard, then.”
I yoomped. The breeze
caught the triangular sail and
filled the jib, and we moved out
beyond the breakwater. The sea
was dark blue; the sun was go-
ing down in a lake of clear
golden light. Big waves caught
us and tossed us up and down,
and spray was flung in our faces.
I laughed with pleasure. I was
supremely happy.
The captain was the only one
who spoke English except the
skipper of the little smack, who
was an Australian. Captain
Haakison chivalrously placed his
broad figure between me and
the breaking waves.
“Vould you like to coom on
board?” he asked.
“Oh, could I really? I’ve never
seen a sailing-ship before.”
We were near enough now for
her color to show up, mostly a
weathered broWn and bright
rust-red ; and all the details of
masts and ropes and yard§.
“Jib-boom, foremast, main-
mast, mizzenmast, royals, tops’ls,
topgallants, studding-sails. . .
I said it like a litany.
“How vos it you know so
mooch about sailing-ships?”
“Just from what I have read.”
“Vould you like a yob as a
mess-girl, und travel with us
round the Horn?”
“Oh! But I can’t. I can’t
get away, I’m afraid.”
We dipped and plunged over
the rolling swell. A long, low
purple island lay to starboard ;
the jetty had faded away behind
us. As we came into the lee of,
the ship, the captain leant
1 towards me, his blue eyes
twinkling kindly.
“How vould you like to stay
on board tonight,” he said, “und
see vot it iss like to live on a
sailing-ship? You can imagine
you are sailing round the
vorld.”
I was overwhelmed with grati-
tude. “It’s terribly kind of
you, Captain Haakison. I’d love
to spend the night on board. But
how will I get bag.k?”
“Mister Jones is returning in
the morning, to take the mate
and some of the crew on leave.”
The whole crew, it seemed,
was lining the bulwarks to watch
our arrival. They were a
strange-looking lot, with their
sloppy jumpers and knitted caps,
and long or incipient beards.
Though we were in the lee of
the ship, the little boat was lift-
ing and plunging on a long green
swell. The rope-ladder, hope-
lessly flimsy-looking, stretched
away overhead to the distant
deck.
“Yoomp on at the top of a
vave!” cried the captain. “If
you try ven the boat is falling,
you vill break a leg.”
Not at all encouraged by this
information, I grasped the rope-
ladder and began somehow to
climb. I held my breath, all the
way to the top. About ten pairs
of hands helped me on board,
and there was much excited talk-
ing in several languages.
XT was all very wonderful at
A first. They showed me the
charthouse and the log, and
how the course was plotted each
day, a thin pencil-line running in
angles round the Horn; what
days of icy tempest and
battened-down hatches it
brought before the mind’s eye!
Then the wheel in the stern,
and the binnacle where the com-
pass floated in its bath of quick-
silver ; the great stems of the
masts, the spars far overhead ;
and the miles of rope and tackle.
We all, Mr. Jones and the
mate and the captain and I, had
some lager and biscuits in the
saloon below, and admired the
paintings about the walls of the
ship at various ports, a view of
Durban, and on the bureau a
silver-framed photograph of a
middle-aged woman with large
eyes and a shapeless dress.
“The oldt voman,” said Cap-
tain Haakison offhandedly.
It was time for Mr. Jones to
go back, and I went up on deck
to see the little sail dwindling
the shore.
The stars were beginning to
come out, and a slight off-shore
breeze sang faintly in the rigging.
Above the distant top of the
mizzenmast a bright star dipped
and swung through the yards as
the ship rolled. She almost
seemed to be moving, to be
“sailing round the vorld.”
The first-mate, though he had
almost no English, insisted on
giving me a lesson in “nafiga-
tion.” He was pleased to find
that I knew most of the southern
constellations, and could tell the
east from the west. Then the
captain came up and remarked
rather shortly that dinner was
ready below.
I was shown to a lavatory and
washroom of unbelievable dirti\
ness, and then descended the
the companionway to the saloon,
where a great swinging lamp
shed its light upon the table. To
my surprise the mate was not
present, nor any member of the
crew, nor was there any sign of
the stewardess.
The table was set for dinner,
but the captain brought out a
big scrapbook and began show-
ing me pictures of sailing-ships
he had commanded.
At the back were two pages of
photographs, mounted by the
comers. In some of them the
captain appeared; others were
of women of varying ages, with
two, three or four children. One
was Malayan—“My friendt in
Singapore” ; Chinese —“My girl-
friendt in Honk Kong”; white
with three Nordic-looking
children —“My friendt in Cape
Town.”
“All your friends seem to be
married,” I said with a smile.
“Married, yess, und vith
mooch childrens too,” said the
captain, and laughed loudly.
“Ah, ah, ah! Mooch childrens.”
I was a little puzzled, but the
steward came in with the first
course salads and a savory
meat loaf—and I asked after the
stewardess and the baby. It ap-
peared that she “vos not veil,”
and had already gone to bed.
A FAINT misgiving stirred at
the back of my mind, but
the captain’s talk was interesting,
and his hair was silver in the
lamplight, just like my grand-
father’s.
He spoke of a voyage round
Cape Horn in impenetrable fog ;
for six days they saw nothing,
and travelled by dead-reckoning
through waters where icebergs
might be encountered at any
time. Only for a few minutes
did the fog lift, and in that in-
stant they saw Cape Horn, black
and menacing, looming through
the swirling mist.
“It seemed to say, ‘Coom here
vile I cr-rush you!’” And the
captain extended his two arms
and curled up his fingers in a
dramatic gesture.
After dinner he showed me the
chronometer in his cabin off the
saloon, and I quoted Kenneth
Slessor on Captain Cook: “Two
chronometers the captain had
. . .” and
“All through the night-time,
clock talked to clock,
In the captain's cabin, tock-tock-
tock;
One ticked fast and one ticked
slow, f
And Time went over them a
hundred years ago”
He was very struck with this,
and made me repeat it.
“So-o? An Australian wrote
this, yess?”
And then I became aware
that the captain, in a very de-
tached and fatherly manner, was
patting my hips. I leapt side-
ways like a startled gazelle, and
stopped in front of a watercolor
of the ship at Cape Town.
The captain followed deter-
minedly, still patting. I was now
leaping from picture to picture
all round the stateroom, fever-
ishly examining ones I had
already seen twice before. I was
too young and gauche to know
how to deal with this situation;.
my one idea was flight, but where
was I to fly to? And no-one on
board seemed to speak English
except the captain.
Fortunately the steward came
in to remove the things from
the dinner-table, and I appealed
to him.
“I should like to see my cabin
now.”
He looked woodenly at the
captain and then at me. He
was a fair, sturdy young man
with a shaven head and a rather
surly expression. He picked up
some plates and walked out; but
there were still two things left on
the table.
“My cabin. . .” I said to the
captain.
“Vy, you can haff my cabin,”
he said generously. “I vill sleep
here, on the couch.”
“Oh, no. I couldn’t take your
cabin.”
“Then you vill sleep here, on
the couch.”
“Captain Haakison, I under-
stood that you had room for
guests, and that there was a cabin
available for me. I didn’t dream
that you would invite me to stay
ANVIL AIR
Returned from anvil air above
The islands with a hawk’s stare,
He smiled, they fell in love.
The rare and tender joys of
spring
Lie hidden where
The ground-lark trails a cunning
wing.
Yet larks have been known to
soar. 1 saw
A lark and hawk
Coupling in the granite air
High overhead. And surely they
had luck
Though he directs a company
And she still seeks from bed to
bed.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOIy 4
OSUUm*
mus
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERB
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILEB
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLB
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPB
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
You'll get a bumper crop
in record time .. . with the
12 ft. SPEED CHAMPION!
a
vl
n
:
v*
m
m
v y
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
GL-200 header harvester
Here’s a weather-beating speed champion
header to save you money! The big capacity
McCormick International GL-200 will gather,
cut and clean efficiently at speeds up to 5/2
m.p.h. With its 12 ft. cut it will harvest over
8 acres per hour! Check the grain-saving
features that make the GL-200 the most
efficient header at high speed —then see
your local IH dealer check too, the new
GL-200 fitted for bulk handling.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
CHECK THESE
GrainS/wm
features
*2fa f hm
reduce craddng of grata. “"T 6
'k Exclusive separating rake hv
Passes 75% to 85% of tLshed
grain direct to riddles. d
adjustable speed, fins and kick.
Sri
djustable for complete separation!
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTE
Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
<21.614-38
on board if there was no accom-
modation. Will you please ask
,the steward to fix me a cabin?”
He looked at me to see if I
meant it, and then shrugged
slightly. He was beginning to be
offended. The steward came in
for the last of the dishes.
I prepared to run after him if
necessary.
The captain said a few words
to the steward in Norwegian.
The steward looked as wooden
as ever, but he nodded and went
out. I edged towards the door.
- Captain Haakison moved in
front of it and smiled coldly at
me.
“There are forty-five men on
this ship,” he said slowly and
deliberately, “and only vun
voman. Perhaps you vould like
to go ashore?”
“Yes, I would!”
“Veil! Und can you svim?
It is only six miles.”
TPHE steward came back with
a lantern in his hand.
“Cabin readty,” he said. He
led me along dark corridors,
holding the lantern in front of
him, while I talked desperately
about the stewardess.
“My vife,” he said. “Not
veil.”
He took the lantern away
with him. All was pitch-black ;
not the faintest gleam of light
shone anywhere. I groped my
way to the bunk and lay down
in my clothes and drew the
blankets over me, suddenly
realising that I had rushed off
without comb, toothbrush,
pyjamas, or any of the amenities
of civilised travelling.
That was one of the longest
nights I have ever spent. I
know now what a first night in
prison must be like. The black-
ness, the strange noises, the
feeling of being shut in . . .
And then the noises began to
have a definite character.
Scrabble, scrabble, scrabble
in the panelling near my head.
Scritch, scratch, scamper on the
floor. My ears were starting out
of my head. I lay rigid, trying
to tell if “they” were coming
nearer.
The frightful part was that I
could only guess what “they”
were; either a company of rats
or some very large cockroaches.
I dozed a little at last, and
dreamed of huge cockroaches
with long rats’-tails, and of
scaly rats with waving feelers
like cockroaches.
After about fifteen hours a
wind sprang up. The rigging
began to sing and whine with
the dirgelike sound of pines and
casuarinas. The ship rolled and
righted itself with a long-drawn
creak. As the wind rose the
pitch of the singing rose too,
until I felt sure a gale was
blowing outside; an off-shore
gale, of course, and the anchor-
cable would part and we’d be
blown out to sea.
Whee-eeee ! Crea-ak —groan !
I remembered, with a mirthless
smile, how I had wished to go
round the world in a wind-
jammer. All I wanted now was
to get back to my safe, com-
fortable home. Whee-ee-eee!
went the wind, scrabble-scratch
went the rats or cockroaches for
another fifteen hours. After
about thirty-six hours a faint
grey light appeared above my
head ; there must be a skylight
up there somewhere.
Morning actually came at
last. There was a small mirror
in the cabin, above a kind of
cedar cupboard, and I looked
in it and shuddered. No soap!
No comb! No lipstick! I
looked as if I had spent the
night with the entire crew . . .
After I’d folded the blankets
I made my way out of the
cabin, crumpled and forlorn,
and up to the deck and the
blessed freedom of fresh air. A
few members of the crew were
about, but they carefully
avoided looking at me. I was
obviously regarded as the
skipper’s “girl-friend.” By now
I was beginning to feel like Tom
Collins without his (adj.) nether
garments i.e., outcast and
ashamed.
I WENT below again, hoping
to find the steward or the
stewardess. The captain was
coming along the alleyway. I
waited for him, but he brushed
past me with a face set like a
board. I couldn’t find the
galley, and I obviously wasn’t
being invited to breakfast, so I
went up to the spar-deck and
leant on a rail to , watch the
winches working, for the men
were already hauling up sand
from the waist of the ship.
Through the hatch above the
saloon I had caught a glimpse
of the captain beginning on a
large breakfast.
It seemed an awfully point-
less business, tipping sand into
the sea, but the ship had come
down from the East Indies in
ballast, and the sand had to be
tipped out before wheat could
be taken on. I looked across
the deep-blue, sparkling sea,
straining my eyes for a friendly
sail approaching from the port.
The winches groaned slowly
as they wound upwards, and
rattled swiftly as they unwound.
There was a tap on my
shoulder. It was the steward.
“Breakfiss,” he said with
almost a smile. “My vife” . . .
Feeling like an outcast who
is at last accepted by his fellow-
beings, I followed down to a
narrow room off the galley,
almost entirely filled by a table.
The stewardess, a fair woman
with dark rings under her eyes,
smiled and brought me sausages
and bacon, and we ate together.
She told me haltingly that the
baby had been sick, that she was
fed-up with sailing-ship life,
that going round the Horn they
would be battened-down for
weeks on end, unable to get any
fresh air or go on deck without
getting half-drowned or frozen.
I was wonderfully relieved to
find that she really existed. She
took me to her cabin and lent
me a comb and showed me the
pale, listless baby. I felt sorry
for her having to stay on board.
It was nearly twelve before
Mr. Jones and the little smack
appeared. I was sitting in the
sun in the lee of the chart-
house when the small white sail
showed up to shoreward. In
spite of my relief, the thought
of the rope-ladder filled me with
panic.
However, the first-mate went
ahead and stayed so close be-
hind me that I couldn’t possibly
have fallen if I tried. The men
sang as we sailed back, and the
boat leaped skittishly over the
waves.
The mate, who wore a striped
woollen cap like an egg-cosy on
his yellow hair, suggested that I
might go with him to “the
peectures.” But as soon as we
tied-up I bolted along the little
jetty, where spears of bright-
green wheat grew between the
truck-rails, and went and hid
in my room at the hotel.
Where would the proprietor
think I had spent last night, or
wouldn’t he think about it at
all? There were so few guests
that my absence must have been
noticeable.
COMING in the next after-
noon from sketching some
red rocks on the beach, with
the ship floating remote and
beautiful on the skyline—l would
never see her white sails unfurl-
ing, for she was to be towed in
to the jetty again—I found Cap-
tain Haakison in the parlor.
He was three-parts drunk, his
eyes had a glazed look and he
smiled foolishly.
I’ll heap coals of fire on your
head, I thought, and offered to
buy a drink. He accepted eagerly.
“I owe you some return for
your hospitality,” I said, and
bought him another. We drank
“Skol,” and “Inskol,” and
“Mijnskol,” “All the pretty girls’
health.”
The captain sat with swaying
head, his eyes almost closed.
There were dirty spots of food
on his dark-blue uniform above
the paunch, and his cap looked
greasy. I suddenly felt sorry
for him.
He probably had looked a
young Viking once, straight and
golden-haired, I thought. Then,
to be captain of a sailing-ship
was a position of great honor.
Now he commanded an anach-
ronism, clung to the last of the
beautiful ships soon to be gone
from the seas for ever.
He was clinging hardly to the
last of his youthful vigor, too;
but today he knew that he was
an old man, and doomed.
ALTJERINGA
Nude, smooth, and giant-huge,
the torsos of the gums
hold up the vast dark cave
as the great moon comes;
shock-headed black-boy stands
with rigid, thrusting spear,
defiant and grotesque
against that glistening sphere;
in clenched, contorted birth
black banksias agonise;
out of the ferns and earth,
half formed, beast-boulders rise;
because The Bush goes back,
back to a time unknown:
chaos that had not word,
nor image carved on stone.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAH OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
l2 months
4% . . . . ; 9 months
3|%. . s . . 6 months
3J%. .... 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
6i°A
0 10 &15 years
6%.... 4 to 9 years
5|% . s . . . . 3 years
5% ...... 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
•
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES,
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and
Industbial Acceptance Cobpohation
lib.
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WESTERN AUSTRALIA TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
way you do in this lovely old
house,” Lindy would consider the
visit to have been the most abject
of failures. The vital part that an
industrious, well-trained, faith-
ful and unselfish girl like Mary
played in this menage became
increasingly self-evident with
each visit.
Lindy often told us what a
nice girl Mary was, and from
what we saw of her we had no
reason to doubt it. She was a
big girl, but she had an extremely
gentle face and quiet manner.
She had big, sad eyes, and a wide,
soft mouth. She gave an im-
pression of being intensely com-
passionate ; even the shape of
her hands and arms made you
think she only wanted to use
them to do kind things for
people. The chief thing wrong
with her, from the man’s point
of view, was that she was too fat.
Not that she was so excessively
fat, but she was fat in the wrong
kind of way. Some girls can
carry a lot of weight and it
only makes them look buxom
and desirable; but poor Mary’s
fat lay on her loosely like a soft,
doughy cover that seemed to be
a part of her essential gentleness ;
and if she tried to control it the
way other young girls did, in any
one place, it only bulged the
worse in others.
Sometimes it was suggested
among the guests that a vulner-
able young girl like Mary could
hardly be considered safe with a
vigorous and rapacious-looking
young male like Tom about the
place. But Lindy told us that
Tom was interested Only in his
football, beer and “hot blondes”
who could dance well.
“Nobody,” Mary had told
Lindy, with a fateful resigna-
tion, “would want to dance with
an elephant.”
“Just as well they are not at
all attracted to each other,”
Lindy told us. “Being together
here so much, something would
be bound to happen pretty soon,
and then we’d either lose both of
them, or have to build a cottage
for them and set them up as a
married couple, which would
mean an awful expense, and of
course I’d get no help from
her because she’d be having
babies every year for certain.”
Lindy herself had had two
children a good while ago, nicely
regulated; two boys, who were
away getting educated in places
where they’d learn to appreciate
the fine things of life like music
and literature.
'T'HE little circle that gathered
at the Salters’ place found
one or two new authors, dis-
covered exquisite recordings of
some hitherto-unknown string-
quartets, and had time to admire
a new painting Lindy had bought
on a trip to Sydney, of an
opulent nude in a dazzling
garden; but in the meantime
much more dramatic things had
been happening to the two young
people.
Tom had got himself engaged
to one of his hot blondes, and
it looked as if Mary was going
into a decline. Not that Lindy
believed that she had really been
so fond of Tom, but it was just,
she’d told her, that seeing other
people getting paired off, right
and left, made her despair of
ever getting anyone for herself.
Tom’s engagement naturally
posed a tremendous question for
the Salters; either they would
have to build a house on the
farm for him to bring his bride
to, or they’d lose him'. The pros-
pects, if he left, were very bleak
for Alec. Tom had been there
long enough to learn Alec’s
methods thoroughly. He was
smart, efficient and dependable ;
he needed practically no super-
vision and really took the burden
of the farm’s work off Alec’s
shoulders.
On the other hand, if Alec
got a new man, to train him to
the exacting standard he required
for his unique property, to teach
him not to do all the things
they did on other properties, and
to do all sorts of things that
were never imagined on many
other places, like making cer-
tain above all things that the
Danthonia-grass was allowed to
seed and regenerate itself —all
that loomed before Alec as
virtually a life’s work, even
assuming the unlikely eventuality
of finding another man of
Tom’s energy and capacity.
“Most likely,” Alec grumbled,
“I’d have a succession of un*
couth, slothful, unintelligent
louts, who’d never learn any-
thing; who’d lie down in the
shade of a tree as soon as I
turned my back, who’d never be
on the spot when they were
needed, but always cluttering up
the place and making everyone
uncomfortable with their gauch-
eries when they were not
wanted.”
There was no choice for the
Salters. If they wanted to con-
tinue the sort of life they had
been leading, if they wanted
the time and the ease to
practise Lindy’s “gracious
living” at almost any cost, they
had to retain both Tom and
Mary. So they decided to build
■ the cottage, even though the cost
of it was going to be so high
that, as Alec estimated, “we will
have to do without any new
records or paintings for a
hundred-and-twenty years.”
After that, each time I went
to their place, there was some-
thing developing about the
cottage. There were either half-
a-dozen builders there making a
great deal of noise but not much
visible progress (and, of course,
having to be provided with meals
by the Salters, as always happens
in the country), or I’d come
again, weeks later, and see that
“ What d'you mean — 'it's probably in the green-belt’?”
there hadn’t been a single nail
driven since the builders had
gone home one evening and
failed to turn-up next morning.
Gone, Alec had ascertained after
a good deal of trouble, to do
some allegedly - urgent work
elsewhere.
Or I’d find Lindy complaining
that just when she’d invited her
friends because they were free
of the builders, they’d suddenly
have turned-up again, without
giving a word of warning,
expecting to be fed immediately,
though she hadn’t a thing in the
house to provide for them —and
shops a dozen miles away.
While the building was going
on, things were happening to
Mary. When she was handing
round afternoon-tea to guests,
at each interval in her activity
her eyes would switch to the
window through which she
could see the men at work on the
cottage; it took quite a brisk
reminder from Lindy to recall
her to her duties; then she’d
swing round only half-aware, her
sad eyes large and half-
focused. It looked quite funny
at the time the automatic
manner in which her eyes and
mind kept swinging to the
window, and having to be
brought back to the affairs in
hand every few minutes.
Once I couldn’t resist making
a crack about it; asked her
something foolish about when
the builders would be making a
love-nest for her. She looked
at me in such a startled, un-
guarded way; she opened her
mouth as if she were going to
say something, then suddenly
put her hand over it and hurried
out of the room in her big, flat
shoes. She didn’t come back to
the room for a long time ; every-
body had noticed it, and though
they tried to cover it up, I felt
it was about the worst social
gaffe I had ever committed.
TOM still hurtled about the
A place on the various motors,
though sometimes we’d see him
working on the cottage, too, his
naked, brown body flashing
between the spars and uprights,
moving three times as quickly
as the carpenter’s men, seizing
heavy objects from two or three
of them and putting them in
position on his own, and all the
time rallying them in a loud
voice like a football-barracker.
His language was full of un-
printable vulgarisms, and when
I sometimes went over to watch,
I believe he outdid himself
because of the enlarged audience.
He was tearing away to see
his blonde nearly every night;
but, Alec told us, despite the
fact that earlier she had been
described as “hot,” it appeared
that now she had secured him
she was making him wait until
after the wedding. And it was
equally apparent that the strain
was nearly killing Tom. He’d
taken to drinking even more
than before, to judge from the
wheelbarrow - loads of empty
bottles he took periodically to
the rubbish-heap.
Despite the erratic builders,
the cottage eventually came to
be nearly finished. Lindy told
us about a new development in
Mary then; she’d taken to
slipping across in the evenings
after the builders had gone
home, walking about the almost-
completed rooms, turning the
taps at the sink on and off,
though no water came through
them; even tidying the place
until the builders complained
that they couldn’t find things
where they had left them.
It was a nice little cottage < and
it was natural enough that a
young woman should find it
interesting. There are all sorts
of regulations now about the
standards of workmen’s-cottages
on farms; so this was a pretty
exact replica of the houses put
up in towns and suburbs by the
Housing Commission; built to
be convenient, with all modern
conveniences installed.
Alec used to say in his bleaker
moments that the homestead
wouldn’t have passed as a
workman’s cottage because the
floor was so many inches too
close to the ground, it wasn’t
made of any of the permissible
materials stipulated in the regu-
lations, and for various other
reasons; so, however superior
and more convenient the little,
new cottage might be, they
would be obliged to stay in the
old place and leave the new to
the employees, or get into
trouble with the union-
representative.
After another spurt from the
builders, when, to a casual
observer the place looked almost
finished, there was a new
development in Mary. She no
longer stared out of the window
in her,free intervals, but at any
part of the wall that happened
to be in front of her, and she
needed to be touched on the
arm to recall her to herself. It
wasn’t so long before it became
definitely decided that she must
be pregnant,
XJTOWEVER highbrow, literary
and intellectual the Salters’
circle might profess to be,
Mary’s dilemma became an
engrossing subject to discuss in
its more intimate moments.
There seemed to be no doubt
that Tom was responsible
because (unless, as one of guests
suggested facetiously, you
suspected Alec) he was the only
man who’d had any kind of
opportunity.
Various theories were put
forward as to how “it” had
happened. The most cynical was
that she was so much in love
with the cottage that she had set
out in the only way she could to
catch Tom. Another and more
likely one was that she might
have just had the bad luck to
have been about on one of the
nights when Tom came back
from town ravening and half-
drunk.
My own nicely-weighed and
thought - out explanation was
that she’d been wandering about
the new cottage at night not
knowing that Tom had moved
his bed into one of the partly-
finished rooms, and Tom had
taken an easy advantage of her
there. Or she might have even
seen the bed, seated herself on
it unthinkingly, gone to sleep,
and been surprised like Tess of
the D’Urbervilles.
We all, nevertheless, recog-
nised the situation as a difficult
one for the Salters. Some day
soon they’d have to ascertain the
fact from Mary and then
confront Tom. It was impossible
for people like the Salters to
just discard Mary and install her
seducer in a new cottage with
his blonde. But whether it
would be any use pressing Tom
to make an honest woman of
Mary; and wnether, if they
succeeded, it would result in
anything but misery for either of
them, was a question on which
none of us could advise them
with any confidence.
But before they could act
Tom provided a new situation by
suddenly disappearing, leaving
behind both the women who
had complicated his life. Mary
o Continued on page 30)


"Reckless, Thoughtless, Aimless"
Harry Morant, “The Breaker”
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
SIXTY-FIVE years ago—
on September 5, 1891 —
there appeared in the
“Society” pages of The
Bulletin a verse by a new con-
tributor. Called “A Night
Thought,” it was signed “The
Breaker,” and was said to have
been composed “on a Warrego
(N.S.W.) sandridge.”
Countless such pieces are
turned out year after year by
bush rhymers from one end of
Australia to the other, mostly
destined to fill the wastepaper-
basket. As a matter of fact,
many items by this newcomer —
Harry Morant —did suffer that
fate. Of one of them The
Bulletin said that it “seems to
be only a dreary list of your old
friends who broke their necks
while drunk.”
In the same year as “A Night
Thought” appeared, there were
printed three other verses of a
similar kind above the same
nom-de-plume “A Song,”
“Love Outlasteth All” and “A
Summer Midnight”; mere
album-pieces which Frank Fox
passed over when he edited a
selection of “The Breaker’s”
verse a decade later.
In 1892 “The Breaker” had
six verses accepted by The
Bulletin : a pastoral, two
humorous trifles and three
others —“Paddy Magee,” “The
Nights at Rocky Bar” and
“Brigalow Mick.” Yet another
bush balladist had joined the
growing ranks of J. F. Archi-
bald’s “backblock bards.”
Paddy Magee, as readers were
to learn in after years when the
name of “The Breaker” was a
household word in the bush, was
a man after “The Breaker’s” own
heart. More often than not
Paddy’s mouth was parched
from an all-night spree, for
which a large quantity of
brandy-and-soda on the morn-
ing-after was the prescribed anti-
dote. Like the poet, Paddy also
had a roving eye for the bush
belles and the barmaids of the
country towns.
“The Breaker” had a strong
affection for Paddy, the subject
of another verse, “Pat Magee,”
printed in 1893, and re-titled
“Requiescat! ” when Frank Fox
compiled Bushman and Buc-
caneer in 1902. Many consider
it “The Breaker’s” best. It is the
one beginning:
Dying in the sheltering shade
By the myall branches made —
While the horse-bells clanged and
tinkled fair away across the
plain,
The wan stars above were blinking
As old Pat Magee lay thinking
Of the places and the faces he would
never see again.
Ten verses from “The Breaker’s”
pen were printed in The Bulle-
tin in 1893. One of them, “Since
the Country Carried Sheep,” has
been included in various an-
thologies, including the latest,
Australian Bush Ballads, selected
by Nancy Keesing and Douglas
Stewart, who have included also
no fewer than four others by
“The Breaker” —“West by
North Again,” “Who’s Riding
Old Harlequin Now?” “Stewed,”
and “Beyond His Jurisdiction.”
In “Since the Country Carried
Sheep” “The Breaker” echoed
the stockmen’s regret when
a cattle-station was given over
to sheep, and in the old
days there were many drovers
who could recite the verse from
memory and who used to roar
out the stanzas around the camp-
fires at night, roaring the louder
when they came to the last two
lines:
Bat did you see the station now—the
men! and mokes! they keep—
You’d own the place was beggared—
since the country carried sheep.
It was said that “The Breaker”
composed the jingle—as he did
many others —as he rode with
a draft of cattle, chanting the
lines to some droving mate as
they came to his mind.
In that year, 1893, “The
Breaker” gained entry into a
Christmas number with “The
Good Things Which Remain,”
illustrated by B. E. Minns. In
this verse, Bluey, a cattle-dog,
in answer to a bushman’s in-
quiry, “’What games are their
candle’s worth?” replies:
Sweethearting’s vanity—best to stick
To good tobacco and decent grog.
Another 1893 verse, “While
Yet We May,” was a typical
expression of the poets don’t-
care-a-damn attitude towards
life:
Years may bring a dole of sorrow,
Time enough to feast and pray,
From the present pleasures borrow,
Let the distant future pay;
Leave the penance for the morrow.
Sweetheart! Love and laugh
today.
“The Breaker’s” hedonism
finds voice again in the two
“Much —a Little While” verses ;
the first version, published on
June 16, 1894, opening:
“Love me little, love me long”;
Laggard lover sung such song;
Rather, Peg! in other style
Love me much —a little while.
and ending:
Brown-eyed, bright-faced Margaret,
Kiss me, while you’re able yet!
Sweetheart, with the sunny smile,
Love me much —a little while.
J. F. Archibald was so de-
lighted with “Much a Little
While” that he decided to use
the verse again in the following
Christmas number. At his re-
quest “The Breaker” wrote a
revised and condensed version
in which the name Nell —a name
for which the poet was to have
a constant attachment —is used
instead of Margaret. Percy F.
Spence, an artist with a graceful
line who drew exquisite pictures
of beautiful women, was com-
missioned to illustrate the verse.
In 1902 S. Talbot Smith (Adel-
aide) wrote in the Red Page:
This gem of Morant’s is perfect
as it stands, final, inevitable. Read
it through twice, and you seem to
have known it always. There indeed
is the one haunting doubt. Does
not one already know it sub-
consciously (or otherwise)? Ana-
creon, Horace, Herrick, or Tom
Moore —has not some one or more
of them said it before? Only fair,
however, to say that is merely a
candid question, not an implied
assertion. One would much prefer
to think that this pearl is of purely
Australian production, as its setting
presumably is beyond all question.
To which Red Page editor
A. G. Stephens added a foot-
note:
“The challenge is thus thrown
down to discover the source of
this gem—or to leave it for all
time to Morant.”
Several accepted the challenge,
including John McMahon (Fitz-
roy, Vic.), who mentioned an
anonymous poem in The Book
of English Songs (1851), and a
writer signing himself “A
Wrecker,” who saw resemblance
to poems by Herrick, Byron and
Christina Rossetti. Stephens’s
verdict was:
And still no plagiarism is proved.
What “The Breaker” takes credit
for is the perversion of the thought,
“Love me little, love me long,” to
the more human, the more thought-
ful, the more poetic, though the less
sentimental, “Love me much—a little
while.” No quotation from any other
poet so far sent us gives the slightest
hint that Morant plagiarised the
perversion.
Another “Breaker” verse that
provoked comment was his “In
Such a Night,” illustrated by
Spence, and published in 1895.
In this verse “The Breaker”
sings of “the drooping myall
leaf,” “stately pines,” “massy
bloodwoods” and “moon-steeped
box-leaves,” which caused J. H.
McCooey, a prominent natura-
list with a vitriolic pen, to
write:
Dear BULLETIN: The instant the
Australian “pote” touches botanical
or zoological subjects he becomes a
massive wreck; e.g., “The Breaker”
in his “In Such a' Night.” His
“drooping myalls,” “stately pines”
and “massy bloodwoods” are b9xed-
up in one impossible and indiscrimin-
ate jungle, In the name of the
mysterious platypus, whom is he
writing for? If “The Breaker” can
show me a bloodwood and a myall
growing in a natural state together,
I’ll hang myself on either he chooses.
I wonder if he ever saw —other
“potes” have —the lyrebird and the
emu dancing together on the plains
of Bourke and Coonamble?
“The Breaker” replied stating
that he had seen myalls, blood-
woods and pines growing to-
gether on a property east of
Barringun (N.S.W.), and that
bn a track which ran from the
Narran to the Barioon “those
trees mentioned in ‘Such a
Night’ may, with a score of
other sorts, be seen at various
intervals of the journey If
the captious McCooey will really
keep his word,” continued “The
Breaker,” “I will lend him a
greenhide rope wherewith to do
the trick.”
“One swallow doesn’t make a
summer,” retorted McCooey,
“even if what ‘The Breaker’ says
in reply to my criticism be cor-
rect,” and went on to point out
that, because tropical flora can
be found on the N.S.W. South
Coast, no intelligent person
would dream of peopling that
area with all tropical plants, rep-
tiles or birds. McCooey also
mentioned that on Lake George
(N.S.W.) seagulls were found in
thousands. “This fact, accord-
ing to ‘Breaker’s’ logic,” said
McCooey, “would convert Lake
George into a vast inland sea,
and people its waters with
whales, porpoises, swordfish
and tiger-sharks!” McCooey
concluded: 1
The bush “pote” is, from a
scientific standpoint, a fraud, a curse
and a delusion —a reckless and lavish
distributor of everything that is
scientifically absurd, outrageous and
untenable; and in this respect “The
Breaker” is far from being the least
culpable offender.
McCooey’s counterblast, how-
ever, even if it remained un-
answered, did not dam the flow
of bush verse from “The
Breaker’s” pen ; he continued to
write until early in 1900, just
before his departure for the
South African War as a cor-
poral in the 2nd South Austra-
lian Rifles.
About 25 of his verses
appeared in The Bulletin from
the date of the McCooey attack
to the end of the century. Some
of them, including tjie charming
“Kitty’s Broom” and the rol-
licking “Who’s Riding Old
Harlequin Now?”, were illus-
trated and used in Christ-
mas numbers. Others were also
illustrated, by George Lambert,
Minns, Spence or Frank
Mahony; as a matter of fact, a
higher proportion of his verse
was deemed suitable for illus-
tration than that of most other
Bulletin poets.
Among the pick of “The
Breaker’s” work during this
period, including the Christmas
pieces, were “At the Crossing of
Warrigal Creek,” “Last Night,”
“Where Willow-Trees Fringe a
Fairyland,” “A Note to Nell”
and “West by North, Again”
(called “Stirrup Song” in
Bushman and Buccaneer).
“The Breaker” left little verse
behind when he sailed for South
Africa —no more than a dozen
pieces, including “At
Last,” “At the River
Crossing,” “A-Shell-
ing Peas” and “When
Stock Go By.” George
Lambert did fine illus-
trations for “When
Stock Go By” and
“A-Shelling Peas.”
Among the verses
published after “The
Breaker’s” death were
“Envoi” and “Butchered to
Make a Dutchman’s Holiday.”
“Envoi” was written on the back
of a sketch of the poet drawn
by Fred Leist just before “The
Breaker” left Australia. It is a
typical “Breaker” brief, in
which the poet says farewell to
Cavalier, a horse that had car-
ried him safely over many a
fence and hurdle, and in which
he calls upon his friends “when
the last rousing gallop is ended”
to drink his death in “wine,
whisky or beer.”
“Butchered to Make a Dutch-
man’s Holiday” was written in
Pretoria Jail on February 26,
1902, on the eve of his execu-
tion for having ordered the
shooting of a number of Boer
prisoners-of-war who had sur-
rendered to a patrol commanded
by “The Breaker” when he was
a member of the Bushveldt Car-
bineers. It was featured on the
Red Page on April 19, 1902, and
has been often quoted and de-
bated since. It begins with these
lighthearted lines:
In prison cell I sadly sit,
A d d crestfallen chappie!
And own to you I feel a bit
A little bit —unhappy.
After announcing the writer’s
intention “to finish off in style,”"
it offers this advice to newcomers
to the war:
If you encounter any Boers
You really must not loot ’em!
And if you wish to leave these shores,
For pity’s sake, don’t shoot ’em!
And if you’d earn a D. 5.0.,
Why every British sinner
Should know the 1 proper way to go
Is: “Ask the Boer to dinner!”
Sent to The Bulletin from
South Africa by a friend of
“The Breaker,” the verse was
the subject of a Red Page article,
“The Beatification of ‘The
Breaker,’ ” written by Frank
Fox, who said: “Morant kept
up his hearty defiance of fate
to the very last. Likewise he
kept to the very last his utter in-
capacity to appreciate the fact
that he had done wrong.”
“Butchered to Make a Dutch-
man’s Holiday!” wrote Fox
later in the article. “Not a hint
about the Dutchmen butchered
to make a ‘Breaker’ holiday!
Mr. Morant apparently had no
conscience... .Evidently, he was
absolutely incapable of compre-
hending that he had committed
any crime.”
During his 10 years of writing
“The Breaker” wrote, all told,
about 60 verses for The Bulle-
tin —a very small number com-
pared to the output over the
same period of such versifiers as
Victor Daley and Edward
Dyson. Twenty-three of his
Bulletin verses were reprinted
in Bushman and Buccaneer with
one new piece, “The Brigalow
Brigade,” an example of “The
Breaker” at his breeziest:
There’s a band of decent fellows
On a cattle-run outback —
You’ll hear the timber smashing
If you follow in their track;
Their ways are rough and hearty,
And they call a spade a spade;
And a pretty rapid party
Are the Brigalow Brigade.
“The Breaker” wrote very little
for any other newspaper. “The
World’s News” (Sydney) and
“The Windsor and Richmond
Gazette” printed a few of his
pieces, as did various country
newspapers, but these were
never collected and have long
been buried in old and decaying
files.
No assessment of his writings
has been made by any of our
literary critics. A. G. Stephens,
to whom his work was well
known, passed him by. H. M.
Green does not even refer to
him in his An Outline of Aus-
tralian Literature, and E. Morris
Miller merely regards him as
just another name in his
A ustralian Literature.
He had, as Frank Fox de-
clared, “flashes of poetic
thought; but he was in no true
sense of the word a ‘poet,’ nor
are any of his writings
‘poetry’ ”: \
He had a gift of breezy, graceful
expression, a happy ear for rhyming
music, and a varied fund of experi-
ence to draw upon. So his verses
are always readable: they never
reach to the depths of absolute
doggerel: they sometimes come close
to being poetry.
In Fox’s opinion the chief
reason why Morant was never
a poet in the true sense was that
he had no capacity for deep
feeling; that his lighthearted
nature had no deep-planted
springs. “Throughout, from
birth to death, his life was con-
sistent,” commented Fox;
“always reckless, thoughtless,
aimless, loveless That is not
the nature for a poet.”
One who has striven to keep
his memory green through the
long years is Will H. Ogilvie,
who has written at least four
poems concerning the exploits
of “The Breaker” in Australia.
Ogilvie’s last poem about his
old mate was printed in The
Bulletin as recently as 1947
and ran to 64 lines. Recalled
in the tranquillity of Ogilvie’s
Scottish home, “The Breaker”
reappears as:
A chivalrous, wild and reckless lad,
A knight born out of his day.
What manner of man was
this that, despite the flight of
more than half a century and
the stigma attached to his name,
there are still today a number
ready to defend his actions in
South Africa and to condone
his behavior during his 16 years
in Australia? What was his
character and what kind of
charm had he that made, for
instance, F. M. Cutlack—-who,
as a boy of 13, met him on the
banks of the Murray before
Morant boarded the steamer for
the railhead on his way to enlist
(i Continued on page 30)


V
I'm convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco!
“For me the Capstan blend has everything for
complete smoking enjoyment.
“The fine, mild Virginia leaf used in
Capstan’s own blend gives it the flavour and
fragrance you, too, appreciate.”
Ask everywhere for —CAPSTAN j
m.%
m
wA
mm
Warn,
%m
m
m
m*
* '' ■**+«**
<Si/
mmmm
m
Wm
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
206D.11.54
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHEKBA TABLETS
conditions. Postal note for l2/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MCRKAV PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St., Mascot.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILLRUM.
Randwick racing was expected
to clarify the Epsom and Metro-
politan position. It didn’t.
Rather, it confused the issue.
However, performances at Rose-
hill on this and the following
Saturday should iron-out the
real chances, especially the run-
ning of the Theo Marks Quality
Handicap (September 24)
insofar as the Epsom is con-
cerned, and the September
Handicap the same afternoon
regarding the Metrop.
Main change in the Epsom
set-up is that Compound has
galloped his way into favor
close to King’s Fair, Persian
Link, Plato and Prince Morvi.
Electro, following his decisive
win at long odds in the Chelms-
ford Stakes at Randwick on
Saturday, is now as good a
Metrop. favorite as Advocate
and Ace Pilot, both of which
lastnamed pair were defeated at
Randwick.
Five of the 11 starters in
Saturday’s Tattersall’s Spring
Handicap were New Zealanders,
most of them prominent in
spring betting on staying races,
but not one was equal to a place.
The winner, First Century, had
his first success in 12 months,
but his display didn’t bring him
much support for the Metro-
politan. In it he has only 7.9,
but he has little in the way of
form to recommend him for a
staying event. One thing that
might be counted in his favor
is that horses of his age, six
years, have experienced a
winning trot in this Randwick
race, with six firsts in the past
nine years.
Carioca’s performance, with
9.7, was the best win by the
six-year-olds during that nine-
years’ period. Back" in 1919,
Rebus, a grand handicapper,
landed the Metrop. with 9.10.
Ace Pilot’s defeat by First
Century on Saturday was not
pleasing to his Metropolitan
admirers. He didn’t run kindly
under pressure. He drops 61b.,
to 7.12, in the more important
contest.
All seven favorites at Rand-
wick on Saturday were downed,
biggest shock being Electro’s
weight-for-age success at 66 to 1.
As Electro, staying son of
Delville Wood (imp.), carried
9.4 (w.f.a.) on Saturday and
drops to 8.13 in the Metro-
politan, he could make it
interesting for opponents on
October 8. He has won to If
mile (Q.T.C. St. Leger), was
second to Prince Morvi in the
A.J.C. Derby, is a winner at
w.f.a. in Melbourne and Sydney,
and was second in the Caulfield
Cup last season to Rising Fast.
He appears to have his share of
weight in this year’s Caulfield
Cup (9.2). Saturday wasn’t
trainer Ted Hush’s day. As
well as Electro surprising him,
he regarded Gay Ranick as a
safe wager in the opening race,
the Novice Handicap, but
Borgia beat him cleverly.
Advocate whipped-in in the
Chelmsford Stakes after being in
the rear of the field all the way.
He retains his place in Metrop.
betting-lists, but his display was
poor compared with prior efforts
this season. His weight-for-age
record does include a win over
12 furlongs, but his other wins,
not many of them, have been in
Handicaps. Ray Ribbon’s fourth
in the Chelmsford was a better
Metrop. pointer. This New
Zealander chased Somerset Fair
home in some of the latter’s
races in the Dominion, one being
the Gloaming Stakes at 12 fur-
longs. Ray Ribbon has 8.13 in
the Metrop., lib. less than he
handled last Saturday when he
moved up to the leaders in the
straight. In the process his
jockey, N. McGrowdie, put N.
Sellwood, on the warm favorite
“Well, that’s the first round over. Don’t forget you take
a dive in the fourteenth."
Prince Cortauld, into a pocket
which might have affected the
result. Somerset Fair (9st.) ran
a fine race for a close second.
Feature of the Randwick
Three-and-four-year-old Handi-
cap won by Cuirassier was a
surprising plunge on New
Zealander Omar 11, who came
in sharply from 50 to 1 to s’s,
starting equal second-favorite.
The move was mistimed ; Omar
II was never a hope, and finished
a distant eighth. In two prior
runs in Sydney the New
Zealander had started at long
odds and was down the course.
What inspired such a deter-
mined move for so poor a per-
former was just one of those
Turf mysteries often en-
countered. In the Randwick
event - another New Zealander,
Magic Carpet 11, appeared a
good thing beaten. He started
a warm favorite, was back in
third-last place in a field of 17
as they turned for home, then
was third, less than half a
length from the winner. As a
result of his performance he
firmed for the Epsom, and is
in such solid racing condition
that he could be a show in the
big mile. In the meantime he
might add to stake winnings.
The Rosehill Guineas should
give Knave a chance to add to
his fist of firsts. He was
unlucky at Canterbury. King-
ster, Aboukir, Caranna and
Teranyan are others that may
make the Guineas an interesting
contest. Like Knave, Teranyan
should be suited over the bigger
and wider stretches of Rosehill.
Canterbury track didn’t suit
either of them; and Teranyan
was buffeted from pillar to post
in the first couple of furlongs.
At Moonee Valley on Satur-
day backers had a torrid time of
it, the only winning favorite
being in the final of eight events,
Nimbus Cloud, who scored at
7 to 4. Winners included
100-to-l Arabil, 33-to-l Towns-
ville, and two others at 16 to 1.
Having, at the Valley, her
second outing following a spell,
Melbourne-trained three-year-
old filly Vesper Chime had a
comfortable win in the Second
Merri Handicap over the smart
New Zealand-owned favorite
Summersette, with Forever Gold
third. Vesper Chime claims
relationship to former stayer
The Trump, winner of the Caul-
field and the Melbourne Cups
in 1937. She is by Detector
(imp.) from Vestalis by Dhoti
(imp.) from Vestal by Pantheon
(imp.). Summersette is a
daughter of imported sire
Summertime (at the stud in New
Zealand), who is a son of Pre-
cipitation, a winner of the Ascot
Gold Cup, 2i miles. Summer-
time won races up to If mile in
England. His oldest progeny
are three-year-olds. Summer-
sette should make things
interesting for the Melbourne
three-year-old fillies in the
coming weeks.
Thirty two - year - old trials
were decided in the spring last
year, and a similar number are
likely to be now staged at Rand-
wick and Rosebery as a pre-
liminary to the opening of
the two-year-old season in Syd-
ney with the £2OOO Breeders’
Plate at the A.J.C. meeting on
October 1. Most of the winners
of last season’s trials proved
race-winners, some in the best
company, the list including
Kingster (best youngster of the
1954-55 season); New Slipper
(top-class filly, now in U.S.A.);
Knave and Sir Newton, both
good winners; and also Queen
Nilo, Sendiri, Seeta, Ultrablue,
Aquarua, Neugina and Bay-
stone. Aboukir was defeated in
his trial, but has shown the right
race-form.
* * *
With the big spring events of
trotting no further off than the
galloping plums, the quiet by
comparison is alarming. With
the trots, however, entries close
later, so that rumors, reversals
and “markets” don’t run so
long. Moreover, the trotter or
pacer can be brought to his top
at the many shows and gym-
khanas which act as big-race
“conditioners.” There is hardly
a horse racing that has not
pulled the spider at a gymkhana
prior to a main engagement.
Active Ayr and Van Hall are
two at present reaching their
peak without a run at head-
quarters. Speculations on spring
chances* are made harder this
year by the Inter-Dominion in
February. Not many horses
will be set for both. There was
no meeting at Harold Park last
week ; they race on Friday, with
Kembla Grange Racecourse
holding the first trot-fixture at
that address on Saturday.
+ +
It’s Melbourne and Colling-
wood in the V.F.L. grand-final,
’Wood having stoushed Geelong
14.12-13.6 in the preliminary-
final. The crowd of 70,000 paid
a record prelim.-final “gate” of
£11,246 to see a spectacular
exposition of the code. The
Magpies, leading at each change,
had that extra physical strength,
safeness in the air and
superiority in the rucks needed
to win. Geelong, with a lot of
young and first-year players
this year, did well to get as far
into the finals as it did.
In 1936, North Adelaide made
a sensational entry into the final
Rules league “four.” Two points
behind Norwood, and trailing on
percentage, North trounced
Glenelg (31.16-7.14!) and Port
Adelaide beat Norwood; so
North scraped in by 0.04 per
cent. (Port, its abetters then,
knocked it out in the pre-
liminary-final.) This year, again
two points and a similar per-
centage behind Sturt, its bid
failed. In the last round Sturt
was duly beaten (for the sixth
successive time) and North
defeated Torrens —but only by
three points, nowhere near the
hefty margin needed. (Young
Haydn Bunton, son of the late
Haydn Bunton, is with North.)
“Roscoe”: On the matter of
“all breaches must be penalised”
(B. 31/8/’55) —what about when
a player is too badly injured by
an illegal tackle to take the
“free” awarded to him? There’s
no provision in the laws to
“penalise” such a breach by
enabling a team-mate to take the
kick, and there should be. This
lack was pointed at the time
dynamic Geelong skipper Bob
Davis received the injury which
kept him out of the V.F.L. finals
—he was given a “free,” but
couldn’t take it.
* * *
Holders of the N.Z. Ranfurly
Shield, Canterbury’s XV had to
take what they got from the
Australian Rugby Union tourists
on Saturday. A crowd of 30,000
blinked at /he spirited perform-
ance: 19-8 at the end.
• • • •
Down to University in the
previous week’s semi., Gordon
gets another turn with the
Students for their 21-3 rout of
Eastern Suburbs in Saturday’s
final. Standing-off from scrums
and rucks, Gordon breakaway
Ken Yanz effectively smothered
Easts’ five-eighth Tate —and
their backline: five tries to nil.
“0.V.”: “Old Rep.” was wrong
in lately stating that in an R.U
match at Tahuna Park, Dunedin
(N.Z.), Colin Gilray had just
returned from Britain with his
Scottish cap. Gilray left Otago
High School at the end of 1903,
played for Otago University the
following year, was invited to
go to England with the All
Blacks in 1905, but refused the
offer. He did not go to Eng-
land until either 1907 or 1908,
when, as Rhodes Scholar, he
went to Oxford, and was capped
for that University and for
Scotland. Incidentally, the whole
three-quarter line for N.Z. in
the 1905 match came from the
Otago University team, and the
other tw r o, Adams and Mac-
pherson, were later capped for
England and Scotland respec-
tively.
* 1 * *
South Sydney skipper Jack
Rayner crossed for a try in the
first minute of the Sydney Rugby
League preliminary-final; but
thereafter, till the final stages,
it looked to be St. George’s
game. Then Souths, behind 9-14,
with a typical South Sydney
burst, levelled, got in front with
two penalty-goals by Purcell,
and clung grimly to the ball to
the bell. Souths now to meet
Newtown in the “grand.”
* * *
Four strokes behind at the
27th, 17-year-old Bruce Devlin
made a fine comeback to take
the N.S.W. Country Champion-
ship golf-title from J. Powell
(1953 winner), Devlin’s card for
the 36 holes was 75 and 72 —
147 (3 over par).
The P.G.A. will standardise
methods of teaching golf
throughout Australia shortly.
American and British golf-
teaching is already standardised.
One reason for this move by the
P.G.A. is that every teacher has
his own method of teaching and
consequently when one has to
change tutors one also has to
change style of golf.


Defence of the Much-maligned
Some of the Servants Are Civil
By GAVIN CASEY
THE other day, when a large
dog belonging to one of
the neighbors trotted hap-
pily past my place carry-
ing in its mouth what seemed to
be the remains of a postman, I
was reminded of my own couple
of careers in the civil service.
This, no doubt, was because
the first of them consisted
largely of fighting with dogs.
It involved reading electric-
light meters in a large inland
town in which, at that time,
there was no honor in owning
a meek, well-mannered, civilised
canine. The local mongs were
about the size of wolves, but with
nastier dispositions, and if there
was one *kind of human they dis-
liked more than the postman and
the milkman it was the man who
read the electric-light meter.
I am fond of dogs, and believe
in being kind to them. But I
also believe that dogs should be
kind to me, and if they are un-
willing to enter into a treaty of
peace and friendship, I have
never found that it pays to
merely skirmish with them.
Attack is the best form of
defence, and, with most dogs
that rush at you, if you rush
straight at them with wild and
warlike cries the effect is aston-
ishing.
There are, however, some
hounds which enjoy battle, as
well as the taste of meter-readers,
and we had always with us a
good weapon of defence against
these. It was, in each man’s case,
a pair of sealing-pliers, used to
close meters so that they could
not be disconnected, set back, or
otherwise tampered with by the
thrifty householder.
The pliers were carried in a
small leather case, from which
much of their solid metal pro-
truded, and this, in theory, was
hung over the shoulder by a
stout leather strap. When
approaching a house owned by
a really large and nasty dog, the
strap was in fact worn wound
around the right wrist, so that
only a foot swung free, with the
heavy pliers at the end of it.
It was one of the greatest dog-
stoppers ever devised by man, as
many a Kalgoorlie mong of an
earlier generation discovered. It
could also be used to stop
charging bulls and runaway
rogue-elephants, though there
weren’t many of these in the dis-
trict.
The proud owners of the blood-
thirsty, slavering, pony-sized
canines seldom seemed to
approve of the use of the pliers
on their beloved domestic pets,
but, lacking fangs, we had to
have some means of protecting
ourselves.
We always resented it when, in
the middle of some first-class
stoush, a furious female house-
holder rushed through the door
and shrieked, “Leave him alone,
you big beast” (to us, not the
dog). “He’s never bitten any-
body yet except the butcher
because he wanted some meat,
and the baker, who teases him,
and the rubbish-man, because he
rattles the tins.”
Dogs are still among the
troubles of some humble ser-
vants of the public, and certain
authorities, like the ice-man in
my suburb, assure me that, as
they have been bred smaller and
more superficially polite, they
have grown more cunning.
But dogs have never been as
much trouble as people, even
when, as in my time in Kal-
goorlie, there seemed to be at
least as many mongs as there
were humans.
Only a ruffian minority of the
populace is anything but
courteous and considerate
towards civil and other public
servants, but rudeness breeds
rudeness, and after a run of
louts and arrogant females the
man behind a busy counter
starts doing some snarling on
his own behalf, just as we used
to with the dogs.
The awkward thing is that
people, unlike dogs, don’t clearly
indicate friendly intentions in
advance by wagging their tails,
and therefore some who mean no
harm get snarled at, too. These
are understandably hurt and
annoyed, and go away grumbling
at the uppishness, incivility and
all-round nastiness of the no-
hopers in the so-called civil
service.
After only a few years as an
employee of local government,
I withdrew into a great many
varieties of private enterprise,
sometimes on my own account,
sometimes as an employee, but
during a long period of such
activity I met many civil ser-
vants who were men of great
ability, energy and enthusiasm
for their jobs, and had dealings
with various departments run
as efficiently as any private
business,
There were, of course, the
other sort as well, and these, un-
happily, were not racing to ruin,
as they would have in more com-
petitive fields. But long before
I again became a civil servant
myself I began to understand
why, generally, they were as they
were.
For one thing, the few at the
top set the speed for the whole
show, just as they do in business.
For another, the nature of
departmental activities gives the
slave either a sense of usefulness,
and therefore at least some im-
portance, or depresses him with
a growing feeling that what he
has to do all day doesn’t really
matter two-penn’orth of winkles,
and might just as well not be
done at all.
And, again, the civil servant
who achieves no more than the
moderate success that comes
automatically, with seniority,
certainly suffers a sense of
frustration much more severe
than that of his equivalent in
private industry.
To paraphrase the old saw
about love, it is better to have
tried and failed than never to
have tried at all. As the years
go on, the public servant who
finds himself still behind a desk
or a counter starts to feel that he
has been trapped—as indeed he
has. The myth of “security,” the
prospect of a pension on retire-
ment, the white-collar respect-
ability of his job, have all com-
bined to prevent him taking the
risks he now feels he should
have taken. He should have “got
out” early, he thinks, and he
might have been as prosperous
and happy as old Joe Blow,
who went to school with him.
Of course, Jack Black, who
also went to school with him,
has worked in private industry
all his life, and never had much
luck. But Jack has had some
variety, has told a boss or two
what they could do with their
lousy jobs, and has been buoyed-
up by new hopes every time he
started work at a new place. In
middle-age Jack may feel that
life hasn’t given him half he
deserved from it, and he may
be very angry about it. But
anger keeps adrenalin flowing in
the bloodstream, while the dull,
wondering, doubting depression
of the unsuccessful civil servant
does not.
There is probably no sort of
human being not suffering actual
violence or want who is more
deserving of pity and sympathy
than the middle-aged civil ser-
vant who has grown grumpy and
anti-social on the job. The poor
chap is getting his pension the
hard way, and if he grunts and
snorts a bit, and treats the
people with whom he deals like
infernal nuisances, it is a better
idea to tell him a funny story
than to return his snarls.
At the other extreme are some
of the happiest men around the
place, and their happiness does
not necessarily result from any
great success and advancement.
It is often just the result of being
in one of the “good” depart-
ments, not only with the right
men at the top, but with con-.,
structive, useful, and interesting
tasks to perform.
I can think of a number of
these, as can anybody else, but
my most vivid memories are of
the Forestry Department in
Western Australia, probably
because present Commissioner
Alan Harris was one of the
friends and comrades of my
young manhood.
Harris had plenty of other
interests, as diverse as chess,
music and competition motor-
cycling, but even as a very
youthful officer who did
tremendous work for small
rewards his enthusiasm for his
job was wonderful and inspiring.
He and his colleagues under
then-Commissioner Norman
Kessel had a vision of a future
of good and plentiful timber and
green forests for their State
which would not be realised
without their work for it. No
distance was too great for Harris
to cover on his big Harley-
Davidson to see how the sandal-
wood was getting on in the
hinterland, no days of strenuous
toil among the big trees, hills and
fire-lookouts of the south-west
too long.
He has risen through the years
to the top job in his department,
and I cannot imagine that the
Government of my native State
could * have made a better
appointment.
But what of those of his mates
and colleagues of the old days
whose youthful hopes of such
progress have been disappointed?
Have they, by now, developed
the civil-service middle-aged
grouch, the sense of confusion
and the frustrated belief that
they should have made a change
while they were still young
enough?
I don’t know, but I don’t
believe they have. In the fifties,
when all the less-fortunate public
servant has left behind him is a
stack of dusty files or a pile of
books full of the carbon-copies
of official receipts, the Forestry
men can see around them stands
of planted timber that would
not now be reaching for the sky
but for their work. They can see
green hillsides that would have
been blackened and dead if they
and their mates in the bush
hadn’t stopped various bush-
fires of the past. They can see
busy timbermills where there
would be only desolation if the
timber-getters of their youth had
been allowed to chop down
everything bigger than a fence-
picket, as they had wanted to.
In those fifties, when the
retrospective view begins to
grow important, all this must be
pleasant to regard—just as the
changing nature of farms must
warm the heart of the diligent
officer of a Department of Agri-
culture who has never set Sydney
Harbor afire, but who has, per-
haps, made 102 blades of grass
grow where there were only
100 before, or as the teacher
who never became what the
papers are likely to call a
“famed educator” may think
with pleasure of little boys he
might have helped to become
good and useful men, and as the
Government engineer may
remember a good dam and a
good bridge or two.
When, after about 20 years,
I found myself a civil servant
again, it was in the Federal
field, and in a sphere concerned
with things much less tangible
than trees or dams or bridges,
but I had the luck to find myself
in a “good” department
My boss was occasional
Bulletin contributor E. G.
Bonney, then Director-General
of Information, and though
many people seemed to doubt
our usefulness we ourselves were
passionately convinced of the
importance of what we were
trying to do. We wanted to tell
the rest of the world about Aus-
tralia—and we wanted to tell
them the simple truth because of
a deep conviction that the
place was too good to tell lies
about. _
In this task, on our small
budget, we had to make every
post a winner, and when, eventu-
ally, I represented the depart-
ment overseas some of the things
we did were unorthodox, to say
the least of it.
Like the time when recordings
of goodwill-messages from two
Australian Ministers of the
Crown didn’t reach New York
in time for broadcasting over a
national network on the sched-
uled date, and Australian
journalist Lloyd Clark and my-
self, uttering quite safe and suit-
able platitudes, very temporarily
joined the Cabinet.
And there was the wonderful
two-up game we played in New
York’s Central Park, so that a
photographer for an important
magazine could get the shots he
wanted.
And many other things of the
sort.
It is, of course, a great advant-
age in the civil service to be
about 10,000 miles from the
politicians, so that you can use
your own judgment first, and
argue afterwards. Provided
you’ve got any judgment, you
don’t even have to argue often.
And the odds against you get
your back up when you are try-
ing to make some impact on,
say, 160,000,000 Americans on
an annual budget that wouldn’t
build a good-sized bush pub.
You also become irritatedly
aware that while, in private busi-
ness, more activity would mean
more revenue, even if not neces-
sarily more profit, it means noth-
ing of the kind in the civil ser-
vice. It only means more work.
Work is something I was never
much in love with, and in my
second term of eight years as a
public servant I toiled harder
for the benevolent and fatherly
Government than I ever have
for the brutal capitalists who are
so freely accused of grinding
the faces of the poor. Un-
doubtedly some public servants
loaf —but others get spurred to
the opposite extreme, if they
work for a “good” department,
and have a boss like Bonney who
is full of ideas, interested in
other people’s ideas, and as loyal
to his employees as he expects
them to be to him.
Civil servants may be, as is
often claimed, rather too
numerous on the local landscape.
But they don’t all lounge over
polished counters, insulting the
public between pots of tea. The
term should not become a scorn-
ful reference, any more than
should the word “politician,”
which covers a multitude of
sinners, but also a surprisingly
large number of intelligent,
energetic, and honest men.
However out of kilter the
numbers may or may not be,
there could no more be civilisa-
tion without civil servants than
there could be democracy with-
out politicians. And sometimes
activities which seem merely
restrictive and an interference
with the rights of the individual
are really protective and
constructive, as when, as an
eager youngster, Alan Harris
probably looked like an over-
bearing bureaucrat to the men
whose axes he halted in their
innocent greed for every tree
they could reach.
And some of the civil servants
are civil, too. If they’re not, and
the reason isn’t just a nasty
nature or a nagging wife, it’s
probably because of sheer over*
work —or else that growing sense
of disappointment with life and
things generally that you and I
are lucky to have escaped.
LYREBIRD
And cannot always buk buk buk be fluting
And floating buk down there with fall and fern
Like fern and fall myself; have these exciting
Bugs to find in moss, dead leaves to turn,
So busy here buk buk with pick and fluster
Scratching for food like any old red rooster.
Say pheasant then. But plain, but drab, red-brown,
Color of weathered sandstone, dry withering leaves,
Old applegum bark buk buk cooked by the sunt
And am but leaves, am rock from the sandstone shelves
Somehow running about; if bird you heard,
Then very happy buk - just being a bird.
There is a stillness, true, when you look up, •
There is a spray of light that falls through trees,
There is a clear Cool voice of mountain thrush;
How emerald gleams the moss! And say that these, »
Old kookaburra turned to crystal water,
Each smallest trill of robin, wren, tree-creeper,
Currawong’s cry, sweet honey-eater's call,
So pierce me through like shafts of moonlight waking
My silent dells that I must be them all
And sing them out with every feather shaking
Like mist down there’till all the rock-walls ring;
Why yes buk buk it is a pretty thing ...
So round the emerald cliff and out of sight
And filled the gully twice with silver light.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
This bosom
business
Vulgar glorification of the
bosom leads many mothers to
shun breast feeding for fear
it will destroy the contours.
In September Reader’s Di-
gest, a famous gynaecologist
refutes this notion; shows
why such false vanity robs
women of one of the greatest
joys of motherhood . . . and
may lead to physical harm.
You’ll enjoy the wealth of
stimulating articles in Sep-
tember Reader’s Digest, inclu-
ding Madame Chiang Kai-
shek’s inspiring message of
faith, “The power of prayer,”
“Sir Isaac Newton, explorer
of the universe,” “You’re
braver than you think.” On
sale now one shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents
and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SPACE-SATELLITES
THE “U.S. News and World
Report” makes a feature of
inviting people prominent in one
sphere or another to sit down
with its Board of Editors in
lengthy interviews on topical sub-
jects. On the proposed launching
by the U.S. of a space-satellite,
the paper interviewed “three
scientists who are leaders in the
satellite project”; they were Dr.
Alan T. Waterman, director of
the National Science Founda-
tion, and Drs. Alan H. Shapley
and Athelstan F. Spilhaus, vice-
chairman and a member respec-
tively of the U.S. Committee
for the International Geophysi-
cal Year.
The scientists were asked,
“Can you explain for us just
what is this so-called man-made
satellite that the U.S. is going to
build?”
A. —Well, to put it briefly, the
satellite is a small metal object
that is going to be projected out
about A 200 or 300 miles into
space and then sent spinning
around the earth at speeds of
around 18,000 miles an hour. It
may be equipped with electronic
instruments to report what it
finds out there and send those
reports back to us here on the
earth.
Q. —This sounds like Buck
Rogers or Jules Verne. Is it
really the beginning of space-
travel? Is inan actually going
to be able to fly to the moon
or maybe to Mars ?
A. —We’re not buying any
space-helmets.
Q.—lsn’t it a step in that
direction ?
A. —This is a normal, small
step. It seems like a terrific step,
but it is just the next in an
orderly series of experiments. In
talking about space-flight, first
you have to send up these
experimental satellites and see
what they can learn, find out
what materials are best, what
the conditions are that you will
encounter out in space. You
make very certain that you know
all about that environment and
what is necessary to cope with
it.
Q. —What is the next step ?
A.— The next step might be
to see if you can shoot one of
these little satellites out and
make it go round the moon.
Q. — How about shooting
people out into space ?
A. —You are not talking
about people at all —yet. Be-
fore we start going outside the
atmosphere ourselves we’d better
find out if this little satellite
can do it.
Q. —What would happen to
a man out there in space ?
A. —He would be burned up
by the heat or he would explode
because of the vacuum.
Q. —So you think it’s still
going to be quite a while before
man can fly to the moon ?
A. —Yes, that’s a long way
off.
Q. —Could one of the satellites
be converted into a weapon ?
A. —Hardly. This is com-
pletely different.
Q. —But couldn’t somebody
build something that could travel
around in space and then smash
the earth ?
A. —Well, how could they do
it? Suppose you were figuring
on the possibilities of this thing
dropping bombs. Remember, it
is going very fast —about five
miles a second. Remember any-
thing you try to drop out of it
won’t drop. It will just keep
going around, just like the
satellite.
Q. —Could this satellite be
used for aerial photography—
say, to take pictures of another
country ?
A. —There’s (no intention of
making photographs.
Q. —Could you do that later ?
A. —That depends on whether
you could get a camera to tele-
vise pictures back. That would
be a tough problem. If you
couldn’t do that, you would
have to find some other way of
getting pictures back to the earth
without burning up from
friction when their vehicle
encountered the denser atmos-
phere.
Q. —So this satellite is not
connected then with President
Eisenhower’s proposal for
mutual aerial inspection by the
United States and the Soviet
Union ?
A. —Oh, no. Not at all.
Q.—ls there any chance that
somebody would be able to put
airplane landing-fields up there
in space ?
A. —That jumps the gun too
much. No one can say it’s
impossible, but I think one must
emphasise all of the terrific
problems involved.
Q. — Well, if this satellite is
not a military weapon, what is
its purpose ?
A. —The purpose is to find out
more than we know now about
conditions outside the earth’s
atmosphere. Perhaps the best
way of putting it is that it’s just
as if we were living at the
bottom of the ocean. We see
the light that comes through
from above, but we can only
judge from that what there is
out there. Well, our atmosphere
does the same thing. We only
get partial information from
outer space.
Q. —What is it that you want
to learn about outer space ?
A. —Oh, all sorts of things.
We want to know more about
cosmic rays, how the sun creates
the ionosphere, about the stars,
temperatures, densities many
things like that.
Q. —Is it really important to
our daily lives to know all that
about space ?
A. —Oh, yes —of primary im-
portance. I think that the
impact of all -this basic data that
we will obtain will be far
greater than we can visualise at
the present time. It will provide
us with basic fundamental
knowledge about the environ-
ment in which we live.
q—what are likely to be the
immediate advances from this
study ?
A. —You just can’t answer
these questions sensibly about
what is the immediate good,
what is the immediate payoff.
It’s basic research. It’s sort of
—London “Daily Express”
IF GUY FAWKES HAD LIVED
an act of faith. If you read his-
tory you find that the basic dis-
coveries made 50 years ago,
which were then considered in
the realm of utterly useless
things, have become extremely
important and useful to ordinary
living.
Q. — Well, could you give us
some examples of how this
research might affect our daily
life ?
A. —For one example, inter-
ruptions to our trans-Atlantic
radio - communications are
caused quite directly by radia-
tions from the sun that disrupt
the ionosphere—the electrified
upper layer of the atmosphere.
You see, the sun has direct
influence on whether or not you
can talk to Paris. The whole
radio-communication industry
is based on the use of the
atmosphere. You get long-
distance communication because
the ionosphere has the property
of reflecting radio-waves. This
provides communication beyond
the horizon because the radio-
waves bounce back to the earth
instead of escaping into space.
When the reflecting layer is dis-
rupted—when it’s rough—then
long-distance communications
won’t work.
Or take meteorology, for
example weather-forecasting.
Each country has done some
work in weather observation,
but it is very spotty. You will
find only a few places around
the globe where it is done well.
We don’t get anything at all
from the whole Antarctic region,
and we know that there are
events occurring there that affect
the weather of the whole world.
We have actually reached the
stage where we can’t improve
our weather-forecasting much
until we can get world-wide
information, including especially
the polar regions. We are now
stymied.
Q. — Then you think the
studies planned with this satel-
lite would improve our weather-
forecasting ?
A. —Yes. You see, there’s the
sun out there behaving like a
boiling kettle that erupts every
once in a while and does all
sorts of things to us. If we
knew what that is, what it does
to the outer air—once we can
get the general pattern from all
over the world —then this thing
will become a rational pattern.
It will lead ultimately to an
improvement of our understand-
ing of weather and climate, and
will enable us eventually to
make better forecasts. But I
think that one should emphasise
that this is a long-term thing.
Q. — Will the studies made
with this satellite enable us to
control some of these forces of
Nature ?
A. —Well, in orderly science,
you have to measure before you
can understand, and you have
to understand before you can
predict, and you have to predict
before you can start to control.
Q. —And what you are trying
to do with this satellite is to
measure, is that it ?
A. —Yes. We hope to observe
and measure phenomena that
have never been accurately
measured before.
Q. —But haven't we sent
rockets up about as high as this
satellite will go, and haven’t
these rockets sent back a lot of
information about conditions
out there ?
A. —Yes. Our scientists have
done a very clever job in instru-
menting rockets. They make
observations and send radio sig-
nals down. But a rocket is up
there only momentarily. It just
goes up and drops* again. It will
give you information while it
goes up and down which tells
you how things are at different
layers at a certain time, but it
doesn’t tell you how these things
change with time, because it
isn’t there long enough. If you
can get something up there that
will stay there, then you’ll know
how things are changing.
Q. —What will be done with
all this information that is
gathered by the satellites? Will
the US. share it with the rest
of the world?
A. —Yes. You see, the launch-
ing of the satellite is being done
as part of the programme of
research set up for the Inter-
national Geophysical Year of
1957-58. This geophysical year
is a period of time when scientists
all over the world will investi-
gate their environment with all
sorts of geophysical appliances
on a large-scale, global basis.
There will be stations spotted
all around the world. Forty
countries are involved in this.
Most of the countries of the
world except China are already
participating in the programme.
Q. —Will all of this informa-
tion then be exchanged?
A. —All of this information
will go to a number of central
clearing-houses for the various
fields of research.
Q. —What is this satellite going
to run into out there in space?
What will it be like?
A. —Absolute silence, for one
thing. The sky would be black,
the stars would be very bright,
the sun would be terrifically
intense.
Q. —What kind of temperature
will it find?
A. —The sun up there is terri-
fically hot, but we don’t know
just how hot this satellite will
get. It depends on many things.
For instance, color is an im-
portant factor in the reflection
or absorption of the sun’s rays.
Q. —But doesn’t it get colder
as you get higher?
A. —We’ve improved our idea
of what the temperature is like
out there. Before the rockets
began this exploration, everyone
thought that the temperature fell
off as you reached a high point,
and went to about 70 degrees
below zero Fahrenheit. Now
we know that’s all wrong.
The temperature goes down to
a low point and then comes up
high, and then goes through
alternately cold and hot layers.
Q. —Will there be any living
thing put in this satellite —such
as a mouse or an insect?
A. —l would hardly say so, for
the first time.
Q. —But later on, maybe?
A. —lf it works, and we can
it further, that would be
one of the steps. Another thing
would be putting in some germ-
inating seed to see if the cosmic
rays do things to them. But that
involves getting those things
back on earth again.
Q. — Then, from what you say,
aren’t we still a long way from
a space-ship in which man could
travel into outer space?
A. —On this space-ship busi-
ness, I could mention some things
that I think may be interesting.
Before anyone could contem-
plate going out into space, there
is the question of how people
would react physically. For
example, out there things have
no weight. When you try to
pour a glass of water, the water
won’t pour, it will just stay
where it is. Nothing is anchored
to anything, but just moves
freely. Our bodies did not
develop in that kind of environ-
ment. Blood-circulation, swal-
lowing, all our movements are
regulated to the feeling of
gravity. Could {people stand
such a change indefinitely?
Wouldn’t it upset their whole
make-up?
Q. — Couldn’t you use a pres-
surised cabin?
A. —That wouldn’t solve this
situation. This is an absence of
gravity. For instance, if this
room were out on a space-ship,
you couldn’t walk. When you
pushed against the floor you’d
go up to the ceiling.
Q. —Has this satellite been
designed yet?
A. —l can say that we know
we can do it. Rockets have


MERCANTILE MUTUAL .
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
v//±
■ «
m
f s.
£
Come and take a closer look
at the brilliant
4-CYL. WYYERN 6-CYL. VELOX
We extend this invitation to those people who know and appreciate
fine cars. For Vauxhall styling was never so distinctive . . . interiors
never so rich . . . Vauxhall ride and running never so quiet, smooth
and steady. And in the exciting new Vauxhalls you will find the
motoring enjoyment that comes with ample power, generous room
and effortless handling ease. Enhancing all this is the knowledge
that here you have a truly distinguished car without high cost.
See your local Vauxhall Dealer NOW !
1
The beautiful new Vauxhall interior seats
5 or 6 in comfort . . . features colourful
new styling, improved driving vision, and
handsome new instrument panel as
practical as it is beautiful.
VauxhaU features Integral body con-
struction, controlled synchromesh
gears, ‘balanced-ride’ suspension,
shockproof re-circulating ball steer-
ing. Both the vivid 23.44 h.p. O.H.V.
6 cylinder Velox and the thrifty
15.63 h.p. O.H.V. 4 cylinder Wyvem
engines are further improved with
chromed top rings for longer bore life.
Ask your Vauxhall dealer about the
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase
arrangements. Ask your dealer, too,
about the built-for-Vauxhall ",Air
Chief ” Car Radio.
PRICES: Wyvern £920; Velox £9BO. (All Drices plus tax.)
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall dealers throughout Australia VP3/33.
already been up l there. So it’s
onlv a matter of perfecting it.
But actual specifications have
not been worked out yet
O What will the satellite
look like?
'wifi probably be round,
to reduce friction
O—How big will it be?
A —lt’s anybody’s guess. It
—Zurich “Die Weltwoche”
ALREADY A RUSSIAN WORLD-SATELLITE
will be about the size of a
basketball, I guess.
Q. —How much yyould it
weigh?
A. —That would depend upon
what you wanted it to do. If
it’s light, it’s easier to get up
there. Of course, the heavier we
can make it, the more instru-
ments we can put in it. We will
have to compromise at a weight
that is feasible.
Q. —After you get this satel-
lite up there, what keeps it mov-
ing in a circle around the earth ?
A. —There’s nothing to stop
it. Ordinarily, you see, things
are stopped because of the
friction of the air. But up at
that height there is no air—or
almost none. So, with no
friction to slow it down, the
satellite will just keep going.
Q. —Indefinitely ?
A. —No, because there is still
a little bit of air at that altitude.
So the satellite will spiral in
gradually. But we hope it will
stay up for several days at least.
Q. —What holds it on its
course around the earth ?
Gravity ?
A. —Yes, gravity—the pull of
the mass of the earth—is always
pulling it down. But, like any-
thing moving in a circle, centri-
fugal force is also pushing it
out. At any given distance and
speed these things balance. What
you do is balance the two forces,
and then it goes in a circle,
travelling constantly at the same
distance from the centre of the
earth —or almost. Probably its
course will be slightly elliptical,
just like the earth’s orbit around
the sun.
Q. —How will you get the
satellite up to that height?
A. —lt already has been done.
Remember those high-altitude
rockets?
Q. —How high have they
gone ?
A. —The highest is 250 miles.
Q. — Well, if you know the
shape of this satellite, and you
know the instruments that you
want to put into it, and you
already know how to get a
rocket up 250 miles, what’s the
remaining problem ?
A. —This satellite not only has
to be put up there, as far
as the rockets have gone, but
it then has to be started off in
a new direction —paralleling the
earth —at a speed of 18,000 miles
an hour, or five miles a second.
Q. —How will you do this?
A. —One way is to have the
rocket go straight up 250 miles
and then shoot the satellite out
horizontally. It may be more
economical to have the rocket
go up on some kind of a curved
path and at the top accelerate
while going in the right direc-
tion. We may have to find
something in between. But that’s
the problem—to get the thing
going up there in the right direc-
tion at this whopping speed so
it will stay in the desired orbit.
Q. — Do you know whether
you can attain such speed?
A. —Yes, we think we can.
That’s why we made the
announcement.
Q. — How do you propel an
object out there in space?
A. —Well, you have to have
a stream of hot gases coming
out behind which makes the
thing go forward. When you
are in a place where there’s no
air you can’t get any push from
the air.
Q. — What do you push against
then, to obtain momentum?
A. —You don’t push against
anything. You throw away a
mass behind you, and the reac-
tion is that you go forward.
There was an example they used
in my schooldays: How would
a fellow without any atmosphere
about him get off a perfectly
smooth table? The answer was
that you’d take off your boot
and throw it away from you
and you would fly off in the
opposite direction. Or it’s like
two ice-skaters: When they
push against each other, they
glide off in opposite directions.
Q. — You say you expect the
satellite to come down after a
few days. Will it return to earth
and be recovered?
A. —No. You see, it will be
travelling at such terrific speed
that when it hits the earth’s
atmosphere, where there is fric-
tion, it will bum up—like a
meteor.
Q. — How much is this satellite
going to cost?
A. —We don’t know until we
know for certain all the plans
for it. An estimate by the U.S.
National Committee for the
International Geophysical Year
—it was only a rough estimate —
is that it will be something on the
order of 10 million dollars.
Q. — Would this satellite look
like a flying-saucer to a man in
an aeroplane?
A. —I don’t know. What does
a flying-saucer look like?
Sir Winston's Cigors
Providence(U.S.A.)“Journal”
on 153,405, not out:
“Somebody has computed
that Sir Winston Churchill
smo ked a grand total of 153,405
c jg a rs during the first 80 years
G f bis life. The computation
was made on the basis that
Churchill began smoking
Havanas soon after he turned
20 and continued thereafter at
an average rate of seven a day.
The estimate includes allowance
for leap-years.
“Around the beginning of
World War II Churchill passed
the 100,000 mark. Fifty-
thousand cigars previously,
World War I was coming to a
close. * As smoke from the
10,000 th cigar emitted from
the authoritative larynx and
wreathed the already celebrated
cherubic features, the Boer War
was being won and England was
at the apex of her power.
“And so on, back into the
19th century, the history of the
empire told in tobacco-fumes:
rise and decline, glory and de-
feat and glory again in terms of
nicotine-absorption, as the em-
pire’s greatest citizen lit stogies
and blew the rich smoke into
the upper air, the sootfall
making history.”
British Press
London “Economist” com-
ment on the argument stirred-up
in Fleet-street by the British
Government’s decision to end
its 15-year control of newsprint:
“All the big daily newspapers,
except ‘The Times,’ wanted to
bind themselves in an agree-
ment to limit any rise in the
number of their pages once
newsprint is freed. They had
both a bad and a good reason
for this. The bad reason was
that a competition in expansion
would be expensive; although
journalists and some readers
may have felt cramped by the
thinness of post-war newspapers,
the newspapers as companies
have found a certain financial
security in their chains.
“The good reason was that,
although more dollars are to be
allowed for imports, there is
only a very limited amount of
newsprint available on world
markets. With the return of
freedom the contracts that the
big newspapers have with their
suppliers will come back into
prominence; some small local
newspapers have not got such
contracts, and it has been sug-
gested that a few might have to
close down through lack of
supplies—if competition forces
up newsprint consumption in
Fleet-street itself.
“For these reasons, once it
became apparent that ‘The
Times’ would not join in any
voluntary restrictive agreement,
most newspapers wanted Mr.
Thorneycroft [President of the
Board of Trade] to keep official
controls on paging in being. Mr.
Thorneycroft has decided in-
stead to announce his scheme
for freedom, although the Gov-
ernment will ‘require to be
assured that adequate provision
is made for those newspapers
whose individual requirements
are relatively small.’
“On balance, his decision
seems to be the right one. The
extent of the danger that small
newspapers might be squeezed
out of production is open to
debate. But it is for the Gov-
ernment, not the newspapers, to
judge this, as the moment of
projected freedom approaches.
To' leave the judgment to the
newspapers would be to delegate
responsibility for a difficult de-
cision to bodies which —with the
best will in the world —must find
it difficult to disentangle public-
spirited from private - profit
reasons for hugging to
controls.”


AUGER
GRAIN
you just curry it around!
m
The MOBILCO 'Junior'
GRAIN AUGER
It's pretty handy you know, to carry a little grain auger to
a bin . . . push one end into the grain and deliver it into
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per hour.
This miniature auger, with full sized perfo/mance, can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, V 2 h.p. electric motor, or,
if you are a bit n\ore energetic and money conscious than
the average, by a small crank handle.
if you're using a shovel and a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw>dust and other small grained bulk material, you're
going to be. sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is ZV2 inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
P r /® e ' £24/8/-, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle 'and ready for use. Send
an order now for quick delivery and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immed'ately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTtt
HEAD l'^rt, T Si?TH',rt„ U !^K- 0 A P D HO KfliH Y A X „ ,2 trc s
AfiENT. t 9 UNES) ■ BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
69 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Circular Charts for all typac
•f Recording Instrument*
tor «Ajr ctou HxJii—ry
o# Equipment
METER CHARTS • Spoeteky
JAC'MfIfO'SIILUVAN%Ia
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
left presently and didn’t come
back ; being assisted, I gathered,
quite handsomely by the Salters
to get over her trouble, because
they felt in some degree
responsible.
Things were never quite the
same at the Salters’ place after
that. Sometimes they had a man
whom they believed to be
shaping well (even getting to
understand the essential values
of Alec’s particular system); but
a girl who was only indifferent.
Or they had a good girl who
took the right kind of pride in
that unusual old home, but a
man who was on the point of
being sent away.
There were even times when
they had no help of any kind at
all, and were rejoicing in a
minor way about the tranquillity
that brought about. At the local
railway-station, I was told, it
was regarded as an uneventful
day if no employee of the
Salters either arrived or
departed.
All this had an evident
wearing-effect on the Salters.
An incipient bad temper which
I had often suspected in Lindy,
was coming closer to the surface,
while Alec had developed
a spectacularly - high blood-
pressure with tlie nervous tension
which usually goes with it.
About that time I was offered a
move to Sydney, and one of the
reasons why I accepted it was
that the pleasant circle that had
centred round the Salters’ place
seemed to be breaking-up.
A YEAR or two later I heard
that the Salters were living
in Sydney, so I took the first
opportunity to go and see them.
I was very interested to dis-
cover what the change in
environment had done to them.
I’d seen a lot of landowners
retire while I was in Jindulla,
and the effects on them were
diverse and interesting. Some
who had never had an interest
outside their work took to the
town’s social-life and the
bowling-club with boyish gusto.
Others carved-out new careers
for themselves as stock-and-
land agents, seed - merchants
and itinerant mechanics.
Some began to drink heavily ;
some wandered about the streets
disconsolate, utterly bored,
aching for something to do, a
menace to any acquaintance
whom they contrived to stop;
others with the leisure for the
first time to notice the symptoms
of minor ailments which had
done' them no harm all their
lives brooded over them and
soon died.
I considered that the Salters,
notwithstanding their affinity
with their old house and pro-
perty, having all their intellectual
interests, would probably have
found Sydney a very agreeable
place to live in. I was expect-
ing them to be looking younger,
brighter and healthier, like so
many of those energetic old ex-
farmers of Jindulla.
They had, I found, a very
pleasant place on the North
Shore; I could see immediately
how they had tried to attain
some of their old seclusion by
buying a place with a big block
of land and plenty of trees which
more-or-less successfully hid the
relatively-near neighbors.
I could see from the garden
that they hadn’t taken to
suburban neatness ; the neigh-
bors probably deplored un-
trimmed verges, unraked gravel
and uncollected fallen leaves.
When I got to the point of
ringing their doorbell, I wasn’t
sure what to expect.
Lindy received me without
quite the enthusiasm of her old
eager-hostess manner, which was
always rather captivating. We
talked about old times for a
while, but all the time Alec
acted as if he had something on
his mind, and at last he got
round to it.
“We sold the property,” he
told me, in a sombre, fateful
manner. “Things got that way
that it was the only thing to
do. We just couldn’t carry on
any more. Got a terrific price,
too. We can live much better
now on our invested money
without doing any work or
having any worry.”
Then Lindy joined in as if
she, too, was trying to justify
the step. “Our eldest boy has
just started as a research-chemist
with the C.5.1.R.0. The other
is still at the University ; neither
was interested in taking over the
property, so there was no point
in holding on to it. They live
with us now for the first time
for years and years. And we
can go to all the symphony-
concerts and art-shows we want
to.”
Lindy went on to talk brightly
about the things they’d been
seeing, but Alec was inclined to
just sit there brooding. In an
interval of her chatter he
said abruptly: “After three
generations. And all because a
silly, lustful-young fool had to
misbehave himself.”
TTE got up and played some
records after that, some very
good, new ones, but not repro-
duced through a hole in the
ceiling this time; you just
couldn’t conceive the rashness
of cutting a hole in a neat
suburban ceiling. It was
extremely good reproduction,
however; yet we didn’t seem
able to maintain the absorbed
concentration with which we’d
listened in the green silence of
that old country home. Vehicles
roared up the road past their
front, aeroplanes overhead,
tradesmen rang at the doorbell.
Alec even started talking about
other things, too.
“We went for a car-trip last
month and dropped past to see
the old place.”
He paused a while, and I
could see a vein pulsing in his
brow that didn’t look too good
for his blood-pressure.
“It’s all torn up, hillsides and
all, and sown to wheat. It will
be an eroded ruin in a few
years.”
He stopped and sat there
looking at the carpet, tense with
the bitterest, futile resentment.
Then Lindy joined in, her
nice voice almost shrill.
“And the new owners are
living in the workman’s-cottage
we built, and they’ve pulled the
roof off our lovely old home to
build a shed for all their filthy
farming-implements.”
I nodded to show how I felt
about it. Then I pretended to
be listening to the music. It
was one of Beethoven’s last
quartets; it had come to the
slow-movement by then; that
acutely personal music Beet-
hoven wrote in his old age and
last illness; the music of a man
who knew that the world had
very little more to offer him.
Alec turned his head and
started listening, too. Suddenly
he made a sharp gesture towards
the radiogram.
“That’s the right music for
us,” he said bitterly.
in Adelaide —remember him
nearly 45 years after as a sort
of hero?
Harry Harbord Morant (if
that was his real name) came (o
Australia, it is surmised, in
about the year 1884. He claimed
to be the son of Admiral Sir
George Digby Morant, some-
time Admiral Superintendent of
Chatham Dockyard in England,
and there were many in the old
days who saw papers which
sought to establish the authenti-
city of that claim. After “The
Breaker” was executed the Aus-
tralian press printed a cabled
disavowal from Admiral Morant
of the dead man’s paternity.
The Bulletin received several
letters at the time attempting to
refute the Admiral’s denial.
The Bulletin's comment
was:
But, after all, what does it matter?
What advantage to anybody if the
body of the son is hung around the
neck of one particular old man?
Morant has been executed. Is it
necessary also to execute his family?
In a letter to “Banjo” Pater-
son, dated August 3, 1895, Mor-
ant says: “Thirty years next
Christmas, but feel fifty,” which
would place the date of
Morant’s birthday as some time
in December, 1865. The Admiral
married Sophia Georgina Eyres
in 1866, a fact that would dis-
prove Morant’s claim that he
was a lawful son, assuming, of
course —and there is no record
in any reference-book con-
sulted —that the Admiral had
not contracted an earlier mar-
riage.
Whatever his parentage, and
whatever his connections!, he
certainly had some acquain-
tanceship with the gentry of
Devon, where he v/as bom, at
Bideford. He had obviously re-
ceived a good education, and it
seems true that he was at one
time a naval-cadet in England.
It has been said that his depar-
ture for Australia had to do with
an unpaid gaming debt.
Upon his arrival here Morant
went to North Queensland, and
the late David Groom, of the
Charters Towers “Miner,”
asserted after Morant’s death
that “The Breaker” was married
in Charters Towers, in April,
1884, birt not under the name
of Morant. If this story is true,
“The Breaker” also gave a
wrong birthplace and falsified
his age. It has been said that he
and his wife separated shortly
after their marriage. The story
of his marriage, however, was
never satisfactorily checked, and
it could be that he remained a
bachelor. Certainly, all efforts
by The Bulletin to trace his
widow failed.
From Charters Towers Mor-
ant went to Hughenden, then
to Esmeralda station, then to
Winton, and finally to Clon-
curry, doing odd jobs whenever
he could find work. All the
while he spoke of rich relations
in England; from Hughenden
once he cabled to a titled
person for a large sum —he didn’t
get the money. But the fact that
he spent a good deal on the
cable would seem to indicate
that he had some hopes of
“raising the wind” in that
quarter. It wps alleged that
while in Charters Towers he
bought two horses for which he
gave in payment a cheque signed
“Morant,” which was dishonored
afterwards.
He was, as F. M. Cutlack
charitably remarked, a “scamp
in money matters.” Will Ogil-
vie, whatever his high regard of
“The Breaker” in other respects,
had no illusions about his friend
so far as money was concerned.
Before “The Breaker” left for
South Africa, Ogilvie revealed
this side of Morant’s character
in a frank verse, “When ‘The
Breaker’ Is Booked for the
South,” printed in The Bulle-
tin. The first stanza runs:
He will leave when his ticket is
tendered
A bundle of debts, I’m afraid—
Accounts that were many times
rendered
And bills that will never be paid;
Whilst the tailor and riding-boot
maker
Will stand with their thumbs in
their mouth,
With a three-cornered curse at “The
leer**
When “The Breaker” is booked for
the South.
After leaving Cloncurry Morant
drifted about Queensland, N. S.
Wales, South Australia and Vic-
toria, never staying long in any
place, as a stockman, drover and
horsebreaker. He was well
known in several N.S.W. coun-
try towns —in Parkes, Orange,
Walgett and Bourke particu-
larly.
Like the “band of decent fel-
lows” who formed “The Briga-
low Brigade”—the fellows who
“painted Parkes vermilion” and
“colored Orange blue” —Morant
had three main interests: hard
liquor, wild horses and women.
He was a periodic drinker. He
would remain sober for a spell,
and then embark on a rip-roar-
ing fantastic spree that would
more often than not land him in
hospital—with broken ribs or
collarbone —his pockets empty
and the township snowed-under
with his lOUs. But he always
emerged from these carousals
cheerful and unrepentant.
His must have been an extra-
ordinary constitution, as tough
as they’re made. Here is a
Bulletin description of him
just before he sailed for South
Africa:
But a few months ago it seems
since Morant was in Sydney—his
hard, tanned, determined, jovial
scamp’s phiz aglow with high
spirits; his strong, capable hands,
eager for a friendly grasp; and his
husky, cheery voice tuned to the
irresistible invitation. Only a little
more battered, more worn with ten
years of roving and rioting; with
only a very little of shiftiness in frank
eyes to mark desperate straits
navigated by this accomplished good-
for-naught—the sorrow of his family,
the solace of his friends.
Scores have testified in print as
to Harry Morant’s daring on a
horse and hundreds of stories
have been told of his feats of
wonderful horsemanship. It was
said of him that he feared no
horse and no horse ever defeated
him. No horse was too wild for
him to ride, no fence too high
for him to jump, no track too
rough, no ride too long . . .
But examples could be given to
show that, while he could dote
on a horse, he could also cheer-
fully break its neck.
For the rest, “he died game,”
as The Bulletin said of his
execution in Pretoria Jail. He
faced the firing-squad, having
refused a bandage for his eyes,
and, looking down the muzzles
of the guns, said without fear:
“Shoot straight, don’t make a
mess of it.”


TfieMostlffetfive fiemcfyfor
MILK FEVER
SHliPam/ CATTLE Js
ss:
W
CALCIUM BORO-GLUCONATE
DON'T BE
%
By Your
MILKING PROBLEMS
USE A
"DAN GAR-GEM"
3MD34’
Whether you have one or a dozen cows a
“Dangar-Gem” is the answer to your milking
problems. No more worry about labour. You
can milk a good average cow and thoroughly wash
the plant in about five minutes. Milking can be
speeded up still more by “doubling-up” to milk two
cows at once.
Sole Distributors:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Lid.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney.
P.O. Box 509. Phone: BU 5095.
Branches: Newcastle, liismore, Wagga and Hay.
And at Stubbs St., Flemington, Melbourne, W.l.
Nothing cooks as well as an AGA
7t
M
■ DJ
... and
no cooker
costs less in
Cooking on an AGA
is a housewife’s dream
• Your AGA has two hot plates and two
ovens—one for baking and roasting—the
other for simmering. • Even oven heat
guarantees fine cooking—just like a baker’s
brick oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner m the simmering oven.
• Thermostatically controlled the temper-
atures are always right: no pre-heating is
necessary. Put your dishes straight into the
oven. • Hot plates—boiling and simmering—
take three eight-pint saucepans on each. You
can boil a 4-pint kettle of water in 4 minutes.
• Dishes can be left to simmer for 24 hours
without any possibility of burning or thicken-
ing. • So reliable —that from all cookers
offering, the Australian Antarctic Expedition
chose AGAs for all their bases.
He AGA is the most
economical cooker in the world . • •
• No matter how often you cook, or how
many you cook for, AGA is guaranteed
not to burn more than a specified small
amount of coke. Over the years, this repre-
sents really big fuel savings and more than
compensates for AGA’s higher initial cost.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually
you get a lifetime of service from your AGA.
• Hot water at will—the AGA is not only a
superlative cooker, but will provide a
continuous supply of hot water to sink,
bathroom and laundry. • Included in the
price of the AGA is a wonderful set of
cooking utensils with specially machined
bases. • Easy terms are available. Fuel savings
provide a substantial part of your payments.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details free and
without obligation: —
ADDRESS ..
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
51-57 GOULBURN ST., SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET 8c ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
Eire
MALLOCH BROS.
5# WILLIAM ST., PERTH
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of three old ballads once
sung in the English West Counties
"The Lad Who Sells Broom—Green
Broom,” “Parson Hogg,” and “Blue
Muslin.” —6149.
Whereabouts of Thomas Thomson,
from Scotland, who served as a
transport driver with Australian
Army during World War 11. Last
heard of from Sydney. Mother
inquiring. (Reply direct to Mrs. A.
Thomson, 8 Northfield, Tranent,
East Lothian, Scotland.)
Information Sought
Present transport - facilities for
sightseers at Echo Point, Katoomba
(N.S.W. Blue Mountains ) ?
For 10 months of the year, seven
days a week, the Scenic Railway is
at the disposal of Katoomba sight-
seers; it then operates between
10 a.m. and 5 p.m. During July and
August (until commencement of the
August school-holidays) it operates
only from 12.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m.
daily. Dropping 750 ft. on a track
1360 ft. in length (over one foot in
two), it is reputed to be the steepest
railway in the world. The modern
cars, which have replaced the old
coal-scoops, are run on a cable-
system with electricity as their driving-
force. For complete safety, there are
two cables attached to each car.
Leaving the upper platform, the car
passes through a jock-tunnel, and
descends by way of a natural crack
in the cliff-face to the level of the
pass below, where a second platform
exists for disembarking. Easy access
is thus given to the Ruined Castle
and Federal Pass. It is still possible
to descend the cliff by means of the
Giant Stairway (916 steps), walk a
little over a mile along the flat
Federal Pass, press the button at the
bottom of the railway, and return to
the higher levels by rail-car. Cost
is now Is. for the single journey.
* * * *
(1) Would approval be given to the
registration of a large stock-brand by
a boy of 14 or over ? (2) Is it
possible to register cattle-earmarks?
(1) Yes. Forms available from the
Department of Agriculture, Box 36,
GP.O., Sydney. (2) There is no
legislation in force in N.S.W. govern-
ing the earmarking of cattle, and so
it is not possible to register a cattle-
earmark.
* * * •
Briefly, what are the objects of the
Testator’s Family Maintenance Acts
in the various States, and what would
it cost to apply to a court for a just
portion of one’s parent’s estate?
Every State of the Commonwealth
has a statute in the Statute Books by
the name of the Testator’s Family
Maintenance Act or an equivalent.
The object of these is to ensure that
no widow, child or, in some cases,
grandchild of a deceased person shall
receive out of the estate of the
deceased a lesser sum by way of
income or capital than is necessary
for his or her proper maintenance,
education or advancement in life,
having regard to all the circumstances
of the deceased and the widow, child
or grandchild. It is not possible to
advise the cost of an application
under the Act, as this will vary con-
siderably from case to case. An
application under the Act requires
the services of a solicitor, and should
be made promptly after the grant of
probate of the will or letter-of-
administration of the deceased’s
estate.
* * * *
How to keep rose-bushes free of
white-ants ? Will creosote help?
Constantly disturbing the m—
breaking-up their nests and tunnels —
should keep them in check. Creosote
should not be used anywhere in the
garden, as it is most destructive to
soil-elements and plants, and hard to
eradicate when once applied. A 2 per
cent, solution of chlordane, sprayed
round the rose-bushes or other spots,
has been used to keep ants away;
procurable from garden-shops. Make
sure that they are white- ants.
Common ants attack roses for the
aphides on the tips of the shoots.
If the aphides are displaced by a
strong jet of clean water from a
hose, the ants usually disappear.
* * * *
Origin of the word “Overflow,” in
"Clancy of the Overflow’’’?
“Overflow” is a bush-term that
came into use to describe areas
flooded at times by inland streams,
especially the Macquarie River
(N.S.W.). It appears to have been
adopted by A. B. (“Banjo”) Paterson
because it lent itself to rhythm and
carried a certain suggestion of folk-
lore. “Banjo” may, in fact, have
taken the term from a station, for
it is used as the name of at least
three pastoral properties—two in the
central-west of N.S.W. and one in
Central Queensland.
* * * •
Correct spelling and some informa-
tion about native word “brolga * ?
Although there is no particular
rule governing the spelling of words
derived from aborigines, the
aboriginal name of the native-
companion, or giant crane, is always
rendered “brolga,” not “brolgah.”
In one tribal legend Brolga, the best
dancer in her district, and daughter of
Brolga Num-ba-di, was captured by
two cannibals known as the Wurra-
wilberoo. After various adventures
she was changed by them intp a tall
dancing bird; and therefore birds
of that kind were ever after known
by her name. The legend is given
in detail in Mrs. Langloh Parker’s
Australian Legendary Tales, edited
by H. Drake-Brockman (1953).
Brief Answers
C.D.: (1) 1908. (2) Not pro-
posed, at this stage, to replace the
hotel. The chalet at Kiandra caters
far snow-holiday visitors in that
district. (3) A branch at the post-
office, Kiandra —main office at
C o o m a T.R.C.: Repatriation
regulations provide that where a
member is prevented from following
his usual occupation through the
necessities of treatment for an
incapacity due to war-service,
sustenance-allowance may be granted.
However, when no treatment is
given which in itself would prevent
the member froih working, an
application for grant of sustenance
is disallowed R.H.: (1) Alpacas
in Australia are restricted to a few
zoological-gardens. There are, how-
ever, numerous Angora-type goats
in parts of Queensland and many
have been crossed with the milking-
types, mainly the Saanens. (2)
Virtually no market exists for this
product... .W.K.8.: A considerable
correction for elevation would be
required on the back-sight to com-
pensate for the fall of the bullet
from 900yds. The turning-over of
the sight would not enable any sight-
correction to be made. However, as
it is almost certainly the only occa-
sion on which a similar shoot has
been attempted, you could claim it
as a “world” record... .8.M.: Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children,
Camperdown (a general children’s
hospital); Renwick Children’s Hospi-
tal, Ashfield (for young children);
Dalwood Health Home (for under-
nourished children); Stewart House
Preventorium (for underprivileged
children, many from the western part
of the State); N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children (homes at
Margaret Reid, St. Ives; Strathallan,
Turramurra); Beverley Park Home,
Camperdown (for physically-
handicapped children); Mt. Arcadia
Recovery Home (a hospital concerned
with heart-conditions). Dr. Fuller-
ton, medical superintendent and chief
executive officer at the Royal
Alexandra, is in a position to supply
further details... .G.S.: W. H.
Paling and Co., Ltd., Sydney, can
supply words- —only in the copies of
sheet-music —of “Mother Machree”
(35.), “Where the River Shannon
Flows” (2s. 6d.), and “Vocal Gems
of Ireland” (45.). “The Bird in the
Gilded Cage” and “Ilean O’Connor,
Ilean Aroo” are both out of print.
M.W.: Prior to 1922 prisoners
were credited with weekly earnings,
which in no case exceeded 9d.
weekly. The money was paid to the
prisoner on discharge. Earnings of
prisoners are now subject to a
graduated scale, based on the quantity
and quality of work done. The
diligent may earn from ss. to about
7s. 6d. per week, dependent on their
skill average earnings of men
employed in workshops being about
7s. weekly. They are permitted a
portion of this for amenities; the
balance is paid to them on dis-
charge... .J.L.E.: Write C. B.
Christesen, editor, “Meanjin,” Uni-
versity of Melbourne, Carlton, N. 3.
G.H.T.: Other answers under
Information Sought. Your own
numbers: (4) No, the War Office.
(10) The Air Ministry through the
Air Council. The Secretary of State
for Air and President of the Air
Council (one title)... .N.D.: Write
Westralian Farmers’ Co-op., Ltd.,
569 Weffington-street, Perth (W.A.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.S.M.: We couldn’t resist the
appeal of “Move Down th’ Car,
Please!”:
“Move down th’ car, please . . .
Move down th’ carl”
But dumbly as cattle
They stand where they are!
A sharp metal prodder
Might help them move on
Make some of them realise
Just where they belong.
K.S.: Received verse beginning
“My love is dark, but sometimes
fair,” which is a bit of a change
from verses received beginning “My
love is fair, but sometimes dark.”
R.S.L.: “A New Elizabethan to
His Mistress” didn’t make the grade.
E.P.N.: You have been mis-
taken, all right W.W.W.: That
“fisherman bold” who “stalked the
crayfish young and old” didn’t get a
bite R.W.T.: Sorry, but we have
no “scribe to spare” who “might
shapen any germ of sense he finds.”
.. ..D.C.: There is nothing new
about a swagman addressing his
swag.... R.V.S.: Any third-class
craftsman can turn out that sort of
rhyming until the last cow comes
home.... J.F.: Now, what makes
you want to clothe Ogden Nash’s
head in ash and throw him in the
sea? D.J.W.: Keep on trying, but
get more punch into them... .P.M.:
“How cold and pale the moon.’
How cold and pale the poem
S.R.: They were a moral for the
basket from the word “go”
W.H.A.: We soon discarded item
beginning: “Your youthful beauty,
your azure eyes, I do love you.
Love me you? Or are those sighs the
flicker of the flame that dies?”
A.E.M.M.: What! Not more “wind
in angry gusts” J.K.S.: Four
came in, four went back 0.W.:
We can appreciate your protest
against the tariff preferences, if not
your poetry: —
If your horse needs a blanket, a brush or
a comb,
The Government is ready and helping;
But if your baby is chilly, for all that
they care
Uncombed, he can just go on yelping.
N.M.: At least you managed to
write a poem about dawn without
using “morn” for a rhyme S.K.:
Ah! Spring is here again, we note
J.O.’L.: Will you please call and
collect those seraphims and
cherubims J.F.: We have yet to
meet the poet who, while declaring
in print his scorn of wealth, has
turned down a win in a lottery
J.L.: Try us with something shorter
and not previously published.


See the Grazcos “Farmers’ Boy” Display at Melbourne
Royal Show.
H
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 1J h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 8 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
guillotined 1
Rotary Hoe
Sawben-ch
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRECOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Jictoria; GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551
Sth. Aus.: M S. McLEOD Ltd., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 155 L
Q land : BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631
Tasmama: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmowet
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include:
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, Spray-painting, etc. FURROWER
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC HARROWS,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
TRACE-ELEMENTS
TMPORTANT conclusions,
•*- which may have far-
reaching effects on future farm-
ing practices in Victoria, have
been reached by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture following
trace-elements investigations.
Much of the land in the
higher-rainfall areas which pre-
viously was unresponsive to
pasture-improvement might now
be expected to respond to the
application of trace-elements in
addition to superphosphate.
The ability of these soils to
maintain greatly improved
growth will largely depend on
the amount of phosphate apl-
- and the potash status of the
soil, as well as the depth of soil
and climatic limitations.
Should it become necessary to
apply potash regularly, this could
be expeced to double the fertiliser
cost. To ensure that fertiliser
cost is kept to a minimum, im-
provers of poor land in the
better-rainfall districts should
endeavor to conserve the natural
reserves of potash in the soil.
Because some of the new
chemicals are toxic to animals,
caution is necessary in handling
trace-elements. Super. con-
taining molybdenum, as put out
by the fertiliser firms, is unlikely
to harm stock: but if used as a
substitute for straight super-
phosphate on land for potato-
growing, or at heavy rates on
new pastures, amounts of the
chemical in excess of the stock-
tolerance per acre might be
accumulated.
In any case, molybdenum
treatment should not be given
annually, but only if effects of
the previous application have
become exhausted. As a general
rule, fertilisers containing trace-
elements should be spread more
evenly than super. Superphos-
phate containing copper-
sulphate should not be applied to
green growing pastures; either
should be applied only at the
initial seeding or during the
summer when the pasture is
sparse and dry.
B.B.
Windbreaks
“Breck”: For a quick-growing
three-row windbreak on the
N.S.W. coast or the better parts
of the slopes, tree-lucerne
(Cytisus prolifer us), silver-wattle
(Acacia dealbata ) and insignis
pine (Pinus radiata ) make an
excellent combination. All are
resistant to frost.
Plant the tree-lucerne on the
windward side of the break. Cut-
ting these trees back heavily at
least twice in the first year helps
them develop a thick barrier of
growth. Trimming back the
lateral branchlets in the close-
to-ground areas, when they show
signs of opening up, keeps the
row draught-proof. On the
average, this tree will advance
sft. in the first year. It doesn’t
live long, but it is a free seeder,
and thereby ensures its own
regeneration. Space 3ft. apart in
the row. Height 15ft.
The silver-wattle is hardy to
wind. A quick grower, it should
reach 6ft. to 7ft. in the first year.
Allow 4ft. between each tree.
Height 30ft.
The insignis-pine should not
be more than 9in. high when
planted in the windbreak row.
Space them 3ft. apart, and thin
out every alternate plant as the
branches begin to overlap. Lop-
ping back the tops when they
reach 15-20 ft. helps to delay
the lower branches lifting up-
wards, and thickens the belt.
Average rate of growth is 3-4 ft.
a year. Height about 40ft.
Allow 4ft. between the row of
tree-lucerne and the wattles and
6ft. between the wattles and the
pines.
Training the lower branches
of the tree-lucerne and the
wattles earthwards induces the
volume of growth needed to cut
off strong winds.
A windbreak of these species
begins to provide a dense shelter
for stock within two to three
years.
Feeding Root-crops
“X.Y.”: Feeding the root-
crop in breaks prevents waste
and ensures each class of sheep
getting the type of fodder suit-
able for its mouth.
Twice in its life, the sheep’s
teeth cannot deal with hard
roots: in the hogget stage when
the baby-teeth are coming out
and the two central incisors are
not in position, and in old age,
when the teeth are decayed.
Fed tops of the turnips, rich
in proteins and minerals, young
animals grow and keep healthy
and old ewes maintain better
condition.
Wethers and ewes requiring
fattening should not be allowed
to taste the tops. Developing a
liking for them, they may turn
down the roots necessary to
their increase in weight.
There is one exception: sheep
not accustomed to turnips may
not take to the roots unless first
put on the tops. Providing a
grass runoff that leads up to the
turnip field is one way of getting
them accustomed to the new
diet.
Shells make good fodder for
the sound-mouthed breeding
ewes and other mature sheep.
When the weather is frosty
the sheep should be moved in
to pasture paddocks in the even-
ing, and not put on the turnips
in the morning till the frost
thaws.
Hay, straw, or oat-chaff supply
a good balance to turnip-fodder.
Watermelons
“Sarina”: Most well-
cultivated soils will grow excel-
lent watermelons, but the light-
or sandy-loams are most suitable.
Ground should not be bedded
up for the vines. Rather they
should be planted slightly below
the level of the surrounding land.
An excellent idea is to open
the field up at Bft. or 10ft.
intervals with a swing-plough
and spread well-rotted stable-
manure to nearly fill the trench,
covering them with a little soil.
Sow the seed along the drills.
This form of sowing helps to
conserve the soil-moisture.
Wilt is not common except
where melons are grown in
heavy, wet soils, or where the
same ground is used year after
year ; a mistake with almost any
crop.
Keep the weeds in check im-
mediately around the plants, but
grasses between the rows won’t
matter ; they keep the vines cool
in hot weather.
A heavy mulch of dry grass or
manure over the roots is neces-
sary in hot climates, and the
vines should be heavily watered.
Ease up with the water when the
vines start bearing, especially
when the fruit is almost full-
grown.
Generally, the bigger a melon
is the better it tastes, and there
are a great many splendid
varieties available today.
For Queensland conditions,
Blacklee, Sugarstick, Hawkes-
bury Wilt Resistant and Early
Yates are all good: they grow to
around 301 b. to 351 b. and resist
wilt. The old Kleckley Sweet
and Tom Watson, which do so
well on the N.Q. coast, grow to
401 b. but are not resistant to
wilt. Ice Cream is another good
variety (up to 301 b.), and the
round Cannon Ball averages
151 b. Round Early Yates is a
very quick maturer (up to 181 b.).
"Ah, break it down, Eth! I can't concentrate on me work."
Cannon Ball is perhaps the best
keeping variety.
Honey-locust
“Bass”: My claim that the
honey-locust is suspect because
it’s one of the mesquites is
hardly as extravagant as Judith
Cassell’s that they simply belong
to the same family, Leguminosce,
of which there are 7000 species.
The relationship is much closer
than that, and the honey-locust
may be as dangerous as the
“spineless” mesquite which
graziers in north W.A. planted
as shade-trees years ago.
In Onslow, now, there are resi-
dents who complain at having to
remove mesquites from their
gardens, where they’re “not
doing any harm”; and a few
miles inland the pest has the
country in a grip which it’s going
to cost hundreds of thousands
of £’s to loosen. Given the same
opportunity, the honey-locust
may do the same.
It may not? Granted. But no
one with experience of mesquite
would take any allied foreign
tree on trust. The same argu-
ments which Judith Cassell
brings forward on behalf of the
honey-locust were, 30 years ago,
advanced on behalf of the mes-
quite.
My critic thinks research
might evolve a hybrid without
the mesquite’s bad habits. I
doubt it. But, in any case, is it
worth the effort? Such a tree
would require to be tested, under
control and in field conditions,
for at least 20 years: a costly
business which isn’t warranted
by anything the foreign tree has
to offer in the way of feed. We
already have trees that will grow
in dry country. The mulgas are
tough, hardy shrubs and some
of them provide good feed.
They’re practically the only feed
in some of the drier parts of
W.A. A little research on them
might produce dividends.
Mattress Plant
“Groper”: The kapok-bush,
said to be accidentally intro-
duced into W.A. through seed
escaping from a Malayan diver’s
mattress, may prove to be a
valuable aid to the pastoral
industry and assist materially in
the development of semi-arid
areas.
After establishing itself on
coastal areas of north-western
W.A., the plant has spread in-
land and is flourishing in hot,
dry areas where the rainfall does
not exceed 12in. and is often
much less. Having a strong
root-system, this perennial can
withstand severe droughts.
Leaves of the plant are said to
be high in protein-value, and its
use as a fodder is becoming
popular.
The W.A. Department of
Agriculture is conducting feed-
ing-trials of the plant. One
important point to be decided
is whether the woolly seeds are
harmful to cattle by forming
balls in the stomach.
The Queensland Government
is also experimenting with the
plant. A big query is the possi-
bility that the plant might, under
higher-rainfall conditions, de-
velop into a weed like its rela-
tions khaki-weed and Prince-
of-Wales feathers.
Spraying Cabbages
“Civav”: Advice on spraying
cabbages against white-moth
some time back, though sound,
is not the whole answer. The
usual D.D.T. spray is too
readily washed - off upper -
surfaces by rain or hosing, and
to carefully spray the undersides
is a tiresome, backbreaking job,
though I agree it’s the only way
to get at the insects in their
early stages.
A better spray is E 605, a
parathion-concentrate, which is
absorbed by the leaves, reaching
the innermost cells whether
sprayed on upper- or lower-
surfaces. However, it’s a
dangerous poison, and must be
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/9/’55)
The sunspot outbreaks that were associated with the
gales and rain during August in the southern section of
the continent have reappeared, and a repetition of the
August disturbances are therefore likely.
October should be a month of poor rainfall in Queens-
land although moderate rains are indicated on the south
coast, with light rain on the Darling Downs and in the
south-west.
Patchy rains are likely in N.S.W., hut moderate rains
should occur on the coast, with good rains above average
between Sydney and Jervis Bay. The southern tablelands
and south-west slopes should get moderately good rain,
with fair rain on the northern tablelands and north-west
slopes and plains. Balance of the State, light rain.
Victoria should receive moderate rain—below normal
—with only light rain on the Mallee, Wimmera and north
country.
Fulls should he patchy in S.A., but in W.A. the south
coast and south-east should receive good rains.
LENNOX WALKER.


LAND
COIUMM
Illustrated below is the Model
“E,” 7ft. Spring: Clamp GRAHAM
PLOW which sells at £145. It is
available with long; or standard
shanks. Row spacings are adjust-
able. Width may be increased to
9ft. (£7O Extra).
Two types of Depth Control
Wheels may be used. Individually
adjustable Depth Control Wheels
(£27/10/- extra), or Standard Depth
Control Wheels (£4O extra).
World-wide tribute acknowledges
the Graham Plow as the greatest
agricultural implement in a 1000
years.
mm.
< i
iiii
GRAHAM PLOW
—the original and genuine chisel plow
is patented throughout the world.
Manufactured in Australia under licence
from the Graham-Hoeme Plow Co.,
Amarillo, Texas, U.S.A., by Yeomans
Proprietary Ltd.
Introducing the
BUN YIP
LEVEL
Australian Patent No. 9368/55.
World Patents pending. ,
5-6
"iCO
m
a
Xm
•••,' K ■
&
to Farmers, Graziers,
Engineers, Plumbers,
Builders, Landscape
Gardeners
—and anyone who needs to lind a
level for laying In contours, slop-
ing drains or to determine a varia-
tion in height.
The Bunyip Level is simple and
accurate, foolproof and fast. Whilst
remarkably low-priced, it will do
the job more efficiently than the
highest priced instrument. As
simple to operate in the hands of
a 10-year-old as the qualified
engineer. The “Bunyip” Level sells at
£ll/17/6
(Freight free),
FaRMERS! You need the Bunyip
Level. Makes every man his own
engineer. Write, phone or wire.
YOUR CREDIT IS GOOD.
Immediate delivery.
Another exclusive Yeomans’
product is
Oa-jfr
—the new Agricultural Aid
* Ag-yo sells at
33/6
per 5 cubic
foot bag.
* First lot to
farmers freight
free.
This price in-
cludes 2/6 for
the hessian bag
Which is refund-
able or an
allowable deduc-
tion for bags
***s,»«* '•sfa.ar-
P.„n„ 'SSt
“Ag-Yo” is the only material that
will satisfactorily flow lime or
ground gypsum through a combine.
When seed is shown with “Ag-Yo”
and lime in the mixture, the “Ag-
Yo” and lime act as a starter for
strong germination and a good
strike.
“Ag-Yo” can be used in aerial
agriculture for the spreading of
fertilizers, inoculants, cultures,
insecticides and weedicides. It has
many other uses.
YEOMANS
Proprietary Limited,
537 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
MX 1884 MX 1784
Agents throughout Australia.
Fill in this Coupon and send to
[ us for full facts of the GRAHAM
PLOW, the BUNYIP FEVFJL
land AG-YO.
NAME.....
ADDRESS
jWCutfoß/aA
w *
o •**!»•» *•«*
n w IM N» mi ** imH
( s.
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
mi
>/
vXv.*>
mmm
2ZZ
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
•DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolv'enator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
W.A,: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne ;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
{of
/
S
ft
6ft*'™
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIQUID BLUE
Obtainable in 4 oz., 8 oz. f
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM HARDWARE AND GENERAL STORES
handled with great care; in
make-up and effect it’s closely
allied to mustard-gas.
Spraying can be safely con-
tinued at fortnightly intervals to
within three weeks of harvest-
ing. The lasting toxicity of
parathion was given tragic proof
in Queensland when an in-
quest on a Toowoomba man
showed he had died from eating
his lunch in a public park which
had been sprayed with E 605.
Molasses and Pigs
“Mackay”: Feeding-value of
molasses for pigs is doubtful. An
overdose can kill an animal not
used to it. It is risky to feed it
to sows in-pig or with litters.
At the start, it should be given
in small quantities and gradually
increased to a pint dosage. It is
a strong laxative, but young
green-feed is just as effective
and much safer. Molasses has
no contents
are sugar and starch. It is not
a substitute for milk but can be
used to replace part of the wheat,
maize, or barley ration.
Urea
“B.B.”: In S.A. a marked
increase in growth of potato-
crops has followed the introduc-
tion of urea applied through the
irrigation-water. Tests in the
Adelaide Hills districts showed
that 561 b. of urea dissolved in
a 44gal. drum of water and fed
into the intake side of the pump
during the last 20 minutes of a
run, covering one acre of crop,
raised the yield by 641 b.
Complete results indicate a
15 per cent, increase in yields,
26 per cent, in oversize tubers
and a 35 per cent, decrease in
undersize tubers. On the cost
side this application cost
£2 Os. 6d. and raised the yield
from 12.7 tons an acre to 14.6
tons, the increase valued on
present prices at £5O an acre.
Crosscuts
“T p.”; victoria was the first
State to sow wheat from the air.
Still in the experimental stage,
this was done on 100 acres of
Wimmera plains near Horsham.
The problem of covering the
seed in the one operation has
not been overcome, but the
method, like topdressing and
spraying, has possibilities in
certain types of country. In one
Horsham paddock the seed was
covered by light harrowing; in
the other by running a flock of
sheep over it.
* * *
“Sundowner”: A prune-juice
extracted from the fresh fruit
has been developed in the
U.S.A. Commercial juices have
hitherto been made for dried
prunes, but the new process,
which produces a single-strength
juice and a fourfold concen-
trate, is made from fully-
matured fruit.
* * *
“Sundowner”: In parts of
S.A.’s wheatgrowing districts
crops have been successfully
sprayed against wild-turnip and
Ward’s weed. Mixture recom-
mended for a grain-crop is fib.
amine 2,4-D in 12gals. water
per acre. Add one pint Tepol
or similar wetting-agent to each
lOOgals. For pasture fib. ester
2,4-D in 12gals. water is
advised, to be applied before
flowering.
“8.J.”: Tests by Victorian
Department of Agriculture indi-
cate that dieldrin and aldrin are
bad for the common field-
cricket, a serious pest in black-
soil pasture country. The two
chemicals were tried with
lindane over two seasons.
Dieldrin was most effective
when applied at the rate of
Boz. to the acre, with super., in
February or March at the
latest. Aldrin was best at 16oz.
to the acre. Dieldrin is 10s. for
Boz., aldrin is 10s. per lb.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: Apple-trees can
be successfully dwarfed without
apparent loss of health and fruit-
fulness by inverting a ring of
bark on the trunk. This involves
removing a complete ring of
bark about fin. to lin. wide,
replacing it in an upside-down
position and binding it with
adhesive tape until it has knitted.
The, operation remains effective
for four or five years, and may
be repeated. It is best done from
December to February.
“Breck”: Three coats of sili-
cate-of-soda will prevent deteri-
oration, usually caused by acid
from the milk, of new concrete
floors and troughs in the pig-
pen. Right strength is lgal. of
silicate to 4gals. of water. Spray
on the first application while the
concrete is setting but is suffi-
ciently firm to stand the liquid.
Second and third dressings
should be given at 24-hour
intervals.
“Bill C.”: When using old
paint-cans or other receptacles
for flower-pots, punch a few
holes in the sides for ventilation
as well as the holes in the bot-
toms for drainage. The proper
clay-pots have pores for breath-
ing, an important point for the
welfare of plants. It is also
better to dip flower-vessels in
water for a few minutes than to
water them from above. This
method ensures that all the soil
in the pot is well-soaked.
“Ann”: Chicks will grow fast
if fed on milk. Mixed with cod-
liver oil it provides such a rich
vitamin-and-protein ration that
little grain is needed. Mixture is
one of the best preventions of
coccidiosis and, under normajl
conditions, ensures healthy and
sturdy fowls. But don’t stop the
ration until the chicks are well
able to fend for themselves.
“scout”: Heavily stocked
poultry-runs should be rested
periodically. Spreading lime or
fresh earth helps, but the most
effective method to cure “fowl-
sick” land is to grow a crop on
it and not allow it to remain
damp or muddy.
“F.”: Loose grain left in
machines after harvesting pro-
vides a storehouse for weevils.
Harvesters should be cleaned
out, and then run a short dist-
ance to shake free any un-
detected grain ; otherwise weevil-
infested grain may become
mixed with new grain at the
next harvest.
“C.P.G.”: A good and eco-
nomical method of white-ant-
proofing timber for use in build-
ings around the farm is to soak
the timber in sheep-dip after
dipping. Leave the timber in
the bath for five to eight weeks
and stir the dip daily. Turn the
pieces over occasionally to be
sure of a thorough soaking.
“Billjim”: Never use hedge-
shears in shaping conifers. Best
implement is either a pruning-
knife or a pair of secateurs.
Never cut out the centres. While
conifers for successful growth
need plenty of moisture, you can
kill them with kindness, so see
that the ground is well-drained.
“Scan”: Cream - separators
should be examined regularly
for cavities that trap milk or
wash-water which does not
drain out completely. This
liquid soon becomes sour, con-
taminating fresh milk. Floats
comprising two pieces of metal
joined by solder may develop a
crack in the join due to mis-
handling. This is usually a small
fissure, and any liquid intake
cannot fully escape. Repairing
a damaged float is a job for a
tradesman.
_ ~ „ t aa u fr ,
C.P.G. : In addition to the
milk-ration for calves, hay-tea
is nourishing and prevents
scours - Take an oatmeal-bag
a « d ™ with chaff. Put in a
bucket and cover with boiling
water. Leave for half an hour,
or until cool. The tea can be
mixed with the milk or given
separately.
“Deeda”: Washing the
separator isn’t enough to ensure
cleanliness. If the parts remain
damp bacteria will flourish and
subsequently help in the down-
grading of the cream. First
rinse in cold or lukewarm
water to remove milkiness. Then
wash and scrub—with a scrub-
bing-brush, not cloth—in hot
water that contains washing-
soda. Finally, immerse in boil-
ing water and set out to dry.
The last heating will cause the
parts to dry quickly.
“South”: The vegetable -
garden should be protected
against winds, especially if it
has an open aspect. Place the
breaks across the direction of
the prevailing winds. Boobialla,
saltbush, cypress and other
hedge-plants are suitable, but
trellises supporting passion-
fruit or vines, and paling-fences
also, are effective. Plant at a
sufficient distance from the beds
to prevent roots from competing
with the vegetables. On the
farm-garden, use wire-netting to
guard against rabbits.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Training for Living
A few years ago a leading Victorian
public school introduced the idea of com-
munity service activities for its senior
scholars. Throughout the year, the lads
regularly give a certain amount of time
to some form of service—helping such
needy institutions as kindergartens,
orphanages, baby-health centres, and so
forth. The boys undertake garden-
maintenance, repairing toys, painting,
bookbinding and other jobs, and the
scheme has proved highly popular.
• My elder son, who attends the school,
has just spent a week of his term-holidays
on community service at a kindergarten.
In company with four or five other lads
of assorted ages, an 18-year-old being in
charge, he helped rebuild fences, repair
and paint toys and playground equip-
ment, and lay down a new surface on
the play-area. Though there was a little
boy-like talk about “forced labor” at
the start of operations, I gathered that
the youngsters thoroughly enjoyed them-
selves ; for once they were doing useful
work for someone who really needed it,
and they did an excellent job.
All around Melbourne groups from
the school have been similarly active,
and the results to the scholars themselves
are undoubtedly beneficial. Masters
from the school have told me that it is
not unusual for the boys to retain an
interest in the particular institution they
have helped after their schooling is over,
dropping in now and again to “see if they
can lend a hand.”
In this way they are being trained in
citizenship, which means, in essence,
thinking of the community’s needs as
well as of their own. The idea could well
be copied by other schools; it would, at
least, suggest to many young people that
there are other ways of spending their
abundant leisure-time than in purely
selfish and recreational pastimes. And it
would give them practical knowledge of
the vast need for voluntary and unpaid
service that exists even in our modern
welfare State.-—D. J. G. (Vic.).
Floating Population
“Thinkit” (B. 31/8/’55) speaks of the
managers of country branches of chain-
stores as “foreigners, without roots in the
countryside.” The more commonly used
term is “floating population” and it in-
cludes schoolteachers, bank-managers
and clerks, and officers of various Gov-
ernment departments.
It is often implied that these people
cannot have the interest of the local
community at heart, but that is not sup-
ported by facts. Go along to the
P. and C. meeting at the local school —
75 per cent, of those present will be mem-
bers of the floating population. Then
think of the local sporting clubs —most of
their secretaries and treasurers are men
from the floating population.
Often enough, when a bank-manager
is transferred, a number of organisations
have to search for a new executive officer.
If the new manager will not accept the
position the search will be a long one.
Don’t think that the work of the float-
ing population is confined to minor
organisations. In Red Cross branches,
ex-servicemen’s associations and even
chambers of commerce you will find these
short-term residents doing more than
their share of work. They seldom remain
in one town long enough to receive the
just reward of their efforts —the presi-
dency of the organisations they support
—but that never seems to dampen their
enthusiasm— Mullum (N.S.W.).
\
Radio Serials
The radio-serial, or soap-opera, is one
of the most persistent of modern aberra-
tions. It still deals in Australia with the
same interminable domestic situations
that it first exploited in Chicago in 1928 ;
some of the titles, even some of the char-
acters, are the same as they were 10
years ago; it occupies more time on the
air now than it did then. And it shows
no signs of abating.
Only lately one Westralian station
increased its morning presentation of
serials to a string of eight, one after the
other, four mornings a week. That is
enough material for a book-length novel,
and does not include time given to adver-
tising.
Another network presents 16 serials in
the course of a day. Altogether 45 serials
are put over the ether every day for four
days each week by five W.A. stations.
That is more than were broadcast in
New York in the heyday of soap-opera
(1948). At that time N.B.C.’s network
transmitted 16 serials non-stop, C.B.S.
presented another 13 one after the other,
and other stations made a total of 36.
Throughout the U.S.A., according to
James Thurber, 45 daytime serials were
listened-to at that period—the figure for
W.A. today.
Some of the old American shows are
still on the air in Australia. “When a
Girl Marries” originated in New York
from the pen of one of the pioneers of
the genre—Mrs. Elaine Carrington. “The
Right to Happiness” belongs to the same
vintage and was written by another path-
finder, Miss Irna Phillips, who sold the
copyright for $75,000, after collecting a
handsome salary from it for some years.
“Portia Faces Life” and “Life Can Be
Beautiful” are also American perennials
at present on the air here.
Some of the writers of these radio-
dramas became legends in the U.S.A.
Mrs. Carrington, for example, at one time
earned $4500 a week from her scripts.
Mrs. Berg had a serial entitled “The
Goldbergs” which ran for 16 years. Miss
Phillips was known to dictate an average
of 60,000 words a week for broadcasting
in serials. Most awe-inspiring of all was
the performance of Charles Robert
Douglas Hardy Andrews, who wrote for
radio seven days a week from 10 a.m.
to midnight, turning put altogether
30,000,000 words.
Nor is there anything in the quality of
the products to lead one to doubt these
statements. They are built to standard
formulae, using stock situations and inter-
changeable characters. The Australian-
produced variants follow much the same
pattern.
Approximately a quarter of the
listening-time is given to advertising—
mainly furniture, refrigerators, frocks,
patent-medicines and cosmetics. Food-
stuffs get a hearing—the butcher, cut-
price grocers and self-service stores.
And a bank comes on at 10 a.m. to advise
“ 'Ave a pull at me old pipe. It'll soothe y’r nerves."
clients that it is open for business, a
timely reminder that all, sooner or later,
has to be paid for.
The stories, too, are much the same
as those used in the U.S. There is the
woman for ever on the verge of marriage,
but for ever changing her mind at the
last minute; the hero who suffers griev-
ous misunderstandings again and again,
so that the drama may spin out another
series of episodes; false accusations of
murder, with the same end in view;
children wrongfully removed from
parents; hussies threatening the security
of marriage; strokes, heart-attacks,
paralyses, amnesia and all the other para-
phernalia of melodrama.
In addition, there are some newer
stories made of tougher material, con-
cerned with characters that are amoral
at least, if not downright immoral. A
clerk considers the possibility of adding
a nought to make a fiver into fifty for
his own benefit; a woman conspires to
betray by dubious means a man who
murdered her father; a whisky-drinking
husband looks like losing his wife to
someone with a keener sense of apprecia-
tion —these are some of the dramatic
situations in the new radio-fiction.
In all these dreary tales there is
scarcely one laugh. No one cracks a
joke; the drunks are all lachrymose or
self-pitying; there is no “pretty ring-
time.” Love on the air is all frustration
and disappointment. The only brightness
is provided by females who. smother their
victims with maternal solicitude of a par-
ticularly treacly viscosity.
Some years ago sociologists in the
United States waged quite a war over
the effects of these gloomy productions
on the minds of their patients. The out-
come was not conclusive.
One eminent psychiatrist condemned
the soap-operas as “Pandering to perver-
sity and playing out destructive con-
flicts,” and referred to . “the unwitting
sadism of suppurating serials.” Such
violence of language hardly suggested
scientific detachment.
On the other hand, another, equally
eminent, considered that some serials had
a beneficent influence. “ ‘Big Sister,’ ” he
said, “provides moral beliefs, values and
techniques for solving emotional and
interpersonal problems for its audience.
It directs the private reveries and fan-
tasies of the listeners into socially
approved channels of action.”
While I was attempting to sort out
these appreciations and deprecations at
first hand, my wife came into the room.
“Good Heavens!” she exclaimed.
“You’re not listening to that rubbish,
are you?”
I had to admit it. “But, don’t you
ever listen?”
“No!” she snapped. “Certainly not!
And neither does anyone else that I know
of.
“But,” she added as an afterthought,
“they are very useful for keeping a check
on the time.” —L. R. M. (W.A.).
'Changing Jobs
The Prime Minister said lately that
the nomadic tendency of Australian
workers reduced the strength of the labor-
force. He is probably right, but if a
readiness to change jobs is characteristic
of the Australian worker, let’s leave it
that way. There are enough influences
at work tending to change our way of
life already. Immigration is one, and the
American ideal of an abundance of
luxury gadgets another.
Anyway, is changing jobs to be
deplored? Having ago at the other
bloke’s job gives you a respect for him
and makes you more tolerant —and
there’s plenty of room for that. White-
collar workers and laborers, city and
country, different religious denomina-
tions, academic and technical schools,
the different faculties in the universities
—among all these there is a petty intoler-
ance which will be lessened only by the
broader view we get from change.
Men like to have a job that suits
them. And why not? A big part of our
life is spent at work. Why should we
stay in the first job we try? Some of
us had no choice when we started; it
was take what was offering—if any. So
when we have got a choice, let’s use it.
Sometimes, when a man has been in
one job for a long time, he gets restless,
even if it is a good job. He may be in
an office and feel that life is slipping past
him untasted. He wants to get outside
and test himself. Often he finds himself
wanting in the new job and returns to
his office. But he will be happier for
having “had a go.”
There are enough things tending to
keep us fixed. The pressure is on all
the time to make us play safe and stay
put —superannuation, long-service leave,
salary increments, the last-come-first-go
rule. It takes courage to start afresh.
Look at some men who have contri-
buted something worth while to history.
How many of them stuck to the one
job? Would we be the richer if Shaw had
stuck to bookkeeping, James Joyce to
teaching, Wells to the draper’s-shop,
Gauguin to stockbroking, Edison to
paper- and fruit-selling, Edgar Wallace
to the milk-cart? Or the Prime Minister
himself to the law? — Taswegian (Tas.).
Charles Darwin and Evolution
Martin Haley is on sure ground when
he says that Darwin’s ideas “have been
greatly modified,” but he’s on a very
slippery slope when he says the belief
in evolution is “foundationless” and
“fantastic” (B. 24/8/’55). And the views
of an obscurantist philosopher-novelist
like Jean-Paul Sartre are hardly convinc-
ing proof against evolution.
Evolution is proved fact; no recent or
contemporary world-ranking scientist
I’ve ever read disbelieves it. Where
differences of opinion occur are in the
explanations of the cause of evolution;
Darwinism, which is, in essence, evolu-
tion by natural selection only, is one
such explanation, and is open to question.
(Bernard Shaw used to “explode” natural
selection every so often, but it still has
many supporters.)
Actually the principal modification of
Darwinism is to add other factors to
natural selection —in particular, the
mechanism of heredity, the exact nature
of variations (those which are inherited
and those which are not) and the essential
facts on fertilisation. It must be remem-
bered that nothing was known of genes
and chromosomes in Dafwin’s day; the


discovery of them and their explanation
(by Mendel, De Vries, Morgan and
others mentioned by “M.H.”) have
naturally qualified Darwin’s theories.
That Darwin made errors by no means
detracts from his greatness. He was a
pioneer in a particular branch of science ;
and every pioneer in every branch of
endeavor has made mistakes, usually
corrected, as a result of greater know-
ledge, observation or experiment, by a
later investigator. Freud, for instance,
father of psychoanalysis, wrongly be-
lieved that man’s sexual instinct was
greater and more dominant than the urge
for self-preservation.
And Darwinism was by no means
only a British affair. One of the greatest
immediate supporters of evolution was
the German zoologist Haeckel (The
Riddle of the Universe). Joseph McCabe,
in fact, says that “Virchow [German
pathologist], almost alone in the front
rank of the biological sciences, seemed
to dissent, but it has transpired that he
merely opposed the teaching of evolu-
tion, on socio-political grounds.”
That last reason may help to explain
the still-existing opposition to belief in
evolution, though there is no real reason
why it should. This is pointed by a
recent address to the American Humanist
Association by Julian Huxley, grandson
of the first great champion of Darwin-
ism, T. H. Huxley,. In a discussion
mainly on evolution, Julian Huxley
claimed that “Human biological evolu-
tion has nearly reached its limits. Cul-
tural and psychological evolution has
barely got under way.” Incidentally, in
the same speech, Huxley claimed that
both Communism and Fascism are
unacceptable and neither follows from a
belief in evolution. — Kros (S.A.).
No Claim?
To offset some of the enormous
rise in third-party insurance rates in
Victoria, motorists not involved in
accidents may get a “no-claim” bonus
for good drivers, according to Premier
Bolte. They could also be given some
monetary consideration for all the dogs,
cows, horses, men, women and children
who obey no traffic laws and whose
lives they have saved by careful and
skilful driving.— Chevroford (Vic.).
Dahdenong
Dandenong (Vic.) is 18 miles from
Melbourne on the Prince’s Highway and
on the main railway-line between the
city and Gippsland. Thirty years ago it
was the sleepiest of Sleepy Hollows, and
ten years later it was just a well-to-do
country town fed by the rich farmlands
around it.
Today Dandenong is a hive of indus-
trial activity and, in a few years, it will
certainly be the biggest industrial centre;
in Victoria outside Melbourne. On the
Prince’s Highway, the Heinz food
people have built a £4-million factory
and will soon begin production, employ-
ing an estimated 2000 workers.
General Motors-Holden’s have lately
announced a four-State expansion pro-
gramme at an estimated cost of
£21,622,000, of which £l4 million will be
spent in Victoria, mostly at Dandenong.
To that end they have bought 153 acres
near the Heinz factory and will soon
begin building a body- and vehicle-
assembly plant as well as a new railway-
station on the main line and a spur-
siding into the plant. A football-oval,
tennis-courts and other sporting facilities
will be added.
All that will cost about £2,840,000 and,
at its peak, the plant will handle the
assembly, paint and trim of over 40,000
vehicle's a year—Holden, Vauxhall, Bed-
ford, Chevrolet, Pontiac and G.M.-H.
trucks —for distribution in Victoria and
Tasmania. Machine-tools and equipment
will mop up another £2 million.
Production is expected, to begin next
year and by 1960, when the programme
will be completed, more than 4000
workers will be employed. Some
G.M.-H. subsidiaries, such as Frigidaire
and N.A.5.C.0., will be transferred to
Dandenong.
Not far away Commonwealth Engineer-
ing Pty., Ltd., with its £250,000 factory,
plans to employ 400 men. International
Harvester Co. of Australia Pty., Ltd.,
making complete motor-engines, is
already established at Dandenong, and
the latest big motor group to choose this
area as a manufacturing-site is Rootes
(Australia), Ltd., makers of Hillman,
Humber and Sunbeam-Talbot ears and
Commer trucks.
Rootes have bought 83 acres at Harris-
field, three miles on the Melbourne side
of Dandenong. The first part of their
programme will be the manufacture of
engines for Hillman-Minx cars, followed
“You would open your big mouth!”
by the extension of production of other
components. Eventually all Minx-type
engines for the Australian market will be
made at Dandenong.
Smaller factories, too, are springing up
apace. Earlier this year 79 factories in
all were producing in the locality and 53
permits for new ones had been granted.
Land-values have skyrocketed. In Lons-
dale-street, Dandenong’s main street,
land which a few years ago brought £l7O
a foot —regarded by many at the time as
a crazy price—is valued today at £l5OO
a foot. A farmer who had bought land
for ~£lO,OOO recently sold it to a manu-
facturing company for just on £72,000.
Housing is already a bigger problem
at Dandenong than it is elsewhere. The
Housing Commission, having bought 660
acres opposite the G.M.-H. site, is start-
ing to build the first of 2500 houses, but
that programme will probably have to be
expanded.
Dandenong’s spectacular progress has
given even the Victorian Education
Department a headache. A new school
at North Dandenong, with accommoda-
tion for -240 children, was opened last
October. It took 270 and couldn’t find
room for 90 others. The department is
planning to build three more primary
schools in the locality.
Melbourne retailers are moving into
Dandenong to reap the advantages of a
new and potentially great market. The
old town has certainly come a long way
since the days when Fanny Powers at
Melbourne’s Opera House (now the Tiv.)
used to sing archly of “Sweet, simple
Mary of Dandenong,” who said to her
mother that she wouldn’t be long—she
was going to Melbourne Town. Mel-
bourne is now coming to Mary.—
Bullswool (Vic.).
New-State Economics
Development and settlement in North
Queensland will eventually justify the
creation of a separate Northern State,
but an impartial study of the economics
involved shows that any precipitate move
would be impractical and financially
suicidal for the people in the region
concerned.
The present population of the pro-
jected new State would be about 234,000,
compared with the Queensland total of
1,318,000. Excluding the Mackay divi-
sion, it would be reduced to about
190,000. The handful of people living
in the new State would have to shoulder
a crushing financial burden if they
assumed their rightful proportion of
Queensland’s existing public debt, as well
as the enormous cost of the duplication
of existing service, institutions, and all the
attendant commitments involved in
establishing a new State.
At June 30, 1954, the gross public
debt of Queensland was £220,396,425.
That figure does not include public bor-
rowings not incorporated in the State
public debt, nor does it include contin-
gent liabilities such as guaranteed loans
and overdrafts to local bodies. A rea-
sonable proportion of these debts would
require to be taken over by the new
State. It would also have to assume the
liability for the capital cost of such major
developmental projects as the Burdekin
River Scheme and the Tinaroo Falls Irri-
gation project.
The total annual interest on the public
debt at June 30, 1954, was £7,227,765.
A reasonable proportion of this interest
charge would be an annual commitment
of the new State, in addition to the annual
cost of the many services which a respon-
sible Government must provide for the
people.
The considerable capital expenditure
involved in the erection of new Houses
of Parliament and Government buildings
could be more profitably employed in the
further development of the country. At
this period of Australia’s development,
every penny should be devoted to meet-
ing the demands of agricultural and in-
dustrial expansion. Any diversion of
funds to the creation of another State
must interfere with the progress of the
nation.
Financial and other authorities in Aus-
tralia and overseas are constantly remind-
ing us that we must reduce costs if we
are to compete with other countries on
the overseas markets. The additional
expenditure incurred in the creation of
yet another State would make a formid-
able addition to the present burden of
costs.
The Queensland Government is not
opposed in principle to new States. In
his speech at the opening of the Queens-
land Parliament in August, 1948, the
Governor, Sir J. D. Lavarack, said “My
advisers are prepared to recommend the
establishment of additional States in
Queensland when, as a result of their
developmental policy, the new States will
have a reasonable degree of financial and
economic stability.”
With Government expenditure heavily
weighted in favor of North Queensland,
and with millions of pounds of capital
tied up in developmental schemes for
many years ahead, it would —as the late
Premier E. M. Hanlon told a deputation
of “New Staters” at Townsville in March,
1950 —“pay Southern Queensland hand-
somely to give them a new State in the
North.”
On August 11, this year, the Deputy
Premier (Mr. J. E. Duggan) said that, in
five years, exactly twice as much had been
spent on main roads in the Woodstock-
Giru-Ayr region of North Queensland as
had been spent on the Cunningham Gap
Highway in South Queensland, although
there is at least twenty times as much
traffic on the latter highway. He recalled
that, when he was in North Queensland
recently, someone with him said that he
would be inclined to support an agitation
for the separation of South Queensland
from North Queensland because so much
is being spent in the North.
Which recalls the protest of a leading
Country-party member two years ago
that too much Government money was
being spent in North Queensland. —
Clem Lack (Q.).
Divorce
Of course, divorce is a luxury (B.
3/8/’55). It is the sort of luxury nobody
can really afford financially, morally,
spiritually, emotionally, or in any other
sense. Also, it is usually a mistake —a
mistake second only, in its implications,
to unsuccessful marriage.
There is no safeguard against the
latter, except mutual understanding
between life-partners and recognition
that all oaths are, or should be, inviolate.
But there is a degree of protection
against divorce and it lies in simple appre-
ciation of the fact that, to 75 per cent,
of marriages of five or more years’ dura-
tion, divorce seldom completely severs
the bond, thereby defeating its own end.
Almost invariably there is an aftermath
of discontent or disillusionment, and
often misery. Admittedly, remarriage
and/or separate living does succeed after
divorce, but not often.
Compared with divorce based on
causes short of utterly hopeless, a mar-
riage-gone-wrong is the lesser evil and
should be preserved to the last extremity.
In short, while few marriages are heaven,
many divorces are hell. Young people
should at least try to understand both
the purpose and purport of the marriage-
vow before making it, or, having made
it carelessly, earnestly try remaking it
before finally breaking it. —P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 347
Across
I—An eccentric dance is on a salary.
(9)
6 —Another eccentric starter? (5)
B—When Stadium stars won’t fight
1900 difficulties for Christians
and foreigners in Cathay. (5, 9)
10— Yorkshire town makes an apple-
eater telephone an ark-traveller.
-(10)
11— Intend to give Yours Truly an
average. (4)
13 —Engaging mechanisms. (4)
16 —You can often see the sceptre
with such an eye. (3)
18 — Chinese province. (5)
19 — Angles with such a coarse fabric’s
projection by Esmond. (*>)
22 Very, very rare? (3)
23 The west muscle. (4)
28— But the Italian letters are backing
O’Flaherty. (4)
29 — Sydney beach ball of small
dimensions in baby-talk? (5-5)
31 — Satellite power personalities come
to tea with a characteristic of
English acting. (14)
32 — Cut state married spotted
Edward. (5)
33 — The fellow who chooS'es certain
actors for certain roles is urged
to snuff it by this stamp designer.
(3-6)
Down
1 — Enslave an allegiant topic. (7)
2 A king to shingle a writer of
adventure stories. (3, 5)
3 Bed-heater causes conflict with
Menzies and a pastoral piper.
(7, 3)
4 Only the middle of heaven gets
what unforgiving folk retri-
butively seek to do. (6)
5 The manner of the Robert E.
Arrears. (6)
6 Pole’s condition gives cause for
snivelling. (4)
7 Loved commotion blushing. (6)
9 —A sharply distinctive taste upset
a midge. (4)
12—Poor hatter hiding the grass-
hopper and the cricket. (10)
14— capital but ancient Mel-
burnian centre suggesting my
regal style! (3)
15— Stitch. (3)
16 — Nothing to do in music when
disqualified from batting. (3)
17 — Bedivere dispenses with his
plunger insect. (3)
20 — The most superior American
Orson in the street. (8)
21 — Parliamentary Virginia is to
improvise an upper seductress of
the Theda Bara school. (4)
24 — Artist relative to bury a mooring
rope. (7)
25 — Swimmer is now after Ginger
Meggs’s girl. (6)
26 — Showed affection for a kid who
has swallowed a compass point.
(6)
27 — France and Germany often
quarrel over this successful ser-
vice by Jolson. (6)
30 —Join together the west and the
old-age. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 346


jfc
■
MO
>v
L JnmH
j /,«
?. in i t
9 y :
r
C \ \
I
’• *m
m '■ s sH ’ FI
JVi
\
h\
to -
i,J jyn»>6
.'.*•»**
mmrr
*v>
<r
& - ' y''V*
*m
y*
W-*****!
4-y,
!>
>**
•
. • V,.
; n<T «ATa&tf sv sv'• •- •'•*••- “*
r_T.
ST
sS-WS**
i‘ t r -4
C.V.-
„ rfiilXiHS&i
T.itS.
w
&-
9%*Z
■
The Friendly Rain
When I was a boy it was wonderful to snuggle deeper into the
bedclothes and listen to the patter of rain on the roof. It was
such a friendly sound.
It was wonderful running in the rain, stopping to send match-
boxes and pieces of orange peel careering down the swift-
flowing gutters. At the places where the road was low-lying,
sometimes the gutters overflowed into a magnificent puddle that
could be forded joyously with much stamping of goloshes-clad
feet.
Danny had fun, too, when it rained. He was my grandmother’s
elderly Muscovy duck, with a quack like an asthmatic klaxon
horn. I used to watch him through the streaming window as he
waddled excitedly across the puddles, his absurd rumri wagging
appreciation of the glorious rain.
As the years passed I found that rain was a Jekyll and Hyde
—magical and soft against the sun on a spring afternoon,
sulky and malicious against the leaden sky of a doleful day.
Now I know, too, what it means to the farmer, this rain,
this blessing and curse. Now I know what my friend meant
as I stood with him and watched the turgid waters of the
flood ruin his crops and pasture land. He stared at the
desolation and spoke with great bitterness.
“The friendly rain,” he said.
★ ★ ★
The flood is the rain in its most malevolent form. But the
smallest shower, the lightest fall, has its menace. Millions of
tons of topsoil are washed away every year and the rain leaves
the lasting scars of soil erosion: acres upon acres of land, from
the Gulf to the Bight, from the Pacific to the Indian Ocean, are
dead, eroded, finished.
You can see it any Sunday afternoon you drive out into the
country —the red, naked sub-soil: barren, cracked by the sun,
split by deep zig-zag watercourses; useless, dead land. The
gigantic task of combating soil erosion is in the hands of the
Soil Conservation Service. Broadly, their three-point plan is
this: To encourage the growth of forests and better pastures
on ranges and catchment areas; to bind the soil and slow up
run-off; to construct works on the farms for excess water
storage; and to promote the art of soil conservation in farming,
by showing the farmer how fie can condition the soil to retain
moisture and improve its fertility.
So successful are the techniques used that on the N.S.W. Soil
Conservation Service Research Station in Gunnedah very little
run-off was evident during the recent disastrous floods. More
than 50% of New South Wales farmers alone have sought the
Soil Conservation Service’s help in a bid to halt the ravages
of erosion.
In the vital field of soil conservation, as in other projects of
national importance, Caterpillar track-type tractors and earth-
moving equipment are doing a tremendous job. All over Aus-
tralia, wherever erosion is being fought, you’ll see the familiar
imprint of Caterpillar track-type power; the big machines are
dozing, grading, sub-soiling . . . doing a mighty job in the fight
against the cancer of erosion.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Disfribufors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
9LD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS & DARWIN.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA)
PTY. LIMITED, LAE.
