

9
f
m
f
fe:
/
iM
eW
SOLERO
a a . x\ $
a h a uo x
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3957
Wednesday, December 14, 1955
CHRISTMAS RUMBER
Price 9cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 216: the Homeland Series hy The House of Seppelt.
SALTWOOD CASTLE, WHERE THE DEATH OF A TURBULENT PRIEST WAS PLANNED
ON the high uplands a mile north-west of the Kentish seaside resort of
Hythe is Saltwood Castle, the ancient fortress where the conspirators
against the life of Archbishop Thomas Becket met immediately before leaving
to carry out the assassination in Canterbury Cathedral. This grim tragedy
was schemed in the greatest secrecy within the walls of the original castle
of Saltwood on the night of December 28, 1170, by the four knights—
Fitzurse, de Tracy, de Morville and le Breton, together with Randolph de
Broc, who, at that time, was holding the castle under grant from Henry 11.
De Broc had a bitter personal feud against the Archbishop, by whom he
had been excommunicated. The others considered no doubt that they were
but carrying out the implied behest of their Royal master, Henry 11, who, on
hearing of some new action on the part of the Archbishop in opposition to
his policy towards the church, exclaimed in exasperation “Is there not one
of the crew of lazy, cowardly knights whom I maintain, that will rid me of
this turbulent priest.” The four knights responded to their sovereign’s
challenge, from whom, after the deed was done, they received nothing but
condemnation and disavowal. Nevertheless, they were never convicted and
punished for their crime.
As far back as Roman days a fort of some kind existed on or near the
site of the present castle, which incorporates some of the early masonry.
From early Christian times it was held under grant by Archbishops of
Canterbury, and it was the seizure of this castle by the Crown, and the
granting of it to de Broc by Henry 11, that was one of Becket’s bitterest
grievances against the King.
In the 13th century, during the reign of King John, the castle was
restored to the Church and in 1381 Archbishop Courtney. reconstructed the
castle. The gatehouse in its present majestic proportions was built at that
time, and an Audience Hall and Chapel were added to the buildings in the
Inner Court. A moat, now dry, still surrounds the whole of the inner ward,
and the deep grooves of the portcullis are still in good repair. Much damage
was done to the castle by an earthquake in. 1580, but it was repaired in 1882
and the great Gatehouse was converted into a habitable dwelling. From its
summit on a clear day the white cliffs near Boulogne across the Channel can
be seen.


UOOKHUNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS
Flowers of the Bush
What with bulldozers scraping every
bit of topsoil, tree, shrub, wildflower
and orchid off the Blue Mountains,
and the suburbs rampaging further
every day into French’s Forest —to say
nothing of the expert tree-loppers of
the Sydney County Council laying
waste a whole bushy district as they
lately did at St. Ives, N. S. Wales —
A. M. Blombery’s Native Australian
Plants; Their Propagation and Culti-
vation (Angus and Robertson) has
made a very timely arrival.
Our wildflowers will stand a lot,
having for centuries adapted them-
selves to a fiery climate. You boil the
seeds of Sturt’s desert-pea and some
of its cousins to assist germination, says
Mr. Blombery; waxflowers and boronia
seedlings grow freely only after bush-
fires, as, of course, do many of the
other plants from the wattles to the
delicate mosquito- and helmet-orchids.
The best way to get banksia-seeds is
“to pass the woody nutlike seed-
capsule over a naked flame, which
causes it to open.” And the home-
gardener intending to grow boronia,
waxflower and one or two other wild-
flowers from seed should subject them
to the most devastating treatment: —
After sowing, cover to a depth of
twice the thickness of the seeds with
the same type of soil. Cover the
seed-box with dry leaves and twigs
to a depth of from half to one inch
in thickness. The leaves, etc., are
then set alight, and should be kept
burning for five minutes, during
which the temperature of the upper
layer of the soil is raised to approxi-
mately 200 degrees Fahrenheit.
This dry heat has the effect of
destroying some of the seed, but it
cracks the testa of the remainder,
permitting moisture to be absorbed
for the activation of the embryo.
But no plant can withstand the bull-
dozer and the almost equally demonic
rotary-hoe; and all around Sydney you
have the absurd and savage spectacle
of councils havocking the native trees
out of the roadsides to replace them
(or not) with inappropriate deciduous
importations, the Housing Commission
—look what it did along Bobbin Head-
road at Turramurra —cleaning every
single native plant out of the way to
build its little brick boxes, and the
private builder (like the lost soul next-
door to the reviewer who tossed-out and
burnt the native-parsleys which, with
their sprays of creamy bells, are almost
as exquisite as the rock-lily) often just
as bad; until as Mr. K. Mair, senior
botanist at the National Herbarium in
the Sydney Botanic Gardens, says in
his foreword to this book, “as the
built-up areas expand into the rural
zones our native species are becoming
increasingly rare in their wild state.
Hence the general belief that some
species are becoming extinct.”
It must be admitted, though the
Geraldton-wax, the purple mintbush
and some of the bottlebrushes have
long been established favorites, many
of the native plants look a bit scraggy
when grouped together in the garden.
You cannot replace the lavishness of
the bush, where it is not one boronia,
one flannel-flower, one spike of honey-
scented epacris that really catches the
eye but the massed effect of hundreds
of flowering plants. Even the patch
of native flowering shrubs which was
established in the Botanic Gardens a
few years ago still looks spindly. But
the point which both Mr, Mair and
Mr. Blombery make is that the native
plants can and should be distributed
anywhere in the garden amongst the
imported species: where they will add
color, variety and their own unique
charm and where often, under culti-
vation and free from overcrowding,
they will develop to a size and a rich-
ness they rarely attain in the bush—
as the spider-flower, the honey-flower
and the dwarf angophora, beloved of
the jewel-beetle, do when councils and
householders have the sense to leave
them alone on the roadsides.
And there is indeed, as Mr. Blom-
bery has proved in his own garden
somewhere on Sydney’s North Shore,
an astonishing variety of native plants
that can successfully be grown by any
gardener from seeds or cuttings. Mr.
Blombery deals with the wattles, the
flannel-flower, the dwarf-apple, the
grevilleas, the heaths, the wax-flowers
and boronias, the banksias and bottle-
brushes, the false-sarsaparilla, the little
purple iris, the various pea-flowers so
humbly named bacon-and-eggs, the
wild-parsley, the running-postman and
the wonga-vine (celebrated by Judith
Wright in one of the loveliest Aus-
tralian wildflower-poems), the lordly
waratah, the lowly black-eyed-Susan
. . . dozens of beautiful wildlings,
large and small.
This is the book which those who
care for such things—and the more
who care for them the better: for they
are our own, they are beautiful, they
are vanishing, and under cultivation
they will improve—have long been
waiting for. It is written, says Mr.
Mair, “for the layman by a layman”;
and, with attractive, clear-cut line-
drawings by Mrs. A. Spurway to
reinforce and decorate Mr. Blombery’s
admirable text, it tells you exactly what
you need to know: what plants may
be grown from seeds and what from
cuttings; when and how (duly observ-
ing the law) to take cuttings and seeds;
how to pot them, how to transplant
them, how to care for them in the
garden. It has all the information and
all the answers, and though it specifi-
cally applies to the Sydney area, it will
be found just as useful anywhere in
the Commonwealth.
More illustrations would have been
welcome. A wildflower painting would
have been preferable, as always, to a
colored photograph for the frontispiece.
A few words about the minute but
charming orchids of N. S. Wales could
well have been added. But these are
small complaints, and it really seems
ungrateful to make them of a book so
valuable, so timely and so readable.
The Year's Poetry
It is touching to read on the jacket
of Australian Poetry, 1955 (Angus and
Robertson) a small tribute to his own
selection by the editor, James Mc-
Auley, to the effect that “The level of
achievement is, I think, higher than
in the earlier years.”
This is the natural and stimulating
illusion which doubtless each editor of
the anthology enjoys each year: that
by a happy coincidence Australian
poetry has reached its high-water-mark
in the year in which he happens to be
presenting it to the public. Thus are
anthologists encouraged to persist in
their good deeds. But the fact is that
the anthology was at its peaks in 1944
when R. G. Howarth had the privilege
of presenting two major poems by
Robert D. Fitz Gerald, “The Face of
the Waters” and “Heemskirck Shoals”
as well as Judith Wright’s immortal
“Bullocky,” and in 1946 when T. Inglis
Moore printed extracts from Judith
Wright’s “The Moving Image” and
Francis Webb’s great narrative of Ben
Boyd. If poems of comparable magni-
tude were available to Mr. McAuley
—an extract from Fitz Gerald’s “Be-
tween Two Tides”? —he has not printed
them.
But what each editor does do, to
give variety and interest to the
anthology, is to put upon it the mark
of his particular taste; generally, if he
happens to write verse himself, a taste
which springs from his own style of
writing or favorite subject-matter. And
just as there seemed to be a remarkable
number of Australian poets interested
in fishing in the year in which the
present reviewer edited the anthology,
and as “Australian Poetry, 1954”
reflected Ronald McCuaig’s own per-
sonal interest in light-verse and a gay
poetry of life, so “Australian Poetry,
1955” reflects Mr. McAuley’s twofold
personal inclinations towards Catholic
poetry and the “correct,” academic or
Augustan style of versification.
It is Mr. McAuley’s good fortune—
not that one imagines he would have
included them if the case were other-
w i se __that the writers who give the
distinctive flavor to his selection all
write particularly well. He brings to
the anthology for the first time the
poems of Vincent Buckley, who. now
abroad, has been making a name
for himself in Melbourne and who,
writing simultaneously in a Catholic
spirit and in a smooth Augustan style,
exemplifies both the trends which the
anthology puts forward. “Choral
Movement,” being an extract from a
longer poem on Cardinal Mindszenty,
suggests that Buckley may have written,
indeed, one of those larger poems
which one misses in the anthology—
though one hardly finds in these
smooth cadences the naked force of
Francis Webb:—
History climbs the air
Into an upper room
That is but wrath and burning air.
Peace, be afraid ; O pity, start;
O blood come deeper, come
Into our corporate heart . . .
In the same category Mr. McAuley
prints his own elegant but not very
moving meditations from New Guinea;
A. D. Hope’s tribute to W. B.
Yeats, which was one of the best things
in “The Wandering Islands”; and
Harold Stewart’s curious perambula-
tions into the 18th century and into
China. Harold Stewart writes so
exquisitely that one is always astonished
when an occasional cockney-rhyme or
unscannable line breaks the smooth
progression of his correctness; but what
he can do at his best, quite uniquely
in contemporary Australian poetry, is
to fill his mouth with beautiful sounds
and images and warble like a veritable
magpie:—
The land is left as chequered as the
bark
Of bare white-poplars, where it
splits to mark
Their silver limbs with diamonds of
dark.
And half exposed recline the lower
hills,
Lyrical with a choir of little rills . . .
For the rest, and for the obvious
reason that it is written largely by the
same writers who have kept it alive
these last 13 years, the anthology is
very much like the issues of the past:
lit by an occasional flower of pure
magic by Rosemary Dobson; intro-
ducing Charles Higham from London;
straying lyrically with Val Vallis to
Cornwall; over to New Zealand for an
astonishing dance of limpets from
William Hart-Smith; but in the main
(and what could be more natural?
What more admirable?) resolutely and
sensitively Australian: with even a
bush-ballad by Mena Kashmiri Abdul-
lah to open the book, with Ronald
McCuaig’s ingenious homage to the
immortal “Mo,” with Roland Robinson
very impressive on cockatoos, Michael
Thwaites lamenting the destruction of
the Tasmanian aborigines, Nancy
Keesing eloquent on Sydney Harbor,
Peter Bladen original and moving on
a “Rag Doll at the Roadside” and
Judith Wright continuing to evoke the
inmost spirit of this diflicult continent
in “Wildflower Plain”: —
The angry granite,
the hungry range,
must crumble away,
must melt and change—
forget the single
iron word
that no voice spoke
when no ear heard,
and learn this thorny
delicate tender
speech of the flower
as last surrender —
this various speech
that covers over
the gravel plain
like the words of a lover.
One must add that David Campbell
should have been more strongly repre-
sented; and that it is a pity that
Kenneth Mackenzie was not given a
farewell appearance in the year of his
death.
CHRISTMAS SELECTION
from other Australian and New
Zealand books published this year:
History
John Macarthur, by M. H. Ellis.
Adventures in New Zealand, by
Edward Jerningham Wake-
field.
Think of Stephen, by Ruth
Bedford.
Our Yesterdays, by Cyril and
Irma Pearl.
King Dick (a biography of
Richard John Seddon), by
R. M. Burdon.
Documentary
Beyond the Western Rivers, by
Myrtle Rose White.
Fisherman’s Country, by G. B.
Hobbs.
Fiction
Pink Flannel, by Ruth Park.
The Escape of Sir William
Heans, by William Gosse
Hay.
Close to the Wind, by R. S.
Porteous.
The Man in the Silo, by E. O.
Schlunke.
Towser, by Henry G. Lamond.
Here’s Luck, by L. W. Lower.
By Reef and Palm, by Louis
Becke.
The Lady and the Lawyer, by
Colin Roderick.
Cake in Hatbox, by Arthur W.
Upfield.
Verse
Child with a Cockatoo, by Rose-
mary Dobson.
Australian Bush Ballads.
The Wandering Islands, by A. D.
Hope.
A Lady of Leeuwin
Mrs. Alexandra Hasluck’s Portrait
with Background —a “life of Georgiana
Molloy”—adds to the list of the
Oxford University Press a volume of
exceptionally high quality.
The heroine, born Georgiana
Kennedy, came into the world at
Crosby Lodge near Carlisle on May
23. 1805, when events were begin-
ning to work up towards Trafalgar.
She seems to have been a highly pious
young Presbyterian lady. Her girl-
hood friend was Helen Dunlop, who
became the mother of the grim and
famous Principal Story. Her husband
was the familiar of Edward Irving,
who introduced Carlyle to his Jane and
who looked down on the common herd
of the wicked from a moral perch as
high as Heaven itself and a physical
height of 6ft. 4in.
Miss Kennedy’s youthful activities
included missionary labors that led a
young Jewish victim to weep. She
spent hours discussing with her light-
hearted girlfriends such matters as the
nature of belief and the need for
conversion.
Into her cloistered and well-ordered
life, full of prayer and good works,
there intruded Captain Molloy—
“Handsome Jack” to his regiment—
when she had come to the age of 24
in 1829, with a proposal that she
should marry him and let him carry
her off to the new colony of Swan
River.
The captain seemed to be a most
unlikely bridegroom for her. He was
exactly twice her age. He was born
in London on September 5, 1780.
There was a family legend that he
never knew his father, that while at
Oxford he was suddenly called to the
office of a firm of London solicitors,
who handed him a cheque for £20,000
and —he having reached his majority
—purchased for him a commission in
the Royal Navy. Another yarn says
that he began life as a midshipman
and exchanged into the Rifle Brigade
(95th) after having nearly died of fever
on the coast of West Africa. Gossip
held that he was of Royal parentage;
and Mrs. Hasluck, in an appendix,
appears to adopt the belief that he
was an illegitimate son of Frederick
Duke of York. What “clinches the
matter” for her is that he chose the
titles of the Duke of York as names
{Continued on page iL)


A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns’
Our famous Junior Centre brings you
Sports wear
goods for tomorrow's champions
The young sportsman will always play his best when he wears cool, comfortable whites from our boys’
wear dept. We’ve an excellent range of summer wear for the energetic outdoor lad who insists on
looking his best wherever he goes. Be sure to please him this summer by shopping at Anthony Horderns’.
T.O.P.S. SERVICE
Our Telephone Order and
Personal Shopping Service
is the easy, modern way
to shop. All you do is
dial 80951, ask for TOPS.
They’ll take your order,
do your shopping for you,
and have it delivered.
BREAKFAST, 8.30 y
Why not come in one
morning and have break-
fast in our comfortable
Second Floor Restaurant?
This is a wonderful idea
if you have some early
shopping to do, business to
attend, or travelling early.
SANTA-NEWS
LYN LAVELLE
Bring your children in to
Lyn Lavelle, the quick-
sketch artist on our
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
She will make a sketch
of them in 10 minutes
for only 12/6. A sketch
would make a wonderful
gift for any relatives.
SANTALAND
is a wonderland for kid-
dies at .the moment.
There’s Santa on his big
golden throne, waiting to
meet all the boys and girls./
SANTA’S TOYSHOP
Bring the kiddies to see
Santa’s toyshop, by Walt
Disney. Here all the elves
and pixi/s are making the
toys that Santa will take
with him on Xmas Eve.
PUPPET SHOW
Nicky’s Xmas Snowman,
the happy tale of Nicky,
his dog, and the snowman
they build for good luck.
Monday to Friday, 10, 11,
12, 1, 2 and 3 o’clock.
Saturdays, 10 and 11. In
the Fourth Floor Galleries.
1. Long white trousers in quality Sanforised drill. These trousers are well cut
in a roomy fitting to give years of comfortable hard wear. To fit youths from
13 to 16 years, in sizes 28'inch to 32'inch waist. Priced at 37/6 per pair.
2. Boys’ and youths’ “Montata” brand white sports shirts, made with a two'way
collar and short sleeves in fine quality poplin. SB, B, Y, 16/6; SM, at 22/6 pair.
3. Exacto brand long'wearing white cotton T shirts, made with a nylon reinforced
neckband that will never sag or stretch. Ip sizes SB, B and Y, price 7/11 each.
4. Boys’ and youths’ fine quality white sports shorts are made with elastic sides
and a belt for comfortable fit in Sanforised cotton. Size 26 to 32'inch waist. 19/3.
5. White cotton sockettes, in sizes to fit from size 1 to 6 shoe. Price, 4/11 pair.
J
•
IS F
©•
cr
! I
>QW
k>.
Q-
i
Ui
m
3)
: r
111
C 3
piiMMy®?
': ■■
1
M
PH
■
f/-|
M : 4
' : ; .:•
ili
B
* ~~
■■Hi
bf
m
>- > " f'- f * F'
. ' ' ' (4M -'• •■ * - 1


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 14, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
ROAD TO THE LEFT-ROAD TO RUIN
“LABOR” is going to its ruin throughout Australia
because there is no longer honesty, sincerity, reason
or sense of national responsibility in its make-up.
The result of the Federal election was a clear-
cut triumph for Mr. Menzies —too clear-cut,
perhaps, since it will leave his parties with a
majority of up to 30 or more seats in the House of
Representatives but with a Senate of which his
control may be doubtful and which may even be in
the hands of a single anti-Communist “Labor”
member from a small State.
It will leave him to face increasing pressure
from N. S. Wales Liberals that the Liberal party
should ditch the Country party and govern alone,
an idea which finds favor particularly with some
ambitious back-benchers. It would be a fatal move.
“Labor,” to put it bluntly, has been wrecked
from the top down. There was not a fresh seat
that it could win. There was not one, apart from
rabble areas seeded through with Communists like
East Sydney, in which it did not seriously lose
ground.
The only constituencies in which leading mem-
bers of the party made a show of holding their
ground were those in which their leader did not
appear, such seats as Eden-Monaro, and those in
the Far North, whose candidates refused to have
him come beyond Rockhampton, since they would
have regarded his presence as the kiss of death.
“Labor,” in fact, fought as a rabble, met the
fate of rabble. Towards the end of the campaign
every member had his own policy, and few of their
programmes had any relation to the “Labor” plat-
form or to the line taken by their “leader,” who
changed his spots, his arguments and his threats
and panic-line every day.
“Labor” had the effrontery to ask the country
to elect as Prime Minister a man whose association
with the objectives of Communism were plain to all
during the Petrov-commission hearing and who
had devoted the past year to the task of smearing
Australian judges, witnesses, political leaders and
everybody opposed to the defenders of the spy-ring
of a country whose official documents referred to
this country as “the enemy.”
Dr. Evatt himself has presented a pitiable
spectacle. Elected in 1940 with the acclaim of
the country, irrespective of party, he has, in the
past 15 years, completely destroyed his popular
reputation, and if he wins his own electorate by the
skin of his teeth on the preferential leavings of a
casual independent it will be only because he has
kept out of it.
Had he stayed at home to embarrass his own
chances instead of embarrassing his blushing “fol-
lowers” away from Barton he would certainly have
been defeated, for disaster has trailed him
round the country like a dog. He has fought hard
and determinedly, but without political scruple.
Australia has never before witnessed such a spec-
tacle of open vote-buying, intimidation and panic-
mongering as has been made up in his display of
the past month.
In the aggregate his party rather than he him-
self has paid. Only its remains will limp back to
Canberra. It has no core of honest faith to cling to.
It is like a parasite whose host-plant is dying.
From the “Labor” Opposition which gained
seats only 18 months ago at the 1954 elections, and
which looked forward with reason 7 to the prospect
of winning the elections of 1957, there have been
lost the anti-Communist section, including four of
the ablest men in the party—Joshua, Keon, Bourke
and Mullens. Their destruction was due to the
personal action of Dr. Evatt, and it was an after-
math of his antics before the Petrov royal com-
mission. Fanatical Communist-haters they might
be, but it is ironical that they were the only men
who advocated a policy during the campaign which
was in accord with the Labor official platform. In
destroying them by forcing them into a sectarian
fight. Dr. Evatt also destroyed many of those whom
they opposed and who stuck by him —men like
Clarey and Lemmon and Burke (of Perth).
Indeed, if some of the extreme Leftist leaders
who are now his only support (if he is in a position
to have any support) had not represented crowded
slum areas on which the iron hand of the union-
bosses is clamped down, there would be none of
the old “shadow Cabinet” of the Opposition left.
At the time of writing it is not possible to
estimate the full extent of the disaster to the party.
It may save one or two seats in danger on the prefer-
ences of Communist candidates. But at best it
has been smashed as no Federal party before it has
been.
If it gains the “triumph” of knowing that it has
been able to produce a deadlock in the Senate, this
will have been achieved through the support of
Communists, again operating deliberately to secure
a “Labor” victory under the personal leadership of
men whose organisation is afraid to keep books
and which was found by the Petrov royal com-
missioners to be in the pay of Moscow.
What the retumed-soldiers in the “Labor”
party think of this position it would be interesting
to know. And what Mr. Gair, the Premier of
Queensland, and Mr. Cahill must think of the out-
come of the poll can only provide material for a
nightmare. Mr. Gair is awaiting sentence by his
A.L.P. branch (Q.C.E.) because he and his col-
leagues refused to obey an order to legislate for a
universal three weeks’ annual leave in Queensland.
He and 27 of his supporters, including his
Cabinet, have been threatened that their endorse-
ments will be withdrawn before the State poll. Mr.
Cahill has kept out of the Federal campaign as
much as possible, but there are electorates in which
he depends for funds on the favor of Communist
union-leaders and on their willingness to use the
union autocracy to dredge levies out of their
members, even those who are Liberal supporters.
Neither of these two State figureheads has much
cause to be happy, and it is to be hoped that next
year they will get their deserts as Federal “Labor”
has got its deserts; that they will learn the lesson
which has been driven home by the election results:
that —in Mr. Cahill’s own words —“the people will
not tolerate Communism.” And the people also
want to be governed by a constructive, responsible
party.
It has been driven home again and again—in
Lang’s day and then in 1949. Whenever “Labor”
takes the road to the Left and ties itself to the
Communist programme it has taken the road to
ruin.
A Labor Man Looks Back
THE present time, with the sundered factions of
“Labor” glowering at each other and with the
political landscape littered with the bruised bodies
of former sitting members with nowhere to sit, is
scarcely appropriate for presenting a calm and
considered history of the Australian Labor Party.
Any such attempt, however well it may cover the
early years of the party, must inevitably finish up
by leaving the reader with the feeling that he, like
the party itself, has been left out on a limb.
One victim of this dilemma is Mr. George
Healey, whose A.L.P.—The Story of the Labor
Party (Jacaranda Press, Brisbane) was published a
fortnight before the election. A Labor man all his
life, and still a true-blue believer in the destiny of
the party, he has apparently had the book in
preparation for a long time and in contemplation
even longer; it is rather ironical that he should have
had to write his closing chapters at a time when
We must admit that while there have been
splits and breakaways on various issues on many
occasions, the bitterness engendered by the present
trouble is by far the most serious internal chal-
lenge the party has had to face in the 63 years
of its existence.
As a lad brought up in a politically-conscious
Labor family, Healey fell early under the influence
of party-stalwarts Scullin, Ross, Charlton and
Blackburn, imbibed economics and political theory
at the Victorian Labor College, and for 20 years
from 1922 attended every Easter conference of
the Victorian A.L.P. —first as an onlooker, then
as a delegate. Since 1942 he has been Chief Officer
of the Brisbane Fire Brigade and an active worker
in Queensland Labor circles. He writes with great
admiration of the pioneers of the Labor movement,
most of whom are merely names to him, though he
knew some in their later years.
In a preface he comments on the lack of a
“reliable, concise and factual history” of the A.L.P.
It cannot be honestly said that his book remedies
that lack. This is not surprising in view of the
confession that “I have drawn on my memory of
their stories for many of the incidents, and for the
rest have been fortunate enough to have access to
official reports of conferences at which Labor policy
was made.” Beyond those reports Mr. Healey does
not appear to have done much original research;
consequently his early chapters add little to what
is already known of the formative years of the
party. Illustrative of this is his comment, after
listing the personnel of the Watson Ministry and
the first Fisher Ministry and remarking that none
of the union-leaders of the 1890 period had made
any impression in the Parliamentary Labor party: —
It is difficult, at this distance, to ascribe a
reason for the apparent lack of interest, but it
appears to me that there is a possibility that the
actual strike-leaders of 1890 and 1891 might have
been fairly elderly men at that time, and as a
consequence either gave way to, or were deposed
by, younger men.
It would surely not have taken much research
to find out the ages of the men in question and thus
test his “possibility.”
As a chronological record of the main public
happenings in the development of the A.L.P., the
book will serve one of the objects of its author, but
to the student of politics its main interest is that
Mr. Healey is neither a historian nor a professional
politician, but a rank-and-file member of the A.L.P.
who has given a lifetime of service to it. As such
he represents the viewpoint of thousands of honest
people to whom Labor is a faith rather than a
political party; who get no tangible reward for
their work for the party, but glory in its success
and accept its failures as all in the game.
But their hearts and minds are filled with all
the great desires and visions for a better future,
and as they lift leaders to the top, and all too
frequently see them desert the cause, or fail to
produce the things for which these people yearn,
they try again with new representatives, for theirs
is the soul that lives on hope and thrives upon
disappointment.
Mr. Healey’s credo appears to be that leaders
may make mistakes, but the party, ultimately, is
always right. He has great admiration for past
leaders, placing Curtin and Chifley on a pinnacle
as “the really great men of the party.” As to leaders
who fell by the wayside—Hughes, Holman, Lyons
and lesser lights—his philosophy is simple. They
were expelled from (or left) the party; therefore
they must have been wrong. In his view
leaders, whether they be branch-presidents, or
union-secretaries, local-authority or State or Federal
representatives, are merely the public spokesmen
for the party. They are not, and in my view
should not be, the policy-makers or decision-takers
on important matters for the party.... A Labor-
party representative, no matter in what sphere,
is there because the members of the Labor party
want him. He is, therefore, responsible to those
who have in fact created him, and his responsibility
is first to the party which sponsored him.
The author finished his book too early to be
able to pass an opinion on the way the present
Federal leader of the “Labor” party measured-up
to these requirements during the election campaign,
but there are plenty of references to Dr. Evatt’s
earlier activities.
Referring to attempts to involve “Labor” in
a national Government in 1940 against the wishes
of John Curtin, he says “it seems clear that the
leading political spirit in this was Dr. Evatt.” He
quotes Don Whitington’s “The House Will Divide”
as evidence that
Curtin saw in him a threat to party unity,
that Dr. Evatt was the unofficial Federal leader of
a Left-wing near-Communist Labor party in New
South Wales, and, as such, there was nothing that
Curtin would not do to prevent him leading
another breakaway.
He accepts the same authority for a statement
that Curtin in private conversation admitted in
1942 that approaches had been made to one of his
Ministers and that “he had ensured that the
Minister remained away from Australia. The only
Minister outside Australia at the time was Dr.
Evatt, who spent much of the next year or so
abroad.”
Mr. Healey’s handling of the more recent
doings of his leader reveals again the mental
struggles of the true-blue Labor man. He approves
the party’s attitude on the Communist-party Disso-
lution Bill and the onus-of-proof argument and
deplores attacks on Evatt for his High Court and
Privy Council appearances, but when he comes to
his leader’s attack on the Keon-Mullens group and
his charge that they were under the domination first
of the Catholic Church and later of “a secret body
of Catholic laymen,” he finds it
difficult to understand why Dr. Evatt chose the
anti-Labor press as the medium through which to
attack industrial-groups and certain Federal Labor
members.
The sectarian issue, he says, has been used
against Labor in the past, with telling effect, but
now
the enemies of Labor have the satisfaction of
seeing the Labor Movement in peril of wrecking
itself by internal dissension —something they have
never been able to achieve by external methods
of political warfare unscrupulously applied.
But Mr. Healey does not despair of Labor’s
future. As he sees it, the party must find a way
of preventing Communist control of the trade-
unions; it must adopt a more modern outlook; it
must find a policy which will appeal to young
people and to New Australians. And before it does
all this it must end its internal squabble. Whether
Saturday’s poll made this easier or harder, only time
can tell. An overriding task, it would seem, is to
find itself “new representatives.”


HAPPY CHRISTMAS!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Led to Slaughter
At the time of writing on December 12
the Australian “Labor” party had lost,
in N. S. Wales, Mr. Lemmon, whom Mr.
Chifley had reckoned to be a potential
Prime Minister of the future, together
with the secretary of the party, Mr. Fitz-
gerald, and Mr. Fuller, who was one of
its most useful debaters on wheat. In
Ballaarat “Labor” permanently lost Mr.
Joshua, who was lost to it already,
and on whom it once placed reliance
when banking policy happened to be
the subject of debate.
“Labor” had also parted with Mr.
Drakeford, an ex-Minister, its transport
authority, both land and air, together
with Mr. Clarey, its best industrial man.
Fawkner had gone. Mr. Bourke, a
member of the Bar, young and ambitious
and tenacious, had been accounted a
tower of strength in rough-and-tumble
and was a coming man when Dr. Evatt
alienated him. And he has not even been
replaced by a “Labor” cipher. His seat
will go to the Liberals; also Wannon,
which its late Parliamentary incumbent
had not the courage even to contest
against the young and able Malcolm
Fraser. Mr. Keon seems defeated. He
was regarded as a certain future Minister
before September, 1954.
Perth has cast out Mr. Burke, Mr.
Chifley’s righthand man in finance, who
would nearly certainly have become
Treasurer if the party had been returned
in 1949. The new Swan seat (W.A.) and
the new Sturt (S.A.) turned against Labor.
And in the seats that were won the
drift against “Labor” was so marked as
to show the universal reaction to Dr.
Evatt’s policies and election-campaign
antics.
As if this were not enough, with 4000
postal and absent votes to come, Dr.
Evatt himself was limping nearly 500
votes behind the combined totals of his
two opponents, and if he has scraped in
when this is published it will only be
through a humiliating dependence upon
the preferences of Mr. Trembath. If that
candidate had not thought fit to join in
what he knew to be a hopeless fight it is
almost certain that Dr. Evatt would be
trailing the Liberal candidate.
There are still a number of Reps, seats
to be decided both in Victoria and else-
where. If preferences of Anti-Com-
munist Labor candidates run in the same
six-to-one against official “Labor” order
as they showed in the Victorian State
election, the losses there will be added to.
The loss of A. C. Bird in Batman, if it
occurs, will scarcely shake the structure
of the Opposition much more, but R. T.
Pollard (Lalor) was one of Mr. Chifley’s
Cabinet Ministers, and is a potential
leader if Dr. Evatt is defeated —or isn’t
defeated. Darebin and Wills at least
represent votes in the House.
Many outlying seats, at the time of
writing, were still capable of providing
more disaster for “Labor,” since the
votes to come in were those which usually
swing against “Labor.” The one which the
Government parties seemed at all likely
to lose was Maranoa, where Mr. Russell,
a well-to-do grazier, who professes to hate
“Labor,” seemed a possibility to be
elected over the sitting Country-party
man, Brimblecombe, on the “Labor”
votes which the A.L.P. had generously
donated to him. The late Jim Page would
turn in his grave at the thought that
Labor would deliberately shirk fighting
in his shearers’ stronghold in order to
let an avowed Capitalist take over
unopposed.
All in all, there seemed little doubj;
but that the Government would increase
its majority of seven in the last House to
one of 30 or more, apart from the fact
that it has drawn the teeth of the Opposi-
tion’s debating-power, added considerably
to its own reservoir of back-bench ability
by accessions which are the best in the
bulk for a good many years.'
The Senate position was still obscure
in N.S.W., S.A. and Victoria when this
was written, but the chances favored the
Government with the tide of the voting
turned towards it. Even if it does
not secure control “Labor” will scarcely
dare to interfere with the legislative pro-
gramme ; for to do so would be to court
another election which would complete
the disaster which has befallen caucus.
This time it certainly fought as a
rabble. The next time it would have
neither a feather to fly with nor an un-
bandaged finger to fight with. Another
campaign within a year would be the
end of the Labor party. Indeed, it is
doubtful whether it can survive the pre-
sent debacle, even with the help of the
Communist union-leaders who hope to
infiltrate its defences and take it over
whole to use for Moscow’s purposes in
Parliament.
What's Wrong with Burke?
No matter how you spell it, Burke
(Bourke) isn’t a very propitious name in
Federal politics, either for a member or
a seat. The electorate of that name
disappeared in the redistribution early
this year, and on Saturday two M.H.R.s,
a Burke and a Bourke, became
ex-members.
Tom Burke became “Labor” member
for Perth in 1943. Ben Chifley thought
highly of him, and at one time was said
to be grooming him for top office. But
Burke couldn’t stomach “Labor’s”
official policy on the Anti-Communist
Referendum Bill, and it was he who was
mainly responsible for the party’s somer-
sault compromise over the bill. Last
year Burke challenged Evatt for the
leadership—more as a gesture than with
any expectation of winning it —but when
the Joshua-Keon breakaway occurred he,
like many other anti-Evatt men, stayed
inside the party. In almost every election
he has contested, Burke has had to fight
hard to hold Perth. It is ironic that he
lost it on Saturday through the anti-
Evatt swing.
W. M. Bourke was not in Parliament
as long as Burke. He won Fawkner
(Vic.) in 1949, and retained it at the
next two elections —last time by only
118 votes. Bourke criticised Evatt’s
financial proposals at last year’s elec-
tion, and was one of his most outspoken
opponents in caucus. When the big
split came he joined his six Victorian
colleagues to form the Anti-Communist
“Labor” party. On Saturday he shared
their fate.
The electorate JBourke was one of the
original seats formed in 1901. It was
named after Sir Richard Bourke, who
was Governor of New South Wales
when Melbourne was founded. The seat
lasted until 1948. For most of its life
it was a “Labor” seat, though not always
held by the official party. Maurice Black-
burn, who held it for years, was expelled
from the party in 1941, lost Bourke to
W. G. Bryson in 1943, but in 1946 his
widow, Doris Blackburn, standing as
Independent Labor, recaptured it. At
the 1948 redistribution Bourke was wiped
out and Burke (named after Robert
O’Hara Burke) arose more-or-less in its
place, accompanied (as the explorer had
been) by Wills. Bryson and Mrs. Black-
burn contested Wills. Bryson won, and
held it until Saturday, when, as an Anti-
Communist “Labor” candidate, he
finished at the bottom of the poll.
The Burke seat (held by E. W. Peters
throughout its brief career) was abolished
in the recent redistribution. The ex-
plorer, like the early Governor, is now
uncommemorated in the House of Repre-
sentatives, though, somewhat strangely,
his second-in-command is still so honored.
Or does the Wills now refer to W.D. and
H. 0.?
Hungry Skippers
The strike of captains of merchant-ships
on the Australian coast has shocked sea-
travellers and most other people.
The ordinary seamen have been notori-
ous for their utter lack of responsibility
and for their disregard of public
interest in their industrial dealings with
the community over a number of years.
When they carried men (drawing poor
pay) going to fight in the front-line
during the war they exacted huge black-
mail in “danger-money” in areas along
the Australian coast where there was little
danger—even in Spencer Gulf. They
continued to extort this bonus for months
after the war ended.
Along the Australian waterfront when
labor was scarce and it was urgent to get
cargoes away quickly for war needs the
wharf-laborers pursued their leisurely
way. In all ports members of Com-
munist unions were treated as a privi-
leged class. Even in the moments of
Australia’s greatest peril they were not
only not prepared as bodies to make
sacrifices. Their leaders were constantly
urging them on to use the perilous situa-
tion as a lever to get more.
Much better than this sort of thing is
expected from captains of ships, mem-
bers of the Merchant Service Guild, serv-
ing under protection of the Navigation
Act. But their present technique is a
jolt to the community. They are sup-
posedly men fit to command, men of
integrity and high qualifications. Many
of them have a record of fine war-
service. But their pilotage demands tend
to tar them with the same brush as the
seamen and wharfies. .
The owners contend that captains who
hold pilotage-exemption certificates for
various ports should bring their ships in
and out of harbor without charge beyond
their salaries (which include a loading
for pilotage), “except where, m the
master’s opinion, circumstances would
make it dangerous to do so.” The cap-
tains demand 50 per cent, of the normal
pilotage fee, and have held up coastal
shipping in order to get it.
It was shown by the Sydney manager
of Adelaide Steamships that the Sydney
pilotage charge for the Manunda, inward
or outward, was £75, and that if the Guild
demands were met the earnings for the
Manunda’s captain for nine months
work in the year would be increased to
£6700. . w
It was no wonder that Mr. Justice
Foster said, during the week, that “the
esteem in which people regarded ships
captains must have dropped as a result
of the pilotage dispute. 7 ’ It is, as he said,
“a futile struggle” which cannot settle
the matter and in which everybody, in-
cluding the community and the captains
themselves, will suffer.
Incentives
Loafing on the job, it seems, is even more
flagrant and widespread than had been
thought. Nor is it confined to any one
sphere of industry: an office-worker
observes that clerks who would ‘ scorn
to steal threepence from the boss don’t
hesitate to steal pounds’-worth of his
time.”
In some factories it has been found
that not even incentive-payments are
sufficient inducement to counteract huge-
scale loafing. Perhaps the “you’re-work-
ing - f or-the-Government-one-day-a-week ’
attitude in part accounts for this.
German industrial recovery from the
war has been hastened (aside from what
seems almost to be the curious advantage
of having lost it) by suspension of the tax
qn overtime. However, an Australian
Treasurer might be understandably reluc-
tant to introduce a like measure here:
go-slow daytime tactics to ensure over-
time are already rife.
The flattening-out of the post-war
Australian wage-structure —if an infla-
tionary trend may be so described—has
resulted in loss of monetary incentives.
In many cases men who hold responsible
jobs now earn little more than the men
who don’t. Management can scarcely
be blamed for this: confronted with so
many rank-and-file wage-demands, it has
been understandably slow to further
burden itself with increases in salaries
of those workers who hold responsible
jobs and who, having a more responsible
outlook, are slow to complain. However,
it is not hard to find both discontent and
bewilderment section-heads in
many industries. They are, surrounded by
boys from school who earn sometimes
more than half as much as their bosses
and by deadheads who earn as much or
more. Meanwhile, the deadheads see
little in the way of financial carrots ahead
of them that might warrant a slight in-
crease of pace.
Canadians make an excellent job of
economic matters. It is true that in the
winter they tend to have unemployment
as a result of the closing-down of the
Jumber-camps and because the freezing
of the St. Laurence enforces a halt of
maritime activity. (Some Australian
waterside workers might feel more at
home in Canada.) This may regularly
remind people of life’s realities. But
there are, on the whole, plenty of jobs.
And people, on the whole, work hard
just the same. For the financial rewards
of distinguishing oneself in one’s work
are large. A man with any kind of
ability or qualifications earns from twice
as much upward as the man who hasn’t.
Of course there are many Australians
who do work hard. But, apart from
money, there are psychological factors
which could increase their numbers and
which can be very powerful inducements
to make a man give his best to the firm
for which he works. Prestige, the respect
of his fellow-workers and, above all,
recognition by his superiors can mean
much to him.
In one big city-department-store it is
usual to fill executive vacancies from out-
side. A glance at the advertisements for
staff in the papers'will show that it is a
fairly frequent practice. Certainly there
must be cases where no suitable man is
already with the firm ; but in many others
there are several such men. They feel
that after having given many years of
service to a firm they know its problems
better than an outsider can possibly do.
They become embittered at being passed
over. Their bitterness is usually extremely
vocal and often discourages younger men
from trying.
The Weasel Diesel
“Mac Hoots”: It is such an extraordin-
ary pleasure to travel in comfort on Mr.
Winsor’s N. S. Wales railways, as you
do on the new diesel slipping like a
weasel through the night from Canberra
to Sydney, that some sort of awed
tribute should really be paid to this
remarkable machine.
-True, you could have travelled in the
same comfort in South Australia years
ago; but then it is pleasant to find New
South Wales catching up.
True, it rocks too much and Mr.
Evelyn Waugh’s When the Going Was
Good, taken to study on the journey,
never found the going so jittery; but
then there is certainly a beautiful soft
bright light to read by if. you can wag
your head fast enough to keep pace with
the wagging of the book.
True, the roast beef and corned beef
being “off” apparently before ever they
were on, the choice of food lay between
meat-pies and tinned sausages, neither of
which delicacies, with all due respect to
the canners of sausages, is precisely a
dish for a king. True, only the most
expensive brand of liqueur Scotch was
available when you wanted a whisky.
Surely Mr. Winsor knows where to get
a drop of ordinary Scotch. - But then,
how pleasant to eat and drink —and at
ease in your own seat instead of troop-
ing to a buffet —on a line where for years
it was assumed that human beings liked
to starve through dinner.
The seats are amazingly comfortable.
At long last the department has dis-
covered that most people equally dis-
like being jammed together without a
decent barrier between man and brother-
man, and sitting with their backs to the
engine ; and it has eliminated both those
distresses. The diesel is fast, it is clean,
it is streamlined, it is beautiful; and,
in fact, here is one traveller who, gently
bowing for Once to Mr. Winsor, is
absolutely wedded to it.
Urgent Tasks
Now that the Federal Government has
been returned one of its first tasks should
be Constitutional reform, particularly in
relation to the Senate and relations with
the States.
The Commonwealth was formed in
terms of large compromises rendered
necessary by fierce inter-State jealousies
and dislikes —particularly the dislikes of
States like Q ueens l anc h Victoria and
South Australia for those portions of the
continent that had been of “convict
origin.” It is difficult at this stage to
realise that a large proportion of the
older living population in the 1890’s had
personal memories and experience of the
convict era or of its aftermath-period
when the conventions which built the
framework of the Constitution were
held.
In all the circumstances Federation
was the only form of union possible, and
a very loose one at that. It was not en-
visioned that many of the conditions
which later developed could exist. It was
not foreseen, for instance, that within a
quarter of a century or less overseas bor-
rowing by Governments could be re-
placed by internal competition between
States, and between States and Com-
monwealth, for local loan-money. It was
not foreseen that the Commonwealth
would become a great spending and tax-
ing authority, for its happy patents pro-
fessed —at least publicly—that what they
were setting up was a co-ordinating
authority which would save duplication
in administration in the Post Office and
Customs Department and unify the
defence forces.
' Just a few millions a year was to do
the trick, and nobody saw ahead the
unifying influence of the creation of a
national Army to fight in World War I,
an influence which placed solid substance
behind the catchcry which Federally-
minded politicians had used as bait in
the late ’nineties —“one flag, one people,
one destiny.”
The Senate, of course, was to be the
States’ security body; the police-force
to see that the Commonwealth did not
get too big for its boots or sneak State
prerogatives. It was to be a backstop
behind the High Court to catch up with
any tricks that slipped through the
fingers of the interpreters of Constitu-
tional law.
But the weight of circumstance was
soon too strong for it. For a few years
it had prestige by reason of the ability
{Continued on next page )


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
and experience which it held. It has
now become a home for decayed union-
officials, a resting-place for those mem-
bers of Ministries who are esteemed of
minor calibre, but who have to be in-
cluded in Cabinets, because Cabinet-
makers must take thought not merely of
governing ability but of the feelings of
States and regions which expect to have
their fair share of representation in the
executive.
The Senate has ceased to be a revisory
House. It has ceased to be, as it should
be, an elder-statesmen’s House in which
ex-Prime-Ministers, judges and profes-
sional men of great knowledge could give
the country the benefit of their experi-
ence. It has entirely ceased to serve the
purposes for which it was created.
It is an expensive excrescence on Parlia-
mentary government, either an obstruc-
tion to-the will of the people or a rubber-
stamp whose endorsement of legislation
adds nothing to its authority but a great
deal to the cost of government. And in
its present condition, the result of cunning
and thoroughly undemocratic planning
by Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt and their
minions when they knew they were going
to be defeated at the polls in 1949, it is a
nuisance and an absurdity.
POLITICAL POINTS
There was nothing surprising about
the Government’s victory on Saturday;
with the possible exception of Dr. Evatt,
it was what everyone expected. At the
same time the result was noteworthy as
something unusual in Federal history ;
it is not often that a Government in-
creases its majority once the tide has
set-in against it. The Menzies-Fadden
Government came to power in 1949 with
74 seats. It lost five in 1951 and another
five in 1954. By all the rules this election
should have seen its majority go ; instead
it emerges stronger than in 1949.
\ • •
Preferences will decide several hard-
fought seats, but on Monday definite
Government gains were: N. S. Wales:
Hume, Phillip and St. George; Vic-
toria : Ballaarat, Bendigo, Bruce (new
seat), Fawkner and Wannon; S.A.:
Sturt ; W.A.: Perth and Swan.
In the Victorian seats it is assumed
that the Liberal candidates will get suffi-
cient Anti-Communist “Labor” prefer-
ences to confirm their win. Other seats
where this could happen are Maribynong
and Lalor and, less likely, Darebin and
Wills.
Dr. Evatt’s seat, Barton, will also prob-
ably have to wait on distribution of
preferences, unless postal votes give the
Doc. the few hundred votes he needs for
an outright win over Liberal Arthur and
Independent Trembath. Two other N. S.
Wales “Labor” men whose seats were
thought to be in danger survived the
crash—Fraser, who increased his majority
in Eden-Monaro, and Haylen, who looks
like holding Parkes by the skin of his
teeth.
In Queensland only one change is
likely ; Maranoa appears to have been
lost by Country-party man Brimble-
combe to former Country-party man
Russell. Later figures could possibly
reverse this. Party strengths are un-
changed in Tasmania.
• •
All seven Anti-Communist “Labor”
members lost their seats. W. M. Bourke
polled best, securing almost as many first-
preferences as his Evatt-“Labor” opponent
in Fawkner, but not enough to keep out
of bottom place. The other six averaged
about half the numbers of the official
“Labor” score ; in the majority of seats
where Anti-Communist “unknowns” were
in the field their share of the votes was
much lower than this.
A comparison with figures for previ-
ous elections indicates that the Anti-
Communist “Labor” votes did not all
come from former “Labor” supporters ;
the Libs, must have supplied some, too.
Reaction to Dr. Evatt’s sectarian talk
could be the explanation of this. Loss
of these votes would not matter to the
Government in the Reps., but in the
Senate count it could mean the Govern-
ment losing a seat to the Anti-Communist
“Labor” party. On Monday that group
had polled 17.3 per cent, of the Senate
votes in Victoria. If it could hold this
percentage it would win one seat, but if
in the later count it dropped below 16.6
per cent, the Government would get a
third seat on distribution of preferences.
• •
It will be some time before the Senate
position is clarified. Queensland and
Westralia may be regarded as definitely
returning 3-2 majorities for the Govern-
ment. In Tasmania the majority of Inde-
pendent Wedd’s preferences should go
to the Government, with sufficient of
Anti-Communist “Labor” prefs. to give
it the odd seat. The Government will
-also win 3-2 in Victoria, unless the
Joshuaite McManus edges it out of its
third seat. Anti-Communist “Labor”
preferences will decide the issue in South
Australia ; if the supporters of that party
vote according to the card the Govern-
ment should get a shade over 50 per
cent, in the final tally. In N. S. Wales
the odds are slightly on the Government
team. If “Labor” wins the odd seat it
will be on the strength of Communist
prefs., though, with the Reds in first place
on the ballot-paper, the Government will
inherit the “accidentals” in the v Com-
munist total. At this stage it is still
possible for the Government to get the
necessary strength in every State to retain
its control of the Senate.
Three Government members who
made a comeback at this election are
Bruce Graham, C. G. Anderson and
K. C. Wilson. Graham won St. George
in 1949 and lost it to Nelson Lemmon
(his second attempt) in 1954. Now it’s
Graham’s turn again. With the Hume
seat it is a similar story. Anderson, V.C.,
took it from Fuller (“Labor”) in 1949.
Fuller won it back in 1951, held it last
year but has now lost it to Anderson
again. Wilson has been a South Aus-
tralian Senator and has also been in and
out of the Sturt seat before —in, 1949 ;
out, 1954.
• •
New Liberal members will include
W. J. Aston (Phillip), B. M. Sneddon
(Bruce), P. Howson (Fawkner), Malcolm
Fraser (Wannon), F. C. Chaney (Perth),
R. Cleaver (Swan), G. D. Erwin
(Ballaarat), W. A. Day (Bendigo), E. M.
Fox (Henty), D. J. Killen (Moreton),
A. A. Buchanan (McMillan).
• •
New “Labor” members are H. J.
Mclvor (Gellibrand), J. F. Cairns (Yarra),
L. R. Johnson (Hughes). Doubtful Vic-
torian seats may add to these.
WHO'S FOR CHRISTMAS-DINNER?
In a bitter outburst against Britain
Khrushchev said that Russia had never
attacked England but England had twice
attacked Russia —once in the Crimean
War and once in 1918. That’s not quite
right. In 1919 England wasn’t fighting
Russia. British troops were helping one
lot of Russians to fight another lot of
Russians. What annoys K. is that the
mob they were helping wasn’t his mob.
As to the Crimean War—in that scrap
England was fighting Tsarist Russia.
There can’t be anything wrong in that;
it’s what K. himself was doing in 1917.
• •
In the closing days of his campaign
Evatt added to his prophecy of general
unemployment by getting down to a
specific case. He said that the Post
Office had stopped recruiting staff and
would begin retrenching before Christ-
mas. P.M.G. Anthony replied that his
department was still engaging staff and
that it would not be retrenching. Dr.
Evatt’s statement was not true. Anthony
shouldn’t smear the Doc. like that.
• •
Arthur Calwell, never at a loss for a
picturesque simile, likened the Liberals
to cuckoos. “They settle in the nests we
built —like the Woomera rocket-range,
the Snowy River hydroelectric scheme
and all the rest of the creative legislation
that has been enacted at Canberra.” But
the Nature note is a little astray. Cuckoos
don’t settle down in other birds’ nests;
they lay their eggs therein and depart.
And didn’t Calwell and his colleagues lay
some outsize inflation-eggs and leave them
for the incoming Government to hatch?
• •
Another Calwellism:
Slums in Melbourne’s inner suburbs
will remain until Federal Labor returns
to power. Such festering, filthy spots
never worry the political representatives of
entrenched greed.
Melbourne’s inner suburbs have always
been represented, in both the State and
Federal Parliaments, by “Labor.” Cal-
well himself has represented Melbourne
for 15 years. For many of those years
there were “Labor” Governments in
Victoria and at Canberra. Yet the filthy
spots went on festering!
• •
Voting in the court-controlled secret
ballot for election of officers in the
Ironworkers’ Federation went 2-1 in
favor* of Short and his anti-Communist
team. A significant feature of the vote
is that the rank-and-file team, which
included “Labor” men and Communists,
had plugged a slogan “A vote for Short
is a vote against Evatt.” Of course the
Red “Tribune” still described the ballot
as a “fake.”
• •
Betting is already keen on the “Labor
Leadership Stakes,” it being taken for
granted in the most sanguine “Labor”
circles that there must be a change, what-
ever happens. The probable runners are
Calwell, Ward, Makin, Allan Fraser and
Whitlam, with some others champing at
the bit if they can find a nominator. Tom
Burke (Perth), who opposed Dr. Evatt
earlier for the leadership, is out of the
way. It can be taken for granted that
the race will not be run under A.J.C.
rules. Dope, interference —in fact, every-
thing including political murder —will be
allowed by the stewards.
• •
By the Doc.’s reckoning, Menzies’s
path is one of ruses, ruses all the way.
• •
Fruit-barrow arguments aren’t con-
fined to Sydney City Council. Brisbane’s
Council, on the recommendation of its
health-committee, gave notice-to-quit to
several stall-holders, whereupon “Labor”
M.L.A.s began phoning the chairman of
the Works Comjnittee protesting against
the move. The chairman’s comment:
“Whenever they get down to the business
of running the State we will be a lot
better off.”
• •
Melbourne’s City Fathers are asking
that Melbourne should be given a cere-
monial right to confer the freedom of the
city on Very Important Persons from
overseas, and this raises the question as to
what the V.I.P. will be free to do when
he gets the official green-light.
“Spokeshave”: The good old days
may be coming back in Melbourne. A
Chapel-street Bung started serving cheap
counter-lunches. To the horror of the
U.L.V.A., the Bung opposite counter-
attacked by serving free counter-lunches.
According to the U.L.V.A., this is a
pernicious form of price-cutting and
shouldn’t be tolerated. It’ll be hard to
convince. the man-in-the-street on that
point.
• •
“Stromlo”: There’s a little story behind
the “Labor” advertisement of the Evatt
grandchild (B. 7/12/’55), and it would be
interesting ta learn what the baby’s other
grandfather, a distinguished public ser-
vant now retired, and his other grand-
mother thought of the performance. It
would also be informative to learn if the
infant’s father consented to the use of
his offspring’s picture for propaganda
purposes. However, the story is that
Leslie Haylen saw the snapshots, and
asked the Doc. to permit them to be
used, claiming that they’d prove match-
winners. But baby-kissing as a vote-
catching device is a trifle out-of-date.
• •
Commenting on the possibility of the
Anti-Communist party holding the
balance of power in the Senate, Evatt
said this would mean “real authority
being exerted over the Government by
an outside force which was anti-Labor
and semi-Fascist.” The only possible
way Anti-Communist Laborites could
exert authority over the Government
would be by voting with Evatt’s “Labor”
Opposition. Does the Doc. mean he
would instruct his followers to combine
with an “anti-Labor and semi-Fascist”
group in order to embarrass the
Government?
• •
“E. & 0.E.”: The Tasmanian Govern-
ment wants bigger and better lotteries,
and Mr. D’Alton, who speaks for it in
the Legislative Council, has been defend-
ing this move. He stated that the larger
sums involved “had no greater effect on
the community than the usual consul-
tations.” Also that “the Government
had considered” (and decided against)
“the possible harmful effect .... espe-
cially on young people, who might be
lured into buying tickets at £lOO each and
borrowing the money to pay for them.”
If the larger lotteries follow the same
pattern as “the usual consultations,” there
are a lot of tragedies ahead.
• •
According to the Australian Wool-
growers’ Council this season’s wool-clip
is estimated at 4,219,000 bales, nearly
300,000 bales above last year’s record
clip and 200,000 above the estimate made
last July. However, lower prices will
mean a smaller wool-cheque than last
year. On prices ruling at the end of
October the drop would be about £35
million, but higher prices paid at the
November and December sales will re-
duce this figure.
• •
Election comment of a disgusted
democrat: “They oughter hold the next
one in the abattoirs.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
HAD heard it said that no one was
entitled to consider himself a driver
until he’d had an accident, but didn’t
realise it could be taken seriously. On
three mornings last week I passed a
parked car in a suburban street —a pre-
war model, but freshly painted. On the
windscreen was pasted the large black
L which denotes learner. There was an-
other on the rear-window. On the fourth
day I saw it again. Its roof was stove-in
and its doors pushed out of shape. Win-
dows and windscreen were still intact and
the owner was scraping-off the Ls. —
“Jasby.”
❖ *l*
“Hilda”: At night our Melbourne
suburb was disturbed by loud calls for
help from the backyard of the house next
door. From our upstairs window, we
“It's for you, Jean —your baby-sitter Wants to know the number of
the local fire-brigade."
gazed upon a home-coming boarder
and the snowdropper she had disturbed
at work in the bright moonlight. Unable
to do more than hold on resolutely to his
coat, she was shouting for male
fellow-boarders. One of them
emerged from a sleep-out, bring-
ing in his wake a mass of candle-
wick bedspread. Thus handicapped,
he fell flat on his face just as
another stalwart inquired tooth-
lessly from a first-floor window,
“What’s going on, you dill? Who
is he, anyway?” Upon the dill
turning to reply cuttingly, “I don’t
know who he is. We haven’t
been introduced,” the snow-
dropper wrenched himself free
and scuttled off, leaving en route
a trail of shirts and baby-wear.
The men retreated in a somewhat
relieved fashion, leaving the dill to
pick up the scattered loot in grim
silence.
ij*’ ■£+
“Piper”: Christmas seems to get
earlier every year—and Christmas
festivities (or something) seem to
be affecting Sydney’s press. First
came the “Herald” with a report
of a disallowed appeal in a murder
case. Judges of the Court of
Criminal Appeal were almost unanimous
in their opinion, but:
Mr. Justice Herron, in a dissenting
judgment, held that the appeal should be
allowed and a new trial ordered.
He was sentenced to life-imprisonment.
The next day’s “Telegraph” reported a
lady who saw lightning strike:
The lightning lit up my home like a
Christmas-tree.
The effect was so bright it dazzlzezd
zmzez.
And there are still some days to go
before the 25th.
❖ ❖
“Aub”: Applause for “Atticus” (B.
16 /11 / ’55) in suggesting that our children
should be taught to read and write —but
in a spelling-bee held early this year at
Sydney Uni. Teachers Training College,
when 270 students took part in spelling
100 words, “plebeian” beat 217, “accom-
modate” floored 96, “desirable” was too
much for 46, “speech” caught 16 and
“cushion” tricked 13. One, only, copped
the lot, and the worst scored 51 errors.
Who will teach our teachers?
“Angasta”: The court-reports in our
daily mention with suitable gravity the
defence of an Italian found with illicit
grog. In his country he had been told the
liquor was most suitable for polishing
tombstones, so he had put-by a bottle.
And an Old Australian gave as his rea-
son for stealing a pair of unmentionables
from a clothesline that “he thought it was
a handkerchief.” Maybe he had never
seen a handkerchief.
“P.W.R.”: A young gentleman of my
acquaintance who promises to be one of
this country’s leading entomologists, pro-
vided he has not been assassinated before
achieving maturity, had been busy “col-
lecting” in the adjoining paddocks and
arrived home at the death-knock. After
a lick-and-a-promise in the bathroom
he took his seat at table; the soup was
served and the guest of the evening, the
vicar, was asked to ask a blessing. “For
“We seem to have got EVERYTHING, dear"
what we are about to receive, may the
Lord make us truly thankful,” pro-
nounced the vicar; but before he could
get out the ; final Amen there was a loud
“plop” as a fat tree-frog escaped from
Robbie’s pocket and landed in the rever-
end gentleman’s soup.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *
“Uramao”: A Maori woman, Mrs.
Weke Pinikera, believed to be 108 years
old, who was lately admitted to Corn-
wall Hospital, Auckland (N.Z.), bears
tattoo-marks that prove her to be exceed-
ingly old because of the faintness of the
impressions. She has lasted so long, she
says, because of a minimum of meat and
plenty of fish and vegetables. Her fav-
orite fish-diet is stingray cooked in a
hangi, dried shark, and other swimming
delicacies that would have a society-
woman exclaiming, “I’d rather die!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“N.L.”: I have not seen any new
copperplate “Eternity’s” on Sydney pave-
ments lately. I have nearly seen the
writer, whom I’ve always imagined to be
an old man. I walked up a street in
Mosman, and when I came back ten-
minutes later an “Eternity” had just gone
down. But I couldn’t see a likely writer
in the vicinity. Apart from the city, I’ve
seen the reminder in a back street of
Manly, in Summer Hill, and at one stage
there was a rash of them from Cremorne
Junction down towards Middle Harbor.
There are many forgeries, which generally
fall down on the loop of the “y” in
“Eternity,” while some write it as though
on a straight line.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metralia”: What is described as a
mechanical bank-teller is on trial at the
Commonwealth Bank, but, from its
function, it seems clear the machine is
not really a teller but a ledgerkeeper.
Just as well. Certainly a gunman would
find it hard to stick-up a robot-teller;
but what robot would greet you with that
subtle deference tellers have when your
account is in credit; or, when it is not,
could chill your blood with a simple:
“The manager would like to see you”?
♦> ♦♦♦
“Mac Hoots”: As the owner of a
sombre and solitary green-eyed black she-
cat, absurdly named Mrs. Tiddles, who
never purrs, never sits on our laps but
is interested only in tomcats (rarely) and
kittens (perpetually), let me record the re-
markable effects of music. One night
lately, when the moon was approaching
the full and tomcats were singing on the
fences, my wife tried upon Mrs. Tiddles
the effect of a melodious miaou. Mrs.
Tiddles flew to the window, peered out
into the night for her lover, and then,
upon my wife’s repeating the call, sprang
to her knees and purred. Discussing the
phenomenon,* we recalled reading in a
cat-book that the “Barcarolle,” sung or
played in a high key, will drive a cat
absolutely mad. I whistled the tune to see.
Mrs. Tiddles, the solitary, the sombre,
leapt from my wife’s lap to mine, flung
her paws about my neck and kissed me.
I found by later experiment that the
tune goes wonderfully well when sung
in a series of miaous and I now suspect
that the composer based it not only upon
the ripple of Venetian waters but the
equally- appr opr iate caterwauling of
Venetian tomcats.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mutton Jeff”: I went to the opening
of a modem motor-showroom, duly
admired the £l5OO oversquare, overbur-
dened, overchromiumed, overpowered
sedan and its sister utility, and had the
shock of my life the next Sunday when
one of these utilities made its way
snootily down our suburban street, carry-
ing in its tray a freezing-box full of ice-
cream. Ice cream-vendors have certainly
come up in the world since I was a
youngster. One thing was left, though
—the driver still called the children to
buy his wares by ringing a little handbell.
I was disappointed ; I expected an electric
carillon at least.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Baggyduds”: Was doing a little and
learning a lot from my uncle in Midland
Junction (W.A.) on a Saturday morning
about 20 years ago when in swaggered
the local sport-cwm-gambler-cwm-hanger-
on. After much deliberation over three
materials he selected one and was mea-
sured by my uncle to the tune of tedious
instructions. When he left, my uncle
said to the cutter, “Cut him out one from
each, and when he comes in for a fitting
say he is the same size as a customer
from the bush and ask would he mind
acting as a try-on? I know that mug;
hang a new drape on him and he can’t
resist it!” The V.I.P. duly hung three
suits in his wardrobe.
+> *
“Doynest”: Are briefs-and-brassiere
adequate street-wear for a young
woman? A constable who laid a charge
of offensive behavior against a 25-year-
old girl of riding on a motor-cyclist’s
shoulders down a Carlton (Vic.) street at
about 11 p.m. thus clothed admitted in
court that the clothing covered the young
woman, and that there was nothing in-
decent about her appearance. But it was
submitted that the circumstances consti-
tuted offensive' behavior —i.e., were cal-
culated to wound the feelings, disgust or
outrage a reasonable person. Pointing
out that the alleged offender would not
have been charged for wearing similar
attire at St. Kilda, the magistrate opined
that there could not be one law for the
beach and another for the street: case
dismissed. In any case, the test of offen-
sive behavior seems negative. If instead
of repulsing the constable the alleged
undress had caused him to act in such a
way as to justify his arrest by a further
constable, then indeed the prosecution
might have had something.
FOREIGN ORDERS
“A Sydney ‘Herald’ and ‘Sun-Herald’ special
reporter has been exposing time-wasting at
railway-workshops, Mort’s Dock and Imperial
Chemical Industries, where he obtained
employment.”
“My patience grows shorter and shorter;
Our newspaper-future’s imperilled ,
By the waywardness of a reporter,”
Said the loYd of “Sun-Herald” and
“Herald”;
“Defying traditions laid down
By a century’s patient recorders
He is working all over the town
Getting out, what are called, ‘foreign
orders !’
“There are murders and rapes to be
written,
There are homecomers offering news,
There are all sorts of dogs to be bitten,
There are cat fights of contrary views ;
But is this reporter around ?
In his time-on, and hot his time-off, it’s
Disgraceful to say, he is found
Increasing the 1.C.1.’s profits !
“When there’s balladists loved by the
people ,
Still to be dug-up and hanged ,
And painters of river and steeple
Awaiting their turn to be whanged,
It comes as a terrible shock
To offer such forms of enjoyment
And be told, ‘He is down at Mort’s Dock
Engaged in productive employment!’ ,
“We criticise railways finances,
But who will believe what we say
When a ‘Herald ’ reporter enhances
The prospect of making them pay ?
Worse remains to be said, I’m afraid —
It’s a shame to be speaking in ink of
it:
The ‘Herald" engaging in Trade!
Oh, what will the Family think of it ?”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A NEIGHBOR, sixtyish, very keen on
bowls, lost his connection with the
boys who deliver the Sunday papers after
a spell in hospital. He asked my wife to
leave out a note last Sunday to re-establish
the connection, and to list the papers he
wished to order ; above all, he must have
“Terewth,” he said. A pause, then, apolo-
getically, as if explanation were essential,
“I prefer • their bowls-information.” —
“Zorok.”
*
“Narumee”: Upon the inevitable an-
nouncement that Junior would request
a pony from Father Christmas, Mum,
pallid, explained that, in such a very small
flat, there would be no possible accom-
modation for a horse. Junior was ready:
“It could live in the laundry. The
troughs’d make beaut mangers.” “And
where,” countered Mum, “would I wash
the clothes?” Junior had thought that
one out too: “Mrs. K’foops, in No. 2,
uses her washing-machine in her kitchen.
You could use her laundry.” “But, dear,
Santa would never be able to carry a pony
on his sledge.” “Look,” said Junior,
“I’ve taken an awful, ribbing at school
for believing in the old bloke because you
"Would you happen to have a furnished room to let in the rectory?"
and Dad do. You didn’t ought to make
it more difficult!”
“Doynest”: A “portly” may cut a
rather ludicrous figure (B. 23 /11 / *55);
but in one avenue of employment portli-
ness is an advantage. My morning paper
carries an ad. for “a gentleman to act as
Father Christmas” for one of Mel-
bourne’s stores: applicants must have a
liking for children, must furnish good
credentials, and should be “portly if pos-
sible.” Subterfuges such as pillows, I
suppose, would be darned uncomfortable
in Melbourne’s pre-Christmas weather,
Still, it’s a wonder in these days of
streamlining that no one’s got round to
slimming Santa Claus.
“Wandana”: A rail-
wayman who put his
cycle into the rack at the
workshops in Launceston
(Tas.) and went off to his
job returned to discover
that a chrome-headlamp
and generator were miss-
ing. The removalist had
taken off the handlebars
to release a bracket hold-
ing the headlight, and
burnt-through the wires
from the generator. The
outfit was a Christmas-
present from his wife;
she’d had it inscribed as a
protection against theft.
Which shows that too
many people are doing
their Christmas-shopping
early.
*
“Doric”: She had re-
cently spent a holiday at
a big hotel in the southern
highlands. “I met a
charming man you may
know,” she said. “He’s
the real executive-type, a
Mr. , I understood
he’s very high-up in your
office.” Fact is, he
couldn’t go much higher ;
he’s the caretaker, and
lives in a penthouse on the roof. And
I left him his high place in her esteem.
♦♦♦ +♦♦
“Roni”: Sign in a chain-store window,
above a pyramid of toilet-paper: “Birth-
day Special; reduced from Is. 6d. to
lOd.”
* * *
“Old Mac”: “Hi-cockalorum” and
“Fly-the-Garter” (“Hist.,” B. 23/11/’55)
are among several old plays that have
lost a lot of their librettos. “Oranges and
Lemons or London Belles” has lost the
bells of St. Martin’s, Old Bailey, Shore-
ditch, Stepney and the Great Bell of
Bow, as well as “a candle to light you to
bed” and “a chopper to chop off your
head.” Does any marbles-player now
call “Taws!” “You or the dakes, any
I hit! ” “Fain me! ” “Fain knuckle-down! ”
“Fat!” or “Butter!”? “Hi-cockalorum”
seems to have lost a second, variable
line, “Who’s going to ride my big fat
pig? And off!” Our “Fly-the-Garter”
was complicated. The two chief actors
were “Back,” the hurdle, and “Fly,” who
set the pace. Back set himself in front
of the mark and Fly went over. Back
moved up to where Fly had landed. Fly
judged the distance from the mark and
called, “Over!” (over the hurdle in a
leap from the mark), or “One-and-over! ”
(one stride and a leap). If all got over,
Back moved forward again after Fly’s
next leap, but anyone who failed became
Back, and a fresh start was made. If
any player thought that Fly too
stiff a task he could challenge, 111 see
Fly.” If Fly failed he became Back, but
if he succeeded the challenger became
Back. Ive seen a game go to seven-and-
over, but that was very unusual,
......
'“Poppa”: As to the games children
play now: Two girls, around six and
seven, my wife says, took up positions
behind a broad, low wall. “We’re bar-
maids,” one said; “what’ll it be?” A
man-about-town about five lounged
"Toss it back this instant before it stings you."
over: “I’ll have a double-whisky.” “Ah,
no,” said the more motherly of the bar-
maids, “you’re too young.” But the more
gay and coy of the barmaids nudged her
knowingly: “Ah, go on,” she coaxed ;
“let him have one.”
«j*
“Fair Mac”: Hard to believe that
housewives would welcome zoning, but
a home-delivery service around our outer
suburb could be restricted without caus-
ing heartburnings. Mum and Dad always
knew they were up for the price of one
icecream all round on Sunday morning,
but there’s no chance of beating the rap
these days ; all a parent can hope for is
that one shout will satisfy claims for the
rest of the day. The invasion starts about
9 a.m. and continues till sundown. I
counted exactly thirty different icecream-
vendors one Sunday. It’s a common
thing to see one vehicle trailing another
down our street; the second one —because
icecream-vendors seem to have a rooted
objection to pausing while juveniles apply
the thumbscrews to parents—cashing-in
on the custom the first one stirred up.
Last Sunday there was a variation: two
vendors entered our street from different
ends, crossed, and continued on. It
worked out equitably—each gathered the
fruits of the other’s bell.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: The interior south wall
of Melbourne University’s new £250,000
Wilson Hall is being embellished with a
sculpture in bas-relief called “A Search
for Truth,” which shows a nude male
with the feet in Chaos reaching with
long arms through a bank of cloud to the
sun, which symbolises light and truth.
Students have already christened it: “Mr.
Pigface.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“N.L.”: The exterior of the house was
good and the price low because of no
vacant-possession. We were about to
look-up the agent to get further particu-
lars of tenancy, perhaps to give it a go,
when a pleasant woman came through
the garden and asked if we were looking
at the place. We said yes a little defiantly,
and were taken aback when asked would
we care to see through. This “looking
through” was generally accompanied by
the chilliest of hostility from sitting-
tenants. But this one enthused about
the district, the close shops, the quality
and convenience of the house, and the low
price. “And this is my daughter-in-law’s
bedroom. She’s expecting—my son is in
the Navy. This is the old people’s room.
My sister and her husband —he’s a war-
neurosis case —in there. Our family sleep
on the veranda.” The farewell smile said
clearly, “You and the atom-bomb
wouldn't shift us, brother.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Wusslean”: Dqring three or four days
that Mrs. Wusslean spent in a small pri-
vate hospital she found the portable-
radio in an adjoining ward rather annoy-
ing, particularly as the patient operating
it seemed interested in racing only. In
the afternoons he listened to the racing-
broadcasts ; in the evenings to the trot-
ting. My wife spoke to the nurses. “It’s
young Mr. X. trying to raise the wind for
his hospital-bill,” they said. “Last year
he was in for a minor op. and paid the
lot with what he won from the races
while he was here. He’s trying to do the
same trick again.” Mrs. W. was dis-
charged a couple of days before Mr. X.
was due to leave: she is still uneasy at
the thought that someone may have a
better hospital-scheme than the Federal
Government.
*t* *> ❖
“M.L.R.”: From my niece’s account,
the Victorian matriculation-art examina-
tion-rooms must have been worth seeing,
with models set up from lettuce-tomato-
old-wine-bottles to a teddy-bear benignly
observing a statuette. Niece’s design in-
cluded lettuce-leaves; they had left the
refrigerator bright and crisp, but became
tired and wan in the atmosphere of the
examination-room, thus posing the awk-
ward artistic problem, whether painting
them crisp would amount to insincerity,
or painting them lifeless would be
adjudged dullness in the artist. Green
and salad days are not all beer and
skittles.
❖ *
CHRISTMAS-CARDS are a pack of
problems. From legions of relatives and
acquaintances in the 44 corners of the
globe, mine begin to arrive in November,
and continue, in sporadic bursts, until the
end of January. They fall into one of six
categories:
(1) Those inscribed: “Thanks for your
lovely, long letters. Do write again soon.”
The senders are plain lazy so-and-sos.
(2) Those bearing photographs of the
sender’s angelically-smiling children. I
can never retaliate in kind, because my
family’s stock-expression before the
camera is one of sullen loathing.
(3) Those depicting the sender’s graci-
ous home, set amid superbly-mown lawns,
tidy flower-beds. Hopefully-taken pic-
tures of our home are invariably garn-
ished with a laden clothes-line, wriggling
lengths of hose, flotsam of picnic meals,
or the neighbors’ children’s leering faces
over the fence.
(4) Those carrying a highly-colored
representation of the Emperor’s palace in
Tokyo, or the Shalimar Bagh in Kashmir,
and a scribbled: “Having a wonderful
time here. Send news of yourselves.” No
address, of course. They don’t want news
—they want me to turn a deep shade of
envious green —which I do.
(5) Those imposingly printed: “With
all good wishes from Mr. and Mrs.
Augustus Skeffington, Toad-in-the-Hole,
Lower Highing.” I can’t recollect any
Mr. or Mrs. A. Skeffington, until brilliant
and exhausting deduction tracks down
a letter from Aunt Eudora saying that
“dear Aggie” has married at last —“such
a nice man called Skipworlh.” I have
already sent Aggie a card, addressed to
“Miss Agnes Blogg.”
• (6) Those signed with devastating sim-
plicity: “Fatty,” or “Nobby.” Postmark
illegible. Stamp English. “Fatty” might
be the rather pleasant gunner we met in
Simla, or possibly the jolly but tiresome
female who stayed with us in Cornwall.
As for “Nobby,” he could be the p.-0.-w.
Clark who rehabilitated with us in Cal-
cutta, the third-cousin Clarke who used
to be in Singapore, or even the sar’-major
Clark who presided over the bar in the
golf-club in Yorkshire; or he could be
that American Clarke we encountered in
Beirut. I would like to have known.
Still, they all add up to a Merry
Christmas.
NARUMEE.
QUALIFIED QUEST
“Widower, retired public servant, comfort-
able means, ardent philatelist, would meet m.a.
lady (not widow) of placid disposition.” —View
mat. ad.
He’s finished—aye, for good and all—
With signing the attendance-book;
He’s cast the shackles of his thrall,
He’s off the departmental hook.
The files, form-X to resubmit;
The tape, the regulations—these he
Has diced at last. And, having quit,
He’d take a wife. Prerequisite :
She’ll make his life still very easy.
An easygoing bloke (as you’d
Expect, by dint of his career),
Withal he firmly will exclude
One aspirant —the reason’s clear.
The mating-call that he has made
Is not for widdies. Old campaigner,
He’s obviously much afraid
They know the ropes too well. He’s
weighed
This up: He’ll be the tyro’s trainer !
His bride need entertain no fears
He’ll play the greyhounds or the mokes,
Or irrigate with endless beers
His throttle with the bar-room soaks.
She’ll find that he’s the champ of champs
At vices one is not possessing.
And, when for hours on end his lamps
Are glued to his beloved stamps
While she just sits there, getting cramps ,
Her placidness will prove a blessing.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
New High Commissioner for the
Western Pacific in succession to Sir
Robert Stanley, John Gutch in September
touched-down at Honiara, Guadalcanal,
headquarters of his administration.
Gutch has had nearly 30 years in the
U.K. overseas civil service, including
periods in West Africa, Palestine and
British Guiana, where he was Chief Sec-
retary. At Honiara he will be respon-
sible for the administration of the
British Solomons Islands Protectorate,
Gilbert and Ellice Islands, and the
British part of the Anglo-French condo-
minium of the New Hebrides. The Japs
did a lot of damage in the area during
the war, but rehabilitation and develop-
ment has been going on steadily. Cocoa
is being grown to supplement copra in
the 8.5.1., and a geological survey has
been in progress to ascertain mineral
prospects, including those for gold. High
Commissioner Gutch is anxious to en-
courage private enterprise on Guadal-
canal, and increasing trade with Australia
is expected.
• . •
Bruce Herbert Boykett (here attached)
has been secretary of the Royal Automo-
bile Association in South Australia for
the past 18‘years; revved his way up
there from joining-position of junior
ROAD SAFETY
clerk. Neat, dapper, and as precise as a
well-tuned engine, he has for main hobby
his job, working for a better deal for
his 100,000 motorist-members. Of the
firm belief that the city squares would be
ideal for underground parking-stations,
he’s also awake-up to the opposition the
scheme would flare. Member of the
National Safety Council, life-member of
Adelaide Rowing Club (once a very active
participant), he likes motoring, golf, gar-
dening and motoring.
• •
Perth’s new Lud Mayor, Henry R.
Howard, has had the unusual experience
of being elected to that office without
previous experience on the council. Tall,
trim, chairman of a city business-organi-
sation, he claims the inexperience helpful
■—able to approach civic problems with
an open mind, especially as he’s not
affiliated with any political party. Asso-
ciated with the city’s public life for many
years (president of the R.A.C., past-
president of the Perth Chamber of Com-
merce, of the Federated Chambers of
Commerce, W.A., and of Perth Rotary
Club), he is also identified with the musi-
cal and cultural life of the capital, and is
a keen rose-grower.
• •
“J.K.M.”: Another link with Joseph
Furphy (“Tom Collins”) was snapped by
the death at Shepparton (Vic.) of his
nephew, George Vaughan Furphy.
George was one of the partners in the
Furphy firm at Shepparton, where Joe
and his two sons once worked ; it pro-
duced the Furphy water-cart, extensively
used in World War I. According to
legend, the drivers were notorious car-
riers of rumors, mainly unreliable —
hence, “a furphy.” Each Furphy water-
cart, has two inscriptions on the rear-end.
One is the family motto: “Good, better,
best; never let it rest, till your good is
better and your better’s best.” That is
on the lower part. The other, on the
upper rim, in Pitman’s shorthand, reads:
“Drink is a concoction of the devil, Water
is the gift of God. Don’t drink beer.”
“Uramao”: Passing of Tom Mills, the
veteran New Zealand journalist (B.
7/12/’55), recalls his association with
Katherine Mansfield in starting her off
on her career. Katherine’s father, Harold
Beauchamp, consulted Tom concerning
his daughter’s ambition to write and
asked his opinion of her wish to go to
London for a couple of years. Tom
asked for samples of her work —
Katherine was then 18 —and they im-
pressed the journalist. Later, on meeting
her, he expressed his high opinion of her
work, gave her the names of papers suit-
able for each literary effort. But he said
he disapproved of her choice of sub-
jects. Katherine flared-up and told him
she sought his judgment on the quality
of her work ; she was capable of choos-
ing her own subjects. Some time later
Tom received a call to the telephone. It
was Katherine, telling him she had just
received an acceptance from a Melbourne
journal and a request for more. She
never looked back.
• 0
Giving politics away, through war-
caused ill-health, 47-year-old George
Yates will not contest the South Perth
seat in the Westralian Assembly, which
he has held since 1950. Before a re-
shuffle of seats in 1947, he had sat as
L.C.L. member for Canning. Earlier a
home-front w.-o. of the Instructional
Corps, he saw hard service in Tobruk,
at Alamein and in New Guinea. Then
followed months in the Hollywood (W.A.)
Repatriation Hospital, before discharge,
medically unfit. His contribution to the
Westralian Statute Book was the private-
members’ bill which he introduced to
make illegal the wearing of the R.S.L.
badge by unauthorised persons.
• •
Amphibious-jeepers:
Safe (at least temporarily, and put under the
pencil herewith), Frederick Benjamin Carlin
and his wife Elinore, of the amphibious-jeep
Half-Safe, and of Half-Safe, which Norman
Lindsay assesses on the Red Page in this issue.
Carlin’s wanderings (lately charted from time
to time in the world’s press) began at Northam,
in Westralia, where he was born in 1912, son of
a railways electrical-engineer. The nuggety
frame which pushed Half-Safe from here very
near to eternity was founded by representing
Perth’s Guildford Grammar in athletics,
swimming and rowing.
With ideas of medicine thwarted by finance,
he took to law. And, to quote the wanderer,
“had the whole business sewn-up after six-
months’ articles —fired after nine. Signed-on
in law at the Westralian University in the early
’thirties. Learnt to play poker extremely well.”
So he went bush, “messed about” with wheat-
farming till . 1934, then to the Murchison,
prospecting and mining, and on to Kalgoorlie.
A couple of years of work underground and
study at the Kalgoorlie School of Mines, then
he northed to China to have a look at the Jap
war from Chungking. There being no room in
HALF-SAFE
Chinese wars for foreigners, took a coal-
mining job outside Peking.
When Hitler pulled the lanyard Carlin
enlisted in Peking, and was drafted to the
Cadet College in Bangalore; commissioned in
the Royal Indian Engineers in 1941. Then —
Irak, Persia, bomb-disposing in the Middle
East, Italy, and, in 1946, back in Bengal,
field-engineer of an airforce-works team.
There was conceived the epic jeep-idea. In
Calcutta he’d met an American Red Cross
wbrker; married her in the U.S., and immedi-
ately the arguments started —she firmly con-
vinced Half-Safe should carry a female crew.
As evidenced try the first-rate recital of Half-
Safe’s amphibious adventures, Carlin lost that
argument, and won a staunch seawoman. A
pleasant couple, modestly courageous.
Charles James McGann, governor of
Geelong jail since 1947—he was born
half-a-mile from it —is to be the next
governor of Pentridge, in succession to
James Edwards, who retires through ill-
health. The new man’s father was a
warder who retired as superintendent of
Castlemaine Reformatory. C.J. was
governor of Corriemungle, Victoria’s first
prison-farm, from its foundation in 1939
till 1945, with 400 prisoners who were
free to walk out —only two did during the
six years. From 1945 to 1947 he was
senior chief-warder at Pentridge, and
nobody walked out, any more than they
did from Geelong during his eight-years’
sojourn there. His definition of an ideal
prison is one from which prisoners would
not want to escape.
• •
“Moorapi”: Just scored 80, Australian-
born comedian Albert Whelan. Landing
in London in 1901, he was immediately
successful in “The Belle of New York’
at the Empire (Leicester-square) and has
walked the boards ever since. His
greatest stage-asset has been the harmony-
whistling with which he introduces all
his variety acts. He was inspired to this
in a Bourke-street (Melbourne) restaurant
one night in 1899,' when a near-by diner
whistled melodiously until the waitress
arrived to take the order. I met Whelan
on his only return-visit to Australia 30
years ago on a Tivoli contract and
enjoyed his brisk, friendly chatter—and
the whistling. His recipe for longevity:
“Think you are young and never live in
the past.”
• •
First occupant of a new Chair of
Chemistry at University College, Lon-
don (starting in 1956), will be D. P.
Craig, Professor of Physical Chemistry
at Sydney University since 19 §2. A 1940
graduate with first-class honors in
chemistry, and Commonwealth Research
Fellow until 1942, he’s no stranger to
London Turner and Newall Fellow
there from 1946 to 1950, and a lecturer
at University College between 1950-1952.
O •
Gone on at 84 in Sydney, Frederick
William Wheatley, Doctor of Science,
cryptographer, headmaster. Earlier head
of Rockhampton (Q.) Grammar, he was
a senior instructor of the first R.A.N.
college at Osborne House (Vic.), and
transferred with the college to Jervis
Bay ; headmaster there when he retired
in 1931. All serving senior-officers in the
R.A.N. have his educational stamp upon
them. Early in War Ihe was with Intel-
ligence at Navy Office, Melbourne, in
charge of intercepted wireless-messages.
There he discovered the key to the code
used by the German Pacific Squadron.
Among other things, this gave the itiner-
ary of the Von Spee squadron, which
enabled Admiral Craddock to catch up
with it off Coronel. C.B.E. for the crypto-
grapher. For many years the widely-liked
secretary of the Royal
Empire Society in N.S.W.,
he was father of Captain
Ross Wheatley, when he
retired recently one of the
Navy’s most competent
hydrographers; and, as
senior-officer of the 20th
Minesweeping Flotilla, re-
sponsible after War II for
clearing the Australian
coast of all enemy mine-
fields.
• •
“Tailspin”: One store
in Malaya could give
Anthony Horderns’ a go
—the equipment-store at
the R.A.A.F.’s No. 2 Air-
field Construction Squad-
ron at Butterworth. No. 2
A.C.S., building a huge
new 8000 ft. runway cap-
able of taking the world’s
largest jets, has more than
15,000 separate articles
and spare-parts in its store
—and a total of more than
250,000 separate pieces.
Flight-Lieut. Bob .Cox, qf
Marrickville, Sydney, and
Flying-Officer Frank
Phillips of North Balwyn,
Melbourne, are in charge, with 19
n.c.o.s and airmen under them. They
look after spares for 107 motor-transport
vehicles and 74 earth-moving vehicles,
from huge bulldozers to bicycles. Their
stores range from an iin. long spring be-
longing to a bulldozer-engine to a 40-ton
roller with tyres weighing nearly 6001 b.
and as high as a man; they receive and
distribute more than 35,000 gallons of
petrol and diesel-fuel a month. As they
say up there of Cox (at sft.
second-smallest man in the R.A.A.F.),“He
is a small codger, but he does a big job.”
“X.”: Sylvia Fisher, the Melbourne
soprano who sang to strangely apathetic
Melbourne audiences last April, appears
to be another example of the prophet, etc.
After finishing her season as chief Wag-
nerian singer at Covent Garden the other
evening she flew straight off to Bologna
to sing in two performances of the
“Gotterdammerung” at Bologna’s Theatre
Communale. The world-famed Bayreuth
company is in session at Bologna, and
this is the first time an Australian singer
has been asked to sing with it —even
Austral wasn’t.
BILL ROWLAND, articled to Brisbane
solicitor Adolph Feez in 1920, now the
firm’s senior partner. One-time president
of the Queensland Law Society, now
chairman of the body’s Statutory Com-
mittee. Foundation-chairman of the
G.P.S. Old Boys’ Rowing Club, ex-ditto
of the Queensland Rowing Association.
Rotarian, racing-man.
Appointed Chief Immigration Officer
for Australia in Austria, E. A. Membrey
will spend the next three years at his
newly-created post in Salzburg, and in
learning German. He learnt the drill of
the job during eight years in the Depart-
ment of Immigration, the past six in
Perth as Deputy-Director.
• •
“Melbn”: The identity of Mr. X, who
for years past has walked into Melbourne
Town Hall and deposited for the Lord
Mayor’s Fund notes that have in course
of time mounted up to thousands, has
unfortunately been discovered. A girl
secretary recognised him as the same
man who last year walked in with a
bundle of notes, and he was introduced
to the Lord Mayor. He is Alfred W.
McDougall, a Ripponlea tailor, who for
more years than he can remember has
given a certain percentage of his business-
takings to hospitals, especially the Royal
Children’s. He was obviously giving
practical expression to Christ’s injunction
“When thou doest thine alms, do not
sound a trumpet before thee."
McDougall is now getting all the publi-
city he didn’t want and which it was his
chief pleasure not to have.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Balgownie (N.S.W.), at 65, James William
(“Judy”) Masters, Australian Soccer captain in
12 Tests. He represented against the visiting
Chinese side of 1923, Canada in 1924 and Eng-
land in 1926. He played fqr Balgownie in
first-division Soccer from 1911 to 1936, and
was considered one of the greatest centre-
forwards Australia has produced.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), Haagen Holenbergh,
Danish pianist of note, who settled at New
Brighton, Christchurch, early in World War 11.
Born in Copenhagen, educated at its university,
he studied music under Professor Otto Mating
and other distinguished tutors. Several times
he was commanded to play before King
Christian X and Queen Alexandrine of Den-
mark. He travelled extensively in Europe and
the Far East, and put in a couple of years at
McGill University, head of the piano-
department of the Conservatorium of Music.
At 85, in the liner Arcadia, a few miles out
of Sydney, Mervyn John Bateman, Westralian
businessman, former Perth City Councillor,
and of a well-known Fremantle pioneering
family.
At Broomehill (W.A.), at 77, Donald Cronin,
Old Digger, Old North-wester, for years one
of the best-known identities in the Westralian
agricultural and pastoral districts. In his day
he had the reputation of being the most daring
and competent horseman in the State. Served
with the 10th Light Horse.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 54, Lieut.-Commander
William F. Hollins, R.N., who gained valuable
information for the Admiralty before War 11-
Sailing round the world in 1934-36 in the
auxiliary yacht Vanora, he found a pretext
(food-shortage) to call at the Marshall Islands,
then a prohibited Japanese area. The Japs
regarded him as harmless and supplied him
with his requirements—and, unwittingly, with
information on the islands' fortifications. I n
War II lie was an antisubmarine man.


MRS. PETROV’S SHOE


ABORIGINALITIES
T DON’T make a habit of feeding birds,
as I feel that parasitism can be even
more fatal to avians than to humans, but
I made an exception in favor of a peewee
when a prowling cat got his mate.
With a hungry brood of three to feed
and protect, the going was hard for Pa
Peewee, but he tackled the task with that
selfless courage and tireless energy typical
of breeding-birds.
Insects of all kinds he accepted from
my hands. He never left my garden with-
out a capacity-load, and, so far as I could
see, never during his family’s early in-
fancy ate an insect himself.
What he did eat was bread-and-fat and,
with great gusto, cheese. But none of
these foods was served to the family until
they left the nest, a fact that struck me
as extremely significant. Evidently he
kept scrupulously to a diet-chart sanc-
tioned by instinct until he deemed his
offspring’s stomachs strong enough for a
gastronomic gamble.
When the brood reached my garden
I gave him some of his always-relished
cheese —with a curious result. Whereas
ordinarily he was a bit careless about the
". ..and talk about MODEST!”
order in which the youngsters were fed,
with cheese he saw that each one got its
fair share.
If a fourth beakful was available—
and I usually saw there was—he ate that
himself.
Woorarra.
* * * *
“Mnllnwav”• a tr. xu,*,
hJZT* ' A /T S J N W AUS '
due a n V "ru, sharks seems over-
„ n ' n sur ( ed a f ter ?
ne of our North Queensland beaches ;
!hS w Ua y + l h ° U t ht , they d ,, be safer
then the sharks could not see
em ’
“1.0. L.”: At Babinda (N.Q.) I came
across a method of fishing new to me.
The locals call it “plonk”-fishing, though
it doesn’t involve the use of grog. Be-
lieved to have originated with the Italian
population, it requires a net and several
large tin-funnels with a stout handle
attached to each spout. After the net is
set across a stream the fisherman plunges
these funnels into the water well away
from the net and gradually works to-
wards it. The noise made by the funnels
is a distinct “plonk” and frightens the
fish to the net, where they become
enmeshed. It certainly worked.
* * * *
“Kerba”: Has any other species of
animal in the world the split claw of the
Australian wallaby-family, possum and
tree-climbing kangaroo? On the inside
toe of the hind-foot (not to be confused
with the “thumb” of the possum, which
points backwards) the claw appears to be
a thick single one similar to the others;
close inspection shows both toe and claw
to be divided near the tip into two small
toes and claws fitting closely together, but
capable of being spread apart. Theory
is that ages ago the toes were full-size and
separate ; another idea is that the split
claw makes a natural comb and is used
by the animals to groom their fur. If so,
I’ve never seen old Silver or his wife so
occupied, though I’ve long observed them
at close quarters. Mum Possum doesn’t
even use it on the little bloke’s toilet —she
wiggles him into the required position
with her front-paws and does all the
grooming with her tongue.
* * * *
“Lorna Doone’’: Sidelight on the
’hopper-plague which has beset Crow-
eaters. I arrived at work to'be greeted by
the cleaner, leaning on the broom, “Took
a bit of a risk, didn’t y’?” “Why?” I
asked. “Well, in that emerald-green dress
them ’hoppers might Gipsy-Rose-Lee
y’! ”
* * * #
“Uramao”: The New Zealand Army
mustered in hot haste and assembled in
the ranks of war at Hawke’s Bay in a
trial of anticipated methods of World
War 111. The signallers laid a cable
along the roadside in this “Exercise
Takapau,” but difficulty in keeping head-
quarters apprised of the swing and sway
of battle suggested that enemy-saboteurs
were at work. Signallers travelled over
the seven miles'linking headquarters with
Norsewood. A mob of 600 cattle that
had been travelling for a month had
eaten the insulation round the cable and
trampled it into the earth.
“Noah”: Judgment was reserved
when Ararat (Vic.) City Councillors pon-
dered the fate of a 100-year-old grape-
vine still flourishing in the main street. It
r i ses through the pavement and spreads
out to cover the facia of a store-veranda.
The store’s present owners want to
modernise the building with a cantilever
veranda, thus removing the vine’s only
means of support, the veranda-post. As
council’s regulations forbid polls under
new verandas and the owners don’t want
to destroy. a historical mark (the vine
was given to the original owner by the
Henty brothers) the buck was laid on
the council-table. The city curator is on
the side of the vine, and so is a builder
who offers to plan a special structure for
its trunk. Only thing is to test the elas-
ticit y of the building-regulations. At time
"T ltmg ; m , ost of the c “>- are
stretching hard.
* * * *
“Kenyas”: Neighbors safely on holi-
days, I decided to burn-off a year’s
accumulation of garden-refuse. Armed
with rake, clippers and axe, I tackled the
job, ably assisted by one peewee, one
“Come and have your tea, Pygmalion ."
kookaburra and the cat. The peewee had
the time of his life, though most of what
he helped himself to was too small for me
to recognise. When I disturbed the larg-
est frog I’ve encountered for years, Jacko
broke the sound-barrier as he nose-dived
from the turpentine-tree, and had ab-
ducted the frog almost before I was quite
sure I’d really seen it. Puss wore the look
of virtuous content which comes from
doing one’s duty and thereby gaining a
tummyful—l’d unearthed a nest of small
rats. For myself, I came on a sleeve-link
which I’d lost months earlier and had
well-nigh torn the house apart trying to
locate. All the same, the highlight of
the day was when —for the first time in
my life —I saw a bulldog-ant hauling an
incredibly elastic worm out of the ground.
* * * *
“Ocombe”: I note that Bulletin car-
toonists always draw Ma ’Roo’s pouch
the wrong way. The opening may be
oval or round if Joey is aboard, but it is
never a transverse slit.
* * * *
“Wintonite”: “Diamondem” erred
when he said the Winton (Q.) goats won’t
eat either the young trees or the seed-
pods of mesquite (R. 6/7/’55). The trees
are in full bearing now, and every morn-
ing it’s an intriguing sight to see long lines
of motley-colored goats actually sprint-
ing to the forest on the town’s outskirts,
to greedily devour the night’s offering of
fallen mesquite-beans. Later, as they
browse along, they strip the young foliage
from the stunted mesquite bushes. Be it
mesquite or algaroba, those goats are
absolutely impartial.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Textbook in hand, we
waited as the strange-looking bird
approached. It was an ordinary everyday
hawk —minus tail-feathers. It banked and
glided, and went through all the usual
airy gyrations of its species, without,
apparently, the slightest difficulty:
through the glasses we saw the tail-stump
moving as the bird changed height and
course ad lib. I’d always thought a fully-
feathered tail an important accessory for
successful and comfortable avian flight;
but is it?
* * * *
“Wingella”: Those who say there’s
only one character of We of the Never
Never still living forget no fewer than
three others. One is Bet-Bet, the “Little
Black Princess.” The others are Mrs.
Bob Farrar and her son, who was a baby
at the time the family called in to Elsey
Station on their way to Darwin.
“Brick E.”: Sounds of canine conflict
broke in on our lunch-time conversation.
Xhen came a frenzied feminine screech
of “Stop him! He’ll kill him!” Our
apprentice bounded to his feet, assessed
the situation in a glance, snatched up a
mallet and leapt into the fray. A huge
dog had a small one by the throat,
Young Galahad’s wooden Excalibur rose
and fell; then: “You cruel beast! ”
shrieked the female of the species. “I
don’t want my dog to kill it, but I don’t
want you to kill my dog!” Old Sam
waited until the crestfallen knight had
resumed his seat, then delivered words of
wisdom: “Never help a woman in a dog-
fight or a domestic blue, son. They never
finish-up on the side they started on.”
* * * *
MO was a shearer who could stripe it
off a few when he wanted to. He
was all style, and, like all stylish wool-
removers, always looked for the free-
cutting stuff. That’s why he’d never
sign-on at a strange shed until he was
satisfied the sheep were reasonable at
least.
Old Clackitt, who had been shearing
a week and still hadn’t filled his board,
got Mo half-whacked in the pub and
induced hinj to sign then and there. Mo
walked on to the board next morning and
saw an old pen-mate, Winkers Mc-
Guinness, who soon told him he was flat
as a strap to get the bare ton.
Mo was very thoughtful as he loaded-
up the bog-eye, but when the bell rang
he dived into the pen very fast and
grabbed an old ewe by the hind-legs. He
dragged her on to the board, and, hold-
ing her upside-down, tucked one hind-
leg under his arm, pulled into gear and
drove down to the brisket. Of course
the old ewe kicked like blazes, and Mo
was trying to hold her and get the belly-
wool off at the same time when Clackitt
tapped him on the shoulder and told him
to hang ’em up.
“You can’t pull the wool over my
eyes,” he said. “You’ve never shorn a
sheep in your life.”
Mo packed-up and was about to leave
when he noticed the learner trying to
force his way up the neck of a fairly
large hogget. Mo pulled him out of gear,
grabbed the handpiece himself and,
stepping across the sheep, gave one of
the fanciest and fastest exhibitions of
shearing you ever saw. Clackitt tore
his hair. “I’ll sue, I’ll sue,” he screamed
as Mo kicked the sheep down the chute.
“Too late, old fella. You’ve already
destroyed me,” Mo said as he walked off
the board.
Next day Mo deuced ’em over at
Clackitt’s neighbor’s place, and they
reckon he was whistling and singing ail
day.
SNAGGER.
BARN DANCE
They’re dancing down at Sullivan’s. Oh how
the moments fly!
The barn’s ablaze with naphtha, and the door,
wide open, shows a lake of polished floor.
A hundred rainbow streamers are rustling
overhead,
but some prefer the myriad lamps of stars
and distance cutting off the frail guitars.
Old-time steps and modern glide to the fiddle’s
wail,
with a scent of corndust hanging in the air . . .
All the roses of the countryside are there . . .
Hunks of potent fruitcake from the hand of
Bid Malone;
icing piled up like a snowdrift’s dream;
cherry-tops and frothy whorls of cream . . .
There’s music down at Sullivan’s; its thin
entrancing sound
winds like a thread across the flats to me.
I know' them all. In fancy I can see
the teapot’s endless circling; the crusts upon
the floor.
They stay till dawn is rosy on their faces
then rev-up wildly. Every engine races.
Some are fleeing, reckless; some remain to
drink
the stirrup-cup of hot and steaming tea.
Wearied out the Sullivans will be. t
But nobody is minding; and flaxen-headed
youth
returning to a score of homes will start
another day with music in the heart.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
BLACK SWANS
The lake is asleep in a hundred flowers—
smooth black lilies folded still,
furling their scarlet. On the hill
the first light silvers along its towers.
Slowly unfurling, every one,
the black swans blossom to the sun.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


IT was a lazy, sunny sort of day along
the line, and we were steaming quietly
on the pick-up goods. I was watching the
hare that loped alongside us for about
half-a-mile. Out of curiosity I gave the
cut-off lever another notch of steam. At
20 m.p.h. he still kept abreast. Then
another notch; but 28 m.p.h. didn’t look
like burning him off, either. Suddenly he
shot forward and left us for dead. It
was the sniff of a couple of sheep-dogs
coming in on his flank that did it. Don’t
know what the official figures are for his
maximum, but I reckon it would need
the “Overland” express to test him. —
“Four Threes.”
* * * *
“Sister Ellell”: Such’s dusky Miss
Backaburk reminds me of a dinkum
Digger I nursed at a base-hospital. Occa-
sionally he’d be blown off course re-
turning from leave; as he was normally
such a marvellous patient I pretended
not to notice the “blast from the
brewery,” and always helped him into
bed. His thanks never varied, being:
“Yeah. You’ve been a good girl to me. I’ll
fell you what I’ll do with y\ After the
war I’ll take y’ trappin’ back o’ Bourke!”
* * * *
“Big Scrubber”: “Bucca” (B.
23/11/’55) is a bit off-beam on his geo-
graphy. Limpinwood (N.S.W.) is not,
and never was, a railway-station or -plat-
form. Then (and now) both Hopping
“ You've made a mistake, Adolphe. It Was the DOG who
sat on the tuckerbox!”
Dick and Limpinwood were between Mt.
Warning and the Queensland border-
gate. When I lived on the Tweed it was
generally accepted that both places were
named after a lame bullock-driver on
the Upper Tweed.
* * * *
“Sackville”: That species of tiny lizard
which haunts warm positions such as
sunny walls, rocks or fences was de-
scribed by our old schoolteacher as a
newt. Over the years I have never found
him to have been Wrong in anything,
which is why I challenge the definition of
“newt” in a newly-compiled Australian
dictionary. The illustration shows a simi-
lar lizard but the caption reads: “Newt.
A salamander; amphibian of the lizard
family.” Amphibian! Three times I’ve
found drowned newts in my lovebirds’
water-jar.
* * * *
“Cowyard Kate”: The little town of
Pooyong overlooking the beautiful Bass
Valley in Gippsland (Vic.) derives its
name not from the abos. nor (more obvi-
ously) from some Chinese market-gar-
dener, but from the giant earthworms
(they measure up to 13ft. and 14ft. long)
which inhabit those parts. When disturbed
by noises overhead, they make a noise
that sounds like “Poo wong, Poo wong,
Poowong.”
* * * *
“Spin”: For numbers called to a feast
I’ll nominate two birds to beat even the
ibis (B. 9/11 / ’55). I remember once
seeing a flock of silvereyes estimated at
10,000 descend on a single orchard, but
even that figure is insignificant beside the
swarms of tree-martins which yearly
assembly to feast on the mosquitoes over
my swamp. They usually stay only a few
weeks, but while they’re there the air,
towards evening, is thick with them as far
as one can see, and the noise as they
settle for the night in the rushes can be
heard for half-a-mile. Their numbers are
really astronomical.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I’d like to accept
“Woorarra’s” claim that the swamp-hen’s
attack on the ducklings was prompted by
jealousy (B. 23 /11 / ’55), but the evidence
is against it. From experiments carried
out since then I’ve discovered that the
swamp-hen will eat small pieces of meat
left around, and a dead duckling left
near the water-edge was practically de-
molished with savage pecks. There
seemed to be a definite carnivorous trend.
And why shouldn’t there be? Probably
more birds five on animal- than on veg-
etable-life, and a swamp-dweller, in par-
ticular, wouldn’t be fussy.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: A solitary green-keet spent
the winter with a flock of rainbow-lori-
keets. The larger birds accepted him as
one of themselves —brush-tongued par-
rots often intermingle amiably. When the
flock split-up to feed, as it mostly did in
the morning, the green-keet invariably
went with one particular pair of rain-
bows. I saw the friendly trio settled high
up in a huge angophora. The beautiful
cock was making amorous advances to-
war(js his almost equally lovely mate,
while from a higher bough the green-keet
watched intently. Neck fully extended,
and bowing in courtly fashion, the cock
moved along a limb, halted, and retreated
a little, whereupon the hen, who had been
retreating, took a few short steps in his
direction. 'Dien the bowing, advancing
and retreating started all over again,
whereupon, with a screech, the green-keet
lit-out, flying for the interior.
“ Haven't these blighters seen a white-man before?”
“Mute Ant”: Queensland reports a
koala on the rampage, attacking folks.
Another switch in koala behavior-pat-
terns lately showed-up near Sydney: a
bear squatted aggressively on a highway
and held-up the traffic. Science is experi-
menting with the mutations, both physi-
cal and behavioristic, which atom-radia-
tion can produce in all live things. Pre-
sumably, because of Russia’s latest H-
bang, Australia’s atmosphere is seven
times more radioactive than usual. How
awful if a revolution of the cuddly-bears
is brewing-up in consequence!
* * * *
“Spin”: Adult black-ducks feed mainly
in shallow water, scooping up the food
from a few inches down, and seldom sub-
merging the whole body. They never
actually dive like the shag or the musk-
duck, and they’ll rise into gunfire when
you’d think they could secure cover by
making underwater to the reeds. It seems
as though they can’t be driven to dive,
and no doubt their natural buoyancy has
something to do with this ; yet when day-
old ducklings are brought to the water
they’re soon diving for food and staying
under for several seconds. Recently I
found one, a few weeks old, caught as
it tried to swim through a partly-sub-
merged netting-fence, and while the
mother-duck flapped around like a speed-
boat I eased the little bloke through the
mesh. Freed, it dived like a stone, and
when I’d given up hope of seeing it again
it surfaced 20yds. away. In a few weeks
time, when it can fly, it will be either un-
able or unwilling to dive.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Doubt if any territory in the
world produces a richer honey-flow than
the south-west comer of W.A. It’s an
apiarist’s paradise, and no doubt before
the coming of the whites the little native-
bees lived well —which may be one rea-
son why they didn’t bother to develop
stings. But although the eucalypts, which
produce the bulk of the nectar, now also
are the target for the imported apiary-
bees, they don’t depend on bees for pol-
lination. They’ve reached a working-
agreement with birds, from which has
developed a race of trees producing nectar
in relays that carry practically right
through the year, and a family of birds
with bills and tongues specially adapted
for sipping from the eucalypt-cups. There
are 27 species of honeyeater in W.A.,
mostly in the south-west, in a variety of
shapes, sizes and colors though with in
common a long curved beak and a tongue
frayed-out at the end like a brush.
• * * *
“Mackville”: Surprising that the
younger rural-bred blokes don’t seem to
know what a “Spanish windlass” is.
Years ago it was the recognised device
for pulling a beast or vehicle out of a bog,
snigging a log to a required position, or
even serving as an improvised forest-
devil. Only gear is a stout rope and an
axe (for cutting two saplings—one about
4ft. long, the other about 9ft.). One end
of the rope is anchored to a solid stump,
tree or post, the other end attached to the
object to be moved. The short piece of
sapling is roughly pointed and'tapped a
couple of inches into the ground near the
centre of the rope, which is doubled to
a loop and passed around the girth.
Through this loop an end of the long
sapling is passed, making a primitive cap-
stan. If there are two men, one holds the
short sapling (or bole) upright while the
other walks around, pushing against the
long arm, thus winding the rope around
the bole and dragging the object towards
the windlass, the bole itself gradually
ploughing its way towards the anchor as
. the rope shortens: One man can use the
device by holding the bole upright with
one hand, the capstan-arm with the other,
and pushing with his chest. When a
Spanish windlass is assembled properly
something has to go —object, anchor, or
even, as I saw once, a brand-new inch-
and-a-half-thick rope.
HE SENDS HER A PRESENT
OF SPRING
I send you now of my Spring’s possessions
A myriad leaves, the earliest of the year,
Tender as tears or motherhood;
A cloth of wallflowers, pale and pink and red,
Laced with forget-me-nots and, overhead,
Ascending beams of flowering almonds white
For first communion with the air;
A primrose from a bank or under a tree
That brings my childhood;
Waves of shadow on the chequered hill
And all the scenes of resurrection’s drama
Their color and form and sound
Tied in the memory of a Highland air.
Don’t trouble to thank me, please, for I can
well
Spare from my overflow, and every day
The account will, grow and these careless people
Never borrow a spray.
So take the gift I send you
Pivoting on a golden shoe
In a fairy ballet-frock of palest green
And one large rose.
But take it, please do,
Tied in the memory of that Highland air.
A.C.T.
MICHAEL LEO SKENTELBERY.
AN ISLAND FOR SALE
FEW islands off our coast have so
romantic a story as one that’s now
up for sale —the one lying 25 miles south-
east from Port Lincoln (S.A.) and named
by Matthew Flinders after John Thistle,
his sailing-master.
John Thistle, with Midshipman Taylor
and six seamen, went off in the Investi-
gator’s cutter to look for fresh water,
and none of them was seen again. Later
the cutter was found “stove in every
plank.”
Flinders and his party, probably the
first whites to set foot on Thistle Island,
captured and brought back to the ship
a large snake; nobody has since seen a
snake on the island, although near-by
islets are infested with them.
A gang of sealers, comprising escaped
convicts and deserters from whaling-
ships, who made the island their head-
quarters, once rowed right across the
Bight to what is now Albany (W.A.). One
of them told Captain Forbes, of the
trading-schooner Prince of Denmark,
that a great river entered the sea to the
south of Encounter Bay. Forbes sent this
information to the Colonial Secretary in
London, who passed it on to Governor
Darling in Sydney. That led to Charles
Sturt’s historic voyage down the Murray
to the sea and back, which trip confirmed
the sealer’s claim.
After the South Australian Company
had subsequently tried whaling there, the
island remained uninhabited for years —
except for a trapper who exterminated
the wallabies on it —until Tapley brothers
bought it: they raised horses and turkeys,
many of those horses going to India as
Army remounts. The turkeys ran wild
and were rounded-up with sheep-dogs,
to be shipped to Port Adelaide in the
ketch Ariel. This ketch, with two of the
Tapleys abroad, was later lost with all
hands.
Just before the last war Chris Wade
bought the island. Until then, any sheep
tried there had died as a result of “coast
sickness,” but Wade had been keeping
an eye on C.5.1.R.0. experiments, and
he was one of the first to make use of
its discovery that “coast sickness” was
due entirely to lack of minute traces of
cobalt and copper in the soil.
By putting these salts into the drinking-
water Wade successfully built up big
flocks, cutting splendid fleeces and often
topping the market for fat lambs.
The island is now up for sale again
because the present owner wishes to
retire. It would make a wonderful
sanctuary for our native animals and
birds such as the wombat, rock-wallaby,
curlew and mallee-hen ; it is free from
foxes and rabbits.
H. A. LINDSAY.


Faith lit the
Future
Before I left America to fly down the ocean to
Home, the first frosts had accelerated the “fall,”
and leaves were either russet on the trees or had
gone down to thicken Nature’s carpet on the
sidewalks.
And my first sight of Australia again was in
the warm haze of early summer.
The homecoming brought back memories of
other, scattered years—some of them years of war,
others just peaceful wandering in a foreign
countryside.
It was always joy to be home; but the instinct
was stronger this time, as though Australia by its
very growth commanded an increasing place in the
mind; or maybe it was only a sentiment born of
maturer years.
There were times in these last few months
when home seemed a long way off; at other times,
it felt very close such as when I talked to my
mother by overseas telephone on my birthday.
And I can simply say what has been said so
often that the truth of it goes often unheeded: one
has to go away from Australia to appreciate it.
Our country is young. It has its problems.
Limits in achievement have been forced upon it
by the shortness of its history. It has something to
learn from other countries that have set out to excel
in efficiency and to take advantage of all that
science and discovery have to offer.
But it is still, to me, the grandest country in
the world, and the one with the richest potential
for modem development.
Love of country is all very fine, but it isn’t
enough in today’s world. We have to match it with
a Faith in Australia ... in ourselves ... in our
ability to make it rise to heights in which all the
greatness of its past will have been only the
foundational beginning for the glorious future.
7
KEROSENE
PRESSURE
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l£ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Economic Jungle
that the election is over
no time remains to be
wasted in tackling the great
economic and industrial prob-
lems that confront Australia.
There has been a soft-pedalling
on these worrying matters
during the past year, even the
Prime Minister preferring to
talk about prosperity spilling
over and creating an excessive
demand for imports rather than
to say bluntly that overfull em-
ployment and high export prices
for several years have encouraged
in this country a low production-
rate and a high level of costs,
coupled with an excessive con-
sumer-demand.
The Bulletin has been insist-
ent about the impending dangers
to the economy for more than
a year. Mr. Staniforth Ricket-
son, of the various Melbourne
investment-trusts and a well-
known firm of sharebrokers, has
been apprehensive about the
position since early in 1955.
Now many authorities are speak-
ing-out emphatically on similar
lines.
Addressing the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures in
Canberra early in December,
president W. G. Gerard, of
Adelaide, said:
In recent years we have been sub-
jected to a continuing inflationary
movement accompanied by renewed
claims for more and more conces-
sions and higher wages which, in
result, have led to bring about cost-
levels that are now seriously out of
line with the levels prevailing in every
other country in the sterling-area
with whom we trade and compete.
These excess-costs have borne heavily
on our producers, whether primary
or secondary, and upon transport and
other services, which have become
more and more costly to industry.
Unfortunately, there is yet no
evidence at all that the people
of Australia have taken heed of the
danger-signals - which abound on all
sides and very little evidence that
many of our political leaders are
sufficiently aware of the precarious
situation that has arisen through the
progressive weakening of the
purchasing-powers of our currency,
stemming from the shortening of
working-hours and the continuous
raising of wages and allied costs by
one factor after another.
This problem of costs that faces
Australian industry is the same one
that faces producers of all kinds.
Our Parliaments, both Federal and
State, and all political parties must,
in the ensuing months, address
themselves earnestly to the task of
holding-down the ceiling of
production-costs if Australia is to
avoid national hardships.
The task is not made easier by the
actions of some State Governments
in cutting across the function of the
arbitration courts and handing-out
conditions to unions without due
regard to the effect on the costs of
production and to the security of
employment.
Commenting on the effect of
the margins decision, Mr. Gerard
said that its incidence on the
price-level has been twofold. On
the one hand, increasing spend-
ing-power has intensified
demand, while increased margins
have added to the costs-of-pro-
duction of all kinds of goods
and services. “If the marginal
increases granted to date have
been sufficient to start another
inflationary spiral,” he added,
“the restoration of quarterly ad-
justments surely must result in
the lamentable history of 1950-
1953 repeating itself.”
At the National Bank’s annual
meeting, as mentioned on this
page last week, chairman Giddy
said: “There is overwhelming
evidence that we have arrived at
a position where economic
realities have caught up with us
and where artificial measures
will prove useless. In truth, a
somewhat greater effort on all
fronts within the Australian
economy for less in the way of
immediate reward is the only
way out.”
The amount of co-operation
that can be expected from the
Goverments of sovereign States
like N.S.W. (under present Ad-
ministrations) can be judged by
the recent action of Premier
Cahill in restoring basic-wage
adjustments (bringing an immedi-
ate lOs.-a-week rise) just before
the Federal election. “Labor”
Governments of the Cahill order
are wantonly vote-chasing in
anything resembling “economic
policy.” The Cahill mind is
completely subjective to political
ends, and none of his mob has
the slightest conception of
developing or administering any-
thing industrial or economic.
N.S.W. railways still run
largely on what was inherited by
Cahill and Co. 15 years ago;
and the same story prevails
throughout the State. Though
State spendings are enormous,
there has been precious little to
show for them in the ten years
since the end of the war.
These facts have to be faced
by the Federal Government in
any«economic action it may be
contemplating now. They will
also have to be faced by the
people of each State similarly
concerned. It is no use asking
the Federal Government to do
everything. Its Constitutional
powers are extremely limited.
And the time to deal with
Governments of the Cahill order
is at the next elections.
The Wool Clip
TOECEIPTS of wool into
brokers’ stores for the
current season are now esti-
mated at 4,219,000 bales, an in-
crease of 203,000 bales on the
estimate made last July. The clip
is a record, following a phe-
nomenally good season in
N.S.W. Receipts for 1954-55
were 4,034,076 bales, including
45,107 bales of carry-over wool
and 62,664 bales received for
resale.
Wool prices are more stable
now than at the opening of the
selling season, but are still in-
fluenced by the 20 p.c. cut in the
world price of synthetics earlier
this year.
Ampol
WITH salt-water at 3786-
3798 ft. and no sign of
oil, Rough Range No. 9 was
already 179 ft. lower than the oil-
strike horizon, not allowing for
any difference in surface-con-
tours. Seismograph - readings
have nQt been supported by
drilling results, and the share-
market has lost its recently-
acquired enthusiasm; after
touching 275., Ampol Explora-
tion scrip was back to 18s. on
Monday.
“He took it with him!”
Peko Mines, N.L.
AT the Peko Mine (Tennant
Creek, N.T.) the first full
year of productive operations
was completed on June 30 last.
Even so, capacity has not yet
been reached. Soon after mill-
ing began throughput was 1400
tons a month. By the end of
the financial year that figure had
been more than doubled, and by
July, 1956, it is hoped to be
treating 5600 tons a month.
Total millings for the first year
(1954-55) were 23,692 tons.
From this was produced 6465
tons of concentrates, containing
1523 tons of copper, 33590 z.
gold, and 12,2 lOoz. silver.
Gross value of the metal was
£635,208. After setting aside
£35,325 for depreciation and
amortisation, net profit for this
initial year was £44,618. Aver-
age recovery of copper-in-
concentrate during the year was
about 6i p.c. of milling
tonnages.
Working-costs at the close of
the year were £8 ss. 9d. a ton.
They were higher at the begin-
ning of the period, but were still
dropping at the close, and, on
an increasing tonnage, are
expected to fall further.
Ore reserves at June 30
included 224,000 tons of proyed
ore above the 500 ft.-level assay-
ing 10.3 p.c. copper, and 232,000
tons of indicated ore above the
750 ft.-level assaying 7.5 p.c.
(Recent recoveries have averaged
about 7i p.c. copper.)
A diamond-drill intersection
of the Peko lode at 750 ft. indi-
cated a true lode-width of 62ft.
and values averaging 5.1 p.c.
copper; another intersection at
the same average depth at the
eastern extremity of the lode
showed low copper-values and
3.5 p.c. lead, 1.7 p.c. zinc and
loz. 14dwt. silver ore over a
true width of 84ft. The co.
thinks this might indicate the
forming of a lead-zinc body to
the east, and previously
unexpected.
The mine, the chairman says,
is now being run on a “very
iemunerative basis.” Assuming
a realisation of £390 a ton for
copper, the quarter to September
30 last was expected to yield a
profit of £70,000 “available for
dividend purposes.” “Indica-
tions are,” he adds, “that with-
out interfering with its capital
proposals the co. should become
dividend-paying from the profits
of the current financial year,
provided, of course, production
is maintained as scheduled and
copper prices remain at a reason-
able level.”
Peko has acquired the assets
of Cloncurry Uranium, N.L.,


The present
that gives
daily
pleasure
from rare old roots of great
age. Only finest grains are
selected. With a Barling
Pipe you get the result of
the experience of the oldest
firm of pipe makers in
England. There is no
"breaking in," and to
ensure free draught, only
finest quality vulcanite is
bored.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL
LEADING TOBACCONISTS
Trade Enquiries:
Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
For every gift occasion
■
iw.
f rr
i.h
m
> 4
2^
J&t W 9HSS r oit
mkl
c #*l
m
sr,
m
m
i
am
%
m
W:
*
**
m
HI
«-
m
m
*S Q Jfr CVS!®,
m
‘jwJfLiiiihfc
K
m
m
; - 7 fa
• CHRISTMAS
# BIRTHDAY
0 WEDDING
0 GENERAL
PURPOSES
GIVE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
GIFT CHEQUES
No matter where you bank (or even if you have
no bank account at all) you can obtain GIFT
CHEQUES at any branch of the Bank of New
South Wales.
A5542C
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
on short or long term
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY
o
0
Prospectus available at
Commonwealth Trading Bank of
Australia.
Any member of the Stock Exchange.
Any Branch of the Company.
LONG TERM
15 years. Interest per annum 7%
5-10 „ „ 7%
4 ii »» &i%
3 ft it t» »» /o
2 „ a a a s\°/o
SHORT TERM
12 months
9 „
6 ,i
3 „
99
ft
M
99
ft
ft
tf
„ 4Jo/ 0
» 4%
„ 3|o/ 0
„ 31%
99
General Credits Ltd.
(Sponsored by the Automobile Fire and General
Insurance Company of Australia Limited)
Directors : Sir John Newman-Morris, C.M.G.,
(Chairman), J. M. Ford, Y. H. Stanley-Low
(Managing), E. W. Cox,' John Glen, Eric
Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G. Menzies, C.B.E.
UNDERWRITERS:
J. B. Were
& Son
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock mentioned herein.
GC 5
amounting to about £200,00
(mostly in Consols and cash) for
£84,166, par-value ot Peko
shares. (One Peko 2s. 6d. tul y-
paid share was exchanged tor
each three Cloncurry shares.)
Cloncurry’s funds taken over,
together with amortisation
reserves set aside by Peko of
current earnings, should finance
any capital-expenditure immedi-
ately contemplated by Peko.
The name has been changed
from Peko (Tennant Creek)
Gold Mines, N.L., to the present
title, and application has been
made to the Stock Exchange to
list the scrip in the copper sec-
tion, as the co. is not entitled to
tax-exemption as a goldmine.
But there remains the 20 p.c.
tax-rebate applicable to copper
metal.
The extraordinary rise in the
price of copper has helped Peko
a great deal in its first critical
days of production. Copper has
recently risen to £475 a ton in
Australia. In the four-weekly
period to November 16 Peko
milled 3460 tons for a metal
content of 266 tons of copper
and 6190 z. of gold, valued by
the co. at £131,640 (Australian
prices). These figures were a
drop on those of the previous
four-weekly period, which were
4044 tons ore, 284 tons copper
and 7300 z. gold, valued at
£152,800. The concentration-
ratio is improving, and that is
important in an out-of-the-way
mine.
When the Cloncurry deal is
complete, Peko will have an
issue of over 6,000,000 shares
of 2s. 6d. each, valued in the
market at 7s. 3d., which puts
an appraisement of more than
£2,000,000 on the show.
Neither ore - values, ore-
volume, metal prices nor mining
and milling costs have yet
reached a very determinate posi-
tion. The co. is an interesting
developmental prospect, its
future depending largely on the
possibility of discovering big
new tonnages of high-grade ore.
But already it has almost as
many shares issued as North
Broken Hill and Broken Hill
South put together.
Tooheys’ Rights
RIGHTS to Tooheys’ 6 P.c. con-
vertible (Jan., 1962) notes
continue to go cheaply at
9d. They represent a fully-
paid price of about 215., giving
an immediate yield of 5.7 p.c.
and a prospective return
of 7.6 p.c. on conversion into
ords. (on an 8 p.c. div. basis).
The present ords. currently
yield 5.9 p.c. at 275. Either way
of buying into Tooheys gives a
higher yield than that to be got
from any other firont - rank
Australian brewery.
: 1
Pulp and Paper
IN view of projected restric-
tions on the import of paper
of various kinds, activities of the
Australian industry are unusually
interesting.
The Australian pulp, paper
and paper-board industry pro-
vides nearly threequarters of
Australia’s pulp requirements,
and, if newsprint is excluded,
about 80 p.c. of paper and paper-
board needs. Only a third of
Australia’s newsprint require-
ments is supplied locally.
Three organisations operate
10 out of the 15 paper-mills and
account for more than 90 p.c. of
total production of paper and
paper-boards. There are mills in
all States, but the main pro-
ducers are in Victoria, Tasmania
and N.S.W.
Apart from the loss of produc-
tion occasioned by the closing of
the pulp and paper-board mill
of Tasmanian Board Mills in
April, 1955, there have been no
large ‘ changes in production-
rates during the past six months.
Most paper-making plants are
operating at or near practical
capacity, according to a survey
made by the Division of Indus-
trial Development, Canberra,
although some are not yet on
full seven-day week continuous
operation. Board-production is
at about 80 p.c. to 85 p.c. of
the practical capacity.
With the closing of the pulp-
mill of Tasmanian Board Mills,
there are now four mills produc-
ing pulp in Australia. These
mills have capacity to produce
about 170,000 tons of pulp a
year, and the current rate of
production is not far below this
level.
The short-fibred pulp produced
from Australian eucalypt forms
the basis of the Australian pulp-
industry. Some long-fibred pulp
is produced from Australian
softwoods, but' most of Aus-
tralia’s requirements of long-
fibred pulp are imported. Pulp-
imports for the year ended June,
1955, totalled 82,817 tons.
Australia’s only newsprint-mill
is operating 24 hours a day, seven
days a week, and current output,
which is at the rate of 75,000
tons a year, is considered to be
about full practical capacity at
the present time.
Imports of newsprint were
213,672 tons in 1954-55, a rise
of 60,000 tons from 1953-54,
when imports totalled 153,000
tons, and it seems likely that
Australia will be dependent on
imports for a large part of news-
print supplies for some years.
The present rate of production
of paper other than newsprint,
and of £aper-board, is slightly
above the April, 1955, level. The
most significant increase is in the
field of fine printing- and writing-
papers, where production is now
at a «rate about 10 p.c. higher
than in April.
Demand for pulp has not
varied appreciably in- the past
six months, but imports lately
have ' been substantial.
Imports for 1954-55 totalled
82,817 tons, as compared with
71,856 tons for the preceding
year. Demand in 1954-55 was
about 220,000 tons.
There is a tendency for
demand for locally produced
papers to strengthen owing to the
fact that import-restrictions have
increased the difficulties of
obtaining paper from overseas,
and to the fact that the over-
seas market has been fairly firm
and deliveries have not been
easy to get at short notice.
Australia’s newsprint require-
ments now total about 250,000 to
260,000 tons a year. The local
manufacturer can produce only
75,000 to 80,000 tons. Demand
is increasing, and it seems likely
that it will continue to do so at
least in proportion to the growth
in population.
As production is generally
against firm orders, stocks of
finished products held by manu-
facturers are not large. Despite
large imports, there seems to
have been no noticeable increase
in stocks held by the trade
generally.
During the past six months
there have been a few minor
price-adjustments for varying
types of paper and board, but
in general prices have remained
fairly stable.
Although'the cost of imported
pulp has risen recently by £1 to
£2 a ton, and freight and other
costs are edging upwards, the
industry is striving to keep
prices down.
Major producers are continu-
ing with their long-term expan-
sion plans. A new paper-making
machine of Associated Pulp and
Paper Mills, Ltd., commenced
production at Burnie, Tasmania,
in May this year, and another
machine is also being installed.
Australian Paper Manufac-
turers, Ltd., will have an addi-
tional paper-making machine
in operation at Mary vale,
Victoria, early in 1956.
Work is also continuing
on the company’s board-mill pro-
ject at Petrie, Queensland. At
Bomaderry, near Nowra, N.S.W.,
a mill for the production of fine
paper is being erected by Shoal-
haven Paper Mills Pty., Ltd.
(formerly Wiggins Teape and
William Nash Pty., Ltd.).
The pulp-and-paper industry
is continuing to expand to meet
the growing market for paper
and paper-board in Australia.
Imports are considerable and
may be expected to continue
generally at a high level for
some years, in the opinion of the
Division of Industrial Develop-
ment.
The growing New Zealand
industry has become an im-
portant supplier of pulp to the
Australian market, and news-
print is expected to be available
from the Dominion early in 1956.
Demand is strong, and may
strengthen still further during
the next six months.
The Kulnura Well
FROM L. Owen: The state-
ment that the Kulnura well
(N.S.W.) was located on an
almost perfect dome (B.
30/11/’55) was made to me by
one of the then geological staff
of Oil Search, Ltd., when I
visited the bore, at that co.’s
invitation, early in 1938. Long
experience in the oil game had
taught me that domes or anti-
clines, however perfect, were of
secondary importance in oil-find-
ing, so I didn’t trouble to inquire
whether the statement was in-
spired by the surface- or core-
evidence, or both.
If Dr. Raggatt reads my Dural
article with care he will find that
the emphasis is laid there on the
relatively subordinate role played
by “structural highs” alone.
It appears to me that my
cautious appraisal of the oil-
potential of the Dural area is far
less liable to “wrong inferences”
than the optimistic statements
which have been such a common
feature of lectures, press-reports
and prospectuses dealing with the
exploration for commercial
petroleum in Australia.


Safeguard
your Estate
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTO.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR.21.58
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
N. S. WALES DIRECTORS:
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor ol
your Will.
Advantages: Security . . . Continuity . . . Expert Management . . .
Impartiality ... Accessibility ... Secrecy ... Continuous Audit. . . Moderate
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £ 971,002.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R.
Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. CadwalladerSir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.Q., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heifer; W. Sydn6y Jones;
Alan Q. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of A/asia, Ltd.
A LTHOUGH the co.’s declared profits
have increased nearly fivefold over
the last decade, and the div. has shot
up from 9 p.c. to 55 p.c. during the same
period, the investment possibilities of the
scrip have not been exhausted. The main
reason is that the big new sulphate-of-
ammonia plant (capacity 55,000 tons p.a.,
about "half Australia’s current consump-
tion), although ready to start up at short
notice, is unable to do so because the
Hydro-Electric Commission cannot make
the necessary power available.
The co.’s 1953 contract with the com-
mission was for an average annual load
of 97,500 h.p., of which the big zinc
smelter and ancillary plant would consume
about 67,500 h.p. and the ammonia plant
30,000 h.p. Average load available last
term was 65,129 h.p., which was not
sufficient for capacity zinc-production.
Hopes are that the ammonia plant will
start up on a limited scale about mid-
-1956, but it is uncertain when enough
current will become available for full-
scale production. Meanwhile, a lot of
money will remain tied up in assets con-
tributing little, or nothing, to net
earnings.
Last term net earnings increased by
£234,927, reaching a record £2,421,767,
thanks mainly to a rise in the price of
zinc, bigger outturn of the metal and
better return from investments (£114,088,
up £39,221):
z Dividends——To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1951. .1,677,535 35 35 1,050,000 627,535 2,963,068
1952. .2,112,476 45 45 1,350,000 762,476 3,725,544
1953. .1,683,015 40 40 1,200,000 483,015 4,208,559
1954. .2,186,840 47$ 47$ 1,425,000 761,840 4,970,399
1955. .2,421,767 55 65 1,650,000 771,767 5,742,160
* After deducting intangibles, but including mine
depreciation reserve, etc., £172,226 and £525,000
respectively. Excludes amortisation reserve,
£8,887,378 at 30/6/’65.
The £2,421,767 of profit—written after
allowing £750,000 (same as previous year)
for depreciation, and £1,334,500 (down
£5500) for taxation —was 80.7 p.c. on the
£3,000,000 of capital.(half of it carries a
cumulative 8 p.c. and advances with the
ords. beyond that rate) as against 72.8,
56.1, 70.4, 55.9, 46.6 and 38.9 p.c. back
to 1949. The growth in earning-power is
due mainly to the steady increase in
smelter and other plant-capacity, high
metal prices, the mounting pile of visible
reserves which support and assist the
share capital, and the fact that the big
programme of expansion has been fin-
anced out of surplus earnings. On capital
and reserves combined, including the
amortisation reserve, last term’s profit
was only 14.1 p.c. The div. was lifted
from an all-round 47| p.c. to 55 p.c.,
making the average distribution 44.5 p.c.
over the last five years.
Reconstruction of the capital account
would put the picture into truer perspec-
tive. This the board has under considera-
tion, but has not yet decided exactly how
the prefs. should be treated. Their par-
ticipating rights extend to dividends only.
At the moment they are not entitled to
share in the distribution of surplus assets,
wherein lies the stumbling-block. Its
removal may call for an alteration to the
fco.’s articles.
During the year the roasters treated
212,151 tons (down 2017 tons) zinc con-
centrates (23 p.c. from the co.’s own
mines and the balance from Broken Hill)
for 185,104 tons (down 1405 toils) cal-
cines, which the smelter and by-products
plants handled for the following results: —■
Cad-
Zfnc, Silver, Lead, mium,Copper, Gold,
Tons. oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1952.. 83,501 291,014 1,774 210 141 1,479
1953.. 87,356 300,328 1,861 204 144 1,563
1954.. 99,201 339,545 2,418 241 185 1,444
1955.. 100,506 315,405 2,548 222 162 1,451
* Includes residues from copper plant.
Deliveries of slab zinc totalled 94,953 tons
(down 5303 tons), of which nearly 65 p.c.
was to Australian consumers and the
balance mostly to India and the U.K.
Average Australian price of the metal for
the year to June 30 last was £107.6 (up
£13.1) per ton.
In addition 75,817 tons (up 1673 tons)
superphosphates were produced, and
82,365 tons were sold. Sulphuric-acid
production totalled 101,759 tons (down
2955 tons). When the fourth flash-roaster
and third new contact-acid unit are com-
plete, total acid-making capacity at Ris-
don will be about 170,000 tons p.a.
At the co.’s mines at Rosebery (Tas.)
the mill treated 181,272 tons (down 7165
tons) ore, assaying 18.15 p.c. zinc and
5.45 p.c. lead, plus small amounts of
copper, silver and gold, for 52,012 tons
zinc concentrates, 8123 tons lead concen-
trates and 6711 tons copper concentrates.
Ore reserves remain at 2,000,000 tons;
but the diamond-drill has disclosed a lot
more payable stuff outside the measured
limits.
Continued expansion and a strong
financial position are features of the
financial structure:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Reserves .. 4,380,785 5,142,625 5,389,392
Depreciation
provision .. 6,829,245 7,612,600 8,887,387
Overdrafts .. 648,228
Sundry creditors 1,622,416 1,842,354 1,848,945
Deposits .. 141 79
Tax provision 1,086,790 1,399,255 1,393,306
Pinal div. .. 825,000 1,050,000 1,200,000
£18,392,605 £20,046,913 £21,719,030
Mines and roads 624,823 660,993 677,437
Freeholds, etc. 1,000,756 1,116,681 1,270,940
Plant, etc. .. 8,599,036 10,604,992 12,060,571
Shares, etc. .. 865,832 837,722 1,025,768
Stocks and stores 3,679,426 2,785,370 3,284,525
Book debts .. 1,702,366 2,291,571 1,575,380
Cash, etc. .. 1,748,140 1,577,358 1,652,183
Intangibles .. 172,226 172,226 172,226
£18,392,605 £20,046,913 £21,719,030
The year’s net addition to plant, etc., was
£1,455,579, largely in connection with the
new sulphate-of-ammonia works. Stocks
increased by £499,155, and book-debts
were reduced by £716,191. The strong
holding of cash, etc., is sufficient to take
care of further capital expenditure
already planned.
At 435. 3d. (395. 3d. a year ago and
28s. 3d. 12 months before that) the f.-p.
ss. ords. return 6.3 p.c. on a 55 p.c. div.
basis, with long-term prospects. On the
same div. basis the prefs. at 425. 9d.
yield 6.4 p.c., which is an expression of
the market’s confidence that the prefs.
will receive satisfactory treatment in any
reconstruction of the capital account.
Clyde Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
nrHIS big engineering and merchandis-
ing organisation—parent and 11
subsidiaries —has a progressive post-war
record and good trading prospects, for
part of the undertaking at any rate. At
295. 3d. the f.-p. £1 ords. return 6.8 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. basis, with satisfactory divi-
dend cover. The 5 p.c. first and second
prefs. at 17s. and 15s. 6d. yield. 5.9 p.c.
and 6.4/p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is £ll ss. lid. firsts,
£lO ss. lid. seconds and 28s. Id. ords.
And the 10 p.c. (an annual event for the
last five years) has been sweetened with
two lots of bonus scrip—£260,000 in
May, 1954, and £220,213 in February,
1955 —making it worth 13.5 p.c. on the
face-value of holdings at the close of
accounts in 1953. Although the 1955
figures suggest that the gift-giving has not
been overdone, results to date have been
won under exceptionally favorable condi-
tions, and the co. is leaning substantially
on outsiders.
Since the war the management has
launched out into the merchandising of
engineering and allied products, as well
as into manufacture of some light-engin-
eering and other lines, which now include
auto-parts and motor body-building, etc.
More important has been the advent of
the diesel-electric locomotive, turned out
under agreement with General-Motors
Corp. (U.S.), whereby the old heavy-
jobbing section of the business, once a
lame duck, has now become a major con-
tributor to turnover and profits, and looks
like continuing in that role for some time
to come.
The following list of subsidiaries gives
an overall picture of the organisation and
the range of activities covered:
Clyde Engineering Co. Pty., heavy-
engineering works, Granville (N.S.W.).
Paul and Gray Pty. (N.S.W. and Q.),
ship’s chandlers, etc. Clyde Batteries
Pty. (N.S.W.), all types acid batteries.
John Carruihers and Co. Pty. (N.S.W.),
mechanical, electrical and earth-moving
equipment. Green Point Shipbuilding
and Engineering Pty. (N.S.W.), ship-
repairers, engineers, etc. A. C. Willard
and Co. (N.S.W.), stainless-steel, chemical
and food-processing plants. Material
Handling Pty., Ltd. (N.S.W.), distributes
American- and Italian-made tractors and
other products. Clyde Sales Pty., Ltd.
(N.S.W.), merchandising outlet for some of
the subsidiaries. Martin and King
Industries, Ltd. (Vic.), motor-body
builders and rolling-stock engineers, etc.
Apac Industries, Ltd. (S.A.), manufac-
turers of automotive lifting-jacks, materials-
handling and spraying-equipment, etc.
All the offshoots traded at a profit last
term, some more so than others. Trac-
tors, fork-lift trucks and similar heavy
equipment were difficult to move.
Because of big savings in running and
other costs, and additional advantages
relating to running-time, earning-capacity
and capital investment, etc., diesel-electric
traction is superseding steam on the Aus-
tralian railways, as it has done in the
U.S. Chief obstacle retarding the transi-
tion here is finance, as recent state-
ments by the N. S. Wales Railways Com-
missioner have made plain. The co.’s
Granville plant has delivered about half
the 107 mainline locos for which orders
have been received to date, and is also
engaged on construction of some 30
small industrial locos for use on cane-
fields in Queensland and Fiji. Total value
of orders on hand is about £4\ million
as against £3| million a year ago.
Martin and King Industries (Mel-
bourne) was taken over a year or so ago
for £116,995 in scrip at par. Plant is now
being expanded at cost of about £500,000
to cope with assembly, etc., of the new
German small car, Volkswagen, which is
also being equipped with Clyde batteries.
Apac Industries (Adelaide) was bought
last term for £116,476, payment being in
84,710 f.-p. £1 Clyde ords. issued at a
premium of 7s. 6d. each. A ready custo-
mer for some of its products will be
Martin and King, whose net earnings, as
well as those of Apac, are expected to
increase in the near future.
After allowing £186,720 (up £50,210)
for depreciation and £209,138 (up
£12,857) for taxation,"combined net earn-
ings of the .group increased by £42,251,
reaching £379,668:
Clyde Industries and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends •,
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.e. p.c. £ £
1951 .. 188,114 5 10 114,853 806,438
Added intangibles, £7275 .. .. 799,163
Unexplained reduction, £lBB6 .. 797,277
1952 .. 164,870 5 10 123,744 838,403
1953 .. 220,111 5 10 160,000 898,514
, Added intangibles, £26,868 .. 871,646
Reserves capitalised, £260,000 .. 611,646
Unexplained additions, £1062 .. 612,708
1954 .. 337,417 5 10 178,850 771,275
Reserves capitalised, £220,213 .. 551,062
Share premiums, £31,766 .. .. 582,828
Add reserve adjustments, £58,655.. 641,383
Add reduction intangibles, £3498.. 644,881
1955 .. 379,668 6 10 217,181 807,368
• After deducting intangibles, now £36,156.
The pref, divs. called for £30,000, the
balance of the year’s profit being 17.6 p.c.
on ord. capital as it stood at the close of
accounts, compared with 20.8, 14.6, 14.3,
18.6, 12.6 and 3.4 p.c. back to 1949.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) the year’s profit was
11.2 p.c. The share premiums and other
additions to reserves relate to acquisition
of the Apac business. Despite the capi-
talisation, net reserves were £36,093
stronger than at the previous balance.
Bigger trading, additions to plant-
capacity, the capitalisation and Apac deal
resulted in large movements in balance-
sheet figures:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Ord 1,300,000 1,670,545 1,981,918
Reserves .. .. 898,515 771,275 807,368
Outside interests.. 6,450 107,200
Notes .. .. 800,000 800,000
Overdraft .. . . 826,570 109,550 103,511
Creditors, etc. .. 878,830 1,430,635 2,142,621
Final div. .. 65,000 83,850 99,096
£4,568,915 £5,472,305 £6,641,714
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,009,655 1,262,554 1,356,564
Plant . . .. 941,406 1,086,780 1,342,885
Stocks .. . . 1,093,591 1,977,554 2,409,429
Debtors .. .. 907,296 890,993 1,493,027
Investments .. 7,850 139,521 25,000
Cash, etc. .. 9,117 114,903 14,809
£4,568,915 £5,472,305 £6,641,714
To meet net additions of £380,115 to
fixed assets, £431,875 to stocks and
£602,034 to book-debts the co. drew upon
cash and investments for £214,615 and
increased the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £711,986. When the
books closed noteholders, the bank and
sundry creditors, etc.j had 17s. lid. at
risk in the business for every £1 of net
tangibles belonging to shareholders. A
further £200,000 of note-money has been
raised privately since.
Tooth & Co. (Sydney)
nrHE long-awaited issue of bonus-scrip
A —last previous issue was in 1929 —
was made on February 9, 1955. It was on
a one-for-two basis, and the £3,091,329
involved came from a reserve of like
amount created by writing-up the book-
value of some of the assets. At the same
time £3,987,390 of other inner reserves
was taken from hiding and put in the
window; in 1947 £2,219,390 had been
similarly disclo'sed. Fixed assets still
appear at or under cost, and at cost less
depreciation, which suggests that the
board has not capitalised unearned in-
crement due to post-war inflation, and
that fixed assets are still worth a lot more
than their book-value.
The market, always prepared to wait
for its benefits from a first-class brewery
stock, lifted its bid for the f.-p. £1 ords.
from 795. 3d. in June, 1954, to 88s. 6d.
in January, 1955 ; the figure dropped to
555. 9d. ex rights a month later, and stood
at 525. last week. The return at 525. is
4.2 p.o. on an 11| p.c. div. basis. The
investor whp looks for 5.8 p.c. on his
money counts on the distribution reach-
ing 15 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 375. lid.
One of the most solidly-entrenched
brewery organisations in the Common-
wealth, the co. owns about one-third of
the licensed hotels in N. S. Wales, the
majority of which are situated in the
Metropolitan, Newcastle and Riverina
areas. Shareholders have never failed to
receive a div. since the co. bought the
business from the Tooths in 1888 for
£900,000. Average rates for the first five
decades of this century were 8.5, 9.6,
10.5, 10.4 and 13 p.c., and for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1954
15.3 p.c. Also £5,241,422 of the present
£9,273,986 of paid capital is bonus scrip.
Of recent years the extraordinary pros-
perity of the trade has been due largely
to full-to-overfull employment at high


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
"URANIUM AND RADIO
ACTIVE ORES"
By G. S. COMPTON* 8.5 c.,,
and W. H. CLEVERLEY, B.Sc.
2s. 6d. posted
From:
Prospectors Association,
Box 217, P. 0., Kalgoorlie,
Western Australia
For Sale.
One only Model BBS-4 Boyles Bros.
Diamond Drill with hydraulic head, com-
plete with Model 1200 M Min. Drill
750-1200 gallon pump and 6000 feet
of BX Rods and all accessories necessary
for deep hole drilling.
Also considerable quantity of other
mining equipment.
For further particulars, apply—
NEW OCCIDENTAL GOLD
MINES N.L.,
Box 3869, G.P.0., Sydney.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACQUES GASTIN FORTIS—TAKE
NOTICE that GWENDOLINE MARGARET
FORTIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3104 of 1964 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1954 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 16th February
1966 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. C. RICKARD,
SYMONDS & CO., Solicitors, of 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
36in.
:
IS
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear"
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SIDNEY;
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the
cost of residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up
to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees, or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICUETURAE COEEEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l2O
per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made
available under the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means
are insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural
Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at
the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, as the case may lye.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly com-
pleted not later than the 9th January, 1956, in the case of
Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and
not later than the 6th February, 1956, in the case of those
tenable at the University of Sydney), and further particulars
may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
and rising wage-rates, growth of
population and steady addition
to the string of hotels. Con-
sider these figures:
Year Beer Consumption—,
June’ Population Total Per Head
30 NS.W.* Gallons. Gallons.
1950 .. 3,146.000 54,704,000 17.4
1952 . . 3,313,000 66,799,000 20.1
1954 .. 3,406,000 79,943,000 23.4
1955 .. 8,460,000 89,237,000 25.8
*Mean population for year.
Since 1950 growth in the mean
populatioh of N. S. Wales was
approximately 10 p.c., and in
the average annual consumption
of beer per head of population
48 p.c. Obviously swollen pay-
packets and shorter hours have
played a big part in brewery
turnovers, which were further
assisted by 10 p.m. closing during
the year to June 30 last.
After allowing £596,263 for
depreciation, something for
taxation, and making “adequate
provision in respect of assets
subject to fluctuation,” Tooth’s
board wrote net earnings
£105,833 stronger at a record
£1,180,909 last term:
Net
Sept., Profit. Reserves.
£ £ £
’60.. 958,808 15 = 927,399 } 4 0C5>2 83
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. ) ’
’51.. 949,246 15 =927,399 1 4 0 77.130
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. i
’52.. 952,775 15 =927,399 1 4 0 92,508
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. )
’58..1,013,739 154 = 958,312 1 4,137,935
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. f
Assets revaluation reserve,
£3,091,329 .. •• 7,229,264
Unexplained additions,
£3,987,390 . . • • 11,216,654
‘54..1,075,076 16 = 989,225 1 n 292, 505
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. )
Reserve capitalised,
£8,091,329 . . . • 8,201,176
’55..1,180,909 114=1,066,508 1 8 305,577
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. J
The £1,180,909 was 12.7 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the close
of accounts, compared with 17.3,
16.4, 15.4 and 15.3 p.c. back to
1951. The dividend dropped
from 16 p.c. to 111 P- c -> ut the
lower rate was equal to 17.2 p.c.
on capital as it stood immediately
before the bonus share-issue. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s
profit was a moderate 6.7 p.c.
The co. is well-shod finan-
cially :
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £6,182,657 £9,273,986
Reserves •. 11,292,505 8,305,577
Overdraft .. 387,829
Creditors .. 4,703,820 4,965,428
Employees’ fund 123,568 135,358
Final div. . . 494,613 556,439
£22,797,163 £23,624,617
Freeholds and
plant .. 15,792,748 16, 995,293
Stocks .. 1,224,951 1,337,664
Debtors . • 1,892,090 2,306,812
Consols, cash, etc. 3,887,374 2,984,848
£22,797,163 £23,624,617
Most encouraging feature there
is the year’s net growth of
£1,202,545 in fixed assets, which
reflects additions and improve-
ments to plant, etc., at the co.’s
three breweries, as well as the
erection of new hotels, remodel-
ling and extension of existing
properties and provision for in-
creased guest facilities. A new
bottling unit at the Kent brewery
has commenced production, and
a similar new unit at the
Waverley brewery will be in
operation about March next. Ifi
all means bigger output of both
draught and bottled beer and
increased hotel earnings, subject
to economic developments, of
course.
Mb Isa Mines, Ltd.
THE outlook for shareholders
is mixed. The mine is a big
medium - grade silver-lead-zinc
and relatively high-grade copper-
producer, situated in the centre
of north-west Queensland. Much
will depend upon the future level
of metal prices and whether the
co. decides to erect its own zinc
smelter and copper-refinery —
both projects are under con-
sideration. Meanwhile, the divi-
dend policy will be partly gov-
erned by the cost (estimated
amount not stated) of a big pro-
gramme of mine-development.
The price of the f.-p. ss.
shares (there are 5,757,312 of
them) advanced from 425. 6d.
to 78s. over the last two years.
The immediate return at 78s. is
6.4 p.c. on last term’s 25 p.c.
distribution, which was more
than twice covered by the profit
claimed. The investor who
looks for, say, 9 p.c. on his
money counts on the div. reach-
ing 35 p.c. and/or other benefits.
Behind the rise in the price
of the scrip lies the strengthening
of metal prices, opening-up of
the copper deposit and produc-
tion of blister, which began a
couple of years ago, increased
outturn of metals, consequent
growth of earnings, and lift in
the div.
Average London metal prices
per ton for the last three years
compare as follows:
Year, r -‘ Average Price \
June 30, Lead. Zinc. Copper.
1954 .. £592.9 £574.9 £5236.1
1955 . . 103.1 84.5 296.0
After allowing £BOO,OOO (same
as previous term) for deprecia-
tion, £941,250 (up £421,250) for
taxation, and writing off £73,092
(down £34,057) spent on pros-
pecting, the leap in declared net
earnings was £1,210,976:
Net
June, Profit.* , —‘-Dividends— N Reserves.
£ £ £
’53..1,668,663 15p.c.= 863,597 5,105,000
’54..2,096,274 20 „ „ 1,151,462 6,049,812
’55..3,307,250 25 „ „ 1,439,328 7,917,734
* After deducting debenture interest and
allowing for depreciation.
The record £3,307,250 of profit
was 57.4 p.c. on capital as
against 36.4, 29, 37.8 and 27.7
p.c. back to 1951. Main reasons
for keeping the div. down
were capital requirements for
development, etc. £1,000,000
(up £400,000) of the year’s profit
has been set aside for this pur-
pose—and the need for more
money to finance the slow flow
of mine products to their final
markets, due mainly to rail and
other transport difficulties.
Net earnings of each section
of the venture are not disclosed,
but a “substantial portion” of
the year’s profit came from
copper. Of this portion 20 p.c.
is tax-free in the hands of both
the co. and its shareholders.
But until current negotiations
with the taxgatherer are com-
plete, the amount available for
distribution as tax-free divi-
dends cannot be stated. Follow-
ing a decision of the High
Court in February last, the
co. will also receive a sub-
stantial tax-rebate on certain
capital-expenditure going back
to 1945.
Crude ore treated was as
follows:
Ore Milled.
Lead, Copper, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1953 . . 641,520 206,380 847,905
1954 . . 645,083 565,897 1,210,980
1955 . . 670,514 573,678 1,244,192
Assay-values of the lead-zinc
feed were 7.8 p.c. lead, 6.10 z.
silver and 5.9 p.c. zinc, and of
the copper ore 3.8 p.c. copper.
The products turned out
were:
Lead Blister
June Silver, Bullion, Zinc,* Copper,
30, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1954.. 2.872.493 35,725 40,198 19,869
1955.. 370.920 39,730 36,415 21,585
* Concentrates.
In addition 4866 tons (up 1078
tons) of lead-dross was pro-
duced.
Ore reserves at June 30 last
were:
Assay ■,
Ag. Pb. Zn. Cu.
Lead-zinc — Tons. Oz. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Carbonates .. 400,000 3.5 7.5
Sulphides ..11,800,000 6.2 8.5 6.2
Total .. ..12,200,000 6.1 8.5 6.2
Coppei • —
Sulphides .. 4,960,000 3.9
Oxides .. 140,000 -—■ 7.0
Total .. .. 5,100,000 - 4.2
The • year’s increase was
2,300,000 tons in the lead-zinc
and 1,400,000 tons in the copper
section. The copper tonnage is
expected to be substantially
increased.
Outstanding feature of the
balance-sheet is the year’s
growth of £1,853,225 in
stocks:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £5,757.312 £5,767,312
Reserves .. 0,049,811 7,917,733
Debentures .. 1,289,788 1,151,650
Creditors .. 724,728 1,105,812
Overdraft .. 234,605 38,156
Due to subsidiary
cos 271,998 723,694
Tax provision .. 565,879 1,006,692
Dividends .. 1,151,462 863,597
£16,045,583 £18,564,552
Mines and plant 8,108,347 8,520,937
Shares other cos. 1,161,056 1,133,024
Stocks . . 5,841,830 7,695,055
Debtors .. -549,788 831.028
Bonds and cash 384,562 384,508
£16,045,583 £18,564,552
Owing to the precarious rail-
transport position the year was
one of recurring crises with
stocks of coal, coke and lime-
stone, which resulted in a
temporary shut-down of smelt-
ing operations since the close of
accounts.
NEGLECT OF EXPORTS
A CARDINAL ERROR
Addressing the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in
Melbourne on Wednesday, 30th November, Mr. H. D.
GIDDY, Chairman of Directors of The National Bank
of Australasia Ltd., said that
“the failure to expand export capacity to match more
closely the rate of development has proved to be a
cardinal error. Had this mistake been avoided, it seems
reasonably certain that today we would be far nearer
achieving sound national development without external
financial embarrassment.”
Continuing, Mr. Giddy said, “Un-
fortunately, Governments were in-
fluenced to base national develop-
ment largely upon the false premise
that expansion of home industries
would rapidly reduce import require-
ments and that there would be no
difficulty in financing imports.
PROBLEM OF IMPORTS
“Nobody would deny that our pro-
duction of many goods, and of some
basic materials, has expanded
greatly,” said the Chairman. “But
so have our import requirements,
as a result of additional population
and the demands of our expanding
industries for plant, equipment and
raw materials. Compared with the
pre-war years, there have been vers
large increases in the quantities im-
ported, for example, of basic raw
materials, most kinds of textiles,
foodstuffs and a wide variety of ex-
pensive capital equipment. There is
little sense in imagining that we are
achieving import replacement if by
this is meant merely that we would
have had to try to import more if
domestic production had not ex-
panded considerably. This is not
the point at all. The plain fact is
that the amount we can afford to
spend upon imports is—and always
was—strictly limited.
“Replacement of imports, by ex-
pansion of home production sufficient
to ease materially our balance of
payments problem, is a very long-
term objective, though of course one
to be steadily pursued.”
PENETRATION OF NEW
MARKETS
Mr. Giddy said that “it is obvious
that a larger proportion of our re-
sources and skill will have to be
devoted to the production and market-
ing of exportable goods. The nation
must be determined to carry such
policy into practice, with various
forms of Government aid where
helpful.
“If necessary, Governments can
encourage exports by schemes to
guarantee payment from other
countries and-by the intelligent co-
operation of Government trade
officials. However, while of consider-
able help, such measures are no sub-
stitute for the active penetration of
overseas markets by private busi-
ness interests and selling organisa-
tions. New markets need to be
aggressively pioneered; it is futile
to wait for overseas buyers to come
to us, either for primary products
or for manufactured goods. Ex-
ports have to be sold under highly
competitive conditions, and we must
make our goods far better known in
overseas mairkets.
“Even allowing for the fact that
similar goods of different origin are
rarely identical in price owing to
variations in quality, design, etc.,
the most serious disability in trying
to enlarge our exports is the height
of our costs; and these do pose a
crucial problem.
FUNDAMENTAL RE-ADJUST-
MENTS NEEDED
“As emergency devices to hold our
external currency reserves and to
ease internal inflationary pressures,
import restrictions, pleas for re-
straint in spending, and a stringent
bank lending policy may be unavoid-
able. But removal of the basic
causes of such emergencies will re-
quire, I think, measures that can be
permanent and which touch funda-
mentals within the Australian
economy.
“In some quarters, the fashion is
to attribute our balance of payment
problems and our inflationary ten-
dencies to the existence of what is
termed ‘excess demand,’ which, it
is said, from time to time ‘spills
over’ into imports. Some who
adopt this superficial explanation
also offer a superficial cure. Heavier
taxation, they say—and the figure
of an additional £lOO millions per
annum has been bandied about
would ‘skim off’ this ‘excess de-
mand’ and bring us back into
balance.
“Faith in such a proposal is
merely wishful thinking; wishful
thinking which is very close to the
socialistic line. Heavier taxation
would mean a contraction in the
capacity of private enterprise to
operate—taking this phrase in its
broadest meaning—and an expan-
sion in the capacity for Government
activity. But our experience over
the past decade has shown in con-
vincing manner that it is not ex-
pansion in the capacity of Govern-
ments to act that is needed, but the
reverse. Of course, in the modem
world considerable Government
action is unavoidable, but let us re-
member that in our country it Is
already excessive.
“It would be foolish to enlarge
this capacity at a time when, above
all, the urgent need is for funda-
mental re-adjustments within the
economy and in the nation’s attitude
toward its economic difficulties.
INCOMES MUST BE RELATED
TO EFFORT
“In the long run,” said Mr. Giddy,
“I believe that the incomes of the
community must be related to the
real value of the effort made. In
our case, this value must be in line
with the true comparative efficiency
of our overseas trading associates
and competitors; otherwise we shall
not attain our objectives. Failing
definite improvement in the true
worth of our productive efforts, the
real value of incomes may be re-
duced by further inflation.
“There is overwhelming evidence
that we have arrived at a position
where economic realities have caught
up with us and where artificial
measures will prove useless. In
truth, a some What greater effort on
all fronts within the Australian
economy for less in the way of im-
mediate reward is the only way out.
BANK’S CONTINUED
EXPANSION-
“BaIance Sheet totals of £283,523.924
are £12,298,765 higher than last year
owing mainly to an increase of
£3,363,012 In the Paid-up Capital and
a rise of £6,137,731 in Deposits and
Other Liabilities. Net profit in-
creased by £147,961 to £889,935 re-
flecting to some extent the intake
of fresh capital in March last.
“Branches and offices increased to
781 (3 in London) and though the
total number of staff rose by 243
to 4,990, the Bank’s growth is such
that a considerably larger intake of
new officers, both men and women,
is an urgent need.”


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The round of Christmas-parties is in
merry swing, with no lessening, it seems,
of the teenage parties, despite the earlier
protest from heads of colleges. Some
commentators have tried to make a kind
of “blackboard jungle” of these parties,
but the fact is that in the vast majority
of cases they are the essence of innocence.
Still, there are obviously too many of
them, some are too ostentatious, and
there is not enough deference paid to the
parents who provide them. Another dis-
turbing factor enters with the weekend’s
news from the U.S. that noise can prob-
ably set one’s hair on fire, for the decibel-
rating at a teenage-party is very, very
high.
Indeed, this Letter’s hair began to
sizzle slightly at several of the growmup
parties attended during the week, for a
lively din is generally the sign of a
successful “do.” However, it was not
so at the Christmas Ball given by the
R.A.A.F. officers at Glenbrook on Friday.
Held out-of-doors in the spacious
grounds, it managed to be both gay and
soothing.
This party had an “out-of-this-world”
atmosphere, with its huge living Christ-
mas-tree, reflecting lights, balloons and
fluttering tinsel in the waterlily-pond,
tiny Christmas-trees glittering all along
the tables set on the terrace for supper
and the garlanded lights through the trees.
Anxious eyes were cast at the skies,
which, however, remained friendly (“I
never knew a climate which changed so
quickly,” said U.S. Consul-General Don-
ald Kennedy, who was present). Air-Vice-
Marshal A. L. Walters and Mrs. Walters
(she wearing a long black sheath-dress in
taffeta) welcomed the 400 guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
Do fourth- or fifth-generation Aus-
tralians get a special look about them?
If one may judge from the members of
the Australasian Pioneers’ Club who
gathered for their annual At Home on
Friday, it is a very happy look. Mr.
Ralph King (president) and Mrs. King
welcomed the guests. Secretary Mr.
J. F. Tipper (who must have the best
memory for names in Sydney) was
present with Mrs. Tipper and pretty
daughter - Pamela. Guests included Mr.
and Mrs. A. H. Hopper (from New
Guinea), Mr. Russell Roxburgh, Judge
D. H. McKillop and Mrs. McKillop, the
Alfred Coffeys (Rose Bay), Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon King, Mr. and Mrs. John
Crawford, Mr. and Mrs. John Hurley
and Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Watson.
☆ ☆ ☆
Blossom and white trellis-work were
part of the decoration which made the
drill-hall at Victoria Barracks a gay and
gracious place when the Royal Aus-
tralian Army Service Corps Officers’
Association held its Christmas-party
there on Friday. Lieut.-Colonel Hedley
Carpenter received about 260 guests,
who included Captain and Mrs. John
Partridge (she in a hand-painted black
silk-organza dress), Major K. G. Hunter-
Kerr, and Mrs. Hunter-Kerr in a white
silk dress featuring the lowered waist-
line, Major and Mrs. Peter Campbell.
Admired were Mrs. Alec Leventhal’s
white sheath-dress embossed in gold, the
navy braided-taffefa worn by Miss Gaze
(Melbourne), and Mrs. O’Meara Nichol’s
taupe Swiss-silk dress.
# # #
The first function arranged by Mrs.
J. H. Pelly and her committee of ladies
working for the Catholic Welfare
Bureau was an enjoyable musicale with
a dramatic entertainment by the Ida
Newton Players, held at Legion House
on Sunday night. Preceding the
musicale were sherry in the lounge
(with much chatter), and a “high tea”
which had been prepared by the com-
mittee. Guest-of-honor was Bishop
Carroll, who spoke briefly on the work
of the bureau and emphasised the grow-
ing need for the help that it gives as the
complexities of modern life increase.
Nearly 200 people attended the party,
which was a really happy function.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. P. D. Hills)
and members of her Relief Fund Com-
mittee raised £2863 during the year, and
at the final meeting this was distributed
among eight charitable organisations:
Ladies’ Home Mission Union, Salvation
Army, Presbyterian Social Service De-
partment, Red Cross, Sydney City Mis-
sion, Benevolent Society of N.S.W., St.
Vincent de Paul Society, the Big Sister
Movement and the Brown Nurses. It
was interesting to hear from the represen-
tatives of the various organisations how
much work is being done for the aged,
who in many cases would receive the
benefit of the cheques received.
Miss Joyce Trickett , who is in private
life Mrs. Philip Parry, organised and
produced the International Festival of
Christmas which concluded the World
Centenary celebrations at Sydney “Y.”
Miss Trickett is a writer and a singer,
who, as ‘‘singing poetess,” has made
several tours of N.S.W., weaving pro-
grammes of song and poetry for audi-
ences in cities and larger towns. She is
active in radio-work, and is the composer
of many popular songs, including the
well-known “Wooden Madonna.” One
of the most successful features of the
Festival of Christmas at the “Y,” the
gallery of stained-glass windows, will
remain on view all the coming week in
response to many requests from the
public. Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
Three social functions for the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children during the
week, the first being the 25th anniversary-
dinner at the Town Hall, at which
Governor Sir John Northcott cut the
cake. Among the 440 friends of the
society present were Mrs. Margaret
Watts and Mr. R. 0. Beale, foundation-
members, and Mrs. John Arnott, a
worker for the society for the past 15
years ; she is the daughter of the late
Sir Henry Braddon, the society’s first
president.
The second function was the afternoon-
tea party for the Teamakers’ Club at
David Jones’ restaurant, at which the
president, Miss Del Cartwright, presented
a cheque for £5OO, the results of the club’s
activities since its foundation six months
ago. A feature of the party was the
double-decker Christmas-cake made by
Mrs. L. Williamson and Mrs. M. Wake-
field ; it provided a piece of Christmas
goodwill for the 300 members present.
Lastly, the Younger Set working for the
crippled children, and named “Guys and
Dolls,” held a very successful barbecue
on Thursday night at the Billabong
barbecue at Tom Ugly’s Point, and so
finished the year’s work on a very happy
note. The president of “Guys and Dolls”
is Michael Brockdorff and the secretary
Fay Knowles.
☆ ☆ ☆
By the way, the Society for Crippled
Children is to receive the full proceeds
of Lady Harrison’s book on the Royal
tour of Australia, Me Too, a beautiful
production which would make an excel-
lent Christmas-present, either in the
popular or the de luxe edition. Features
of the book are the really lovely pictures
of the Queen and the many anecdotes
relating to the tour, which Lady Harri-
son, as wife of the Minister-in-Charge,
had a special opportunity to gather
together.
Next Saturday (Dec. 17) will be
celebrated in a very pleasant way the
10th birthday of the Musica Viva Society,
which will take the form of a garden-
musicale preceded by sherry and a buffet-
dinner at the Warrawee home of Mrs. C.
Selby. Music in this lovely setting will
be provided by the Robert Pikler String
Quartet.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although most of us are grateful for
modern labor-saving devices, there is no
doubt they often make one feel older
by outmoding one’s skills. Thus it is
often found that women who pride them-
selves on the high quality of their wash-
ing won’t think of buying a washing-
machine, no matter how much trouble
it would save them. To be able to wash
clothes beautifully is a hard-won skill,
something to be proud of. It must be
very galling to find some inexperienced
person getting as good results by pressing
a couple of buttons.
The latest improvement that will give
many a setback in their self-complacency
is the rearrangement of the letters on
the keyboard of the typewriter, the first
in 83 years. In this simplified keyboard,
to which the U.S. Government is giving
a four-month trial, the letters used most
frequently are put closest to the fingers
which normally do the most work, and
all the vowels are on the second row of
keys. Learning the keys on the type-
writer was a trying job. Imagine having
to go through it all over again!
MELBOURNE
One of the many ways in which the
Whernside Auxiliary raises money for
Royal Melbourne Hospital is a display
of Christmas-trees made by members.
It is now on the sixth-floor of Buckley
and Nunn in Bourke-street and will be
operi until December 17, Mrs. G. I.
Stevenson’s driftwood-tree has a snow-
scene ; Mrs. David Elder silvered the
spokes of an old umbrella and, with
suitable trimmings, turned it into an
attractive tree. Ice-blue tulle and silver
sequins were used by Mrs. Winton
Gillespie and Mrs. Colin Anderson for
their tree ; pagoda-shaped, the “branches”
were hung with silver- and gold-studded
glass globes and the tree was topped with
a golden ornament. To make her tree
look snow-laden Mrs. B. E. Alcock hung
the branches with white silk-fringe
sprinkled with silver. The glittering
conical tree made by Mrs. James
Buchanan was covered with multicolored
balls and silver-and-gold leaves.
In her capacity as hostess-adviser to
United Distillers, Mrs. Theo Scales is the
answer to the party-giver’s prayer,
helping with Christmas-cooking and other
problems that crop up. This Christmas
she has been specialising on the cooking-
problems associated with the entertain-
ment of New Australians. Mrs. Scales,
who with her husband and two sons
spends a lot of weekends at their seaside
home at Portsea, has made gardening her
main hobby. Helmut Newton photo.
Mrs. Gerald Warner, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, trained the small choir
(consisting of Mrs. G. Jasper, Mrs. Givon
Parsons, Mrs. R. Brunsted, Mrs. W. W.
Killough, Mrs. B. Bragg and Mrs. R. B.
Price) who at the year’s final meeting of
the American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital entertained other
members with their singing of Christmas
carols. Members were then invited to
take a handkerchief from the Christmas-
tree, and Mrs. Joseph Wiedenmayer,
president of the auxiliary, presented
farewell-spoons to members who are
going back to the U.S.: Mrs. M. R.
McClain, Mrs. B. F. Bragg, Mrs. Quigley,
Mrs. R. D. Lee and Mrs. W. C. Markley.
☆ ☆ ☆
Jacqueline Robertson, daughter of Mrs.
q y Robertson, of Toorak, and the late
]yj n Robertson, has been married in
France t 0 M Gaston A rbes, a judge
in the French Colonial Service ; they had
met in Noumea, and will live in Mada-
gascar. Jacqueline, who is a former St.
Catherine’s girl, was a member of the
A.W.A.S. during the war, and afterwards
studied art at the National Gallery,
Three-hundred guests danced at No.
9 Darling-street when the revel called
Mistletoe Mischief was held in aid of St.
Vincent’s Hospital. Mistletoe tied with
scarlet ribbons hung from the entrance-
archways round the ballroom. Colored
balloons added their festive note, and the
tables carried holly, glistening pine-cones
and red candles.
Peter Tremayne, president of St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital Younger Set, with mem-
bers of the committee, received the guests.
Among the prettily-dressed girls present
were Peter’s fiancee, Jan Ward, whose
short, bouffant frock of white tulle had
the strapless top trimmed with beading;
Joy Allen, her short blue-and-gold bro-
cade frock highlighted with a large flat
bow of blue satin ribbon; Helen
Trencher, wearing a very short full frock
of white pique ; Barbara Coleman, whose
frock of white chiffon was patterned in
large bright-blue flowers; and Carmel
Uniacke, in a short white organdie frock
and wide gold-satin cummerbund.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Australian-American Women’s
Group’s “merry, merry Christmas-party”
decorations included a fountain circled
with red roses, and on stage, behind a
blue, silver-starred backdrop, a Christmas-
tree. A large silver bell hung over the
entrance to the Dorchester. The presi-
dent of the A.-A. Association, Sir John
Latham, with his wife, assisted Women’s
Group president, Mrs. R. G. Casey, re-
ceive the guests. Mrs. Casey chose a
smart black frock and small hat of wattle
and tea-tree flowers.
Among the 200 guests were Mrs. Earl
Daum, who had a small matching cap for
her pale-lilac silk-shantung frock ; Mrs.
W. W. Killough, who wore blue silk;
Mrs. Gordon Darling, wearing a full-
skirted white pique frock embroidered
with tiny red roses ; Virginia Parrish, in
pink frock and large chiffon-trimmed
pink hat; and Mrs. Les Sangster, whose
attractive Wedgwood-blue linen frock
carried white braid scroll-embroidery.
☆ ☆ ☆
The audience at the Arrow Theatre had
a wonderful time when Irene Mitchell
produced her Christmas attraction, “Only
an Orphan Girl.” They hissed and threw
peanuts at the villain, cheered the hero
and generally reacted to the old-time
bellowdramatics with gusto. In the audi-
ence was Mrs. Rupert Downes and small
granddaughter Susan Campbell, Robert
Whateley and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. B.
Segan, the Roth Jonesds, Mr. and Mrs. S.
Prentice, Mrs. Geoffrey Tebbutt, Carmen
Winter and Nell Phillips.
☆ ☆ ☆
Simon Alexander Victor Shaftsbury
were the names given to the five-months-
old son of the Hon. Simon and Mrs. War-
render, of Toorak, when he was baptised
by the Archbishop of Melbourne at St.
Paul’s Cathedral. After the ceremony a
small party was held, at which Mrs.
Warrender wore a frock of white linen
with a guipure-lace top. The baby’s
grandmother, Mrs. Gladys Myer, wore a
tobacco-brown frock brocaded in black,
brown and silver. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer and Mrs. Anthony Hordern are
godmothers, but as Mrs. Hordern was
unable to be present Mrs. Sam Wood was
her proxy. Mrs. Harold Holt was proxy
for her husband —he is one of the god-
parents ; others are Sir Rupert Clarke,
Admiral Geoffrey Hawkins and Lady
Birley.
HOW OLD IS YOUR SON?
Old enough to appreciate The Bulle-
tin? Then why not give him a year’s
subscription for Christmas? No need to
pay now—just fill in the gift-subscription
form in this issue and post it. Towards
Christmas he will receive a card announc-
ing your gift. An account for 365. will
be sent to you in the New Year. This
type of announcement always concludes
with—“Do it now.” And that’s not a
bad idea.


Dog's Life, Dog's Strife
A Battler, George
By GAVIN CASEY
-ttHESE days I own an
X astonishing creature
( , which, could it stand on
its back legs, would look
like an all-black Panda. It is
faithful, home-loving, good with
kids, lazy, greedy, and pleasant-
natured. Its virtues are nega-
tive.
But there was a time, in the
darkest days of the depression,
when I acquired a comical pup
which was to grow into one of
the most rip-snorting dogs in
history. His activities for his 12
years gave me much satisfaction,
and the memory of him still gives
me at least as much pleasure as
the recollection of any great man
I have met. For until I got him
I was rather thwarted about
dogs.
On the Western Australian
goldfields when I was a boy
everybody had dogs—and the
plural was right in about two
houses out of five. Nobody
had much control over his dogs,
and in any given street at any
given time you’d be safe to say
that one house in 10 had a litter
of pups in the washhouse.
Nobody ever dreamed of buy-
ing a dog in such a flooded
market. Powers of salesman-
ship were needed to give a pup
away, let alone to get money for
one. Unfortunately I never had
much sales-resistance. Of the
strange hounds —mostly large,
affectionate, cowardly, thieving,
and without dignity or disci-
pline—that belonged to my
earlier years, least said soonest
mended. I loved them in a
shamefaced way. But no man
would have ever needed to
apologise, for George.
When I first got him, as a
present from my girl, he was as
funny-looking in a different way
as the amiable canine nonentity
I feed these times. He’d had an
Irish-terrier father and a kelpie
mother, and had turned out
brown and smooth-haired, with
a white chest and a glossy black
face.
The trouble with his appear-
ance in his early months was
that the black nose had a hump
in the middle that made him
look like a comedy Shylock, and
also that his mother’s owner
seemed to have cut off his tail
about a joint-and-a-half too
long.
Whether or not he was aware
of these anatomical defects, they
did nothing to destroy his self-
confidence. He straightened out
the nose by poking it into other
people’s business, proceeded to
grow faster than his own tail
until he had caught up with it,
and finished-up as a
handsome, c o ra-
pacity-built fellow
of terrier size.
In the days when
just looking at him
used to make people
laugh he showed
that he had his wits
about him by swiftly
conquering the
spring-loaded screen-
door that tried to
keep him out of the
kitchen of the home
of the friends with
whom I was staying.
There was a small
hole in the wire
mesh at the bottom
of the door, and this
he enlarged so that his head was
a snqg fit in it.
That job done, everything was
fine and dandy. To get in he
just had to shove his head
through the hole, run backwards
until the door was open as wide
as it could be opened and his
skull came free automatically,
and then race round at full
throttle in a tight circle before
the spring closed the door.
The act got him more laughs
than his looks, and my host was
delighted with George’s thought-
fulness in enlarging the hole
merely to the size of his head,
instead of to the size of his body,
as a lazier or lesser dog might
have done.
At that time, and not on my
own, the two things I lacked
were work and money, but I
was young, not yet married to
the girl, and in reality not nearly
as worried as I sometimes
thought I was. I owned possibly
the front-wheel and handlebars
of a time-payment motor-cycle,
and the well-disposed firm to
which I wfts no longer paying
the instalments was letting me
use the rest until times improved.
Mobility meant a lot when I
caught up with an equally job-
less pal who was an expert type-
writer-mechanic. We decided to
go into business on high hopes
and no capital in my goldfields
home-town, which then lacked a
good typewriter- and office-
equipment service.
The road to there is now a
glossy ribbon of tarmac, but it
was then a nightmare of wind-
ing, rutted, corrugated track,
full of unbelievable potholes,
bog-holes, and stretches of deep,
loose sand and treacherous
“ball - bearing” gravel. We
started the 365 miles with my
partner on thd pillion, our gear
wherever there was something
that didn’t go round to tie it to,
and pup in a bag that hung
around my neck and rested on
the petrol-tank.
But before we’d covered the
first hundred miles George
needed no bag. He sat proudly
and with natural balance be-
tween my knees as we bucked
over the bumps and slithered
through the gravel. He sneered
with unutterable scorn at such
mere pedestrian dogs as we
passed on our way through the
small towns and the farms of the
wheatbelt.
On the goldfields we lived as
members of a desperately cheer-
ful and changing crew, all batch-
ing in a house owned by a
staunch mate who was going to
get married one of these days
and in the meanwhile could
resist no depression victim. We
had our ups and downs in the
typewriter - business, but we
missed no meals and had our
share of what fun was going as
I rustled up jobs and my pal or
both of us did them. And the
place suited George.
As he grew to maturity, catch-
ing up with his overgrown nose
and tail bn the way, he entered
into the spirit of our slap-happy
housekeeping. And we dis-
covered that all the dogs of my
boyhood, or their descendants,
were still there, plus 57 different
kinds. The dogs suited George,
not because he was a lover of his
kind —uyless they were of the
opposite sex —but because he
considered all male dogs, irres-
pective of size, color, breed or
disposition, offences against
Nature, and he wanted to fight
the lot, singly, in groups, or all
at once if they could get to-
gether.
Never in his 12 years did
George behave except with
gentlemanly good manners to
man, woman or child. Though
he chased stray cats as a matter
of canine principle his heart
was not in it unless they turned
on him, and any felines about
his own house he would soon
gently bully into licking his ears
while he half-snoozed in bliss.
Sometimes, in youthful exub-
erance, George played too vig-
orously with the hoyse-cats, and
he even took an occasional slash
with an unsheathed claw in good
part. If the cat got too violent
he dealt with the situation by
falling on top of his scratching
playmate. Then, while all the
wind was knocked out of her, he
would swivel swiftly and sit on
her firmly.
Once, to his own astonished
embarrassment and amusement,
he caught a mouse by this
unusual method, and nearly
twisted his head off trying to get
a closer look at the small,
squirming creature underneath
him without letting it get away.
I don’t believe he meant the
mouse any real harm, either, but
he was a bit too heavy for it,
and when it gave up struggling
it gave up for good.
But dogs! The only good ones
were females or dead ones,
according to George. Come big,
come small, come any color or
shape, there was no sniffing
around, bristling, growling or
stiff-legged strutting for him. On
sight and without warning he’d
launch himself at them, and
many large, normally brave dogs
seemed to suffer nervous break-
downs brought about by this
bloodthirsty and caddish neglect
of the common canine courtesies.
The only thing that stopped
George from being a killer was
that, though he had all the
choleric, fighting temperament
of the Irish in him, he lacked the
alligator-jaws of his father’s
breed. He had the smaller,
neater head of the kelpie, so he
had to tear strips and lumps off
other dogs instead of breaking
their necks or ripping their
throats out, as he doubtless
would have preferred.
All this may make George
seem a very unpleasant dog, and
no doubt many other dogs
thought of him as just that. But
to the humans who owned him
he was an embarrassment, a
pride, and a joy the first
because of his attitude to his
kind, and the others because of
his invincible courage and the
intelligence he applied to getting
his enemies on the run.
He got plenty of
thrashings, but. I
never saw him fin-
ally defeated. After
real maulings by ani-
mals two or three
times his size he’d
spend a few days
licking his wounds
and looking dis-
gusted With himself
—and then he’d go
right out looking for
the hound that did it.
When he was borne to the
ground by superior size and
weight, with the enemy stand-
ing over him, he never lay still
as many dogs do. He fought from
the ground up,
whether he was on
his feet, his back
or his left ear, and
it was remarkable
how the large fel-
lows used to get
discouraged after
a few wins over
George.
Once he met his
match, but not his
master, in a pure-
bred Irish-terrier
little bigger than
himself, who lived
next door to a
place where we
lived when I had
married the girl
who gave him to
me.
He and this
fellow must have
fought a score of pitched battles
to the point of utter exhaustion
of both, and the fights were
something to watch. They’d tear
away at each other, with no
thought for anything else, even
under the full force of a jet from
a hose, a chilling experience that
separates most fighting dogs
immediately. I never tried a
blowlamp, but I doubt if it would
have worked.
They became the terror of my
wife and of the woman next-
door, and all sorts of efforts
were made to keep them apart.
But sooner or later one of them
would get through the gate or
over the fence or under, and it
would be on again.
When they’d fought each
other to a standstill they’d
lurch wearily under the house and
lie exhausted a few feet apart,
growling and snarling threats
while they worked up the energy
for the next round. Often I, too,
would be under the house and
snarling threats as I tried to
capture George, who was an
obedient dog except where fights
were concerned.
George’s early-learned tactics
against large dogs consisted of
going in with his belly almost on
the ground and his legs spread
like the points of a star so that
mere weight wouldn’t topple him
over. With really humorless cats
who refused to love him he’d
close his eyss tight and aim for
a mouthful of the loose, soft
skin of the stomach, to which he
would cling while the doubled-
up, spitting puss wasted its claw-
power on his leather collar and
the thick ruff of hair around his
neck.
With dogs of the sex to which
he did not object he was very
gallant and most successful. One
starlit night when a terrific up-
roar awoke me I found him out-
side with a setter bitch, the pair
surrounded by at least ten of
his competitors for her favor.
While I watched he had three
fast, utterly decisive fights, after
which he and the lady withdrew
under the house, and the rest of
the dogs stayed in the roadway,
looking miserable.
Not long before I was married,
when I had become at least pros-
perous enough not to have to
cook my own tucker any more,
I went to board with a family
that kept turkeys in their big,
Goldfields backyard, and the
very first day George got us into
trouble. When I’d gone to work,
my landlady, a woman some-
thing well above 15st., came to
the kitchen-door and saw my
dog chasing her favorite turkey-
gobbler—a bird bigger than him-
self^—around and around in a
neat circle.
j n na t U ral panic the lady
joined the chase tripped over a
' cloth and hit the earth
F mil . .
»>* a . ‘ hud that must have
shaken the houses tor a couple
blocks. When she sat up,
(Continued on page 30)


Ijd
fr * •
The word,
for Brandy
since 1858
a*
SSF
SPECIAL HOS PIT,
JM
iVwiWt
XjSj’X'Xvl’^SS
mmm
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
@1
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
T8T.40.1S
established 1888
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy
OSUUJVAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Sapphires from Ceylon
by Douglas
Reeve
* ‘ n> UY me a prayer-mat,
rx please, darling; Mrs.
J Braddock has one and
it’s lovely,” pleaded.
Liz, looking up at her husband
and making her blue eyes as
wide and wistful as possible,
quite forgetting that she was
wearing sunglasses.
“A prayer-mat is the last
thing I can imagine that woman
having any use for,” Tom
Jameson remarked. “These
things are a lot of junk. If the
stuff was any good they’d export
it and you’d be able to buy it
at home.”
He turned to Sandy, the drink-
steward, who was standing near
them at the ship’s rail. “What
do you think, Sandy; is any of
this stuff any good?”
Sandy, who was shielding his
head from the sun, sidled along
the rail to them without lower-
ing his hands.
“It’s rubbish mostly,” he said,
peering owlishly up at Tom,
“but if you want a pair of
elephants to hold up your books,
I suppose you’d gpt them as
cheaply here as anywhere else.”
They all gazed down at the
bumboats clustered at the ship’s
side, each linked to the promen-
ade deck by a thin cord with a
basket on the end. Each boat
had a bizarre assortment of
sunhals, wallets, suitpases, gaudy
rugs, Shell necklaces, book-ends,
model bullock-carts and rtiany
other articles useful and useless.
Their owners, with a rare good-
humor, joked, bargained and
haggled with the passengers who
thronged the decks.
“If you want to buy any-
thing,” continued Sandy, “you
don’t want to be in too much
of a hurry. The price gets lower
and lower the longer we stay
here.”
Liz giggled. “Yes,” she said,
“the old girl along there bought
a briefcase for £3 10s. and now
that fellow in the boat down
there, the one in the red waist-
coat, is selling exactly the same
thing for £2. She looks grimmer
and grimmer every time he
lowers the price.”
Sandy glanced along the rail.
“I could have told her,” he said,
“only she’s not a customer of
mine. She disapproves of alco-
hol, so I guess she disapproves
of me, too.”
“Mrs. Braddock told her,”
said Liz, “but she wouldn’t
listen.”
“I notice you have to put your
dough in the basket before
they’ll send up the goods,” mused
Tom, watching the basket being
hauled up and then lowered with
the notes held securely in a
spring clothespeg fastened to the
bottom of the basket. “Don’t
they ever row away without
sending up the stuff?”
“They daren’t do it,” said
Sandy. “All the boats are num-
bered as you can see. If they
tried to rob you, all you’d have
to do would be to inform the
Purser. The police would be on
to them like a shot and they’d
be for it.”
“Mrs. Braddock says the
nearer you are to the Equator the
more dishonest people get,” an-
nounced Liz. “She says the
most honest people in the world
are the Eskimos and the Lap-
landers. We’re pretty close to
the Equator here.”
“In that case we can’t risk be-
ing cheated over a prayer-mat,”
said Tom maliciously. '
Liz pouted.
“Do you ever buy any of this
stuff?” Tom asked Sandy.
“Good Lord, no. What would
I want with book-ends and ebony
elephants?”
“I thought you might buy to
sell again in England or Aus-
tralia. Sort of import-export
business. Make lots of money.”
Sandy lowered his voice. “No,
sir. If I ever get a few quid
together, which ain’t often as I
only get about twenty-pounds a
month, plus tips of course, I
buy gems. Sapphires and things.
Even with export-duties here and
import-duties in Australia you
can make a nice little profit.
Very nice.”
“Don’t you ever try to
smuggle them?”
“What are you two whisper-
ing about?” demanded Liz.
Sandy ignored her and shook
his head. “These Customs
people are very hot on us crew-
members. They are up to all
the tricks. It’s a waste of time
for a crew-man to try to put one
over on them. The company
likes to keep on good terms with
the Customs and if we’re caught
smuggling we get logged—re-
ported, that means—and then
we can’t get a ship. It ain’t
right really; they let the pas-
sengers through without a mur-
mur and they very nearly turn
us inside-out.”
“When Mrs. Braddock goes
ashore,” said Liz, “she fills a
suitcase with cigarettes and
whisky. When they ask if she
has anything to declare she slaps
the case and says, ‘Sure I have.
Five-thousand cigarettes and a
gallon of whisky,’ and they just
laugh and let her through. Tliey
don’t believe her, you see.”
“Neither do I,” said Tom.
Turning to the steward again, he
asked with studied carelessness,
“Where do you buy these
sapphires? In Colombo?”
“You can do,” said Sandy
seriously, wagging his head like
a tortoise, “but they are a bit
dear. The boys go to a fellow
up near Mount Olivia —all the
tourist-buses go there. His name
is Subrhmanian Iyer—bit of a
mouthful, ain’t it? He wouldn’t
cheat you. I’m not saying he
doesn’t take plenty from the
tourists by selling them a lot of
junk, but that’s what tourists are
for. But he does a good steady
trade with the crews, and he can’t
afford to get in bad with them.”
“Oh well, I’m not thinking of
buying any,” said Tom indif-
ferently. ‘They’d be a bit out
of my line.”
Sandy winked knowingly, “Oh,
of course not, sir.”
“When do we go alongside?”
asked Liz presently.
“We don’t go alongside, Mrs.
Jameson,” said Sandy. “This is
like Aden. There aren’t any
wharves or docks. You have to
get on a barge or ferry and go
ashore that way. There will be
one along pretty soon now. Are
you going on a tour, Ma’am?”
“We’ve put our names down
for the bus-trip,” said Tom.
“Might as well see all there is
to see.”
“You’ll be better on shore
today,” said Sandy. “The
lighters will be along soon with
thousands of cases of tea and
the coolies to load them. The
noise they make doing it is un-
believable.”
“Do they grow tea in Cey-
lon?” asked Liz.
r F'HE tourist-bus rattled through
betelnut-stained streets
crowded with rickshaws. From
time to time it disgorged its
camera-clicking crew to wit-
ness such delights as a Buddhist
temple, a fight between a reluct-
ant cobra and a moth-eaten mon-
goose, and Ceylonese basket Work
at bargain-prices. Their portly
guide collected a commission
from everyone, including the
saffron-robed Buddhist priest.
At Mount Olivia Tom had to
fight an urge to sit with Liz on
the hotel-veranda surrounded
by attentive “bearers” and sip
cold beer, while catamarans with
improbable sails went about their
business on that impossibly blue
sea and picture-postcard palm-
trees bent lovingly over the
golden sands. Liz was quite
content to stay where she was
while he went, ostensibly, to buy
some envelopes.
“I’ll be all right,” she said.
“I’ll go and talk to Mrs. Brad-
dock. She’s over there with
those people from A-deck.”
“I never hear mention of Mr.
Braddock,” said Tom. “I don’t
remember having seen him. Is
he on the ship?”
“Mr. Braddock behaved in a
perfectly beastly and ungentle-
manly way just to spite Mrs.
Braddock,” said Liz. “Mrs.
Braddock came on the trip to
try to forget it.”
“What did he do?”
“He shot himself,” said Liz
with distaste.
Outside the hotel Tom had to
force, his way through groups of
importunate dusky ladies who
were determined to sell him a
bunch of small bananas for a
rupee or half-an-hour’s work of
cotton-lace for sixpence.
At last he found the shop. It
seemed to stock everything from
postcards to Hawaiian shirts.
There was a sign offering a
made-to-measure tropical suit
within two hours. In a more
opulent corner of the shop Tom
found a chair beside a small glass
counter where a polite assistant
welcomed him effusively.
“Sir, I have a beautiful brace-
let here set with moonstones for
only fifty rupees or four-pounds
sterling if you have not changed
your money. It is all the same
to me. My only wish is to serve
you. This beautiful bracelet
would be a most welcome gift to
your beloved.”
Tom shook his head.
“I can let you have it for
forty-five rupees, sir, as you are
a new customer. We like visitors
to think well of us and of our
island.”
“What I really want to see,”
said Tom, a shade nervously,
“is sapphires.”
The assistant beamed happily
at him. “Yes, sir. Certainly,
sir. I will fetch the proprietor.”
He disappeared through a
door at the back of the shop and
returned with a Ceylonese im-
maculate in white.
The newcomer smiled amiably
at Tom, showing a remarkable
expanse of gleaming white and
gold teeth. He held out his
hand ; they shook hands. “My
name is Iyer,” he said. “At
least, that is the only part of it
that my guests seem to be able
to manage. Would you care to
step into my office at the back
here and we can get down to
business?”
Tom unwound his long legs
and allowed himself to be
escorted to the inner sanctum.
When they were seated and Tom
had been provided with a John
Collins and a cigarette his com-
panion unlocked a safe and
pulled out a small chamois-
leather bag.
“May I ask how you came to
know about this side of my
business?” asked Mr. Iyer
politely. “I have many good
friends on the ships, of course,
but I don’t often meet any
strangers asking for sapphires.”
Tom suddenly realised that he
did not know the steward’s sur-
name. “A fellow called Sandy,”
be began. “I don’t”
“Ah, yes, Sandy. He’s an old
friend of mine. We have at least
one thing in common,” inter-
rupted Mr. Iyer with a toothy
grin, stroking his bald pate with
lean, clean fingers. “Now, if
you’ll excuse my bluntness, how
much have you got?”
“Up to £80,” said Tom with
barely a tremor in his voice.
“I see,” said Mr. Iyer, pour-
ing a little stream of flashing
blue fire from the bag into the
palm of his hand. He selected
three stones and placed them
lovingly in front of Tom, fished
out from a drawer an eyeglass
of the type used by watchmakers
and handed it to him.
“I think I can just manage to
let you have those three for £80,”
said Mr. Iyer graciously. “Look
at them. Aren’t they beauties?”
Tom, who was beginning to
enjoy himself in a masochistic
kind of way, picked up the glass
and screwed it up in his eye,
hoping that he had it the right
way round. He examined each
stone in (he hoped) a profes-
sional manner and put down the
glass.
“I’m afraid they are worth
only sixty-pounds to me,” he
announced emphatically.
A/TR. IYER’S smile vanished
and he looked at Tom in
horror. “Quite impossible,” he
said sharply. “Now listen,
please, Mr. Jameson. Out there
in the shop we bargain; the
tourists expect it. For some rea-
son or other they think that all
o Continued on page 22)


VCAftTItS, crumpets, msIS unOERUjEAR ANP
sQu££gE££ To THE RIGHT, BRAS, 8/luaRP- TaBLBSj
//
HAIR.-NETS ANP CEmENT-ToQS TO W EEFT %
& O)AS faoWZf&uu ; C-l&ter.
$/£ &tfi*rej7 7b ito T«AT &/£(? S/NC£ I £OA§ A Bqy.
WISH-FULFILMENT


BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAfaKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland /
\ JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD* SCOTCH
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
i\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.185.42A
business is done in the East only
after a lot of haggling, and so
we are farced to humor them.
If I were to ask two-pounds for a
necklace and refused to bargain
they wouldn’t buy it or if they
did they’d think they had been
robbed. So I’m forced to ask
five-pounds and then come down
to three so that they will go
away happy. But in here it is
one businessman to another —
there is no need for that sort of
pantomime here.”
“I’m sorry,” • said Tom, get-
ting to his feet with a feeling of
relief, “but that is all they are
worth to me.”
“Now, now, Mr. Jameson,
don’t let’s quarrel. Please sit
down again. The trouble is that
I’m so painfully aware that in
Australia you are going to sell
these self-same stones for about
two-fifty-pounds.”
Tom gulped and sat down
again. “Australian pounds—not
sterling,” was all he could think
of to say.
“Well, two-fifty-pounds Aus-
tralian is two-hundred-pounds
sterling. After you have paid
export-duties here and im-
port-duties there you’ll still make
about a hundred per cent, profit.
Not bad, Mr. Jameson, not bad.”
Tom Jameson was speechless.
“However, if you want to
make an issue of it I’ll settle for
seventy-five,” urged Mr. Iyer.
“Seventy,” said Tom, swallow-
ing hard.
“All right, then, seventy,” said
Mr. Iyer, shrugging his thin
shoulders resignedly. “You’re
a hard man, Mr. Jameson, a
hard man.”
A WORRIED Liz was prowl-
ing about whitefaced as he
entered the hotel and she gave a
sigh of relief which changed to
something like a sob when she
saw him.
“You’ve been such a long
time,” she whispered. “Mrs.
Braddock was afraid you’d be
found on a jungle-path with a
kris in your back.”
“This is Ceylon, not Malaya,”
said Tom. “Let’s sit down and
I’ll show you what I’ve bought.”
He unwrapped the tissue
packet and showed her the con-
tents. “I’m going to make a lot
of money when I sell these in
Australia,” he announced with
the air of a man about to bull
another half-a-million on the
Stock Exchange.
“Oh, Tom, they’re beautiful,”
squeaked Liz. “Can I show them
to Mrs. Braddock?”
“If you like,” said Tom be-
nignly, and beckoned to a
hovering waiter.
Liz returned a few minutes
later wide-eyed. “Mrs. Braddock
says they are real sapphires and
you must be careful you don’t
get your pocket picked.”
Tom tore a little hole in the
lining of his pocket and slipped
the tiny packet through it. “Of
course they are real sapphires,”
he grumbled indignantly. “They
cost me seventy-pounds sterling
—that’s close on ninety in our
money. What did she suppose I
thought they were—jelly-beans?
Oh, that woman. . .”
The remainder of the bus-trip
was not enjoyable. Some small
children had long since decided
that Colombo’s attractions were
overrated and were showing
their displeasure in the usual
manner. The wooden seats
seemed even harder than before
and the humidity was almost
unbearable. Thoughts flew long-
ingly to the clean cool ship with
its long drinks, cups-of-tea and
cushioned seats.
The lighthouse that stands in
the middle of the street awak-
ened less enthusiasm than a
glimpse of their temporary
home in the harbor. The bus
drew, at last, to a halt outside
the palatial Customs-house. The
guide positioned himself in the
bus doorway, cleared his throat
loudly and proceeded to raise
his topee three times, bowing
each time.
“I hope you have all enjoyed
your tour, ladies and kind sirs.
We are all grateful to our fine
driver and so perhaps we can
show our appreciation in a plea-
sant way by putting a little gift
in my hat as you go out. I will
start it off with a one rupee note,
and I am a poor man.”
The driver watched with a
cynical smile as coins were
dropped, reluctantly, into the hat.
Perhaps his percentage was not
a high one.
At the Customs-counter, Tom
looked warningly at Liz as he
declared the two-pounds of tea
he had bought at the kiosk out-
side and paid the duty on it to
a round brown man with grey,
wispy hair and steel-rimmed
spectacles.
“Have you purchased any
gold-ornaments or precious
stones in Ceylon?” inquired the
official.
“Gold or precious stones!”
echoed Tom in mock consterna-
tion. “No, sir, I’m a married
man.” He nodded towards Liz.
Liz showed her teeth and the
clerk’s mouth smiled politely but
his eyes said that he didn’t find
the remark very funny either, and
he turned pointedly to the next
in the line.
Tom almost danced in delight
as they made their way to the
launch which was to take the
"You’re a lucky beggar , Carstairs -that’s the third year
you’ve bagged the thrippeny-bit.”
tired and dusty trippers back to
their ship. He grinned gleefully
at Liz as he felt the three hard
little lumps in the lining of his
coat.
“It was easy, dead easy,” he
whispered triumphantly.
TI7HEN they' reached the pon-
’ ’ toon at the foot of the
gangplank, Liz clutched his arm
and pointed. The grin faded
from Tom’s face when he saw
that a white-coated Ceylonese
with a Pathan guard at his elbow
was checking the Customs re-
ceipts. As he produced his own
receipt he told his sinking
stomach that there was nothing
to worry about, but his stomach
refused to believe it.
The man in the white coat
frowned thoughtfully as he ex-
amined the receipt and looked
sharply at Tom. “There appears
to be something wrong, sir,” he
remarked sternly. “There is no
mention here of any sapphires.”
“Sapphires?” queried Tom
blankly, very red about the ears.
“Certainly, sir. The sapphires
you bought at the shop of one
Subramanian Iyer.”
“Oh, those,” said Tom
weakly. “Was I supposed to de-
clare them?”
Whitecoat nodded emphatic-
ally, and coldly.
“Well, I’m very sorry,” mut-
tered Tom, “but the fellow in
the Custofns-house didn’t say
anything about sapphires. I’m
quite ready, of course, to pay
what’s necessary.”
Whitecoat nodded brightly
and smiled. “That’s all right,
then, sir. It was very remiss of
the clerk and I have no doubt
that he will be discharged and
that you will be able to keep
your sapphires when you have
paid the duty. The case will
probably be heard next week ; it
is not desired to detain people
unnecessarily. May I recom-
mend the Gaule Face Hotel for
your stay in Colombo?”
Tom and Liz groaned in
unison.
“B-b-b-but the ship sails this
evening,” stammered Tom in
consternation.
“It’s most unfortunate, sir.
The clerk will almost certainly
be discharged.”
“I suppose I could have mis-
understood him,” said Tom
miserably. “I was pretty tired
and the sun has affected me a
bit.” He looked longingly at
the gangplank only a couple of
yards away. “Isn’t there any
alternative to prosecution? I
don’t want to miss the ship.”
“Well, sir, if you were guilty
of trying to defraud the Customs
I believe confiscation of the gems
would meet the case. That
would be the end of the matter.
But the negligence of the
Customs-clerk”
“Oh, heck,” said Tom. “I’ll
hand them over and be done with
it. I’ve got to stay on the ship.
We can’t mess about in Colombo
for a week. It would probably
cost me more than they are
worth anyway.”
Liz looked scared. “Are you
going to give him the sapphires?”
she asked tremulously. “Then
I’m going to see Mrs.
Braddock.”
And before Tom could stop
her, Liz’s high heels went
twinkling up the gangplank and
disappeared into the ship.
Whitecoat watched sardonic-
ally as Tom fished in the lining
of his coat and produced the tiny
package. He wrote strange char-
acters on a piece of paper and
handed it to Tom. “Your re-
ceipt, sir,” he said.
“Can I go now?” asked Tom
like a crestfallen schoolboy.
Whitecoat coughed and rubbed
his thumb with his index-finger.
“I hope I have not exceeded my
duty,” he said. “Perhaps I
should have asked you to accom-
pany me back to the Customs-
house.”
Tom grasped the point, and
glumly handed over a pound-
note. He climbed the gangplank
like an old, old man and sank
wearily into the nearest vacant
deck-chair. Gesturing feebly to
a passing steward he ordered a
double-whisky.
As he sipped the drink he
moodily watched Whitecoat and
his rugged companion climb into
the launch which cast off and
made for the shore.
Sandy came out of the lounge
and waved good-bye to them
from the rail. He had not
noticed Tom.
Tom got to his feet and joined
Sandy at the rail. “Friends of
yours?” he inquired suspici-
ously.
Sandy jumped, gave him a
startled glance and seemed to be
confused. “Why, yes, Mr.
Jameson, that’s Mr. Subraman-
ian Iyer. I mentioned him to
you this morning.”
IT was Tom’s turn' to be
startled. “What the blazes
are you talking about? That
man is a Customs-officer ; I met
Mr. What’s-his-name Iyer this
afternoon.”
“You must have met his
brother, sir. That’s Mr. Subra-
manian Iyer for sure. I’ve
known him for years. Did he
tell you he was a Customs-
officer?”
“Not in so many words,” said
Tom, biting his fingernails, “but
he inferred as much.”
“Ah!” said Sandy.
Tom finished his drink
thoughtfully and began to get
very angry. “That man,” he said
violently, “pretended to be a
Customs-official and took
seventy - pounds - worth of
sapphires from me. But I’ll fix
him. I’m going down to the
purser’s office and I’ll raise hell.”
“I’ll miss you, sir,” said
Sandy softly.
Tom strode off purposefully,
faltered and came back. “What
do you mean, ‘miss me?”’ he
demanded.
“As I said this morning, the
company is very hot on anyone
trying to make monkeys out of
the Customs people. There
would be a prosecution for
sure and you would have
to stay here to be the chief
witness for the —er —prose-
cution. Wouldn’t you,
sir?”
Tom laughed hollowly and
leant on the ship’s rail. He took
out his “receipt” and studied it.
“I wonder what all this double-
Dutch means,” he mused, half to
himself.
Sandy looked over his
shoulder.
“A few trips ago we had a
feller on board who bought some
sapphires, fie gave them away
to Mr. Iyer when he came down
to the ship to remind this feller
about the export-duties. Mr.
Iyer wrote something like this
for him. The feller asked a
student on board what it meant
and the student said it was
something about honesty being
the best policy. Mr. Iyer is a
very high-principled gentleman,”
said Sandy piously.
Tom’s face was a study.
“Why, you snake-in-the-grass,”
he accused, “you knew all the
time”
“Not at all, Mr. Jameson, you
told me you were not interested
in sapphires. How was I to
know that you were?”
Sandy was himself interrupted
when a tearful Liz rushed up
from below, looked wildly at
Tom and Sandy and ran over to
the rail. “Come back, come
back,” she shouted vainly at
the now-distant launch.
“He won’t come back, Liz,”
said Tom unhappily. “He’s
got what he wanted and I can’t
do a thing about it.” He laughed
cynically. “I even paid him to
lake them away.”
Liz burst into tears. “He will
be back with the police to have
you arrested,” wailed Liz in great
distress, “when he finds he’s got
the wrong packet. It’s all Mrs.
Braddock’s fault.”
“What are you talking about?”
demanded Tom irritably.
“What’s Mrs. Braddock got to
do with it?”
“When I showed them to Mrs.
Braddock in the hotel she said a
man couldn’t be trusted to look
after anything valuable, so she
put three glass beads in the
package and brought the sap-
phires back in her handbag.”
TNCREDULOUS delight
dawned in Tom’s face. “Do
you mean to tell me that you
have got the sapphires here on
the ship?” he asked wonder-
ingly.
Liz showed him.
“Come on, Liz, you must in-
troduce me to Mrs. Braddock
right away. She is a remarkable
woman,” said Tom reverently,
getting to his feet and seizing
her arm.
“That’s what I keep trying to
tell you,” said Liz.


A. Fine Present
for the Craftsman
and the Handyman
Any man would welcome
a set of' handsome Titan Chisels
as a Christmas present
especially in a smart leather holder.
Here’s a gift
that will appeal equally as much
to the skilled cabinet maker
as to the keen handyman.
They will appreciate your good sense *
in choosing quality Titan Chisels
which have built a fine reputation
for their good design and
inherent strength,
Decide now to put a set of Titan Chisels
on your Christmas list “for the man
you most want to please”,
Every Titan Chisel blade is genuinely
forged from special tool steel, expertly
hardened and tempered to ensure a
keen, fracture-resisting edge. Selected
seasoned hardwood is used in each
chisel handle, and bright drawn seam-
less steel tube is used for the strengthen-
ing and protective ferrules.
Constant control of every manufacturing
stage and rigid factory tests guarantee
the quality and workmanship of your
Titan Chisel.
TITAN
Guaranteed
CHISELS
THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD., HOBART, TASMANIA


Industrial Acceptance
Corporation ltd.
Registered FIRST MORTGAGE Debenture Stock
LONG
TERM
61%
6Wo
6%
ste%
CURRENCY
10 & 15 yean
4 to 9 year*
3 yean
5%
5%
4V4%
4%
3 3 /4%
314%
24 months
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
Interest per annum, payable quarterly free of
exchange
ASSETS EXCEED £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
and all Branches of the
E., S. & A. BANK LTD.
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation ltd.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE
ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO., MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY
lAC.G
a girl with mousy hair
by
Ray Mathew
I’M sitting in the coffee-shop
reading the form-guide and
this girl is sitting at another
table. I’ve drunk all my
coffee again and the dregs are
looking unconvincing in the cup.
I’ve looked at them and then
looked at the girl and then
looked at them again until
they’ve gone cold.
I’ve read the form twice and
some bits more often. I know
all that’s necessary—the winners
at Wollongong, which dogs like
to fight—and I look at the girl.
Then I look at the form-guide,
but it doesn’t say anything, says
nothing about her at all. Except
to remind me that she’s a girl
sitting with uni.-types, laughing
about literature, at another
table, and if she sees me she
thinks I’m a tout and a lowbrow
and I don’t know anything.
Which is about right as things
turn out.
An ordinary girl, mind you.
Nothing exciting. Mouse-
colored hair and an ordinary
face. A figure like any girl’s.
An ordinary girl.
But somehow she’s different,
and I sit there looking and pre-
tending to read and counting
the coffee-grains, which doesn’t
take long, and wonder if she
sees me and knows that I’m
looking.
And then there’s a chance.
They mention Ulysses. She
throws up her hands and says
with a laugh, “That monstrosity
of subjectivity!”
Which rather shocks me.
Although I’m a tout and a low-
brow and I don’t know anything,
I’ve read some of the books and
all the reviews and I know this
is heresy. Perhaps she does,
too. She throws up her hands.
She throws up her hands and
knocks her umbrella, a smart,
long and silly, right at my feet.
“Your umbrella, lady.” And
I give it back to her. “You
mustn’t forget what umbrellas
lead to. You shouldn’t be care-
less. Remember poor Leonard.”
And I smile at her thanks and
sit down again.
“Howard’s End,” she says.
“It’s all pure Forster.” And
then she smiles, and I’ve let her
know that I’m not just a prole,
that I’ve read that book at least,
that I might know something.
And the smile that she dropped
me, the sort of look that —well,
I’m just telling you. An ordin-
ary girl and I’m gone like
Sunday; you can’t bring me
back.
And now I change tactics. I
look at her openly. I give her
the one-two-three, let her see
that I’m keen. And she tries to
ignore it. She goes on talking.
She goes on listening. She goes
on laughing.
But now it’s all different.
She’s only half in it. She’s
conscious of me. When she
catches my eye her glance sort of
falters. I run my tongue round
my top lip to show what I’m
thinking and she looks away
quickly. We do it again. I’m
getting nowhere. Even I can
see that.
Then her crowd orders more
coffee, so that I’m sure that it’s
hopeless and I get up to go. I
pick up the bill and I give her
the eye again while I’m half-
pretending to study it, but I
know it’s all over, that she’s
done me properly, and that I’ll
never, not ever, have her to talk
to, to stop her from chattering.
I feel like death a bit and like
life a bit, too, because that’s
what death feels like, and I go
to the counter, thinking about
her, and make some mistake. I
don’t pay enough money and the
cashier’s indignant.
She moves her bosom off the
desk, and asks me for more in a
way that annoys me.
“All right,” I say. “All right.
There’s more.”
And I pull out my roll. I’ve
been to the gee-gees. It’s been
a good day. The roll’s round
and pretty. The cashier sub-
sides and changes a tenner with,
“That’s quite all right, sir. Of
course I can change it.”
And I’m feeling nasty, so I
say nastylike, “Of course you’ll
change it.”
I put the roll back in my
inside coat-pocket and look
round at the girl who’s not look-
ing at me. And I’m so dumb
that I can’t tell whether it’s an
act or it’s true. So I push on my
hat that’s turned up all round
like any mug-punter’s and I go
outside.
'THE street’s full of people and
I stand in the doorway
watching the girls. There’s an
hour before the dogs start and I
want to miss the first —not
throw-away money, so I light a
cigarette and I lean on the
window and I look at the girls
and I think what you think when
you see so much of it all
packaged so prettily and walk-
ing so carefully and knowing
you’re interested.
But somehow it’s different
from ever before. This girl’s in
my mind. My heart isn’t in it.
Even the glamor-pieces don’t
really interest me. They just
look like the pictures—that’s
nothing to build on —and then
there she is. She’s come out of
the shop.
And there’s some clot with
her. •
But they stop still and stand
there right beside me so I can’t
bear it and have to do some-
thing. I tilt back my hat and
try to look charming, if cheeky.
“Did you bring your
umbrella?”
She flashes a smile and I’m
gone for the doctor, but I know
that I’m in, that she doesn’t
hate me.
“The very kind man.”
That’s all that she says. It
sounds like music. It sounds
like a twenty-years’-friendship
joke. It sounds to me like love
at a glance. And we both burst
out laughing. Even the clot
gives a kind of a grin, though
you can see he’s annoyed. But
that doesn’t matter because it’s
all charming.
It’s just like the pictures. You
expect any minute that the
crowds will start singing and me
and the girl will suddenly dance,
like Gene Kelly and someone,
or like me and the girl. But of
course we don’t, because this is
Sydney and any dancing’s
strictly indoors or inside of your
mind or somewhere like that.
It’s inside of me. And of her,
too, I reckon, because suddenly
* we’re talking and it’s all full of
laughter, not loud and funny but
soft and ridiculous. Nothing
funny at all, though we’re all of
us laughing.
Except the clot. He feels sort
of out of it. I hardly- blame
him.
And then she comes-to.
“But we have to go.”
“Where do you go? Where
do you come from? You just
disappear?” I’m talking like
Shakspeare. That’s how it
sounded.
“Where are we going?” She
looks at the clot.
“That’s up to you.” He’s got
an oozy accent and a blackdog
look and I notice both of them
although only the look is meant
for me.
“Somewhere for a drink.
That’s all I want. I’d like to be
drunk.”
And she says it so charm-
ingly, so like a dream that you
forget about sick, and stupid,
and smashing things and all that
drunk means, and you suddenly
realise that really you are drunk,
are drunk already. A night like
champagne. It’s all like a
dream.
But the clot’s not dreaming.
And he’s not drunk, either,
though he wants to be if you
judge from the way he suggests
a place. But she doesn’t like it.
He names another. She doesn’t
like that. So he names half a
dozen. Not one appeals, though
you’d think he was on a com-
mission he’s that keen to get her
to them. But it’s no good at all.
She doesn’t like their names.
“Come up to my place. It’s
not far from town. There’s
nothing much there. We could
have a few drinks, play a few
records. Why don’t you
come?” I can hear that my
voice is giving me away, putting
cards on the table. She must
know that I’m mad. 0
She looks at the clot as
though she’s doubtful. Then she
turns to smile, “But we’d like
that.”
And now I go right silly and
think she’s the way I am, that
the whole night’s magic, that
things are happening. I forget
the dogs. I forget the girls. I
forget the pictures, and I’m just
about ready to dance in the
street.
X>UT we get a cab then, just
in time to stop me. We sit
in the back, the clot at one
window, me at the other, the
girl in the middle.
There’s a bit of tension. The
clot looks nastier. Not that it
matters. Not that it’s surpris-
ing. So would’ve I. So
would’ve you, if the girl you’d
surrounded, this girl in fact, was
picking me up or being picked-
up. That’s how it was, too nice
and confusing to tell what was
happening.
The girl breaks the tension,
or seems to be trying to. She
talks all the time. It’s only
chatter, but she keeps her voice
low and important and I listen
as though it all meant things
while she says how beautiful the
fountain is and couldn’t we
blow-up St. Mary’s, and isn’t
William-street ugly-lovely and
the Cross mad and different and
how good it is to be away from
Melbourne even for a very little
while.
And then there we are, the
three of us. The clot pays the
fare while I help her out. Our
hands touch. And I keep hold-
ing her hand because there are
steps to go down and it’s a sort
of a joke about her not finding
her way.
We arrive at my place. It’s
nothing much. A room the
size of sixpence, but with com-
pensations. I don’t mind taking
her there. It’s on the lower
ground-floor. It opens on to a
courtyard, and from that you
can see out over the ’Loo away
to the city where the lights are,
and the shapes of buildings, all
of them softened and rather
beaut, and a long bracelet of
lights that’s the harbor-bridge
and so different from Melbourne
with black water under it and
sometimes ferries whose lights
make the water look like silver
Christmas-paper. I know she’ll
be gone on it. I don’t mind
taking her there.
Gf course if you look the
other way you see a brick wall
with little box-windows full
of washing or half - hearted
geraniums, but I know it’s a
night when she won’t be looking
the wrong way and neither am
I, so I don’t mind taking her
there at all.
And the courtyard’s worth
seeing. It’s got cobbles and
trees.
So we go to my room. The
bed’s not made, but that’s in
character. It’s not too untidy,
just bachelorlike. And there are
lots of books. I want her to see
them.
She goes happy on the court-
yard. It gets her in, the old,
old cobbles, the wonderful view.
She even looks upwards and
sees there are stars and gets
happy about them.
I pour out three drinks and
we all have a drink. No chatter
now. The talk’s good and easy ;
this, that and the other thing;
what we like and we don’t like.
The clot just sits there, taking
longer drinks than we do,
because we don’t need it.
I haul out the records. This
means everyone moves. The
room’s so small that the turn-
table’s the only thing has space
to go round. I let her see that
there’s Bach and Beethoven.
That’s to impress her. She says
she likes Mozart, which is meant
for a squash, but only a little
one, so I don’t really mind. I
put on some dance-records —
French and romantic —and we
sit there listening.
The window’s open. Outside
there’s the moon’s light. The
air is full of it. The door’s
open, too, so you can breathe,
and there’s a doorful of moon-
light. We’ve put out the light.
She’s sitting on the bed, in
shadow. I can just see her face
in the glow of the pick-up.
She’s smiling. I’m sure of that.
And she’s humming the tune.
'T'HE record ends and there’s
a scratchy sound and a jerk
as it turns itself off. I pour
some more beer for the clot. I
think he deserves it, and it
keeps him busy. I put on a
record, and I ask her to dance.
She looks at the room. There’s
a table, a chair, a bed and a
wardrobe in a room that’s like
sixpence, but she .says yes she’ll
dance and we push back the mat
and we move to the music.
It’s nightclub - dancing, put
your foot down when you find
a place, just move with music.
And that’s what we do. We
move in the dark while the
clot drinks and takes it well,
all things considered.
I put on another record and I
turn up the volume. We dance
outside, then, in the courtyard,
the moonlight, with the music
drifting and the stars on top of
us and the old lady next door
who owns a thousand damn’
cats and used to be a song-and-
dance girl leaning out of her
window and smiling at us.
When the record ends I kiss the
girl.
(Continued on page 30)


CHATEAU TANUNDA
No. 10
THE GOLD LICENCE
Almost immediately after the discovery of gold
in 1851, N.S.W. introduced the miner’s licence.
The fee was fixed at 30s. a month, but was later :
reduced to 30s. a quarter. i
’ Victoria followed N.S.W.’s lead; a local act of
January, 1852, imposed a licence fee of 30s. a month .
on all diggers. .The. penalty for mining without a
fc- licence was £5 for the first offence; gaol sentences of -I
f up to six months could be imposed for subsequent
t offences. The aim of this act was to help meet the
r. heavy expense of maintaining order on the Victorian
goldfields and to restrain unauthorised mining on
waste Crown land. However, the act went further
than this: Clause 7 appropriated half the recovered
penalties to the use of the informer or prosecutor—a
£ provocative and irritating provision that roused the ire
?. of miners.
In December, 1853, the Victorian fee was cut to £1
a month, but it did not alter the Miners’ biggest
grievance—that they could be gaoled for not having
their licences with them.
Unfortunately, many of the troopers who policed the -
Victorian act were "ex-convicts who had risen to be
gaol-warders" in Tasmania, and feelings ran high at
the ruthless way "licence-hunts" or “digger-hunts”
were often conducted. "Joe 1” and the additional
terms "Joe-Joe 1” or "Joey 1" (commemorating the
Christian name of Joseph Latrobe, superintendent of
Port Phillip from 1839 to 1854) were cries of warning
used by diggers at the approach of police.
Riots occurred at Beechworth and Castlemaine,
and the miners’ enmity against authority reached its
peak in the stand at Eureka Stockade late in 1854. -
An important reason for these outbreaks was that,
when licences were first introcu:ed, miners were not
numerous and were often successful, so that little
hardship was felt in paying the fees. But as goldfields
populations rose and failures became more common,
the fees were felt as increasingly burdensome. Un-
sympathetic police methods of checking licences fanned
the diggers' resentment into open rebellion.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER A CO. PTY. LIMITED. EST. 1838
GFIO 4
Mechanised Out
No Place for Ponies
By NORMAN KING
i——ylTH the steady mechan-
\ X / i sation of coalmines,
\/\X the pit-ponies, a var-
* iety of hard-working,
mischievous but very earth-
wise creatures, are disappearing.
Once every coalmine de-
pended upon the ponies to keep
the skips rolling from the face,
but now, with the advent of
shuttle-cars, continuous-miners
and Joy-loaders, the day of the
horse in the colliery, as on the
farm, is ending. In less than five
years, some old miners claim,
there will not be one pony
underground in N.S.W.
The pit-ponies are going out
with the old hand-miner, who
worked on contract with a pick
in one hand and with a length
of timber in the other. Some-
how, though, mines will never
be the same without the ponies,
most of which lived in near-
darkness for eleven months of
every year of their working lives.
Wherever mineworkers gather
there is talk of the astonishing
intelligence of the ponies, their
tricks and mannerisms and their
affection for the men and youths
who shared their lifetime of toil.
More than one miner will admit
that he owes his life to the sensi-
tivity of the ponies’ hearing and
a strange sixth sense which
brought a premonition of danger.
Experienced miners always
knew better than try to force a
usually tractable pony into a
section where it did not want to
go. Instead, they generally
downed tools and ran, with the
pony clattering along behind
them. A pointblank refusal by
a pony to go into a danger-area
almost invariably saved lives.
Because of the impractica-
bility of bringing out batches of
ponies at the end of each shift
and returning them before work
each day, most of them, in both
shaft- and tunnel-mines, were
quartered underground, usually
in a central part of the mine
where they would be handy to
shiftmen and wheelers.
Living as they did in under-
ground stables, most ponies
saw daylight only during the
Christmas break or at Easter. A
generation ago the children of
mining- towns always came run-
ning to see the pit-ponies, tub-
bellied, high-spirited little fel-
lows, driven past on the first day
of their annual holidays. It was
an event to see the ponies come
out of the mine, frolicsome and
undisciplined, acting for all the
world like boarding - school
students on their way home for
the long vacation.
Weeks of idleness in the horse-
paddocks near the pit-top, hours
of summer sunshine and lack of
handling usually made the
ponies mettlesome, and during
the first week or so of the new
working-year there would often
be strikes and stoppages because
the wheelers could not control
them properly, skips would be
delayed, and disputes developed
because of the unequal distribu-
tion.
But there was always a strong
camaraderie between the men
and the pit-ponies, and often
genuine affection, one for the
other.
There was Old Joe, an aged
chestnut pony who worked in a
South Coast mine for so long
that three generations of miners
knew and handled him. Joe
usually came prowling about
during the crib-break to beg for
crusts like a dog. After a while
he learned to open the crib-tins
left hanging on nails in the bays.
Joe would take the tin in big,
yellowed teeth and shake it
gently until it opened. More
than once he cleaned out an
entire crib-bay without being
caught.
Once a bad-tempered wheeler,
after losing his crib in this way,
hit Joe across the head with a
wooden sprag and blinded the
pony in one eye. The other men
took the wheeler, stripped him
naked and, sewing him up into
a shapeless bundle of brattice,
sent him out of the mine in an
empty skip.
Then there was Tinker, the
union-minded pony who worked
in a mine on the Maitland field.
Tinker could count, and knew
as well as any of his handlers
that he was not expected to haul
more than three skips. No
matter how the wheeler per-
formed, Tinker would never
budge until the fourth skip was
unclipped and there was the un-
mistakable clink from the rear.
It was no good the wheeler
easing the weight of the chain
while he clipped on an extra
skip, Tinker always knew.
Another pony had the disarm-
ing knack of giving an expert
backward kick while hauling a
load of skips. The skip-chain
would be kicked free and the
pony would walk on until, puz-
zled and offended at the bursts
of profanity, he would be hauled
back.
Ponies, like the men who
worked them, had a character
and individuality of their own.
Some were subject to moods
of nastiness, others were bad-
tempered at the beginning of
every shift, but all were philoso-
phical—and they knew their
men!
It was not unusual for a pony,
now and then, to take a sly
kick at a wheeler, not always
out of a spirit of animosity but
sometimes for the sheer devil-
ment of it. Even a retaliatory
boot in the ribs was mostly
accepted in good part.
Tales of the cunning of pit-
ponies will linger long after the
last of them has come out of the
mine for the last time. Some
of the stories sound fantastic,
but anyone who has seen the
ponies opening doors, backing
empty skips into working-places
without being bidden, and stand-
ing intently, listening to the
“talking” of the roof and refusing
to go further, can believe them.
An ambulance superintendent
of one of Sydney’s biggest met-
ropolitan depots, who in his
youth was a wheeler at the old
Oakey Park mine at Lithgow,
knew a pony that used to rest
its steel-shod hooves on the
smooth skip-rails and slide
downhill at every opportunity.
At the bottom of the slope the
pony would look back over its
shoulder and leer at the wheeler.
Another pony at the same
colliery, Bess, refused to take
her retirement even after her
hooves, through constant shoe-
ing, were worn down beyond
further shoeing.
Bess was ageless and the best
pony in the mine, but, knowing
she could not be worked without
shoes, the manager ordered that
she be taken out of the mine
and left to spend the last of her
days in the horse-paddock. The
men, going out at the end of the
day, would shake their crusts
out to Bess, and she \vas always
at the sliprails, waiting for them,
when the whistle blew.
Bess found the weak spots in
the fence and broke out of the
paddock each night and stood
waiting at the cage when the
men went down. She refused
to be hunted away, and, at last,
the manager agreed that she
should be taken back to the
underground stables.
But even there she wasn’t
satisfied. She followed the
horses out at the beginning of
each shift, getting in the way
and trotting about looking for
a job.
Finally, the groom made Bess
a set of four leather boots to
protect her tender hooves, and
she was given a job hauling the
water-baler’s skip.
Another tale has it that, when
a pit on the northern field caught
fire, a pony called Prince
escaped and made for the shaft-
bottom, where he caught the
signalling-rope in his teeth and
gave the correct signal for the
cage to be sent down. Without
thinking much about it, the
enginedriver let the cage down,
and Prince, after stumping in-
side, signalled the all clear. He
was hauled up to safety, and
every other horse in the mine
died from gas-poisoning, just as
all but one horse was suffocated
at the State Mine, Lithgow, three
years ago.
The one that escaped in the
State Mine fire was the Little
Duke, who was born the day the
Duke of Gloucester visited Lith-
gow. When the fire broke out,
the Little Duke got away from
the stables, but more than two
dozen others died.
Because they are specially
bred for underground work, pit-
ponies are not always easy to
obtain, and a well-trained one
generally brings up to £5O.
All ponies are not the same
size: they are usually bred for
a specific mine, or number of
mines, where the coal-seams are
of the same thickness.
At Tyldesley Colliery, on the
western field, Shetland-ponies,
working in tandem, have been
used, but generally the stand-
ard-sized pony is a cross be-
tween a recognised pony and a
draughthorse the pony for
size and the draught for strength.
Naturally enough, because of
their value and cost of replace-
ment, ponies are well cared for
in their underground stables.
They are well fed and watered,
with constant grooming.
Uniform temperature-condi-
tions and good treatment gen-
erally results in ponies living and
working years after surface
horses have reached the end of
the road.
Mechanised mining might be
more practical, more economical,
but the industry will lose much
of its color and tradition when
the last pony-harness is laid
aside. Even now, some mines
have disposed of all their ponies,
and at others the survivors have
•been given such menial tasks as
hauling electrical cables and
pulling the shiftmen’s timber-
jinkers into new places.
Horse-paddocks yawn empty,
and the children of mining-towns
and -villages no longer climb
the fences to look at the strong
little fejlows and share with
them their holiday freedom.
The mining-towns will miss
the impish little ponies.


A Galaxy of Characters
Stories of “Bulletin” Artists
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
Norman lindsay, in
an article in The
Bulletin’s 70th Anni-
versary Number, said
that “Hughie Maclean, who
averaged one single-column a
month in The Bulletin,
managed to exist on that one
source of income.”
Hughie, who achieved that
feat in the middle ’nineties and
did better for himself later, lived
on to be one of the oldest artists
to have contributed to The
Bulletin, and it was Hughie—
the Limpet of Norman’s A
Curate in Bohemia —who told
me much that I know about the
artists of a time a little earlier
than mine.
Hughie Maclean made his first
appearance in The Bulletin,
with a drawing of some slum
children, when he was a youth
working at Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne, and studying art
under George Coates. The draw-
ing was signed “Huia,” and
resulted in an invitation from
Archibald to send further
samples of his work, and so
“HAL GYE has an inspiration,”
viewed by Low.
Hughie became a regular con-
tributor.
At the time the paper’s star
artist was Livingston Hopkins,
who had been delighting readers
with his pictorial satires and
mellow humor from 1883. Tom
Durkin, shortly to be replaced
by Alf Vincent, was the Mel-
bourne cartoonist. -Durkin—he
died in 1902 —during his latter
years always had some inven-
tion on hand which was going
to make the fortune of everyone
who would invest a pound or
two in the gadget. So far as is
known, neither Tom nor any of
the many brother-artists who
staked him ever got even beer-
money out of his inventions.
As The Bulletin’s Melbourne
cartoonist Tom had followed
► George Rossi Ashton, brother
of Julian Ashton. A Cornish-
man, like Oswald Pryor, George
Ashton was in Australia for 14
years, and later made a name
for himself in London music-
halls as a lightning-sketch artist.
Impressed by some sketches
Ashton had made of a race-
meeting, Archibald declared that
he was “the only man who can
draw a man sitting on a horse,”
and offered him a position.
Later Archibald was to discover
others who could draw a man
sitting on a horse—notably
Frank Mahony, George Lam-
bert, Harry Garlick and Douglas
Fry.
William Macleod, Samuel
Begg, Montagu Scott and Alfred
Clint —early art-contributors to
The Bulletin —had long ceased
to draw for the paper when
Maclean made his modest bow.
Phil May had gone back to Eng-
land some years earlier, but his
name remained a household
word. To those requiring some
conception of the life lived by
the flash or gay section of the
Australian public more than sixty
years ago, May’s Bulletin
drawings are invaluable guides.
The hotel habitues, the sporting
clubmen, the park loafers, the
“mashers,” the gutter-urchins
and the flappers of the period
are presented with sparkling zest.
He wisely confined his joke-
block characters to his own
people—the denizens of pubs,
racecourses and seaside resorts ;
people full of the reckless gaiety
of life, with nothing of the
respectable suburbanite about
them.
Phil May was a hard-liver
himself. A doctor, observing the
ravages that time and dissipa-
tion had wrought on the artist’s
countenance, remarked to him,
“By Jove, Phil, old chap, I wish
you’d let me treat your nose!”
“No good, old boy,” Phil re-
plied. , “I’ve been treating it
myself for years.”
Unlike Phil May, Livingston
Hopkins was not a “mixer.” He
did not make friends easily and
others did not feel inclined to
make him a friend at first sight.
He kept people at a distance.
Those whom he did not like he
kept at a distance all his life,
but those privileged to get
behind his outward sternness
used to speak glowingly of his
geniality when he made you his
friend.
There is no denying the popu-
larity of his work. Perhaps the
explanation lies in the geniality
and 'simplicity of his drawings.
Though he could hit hard, he
was always good-tempered.
While he stripped his work of
every superfluity, there has
seldom been his equal in Aus-
tralia for dropping little bits
of unexpected humor into the
elaboration of a plan.
Frank Mahony, who became
known to Bulletin readers by
his realistic drawings of horses
—his illustrations for “Banjo”
Paterson’s “Geebung Polo Club”
are balm to the eye —was, in
the words of Roderic Quinn, “a
PHIL MAY, as seen by “Hop.”
fine fellow and a true artist.”
Edward Dyson once said that
what Paterson, Gordon and
Ogilvie did for the Australian
horse in rhyme, Frank Mahony
did for him in pure line.
Mahony, as this paper remarked
when he died in London in 1916,
should never have left Australia.
His stuff was so intensely Aus-
tralian that it appealed only to
Australians. In later years, Will,
a son, did a fair bit of freelance
work for The Bulletin.
George Lambert—it is strange
to think he once worked as a
cashier in a grocer’s shop!
studied art under Julian Ashton
and began to send sketches to
The Bulletin. His drawings
“HOP” as seen by Phil May.
were accepted by Archibald and
he was able to give away totting-
up grocery bills and devote the
whole of his time to art. Three
years later, in 1899, Lambert,
who was then 26, won a travel-
ling-scholarship of £l5O a year
and went abroad to study art
at Colarossi’s in Paris. While
abroad he had a small salary
from The Bulletin and con-
tinued to contribute to the paper
until he had established himself
as a painter. His Bulletin work
would repay study by some of
the more slapdash artists of to-
day.
Lambert used to keep a hack
and habitually wore riding-
breeches. He loved horses and
horsemanship, and any story he
told about himself —and he told
many—was likely to have riding
as its motif. Usually the yarn
represented strangers making
derogatory references to his
beard, or bald head, but being
impressed by the skilful way he
handled his mounts. A master
of repartee, he could usually
silence anyone who chaffed him
about his foible, but he was
defeated once. “Dear old
George,” mused a friend, “so
like a bushman in town; so like
a townsman in the bush.”
Another Julian Ashton pupil
who, like Lambert and Mahony,
had a preference for equine sub-
jects was Harry Garlick, law-
clerk for bread and artist for
butter. Garlick, who picked up
a lot about the anatomy of a
horse from Mahony, was only
33 when he died.
Douglas Fry, who also drew
horses, did many splendid
sketches of them for both The
Bulletin and the “Lone Hand.”
When Fry died, Lionel Lindsay
said: “Lambert painted the
horse well, just as Velasquez
did, not for any remarkable love
for the animal, but because it
is a fine matter for' treatment.
Mahony loved the horse —any
horse —and drew the typical
bush horse with singular in-
sight ; but for Fry, better
equipped technically and with a
greater knowledge of anatomy,
the thoroughbred horse was a
kind of religion, and when he
talked of a ‘good-’un’ his face
lit up and glowed with a holy
enthusiasm.”
B. E. Minns began to draw
for The Bulletin about 1887,
and was a regular contributor
for half a century —right up to
the week before his death in
1937 on a Sunday summer
morning while sketching at
Taronga Zoological Park. His
Bulletin reputation rests on his
friendly portrayal of the abo-
riginal, for whom he had a great
liking. Like Harry Garlick, he
was a law-clerk until art claimed
him and became his profession.
Born in the bush, Minns
began his artistic career when
about 14 years old by taking les-
sons in drawing and painting
from a clever old lady who lived
in the neighborhood. He used
to turn his achievements to
profitable account by bartering
sketches of horses to the local
saddler for bridles and saddle-
straps. Minns once said: “You
had to be able to draw horses
when I was a young artist or
else go out of business. These
days [the remark was made in
1935] there are artists who
wouldn’t know a horse if it
kicked them.”
Dave Souter began in 1892.
The first drawing of his to
appear was one somebody lifted
from him and sent in as his own.
“This,” said Dave, “set me think-
ing, and presently I rolled up
my sleeves, spat on both hands
and spent a Sunday afternoon
putting all I knew into a draw-
ing of a tearful widow declaring
that the deceased had been more
like a friend than a husband to
her and that was why she was
so sorry.” William Macleod
liked the drawing, paid for it,
and commissioned further work.
From then on, for over 40 years,
Dave had at least one drawing
in every issue and was always
paid a special rate, for Dave,
born in Aberdeen, knew how to
drive a bargain. He used to say:
“The artists reckon I’m a great
businessman and the business-
men reckon I’m a great artist.
I’m afraid, however, they might
both be wrong.”
Souter loved to draw well-
TED SCORFIELD, lightning-
sketched by Frith.
dressed, exciting-looking women.
The famous “Souter Cat, 7 ’ which
he generally contrived to work
into his joke-blocks, was evolved
from a blot that fell on a draw-
ing at the last moment. His
model for what he made of the
blot was a real cat that strayed
into the Souter household on a
New Year’s Eve, and, christened
Thomas Dark, was cherished in
spite of criminal habits until a
neighbor immolated him with a
shotgun.
A short, thick-set, friendly
man, Souter never lost his rich
Scotch burr, and he was —unlike
the average run of humorous
artists* immensely humorous
himself. As well as his draw-
ings, The Bulletin published
many of his short stories, verses,
SASS, captured by Will Dyson.
WILL DYSON, self-caught.
“’ARRY WESTON at ’ome ,”
seen by Low.
GEORGE LAMBERT, bagged
by Hal Gye.
PERCY LEASON; Jimmy
Bancks version.


light articles and plays. He was
one of the founders of the
Society of Artists, which began
as a breakaway movement from
the Royal Art Society of N. S.
Wales and was founded in the
back-room of an oyster-saloon.
It was Henry Fullwood —
another old Bulletin con-
tributor—who brought the dis-
pute between the Royal Art
Society and the breakaways to
a head. After an attempt to
curb the power of the non-
UNK WHITE; Zoo’s Zoo view
by Lahm ("Hotpoint”).
artists, who practically ran the
Royal Art Society, had been
defeated at a meeting, Fullwood
marched the breakaways out of
the rooms with the stirring cry:
“They are only a mob of yellow
dingbats! ”
Among other Bulletin black-
and-white artists of the ’nineties
who were to make names for
themselves in painting were
Fred Leist, A. J. Fischer, John
Shirlow and Percy Spence.
Nowadays some of them would
be regarded as good illustrators
rather than as humorous artists,
the fashion in humorous draw-
ings having changed consider-
ably over the years. Many of
the artists of that time would
barely make a living these days
hawking joke-blocks around the
newspaper offices, while many
now making good money out of
comic art would have had to
struggle for a crust in the days
when the emphasis was on the
drawing and not on the humor.
Spence was once engaged to
do a pastoral scene for the
now-long-defunct “Town and
Country Journal,” and drew a
typical mob of sheep enveloped
in a cloud of dust. The editor
handed it back to him. “It isn’t
what we want at all,” he said
austerely. “Our readers demand
detail. They must see the breed
of the sheep.” Percy apologised
profoundly for the dust and
inquired if the editor would like
the station brand to be shown
conspicuously on each sheep.
The editor seemed to think it
was not a bad idea.
Alec Sass, who introduced the
Sass girl, the Sass policeman and
many other types into the pages
of The Bulletin, was one of
the leading members of the Pre-
historic Order of Cannibals, a
Melbourne club composed
mainly of young artists; it had
a brief but lively career. For
some time Sass drew a topical
page for Melbourne “Punch”;
at the time of his death he was
on the staff of “Smith’s Weekly.”
A gay lad, he would say :
“There’s no such thing as a
Golden Age. There’s no time
like the present,” and he lived
accordingly.
When prosperity came to him,
Sass developed an abounding
charity, and was much plagued
by the peripatetic cadger. Wher-
ever Sass was there you might
see the 1.0.U.s of the younger
generation of artists in large
masses. Callers ate much more
of his foodstuffs than he did
himself. Indigent friends re-
garded his premises as a free
hostelry. Some of the breed
spent most of their lean times
with him, and when he got up
in the morning he mostly found
someone using his shaving-gear
and someone else absently drink-
ing his fluid property. Besides
being friend, adviser, father,
uncle and guardian to these folk,
he also constituted himself their
art-instructor.
Alf Vincent, The Bulletin’s
Melbourne cartoonist for over
20 years, as a boy copied Phil
May diligently and his style
never entirely lost the Phil , May
influence, but in the delicacy of
his work he often surpassed his
early model. His humor was
pleasant, his line always grace-
ful, and his pen so industrious
that he left behind hundreds of
unpublished drawings.
Vincent’s well-groomed, hand-
some figure was one of the sights
of the Melbourne Block, and he
was on speaking terms with all
the notables of the town as they
took their Saturday-morning
walk along that' historic stretch
of pavement—a happy-hunting-
ground for Phil May also.
In the hundreds of drawings
Vincent made of men in the
public eye it is doubtful if he
ever drew an unkindly line. Yet
one of his subjects thought
otherwise. The Bulletin sent
“HETH"; Bill Prior verdict.
him along to get a sitting of a
Victorian politician. The sitter
disliked the drawing. It
was execrable, he said, and
made him look like a scarecrow.
Vincent, a bland and courtly
gentleman, was not in the
least perturbed. “I’ll tell you
straight,” he said, “you’d better
not complain to my editor about
it, or I’ll advise him to publish
your photograph.”
Ambrose Dyson (elder brother
of Will), who t began in 1898 and
did some Melbourne cartoons,
and who picked up the rudi-
ments of art from Tom Durkin,
once had a sad encounter with
a horse. He had been sent by
an editor to a meeting of the
R.S.P.C.A. to get a few carica-
tures of officials, and had col-
lided with a friend’s birthday-
party on the way. When he
arrived at the meeting he was
in a state of mild jollity, which
WALTER JARDINE; fashioned
by Low.
developed into acute sentimen-
tality as tales of horror relating
to* the ill-treatment of horses
were unfolded at the meeting.
After getting his drawings
Ambrose started to brood on
the awful lot of animals in
general, and in an excess of
emotion he embraced the nearest
horse and tried to kiss it on the
nose. The neddie, most ungrate-
fully, turned on Ambrose and
ate a piece out of his straw hat,
leaving the artist to walk the
main street with the cady settling-
down precariously over each ear.
Australian artists have always
done well in America. Quite a
team of Bulletin black-and-
white men crossed the Pacific
to make good livings in New
York and elsewhere during the
late ’nineties and the early years
of this century. Some of them
remained there to become big
names; others drifted back to
their homeland. Among the
wanderers were Frank Nanki-
vell, Charles Nuttall, Bert Levy,
Reg Russom, Dick Hartley,
Fred Booty, Alec Sass, Fred
Leist, J. R. Flanagan and Pat
Sullivan.
Nankivell appears to have
been the only Bulletin artist to
have captained a cricket team.
Bert Levy, born of Jewish-
German parentage, developed
his talent for depicting Jewish
types, and did well in the United
States. A versatile sort of citi-
zen, Bert ran a vaudeville show
for years in New York, wrote
and illustrated hundreds of syn-
dicated articles for the American
Press, and was, like Tom
Durkin, by way of being an
inventor. Like Alf Vincent, he
was a fine-looking fellow and
sported a beard in the Lambert
fashion.
Among other Bulletin artists
of the ’nineties were Bill Treeby,
a quaint and imaginative
draughtsman, joked at by his
artistic friends because he was
also a contributor to the Salva-
tion Army weekly, the “War
Cry” ; W. J. Falconer, who did
many lifelike caricatures of
cricketers, then went to London,
and died when he was only 24 ;
Hugh McCrae, then producing
delightful miniatures of non-
sense over the nom de plume
of “Splash” ; little George Tay-
lor, the historian of Sydney’s
Bohemia in the days of Daley
and Quinn ; and Jack Eldridge,
Heiner Egersdorfer and Ray
Parkinson. A brother-in-law of
Norman Lindsay, Ray Parkin-
son was one of the merriest
members of the Prehistoric
Order of Cannibals, which for
years had its headquarters over
Peppa’s fruitshop in Swanston-
street, Melbourne.
Norman Lindsay himself came
in a little later. He had gone
to Melbourne from Creswick
(Vic.) to join his brother Lionel,
who was there studying art.
They lived together in various
makeshift studios and sometimes
made 12s. 6d. between them a
week. If they earned as much
as £2 for a week’s work it was
reckoned an extraordinarily
lucky week. They drew Sunday-
school texts at 2s. 6d. a text,
and Norman ghosted for Lionel
on the old “Hawklet.” His first
signed work appeared in the
“Freelance”; he designed the
first cover and drew for the
“Tocsin,” and was art-editor of
the short-lived “Rambler.”
Julian Ashton met Norman in
Melbourne in 1901 when
Norman was twenty. “He was a
thin, slight chap with eager, bril-
liant eyes,” wrote Ashton in
after years. “Full of nervous
JIMMY BANCKS; as seen by
Harry Wann.
energy, he had the same remark-
able flow of words he has today.
When he showed me his Boc-
caccio drawings, I thought it
was extraordinary that such a
youthful-looking artist could
have drawn them. I wanted to
raise money to send him abroad;
but meanwhile, on the strength
of these drawings, Archibald
put him on the staff of The
Bulletin.”
On the Red Page of August
18, 1900, was reprinted a pair
of bookplates, two of a set
Norman had on show at the
N.S.W. Society of Artists’ rooms
in Sydney. Also on show there
was a set of the Boccaccio draw-
ings, which The Bulletin art-
critic of the day said were “the
finest examples of pen-draughts-
NORMAN LINDSAY,
sketched by “Boz .”
manship yet produced in this
country.” In the following issue
Norman’s own likeness of him-
self appeared—also on the Red
Page—sandwiched between a
short account of the artist by
“an enthusiastic (not undiscrimi-
nating) friend.”
Norman’s “enthusiastic” friend
described him as “keen of face,
luminous of eye, slim and wiry
of figure, strangely resembling
the early portraits of Albrecht
Diirer... . the very reincarnation
of the ancient artist-craftsmen —
one of the merry painters of
Verona He has done enough
already to give the solidest
promise of ripe years to come.”
The “enthusiastic friend,” by
the way, was that fine friend
of all writers and artists —Dr.
Jack Elkington, who died at
Mooloolaba (Q.) last March.
In the same issue appears
Norman’s first actual contribu-*
tion to The Bulletin, a drawing
showing a larrikin and his
“donah” on a park-bench above
a poem, “A Bush Rondeau,” by
Peter Airey, the Queensland
poet. By September 21, 1901,
Norman had invaded the front
page with a political cartoon
entitled “The Price of Glory.”
Both Lionel and Percy Lindsay
also became long-term Bulletin
contributors.
Will Dyson, who began to
draw for The Bulletin about
the same time as Norman, was
a member of the gifted family
that had lived on the Ballarat
gold-diggings about twelve miles
away from the Lindsays. Al-
though Dyson’s father was a
digger and both the father and
mother typical working people,
Will grew up in an atmosphere
of art and literature.
Will Dyson was for a time
undecided which path to follow.
(Continued on next page)
FRITHY, by Aria.
CHARLIE NUTTALL, says
Low.
B. E. MINNS; think-piece by
Low.
RAY WHITING;
self-indictment.
LOW; return-bouquet by
Hal Gye.


One day he composed some
verses and illustrated them. They
fell into brother Edward’s hands.
“To my secret annoyance,” said
Will, “for I still think they were
good, my brother benevolently
discarded the verses, wrote some
of his own to go with the draw-
ing, and sent them to one of the
papers.” They were both
promptly accepted with a call
for more; and thus was Will
launched as a cartoonist.
Archibald, however, persuaded
Will to turn his pen to carica-
tures, and he has been described
as “one of the greatest carica-
turists of all time.” Actually,
his first caricature —of pianist
Mark Hambourg—was one of
his best.
In 1910 Will Dyson married
Ruby Lindsay, a member of the
renowned family. Ruby Lindsay
—the “Ruby Lind” of hundreds
of Bulletin drawings revealing
a charming fancy and a delicate
style—went to Melbourne from
Creswick when a girl in her late
’teens, took a high room in a
tall house in East Melbourne,
and with the assistance of an
explosive oil - stove batched
through a long and toilsome pro-
bationary period of art, acquir-
ing a facility which subsequently
drew from Haldane Macfall in
his History of Painting the com-
ment that “She is the most re-
markable woman with the pen-
line now living.” William Mac-
leod once declared that she was
the most handsome woman who
ever visited The Bulletin office.
Ruby Lindsay, who died of
influenza in London in 1919 at
the age of 32, was forerunner
of a ntimber of talented women
whose drawings were to appear
in The Bulletin, among them
Mab Treeby, Grace Burns,
Esther and Betty Paterson,
Bertha Bennett Burleigh, Nessip
Tindall, Dorothy Fry, Dorothy
Ellsmore, Pixie O’Harris, Molly
Horsemann and Mahdi McCrae.
Hugh McCrae’s earliest draw-
ings were signed “Splash,” and
as “Splash” he also contributed
to Melbourne “Punch” and
New York “Puck.’’ While in
America Hugh met Pat Sullivan,
creator of “Felix the 1 Cat,” who
wanted him to do the drawings;
Hugh declined and lost his only
chance of making a fortune.
Of other Bulletin artists,
Oswald Pryor, now living in
Adelaide, is almost as old as
the paper-itself. He had his first
drawing in it in 1902, a week
after his 21st birthday. Born at
Moonta (S.A.) of Cornish
parents, Pryor attended the local
School of Mines and spent six
months as a fitter and turner in
the engineering shop of a mining
company. He was then trans-
ferred to the drawing-office and
later held an executive position.
For a while he managed The
Bulletin’s Adelaide office.
About 15 years ago I met
Oswald Pryor in Sydney upon
his return to Australia after a
trip abroad. He had spent nine
weeks in Cornwall and spoke
of having heard the “boays”
sing Christmas “curls” in the
pubs at Falmouth. He found
the Cornish dialect, pasties and
saffron-cakes unchanged, and
Cousin Jack still referring to
Devon as “a place on the way
to England.”
It was C. J. Dennis, when he
was editing the - Adelaide
“Critic,” who suggested to
Pryor that the Cousin Jack
miners of the Moonta and
Wallaroo districts were good
subjects for joke-blocks. Pryor
did not follow Dennis’s advice
for several years because he
thought Cornish humor would
not be understood by Austra-
lians. When he did adopt the
suggestion he was surprised and
delighted to find that his Cousin
Jack drawings had an apprecia-
tive following wherever The
Bulletin was read.
Jolly little Harry Julius was
another artist who broke into
The Bulletin at an early age.
A Boer War bugler, he learnt
art from Julian Ashton after he
returned from South Africa and
was soon doing theatrical and
other caricatures for the paper.
Harry started a successful Syd-
ney commercial-art business
with Sydney Ure Smith, and
afterwards ran his own advertis-
ing agency, also successful. He
was the first artist in Australia
to employ animated cartoons for
the cinema—that was back in
the days of the old silent
films. A cheerful, good-hearted,
talented fellow, he died young.
About a quarter of a century
ago, Harry and I covered a play
staged by a group of young
Chinese in the rooms of the
Sydney Kuomintang Society.
Harry’s job was the easier, since
he had merely to sketch the
actors, whereas I was called
upon to criticise the perform-
ance, -which was given in
Chinese. However, the producer
obligingly provided me with two
interpreters, who took turns to
babble in my ears translations
of the various speeches, punc-
tuated with naive requests for
laudation of various performers.
Harry, immaculate in starched
front, was, during the frequent
“I understand you trade-in old-'uns .”
intervals, the cynosure of admir-
ing Chinese eyes, his sketches
exciting much talk. The show
ran almost to midnight, then
Harry and I were carried off to
a chop-suey joint in the Hay-
market. Speeches in Chinese
and English in our honor, and
the drinking of our healths in
most fiery liquor, indicated that
the write-up should be a flatter-
ing one.
Some days later, Harry and I
were visited by a deputation of
elderly Chinese gentlemen, prob-
ably the fathers of the young
actors, and were overwhelmed
with thanks, and fruits, sweets,
nuts and ginger.
A very lovabll Australian was
Pat Sullivan, th.e creator of
“Felix the Cat.” In his student
days in Australia Pat made a
living of sorts by selling carica-
tures of boxers and turf cele-
brities to barbers’ shops for a
few shillings each. He would
also do business with anyone
who cared to pay a couple-of-
bob for a caricature of himself.
After a spell of freelancing,
during which time he contri-
buted to The Bulletin, he
reached New York —via Liver-
pool, England-t-in an empty
cattle-boat, broke, but cheerful
and brimful of fun and confi-
dence. His first job in New
York was drawing comic post-
cards. He also designed posters
for several cinema concerns, and
tried his hand at scenarios which
were never accepted.
At that time Bud Fisher’s
“Mutt and Jeff” had captured
America, and Pat spent a lot of
thought trying to hit on some-
thing that would be equally
catching. While he and his wife
were living in a fiat in New
York, she saw a weird-looking
cat outside the window. He was
the original from which the
artist created the famous Felix,
shortly to become known all
over the world through the
movies and as a toy and mascot.
A contemporary of Pat Sulli-
van’s was Cecil Hartt, whose
drawings—mainly of down-and-
outs —appeared in The Bulletin
before he left Australia to serve
with the A.I.F. in World War I.
Few drew the Digger more
convincingly than Hartt, a fine
type of Digger himself. He was
a shade over six feet, with a
winning * smile, and he was, if
anything, a Tittle too good-
hearted. When he was drawing
his park-dossers he used one old
derelict as a model, paying him
a few shillings for a sitting. The
old chap was always in trouble
with the police, and once, having
been charged with vagrancy, he
called on Cecil to give evidence
on his behalf.
Cecil spoke so feelingly in the
prisoner’s favor that the magis-
trate intimated that he intended
to dismiss the charge. Address-
ing Cecil, he then said: “Now,
Mr. Hartt, if I acquit the
prisoner, do you think you could
induce him to tidy himself up?”
To which Cecil replied:
“Gracious, no. If the poor devil
washed, shaved and looked after
himself not an artist in town
would want him as a model.”
Mick Paul broke into The
Bulletin in 1904, when he was
only .16; he drew for the
paper for 40 years. Mick lived
for many years with Harry
Meatheringham, a Sydney
Domain orator, whose ipany ex-
ploits included squatting in a
disused police-station as a home
and a long fight with the Crown
over possession. Mick, who,
hated paying rent in the ordinary
way, gave his host a batch of
paintings in lieu thereof.
Other new artists in the first
decade of this century included
Maorilander L. H. Booth, Fred
Brown (creator of the inimitable
“In Tophet” series) and J. Muir
Auld, who was one of a colony
of black-and-white men at Dee
Why (N.S.W.).
Herbert W. Moffitt, whose
signature appeared on countless
Bulletin drawings, spent most
of his youthful years mustering
cattle around the Upper Shoal-
haven (N.S.W.), where he was
born. Another faithful delineator
of bush types was Queenslander
Ashton Murphy, who had been
an inspector of repairs to tele-
graph-lines and had travelled
extensively outback. Both Henry
Lawson and “Steele Rudd”
held a high opinion of
Murphy’s drawings.
Old-timers still sometimes
chuckle over the drawings of
sailors by Harry J. Weston, who
went west, jesting to the end,
only a couple of months ago.
Harry’s sailors were mainly con-
cerned with beer, stoush and
girls. Hanging in a waterside
pub not far from The Bulletin
office is an old sketch by Harry
wherein an ancient sea-captain
is seen explaining that in his
many years’ trading across Bass
Strait he hasn’t missed Tasmania
“mor’n a cuppla times.”
Among others who belonged
to this period were Frank Jessup,
who drew for a temperance
journal a weekly cartoon against
the Demon Rum, while selling
drawings of drunks to The
Bulletin ; Walter Jardine, the
most successful commercial
artist Australia has produced,
who made a big name for him-
self in America, and who turned
out many a fine full-page to
illustrate the verses of Bulletin
bards; Lance Mattinson (“an-
other of the wonderful young
men of the Australian Bulletin
school of black - and - white
artists,”, the London “Daily
Herald” called him); Ted
Colies, whose political cartoons
had begun to be a feature of
The Bulletin before he went
off to World War I; Claude
Marquet, originally a com-
positor, who, while still working
at his trade, contributed many
drawings to The Bulletin, and
who later became a most
powerful cartoonist for the Syd-
ney “Worker”; Tom Shield,
who liked to put an aeroplane
into every drawing he produced ;
J. A. Pearce, South Australian
comic artist and caricaturist with
a leaning towards cubism; and
Percy Benison, who knows the
noble art as well as the other
, sort.
David Low was only 21 when,
in 1911, he crossed the Tasman
to join The Bulletin. His boy-
hood was spent in Christchurch
(N.Z.) in a rambling old house
with plenty of land around it.
David started to draw as soon
as he could hold a pencil, and,
liking to be alone when indulg-
ing in his hobby, he chose as
his studio the fowlhouse. He
drove out the chooks before
starting with his labors. At the
age of 11 he won a children’s
drawing competition conducted
by a Melbourne paper and the
following year was doing draw-
ings for the Christchurch “Spec-
tator” at half-a-crown a time.
At the age of 15 he was earning
£2 a week on the Christchurch
“Sketcher,” and two years later
was appointed cartoonist on the
now - defunct “Canterbury
Times.”
Just as Phil May derived in
a sense from Linley Sam bourne
(“All I know I got from Sam-
boume,” he told Raven Hill), so
Low derived in a sense from
Phil May. And it is a curious
coincidence that the pair of them
—two of the most renowned
black-and-white artists that the
British Empire has produced —
should have made names on The
Bulletin before settling in
London. May and Low are
remarkable in that people gene-
rally were as appreciative of
them almost from the, first as
were their fellow-artists. The
magic of the “common touch.”
While in Australia, David Low
was the close friend of Hal Gye,
who, after receiving drawing les-
sons from Alec Sass, worked for
the Adelaide “Gadfly” and for
over 30 years contributed
theatrical and sporting carica-
tures to The Bulletin ; Hal, of
course, brilliantly illustrated C.
J. Dennis’s Sentimental Bloke
and Glugs of Gosh.
Mervyn Skipper, this paper’s
Melbourne literary representa-
tive, has related how, many
years ago, an artist named Phil
Goatcher painted some nude
figures on the ceiling of the
Princess Theatre, Melbourne.
They passed unnoticed until
someone murmured about some
places not being fit to take one’s
children to. Hal Gye and
painter George Benson were
thereupon deputed to make the
ladies decent. Benson lay on his
back on a swaying platform
while Gye from the floor
directed him to lay on the neces-
sary draperies. The result may
not have been artistic, but it was
eminently satisfactory from a
moral point of view.
While Gye was sending theat-
rical and sporting caricatures
from Melbourne, Jimmy Bancks
was doing similar drawings in
Sydney for The Bulletin. In-
terested in art from when he
was a youngster, Jimmy was for
a time a very junior clerk in a
woolstore. Having domestic
responsibilities, he hesitated to
throw up his job and become
an artist until The Bulletin
promised him a certain amount
of work while he studied and
practised art. He both studied
and ‘ practised hard and, after
some years freelancing, joined
the Sydney “Sunday Sun,” and
made himself famous with his
Ginger Meggs.
Ginger had a rival in Fatty
Finn, product of Syd Nicholls’s
pen. Syd did many drawings
fot The Bulletin ; old Diggers,
in particular, will remember his
Anzac Day cartoons.
Tasmanian by birth, Syd was
one of a batch of Apple
Islanders who broke into The
Bulletin at about the same
time. The others were Alex
Gurney, Jack Quayle and L. F.
Reynolds. Before entering the
newspaper game Reynolds was
an architectural draughtsman,
and Quayle, whose draughts-
manship was praised by “Hop,”
and something of whose Perc
the Punter feature in “Truth”
every Sunday is based on acute
personal experience the day be-
fore, was a clerk employed by
an exclusive Hobart club. Alex
Gurney worked for the Tas-
manian Hydro-electric Comrhis-
sion.
A close friend of Quayle was
Jack Waring, who died at the
age of 34. Waring was born
at Belfast, and, like a great
many black-and-white artists,
learned process-engraving as
a youth, other contributing
Bulletin artists to do so in-
cluding caricaturist S. G. Wells
and Syd Miller.
\Vhil9 still in his ’teens Waring
served and was wounded in
France with the Royal Irish
Rifles in World War I. In the
middle-’twenties he created a
mild sensation by disappearing
from his home and his usual
haunts. The only trace of him
was some of his clothing, per-
sonal papers and a roll of
(Continued on page 32)


makes all the difference
1489c.c. M.G.
Any experienced racing driver will tell you the addition of
extra BENZOL to his fuel is a must to get Optimum Per*
formance from his engine. Gruelling racing speed won’t interest
private motorists but all the ‘OP’ advantages of extra BENZOL
wi11 ... You’ll appreciate the quicker ' '<
starting, livelier acceleration and
smoother, more positive power of
BP SUPER or C.O.R STANDARD ...
. . . the only motor
spirits containing extra
m
BP
SUPER
STANDARD
BP,SUPER, like Special Energol VISCO-STATIC Motor Oil—the original 4 grades In I oil
acclaimed by world motorists-—is worth so much more than the extra It costs.
Marketed by u/c3OO
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Co. Ltd
g rim Show
by
Joseph
Cizzio
IT is embarrassing to talk to
men shortly after they have
been badly wounded
especially if you know them
really well. A man with a
recently-amputated limb has a
different world before him, and
it is bewildering trying to think
this out with the whole body one
hideous ache.
There are the recently dead.
You grope in your mind for
something to explain death and
suffering—something you had
heard under calm circumstances.
I once lived with a battalion
of men who philosophically
accepted the fact that they were
fighters, not just soldiers. They
had some disdain for parade-
ground routine, and those with
rank wore it rather apologeti-
cally, wore it with humility.
This battalion was a good fight-
ing team.
There was a man of prayer
among these fighters. This was
amazing because the uniform
implies a uniformity of character,
and morality is no boast of the
average soldier. But this man
gave me a new insight into
Christ’s words: “You are the salt
of the earth.” We were a little
world, a little earth to ourselves
—it would have had a different
character without this man of
prayer.
I knew these things because the
souls of the men had been laid
bare, but afterwards some of
these men became strangers to
me, strangers to each other and
strangers to themselves.
T\AVE was tall and serious.
He lived by a code. His
mind was disciplined to expunge
base thoughts and desires. His
youth had been spent in agonies
of violent control. He tried to
hide his scruples. Few knew
Dave’s character. Few were
capable of understanding why
he was respected.
John had lived in the virile
sense. Now he had a surfeit of
living.
The ambulance dressing-
station was a neat village of huts
thatched with banana-leaves.
The ward was clean and restive.
An orderly who had been a
stretcher-bearer attended to me.
He* was kind and efficient. He
laughed at grim episodes, nod-
ding his head and displaying
loose false teeth. He was a
lovable fellow and he knew war.
I watched Dave being carried
in from the operating-theatre.
His eyes were half-open and
glazed. Dave had a strong face,
but his mouth was open and his
top lip was drawn up over his
teeth. For two days he remained
like this. Then he closed his
mouth and focused his eyes. He
was given liquid food, but he
vomited as often as he was fed.
One leg had been taken off
above the knee, the bandaged
stump was attached to a rubber
tube which dripped cleaning-
fluid into the wound. Most of
the day he lay with his head on
one arm and his eyes open, blink-
ing as though he were deep in
thought. His earnest brown eyes
still possessed a purity of expres-
sion and an unwavering purpose.
Once his hand groped on the
deal-box beside his bed. I said
“Can I help you, Dave?” He
turned his eyes on me and
opened his mouth, but no words
came. He gave a gesture of hope-
lessness, a mere lifting of his
eyes, and he sank back like an
infirm old woman.
John had a hole in his leg
made by a .sin. bullet fired by
one of our aircraft. John’s main
ambition was to be home for his
twenty-first birthday. He was
irresponsible on the mainland.
It was not really bad manage-
ment that he had been hit by one
of our bullets. Australians and
Japs were mixed, but the Japs
fired at our aircraft —an insane
thing because by doing this they
gave their f positions to our
pilots. John* was hidden a few
yards from Japs who betrayed
themselves in this manner. A
plane came low and strafed
them ; it also strafed him.
He crawled to a beach a
thousand yards away; it took
him a day and a night. He lay
behind a fallen coconut-tree and
was shelled by our artillery for
eight hours. A Jap, unheedful of
danger, waited ten yards away
with a juki and chipped pieces
off a tree.
John was lonely, desolate and
fearful.
At night he outmanoeuvred the
Jap and crawled to the beach,
where he remained for ten hours
before being picked up.
npHE day before the landing I
watched these men running
from attack-barges to the scrub.
This was the rehearsal. It was
a steaming day and their clothes,
saturated with perspiration,
seemed to have been doused with
water.
They were on the edge of a
plantation fringed with wind-
breaks of scraggy pines which
cast gloomy shadows on parades
of spindly palms. Beyond the
plantation stretched a plain of
jungle from which mountains of
sombre green rose into clouds.
Shimmering sea reflected the
fierce sun like a gigantic mirror.
White sand and coral formations
could be clearly seen fathoms
deep, and flying-fish skimmed
the surface leaving minute wakes
like squadrons of miniature air-
craft. Atolls on palettes of sand
were strung out to volcanic
islands covered in vegetation
thick and curly like the hair of
a native.
The atmosphere was strange
to us and dangerously seductive.
A midday meal was eaten in
the shade of a native awning. The
men were young; their hair was
thick and their faces soft. I was
reminded of anxious hours in
school before examinations.
“We might go through like a
Bondi tram.”
“Yeah? With fifteen-hundred
Nips up there? And we expect
to lose one barge ”
There was silence after this
remark. Each man realised that
he might die in the morning and
he felt the pity of it.
They were familiar with what
they would see. There would
be a jetty of palm-logs broken
and rotting like decayed teeth.
Perhaps a railway-track leading
from the fronds and shadows to
a mean clearing. But it would
be night and the shore would be
forbidding. There would be
pillboxes miniature stockades
of coconut logs—with black
apertures facing the sea, and
behind would be yellow faces.
In the afternoon weapons were
cleaned and packs crammed with
operational rations and changes
of clothing. Afterwards some
men swam in the sea, others
slept, the majority wrote letters.
I saw one lad kneeling on the
beach reading a prayer-book —
unashamed.
At 3 p.m. the landing-force of
one-hundred-and-eighty troops
was addressed by the Brigadier
. . . They would need guts to
make the landing a success, he
said, but he knew they had guts.
He asked if they wanted any-
thing. One man shouted “What
about fresh kai?” Fresh meat
would be air-dropped to them
if they were successful, he
replied. If they were not success-
ful food would not matter —
would it?
Minds were strained to a new
tension, but they were compen-
sating thoughts. Everything was
planned. The team-spirit was
excellent. There was a chance
they would take the Nip by sur-
prise, without losing a man. Zero
hour was 3 a.m.
After tea the men were rest-
less ; they had slept and the
prospect of waiting was almost
intolerable. Somebody suggested
they be allowed to go to the
pictures—the cinema was gix
miles away. The officers who
granted the request thought it
a good idea —something to ease
the tension. The men readily
accepted the chance to escape
their thoughts.
It rained early in the evening
and the audience was a shiny
mass of gas-capes, but the
shower stopped and stars in
crystal splendor flickered
benignly on the little theatre.
“Greenwich Village” was
shown through a projector
powered by a Jap engine, on a
screen stretched across two
poles like football goalposts.
The picture was appreciated
despite the fact that the audience
was in no mood to become
absorbed in sophisticated enter-
tainment. It was a link with the
world they knew; something
familiar in contrast to the
unknown quantity they were to
face in a few hours. During
each change of reel there were
choruses of, “It won’t be long
now.”
Taken back to the rendezvous
the men lay on the ground—
stretcher-tops had been packed.
At 2 a.m. they were aroused to
file by the Y.M.C.A. tent for
cups* of tea. Flaring matches
illuminated groups of faces in
the still night. They were having
their last cigarettes smoking
was taboo on the barges.
One after the water-
craft engines whirred to life like
aircraft about to take flight. The
men walked aboard —grotesque
figures humped with packs. Soon
the barges were shadows indis-
tinguishable from atolls. The
whirring faded into the sound of
short surf and chirping insects.
.In each tent of those left
behind there was a murmur of
voices. A rapid succession of
our shells from guns focused on
the invasion-point whizzed
overhead and reverberated in the
mountains. The guns ceased
firing and a profound silence
ensued. We strained our ears
and looked at our watches.
Then it came. Distant bursts
of machine-guns. It was in-
distinct. We had expected a
greater commotion. We went to
sleep.
morning there was loud
talking in the mess, and one
man was perturbed.
“What’s Shorty niggly about?”
“Bill woke him up and told
him the invasion was a failure.”
“Don’t do that again,” said
Shorty with meaning.
Bill laughed—we all did. The
invasion was a success. There
were no casualties. The news
came through on the wireless-
telephone. There was a hitch —
the supply-barges had gone
aground on a reef. Nobody
thought this serious—better to
lose barges than men.
The morning was weepy with
silver mists shrouding islands.
Wisps of grey cloud clung to
folds of mountains and great
birds waved like windborne rags
through tall trees and hanging
vines. The world possessed a
fairyland grandeur. The sun
sank into rain clouds but thrust
pink shafts to lofty billows in
tropical splendor.
Nature was extravagant and
unexpected when we received the
news that the invaders were
threatened with annihilation.
They were short of ammuni-
tion. They had only what they
carried with them —the rest was
on the stranded barges. Attempts
to wade out and get it had been
disastrous. Nip was perforating
the barges and raking the water
with machine-gun fire. He knew
the plight of our men and he was
fully exploiting the situation.
It was decided to stage a
miniature Dunkirk. It would be
hazardous because of coral reefs ;
once aground a barge would be
doomed.
At dusk the sea was like
polished lead and our artillery-
flashes like summer lightning.
The first rescue-barge came
whirring back. It landed a.hand-
ful of men haggard and stagger-
ing. Their faces had that pasty
whiteness common to men fresh
from action. Three carried
rifles, the rest were without
equipment.
Further attempts to reach the
stranded men were deferred till
night—darkness was the principal
defence. Later we received a
wireless-telephone message that
barges were coming in with
wounded and dead. A Tilley-
lamp and a tea-urn were set on
a table. Jeep-ambulances were
waiting for the wounded —a
truck was waiting for the dead.
The cinema unit was playing
dance-records preparatory to the
show. We stood listlessly whilst
somebody was telling in a loud
voice how he would organise
the rescue. He was told to
shut-up.
A barge came in and its door
dropped as though this were its
last act before utter exhaustion.
A red-haired boy was led off
stumbling drunkenly. He was
clothed only in a shirt, but one
gaiter was fastened foolishly to
a bare ankle.
Then came the jtretcher-
cases, the wounded and the dead.
We spoke in hushed voices.
Somebody said it was a grim
show —the words were repeated
throughout the night.
A succession of barges landed
their cargoes and went back for
more. One barge gunner was
proud of having silenced a Juki.
“I’m going back to get another,”
he said. When his barge returned
(Continued on page 49)


Nothing cooks as well as an AG A
-css;'
w
m
M
///
c OS
... and
no cooker
costs less in the long run
Cooking on an AGA
is a housewife’s dream
• Your AGA has two hot plates and two
ovens—one for baking and roasting—the
other for simmering. • Even oven heat
guarantees fine cooking—just like a baker’s
brick oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
• Thermostatically controlled the temper-
atures are always right: no pre-heating is
necessary. Put your dishes straight into the
oven. • Hot plates—boiling and simmering—
take three eight-pint saucepans on each. You
can boil a 4-pint kettle of water in 4 minutes.
• Dishes can be left to simmer for 24 hours
without any possibility of burning or thicken-
ing. • So reliable—that from all cookers
offering; the Australian Antarctic Expedition
chose AGAs for all their bases.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details free and
without obligation: —
NAME - -
ADDRESS
The AGA is the most
economical cooker in the world . . .
• No matter how often you cook, or how
many you cook for, AGA is guaranteed
not to burn more than a specified small
amount of coke. Over the years, this repre-
sents really big fuel savings and more than
compensates for AGA’s higher initial cost.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually
you get a lifetime of service from your AGA.
• Hot water at will—the AGA is not only a
superlative cooker, but will provide a
continuous supply of hot water to sink,
bathroom and laundry. • Included in the
price of the AGA is a wonderful set of
cooking utensils with specially machined
bases. • Easy terms are available. Fuel savings
provide a substantial part of your payments.
LEVIN 8e CO. LTD.
51-57 GOULBURN ST.. SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL ST.. ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET Be ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS.
5* WILLIAM ST., PERTH
EIS2
H 3
L.D.D.
BRIARS -
smoke cool and sweet
right from the start
L.D.D. pipes are London
made, they are richly
coloured to show the natural
grain. Light in weight, they
are made from finest old
briar. See the full range of
L.D.D. pipes and enquire
about membership in the
World Fellowship of Pipe-
smokers— price, 29/6.
Sold by all Leading Tobacconists
Australian Distributors
Box 502, G.P.0., SYDNEY
breathing deeply, George and the
turkey were squatting side by
side against the fence, puffing a
little after their stimulating
exercise and watching her with
great interest.
I had quite a time explaining,
when I got home, that George
was like that a lover of all
living creatures except male
dogs and that he and the
gobbler had just been having
a game. But she soon realised
that he would kill no turkeys,
and she became as proud of him
as I was.
Then I moved to another place
where, unfortunately, they kept
ducks, and* George slew several,
and was in bad odor in the home
and with me before I found out
what was on his mind. I got to
the bottom of it when I went
out very early one morning and
found him dealing with another
uncooked Sunday dinner.
He was putting his nose under
the duck and tossing it into the
air, in the obvious hope that it
would run freely like his old
mate the turkey-gobbler, or
frolic like a friendly cat. Un-
happily, ducks being ducks, it
just quarked and flopped down
to the ground in dismal con-
fusion each time. With a look
of disgust and irritation on his
face, George would then bite a
piece out of the duck, by way of
emphasis. But it simply wouldn’t
understand, and after enough of
George’s educational method any
duck would be worn out and
ready for replacement.
I chopped that duck’s head off
quickly, and there began a long
conflict of wills between dog
and myself. Obviously believing
that where therms no sense
there’s no feeling, he went on
biting ducks. When he .got the
strap for it he wpuldn’t let out a
yelp, but would leer at me in
a way that made it plain he
thought me a fool, like the ducks.
After a while he had me beaten
on that one, and we moved to
where there were no ducks.
Apart from fighting other dogs
anywhere and everywhere, at
all hours of the day or night, the
duck incident was the only
major misbehavior of his life.
For instance, probably because
he was a keen motor-cyclist him-
self, he had a proper respect for
traffic, and he never chased a
car, bicycle or any other vehicle
all his days. Yet he was run over
four times, in each case because
when he set eyes on another dog
across the street all else was
blotted out of his vision and he
raced like an arrow to discover
if the stranger was the sex to
be fought or the one to be other-
wise dealt with.
The first time a car flattened
him, he was out with my wife,
and when he *'was stretched on
the road bleeding from the mouth
and seemingly dead, she sorrowed
greatly and the motorist apolo-
gised profusely over the remains.
But then the dog he had been
after trotted up to investigate,
and made the mistake of coming
close and sniffing at George.
With a roar of rage the battered
one was simultaneously on his
feet and fighting, proving to the
other mong that much worse
things could happen to a dog
than being hit by a car.
Another time, with me, he was
streaking across a street in a
blind fury when a very ancient,
high-built car got him. It was
shuddering along so slowly that
when the front-axle hit him he
rolled over and was on his feet
again in time to stop the engine-
sump with the small of his back.
Then the gear-box, the rotating
propeller-shaft and the diff.
copped him, each in its turn
hammering him down on to the
road.
George was finally spilled out
behind the old car covered with
dirt and grease, bawling with
fury and ready to fight the
automobile. He was obviously
disappointed when what had
sprung upon him turned out to
be a thing of steel and rubber,
instead of, as he’d imagined, the
biggest dog he’d ever dreamed
about.
By the time we left the Gold-
fields, George had more than
re-established my self-esteem as
a dog-owner, and he had left his
mark all over the place, about
equally in fang-imprints and in
a vastly increased dog-population
wearing their dad’s shiny black
muzzle in front of some assorted
and highly unorthodox shapes.
By that time his own muzzle was
showing its first signs of greying.
Wherever we lived, George
was a personality, sometimes
hated perhaps, but never ignored.
He had the quiet swagger of a
big-boss squatter in the record-
wool-price years, but, except
with other dogs, the unobtru-
sively polished manners of the
more intelligent man-of-the-
world. He did, of course, burn
the candle at both ends.
His way of life didn’t make
for old bones. His whiskers
whitened swiftly, and though at
12 he was still full of fight and
other unseemly ambitions he
was getting hard of hearing and
rather too glassy of eye. We
didn’t like to think of the day
when he would be senile and un-
able to see where a bite would
do the most good. We didn’t
have to worry for long, because
George’s own violent nature and
powerful prejudices got him into
his last trouble when he still
knew what he wanted and
thought he knew how to get it.
It seemed hard to believe that
George, who was faster on his
feet than Jimmy Carruthers and
at least as swift in his reactions,
was run over by a tram, with
its shrieking steel wheels on steel
rails and its clanging bell. But
that’s what happened, and, as
usual, the reason for his down-
fall was a dog on the other side
of the street. He’d been going
like a rocket to diagnose this
animal’s complaint and decide
which of his two treatments it
required, and with that on his
mind a battery of General
Grant tanks on the road or a
squadron of jet-fighters at tree-
top level wouldn’t have diverted
him. The tram messed him up a
good deal, but even in death he
had an intent look on his battle-
scarred old mug.
He was mourned as he
deserved to be, without much
talk about it, but with the fixing
in mind of affectionate memories
that last for life. I, for one,
fancied no other dog for some
weeks —until, one day, I fished
a feather-headed, half-drowned,
wire-haired foxie out of the
river, and took him home, and
found out he was a fool but fun,
and kept him until his own wit-
lessness got him lost and nobody
brought him back in answer to
the ad
Bn. I’ve always felt a bit of
a traitor to George when I’ve
owned a male dog, tor I certainly
couldn’t have had one other than
himself when he was alive.
My present shaggy monster is
a bitch, so George wouldn’t
mind.
It’s the most natural thing in
the world, and the easiest, and
the simplest, and the charming-
est. I tell you, it felt like the
pictures.
And when we stop kissing and
look at one another we smile
and we keep holding hands, and
she calls out to the clot
“Put another record on. I
want to keep dancing.”
He grumbles at this, but we
hear him fumbling around and,
in a minute, there’s music again.
So I call out, too.
“Pour yourself a drink.”
There’s a clink and a gurgle-
noise, so apparently he does
that, too, and we can dance
again. And this is it. There’s
nothing else for us. The whole
world’s this —the moonlight, the
music, the pretty city, even the
old lady who keeps cats and is
humming in tune to the music
and not minding us kissing while
we dance but is smiling. And
we‘ don’t even see her, not really,
though we know that she’s
smiling. It’s that kind of night.
So we keep dancing and the
clot, like any mug, keeps putting
on records from the same album
and, like any .connoisseur, keeps
drinking my grog. It’s good
stuff, too, a Melbourne brand.
He’s not losing all day.
Then she stops suddenly.
“We’ll send him away.”
I’m just a beginner at this sort
of thing. I say, “How?”
But she only smiles and goes
inside. I follow her in and I
put on the light. It’s really
quite easy. She just tells him to
go. He looks a bit ropeable.
He gives me the glare. But the
beer’s more important, and he
finishes drinking.
“All right,” he says. In a
minute he’s gone.
T PUT out the light. I switch
on the wireless. There’s a
commercial about lingerie. We
both laugh at that. I twist to
the A.B.C. That’s always safe.
This time there’s sixty men
and a violinist playing like mad,
going on bravely in the cause of
culture. It’s the Tschaikowsky
Concerto. It makes me sick
usually, but now it’s just right,
so sad and suggestive even when
it’s jolly. It throbs and emotes.
I say that it’s hot and I take
off my coat. I hang it carefully
over the chair. This means I’ve
got to sit on the bed, where
she’s right beside me. It’s really
too easy.
But she knows what she’s
doing. She’s as smart as a
hatful. She keeps me hoping.
And the Tschaikowsky ends.
She can’t bear the applause.
She says it’s all wrong and she
gets up to change stations. But
she mixes the knobs so that I
go over to help her and we’re
close together. But she moves
away and I just change the
stations.
When I turn round she’s back
on the bed and I’ve made up my.
mind. I kneel down beside it.
And she’s made up hers and she
lets me kiss her, properly now,
no Queens berry rules. Then,
while I’m fumbling, she sits
herself upright and gives me a
stare. I couldn’t see how she
was looking. Didn’t know what
was wrong. She suddenly
laughs.
“You’ll have to let me . . .”
she says, and then she stops.
“It makes me embarrassed. I
really must go.”
So I take her to the yard and
point up to the next floor and
show her where it is. Up the
stairs, in the main building, first
turn to the right. She laughs
as she leaves me.
And I’m not kidding, the way
that she laughed it really had
something, so young and so
easy. She wasn’t embarrassed.
We could have been kids.
CO she goes up the steps and
she waves as she goes. Even
the wave gives me a sort of a
coma so that I stand there, until
I remember and start breathing
again.
I light a cigarette and I lean
in the doorway and look at the
stars. I blow smoke-rings at
them and try to ring them. I
look at the city and I think of
the mugs that are sleeping or
going to the pictures. Suddenly
the cigarette’s finished.
I’m lighting another one
when it occurs to me that a
cigarette takes ten minutes at
least and that’s a long time.
Perhaps the girl’s sick. She did
drink some beer. I start to the
stairs. I’m on the bottom one
when everything hits me. I
jump up them, three at a
time. She’s not in the bath-
room. I run down the hall, out
on the street. She’s nowhere in
sight. I run back to the room.
I put on the light. Igo to my
coat.
The money’s gone.
A very neat job. While I’m
tuning the wireless.
I could scream for a fool. I
could kick myself. What an
idiot! A egg! That’s what I
am, just a egg. I sit down and
howl. Rolled by a dame. Not
even a glamor-piece, a tig,
lovely blonde. Just an ordinary
girl. With mousy hair.
And what makes it worse, if
I saw her tomorrow I’d only say
please and hope she’d say yes.
Which goes to show I don’t
know anything, just like any
mug-punter, a tout, and a
lowbrow.


Queensland Station, Then and Now
King Charley , Rainmaker
By A. E. YARRA
WHEN I was there in 1912,
Tinnenburra station, in
Queensland and owned
by the Mackays, had
about 6,000,000 acres of mulga
scrub, 10,000 head of cattle,
abput 2000 horses, 150,000
sheep, a deputy-protector of
aborigines, and its own witch-
doctor and rainmaker.
The deputy-protector was Ike
Thomas, formerly manager of
Wilga Downs and Bungle Gully
stations, who went to Tinnen-
burra about 1910 to rid the
station of about 400 brumbies
that were destroying the peace
of mind of the staff, breaking-
down fences, enticing the station
horses away, and generally
making pests of themselves.
When he’d finished the
brumby - funning, Ike was
appointed manager of the 10,000
square miles stocked with cattle
and sheep and horses, and was
also appointed to the deputy-
protector job.
The Government blacks’-
reserve was about a couple of
hundred yards from the home-
stead, which was on Cuttaburra
'Creek, between the Warrego and
the Paroo Rivers, and on it
there were at times up to 150
black, brown and yellow abos
of all ages.
Maranoa Charley, a tall, thin
ex-professional runner and good
cricketer, a full-blood who spoke
English with an Oxford accent
picked up as buggy-boy to a
former manager, was King of
the Cuttaburras, with a half-
moon of brass provided by the
station to prove it.
He was also witch-doctor,
sorcerer, rainmaker to the
“tribe,” and liaison - officer
between the “tribe” and the
station in the matter of rations,
casual labor, etc.
One morning I stood outside
the saddle-room at the home-
stead and listened-in to a diplo-
matic effort on rainmaking
between King Charley and Ike
Thomas, who was a shrewd
expert at handling the blacks
for their own and the station’s
benefit.
The conversation went some-
thing like this:
“Boss,” said Charley, “we got
a very dry spell on our hands.
Cattle dyin’ at the waterholes
. . . bogged in the mud. Can’t
get in to the water, can’t get out
to the grass. Walkin’ ten mile
every day to the feed, ten mile
back to the water. Poor as
wood. That right, ain’t it?”
“That’s right, Charley. What
about it?”
“Boss, I been thinkin’ about
makin’ rain. We want rain,
bad, don’t we, Mister Thomas?”
“That’s a fact, Charley. We
' haven’t had rain worth while for
a year. What’s your proposi-
tion?”
“Boss, the station got abdut
2000 head broken-in horses, an’
all them young-uns runnin’ in
the bush. The station wouldn’t
miss that creamy pony runnin’
in the horse-paddock. My
missus want a pony to go visitin’
her relations. The station want
rain very bad, Boss.”
“Well, Charley, it’s like this.
The last time you made rain for
us you gave us a flood. We lost
more stock in the flood than we
did in the drought. Now, we
don’t want a flood, and we don’t
want wet sheep for the shearing.
But we could do with a couple
of inches, before shearing, or
between shearing and lamb-
marking. But cut out the floods.
They make too much work,
shifting the stock. Anyhow,
tell me your proposition.”
“Well, Boss, that creamy pony
just right for my missus.
Station’d never miss him. * That
old poley-saddle in the harness-
room’d fit my missus like fur
on a possum. Two inches rain
I been thinkin’ about, Boss.”
King Charley was as grave as
an Arbitration Court judge con-
sidering margins as he worked
on his diplomatic mission with
the man who, to his fancy,
managed the Aladdin’s Cave of
Tinnenburra, with full powers
of treaty the plenipotentiary
with wealth untold at his
disposal.
Ike, listening to the case for
the saving of the stock in the
drought, and the saving of
Shank’s pony for the Queen, was
as grave as a special sitting of
the Privy Council to consider
Section 92.
“Right you are,” said Ike,
after a long pause, in which he
pulled his handsome moustache
in thought. “But no floods,
mind. And no wet sheep for
the shearing.”
King Charley went to his
magic, and Ike to giving the
riders their orders for the day.
Charley enclosed himself in a
magician’s screen of bushes and
rushes on the bank of the
creek. He placed in the waters
in secret the sacred rainstone, a
piece of quartz from the bora-
bora ground on the back
boundary of Tinnenburra.
The young gins were ordered
by the witch-doctor to scour the
country for special foods,
snakes, goannas, grubs, birds,
yams, and cook them for the
sorcerer in touch with the rain-
gods. The young men were
forbidden to approach the sacred
temple on the creek.
Weird chantings rose on the
air at all times in the night as
Charley wrestled with his rain-
gods in the Milky Way. We
used to sit in the moonlight and
listen to them.
Great grey clouds massed in
the western sky, and marched
overhead, greyer and heavier
every day.
On the sixth day we got a
“Darling shower” —three claps
of thunder, two drops of rain,
and one duststorm.
The clouds faded. The skies
cleared. Shearing came and
went. Lamb-marking came,
with King Charley, otherwise
Maranoa, marking lambs as the
“ketchers” held them on the
f enCC#
The overseer (Jim Fickling),
the musterer’s boss (Billy
Webeck) and I were in the yards.
We reckoned we should ask
Charley what happened to the
rain.
The old blackfellow wiped his
knife on the back of his mole-
skins, and the sheep’s blood
from his whiskers with his bare
forearm, and looked at us as
gravely as a moderator charging
an inductee.
“Boss,” said Charley, “you
know that big, fat good-for-
nothin’ Jimmy from the
Nebine?”
“Yes, Charley.”
“That the big boss, Mister
Thomas, sack that day we had
the Darling shower?”
“Yes, Charley.”
“Well, that Jimmy from the
Nebine he’s a rainmaker, too.
We was workin’ on them clouds
fifty-fifty, Boss.”
“Yes, Charley.”
“Well, you know when we got
them, two, three drops rain in
Darling shower?”
“Yes, Maranoa.”
“Well, Boss, that was when
big boss ride up an’ find that
big, fat, good-for-nothin’ Jimmy
lyin’ on his back, helpin’ me
with the rain. Big boss didn’t
know Jimmy workin’ on the
rain. Mister Thomas think
Jimmy loafin’. So he sack him.
That’s when we’d just got two,
three drops, for a start. Well,
Jimmy turn dog on me, and
turn on the dust. So I couldn’t
do better than Darling shower,
Boss. Jimmy chase rain away
just when we have it started.
Now gimme another them lambs
on the fence. We can’t stand
about all day gas-baggin’. We
got forty-thousand lambs to
mark this season.”
The witch-doctor turned to a
“ketcher” and resumed his work.
We Walked away and opened the
gates to let out the lambs the
witch-doctor had doctored . . .
TINNENBURRA, with its
400 miles of boundary-
fence, its vast loneliness, its
stark realities of space and
scrubs, has vanished like the
mirages that used to entice
unwary travellers from the
track.
My last holiday was spent on
a portion of it, Pitherty station,
on the Paroo, pwned by Ike’s
sons and daughters; the best of
the Tinnenburra country.
Tyson’s world’s biggest wool-
shed was gone. There were
about 20 stations set up under
the closer - settlement laws.
Jerked-beef and salt-mutton and
boundary-riders were no more.
The station-hand played polo
with George Thomas for the
Warrego team, of which George,
younger son of Ike, was captain.
There were refrigerators for
shearers in the award. A pound
a hundred was a thing of the
past —the award said something
like £7 10s. a hundred, and
owners were throwing in free
board to get the men.
Maranoa’s “tribe” was a
dream of another day and time.
Abo. children were boss-
drovers, carriers, mailmen, their
grandchildren bright scholars in
the Cunnamulla schools.
Pitherty was no longer the
big thirty-miles-by-ten paddock
of the third-biggest cattle- and
sheep-station in the world (after
Victoria River Downs and Wave
Hill), with a single blackfellow
as boundary-rider.
It was a highly efficient wool-
and. mutton-factory comprising
four sections of the country that
Jimmy Tyson and a score of
bush bards and writers of prose
made famous. On it were two
homesteads; one of the station-
hands had married one of the
owner’s daughters.
Ike Thomas was dead many
years—a slashing horseman and
bushman, but his memory was
still green along the rivers. The
spacious house of bark, with
wide verandas and big bed-
rooms, a drawing-room nearly
as big as many a bush concert-
hall, and a bathroom supplied
with hot water from a bore,
stands empty beside the modern
homestead which replaced it.
Fourpence a pound for wool
has grown to £lOO a bale.
Trucks replace horses for
boundary-riding. The 17-horse
teams that rolled the wool away
have disappeared. Fences are
built by machinery driven by
power fronv tractors.
The manager, Reg Thomas, is
a modern businessman produc-
ing wool and improving sheep
20 per cent, above the breed his
father knew. George, the
younger son, where his father
rode on the wing of a mob of
brumbies, wheeling them to the
yards to shoot them for their
hair and rid the station of a
nuisance, loads seven ponies in
a truck to drive them to the
polo-grounds at Cunnamulla or
Quilpie, and some of them are
ex-brumbies.
Maranoa Charley is probably
sitting up in the Milky Way in
the realm of his beloved Emu-
god, dickering with Jimmy from
the Nebine about the amount of
rain in return for a creamy
Pegasus.
And I, who as a youth rode
with Ike Thomas in the land
sung to fame by Paterson and
others in the pages of The
Bulletin, am astounded to find
men and women in thousands all
round me who have never heard
of the Mulga Country.
PETRIE’S PINE
By C. B. KENNEDY
BUNYA-CONES, full of sweet,
nutritious nuts, fall from the
tall, handsome trees in hilly
parts of south-east Queensland,
and particularly in the Blackall
Range. It was in the Blackalls,
then called the Bon-yi Moun-
tains, that the great triennial
aboriginal feasts took place,
when about a thousand men and
women from tribes within a
radius of 200 miles would
gather, all differences tem-
porarily suspended, to enjoy the
extra-bounteous crop which the
pines bear every third year.
This species of Araucaria was
discovered by Andrew Petrie, a
Scottish civil-engineer who, on
the representations of Dr. Lang,
emigrated with his wife and
children to N. S. Wales in 1831.
In 1837 he was appointed
superintendent of works in
Brisbane, and he was certainly
an asset to the young settlement.
As well as assuring it of sturdy
public buildings and aligning
them with a view to future city
streets, he went adventuring on
“excursions,” as he termed them,
finding coal at Ipswich and sail-
ing 150 miles up the coast to
discover and name the Wide
Bay River, afterwards called the
Mary.
On one exploration through
dense bush Petrie travelled 70
miles north and climbed Mt.
Beerwah in the Glass House
Peaks, from which he saw and
named the Maroochy River. It
was a little further north that
he found the bunya-pine grow-
ing plentifully, round and
straight in trunk and 150 ft. and
more in height.
Petrie made a drawing of the
tree and brought back a speci-
men of its timber, reporting on
his find and its value to his
colonial headquarters. It surely
deserved his name, but as its
discovery was reported to the
British Botanical Society by a
Mr. Bidwill, a botanist visiting
Brisbane, that body gave the
species the latter’s name,
Araucaria bidwilli.
Petrie’s son, Tom, was the
only free white ever to be invited
to a bunya-feast. From the age
of two (when his parents came
to Brisbane) he was firm friends
with the natives until the end
of his life. He learned the
language of the Turrbal (Bris-
bane) and surrounding tribes;
his sense of fairness and love of
fun made him a great favorite
with them.
At 15 Tom Petrie accom-
panied his black friends on the
long picnic td the Blackalls. His
daughter, who wrote his
reminiscences, tells how the
invited guests, 15 or so from
each tribe, would join the party
en route, all camping together
where the game was good,
catching paddymelons, possums
and snakes, gathering turkeys’-
eggs, yams and figs, and the
much-prized large white wood-
grubs.
When they reached the
Blackalls, each native of that
district would ceremoniously
climb the two or three trees con-
sidered his own and gather the
cones ; all shared equally in the
eating of the nuts, which were
generally roasted, but sometimes
eaten raw.
The feast continued for about
a month, with great corroborees
at hight. Each tribe would have
its special song and dance to
show to the others, and these
would be taken away and shown
to distant tribes until a cor-
roboree would travel so far that
its origin was lost.
Sometimes 'the evening enter-
tainment would consist of story-
telling. Men of different tribes
would stand up in turn and
loudly tell of happenings in their
part of the country since the last
gathering.
The feast always finished
with a big fight which lasted for
a week or more, and then the
tribes would part the best of
friends, taking home loads of
bunya-nuts . . .
You can still feast on the nuts
if you are lucky enough to have
access to a bunya-tree. Boil
them in salted water for ha!f-
an-hour and eat the sweet mealy
kernel at once.


humorous drawings found in a
neat pile at the top of the Gap.
It was concluded that he had
made a fatal leap at that favored
suicide spot. A couple of the
dailies that had rejected his work
somehow got their hands on the
drawings and published some of
them. Waring turned up a few
days later and claimed payment.
The editors made a fuss, but
eventually paid up. /
When David Low left for
England, Percy Leason was in-
vited to join the staff. The son
of a wheat-buyer, Leason was
born on a farm, and spent his
boyhood among farming people.
He was engaged in commer-
cial art in Sydney when his work
attracted the attention of S. H.
Prior, who > commissioned him
to do a cartoon based on the
remark of a State Governor that
whenever he had to open a
country show it always rained.
In his subsequent staff job
Leason was required to draw his
share of political cartoons, but
he was happiest when dealing
with some humorous aspect of
country life, and it has been
claimed that no other Bulletin
artist has been his rival in the
particular field in which he
worked. A more modest little
fellow never crossed The
Bulletin threshold.
The early nineteen-’twenties
saw an influx of young artists
from New Zealand. Among
those whose drawings were to
find publication in The Bul-
letin were Tom Glover, Unk
White, George Finey, Noel
Cook, George Prain, Stuart
Peterson, Harry Bennett and
Frank and Joe Lynch.
Tom Glover came from the
“New Zealand Freelance,” and
was for years The Bulletin’s
Melbourne cartoonist. Pat Law-
lor has told that so many de-
mands were made on Tom in
New Zealand that he had to
resort to a multitude of aliases.
Being an honest chap, Tom
stuck to his name all the time,
abbreviating it and twisting it,
but always keeping within its
alphabetical limitations. During
World War I he did some elec-
tion work for a Wellington
daily, appending his name to
the sketches backwards, thus,
“Revolg.” Whereupon a reptile
contemporary slung the bitter
taunt at the daily that it was
employing a German!
The lineaments of Unk White
are as distinctive as his drawings,
with which readers have been
familiar for more than 30 years,
and his fellow-artists find the
modelling of his head an intrigu-
ing task —Scorfield, Frith and
Lahm have all done grotesque
head studies of the irrepressible
Maorilander. Unk is a nick-
name preferred by its owner to
Cecil, which was his parents’
choice. With George Finey,
DAVE SOUTER, by Frith.
painter Robert Johnson and
Frank Lynch, Unk trained in a
jointly-belittered studio in Auck-
land, and the four of them pro-
duced a newspaper notable
chiefly for the fact that it didn’t
sell.
Ted Scorfield, who appears in
Who’s Who in Australia as
“Scorfield, Edward Scafe, car-
toonist: b. April 21, 1884, North
Shields, Eng.,” has now been
with The Bulletin for Upwards
of 30 years, his drawings
as fresh, vigorous and original
as when he first came to
these parts. Nor has Ted lost
anything of his- deep Geordie
accent. Rugged-featured, mus-
cular, always in good physical
trim, he could pass for a pros-
perous mining-engineer who had
gained his experience in a tough
school. Or he could pass for a
World War I Digger. As a
matter of fact, although he did
his soldiering with the Royal
Engineers at Suvla Bay, and
afterwafds at Salonika and in
Palestine (he was twice men-
tioned in dispatches, and re-
ceived the Russian Order of St.
George), he is the daddy of all
black-and-white delineators of
the Australian soldier ; not even
Cecil Hartt at his best could
rival him in presenting the
Digger as he really was.
Ted Scorfield’s years in New-
castle-on-Tyne—his gifts as a
limner earned him a job in the
draughting office of one of the
great Tyneside shipbuilders—
taught him what ships and the
men who sail them look like,
and his nautical sketches are
always on their own. Ted
can reproduce from memory
a first-class likeness of any
animal in the Zoo—and he’s
probably at his happiest when
asked for a drawing of a dog.
His drawings of tykes are from
general observation and the long
string of them he has himself
owned. His taste in hounds is
like Sam Weller’s knowledge of
London.
New artists who came for-
ward in the nineteen-’twenties
run into hundreds. C. H. Per-
cival, the son of a clergyman,
was a high-school teacher turned
artist. Dennis Connelly, who
did the Melbourne page for a
while, had made his mark in
London before joining The
Bulletin ; Walter Eassie was
that rarity an artist with some
means, and, though invited to
join The Bulletin staff, pre-
ferred the leisurely enjoyment
of doing a full-page drawing
now and then. Arthur Mailey,
the cricketer, did caricatures of
leading cricketers; and burly
Brodie Mack, one-time theatrical
press-agent, sent in drawings of
lovely chorus-girls, whose lack
ALF VINCENT, according to
Low.
of clothing always distressed
William Macleod when he was
art-editor. Bill Gill, from
Papua, also sent in drawings of
partly undressed belles, but,
since they were Papuan maidens,
Macleod didn’t object in his
case.
lan Gall’s earliest drawings
were modelled on Beardsley, but
he later developed a style of his
own more suited for newspaper
purposes and is now with the
Brisbane “Courier-Mail.” Ray
Whiting came from a wealthy
family and could afford to draw
for the sheer fun of putting lines
on paper without being unduly
concerned about rejection-slips.
That fine craftsman G. K.
Townshend, who would turn in
a finished drawing that must
have taken him days to execute ;
Geoff Litchfield, who went to
England and sold drawings to
Fleet-street editors ; Emile Mer-
cier, who came to Australia from
New Caledonia, and whose
quaint drawings are a, if not
the, daily feature of the Sydney
“Sun” ; Aub Aria, R. W. Coul-
ter, Colin Colahan, Lance Drif-
field, John Walsh, John Wise-
man, H. B. Armstrong, Walter
Dowman —the list of those
whose black-and-white work
has appeared in The Bulletin
is endless.
And, of course, there is John
Frith, these days with Mel-
bourne “Herald”; Frithy was
for 14 years caricaturist, poli-
tical cartoonist and head official
jester of The Bulletin staff.
During World War II Frithy did
some fantastic soldiering (and
also, however, some genuine
hard work) in the V.D.C. One
of the typical Frithian V.D.C.
acts was to light and toss an
outsize hunger on parade. The
sergeant-major naturally roared:
“Who did that?” Frith stepped
forward. Flabbergasted at any-
one admitting it like that, the
best the sergeant-major could
manage was: “Orright, orright,”
and let it go at that.
The listing from the early
’thirties onwards includes Eric
Joliffe, Arthur Horner, Neil
Sherlock (R.A.N. lieutenant-
commander, many of whose
Prendergast drawings adorn the
wardrooms of Australian war-
ships), Les Such (one-time
Queensland cane-cutter), Syd
Black, Boothroyd, George John-
ston, Jack Lusby, Ron Broadley,
Rufus Morris, Bruce Cousins,
McGregor, “Wog” and Pete
Harrigan, and, in caricature,
Cyril Dubois, Mcßeath, Lionel
Coventry, Lambart, Bill Prior
and Red Moore. And then there’s
the chap who, early in 1938, as a
lad of 16, wandered into The
Bulletin, and whose joke-
blocks signed “Heth” began to
appear shortly afterwards—
Norman Hetherington, a student
of Sydney Technical College and
working at art for a firm of
advertising agents till he joined
the Army in 1941, and of The
Bulletin staff since he was dis-
charged from the Army in 1946.
Casting back over the extra-
ordinary list, it certainly seems
that black-and-white artists
should be added to the remark
of Arnold Bennett: “The Anti-
podes seem to produce sopranos,
cricketers and poets.”
VARIOUS VERSE
CHRIS
Chris arrived long ago from a wreck
Lashed to a lifebelt washed from the deck.
His headgear is a woollen cap,
His beard a nimbus of frayed rope.
His boat bucks over the bar each day ;
He pots for crayfish in the bay.
He sets his nets each night for bait
And stores it in his ancient boat.
If you should meet, remember this:
It pays to moor to the windward of Chris.
His nationality’s German, I think.
He says, “If I fall in I sink.
Who can schwim, dey long time suffer
and kick.
I’ll get my trownink over quick.”
His seamanship’s slap-happy and
Sometimes he runs his boat aground.
From which you’ll see, while the water s
his bent,
It’s not his proper element.
He is a genial, dry sage
Who has long enjoyed a ripe old age.
All of which adds point to this:
It’s better to moor to the windward of
Chris.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
THE TAMEY BIRD’S
RHAPSODY
Earth’s prayer
For sun share,
Sun’s stare,
Sun’s glare,
I translate to
Delicate coloratura notes enriching the
air,
Entirely impromptu, product of never a
grief or care ;
Butterflies’
Faint sighs,
Ants’ cries
Of no size
I amplify
And nothing is intimate, everything broad-
cast to blossoms and bees
And countless listening leaves, the ears of
inquisitive trees ; •
Sea surge,
Wind surge,
Love’s urge
And rain’s splurge
I note, singing
Loudest at daywake, noon and the
widened flare in the west,
With pauses for eating, winging and test-
ing the strength of boughs,
These public songs of the day, plus a
hundred incredible vows
All paid to a soft grey mate, curled close
in a navel of nest.
NORFOLK IS.
MERVAL CONNELLY.
A WOMAN WHO HANGED
HERSELF IN WINTER
She hangs and hangs with glasses on,
Beneath the porch a foot from the floor,
The squall haq swung across the roof
And rain blows in her kitchen door.
Above the overflowing tanks
The whirling windmill rocks around,
The cat’s-paws dart on hard clean pools,
Her crimson flower-beds are drowned.
O who will now spring-clean the house?
And with her busybody broom
Fuss round the closed piano in
The ever-clean old diningroom?
And who will count the “Sankey’s
Hymns”? "
And who with eyes of Sunday pride
Will see the dinner-service plate
That’s not been touched since Mother
died?
O clay-cold will her room become
And still the air as still the dead;
Her yellowed pot-plants wither now
And coffin-hard they’ll make her bed.
Across the rain-raw August yard
A sudden plover calls his mate,
But she doesn’t know it’s five-o’clock
And cows are standing at the gate.
TASMANIA.
L. L. ROBSON.
RAT’S-TAIL
Dusk in the sheoak needles thick on the
flat
Hushing all sounds from the slope to the
creek at the bottom:
Here’s just the place for the tail of an
old brown rat
To dangle in a tree with a white whisker
of blossom
And be my rat’s-tail orchid: for they love
most
To hide in a silence of sheoaks, among
the dark needles.
Here’s bird’s nest then, here’s gold
cicada’s ghost,
But where’s my curious orchid?—Where
the creek trickles,
Where sunlight tangles the thickets and
waxflowers blow,
Swish-swish-swishing from the slope to the
waterfall's brink
Old man wallaby bounds to the dusk
below:
And if what he dangles behind him is what
I think,
Whipping and bobbing through the bush
to disappear,
It seems the rat’s-tails grow pretty big
round here.
N.S.W,
DOUGLAS STEWART.
GUILDFORD
Here nothing changes. The lilac-trees
forever
Bend their dark plumes towards the
Chapel wall ;
Grey belfries point self-right'eously to
Heaven, ,
And tecoma burns summerlong on the
dining-hall.
I can never, thank God, go back to it, to
the masters
Dry as chalk, the freezing rooms, the
Spartan bed,
The large cooks and the meagre meals,
the regimen
Of compulsory Christianity and stale
bread . . .
Yet . . . strange what one remembers. In
windy spring,
Drifts of lilac bloom in the rooms, like
scented mats . . .
The plane-trees leaving . . . the horses on
winter mornings
Wading through mist On the sea-green
river-flats.
w.a.
RANDOLPH STOW.
MRS. JOHN McCUAIG AT
THE PIANO
(Etudes : Op. 25, No, 2: Chopin)
Like fluttering leaves, the flickering
triplets
Replace the hands that play with hands
that played
In music’s cinematic light and shade ;
Creating you, the music begets
Chopin, your composer, for me, your
composition,
Muttering, "These young women fill me
with contrition,
Studying my studies without thought of
recognition,
Endlessly, endlessly, endlessly, end-
lessly . .
"No, no, no, Chopin ; this time you are
mistaken ;
I shall avenge her ; I am a poet ; she had
me taught to speak,
And I shall use my elocution in praise of
her technique ;
The grave will open ; the dead will
awaken”
“She is beyond your second-rate critique!
What had she that biographers might
seek?”
"She read me books, she gave me toys,
She sang of comical negro-boys,
She cried and cried when Judy died
With a broken back on a book-bush-track:
If she turned, you could see the flame of
her faery eyes”
"Let her face the keys ; we die when
music dies ;
Elusive as my music, she will soon be
gone,
Wavering on and on and on and on . .
Ghost of gaiety, guest of grief,
I have grown older, now, because of you
Than you, because of me, could manage
to ;
Soon you will be beyond belief
With no one left who knew you or could
say
How you threw all that ecstasy away:
Enchant me with the void where we
belong,
My mother of memories,
My muse of melodies,
My child of song.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.


HERE’S THE WAY TO SAVE MONEY!
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
3po tJk ' ft
f EQUIPMENT *
McCormick International 3-point linkage equipment costs less, lasts
longer, is faster and does a more
accurate job. Save money by
choosing your working partner
from this full range:—
&
<3fo.
m
mm
m
W:
'a*- , !
»II
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
Box 4305, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
Please send me a free booklet on
your 3-point linkage equipment.
NAME
ADDRESS
PLOUGHS: 2 and 3 furrow A
2 and 3 furrow mouldboard, 3 and
ft. spring tine and rigid P tin! foTthe
toolbar HARROWS: 5X ft. offset
toolbar an p 15 ft pasture hatTOWS -
«"«™s<sr;: d " d ; fc r
Slijf "•" V - 1I ' T 'l*U0‘l!«:
ERS - S ‘ogle and double tine.
A wide range of
equipment for this
Work Zone!
wirsj trr- “ u - -
information and arrange for ! § et **
equipment you choose demonstration of the
International Harvester
LM n ° f Australia iV.-
Ltd. District Sales Offices in all
Caprtal Cities. Works: Dandenong
ana Geelong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
GL629-3S
The Price of Penanee
by H. llive
Morton
WE didn’t like cleaning the
fowlhouses much, Gilly
and I. Fowls were
stupid; though good to
shoot shanghais at, brooms were
made for girls, and Saturdays
for swimming not sweeping.
Pawpaw sneered at boys in
fowlhouses. And lice lived
there. Gilly’s father knew of
these things and recognised
them. He added income, as in-
centive to our effort, and thus
drew us to the job. Two-bob
was two - bob. Sometimes,
though, memories of Saturday-
mornings spent in the creek
pumphole joined with the lice of
the fowlhouse to carry the
sweeping to a fine, clear height
of martyrdom. At such times,
the indignity of the broom, and
the threatening sneers of Paw-
paw, spread across our thoughts
as heavily as cold molasses,
building the lure of the pump-
hole into a torment.
It was deep, the pumphole,
but wide for a creek, and, so,
logical for swimming. Pawpaw
sucked his garden-water from it
with an inch-and-a-half pipe,
urged by a many-fanned wind-
mill, and frowned on water
dirtied by epic swimming, but
not too heavily. The pipe was
closed on one end by a foot-
valve, and open at the other to
sabotage, until Pawpaw joined
to it an extension, that took it
too deep into the water for
youthful lungs. Thus the
empty fertiliser-bags of Gilly’s
father, so useful for blocking
gauze-pipe intakes, were left,
unplundered and intact, as in-
spiration to the uninspiring
economics of bagmen-
barterers . . .
We grew to accept the weight
of fowlhouse-cleaning, balanced
as it was by income.
pAWPAW ruined it. Pawpaw
and circumstances. Pawpaw
by a remark holding no venom.
Circumstances by a wicked con-
spiracy with fate.
“You know,” Pawpaw
brought out of thoughts, built
of war-time recollection with
Nick in the shed, “a Yank lost
a tommygun in the pumphole
during the war. A whole string
of Yanks were crossing on a
rope in the flood. Some silly
manoeuvre. And this bloke
gets washed off, see? Drops
his Thompson. Never ever
found her.”
Gilly stopped sweeping as the
impact of Pawpaw’s words com-
ing through the iron walls of the
shed reached him.
“Jeezers,” he whispered,
“we’ll have to go and look for
that. A tommygun ’ud have the
edge on a ging.” He lifted the
broom to his shoulder, rat-tat-
tatted and shot a regiment of
Pawpaws.
His father came to the fowl-
house and returned him to
reality. “Listen,” he said,
“we’re all going to town with
Pawpaw for the morning. You
pair of beggars finish the fowl-
house, and”—he added fervently
—“for Gawd’s sake keep out of
mischief.”
“What say,” Gilly suggested
as Pawpaw’s car rattled out of
sight, “we leave the sweeping
till after, and go and find that
tommy gun?”
“What about the two-bob?” I
worried.
“It won’t take long,” Gilly
decided. “We’d be back in
plenty of time.”
I scratched an itching back.
“But we’d never get to the
bottom,” I pointed out.
Gilly eyed me with the tol-
erance of a mind tuned to higher
levels. “Oh,” he shrugged,
“we’d have to make a diving-
suit, of course.”
I was wary of experiment,
chilled by the memory of past
failure when an umbrella had
turned inside out during a para-
chute-descent from the windmill.
“Be pretty hard to make,
wouldn’t it?”
“Can’t be much to knocking
them up,” Gilly announced.
“All you got to have is some-
thing round your head to keep
the water out, and something on
the bank to .pump the air in with
—a car-pump, maybe. Real
good chance to make her this
morning with no one around to
sticky.”
He shook a clenched fist.
“That’s it!” he squeaked. “We’ll
use a car-pump and a kerosene-
tin.”
He paced up and down with
the inbuilt fervor of® the plan-
ning creator. “We’ll cut a hole
in it so it’ll fit on your scone,
and we’ll solder an old motor-
bike-tyre valve in the side so,
we can fit the hose to it.” He
paused, and his eyes widened
as the vision unfolded. “An’
we’ll cut a hole in the front so
you can see out of it, an’ put a
bit of windscreen glass in it...”
He stopped as he reached the
limits of his thoughts. “And” —
he flung out his arms—“and
everything,” he finished in all-
encompassing coverage.
'THERE came divided thought
on the right flux for solder-
ing, and only consultation of
our Rural School Manual cut
short arguments. We had
trouble with the windscreen-
visor.
“Anyway,” conceded Gilly,
“a man doesn’t need to see —he
can feel his way around.
Though,” he said, with the
artist’s regret, “I’d’ve liked to
have fitted her, just the same.”
He became temperamental
over the size of the hole we cut
for his head. By now we had
acknowledged he should make
the descent.
“It dam’ near chops my ears
off when I put it on,” he com-
plained.
“But,” I pointed out, “if. we
make it any bigger we’ll have
too much trouble bunging up
the hole to make it watertight,”
Gilly bowed to the logic.
The air-hose was the problem.
“We’ll have to have about
twelve-feet,” Gilly calculated.
We fruitlessly searched
stables and sheds.
“Maybe Nick’s got some
hose in one of his boxes,”
Gilly said.
It was a hazardous under-
taking-, opening any of Nick’s
boxes. In them were stored a
cross-section of minor car- and
truck-parts, unscrewed and un-
bolted from branded vehicles,
some still known and respected
on three continents, some for-
gotten. Nick regarded his
boxes as holy.
We found no hose. Instead,
a coil of thin copper-pipe hiding
between the broken connecting-
rod of an Essex and the coils of
a Model-T Ford.
“Look,” said Gilly, “this is
the shot! Just need a bit of
pump-connection for a joiner,
and that’s it.”
He fixed one end of the
copper-pipe to the pump-hose,
urged the other into a connec-
tion, corseted the junctions with
copper-wire and stood back.
“What d’ you think of that?”
he demanded.
I paid the traditional cane-
grower’s homage.
“It’s not bad,” I said.
“Now,” said Gilly briskly,
“I’ll put it on and we’ll test it.”
He led the way to the horse-
trough, stopped at the edge and
fed the kerosene-tin over his
head. I stuffed the edges round
his neck with scraps of fertiliser-
bag and guided him to the water.
It was an adequate trough for
horses to drink from, but too
shallow for the testing of diving-
suits. Gilly clattered out of his
helmet.
“We’ll have to try something
else,” he said. “I can’t get me
head in the trough properly at
aU.”
TS7E pondered the problem
* * over two pipes of banana-
leaf.
“I’ve got it,” Gilly yelped, as
he knocked the ash from his
pipe. “I’ll get in the helmet, you
bung-up the crack again, then
I’ll stand on me head while you
(Continued on next page)


THE
IDEAL GIFT
Give your friends a Sparklet syphon. It
is a gift they will appreciate over and over again.
The Sparklet syphon gives you as much fresh ‘soda’
water as you like; it is economical and simple to
use; and it looks attractive in any
home. Your friends will be proud
s to own one and so will you.
To refill the Sparklet syphon
| you just fill it with water; screw
| on a new Sparklet Bulb; a quick
| twist and another big syphon-full
is ready. It’s as simple as that.
WaII
m
ms
I
in
/
THE
SPARKLET
SYPHON
SBE SPARKLET SYPHONS AT ALL GOOD STORES
Agents: WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED. Branches in all States
SPARKLBTS LTD., LONDON, N. 17
pour water round the edge of the
tin ; that way we’ll know if she
leaks for sure.”
It is not easy to stand upside-
down with a head confined in a
kerosene-tin. Gilly, after several
noisy attempts, conceded defeat.
“That’s the finish,” he
muttered.
I felt the upsurge of inspira-
tion. “What if we put a rope
around your feet, and hauled it
over a rafter? That would keep
you up.”
Gilly lay on the ground.
“Right-oh,” he ordered. “Get the
rope off the wall.”
I tied his feet together and
flicked the rope across the
rafter. Gilly struggled into the
helmet, thumped the side in
signal, and I hauled at the rope.
Gilly rose as unsteadily as Little
Eva in an amateur group. I
tied the rope as he reached the
vertical, stuffed in the hessian
strips, and poured water around
his neck. Gilly spluttered
noisily and beat the helmet with
one hand. I lowered him to the
ground and helped him out of
the helmet.
“Leaks like a bloody sieve,”
he protested, redfaced. “Besides,
it’s getting real hard to breathe
in there.”
We sat dolefully against the
wall.
“We got to get something to
seal it with,” Gilly mourned.
“We just got to . . . A man
can’t let it beat him,” he
declared vehemently; “not an
old kerosene-tin.”
He leapt to his feet. “Come
on,” he encouraged ; “we’ll look
around the shed and see what
we can find.”
We came eventually to the
treasury of Nick’s boxes. Gilly
cautiously opened a lid. “Get
a load of this, will you?” he
chirruped. “Here it is, right
under a man’s bugle. Just the
ticket.”
He held a tube of gasket-
cement aloft. “This,” he
announced with the aura of a
seller of elixir, “will stick all
hell together. Now all we want
is a bit of ballast.”
He thrust out his chin,
puckered his lips, and looked
about him. “There’s something
Nick must have chucked away,”
he declared. “That greasy old
piece of shaft, that’ll do . . .”
We spread our impressive
collection on the bank at the
pumphole.
“Now,” said Gilly, “we’ll run
through the programme. I’ll
take the air-hose off the helmet
so I can breathe through the
valve-hole, while the gasket-
stuff sets. We’ll tie the rope
round me belly now. You can
hang the ballast on after.”
He indicated the shaft with his
big toe. “Now, you start pump-
ing like hell as soon as I hit the
water. An’ don’t forget the
signal, two jerks on the rope
when I want to come up.”
He gazed calculatingly at the
water. “I wonder,” he said, “if
a man should go down slow, like
they did in that picture. I don’t
want to get the ‘bends.’ ” He
scratched his head. “Or is it
you come up slow?”
He abandoned the thought.
“Better forget it,” he decided.
“A man might do it the wrong
way and beggar himself up for
life. I don’t think it can be all
that deep, anyhow.” He looked
at the gasket-cement. “How
long do you reckon it ’ull take
that stuff to set?”
“About half -an - hour,” I
yentured.
Gilly grimaced. “Jeezers,” he
said; “a man’s going to get
terrible hot inside the helmet
waiting.” He sat down.
“0.K.,” he ordered. “Bung her
on.”
T SLID the helmet over his
head, poked in the hessian
strips tightly and reached for the
gasket-cement. Gilly’s breath
whistled like a dying cyclone
through the valve-hole.
“You all right?” I yelled.
Gilly agreed tinnily. I
painted the hessian strips and a
wide ring of white neck with the
syrupy, pungent cement.
“Jeefers, id’s yard to breave,”
Gilly complained.
“It won’t be long now,” I
consoled. “Only another
twenty-eight minutes.”
We settled down beneath a
divebombing of delighted mos-
quitoes to wait. Gilly fidgeted
impatiently and struck at
mosquitoes unable to resist the
attraction of his bare .backside.
Minutes crept maddeningly by.
I inspected the cement-seal.
“She’s nearly set,” I yelled.
Gilly felt the seal.
“Yiddel do,” he muttered.
I had a moment of doubt.
Gilly climbed Kellylike to his
feet. \
“Yom on,” he ordered.
I guided him to the water’s
edge, and helped him to sit with
his legs immersed. He lifted the
shaft ballast while I joined the
hose to his helmet. He turned
on his side and slid into the
water and out of sight. I
pumped frantically . . .
Something went wrong some-
where. Some scientific maxim
lay ignored or overlooked, some
elemental truth hid from our
searching minds. Gilly dis-
appeared in a swirl of important-
looking bubbles; the rope
tightened ; air hissed in the hose.
Then the bottoms of Gilly’s feet
broke through the surface,
threshing wildly.
•The rope jerked convulsively.
Though the signal was not the
twin-jerk arranged it seemed a
case where naval traditions of
unquestioned obedience should
not apply. I hauled in the rope.
Gilly rose out of the pool with
water running from the helmet
like a dehydrated Burdekin
flood. I dragged him to the
bank and tore the helmet from
his head. Gilly coughed,
spluttered, and sprayed water
creekwards with the force of a
centrifugal pump.
“I damn’ near drownded,” he
gasped. He staggered to his feet,
grabbed the helmet with its
tentacle of air-hose, and flung
it into the water.
“That’s fixed that,” he
bellowed with watery inflection,
as the tin gurgled happily out of
sight.
“And that,” he finished, as he
lifted the shaft, whirled it round
his head, and flung jt far out into
the pool.
“Come on,” he said heavily.
“Let’s go home.”
WE returned to uproar.
Gilly’s father raged in the
stables ; Nick fumed in the shed.
“It was there last night,”
Gilly’s father roared. “I saw
it with my own eyes. A flaming
new tin for kerosene for the
fridge.”
He indicated the barren spot
by the wall. “Right there,” he
muttered. “I tell you it was
right there. I can’t understand
it.”
Gilly glanced significantly at
me. We melted from the
stables.
Nick’s voice intercepted us as
we stole past the shed. “Hey,
you two,” he said from amongst
a scattered heap of wildly-
evacuated mechanical parts. He
beckoned with crooked fore-
finger. “Come here.” He
indicated a bench.
“Draw up a pew,” he invited
with ill-concealed menace.
“0.K.,” he said. “Where is
it?” ,
Gilly was a fraction slow with
the lifted eyebrows of surprise.
“Where’s what?” he asked,
unconvincingly.
“Look,” Nick put in, out of
vanishing patience, “I buy a
dozen feet of hydraulic brake-
line for the truck —see? I put
it here —see?” He indicated the
box.
“Just two days ago I put it
here.” He patted the site and
thrust his head towards us. “I
don’t believe in gremlins, but I
know you bloody kids. Some-
where the old man’s kerosene-
tin’s mixed up in this, but we’ll
let that slide. Now what in the
aitch have you done with my
brake-line?”
Gilly gazed heavenward for
inspiration.
Nick drummed a tattoo on the
bench with his fingers. “Take
your time,” he invited; “I’ve
got all day. I’ve only got to
have the truck to haul cane with
on Monday—but that’s all right;
take your time.”
Gilly cleared his throat. “We
took it,” he said hoarsely.
“I’d never have guessed,”
Nick said slowly. He jumped
to his feet. “ ’Course you
flaming well took it!” he
thundered. “I know that, but
where in the aitch is it now?”
Gilly drew a pattern in the
dust with his toes. “In the
bottom of the pumphole,” he
murmured.
Nick clapped a hand to his
forehead. “God give me
strength,” he entreated.
“I near got drownded,” Gilly
announced.
Nick’s face showed no
softness.
Gilly gave the statement more
substance. “Damn’ near,” he
said.
Nick settled back on the
bench. “What can a man do?”
he asked an invisible audience.
He turned to us. “All right,” he
said, “come on; start at the
beginning.”
We traced the unfolding of
events from the time of Paw-
paw’s uncalculated remark .. .
“You could have got
drowned,” Nick discovered as
we ended the story.
“That’s what I told you,”
Gilly pointed out. “I did nearly
get drownded.” He remembered
his previous emphasis— “Damn’
near.”
“Come on,” Nick announced,
“show me where it is.”
We trooped to the car.
“Where you off?” asked
Gilly’s father.
Nick sighed. “For a swim,”
he said. “We’re going for a
swim.”
TVTICK could dive good. There
' was an occasion, unnoticed
by war-historians but learned of
by Angau, when he came, with
a C.O.’s unwritten permission
and two hand-grenades, as near
as mere man can approach to
the wonder of Five Loaves and
Two Fishes . . .
He found the helmet on the
second dive, brought it to the
bank, looked at it, shook his
head and murmured, “You
could have got drowned.”
“I told you,” Gilly began, “I
damn’ ”
“Yair,” interrupted Nick.
“You told me.” He strolled up
the bank to his clothes.
“Gee,” whispered Gilly, “isn’t
he hairy on the chest!”
We snickered.
“What’s up?” Nick demanded
suspiciously. t
We stood embarrassed.
. Nick eyed us thoughtfully.
“Hey?” he demanded.
“You’re holding something
back. You didn’t bring any-
thing else here besides the line
and tin, did you?”
Gilly fled from the embarrass-
ment to the seeming safety of
Nick’s question. “Hell, no,” he
emphasised.
“Only that old shaft,” I
recalled.
“Yes,” Gilly chorused. “Only
an old piece of shaft.”
“Where,” Nick inquired softly,
“did you find the shaft?”
Gilly flung out a hand. “Oh,
just near the chop-engine—bit
of junk, that’s all. We chucked
it right out to beggary,”
“Bit of junk! ” bellowed Nick
“Me truck back-axle! That’s
your bit of junk! Where in the
blue blazes did you throw it, you
pair of bloody bower-birds?”
Nick porpoised round the
pool. We watched with mount-
ing concern, each unsuccessful
dive.
“Jeezers,” worried Gilly;
“he’s not going to find it.”
Nick rested against a snag,
massaging ears singing from
depth-pressure.
“Nick,” pleaded Gilly, “can
we come in and help you?”
“Don’t come here,” Nick
bellowed. “Don’t come in the
water and tempt me.” He dis-
appeared once more.
“Jeezers,” muttered Gilly,
“oh, Jeezers.” ' .
Nick clambered to the bank,
empty-handed, bellows-chested
and shivering.
“You want half murdering—
both of you,” he gasped.
“Jeeze,” said Gilly brokenly,
“We’re sorry”
Nick fought fatigue with
anger.
“Sorry!” he roared. “Sorry
—that’s going to do a lot of
good. Quids’-worth of axle
gone—and you’re sorry.”
His anger swelled as his mind
reached to the full implication
of the loss. “And no lorry to
pull empties in with on Monday
morning. Probably lose the
flamin’ gang over it.”
He gazed with great tempta-
tion at the whiplike length of
rubber hose. “Get out of my
sight,” he roared. “Go on —
get. Before Ido something I’ll
be sorry for.”
We stood undecided. Nick
leapt to the hose.
“I think,” Gilly mumbled,
“we’d better go.” *
Nick swung the hose, fought
temptation, lost and rushed at
us as we ran.
TK7E found sanctuary in the
* ’ lantana-strewn reaches of
a creek-isthmus as Nick muttered
his way back up the creek.
“I s’pose,” Gilly said dole-
fully, “we better go home now
an’ get it over with.”
We walked silent and crablike
along a ripple-edged bank, root-
locked and steep, past a pool
rich in memories of a lost log-
canoe and a giant eel. Mud-cods
fled unheeded from pausing-
places in little eddied back-
waters, and turtles scampered
without our interest away from
perches on moss-bearded snags.
Ahead of me Gilly strode bow-
headed and silent across am-
bitious mud-rusted gullies fight-
ing against the slow strangula-
tion of decaying leaves, and
hopped without comment
through hidden flats, heavy with
foot-spiking, blady grass. We
came at last to the bridge by
the cutting and carried there
with us a cold legacy of regret.
“ ’Strath,” said Gilly to the
swaybacked leaves of a Leich-
hardt-tree, holding hard against
the surge of a sighing wind, “I’ve
never seen Nick so wild.”
“Me neither,” I intoned.
Gilly trembled. “How much,”
he muttered, “did Nick say a
new axle would cost?”
“Fifteen - quid,” I recalled.
Gilly screwed up his face.
“I—l’ll pay it all back,” he
announced. “Every penny of it.
I’ll sweep the fowlhouse every
weekend until I get enough
dough. I don’t care how long it
takes.”
He bowed his head; then,
with the tone of one prepared to
hear the worst, asked, , “How
many two-bobs in fifteen-quid?”
My mind shied away from the
mathematical complications.
.“Oh, hundreds,” I said.
“Doen’t matter,” Gilly
declared.. “If it takes a hundred
years, I’ll go on sweeping the
fowlhouse until it’s all paid.”
A vision of the searching
broom of Gilly, sweeping far
away out of the years into pure
time, came to me. I felt the
sharp, painful thrusts of dedica-
tion. Far away across the
paddocks a curlew wailed.
“And I’ll help you,” I said.


_JOHN ENPEhht.
BIAS


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
High-density Housing
The South Australian Housing Trust’s
experiment with high-density suburban
flat-construction is most successful.
Built in a garden-setting in two-story
four- and eight-flat blocks, five- and six-
square accommodation for up to 100
tenants is provided in a \compact area.
In some cases old mansions with large
gro.unds have been purchased. Blocks
are built in the grounds around the old
house, which, converted into flats, remains
as a centre-motif.
The flats are of three and four rooms,
with all mod. cons., inlaid-lino, on all
floors, venetian-blinds, hot-water ser-
vices and ample community-laundry and
-drying facilities. The designs vary.
Some blocks have flats complete on each
floor, with common entrances and stair-
ways ; others have separate entrances,
with living-rooms downstairs and bed-
and bathrooms upstairs. Four-flat blocks
are angled in odd corners of the estate.
Bitumen roads, concrete footpaths, low-
level mushroom ground-lights, lawns,
shrubberies and flower-beds complete an
attractive layout, Top rent is £3 17s. 6d.
a week.
Tenancy is limited to old people,
couples with one teenage child, and
young couples who can produce a medi-
cal-certificate to say they will remain a
twosome. Should the stork threaten an
unexpected call an eviction-order is
automatic, and the trust arranges a trans-
fer to one of its many housing-estates
where children are welcomed.
High-density flat-dwelling has its diffi-
culties, but wise selection has kept pro-
blems to a minimum. The trust made one
mistake. It slipped in its choice of Mt.
Gambier stone as a building-medium.
This is a soapstone which, when quarried,
has the consistency of cheese and cuts as
easily. For simple and cheap construc-
tion it is unsurpassed, since blocks to
any size can be cut with a handsaw and
dressed with pocketknives and wood-
tools. It hardens and discolors with age,
and increasing porosity means that a
lOin. partition-wall is no sound-barrier
to neighbor noises.
Sound-effects from adjoining bathrooms
and toilets are devastating to newcomers,
but tenants soon learn that judicious use
of the wireless volume-control is adequate.
After a few weeks, only visitors raise their
eyebrows. For myself, lam toying with
the idea of adding some variations to
Handel’s Water Music and tackling a
major work, a Cistern Symphony, which
should rock the critics if ever it gets a-
hearing.—Old Opencut (S.A.).
Roads
The N. S. Wales countryman, driving
his car citywards from the west, wonders
why the Main Roads Board spends so
much money on making good roads better
instead of making bad roads good. The
odds are that he has not the luck to live
on a bitumined highway, and that to
reach one he. has strained his shock-
absorbers and his own good humor over
50-100 miles of earth or gravelled roads,
mostly potholed or corrugated, or both.
He has passed a shire-council grader or
two, doing their best to smooth some of
the bumps, and here and there shire
councils have sealed as much as their
means will permit.
On the highway, which seems to him
comparatively perfect, he finds great
teams of men with heavy earthmoving-
plant busy widening, cutting off corners
and slicing the crests from hills. Much
of the widening is probably advisable,
but why this urge to make every curve
and gradient easy when there are thou-
sands of miles of important inland roads
crying for initial sealing? The State high-
ways themselves are not yet sealed to their
western limits.
Speed, he is told, is the major cause
of road-accidents, yet here is the M.R.B.
busily eliminating the very features
which tend to discourage excessive speed
—the corners and sharp inclines. Road-
haulage, Governments complain, robs the
railways of traffic and pounds the high-
ways to pieces. It sticks to the highways
(mostly parallel to railways) because
there are no alternative routes fit to use.
Instead of spending money and labor
on making the highways better and better
for the road-haulier, why not encour-
age him to use other roads by making
them comfortably trafficable? — Thinkit
(N.S.W.).
From Canada
The Australian worker has much to be
thankful for —so has his wife. For Can-
adians, the ever-present possibility of
being “laid-off” increases as the weather
grows colder.
The casual laborer in Australia is
accustomed to seasonal work, and most
men can turn a hand to more than one
type of job. But in Canada even the
skilled worker is likely to become unem-
ployed at a moment’s notice. The pro-
fessional man is reasonably secure (there
is a shortage of engineers, dentists,
teachers, agricultural experts, etc.), but
the mechanic, the carpenter, the wharf -
and farm-laborer all face the possibility
of being unemployed for several months
of the year. Cost of living is high and
medical expenses something to dread,
especially if the family has recently moved
to a new province and is ineligible for
local provincial benefits.
When ships first started on the Sydney-
Vancouver run, many young Australians
flocked to Canada, confident of high-
paying jobs. Canada has a third of the
world’s fresh-water, a huge timber-indus-
try, seemingly limitless supplies of coal,
oil, gas and every type of mineral. Half
the country is just being opened-up, but
even in this air-age that half can only be
exploited during a limited period of the
year. The port of Montreal is normally
open for- a season which extends from
mid-April to early-December, depending
on the vagaries of the weather. Land in
many places doesn’t thaw out until April,
May, or even later, and after a brief but
rapid growing-season it begins to freeze
again.
Many of the Australians who came in
the winter found themselves not only
without high wages but unemployed,
despite their willingness to do anything.
“And a hammock,”
The picture of winter employment hasn’t
improved much. Some firms do their best
to guarantee work by arranging the main
part of construction-programmes in the
summer, leaving indoor finishing-jobs for
the winter; but this employment is
limited. Winter brings soup-kitchens,
and men wandering from place to place
in search of work. Of course, unemploy-
ment doesn’t hit everyone, but at the
peak of last winter there were officially
“ Inflation! Wan time y’ could git a threepenny-ha’penny stamp
for tuppence.”
401,000 out of work. With the start of
what looks like being a severe winter, the
situation isn’t very hopeful for this year.
The outsider is soon aware of the feel-
ing of insecurity which exists in many
working-families. Perhaps this feeling
accounts for the fact that so many of
Canada’s married women continue to
work in spite of increasing families. Most
women work indoors and these jobs do
not depend on the weather. Mum’s
cheque may frequently be used for
“necessary” luxuries such as a deep-freeze
unit or TV-set; but there are many fami-
lies for whom such things are impossible,
and to them her 1 cheque may mean bread
and meat — Patricia Scott (Alberta,
Canada).
Australian Jets
It is good news that the U.S. wants to
build the Australian-designed Jindivik
pilotless jet target-aircraft. It’s the first
time a licence to build an Australian-
designed aircraft has been sold to an-
other country and it says something for
the quality of Australia’s jets.
Australia has successfully produced the
Sabre interceptor jet-fighter and the Can-
berra jet-bomber. These were not exactly
Australian-designed; but Australian work-
manship brought them to near-perfection.
The Sabre was modified and improved
on the original American design—one im-
portant modification was its equipping
with hard-hitting cannon of most recent
pattern. The Sabre was the first aircraft
to “crash” the sound-barrier in this
country. And the Canberra has been
acclaimed as the World’s best high-altitude
medium twin-jet bomber.
The Jindivik, designed, developed and
built by Australian engineers and crafts-
men at Fishermen’s Bend (Vic.), has been
in use at Woomera as a high-speed,
remote-controlled, jet-propelled target
operating near" the speed of sound. After
some visiting U:S. Air Force and Army
guided-missiles experts had seen it in
action at Woomera recently the deal was
announced —America has no target-air-
craft matching the Jindivik in per-
formance.
Jindivik Mark I was successfully flown
in August, 1952, the first Australian-de-
signed jet to fly and the first remotely-
controlled jet-aircraft to be built in the
British Commonwealth. The Mark II ver-
sion—the one to be built in the U.S. —
incorporates many improvements on the
prototype; the structure, for one thing,
has been simplified to cut down produc-
tion man-hours as far as possible.
Another important aspect of this deal
with the U.S. is that it will earn dollars
for Australia. — Kejokada (Vic.).
The Colonial Mind ?
Englishmen are told that one of the
worst gaffs they can commit in Australia
is to refer to this country as a colony
and its inhabitants as colonials. True, but
the colonial mentality seems hard to kill,
particularly in the matter of raw
materials.
Uranium is the latest of these to under-
line the attitude. As soon as it was found
in large quantities in Rum Jungle our first
reaction was to look for a market for it.
Dig it up, put it into drums and send
it away! A typical colonial attitude!
The colonial earth is here to be exploited
for the benefit of the mother-country—
in this case, the U.K. and U.S.A.
If we had had the tenacity to work-out
how we could make use of that uranium
ourselves, we could have plans in hand
for undreamed plenty and prosperity.
But we’ll probably go on digging the
uranium out of the earth and shipping it
away until we’ve denuded our land of
yet another valuable asset and got, in
return, luxury American cars, Hollywood
films, slushy TV plays and English bis-
cuits and cigarettes.
Coal is another example of the colonial
attitude. As soon as it appeared that
Queensland had a bonanza in Blair Athol
and other deposits, plans were made to
ship it away.
Industrialists belabored the State
Labor Government because it would not
go to work quickly enough to run a rail-
way out from the coalfields to the ports
and get rid of the coal as fast as possible.
The industrial nations of Europe did
not build up their greatness by exporting
coal —when they found a coalfield they
built their industries on it, founding their
prosperity on the use of the coal, not on
the easier way of shipping it out in re-
turn for luxuries of doubtful value.
Ift West Virginia, U.S.A., a vast plant
has been set up to turn coal into chemicals
—from an open-cut mine very similar to
those in Queensland. Some of the chemi-
cals have never been heard of before, and
after they are made the chemical-engineers
have to find a use for them. But they
are using the coal—where it is and where
it is mined. Queensland’s Blair Athol and
Callide could be two similar centres.
Alternatively, if coal must be burnt,
Blair Athol and Callide could become the
centres of huge generating-plants to make
electricity for large parts of Central
Queensland. —No Sirrah (Q.).
World War II
“Keima” is mistaken in thinking that
“it is doubtful if we would have beaten
the Axis in World War II without
Russia’s help” (B. 23/11/’55). So long
as the U.S.A. was against the Axis Powers
they could not have won the war. Under
the military conditions of the time the
U.S.A. was impregnable. The most the
Axis combination coul4 have hoped for
was a draw. In view of their far lesser
economic and manpower resources, and
their unfavorable strategic situation, that
result would have been unlikely.— Terry
the Tory (N.S.W.).


Another year of great progress
ASSETS NOW EXCEED £lO6 MILLION
- ' - \ ' .
Policyholders of the T. & G. continue to have cause for genuine satisfaction with the out-
standing progress of their Society, as revealed in the 79th Annual Report.
NEW POLICIES
The popularity of the Society is indicated by the record
amount of Assurances issued during the year. 104,434 new
Life Policies assuring £45,690,684 and 14,014 new Accident
and Sickness Policies were issued while Accident Benefits
for £18,165,667 were added to 32,058 Life Policies.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
Further convincing evidence of the esteem in which the
T. & G. is held is demonstrated by the Assurances in Force.
In the Ordinary and Industrial Departments there are more
than 1,600,000 policies in force assuring £329,000,000.
INCOME
The Income for the year exceeded £18,800,000, an
increase of more than £1,400,000 over the previous year’s
total.
Head Office,
Melbourne
SERVICE
The T. & G. is a Mutual Life Society, a truly co-
operative institution, which has no shareholders. It renders
the utmost service to its members and settles all claims
promptly. Payments to policyholders last year exceeded
£7,280,000 making at total of £51,400,000 during the last
ten years.
SECURITY
The financial position of the Society is unassailable.
The Assets, which increased by. £9,000,000 to a record total
of £106,000,000, are held in trust to meet payments to
Policyholders as they fall due.
) -
GROUP ASSURANCE
The attractive benefits and conditions available from
the T. & G. under Staff Superannuation and Group Assurance
Schemes induced many more Industrial and Commercial
Organisations to entrust their the Society during
the past year.
The T. & G. is purely mutual; it has no shareholders.
A Policy with the T. & G. is a Safe and Profitable Investment.
3\(iitual Jife Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. (Inc. in Victoria, 1876.)
How to Manage Production
No one, not even the Prime Minister,
is quite sure what the new year will bring
forth economically, or what measures, if
any will be needed to meet the situation
in four or five months’ time. The public
service, awaiting the result of the Public
Service Board’s appeal against the
awarding of still higher salaries, is won-
dering if it may be called upon to work
something more than the 36 hours weekly
now allotted for public duties, and em-
ployers are speculating on the Govern-
ment doing something about the 1949
promise to encourage incentive-schemes.
It is believed in some quarters that a
few employers are toying with the idea
of seeking a longer working-week from
the Arbitration Court, perhaps while
hoping for the support of the Government
on the ground that longer hours gener-
ally might produce more from existing
plant and staff.
The Government would be most un-
likely to accept any such suggestion,
except in time of grave national crisis,
which is not on the horizon today. Apart
from the manifest political arguments
against it, the industrial storm which
would blow up would be highly discour-
aging. What is being done now on a
small scale, and may be done on a larger
scale next year, is investigation of the
efficiency of management to see whether
the best use is being made of employees
and equipment.
It is being pointed out that the United
States has a 40-hour week and that em-
ployees, without being at all overstrained,
produce a great deal more than their
opposite-numbers in Australia. The
answer lies partly in the fact that far
more mechanical horsepower is avail-
able for the use of individual American
workers than for Australians. This is
being stressed to employers, and in some
industries a spectacular increase in power-
use is apparent already.
Most workers would have no objection
to working their full 40 hours, especially
if they saw that, as a result, output and
wages were increasing and costs reduced.
A general increase in working-hours, if
it were approved by the court, might be
welcomed by lazy employers as an easy
way out of present and prospective diffi-
culties, but a similar end-result might
“The three-eighths spanner, and wipe my forehead, please.”
follow skilled investigation of managerial
organisation and the installation of
me thods which would lift output without
h ars hly affecting employees.—Stromlo
(A.C.T.).
Melbourne Skyline
Almost every week one reads m the
Melbourne press of huge new buildings
to be erected all over the city. Castles
of glass and concrete will soon be tower-
ing over smoggy Melbourne, reaching up
for the sun that must be there somewhere.
Our papers keep showing us architects
slick previews, ]ust to prepare us for the
brick-and-mortar stages when they set in.
The lead was made only a short time
ago in granting permission to 1.C.1. to
put up, at East Melbourne, an oblong 20-
story block featuring a large percentage
of glass. Hard on this we have been told
ble Commonwealth is to build a 12-story
steel, concrete and aluminium office-
block on Spring- and Latrobe-streets.
This office-palace is only first of a group
which will eventually provide a total of
626,000 square-feet of office-space. Mel-
bourne had another shock when the State
Govemment announced that its new civic-
centre at Broadmeadows housing-corn-
mission estate will include super-market,
community-hotel and multi-story hos-
pital.
After that came the announcement
from Stanhill Pty., Ltd., of plans for
Australia’s highest skyscraper, towering
to 250 ft. and costing £2,500,000. It’s for
St. Kilda, and plans show it to be 20ft.
higher than the new 1.C.1. building at
East Melbourne. Latest in the field is the
Hume Pipe concern with plans for a
near-million-pounds block of offices in
William-street.
Some of the old-stagers in our fast-
fading scrub are up in arms over all this.
An architecturally-minded Kew resident
wrote to the press “regretting further
architectural growth from a foreign field
about to reach for the sky in this fair
land of ours.” He wants restrictions still
to abide on building-heights. He seems
to think that Collins-street as it is now
“compares favorably with boulevardes of
other countries because it is so
human.” The buildings at present
are in human proportional relation-
ship in their height. He does not
think skyscrapers are truly valid
expressions of this fine, wide country.
There are other architects, how-
ever, who proclaim that Melbourne
is waking-up, and that they have the
technical know-how to run-up build-
ings which could easily match the
New York palace of United Nations.
What would Batman think now
about his site for a village!— Allan
B. (Vic.).
Aluminium
Although aluminium is receiving
plenty of publicity, there is still no
indication of the likely price of ingots
from Bell Bay. What is apparent is that
the output will be insufficient to meet
Australian requirements, and importa-
tions at high prices will have to continue.
Consumption, including local production
from scrap, was about 20,000 tons in
1954-55, and a rise of 10 per cent, is
expected this year. In August last
aluminium-ingot c.i.f. and e. Australia
was £229 a ton, or about double the pre-
war price. (Copper has increased eight-
fold, zinc sixfold and steel fourfold since
the war.) Bell Bay, which has cost
million, is expected to save £3 million a
year in dollars when in full production,
but imports will still be needed. Con-
sumers want to know when the Bell Bay
price will be fixed.— Stromlo (A.C.T.).


Late Best Man; Early Broadcast
SUNDRY SYDNEYSIDERS
BILL AN' DORA
HAVING read in a
memorial - notice of
poetess Dora Wilcox
(Mrs. William Moore)
that she and her art-critic hus-
band were married in Sydney
“early in 1923,” I am moved to
proclaim—although I have the
usual male faculty for failing to
remember the date of a wedding
—that the reference given is
slightly erroneous.
My knowledge on the point
arises not merely from the fact
that I was Bill Moore’s best
man but from certain odd cir-
cumstances associated with the
event.
< In 1923 I was magazine-editor
of the old Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” (then located in the large
building that now houses the
King-Castiereagh-streets branch
of the Bank of N.S.W.), and
William Moore was the paper’s
art-critic. The happy-go-lucky
William had confided to me his
intention of marrying, but, after
an initial spasm of surprise (for
Bill was then 55), I had forgotten
about the matter until the pros-
pective bridegroom wandered
into the office in an uncommonly
trim condition.
The day— not early in the
year, but early in October—was
the one N. S. Wales observes as
the Labor Day holiday, and
hence Bill’s nattiness was in
marked contrast to the attire of
the rest of the literary staff.
“Yes, old boy,” he said—
everyone was “old boy” to Bill
Moore —“yes, this is my wed-
ding-day. But,” and he lowered
his deep voice, “I’m rather
worried, old boy.”
“What’s the matter, Bill?” I
asked. “Don’t tell me you are
scared of the ceremony?”
“No,” Bill said. “What I’m
afraid of is that Hugh McCrae
won’t turn up. He was to be my
best man, and he’s already
running very late.”
Why Hugh didn’t appear was
explained to Bill in due course,
and was told to the world at
large in Story-book Only (1948).
Briefly, the reason was that
Hugh esteemed Bill so highly
that he rose very early for the
occasion, and then, having much
time on hand, he did many jobs,
wherefore he became so en-
grossed that he completely forgot
the wedding until it was over!
Well, there was William wait-
ing at the “D.T.” office, and
getting more anxious as the
minutes ticked jauntily on
towards the crucial hour of
noon.
“Old boy,” he said at last, “I
wonder if you would see me
through?”
“Dash it, Bill,” I replied,
“how can Ido that? I’m not
dressed. Look at this grubby
collar. The shops are all closed
and I can’t replace it.”
Bill was never fussy in such
small matters. “That collar,”
he pronounced, “looks all right
to me, old boy.”
+ +
Anyway, the problem had to
be solved somehow, so I told
Bill to go ahead to the church
(at Darlinghurst) and I would
follow him after trying to
spruce-up a bit.
Then a miracle happened.
M. H. Ellis (at that time a
special writer on the “D.T.”)
made an unexpectedly early
appearance, and when I asked
him, more in desperation than
hope, if he chanced to possess
a clean collar, he immediately
dived into a drawer and pro-
duced one! What’s more, it was
the right size.
In a flurry of gratification and
astonishment —it was the first
time I had ever known a journa-
list to have a clean collar in
stock —I climbed into the F.llis
benefaction, went off to Darling-
hurst and presently located the
scene of the ceremony.
Then I suffered forebodings.
Although the time was just past
noon, there wasn’t a soul in the
churchyard, and for a few
moments I feared I had picked
the wrong spot.
The explanation, simply, was'
that the event had started right
on the hour —a point that be-
came clear when, on exploring
within, I heard a clerical voice
chanting and saw various repre-
sentatives of art and journalism
(including the “Woman’s Letter”
of The Bulletin) scattered
among the pews.
A gowned official came along
the aisle. “Are you the best
man?” he whispered.
“I might be,” I replied. “You
haven’t got one?”
“No,” he said, tersely. “Go
up there and kneel down.”
Obedient to command, I went
“up there,” knelt behind Bill
and pinched him, more-or-less
discreetly, to indicate that all
was well.
Very soon, then, the marriage-
knot was tied, and I made my
first acquaintance with Dora
when I saluted her in the vestry.
Meanwhile the parson beamed
approval (or so I supposed) on
the dignity I displayed through
the medium of Malcolm Ellis’s
clean collar!
Bill an’ Dora, it may be
added, enjoyed 14 years of good
companionship—to the time of
Bill’s death in 1937. It was a
period of peace for them both
after much tribulation during
earlier years. Dora supplied the
intellectual stimulus that Bill
needed, and it was largely due
to her that he completed, and
saw published in 1934, his two-
volume, half-a-lifetime work,
The Story of Australian Art.
That publication is Moore’s
monument. It is also intrinsi-
cally valuable; published at
£2 10s., it is now listed at £l5.
Bill himself gained very little
(financially) from the work. But
that did not trouble him. In-
deed, if he could know that it
now rates at six times its original
price, I can imagine him strok-
ing his chin and saying, “Well,
old boy, the job’s the thing, you
know.”
As Hugh McCrae has
recorded, Bill Moore was a man
of transparent honesty, sincerity
and good-nature. Only once, in
years of acquaintance, did I ever
see him annoyed. That was
when, in a casual street meet-
ing, I introduced him to poet
William Baylebridge. The two
Bills got along well enough for
a few minutes, and then Bill
Moore produced a notebook and
said “Would you give me your
address, old boy? I should like
to keep in touch.”
Bill Baylebridge (formerly
Blocksidge) was really a hearty
fellow, but he cherished an odd
streak of secretiveness ; and thus
he replied, quite flatly, “My
address is Box XYZ, G.P.0.,
Sydney.”
Bill Moore flushed and
pocketed his notebook and wan-
dered off, leaving me to say to
Bill Baylebridge, “What an
unsociable blighter you are at
times! ”
Next day, in the “D.T.” office,
Bill Moore referred to the inci-
dent. The Baylebridge reticence
was something his matey nature
wouldn’t allow him to compre-
hend. But he never rose (or
descended) to anger. “I was,” he
confessed, “a little hurt, old
boy.”
By way of further aside, it is
seemly to record that Hugh Mc-
Crae made handsome acknow-
ledgment of my performance as
his locum tenens in the role of
Bill Moore’s best man. More-
over; Hugh’s impression
strengthened when, in Mel-
bourne a few years later, I did
a similar (emergency) job for
his cousin, journalist Gilbert
Mant, whose brother had been
detained in Sydney at the
eleventh-hour.
“You are now,” Hugh de-
clared, “an expert at the busi-
ness. You must set yourself up
as Best Man, Incorporated.”
ALEC CHISHOLM.
LENNIE LOWER
TN the middle 1930’s a
Virginian called Ben Sullivan
used to do astonishing things to
brighten - up the Australian
Broadcasting Commission’s pro-
grammes. Once he got into a
newsreel standing precariously
on the rim of a dogman’s-bucket
in mid-air above the excavation
for David Jones’ second store in
Market-street. That sort of
thing.
One of his less-adventurous
ways of entertaining the listeners
was a Saturday-evening session
in which, very much as Mr.
Frank Legge does now, he inter-
viewed people of varied import-
ance.
At that time I was running a
column of radio criticism and a
page of doubtful humor in a
little paper called “Wireless
Weekly,” and I was much im-
pressed to find myself down for
a Saturday-night interview along
with Lennie Lower (then at the
height of his fame as the
humorist-columnist of the Syd-
ney “Daily Telegraph”) and a
young lady from Reno.
Lennie was to be interviewed
as a humorist; I was to be
interviewed as a radio-critic;
and the young lady from Reno
was to be a sort of contrast.
So on the Saturday at mid-
day my wife and I were
having roast-beef and burgundy
when Kenneth Mackenzie, the
poet and novelist, called with
an invitation from Mrs. Mac-
kenzie to my wife, to avoid
the tedium of an evening spent
without me by going to their
place, where I should join them
after the broadcast.
This being settled, Mac-
kenzie picked up his suitcase
and his umbrella, saying that he
was about to call upon the
Lowers.
“Have you ever met Lennie?”
he said.
I said I hadn’t, whereupon he
insisted on my going with him.
It was only halfway up Macleay-
street from my flat at the bottom
of Pott’s Point. Lennie had a
ground-floor, almost a basement,
flat; and when we arrived the
large living-room was full of
people moving about with beer
in their hands and all talking
together. The radio was play-
ing music and race-results.
Beer was given me; I
mumbled something about the
need of keeping sober for the
evening’s broadcast, and about
having qlready drunk half a
bottle of burgundy, but soon
such scruples faded, and I began
to enjoy myself.
Of the room I remember little
except Lennie’s sets of diminish-
ing elephants; and only a few
happenings: the fuss Lennie
made pretending to drag another
two-bob from the delighted Mrs.
Lower to put on a horse; and
Lennie, impatient for a race-
result, inveighing heavily against
the radio music, which, accord-
ing to him, was holding up the
race.
Liszt’s ‘Liebestraume’
and all that classical stuff on a
Saturday afternoon! ” Lennie
said. “Don’t they know what
the public wants?”
Lennie looked at me slyly as
he said it. I had been doing a
lot of writing against what the
public was supposed to want,
and this was Lennie’s acknow-
ledgment that I existed, and my
welcome to his place; he had a
lot of the kindness which
Baudelaire found in all great
artists.
More and more people
arrived. But now newcomers
were carefully scrutinised, and
if they were not carrying parcels
were halted on the threshold
with rude shouts:
“Go back and get some
beer! ”
Everyone agreed that it was
a fine party, and it was a pity
it should have to break up for
Lennie to go and broadcast, the
only dissentient being Ben
Sullivan. As the afternoon went
on, Mr. Sullivan had grown
more and more thoughtful, and
I think it was at his suggestion
that I began to feel it was time
I was getting home.
When I left, Mr. Sullivan and
Lennie were sitting crosslegged,
facing one another, on the car-
pet. Between them was a brass
smoker’s-stand. They were sur-
rounded by guests holding beer
in glasses and saying, one to
another, “It’s a rehearsal, see,”
and “They can’t afford to take
chances with A.B.C. broad-
casts.”
Mr. Sullivan was pointing to
the brass match-holder on top
of the smoker’s-stand and say-
ing “Now, Lennie, this is the
microphone.”
And Lennie was telling Mr.
Sullivan, in his sandpapery
drawl, that it didn’t look much
like a microphone to him, but
seemed to remind him some-
what of one of those —you
know —smoker’s-stand things.
Back home I had a shower
and put on a clean shirt, ate the
salad my wife had left for me,
drank the rest of the bottle of
burgundy, picked up the notes
of what Mr. Sullivan was to ask
me, and what I, on the spur of
the moment, was to reply,
arrived at the studio, and found
I was on first.
Of my inquisition I remember
only some reference to
Matthew Arnold and a justifi-
cation of the critic’s function on
the ground that you can’t have a
dog without fleas. Mr. Sullivan
did me wrong here, saying
rather acidly that he supposed
we should make it quite clear
that the A.B.C. was the dog,
and while I was floundering for
a reply which was not listed in
my notes, he asked if there was
anything else I did beside criti-
cising.
“Well,” I said, “if Mr. Lower
weren’t here I might call myself
a humorist.”
Mr. Sullivan had probably in-
tended to put the young lady
from Reno in between me and
Lennie, but this chance remark
made a perfect entry for Lennie.
I hurried out of the inquisition-
chair, and Lennie was whis-
pered and waved into it.
But it soon became clear that,
unaccustomed as Mr. Lower was
to public speaking, he had
neglected) providing himself with
notes. Mr. Sullivan’s most
urgent efforts to draw him into
a radio version of his glittering
typographical circus brought
only yeses and noes.
The tedium began to tell on
Lennie; he had a sure sense of
the dramatic ; and, seizing upon
Mr. Sullivan’s “But, Mr.
Lower,” “Now, Mr. Lower,”
“Mr. Lower” “Yes, yes,
Mr. Lower, but” he leant
forward and said with rasping
emphasis :
“Don’t call me Mr. Lower!
Call me Lennie! ”
Maybe the listeners and Mr.
Sullivan, who had expected a
brilliant exchange of wit and
humor, were a bit disappointed.
But I think that, considering
Mr. Sullivan’s clipped speech,
and that this was the noble Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commis-
sion interviewing the represen-
tative of the ordinary average
Australian, they got their
money’s worth. Because he was
always himself, Lennie Lower
was always equal to an occa-
sion, and what he said in any
emergency, though it might be
only a few words, was worth
thinking about a long while
after.
Anyhow, Mr. Sullivan soon
gave Lennie away, and the
young lady from Reno went on
to explain that the real Nevada
was not like that at all, really.
After the broadcast Mr. Sulli-
van came to us with cheques,
and, Lennie grumbling about
what kind of a time was Satur-
day night to give a man a cheque
(which couldn’t be cashed until
Monday morning), we went out
from that place. »
In Market-street Lennie and
his friend, who accompanied
him with the solicitude of the
best man for a bridegroom, sug-
gested that we go and celebrate.
It was a little after eight-o’clock.
The picture-show crowds had
gone in, but there were still
people in the streets and stand-
ing on the edges of the pave-
ment ; and all the way, as we
went up Market-street to catch
the tram at Elizabeth-street,
there was a continuous clicking
in our ears:
“G’night, Lennie; G’night,
Lennie; G’night, Lennie;
G’night, Lennie.”
We went only two blocks on
the tram, got off at Martin-
place and went up and along
Phillip-street. Then, as we came
near the League Club, several
men ran towards us making
shooing movements, as to
chooks:
“Not tonight, Lennie; there’s
going to be a raid,”
+ +
Lennie didn’t stop. He made
a sad noise as we went on and
down King-street back to Eliza-
beth-street to catch another
tram. And all the way the
voices accompanied us:
“G’night, Lennie; G’night,
Lennie ; G’night, Lennie.”
We were walking fast. I
didn’t see him make any sign
that he heard them.
Thereafter we knocked at a
door and a waiter let us in, and,
hearing that it was Mr. Lower
and friends, a lady came to us
with her hair in braids, brought
us refreshments with her own
hands and stayed listening indul-
gently to Lennie’s brutal endear-
ments ; and so very soon we
went out again and parted.
That was only one afternoon
and night in Lennie Lower’s
life ; probably they would not
seem particularly memorable to
him ; but they are to me. What
impressed me most were the
continuous voices along the
streets:
“G’night, Lennie; G’night,
Lennie,” as though he had been
a general reviewing his troops.
RONALD McCUAIG.


GUARD.
Cd&h/
cty
PROTECTA
Stntl-Siil HtgUtoiZhg-
*%>
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH ,
W. C. Penfold 8a Co. Pty. Ltd*
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HILDA GLADYS BIRD late of Chin-
chilla, Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that
EDWARD JAMES BIRD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4587 of 1955 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
18th April 1956 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. W. R. THOMSON & CO.,
Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO DANE ATHELSTANE DAVIS for-
merly oi Graham Street Southport m
the State of Queensland but whose
present whereabouts are unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE* that PAULINE AMY GOD-
FREY DAVIS has commenced an Action
No. 1565 of 1954 against Von for dissolu-
tion of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion without cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Registry of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane within forty-five days from
the date of publication hereof. You may
obtain without charge a copy of the Writ of
Summons and Petition from McGREGOR
GIVEN & CO., Solicitors, 282 Edward
Street, Brisbane, in the State of Queens-
land. DATED at' Brisbane this Second
day of December, 1955. —C. L. CHRIS-
TOPHERSON, Second Deputy Registrar.
McGREGOR GIVEN & CO., Solicitors,
282 Edward Street, Brisbane; Town
Agents for NICHOLSON & SMITH, Soli-
citors for the Plaintiff. Beaudesert.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JAMES CORBY late of
Orange.—TAKE NOTICE that ARLENE
ELIZABETH CORBY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 317 of 1955 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
of excuse for three (3) years and up-
wards If you desire to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 16th February One thousand
nine hundred and fifty-six You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. L. D. SERISIER &
CO., Solicitors, 193-195 Summer Street,
Orange; or their Town Agents, MESSRS.
PETER G. KEARNEY & CO., of 60
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Eflgland)
Summary of Position as at 30/6/55
Total Assets £151,845,575
Australian Currency
* Australian
CURRENT ASSETS Currency
Cash, Bank Balances, etc £18,824,107
Treasury Bills 1,000,000
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 24,147,000
Bills Receivable 8,995,569
Investments 2,331,140
£55,297,816
Advances, Net Hire Purchase Con-
tracts, etc 94,116,524
£149,414,340
Deduct:
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Deposits, etc., including
Contingencies Reserves £139,588,653
Balances due to Other Banks 2,780,727
Provisions for Tax 839,343
Dividend Payable 180,227
143,388,950
£6,025,390
Add:
Premises, etc 2,431,235
Shareholders’ Funds—Australian Currency £8,456,625
PROFITS
Each £1 of gross profit for year to 30th June, 1955,
was used in this way
All Expenses of management, including £ s. d.
Salaries and Wages of Staff 15 4
Income Taxes 2 11
Payments to Officers’ Provident Fund 7
Dividends 10
Reserves 4
£lO 0
H. G. ENSTEN,
General Manager in Australia.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
George Bell Group
The sedge is wither’d from the
lake,
And no birds sing.
No paint—or very little-
sings at the annual show of the
George Bell group at the Peter
Bray Galleries in Melbourne.
Peter Cox’s “Provence Land-
scape” is dead paint breaking
his landscape into cubes,
triangles and squares hasn t
made his picture sing—and so
is Dorothy Braund’s “Fisher-
man’s House.”
Barbara Brash’s “Landscape
with Houses” is a little looser,
as is her “Old Farm,” which
has two trees, two wheels and
a ladder, and which is easily
recognisable as contemporary
THE WIERE BROTHERS
Attraction in Sydney Tiv.’s current bill, Jokers On the
Loose,” the Wiere Brothers are here sketched by artist-
actor Red Moore, who also takes a conspicuously-
amusing part in the same programme.
painting because the ladder
starts from the ground on the
north side of the house and
finishes on the east side. Such
a feat could only be accomp-
fished by a contemporary ladder,
One doesn’t have to worry about
those things of course, but it is
disturbing when an artist sets
out to paint shimmering sun-
shine and the sunshine doesn’t
shimmer
George Bell the group’s head,
is a little better He has a self-
portrait which is no more like
him than Miss Brash’s ladder is
like a ladder, but it still has
sufficient life about it to justify
its title
There is some similar liveli-
ness in Anna Montgomery’s
“The Bayside” and in “Composi-
tion,” a huge affair of twisted
iron, brown earth and blue sky
in which Russell Drysdale has
given his paint an attractive
sombre richness. The formula
is repeated less successfully in
his portrait of an oval-faced,
black-haired girl in a lace collar,
where he has failed almost
completely to differentiate be-
tween the various textures.
There is a crude attempt to
handle these differences in
Roma Thompson’s “Landscape
—Flinders,” and even in Alan
Warren’s “Ready for the Race,”
in which a double-jointed
jockey, two sizes too large for
his mount, sits a double-jointed
Phar Lap.
♦> ♦2*
Christmas Shows
The Macquarie Galleries’
“Christmas Selection” is dedi-
cated to the spirit of “As If” —
as if Mr. Drysdale were an
amateur photographer and two
comic outback-types had poked
their heads up, out-of-focus, in
the way of his “Pink Road” ;
as if Mr. Friend were as much
a Giotto as his cameos from his
life resemble those of St.
Francis; as if Mr. Gleeson, by
compression of his talent to the
size of a postage-stamp, could
equal the power of Delacroix;
as if Miss Cassab were designing
cushion-covers to be printed on
black plush and sold to the
masses; as if Mr. Haefliger’s
butcher-shop of heads and arms
(“The Annunciation”) argued
experience in dismembering the
things of the spirit ; as if Mr.
Eric Smith, too proud to shoot
a sitting bird, had scared an
“Industrial Landscape” into the
air and shot it before it came
down . . .
In all the chasings after other
peoples’ effects, only Mr. Olsen’s
“The Bicycle Boys” conveys, in
the tightness of its design and
the rightness of its distortions,
a feeling of being necessary to
the painter’s perception.
In this company, Mr. Her-
man’s mouldering terrace-houses,
lit by the bright colors of putre-
faction and decay, and Mr.
George Lawrence’s sombre land-
scape, “Gerroa,” represent the
foundation of the everyday world
without which no young experi-
menter can become an Old
Master.
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries’
Christmas offerings range from
an impressive Streeton to the
quiet charm of two small Lance
Solomons and Woodward-
Smith’s “Morning Glitter.” In
between there is a wide range
of mainly landscapes by Leonard
Long, Erik Langker, Garrett
Kingsley, Graeme Inson, George
Lawrence, Lloyd Rees, G. K.
Townshend, Kenneth Macqueen,
Jean Derrin, Betty Rowe —
almost any one of them a
pleasant acquisition. For those
who fancy woodcuts there is a
striking panel of them in color
by Professor N. Bresslern-Roth
of Graz, Austria.
Stage and Music
Gordon Watson
Pianist Gordon Watson pre-
sented a mixture of classical,
romantic and music of modern
adventurousness in his recital at
Sydney Con. His mature inter-
pretative powers were used to
admirable effect with one excep-
tion—the Sonata (1950), by con-
temporary Swiss composer Rolf
Liebermann, which offers little
or nothing for anyone to
work on.
Watson included a piece that
is heard all too rarely—“ The
Drum Beats a Parade,” by
Alkan, which was the pseudonym
of Charles Valentin Morhange,
a French contemporary of
Chopin, and Liszt’s rival in
piano - virtuosity. Strikingly
Qriginal, strong in rhythm and
melody, yet with chords of
almost startling modernity, it
was given crisp and forthright
treatment.
The finest playing of the night
went into Liszt’s B Minor
Sonata, a work of delicate
tracery and imagery and with an
almost complete absence of the
Lisztian fustian and pyro-
technics. The pianist’s poetical
conception and the sensitiveness
of his scale-passage work were
altogether admirable.
Beethoven’s “Eroica” Vari-
ations were carefully, though not
pedantically, wrought, so that the
character of improvisation, as
well as lucidity, was always
present.
A very ordinary transcription
of Qffenbach’s “Barcarolle” and
Debussy’s “L’isle Joyeuse”—less
impressionistic than most of the
Frenchman’s piano - works —
completed the offerings.
)
Music Group Concert
Three fine artists associated
in the Cammeray (Sydney)
Group’s latest concert were Giza
Bachman (violin), Hans George
(’cello) and Leo Demant (piano).
A virtue of such recital-work in
a small, intimate hall is that it
allows an audience to gain
close-ups of the purely technical
aspects of a soloist’s work.
In Beethoven’s “Spring”
Sonata the violinist produced a
warm, rich, singing tone and a
leaping vitality for the first and
concluding movements. His un-
accompanied work in Hubay’s
captivating transcription of two
arias from “Carmen” was equally
impressive, while the double-
stopping and other embellish-
ments of Sarasate’s “Andalusian
Romance” were most attractive
music-making.
Hans George chose as his
major contribution an early work
by the contemporary Hungarian
composer Zoltan Kodaly—the
Sonata for ’Cello and Piano, Op.
4. A piece full of nervous ten-
sion and jumping from theme
to theme, it has little Of the folk-
tune basis in which this com-
poser usually excels. George
gave it a full, broad tone and
surety in his bowing. Later he
brought his big instrument into
dancing geniality with some
lighter snippets of Bach.
Leo Demant, who had col-
laborated with both string-
instrumentalists, played a fine
transcription for the piano of an
organ concerto by Vivaldi, an,d
Scriabine’s “Nocturne for Left
Hand.” The big work was
notable for the fine sonority
maintained in the bass.
“Jane
S. N. Behrmann’s expansion o t
Somerset Maugham’s “Jane”
into a play (put on by Brisbane
Repertory) retains the theatrical
quality of that short story. Jane
Fowler, an old - fashioned
middle-aged Liverpool widow,
marries a man nearly 30
years her junior, much to the
horror of her more respectable
friends, who are certain that the
old Jane has been guilty of a
spot of cradle-snatching. The
truth is that it is she who has
capitulated to his onslaught of
proposals of marriage.
The ceremony over, her hus-
band turns all his creative skill
to designing her clothes, invent-
ing hair-styles, until the forth-
right frump of the first act
appears in the second as the
most charming hostess in Lon-
don, sought-after for her con-
versation and social poise. The
concession made in the story —
Jane’s abandonment of her
young husband for one of her
contemporaries is no more
necessary or acceptable in the
play than in the Maugham
original.
The success of the play
depends upon two things the
ability of the leading actress to
make the transformation credible,
and the quiet confidence of the
young man who is certain that,
from the rough Liverpool
diamond, he will be able to
make the glittering socialite.
Babbette Stephen’s Jane was a
delight, and missed no point of
the author’s plan, and as the
young husband Peter Stannard
never for a moment appeared
ridiculous in that difficult role.
V.V.
Talkies
“How To Be Very, Very
Popular” (Sydney Mayfair) :
Good farce-situations and witty
dialogue by writer-director Nun-
nally Johnson —who keeps the
pace a clinker throughout—make
amusing fare of this daffy
comedy about two chorines who,
to escape being bumped-off as
inconvenient witnesses of a
bumping-off, take refuge in a
college. Best performances from
Charles Coburn, as an elderly
headmaster with a blonde-
problem, and Sheree North, as
the bottle-blonde who wrecks
the academic serenity.


m
Holden has all the features
that mean most to you
Because Holden is designed and
built specifically for Australian
_ conditions, no other car combines
all its advantages at such low cost.
For from £B7O plus sales tax, Holden gives
you a 6-cylinder, 21 h.p. engine; out-
standing economy (30 m.p.g. is reported by
many owners); proven dependability and
low maintenance costs; Australia-wide
availability of spare parts; high resale
value; clean good looks and comfort for a
family of six.
Ever since Holden was first produced,
hundreds of owners have written spon-
taneous letters of satisfaction.
From Armadale, W.A., Mr. H. M.
Paterson wrote:
“• • • 1 feel you are justly entitled to this
little note of my experience over nearly
70,000 miles of very pleasurable motoring ...
The car has been over a large part of our
country roads and tracks and has given
unfailing satisfaction under all conditions . ..
The car is driven hard all the year round,
and one of its most pleasing features has been
its capacity to retain performance without
continual tinkering and adjustment ...
I know of nothing within £5OO to £6OO of the
price to equal my Holden for all round
performance and safety on any road , .
More Australians buy Holden than any
other make simply because Holden offers
the best value for money there is on the
Australian car market.
The demand for Holden continues to be
heavy , so may we suggest that you place
your order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN *
Australia’s Own Car
UST PRICES FROM £B7O FL.US TAX
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
•Convenient GMAC hire purchase
arrangements are available.
•“Air Chief ” car radio is specially
designed for Holden.
L 155
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
Between
Ourselves
•—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITIONS
AT least a dozen or more
countries will be participat-
ing in expeditions to the Antarc-
tic within the next year or so.
Here, in excerpts from an inter-
view by “U.S. News and World
Report” with Rear-Admiral
George J. Dufek, are some of
the reasons for the increasing
interest in the great southern
continent. Rear-Admiral Dufek,
who has already been on two
expeditions to the South, goes on
the next as commander of the
U.S. naval ship-force in the
U.S. National Antarctic Pro-
gramme under the leadership of
Rear-Admiral Richard E. Byrd.
Asked first about the terri-
torial rights claimed by various
nations in the Antarctic, Rear-
Admiral Dufek replied:
“The past and present situa-
tion has been this:
“Certain nations claim
certain sectors, and in some in-
stances they overlap—especially
in the Palmer Peninsula, which
is just south of South America.
Chile, Argentina and the United
Kingdom all have claims which
overlap. The United States
position has been in the past
and is today that it makes no
claims, and, on the other hand,
it recognises no claims, but
reserves the right to go any-
where in the Antarctic.
“It [the Antarctic] may be very
valuable—we don’t know, but the
possibilities are there. Three-
hundred-and-fifty-million years
ago the Antarctic was tropical.
“Some coal- and copper-
deposits have been found in the
area, but not of sufficient value
for commercial purposes. But
it’s reasonable to believe that,
with six-million square-miles of
mountains under the pressure of
this tremendous ice-cap, there
are valuable minerals there—
possibly uranium. On the other
hand, fifty or a hundred years
from now it may not be minerals
that we want to get out of there.
“There may be other things
science will develop—something
that we do not know at present.
For instance, we are not sure
where the weather starts, but if
it starts in this mass at the
bottom of the earth, then per-
haps we could predict the
weather more accurately
throughout the world.
“The major difference
[between Arctic and Antarctic]
is that in the Arctic the geo-
graphical North Pole is located
in the middle of an ocean
10,000 ft. deep. In the Antarctic,
the South Pole is located on a
continent 10,000 ft. high. Most
of the ice in the world is con-
centrated on the Antarctic con-
tinent. Some six-million square-
miles of the earth’s surface is
snow-covered and five-million of
that is in the Antarctic itself.
We don’t know how deep it is.
Some of the valleys are a mile
or two or three miles deep.
“It’s a funny-shaped continent.
It’s three-thousand-three-hundred
miles in one direction, at its
thickest part. The reason Little
America is so close to the South
Pole is that the Bay of Whales
indents the coastline there. Now,
across, it’s about two-thousand-
five-hundred-and-twenty miles.”
First Discoveries
. After he had suggested that
the Antarctic was first sighted
about 138 years ago by a young
American named Palmer, Dufek
was asked when it was first dis-
covered to be a continent of
six-million square-miles. He
answered, “It was not the result
of any individual’s determination
but a compilation of discoveries
of various explorers”:
“Admiral Byrd got the latitude
and longitude of the eastern
Ross Sea coast and took photo-
graphs of it, and then it begins
to evolve. Scott had gone in at
McMurdo, and the British got
in and delineated the Victoria
Land coast. Chile, Argentina,
the United States and Great
Britain have been in the Weddell
Sea area.
. “Each nation more-or-less con-
tributed certain information and
knowledge, and the general con-
tour began to evolve. This was
all guesswork, and there were
wrong guesses. The coast from
Kainan Bay to Alexander I
Island is inaccessible by ship—
a ship has not been able to get
in there up to the present time,
even the modern icebreakers.
It’s a tremendous hard mass of
ice that sticks out two-hundred-
and-fifty to three-hundred miles.
“Then in 1946 with a seaplane-
tender and destroyer and oiler
we {the U.S.] lifted the heavy
seaplanes out into open spots
in the ice, like lakes, where it is
quiet and you can launch a sea-
plane. We flew in there, and,
incidentally, one plane crashed
there and it took us two weeks
to find them. Three men were
killed. But that was the first
time this coast was-ever picked
up and that was in the spring of
1947.
“So all this is an accumulation
of information.
“There is a great deal of
argument between nations as to
which country discovered the
continent. Admiral (Fabian von)
Bellingshausen was near Palmer
Peninsula in 1812. He was a
Russian, perhaps of German
descent. I don’t know. But he
—New York “Herald Tribune”
“I WAS WORRIED YOU BOYS HAD GONE SOFT.”
has written some interesting
books that have been translated
into English and from his books
he must have been a highly-
educated and cultured man. But
Bellingshausen admitted
that an American, Palmer, had
sighted the Antarctic continent
before he himself had, and Bell-
ingshausen had congratulated
Palmer on sighting the continent.
“‘The British have done a
great deal of exploration, and
they claim that they were the
first ones.
“We had another American
named Admiral Wilkes. The
land he discovered (1838-42) we
call Wilkes Land. Based on
those claims he made state-
ments that he saw land in cer-
tain positions, and other
countries claimed he was wrong,
it wasn’t there —so, to answer
your question: No, there is not
one man we can say discovered
Antarctica like we can say
Columbus discovered America.
“We (the U.S.] have made an
attempt to internationalise the
Antarctic continent ; that is, put
it under some sort of inter-
national commission of United
Nations. That was turned down
by other nations—Russia, the
British, too, and the Argentines
and the Chileans. I think the
Argentines and the Chilean's
think that they have a stronger
claim to this Palmer Peninsula
than anybody. You see, it is only
six-hundred miles from the
southern tip of South America
to the northern tip of the
Palmer Peninsula. So they claim
that this is just a strait and the
Antarctic continent is a con-
tinuation of the Andes, and the
Argentines feel more-or-less the
same way.”
Potentialities
Asked about the motives
behind the interest of various
countries in the Antarctic, Dufek
commented that “first it was the
whaling- and the seal-industry”:
“Here is one rich source in the
Antarctic that is not discussed
very much. But, for some reason
or another, in the water-mass
surrounding the Antarctic con-
tinent marine-life is very rich,
much richer than in any other
ocean mass. That’s the crusta-
ceans, crabs and so forth—that’s
what the whales and seals feed
on. That is why this is such a
rich area for them. Years ago
the seals were hunted for the
fur-trade.
“The vegetation in the water
itself is very rich. Some scien-
tists have been working on
developing food out of the water.
The Japanese are perhaps the
foremost in using marine-life.
They get the grasses out of the
water and use them like spinach
and things like that.
“I think on the whale- and
seal-hunts is when they first
began to sight the Antarctic.
After that I think perhaps it was
adventure the lure of the
unknown.
, “Here is what we are going to
out of the Antarctic in a
scientific way. One of the hardest
things about flying is not being
able to predict the weather. By
tying in all the stations —at the
Paris conference we agreed we
would set up a common radio-
frequency so that we could
communicate with each nation’s
bases—we would make periodic
weather-reports. The United
States accepted the responsibility
for handling the ‘weather
central’ at Little America —•
gather all the weather informa-
tion and then make forecasts.
It’s the first time we’ve ever
been able to do that, tying-in
communications.
“Each nation is submitting to
the others the exact latitude and
longitude of their bases, the
number of men at the bases,
what is there in the way of
equipment, tractors, aircraft,
radio-beacons, so that, if you
are flying around and have a
crash, you will know where the
closest camp is. We’ve gotten
along that far.
“Now, for the scientific
results: There are nine studies
being conducted by the various
nations in geophysics; meteor-
ology, geomagnetism, aurora and
air - glow, ionospheric - physics,
cosmic-rays, glaciology, ocean-
ography, seismology and gravity,
and solar-activity.
“We are sure of getting
weather-intelligence that has
never been equalled before. And
if we get weather-information
for the next four or five years,
we can tie that in with past
weather throughout the world
and see if this is the terminal or
beginning of the weather, or
how it influences the weather
throughout the earth.
“Also, by our studies of the
ionosphere, the aurora, and
simultaneously in the North, we


Why women act
the way they do
They are clumsy at pitching a
ball (their arms aren’t built the
same as men’s). They do go on
frenzies of furniture moving
(it’s a monthly “nesting im-
pulse”). But they stand cold
better than men, hear better
than men and change their
minds just half as often!
Reader’s Digest for December
brings you scientific facts on
what makes women act the
baffling way they do. Get your
December Reader’s Digest today
a wealth of articles of last-
ing interest, including the best
from leading magazines and
current books, condensed to
save your time only two
shillings at all newsagents and
bookstalls. It’s today’s out-
standing reading value.
Missing Friend
MURPHY, William, aged 50. Left Liver-
pool, England, 1926 or 1927. Last heard
from at Brisbane and N.S.W. Will any-
one knowing his whereabouts please com-
municate with his brother, THOMAS
MURPHY, 41 Brockman Street, Norse-
man, Western Australia?
/■ > V
-- .::
’. / > :<•
\
' 11 I
B4\U
;=:s
iitli
»:Si!t
?U::
i rri ? ) '
: "> ' '>■. ■ i i J
i-t
\ u
✓
Fly high, fly wide
and stay handsome . • •
... in a Stamina Single Breasted suit... the most
comfortable all-weather suit you can have, come Spring,
Summer, Autumn or Winter; the suit you will be proud
to wear a suit of distinction.
Stamina suits, tailored from a fine, pure wool Crusader
worsted, hold their appearance under all conditions,
keep their good looks, shed creases like magic, give
you a finely suited smartness that is envied by all.
See Stamina’s new, two-piece, Single Breasted suits
now —in a wonderful range of colors and weaves.
Price, £19.19.0. in Summer Weight; £18.18.0 in Medium
Weight both available in popular tones of Grey,
Fawn, and Blue.
ASK FOR
Stamina ,
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
522.113
CLOTHES
can find out what the influence
is on our radio-transmissions. I
think you are all familiar with
the well-known blackouts when
you just can’t get a message
through. That’s due to the in-
fluence of the sun as it enters
the ionosphere of the earth. So,
if we can’t improve our radio-
transmission, we can at least
learn a great deal more about
it, and what influences work
on it.
“Those are two of the most
readily understood things to be
. gained. And, by a study of the
ionosphere, scientists themselves
say that the information we will
get out of the Antarctic will be
worth a billion dollars to the
rocket-programme.”
Minerals
Returning to the subject of
minerals, “U.S. News and World
Report” asked: “Is there any
possibility that the minerals that
may be there could ever be
exploited?”
A. “Yes. Definitely yes —if it
is of sufficient value. Those
mountain-tops are very high. In
the Little America area one of
the problems, if we went into
production, would be the cost
of hauling down the fuel and
hauling the stuff back again—
it’s 11,000 miles from Boston to
Little America. But if we go
into nuclear energy, and you
could take a package down to
provide our heat and sources
of power and generation of
mechanical things, then I think
we could do it very econo-
mically.”
Other Countries
Q. “How many others will be
involved ? Who will be going
directly in ?”
A. “The French will go in on
the Adelie Coast into Wilkes
Land, the Russians will go in on
the Knox Coast —they plan to
put a base in the interior. The
Russians did want to put one at
the South Pole, but at the inter-
national conference the scientists
said that would be a duplication
of effort to have two scientific
stations at the South Pole, and,
because the United States
announced their intention first,
the Russians moved out to
another location.
“Then the Australians are in
Enderby Land, the Norwegians
on the Princess Martha Coast—
so I think it is safe to say within
the next five or six years most
of the continent will be covered.
In addition to aircraft-flights,
there are a number of tractor-
train operations. The British
plan to go by tractor-train across
the Pole from the Weddell Sea.
Of course, we will be at the
Pole by then.”
Q. “What are the principal
nations that are interested in the
Antarctic ?”
A. “The ones in the past who
have worked there consistently
are Chile, Argentina, the United
Kingdom, Australia, the United
States, France, Germany, Sweden
and Norway.”
Q. “What nations are going to
participate in the expeditions in
the coming year , or is it different
years ?”
A. “Argentina, Australia, Bel-
gium, Chile, England, France,
New Zealand, Norway, South
Africa and the United States
have said they are going to send
expeditions down for the Inter-
national Geophysical Year,
which starts on the first of July,
1957, and runs to December,
1958.
Q. “What is the International
Geophysical Year?"
A. “That is a specific time for
world-wide scientific observa-
tions by forty nations working
in co-operation. This is the third
time they have had an Inter-
national Geophysical Year. The
first one was in 1882 and another
one, fifty years later, was in
1932. The first one was more-
or-less several nations’ expedi-
tions simultaneously in the
Arctic.’’
Q. “Why do they call it a
’year' ?"
A. “That is a year of simul-
taneous readings by many
scientists, world-wide. Now this
one isn’t due until 1982 —that is,
fifty years after 1932 —but they
want to make it in 1957-58
because the science of the world
has advanced so rapidly in this
generation that they want to get
into it sooner. Another reason
is that the sunspot activity will
be quite active during that period
and it has a bearing on radio-
transmission.”
Q. “When you listed the
countries before you didn’t men-
tion Japan and Russia.”
A. “No, I was just going to
add them. On the tenth of July
Russia announced at an I.G.Y.
meeting she was going to the
Antarctic and would establish
bases. At this recent Brussels
conference the J apanese
announced that they wanted to
contribute to the International
Geophysical Year and establish
bases.”
U.S. Costs
Q. “How many men will be
in your [the U.S. ] expedition
when you start out ?”
A. “About eighteen-hundred.”
Q. “What is the composition
of your [the U.S.] task-force in
terms of both men and ships ?
A. “There are seven ships —
three icebreakers, three cargo-
ships and an oiler, and then we
are going to tow down two
YOG’s, which are small tankers
having a capacity of about two-
hundred-thousand gallons of
gasoline. So, instead of build-
ing storage-tanks for aviation-
fuel in the Antarctic —it is
expensive, difficult and back-
breaking work —we are taking
these small ships to freeze into
the ice for our fuel-storage.”
Q. “How much money did
Congress appropriate for this
Expedition ?”
A. “Congress didn’t appropri-
ate anything as far as the task-
force is concerned. The Depart-
ment of Defence picked up the
tab. Congress appropriated
about twelve-million dollars for
the National Science Founda-
tion to use supporting the U.S.
scientific programme of the
I.G.Y. through 1959.”
Q. “What will this whole thing
cost the United States ?”
A. “Over and above the
normal cost of keeping so many
ships —these ships would have to
be operated in training, anyway
—if you took that cost and
broke it down, the ships and
food and men, the cost would be
large, but the extra money over
and above what would be
involved anyway is, of course,
much less.”
Q. “Is it many millions of
dollars ?"
A. “Several millions.”
Q. “But the information to be
gained is worth billions ?”
A. “That’s correct. And
there’s so much information,
when we get into this, we stand
to gain. You just can’t put a
price-tag on it.”
Franco
London “Economist” comment
on General Franco, who “has
not merely out-talked but out-sat
most of his fellow-dictators”:
“Emerging from the war with
some of the advantages of
nominal neutrality, he managed
to stay in power, to deflect the
combined execration of the vic-
torious Allies, survive the singu-
larly ineffectual denunciation of
his regime by the three Western
Powers in March, 1946, and
flourish —within reason —despite
the exclusion of his country from
the benefits of Marshall Aid or
of membership of the United
Nations.
“Indeed, General Franco has
lived on to become a military
partner of the United States and
to be knocking gently at the
gates not merely of the U.N.
but also of the Atlantic Alliance.
More, he has reached the envi-
able position of receiving
courteous attentions from the
Communist Powers and a visit
from the American Secretary of,
State.
“This, then, is surely the point
at which the Western nations as
a whole should re-examine their
policy and decide whether the
time has not come to draw Spain
back into their comity. Specifi-
cally, this means deciding how
to answer two questions. The
first is ‘Shall we support the
move by the Canadians at the
U.N. assembly for the admission
of 18 new members, Spain being
one of them?’ ; and the second,
‘Should we support an invita-
tion to Spain to join Nato if the
Spaniards let it be known that
they would like to join?’
“A fair case for an affirmative
answer to both questions can
certainly be made out.”
Various Voices
Thomas E. Murray {of the
U.S. Atomic Energy Commis-
sion): “I cannot help wishing
that the meeting at the atomic
summit on Eniwetok had pre-
ceded the meeting at the summit
in Geneva. If it had, there might
now be more substance to the
‘spirit of Geneva.’ The spirit of
survival is a good hard core to
sustain a spirit of conciliation.”
U.S. Secretary of State, John
Foster Dulles: “We have learned
the hard way that one-sided
weakness does not promote
peace. Therefore, we will remain
strong unless and until the Soviet
Union by its actions helps to
restore confidence and joins in
measures that make it sound and
wise to reduce our armaments.”
Harold Watkinson {British
Conservative M.P.): “The plain
post-war choice for Great
Britain remains what it has been
under successive Governments.
It is either to work together,
use sensible restraint, build up
productivity and prosper, or to
learn the hard way by gallop-
ing inflation leading to unem-
ployment and misery all round.”
Sir Anthony Eden: “We [in
Great Britain] are at the begin-
ning of a new industrial revolu-
tion which will change the face
of the world and of Britain.
Once again we must be pioneers
or perish.” «
General Marcos Perez Jimenez
{President of Venezuela ): “We
are making Venezuela insuscep-
tible to Communist propaganda
and plots by actually providing
the benefits the Communists
merely talk about.”


m convinced
CAPSTAN is
better tobneeo!"
r*
im&x
“I really appreciate a good, smooth smoke
after a day on the road. When the caravan
is ship-shape for the night I relax and
enjoy Capstan Tobacco. With Capstan’s
own blend of fine Virginia tobaccos, you
can always be sure of flavour, fresh
fragrance and smooth smoking.”
&
Firi-iS
r- o
Ask everywhere for —
CAPSTAN
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
342D.10.55
KITCHINGS’
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Jk, 4
HHh
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Riderless Lazy Day so dis-
organised the field in the Rose-
hill Festival Handicap on Satur-
day that it might be wise for
those on the look-out for the
likely winner of the Villiers to
forget about the suburban
sprint.
Lazy Day got rid of his rider,
G. Podmore, shortly after the
start, and most other jockeys
appeared to concentrate on keep-
ing out of possible danger, rather
than mixing it with Lazy Day,
who galloped through the field
and led from the home-turn to
the winning-post. A. Ward, on
second-favorite Belbeiys, was
game enough to race his
mount alongside the riderless
galloper as the winning-post was
neared, and he won the race
from outsider Magic Carpet II
and Lindbergh.
Gay Vista, out of a place in
the Festival, is one that can be
expected to return to best form
when next produced. The same
goes for placegetter Magic
Carpet 11.
s» • • • •
In the early part of last season
Belbeiys had four successive
wins, last of them in a three-
year-old mile event at Rand-
wick in October. He was then
hailed as a potential champion
sprinter, and was put away till
the autumn. The boom faded
when he failed in three
races on his return, but this
time up Belbeiys has had
two outings for a second at
Rosehill last month and his win
in the Festival. Belbeiys carried
7.9 at Rosehill, but his weight
will increase to 8.2 in the
Villiers. Magic Carpet II goes
up from 7.10 to 8.3 in the Rand-
wick mile, and Lindbergh from
8.1 to, 8.6. The Festival was run
under “quality” conditions, with
a 9.7 maximum topweight.
A few minutes before the
start of the Rosehill Handicap
Viteren was quoted at 6 to 1,
but there was such a wild rush
that Viteren started at 7 to 2,
equal second-favorite. A. Mulley
got the best from the Stockade
horse, who won easily from out-
sider Rillsdale, with the disap-
pointing Prince Delville third.
Viteren had failed badly at his
prior start at Canterbury Park
a week earlier. He wasn’t the
only sudden improver at Rose 1
hill. Pacenna, stylish winner
of the Welter, had also shaped
poorly at Canterbury a week
previously, finishing fifth in a
field of nine in a similar con-
test.
J. Thompson, one of Aus-
tralia’s most vigorous and versa-
tile horsemen, had three succes-
sive wins at Rosehill —on Rum-
leigh, Royal Edward and Vala-
jax. Royal Edward had not
won before, but his performance
in the Auburn Stakes impressed.
Raced by Mrs. Fred Allsop, wife
of the Randwick trainer, Royal
Edward is a half-brother to
Prince Dakhil, and is by
Edwardsii (imp.) from Goorama
by Parkwood from Goorabul
by Magpie (imp.).
As, of course, expected, Rum-
leigh led all the way, though
runner-up Royal Kingdom
had supporters of the Breeders’
Plate winner worried over
the final furlong, the colt
running the hot favorite to a
long head. It was, in fact, only
superb horsemanship by
Thompson that landed the
winner by the brief margin.
Brisbane-owned and -trained
colt Valajax, winner of three
races in the northern capital as
a two-year-old, defeated Red
Vain and Burkanako in the First
Parramatta Stakes at Rosehill
in fine style; his first Sydney
start. The Valognes (imp.) three-
year-old is bred for speed—he
is from Fury by Ajax from
Magi by Brueghel (imp.).
At Moonee Valley on Satur-
day Leave had an easy task in
“Wait till I put me line in, dammit !”
the Moreland Handicap. Leave
is Melbourne’s best two-year-
old filly, and it was her first
success against the colts.
Tatyoon, runaway winner of
last year’s S.T.C. Christmas Cup
(11 mile) from Royal Forest and
Durabay, figures among
entrants for this year’s event, to
be decided at Rosehill this
coming Saturday. Others
nominated include several
aspirants for the A.J.C. Summer
Cup, among them Prince Del-
ville, Gallant Archer, Hinges,
Livorno, Shaded, Advocate,
Viteren, Grand Stream and
Crimson Pirate.
Advocate is selected to win
the Christmas Cup from Grand
Stream and Gallant Archer.
Improving on earlier displays,
Waleska cleared out with a
Canterbury Park Maiden sprint
for two-year-old fillies. Waleska
was lucky to secure a start, as
she was third emergency—
proving the wisdom of clubs
that provide for up to three
emergency acceptors, a scheme
which encourages owners and
trainers to set horses for selected
events. Emergency horses fre-
quently win. Waleska is an
attractive youngster by Emperor
(Fr.) from Constant Belle by
Constant Son (imp.) from
Shirrob by Baralong (imp.). She
has the Carbine blood in her
make-up, and on the dam’s side
traces back to a noted English
racehorse and sire, Persimmon,
who carried the Royal colors.
Calm Stream, winner of an
Albion Park Second Maiden (1
mile 97yds.), is another of the
very successful Murray Stream
progeny. The three-year-old
colt is from Urochla, a mare
bred in 1941 by William Kent.
By Wise Force from Bachelette
by Bachelor’s Persse (imp.) from
Nagaina by Seremond (imp.),
the dam traces back to The
Australian Peer. Calm Stream
won by half-a-dozen lengths,
beating a big field.
* * *
The idea of the square-trotter
as an ugly-looking, awkward-
going horse that appears in one
race every trot-programme just
for a laugh was knocked flat by
the performance of Para Rip at
Richmond (N.S.W.) trots on
Saturday. He lined-up with a
field of pacers in the first-class
Harold Park Handicap and beat
them as he liked —and this two
races after he had won the
Trotters’ Handicap from 168yds.
An example of close inbreeding,
Para Rip is one of the most
natural square-gaiters to grace
a track ; but his trouble all the
way has been in the legs. He
competed in the square-trotting
events at the last Inter-Dominion
in New Zealand, but didn’t put
his best foot forward.
Requiring two wins from three
starts to qualify for the A. G.
Hunter Cup to be run on the
Melbourne Showgrounds on
December 30, Port Logan took
his place in a smart field of
pacers in the Dalmore Handi-
cap on Friday night and made it
one down, one to go. He beat
the improving Halt and Major
Miracle into the minor placings
by a yard and a head. The
A. G. Hunter Cup is the main
event at the board’s Christmas
Carnival, and is worth £3OOO
and a 50-guinea trophy. The
Carnival Handicap, the final of
which is run on the same night,
carries £lOOO.
+ +
Colin McDonald is keen.
Last year, leading to his being
picked in the fourth Test
against England, he played in a
three-day infer-’ Varsity game
between Melbourne and Sydney,
then faced up on the following
day to the Vic.-N.S.W. Shield
game. Now, in the course of
little Over a week, he has played
with the Vic. Shield team at
Bendigo, shifted to Adelaide for
the three-day inter-’Varsity
match, then , back to Melbourne
to play for Victoria against
Queensland. In v Adelaide he
knocked-up 304 at a run-a-
minute (out of 477 scored in the
one day). Against Queensland
he made only 3 in the first
innings, brilliantly run-out by
Ken Archer; but he is at the
moment Australia’s No. 1
opening-batsman.
Unusual that, on a perfect
wicket, four wickets should fall
without a run being scored, as
when the Queensland score
sagged from 2-153 to 6-153.
More unusual when the four
concerned are all good batsmen
—Burge, Mackay, the two
Archers. Victorian spinner Jack
Hill, who took three of the four
wickets, did the devastating.
There was no hat-trick, as
possible extenuation.-
Top-scorer, with 69 not-out,
in W.A.’s first-innings 174
against N.S.W. was Murray
Vernon,' jvho, selected in the
first place as 12th-man, got a
game only when left-hander
Alan Edwards had to with-
draw. It’s not the first time a
young player has seized his
chance when chosen at the last
minute. Vernon, 18, plays with
South Perth; his last-wicket
partnership of 55 with 6ft. 4in.
fast-bowler Harry Gorringe
saved W.A. from rout.
* # / *
The Victorian singles-final
wasn’t the expected Hoad-
Rosewall clash. Young Ashley
Cooper eliminated Rosewall in
a hard five-set game in the semi-
finals. The final was an even
more gruelling five-setter ; Hoad
beat Cooper 1-6, 6-4, 6-4, 5-7,
6-4, to give him his second Vic-
torian title. (Rosewall, inci-
dentally, won it last year from
Seixas.) Cooper, who just about
matches Hoad in powerful
service and hard-driving ground-
strokes, is developing into a
formidable contender for top
tennis-honors.
The doubles-final was much
a replica of the N.S.W. doubles-
final last month. Both times
Hoad and Rosewall defeated, in
dull four-set games, Rose and
Candy, with Candy the weak
link in the losers. This time it
was 7-9, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. Amother
repeat of the equivalent N.S.W.
final was the women’s singles-
final, with Mrs. Mary Hawton,
though more easily, again
defeating the younger Mary
Carter.
* * *
Former Australian amateur
champion Peter Toogood
returned a fantastic 60 for 18
holes at Ulverstone in Tasmania.
He was out in 28 and home in
32, eight strokes better than
par.
• • • •
Peter Thomson set a new
national aggregate record of 262
when he won the Colvan £5OO
first prize on the Patterson
River (Melbourne) course. He’s
the first to break 200 for 54
holes in a major Australian
title. Ossie Pickworth was nine
strokes behind Thomson in
second place, with “The Von” a
further nine behind Pickworth.
* * *
Emerging from a nightclub
song-and-dance routine, urged
no doubt by alleged tax-arrears
dating from 1944, “Sugar” Ray
Robinson planted a heavy right
in the middle-champ. Olson’s
breadbasket, followed it with a
smashing straight right, and
became the first middleweight
ever to regain the world-title
twice. The huge crowd at
Chicago Stadium saw only one
round, 2min. 51sec. of scrap for
its money.
Former amateur champ, and
brother of crack Olympic rep.
Don McDonnell, 18-year-old
Billy McDonnell (11.10 bril-
liantly boxed the Australian
middleweight title from Pran
Mikus (11.50 in their 15-round
scrap at Sydney Stadium ; it was
only McDonnell’s tenth pro-
fessional fight. Using, a hammer-
ing left lead, a peppery right
cross, and a neat variety of his
other artillery, McDonnell, calm
and ringwise, had Mikus in a
lubberly defence for at least 12
rounds of the scrap. He had
beaten Mikus in a non-title
engagement in September, and
the clear margin of his victory
was expected. Australian middle-
champ. at 19, Ambrose Palmer
watched the fight as trainer of
Mikus ; his praise was very high
for McDonnell, who could
become a boxing “great.”


Leadership Demands Constant Achievement
3
IS
mmmm
World’s
Finest
Airliner
Serving
LOCKHEED SUPER CONSTELLATION
The latest in a line of great Lockheed transports,
the 1049 version of the Super Constellation is
serving Australia. Enjoy the quiet comfort,
speed and luxury of the largest, roomiest airliner in the
world. 20 great world airlines now fly Super
Constellations over- connecting routes which cross every
ocean and span every Continent.
Suner Constellations are the only airliners on which you
can fly completely around the world.
For your future enjoyment,
watch for the Super Constellation
1649 A with its
revolutionary high-speed,
long-range wing. It will go into
service as a companion
to the 1049 to carry
further Lockheed’s
tradition of leadership.
/
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS and KLM afford Super Constellation service to 5 Continents from Australia.
&
£ <1 \
m
LOCKHEED AIRCRAPT CORPORATION • BURBANK • CALIPORNIA • U. S. A.
a Whimsical Number
by Jack Lusby
JOHNSON reckons numbers
are more than just numbers.
He says a number can
have a personality.
It was midwinter ’4l when
Johnson first met number 221.
A bleak, black night at Wagga.
The three figures were painted
big and yellow on the flare-lit
flank of a Wirraway. The Wirra
was an Aussie translation of a
Yank blueprint, and if you could
fly the beast in a relaxed fashion
upside-down at night you could
fly anything, anywhere, anytime.
So the jumpy instructors told
Johnson and his mates.
This night the wind was rip-
ping snow off the ridges round
Kosciusko and whining through
the hangars down on Wagga.
Johnson’s mob waited out in the
centre of the drome to be sent
off on first night-solos. Some of
the blokes had already been sent
up and were droning unseen in
the sky.
Wirraways were lumbering up
to take off in turn. A half-circle
of dark-winged red-and-green-
eyed shapes loomed like pre-
historic carnivora.
“God, they’re malicious-look-
ing lumps of tin at night,” said
someone. Someone feeling like
Johnson.
“At night!” said Johnson
“They scare me rigid in day-
light!” Wirras were a big jump
from Tiger Moths, Johnson says.
As usual on these occasions
the night seemed black, cold and
unfriendly until you got going.
Then your training looked after
you and pretty soon you enjoyed
it. So Johnson says. The in-
structor went round with you
first, and when he felt you had
a good chance of getting away
with it you shot off solo. In-
structor sucked-in a sly snort of
stingo near the first flare and
watched his pilgrim’s progress.
According to Johnson.
221’s big prop slowed and
stopped. Johnson smelled hot
oil and hot metal. The Wirraway
smell. Trainee Fisher and his
guardian-angel Maxwell dropped
to the ground. Maxwell stood
cogitating, a grim look on what
could be seen of his face, then:
“Fisher! What the bloody
hell’s wrong with you? You
lined-up Wagga street-lights for
a flare-path, then tried to tunnel
through a hill! Look I
wouldn’t go round again with
you at gunpoint! Do it on your
bloody own, or out of my sight
for ever!”
Trainees are out to combine
homicide with suicide ; and in-
structors exposed to this tend-
ency are more critical than a
mother-in-law, Johnson says.
All Fisher said was “0.K.,
sir.”
221 spat exhaust-flame, made
loud, rude noises, and rumbled
away to take-off point. Maxwell,
sounding tired, sleepy and
jittery, said to Johnson, “If it
still works when he’s through
with it I’ll check you\”
A FITTER materialised in the
flicker of the first flare and
put down grilled chops and tea.
Maxwell squatted over the kai,
back turned to his airborne
protege. Johnson and his mates
grabbed something to eat and
watched 221’s nav.-lights passing
a few dim stars. 221 bored in
and passed the first flare twenty-
feet up. The figure in the cock-
pit was leaning forward, fixed
in attitude as a Pompeii cadaver.
“Boy, is he concentrating!”
Johnson muttered.
“Shhh! Don’t distract him,”
said someone.
There was a bump and
rumble. Maxwell looked up
over his shoulder.
“Fisher?”
“Yes, sir. Down 0.K.”
After what seemed too short
a time, to Johnson, 221 taxied
back. Fisher switched-off and
got out.
“Brakes have had it,” he said
to Maxwell.
“If they pulled you up they’re
good enough for an ape to
operate,” Maxwell said. To
Johnson he said, “Let’s get it
over. You’re my eighth tonight.
Keep it tranquil.”
“Gawd, Max, dice the sob-
stuff,” said another instructor.
“You sound like an overworked
hostess.”
Johnson got the green-light,
set the gyro-compass on zero
and went. ’Struth, Johnson says,
you feel lost first time up at
night. The flare-path, cenfre of
your world, dwindles and gets to
hell out of your sight somewhere
down there where you’ve got to
get back to. A case of where
is it? Where is it? Where is it?
Ahhh! You beaut.
Skulking under the port wing.
Downwind, wheels down, turn,
and the line of earth-bound stars
twirls on your left wingtip—
flaps, landing-light, turn again.
Flares coming up at you. God!
That was the first one! A mile
too high. Second flare. Third
flare. Where’s the bloody
ground?
BOONK. BOONK. RUMBLE.
RUMBLELUMBLE. .
You beaut! Bit far down the
flare-path. Go for the brakes,
says the good book. Stick back,
and brakes, or 221 runs out of
aerodrome and bumps into some-
thing. Johnson didn't know at
this stage that 221 was a kindly
number..
Johnson pushed his toes on the
brakes so hard his feet nearly
went through the soles of his
flying boots. But 221 didn’t
respond.
“Brakes U/S, sir,” said John-
son into the talk-tube.
“So I see,” said Maxwell with
a don’t-give-a-damn intonation.
Overtired. Overbored. All set
for that error of judgment the
courts-martial natter about.
“Unlock tailwheel and ground-
loop, sir?” Johnson suggested.
“No. Do more damage,” said
Maxwell.
Johnson banged on full left
rudder and hoped 221 would
turn a bit before she ran out
of aerodrome. Aircraft are
female, of course. He felt Max-
well’s foot on the rudder-
controls doing the same thing.
221 left the flares behind and
raced on into pitch-darkness.
Taking the cue from Maxwell,
silent behind him, Johnson kept
full left rudder on, stick back,
and waited, staring into the beam
of the landing-light. 221’s speed
was down to about sixty.
SUDDENLY the fat, white
posts of the boundary-fence
showed up on the right, coming
at an angle. Suddenly white in
221’s landing-light. This light
glared out of the front of the
wing.
Johnson didn’t feel much of
a thump as 221 tore through the
fence ; but half-a-dozen of those
white posts came out like teeth.
Wirraways weighed two-and-a-
half tons, Johnson says. 221
rolled along a dark, tree-lined
bush-lane, slowed, and stopped.
The landing-light settled on
the butts of gumtrees bordering
the track. Silence. Momentarily
the Air Force was the silent ser-
vice. Even 221 was silent —
except for the dying whine of
the gyros.
Maxwell spoke first, in the ear-
phones. “Well, Johnson, what
now?”
“Damned if I know, sir. Fire
a Verey?”
“Why not? Look back.”
Back, where Johnson looked,
a long, way back, a colorful
barrage of pyrotechnics lit the
night sky over Wagga drome.
“Poor old Wilson’s panicked
in the tower,” said Maxwell.
Johnson fired a Verey up
through the gumtree canopy into
the sky. A green.
“Lucky we’re not on fire,”
said Maxwell. “Fire-crew’ll just
have to get tangled in their
spanking-new asbestos dirndls.
Only got ’em today.”
Johnson had nothing to say.
“Matter of fact,” said Maxwell,
in a pass-the-time tone of voice,
“/ got something to-day. I’ll set
a record for brief tenure.” Not
talking to Johnson, necessarily.
Just talking. Reaction.
“What did you get, sir?” said
Johnson.
“My flight-lieutenant.”
“But, strike me roan, sir, they
won’t rip it off you for this? ”
“It’s a moral. Brakes were
U/S. Should have made you go
round again when you over-
shot.”
“Well, I’m bloody sorry,”
Johnson said.
“Skip it. My first blue in 1200
hours’ instructing. There’s only
one good mistake to make in the
Air Force,” said Maxwell with a
barriers-are-down-what-the-hell?
slump in his voice; “that’s a
fatal mistake. You get a hell
of a fine funeral.”
“I wouldn’t look at it that way,
sir,” said Johnson, who really
didn’t know what to say.
“Shut up!” said Maxwell.
Difference between an in-
structor and a pupil—an
instructor can . say “Shut up! ”
They were still sitting in their
respective cockpits in the fuselage
of 221, Micawbering the gap
between prang and arrival of
assistance.
Maxwell got in a talkative
mood, genus depressive. “221’s
a mongrel of a kite,” he said.
“Been rebuilt three times after
prangs. Pity we didn’t bust it.”
“Busted the right wing,” said
Johnson.
“That’s the good one,” said
Maxwell.
Johnson fired another Verey.
The fire-tender and ambulance
found the gap in the fence, the
quiet bush-lane, and 221.
And Maxwell lost his pro-
motion. For six months, any-
way.
A WEEK later 221 flew again.
Trainee Dooley took
advantage of undercart trouble
to graze the grass past the con-
trol-tower wing waggling “Look,
no wheels! ”
Entranced by this God-given
opportunity legitimately to
harvest daisies, Dooley came too
low and belted the ground. Bang
in the middle of the drome.
221 ricocheted up out of a
burst of red dust with a loud
metallic and expensive clatter,
and, prop-blades crumpled,
motor thrashing in deathrattle
frenzy, and shedding sheets of
tin, clambered 300-feet back up
into the air before it gave up
the ghost.
Like a rogue Hereford, 221
had no time for boundary-
fences. As the sound of the
crash reached the tarmac the
sun caught a couple of those
white posts spinning high out
of the dust-pall. Dooley
emerged from the dust at ground-
level, running. Thinking about
fire. But 221 was satisfied, and
made no effort to singe his pants.
Quoting Johnson.
JOHNSON ran into the number
again sorhewhere about New
Year’s Day ’43. A couple of
hundred untidy, unshaven aero-
nauts came reluctantly from their
scattered tents and mushed
through the Libyan mud, fleecy
collars turned up against a bleak
winter wind, and straggled
towards a meeting-place out in
the open.
Benghazi. 221 was a number
that thrived in yeti weather.
(i Continued on page 49)


you just curry it uround!
H
m
M't
The MOBILCO 'Junior'
GRAIN AUGER
UVpretfy handy yoo know, to carry a fittie grata auger to
a bio . . . push one end into the grain and deliver it into
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per hour.
This miniature auger, with full sized performance , can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, 1/2 h.p. electric motor, or,
if you are a bit more energetic and money conscious than
the average, by a small crank handle.
If you're using a shovel and a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw-dust and other small grained bulk material, you're
going to sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is 31/2 inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
price, £24/8/-, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle and ready for use. Send
an order now for quick delivery and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immediately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTDL
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONES: YX 1244-5
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM VIC
WU 1081 (9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS ----- LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPEEME COUET OF
TASMANIA (Divorce).
No. 146 of 1955.
TO ALMA JEAN MCCLELLAND' formerly
of Montrose in the State of Tasmania
and EALPH HAYES CEUICKSHANK
formerly of Tinderbox in Tasmania. —
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of AETHUE JOHN
MCCLELLAND of No. 1 Duncan Street
Montrose in the State of Tasmania Elec-
trician praying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of adultery and in
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said
charges proved and pronounce judgment
therein your absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE FUETHEE NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid an appearance
must be entered at the Principal Eegistry
of the Supreme Court Macquarie Street
Hobart in the State of Tasmania within
thirty days of the publication of this
notice. DATED the 23rd day of
November, 1955.—H. E. DOBBIE, Prin-
cipal Eegistrar.
IN THE SUPEEME COUET OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorcje.
TO EOBEET AENOLD STOREY (in the
marriage certificate described as EOBEET
ALMOND known as EOBEET AENOLD
STOEEY) late of Old School Hill Aber-
main New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that DOEEEN VEEONICA GLADYS
STOEEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2435 of 1955 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Eegistry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 16th February 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from L. W. WILLIAMS, Soli-
citor, of 79-81 Campsie Street, Campsie,
or his Agents, JONES JONES & JONES,
Solicitors, of 183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Eegistrar.
IN THE SUPEEME COUET OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 3052 of 1955
TO STEFAN HAMELA late of 20 Tal-
fourd Street Glebe.—TAKE NOTICE that
ANNA HAMELA has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3052 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Eegistry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 15th February 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from K. D.
MANION & CO., Solicitors, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Eegistrar.
A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
■
3Ss**!
m
J Li
m
Tk
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply*
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. Mo more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
. DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea : Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Life of Sir Henry Parkes,
by C. E. Lyne, and Sir Henry Parkes,
His Life and Work, by Thomas
Bavin. —6231.
To buy copy of Beethoven’s
Sonata in G Major, Op. 49, No. 2.
—6228.
Information on, or copy of, the
song “The Song of a Prince.” —6232.
Information Sought
Some information on Meniere’s
Disease ?
Meniere’s Disease is a condition of
middle-age in which vertigo, head-
ache, deafness and tinnitus (i.e.,
ringing in the ears) are associated in
sudden attacks, brought on by
haemorrhage into the internal ear or
labyrinth. Other symptoms include
vomiting and a staggering gait. While
the vertigo may pass away or, at
least, become reduced, permanent
deafness may result. Though relief
may be obtained by bromide, phenol
barbitone, and the salicylates, jt is
best that a doctor be consulted.
* * * *
Did Trumpet ■ and Duff in two
successive Shield matches in Sydney
make opening-partnerships of over
200?
Yes, in 1902-03 1 . Against S.A.
(Jan. 9-13, 1903), Trumper (178) and
Duff (132) put on 298 in 2\ hours, a
then-record Australian first-wicket
partnership; N.S.W. totalled 545, and
won the match by 10 wickets. Against
Victoria a fortnight later they put on
267 in alifiost the same time (Trumper
130, Duff again 132); N.S.W. made
367, and won the match by five
wickets.
* * * *
(1) To whom and when did The
Bulletin sell the “Lone Hand”
magazine ? (2) Did the magazine
again change hands ? (3) What Aus-
tralian writers and artists were con-
tributing to the “Lone Hand’’’ in
1915-1917?
(1) The Sept., 1914, issue was the
last brought out by The Bulletin.
From Oct., 1914, to Jan., 1919, the
paper /was printed and published by
Syd. Day, The Printer, Ltd. (2) Yes.
From Feb., 1919, to June, 1919, both
monthly I issues inclusive, it was
printed at the Caxton Printing
Works, 24 Jamison-street, Sydney,
for The Lone Hand, Ltd., and pub-
lished at the office of the company,
4 Dalley-street, Sydney. From the
July, 1919, issue ti}l it ceased publica-
tion iq Feb., 1921, it was printed by
the New Century Press, Ltd., 431 a
Kent-street, Sydney, for “The Lone
Hand,” Ltd., 350 George-street.
(3) Some of the most important
writers were: Hugh McCrae, Arthur
Bayldon, Roderic Quinn, John D.
Fitzgerald, Will Lawson, Henry
Lawson, Randolph Bedford,
“Kodak,” Alex Montgomery, A. E.
Jobson, Louis Lavater, C. B. Astley,
“Banjo” Paterson, Edward Dyson,
David McKee Wright, Bertram
Stevens, J. H. M. Abbott, Ella
McFadyen, Dorothea Mackellar, M.
Forrest, Alan M. Webb, E. S.
Sorenson, Adam McCay, C. H.
Souter, Montague Grover, W.
Charnley, Chris Brennan, Arthur
H. Adams, Boyd Cable, Frank
Williamson, Fred Johns, J. Le Gay
Brereton, Mary Gilmore, Zora Cross,
Oliver Herford, Jean Sibi, Paul Fox,
A. I’Anson. Artists (mainly in the
earlier part of the period): Norman
and Lionel Lindsay, Will Dyson, Low,
Percy Benison, D. H. Souter, M.
Paul, Harry Julius, J. C. Bancks,
R. H. Moppett, C. L. Hartt, C.
Barrie, Harry J. Weston.
* * * *
List of Norman Lindsay’s published
written works?
A Curate in Bohemia (1913); The
Magic Pudding (1919); Creative
Effort (essays on life and art, 1920);
Norman Lindsay’s Book No. 1
(1912), No. 2 (1915); Redheap
(1931); Saturdee (1932); The
Cautious Amorist (1934); Pam in the
Parlor (1934); Age of Consent (1938).
He has also published numerous un-
collected stories and essays.
* * * *
Where to get some information on
orchid-culture? What of (1) seed-
culture, (2) marketing?
Gilbert’s The Charm of Growing
Orchids is a good book on the sub-
ject, and gives a thorough ground-
work. This has recently been obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson.
Dymocks have recently published a
book, You, Too, Can Grow Orchids,
by Handcock and Smith, a helpful
book on the subject. Orchids for
Everybody, by R. Bruce-Hogg, is
also good, particularly for growing
orchids in a glasshouse. It is pub-
lished by J. Bisset, orchid-grower,
48 Wareeba - street, Abbotsford
(N.S.W.). (1) Orchid-seed culture is
a very specialised work, and few
amateurs have made a success of it.
The period from seed-sowing to
flower is said to be seven years.
There is a chapter on this branch of
the subject in each of the last two-
mentioned books. (2) Orchid-blooms
of export-quality are saleable. There
are several firms that collect cym-
bidium flower-spikes from growers
and pay from Is. to 2s. per bloom.
However, they will not take any they
cannot sell and, as the overseas
market is erratic, the matter should
be considered thoroughly before any
agreement is made. Flowers of
florist-quality can, of course, be sold
to florists; but, usually, florists
cannot sell all they are offered —
hence a price-reduction.
* * * *
For what other artistic work
besides “Rounding Up a Straggler’’
was Frank Mahony ( 1862-1917 )
noted ?
“Rounding Up a Straggler” (1889)
is considered to be one of Australia’s
best cattle-pictures. Other well-
known pictures of outback life painted
by Mahony are “The Cry of the
Mothers,” “As in the Days of Old”
and “The Bullock Team.” He
portrayed Adam Lindsay Gordon as
a steeplechase-rider, and drew the
racehorses Abercorn and Trenton.
In 1896 he showed a horse-race,
horses galloping up the straight—one
of the few water colors he painted.
He did a lot of black-and-white work,
much of it for The Bulletin, and
illustrated some of Lawson’s stories,
B'arcroft Boake’s poems and Ethel
Pedley’s Dot and the Kangaroo.
William Moore, in The Story of
Australian Art, said of Mahony:
“What Lawson did in song and story
to stimulate a national sentiment,
Mahony accomplished, to a certain
extent, in his paintings and drawings.
He had a rare faculty for giving a
peculiar Australian touch to every-
thing he depicted; as an exponent of
the dramatic side of horsemanship he
has never been surpassed.”
* * * *
Some information on the work of
the Tasmanian Adult Education
Board in relation to its attempts to
encourage Australian writers ?
J. C. Horner, of the Tasmanian
Adult Education Board, writes: In
Tasmania, in recent months, indica-
tions of a vital and growing interest
in Australian literature has been
particularly noticeable. The Tas-
manian Fellowship, which has been
dormant for some years, has suddenly
become extremely active; its patron
is Dr. E. Morris Miller, and among
its most active members are Bulletin
contributors Vivian Smith and A. E.
Sturges. Booksellers are displaying
an imposing selection of Australian
works, and two recent Tasmanian
books, Geoffrey Blainey’s Peaks of
Lyell and Captain O’May’s Wrecks
in Tasmanian Waters, have been very
well received. The Tasmanian Adult
Education Board has assisted con-
siderably in stimulating this interest.
Its series of lunch-hour poetry-
readings, conducted in Hobart and
aimed at fostering an interest in Aus-
tralian poetry, has been an outstand-
ing success and public interest has
been far beyond expectations. This
year the board’s Summer School,
which attracts students from all parts
of Australia, will have as one of its
main features courses in creative
writing. Last year talks were given
and discussion-groups led by Vance
and Nettie Palmer. This year the
board, which will conduct its school
at Friends’ School, Hobart, from
December 31 to January 9, has
secured the services of Ernest Bur-
bridge. In order to link-up with the
drama-section to be conducted by
Hugh Hunt and Anne Godfrey Smith,
the creative-writing aspect will be
concerned with writing for the
theatre and for radio, and the talks
will centre round topics such as the
relationship between spoken language
and literature, dramatic poetry and
poetic-drama, and literature in rela-
tion to radio and television.
Brief Answers
S.C.: There was an obituary-notice
of Harold Burston in The Bulletin
of March 22, 1939 H.W.: From
James Dally, Antiquarian Bookseller,
7 Tynte-street, North Adelaide (S.A.).
P.R.E.: J. F. Archibald died in
Sydney on September 11, 1919
R.J.M.: The lines are from the poem
“The Pleiades,” by Arthur H. Adams.
H.H.W.: (1) No biography has
yet been published. (2) See the
“Report upon certain matters relating
to Mungana, Chillagoe Mines, etc.”
(Queensland Parliamentary Papers,
1930, Vol. 1) M.Q.: Writers and
Artists’ Year Book, published by A.
and C. Black, London W.G.:
Write Comdr. W. C. Hudson, Secre-
tary, Royal Aero Club of N.S.W.,
Bankstown Aerodrome, Bankstown,
N.S.W Ben 8.C.: (1) and (2) No
information. Niagara Falls freezes
in winter, with the ice doubling-up
into queer towers and hanging-
columns. (3) The Encyclopedia of
Canada (1940) has nothing on the
subject. (4) Niagara consists of two
main falls, the Canadian (or Horse-
shoe) Falls and the American Falls,
separated by the |-mile long Goat
Island, which lies in the river just
above the falls. There is a smaller
fall, the Bridal Veil Falls, between
Goat Island and the Canadian Falls.
. ...M.J.W.: A Brief History of the
Australian Theatre, by John Kardoss,
published under the auspices of the
Sydney University Dramatic Society,
and distributed by Hicks, Smith and
Sons Pty., Ltd., 321 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .E.M.W.: Write Cowles
and Dunn, Gunmakers, 71 King-
street, Sydney.. . .S.D.S.: Build
Your House of Earth, by G. F.
Middleton, published by Angus and
Robertson, Sydney; price 225. 6d.
. ...J.W.: The income-tax law
authorises the allowance of a deduc-
tion of £l3O for each parent of a
taxpayer in certain circumstances.
The allowance is not extended to
parents-in-law. The travelling- and
living-expenses of the employee are
not deductible. In this regard the
law specifically excludes from the
category of allowable deductions
expenditure which is of a private
nature. The expenses mentioned fall
under this heading M.C.: Write
Director of Talks, Australian Broad-
casting Commission, 264 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .F.S.W.: Shakespeare Head
Press Pty., Ltd., Adams Chambers,
195 Elizabeth - street, Sydney
L.K.A.: Empire State, 1250 ft., 102
stories; Chrysler, 1046 ft., 77 stories.
....A.A.8.: Placings in equestrian-
events at the 1952 Olympic Games
were as follows —Dressage (individual
test): H. St. Cyr (Sweden), 556.5
points; Dressage (team competition):
Sweden, 1592.5 points; Three-Day
Event (final results): H. von Blixen-
Finecke (Sweden), 28.33 marks;
Three-Day Event (team placings):
Sweden, 221.94 marks; Prix des
Nations Jumping Competition: P.
Jonqueres d’Oriola (France); Prix des
Nations (team): Great Britain.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
Hain: It’s rasher you Bill
Bugwhiskers: Missed by a whisker.
T.MJ.: You seem to have
nothing to say, though you say
it quite pleasantly 8.M.: “Crisis”
poetry went out in the ’thirties....
H. 8.: There are so many ghost-
ports and ghost-towns, and so many
poems about them L.F.: “Holiday
time! Oh, joy and elation!” Well,
off you go F.H.: “The oyster-
clouds release their troops.” What
of? Oysters?... .R.T.: Note your
heroic attempts to rhyme “govern”
with “oven” H.A.R.: A pretty
trifle V.F.: A jingle that doesn’t
jingle V.C.: Another old-timer!
... .R.M.: Slightly less painful than
most national anthems... .J.MacK.:
Promising if you’re young... .M.L.:
We like your hopeful note about
payment M.L.L.: Too long, too
lo o 5e....W.J.W.: Nearly
S.M.E.: Come in and sizzle:
When a word’s zizzle, sossle,
It’s also drissle, grozzle
(Eh 5)
Thus if it’s zoggle, soddle,
It must be dressing, grizzle,
If it’s grezzle, drizzle I


The marking and
tailing of lambs with
a knife should be
avoided because it
results in open
wounds which can
easily become infected
by disease germs.
Marking and tailing
by Elastrator Rubber
Rings is far safer.
This method involves
no open wounds • thus
considerably reducing
fatalities.
HOMESTEADS AND COUNTRY
COTTACES TO YOUR DESIGN
m
m ■
Above: —A Bowas 2-storey homestead situated in North-West Queensland
BOWAS patented CONSTRUCTION
offers you these advantages—
The simplicity and ease of timber-
frame construction plus the strength,
rigidity and durability of steel.
✓
A solid, permanent structure not
affected by dry rot or white ants.
A building easily dismantled,
re-erected or added to.
Consult our architects for any floor
plan and design, single or two storey,
for Bowas Homesteads, Country
Cottages and Rural Accommodation
buildings.
BOWAS
features—
Patented steel-
wood-steel frame
members, precision
cut to size and
assembled by
bolting.
All walls inside
and out — flooring,
roofing, etc. nailed
on as in timber-
frame construction.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
By Dr. COLIN RODERICK
AT the symposium on rural
universities held in Sydney
in October my own contribution
dealt with agricultural educa-
tion in New South Wales. Some
of the points raised may interest
a wider audience.
In 1951, the latest year for
which I could get the figures in
the time available, there were
8400 undergraduates at the Uni-
versity of Sydney ; of these, only
144 were enrolled in the Faculty
of Agriculture. Of 2065 under-
graduates assisted in that year
by Commonwealth scholarships,
only 41 were in Agriculture. Of
1962 graduates in 1951, only 46
took an Agricultural degree.
When public expenditure on
technological education and
university expenditure on social-
service Faculties are compared
with that on agricultural educa-
tion a lack of balance is evident.
Agricultural education is no
longer a mere preparation for
the practical operations of
farming. Its business is not just
the acquisition of a body of
scientific knowledge. It goes
beyond both of these to the
mastery of an art and a
technique.
The whole superstructure of
culture rests on agriculture, and
properly taught the history of
agriculture becomes the history
of civilisation. All fundamental
inventions originate in agricul-
ture and its allied arts. As there
is no more teachable body of
knowledge than agricultural
science, so there is no art, no
technique, that can be practised
more productively from the
national and more satisfactorily
from the individual point of
view than agriculture.
The tempo of our agricultural
development is bound to quicken
with the realignment of political
and economic forces in Asia.
That, and an inevitable increase
in the population of Australia,
will bring a demand for greater
rural production. The peaceful
development of our secondary-
industry and the accompanying
extension of social-services can-
not go on without the parallel
development of a more efficient
agriculture in the whole country.
It seems to me imperative that
we get on with the urgent job
of overhauling the four branches
of our agricultural education.
I think that the keystone of its
development is the evolution of
a rural university organised (for
the beginning) about a central
School of Agriculture.
I believe that such a university
would quickly gain the confi-
dence of the rural community
and that local pride would in-
spire it to pursue its activities
with the passion that local pride
engenders. At the present time
the rural community is inclined
to consider the Faculty of Agri-
culture in the University of
Sydney to be rather remote from
its basic problems. And, occu-
pied as the University of Sydney
is with a vast range of profes-
sional schools, the Faculty of
Agriculture does not loom as
large in the consciousness of its
administrators as might be
wished.
One great area of the State
seems to offer the best prospect
of success for such a rural
university—the area which com-
prises the statistical divisions of
the South-western Slopes and the
Riverina, described by the Gov-
ernment Statistician as “the most
productive part of the interior.”
The potential rural production
of this area is conservatively
estimated as double present
production of N.S.W. as a whole.
In it, or on its boundaries,
are the rural centres of Albury,
Batlow, Crookwell, Griffith,
Junee, Cootamundra, Temora,
Young. And at the centre of it
is Wagga Wagga: in this area,
which is commonly called the
south-west, Wagga is the natural
centre of gravity.
The south-west offers a vast
range of field-illustration and of
research upon which to base
realistic teaching in all divisions
of agriculture. It affords the
means of specialised study at the
proper university level in such
branches of agriculture as
agrostology, horticulture, viti-
culture, agricultural-engineering,
agricultural-economics, adminis-
tration of agriculture and so on.
One important subject in agri-
culture which has been neglected
is agricultural education as a
special study; and this could be
undertaken with the professional
help of Wagga Teachers’ Col-
lege. On the research side, the
nucleus for experimental de-
velopment exists in the Wagga
Agricultural Research Institute.
"So much for the School of
Agriculture. Whatever other
Faculties a South-western Uni-
versity College ought to have is
a matter for deliberation. One
of them would certainly be
Humanities.
But establishing an Agricul-
tural University College without
at the same time reorganising
agricultural education at the
secondary-school and the experi-
mental levels would be doing
only half a job.
Secondary - level agricultural
education in N.S.W. today is the
schizophrenic offspring of un-
married parents. The four agri-
cultural high-schools are
fathered by the State Depart-
ment of Education. And as
models for emulation, their
farming - practice and rural-
worker output fall somewhat
short of perfection.
The two agricultural colleges
were born of the Department of
Agriculture rather furtively.
While their training in scientific
farming is good, there is a lack
of application of educational
psychology in the imparting of
knowledge. limperfect educa-
tional techniques cause loss of
' time. And I do think that time
is too precious at that stage to
spend it in futile repetition of
practical work or in mere obser-
vation of that work. It should
be enough for the student to get
an acquaintance with every
operation at every stage of the
crop; but needless repetition
injures discipline and breeds a
cynical outlook.
Our agricultural high-schools
and colleges do not form a sound
enough link in the chain of
agricultural education. The con-
cept of Agricultural Education
is one and indivisible: it’s high
time the parents of these two
children set-up house together.
Both Wagga and Hawkesbury
are bursting at The seams, with
reservations for students 10
“Hop it, mate — I’m not y'r mummy!”
years ahead and with applica-
tions for enrolment about four
times the number that can be
accommodated.
Our agricultural high-schools
ought to be converted into agri-
cultural colleges of the Queens-
land Agricultural High School
and College type.
I think that all those colleges
ought then to have a six-year
t course, beginning at the age of
12 with three years of general
education biased towards agri-
culture, and leading at the sixth
year to matriculation. Many
will not agree with me; but I
have seen the arrangement work-
ing at Gatton (Q.), and the
amendments to the Gatton
course recently introduced give
the force of reason to my
suggestion.
There are 600 boys at Gatton
at the present time, and the
establishment of a second resi-
dential Agricultural High
School and College is under
consideration.
One thing is clear. The im-
portance of rural-industry to the
State demands a general reform
of agricultural education in
N.S.W.
An Agricultural University
College would do something to
collate, and put into use, the
scattered research being con-
ducted by different bodies that
at present sometimes duplicate
each other’s work. In some
cases mutual ignorance of what
State experimental-stations and
C.5.1.R.0. research-stations are
doing is so abysmal that one or
the other might as well be in
Patagonia.
An immediate need in agri-
cultural education is the con-
stitution of a Council of Agricul-
tural Education, using the best
brains from both departments,
from the universities, from the
Australian Institute of Agricul-
tural Science, from Parliament,
and from rural - industry.
Wherever public control is
legally possible, that council
should take over and co-
ordinate present activity at all
levels. Such a council should
not be just another advisory
body. It should be able to
shape the course of events by
the control of a substantial
allocation of public funds.
Wild Dogs
“Geep”: W.A. has just com-
pleted its biggest-yet aerial-bait-
ing scheme against dingoes.
The pastoral areas given most
attention were those in behind
Onslow and Roebourne, and the
eastern goldfields division. Air-
craft covered 11,000 miles,
dropped 609,000 baits during 29
flights.
This programme followed
realisation that the bonus-system
has been a failure. In this
respect, the experiences of the
Department of Agriculture have
been much the same as those of
overseas bodies, particularly
American ones with similar
pests, such as coyotes. The
system has thrown emphasis on
commercialisation rather than
eradication.
A form of vermin-farming has
been practised: pups were taken,
but parent dogs were left free
to breed. Pregnant females were
unharmed. Shooting and trap-
ping, whereby scalps could be
recovered with certainty, were
o Continued on next page)


A TREE-FEIUNG TASK FORCI
<4
& \, -,«3
. i
iiif*
♦* '>* '-' A
: ':.
gpr
, S
' -v.
Nuffield Universal Tractor, equipped with hydraulically operated
front-end loader and 6-ft. dozer blade, shown clearing farm land.
The tractor illustrated is the Nuffield M 4 (kerosene-powered)
with 13.50 x 24 rear tyres fitted to heavy-duty cast wheel centres
(making wheel weights unnecessary).
This model tractor, costing only £1,005 (Capital City), in-
cludes the following standard equipment: Hydraulic lift, 3-point
linkage, p.t.o. belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter and horn, headlight,
agricultural rear light, tail and side lights, heat gauge, hour meter,
foot plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters.
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x 19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x
16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F; 11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies accordingly in price.)
Ask your Authorised Nuffield Dealer for full particulars of all
models and matched implements.
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement Division, Box
73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range and
“Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME
ADDRESS..
[ Place X in this square If for school project.
0.8
NUFFIELD (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR
CORPORATION (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
BMC
...
Hi
NT.44.32
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
X
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
.BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BABREKB
acts like a hand
■when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
bakrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
preferred to wholesale poison-
ing, by which many carcasses
were never found.
In the past, costs due to bonus-
payments, expenditure on
poisons, traps and manpower, as
well as stock losses, have been
measured in millions; and the
problem remains acute.
The present aerial-baiting
scheme, worked in conjunction
with the activities of profes-
sional doggers employed by the
Agriculture Protection Board,
should more effectively handle
this problem.
Antibiotics for Pigs
. “Billjim”: Correct use of
antibiotics for pigs, both to
prevent disease and as a feed-
supplement, has been the subject
of research at Ruakura Research
Station (N.Z.).
The two uses for antibiotics
listed by D. M. Smith, who con-
ducted the tests, are: as a treat-
ment for specific infections such
as arthritis, footrot, necrotic
sores, pleurisy and baby-pig
scours ; as a feed-supplement to
growing pigs in the creep-feed
or after weaning in the
separated-milk ration.
Penicillin, it seems, has cured
arthritis in pigs: as an addi-
tional precaution, wood-
shavings were placed in the
farrowing-house to guard the
animals against abrasions from
which this complaint can
develop.
Treatment of footrot by intra-
muscular injections of penicillin
when the animals first become
lame brought about a complete
recovery. This disease, inciden-
tally, can be prevented altogether
by putting pigs through a
copper-sulphate-and-water foot-
bath once a week from the
beginning of September to the
beginning of April.
Penicillin injected into the
skin surrounding a necrotic sore
(often the cause of condemna-
tion of carcasses) can rid a pig
of this disease.
Pleurisy, which often affects
pigs during fattening, may be
got rid of by antibiotics.
Aureomycin and terramycin
have been found to be very
effective in preventing scours, a
quantity being squeezed on the
tongue of the pig; like
squeezing toothpaste on a brush.
In all these methods Smith
lays emphasis on early treatment,
the key to success in every
instance.
On using antibiotics in feed,
Smith, while noting the wide
differentiation in feeding condi-
tions between the U.S., where
antibiotics are extensively used,
and N.Z., concludes that there
is some advantage in feeding
antibiotics in the creep. He says
that if the meal is available at
all times intake can be improved
even though the average
improvement is small. However,
if the system of creep-feeding
used is that of giving a small
feed of meal twice a day, the use
of antibiotics is unlikely to pro-
duce any improvement.
The only other method of
improving growth, under N.Z.
conditions, is by increasing the
efficiency of conversion from
milk into meat: Smith is even
more doubtful here. In less than
half the trials there was found
to be no advantage in feed-
ing aureomycin, penicillin or
streptomycin. In the few cases
in which any improvement was
found, it consisted of a saving
of five days in getting a 401 b.
weaner to pork-weight and a
saving of lOgals. of mlik.
Smith points out that this
means that if a farmer is effi-
ciently using his milk he will
have lOgals. extra available
from each pig he fattens to pork.
If, however, he is already over-
feeding his pigs, he has 10 more
gallons to embarrass him.
Here again, the difference in
feeding-methods has to be appre-
ciated. If an American farmer
saves, for instance, 101 b. of corn,
that corn stays in the barn and
can be fed six months later. In
N.Z. the milk produced each day
must be eaten within 24 hours.
Since most farmers do not have
sufficient pigs to drink the
amount of milk available, any
saving is of little advantage.
Supplementary Fodder
“Mamoo”: Too much
emphasis is placed on conserv-
ing fodder for drought.
Admittedly, drought-reserves are
absolutely necessary, and at
least a year’s supply should be
stored for that purpose.
But the true value of supple-
mentary fodder is its use in
supplying nutriment or roughage
when necessary in normal and
even good seasons.
A stack of hay or silage is of
far greater use if it is fed-out at
the right time and replenished in
the spring, than lying idle
for years provided adequate
fodder is kept against that
drought which is just around the
corner.
The man with acres of dry-
feed can expect nothing but
trouble if he doesn’t add quality
to the bulk by giving good hay,
grain or silage.
Even if a normal autumn is
good enough to prevent twin-
lamb disease in the flock, the
milk-production of the ewes and
wool-growth of the entire flock
can be increased efficiently and
economically by adding some
quality fodder to the paddock-
feed.
People who give grain to their
weaners measure the results in
better resistance to worms, more
continuous growth, and heavier
fleeces.
In the flush of the season, best
results are obtained where good
stored fodder is available as well
as the mushy paddock-feed. A
supply of roughage helps to
prevent pulpy-kidney and bloat.
Dwarf-apples
“Moline”: Good news for
backyard apple-growers comes in
a report from Massachusetts
(U.S.A.) that apple-trees can be
dwarfed successfully, without
apparent loss of health or fruit-
fulness, by turning a ring of
bark on the trunk upside-down.
The operation involves remov-
ing a ring of bark about iin. to
lin. wide, replacing it upside-
down, and binding it with ad-
hesive tape until it has knitted.
Experts say the operation
remains effective for four or five
years, when it can be repeated.
D. Kilpatrick, South Australia’s
senior horticultural adviser, says
it seems that the inverted cells
cannot pass nutrients and
growth-hormones to the rest of
the tree.
The operation is done best
from December to February, and
there is reason to believe that
other fruits can be stunted in the
same way.
Earthworms
“Urangara”: English farmers
place much more value on the
presence of worms in the soil
than we do here in Australia.
Old Country scientists say that
worms indicate the amount of
organic-matter in the soil.
It is claimed that the carrying-
capacity of soil can be measured
by the weight of worms under
it. That means that the area of
soil which harbors a ton of
worms under it will support a
ton of livestock on top of it.
In some places south of
London, worms added an inch
of topsoil to a paddock in less
than 20 years.
Healthy Crucifers
“Big Billy”: A programme of
thorough sterilisation and
chemical treatment is recom-
mended by Vic. Department of
Agriculture to ensure healthy
crucifer-seedlings capable of
yielding an abundant, good-
quality crop.
Hot-water immersion, says
expert R. O. Kefford, will safe-
guard against blackleg, blackrot
and ringspot diseases. Seed
should be placed in a muslin-
bag and held in water heated to
122 degrees F. for 20 minutes
for Brussels-sprouts and cauli-
flowers and 30 minutes for cab-
bages.
Seed should be dried rapidly
by placing it on an absorbent
surface, such as newspapers, in
a cool, draughty situation away
from direct sunlight.
To prevent attack by soil-
borne fungal-rot diseases, seed
should be dusted with a seed-
protectant fungicide prior to
sowing.
If it is not possible to use new
land for seedlings, soil should be
sterilised, as a precaution against
club-root. Water bed with a 1-
in-200 solution of mercuric-
chloride (loz. to water).
Dissolve finely-ground chemical
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/12/’55)
There seems little doubt that the Single cycle is still
the main seasonal control, as evidenced by the dry con-
ditions in Queensland and the present cold snap in the
southern States. Despite this, December should be a month
of predominantly hot temperatures, with heat-wave con-
ditions in most States just prior to Christmas, although
Western Australia may be an exception.
The wet-season in Queensland should commence in
January, and heavy rains and widespread flooding should
result. These rains should extend down the coast and table-
lands and into portion of the western division of N.S.W.,
and may be associated with a cyclone which gave heavy
rains and rough weather on the N.S.W. North Coast.
During January, patchy rains are likely in Victoria,
with inland areas mainly dry. Good falls should occur in the
northern pastoral areas of South Australia, but poor else-
where in that State during January.
The Kimberleys of W.A. should also receive good rains
during January, but light elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


A
m. LTD
COLUMN
THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
m
M : 1
iimiuuuuutiuai
■1
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmospnere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anypne who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels cai\ be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
r
iimil
lliitt:'
i
:
howing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
’he Bunyip Level is as simple to
perate in the hands of a 10-year-
ld as the qualified engineer. It
annot get out of adjustment and
i a thoroughly efficient instrmnent
or use in all general construction
/ork —which normally needs an
xpensive levelling instrument
equiring technical skill.
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY EIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MX 1884 MX 1784
Agents throughout Australia.
Fill in Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
NAME
ADDRESS
5898
The "FARMERS' BOY" i°“, a “t NS P £
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
SXEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
consisting of 22 x 4in. metal cleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
lower wheel rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
the higher ground not yet ploughed, the qorrect balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’
BOY.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
for demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS GO-OP., LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUI6II.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OP., LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne. MU 8561.
Sth. Aus.: M. S. McLEOD, LTD., 176/180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane, FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh Si., SYDNEY.
W.A.: WESTERN MACHINERY Co. Pty. Ltd., 494 Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
$
SEPTIC TANKS
CATTLE
TROUGHING-
WELL
LININGS
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE,
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
in hot water, then add the full
quantity of water and mix in a
wooden or earthenware con-
tainer.
First treatment should be at
time of sowing in a moist seed-
bed at one or two gallons of
solution per square yard. Make
a second application when the
seedlings are 2in. high.
Sterilisation of implements is
important. They can be washed
in a 4 per cent, solution of
formalin (2gals. to 48gals. water)
or in the mixture used for the
seed-bed.
Wise land-use is as much a
requisite of disease-free plants as
sterilisation. There should be
adequate drainage, with the beds
located preferably on high land.
Weeds should also be given care-
ful attention and thoroughly
eradicated before and after
sowing.
Don’t use organic-manures on
a clean seed-bed; if these
manures are used, Kefford says,
they should be applied before
sterilisation is carried out.
Liming the bed at \\\b. per
square-yard will also aid in
disease-control. This should be
done at least three months before
the seed is sown.
On fertile soils, super, at 2cwt.
per acre will probably be an
adequate fertiliser. On poorer
soils, a complete fertiliser, broad-
cast at 3cwt. and raked into the
top 2in. of soil on the eve of
sowing, will be necessary.
Seedlings should not be
crowded in the bed, as such con-
ditions favor the development of
disease and assist in harboring
pests. Downy-mildew can be
controlled by a fortnightly spray
with 4:4 : 40 Bordeaux or
Zineb, while parathion or nico-
tine should .be used for cater-
pillars and aphids.
Molybdenum-deficiency may
be countered by spraying seed-
lings two weeks before plant-
ing with ammonium-molybdate,
loz., or crude molybdate, 20z.,
dissolved in lOgals. water, and
applying to each 10 square-yards
of bed. Addition of a wetter
gives maximum coverage.
Strip-grazing
“Croweater”: Results of tests
in S.A.’s lower south-east favor
strip-grazing. Where strip-
grazing is conducted day and
night it was found that cows
ate about half as much at night
as they did during the day ; pro-
duction rose slightly when night-
grazing was begun, and this rise
has been held; use of night
strip-grazing has enabled better
use of pastures available.
Because strip-grazing reduces
spoilage due to trampling and
soiling, it can result in much
more efficient utilisation of
pasture-growth. It has been
estimated that the practice
enhances' the economy of a
dairyfarm by 20 per cent.
Mulching
“H.C.”: In full summer,
when moisture evaporates
quickly and water-supplies are
limited, mulching benefits
vegetable-crops, shrubs, and
trees of all species.
Wherever used, mulches con-
serve moisture, prevent harden-
ing of surface-soil, assist the
penetration of water through the
soil-particles, and control weed-
growth.
Mulches for the vegetable-
garden should be about 3in.
deep and should consist of old
stable - manure, compost, or
grass-cuttings.
Sawdust and straw are also
valuable for this purpose ; but
before digging-in either of them
after harvesting add loz. of
sulphate-of-ammonia to each
square yard of soil. This will
restore the amount of nitrogen
needed for the next crop’s
vigorous development. Best
mulches for shrubs and young
trees are old dried or decom-
posed leaves.
Before applying, fork-up the
soil lightly and scoop out a
shallow saucer-shaped depres-
sion about 2ft. in diameter
around the tree. This will
ensure retention of water. A
thin layer of old horse-manure
should then be scattered over the
soil; on top of this put a mulch-
ing of leaves at least 3in. thick.
When trees are in a windy
position the leaves can be held
in place with two or three boards
placed diameterwise across the
mulch or with wire-netting.
(
Unusual Fattening
Method
“Mexico”: X recent U.S.A.
report that it is more profitable
to feed cattle on unground grain
than ground grain, and to have
enough hogs following the cattle
to eat any undigested feed in the
dung, is at least unorthodox by
Australian standards.
But U.S. research-workers say
that the practice often means
the difference between a profit
and loss in the feed-lot. Most
cattle-feeders take it as a matter
of course that cattle-feeding
cannot be a successful enterprise
without having hogs on the job.
The usual stocking-rate is at
least one good thrifty young hog
to two steers.
Nitrogen Versus
Erosion
“Scorch”: Stage 1. Bare soil
plus wind plus rain equals the
loss of 2ft. of topsoil, plus gully-
ing, which provided enough silt
to cost the Victorian State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission
£lOO to keep'the channel clear.
Stage 2. Ploughing, contour-
banks a chain apart, and seeding
to rye, Wimmera rye-grass and
superphosphate equals a
moderate vegetative cover.
Stage 3. Disking this cover
and resowing it with rye, Wim-
mera rye-grass and six parts of
superphosphate to one of sul-
phate-of-ammonia, equals an
excellent cover, plus moderate
sheep-feed and no erosion.
Demonstrating this trans-
formation of an eroded rise in
north-west Victoria recently,
A. G. Rae, of the Soil Conserva-
tion Authority, stressed that the
nitrogen in the sulphate-of-
ammonia had played a big part
in the success of the project.
Alfalfa for Salt Soils
“C.A.A.”: The fact that
alfalfa (lucerne) can be grown
in soils of high salt-content in
the U.S.A. should have a useful
application in Australia.
Tests in the U.S. indicated that
this fodder-plant has a higher
salt-tolerance than any other
legume, with the possible excep-
tion of birdsfoot-trefoil.
Plants grown on soil contain-
ing heavy concentrations of salt
were small and dark-green, the
color becoming more intense as
the salt-concentration increased.
Another' important discovery
was that alfalfa grown on salty
soil was just as rich in carotene
(pro-vitamin-A) as that grown
under normal conditions.
Most varieties produced one
cutting per year more on the
salt-plots. Yields on the salty
soil, however, ranged from a
few per cent, to more than 50
per cent, below these on salt-
free soil.
All the alfalfas tested showed
greater salt-tolerance in cool
weather than in hot weather, but
the two varieties that did best,
Indian and California Common,
were both highly heat-resistant,
and both recovered quickly after
cutting.
Cream Care
“Filma”: Although it may be
produced from high-quality
milk, cream can be quickly spoilt
between the time it leaves the
separator and the time of
dispatch to the factory.
Cans should be thoroughly
cleansed and sterilised before
use. This has been done at the
factory, but don’t take any
chances: contamination can take
place afterwards. Look inside
cans—especially dented ones —
for rust-spots. Where the base-
metal is exposed it will impart
a metallic flavor.
Cream of equal temperature
may be mixed, but don’t mix
warm and cold cream. This
affects quality, resulting in
down-grading.
If the product is collected by
a carrier, never leave the cans
standing in the sun: in fact,
don’t leave them in the sunshine
at any time, as the sun’s rays
will soon start gases working,
which means a f disappointing
return in L.S.D.
Farm Hints
“Andy”: Twine from baled-
hay shouldn’t be left lying
about where cows may pick it
up. Swallowed by cows, it can
form a ball in the rumen, result-
ing in indigestion and loss of
production.
“C.P.G.”: Creep-feeding of
piglets has been with us some
time, but not everyone recog-
nises its value in getting good
weaning-weights. Piglets will
visit the creep after every natural
meal for a small helping of the
dry mixture if it is available.
As they suckle the sow approxi-
mately 16 times in every 24
hours, the value of this supple-
mentary feeding is considerable.
And before weaning is the vital
time for putting on weight.
“Sundowner”: Blossom-
thinning sprays on apples which
have blossomed heavily do away
with laborious hand-thinning.
Vic. D. of A. advises use of
dinitro-cresol just after full-
bloom, and naphthalene-acetic-
acid a little later during petal-
fall. For most varieties the same
strength is used for thinning as
when N.A.A. is used as a pre-
harvest stick-on —that is, 10 parts
per million. For Jonathan and
Delicious a three-quarter strength
spray, 7.5 p.p.m., will give ade-
quate thinning. The addition of
one pint of white-oil to lOOgals.
of spray-material makes these
sprays more effective. Apply
mainly to upper portions of the
trees.
“Billjim”: Footbath treatment
will stop the spread of footrot.
Use a 5 per cent, formalin bath
every week. Footrot, unlike
other foot-diseases, can attack
all four feet.
“Gardener”: Although
tomatoes respond well to super.,
a complete fertiliser, 5:1:1, or
blood-and-bone plus potash,
3:1, is most suitable.
Side-dressings of sulphate-of-
ammonia at the time of the first
fruit-set —and for the staking-
varieties again a fortnight later
—at the rate of loz. per plant,
will greatly prolong the
cropping-period of all plants.
Fertiliser is best broadcast, but
can also be placed in bands
along the rows, 2in. to 3in. deep.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO:
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
( NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas, unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £l/16/-; 6 months 18/6; 3 months 9/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3 Foreign .... £3/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Sleuthing a Newspaper Story
The Case of the Danish Gymnast
By C. McNEIL
DAILY newspapers will go
to extraordinary lengths
to get a good “beat” on
their opposition. Noth-
ing is dearer to the heart of the
news-editor than the complete
scoop.
It is difficult for a morning
newspaper to have a “beat” on
a Monday morning and have a
second “beat” on the same story
on the Tuesday, for, having been
caught once, the opposition gets
on the job, and by Tuesday the
story is everyone’s.
But nowadays in some Aus-
tralian capitals there are morn-
ing papers which have, in the
same stable, an afternoon paper,
and it is possible to break a
story in the morning, leaving
the afternoon paper to fire the
second barrel before the opposi-
tion gets moving.
That is what happened in
Sydney in the case of the Danish
gymnast.
This story started with a
puzzling little mystery. It
developed into a tale of fast
cars in the dawn, suspense, love,
and even had the Minister for
Immigration, Mr. Holt, order-
ing an ocean-liner to hold back
its sailing-time, if need be, for
one passenger.
The story ended with a
heroine walking up a gangplank
in a barrage of flashlights.
* # *
He had no idea of who he was
or where he was or how he had
come to be there. The doctors
were able to put him right on
the second point. He was in
the Canberra Community
Hospital.
They could not tell him very
much else. They could re-
assure him that there were no
bones broken. They could tell
him he was suffering from
exposure and exhaustion. They
diagnosed as loss of memory
that vague feeling he had from
the ears up. That was all.
Police who circulated his
description put his age down at
about 30.
Satisfied that he was all right
physically, the doctors passed
him on to another hospital, at
Goulburn, to see if an expert
could give him back his memory.
The dailies first pricked up
their ears when they heard that
a Dr. J. P. van Leent had
hypnotised the young man in an
effort to help him sort put his
past. The doctor found that the
man was Dutch and that his
name was Harold van Welsenes.
The touch of mystery was a
small piece of paper in the young
man’s pocket. Someone had
written “Lizabeth Anderson” on
it—not the young man, for his
writing was very different.
There are plenty of pre-
cedents, it seems, for a young
man who has lost a sweetheart
to make a day of it and lose his
memory, too.
Dr. van Leent pondered over
it. Everything that was known
about the young man, including
the name on the piece of paper,
was given to the press in an
effort to find someone who
might be able to identify him.
All the known facts were
published. Nothing happened.
Down in Goulburn Dr. van
Leent talked patiently to the
young man, but nothing
happened there either. Within
a few days the papers had
dropped the case.
More than a week went by,
and then the chief-of-staff of a
morning newspaper suddenly
remembered where he had
heard the name Lizabeth
Anderson.
There was a Danish gymnast
of that name. She was one of a
brilliant team of Danes who had
been making a very successful
tour of Australian cities and
towns.
The chief-of-staff called in a
reporter and explained to him
that it could be just* a coinci-
dence and not to waste too
much time on trying to find her.
There could be a lot of Lizabeth
Andersons. Even if she was the
right one it might be impossible
to get in touch with her, because
the gymnasts’ tour was over and
they might have sailed.
If they had not sailed, they
could be anywhere in the coun-
try. He asked the reporter to
see what he could dig up.
The reporter went back to his
desk and sat for a time con-
templating the big map of Aus-
tralia on the wall opposite. It
was some haystack.
He scratched his head. Who
would know where the Danish
gymnast-team could be found?
Most probably a Dane would.
The Danisji Consul would be
a good starting-point. The
reporter found the Consul’s
number and phoned him at
home.
Yes, he knew where the
gymnast-team was. They were
staying in the men’s and
women’s sections of the
R.A.A.F. barracks at Banks-
town aerodrome.
Tomorrow they would be
sailing for Ceylon.
The reporter thanked the
Consul and phoned the R.A.A.F.
at Bankstown. It took them a
while to find Miss Anderson, but
presently she said “Ullow.”
The reporter found he had
quite a mouthful to explain to
her. She took it quite calmly,
as if it was a very natural thing
to be telephoned in the middle
of the night and told about
young men losing their
memories.
She did not think she knew of
anyone named Van Welsenes.
Could she explain, then, how
a man would have her name
written down on a piece of
paper, assuming, of course, that
she was the Lizabeth Anderson
intended.
Yes, she could explain that.
He might have seen the show
somewhere and had asked. for
and received her autograph.
People sometimes did that.
Had she seen anyone answer-
ing Van Welsenes’ description
when the team was performing
at Canberra? She said she
might have, But could not
remember him.
The reporter asked her, with-
out much hope, if she could
recall any young man she had
met anywhere in Australia who
might fit the bill.
She asked him to wait on, and
one of the male members of the
team came to the phone. He
explained to the reporter that
Miss Anderson was sitting down
thinking.
Then he said she had gone off
to get something. Soon she was
back with it, and was on the
phone again.
She had remembered him.
He had come up to her after
the team had appeared in the
Adelaide Town Hall and had
asked for- her autograph. He
had given her a map of Adelaide
with a cross marked on it show-
ing the place where he worked.
He had wanted her to meet him
there the next day.
He had written on the map in
French, asking if she wanted to
stay in Australia. And he had
written his name on it —Harold
van Welsenes.
The reporter asked her if she
would mind if he rang her back
a little later (it was then near
midnight). She said she would
not mind at all.
Next call was a trunk-line to
the hospital at Goulburn.
When Dr. van Leent came to
the phone the reporter told him
what the young lady had said.
The doctor sounded excited
over the phone. He asked the
reporter to hold on, and soon
Came back.
“This is fine,” said the doctor.
“He remembers the Danish
team.”
He also remembered working
for a car firm in Adelaide.
Well, there was a story. After
he had put it together the
reporter went and saw his chief-
of-staff again and told him the
glad tidings. He told him, too,
the offer Miss Anderson had
made. There was no publicity-
seeking in that offer; because
the gymnasts were leaving the
country the next day, so what
use was publicity?
She had said that their ship
left at 2 p.m. and that they had
to be on board by 11 a.m. But
if there was any way she could
go and see the man, and still
catch her ship, she would do it,
if the doctor thought it would
help.
When the reporter had men-
tioned this to the doctor, the
doctor had said it would be
wonderful, but out of the ques-
tion, because it would be too
tiring for Miss Anderson, who
had a ship to catch.
The chief -of - staff thought
about it and went and saw the
news-editor, and the news-editor
got on his phone to one of the
very big brasshats. An idea
took shape, and the plan came
back to the reporter.
Ring Miss Anderson and ask
her if she would be willing to
make a trip by car to Goulburn
under these conditions:
There would be a car waiting
“ What sort of paper's that?”
for her at the R.A.A.F. barracks
at 6 a.m. In the car would be a
reporter and photographer. The
car would take her to Goulburn,
where she would have about half-
an-hour to talk to the doctor and
the young man. The car would
then bring her back to Sydney
and her ship. The paper would
guarantee that she would not
miss the boat. It would arrange
with the shipping company to
waive the “must be on board by
11 a.m.” rule in her case and
would get her there by 2 p.m.
The reporter phoned the
R.A.A.F. barracks. It was very
late. He would be asking Miss
Anderson to be up at dawn, to
take a long car-trip,.to have the
worry about whether she would
indeed catch her ship, and the
possibility of an unpleasant
experience in Goulburn.
When she answered she said
she would go. The captain of
the Danish team spoke, too,
stipulating that the car-trip must
be safe, and that a male member
of the team had to accompany
Miss Anderson. That was
agreed.
Another trunk-call to Goul-
burn. The doctor was over-
joyed. He felt the meeting could
help his patient a great deal.
Then the plan was handed
over, on a platter as it were, to
the executives of the afternoon
paper.
They did not mind being rung
up about it at 2 a.m. It was a
honey of an afternoon-paper
story.
At 6 a.m. a woman reporter
and photographer from the
afternoon paper picked up
Lizabeth Anderson and her
team-mate at Bankstown and
pointed the car at Goulburn.
Halfway there the car broke
down, and things looked
decidedly sick. They eventually
got a hire-car, but the split-
second timetable was gone to
blazes. They took time off for
a brief phone-message to their
office.
In a moment their office was
on to Canberra by teleprinter
asking the help of the Immigra-
tion Minister, Mr. Holt. When
the story was told to him, Mr.
Holt immediately agreed to hold
the liner, the New Australia, if
need be, so that Miss Anderson
could catch it.
The morning paper had had
a good beat on its rival with the
news that Lizabeth Anderson
had been found. Its afternoon
sister-publication hit the street
with a first-edition story that
Miss Anderson was speeding to
the man who had lost his
memory. The posters were
lovely.
The woman reporter described
in the paper’s later editions the
meeting of the Danish girl and
the Dutchman under the kindly
eye of Dr. van Leent, and she
didn’t miss a trick.
The photographer got them
from most angles, and Miss
Anderson was soon on her way
bacfc to Sydney.
The strain was showing on her
as she went up the gangplank
just 10 minutes before the New
Australia’s announced sailing-
time (Mr. Holt did not have to
act to hold the ship for her).
The woman reporter sighted
a couple more paragraphs to
round-off her story, and her
photographer took a couple
more shots to empty his maga-
zine. They went back to their
office, their day nearly over.
They had had a succession of
“beats” in each edition over their
opposition.
At a hotel near his office, his
new day just beginning, the
morning - newspaper reporter
who had traced Miss Anderson
the previous night stood con-
templating a foaming middy
and wondering what this night
would bring.


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
You Can't Afford . . .
IF you are interested in dams,, improved pasture, fertiliser, healthy
stock —in fact, if you are the average, thoughtful man-on-the-land in this
age of agricultural revolution —you cannot afford not to read *“Keyline.”
Each month “Keyline” gives you practical information on different
aspects of Keyline farming, the technique of land improvement which has
aroused such extraordinary interest in Australia and overseas: How to build
a Keyline dam, for instance; or the new, cheap technique of Keyline
irrigation. Helpful, down-to-earth articles which tell you how to do
something.
But the principles of Keyline farming, although they are supported by
a respectable body of scientific and practical opinion, are not as yet universally
accepted. There is criticism as well as praise. It is to your interest to hear
both sides of the argument, to weigh and sift the evidence. And here again
“Keyline,” by collating and summarising both sides of the controversy,
serves a useful purpose.
For the rest, “Keyline” is a bold experiment in publishing. The emphasis
is on quality. Leading scientists, financial experts, land men and others
contribute articles dealing with specialised subjects comprehensively and in
simple, non-technical language. There are articles of interest to women,
book-reviews and, each month, a short story by a leading Australian writer ...
So, if you are not already a subscriber, you really cannot afford to miss
each month’s issue of “Keyline.” Enquire at your local newsagent, or write
direct to Keyline Publishing Pty. Limited, Room 6, 8th Floor, 117 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
he was dead, tangled up with
his Vickers.
Before midnight there were
groups of half-naked men
clustered about the Tilley-lamp,
fresh from the ordeal. They
behaved as though they belonged
to an exclusive clique, though
they spoke to everybody.
Before being picked up, a
party of these men swam
through a hail of bullets. Two
had been seen taken by sharks.
Others missed the barges and
drowned. A few swam back to
the rendezvous —a distance of
six miles.
Later our aircraft reported
that Japs were strolling down
the coast taking pot-shots at
men struggling in the water.
The alternative was to fight
inland through the Jap lines to
our forward companies. Such
a course was attempted by a few
who braved concentrated Jap
fire as well as our shells and
bombs. They were without water
for days—some got through. It
was a supreme test of resource-
fulness and endurance.
We on the beach listened
mutely to the talk of the fighting
men. It was a moment of exulta-
tion as well as remorse. There
was no moaning from the
wounded except from those who
had lost control of their senses
through morphia injections.
BUT the grief of absent women
could be felt. The words
of the men created stark pictures.
They would stop suddenly in the
middle of a sentence and swallow
as though stifling a sob and go
on; but they talked as though
it were a relief to talk.
“I dug in the sand about a
foot. I struck coral. Couldn’t
go no further. Bullets ripped me
pack off me back. I dug till my
fingers bled —look at ’em.”
“That you, Ron? Thought
they got you.”
“Thought they got you too.
See Mick?”
“Yeah; the Japs was wading
out to him with grenades.”
“What about Slim?”
“Copped it.”
A loud voice silenced the mur-
mur of conversation. “Pay
attention. All walking-wounded
and men without clothes over
here.”
Half-naked bodies moved off
obediently.
During the next two days the
tired whirring of barge-motors
had become a modern dirge.
Each trip meant death to at least
one member of the barge crew.
IT was hard to reconcile tragedy
with the lassitude of tropic
days and nights, but the men
were conscious that this was the
adventure of their lives. There
was the question of retribution.
A compelling force prompted
everybody to be in it. Living
was relatively unimportant.
Nip had brougftt up large
reinforcements and had exposed
himself in the hope that we would
not hit back, but he was sub-
jected to continuous aerial ahd
artillery assaults. Truckloads of
Japs on their way to the invasion-
point were strafed and bombed.
Our men were being avenged.
During the following days and
nights the survivors reached
safety in advanced stages of
exhaustion. The last to be picked
up had, eighty hours before,
waded ashore and dug in. Five-
minutes later Nip opened up on
the barges.
Some men took positions a
hundred yards from the beach,
then they were driven back to the
perforated barges, which were
full of water. At high tide they
were forced to use lengths of
pipe to breathe through—the
water rose above their heads.
Nip played with them. He
called on them to surrender. One
of our boys, half-crazed with
phosphorus burns, surrendered.
A Jap clambered on the side of
the barge and sprayed an
automatic —the living huddled
with the dead.
Outside somebody shouted:
“I’m Johnson. They’ve got me,
let down the door for God’s
sake.” A torch flashed, it was
a Jap with machine-gun and
grenades ready to let fire as
soon as the door was dropped.
When a rescue-barge arrived our
men fired on it thinking this was
another wile of the Jap’s mind.
Then it was over. The last, of
our living were taken off. There
were others missing.
A doctor relaxed after per-
forming 46 operations in 36
hours. The wounded were
evacuated with the consoling
thought that they escaped death.
THERE was an atmosphere of
laughter and bitterness in the
Casualty Clearing Station.
Despondent men lay beside
others exuberant at being evacu-
ated. It was a time for stock-
taking ; for many the first step in
adjustment. But the men I knew
were estranged like children
who had lived a bitter life and
had come home years later.
John would be home for his
twenty-first birthday, but a sense
of irrecoverable loss welled in
his mind whenever he felt like
congratulating himself. It spoiled
everything and made him moody
and irritable. He would lose this
bitterness later,in his zest for life.
Dave remained dumb. Again
his hand emerged from the
sheets groping or suppliant. I
wondered what he wanted. Had
he succumbed to dejection in
a wave of self-pity and forgotten
scruples and responsibilities? I
put a writing-pad on his chest
and a pencil between his fingers.
He comprehended, but it
seemed indecent to watch him
write.
He was asleep when I returned,
with the pad still on his chest.
I read his labored scrawl: “Tell
Intelligence, two pillboxes near
jetty.”
The whisper was that a big bug
had turned up to tear a strip
off someone. As Johnson and the
rest formed a ragged semicircle
round the dour, red-faced, rusty-
whiskered, beetle-browed bloke,
the whisper grew to an unvoiced
shout. He stood there with his
boots jammed in the mud like
bridge foundations and glowered,
“This concerns only one
squadron represented here,” he
said, “but it won’t hurt any of
you to listen. As you know,
every time a Jerry tanker reaches
Tripoli the Luftwaffe flies again.
Some of you are here to prevent
that. , , ,
There were squelchy shuffles
of relief from Johnson and the
other Hurricane types whose job
was more localised. A near-by
group became- unhappily
night a squadron was
asked to prevent a tanker reach-
tag Tripoli,” the bloke said,
Johnson said the words raked
the guilty like 40-millimetre
Ca “ This afternoon,” the bloke
. «
said, the enemy is unusually
active m the air. Weve had
losses due to the failure of a
straightforward strike. indt
tanker got through, didn t it,
221?" . .
Johnson says 221-squadron teit
pretty sick for a day or two,
till they went out and torpedoed
a brace of tankers in the moon-
path off Tripoli. Without loss
for once. By this time he claims
the number 221 was giving him
that been-here-before feeling.
Quoting Johnson.
. ....
Sri
with the number s at a
“J e >45 1
South Wales m June, 45. After
a couple of Y ears testing Spfis
and Kitties back m Aussie he d
been posted to this drome for
and tactics thrown in. Those
considered still bright enough
were to go back to fighter-
squadrons in the islands
log-book* seedhat June
his last flight for his Majesty the
late King George. Squadron-
leader Lou Spence, also late,
described the incident as spec-
tacular. And, according to John-
Lqu was nQt given to over-
stat ’ ement .
j o h n son was a pretty weary
, tb j s t j me> he says."
Towards the end 0 f t his brush-
U p course he was sent up for an
bour ’ s individual combat versus
& keen type _ Using
s - t _s ßs ’Darwin relics.
p ract ic e -dogfighting is a violent
busSess The
d S Johnson felt old
• reckons be
, i .• j t ounce D f
eS in the hourdong skirmish,
He must have been pretty old.
talking about figures, the number
painted on the fide of Johnson’s
P
P n f - donnv brook
5* ®“ Z?r£ld sm
f’ d
S £ Sw taw it
goes, Johnson says, from books
or films hearsay or having been
in it. If there are fourth, fifth,
or e.ghteenri, dimensions they all
Even in the saner split-seconds
there’s earth above and sky
below. Sun sinks m the east or
rockets from the west. Or the
township fits neatly in your
windshield and you realise
you’re heading downhill at 450
and it’s time to pull out. Pull
out and black-out and screech
up into the face of the sun and
shake off the young larrikin
who’s managing to stick so close
you’d swear you had him on a
string. Quoting Johnson.
Johnson reckons the crash
was like watching someone else
go through it on a film-screen,
Claims he came in to land at
130 instead of 90 and didn’t care.
That was the thing, Johnson says,
he didn’t care any more. All of
a sudden like.
There was some medical natter
in due course about advanced
flying-fatigue, but Johnson diag-
nosed his case as “sudden lack
of interest.” The court-of-
inquiry showed a marked lack of
in ? ere 7t in something Johnson
mo. and
p g . n „
n felt the
didn’t even do the
routine. Didn’t bother. Couple
of tons of hurtling hereafter
strapped to his backside and he
just sat in there not bothering.
Could be he had laith in
numbers.
He felt the undercarriage
wrenched violently from the
p i ane as it razed the ground
crabwise. He felt the curled
prop'-blades thrashing the ground
i n venomed fury on the lower
bounces. Then the Spit,
Catherine - wheeled wing - oyer -
wing till there were no wings,
Johnson simply sat there,
strapped to what was left of
it, blase and unconcerned,
Painted on the side of what was
left of it, big and yellow, Were
the figures 221.
The fuselage slid canoe-
fashion for the last, two-hundred
yards and in stopping tipped-up
and stood vertically on its nose,
As the remnant balanced like
a teetering dart Johnson was
delayed - action - shocked into
awareness of his situation. He
“find don’t let it fall back on
don t let it fall back on
221 of course fell back right-
side up A whimsical number,
it never did anyone much harm.


for the streets of Augusta, W.A. If
Frederick was his parent, the Duke
must have begun his fun and games
very early—he was only 17 when Cap-
tain Molloy was bom. The captain may
have named the Augusta streets because
H.R.H. was Commander -in - Chief
during nearly all his military active
service. He sounds very much more
like a typical member of the rollicking
Irish family of his name, which pro-
duced the composer of the “Kerry
Dance” and “Love’s Old Sweet Song”
than of a Royal Duke.
His military career, however, is be-
yond doubt as to details. He joined
the old 95th (Rifle Brigade) in Decem-
ber, 1807, and served throughout the
Peninsular War as a lieutenant under
Robin Crauford and “Daddy” Hill.
He was in the little band of brothers
which included Harry Smith and
Johnny Kincaid, and he was mentioned
by them often in their reminiscences
and by the redoubtable Rifleman
Harris. He rose to be a captain only
in 1824 when he was 44, and he retired
as a brevet-major in 1829 on half-pay.
And so to matrimony and his
Georgiana, who made him her prize
convert. She proved herself quite
“notable in the way of equipping her-
self” for her journey southward, “and
accomplished the whole of her affairs in
as quiet and easy a manner as if she had
been a wife of two years’ standing” as
they prepared to fit themselves into Mr.
Semphill’s Warrior, which was to bear
them to their new home. She seems
to have been glad to lodge herself in the
best cabin in the ship away from the
dreadful vice which she beheld in
London, where she had secured solace
by converting her husband’s valet,
whom she lured into reading—and
liking—a pious w6rk entitled “Peace
in Believing,” a memoir of the famous
Isabella Campbell by her friend the
future Principal Story.
The care of “sixteen servants, horses,
pigs, sheep and cattle,” with requisite
impedimenta for colonisation on the
grand scale, does not seem to have
robbed her of the necessary time to
attempt the purification of the worldly
mind of Mrs. Byrne, wife of a captain
of the Eighth Foot, who accompanied
them and whom she discovered with
“her petticoats in the air and two very
pretty legs and feet protruding beyond
them.” Though this heathen female,
“bom and bred in the Rifle Brigade,”
“acceded instantly” to a proposal for
“having prayers morning and evening,”
Georgiana seems to have found her
too hard a nut to crack; for “this
episode marked the end of her
proselytising.”
The Warrior’s cargo of humanity
included several famous names. The
three Bussells, John, Charles and
Vernon, products of Winchester and
the Bluecoat school, whose corres-
pondence has enriched the documen-
tation of Westralian history and their
name the Australian landscape and
bibliography (“Cattle Chosen”), came
along, bringing, amongst other items,
a bloodhound and an “Encyclopaedia
Britannica” to enrich the culture of
the antipodes. There was Mr. Turner
who described himself as “a very little
fellow with a very small wife and
children,” but more financial means
than the rest, who found it “difficult
to keep our flesh clean,” because even
the drinking-water “stinks abomin-
ably.” Mrs. Byrne, proof against sea-
sickness, made everybody uncomfort-
able by being the life and the soul of
the party. Georgiana was pregnant
and seasick, and her servant more so on
both counts. But Captain Molloy,
soldierlike, seemed to be more worried
about his stallion than his wife when
the ship rolled “most abominably.”
There were the usual scrimmages
among cabin-passengers, who—lrish v.
Scotch—filled themselves with the right
liquor and volunteered that they would
heave the unpopular charterer of the
vessel overboard. But by the time the
Cape Verde Islands had been reached
Georgiana had recovered her poise, so
that she had “all the air of a lady well-
born and well-bred without having
mixed much in the world... .rather
inclined to be romantic and delighted
to have anyone with whom she could
contemplate the sublimity of a night
scene or expatiate upon the beauties
of this or that piece of poetry.” The
captain, her husband, loomed up among
the youthful company as a very Nestor,
Homeric in his advanced age and
gravity—the days when he was “Hand-
some Jack” to the Rifle Brigade were
over. The further he went the more
openly interested he seemed to become
in his stock and the less in his spouse.
At the Cape he was welcomed with
open arms by the Governor, his old
comrade Lowiy Cole, and was taken
hunting by Harry Smith, while
Georgiana remained behind with
Smith’s romantic Juana.
One would give a lot to know what
Jane Welsh’s friend and the young
Spanish lady—who had had her ear-
rings tom out by rude soldiery at the
sack of Badajoz and who had married
her Harry literally in the field of battle
and lived with him on the march from
fray to fray—said to each other. The
visitor seems to have made no attempt
to improve Juana’s soul, but she was
charmed to meet the author of the
hymn “From Greenland’s Icy Moun-
tains,” who was passing through. She
professed herself quite content with her
absent and bloodthirsty Molloy, whom
she felt to be a “dear creature” and
whom she would not exchange for
“£lO,OOO per annum and a mansion in
a civilised country.”
They arrived in Gage’s Roads in
March 12, 1830. Fremantle was not a
place to excite enthusiasm—all sand
and grog-shops apparently, and a beach
which was soon full of distracted
animals being landed and making for
the bush with products of the Army
of the Peninsula and Old Wykehamists
in frantic pursuit. The Bussells stayed
in Fremantle, the Molloys went to
Perth, which they had difficulty in
finding, since it seemed to be hidden
in tall timber, and where Governor
Stirling, a mutual friend of Harry
Smith, was ready to give all aid and
comfort to one who bore the written
recommendation of their fellow-
veteran, “Daddy” Hill, then Com-
mander-in-Chief in London.
It was Stirling who induced the whole
party—Molloy, Turners and Bussells—
to move southward in the brig Emily
Taylor. And ere long they dropped
anchor in Flinders Bay. Molloy was
allotted 12,813 acres of land on the
basis of 40 acres to every £3 of his
capital and property, valued at
£960 10s. s|d. The Turners got 20,000
acres—their furniture included a square
pianoforte and a rabbit. The three
Bussells had 5000 acres. Thus began
the settlement of Leeuwin Peninsula at
Augusta.
Later they moved northward across
the' peninsula to the better country
along the Vasse, where Busselton
stands today. There were built their
estates and villages and stately manor-
houses reminiscent in atmosphere the
more of Old Virginia than of the turgid,
emancipist atmosphere of Botany Bay.
The rest is an epic story, closely
documented, well-told and well-
illustrated and annotated, of basic
pioneering—of the Molloys, Bussells,
Turners, Bunburys and all their de-
pendent employees. By the time
Georgiana died in 1843, only 37 years
old, by the Vasse where she had had
her fifth daughter in December, they
were substantial squires in a land ad-
vancing fast towards modem civilisa-
tion. She had become a grand lady
and a historic character. Her short
life is too tightly filled-in with event
to cover in this short article. There is
no padding in Mrs. Hasluck’s closely-
knit story of hardship, tragedy, effort
and success.
After Georgiana died it was ironical
that her older husband outlived her
nearly a quarter of a century, surviv-
ing nearly all those who had come out
with him.
An old bewhiskered veteran who still
loved to share with an officer crony
the anniversary of Wellington’s Water-
loo dinners which he had been wont
to attend in London, he journeyed
home to England in 1850 just in time
to dine with the small cluster of surviv-
ing 95th men. He shook the hand of
the failing Duke, who received him
affably at the Apsley House a year or
so before he died. He was gazetted a
brevet-lieutenant-colonel in his last
years after he had received his long-
awaited Peninsular medal. And he died
aged 87 on October 6, 1867, and was
buried in St. Mary’s Churchyard,
Busselton.
Mrs. Hasluck has drawn on a wealth
of family and other original documents
and official archives, and her book, very
readable and attractive, is a substantial
contribution to Westralian pioneering
history. Historically it is a thoroughly
workmanlike job.
M. H. Ellis.
Melanesian Travelogue
In Islands of Men (Angus and
Robertson), Colin Simpson has pro-
duced a popular and entertaining
Melanesian travelogue in six parts: the
island of Mer in Torres Strait, northern
New Guinea, the New Hebrides, some-
where called “Vaituli,” the much-
journalised New Guinea “Shangri-la”
and Fiji.
Mr. Simpson is impatient with the
journalistic approach, which puts
undue emphasis on the exceptional,
as will be found in his sombre treatise
on the Franco-British Condominium
in the New Hebrides. Too many, he
thinks, treat it as a delightful circus;
nothing gets done, and he wants Aus-
tralia to buy-out the French . . . But
with due respect, Mr. Simpson has the
journalist’s love of a good story, to be
sought-out and tracked-down wherever
it may be—maybe his is what they
used to say of self-interest, an
“enlightened” journalism.
For instance, there is something
exceptional about the preference on
Mer, where childless couples have
worried the old men of the tribe, for
suitors who prove in advance that the
marriage will not be childless; and
even the front-pages of Sydney after-
noon newspapers could hardly compete
with the story of how A. O. C. Davies,
Superintendent of Mer, retrieved from
the island of Waier the image of the
cannibal-god Waiet,,or with the recon-
struction of the ceremony that used to
take place on that desolate cliff side:—
The chief zogo-le ordered a tattoo
■ of drums and then cried out, “Pre-
,pare the sacrifice!” The captive
was taken to the water’s-edge, where
he was scrubbed with pumice-stone
and cleansed with salt-water. Then
he was taken back to the cliff, a
vine-rope fastened round him, and
the tami-leb hauled him up to
Waiet’s ledge. There the three
zogo-le marked-off with lime on the
victim’s body the flesh-portion each
desired.
. It must constitute one of the refine-
ments of being a cannibals’ victim to
know exactly where each part of you
is going.
Perhaps the best accomplishment of
this book is to have got inside a house-
tamberan and to have photographed
the ritual bark-carvings in color. The
magnificent color-reproductions (made
possible by Sir Edward Hallstrom)
show a set of tall richly-colored paint-
ings set up like receding stage-wings, of
a considerable' splendor of pattern.
Very obviously concerned with fer-
tility-rites, they are, says Mr. Simpson,
of traditional design, taken away at
the end of each session and left to rot
in the bush, and replaced more-or-less
exactly for the next ceremony. He
considers that they are not the pro-
duct of all the tribe—as those theorists
like to believe who want a time long
ago when everyone was equally an
artist—but of a few skilled men in each
generation.
Here, in New Guinea, Mr. Simpson
got some first-rate stories about and
from E. D. Robinson, patrol-officer at
Abunti, 250 miles up the Sepik;
especially the account of the crocodile
initiation-ceremony, like a ballet, with
a crocodile in the centre of the stage
into whose jaws the boys to be initiated
would pass. There is also an account
of a perilous journey down-river in
a leaking launch with the medical
assistant, W. G. Lester, concluding
with a letter received later when Mr.
Lester had been translated to the hos-
pital at Aitape. He had the care of a
little boy dying of a charm put upon
him by the owner of a tree the boy
had climbed against orders. The tree-
owner, called into the hospital, refused
to lift the charm:—
“I put some Condy’s-crystals in a
saucer and poured on a little
glycerine, saying, ‘lf this doesn’t
light the child will die. If it lights
the kiddie will be all right, but the
tambu will go into you’—l knew
damn’ well it would light. • The
kiddie was watching, too, and a lot
of other natives, all their eyes as big
as teacups.
“Well, the upshot is, Col, that the
kiddie is as fit as a fiddle, in fact,
he is sitting under the table here
now showing a grin like a second-
hand piano and muttering, ‘White
skin poppa belong me he savvy
plenty too-much.’
“But this other peanut, who owns
the palm, is over in the hospital now
and he can’t move a muscle.”
Besides advocating an Australian
future for the New Hebrides, Mr.
Simpson recalls his meeting there, some
20 years ago, the unconventional Eng-
lish explorer-author, Tom Harrison;
speaks of murder and sexual aberra-
tions among the Big Nambus of Mele-
kula; goes into the question of the
hermaphroditic pig of Santo with the
Australian naturalist and explorer,
Jock Marshall; and mentions the extra-
ordinary sport of “land-diving” at
Pentecost, in which the natives dive
from towers up to 80ft. high, relying
on jungle-vines round their ankles,
nicely-adjusted in length to the tower
in such a way as to break after check-
ing their fall so that they can land on
tumed-up soil under the tower with-
out injury.
Next comes the Somerset-
Maughamish (as Mr. Simpson points
out) story about “Straun,” the fanatic
Protestant schoolteacher on “Vaituli,”
an ageing man who took a beautiful
native girl to be his mistress, and set
out to educate her to the social niceties
of afternoon-tea and music (playing a
hymn on a harmonium) in a love-nest
made of laths and tin. Then comes
what amounts to a debunking of the
“Shangri-la” valley of New Guinea;
and finally the treatise on fire-walking
IN MEMORY OF MY GRAND-
MOTHERS
(I)
My grandmother lived in a world of birds,
gardens, stray cats, olive light
in a three-roomed house that rocked
alone
on the avenue edge of Protestant Hill;
and moved, a bell, inside her life,
and chimed each day her endless life
and lived till she was sixty-one;
and lived as deaf as a stone.
All was silence round her then . . .
staghorn ferns and stuffed birds,
violets, polished wood ...
Deafness locking comfort put,
shut our petty lies away:
but she was a calm morning,
a storm in the bay,
whose quick and cutting Irish wit
tinkled like a frail glass
across the growth of gardens,
the fallow and the night;
the dignity of silence,
vibrating like a bell,
alive with sounds of laughter
or sorrow and delight.
And living in a world of birds
she moved with silence, shapes of wings;
and waited willing, shy as a wife,
calm as a river and slight as a flower:
not hearing but ringing the bells of a life.
(II)
The day you died the panic wind
beat like birds the southern pane:
and you lay dying, mad as light,
a stupid bird, a gabled room,
the fabric of your mind undone
like skeins of silk. O timid wife
whose years, a cancer, broke and ran
from the frantic endless rut of life.
Knitted there in peace, in silence lay
that unstrung life, that ravelled mind:
eyes as still as water, face a pool.
Light gathered in your staring eyes
where thoughts unwound, no more unspool
in terror's language of a child.
Woman, mother, eighty-year-old fool.
Hands heavy with their tarnished rings
no longer smooth the anguished brow.
Forty years were lost inside your mind:
you couldn’t find them then,
you won’t find them now
lying dead where starlings fold their wings.
And I went out from the daylight room,
from the day you died, the tower on the
hill,
the eyes of windows beaten blind.
Not death: the dead asylum’s dark com-
plexity of lives.
Your face like water, child's hands:
God has neither face nor hands.
And wandered on the hawthorn hill
with thorns that tore the wings of birds.
TASMANIA.
VIVAN SMITH.


LATEST AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
MARTIN CASH
by Frank Clune —a thrilling narra-
tive of bushranging adventure, com-
parable to Clune’s popular bio-
graphies of Ben Hall, Frank Gar-
diner and Ned Kelly. The swiftly-
moving story combines colour,
action and historical truth.
25/- (post lid.)
WEALTH IN THE WILDERNESS
by Arthur Groom —contains many
soundly based arguments in favour
of a splendid future for northern
and central Australia. The author
has described the country and its
people with a vividness that makes
his book a pleasure to read. Illus-
trated. 21/- (post 7d.)
Obtainable from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT EPIC OF THE SEA
H.M.s. UL YSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
PUBLISHED BY COLLINS . 15s. 6d y
Available from all Booksellers
in Fiji in which he collects all the
evidence, including his own investiga-
tions with an A.B.C. microphone, and
goes into matters like “mana,” or
spirit, on the one hand, and the
temperature of the hot rocks on the
other, without reaching any other con-
clusion than that the rocks are prob-
ably pretty hot and that the experts’
feet are certainly not burnt.
Altogether, it makes a first-rate
Christmas-book with which the Aus-
tralian savage, on the veranda of his
seaside hut, can relax from the ardors
of his surfboard or the chase after
brown beach-maidens, among company
not extraordinarily different from his
own.
Automobile at Sea
Half-Safe (Deutsch; Collins), the
narrative of the Westralian-born Ben
Carlin’s voyage from Halifax to
Africa, and thence across land and sea
to England in an amphibious jeep, is
yet another instance of vigorous prose
written by men-of-action since the war
—men who hitherto had never prac-
tised writing as a literary exercise;
which is possibly the reason for the
vividness of their prose. The necessity
for clear-thinking imposed by swift
action in war might also be a factor.
All the same, only a submerged literary
faculty could have produced these
excellent first-hand narratives.
That faculty is apparent in Ben
Carlin’s writing. It has the first
essential to good prose—lucidity. It
has the second essential, visualisation.
It has at command the compact phrase
which conveys a mental image with a
minimum use of words: “That elegant
rat-race which is-Paris”; “The revolting
smiling friendliness of the Germans.”
Such swift condensations of salient
racial characteristics are more effec-
tive than a page of sardonic comment
on the two most objectionable Euro-
pean peoples. And the effect of all
these qualities was, for me, the charm
of a book which kept me reading it
from cover to cover, and which I put
down with a regret that it was not
twice as long.
As an armchair adventurer, savor-
ing the thrill of danger by proxy,
books about small-boat voyages have
always fascinated me. This story of
Ben Carlin’s ranks high in that excel-
lent company.
Lately I had a chance of seeing the
jeep in Sydney. Ben Carlin’s account
of a voyage in it was fantastic enough,
but once one had crawled through a
man-hole in its superstructure and
found a seat in it, the exploit became
incredible. The false-perspective of
the photos of its interior give no notion
of its cramped dimensions. There is
less space in it than in a small motor-
car. It is crowded with impedimenta,
and expedients had to be found for
sleeping-accommodation, for stowage
of mechanical gadgets, clothes, food
and water for a voyage of 31 days.
Ben Carlin is a big man, and the
sleeping-bunk was a head-and-a-half
too short for him. He had to per-
form like an acrobat to get at sections
of the engine . . .
That engine! The record of its fre-
quent misfunctioning on the voyage
reads like a nightmare in what Conrad
called “the insensate malice of inani-
mate objects.” As first designed, the
amphibious jeep proved a very uncer-
tain instrument for the service required
of it. Ben Carlin had exhausted
ingenuity in forecasting the conditions
his craft would have to face in a long
voyage, and in devising expedients to
overcome them.
Even so, there were emergencies
that could not be forecasted and pre-
pared for. Enough petrol for the
voyage had to be stowed in a belly-
tank under the jeep, and in a con-
tainer towed by it. In adverse condi-
tions the container, shaped like a
torpedo, threatened to ram the jeep
and sink it. But above all such quan-
daries of the unexpected, the engine
suspended its threat of misfunction-
ing. That threat kept Ben Carlin at
high tension through the whole voyage.
Sleeping or waking, he developed an
extra sense of hearing for any signal
of treachery from it. And there were
many of those, putting a severe test
on his mechanical ingenuity. For if
the engine had failed, under stress of
storm, the jeep must have gone to the
bottom.
Steerage-way had to be maintained
on it. It could not be hove-to, like a
sailing-boat, and so ride-out a storm
in comparative safety. In a gale the
rubber raft it carried lashed to its top
structure could not have been inflated.
I asked Ben Carlin what he and his
wife could have done in a disaster.
“We would have clung to the raft,”
he said; and added casually, “We’re
both good swimmers.”
It did nearly come to that finality in
the hurricane that swooped down on
them between the Azores and Madeira.
A remarkable bit of writing, the
account of that storm, in its stark
simplicity:—
At 11 p.m. one such deluge came
at the wrong angle and ricocheted
down an exhaust-fan duct to spray
the engine. Omigod! almost before
the engine died I had out a can of
carbon-tetrachloride and whipped
open the engine-hatch. No surgeon
ever massaged a heart more
feverishly than I swabbed Half-
Safe’s ignition. Naturally she
broached-to immediately and, heel-
ing under the wind-pressure, lay
with her vulnerable flank ready to
be smashed to hell by the next
breaker that came our way—any
moment now. We were dead lucky ;
no wave came, but it was an awfully
long ten or fifteen minutes before
the motor came to life.
Our personal reactions to this
gala were interesting. Yawn if you
must, but Elinore and I are both
rather nervous by nature. Early on,
the mounting onslaught raised many
a hackle. Maybe we went through
fear and beyond, but when the show
was really on there was no sense of
fear—only a drum-taut tenseness,
alertness, expectancy.
I am not overlooking Elinore
Carlin’s part in this fantastic ocean
adventure. It is one of pure heroism,
for she was seasick almost constantly,
and to be seasick in a small boat is
not amusing. She kept a daily journal,
extracts of which are incorporated in
her husband’s narrative, and they
vastly enliven it with their effect of
present-moment action, their humor,
and her acute presentation of the
personalities they met in the shore-
journeys of the jeep.
In fitting-out the jeep Carlin had
exhausted his financial resources, so
that, once ashore, they had to make
money for expenses by exhibiting the
craft.
The Portuguese of the Azores gave
them a magnificent welcome. The
Spanish garrison at the arid port of
Cap Juby did all they could to assist
the desert-journey across to French
Morocco, even to providing an Arab
guard against the mischance of bandits.
The French garrison there were fairly
hospitable—apparently a Frenchman
outside his own country is capable of
some human decency. An awful anti-
climax awaited them at Gibraltar, in
reference to Ben Carlin’s reassurance
to Elinore of “Wait till you meet the
British Navy.” What they met there
instead was a mutton-headed police-
man who tried to prevent them landing
and, failing in that, got himself and
his sergeant into a state of red-tape
hysteria as to what was then to be
done about it. Escaping from Gibraltar
into Spain, they were among a
courteous, kindly and hospitable
people. Portugal repeated the hand-
some welcome of their compatriots of
the Azores. But once over the border
into France the bandits were on them.
The French tried to make money out
of them by exhibiting the jeep them-
selves. Escaping from the “fetid
decay” of France into Belgium, they
were given a regal welcome, with every
possible courtesy paid them. Germany
was depressingly German; citizens not
ex-members of concentration-camps
were as scarce as non-members of the
resistance - movement in France.
Crossing the border into Denmark,
they were greeted by a gay and charm-
ing people; in Ben Carlin’s words “the
healthiest, physically and mentally, and
most civilised people we had met.” But
once across the channel to stay at
Birmingham while the jeep was being
repaired there was a slump in hospi-
tality: “In 17 months there I entered
not one private home: an indication,
not a complaint.”
There, for the present, the adven-
ture of the jeep is suspended, to be
resumed for its voyage across the
Pacific, and, one hopes, a fascinating
sequel to “Half-Safe.” The inspira-
tion of that fantastic voyage was fre-
quently demanded of Ben Carlin, and
he confesses to a difficulty in explain-
ing it. Its genesis was simple enough.
While on service in India he chanced
to see a battered amphibious jeep, and
remarked casually to a friend that with
a bit of titivation one could go round
the world in one of those things. The
friend’s derisive retort was “Nuts!”
The enigma of the isolated adven-
turer who discards a universal obses-
sion for “safety-first” goes deep into
the procedure which has generated
human consciousness. For the man-
of-action is the blood-brother to the
poet. He dramatises life, and from
him the poet extracts a concept of
man’s earthly destiny—in Da Vinci’s
words, “The direction of his soul.”
Massed heroism in war is a collective
passion, driven by the protective need
to kill lest one be killed. For the
stark image of the man-of-action we
turn to the isolated adventurer; the
explorer, the mountain-climber, the
lonely sea-voyager. He quests the un-
known, and that, also, is the adven-
ture of art —that unknown which is
man. But for Odysseus there would
be no “Odyssey,” but for the Columbus
spirit man would still be a neolithic
primitive.
Norman Lindsay.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 360
Across
I—Spirituality is not to be expected
of such a mum with an inclina-
tion. (11)
6—Give guns to the Moabite city
thousand. (3)
B—Enthroned 28-across rules it.
(7)
10— It is funnier for 17-down to drop
his aitches. (7)
11 — A misty case isn’t muddled by
such methodical punters. (14)
14—Poet stating my claim to be a
private street. (7)
16—Black bone is broken. (4)
If —Spelter. (4)
20—Homer certainly ranks as such a
strongbox success on Broadway.
(4, 3)
22—Muriel sculling without the fish
painting a broom-rider with the
tic. (8,6)
25 —Girl puts the nursery frog in a
tin. (7)
27 Whatever rings in the Latin one
for a composer. (7)
28— Don in Portugal has 1000 to do
with a Benedictine. (3)
29 — Code's nerves shattered a tennis
feature sought by hungry Oliver
Twist. (6, 5)
Down
1 — Temporary substitutes work in
the petticoat factory. (10)
2 African declares the barrel is a
boy’s name. (8)
3 Dirge from the range. (5)
4 Withe is so like the woman in
Wilkie Collins’s novel. (2, 5)
5 A baby drink. (3)
6 Foreigner’s saline is stirred with
the article on land-rights. (6)
7 A moustache about a victim of
Henry VIII who is hiding in
Rome with Twist’s version of
29-across. (4)
9—lntended insect introducing itself.
(5)
12 — Billiard shot which usually
accompanies Rachman. (2-3)
13 — Tree to fret after whisky. (6,4)
15 —Pertaining to the flank-bone. (5)
17—American poet takes the particle
rank above another. (8)
19 — Columbus and I almost circle a
reference to the bowel. (7)
20 — Underwood is to clean up South
Carolina, but not without some
friction. (5)
21— Quiller-Couch and you love to
drink enough for a meeting. (6)
23 — The stratagems of Lewis. (5)
24 A Spanish hero is sour. (4)
26 —The French boy like d’Arcy. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 359


* *. *7.• !*•«%* *
r .
feW
111
li
Kfi BSSOT3 |
Vi i
k
$
* >rf ryf
•j-i
It-r?
?3W:
rMe**u*>
.*.**• •••*<’,
‘ ;V. v * * * « » '
* * • * •»»..
; iV. 2
VS2
r-cts' -i
•M
N
rtf**
■ a/*
Eucalypt and Paper
We sat on a fallen log in the clearing, basking in a shaft of sunlight
that pierced the leafy canopy overhead and dappled the cool, moist
earth.
The giant eucalyptus trees soared above us, stretching to the sky,
and air over was an almost cathedral-iike quiet, a stillness and
serenity that enveloped us in peace and brought us a sense of
timelessness: an arrested moment of life, a pause in the striving, a
deep, contented nothingness.
And yet there were sounds: the faint flutter of a falling leaf, the
stirring of minute insect wings, the indefinable sounds of a glade
remote and secluded in the heart of a rain forest.
We sat and smoked for a while, soothed and rested by the magic
of it all; then Petersen said:
“This is an ancient business we’re in, you know. The Egyptians
were the first to work out the idea of a vegetable-matter writing-
material. You’ve heard of papyrus, of course? They used to make
it from the stems of the papyrus rush Cyperus papyrus grow-
ing on the banks of the Nile.”
He waved his pipe at the trees.
Big difference, of course, between these eucalypts and the rush
the Egyptians used three thousand years ago. Know how they did
it? They laid moistened strips of the papyrus stem side by side,
then laid shorter strips across them. They pressed the stuff, dried
it and polished it. Used to write on it with a reed dipped in sepia.
Some of the “books” they wrote are really long. There’s one in
the British Museum that measures one hundred and thirty-five feet
m length a sort of elaborate rigmarole setting forth the might
of Rameses 111 written about 1170 8.C.”
He cocked an ear and listened. Far off there came a new sound,
a faint mechanical throbbing, alien to the voices of the forest.
“They’ll be here presently,” he said, and stood up.
Paper-making to-day is basically a very simple process,” he went
on. “The wood is reduced to a pulp, and then put in very
elementary terms—the rest consists in lifting out a sheet of a
suspension of fibres in water, by means of a wire screen. The fibres
are felted together, as they are lifted, by agitation. You’ll see
the whole thing when we get back to the mill.”
The far-off throbbing had swelled to a deep-throated roar, and
then, suddenly, the peace of the glade was ended as a giant, steel-
tracked machine thrust into view. On it came, the powerful tracks
rolling forward across the leaf-mould, and behind it came a great
log, its butt firmly held by the steel logging arch, its tail furrowing
the ground;
“There’s some paper in that,” Petersen shouted. “That log must
weigh ten tons!”
* * *
Down in the rugged rain-forest jungle of the Florentine Valley,
Tasmania, Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd. is operating a fleet of
twenty-two Caterpillar track-type Tractors, hauling giant eucalypt
logs from stump to loading points. The logs are trucked over
logging highways to the railhead and begin their final journey to
the mill at Boyer.
Every week the Cats bring out one and a quarter million super
feet of eucalypt logs to feed the mill. But this is not their only
task: road construction and the hundred and one jobs in the
logging business are theirs, too. Day in, day out, Caterpillar track-
type Tractors are pushing, hauling, clearing playing a major
part in helping Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd. to build and con-
solidate Australia’s paper-making industry . . . helping them to
produce some of the finest newsprint in the world.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
9LD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS & DARWIN.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA)
PTY. LIMITED. LAE. 1
