

-mi
ePP
SOLERO
SWEET
DR Y
The Bulletin
TARGET. HAILSTORMS ! —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3945
Wednesday, September 21, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
STRANGE MEETING-PLACE
OF THE HELL-FIRE CLUB,
MEDMENHAM ABBEY
gESIDE the River Thames in
Buckinghamshire lies the old-
world village of Medmenham, which
in the 18th century gained notoriety as
a centre of the “Hell-Fire Club” —a
fashionable club founded by Sir Francis
Dashwood. Their motto “Fay ce que
voudras” (do what you please) can
still be seen over the door of the
mansion which occupies the site of a
13th-century Cistercian monastery. In
the 16th century the Abbey was
annexed to Bisham Abbey, on the
opposite side of the river. In the three
and a half centuries of the Abbey’s
existence as a religious community its
history was uneventful, but these
centuries of pious living are today
overshadowed by the provocative
doings of the Hell-Fire Club.
The leader of the revellers was Sir
Francis Dashwood, who later suc-
ceeded his uncle in the title of Baron
le Dispencer. It was in 1745 that he
founded the “Knights of St. Francis of
Wycombe,” and among the members
and their guests were, it is said, the
Duke of Queensberry, Frederick, Prince
of Wales, Charles Churchill, the poet,
Paul Whitehead, the dramatist, John
Wilkes, and others of the highest rank
and fashion. One of their meeting
places was Medmenham Abbey; others
were in caves at West Wycombe which
are open to the public. The secrecy
which surrounded the club’s aims and
functions created the wildest specula-
tion. The most improbable stories
circulated at the time of their activities,
and the keenest interest has existed ever
since. It is asserted that during one
of their proceedings when they were
all gathered together, John Wilkes, the
youngest member, sent a baboon down
a chimney and the sudden arrival of
the soot-begrimed, gibbering creature
was mistaken by the terror-stricken
revellers for Satan himself.
No. 264: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


TRAINING PAYS
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted bv 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.G.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.” iVlirror
TOO Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereasrh Sr
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
“---‘CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S; Please send me, without any obli
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS .*//*"*'
(S.B. 185.5) AGE
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you —fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
JUDAISM AND AUSTRALIA
Judaism is the oldest living religion,
more than twice as old as Christianity,
more than 4000 years old, says Rabbi
Dr. R. Brasch, of Sydney, in Star of
David (Angus and Robertson); and
where some speak of “Before Christ”
and “After our Lord,” the Jews say
“Before” and “After” the “Current
(or Civil) Era”:
The Jews recognise the Jew, Jesus,
as a great religious figure of his day,
hut to be consistent with their own
theology, they deem it proper to use
the clear but not contentious
terminology, “8.C.E.” or “C.E.”
Dr. Brasch has written for the
Gentile —if not for the Orthodox Jews,
who, says Maurice Ashkanasy, Q.C., in
his foreword, may not always be in
agreement with Dr. Brasch’s liberalism
—a very satisfying survey, a chapter-
by-chapter explanation of Jewish
feasts, fasts, beliefs, vestments, holy-
books, customs and history.
Their calendar’s leap-year has an
addition of a month instead of a day.
With the exception of their Sabbath,
they have no names for the days of the
week. If the Sabbath is the heart of
Judaism, the annual cycle of festivals
almost constitutes its history. On its
New Year, generally in September or
October, every synagogue throughout
the world resounds to the shofar, the
ram’s horn, which may be blown only
by “a man of outstanding character”:
Far from being tuneful and sooth-
ing, its sounds are rousing and
shattering. They are meant to stir
man to the depth of his being. Not
music to his ears, they are clarion
calls to his conscience to renew his
faith and return to God.
Ten days after the New Year comes
the Day of Atonement, “Yom Kippur,”
which originated the “fejscape-goat,”
a goat symbolically loaded by the high-
priest in old times with the sins of the
people and driven out into the wilder-
ness. In early times “Yom Kippur”
was a time for dancing and parades of
maidens calling to the young men,
“Give not attention to beauty of face:
heed rather the beauty of our souls”
—which in view of the world’s con-
sistent testimony to the supreme beauty
of Jewish women may well be con-
sidered to have been a discard-from-
strength.
Dr. Brasch is at pains to mention in
his later chapter on the Jewish prayer-
book that the Kol Nidrei, the hymn
synonymous with the Day of Atone-
ment, relieves the Jew of vows and
promises made to himself only, but
does not absolve him from contracts
or promises to other people. Some-
thing of the stir this hymn made in its
day may be gathered from
Russian Tsarist legislation [which]
demanded a special Hebrew intro-
duction to the prayer, stating that
it referred only to oaths which bore
relation to one’s own personal life,
but in no circumstances to vows
made in connection with other
people and with the authorities.
“Purim,” the “Feast of Lots,” is the
Jewish Guy Fawkes Day, celebrated by
burning effigies of Haman, who sug-
gested drawing lots to determine the
day when the Jews should be annihi-
lated and the nation incorporated into
Persia. “Pesach,” the “Feast of the
Passover,” commemorates Israel’s
liberation from Egyptian bondage. The
“Ninth Day of Av,” some time in July
or August, is a feast of dreadful
coincidences: anniversary of the
destruction of the first Temple in
586 B.C. by Nebuchadrezzar (sic; a
spelling for which Dr. Brasch gives no
reason), of the destruction of the
second Temple in A.D. 70 by Titus, of
the last resistance against Rome in
A.D. 135 in which half-a-million Jews
were killed, and of the expulsion of
the Jews from Spain in 1492.
There ensues a first-rate introduction
to the Old Testament, “The Book
Which Grew a Thousand Years,” from
the Jewish point of view—a brilliant
summary which might well renew the
interest in it of those who have seen
it only from other viewpoints; and an
essay on the Apocrypha, or “hidden
books.”
A summary of the Jewish prayer-
book is followed by two short essays
on Hebrew, the “sacred tongue,” the
dead language which is being revived
in Palestine with the renewal of
Jewish nationalism, and on Yiddish,
which lost the argument as to which
language should survive. Yiddish was
first written in 1396, based on High
Middle German, “with an admixture
of Slav. French, Hebrew and English
words'” Without capitals, printed
from right to left, at first without any
vowels or present-day vowel-markings
or spacing of words, Hebrew script
must have been decipherable only
after long practice. The first line of
Psalm 23, for instance, would read in
original Hebrew, directly translated:
tnwtnllhsdrhphsmsdrlht
i.e.: “The Lord is my Shepherd; I
shall not want.”
Dr. Brasch treats also of the Yad, the
silver pointer shaped like a hand with
which the Biblical scrolls are read to
keep fingers off the sacred writing
(always hand-written, and a mistake
requires the rewriting of the whole
work, so that the completion of
a scroll is naturally an occasion for
community-rejoicing); of the unvarying
coffin of plain boards for rich and
poor; of the covering of mirrors in
houses of death; of Jewish dietary
laws, which forbid not only the pig
but any animal which does not chew
the cud and have a cloven hoof.
Jews have never represented more
than a half of one per cent, of Aus-
tralia’s population, Dr. Brasch rather
surprisingly informs us; and abandoned
synagogues at Coolgardie, Too-
woomba, Goulburn and Maitland
emphasise how “the majority of Aus-
tralian Jews are to be found living
vigorous and productive lives in the
capitals and larger inland centres.”
Certainly the Jews’ “contribution” has
been out of all proportion to their
strength: Monash and Isaacs are names
familiar to all Australians, but who
has heard of Samuel Alexander (1859-
1938), born in Sydney, son of a Jewish
saddler, educated in Melbourne, who
progressed to the Order of Merit
through Oxford to high positions in
British universities and the authorship
of “Space, Time and the Deity,” “the
boldest adventure in detailed specu-
lative metaphysics attempted in so
grand a manner by any English writer
between 1655 and 1920”; or Joseph
Jacobs, who was one-time honorary
teacher at Sydney’s Jewish Sabbath
school, “one of the Jewish world’s
truly great historians and scholars”?
Dr. Brasch takes the history of Jews
in Australia State by State, from the
time, 30 years after settlement, when
“a score of London Jews lived around
Sydney Cove,” and “unfortunate differ-
ences of opinion” which split the
Jewish community were not healed
until the advent of Rabbi Aaron Levi
in 1830. The first Hebrew congrega-
tion was formed in 1831; the first Aus-
tralian synagogue was instituted in
Bridge-street in 1838; but the oldest
surviving synagogue building in the
Commonwealth (and the most southerly
in the world) is the Hobart synagogue,
consecrated in 1845. Jews, as Dr.
Brasch says very neatly, have been
prominent “benefactors and malefac-
tors” in Tasmania: “Ikey” Solomons,
who went to Van Diemen’s Land as a
convict, was “reputedly the original of
Dickens’s Fagin.” On the other hand,
the shrinking of the Launceston con-
gregation left the synagogue there dis-
used for 70 years until it was redis-
covered in 1916 behind a wall of black-
berry-bushes 12ft. high. Although
public Jewish services were not held
in Western Australia until 1887, the
widely - respected Lionel Samson
arrived in 1829, the foundation-year,
and had the, distinction of guaranteeing
a concert organised by Roman Catholic
Fathers in aid of a native mission . . .
And so to the names of Montefiore,
a name to conjure with in Australian
Jewry, and with a town named after
it, and George Judah Cohen, “the
Rothschild of Australian Jewry” (and
Sir Matthew Nathan, who became
Governor of Queensland; and Nathan
Spielvogpl. “who has been called the
Charles Dickens of Australian Jewry,”
historian of Ballarat; and J. Solomon
of Launceston, who was at the found-
ing of Melbourne), is added that of
Rabbi Dr. Brasch, bom in Berlin of
English parents, a lecturer all over the
world, who was known in London’s
blitz as “the Flying-bomb Padre,” one
of whose most remarkable accomplish-
ments was to address in Roman
Catholic Eire the Protestant Society of
Friends on Mohammedanism; a
student of 12 languages, including
Babylonic - Assyrian (cuneiform),
Syriac. Arabic and Persian; at present
Chief Minister of Temple Emanual.
Sydney—and a contributor to “The
Bulletin.”
Tall Stories
There is at any time much to be
said for the lie. Without it life would
scarcely be bearable and politics would
be impossible. In Australian litera-
ture, whether in “Aboriginalities”
paragraphs, the brightest of the bush-
ballads, “The Champion Bullock
Driver” or “The Buln-buln and the
Brolga,” it has always added much
to the gaiety of the nation.
But to be worth while the lie must
be tolerably convincing; and, besides
his adopting a number of irritating
tricks of style that lead one to suspect
that he is not telling the truth when
a horse bucks itself into the sky or a
snake turns itself into a hoop, it is
the fault of Dal Stivens’s Ironbark Bill
(Angus and Robertson) that Mr.
Stivens tells too many lies ... in a
literary way, of course.
It is not that Mr. Stivens does not
have the ideas that would make excel-
lent tail-stories. One likes very much
indeed the notion of a horse, and a
rider, that could do this:—
And he puts his head down and
gives the great-great-grandfather of
all the biggest bucks in all the yards
of the North Coast. And the next
moment the bellyband breaks with
a great twang and Blasting Billy,
still astride the saddle, is soaring
into the air. He goes away from
us like a rocket on Empire Night,
and in twenty seconds he is a
thousand feet up and we are looking
directly at the soles of his elastic-
side boots, still in the stirrups. And
he still has a smile on his face as
if he were sitting in his chair by the
fire on Sunday night and he is
puffing away at his fag.
But —though it is easier to swallow
this yarn as a whole than most —one
really does begin to doubt Mr. Stivens
when, Ironbark Bill having also
bucked himself into the sky, horse
and all, we find all the stockmen
camping on a frozen cloudbank:—
The mist is everywhere, so Iron-
bark starts cooeeing, and after a bit
he hears some coves cooeeing back,
and finds them squatting on their
hunkers round a fire they’ve made
from the straw and wood in their
saddles. When Ironbark rides up
they’re having a bit of a barney
whether this will melt the cloud-
bank.
And doubt in this kind of art can
be fatal. It changes the hard, tough,
old tail-story, belonging by tradition
to the bullocky’s campfire and the
heat-blasted outback pub, to a kind of
fairytale. And so there comes the
dreadful moment when, having long
ago grown up, one suspects that Mr.
Stivens is just being rather silly.
Some of the tales in “Ironbark Bill”
—the little book is a collection of ten
very brief tail-stories—never begin to
be plausible. For example, the one
about the big buck-hares that, for no
perceptible reason, kick stones and
grass-clods down Ironbark Bill’s
chimney; and the one about the bad
snake-country where Ironbark Bill
builds his fence on top of a carpet-
snake. But most of them do have the
one excellent lie—like the picture of
Ironbark Bill running for his life from
a bushfire, pursued by the black figure
of his shadow until he leaves it miles
behind; or the “frozen gravity” in the
Monaro, when stones thrown into the
air stay there (a story which appears
to derive from a ballad by E. J. Brady)
—and then are spoilt by over-elabora-
tion. In short, short as the tail-stories
are, they should be shorter.
The Petrov Affair
if it were not cluttered-up with
truth, The Petrov Story, by Michael
Bialoguski (Heinemann), might be the
best Australian novel of the year. Its
obvious interest is in its account of the
delicate manoeuvres to get an M.V.D.
colonel to leave his embassy and the
Russian service, but its fascination is
that of its author, who is its real hero:
doctor, violinist, former producer of
theatricals in Poland —an iron nerve,
an insight curiously aided by sympathy,
an artist in dissimulation.
For his nerve, there is the account of
how, late at night, he tiptoed a dozen
times in and out of the room where
Petrov was sleeping, each time
taking a document from Petrov’s coat,
transcribing it and returning it exactly
to where it had been. Or of the con-
trol of the complicated series of car-
rides and telephone-calls by which,
having had Petrov in a surgery, speak-
ing of defection for the first time, he
saw Petrov home and at the same time
arranged without Petrov’s knowledge
to pack the equipment that had
recorded this conversation, cache it in
his car and advise security-officers
where to pick it up. Or the similar
happenings when Mr. Richards of
Security first talked to Petrov in Dr.
Bialoguski’s own flat.
For his insight, there is the whole
account of the endless series of meet-
ings during which he gradually got
more and more of Petrov’s confidence;
his anger when Security, maybe think-
ing he was unduly drawing things out,
tried blunter methods; the subtlety of
his efforts to get Petrov interested in
owning Australian property —an
interest in a King’s Cross restaurant,
a chicken-farm in Castle Hill. For
several pages he will be speaking of
Petrov almost as a brother; you feel
that Petrov’s health, his comfort, his
physical and mental worries are Dr.
Bialoguski’s own. And then this soft-
ness is replaced by a cold and clinical
survey of the case from the Security
point of view—how far has it pro-
gressed? How far has it to go?
For his artistry there is that extra-
ordinary divagation in the midst of
these happenings when the doctor, as
an Egyptian Prince, and Petrov, as a
pasha in his entourage, invited three
young women who were guests at a
party to visit them in Egypt and to stay
with them as part of their harems.
They would be required, the doctor
delicately put it, to “accept all the
obligations, as well as the favors, of
the permanent members of the
harem . . From the writing it would
o Continued on page 35)


>:,iR
.
■
■
m
mm
M
m
o£sp;oy
:■: ' . , ...
mmsm? £ / - ; < *v
F>’ .
f
•M®
■rJI
I
wm
I
M
BS
wmsi
ft®
-
- ~'...:. »: :■ .7 *
Si:- v-V-U
i mm
i ■ I
Mi
m
. j
T
mm?
■ ■
: ' ..*,
'
■
nw ■ <»
■ . ;'....'
■ ' '
MM
... '*
I fi
.-n ‘
mg *jj
a. t
- ,' k^SPSPc!
--< - ; -
* - <.*'■* *.. -
*
: ■
m
m
3 ~
:
"■
111
nu= c^»SSll
'&hJ*szrZ*u
0 mu ~-
ste^~H L
V~ y V
Wherever
travel
whenever you travel
carry Saddlehide or Saddletan
"Saddlehide” and "Saddletan” are travel fashion colours. Both these colours, and the hide, are
exclusive to Anthony Horderns’. The colour is natural and rich, treated by skilled craftsmen
to bring out all the beauty of the grain and to give longer life to the
made-up article. Every article illustrated is available in either "Saddlehide” '
or "Saddletan” and carries our own famous brand of quality and value. Globe trotter or
holiday maker, you’ll find "Saddlehide” or "Saddletan” will suit your every need.
Yes, Mail or ’Phone Orders. 80951. Box 2712, G.P.O.
=E?fs
I^.
EXCLUSIVE TO ANTHONY HORDERNS’
nthony Borderns’
a
Travel Bag
with double
handles.
20in.
£B/9/6 ea.
Dressing
Case for
women.
Lined with
pocket and
mirror in
lid.
£5/13/6 ea.
I .. .11
G
4
a
Lady’s Robe
Case carries
8 frocks.
£l5/15/' ea.
Lady’s Hat
Case in
square shape.
Check-lined
pocket.
18in. is
£B/5/- ea.
The Suiter
Case for
men, carries
three suits
without
creasing.
£l4/10/-.
. •
I
3
Document
Case, 3
Division.
Steel frame,
centre flap
and lock. At
£6/19/9 ea.
Blouse Case
for women.
22in.,
£lO/1/6;
24in„
£lO/19/9;
26in,.
£ll/18/3 ea.
M
Suit Case
with capped
corners and
brass locks,
24in., at
£ll/3/3;
26in.,
£l2/2/-
28in.,
£l3/1A ea.
Frame Folio,
combination
overnight
bag brief
case on steel
frame.
£7/12/3 ea.
Overnight
Bag with
double
handles and
centre lock.
18in.,
*7/8/'.
i


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 21, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3945
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;}
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.) Wellington
PETROV—BEFORE AND AFTER
THERE need be no doubt any longer why the
members of the Soviet Embassy were so eager to
get out of Australia in record time. The Royal
Commission on Espionage makes it clear that the
documents which Petrov brought with him when
he renounced his country and sought asylum in
Australia were genuine; that they and the
exhaustive evidence of the Petrovs, which was
unshaken by cross-examination, proved beyond
question that for a great number of years the Soviet
Embassy in Canberra had been used as a spy-
centre. It was adduced beyond doubt that the
Soviet agencies were engaged in suborning and
blackmailing Australians to betray their country.
The commission was convinced that Sharkey, as
head of the Communist party, got a subsidy of
25,000 dollars from Moscow sources to recoup
the money spent by the Communists in combining
with Dr. Evatt in 1951 to defeat the referendum on
the Communist-party Dissolution Bill.
It found that there were plans to set up a
secret underground organisation which could
function apart from the Embassy and the Com-
munist party in time of war; and in the light of
Petrov’s assurances on the point the commissioners
felt that it would be unwise to assume that the
G.R.U. (military espionage) was not now still
operating in Australia, particularly with a view to
obtaining information about guided-missiles.
It found, further, that the Soviet agencies
were securing leakages of a serious nature from
the External Affairs Department during the years
1943-49, in the period when Dr. Evatt was Minister
in charge of that department and after he had
removed the ban from the party.
The commission declared that Soviet espionage
had met with substantial success in the department
during that period; and it did not overstate the
position. Indeed, in view of the fact that its inquiry
was confined to espionage and not to the sympathy
and co-operation with the Communist party and
Soviet policy by persons in the department, its
summary is an understatement of the astonishing
situation which developed during Dr. Evatt’s term
as Minister, and before public outcry and persistent
Opposition prodding in Parliament compelled Mr.
Chifley to take a hand in 1948.
The commission found that Walter Clayton, a
former member of the Control Commission—the
security and judicial committee—of the Communist
party, for a long time had been hidden or had
hidden deliberately to avoid appearing before the
commission until he felt that all evidence concern-
ing him had been given. Then he turned up to
“clear his name” and, the commissioners said, “in
this he signally failed.” They found him guilty of
“evasions, equivocations, refusals to answer ques-
tions, and lies.” But he could not avoid confirming
certain vital evidence by other witnesses which
identified him as a person referred to by the letter
“K” or the code-name “Klod” in the Soviet docu-
ments handed over by Petrov, and linked in those
documents with the names of no fewer than 19
persons who were alleged informants of the spy-
rmg and of whom eight were, at one time or
another, during Dr. Evatt’s period as Minister, in
the External Affairs Department.
From three of these the evidence indicated that
information had been received through Clayton.
One, a typist, said that through her period of
service 1944-46 she made copies of documents in
the department which she thought might interest
the Communist party and took them to Clayton
Evidence also indicated that lan Milner, who
formerly occupied the office of acting-head of the
ment^S 11 - 655 PI^ nnm g. Division of the depart-
S-# Ven information to the M.V.D. through
in cLndnT not available as a witness; he is
in Czechoslovakia. A man named Throssell in
Sen& rt ?vP, f in " faMy Se “ ior P°sition-
mentioned by Petrov as one of “Klod’s” group but
he commission found the charge not proven I
was further shown that during that period a brother
of the present secretary of the CommunSt party in
Victoria, who himself had been a party-membe?
had been m the department. Dr. Burton a“d
that some suspicion had fallen on Hill, but he
“regarded Hill as a very reliable officer, and
thought that lack of security related to unimportant
matters.” The commissioners found that he was
“quite wrong in his evaluation of matters.” Hill
denied that he had given away information.
A Miss June Barnett, who admitted having been
a Communist before joining the department, but
said she had resigned when she was appointed in
1948, swore that she was induced by a Communist
named Rose (who at first refused to answer ques-
tions before the commission) to meet a man who
answered Clayton’s description and who suggested
that she might supply information to the Com-
munist party, which she refused to do. Rose said
that her statement was a fabrication, but the
commissioners were satisfied that Clayton did
attempt to suborn her.
A “B” mentioned in the Soviet documents as
“Deputy Director of the Department of External
Affairs” and as a contact of “K” [Clayton] was, the
commissioners thought, clearly Dr. Burton, but
they “found nothing to suggest, nor was it anywhere
alleged,” that he contacted Clayton or passed on
any information to the Soviet Union.
It was established that Rex Chiplin, the
“Tribune’s” Canberra correspondent, had been able
to obtain confidential information from the
External Affairs Department; and that Fergan
O’Sullivan, Dr. Evatt’s press-secretary, had written
a document for the Soviet Embassy and would
have been in a position to be subjected to pressure
by the M.V.D. if Petrov had not defected. How-
ever innocently, he and Dr. Evatt’s assistant private-
secretary had been drinking and foregathering
socially just before Lockwood wrote a scurrilous
document inside the Soviet Embassy for which he
received £3O.
There seems no need to refer to Dr. Evatt’s
appearances before the commission, his groundless
charges of conspiracy, forgery and fraud directed
against Security and witnesses without a tittle of
supporting evidence. These have been utterly
exploded. That is all too well known, as are the
facts about his fraternisation and co-operation in
court with the legal representatives of the Com-
munist party, following his appearance for the
party in the High Court to fight the Communist-
party Dissolution Bill. He himself must realise
how disturbing all these coincidental facts are,
especially in view of the fact that the Communists
showed themselves anxious to wreck the inquiry.
Dr. Evatt and his followers are at present
advocating a foreign policy in line with Moscow’s.
The Doctor himself is using his position as Leader
of the Opposition to destroy confidence in the
Government’s defence measures and prevent the
manning of the Malayan barrier against the south-
ward pressure of Communism; also to destroy
confidence in the conclusions, inescapable on the
evidence, of the Petrov commission.
In view of the open references in the Soviet
documents to Australia as “the enemy,” in view of
the obviously dangerous position in which this
country is in relation to events in Asia, it seems
that even the most rabid “Labor” men might begin
to believe that the Opposition would be better led
by somebody whose tolerances are not so wide,
whose solicitude for the interests of the Communist
rights to freedom of action and penetration is not
so permanent, and who loves Australia a little more
and his own political ambitions a little less.
Arbitration and Good Faith
ARBITRATION has been a plank of the A.L.P.
platform for almost as long as the party has had
a platform. The Federal Arbitration Court
has seldom been permitted to function for long
without alteration of its powers and duties. A
brainchild of Charles Cameron Kingston, it was
proposed and rejected at the first and second
Federal conventions and grudgingly accepted at the
final convention in 1898. The Act which established
the court was passed in 1904 only after two Gov-
ernments —one Liberal, one Labor—had been
defeated over its provisions; and it has been
amended close on 30 times since.
Mpst “Labor” suggestions for and attempts at
altering the constitution of the court have been
designed to secure for the unions more favorable
decisions more rapidly; only those unions
by Communists have advocated the
abolition of the court. But in recent years the
attitude of industrial “Labor” has become more
and more critical, and at the annual congress of
the A.C.T.U. early this month the views of the
right and left wings of the movement seemed to be
closer together than they have ever been on this
subject, and proposals were adopted which, if put
into effect, would mean the virtual abolition of the
court.
Since 1947, when Dr. Evatt “streamlined” the
arbitration-system, most of the functions of the
court have been exercised by conciliation-
commissioners. Powers which “because of their
overriding importance and the desirability of
uniform treatment” were left to the court are those
which deal with standard hours, basic wage, female
minimum wage, sick-, annual- and long-service
leave. The professed intention behind these changes
was twofold: to speed-up the settlement of disputes
and to put the emphasis on conciliation rather than
on arbitration. In neither aspect has the move
been signally successful.
Under the 1947 Act the conciliation-
commissioners were completely independent; there
was no appeal against their decisions. This may
have meant speedier decisions, but it did not mean
that the decisions would be any more acceptable
than those of the judges—particularly when, as soon
began to happen, decisions of individual commis-
sioners were in conflict. Amendments by the
Menzies Government introduced a right of appeal
to the court, and gave the commissioners power to
refer matters to the court. A sequel was the court’s
decision on margins which, with the suspension of
basic-wage quarterly adjustments, is still a major
cause of discontent in trade-union circles.
The other aim of the 1947 Act —to shift the
emphasis on to conciliation—has had no more
success. In a supplement to the N. S. Wales
Industrial Gazette published in 1953 to mark the
fiftieth anniversary of industrial arbitration in
N. S. Wales, the secretary of the Department of
Labor and National Service said that, while the
system had had a marked effect in reducing the
time-lag for the hearing of disputes,
it can hardly be claimed that the attempt to place
the emphasis on conciliation has been wholly
successful. While the number of consent awards
has been great, that has been rather the product
of conditions of overfull employment than the
exercise of real conciliation functions. Although
their official title is conciliation commissioner, it
has been the arbitral function that has been really
exercised.
The reference to the part played by overfull
employment in bringing about “consent-awards”
is highly important; it is a point entirely ignored
by that section of industrial “Labor” which wants
to wipe out the arbitration-system and substitute
collective-bargaining, and it is also overlooked or
dismissed by the more moderate wing of the party.
“Labor’s” whole policy in this matter is indeed
based on the implicit assumption that good times,
even if for the sake of industrial argument they are
labelled bad times, will last for ever. If this were
not so how could a responsible trade-union leader
and member of the national Parliament make such
a statement as that attributed to Eli Harrison, M.P.,
at the A.C.T.U. congress:—
Award determination should be divorced from
the national economy and those charged with
power to make awards should not have to consider
the national economy.
Applying the same principle on the domestic
front Harrison would presumably urge that the
mother of a large family, in dishing up the breakfast
porridge, should determine the size of each helping
by the amount the plates will hold, without any
consideration at all to how much is in the pot.
Not that Harrison is unique in advocating this
impossible policy; from Evatt down there is
scarcely a man in the “Labor” movement with the
requisite combination of knowledge and courage to
point out its stupidity. All prefer instead to go
into a huddle and think up new ways of getting
more porridge out of the pot.
From one such huddle, in which Reds and
off-Pinks were conspicuously active, came the plan
adopted by the A.C.T.U. To be placed before the
Prime Minister as a request, it proposes the aboli-
tion of the Arbitration Court and the appointment
of panels of conciliators and arbitrators. Disputes,
on being reported to the Industrial Registrar, would
be referred by the president of the conciliators to
a compulsory conference with a conciliator as
chairman. The conciliator would have no arbitral
powers, but if no agreement could be reached he
could refer the matter to an arbitrator. The
arbitrator could be decided upon by the conflicting
parties; failing their agreement, by the president.
Matters concerning the basic wage and other items
now in the jurisdiction of the court would be dealt
with by a panel of arbitrators. Questions of law
would be referred to the High Court.
There seems little doubt that all this means
that the A.C.T.U. is swinging round to the Com-
munist policy of scrapping all arbitration machinery
and reverting to collective-bargaining—a policy
which in conditions of full employment would
doubtless pay temporary dividends, but would
hardly be to the benefit of rank-and-file workers
in the event of a recession. This, of course, would
suit the Communist book, enabling them to claim
credit for wage-increases when times are good, and
to put the blame directly on the crool capitalists
instead of by proxy through their alleged stooges
of the arbitration-system, when things go the other
way.
At face-value the proposed intention to shift
the emphasis on to conciliation sounds fair enough.
But none of these proposals can be taken at face-
value. After half a century of amendments it must
be clear that it is not the system that is wrong
so much as the spirit in which it is approached.
Given goodwill and commonsense almost any
system will have a chance of success; without those
attributes even the theoretically-perfect plan is
defeated before it begins.


LEFT BY THE WAYSIDE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Costs the Key
Prime Minister Menzies, in attempting
to deal with Australia’s increasingly
obvious economic difficulties, has done
the right thing in seeking the assistance
and co-operation of representatives of
the community outside what The
Bulletin, in an article on the Budget,
chose to term “the precincts of the Can-
berra Club.” Already bankers, financiers
and businessmen have been on the P.M.’s
invitation-list to Canberra talks; and
although this in itself is indicative of the
seriousness of the present situation, it
also suggests that a spirit of co-operation
necessary to the occasion is being
displayed.
The fall in the price of wool at the
opening of the new season’s sales was
the signal for swift economic moves in
Canberra. Sir Arthur Fadden’s Budget-
speech outlined the difficulties of the
position, and before that the adverse
balance-of-payments had given warning
of the probability of difficult times
ahead; but if wool had risen in price
instead of falling sharply there might not
have been such sudden action. As things
have developed, the more quickly
remedial action is taken the better.
Australia’s great problems, as explained
elsewhere in this issue, are its costs of
production and its low output of manu-
factured goods per man per working-
week. High costs prevent Australia’s
industries exporting to the full and so
enabling us to import more; low output
makes us dependent on more imports
than should be necessary. Between the
two there is obviously a squeeze from
which the economy cannot escape without
doing something about the basic problem
—high costs. Lower living-standards and
economic disruption are the alternatives.
About a year ago a Canberra authority
estimated that a rise of something between
5 p.c. and 10 p.c. in output per person
employed would do a great deal to solve
Australia’s industrial problems. That
contention still holds good. And such a
rise, in most industries, would represent
no hardship to the worker. It goes
almost without saying that if a propor-
tion of those persons at present unpro-
ductively employed in Government jobs
can be turned over to the producing side
of the economy the task of increasing
overall output will be made easier, and
at lower ultimate cost.
Production not only provides the basis
of living-standards and a channel of
export income ; it also creates capital
from internal sources. Furthermore, the
higher the individual output and the
lower the cost-level the greater the con-
fidence of lenders both within Australia
and abroad. The more capital Australia
produces internally, the easier will it be
to obtain capital from overseas. There
are a great many Australian national
undertakings which it would be sound
economics to finance right now if our
costs were only lower and our output
higher. There would, in such circum-
stances, be little need for credit-
restriction or import-quotas.
More Disarmament
The British device of a “pilot plan” in
Europe as a preliminary to general dis-
armament is one of the most progressive
schemes put forward, and it is no wonder
that it received the support of the United
States, France and Canada in the Dis-
armament Sub-committee of U.N.O. last
week when it was proposed by Sir
Anthony Eden. Even the Russian dele-
gate called it “an important contribution
which merited consideration.”
Its essence is that, acting under
a small supervisory commission drawn
in equal strengths from the Nato
High Command and the Soviet High
Command in eastern Europe, joint inspec-
tion-teams should function. After the
command on each side shall have
declared the details of its full defence-
establishment in areas agreed on by the
commission, the inspection-teams get to
work “with complete freedom of move-
ment, and action.” The idea is to pro-
vide a ground on which methods can be
designed and difficulties overcome before
the work of general inspection, pre-
liminary to overall disarmament, begins.
It is, of course, often easy to obtain
agreement to such schemes, as has hap-
pened in Korea and elsewhere, and on a
larger scale in the armistice arrangements
at the end of World War 11. The break-
down always comes when the work
begins and it is discovered that the only
objective of the Communist half of the
joint committee is to use its advantages
for espionage and to promote the world
revolution a little.
There is no indication as yet
that anything but propaganda-talk,
designed as a screen behind which
to make up lost ground in Communist
organisation in Western countries, is be-
hind the Russian soft approaches of the
moment. There is room for the strongest
suspicion that the Russians believe the
cold war ipore important than the hot
war and that their main objective now
is to secure toleration from, and allay
suspicion in, countries which they need
to Red-ant intensively in the hope that
the world may shortly go through
another economic crisis which may lead
to revolutionary situations in the West.
Where force and libel and the propaga-
tion of the legend of the “brutal Fascist
warmongers of Wall-street” is useful it
still serves. It was being propagated in
Vietnam last week, where the Northern
Vietnam Government, which has broken
every agreement made at Geneva, was
viciously threatening the South Viet-
namese.
And in Europe the Russian behavior is
so tortuous that it is difficult to under-
stand the Moscow line from day to day.
A shout of ecstasy went up, for instance,
when, after angry passages between
Bulganin and the aged and religious
Chancellor of West Germany over the
retention of German prisoners and
Germans filched out of their homes as
What lies behind
TIGHT MONEY—page 14
slave-labor 10 years after the close of
the war, it was announced that diplo-
matic relations had been re-established
between the two countries. But Dr.
Adenauer put this in the right perspec-
tive when he stated, after his return from
Moscow, that this only meant that West
Germany was merely falling into line
with other countries that had embassies
in Moscow; that “the establishment of
these relations does not alter anything,
and we shall remain fully faithful to our
obligations towards the organisations of
the West.”
Russian diplomatic relations with
West Germany are more important to
Russia than to West Germany. How
can the Russian military- and secret-
police organisations function in a
country if there is no embassy to shelter
its “Residents” in?
Pensions and Votes
Since the Federal Opposition-Header has
chosen to cast himself in the role of the
Pensioners’ Friend it is timely to consider
how numerous is the section whose
friendship—and votes —he is seeking.
Social Services Minister McMahon, in
presenting his bill to give effect to the
Budget increases in pensions, said that
under the proposals 518,000 age- and
invalid-pensioners would benefit from
the rise, as well as- 41,700 widow-
pensioners. That’s a mighty lot of friends
—and a mighty lot of votes.
The latest increase of 10s. a week in
the pension-rate has been attacked by
Dr. Evatt and his followers as disgrace-
fully inadequate. “An insult to the
pensioners” is one comment which has
been uttered and echoed by “Labor”
speakers; as the scale of the “insult” has
been equalled only once before, and
never exceeded, it is probable that most
of the beneficiaries will be prepared to
pocket it. When “Labor” went out of
office in 1949 the pension stood at 425. 6d.
a week, and attempts by some of his
followers to get Prime Minister Chifley
to raise it in his last Budget had failed,
their leader having told them plainly that
the finances wouldn’t stand it, that social
services had to be paid out of revenue,
and that it was an illusion to think they
could be paid out of bank-credit.
In the first Fadden Budget the pension
was increased by 7s. 6d.; subsequent
increases of 10s., 7s. 6d., 2s. 6d. and 10s.
have brought it to £4, which is 375. 6d. a
week more than was paid in the last year
of the “Labor” Government; the per-
centage increase is 88.2.
“Labor” dismisses these figures by say-
ing that the cost-of-living has risen even
more, so that the new rate of £4 is less
in purchasing-power than was “Labor’s”
425. 6d. Mr. McMahon has adequately
answered that claim. The C-series index-
number for the September quarter, 1949,
was 1428. The corresponding
June, 1955 (the latest available), was
2375. Applying the ratio of the two
numbers to the pension-rate 425. 6d., we
get 70s. Bd., so that the rate as at Budget-
day required an increase of only Bd. a
week to bring it up to the same purchas-
ing-level as the 1949 pension. The latest
10s. gives the pension a buying-power
9s. 4d. a week above the value it had
when Dr. Evatt was Deputy Prime
Minister. In addition to that, all
pensioners are now entitled to free
medical and pharmaceutical benefits and
the means-test has been considerably
eased.
Pensions should not be a matter of
politics, but if Dr. Evatt wants to make
them one he should at least ensure that
he has a case to argue.
Committees of Parliament
“In the ACT”: Had the Prime Minister
gone on with his promise to table the
11-year-old report on wartime expendi-
ture some political points might have
been scored, or they might not; but
Parliament’s reputation could have
suffered because there might have been
reinforcement of a fairly general belief
that its processes are sometimes used for
unjustified muckraking.
It is now known, for the first time,
that the report mentions persons who
gave no evidence to the committee and
on whose behalf no representations were
made to it. Acknowledgment by Mr.
Menzies that he should have known this
before making his promise to table the
document last week, and submission by
him that tabling under the circumstaiices
would be improper, was applauded by his
own party and agreed to by Dr. Evatt —
although there was some muttering from
the front “Labor” bench behind him.
Outside the House, Mr. Bourke (Anti-
Com.), whose request for the tabling of
the report had originally prompted the
Prime Minister’s promise, said he agreed
with Mr. Menzies, but in the House Mr.
Bourke’s colleague, Mr. Keon, took Mr.
Menzies to task with some venom.
This attack was so stinging that Mr.
Menzies was goaded into unwonted inter-
jection. Mr. Keon claimed, with some
reason-, that the Prime Minister should
have been aware long ago of the pro-
ceedings before the committee. He
quoted Mr. Menzies when in Opposition
on the need for safeguarding the public
regard for Parliament l?y making a
searching inquiry into the very matters
with which the report dealt. He de-
clared that the only material thing which
had occurred since the promise had
been made had been the arrival of a
letter from Mr. Raymond Fitzpatrick’s
solicitor.
But the incident should provoke some
thought on the present committee-system
of the Parliament, on improvements
which are needed, and on ways of making
it more efficient and thus improving the
effectiveness of Parliament. Some
Senators have been giving thought to this
matter recently, with the idea of holding
committee inquiries in public (with
proper safeguards for witnesses
summoned to appear) on the lines of
those undertaken by the United States
Senate. They might impose some
restraints on the spectators which do not
apply in Washington, but in general the
plan is to make the Senate a more worth-
while body in public affairs and to elicit
information not at present available to
Parliament on various public questions.
Budget Mystery
The N. S. Wales Budget seems at first
glance to be scarcely one that a Premier
would choose to place before the country
at the approach of an election. More,
it seems scarcely necessary on the face
of known facts. Everybody in the State
service knows the difficulty which
seems 'to assail the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment. At the end of each financial year
it rushes to get in enough departmental
bills in advance to keep its finances in
shape to justify adopting an Oliver Twist
attitude at the Premiers’ conference.
It is true, of course, that the railways
budget for a deficit of £3,350,000 this
financial year—they budgeted for a
£500,000 surplus last year and had a
deficit of £2,351,618 —and the Transport
Department looks forward to a deficit of
£3,850,000, which will be more than last
year by £500,000. The State deficit,
estimated at £2,271,000, if realised
exactly, will be about £120,000 more than
last year. But Governments of the Cahill
species care little about deficits. The
secret of the situation seems to be that
the A.L.P. has decided that it will use
Mr. Cahill’s patently unhappy financial
position to win the Federal election, not
his. He is to be put forward as Exhibit
“A” among the victims of the Federal
Treasurer’s cruelty, and the facts are to
be brought home to electors every hour
of the day from now on.
It is hoped to do this through the
operation of the new taxation. Every
writer of a cheque for groceries, after
November 1, will, it is hoped, mutter
Curse Fadden” as he puts the extra
penny-stamp on the form and the recipi-
ent will repeat the objurgation as he adds
an extra penny to the duty on the receipt,
if “Labor” succeeds in “getting over” its
viewpoint.
Capitalists forking out to Cahill another
3d. per £lO of valqe of share-transfers,
insurers of refrigerators and cars and
radiograms which form the possessions
of the toilers of the Mother State, signa-
tories to conveyances of properties hit
ss. per £lOO, those subject to duties on
leases (an extra Is. per £5O), on p.ns. and
bills of exchange (3d. per £25), on agree-
ments —all these will suffer. And all
(it is hoped) in their minds’ eyes will see
as they fork out, the picture conjured
up by Mr. Cahill in his moving oration,
the bulging moneybags of the heartless
Commonwealth Treasury overflowing
with huge surpluses at their expense.
The purchasers of betting-tickets, whose
impost is conveniently to be introduced
a or so before the Melbourne Cup,
will join the hisses of socked hospital-
patients. And the cries of all these per-
secuted who pay more will mingle with
the ones who are not getting enough,
like the parents of the little children who
have not sufficient teachers to instruct
them in social science—which often
means Socialist politics and indoctrina-
tion with love of the A.L.P. and its
theories, if not of the A.L.P.
Most of the additions and subtractions
seem to have some political significance
Increased taxes, duties, freights, fares,
hospital charges, reduced expenditure on
public works —these are the essential
items in the Cahill Budget.
The Petrov Report
The snatches of the Petrov commission
report published by most of the daily
papers—snippets of sensation —gave little
real idea of the comprehensive and
orderly nature of the voluminous docu-
ment which was a best-seller among
reports in the sub-Treasuries of the
Commonwealth last week.
.The main body of the report consists
of 302 octavo pages divided into 21
chapters, plus 144 pages of appendices
and an index. The matter is well
organised, cut to the bone and put
together in logical order.
There is, firstly, an introduction which
explains the method and machinery of
the commission, of its procedure and of
the intricate problems of interpretation
and of the treatment of matter which it
was impossible for Security reasons, or
unfair for personal reasons, to have dis-
closed. The scheme of the report is then
described, with a short dictionary explain-
ing the meanings of certain code-names
and phrases—G.R.U., M.V.D., etc.—and
of terms used in the jargon of espionage.
The history of the Petrovs, as revealed
by their sworn testimony and otherwise,
is then set out; a chapter tells the story
of the circumstances of their defection
which were thoroughly investigated.
Next is outlined the “nature of the
evidentiary material” and of the
evaluation of it.
Basically the evidence produced con-
sisted of the Petrov papers—Exhibit “H,”
the scurrilous document written by
O’Sullivan, later Dr. Evatt’s press-secre-
tary ; Exhibit “J,” written by Rupert
Lockwood in the Soviet Embassy for
payment in money and brandy. Then
come the “Moscow Letters,” in cipher,
sent out on film from the M.V.D. in the
Soviet Union diplomatic bag. Facsimile
photographs of some of these are given
in the report, together with a list of
code-names and code-phrases. The
remaining papers were the “G” series,
a miscellaneous collection, most of which
Petrov and his wife were supposed in the
Embassy to have destroyed according to
their certificate, but which Petrov had,
in fact, retained.
They included notes by Sadovnikov,
an M.V.D. official at Canberra, of the
code-names of Australians mentioned in
correspondence with Moscow; notes on
information received by the same man
from Moscow centre about many Aus-
tralians recorded as directly or indirectly
connected with Walter Seddon Clayton,
of the Australian Communist-party Con-
trol Commission, and otherwise of
interest. Also notes regarding a number
of other Australians of interest to
Moscow.
The commission describes the method
by which it proceeded in court, the
nature of its exhibits, the use made of
official records, the qualifications of the
interpreter and its estimate of the
(Continued on next page)


credibility of the Petrovs, which was
assessed “with the utmost care” during
the 37 days on which Petrov was in the
witness-box for a total of 74 hours, and
Mrs. Petrov 21 days for a total 30 hours.
(“We found that the Petrovs are wit-
nesses of truth.... we also found their
accuracy to be of a high order.”)
The commissioners in Chapter 5 give
their basic findings from the evidence:
(1) That from about 1943 until February,
1953, the Soviet had and was operating
in Australia an espionage organisation
concerned with the collection of military
(naval, army and air) information. (2)
That from the same time (1943) until
Petrov’s defection on April 3, 1954,
the Soviet also had in Australia an
espionage organisation operating under
the control of a member of the Soviet
Embassy Staff with protection of the
immunities, and with the advantages, of
diplomatic status. It found that this
apparatus was administered from
Moscow and controlled from inside the
Soviet Embassy in Canberra by a suc-
cession of official “Residents.” (3) That
in June, 1952, the Soviet designed and
directed the establishment in Australia
In an early issue of “The Bulletin”
will begin a series of articles in
which “Ek Dum” will analyse the
Petrov Commission’s report against
the background of Communist
activity in Australia.
of an M.V.D. “illegal apparatus”—an
espionage organisation controlled by a
“Resident,” operating without diplomatic
cover outside and independently of the
Embassy apparatus and “able to function
in time of war or emergency.”
The remaining chapters deal —except
the last, which embodies the general con-
clusions —with a dissection of the work
of espionage in this country; with the
operation of the G.R.U., the Chief Mili-
tary Intelligence Directorate of the
Ministry of the Armed Forces ; with that
of the M.V.D., which has the direc-
tion of espionage other than military
espionage of the “cold;'' war,” in fact,
outside Russia and of the secret-police
organisation within it. Its operations
were dissected particularly as they applied
to the External Affairs Department
(which its agents succeeded in honey-
combing) and members of foreign diplo-
matic missions, notably Madame Ollier.
The commissioners wrote “it can be well
imagined..,. .that if then the M.V.D.
could, unknown to the French, get the
key to their communications, the security
not only of France but of the whole
Western world might well be in jeopardy.
The prize sought by the M.V.D. was
indeed great.” Other operations by the
M.V.D., of varying importance and
extent in regard to members of Parlia-
ment, journalists, persons engaged in
commerce, scientists and counter-
espionage and security organisations and
New Australians each have a separate
chapter, as have the “operations of the
M.V.D. towards setting up an illegal
chapter, as have the operations of the
apparatus in Australia for the purpose
or emergency.
The Soviet net was spread here widely
and with determination and lavish
expense. Quite clearly, there must have
been ramifications outside those known
to Petrov.
It seems also obvious that all these
operations began about the time Dr.
Evatt removed the ban on the Com-
munist party in 1943 and that that party
provided the machinery which enabled
the espionage rings to operate effectively
during the whole period the “Labor”
Government was in power at Canberra
and till the Menzies Government stopped
the rot by establishing an effective
Security Service.
POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill’s song to Menzies on uniform-
taxation seems to be “I'll tax the high
load and you tax the low.”
• •
Another conspiracy! This time the
“Doc.” alleges that the A.B.C. talks are
“slanted” and that the commentators who
tell us everything we’ve never guessed
about other nations and their policies
are “pushing the Menzies-Casey Line.”
He should count himself lucky they’re
not saying too much about the Evatt
Line, if even the remnants of “Labor”
are to survive the next federal poll.
• •
Teleword ... Findaword ... Notaword.
\
• •
Why is Ward so curious about the
transactions of the security and investiga-
tion services? Why does he ask all these
questions about their financial doings?
Why does he try to elicit information
which he knows cannot be made public?
Why does he refuse to acknowledge that
the directives are substantially the same
as those given by his former leader When
Prime Minister? Why , . . ?
• •
State and Federal “Labor” members
in South Australia will in future pay
2 i per cent, of their salaries into A.L.P.
following a resolution of the
annual convention in Adelaide. In sup-
porting the suggestion Senator O’Flaherty
remarked that a member should be able
to afford “a miserable £45 or so.” Par-
ticularly when he’s hoping to get a rise
of about 10 times that amount in the
near future.
• •
The Canberra liquor-referendum held
on Saturday resulted in a win for 10-
o’clock closing by more than 2000 votes
in a poll of 14,000. The vote does not
oblige the Government to extend
closing-hours, but it is expected that this
action will follow.
One result of the Canberra poll is a
renewed agitation for a liquor-referendum
in Victoria. Bolte’s Government is said
to be considering taking a vote early
next year ; the expected influx of overseas
visitors for the Olympic Games is a
strong argument with the 10-o’clockers.
• •
If a Tasmanian M.P.’s question is any
indication, the Speck has a grievance at
its lack of an R.A.A.F. establishment.
However, Air Minister Townley (himself
a Tasmanian) was reassuring. Pointing
out that establishment of a unit would
cost £2£ million, he said that “under
present conditions the threat to Tas-
mania is low and doesn’t warrant
development of R.A.A.F. bases.” That
should make the islanders happier.
• ®
Heart-to-heart talks between Premier
Bolte and leaders of the Victorian
Country party failed to bring about the
hoped-for agreement on the Govern-
ment’s transport proposals, and when
“Labor” moved in the Council an amend-
ment to the Address-in-Reply condemn-
ing those proposals and increased rents
for Housing Commission homes, C.P.
members joined with them to defeat the
Government 22 to 9.
Bolte laughed-off the setback with
“A democratically-elected Government
can afford to disregard a so-called defeat
on matters that have yet to be fully
implemented.” The real test will be
when the Council votes on Supply this
week.
• •
Lawson, M.L.A., Country-party mem-
ber for Murray, again brought up the
question of “just price” in the N. S.
Wales Assembly when he accused the
Cahills of obtaining land for settlement
at less than its value by putting the
owners under duress. He said this was
done by proclamations under section 5,
under which the Government could take
the land at its own price. In effect, such
a proclamation said to the owner: “We
will take so much land and leave you
the remainder if you sign the agreement,
but if you refuse we can take the lot.”
Had a policy of “just price” been adopted
there would have been far more
co-operation and far greater success in
closer-settlement.
• •
The Redex trial was an overwhelming
success from at least one viewpoint.
Three separate car-manufacturers have
been able to claim (even if only for a
day) that their product beat allcomers.
• •
Ward and Dougherty were roundly
criticised by the N. S. Wales “Labor”
executive for agreeing to speak at a
Brisbane pro-Evatt rally on Sunday.
They attended just the same. Both
deplored attempts to drop “Labor’s”
Socialist objective—apparently forgetting
that not so long ago it was Evatt who
was soft-pedalling on this issue. Ward
rejoiced that those who had not sup-
ported the party were now outside it,
but Dougherty attacked Queensland
Premier Gair, who, he said, had
“besmirched the party and done it
irreparable harm.”
• •
Queensland Parliament may have its
first woman member after the next
general election ; Mrs. Margaret Gordon,
a former State president of the War
Widows’ Guild, has won the Liberal
nomination for Windsor, defeating a big
field. Windsor is at present held by
“Labor” man Rasey, who won the seat
by a narrow majority in 1950, but held
it comfortably in the swing to “Labor”
in 1953.
MOTHS
Evatt “Labor,” which was never,
never again going to support a Joshua
“Labor” adjournment-motion, supported
one last week which sought a discussion
on the penal provisions of the Arbitra-
tion Act. TTiere was no discussion ;
Acting-Speaker Adermann rejected the
motion on the grounds that as the High
Court was at present hearing an appeal
on the validity of one penal section the
subject was sub judice.
• •
Latest theory on flying-saucers is that
they may be ice-projectiles used to test
long-range weapons for an inter-
continental war. Presumably a cold
war?
• •
Cahill, in one of his more modest
moments:
No one will deny that everything worth while
in Australia has emanated from New South
Wales, which has takqn the initiative in all
progress and advancement, principally when the
Government of which I am a member and
other Labor Governments have been in office.
But wasn’t it Queensland that started
State lotteries?
• •
A Canadian who attended a “Summer
School of Alcoholic Studies” at Yale
(U.S.A.) reported on returning to his
home province, Manitoba, that all whom
he met at Yale were disgusted to learn
that in Manitoba breweries were per-
mitted to own hotels. They were
“scandalised at the idea that any brewery
or distillery should be allowed to invest
a single cent in any liquor outlet.” If
the Summer Scholars want to be really
scandalised they’d better hold their next
session in Sydney. According to the
Maxwell report 884 pubs in N. S. Wales
are owned by breweries.
• •
It is stated on reliable authority that
there is no connection between Dr.
Coombs’s Douglas aircraft and the Com-
monwealth Bank’s credit policy.
• •
Britain’s Chancellor, R. A. Butler, has
effectively squashed rumors that sterling
is to be devalued. He told the Istanbul
meeting of the International Monetary
Fund,
we do not contemplate an early move on
any—l repeat, any—aspects of the exchange
front All discussions and rumors about
impending changes of the parity of, or
margins for, sterling are unrealistic and
irrelevant.
That, however, does not dispel the possi-
bility that the Australian pound may be
due for reappraisal.
• •
Evatt, proposing a series of “Labor”
meetings as a counterblast to the P.M.’s
conferences with financial and com-
mercial heads, proclaimed,
it will be the workers and primary-
producers and their families and hundreds
of thousands of citizens on small fixed
incomes who will suffer most through the
inadequacies and blunderings of the
Menzies-Fadden Government’s financial
policy.
That’s an argument that works both
ways. The same people would be the
sufferers if the Evatt economic policy
were ever put into effect. Fortunately,
up to the present the people have shown
by their votes a lively appreciation of
that fact.
• •
It was forecast here when Tatt.’s
migrated to Melbourne that one result
would be a falling-off in contributions to
charitable organisations. Now Victorian
Health Minister Cameron has said
that the failure of the Lord Mayor’s
Appeal Fund to reach its target of
£250,000 was due to the fact that many
people “thought they were giving to
charity when they took a ticket in Tatt.’s.”
That’s not quite right, but the tie-up
between hospitals and lotteries enables
many people to convince themselves that
they are buying the ticket for sweet
charity’s sake.
• •
Censorship of TV is to be stricter than
of films, the chief film-censor says, be-
cause “baby and grandma alike” will see
TV in the home. But surely it’-s pretty
hard to shock the modern baby?
• •
“Stromlo”: More potential trouble-
spots in Asia are the Habomai island-
chain and Shikotan Island, the Kuriles
and South Sakhalin. Japan is raising the
matter in discussions with Russia. All
these islands were Japanese until the
Soviet occupied them militarily shortly
before or after the termination of hos-
tilities in 1945—the Japs themselves are
not 'sure exactly when—and subsequently
incoiporated them into Soviet territory
without waiting for a peace settlement.
The Japanese Embassy in Canberra admits
that Japan waited all right, title and
claim to the Kuriles and South Sakhalin
under the San Francisco Peace Treaty,
but since the Soviet Union refused to
sign that treaty the provisions of the
treaty are not applicable to the Soviet
Union. Accordingly, the territorial ques-
tion still remains unsettled between the
two countries.”


Society
ANE IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
CJCENE was the ante-natal department
of a big “production” hospital, and
Mumma was about to leave with her
daughter, who had attended as a result
of throwing her bonnet over the wind-
mill. All had been going well, no bitter
recriminations on either side, when
suddenly Mumma, jerking her thumb at
the daughter, ' remarked, “Once is
enough ; let this ’appen again without the
ring on y’r finger, and you’ve ’ad it, me
girl!”—“Sister Ellell.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nunk”: The prosperity-story of how
the Sydney “Sun-Herald” and “Sunday
THE PHILISTINE
Telegraph” bumped their crossword-
prizes up, hour by hour, on the Saturday,
to be able to announce the final solutions
on the Sunday of £ll,OOO and £15,000
respectively, will surely result in their
employees putting in a new log of claims.
In the “Telegraph’s” case, £15,000 for
51 words, or almost £3OO a word, makes
entering for the “Herald’s” novel-
competition a gamble for pikers only.
“Rigel”: Matelot of my acquaintance,
, lately discharged, strap-hanging in a
i Melbourne * tram, was intrigued and
flattered by blushes, smiles and giggles of
tw<? pretty teenagers squeezed against him.
Manly pride changed to embarrassment
when he realised that the centre of interest
was the luscious nude on the full length
of his forearm, displayed by his short-
sleeved shirt. He took her back to the
tattooist and spent half-a-guinea out-
fitting her with a snappy line in
V-knickers and bra. But a few weeks
later his wife-to-be first hinted-at, then
demanded, some of the new season’s
beach-wear. The matelot was forced to
settle for another half-guinea’s worth —
a modish beach-jacket and Waikiki-style
skirt. He’s dreading the new spring
styles.
£«■
“Bo”: The demonstrator on the food-
mixing machine at the big city-store was
emphatic about one aspect of the recipe.
“You must use tepid water,” she ex-
plained. An interested woman among
the onlookers looked at her. “Tepid
water,” she repeated. “Where can you
buy it?”
❖ *** *x*
I heard it in a bright little
town in South Queensland some time
back. The mayor, proud of his oratory,
standing on a platform addressed the!
crowd: “We are here today to celebrate
the crowning of King George the Sixth,
who reigns over this vast British Empire,
parts of which the sun never sets on.”
“J.K.”: “Jobber’s” version (B. 7/9/’55)
of Gordon’s “The Sick Stockrider”
agrees with that appearing in the first
edition of Bush Ballads. The poem first
appeared in “The Colonial Monthly,”
January 1, 1870, and was reprinted in the
Melbourne “Argus” a fortnight later. The
last verse —not printed in his volumes of
poetry—runs:
I don’t suppose I shall, though: I feel like
sleeping sound:
That sleep, they say, is doubtful. True:
but yet
At least it makes no difference to the dead
man under ground
What the living men remember or forget.
“Burna": Imagination or not, the
dragging-chain antidote for car-sickness
has caught on. At night the chain sparks
constantly against the ground, but
whether this is static discharge or merely
friction is open to question. Now the
trade offers a piece of conducting-rubber
to eliminate the noise of the chain. The
chain had an additional value in the
U.S.A. in blurring the radar-image which
is part of traffic-police equipment,
v v *
“Emel”: No charge of wasting official
stationery can be brought against
Horsham (Vic.). Cards recently sent out
to summon jurors did so in his Majesty’s
name. But the “his” had been rubber-
stamped over an original “her,” and the
date, originally in the 1890’s, altered to
1955. The cards were some of a batch
printed in Queen Victoria’s day!
♦> ❖ ❖
“S.A.K.”: The biographies-in-brief of
retiring higher-up public servants never
fail to mention “joined as a messenger-
boy and rose to so-and-so.” As one who
joined as a messenger-boy, fourth divi-
sion, and will probably retire without
moving out of that division, I point out
that before 1920 virtually the only en-
trance to the public service was per mes-
senger-boy. There was a lot in favor
“This little piggy Went to market....”
of this. The individual went up, out or
quietly. One big trouble in the public
service today is round posts trying to fit
square holes, caused by enlisting people
into avenues for which they have no
natural inclination and then trying to
hold them by paying them more and more
money.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“C.A.A.”: Former chief of 8.C.0.F.
in Japan, Lt.-Gen. Sir Horace Robertson,
recently had a new car registered in the
cabbage-State. Appropriately, for the
man thousands knew as “Red Robbie”
the registration-number was prefixed
with the letters “R.R.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: Ballarat’s Perseus has suf-
fered much persecution in stony silence.
He has been adorned with a boy’s cap,
had a colorful tie knotted round his neck
and now for the second time has lost his
sword. All this talk of disarmament, no
doubt.
❖ ❖ i*
“M.E.”: As we are always alerted by
house-phone when they visit the store, I
was amazed to see a notorious shop-
lifter in my department. I always manage
these people myself; I asked her could I
help. She wasn’t buying today she said,
just looking round. She “looked round”
for a while; then, glad to be getting rid
of her, I sauntered with her to the lift,
phoned down that she had been with us
and forgot about her. Then it struck me
—that coat she was wearing! I rushed
to the rack. The empty coat-hanger told
me another item had to be written-off
“Lost —probably stolen.” Apparently her
luck gave out at midday as, in the after-
noon, she and a man-accomplice were
caught and later jailed for an attempted
diamond-ring robbery.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: Too late I realised I’d
posted six air-mail letters carrying the
orange kangaroo stamps (id.), instead
of the same color 6|d. depicting the
Queen’s head. I needn’t have worried ;
all got through tax-free and I owe the
P.M.G. Department 3s. conscience-money,
which I’ll never do them out of!
r
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Baggyduds”: Jumped into the train
with Ned, probably the biggest, toughest
and ugliest bloke at present on parade
in the Australian Army. A few stops
further on we were joined by a little
fellow obviously doing his first day as a
school cadet, self-conscious and shifting
from one foot to the other while en-
deavoring to dissuade the hat, khaki, felt,
fur, from its set intention of swallowing
his ears. Big Ned, poking out probably
the largest mitt ever issued, said, “ ’Alio,
Digger, ’ow are you going, mate?”
Don’t know if' the little fellow had drawn
his field-marshal’s baton, future for the
use of, but he swelled so visibly the old
onion-bags actually touched in places.
♦jt -ijf
“Kune”: A faithful old friend of the
N.S.W. Railways has just gone out of
service—the old gasworks (established,
1892) at Macdonaldtown (Sydney), which
were the source of supply when trains
were gaslit. Gas for carriages was
pumped under pressure to Sydney station,
where it was pipe-distributed round the
assembly-yard for filling trains. The old
works also kept a fleet of gas-tanks,
mounted on bogies, taking supplies to
country centres. When the demand
became too much for the Macdonaldtown
plant, small gasworks were put in at
Bathurst, Junee and Werris Creek. The
switch-over to axle-gener v ated electricity
for the carriages took place some 30-odd
years ago, although for a while heating
and cooking in long-distance trains was
still by coal gas. Nowadays, it is done
by blue-ray gas, except for sleeping-car
heating, which is electrical. The only
coal-gas now used in N.S.W. trains is for
a few old-type goods brake-vans. It was
not the power-lit trains that put the old
Macdonaldtown works out of action..
They have since been supplying about
50,000,000 cubic feet a year for indus-
trial uses in the Eveleigh workshops.
A.G.L. has now taken over.
*5 <s* ❖
“St. Ruth”: Add to the accomplish-
ments of the late Mrs. Pattie Fothering-
hame cited by “Fitz” (B. 3/8/’55) that of
flautist. She was one of a bunch of press-
women who put on a show for war-funds
during War I, when I first met her. “I’ll
lend you my flute,” she said to poetess
Nina Murdoch, who was Euterpe in one
of the items. At sight of the rather
clumsy-looking instrument on the night
of the show Nina jibbed, and the muse
of lyric poetry appeared with a tin-
whistle.
-ijf
“Jade”: Rockhampton Centenary in-
spires Grandpa to remember how the
South American way of life came, briefly,
to Rockhampton in the 1880’s. Family
head, Grandpa’s uncle, who had settled
in 1863 near Broadsound, now St. Law-
rence, drove the 70-odd miles to Rock-
hampton to meet cousin Harry from
South America. Harry’s father was an
Irish professor in California, and a lad of
such a background would need a helping
hand in Australia. He did, but not as
Uncle expected. The innocent lad had
spent some years in South America and
he was a throwback to his Grandmama,
an Italian lady of title who had eloped
with a junior British naval officer. Their
double-barrelled Italian-English name is
still borne by Queensland descendants.
On arrival at Rockhampton, cousin
Harry and a South American friend
“went to town” in the South American
manner. Hiring horses at the livery-
stables, they galloped up and down the
main streets firing their pistols and
uttering horrible cries, with some throw-
ing of bolases, the weighted rope the
gauchos use in place of a lasso. The
“way of a gaucho” was not Rockhamp-
ton’s way, and Uncle arrived in nice
time to bail them out of the lock-up.
A NEW BUSH BALLAD
“COOK for Stn. Home WEST. DIST. 2
gents, inside and 4 to 6 men in kitchen. Wages
£l5 and keep. Must have good station refs.”
—Advertisement in “The Sydney Morning
Herald.”
Where men are men and gents, are gents.
They live in homesteads, not in tents;
The welcome-door is open wide
With the men in the kitchen and the
gents, inside
Singing:
“Who called the —— a cook ?”
“Who called the by-blow a chef ?”
“Take away this fish; l wanted
chook !”
“I ordered Sole au Bonhomme —
is he deaf ?’’
The men ride out on the wild-west
plains;
The gents, stay at home and use their
brains;
In kitchen and in dining-room, when
evening shadows fall,
They join in a part-song that’s parted by
a wall,
Singing:
“Who called the ——- a cook ?”
“Who called the by-blow a chef ?”
“Make the silly sling his hook !”
“Have the man discharged without
a ref.!’’
For fifteen-pounds in good hard cash,
Half of his time the cook slings hash,
For the rest of his time it’s haut cuisine
With a dollop for the dixie and one for
the tureen,
Singing:
“Everybody knows what is meant
By a' belly or a frying-pan,
But who said a man was a gent.?
And who. said a gent, was a man ?”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TyDULD-BE politician’s wife, being
helpful, accompanied him on the
first tour of what he hoped wbuld be his
electorate. Acting on her instructions,
he stopped the car at the gate of each
house visited, got out, went round the
other side, opened the door and assisted
her out, opened the gate for her and
followed her in. He did this 19 times
in one afternoon. When they got home
he stopped the car at the gate, lit a
cigarette and said, “Well, dear, we’re
home, and you can bloody well get out
by yourself.”—“F.A.M.”
❖ *X* ❖
“Swilliam”: The contention of “ ’Arry
Stottle” that the hiccup is either trochaic
or semi-spondaic might cover Shakspeare
and the academic or amateur poet of our
own day ; but for that reason to hiccup
in trochaics or spondees would be
plagiarism in a contemporary profes-
sional poet. The modern poet is expected
to be original in all things. Advised by
Baudelaire to “cultivate his hysteria,” he
may find cultivating his hiccups an easy
and natural progression from this —so
much so that it is second-nature for me
now to hiccup in iambics; while after a
heavy Chinese meal, prefaced and
followed by large draughts of beer, I
find that dactyllic and anapaestic hiccups
come easily, and have even had a
moderate success with amphibrachs.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Allan B.”: Am still quivering after
reading in a Ballarat paper an article by
a most respected headmistress on a
teachers’ training-college where, she says,
the students “receive accommodation,
salaries and a loving-away-from-home
allowance.” I add it to my happy
memories with the bit from Melbourne
“Age” of August 15, recording that an
English vicar had been thinking about a
certain matter for some time “as he had
been a clergyman for 300 years.”
“B. the B.”: He would be an ignorant
heathen who asked the “curate” in a
Dublin bar for a “Gwi-ness twinty,”
“Double X” (B. 24/8/’55). In a city
where men know how to drink, the Dub-
lin man calls for “stout” and he is served
with XXX Guinness —two n’s please —or
a pint of porter. Stout, strong beer ; and
porter, a dark brown bitter beer made
for porters and other laborers, according
to the O.E.D. It is hard to believe that
in my salad-days in Dublin the grocer
would sell a dozen of XXX stout, de-
livered and empties collected, for Is. lOd.
It is a common belief that the numbers on
the label of a bottle of Guinness’s stout,
e.g. A/31 55824, can be used to trace
an individual bottle. This is not so, but
read backwards they give the date of
bottling and the vat from which the
stout came. In those far-off days it was
a common belief that a youth needed
four languages
among his
scholastic attain-
ments to get a job
as a clerk at St.
James’s Gate.
❖ ❖
“Fair f”: A
bandsman who
assisted at a
morning function
was returning
home when a
friend pulled-up
in a car and in-
sisted that he join
the party en route
to Jenolan Caves.
At the caves he
joined a small
crowd waiting
near the en-
trances. His
approach seemed
to cause a mild
stir. Deferenti-
ally he was ac-
corded a place of
honor at the head
of the queue. He
was chewing over
this unaccustomed
“ Don't know what she sees in him — he's no cop!”
recognition when a question put by a
teenager brought the light. In his uni-
form they took him for the guide.
♦♦♦
“Doric”: The manager of a Sydney
firm, being short of junior staff, decided
to send a representative to the Careers
Exhibition. After standing about all day,
the recruiting-officer returned to the
office. “Did you have any inquiries?”
asked the boss. “Only two,” was the
reply.; “A couple of lads wanted to
know the way to the men’s toilet.”
♦> ♦>
“C.A.A.”: Thirty members of the
Australian Christian Youth Council from
four States spent the spring vacation
quarrying stone in the Macdonnell
Ranges,! near Alice Springs, and assisted
in the construction of a forecourt to the
almost-completed John Flynn Memorial
Church at The Alice.
+> ♦> ❖
“Geep”: Those extra naughts
(B. 31/8 / ’55) do creep in. Even
Everyman’s Encyclopaedia has Peary
sledging 12,000 miles during his crossing
of north Greenland in the ’nineties.
Peary, a man as uninflated as he was
dogged, modestly describes a 1200-mile
journey in his own account of the
crossing.
* * *
“R. Volt”: If “Bullswool” realised the
risk hie runs through his trees touching the
electric-powerlines he would be much
more grateful to the Victorian Electricity
Commission for peremptorily ordering
him to prune them than to the P.M.G.
for politely asking permission to do the
service for him. The current carried by
the P.M.G.’s lines wouldn’t hurt a blow-
fly, but the 240-odd volts of the S.E.C.’s
lines are another story. The other even-
ing I rang our local station and said that
my property was in darkness; remark-
ably soon after a truck arrived and, after
swarming all over the place with ladders,
the gang discovered a poplar-twig had
been caressing the main wires. I noticed
the extraordinary care with which the
boss attached his safety-belt when he got
to the top of his ladder. A few days previ-
ously a mate had been reduced to a grill
in a similar situation.
* ❖ ❖
“Tosca Ninny”: Some very highbrow
tempers are now being lost over whether
all operas should be sung in English.
Sing ’em in Choctaw and it wouldn’t
make a semi-quaver’s difference. Sluice
away the music from most operas and
what have you got? Twaddle. James
Agate said the last word on this: “I
don’t want to know what Briinnhilde is
yammering about.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hairy Goat”: Can anyone tell me
why baldness becomes more prevalent
the farther north one travels? I noticed
this on a recent holiday trip from Sydney
to Bundaberg. After the day’s drive I
usually attended the local flicks, and got
in the way of counting 100 male domes!
noting the number of pink tops. It went
like this: Newcastle 6 ; Coffs Harbor 6 ;
Grafton 7; Lismore 9; Brisbane 11;
Mooloolaba 12; Nambour 14; Gympie
15; Maryborough 15; Bundaberg 17.
This was as far north as my observations
took me, but what’s the score in Cairns?
Do they have hairdressers up that way?
If so, I suppose their best line would be
a quick cut-and-polish.
♦J*
“Avon”: When a Dunedin (N.Z.)
typist returned from an office-journey
with a rain-damaged hairdo the bunch
of young businessmen who employed her
shouted her a full-scale perm, booking it
in themselves and taking pains to explain
why to the salon. Next day they had
three inquiries for jobs—all from the
salon staff.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: A young man who spends
most of his time hanging around
street-corners, eyeing-off our girls, is
being paid to do it by a European fashion-
house. He is over here specially to
check-up on what Australian girls really
wear. It’s to be hoped he keeps his mind
on the garb.
* ❖ ❖
“T 755”: To “Baggyduds’ ” par. (B.
24/8/’55): Those mileages aren’t impres-
“I'd love to ask you in for a cup of tea , officer, but everything's
upside-down .”
sive at all. Most of Sydney’s 3000 or
so cabbies clock-up anything from 30,000
to 50,000 accident-free miles each year.
Piloting a hack around the city’s miles of
rough and narrow streets and avoiding
trams, buses, cars, pedestrians, a certain
female character and dead-end bashers
calls for real skill.
❖ ❖
“Kabur”: The “Golden Mile” of
Graham Phillips (B. 10/8/;55) could, on
a small scale, be Bradfield Highway.
Ambling to the saltmine about dawn I
enjoyed a small but regular income, odds
and ends and coins dropped by drivers
fumbling for their bridge-toll. Interest
was sustained by hope and uncertainty;
then the fount failed. My monopoly was
forestalled by a gentleman who regularly
dosses in a near-by public building and
at first light patrols up and also down.
❖ ❖
“Doric”: In the quaint old-world city
of Luxembourg, where one would expect
to find characters from “The Chocolate
Soldier” at every corner, one comes
suddenly upon a glittering, chromium-
plated edifice proclaiming in glaring
neon-lights: “Yank Theatre.”
*** <♦ ♦>
“G’pa”: “Fitz’s” par. (B. 7/9/’55) on
tramway-conversation reminds me of a
mother’s discomfiture. Her seven-year-
old daughter, seeing a baby in its
mother’s arms in the seat opposite, asked
in a shrill treble, “Mum! Can’t we buy
a baby?” Her mother explained that
babies cost a lot of money. “Well,” in
a still-louder treble, “can’t we get one
on the cash-order?”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Dix”: Anyone care to defend the
phrase “a sense of false security” heard
and read so frequently today? It doesn’t
make sense to me; but juggled around
to read “a false sense of security” it
means a whole lot. When the daily
papers quoted Sir Winston Churchill as
having used the phrase as at first given
I wrote to the old master to ask if
he had been correctly reported. Back
came a reply from the secretary of the
House of Commons saying, with Sir Win-
ston’s compliments, that in the “special
circumstances” in which he used the
phrase, he felt it was correct. Far be it
from me to question this ruling; but I
still can’t bring myself to like it.
♦+♦ ♦> ❖
“Benbow”: The modern method of
teaching French is by using that language
only, not one word of any other language,
only pantomime being used at the
classes. To obtain the French word for
“cat,” for instance, a student has to
make “meowing” noises or he will not
be answered. While it is ecstasy to watch
an elderly pupil trying to ask how,, to say
“dance” in French, the joy rapidly fades
when a tone-deaf Englishwoman wants
to know the French for “sing.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: Rufus Morris’s joke-block
(B. 31 / 8 //55) showing the interior of a
butcher’s-shop run by a man named
Clancy is further evidence of the wide-
spread association of the clan of
“Banjo” Paterson’s cobber from “The
Overflow” with the meat-retailing-
industry. In a lifetime of travelling
throughout the length and breadth of
Australia, I have rarely struck a town of
any size that did not provide a living for
at least one butcher named Clancy. An
exception •is the hamlet I inhabit now.
When I commented on this to my present
butcher over a couple of pots at the local,
he said, “’S funny you saying that, My
mother’s maiden-name was Clancy.”
HUMILIATION PLUS
“Exchange set of bagpipes for lawn-mower.
—Classified advt.
Something went wrong, not a doubt.
Were his front teeth all blown out,
Or shattered?
Did his tonsils, in the blast
They were subject to, at last
Become battered?
Did he think perhaps a lung
Might eventually go bung
With the striving
To maintain cyclonic breath,
And that one day sudden death
Might be arriving?
It could be he got a shock:
In the mirror saw his clock
Turning beet-red ;
Did his bagpipes start to flake
And he found they wouldn’t take
One more retread?
All his neighbors, pretty narked,
Might have snakily remarked
About his practice,
And his one alternative,
If he was to blow and live,
Was hit the cactus!
In the life of every man,
Whether prince or artisan,
Must come crises.
Problems have to be resolved;
And not seldom are involved ,
Sacrifices.
Casanovas give up dames,
Blonde gold-diggers valued claims
(Though they burn-up).
But'in this case we have got
A bagpipe-yielding Scot.
Well, what a turn-up!
Such a tragedy, I feel.
Would make any haggis reel;
’Twould wilt a thistle.
Behold poor Mac., who’s used
To full, power, perhaps reduced
To a tin-whistle !
For some, golf-clubs, or a watch,
Or a case or two of Scotch —
But nowise lower
Could a set of bagpipes fall
Than be swapped for —above all —
A blasted mower!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAI ITEMS
Out here to look over the local
financial and industrial picture (with a
view to swelling it with British capital),
John Charles Rodgers, Conservative
Parliamentarian, will know what to look
for. A director of J. Walter Thompson,
and chairman of the British Market
Research Bureau, in his time he’s directed
Britain’s post-war export-trade develop-
ment, and followed that post with a
senior appointment in the Ministry of
Production —mid-War 11, when things
were humming somewhat. Author of
close on a dozen books (and chairman
last year of the committee which dealt
with the typically British problem of
litter in Royal parks), he represents
Sevenoaks in the Commons, in which
constituency resides Sir Winston
Churchill. So now we know which
square the cross is in on the ballot-paper
which newspapers show Sir Winston
poking in its box on election-day.
• •
Noted New Zealand medico, Sir
Sydney Smith, Rector of Edinburgh
University and, till recently, pathologist
to the British Home Office, will figure in
a murder-case to be heard in Auckland.
A world-authority on forensic medicine,
he will be called by the defence in
the trial of a man charged with poisoning
his wife. Sir Sydney is a native of
Roxburgh, Central Otago.
ALEXANDER MORRISON, educa-
tionist in Queensland for half-a-century,
secretary of the Board of Trustees of
Newstead House, romantically historic,
oldest remaining home in Brisbane.
Secretary, as well, of the Historical
Society of Queensland, with a son lectur-
ing in history at the University.
Fifty-two this month, with a long log
of senior R.A.A.F. appointments to his
credit, Air-Commodore Alan Moorhouse
Charlesworth is folding his wings,
succeeded in command of his service’s
overseas h.-q. in London by Air-
Commodore N. Ford. Air Officer Com-
manding, Eastern Area,, when R.A.A.F.
h.-q. took-off from Point Piper to Brad-
field Park (Sydney), Charlesworth trans-
ferred to flying in 1925, after time in the
Army. With an R.A.F. party he flew on
a .photographic survey of Somaliland,
bumped round in Ansons for a few years,
and in 1939 temporarily settled down,
S.A.S.O. of Central, later Eastern, Area.
A year later he took over the operational
base at Pearce, including No. 25 (City of
Perth) Squadron, which evolved through
the war years from Wirraways to
Vengeances to Liberators. He com-
manded the Air Support School at
Laverton and was Chief of Staff with
8.C.0.F. in Japan. Born at Lottah (Tas.),
the flier first aspired to the R.A.N.
College, inspired by schoolfellow Harold
Gatty. The Navy said no, because of a
“bent back,” an unfortunate affliction
which so handicapped him at Duntroon
that he was able to be champion athlete
for only three years running, and to carry
off the Sword of Honor for the outstand-
ing student of his year. Now he golfs.
• •
Intending to nominate R. A. Oxlade
as chairman of the Australian Board
of Control for international cricket,
Frank Cush has been himself elected, on
his old friend’s death. For long the
board’s treasurer, a timber-man by pro-
fession, Cush presides over the St.
George (Sydney) C.C., and has been a
delegate of the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion for more than 30 years.
Latest to take silk, R. Else Mitchell
and J. D. Evans, both of Sydney, and of
its university. Co-winner of the Dailey
Prize for the outstanding law-student of
his year, Mitchell was admitted in 1939,
but went presently into the Common-
wealth Rationing Commission, secretary.
Lecturer on Australian constitutional
law at Sydney University, at present
appearing in the Blacktown land-
inquiry, he’s authored law-books,
edits the Law Journal, and is off shortly
for leave to appeal to the Privy Council
on the inter-State hauliers’ case. Evans,
admitted three years before his colleague,
served the whole of the war in the 7th
Division, trooper to three-pipper: Challis
Lecturer in contracts and mercantile law
at Sydney University, Bar Councillor and
hon. treasurer of the State Bar
Association.
• •
In Australia for one increasing purpose
—adding to the many designs reproduced
on china by 6000 workers in his nine
factories —Philip Rosenthal, a citizen of
two countries, Britain and West Germany.
Though bom in Germany, he’s lived most
of his life in England, took his M.A. at
Oxford, and served with the British Army
against Hitler. Now a noted porcelain-
expert and -manufacturer, he spends about
one-third of each year travelling round
the world by air. On his Australian tour,
he hopes to visit a station near Alice
Springs in search of abo. motifs for his
designs; already he knows more about
Westralian wildflowers than most Westra-
lians. He’ll also give exhibitions of Rosen-
thal china, valued at £20,000.
• •
Awarded a Rotary Foundation Fellow-
ship, K. L. Williams, research-assistant
in geology department at the University
of New England, is off to Canada for a
year of post-graduate work at Queen’s
University, Kingston, Ontario. • Gradu-
ated B.Sc. with first-class honors in
geology early this year, Williams has
been working on a large-scale geological
map of New England as part of a long-
term project by the university’s geology
department; for. his honors degree he
did detailed geological mapping of the
area between Manilla and Boggabri.
Interested especially in the various ore-
minerals which occur widely throughout
the New England region, at Queen’s
he will specialise in mineragraphy —the
study of polished sections of opaque
minerals leading to a better understand-
ing of the origin of ore-bodies.
• ®
From one of ’em:
’Twas a momentous occasion for the Ramsey
clan when at Kensington (S.A.) a probable
Australian record was created with some 300
relatives gathered to celebrate a family
centenary.
In 1855 Joseph and Eliza Ramsey dis-
embarked at Port Adelaide from a slow boat
from England with four small sons. After
settling in the Adelaide hills in the role of
woodcutter (selling price approx. 4s. per
ton), Joseph and his family (now increased by
three sons and one daughter) transferred their
operations to the Kadina-Paskeville area,
clearing land and farming it. One son (Allen)
subsequently “migrated” to Eyre Peninsula,
and with a dozen offspring (and some 50 grand-
children) made a valiant effort to pioneer that
somewhat desolate portion of the State.
Allan Ramsey (of Victor Harbor) conceived
the idea of a family reunion, and together with
cousins Arthur, Cecil and Fred conspired to
get as many of the descendants together as
possible. Out of a total of 520, about 300
attended, including Royce and Ida Lever of
Sydney, Lloyd Deer and family of Ivanhoe
(Vic.) and several great-great-grandchildren.
Although some' descendants were complete
strangers, and others had not met for 25 years
or so, a good time was had by all, with ear-
bashing the most predominant pastime. Archie
Ramsey of Cowell (S.A.), chief statistician for
the family, adequately summed-up when he
said, “Most of us are strangers for the simple
reason that we’ve never met!”
• •
“J.D.W.”: Clive Drummond, retiring
as chief-announcer on station 2YA,
Wellington (N.Z.), after 28 years before
the mike, is a last link with the good
old days of radio in Maoriland before
individuality knuckled under to official
uniformity. Drummond started as a
telegraphist with the P. and T. Depart-
ment before War I, did his initial
announcing at the old 2YK station in
Wellington and transferred to 2YA in
1927. If he succeeded nowhere else he
chalked up a triumph as an exponent of
correct pronunciation of the Maori
language. Many a Kiwi now matured
got his first inkling of the way to handle
the beautiful tongue when, as a youngster,
he heard the vowels receive their full
value from Drummond.
For Air Force Week in Australia (and
for other jobs at Woomera), the R.A.F.
has dispatched two of its top-flight heavy
jet-bombers; also here, heavyweight in
rank, Sir George Mills, boss of Bomber
Command. Flying since 19, the air-
marshal was aloft in Irak at 20, served
thereafter in India, and was flying
Wimpies, in command of 115 Bomber
Squadron, when Hitler removed the
chocks. He won D.F.C. with that unit,
towards war’s end had command of the
Balkan Air Force, and later the Middle
East squadrons (C. 8.). Familiar already
with flying Australians —as A.0.C.,
Malaya, he had the R.A.A.F.’s No. 1
Squadron under his wing. He rose Sir
George last year.
• •
A Minister passes:
George McLeay, Minister for Shipping and
Transport who died a month after his sixty-
third birthday, had been in the Senate since
1934, with a break 1947-9, and had an un-
broken record in some sort of Parliamentary
office since 1937, while holding a seat. The
founder of the Adelaide wholesale and retail
firm of McLeay Brothers 40 years ago,
Parliament liked him as soon as it saw him,
nicknamed him '“Pickwick” —he looked just
like the original—and at once assessed his
dynamism and business ability. Within three
years he was Government Whip in the Senate
and Chairman of the Senate Regulations and
Ordinances Committee in 1938. J, A. Lyons
made him President of the Executive Council,
from which job he slipped into the Customs
and Tirade and Commerce Ministries in the first
year of the war. In the short-lived Fadden
Ministry he held the Supply portfolio and
when the Government fell he became Leader
of the Opposition in the Senate, a position
which he maintained with a bulldog tenacity,
but with good humor. When the Menzies
Government was formed at the beginning of
1950 he was the obvious man to handle the
disorganised shipping business. He was in
private life a friendly, gregarious soul, an old-
fashioned Scot to the backbone; but on the job
he worked like a beaver. He was even trying
to work on his deathbed. Less known to the
public than some other Ministers, his business
acumen and drive will be missed in Cabinet.
His brother John, a Military Medallist of
World War I, and formerly Lord Mayor of
Adelaide, represents Boothby (S.A.) in the
House of Reps, and is a temporary Chairman
of Committees.
• •
Due in Westralia next year as hema-
tologist in Royal Perth Hospital, Dr. W.
R. Pitney did medicine at Melbourne
University (first in medicine, seconds in
pathology and surgery), and is now in
England.
• •
“A good pair of hands” is traditionally
the surgeon’s accolade: “a solid pair of
shoulders” would seem to be the main re-
quirement of medical officers of health —
if they work as solidly as John Matthew
(“Barb”) Dwyer, among other numerous
things medical-investigating authority for
the Adelaide coroner, and whose rugged
phiz is diagrammed herewith. The other
day he lobbed back home from attending
the congress of medicos in Sydney—to be
met at the plane by the coroner’s con-
stable with news of a job that lasted till
midnight. Dwyer graduated from Ade-
laide University about 20 years ago,
having won his Blue for baseball and
captained the ’Varsity team for three
years. After terms as medical- and
surgical-registrar at Royal Adelaide
Hospital h& settled in Hindmarsh, from
which suburb he’s yentured into pretty
well every medical organisation in the
State. The B.M.A. council, Flying
CORONIAL MEDICO
Doctor Service, the Poliomyelitis Com-
mittee are a few, and since 1953 he’s been
honorary surgeon to the Governor-
General. He joined the A.A.M.C. in 1939,
got to England, the Middle East and the
Northern Territory, and is now colonel,
D.D.M.S., at Central Command, South
Australia. Pathology is his speciality;
apart from work, he hobbies with dissect-
ing the South Aus. earth for the rarer
metals.
Here is A. (Bert) Sakzewski, chartered
accountant in Queensland for 24 years,
president of Brisbane Tatt.’s Club for the
past two, with 18 years as hon. coffer-
keeper for an apprenticeship. As good a
“joiner” as any, he has accounted for the
Police-Citizens Youth Welfare Associa-
tion’s finances since its inception, is on
the membership-list of the Brisbane Club,
C.T.A., Q.L.T.A. and Q.C.A.; the Royal
Queensland Golf Club and Brisbane ditto,
and.has another ticket stamped Queens-
land Turf Club. More than a membership
CUEING ACCOUNTANT
interest there —has raced a number of
nags, notched a number of wins. But his
top-mark membership has to do with a
top-figure game—billiards. Vice-president
(one-time president) of the Australian
Amateur Billiards Council, and sometime
also in the chair of the State equivalent
body, Sakzewski held the Australian ama-
teur championship in 1932, was picked to
rep. for his country in the Empire cham-
pionships in London the following year,
and has won 14 Queensland billiards and
snooker titles. Not all club-life —as well
as running the accountancy firm bearing
his name, he’s directorially connected with
a fair-sized list of companies.
•
Into the Silence:
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 86, Frederick Sidney
Pope, who 40 years ago was largely responsible
for reorganising the Dominion’s Agriculture
Department. Before retiring he had become
Assistant-Director-General of Agriculture.
At Rockhampton (Q.), at 65, Frederick
Gdorge Pumfrey, head of Pumfrey, Wyatt and
Company, Brisbane loss-assessors. Assessing
in the northern State for the past 44 years, a
foundation-member of the Institute of Fire
Loss Assessors Incorporated, he had presided
over that body and was a chartered accountant.
Known well at the Windsor (Brisbane) Bowling
Club.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 77, A. H. Blissett,
member of Captain Scott’s first Antarctic
expedition, He served in the Royal Marines
Light Infantry for 16 years, taking in War I.
At 68, Harold Wenholz, former deputy-chief
of the Division of Plant Industry, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture. Widely recognised
as an authority on maize-breeding at Grafton
(N.S.W.) Experiment Farm, he was the
department’s first maize-breeder, and later as
the first Director of Plant Breeding he showed
the way to farmers in improving yields. An
honors-graduate of Sydney University, and
prolific contributor of Man-on-the-Land para-
graphs, Wenholz also persuaded wheatgrowers
to produce medium-strong or strong-grade
wheats, which improve the baking-quality of
flouirs.
In France, at 21, in a car-accident while
returning from the world amateur sprint races
at Milan (Italy), Australian cyclist Lindsay
Cocks. He won the 10-mile track title at the
1954 Empire Games in Games-record time;
had continued riding despite being badly injured
two or three times. He was looked on as a
likely gold-medal winner at next years
Olympics.
In Sydney, at 73, R. A. Oxlade, a Sydney
solicitor, who gave a lifetime to cricket. On
the Australian Board of Control for the past
40 years, chairman eight times, he was to
have been reappointed chairman at last weeks
board-meeting. President of Manly (Sydney)
Club from 1922 to the end, and on the Sydney
Cricket Ground Trust, he was never happier
than when with cricketers talking cricket.
In Brisbane, Frederick Stanley Smith, of
Melbourne, an English law-graduate who
enlisted in the Queensland Battalion and was
wounded on Gallipoli. Known to legal men
throughout Australia —he represented the Law
Book Company.
In Perth, at 85, Archibald Jolly Jeromeson,
Shetland Islander, British Regular and Old
Digger who served in three wars. He joined
the Seaforth Highlanders as a drummer-boy of
13 and served in Egypt and the Sudan (1882-87),
in War I with the 44th Bn,, A.1.F., and,
despite advanced age, with the V.D.C. m the
late disturbance. Between wars, as a seaman,
he sailed most seas besides working on land
with the Westralian Government Railways.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 51, C. A. Furlong,
just retired as reception-officer for the New
Zealand Government. Assistant-director of the
Royal Tour of New Zealand (which earned
him the M.V.0.), he had extended the official
hand of welcome to V.I.P.s since 1939, winning
friends around the globe..


V'
&T it /Myir ge Aajow?
>2» <jan!Y l-osS a WO fe/At S’/zE, //
SPRING BONNET


ABORIGINALITIES
THE musk-drake doesn’t eject water
only to the rear, nor does it do so
by a “paddle-wheel effort of its feet”
(“Dickie,” B. 24/8/’55). It can send that
stream both fore and aft at will and the
propelling agents are its small wings,
clamped suddenly to its sides. The wing-
motion can be seen if it’s watched care-
fully at short range. As for the display
in summer not impressing the ladies —
well, it’s part of the courting display, and
the ducks would naturally respond only
in the mating season, which is after the
first heavy rains. Then the drake really
performs, and to an appreciative audience.
The duck floats calmly on the surface
while the drake glides swiftly towards
her, emitting his shrill, fluid whistle and
ejecting jets of water from his sides.
When he’s within a yard or so he veers
aside, passes her, turns, and approaches
from the other side. After a few passes
he begins to circle her, tautening the
musk-lobes beneath his head so that they
cut the surface. Circling, he draws closer
and increases speed until the display cul-
minates in a rapid movement which
brings the two together in a mating
embrace.
Incidentally, a drake would never dis-
play to two ducks during the breeding
season. One duck would certainly evict
the other.
Bass.
“ Personally, I thought the meals Were top-hole .”
“J.P.C.”: We were reversing our
engine at the out-station when we saw
the bagman perched between the turn-
table girders. He was well settled-in with
a couple of bottles of red sting, but was
very confused. “Say,” he demanded,
“what sort of a train is this? Every time
the thing moves it don’t seem t’ get no-
where!” We tried to explain the situa-
tion, but he reckoned he knew where he
was going. Eventually the local John
persuaded him to go to the station and
lay a complaint. The baggie indignantly
agreed. But the John didn’t mean the
railway-station. After a good sleep, a
clean-up and a feed, plus an hour on the
axe, the baggie got his trains right and
hasn’t been seen since.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: It’s remarkable
how much a “proper water-fiend” can
drink at times (B. 3/8/’55). Working in
a gravel-pit near Merredin in the Westra-
lian wheatbelt during the hungry ’thirties,
I had as a mate a young bloke just up
from the city. It was midsummer, the pit
was deep and narrow and the sun beat
down, up and sideways. In those days the
cockies burned the stubble because there
were no sheep to eat it, and anybody
with a bit of clearing chopped-down put
a match to it, too. With fires for 50 miles
around and the smoke adding to the
humidity there was a positive need to
drink, and I suppose I had my share. But
the kid frightened me. Using a fruit-tin
for a mug he got through, on my estimate,
the best part of six gallons a day and it
was only the salt I added to it that saved
him from a cramp. It didn’t seem to affect
him and he did a fair day’s work, but half
that amount of water would have killed
me.
* * * *
“8.P.”: Talking of old-fashioned im-
plements, in my hardware days I was
once asked by a customer for a “pitchel.”
The Old Hand scratched his head, went
into the basement and returned with a
steel spike. It appeared that a pitchel
was the thing used by a blacksmith to
make holes in horseshoes.
* * * *
“Broadway”: The early Westra-
lian settlers wouldn’t have agreed with
the theory that abos are handy as stock-
men but not much good for anything
else. They cursed the aborigine as an
inefficient and unreliable shepherd who’d
wander off without warning and leave
his charges to the wild-dogs; but they
regarded him highly as a messenger. A
native would carry a letter 50 miles to
deliver to a man and then refuse to hand
it over to the addressee’s wife or any
other member of his family. He’d give
it only to the person to whom he’d been
told to deliver it. That demonstrates a
native faculty not generally considered
—the ability to memorise a white man’s
name and repeat it clearly some days
and many miles later. The whites, on the
other hand, had considerable difficulty
with native names, as witness the con-
fusion among native place-names even in
official documents.
* * * *
“G.S.”: Nature economises in strange
ways. Extravagant in adorning the pea-
cock, the wrens, robins, and honeyeaters
and dozens of others with brilliant
plumage, she also inspires the larks and
the reed-warblers to beautiful song and
the magpies to community carolling—all
largely for the purpose of sex-attraction.
Yet when the humble frog feels the
mating urge he has to rely on the lowliest
of all sounds —a croak—to attract a mate.
Even in the production of this sound
there’s a minimum of waste. The equip-
ment consists of a call-box and a pair
of vocal-chords, and the technique is to
keep the mouth closed and pass air back
and forth from mouth to lungs, over the
chords, so that even the air isn’t wasted.
Apparently the sound isn’t, either. It’s
made only by the male, who keeps it up
until he’s joined by a female, attracted by
the noise. You might think this would
lead to a lot of interbreeding, but it
doesn’t. The females respond only to the
call-note of their particular species.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Big Ted pulled a pair of
women’s stockings out of his fishing-
basket and dragged them on his red-
haired, freckled legs, before taking his
“No more blackouts for us — here’s the emergency lighting."
place in the boat. “An old pair of the
missus’s,” he said. “Nylon. Keeps your
legs warm better ’n wool. If you get ’em
wet they’ll dry in quarter the time.
Y’ wanta try ’em.” The fishing was dead
slow until the blue swimmer-crabs came
on. Then, time after time, we hauled
big beauties to the top only to have
them let go before being dragged into
the boat. A scoop-net would have tricked
’em, but we hadn’t one. It was then
Ted took off his nylons, tied ’em on
his line and hitched the bait to it. The
crabs grabbed the nylon, got the ser-
rated edges of their claws tangled in the
weave and couldn’t let go. I’m nearly
converted.
* * * *
“Jobber”: “Edx”.(B. 24/8/’55) didn’t
mention the bluegums in Egypt. Before
leaving for the Peninsula our regiment
rode to the Delta Barrage, several miles
from Cairo, where we spelled the horses,
swam them and ourselves, and then slept
under some of the most magnificent
Australian gums I’ve seen.
“Kelms”: Nothing odd about an Aus-
tralian eucalypt, transplanted overseas,
outgrowing some of the native trees.
Measured in terms of wood-manufacture
the eucalypt is a remarkably quick
grower. A jarrah will produce more
wood in a decade than an English oak
would in half a century.
*** . *
“W.P.T.”: At Tooraweenah (N.S.W.)
there is a kurrajong 96ft. high with a
girth of 18ft. It stands at the head of a
valley, gets, plenty of water and is in rich
soil. Average height of a kurrajong is
about 30ft. x
* * * *
“Spin”: In a stretch of country com-
pletely burnt-out a few months ago the
blackboys are making a quicker recovery
thari any of the other perennials. The
blackboy belongs to the natural order
Liliacce —and the lilies are a tough race.
Its genetic name, Xanthorrhcea, derives
from the Greek xanthos, yellow, and
rhien, to flow, and refers to the yellowish
gum which it exudes. The plant’s
natural-order name isn’t obvious for most
of the year when the rough, black bole
of the tree and the hard, matchlike leaves
are anything but lilylike. Even when
the long spike blossoms into a pure white
head the relationship isn’t apparent until
you examine the tiny individual flowers
and then their delicacy is surprising. You
can see then why they are classed with
the lilies, although a moment later you’re
looking again at the hard black butt and
musing on the mysteries of Nature.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: The off-side of a bullock-
team (B. 31/8/’55) is the same as that
of a horse-team. Whether bullocks or
horses are being driven the drivers work
from what would be the near-side of a
horse —his left side —because he is
saddled and mounted from that side.
Also, in a team, horses are harnessed
and bullocks are yoked from that side,
and when a bullockdriver or a horse-
driver yells “Gee off!” the leaders swing
to the right—away from the driver —so in
either case the off-side is the same. On
the other hand a cow’s near-side is her
right side because that is the side on
which the operator sits when the animal
is being milked.
* * * *
“J.S.J.”: The original of “Sackville’s”
“other feller” (B. 7/9/’55) could be an
ancient Greek whose demise in a split
tree-trunk is depicted in a group of
statuary in the Louvre, Paris. Milo, or
Milon, by name, he was a noted strong-
man in his youth, and, forgetting the
passing years, he attempted to split-open
a half-split tree-trunk with his bare
hands. Legend has it that he was held
captive in the rebound, his cries unheard
except by the wolves, which finished him
off. In the Louvre statue he is shown in
the grip of the tree being devoured by a
lion.
* * * *
A STREAM capable of holding a good
pump throughout a summer has been
found flowing through a cave about 60
miles north of Perth and is thought to
emerge a few miles further on in the
ocean-bed." Could be —I remember old
fishermen speaking of a spot a little way
off the coast where they could dip fresh
water out of the sea. This newfound
stream is probably the source. It would
have formed the cave as it ploughed a
way through to the ocean, just as hun-
dreds of other streams along there must
have formed hundreds of other caves.
This is what happens: the rainwater
which percolates through the ground
carries carbon-dioxide which eats away
the limestone, thus forming an opening.
Over the centuries this gets bigger until
a stream flows continuously. The action
continues and the opening is further
enlarged by boulders which break-away
from the roof and may be whirled around
in the underground current, smashing
pieces off the sides and forming caverns.
Sometimes the stream reaches a lower
level than the caves and leaves them dry
except for water slowly seeping down
from the surface and working its way
through the cave-roof. This water dis-
solves the limestone and forms the beauti-
ful and characteristic stalactites and
stalagmites of limestone caves.
“Denrek.”
KING PARROT, CAGED
The cage hangs from a dusty balcony.
The long street seethes with cars in that
morass —
surging, lively, brave, depressing, crass —
humanity.
The slattern and her boy (his mongoloid,
poor, round red face as vacant as the moon)
lean by the cage, themselves, both slut and
loon,
hung in a void.
The bright bird rages at the crowd below,
scarlet and emerald, fierce in the sun.
A thousand sunsets blended into one
its red wings glow.
Ah, I have seen vast flocks of “kings” like you
screaming defiance in rain-forests dim
through noons serene and lovely as a hymn—
sheer silver-blue.
Once you flashed with them across a scarp
where orchids hung or wild clematis foamed.
That was where the south-wind, singing,
combed
a great wild harp . . .
Here in the snarling traffic we recall
that same wind-music where first cuckoos
yearned
and youngling violets their white flame burned
at a waterfall.
Your Punchinello wrath rings harsh and free.
Oh, drown her scolding; your strong pinions
beat!
To flaunt a captive monarch in the street
what right hath she?
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


LAVINA
Perfect craftsmanship which the particular will
appreciate . . . Beauty in design the discriminat-
ing demand . . . Faithful reliability based on
Swiss Chronometer standards . . . Priced to
suit keen judges of value.
Here are illustrated two new Lavina models in
the modern trend of larger watches for men and
daintier watches for ladies.
Lavina prices range from—
Men’s: £l4/5/-. Ladies’: £l4/10/-
LMVINA
ffiuz Q&oiee
Since 1352
oj^me&on^
■'
L 30.6?
NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAH OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
4i%
O 12 months
4% . . s s . 9 months
3|%. , m i 6 months
3i%- i ; . • 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
6i7
O 10 & 15 years
6%.... 4 to 9 years
5J% ...... 3 years
5% 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
, MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES — VICTORIA — QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA — WESTERN AUSTRALIA — TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: IAN FOTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
IAC-C
WHEN a truck loaded with beer
for an outback N.T. pub broke
down on the north-south road, the driver
and his family, so it is claimed, had to
sit up all night with a rifle to keep
passers-by away. The driver was pro:
bably thinking of the time when floods
held up the truck carrying the Hall’s
Creek (W.A.) beer. By the time the
weather broke all the beer had been
drunk and the,driver had to work for the
publican for four years to cut-out the
debt. —“Beerup.”
* * * *
“0.G.”: The fat old Chinese who
owned the ship on which I was engineer
always travelled with us to see that he
wasn’t cheated. In the alley-way outside
his cabin —the best in the officers’
quarters —reclined'the biggest, fattest and
most indolent pig I have ever seen. He
carried it not for ballast, but for good
luck. It appeared to understand every
word he said to it—in Chinese or English
—and, while he didn’t mind the officers
punching members of the crew, anyone
who annoyed Denis could look for a new
job.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Don’t know if the blackboy
comes strictly under the heading of
arboreal emigres, but it’s called a grass-
tree and it has travelled. There’s a clump
of it growing in Turkey, where it upset
the old theory relating to the age of
some Australian specimens—it had been
considered that the plant added one layer
of leaves every growing-season, which
would make an Bft. plant nearly 1000
years old, but some of the trees in Turkey
grew as much as 2ft. in 30 years.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: In odd places in
Westralia’s nor’-west you’ll run across
the smallest goanna in Australia —jet-
black and with a 15in. size-limit. A
boundary-riding mate kept one in his
hut as a pet and keeper-down of the huge
brown-cockroach. Blackie would flatten-
out in the dark corners and use his
glittering eye as a lure, and very suc-
cessful it was. My mate had another use
for Blackie. He would often race his
horse against another, and, in these con-
tests, Blackie was inside my mate’s shirt
until the race was under way. At an
appropriate moment the go. would be
jerked out and stuck on to the horse’s
back just past the saddle. Would that
horse fly! Dope and batteries weren’t
in it.
* * * *
Will Lawson: Touching on that par.
about Ned Devine driving for Cobb and
Co. between Sydney and Bathurst (B.
31/8/’55), Cobb and Co. coaches never
operated from Sydney. By the time Jim
Rutherford started services in N. S. Wales
in 1862 the railway had reached Penrith
in the west and Campbelltown in the
south, and coaches carried on from these
points. N|d Devine, who was a Tas-
“And don't forget the burnt-sienna and orange-vermilion."
manian, first drove for Cobb and Co.
between Melbourne and Ballarat. He
was last heard of on Norseman Track
in W.A., where cattle-king Kidman ran
coaches which he bought from the junk-
heap at Bendigo, where they had been
dumped. Devine’s best-known achieve-
ment was driving an eight-in-hand to the
Melbourne Cup in 1862 and manoeuvring
his team in front of the grandstand.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Cats may be noted for their
aversion to water, but at least one family
on the Hunter (N.S.W.) has cats which
fish in the river and make some pretty
good hauls. An even more remarkable
fummy lives in our street. His owners
have a cottage at the seaside and, when
they go thefe for the holidays, the cat
goes swimming with the kiddies. He’s
usually first in and last out.
“Saaedi”: Anyone ever seen a grey
magpie? There is one in my vicinity—
it has the usual black-and-white head
and neck, but for the rest it closely
resembles a grey currawong. It is
smaller than most magpies, but sturdy,
and well able to look after itself —which
is just as well, because its companions,
apparently resembling humans in dislik-
ing anyone who is different, give it curry.
* * * *
“Sackville”: When Nature makes a
noticeable distinction between the sexes
of birds it is, of course, the male she
glorifies. The fine feathers are not
bestowed with reckless abandon, how-
ever. That most beautiful of all finches,
the male Gouldian (often called
“painted finch” by people unaware that
another Australian finch already has that
name), is as dull and drab-looking as his
sister until the first moult. It is the same
with the cock-wren, and there are many
similar examples, but I found one excep-
tion in a grass-parrots’ nest. The
youngsters were feathered, almost ready
for flight, and the cocks were unmistak-
able, their plumage being three shades
brighter than the hens.
* * # *
“Corpus”: The Rev. Thomas Quinton
Stow, father of Congregationalism in
S.A., has two memorials in that State.
One is the very fine Stow Memorial
Church in Flinders-street, Adelaide; the
other is the Seaview Winery, at McLaren
Vale, which celebrates its centenary this
year. Mr. Stow supplied the muscatel
cuttings to his friend, George Pitches
Manning. The original 85-gallon still at
Seaview was set-up on the edge of a
bamboo-fringed duckpond with a cooling
pipe under the water.
* * * *
“Rexine”: Grewia leaves and gum of
the Westralian redgum-trce aren’t the
only effective bush remedies for dysentery
(B. 10/8/’55). Tea made from wattle-
bark is equally good and it doesn’t matter
if the bark is dry or green. In n.-w. Vic-
toria the bark Acacia pycnantha (golden
wattle) is most popular, but in South
Queensland I have known A. longifolia,
A. spectabilis and A. dealbata to be used.
Many a country home carries a little
bundle of the dried bark. I’ve also seen
bushmen strip off a piece of the green
bark and chew it —which seems to be just
as effective.
SMALL TOWN
three pubs; the flicks; a score or so
of antiquated shops;
a court-house—mellowed stone —although
the brace of kindly cops
enforce the law according to a loose
interpretation
and the local habitude.
A church, the school, the homes of those
of wealth, repute; select
above the shops and cottage rows;
positions circumspect.
Aloof and yet pertaining to —an integral relation,
with the creek an interlude.
Descriptive of a place I’ve known,
it could be any country town.
N.S.W.
EVAN DALE
GOLD IN TWO STATES
CJEPPELT’S advertisement (B. 10/8/’55)
° mentions “the astonishing richness of
the Victorian finds,” which is true
enough, although Kalgoorlie’s Golden
Mile—“the richest square-mile on
Earth”—has tended to claim the lime-
light in more recent years.
Actually, the total Westralian produc-
tion from all fields is still nowhere near
the Victorian total. At today’s rate of
production by both States it will be
about 20 years before the West draws
level. That does not belittle the West’s
claim to fame—tales of the fabulous
early discoveries are too well known to
need repeating, and the official figures are
most impressive—but it does indicate
that the Victorian finds were even more
staggeringly rich.
One of the industry’s most striking
phrases was minted on “the Mile,” when
it was said that for a while the Great
Boulder was producing “a ton of gold
a month,” yet despite a scale of pro-
duction that could, at least in part, be
described in such generous terms, the
West’s present total output after 70 years
was passed by Victoria less than 40
years after the first strike in 1851,
Victoria would also lead in the
unofficial estimates. How much gold
has ascended Westralia’s shafts outside
the ore-skips during the last 70 years
not even the locals know, and to that
must be added the unreported gold won
by prospectors and other small private
shows.
But in Victoria 100 years ago, when
things were much easier and the country’s
economy less regimented and restricted,
almost anyone could put up a canvas
shack and call himself a gold-buyer. The
amount of unreported gold that left the
State in those wide-open days must have
been a sensible percentage of the total
raised, possibly running into, millions of
ounces.
EDX.


as
r
m
w
ss
HOIDEN
IS BUILT AND PRICED TO
GIVE YOU FINER VALUE
Today—as in every year since 1951
—more people are buying Holden
than any other car because Holden
offers outstanding value.
Some outstanding Holden features are:
The powerful 6 cylinder, 21 h.p. engine,
30 m.p.g. economy and exceptional depend-
ability as reported by many owners, and
the ready availability throughout Australia
of low cost factory guaranteed parts.
Mr. H. Flisher of Bundaberg, Qld., is
typical of the many owners who have
expressed satisfaction in Holden ownership.
He has written:—“. . . During the thirty
years 1 have been travelling the country
districts of Queensland ... 7 have used
thirteen new vehicles and can state that my
Holden has given me less trouble and cost
than any other vehicle . .
No other car combines all the advantages
of Holden and at such low cost. Holden is
Australia’s Own Car —the only car de-
signed and built for Australian conditions.
In view of the very heavy demand may we
suggest that you place your order as soon
as possible.
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Car
♦registered trade mark
HOLDEN STANDARD SEDAN £B7O
HOLDEN BUSINESS SEDAN £895
HOLDEN SPECIAL SEDAN £915
ABOVE LIST PRICES ARE SUBJECT TO SALES TAX
• Convenient hire purchase arrangements are available through GMAC-—General Motors' own
hire purchase company. 9 There are two Air Chief car radios specially designed for Holden.
GlO6
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
OR BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED DEALER
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
, '■■ r ■ ■' ’>' .■ -
■ attiiM : ’ fp; j« ; t|fli(:
llpTjLiff; Jifl^lltillili
§m
■ I
■HNiraiti
■ ':/ s M>«wW;I liiii dm mm
-
r
m
.
.• : -V.: : V:'
■
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Business Rollery Ete
COST PROBLEMS COMING TO A HEAD
AUSTRALIA’S accumulating economic problems are coming
to a head. This has been made clear by the adverse trade-
balance, the Treasurer’s Budget warnings, the fall in wool
prices, the restriction of imports and the requests by the Prime
Minister and the governor of the central bank (Dr. Coombs)
for credit-tightening and further import-restriction, as well as
for curtailment of hire-purchase lending.
The basic problem is that of inadequate productivity.
In the 10 years since World War II ended Australia’s low
man-hour production has always been a danger to economic
stability, but it was to some extent masked by the high prices
we got for our exports, particularly for wool and wheat. Our
exports were exchangeable for large quantities of imported
goods, and these helped to make up for the deficiencies of our
own internal production, though, overall, we have always had
shortages. Now wool, following wheat, has fallen to the
lowest price since 1949 in the face of wages, other costs and
import-prices that have risen considerably since 1949.
OUR exports now simply do
not pay for the same amount
of imports as they used to. We
can’t, out of current revenue,
buy the same quantities of over-
seas goods as we have been
accustomed to doing, and our
internal production is not
enough to make up the differ-
ence. Moreover, our rate of
production within Australia in
many industries is so low, and
costs of production are so high,
that they discourage exports —
either make them unprofitable
or the profit-margins on them
small and uncertain. Thus a
source of export-income addi-
tional to that from wool, wheat,
metals, meat, dairy-produce,
etc., is hard to establish.
Costs the Key
With wheat no longer around
the extraordinary post-war
price of 225. a bushel, and wool
down from 144 d. (1950-51) to
around 60d., Australia is being
forced into a national stock-
taking that has been long
deferred. It has taken the world
so long to catch up with its
shortage of raw materials (fol-
lowing the devastation and dis-
organisation of World War II
and its cold-war—and Korean —
aftermath) that primary-produc-
ing countries have been able to*
live in an economic hothouse
rather longer than usual. Now
wheat is in abundant production
in most exporting countries, and
large surpluses have accumu-
lated, so depressing the price.
Wool is in a much better posi-
tion than wheat statistically, but
for the present we must face
the fact that it has dropped dis-
concertingly at the present
auctions.
Between the 1948-49 financial
year and 1954-55 average
weekly wages almost exactly
doubled in Australia. In that
, same period industrial output
was severely affected by the 40-
hour week. In the last financial
year output per person employed
in manufacturing industry had
recovered to the level that had
been established before the 40-
hour week became operative.
But in other sections of the
economy there can be little
making-up for fewer hours
through greater mechanical
efficiency —the transport indus-
tries have been hit particularly
hard. And the whole Australian
economy, during this 40-hour
readjustment-period, has been
left behind by the more mature
industrial economies of the
United States and Europe (not
to mention Japan). While Aus-
tralia was slipping back and
then making some recovery,
productivity in the U.S.A.,
Canada, Britain and Germany
went steadily ahead.
The Urge to Expand
Australia over the past 10
years has felt a natural and
urgent desire to expand. But
it has not, as a people, backed
up that desire with the chief
requirement for its fulfilment —
that is, with diligent and hard
work. Nevertheless the stimulus
of consumer - demand and
national development has been
vigorous enough to disguise some
of our economic deficiencies up
to the present
In spite of the largest influx
of migrants that the Common-
wealth has seen, in almost all
the years since the end of the
war there has been a condition
of overfull employment in Aus-
tralia. This has not been con-
ducive to a high—or even
reasonable —average rate of
output from each wage-earner.
Thus at a time when every fit
person has been able to find a
job, and in a position to demand
high wages, production has
not increased correspondingly.
There has been high consumer-
demand in the country which
has, with the assistance of un-
precedented hire - purchase
facilities, absorbed an increasing
variety of Australian production
and at the same time drawn into
the Commonwealth a very large
quantity of goods made overseas.
These goods have been of the
type that go directly to the con-
sumer as well as the kind that
go into the manufacture of
consumer-goods or the kind
(such as machinery) which
assist in the making of
consumer-goods.
We have had a boom. We
have had paper-money “pros-
perity” as well as some real pros-
perity. It has all been high-
cost, inflationary prosperity.
The Australian economy is
now being sharply prodded by
the trend of world events. The
facts of economic life are being
unpleasantly revealed, more
especially the economic
absurdity of the 40-hour week.
We can’t afford it as it is worked
at present, and the extent to
which we are out of step with
other parts of the world is
perhaps best shown by the fact
that it costs more to ship a ton
of cargo on an Australian vessel
from Sydney to Fremantle than
it does to send it by overseas
ships half-way round the world.
Such is the burden of wage-costs
in Australia.
Lost Opportunities
Australia had remarkable
post-war opportunities for
expansion. In 1945 there was a
world shortage of most of the
things which we produced.
Such products as we could spare
from our own civilian needs
(such as worsteds, steel,
building-fittings, etc.) sold well
abroad, and our currency was
not overvalued in relation to
others in the sterling area.
But an exasperating amount
.of post-war industrial indis-
cipline, plus the anachronism of
the 40-hour week, sent costs
soaring; and the high prices
received for wool, up to 1951
and beyond, as well as the extra-
ordinary market for wheat,
encouraged cost-inflation in
Australia on a scale not experi-
enced in any other part of the
English-speaking world during
the same period. Anything that
might have been gained by price-
control up to 1947 was rapidly
lost in the ensuing seven years.
The keen competitive edge with
which we entered the post-war
period has been gapped and
blunted.
The solution of our difficulties
does not lie simply in monetary
remedies. Credit-restriction and
so on may be a help, especially
on the psychological and
“organisational” sides. Mone-
tary management may bring the
true economic state of the
nation more readily into the
understanding of the average
person and the average poli-
tician. It may “pinch” people
who are doing unnecessary
things. But monetary manage-
ment can do little more in
present circumstances than con-
dition the economy and the
people to a state receptive to
the facts of the case. And these
are that each of us, on the
average, is producing too little
while wanting to spend too
much. We are doing too little
for the money-wages we receive.
And we have been left sadly
behind by an outside world
muph more politically and
economically realistic than we
ourselves have been.
Banking Policy
In his statement to the press
last week on present over-
importing and credit-strain, the
governor of the Commonwealth
Bank, Dr. H. C. Coombs, said
that action was necessary if the
present' prosperity of the Aus-
tralian economy was to be pre-
served. Imports are continuing
to flow in at a high rate, and the
outlook is for a further balance-
of-payments deficit in the current
year. Domestic conditions show
an excess pressure of demand,
and measures are urgently needed
to steady-down the increase in
expenditure, particularly on im-
ported products, and ensure that
plans for developmental ex-
penditure are revised so as to be
kept in line with available
resources.
Dr. Coombs said that the
credit policy of the banks should
fit in with the general require-
ments of economic policy and
that restraint in lending is neces-
sary especially in directions
where credit is likely to stimulate
investment or the demand for
imports. The central bank there-
fore has asked the banking sys-
tem to co-operate by applying
restraint in undertaking new
lending commitments and has
specifically requested them to
observe the following principles
in their lending operations:
(a) Not to approve new or increased
accommodation of any magni-
tude for capital expenditure.
(b) Not to enter into any new
commitments involving in-
creased accommodation for
financing imports.
In addition, the banks have been
asked by the central bank to
undertake a comprehensive re-
view of large overdraft accounts
with the object of achieving
reductions in both limits and
indebtedness, especially where
there is substantial permanent
borrowing at present.
Dr. Coombs added that the
central bank asked business
enterprises to co-operate by being
prepared to revise their plans for
expansion so as to permit a
reduction of their dependence on
the banking system for this pur-
pose. If this were done, there
was no reason to doubt that
full employment and a satis-
factory rate of development
could be sustained, but a failure
to carry out the necessary
revision would expose the
economy to serious danger of
instability.
First Things First
The governor of the central
bank earlier this year asked the
trading banks to co-operate in
curbing hire-purchase activity.
The reason for this was obvious
—a boom had developed in
credit-buying and in consumer-
demand generally.
The latest request concerns,
in particular, credit for capital
expenditure and for imports,
both of which the Common-
wealth Bank wants restricted.


TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HE HAS A
RUPT
. . • BUT B£
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
| No Pads —
No Springs
The neo-barrerb
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
•with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3v), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Better than cash
• SAFER MORE CONVENIENT
• AFFORDS PROOF OF PAYMENT
•SAVES TIME AND MONEY
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
★
'k Enquire at any branch of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
#
■v/'
*L,y
FIRST AND LARGEST
TRADING BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5535C
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote your a price for the original.
jCQißvoisii;R
V * • COONAC * (1
•*M i h\«l'V-M
COURVOISIER
<Jke.
COGNAC
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WALES
FESQ & COMPANY Pty.
Ltd. 193 Gloucester Street,
SYDNEY
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
.WALTER REYNELL
& Sons,
REYNELLA
QUEENSLAND
THOMAS BROWN & Sons
Ltd., Eagle Street,
BRISBANE
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
DALGETY & Co. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 94,
PERTH
VICTORIA
TAYLOR FERGUSON &
Co., 127-129 King Street,
MELBOURNE
TASMANIA
BURGESS BROTHERS
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 96D,
HOBART
Dr. Coombs wants plans for
developmental expenditure re-
vised and “kept in line with
available resources.” This
seems to fit in with the ideas of
Treasurer Fadden, who referred
to capital expenditure by private
enterprise as one of the causes
of excessive demand for avail-
able resources.
Probably what the Treasurer
and Dr. Coombs are asking for
is the most convenient policy
for the moment, but there is
little long-term justification for
restricting capital expenditure.
A survey of the Australian
economy will show that ( a )
public works are inadequate ;
( b ) private capital expenditure is
in many cases inadequate,
though in some industries there
is overcapitalisation and over-
capacity ; (c) consumer-spending
is much too high in relation to
production or production
facilities.
There has been a huge output
of refrigerators, washing-
machines and the like in Aus-
tralia, and there have been
record sales of motor-vehicles ;
but public transport systems
have become decrepit and city
building is a long way in
arrears. Likewise homebuilding
is still lagging. This imposes a
restraint on the entry to Aus-
tralia of vitally-needed migrants.
Later last week Mr. Menzies
asked representatives of leading
hire-purchase companies to exer-
cise voluntary restraint in their
lending operations. This request
was right on the economic
target.
Shares Fall
Immediately following Dr.
Coombs’s request to the banks
for restraint in lending in respect
of capital-spending and import-
ing, there was a general decline
in share-prices, which in a week
has added-up to a considerable
fall. The index of ordinary
shares is now within striking-
distance of where it stood at the
beginning of this year, when
The Bulletin warned investors
of “economic gear-changing”
that would occur during 1955
and which seemed bound to
affect share-prices.
After the talk between hire-
purchase managements, Stock
Exchange chairmen and the
Prime Minister in Canberra on
Thursday last, hire-purchase
stocks took a general fall.
Custom Credit at Bs. Bd.
compared with 10s. in July, and
I.A.C. at 10s. 6d. with 12s. 9d.
Balance-sheets still coming
forward for 1954-55 continue to
show remarkable differences in
profit-earning for the period.
Industry is now showing patchy
results, and management and
financial strength will be factors
of great importance as well as
industrial opportunities during
the 1955-56 financial year.
The sharemarket is bound to
go on readjusting itself for some
months as different problems
confront different industries. The
setback in stocks catering for
an undersupplied market (such
as 8.H.P., A.C.1., etc.) has so
far been small. Market
“leaders” a§ a whole have not
led the present downward move
in share-prices. Second-liners
have been affected most.
The Shape of Imports
One of Australia’s biggest con-
cerns in the present difficult situ-
ation is the cost and nature of its
imports. The cost is too high for
our export-income to pay for;
the nature of some of the im-
ports is essential to necessary
development of the country. To
try to adjust one with the other
is a very considerable problem.
In 1954-55 Australia had an
adverse trade-balance of £147
million. Including freight, the
figure grew to £173 million. In-
terest, remittances, etc., took it
up to £256 million. Net capital-
inflow reduced it to £142 million,
and our international reserves
at June 30 were down to £428
million.
Reduction in these reserves is
still going on.
Already there has been reim-
position of import-quotas in
order to curb the inflow of over-
seas goods. But it has not yet
been very effective, and now the
authorities foresee the need for
further cuts. An attempt is being
made to achieve these through
credit-restriction.
Imports during 1954-55 took
the following shape and cost
£843 million (an increase of
£162 million):
1954. 1955.
„ (£000.) (£000.)
Foodstuffs, animal 5,853 7,304
Foodstuffs, veg. .. 25,735 35,751
Liquor 1,328 2,029
Tobacco 17,809 17,316
Live animals .. .. 570 693
Animal substances 4,437 4,109
Fibres, cork .. .. 18,240 19,428
Yams, fibres .. .. 22,882 27,160
Textiles 79,523 86,020
Apparel 11,400 13,579
Oils, fats, waxes .. 83,422 96,865
Pigments, paints .. 5,064 5,900
Minerals, etc 6,031 8,416
Metals and mfrs. .. 125,980 187,032
Electrical 26,118 28,884
Machinery 100,005 108,116
Rubber and mfrs. . 11,827 17,031
Leather and mfrs. . 563 794
Wood and wicker . 11,875 17,456
Cement, china, etc. 12,101 15,517
Pulp and paper .. 34,096 46,477
Sporting - goods,
toys, jewellery .. 7,688 10,441
Optical, surgical .. 8,561 10,840
Chemicals, ferts. .. 19,814 27,879
Miscellaneous . .. 37,599 45,699
Gold, silver .. .. 3,018 2,770
Total 681,539 843,506
Metals and machinery and
“oils, fats and waxes” will be
difficult classifications to deal
with. They cover many essential
items connected with Rational
development.
Westland Oil
Between July 5, 1954, and
June 30, 1955, Westland Oil,
Ltd., searching for oil in the
Warbreccan (Q.) area, spent
over £385,000. Some share-
holders are aghast at the rate at
which money has gone down
boreholes. But, in truth, most
of the cash has been spent in
oil-search or has gone in
charges incidental to field-work.
Only £20,783 is debited as
administration expenses, and
vendor’s consideration of
£25,000 was comparatively small
and was taken out in shares.
Petroleum Drilling Corp.
(Santa Fe) charged £118,062
up. to June 30. Freight and
insurance (presumably on
drilling - equipment) cost
£52,645, and Customs-duty
£25,244. Field expenses of all
kinds (including freight,
Customs-duty, etc.) came to
around £270,000. So that
“operation and exploration
expenses” (including adminis-
tration charges) total £289,998.
The co. drilled three holes,
all to below 5000 ft., but all
were in the wrong places so far
as commercial oil was con-
cerned. Still, better-equipped
companies operating in W.A.
and Papua have drilled more
dry holes than that.
Chief complaint in the case of
Westland is that the holes may
have been drilled too quickly
—the last one was located on a
second-choice site because floods
prevented speedy transportation
of the drilling-rig to an area of
“marked interest.” The co. is
having its drilling done by con-
tract, which may be partly
responsible for the hell-for-
leather pace at which drilling
has been carried out. Never-
theless the speed at which the
co. has found no oil is rather
refreshing in the mining game,
where disappointment is often
so long delayed, and where
administration costs may be
heavily out of proportion to
mining-work done.
As The Bulletin pointed out
at the time of the co.’s forma-
tion, oil-traces have been found
in water-bores within the area
of the co.’s permit, but the
shallowness of basement-rock has
always weighed against the dis-
covery of commercial oil in
Queensland.
Contract-drilling, as it has
been done by Petroleum Drilling
Corp., has been costly, though a
large proportion of the expense
has been incurred in freight,
insurance and Customs charges.
(The co. is claiming for a refund
of £21,441 in Customs-duty.) In
the oil game prospecting and
drilling are invariably expensive,
as has been shown by the figures
of Wapet and Australasian
Petroleum.
At June 30 Westland share-
holders had failed to pay
£125,610 calls in arrears. Issued
capital is 5,255,000 shares of 2s.
each, and the amount paid up
at June 30 was £397,890.
Liabilities at that time were
£27,563. There wasn’t very
much in the till. ,
Westland shares, calls paid,
are on sale at 2d. each.


J 3
S—
rS s *'s
JE
-Hj
ffll
33-39 HUNTER ST. a
SYDNEY.
Offices at
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £78,000,000
Have you looked over your will lately?
aa
If you have not revised your Will to meet to-day’s
conditions, the consequences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility to that some-
one is too important to justify delaying until some
tomorrow that may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one of our
Senior Officers on the subject of the appointment of the
Company as your. Executor and Trustee —alone or
jointly with a relative or friend.
He wiH help yon provide fibr the efficient and
economical settlement of your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step of having yonr
Solicitor redraw yonr Will should then be a simple
matter.
If yon would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company write (or ring B 03 7 1) and make an
appointment.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND AGENT UNDER ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Consolidated Finance Corp., Ltd.
AFTER reconstruction in 1945 —pre-
viously it was the ill-fated Producers
and General Finance Corp. when
£388,750 of the capital was jettisoned and
the business was put on a sound footing,
steady and profitable progress was made
for the next five years. Since then
the undertaking has bounded along,
following extension of trading activities
and the boom in hire-purchase
business.
Over the five years to June 30 last
debtors’ balances (now £3,354,965, mostly
h.-p. contracts) increased by £3,052,056.
For the most part the growth was
financed by bank overdraft (up
£1,780,250) and share capital (up
£1,178,666). Earnings were quick to
respond, and the dividend, steady at 10
p.c. for the three years to 1953, climbed
to 12i p.c. in 1954 and to 15 p.c. last
term. It was sweetened with periodic
issues of new shares for cash at par, and
with £105,899 of bonus-scrip in May,
1954.
Last term 300,000 new £1 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. were put out, and a one-for-three
offer of new ss. ords. to those on the
register at May 27 last was over-
subscribed. When the books were ruled-
off at June 30, £280,294 of application-
money was held pending the allotment
of scrip. Paid capital (£295,873 in 1950)
will be thus lifted to £1,474,593, of
which £400,000 is in 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
and the balance ords. To finance still
further expansion of its h.-p. activities,
the co. has come onto the market, since
the close of accounts, with £1,000,000 of
first mortgage debentures —underwritten
by Ralph IW. King and Yuill,
the Sydney brokers —on which the
annual rate of interest ranges from
4| p.c. for 12 months to 7 p.c. for five
years and more.
The organisation now consists of
parent holding co., which handles the
h.-p. contracts and has branches at
Melbourne and Brisbane, and seven
trading subsidiaries, all in and around
Sydney. The trading offshoots are A. W.
Booth Pty. (which also has branches at
Wollongong, Newcastle, Armidale and
Kempsey), Kelly’s Furniture Pty.,
Century Furnishers Pty., Simpson Lee
and Co. (all in the home-furnishing
trades), Lilyfield Furniture Co. (furniture
manufacturers), Kilners Pty. (removals
and storage) and Amplion Automotive
Pty. (distributor of petrol engines).
The group thus gathers wholesale
and retail profits as well as the
fat returns now; to be won from sale of
h.-p. credit.
All the subsidiaries earned increased
profits last term, and the parent’s own
book-debts increased by over 72 p.c.
After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, and allowing for depreciation
(£10,597, up £3055), taxation (£108,615,
up £37,369) and contribution to the staff
fund (£5OOO, up £1000), etc., net earnings
of the group increased by £56,286.
Actually the improvement wasn’t quite
as good as that, because £15,933 had been
overprovided for taxation in the previous
term:
Consolidated Finance & Subsidiaries.
,' —Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1951 .. 50,014 7 ■lO 29,852 20,162 26,070
From doubtful debts prov’n, £10,000.. 36,070
Unexplained reduction res., £1263 .. 34,807
1952 .. 49,243 7 10 46,174 3,069 37,876
Unexplained addition res., £229 .. 38,105
1953 . . 84,463 7 10 46,174 38,289 76,394
Revaluation assets, £105,899 .. 182,293
Reserves capitalised, £105,899 .. 76,394
Deficit.
Less reserve adjustments, £145,474.. 69,080
Added goodwill, £19,353 .• •• 88,433
From tax reserve, £15,043 .. .. 73,390
1954 ..112,782 7 12* 87,748 25,034 48,356
Tax overprovided, £15,933 .. • • 32,423
Added reserves, £4935 .. •• 27,488
Reserves *
1955 ..169,068 7 15 139,262 29,806 2,318
* After deducting goodwill and difference between
par and book-value of shares in subsidiaries.
The £169,068 of profit was enough to
pay the pref. div. (£20,125) and show
18.7 p.c, on average ord, capital as
against 21.6, 19.8 and 10.8 p.c. for three
preceding years. On shareholders’ net
tangible funds (capital and reserves com-
bined less intangibles), the year’s profit
was 14.1 p.c. So the new debenture
money, as well as the pref. capital, should
make a handy contribution to the pool
for the equity, or ord., shareholders.
Still, all things considered, the 2| p.c.
lift in the div., making 15 p.c. for the
year, appears to be generous. Allowing
for goodwill (£73,098) and the difference
between par- and book-value of shares in
subsidiaries (£167,838), net tangible assets
exceeded the share capital by only £2318
when the books closed.
Central feature of balance-sheet figures
is debtors’ balances, which accounted
for nearly 83 p.c. of total assets at June
30 last:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £400,000
Ord 391,745 794,246 794,245
Share application 28 2’??^
Reserves* .. 76,394 2,318
Outside interests.. 6,929 49,282 48,604
Unearned income 114,516 220,849 375,180
Overdraft .. 332,302 1,045,333 1,854,260
Creditors, etc... 88,930 105,396 129,600
Tax provision . . 78,036 83,399 91,998
Final div 23,087 63,068 73,568
£1,211,939 £2,461,572 £4,050,147
Freeholds, etc. .. 101,903 191,906 198,980
Plant, etc. .. 32,999 69,059 61,242
Stock .. .. 100,862 178,431 152,616
Debtors . . .. 974,509 1,981,882 3,354,965
Cash, etc... .. 1,666 1,988 282,344
Deficit* .. .. 48,356
£1,211,939 £2,461,572 £4,050,147
* After deducting goodwill, £73,098 at 30/6/’55.
The year’s growth in these book-debts
was £1,373,133, met mainly by an
increase of £808,917 in the overdraft
and an additional £300,000 of pref.
capital. The overdraft is with the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank, and is secured
by a first mortgage debenture ; its growth
is a strange commentary on the official
policy of restriction of bank credit for
expansion of h.-p. activities. When the
books closed, more-or-less liquids
exceeded the outside debt (£2,144,416,
including the final div.) by £645,509, or
30.1 p.c.
In the absence of slack in the economy,
and with wages, retail-prices and immigra-
tion moving up and wool-prices receding,
efforts are now being made to damp-
down demand by restricting growth of
h.-p. and other credit, and in this way to
curb inflation. American and British
experience shows that a bigger down-
payment and shorter period for repay-
ment of loans will help to achieve the
desired result. Unless the charge for
credit made by the h.-p. cos. is reduced,
their own earnings in relation to turnover
will not be impaired.
Uncertain of what the future holds, the
market prices the co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. at
6s. 6d. to return 11.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. The £l7 p.c. prefs. at 18s. 3d.
yield 7.6 p.c. Net tangible cover is
595. lOd. prefs. and ss. ords.
Larke, Hoskins & Co.
THIS 48-year-old and now highly pros-
perous motor-distributing organisa-
tion; etc., holds the Austin franchise for
N. S. Wales, except portion of the
Northern Rivers and Riverma—the
vehicles are third-best seller in the market.
Last term the business was reorganised
In the process the ord. capital was lifted
from £200,000 to £BOO,OOO by an exchange
of scrip, equivalent to a juicy three-for-
one bonus share-issue. At the same time
£4O 000 of 5 p.c. pref. capital was repaid
at a cost of £42,000, and £200,000 was
raised on 6 p.c. unsecured notes, repay
able at par in December, 1959. A piece
of ethical behavior which benefited all
concerned.
The group now consists of a new
parent holding co. and seven subsidiaries
—Larke Hoskins Pty., the old parent
co., which now markets the vehicles;
Larke Hoskins Services Pty., servicing
and sale of replacement parts ; Pressed
Metal Corp., Ltd., assembly and body-
building ; William Hiles, Ltd., property-
owning offshoot; Sidney Palmer Pty.,
vendor of used vehicles; Enfield Build-
ing Pty., responsible for maintenance and
new building construction within the
group ', and Larke Hoskins (Wholesale)
Pty., recently formed to assist in overall
marketing and distributing activities.
The three first-named of the sub-
sidiaries are the chief profit-earners.
The assembly and body-building co.,
whose big works at Enfield (near
Sydney) only got into full swing about
three years ago, will presently supply
bodies for Morris as well as Austin
vehicles, both of which are now part of
the big British Motor Corp. Also the
Australian content of Austin vehicles is
to be increased. Subject to what happens
in connection with sales of completed
vehicles, it all looks encouraging for the
earnings of this offshoot, which is now
turning in a “substantial” profit.
Indicative of the co.’s recent prosperity
is the fact that for the five years to
1954 net earnings totalled £1,571,162, out
of which divs. aggregating £289,500 were
paid, the average rate to the ords. being
34 p.c., and at the end of the period
£1,251,707 of visible reserves had been
piled up.
Vehicle sales, which had shot up from
719 in the 1947 term to a peak of 12,920
in 1951, fell to 4580 in 1953 (due largely
to import-restrictions), rose to 6130 in
1954 and reached 7960 last term. Turn-
over of the group for the 12 months to
April 30, 1955, was £9,216,250. After
allowing £34,640 (down £5637) for de-
preciation and £200,125 (down £1420)
for taxation, combined net earnings of
the group took a leap of £89,387 (44.3
p.c.), reaching £290,932:
Larke, Hoskins & Co.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1951 .. 303,446 5 30 62,000 241,446 593,962
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. 643,962
1952 . . 263,248 6 30 62,000 201,248 745,210
Stock reserve written back, £250,000 995,210
Additional depreciation, £35,000 .. 960,210
Tax overprovided, £85,098 .. .. 1,045,308
1953 .. 132,564 5 30 62,000 70,564 1,115,872
Less adjustment, £B7lO .. • • 1,112,162
1954*. . 201,645 5 30 62,000 139,545 1,251,707
Larke Hoskins Industries & Subsids.
Reserves capitalised, £600,000 .. 651,707
From inner reserves, £320,000 .. 971,707
1955 .. 290,932 5f 15 123,000 167,932 1,139,639
* Parent and subsidiaries. t For six months only.
The £290,932 was 36.3 p.c. on capital as
it now stands. Although the dividend was
reduced from 30 p.c. to 15 p.c., the lower
rate is equal to 60 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the exchange of scrip
already referred to.
The £167,932 (57.7 p.c.) of the year’s
profit ploughed back, plus £320,000 from
inner reserves, left total lay-by only
£112,068 lower than at the previous
balance, despite transfer of £600,000 to
capital account. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined), the
profit was 15 p.c., whereas 15 p.c. on
capital alone will call for only 6.2 p.c.
on these funds. Also the new note-money
looks like being more helpful to the
ords. than the old 5 p.c. pref. capital
had been.
It is all very encouraging for main-
tenance of the 15 p.c. div. for
the current term, though import-
and credit-restrictions, the drop
in wool prices, and more marked uptrend
in wage and other costs might make it
difficult to hold net earnings at last
term’s level. The long-term outlook in
the motor trade is one of steadily increas-
ing competition, which sooner or later
can be expected to have its effect upon
margins.
The year’s growth of £550,853 in stocks
is partly a temporary hedge against the
effects of import-restriction and partly
on account of bigger trading, which also
shows up in an addition of £279,681 to
debtors’ balances:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £240,000 £240,000 £BOO,OOO
Reserves .. .. 1,112,162 1,251,707 1,139,639
OutsWe interests.. _B7O -
Mortgage .. ..
Overdraft .. .. 141,011 196,738
Creditors .. .. 1,033,842 392,995 704,865
Tax provision, etc.* 501,330 676,629 483,280
Final divs. .. 41,000 41,000 80,000
£2,929,204 £2,843,342 £3,725,512
Freeholds, etc. .. 861,804 850,148 913,349
Plant, etc. .. 180,893 168,474 158,459
Investments .. 315,905 434,787 421,869
Stocks .. .. 1,205,584 1,201,761 1,762,614
Debtors .. .. 201,723 187,002 466,683
Cash .. .. 127,822 11,170 12,638
Inter-co. balances 36,473
£2,929,204 £2,843,342 £3,725,512
* The etcetera is “sundry provisions,” £274,380 at
80/4/’55.
To meet the year’s outlay, £200,000 was
raised by the issue of notes, £21,000 was
added to mortgages, £55,727 to the over-
draft, and £311,860 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors. There was an
improvement of £384,746 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£867,831).
Looking ahead the market sums up
the position by pricing the f.-p. £1 shares
at 335. 6d. to return 8.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 48s. 6d.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
ALTHOUGH the Australia—one of
the largest and most fashionable
hotels in the Commonwealth —remained
outside the recent take-over hurly-
burly, in which two hotels on the
opposite side of the street passed to other
interests, the year to June 30 last was
an eventful one for the co., and its equity-
shareholders fared well.
To begin with, the freehold premises
were revalued and written-up in the
books by £659,580, of which £25,000
was used to rub goodwill out of the
accounts, £lOO,OOO was passed to general
reserves and £441,179 was credited to an
assets revaluation account. The other
£93,401 was capitalised in a one-for-five
bonus share-issue to those on the register
at January 27, 1955. Paid capital was
thus raised to £593,404, of which £33,000
carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
Also net earnings took a heartening
leap of £31,594 (73.6 p.c.), reaching
£74,515. That was after setting aside
£25,000 (same as previous term) for
depreciation and £45,000 (up £21,000)
for taxation:
f-i Dividends- >
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1950 .. 30,342 1980 6 p.c. =28,020 197,706
1951 .. 34,987 1980 7 „ ~ 32,690 198.022
1952 . . 35,535 1980 7 „ 32,690 198.887
Renewal res. drawn upon, £21,940 .. 176,947
1953.. 42,152 1980 8 p.c. = 37,360 179,759
Renewal res. drawn upon, £18,060 .. 161,699
1954 .. 42,921 1980 8 p.c. = 3i,360 16 5 .280
Assets revalued, £659,580 .. • • 824,860
Goodwill written off, £25,000 .. • • £",860
Reserves capitalised, £93,401 • • ‘06,459
1955 .. 74,515 1980 10 p.c. = 51,370 727,624
t Subject to goodwill ( £25,000), written off in 1954,
and excludes reserve for depreciation (£34,211 at
30/6/’55).
After paying the pref. div., the balance
of the year’s profit was equal to 12.9 p.c.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Oollins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Missing Friend
WOULD anybody knowing the present
whereabouts of THELMA ELIZABETH
EADE (formerly JAMES), please com-
municate with J. McNEILL SIMPSON,
Solicitor, Hay, N.S.W. ?
GENERAL CREDITS LTD
Registered First MORTGAGE Debenture Stock
LONG TERM "J %
Currency Interest (per annum)
2 years 5i%
3 „ 6%
4 „ 6i%
5 „ to 10 years .... 7%
15 „ 7%
SHORT
TERM
4
—0/
4 /o
Interest payable Quarterly, free of exchange
PROSPECTUS may be obtained from
Branches of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
throughout Australia
Members of the Stock Exchange
Offices of the Company.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.
393Flinders Lane, Melb,
170 St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock mentioned herein.
GC2 I
36in,
.
r
mM
I m m
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in Use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
jFcvtUi lit the
Future
m
■ m
This world is full of achievements that had
their birth in the idea of an individual, or a group
of individuals.
A classic example is the Chicago Union Stock
Yards, claimed to be the greatest livestock market
in existence. Having inspected them closely on my
present visit to the United States, I’m ready to
believe it.
In their 90 years, these yards have received
nearly 1000 million head of stock, worth something
like 30,000 million dollars.
On the day of my visit the yarding was 18,000
cattle, 400 calves, 11,000 hogs or pigs, whichever
you prefer, and 1500 sheep.
Nine railroad companies founded this great
enterprise in 1865, when they decided to abandon
the separate yards on their lines and finance the
construction of one large market to serve the centre
of America’s meat industry.
Having launched it, they sold their holding to
the public, and since then have had no financial
interest in it.
The Stock Yard Company has built and
maintains the big property investment, provides
hotel and office facilities, looks after the feeding
and weighing and delivery of animals for slaughter,
but does not come into the buying or selling.
The market is free and open. An owner can
sell his own stock if he wishes, but commission
men offer their services.
Spread over an area a mile long and half a
mile wide are 13,000 pens, 8500 of them covered
for sheep and pigs. The work of servicing them is
highly mechanised, and flood-lighting of the dock
area permits clock-round operations.
The market has its own daily newspaper, post-
office, repair and maintenance works, stores and
restaurants. It is self-contained.
Now this, to me, is a magnificent achievement
by any standard in the world. And it all came
about because a few men in the last century had
the courage to build for the future.
// //<is7u*js %
ee 4
on ord. capital as it now stands,
compared with 8.7, 8.6, 7.2 and
7 p.c. back to 1951. The div.
was hoisted from 8 p.c. to 10
p.c., which is equal to 11 p.c.
on capital as it stood before the
issue of gift-scrip. Reserves at
£727,624 show an increase of
£562,344, of which £21,165 was
a cash contribution on account
of surplus earnings, the other
£541,179 being a book adjust-
ment connected with the
revaluation already mentioned.
Two of the main factors
behind the recent leap in earn-
ings are (1) a high level of
spending, and (2) extension to
and renovation and modernisa-
tion of the hotel, on which over
£232,000 has been spent during
the last couple of years. All
the public rooms have been
redecorated and largely re-
furnished, and now provide
settings “superior to any other
hotel in Australia,” the board
claims. At the same time
additional bathroom accommo-
dation has been provided in the
residential section, raising the
number of bedrooms with bath-
room attached to over 300. Last
term expenditure on capital
account was £37,350, of which
£18,627 was written off against
the depreciation reserve.
In this class of hotel, more
than in most others, main-
tenance of a high standard of
service and comfort is the back-
bone of goodwill, which means
patronage, though some of the
services yield little or no profit.
However, with capital outlay on
modernisation, etc., and the
inevitable dislocation associated
therewith, now practically out
of the way, and with Govern-
ment control of tariff charges
relaxed, the stage appears to be
set for a higher level of earn-
ings than of recent years. So,
despite the uptrend of wage,
food and other costs, the
cautious board “looks forward
with confidence” to maintenance
of last term’s trading results,
for the current term at any rate.
Movements in balance-sheet
figures mainly reflect the writing-
up, capitalisation and elimina-
tion of goodwill already referred
to:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £500,003 £593,404
Reserves .. .. 165,280 727,624
Depreciation res... 27,934 34,211
Mortgage .. .. 225,000 225,000
Creditors* . . 154,343 162,885
Final divs. .. 22,005 29,010
£1,094,565£1,772,134
Property and equip-
ment .. .. 1,023,192 1,701*399
Stock .. .. 22,262 30,391
Book debts .. 20,611 35,844
Cash, etc. .. 3,500 4,500
Goodwill .. .. 25,000
£1,094,565£1,772,134
* Including provision for taxation.
Since 1953 only £75,000 has
been added to the mortgage
debt and £53,213 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, the
balance of the outlay on
premises, etc., being provided
from the cash holding, surplus
earnings and provisions for
depreciation, etc.
The market expresses its
opinion of the improved outlook
for the business by pricing the
f.-p. £1 ords. at 435. (30s. a year
ago) to give an immediate return
of 4.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 455. lid. The well-protected
prefs. at 20s. 6d. yield 5.8 p.c.
Western Mining Corp.
This big holding co. is
interested in five gold-producing
and four mineral prospecting
concerns. For the year to
March 31 last W.M.C.’s own
profit was £247,976 (down
£33,409), and a Is. div. (20 p.c.,
same as for two preceding years)
called for £139,718. The slip
in profit was due mainly to
£28,548 (up £24,304) written off
on account of prospecting, etc.,
chiefly for uranium. All the
co.’s uranium options, etc., in
the Cloncurry (Q.) district have
now been abandoned, and
nothing worth mentioning has
yet showed up in the search for
oil, in which W.M.C. is asso-
ciated with the Shell and North
and South (Barrier) cos.
To finance its proportion (30
p.c.) of the new share-issue by
G.M. of K. and provide for
further development of other
interests, the co. issued 931,450
new ss. shares at a premium of
7s. 6d. each in October, 1954.
At March 31, 1955, £114,817 of
the new capital and £160,583 of
share-premiums had come in.
That made paid capital £813,405
in ss. shares, on which there was
£116,431 of capital (2s. 6d. a
share) and £191,790 (4s. a share)
of share - premiums, total
£308,221, still at call, if and
when required. Since the close
of accounts an'interim div. has
been paid at the rate of 20 p.c.
p.a., which, on paid capital as it
now stands, will call for £218,576
for a full year, or £29,400 less
profit than was claimed last
term.
Only two of the five pro-
ducing cos. are dividend-
payers :
Westers Mining Oorp. Group.
Paid
Capital.x Profit. J Div.
£ £ &
Central (60%)
. Norseman 650,000* 592,999 390,000
(+78,205)
G.M. of (15%)
Kalgoorlie 934,755 t 102,922 133,149
( 81,343)
New
Coolgardie 511,200 t 20,880 Nil
(+19,073)
Gt. Western
Consoli’ted 1,768,000 f 32,631 Nil
(+18,186)
Central Vic. Loss.
Dredging 390,000 f 18,444 Nil
(—22,926)
x Proportion of paid capital owned by
W.M.C. is Central Norseman 60 p.c.,
G.M. of Kalgoorlie SO p.c.. New .Cool-
gardie 62 p.c., Great Western Consoli-
dated 14 p.c., Central Victoria Dredging
50 p.c.
*ln ss. shares. tln 10s. shares,
t Rise (+) or fall ( —) in profits over
• previous year shown in brackets.
Central Norseman remains the
star performer. Its bigger profit
last term came from treatment
of 157,867 tons (up 2553 tons)
ore, averaging 10.52dwt. (up
0.55dwt.), at less cost per ton
(89.45., down 1.55.). Ore
reserves at March 31 were put
at 495,300 tons, averaging
9.3dwt., with prospects of more
payable stuff being developed.
W.M.C. shareholders’ pros-
pects centre largely in what is
happening at G.M. of K. (B.
14/9/’55), which recently
absorbed three of its neighbors,
and has now made an offer for
the scrip in New Coolgardie.
Measured ore reserves of the co.
and its three subsidiaries at
March 31 last were 1,557,919
tons, averaging s.Bdwt. When
earnings get the full benefit of
the combined output, etc., the
co. hopes to pay a better div.
At Great Western Consoli-
dated (B. 31/8/’55) the Copper-
head mine doesn’t look like
yielding the profit expected
when the venture was launched
about five years ago. The co.’s
other two mines—Frasers, and
Corinthian—in the Bullfinch-
Southern Cross area look more
promising than Copperhead at
the moment. But it is difficult
to say when dividends are likely
to flow. At March 31, 1955,
Great Western owed W.M.C.,
£670,000, the bank £556,365 and
sundry creditors £119,485, a
tGtal debt of £1,345,850.
Central Victoria Dredging
has been a disappointment. It
has never paid a div., and, unless
something unexpected happens,
doesn’t look as if it ever will
pay one. Mounting costs, diffi-
cult nature of some of the
ground, and failure of recoveries
to live up to bore values have
been the chief troubles,
W.M.C.’s f.-p. ss. shares are
now fetching 12s. as against
17s. a year ago.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Fairy-lights festooned the trees and
encompassed the swimming-pool, lend-
ing an enchanting effect to the grounds,
when officers of the Home Command
Headquarters, R.A.A.F., gave a ball at
Lapstone in honor of Air Force Com-
memoration Week on Friday night. The
guest-of-honor was Sir George Mills, of
the R.A.F., and he and Lady Mills
(whose midnight-blue frock had silver
shoulder-straps) were received by Air-
Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters and Mrs.
Walters, who wore a classical gown of
white faille and a silver-fox stole.
Those present included Group-Captain
D. W. Colquhoun and his wife (who
wore a silver-and-black stole with her
black lace dress); Group-Captains R. H.
Davis and R. Probert and their wives ;
Squadron-Leader T. Janes and his
daughter Jill; Flight-Lieut. R. Alcock
and Mrs. Alcock (whose sheath-frock
was of blue-sculptured nylon); Flight-
Lieut. G. Rainey and his wife (her white
chiffons cut in the Grecian style); and
Flight-Lieut. lan Lyons.
#
The Orchid Show at the Town Hall
seemed to be dominated this year by
its cymbidium display, in which Mrs.
F. G. Spurway’s “Cook’s Bridge, Elvina,”
carried off first-prize for its deep rosy-
wine color and fine shape. Runner-up
was Mr. G. J. Tosi, with a beautiful
cymbidium in sunset-cream and red.
Cattleyas were not much in evidence
(Mr. Lou Sasso carried off both first-
and second-prize here), but there were
some beautiful phaleanopsis orchids,
which resemble a flight of moths, and
which, in mauve and white, dominated
the Mosman. Orchid Society’s y prize-
winning district exhibit. Western Suburbs
(second) featured a bush-creek and rocky
pathway and included many native
orchids.
Many more decorative plants were
shown than in past years: crotons, snake-
plants, devil’s-ivy and anthuriums (with
enormous green leaves marked with
white), and a startling flame-flower. The
Lord Mayor opened the show this year,
and the president, Mr. A. B. Porter, pre-
sented a beautiful sheaf of orchids to
the Lady Mayoress (Mrs. P. D. Hills).
☆ ☆ ☆
The marriage of Sonia, only daughter
of the W. B. Lesters, of Elizabeth Bay,
to lan Hutcheon, eldest son of the Robert
Hutcheons, of Rose Bay, took place
during the week at St. Canice’s Church,
Elizabeth Bay. The bride wore white
organza with a wide skirt decorated with
hand-made roses, and her bridesmaid,
Winsome O’Gorman-Hughes, added a
peacock-blue velvet sash and a coronet
of spring flowers to her bouffant white
organdie dress. Reception was held at the
bride’s home at Elizabeth Bay, where her
parents received about 80 guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
Several interesting women arrived in
Sydney during the week, first and fore-
most being Judith Anderson, Australian-
born tragedienne who has come back to
play in the Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s
first enterprise, the “Medea” of Euripides,
Robinson Jeffers version. Miss Ander-
son, whom one rather expected to be
dark, stark and elongated, turned out to
be slight, blonde and graceful, with a
grave voice and a slightly ironic
expression.
Every capital city will see “Medea,”
starting with Canberra early in October,
when the Governor-General and the
Prime Minister will be present. In Perth
the performance will be held in the open-
air. The Sydney season will begin on
October 11 at the Elizabethan Theatre.
☆ ☆ ☆
In Sydney also this week is a Swedish
countess (Agnes von Rosen by name),
who is both a stunt car-driver (“It gives
me a legal chance to smash things up and'
roll them over,” she says) and a bull-
fighter, which job she took up after
somebody dared her to go into the arena
in Mexico. In appearance she is what is
called “glamorous,” slim, blonde and
lively, and she will take part in the
Tournament of Thrills which opens at
the Showground on September 22.
There are 10 men in the troup with
her, one of whom, by the way, “stands-
in” for movie-stars as dissimilar as Clark
Gable and Jane Wyman when they are
supposed to be driving a car recklessly,
and although he says he wears a wig as
Jane Wyman it still seems quite a stunt.
Another who struck town last week is
Miss Christine Heinig, a charming expert
on pre-school education from Wash-
ington (U.S.A.). She has been observing
the pie-school facilities in Australia, and
is pleasantly impressed by what has been
achieved in the 10 years since she was
last here. In fact, Miss Heinig thinks
the pre-school services available in Can-
berra are the best in the world. At the
reception held in her honor by the Lady
Mayoress, many representatives of the
Kindergarten Union (which celebrates its
diamond jubilee this year) and Day
Nurseries (now in its 50th year) were
present, including Mrs. W. P. McElhone,
Miss E. Lakeman, Mrs. Edgar Stephen,
Miss C. Thompson, Mrs. J. Dey and
Mrs. K. M. Corbett.
Diana Perryman plays Georgie Elgin
in “Winter Journey,” by Clifford Odets,
which opened at the Independent Theatre
last Thursday. This role was played in
London by Googie Withers just before
she left for her present visit to Australia.
Photo by John Hearder.
The Elizabethan Ball, which bids fair
to become one of Sydney’s major social
events, was held at the Trocadero last
Wednesday and attracted more than 800
guests, largely representative of the
dramatic world in these parts, many of
whom wore the costumes in which they
had at some time appeared on the stage.
Mrs. J. K. Schartl was hostess in the
absence of Lady Braddon, who was
unable to be present because of the
recent death of her husband, Sir Henry
Braddon. Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Coombs
also helped to receive the guests, who
included Dame Syt}il Thorndike, Lady
Richardson, Miss Googie Withers and
Mr. John McCallum.
It was a particularly well-dressed
function, and the prize for the loveliest
gown went to Miss Imelda Grant, whose
bouffant pure-silk organza was hand-
painted with large flowers in coral and
blue. Emphasis seemed to be rather on
dress than on drama, for there was a
mannequin-parade during the nighj, and
the decorations left something to be
desired from a dramatic point of view,
though there should be a special word
of praise for members of the Gilbert
and Sullivan Society, who all came in
costume and decorated their table in a
colorful and interesting manner.
☆ ☆ ☆
That deplorable example of early-
-18 th - century juvenile delinquency,
Manon, was clad (in the person of
Rina Malatrasi) with becoming demure-
ness (as befitted a young girl bound for
a convent) in the first act of Massenet’s
opera in the Firm’s production at the
Empire on Saturday night. But by the
time she cast-up at the Seminary of St.
Sulpice, looking for her old flame Des
Grieux, she had taken a full leap into
sartorial splendor: a magnificent dress
of white figured-satin and lace, the skirt
fully panniered, with a burgundy Red
Riding Hood cloak over it. In the
gambling-room scene her gown of silver
and scarlet, the skirt iridescent, was no
less spectacular. Indeed, the dressing of
the whole cast was the best since
“Traviata.”
The New Zealand Club’s Dominion
Day Ball at the Hotel Australia was a
lively affair, sparked-off by some Maori
songs given the “works” by Prince Nohi
Toki. Six debs were presented to Rear-
Admiral H. J. Buchanan and Mrs.
Buchanan (who added a matching
quilted stole to her lavender-pink crepe-
suede frock) by the matron-of-honor,
Mrs. Elenor Hempton (the club’s founder
and president), whose slipper-satins were
in new-beige toning.
Noted among the dancers were com-
mittee-member Jan Allen, in maize
corded-faille; Mrs. John Strevens, whose
ballerina frock was of floral lacquered
taffeta; Mrs. D. Langford, her brocaded
frock in palest pink; and Mrs. David
Atkins, who had a black guipure-lace
stole to go with her strapless, rhinestone-
studded black velvet frock.
MELBOURNE
One Of the highlights of Battle of
Britain Week was the dinner-dance
arranged by the Royal Australian Air
Force Women’s Association at the St.
Kilda Palais de Danse. A backdrop at
one end of the ballroom depicted St.
Paul’s Cathedral with fighter-planes
streaming past. In front of this was a
large model of a Spitfire. At the other
end of the ballroom was a lighted replica
of the Battle of Britain window. In the
official enclosure were bowls of spring
blossoms, and on the tables were silver
candelabra, bowls of red, white and blue
flowers, and tiny silver models of planes.
The Governor and Lady Brooks attended,
the latter wearing an ethereal gown of
white iridescent lace with a low waist-
line and a full skirt mounted on layers
of white tulle, which showed at the
hemline.
In the official party were Vice-
Admiral Sir Alan Scott-Moncrieff and
Lady Scott-Moncrieff (she wearing a
gown of deep-rust silk-organza with a
folded bodice); Air-Marshal Sir George
Mills (R.A.F.) and Lady Mills (her choice
royal-blue chiffons, the skirt softly
pleated, the halter-neckline of white
guipure-lace); Air-Marshal Sir John
McCauley and Lady McCauley (her
gown of jade-green lace was covered
with black tulle); Air-Vice-Marshal
E. C. and Mrs. Wackett. The latter is
president of the association, and, with
her husband, received the official guests,
she wearing pale-pink French lace,, the
fitted bodice finishing at the back in a
bow of deeper-pink velvet.
Also in the official party were Vice-
Admiral R. K. Elkins, Air-Marshal Sir
Richard Williams and Lady Williams,
Air-Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady
Jones, Sir Lawrence and Lady Wackett,
Air-Vice-Marshal F. W. Scherger and
Mrs. Scherger, Col. and Mrs. R. W.
Spraggett and Major-Gen. A. C. Shortt
and Mrs. Shortt.
Eleonore Treiber, who will be princi-
pal dancer in the J.C.W. musical “Can
Can,” which opens in Melbourne on
October 29, and will also direct all dance-
sequences, will celebrate her 22nd birth-
day during the run of the piece.
Eleonore’s early ballet-training was with
Anthony Tudor and Igor Schwerzoff. Her
first appearance as solo-dancer was with
the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Photo
from Allan Studios.
Designers have given women the A-
line and the H-line. Now comes the “flat
look,” as shown in the collections dis-
played at the home of Sir Robert and
Lady Knox in Toorak for the University
Centenary Appeal. Many of the lovely
frocks had been flown specially from
Paris to Le Louvre, whose Lillian Wight-
man presented them. Most impressive
were the materials —among them fine
French woollens, silks (newest a wonder-
ful surah so beloved of a past genera-
tion) —and the fine dressmaking, with
many of the garments “built” on founda-
tions of heavy silk taffeta, some of them
interlined. The collection was notable
also for the alliance of black with white,
navy with white, the soft shades of grey
and white and the ever-popular black.
In the original French models the
straight-tunic effect was. seen. Robert
Piquet built a black French facecloth on
pure silk-taffeta. The jacket hung flat
and straight from neck to hem and was
faced across the bust-line with bands
of black satin. Refreshingly elegant
was a Fath model in navy-blue surah.
It had wide lapels of starched white linen,
and the soft unpressed pleats in the skirt
fell from a cuffed hipline.
Balmain called a suit in soft green silk
Frog Pond —it was patterned in bul-
rushes and tiny frogs. The jacket was
cut on slim lines and was piped with
black and allied tOj a skirt of unpressed
pleats. Tizzoni of Italy was represented
by an unusual cocktail-frock in grey silk-
taffeta flecked with gold. The round
neck was outlined with matching grey
lace, and the sheath-skirt was high-
lighted with very full detachable panniers.
From Patou came a full-length evening-
gown in grey faille, with the slim harem-
skirt finished with huge knots of grey
and pale-hyacinth-blue marquisette. The
blue marquisette continued into a long
shoulder-stole.
☆ * ☆
Another attractive model was a black-
spotted white shantung suit with fine
knife-pleats extending from each hip
across the back and banded with black
satin ribbon tied in a bow. Lapels and
cuffs were of black satin. Most attractive
was a Dior original in slate-blue satin
with the lampshade-skirt laced in a
basket-weave. The bodice was draped
and had one dropped shoulder-piece.
At this collection and fashion-parade
Lady Knox wore a white silk frock
patterned in shades of cinnamon and
brown. Mrs. G. W. Paton, wife of the
University’s Vice-Chancellor, pinned pink
camellias in her short-sleeved navy-blue
lace frock. Mrs. Ronald Blackwell, who
was in charge of the decorations, added
a jewel-trimmed black velvet cloche to
her all-black ensemble.
Among the guests were Mrs. Leonard
Buxton, attractive in a black coat with
white ermine lapels and small black velvet
cap; Mrs. James Buchanan (who did
the commentary for the parade) in a mist-
blue silk-shantung Dior basket-weave
Mrs. Ronald Nott, whose
junior-blue silk-taffeta frock had the
short skirt knotted to fall into fullness;
and Gillian Pain, who wore a slim frock
of black Chantilly lace.
* ☆ ☆
Wendy Patricia, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. W. Byrne, of Hampton, was
a lovely bride when she exchanged vows
at St. Leonard’s Church, Brighton
Beach, with former Olympic swimmer
John Marshall. Wendy, a well-known
mannequin, chose a gown of white
organdie embroidered with ivy-leaves out-
lined with silver. The bodice had a wide
V-neckline and elbow-length sleeves, and
the skirt was very full. A crown of white
lilac held the tulle veil, and she carried
a bouquet of white azaleas and hyacinths.
Jeffa Nicholson and Peta Newton
’maided in frocks of white hailspot-
organdie, the frocks short and mounted
on pink, and the bodices finished with
sailor-collars. In their hair were coronets
of pink and white flowers ; the bouquets
were of pink azaleas. John, who is the
eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Marshall,
of Brighton, had Anthony Elliott
Marshall as best man and Jeffry H. Byrne
as groomsman. Reception took the form
of a dinner-dance at the home of the
bride’s parents.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests-of-honor for the barbecue and
dance given by the Younger Members
Group of the English Speaking Union in
the South Yarra club-rooms were
officers from the visiting warship H.M.S.
Newcastle. On the back lawn small
tables were covered with red-and-white-
checked tablecloths. Group president
Guy Lloyds received the guests with
secretary Pamela Middleton, whose
cotton frock was printed in a Picasso
design. Other members at the party
included Mrs. W. Banks (whose white
cotton frock had a Ming-blue cotton
cummerbund), Beverley Urquhart (in
black jersey sweater and bouffant skirt
striped in green, cyclamen and lemon)
and Maria Manning (black jersey blouse
combined with a white-and-black
Paisley-printed cotton skirt). 1


Established 1868.
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly
osuLi.rvA^r
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers,
HEAD OPFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD NELSON STUART late of
Mount Beauty in the State of Victoria.—
TAKE NOTICE that INEZ LAURA
STUART has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2058 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse fdr
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 31st October 1905
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BRIERLEY, HODGE & CO..
Solicitors, of 52 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALAN VINCENT HAYES late of. 101
Princes Highway St. Peters N.S.W. —
TAKE NOTICE that EDITH NANCY
HAYES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 741 of 1955 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 25th November 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition, with-
out charge from MESSRS. ROBERTSON,
PARKHILL, ROFE & MOFFITT, Soli-
citors, 12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in
the said State. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Relatives Required
JAMES SUTHERLAND.—WOULD any
relatives of the abovenamed, who came to
New Zealand from Australia about 1907,
and whose sister was a Mrs. Dawson,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Public Trust Office,
Palmerston North, New Zealand?
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
X
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
100% BRITISH.
SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
BURNS 12 HOURS ON l| PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM, STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Manon”
After the prolonged series of
operatic violence at Sydney
Empire, it came as a relief to
get an opera in which the only
manifestation of ill-temper was
a partly-unsheathed sword that
was almost immediately snapped
back into its scabbard. “Manon”
is, in fact, an opera of relaxa-
tion, its only disturbance resid-
ing in the twists of the affaires
cTamour of the rather promiscu-
ous heroine. Her handling of
the title-role was in every way
a triumph for Rina Malatrasi
—she sang with power and
beauty of tone and, in the early
sequences, was a captivating
mixture of coquettishness and
vivacity.
Augusto Pedroni, as Des
Grieux, was an ardent enough
lover, and his tenor had only a
brief lapse, when he almost lost
command of the half-voice in
the final bars of that most fragile
of arias, “The Dream.” In the
only other big aria allotted him,
“Depart, Fair Vision,” he sang
with much greater authority.
This opera has a higher pro-
portion of duets for tenor and
soprano than any other in the
repertoire, and these were all
marked by good blending of
tone. Ferdinand li Donni was
a thigh-slapping Lescaut; Salva-
tore Catania was a dignified and
commanding figure as the
Comte, and his basso had a
rolling reverberation; Adelio
Zagonara was the libertine
Minister of Finance.
The chorus did its best work
in the off-stage singing of the
monastic number. The orchestra,
under Wolff-Ferrari, found Mas-
senet’s lovely score much to its
liking, the woodwinds particu-
larly making the most of the
extra opportunities for individual
voices.
D£cor and costumes were
excellent, the dressing being
among the season’s best. In
the final act the usual wooded
scene gave place to stark rocks
with a sea background—quite
effective and, since it is on the
road to Havre, appropriate.
* ***
“Waters of the Moon”
With two plays, “Waters of
the Moon” and “A Day by the
Sea,” N. C. Hunter cornered for
several years the finest acting
talents of the English stage —
Gielgud, the Cassons, Dame
Edith Evans, Sir Ralph Richard-
son, Wendy Hiller, Kathleen
Harrison. On seeing these plays,
however, one is immediately
struck by their poor quality as
drama. They are an odd mix-
ture of Chekhov and English tea-
parties, but the lyrical enerva-
tion of Chekhov has become, in
Hunter, a denial of action at all
Costs. Whereas “The Seagull”
is resolved by a pistol-shot, in
“Waters of the Moon” a most
Chekhovian young fellow dallies
with both rifle and possibility
until English commonsense
wrests the weapon from him.
Though giving no drama in
these plays, Hunter is an expert
portrayer of characters, and it
is easy to see why such high-
powered casts were attracted
into them. Everyone is able to
star in such dubious constella-
tions.
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre chose “Waters of the
Moon” —the better of the two,
by^far —for its September offer-
ing. It is concerned with a pre-
New-Year glimpse of a snow-
bound London socialite family
forced for shelter into a faded
country home, operating as a
haven for four paying guests.
Three of them are old and un-
wanted, the fourth a Viennese
in self-exile from his beloved
Austria. The extent of their
stagnation is revealed by the
vitality and self-possession of the
intruders, but as they return to
their social whirl one is left with
the impression that, for all their
talk of purpose in existence, of
happiness in exciting places, their
lives are as ineffectual and
empty as those of the “per-
manents.”
In Joan Whalley’s production
there was no weak casting, but
because of the complexity of
their portrayals mention must
be made of Lew Luton’s superb
Viennese, utterly accurate in in-
tonation and gesture, Betty Ross’s
understanding of the London
socialite, and of Lenore Nicklin’s
unsympathetic role of the land-
lady’s daughter.
Folklore Festival
Not having been further west
than the Red Cow Inn at Pen-
rith, nor having drunk with Ben
Hall, nor courted a currency
lass, this Showman doubts his
qualifications to pass opinion
on the Australian Folklore
Festival arranged in Sydney by
the Australian Folklore Society.
However, having been born in
sight of Botany Bay, he feels
that he has, at least, some
affinity with Jim Jones, a convict-
ballad hero, who was trans-
ported to that salubrious region.
His impression of the Festival
is that the casualness and
amateurishness thjtf marked the
Folklore Society’s presentation
would have been all right if it
had been confined to the
society’s membership, but that
a much higher standard of per-
formance is expected of a pub-
lic show. To have to listen to
some old-timer gabble “The Man
from Snowy River” at an in-
credible speed in an almost in-
audible voice calls for patience.
So does having to endure a
female vocalist with a cold in
her head, and a young lady
playing wildly out of tune on a
borrowed fiddle with a broken
string. And one might have
been spared such a übiquitous
compere and his flow of callow
small-talk.
A pity, since John Meredith
and his colleagues have taken
great trouble to collect and pre-
serve much authentic material
that might have been lost —the
tape recording of Jack Lee’s sing-
ing of “Widgeegoweera Joe” is
an instance. And several of the
performers revealed that, given
professional'coaching, they were
capable of a' better display of
their talents.
Still, the Bushwhackers’ Band
played “Click Go the Shears,”
“The Drover’s Dream” and other
numbers with an infectious
enthusiasm; some haunting
convict ballads were sung
capably by Beth Schurr and Bar-
bara Lysiak; and there were
some good turns on the mouth-
organ by Harry Kaye, on the
tin whistle by Herb Grimet, plus
a couple of stirring recitations
and a moderately well-sung
bush-song or two. Colin Lee
and Joe Cashmir played the
varsovienna with uninhibited
vigor, and between the intervals
the “Circassian Circle” and the
“Waltz Cotillion” were danced
with some help from the audi-
ence.
One would like to see the next
Folklore Festival presented under
professional direction, some-
where convenient in the Sydney
green-belt, with the smell of
burning gum-leaves in the air,
and billy-tea and damper for
supper.
W. E. F.
<£♦ *Jt
“The Imaginary Invalid”
Hypochondriacs and doctors
have always been sitting-shots
for authors of wit and malice
and, thanks to Ralph Wilson’s
imaginative producing for Can-
berra Repertory and George
Ogilvie’s admirable acting,
Moliere’s jokes became good
clean fun and impossible
characters came alive.
The big decision by Ralph
Wilson was to treat the play as a
farce—to keep it moving at a
fast pace with plenty of slap-
stick comedy and characters fall-
ing over each other on the
stage. But there was more to it
than that. At times Wilson had
his actors moving with the charm
of the ballet and, at other times,
forming into tableaux on the
stage. The costumes created by
Jackie Ryan and Helen Woodger
helped greatly in creating the
atmosphere, as did the sets con-
structed by Jim Hutchins, Tom
Harvey and Tom Lowe*
But George Ogilvie’s hypo-
chondriac was the creation of the
evening. The face, the voice, the
clothes, the stick and, above all,
the pitter-patter run —these lived
in the mind long after the jokes
had faded. Ogilvie’s performance
made the play a lively success,
and he received considerable
help from Barbara Shanahan, as
Toinette. She can move grace-
fully and quickly—like a bird —
and her facial expressions are
most effective.
Unfortunately the spell did
not last the whole night. Janet
James was just too beautiful and
“nice” for a woman who covets
her husband’s, wealth, and,
though John Whelan did look
like a crooked lawyer and John
Garran made everyone roar with
laughter at his caricature of a
French doctor, Ray Thorman
did not seem to pursue Angelique
with any enthusiasm, while Stan
Davies was incredible as a suitor
and a greedy physician.
M. C.
* * *
“After My Fashion”
The ingredients of this —by
Diana Morgan and put on by
Sydney Metropolitan under the
direction of Hugh Hastings—
are stirred into action when a
film company wants to film the
story of an expedition of 20
years previously in which five
men died —“an inspiration to
the youth of today.”
The wife of the heroic leader,
Lady Starcross, assents; their
daughter, her life built around
her dead father, is enthusiastic;
and the three other wives agree.
Then the fiancee of the other
member of the expedition admits
to having been the mistress of
Sir Christian Starcross and
proves him and his expedition
to have been a glorious fake.
The conflict comes with the
decision on the film: Lady Star-
cross, having been aware of the
position all along, wants the
film to go on, and the sedulous
old producer agrees, but his
sentimental young director and
the Starcross daughter, now in
love, are agin it.
Tessa Hughes gave a clever
interpretation of Lady Star-
cross, the play’s most interesting
offering; as her daughter,
Merrilee Bowen looked too
immature to handle what is an
immature but difficult part;
Phillip Colledge was effective,
if eyebally, as the producer;
Mark Kelly was too much like
Ronnie Winslow to be a film-
director ; and Leslie Lindsay
was a mistress with discretion.
Artbursts
Mary Edwell-Burke
It is rare to see a bit of
genuine gold-leaf on a picture-
frame these days, most artists
being content to have their
wares served up in little whits'
wooden boxes as if they were
tomatoes; and the mere fact
that she has taken such pains
to decorate her own frames for
her exhibition from New Guinea
at David Jones’s little gallery,
Sydney—mostly with a red
inset, and a green frame
cornered with gold-leaf and
vermilion —indicates that Mary
Edwards, who now paints under
the name of Mary Edwell-
Burke, is an artist of rare
sensitivity.
As, of course, she always
has been. Framed in this
barbaric jungle fashion, her
exhibition looks, in mass, rather
wilder and more forceful than
the pictures do when taken
individually. It is the decora-
tive rather than the cannibalistic
aspects of life in the jungle that
fascinate Miss Edwell-Burke;
the colorful plumes of the
witchdoctors in “House Building
in the Wahgi Valley” rather
than any nasty sorceries these
gentlemen may be up to.
But the decoration is always
rich and attractive ; and, taken
together, barbaric frame and
decorative picture make a com-
bination that /speaks freshly
and unmistakably of New
Guinea.
“Mateo,” with the native
emerging from the green jungle,
is a portrait of some strength ;
but on the whole, as in her
previous, exhibitions, Miss
Edwell-Burke’s most deeply-felt
paintings are of children or very
young girls ; and the pick of the
show here —if it is not the
“Aboriginal Child” with its
mouth open or the amusing
“Aboriginal Baby” —is the
“New Guinea Redhead” with
the yellow hibiscus in her hair,
a beautiful little painting.
Talkies
“Little Fugitive” (Sydney
Paris): Fresh treatment is given
this story of a small boy who,
believing he has accidentally
shot his elder brother, runs
away from home and spends a
day among the multitudinous
diversions offered by Coney
Island. There are deft touches
of humor and the boy is wisely
left to bp his natural self. The
result is a film of some charm,
though never a serious challenge
to “The Kidnappers.”


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE EDMUND FRANCIS
SUTER late of Commercial Road Prahran
Melbourne in the State of Victoria.—
TAKE NOTICE that LOUISE ANN
SUTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1605 of 1955 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 25th November 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from GREAVES NEWTON
6, WANNAN, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
WOULD IVAN FILCZENKO, formerly of
The Broadmeadows Migrant Camp, and
later of The Esplanade, Momington, Vic-
toria, Labourer, or any person knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
DUDLEY A. TREGENT, Solicitor, of
422 Collins Street, Melbourne?
THE Blt-BRITISH
{SiujqiiyfliMirt
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
ft
w
Prices from
25'- to 90/-
Gives Character
Co your Writing
8 9 8 10 1 *aii 'ti « mmif tmo)
Wait until you're wanted
By John Horner
“T HE truck crept with
/ a vindictive sluggishness
C L y through the bush. The
track it followed, long
disused, would have been
indistinguishable from the sur-
rounding ruggedness had not
the rains used it spasmodically
as a watercourse.
The wheels mounted slowly
another small hillock on the
driver’s side, the truck lurching
frighteningly so that the weight
of the two men in the cabin
settled against the fat woman.
Then, with a relieved creaking,
the load of furniture began to
sway the other way and the
wheels rolled, with a sinking
motion, down the incline of the
hillock.
The woman rolled slightly
forward and straightened up,
clutching the baby to her and
bending over it so that her
straight, black hair fell in
uneven locks across the folds
between her neck and chin.
Her short, shapely legs were
pressed close together, her toes
in the high-heeled shoes pushed
firmly against the inclined floor
of the cabin as she braced
herself for the next lurch. It
came, worse than the previous
one.
The woman took one arm
from round the baby and
clutched at the bare forearm
of her husband as his weight
slid against her. Her fright was
only momentary. The load,
with a disdainful shrug, swayed
back towards the hillside.
“Gawd Almighty, Doug! ” the
woman said, as her husband slid
away from her. Her voice was
flat, thin, slightly querulous.
The man laughed carelessly,
feeling in the pockets of his
blue-dungaree overalls for his
tobacco. “Don’t worry, Dell,”
he said lightly. “Joe won’t turn
us over.”
“I hope they’re all right on
the back,” she said. “I hope
Phyllis is hanging on to Terry.”
“They’d have soon let us
know if anyone had fallen off,”
her husband assured her, and
his seventeen-year-old brother,
Joe, who was driving, added,
“They’ll be hanging on like
possums. Having the time of
their lives!”
She didn’t answer but sat up
a little straighter, thrusting her
chin slightly forward, with a
movement of her index-finger
running the lank, dark hair
behind her ear. She remained
sulkily silent, braced against the
continual swaying of the
creaking truck. ,
Doug had made her remark
about the children sound silly.
But she hadn’t meant it the way
he and Joe had taken it at all.
She’d just meant that she was
thinking about the six children
on the back, worrying about
them as a mother should. Doug
never worried about them. He
expected them to be able to look
after themselves and they
meanly put him in the right by
always doing it, quite satisfac-
torily. They didn’t need her as
a mother at all. She was just
a cook-and-bottlewasher. Even
the baby was happy as long as
someone—it didn’t matter who
—shoved its bottle into its
mouth. Terry was the only one
who relied on her, the only one
she’d breast-fed for any time.
A red streak of bitterness
shot suddenly through the
heavy sullenness of her thoughts.
It was no wonder she hadn’t
been able to feed the others
herself. Seven children in
eleven years! But with Terry,
who had been her baby for over
three years, it had been different.
They hadn’t intended having
this last one. She hadn’t, any-
way. Doug didn’t seem to care.
They emerged from the bush
suddenly and the valley lay
below them.
“There she is, Dell,” the man
said, pointing away to the right.
“Home, sweet home! ”
A RIVER flowed through the
reedy, brown marsh of the
valley floor. There, where the
man pointed, it flung a careless
elbow about the grey, unpainted
house and pressed it against a
spur of the heavily-timbered
hills. The woman gazed at it
for a time in silence, fascinated
by its utter desolation.
“It looks like the last place
God made,” she said at last,
thoughtfully, as though the idea
had just occurred to her.
Her husband laughed. “The
roof don’t leak and there’s no
rent to pay, so what more could
you want?”
She didn’t answer. There
were lots of things she wanted,
but it didn’t look as though she
would ever get any of them.
Doug always got his own way
and made all her arguments seem
stupid, though she knew in her
heart that she was right. This
place, here in the middle of
nowhere, was the last straw.
She liked the city best and this
was ten miles from the tiny
township they’d passed a while
back.
There was no school, of
course. It was wicked, she’d
pointed out to Doug, to deprive
the children of their schooling.
What chance would they have in
life? It hadn’t mattered two
hoots to Doug, though. Yet,
when she’d kept Phyllis home
from school a few times while
she did some shopping or went
to a picture-show, and Doug
had got a summons, he’d hit
the roof properly.
“Unreasonable,” she thought,
sitting up nervously as the
truck crossed the rickety bridge
that spanned the swift, steely
river.
There was a rattle on the roof
of the cabin and an unkempt
head of ginger hair and a
freckled, inverted face appeared
at the top of the open window.
“Hey, Mum?”
She uttered a small scream of
surprise and alarm.
“Get back out of that, Glen,”
the man said
“It’s all right, Dad. Ray’s
got me by the legs.”
The woman clutched her
husband’s coat. “Make him get
back, Doug. Get back, Glen!
Get back, do you hear! Do you
want to get killed?”
“He won’t fall, Dell,” her
husband reassured her. “Ray’s
got him. What do you, want,
Glen?”
“Is that the place?”
“Yes.”
“Yippee! Mum was right
about no school. Yippee!”
His head disappeared and
presently, above the roaring of
the truck, the woman could hear
the children singing.
We ain't gonna school no
more, no more,
We ain’t gonna school no
more.
Joe laughed from the
superiority of his seventeen
years and the woman smiled
bitterly, smothering her emotion
in the attention that she paid to
the rearranging of the baby’s
shawl. The children would be
on Doug’s side, of course. They
always were. None of them
showed any gratitude for what
• she did for them. They’d put
her in the wrong, too, by enjoy-
ing every moment they spent in
this Godforsaken place, you
could bet your life.
They reached the house, and
the truck stopped before the
trampled-down netting that had
once enclosed the garden. The
children were off and racing
down the path before their
mother had the truck-door open.
There was no lock to the
kitchen-door and it rasped
harshly across the floor as the
children pushed against it. A
few minutes later Ray and Glen
were shouting down to the
truck from an upstairs window.
“Well, are you coming to look
over your new nome, Dell?” the
man asked.
“If it’s no better inside than
it is out, there’s nothing much
to look over,” she replied.
Nevertheless, she followed
him with a certain eagerness.
T\OWNSTAIRS were two
large rooms and a lean-to
kitchen. A ladderlike stairway
led to two attic-rooms, which
were lighted by crudely-made
dormer-windows. The woman
stood by one of the windows,
gazing across the river to the
distant ranges.
“I’m going to have an
upstairs-room,” she said with a
childlike enthusiasm. “I’ve
never lived in a house with
upstairs before.”
The children were dis-
appointed. “Aw, Mum. We
want to sleep upstairs.”
“The girls can have one of
the upstairs-rooms,” she said,
judicially. “You boys can
sleep downstairs. I know what
you’d be up to here. Out on the
roof, as like as not.”
“But Dell,” the* man inter-
posed, “don’t you reckon we’d
be better off downstairs?”
She turned on him angrily.
“Trust you to back the kids. If
I’ve got to rot in this place I
might as well have the best
there is to have. I’d like a bit
of view as well as the kids.”
“Yes, that’s all right, Dell.”
He tried to placate her, not
wishing to resume here the
grinding quarrels of the past few
weeks. “It’s just that the rooms
are so low and poky, and I
don’t reckon our bedroom
furniture would come up those
stairs.”
She had noticed the lowness
of the ceiling. There was only
a small space in the centre of
the room where she was able
to stand upright.
“I might have known you’d
make difficulties,” she told him,
hiding with her anger her own
misgivings.
“Well, we’ll try it, Dell, if you
like. It don’t matter to me
at all,” he replied, good-
humoredly.
She seemed suddenly to
spring to life.
“Get the cot off first, so that
I can get the baby away,” she
said. “The sooner we start, the
sooner we’ll be finished.”
In no time the ropes and
tarpaulins lay on the ground and
the cot was unloaded.
“Where do you want it,
Dell?” the man asked, as they
carried it in.
“It’ll have to go upstairs with
us.” She was mollified by this
foretaste of victory.
i “Right you are. Off the
stairs, you kids,” Joe shouted,
lifting one end of the heavy
cot. “Steady, Doug. She’s a
tight squeeze.”
The cot went up the stairs
with an inch to spare on each
side. The woman was jubilant.
“What did I tell you?” she
said.
They reached the narrow
landing at the top of the stairs.
“Let her rest a minute, Doug,”
Joe said. “I reckon we’ll have
to up-end her. She won’t go
through the door this way.”
They stood the cot on end
and tried to edge it through the
doorway. It was quite obviously
hopeless. The opening was very
narrow and the landing too
small to allow them to
manoeuvre the cot successfully.
“It’s no go, Dell,” the man
said, apologetically. “There’s
not a hope in Hell of getting it
through here.”
She was behind him, at the
head of the stairs.
“I don’t see how you can say
that yet. You’ve scarcely
tried.”
“I’ve tried for long enough to
know it’s impossible.”
“Like hell, you have. Here,
let me have a go.”
She caught one end of the
heavy cot and lifted it, trying
to wriggle the other end towards
the doorway. It was hot and
airless and her temper rose as
the futile exertion made her
breathless.
“Well, you might give me a
hand,” she panted, stepping
back from the cot.
There was a sudden yell. She
had stepped, with her high heel,
on Terry’s fingers as he squatted
on the top of the stairs, watching
what was going on.
“Ah, for God’s sake!” she
exclaimed angrily. “Why the
hell don’t you get out of the
way! ”
She turned quickly towards
him and collided with Phyllis,
who was still nursing the baby.
The baby began to wail
peevishly and the woman
snatched it to her, switching
her- anger from Terry to
Phyllis.
“You here, too! Now, for
the love of God, get out of the
way!” Her voice rose to a
shrill screech and the deep
color mounted to her dark
cheeks. “Is this the only damn’
place you’ve got to stand?. Take
Terry and get to hell out of the
way. Play outside and don’t let
me see your faces again until
you’re called.”
She hustled them both before
her, down the stairs and through
the back-door. “Now get out.
And take Glen with you,” she
added as he appeared round the
corner.
“Where can we play?”
Phyllis asked, sulkily.
“Where can you play! Any-
where. You’ve got the whole
damn’ world to play in! ”
Her anger was frightening in
its intensity and the children
hurried off, the two elder
dragging Terry between them.
Even in the midst of her anger
the woman was aware, as she
stood watching them, of their
smallness against the back-
ground of the ranges.
“And you see you don’t go
near that river, Phyllis,” she
yelled after them before she
slammed the rickety kitchen-
door.
XTER husband and Joe were
still waiting at the head of
the stairs.
“Well, what’s to do about this
cot, Dell?” the man asked.
She shouted at him from the
kitchen. “Do what you flaming-
well like, as you always do.
Only I’ll tell you this. If you
don’t get a few kitchen-things
unpacked there’ll be no tea for
anyone.”
She sat upon an upturned box
in the kitchen, staring through
the curtainless window with
sullen and resentful eyes, her
high heel tapping a tuneless
rhythm on the rough floor-
boards. The dull red gradually
faded from her cheeks as she
sat and listened to the men cart-
ing in the battered furniture.
Presently they brought in the
kitchen-table and two large
boxes.
“I reckon this is the kitchen-
gear, Dell,” the man said.
“We’ve put the cot in the end
room if you want to put the
baby down.”
She didn’t reply but got up
from the box and went to the
room he had indicated. It was
a large room and with their
bedrOom-suite in it looked quite


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.*
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Ya
c
B
CLOTHES
Hade for the modern
man of action •*«
Made to give you freedom ... plus comfort. .. plus a
trim, slim-line natural fitting that means distinctive
dressing under all circumstances.
All circumstances ? Of course! Stamina self-supporting
trousers are so neatly correct, so finely tailored in the
true craftsman tradition, that you will want to, and
can wear them everywhere.
They hold their crisp, original shape for all the many,
many years you will be wearing them. They are
wrinkle-proof and crush-resistant.
The secret of Stamina’s perfection lies in a combination
of precision tailoring and the fine, pure-wool Crusader
cloth which is specially woven, specially dyed so the
color remains clear and bright for the full, long life
of the garment.
ASK FOR ■ £
Momma
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
T 9.113
comfortable. The cot and
mattress were in one corner and
she laid the baby on it while she
rummaged amongst the pile on
the bed for blankets.
When the baby had been
changed and tucked-in, she
stood for a while by the window.
Across the few yards of brown
marsh the river glinted coldly
in the late afternoon sun.
“No matter where \ I look I
see that river,” she thought.
She decided that since there
was nothing to see but hills and
river, it didn’t matter whether
she saw too much of them from
an upstair- or a downstair-
window. Her anger had gone
when she returned to the kitchen
and began unpacking. The fire
in the rusty iron-stove was alight
and was filling the kitchen with
its cheery crackle.
It was after six-o’clock before
the tea was ready and by then
the shadows of the hills lay in
black curves across the sunny
floor of the valley.
“Call the others, Ray,” she
said, and he went outside and,
cupping his hands round his
mouth, called “Tea’s ready!” at
the top of his voice.
The echo rolled back to him
from the near-by hills and,
hearing it, he called several
times more. The echoes, how-
ever, were his only answer and
he joined the others in the
kitchen. They finished the meal,
bread and jam and a cup of
tea; and still Phyllis, Glen and
Terry had not returned.
“I wonder where those kids
can have got to?” the man said.
“They won’t be far away,”
the woman replied. “They’re
only staying away to nark me.
If they don’t come soon, they
won’t get any tea.”
Her husband and Joe went on
with the unpacking of the furni-
ture and she prepared a bottle
for the baby. By that time the
sun had gone from the valley
and the trees along the top of
the range glowed a golden-red.
In the kitchen the aluminium
teapot on the table twinkled
with the ruddy firelight. The
children still had not returned.
Gazing every now and then
across the valley the woman
found a nebulous, hollow fear
beginning to form within, like
the dusky haze that now filled
the far corners of the valley.
She went out into the yard
where Ray and the two girls
were playing. “Have a look
round and see if you can see
the others anywhere, Ray,” she
said. “Tell them, if they don,’t
come home straight away, they’ll
get a hiding,” she added, more
to restore her own confidence
than because she really meant it.
She went back inside and
busied herself making-up the
beds. The dusk was deepening
when Ray returned. “We’ve
called and called, Mum, and we
can’t get any answer,” he said.
“Good God, Dell!” The
man turned quickly from where
he was working. “Do you mean
to say those kids haven’t come
back yet? Why didn’t you tell
me? It’s nearly dark.”
She was instantly on the
defensive.
“Well, it’s not my fault if
they haven’t come home, is it?
They’re your children as well
as mine. Why should I be the
only one to worry about them?”
“You could have told me
they weren’t home.”
“It’s your business to know
whether they’re home or not.
You’re here just the same as I
am. If I’d had my way, none
of us would be here.”
“Yes, all right, Dell, all
right,” he replied impatiently.
“Squabbling’s not going to do
much good now. We’ll have to
look for them. I’ll go up the
marsh towards the hills and you
and Joe go down towards the
bridge.”
Silent before the urgency in
his voice, she hurried off to
attend to the two little girls
and the baby. Then, leaving
Ray in charge of the house, she
set out with Joe.
It was nearly dark when they
reached the river, but they went
up and down several times
looking for footprints wherever
the ground was soft, calling
often at first, less often as the
night wore on, peering more and
more intently at each unusual
eddy in the dark, gurgling
water.
CjHE was frightened. The
black hills shouldered her
coldly towards the river, press-
ing ominously closer as the
darkness deepened. The dark-
ness and the black hills and the
loneliness were all about her,
and she knew that they were all
about Terry, too. The aware-
ness of his fear intensified her
own.
Resentment swelled, but
didn’t break, the great bubble
of misery in her chest, and she
wished fiercely that Doug had
never heard of the place, that
there’d been no stairs, that she’d
sent them with somebody else
besides Phyllis.
When, long after dark, they
neared the house again she said
to Joe, “Call again, Joe,”
although she dreaded the sound
of his voice in the stillness.
There was no answer so they
decided to go back to the house.
“Perhaps Doug will be back,”
she said.
“Perhaps they’ll all be there,”
Joe replied, but the woman’s
mind could not separate them
from the dark, sliding water.
The father had just returned
and was standing on the‘potato-
sack that had been put down for
a hearth-rug. The shadows cast
by the kerosene-lamp showed up
his wiry strength and accentu-
ated the darkness of his skin.
He wore an open-necked shirt,
and a leather belt drew in the
loose blue overalls round his
slim waist. The woman noticed
that he still had on his best
brown shoes and that the toes
of them were scratched.
“Not seen them?” he asked,
unnecessarily.
The woman shook hej head
and stooped to poke the fire.
“You’d better go to the
township, Joe, to get help,” the
man said. “Take it easy. You
can’t travel at any speed over
that road, and if you break
down we’ll be in a bigger mess
than we are now.”
He and Joe went outside and
presently the woman heard the
truck start up. For a long time
she could hear its whine fading
away into the distance. Then
everything was silent except for
the hoarse rush of the river
and the ticking of the clock on
the rough shelf above the stove.
“Mum!” She sat up expect-
antly, but it was only Ray
calling from upstairs.
“What do you want?”
“Are they home?”
“No.”
“Where’s the truck gone?”
“You go to sleep,” she
shouted angrily. “If you wake
the baby, I’ll skin you.”
All was quiet again. She
walked out into the yard and
listened. The night was very
dark and for a few moments
she could see nothing at all.
Then, gradually, the ranges
took shape against the starry
sky. She thought she heard a
sound and listened intently, and
from far up the valley she could
hear her husband calling to the
children. It seemed a pitifully
lonely sound in the great silence
around them.
From the near-by marsh
came the eerie call of a plover.
Shivering slightly she went
indoors, made up the fire in the
stove and refilled the kettle.
Then she sat over the fire,
brooding and waiting, giving
full play to the bitterness of her
thoughts.
It would be Terry, she
thought, the very one that
needed her most. She didn’t
know what she’d done always to
get the worst of everything.
She saw again Terry’s sturdy
legs as he trotted across the
yard, holding on to Phyllis.
The feeling of injustice and
resentment that clouded her
brain crystallised into sudden
anger as she thought of Phyllis.
Disobedient, that’s what she was.
Always had been. She remem-
bered when Terry was a baby.
Her anger changed to a dull
self 7 pity. Terry should still
have been the baby . . .
Her dull thoughts formed
slowly and seeped into the
heaviness about her.
It was nearly midnight when
she heard the truck returning.
She went to the kitchen-door
and from there she could see
the light flickering through the
trees away on the far hillside, i
By the time the truck with
all the men clinging to the back
had arrived in the yard, the
father had also returned. Above
the trees on the distant hill a
luminous lemon of moon had
risen and had silvered the coarse
marsh-grass and the shining
river. The mother did not
speak but stood with one hand
on the truck while the father
gave what information he could
to the searchers.
The talk, it seemed to the
mother, was casual and un-
hurried. The unemotionalism
of the men annoyed her and she
moved inside, angered because
she felt that these backblocks
people were enjoying the novelty
of the occasion, were finding
excitement in her misery.
(Continued on page 34)


mverofwtffitber
now ofme, tijc
medicine ofmtj bouse
Sfjafiespeare
Z°spi
pL
r
1.
mmi
* f^lT
SOWS
yifUb
3UTEAI TANVMA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
N.S.W. Agents: TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD. ESTB. 1821
cti I
The Experl
A. E. Sturges
mm TT HE instant he saw Galla-
/ gher standing at the
cribroom - door, Studley
knew what was in the
wind. He had been expecting
and dreading it for weeks; and
Gallagher seldom came to the
cribroom other than to bellow
for someone for a breakdown
job. But apart from that he
could see it in the sardonic grin
and narrowed eyes as the ganger
slowly surveyed the room.
Knowing Gallagher, he saw
more —the unexpected core of
softness concealed by the aggres-
sive, mocking exterior.
As the men noticed Galla-
gher, their chatter died. Soon
the room was silent. They
stared uneasily, speculatively at
Gallagher. Gallagher said
nothing.
“Orright, Joe,” someone
called. “You’re the bloody
Sphinx.” There was a burst of
laughter from those not too
close to Gallagher. Gallagher
scowled.
“Come on, Joe, spit it out.
You got us a rise?”
Gallagher recognised the
voice, glared at the speaker.
“You got a lot o’ cracks to
make, Taylor. But you never
make ’em like a man —with
your fists.” He grinned hugely,
relishing a secret joke. “Tell
you what; you can take a
swing at me an’ I won’t sack
you for it.”
“Anybody got a red rag?”
Taylor said. “And a sword?
If I’m going bullfighting . . .”
Gallagher’s grin disappeared,
his face darkened. They waited
in silence for him to boil over
or subside.
Studley got up, walked over
to Gallagher, and faced the
men. “Joe’s too soft-hearted to
tell you.” He held up his hand
at the roar. “The news is that
we’re getting the bullet; they’re
not taking the line any further;
at present. That right, Joe?”
Gallagher sneered down at
him. “You should know,
Studley. Listening at the boss’s
keyhole.”
Studley went white. With an
effort he controlled himself,
spoke calmly. “No need for me
to do that, Joe. It’s written all
over your ugly mug.”
Gallagher moved threaten-
ingly, his fists bunched. Studley,
dwarfed by the ganger, set his
teeth and stood his jground.
“Man versus gorilla,” some-
one yelled. “No murder in the
cribroom, Joe, the firm don’t
like it. Is it true what Studley
said?”
Gallagher unclenched his
hands, glared for a second
longer at Studley, then turned
and smiled unpleasantly.
“Yeah. He’s right. It’s the
gun for the whole bloody pdck
o’ you.”
There was a stunned silence;
then they all began to speak at
once with angry voices. A bent
old man left the tables, crossed
to Gallagher. “And when do
we finish—next pay-day?”
Gallagher shook his head.
“No, Dad—this Sat’dy.”
The old man stood almost
straight again with anger. “The
lousy sods. Frightened they
might pay us for five minutes
more than they need us.”
“Ah, what’s bitin’ you, Dad?
Knew you were on daily hire,
didn’t you?”
“Yeah. Know I’m gonna die,
too, son; but that don’t mean
I want to die tomorrow.”
Gallagher snorted. “Look,
Dad, you’d moan if beer was
free. When I make you work,
you curse me; and now you
don’t have to work you’re
cursing me again.”
The old man looked at him
contemptuously. u Easy for you,
son. You don’t have to find
another job. They hang on to
slave-drivers; they’re not easy
to find.”
Gallagher scowled. “Anyway,
there it is—you finish Sat’dy.”
He pulled out his watch. “And
don’t forget you’re still working
here now —crib-time was up
five minutes ago.”
WHEN the knock-off whistle
blew, Studley put on his
coat and walked thoughtfully to
Gallagher’s humpy. Gallagher
was making-up his time-sheets;
he looked up surprised when
Studley walked in.
“Ah, the oracle. What’s on
your mind, Pom?”
Studley sat down on the
wooden bench, took tobacco
and papers from his pocket,
selected a pinch of tobacco,
then looked across at Gallagher.
“The Peacock, Joe. What’s
happening to her, do you
know?”
Gallagher’s brow wrinkled.
“What the” Then his face
cleared ; he chuckled, shook his
head. “Well, there’s no doubt
about you, Studley, you’re a
bloody shrewd head if ever
there was one. Going to follow
the loco, eh? Well, well.” He
shook his head slowly three or
four times. “No good, Harry.
No bloody good.”
“Why not?”
Gallagher grinned. “Where
she’s going they’ve got drivers.
Good ones. Australians.”
Studley smiled.
Gallagher’s eyes narrowed.
“Cocky bloke, aren’t you,
Pom?”
“No, Joe. But I know I can
drive a loco.”
“A few fancy tricks don’t
make a driver, Studley.”
“No, Joe. I remember you
telling Burton so.”
Gallagher, embarrassed, shot
a look of annoyance at Studley.
Studley rolled his cigarette,
poked the loose tobacco in with
a match, lit up, then tossed the
makings to Gallagher. Galla-
gher stuck a tissue on his lip,
took a big pinch of tobacco,
and passed them back.
“Well, where’s she going,
Joe?”
Gallagher looked up from his
cigarette. “Look, Harry, I don’t
want to send you all over the
country on a wild-goose-chase.
You haven’t got a hope.”
Studley stood up, put the
packet in his pocket, brushed
shreds of tobacco from his
trousers. “0.K., Joe. See you
in the morning.”
He went out, walking slowly,
waiting for Gallagher to call
him back.
“Hey! Studley!”
He stopped, turned. “Yes,
Joe?”
“Can’t you take a joke?”
Studley suppressed a smile.
“Never did have a sense of
humor, Joe.”
Gallagher jerked his. thumb at
the bench; Studley sat down.
“Berry and Lakin’ve bought the
Peacock.”
“Who are they?”
Gallagher snorted. “Hell,
where’ve you been? Thought
you were a railway-man.
They’re the biggest construction
gang here.”
“Oh . . . And where are
they taking her?”
“They’re putting a line down
in the sou’-west corner.”
“What place?”
“Parama.”
Studley stood up. “Thanks,
Joe. I’ll give it a try.”
Gallagher waved him down.
“Don’t be in such a damned
hurry. There’s no sense in your
rushing out to Parama. Might
be wasting your time and dough.
You were going to Sydney,
weren’t you?”
“Yes.”
“Well, old Berry’s got an
office there, spends most of his
time there. None of the rough
stuff for him. Not that he
hasn’t had his share of it, but
he’s shrewd enough now to
leave it to the other mugs . . .
He’s the bloke you want to see.
I’ll get his address from Burton
for you.”
“Damn’ good of you, Joe. I
appreciate it.”
Gallagher glared at him,
sneered. “Ah, you’re not a bad
coot, Studley—for a Pommy.”
T>ERRY looked at him
appraisingly. “So you want
a job?”
“That’s right.”
Berry looked at his neat blue
suit, polished shoes. “You
don’t look as though you need
a job.”
“Well, I do. I haven’t got
one, and I have got a wife and
kids to keep.”
“Mm. All right, then; what
can you do?”
“Fitter. Steam - engines—
locos, buckets, shovels. Dredges,
pumps. Drive ’em, main-
tenance.”
Berry looked sceptical. “Bit
of an expert, aren’t you?”
Studley bridled. “You asked
me what I could do. Well, I’m
telling you.”
“H’m. You’re English, aren’t
you?”
“Yes,” said Studley trucu-
lently. “I am. But I need a
job, just the same. Some people
seem to think that only Aus-
tralians”-
Berry hurried to placate him.
“I didn’t mean —no need to take
it like that —I just thought you
sounded English. Where were
you working last?”
“Tindale. On the Peacock
you’ve just bought.”
“The Peacock?”
Studley grinned. “Driving the
Peacock loco you’ve just bought
from Loxtons.”
“You have? Why didn’t you
say so? You’re just the man
we want.” He frowned. “But
we’re not ready for you. Might
be a month or so. We’re having
a spot of trouble.” His eyes
brightened, he looked at Studley
challengingly. “Know anything
about injectors?”
“Yes, of course.”
“A lot?”
“Oh, yes.”
Berry smiled. “You’re pretty
sure of yourself, aren’t you?”
Studley shrugged. “Well, I
served my time as a railway
fitter, I’ve assembled locos, I’ve
been a loco.-foreman . . . Any-
how, they’re simple enough.”
“Oh. Our men are having
trouble with one.”
“Probably letting it get too
hot. You don’t want to let the
steam —anyway, you’d know all
that.”
“No; I’m a structural
engineer.”
Studley smiled. “Ah, mec-
cano-man.”
“Meccano? Oh, I see.”
Berry laughed. “Well, this is
the position. Down at Parama
—we’re laying a new track
there; that’s where the loco’s
going—down there we’ve got a
machine for drilling and adzing
sleepers. Nice little job. But
we can’t use it; there’s some-
thing wrong with the injector on
the donkey-engine boiler. The
whole show’s held up for
sleepers.” He looked at
Studley consideringly.
“Parama’s about four-hundred
miles froip here; do you feel
confident that you could go
down and fix it?”
“Yes.”
Berry smiled. “That’s good
enough. When could you be
ready?”
“I’m ready now.”
Berry laughed. “You’re a bit
keen. Must be the English in
you.” He saw Studley frown,
and hastily rummaged in his
desk drawer. He took out a
timetable. “Mm, it’s ten-past-
eleven now. There’s a train at
six. If we don’t catch that it’ll
mean waiting two days. Looks
like six tonight—O.K.?”
“Yes.”
“I suppose I can make
it. Wife’ll grumble, but she’ll
get over it.”
“Oh, you’re coming too?”
“Yes. Few things I want to
check down there . . . Er, we’d
better meet here —say five-
fifteen. That’ll give us time for
a snack at the station before we
leave.”
Studley looked doubtful.
“What’s the matter?” Berry
asked.
“Reckon we ought to make it
quarter to five. I like to be in
plenty of time.”
Berry nodded. “All right, I
think I can manage that.”
Studley cleared his throat.
“And when you’re ready for the
loco, I’ll be right for the job?”
“Oh, yes.”
“What about the wife and
kids —they be O.K. at Parama?”
“Yes, there are plenty of good
tents on the job. A few tough
characters in the gang, but if you
leave them alone they leave you
alone.”
“What about milk?”
Berry smiled. “Goats out
there going begging. Last time
I was down I reckon there were
more goats than men.”
“Good.”
“Right, then I’ll see you here
at quarter-to-five . . . Oh, and
Studley.”
“Yes?”
“Don’t go buying a ticket—
I’ll fix all that.”
6 6-iifß. FRANKLIN, our resi-
dent engineer; Mr.
Thomas, engine-driver. This is
Mr. Studley—he’s come down
from Sydney to have a look at
the injector.”
Their eyes weighed Studley.
“Ready to have a look at it?”
Studley nodded. Franklin
looked at the gauges, spoke to
Thomas. He turned to Studley.
“She’s all yours.”
Studley opened the boiler
inlet-valve, gradually turned the
steam-handle. Steam hissed
into the injector, forcing air and
water through the overflow. He
opened the water valve ; then let
in more steam. Steam roared,
water rushed whistling up the
pipe and into the boiler. He
looked at the gauge; turned to
the others.
“Seems all right.”
Scarcely had he spoken when
the whistle of water died; the
steam roared on. Studley
hastily closed the valves.
“Queer,” he muttered.
Franklin and Thomas ex-
changed a look of relief.
Studley felt the injector. He
turned to Thomas; “Got a'
spare injector?”
“No, not a spare inch. There’s
a three-quarter.”
“Got some reducers, haven’t
you?”
“Just a sec.”
Thomas came back from the
workshop with the injector,
reducers, and tools. While he
dnd Franklin changed the injec-
tor, Berry pointed out to Studley
the route of the new line. Part
of Studley’s mind cast back in
his memory for details of
injector-troubles. Hot injectors
won’t work ; but this one wasn’t
hot. Nice if I’ve come four-
hundred miles and fail. Bunk ;
I could fix ’em when I was a
kid-apprentice. Got a kick in
the tail if I couldn’t . . .
“. . . wrong with it?”
He realised with a start that
Berry was asking him a ques-
tion ; he shook his head.
“Rather not guess.” He
grinned. “Might ruin my
reputation.”
Franklin called them, jerked
his head at the boiler. “0.K.,
do your worst.”
Studley tried again. Steam
hissed in, he opened the water
and turned up the steam. The
steam roared, the water
whistled. The gauge rose
steadily. Studley smiled.
“Crook injector. I’ll have a
look at it.”
Before he had time to move
the whistle stopped, steam only
roared in. He closed the valves
again. They all looked at him.
It struck Studley suddenly.
The waterline. A moral.
Should be kicked for not think-
ing of it before.
“Back in a minute,” he said,
and walked off, following the


Divorce Notice
TO FREDERICK FEITZ sometime of
Flagstafi Hotel North Melbourne.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ROMA JOYCE
FEITZ has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia under the provisions
pf Part 111 of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1945-1965 (Commonwealth) and
Section 75 (a) of the Marriage Act 1928
(Victoria) for Divorce on the ground that
without just cause or excuse you have wil-
fully deserted her and without any just
cause or excuse have left her continu-
ously so deserted during three years and
upwards and that she is seeking the exer-
cise of the discretion of the Court in her
favour under Section 84 of the last men-
tioned Act. If you desire to defend such pro-
ceedings you must file your defence in
the Centra] Office of the Supreme Court'
at Perth within 80 clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce Judgment and
make Orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 2nd day of September, 1955.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
S. E. TIPPETT & ELLIS, of 104 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
-H--i
— H
£
$
a
mm\mm
n -"-f—
-&
&
a+_
-
9
T&S
3
a*- _
ft
.AVIATION
m
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company limited* London
line. In a few seconds a stores-
tent hid him.
They looked at one another ;
Franklin grinned. “Can’t bear
the disgrace—gone to cut his
throat.”
Berry smiled grimly. “He
won’t do that. Got too good
an opinion of himself. But if
he can’t fix it after I’ve brought
him all this way, I might do it
for him.”
Studley reached the tank. His
heart leapt when he saw the
valve, an ordinary low-pressure
one similar in principle to a
domestic tap. A certainty. The
pressure’ll be low. Relief
flowed through him ; he turned
back, walked lightly.
“Would you give us a large
shifter, a heavy pair of pliers, a
hammer, and the inch-injector?
And while I’m fixing it, would
you rip the three-quarter off
again?”
They stared after him,
puzzled. Thomas sniffed. “Like
a lot o’ these wise guys,” he
growled. “Won’t spill their guts
in front o’ you. Frightened a
man might learn a bit from
em.
When Studley reached the
valve he put the injector in his
pocket. He screwed the central
spindle of the valve full-up,
loosened the cover-nut, spun the
cover off, lifted out the valve,
then wrapped two handkerchiefs
round the body to check the
spilling water. He gripped the
valve-spindle firmly with the
pliers and tapped with the
hammer —light, quick blows on
the end, jumping-up the
diameter. Several times he tried
it in the hollow of. the central
spindle; it was slow work, care
being needed to prevent binding
or splitting of the stem. At last
it was a tight fit, and Studley
tapped it carefully into place.
He removed the handkerchiefs,
assembled the valve, took the
injector from his pocket and
walked back.
He tossed the injector to
Thomas. “She’ll be right now.”
Thomas looked at the injec-
tor, back to Studley, raised his
eyebrows at Franklin. Franklin
nodded. “Put her on.”
While Thomas put the injec-
tor on, Studley wiped his hands
and examined his blue trousers
anxiously. Berry watched him
from the corners of his eyes.
Thomas signalled ready.
Franklin looked at Studley.
“You going to try her?”
Studley waved to Thomas.
“She’ll be right.”
Thomas turned the valves.
Steam and water flowed
normally. They all smiled.
Franklin nodded to Studley.
“Good man,” he said.
They all looked at Studley
expectantly. Studley ignored
the tacit inquiry. Thomas
looked at Berry as if to say,
“What did I tell you?”
“Well, let’s have a drink to
celebrate,” Berry said. . “And
after that a bite to eat.”
6 ‘N° W Studley,” Berry
said, “I want to get this
straight. If I hold that driving
job open for you, you won’t let
me down when the time
comes?”
Studley shook his head. “I’ll
be here.”
“Right . . . Now, what are
you aiming to do in the mean-
time?”
Studley shrugged. “Try to
find something.”
Id like to be able to give
you something here, but there
“ta thing at the moment.
Shouldn’t be too long, now the
sleepers are under way.”
He screwed up his eyes,
pursed his lips. Then he slapped
his leg. “Tell you what. A
friend of mine, Doug Boyle’s
his name, is engineer at the
cement-works at Nylor. I’ll
give you a note to him. He’ll
give you something—he was
telling me not long ago they
have trouble getting labor.
Conditions can’t be the best, but
you can put up with ’em if you
t? OW > it’s for a limited time.
There s a line branches-off
there, about half-way between
here and Sydney. What about
it?”
“Sounds all right. How could
I let the wife know?”
“Oh, the bloke on the train’ll
fix that —they’ll send a telegram
for you.”
AS Studley shook hands with
Franklin just before the
train left, he said quietly, “That
valve in your waterline to the
boiler.”
Franklin looked surprised.
“Yes'?”
“Pull it out and put a stop-
valve in. You’re likely to get
trouble there.”
“Oh . . yes, I will. Thanks.”
A mile or two along the line
Berry glanced covertly at
Studley two or three times, then
leaned forward with a deter-
mined air. “What was wrong
with the injector, Studley?”
Studley shrugged. “Oh, just
needed a bit of adjusting.
Simple matter, really.”
“Then Franklin should have
been able to do it.”
Studley cursed inwardly.
“I wouldn’t say that. Simple
things aren’t always obvious.
It’s often the little things that
baffle even the best men. I’ve
been held up before today for
hours just because of a rusted-up
bolt.”
“H’m.”
TDOYLE read the note, cocked
an eye at Studley. “Cobber
of old Sam’s, eh?”
“No, not really.”
“No? Seems pretty keen on
me giving you a job.”
“Well, I’m going to work for
him, but the job’s not ready.”
“So he says. How long’ll it
be?”
“He doesn’t know.”
“Ah, well, I can give you a
job tidying up the place—stack-
ing junk, salvaging, sweeping.”
“No fitting-jobs?”
“Nope, not a thing.”
“0.K., I’ll take it.”
OTUDLEY stood back and
looked with a critical eye at
his handiwork. Boyle came out
of the mixing-shed and crossed
the yard. He looked at Studley
and frowned, then, following
Studley’s gaze he saw the new
three-sided bin against the wall
and the fresh-painted notice
above it: Put Rubbish Here.
He grinned. “You’re taking
on a contract, mate, if you aim
to make ’em take notice of that.
Anyhow, you won’t have to
worry about it after today.”
Studley looked at him appre-
hensively. “How’s that?”
“Old Tommy Kearney’s going
on shift as mill-fitter, relieving.
He’s just started to fit-up the
change-house for hot-and-cold
showers.”
Studley’s eyes lit up. “You
mean”
“You can take over the job
tomorrow.”
6 6 TELEGRAM, Harry.
A Hope it’s not bad news.”
Studley put down the Still-
sons, wiped his hands on a piece
of waste. He tore open the
envelope. It was from Berry.
“Job ready. Come as soon as
possible.”
He handed it to Boyle. Boyle
read it, looked up at him.
“Well?”
“I’ll have to go.”
Boyle snorted. “Well, nice
sort o’ b you are. Worry
the life out o’ me to put you on
the tools, I give you a sweet job,
and you walk out on me.”
“Sorry, Doug, but I promised
Berry.”
“Gord, man, old Sam could
get a dozen drivers with a snap
of his fingers. Besides, you
won’t get as much money as
you’re making here.”
“Sorry. I made a definite
promise. I like to keep mv
word.”
“Okay, okay, no hard feelings.
Come over at five, an’ I’ll make
up your money.”
AS he walked to the train
Studley’s conscience taunted
him. Well, you’re a bloody
saint. Couldn’t break your
promise to Berry, oh, no. But
you didn’t hesitate to tell him
a lie about the injector. And
why? Because you wanted him
to think you a bit of an expert.
Well, I am an expert on locos,
if Ido say so myself. Not this
time, you weren’t. A sticking
valve—a kid could fix it. Well,
they didn’t. No, and that’s
another thing—doesn’t matter
that Berry thinks they’re mugs
—no, as long as he thinks you’re
a wonder. I put that right, told
him simple things could baffle
anyone. Yeah, but Berry’s not
simple— not that simple.
It wasn’t until Studley was at
the ticket-office-window that he
knew what he was going to do.
As the clerk poked his head
towards the hole in the glass,
Studley dug into his pocket for
extra money. “Single, please.
Right through to Sydney.”
T>ERRY stared at him. “Good
Lord! Studley, don’t tell
me you forgot you could go
from Nylor to Parama without
coming right back to Sydney?”
Studley smiled grimly. “No,
I remembered.”
“Then why . . .? I would
have said if I’d wanted to see
you.”
“I wanted to see you.”
“Oh? Nothing wrong, I
hope.”
“That injector there was
nothing wrong with it”
Berry frowned, looked
puzzled.
“There was nothing wrong
with it at all. The trouble was
in the valve in the waterline.”
“Oh? I don’t”
“I didn’t want you to think
you’d taken me four-hundred
miles for nothing. So I made
out it was the injector.”
Berry smiled. “Thomas
thought you didn’t want to give
any secrets away. Spill your
guts, I think he called it.”
Studley smiled wryly. “No,
it wasn’t that.”
“What, was wrong with the
valve?”
“Wrong type—just the loose-
valve, gravity type. Must have
been sticking a bit on the seat.
The pressure’s pretty low.
Seemed as though there was a
slight lull in the flow, then she’d
drop and stick.”
“What did you do?”
“I just jumped the stem up
a bit and made it tight in the
hole, so’s she’d lift and lower
with the central spindle.”
“I see.”
Studley dropped his eyes,
then looked up again at Berry.
“I did mention to Franklin
before we left about putting in
a stop-valve. All the same . . .”
Berry looked at him quizzi-
cally. “I still can’t see what you
came all the way back to tell
me this for.”
Studley grimaced. “I wanted
to put things right. It was a
shabby trick.”
Berry laughed. “You fixed
the trouble, didn’t you? That’s
all I wanted. Er, besides being
a fitter and driver and all the
rest of it, you never took cloth,
did you?”
They laughed together.
CJTUDLEY found Franklin in
the workshop. He held out
his hand. “Your new loco.-
driver.”
Franklin shook hands, looked
hard at Studley.
“Haven’t I struck you before,
somewhere?”
Studley grinned. “Studley’s
the name —Harry Studley.”
Franklin’s face cleared. “Of
course; Mr. Studley. How are
you?” A wary look came into
his eyes. “What brings you up
this part of the world again?”
Studley smiled. “I just told
you.”
Franklin stared at him. “You
mean”
“Yes. I had the job when I
came before. But you weren’t
ready for me.”
Franklin looked incredulous.
“You mean the old man knew
all the time? And never let
on?” He laughed. “Well, I’ll
be damned. What a joke. Wait
till I tell Thomas.” He laughed
again, shook his head. “And us
thinking all the time you were
some blasted expert!”


Calculated risk
the stakes, the law
of averages, and old lady luck . . •
: V'
SSfc
Oi
ft
m
■' I
; *■ V.. 7* v\ >
H H
*** WrnmSm
FIRE HAZARD is one risk you
can’t afford to gamble on!
(it can put a company out of business overnight!)
There’s no telling where fire will strike—but official figures tell us when! Every 36
hours, fire threatens industry, leaving behind it disfigured plant, twisted steel and,
sometimes, broken bodies. Every 36 hours someone, too busy to stop and think,
gets hit hard by a risk that was always there, threatening. Stop a minute and calculate
the risk. What would one bad fire to-night mean to your company to-morrow?
Get the facts now on "round-the-clock" "Automatic" Protection.
“Automatic” protection is complete fire protection—split-second guardian of plant
and property every minute of every day —and while you sleep at night! Another
week’s delay could mean unrecoverable loss to your business—a gamble you can’t
afford to take. Call in “Automatic’s” specialists now. “Automatic’s” fire-protection
engineers in your State will help you check up on the danger spots and familiarise
you with the equipment needed to protect it. A telephone call places you under no
obligation.
“AUTOMATIC” Fire Protection Equipment
includes Automatic” Sprinkler and Fire
Alarm Systems: Completely engineered and
installed by us and examined, tested and
serviced weekly, ensuring 100 per cent,
efficiency.
“Oilfyre” (Atomised Water) Systems t
Specialised equipment for extinguishing fires
in oil and other inflammable liquids. Indoor
and outdoor equipment.
“Atlas” CO2 Gas Systems: Used extensively to
protect electrical equipment—non-conducting.
For highly inflammable liquids—petrol, oil,
paint, lacquer, alcohol, etc.
“Automatic” Hand Chemical Extinquisners t
All types available Soda Acid, Foam,
Carbon Tetrachloride, CO2 and Dry Powder.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: Alexandria Works, 618 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. Telephone: MU 2476
PROVt
VICTORIA: Carlton Works, 179 Berkeley Street, Carlton. D. W. Roberts, Director. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Edwardstown Works, M 3 South Road, Edwardstown.
N. R. Dowling, Director. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 18 Irwin Street, Perth. D. I. Murray, Manager. QUEENSLAND: Hendra Works, 456 Nudgee Road, Hendra.
i. E. Robinson, Director. NEW ZEALAND: Penrose Works, 17 Beasley Avenue, Penrose. G. K. Bunco, Manager.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ADA MARGARET SAUNDERS late
of Albion Street Sydney. —TAKE NOTICE
that JACK RICHARD SAUNDERS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3021 of
1955 on ttie grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or- excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
might enter an appearance m the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 18th day of November 1905
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from ALLAN E. CLPITi
BEST, Solicitors, of Federal Mutual
Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO KEITH ARTHUR SOMMERLAD late
of Menai Road Sutherland. TAKE
NOTICE that AGNES LOVESAY SOM-
MERLAD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 8032 of 1955 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you might enter an appearance m
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th day of
November 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALLAN L.
CUPIT & BEST, Solicitors, of Federal
Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Syd
ney. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wa n t s
Copies of The ‘'Bulletin” Reciter
may now be obtained from the
N.S.W. Bookstall at 3s. 6d. per copy.
information or magazine contain-
ing article on bandalo-work.—6lso.
To buy copy of Some Southern
Homes of New South Wales, by
Glynde Nesta Griffiths.—6lsl.
tv. hnv /-rmipc nf Dinrihrll of
TirnntffipW anH The Bar Sinister
wvoKneia ana me oat omse.
® r ... . tu
To buy copy or Laddie. Ihe
Story of a Sydney Barmaid. 6153.
To buy copy of The Story of Old
George-street, by Charles H.
Bertie.—6ls4.
To buy copy of Poems by
Rnderir Ouinn nublished in 1920 bv
Anem and Robertson Sydney
/:I cc ’ J '
' , ,
To buy copy of Cleopatra and
Others, by Rider Haggard. 0150.
Vols. 2,4, 5 and 6 of Gibbon’s
The Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire; Everyman’s Library (Dent),
numbers 435, 437, 438 and 439; 1941
reprint or earlier.—6ls7.
Tn huv conies of Fair Girls and
Orav Hnrsps and Hparts nf Gold hv
wni H Ovilvie 6158 7 ’ Y
B ‘
. c c 1.
inrormation sought
How to lay a red-gravel path? Is
it successful on sloping ground?
The ground is smoothed and
flattened (no camber can be retained
under gravel), and a thin layer of
gravel laid and firmly rolled in. The
main quantity is then laid and raked
into even thickness. A holding-edge
of some kind is necessary—a grass-
verge or a border of rocks or bricks
—as gravel spreads when walked-on
or driven-over. Constant raking is
necessary to keep it tidy and binding.
It is quite unsuitable for sloping
ground, and will wash away in
storms. If rolled heavily into loam,
it becomes an earth-cement liable to
erode m . heavy ram. Mixed with
cement, it is no longer a gravel-path,
Respite its handsome appearance, it is
a ? . un Popular path-material because
0 f its shifting qualities and the atten-
fi° n requires. However, if you
have a natural, plentiful supply, you
might try it.
* * * *
. How many empires have there been
, worlds history, and duration
P en °d of each? Which is
considered to have been the first?
Impossible to list them all here,
China is usually regarded as being
the oldest empire, though no precise
chronology of its beginnings can be
given. Some other ancient empires—
that of Sargon I (about 2750 b.c.),
who conquered the whole Meso-
potamian valley; the Babylonian,
c ' 2300 B,c .’. later Babylonian
em P ire flourished under Nebuchad-
nezzar> 605-562 b.c.) ; Egypt, first
regarded as an empire from the 18th
dynasty (c. 1600 b.c.) ; the Hittite
empire, of which little is known;
Assyria, under Sennacherib, Ashur-
bani-pal and other rulers (Bth-7th
century b.c.); Persia, at its greatest
extent under Darius the Great (521-
485 b.c.); Alexander the Great’s,
which split into three empires at his
death (323 b.c.); and the Roman
Empire, which was in fact an
“empire” long before the time of
the first emperor, Augustus (27 b.c.-
a.d. 14)—on the other hand, the
Eastern Roman Empire in its last
years (15th century) consisted only
of the city of Constantinople. The
Middle Ages time-pieced the Frankish
empire of Charlemagne (768-814),
which developed into the Holy
Roman Empire, the Mohammedan
empire based on Baghdad (coexistent
t Mongol
*°™ e n founded byJenghis Khan
cen t U ry) which split at his
death. During the past several
hundred years most of the countries
D f Western Europe (as well as Japan,
Russia, etc.) at some time had or
have great empires; some, like the
French, have been enlarged for a
time by brilliant rulers such as
Louis XIV and Napoleon I. Then,
c f course, there is the British Empire,
now become the British Common-
wealth of Nations.
* * * *
In what year last century were the
Bristol riots ? What caused the riots ?
In 1831. There was great dis-
content in many English towns
because local affairs were usually in
the hands of a small section of
wealthy burgesses, who governed to
suit themselves. Also then in people’s
minds was the question of Parlia-
mentary reform. In 1831 Lord John
Russell’s Reform Bill was rejected
in the Commons, and Earl Grey’s in
the Lords. Prominent opponents of
these measures were the Bishop of
Bristol and Sir Charles Wetherell,
Recorder of Bristol (a position
equivalent to that of chief criminal
judge), who had been Attorney-
General in the Duke of Wellington’s
Government. The visit of Wetherell
to Bristol to open the Assizes in
October, 1831, was the signal for the
outbreak of fierce rioting, which
lasted several days. Much of
Queen-square was destroyed, jails
were set on fire and the Bishop’s
Palace ransacked. Order was restored
by the Army, and many were
arrested; four of the ringleaders
were hanged, and 88 others sentenced
to transportation and imprisonment.
(The Army commander Colonel
Brereton, who was accused of luke-
warmness in quelling the riots, was
court-martialled in Jan., 1832, on
the ground of disobeying orders; he
shot himself during the trial) The
and a Municipal Reform Act was
passed in 1835.
-
* * * *
Some information about the
Liberty Bell?
The Liberty Bell is the bell of the
State House at Philadelphia (Indepen-
dence Hall), where the American
Continental Congress adopted the
Declaration of Independence in 1776.
The bell was rung on this occasion,
It was originally cast in England in
1752, and recast in Philadelphia in
1753. On it is inscribed the motto:
“Proclaim liberty throughout the land
unto all the inhabitants thereof.”
The bell was cracked in 1853.
* * * *
How should sandalwood be pre-
pared? Should it be barked, into
what lengths should it be cut, and
what is the smallest-diameter tree
accepted?
Sandalwood-trees are not felled but
are pulled out by the roots, the root-
stock and all roots down to Hin.
diameter being of value; even a
limited quantity of dead wood is
used. Sandalwood is graded, and
logs of first- and second-grade are
cut not less than 4ft. 6in. and not
more than 7ft. in length. Wood is
to be cleaned of all sapwood, shelly
and brittle wood, and centre-pipe or
unsound heartwood is not to exceed
a diameter of 2in. at the butt-end.
Wood not conforming to first- or
second-grade is enclosed in bags, and
must be of less weight than 21b.
First-grade logs are not to exceed 140
to the ton, and second-grade 250 to
the ton. At present sandalwood is
not allowed to be pulled in N.S.W.
In other States where operations are
permitted, no living tree of less girth
than Bin. measured over bark at
6in. from ground-level is allowed to
be pulled.
* * * *
How to preserve the juice of
lemons ?
Squeeze the juice into a preserving-
pan, and to every gallon of juice
allow one egg. Place the juice on
the fire, which should not be fierce,
and when it begins to get warm
whisk in the beaten white of the egg
only, but do not stir again. Raise the
temperature almost to boiling, and
let it steam for a while. Have the
bottles and corks in the oven, and
let them get very hot. When every-
thing is as hot as possible,* fill the
juice into bottles, and close with the
hot corks, allowing each cork to be
immersed in the juice so that there
is no air-space. Close the bottles
tightly, and store in a cool, dark
place. Particles of fruit must be
strained or skimmed off the juice
before bottling.
* * * *
How to smoke a ham ?
Any convenient method of sub-
jecting the ham to thick, clean
smoke may be used. The ham may
be hung over a smoky fire or
suspended in a box over such a fire;
or smoke may be carried through a
wooden channel into a very small
room or large box in which the ham
is suspended. Time depends on the
degree of smokiness liked by con-
sumer. It is important that the fire
should be made from clean, non-
poisonous woods, the smokier in
burning the better. Essence of smoke,
a commercial product much in use,
is a quick method of giving a smoky
flavor and appearance to meat, but
should not be used by beginners.
* * * *
Rust-patches have developed on my
galvanised-iron roof, three years ago
given a coat of aluminium paint. I
propose to repaint red. Best method ?
Remove all existing rust by
scraping and wire-brushing. Dust-
down the surface and spot-prime all
the bare areas with one coat of
Kromik Primer. Kromik is a rust-
inhibitive primer and will help to
prevent further rusting. Allow the
Kromik to harden for 48 hours and
apply one coat of Roofmaster red
roofing-paint.
Brief Answers
R.F.8.: Write The Murray Valley
Development League, Box 329, Post
Office, Albury (N.5.W.)...
“The Wandering Butcher Transport,
by “Jim One” (Captain Jack Hamil-
ton), appeared in The Bulletin of
October 18, 1917... .J.A.S.: (1) No
ships sail direct from Australia to
Tanganyika or Kenya; the best
method is by way of Cape Town or
Durban. It is possible to travel to
Bombay and change* on to a steamer
for Mombasa or Dar-Es-Salaam.
(2) Sydney to Cape Town: £79 to
£115; Cape Town to Mombasa: £42
approximately; Sydney to Bombay:
£46 to £97; Bombay to Mombasa:
£2B to £6l. Above fares are in
sterling and are subject to altera-
tion without notice W.C.R.H.:
Build Your House of Earth, by G. F.
Middleton (Angus and Robertson,
Sydney; 225. 6d.)... .T.W.: Tod
Morgan first came to Australia in
1933, and, in his opening contest at
Sydney Stadium, defeated Bobby
Blay. Jack Carroll outpointed
Morgan in 1933 and again in 1934.
G.E.K.: The Queen Victoria
a of a farthing used in Malta is
valued at Is. A Charles II crown
is valued at between 355. and 505.,
according to its condition... .T.J.D.:
Not available in book-form. Copies
of The Bulletin containing the
serial —12 numbers from February 2,
1955, to April 20, 1955 —are obtain-
able from The Bulletin office at
9d. per copy J.J.H.: Frank
(“Frosty”) Darcy, brother of Les
Darcy, was not a heavy welterweight,
and he fought only as a welter.
There is no record of his haying won
a championship in any division....
B.B.: The 1930 penny is rare—and
valued at 10s—because only a
limited number were struck.


Queensland's Rocket-range
Target , Hailstorms!
By RON HARRISON
QUEENSLAND’S rocket-
range is spread out
around Stanthorpe,
centre of the Granite
Belt.
Cheddite-loaded rockets, fired
from fruitfarms into the vortices
of hail-clouds, have, many
growers claim, been largely
responsible for the successful
harvesting of this year’s £l-
- apple-crop.
The rockets are claimed to
break-up the clouds and prevent
hail falling by altering the
formation of the cloud’s product
from hard, frozen ice-pellets
into water, or, at the worst,
squelchy haildrops that can
harm nothing as they fall.
The claims were laughed at
for years, and still are by some
people, although the C.5.1.R.0.
has given a cautious and quali-
fied opinion that under certain
conditions it is just barely
possible that rocket-explosions
might have an effect on
hail-clouds.
Granite Belt growers took a
lot of convincing, but today
many of them are in on the
scheme and pay their share
towards the cost of the rockets
which have, they are sure, saved
their crops on many occasions.
This year’s barrage of anti-
hail rockets was the biggest ever
put up in the Stanthorpe area —
not so much because more hail-
storms threatened as because
more and more growers are
coming in on the scheme.
One obstacle to co-operative
action in the area has been the
well-known fact that hailstorms
usually move in clearly-defined
strips. One grower could lose
all his fruit whilst a neighbor’s
would be completely untouched.
Soldiers never consider the
possibility that they might
themselves be killed; apple-
growers always expected that
hail would happen to the other
fellow.
The Granite Belt apple-crop
as it grew on the trees this year
was not one of the largest ever,
but growers consider, that a
larger proportion of apples got
into the cold-stores without
being marked by hail than ever
before.
The idea of fighting hail-
clouds with rockets originated
in Switzerland and passed on to
France, where it was developed
to a high degree of organisation
against strong scepticism from
scientists. Granite Belt rockets
come from France now, but
some Australian firms are
interested in the possibility of
manufacturing them.
Mr. E- C. Bowen, who is in
charge of the radio-physics divi-
sion sof the C.5.1.R.0. in Sydney,
is one of the sceptics. He said
in a letter to a Cottonvale
grower that it seemed unlikely
that the rockets being used in
the Stanthorpe district could
have much effect on hail-
formation. The amount of
energy stored-up in a well-
developed thunderstorm is so
considerable, he said, that the
energy released from exploding
rockets was quite negligible by
comparison.
Mr. Bowen said that because
of this it was doubtful whether
rocket - explosions could have
any direct effect on the develop-
ment of a storm-area once it
had reached or approached the
hail-production stage.
He was, however, more sym-
pathetic to the suggestion that
silver-iodide particles from
rocket-explosions might act as
nuclei for condensation of
clouds into rain. He said that
this theory was inherently a
more reasonable one because it
was now known that condensa-
tion nuclei played an important
part in initiating rain-forming
processes in clouds.
It was possible that hail-
clouds were enormous because
they lacked rain-forming nuclei,
and if such nuclei were supplied
to a cloud early enough the
internal - turbulence character-
istic of hailstorms might not be
built up/
Mr. Bowen’s main objection
seemed to be to the claims that
mature hail-clouds could be
dispersed or turned to rain by
the firing of rockets, but growers
in the Stanthorpe area—some of
them, at any rate—insist that
this is just what their rockets do.
The target for the rockets is
the vortex of the hail-cloud,
Rocket-fanciers claim that the
vortex of this type of cloud is
inherently unstable, and that
small changes in its composition
and shape can cause rain to fall,
instead of the damaging
hailstones.
Hail-clouds are easy to recog-
nise. They are always of the
cumulo-nimbus type. They are
usually green or greenish-blue
in color—sometimes greyish-
yellow. If the grey-yellow part
of the cloud is striped with
white bands the observer is
looking at hailstones.
Not only sight can be used
to recognise the 1 real hail-cloud,
though—the real thing makes a
roaring, rumbling noise, some-
thing like a train going oyer an
iron bridge some distance away,
“Wonderful how the heat expands metal."
This hoise is caused by the hail 1 -
stones colliding as they rush up
and down in the vortex.
Hailstones are made by the
formation of ice round a core,
usually of soft snow. Super-
cooled droplets of water are
hurled up in th£ vortex of a
turbulent cloud, become frozen
at a high altitude, or else wrap
themselves round a snowdrop
and then freeze. They then
fall again until they reach a
strong updraft and are again
hurled upwards, where they
receive another coating of ice.
This process is repeated time
and time again until the mass of
hailstones become individually
and together too heavy to be
hurled up again, and they fall
as hail. Only a few fall at first,
and Stanthorpe growers consider
that the upsetting of conditions
in the vortex firing of
rockets prevents the develop-
ment of large quantities of
hailstones.
Hail is only a local pheno-
menon,. mainly because the
vortex is only small compared
with the rest of the cloud-mass,
and the formation of hailstones
can only take place in the vortex,
Rocket-firers claim that indis-
criminate firing into the cloud is
of no use rockets must burst
m or as near as possible to the
vortex.
Two methods of ensuring this
have been used. One is the
mounting of rocket-firing'
apparatus on trucks and using
the trucks as mobile launching-
sites, driving them to positions
from which a fair aim may be
taken at the vortex. The other
method is to distribute rockets
to growers over a wide area, so
that the man nearest or directly,
under the vortex can be respon-
sible for the breaking-up of the
hail.
Accuracy in firing rockets is
best obtained by firing them
vertically, so that the nearer to
being directly under the vortex
the firing-site is, the greater the
accuracy. The rockets burst at
a height of about 3500 ft. and
have a burst-radius of some-
thing like 750 ft. all round.
Three types of rockets are
used, although the third, which
contains sodium-nitrate, is only
in the experimental stage. The
other two contain cheddite and
silver-iodide, which is one of
the chemicals used by the
C.5.1.R.0. in rainmaking
experiments.
The rockets are 26in. long
and are fitted with a 6ft. tail-
fin. The warhead is Bin. long
and carries 19oz. of explosives,
The blast -from the rocket is
roughly equivalent to that from
a three-inch mortar-shell. The
rockets are fired from a steel
tube and attain a speed of more
than 200 miles an hour. The
bottom of the rocket is fired
with a fuse dipped in kerosene
or methylated-spirit.
The Stanthorpe District Hail
Prevention Committee (secre-
tary, T. K. Archer) believes that
rockets do prevent hailstorms,
but the committee, just as much
as others, wants proof of this,
Mr. Archer submitted a report
covering October, 1954, to
January, 1955, and said that the
reports contained in it were
mainly got from observers other
than those who actually fired
the rockets.
Here are some dates and
happenings from the report,
which was published in the
“Queensland Fruit and Vege-
table News” in March:
November 24: Heavy rain
and small hail from a small,
turbulent storm with a green
patch. Two rockets fired. Hail
and rain ceased.
Another green patch with
white streaks and roaring. Hard
hail. Rocket fired. Storm
started to break-up immediately
and receded. Hail turned soft.
November 30 : Small storm,
Pea-sized hail. One rocket fired.
Rain fell for 15 minutes, after
which the storm dispersed.
December 7; Small slow-
moving storm with green patch
and roar. Hail up to half-an-
inch in diameter. Six rockets
fired in 15 minutes. Hail
became soft, roar and wind
ceased, green disappeared, and
storm dispersed within 15
minutes. Section of the same
storm reached an adjoining
district. Seven f rockets fired and
storm' came to nothing. In
another adjoining area hail fell
from the. same storm, but
stopped before a rocket
exploded. Damaging hail fell
to the east of the area from these
storms.
December 8: Small, high and
intense storm similar to one
which in 1952 damaged 80 per
cent, of fruit in the area. Green
tinge and loud roar. Four
rockets fired before any hail fell,
Roar ceased and storm quickly
broke-up into scattered clouds,
Second small storm. Rain and
hail fell. One rocket fired,
Rain and hail stopped soon
afterwards.
December 13; Frontal storm
with strong wind and heavy
rain. Light hail began to fall,
Three rockets fired. Hail
ceased.
December 14 : Small storm
built-up, developed green patch
and a roar. Light hail fell. Two
rockets fired. Within five
minutes the storm broke-up into
scattered clouds,
December 15: Dark storm,
heavy rain, small hail. Two
rockets fired to no effect. At
another firing-post heavy rain
and hail. Three rockets fired,
Intensity of storm seemed to
lessen, 180 points of rain fell in
the next 30 minutes and the
storm then dispersed,
Small storm, light hail. Five
rockets fired and hail ceased, to
start again five minutes later,
Another rocket fired, hail
ceased and storm broke-up.
Turbulent storm, showing
indications of hail. Two rockets
fired, and ten minutes later a
fall of soft hail,
The same storm built-up
three-and-a-half miles away,
Green color, much turbulence,
strong wind and loud thunder,
Five rockets fired from two
posts. Hail ceased. The ground
was whitish with hail at the first
post, but there was none at the
second. Heavy rain for 15
minutes, then the storm
dispersed.
December 16: Small storm,
Large rain, then hail. Two
rockets fired and the storm
dispersed within minutes.
Green-colored storm with
slight roar, light hail. One
rocket fired. Wind died and
storm dispersed within five
minutes.
Very turbulent, very green
storm with much lightning and
thunder and strong wind. Small
hail and heavy rain. Four
rockets fired. Two entered the
gre en patch and within five
minutes this turned grey and the
w i n d ceased. Heavy rain after
the rockets were fired. The
storm appeared to split apart and
continue on.
Further on the storm appeared
to be as severe as that of
December 20, 1951, which
caused up to 96 per cent,
damage in the area. Two
rockets fired, hail damage
decreased to the east and at the
eastern edge the hail was soft.
Three rockets fired, one enter-
ing the green patch, from a
second post. Slight damage
done, • then the storm broke-
up
On the face of it, these
reports, admittedly compiled by
a man who believes in rockets
for the prevention of hail, are
very convincing. The apparent
effect of the rockets on hail-
clouds seems too regular to be
merely coincidence. Other
storms were successfully com-
bated on December 17, 24, 25
and 27, and on January 8 and 9.
A lot of people in the Granite
Belt, sceptical at first, are now
convinced that the rocket-firers
are on to something really big.
Even the C.5.1.R.0. report and
comment is not completely dis-
believing. It admits that even
now weather - scientists know
little about the cause of rain
and hail, and the inference can
be taken that they could be
wrong if they utterly condemned
rocket-firing.
Growers who believe in the
rockets have shown their faith
the hard way —by dipping deep
into their pockets. Last year
the Stanthorpe and District Hail
Prevention Committee raised
more than £2OOO to buy rockets.
Each rocket costs about £3
landed. The price comes down
to as low as £2 Bs. 9d. for
quantities. Cost of the rocket
includes an insurance for the
user and for damage given by
the makers. The Stanthorpe
committee has added to this by
taking out its own insurance to
cover personal damage from
the falling of the spent, rocket
and stick. Obviously, little
damage is expected from this —
the premium is only £26 a year
for an unlimited number of
£5OOO claims.
Because the pioneers believe
that their theory has been
proved right, and because the
cost of proving it right has
fallen on a comparatively small
number of growers, moves are
now on foot to increase the
number of firing-stations and
the number of rockets available,
and to finance this by a levy
on fruit produced in the district.
The Growers’ Committee of
the Stanthorpe area is to con-
sider the imposition of a levy
of three-farthings per ton of
fruit to pay for rockets. The
levy, if it is approved by a
majority of growers, would
realise about £4OOO per year.
Like a lot of finance schemes,
this one will probably have a
snowball effect if the rocket-
enthusiasts are right. The
estimated return of £4OOO a
year is based on present market-
ings. As the rocket-system is
extended, wider protection will
be given to orchards, and the
yield should be correspondingly
greater, giving a bigger income
and wider rocket-cover, and so
on until the whole district is
covered with rocket-posts and
hailstorms are things of the past
in the Granite Belt.
People from other areas are
interested in the Granite Belt
experiments. A couple of
months ago a group of growers
from the Eight Mile Plains area,
just south of Brisbane, went
to Stanthorpe to see hail-
prevention rockets in operation.
More than £3OO had already
been collected to buy rockets to
fight hail around the Plains, so
the deputation went half-
convinced, but its members
came back completely convinced
that Stanthorpe growers were
on the right track.
The Eight Mile Plains area is
much more compact than that
of Stanthorpe and district.
Stanthorpe has about 1000
holdings scattered over a 40-
mile-square area, whereas in the
Plains growers’ holdings are
closer together and, in all, only
cover about 25 square miles.
Not so many hailstorms
happen in Eight Mile Plains as
on the Granite Belt, but when
hail does fall it does a great
deal of damage, and growers
there hope to get away with no
damage at all in the very near
future.
However, not all other
districts look upon the Granite
Belt’s experiments with a benign
eye. An alderman in Warwick,
centre of Queensland’s wheat-
fields, claimed that rocket-
firing at Stanthorpe early this
year might be responsible for
the fact that Warwick and
(<Continued on page 34)


FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WAMCER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCCfLAND: LONbON AND SYDNEY.
JW.1268.12C
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
I Maloney St,, Mascot,
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT/
REO MILL RUM.
Rosehill next Saturday will be
the final curtain-raiser for the
Randwick spring meeting. This
Rosehill fixture has often proved
a sound guide to the more im-
portant carnival. For example,
two years back Carioca won the
Theo Marks Quality Handicap
from Silver Phantom; a week
later Silver Phantom won the
Epsom. Carioca won the Metro-
politan. Last year Connaught,
second to Sunny Hour in the
i Theo Marks, won the Epsom.
There should be a smart and
representative field for this year’s
weight-for-age Hill Stakes. Be-
fore 1941 the event was run at
one mile; that year half a fur-
long was tacked on. Limerick,
Peter Pan, Gold Rod, Yaralla,
Phar Lap, Chatham and
Hydrogen all won the event
twice. Jim Pike had eight suc-
cesses in it. Between 1929 and
1935 he won it six times in seven
seasons. Last year’s winner,
Prince Cortauld, could give
Nevilte Sellwood his fourth
success*.
Owners A. E. and G. W.
Cobcroft have bred a staying
three-year-old colt in Caranna,
easy winner of the Rosehill
Guineas and now the most
popular of the A.J.C. Derby
contenders. Caranna handed
out an impressive run. New
Zealander Romanos turned on
a splendid final burst. Caranna
is by Valognes (imp.), a son of
Bois Roussel (English Derby
winner). Valognes sired Castillo,
Q.T.C. Derby winner. Caranna’s
dam, Connette, is by Constant
Son (imp.) from Brunette by
Magpie (imp.), a sire of stayers.
Connette is a staying-bred mare,
so Caranna has a lot in his favor
from the Derby viewpoint.
Kingster’s second to Caranna
in the Rosehill Guineas earned
him a Derby start, but it is
difficult to see him reversing the
positions with last Saturday’s
winner, while Knave will need
to improve sharply on his third
placing to trouble the Derby
elect. Caranna was behind
Knave beginning the final two
furlongs. Still, Knave is a
staying type and maybe will be
better suited by the extra couple
of furlongs of the Derby.
Romanos (fourth in the
Guineas) was last of the 15
starters with hajf a mile to go,
and even at the home bend was
last but one. Romanos has the
right background for the Derby,
his main mission in Australia.
He is by English Derby winner
Mid-Day Sun (imp.), from
Dancing Water by Phaleron
Bay (imp.) from Russian Ballet
by Nightmarch, a winner of the
Melbourne Cup.
There is probably at present
no horse in Australia quicker
at gathering speed than three-
year-old Star Realm, raced by
A.J.C. chairman A. G. Potter
and trained at Randwick by F.
Dalton. Star Realm spreadeagles
the field soon after the start of
his races, and he did so again in
the Rosehill Flying Handicap.
He had a lead of half-a-dozen
lengths at the home-turn and
wasn’t troubled to beat New
Zealander King’s Fair and rank
outsider Lindbergh. King’s
Fair’s run so impressed that he
was immediately made outright
favorite for the Epsom. Star
Realm later will go to Mel-
bourne to contest the Caulfield
Guineas (one mile), which will
be his main Victorian target.
Ray Ribbon, favorite for the
Metropolitan and winner of
races in New Zealand, where he
varied his distances, should
have no trouble in running the
13 furlongs of the A.J.C. staying
race on October 8. He has
twice won at 12 furlongs in the
Dominion and has been placed
at 1| mile. Last Easter he won
the Great Autumn Handicap
(1| mile) at Canterbury (N.Z.)
carrying 8.5. His Rosehill
Handicap win on Saturday was
high-class. N. McGrowdie,
winner of many staying races in
Australia, will again have the
mount in the more important
handicap. Ray Ribbon has 8.13
in the Metrop.
Cromis, winner of Flemington
Craiglee Stakes (w.f.a.) in bril-
liant style on Saturday, is now
challenging New Zealand’s crack
performer Somerset Fair for
Caulfield Cup favoritism, while
Redcraze, another from the
Dominion and runner-up to
Cromis on Saturday, is also in
keen request for the V.A.T.C.
mile-and-a-half. Somerset Fair
has shaped well in Sydney,
though so far a non-winner. He
will need to do well in the Hill
Stakes at Rosehill this Saturday
(he looks the winner at this
stage) to hold his position in the
Caulfield quotes. However,
there are some good horses
receiving many pounds in
weight from him in the Cup, in
which he has 9.5. Somerset Fair,
a four-year-old and a handsome
one at that, has won at a mile
and a half, in one event beating
Ray Ribbon. Few four-year-
“Scram!”
olds have won the Caulfield
Cup with weight-for-age (9st.)
or more. One that did was Man-
fred in 1926, with 9.6.
Redcraze, a five-year-old New
Zealand gelding by Red Mars
from Myarion, is near the top
of the weights in both the Caul-
field Cup and Melbourne Cup.
In the N.Z. racing year recently
passed he had eight successes,
from seven furlongs to a mile
and a half, best performance at
latter distance being his win in
Auckland Nolan Handicap with
9.3, running the event in
2.32 1/5. Second by a neck to
Cromis, he should soon win.
Brisbane Cup winner The
Wash, who heads the Melbourne
Cup quotes at this stage, was
among the beaten horses in the
Craiglee Stakes. He also won
the Brisbane Derby and St.
Leger, and is the best stayer
produced in the northern State
in years. The Wash won the
Brisbane Cup with 7.12, but he
has 8.13 in the Melbourne Cup,
which seems a steep rise con-
sidering the modest company
he beat in the Brisbane event.
Looking ahead to the Vic-
toria Derby, Melbourne has
hopes of stalling-off the Sydney
invaders, and one Victorian colt
with a V.R.C. Derby chance is
Sailor’s Guide, winner of Flem-
ington’s Burleigh Handicap (1|
mile) in good style. It appeared
a sound staying guide to the
classic.
Two “flying machines” seen
in action at the annual Rand-
wick two-year-old trials run
under racing conditions from
the starting-gate are expected
to win the opening events for
juveniles at the A.J.C. spring
meeting next month. They are
Greater (Breeder’s Plate) and
Orionis (Gimcrack Stakes). Time
made , by the pair, 48|sec., was
equalled by Starover, who car-
ries the Kingster colors, while
some other winners ran 49fsec.
or better. Greater and Orionis
certainly impressed strongly.
Other winners that could quickly
show top race-form include Fel-
strom, Sail, Royal Maureen and
Rumleigh. Beaten two-year-olds
likely to soon do better include
Pyrrha, Jinks, Dare Say, All
Trumps, Nina Ricci and Royal
Kingdom. Last-named topped
the Sydney yearling sales at
6500gns. y
The Rosehill Guineas hasn’t
been much of a guide to the
A.J.C. Derby. Over the past 25
years only winners of both events
have been Phar Lap, Moorland
and Tea Rose, though runners-
up in the classic that had earlier
won the Rosehill Guineas have
included Conductor, Hall Stand,
High Caste, Aeoleus, Ajax and
Silver King. of these were
seen to advantage in distances
less than 12 furlongs. Fastest
time for the Guineas since the
distance was increased in 1948
to 1| miles has been 2.1|, made
last year by Pride of Egypt; it
equalled Australia’s best.
Two’s Company has thrown
a number of winners at the stud
for owner Mrs. M. Murrell,
chief among them her grey
well-performed five-year-old,
Persian Link. Another of the
progeny of Two’s Company,
Abbot’s Link, won in Novice
company at Eagle Farm.
Abbot’s Link is also raced by
his breeder, in partnership with
Mrs. H. F. Best. Trained by
Fred Best, Abbot’s Link should
soon emerge from the restricted
class.
* * if
Mohammed is proving one of
the toughest nuts to crack at
Harold Park trot-fixtures. The
start before last he led all the
way and just lasted to win—
presumably on tactics. But he
came from behind and did it
even more convincingly on
Friday night; and on the force
of his wins he can’t be ignored
in the better races of the spring.
A pint-sized black, he’s by Rex
Oro out of Delhi Cross, by
Double Cross, whose dam was
the Walla Walla mare Dolly
Blac. Percy’s Elect, odds-on
pop in the race, gave no pointer
to his spring chances by gallop-
ing from the mark. But he’s a
class pacer who’ll still be well
supported.
Two of the State’s most
promising pacers clashed in the
Five Dock Handicap. Albion
Hall reared and delayed the
start, and when he did face up,
still gave away ground. The
Gold Bar chestnut Regal Gold
hit the front and ran the rest
of the field off their legs: Albion
Hall ran on for second berth.
Regal Gold returned from a
spell to fag on his run over
il| furlongs a fortnight ago.
But Friday’s 13| didn’t worry
him: he went past the post like
a show-pony. By Dillon Hall
out of a Rey de Oro mare (Little
Kathleen), Albion Hall could
step it out with Regal Gold to
classier events.
+ +
Melbourne, runners-up last
year, won this year’s V.F.L.
premiership by 28 points from
Collingwood, 8.16-5.6. More
than 88,000 went to the M.C.G.,
and paid a grand-final record
£13,731. Played in perfect
weather, the game was fairly
even, largely because the
Demons, as was often the case
with them this year, fell down
badly in front of goal. Mel-
bourne led 3.10-2.5 at half-time,
and 4.13-4.6 at the third break;
the Magpies goaled soon after
the last quarter began and were
behind only a point. From
there on the Demons ran away
with it, ’Wood having to finish
with 17 men when Healey N was
sent crashing. All told it was
hard-fought and —up to the
Healey incident, when tempers
frayed—clean, though seldom
really spectacular.
In the Haydn Bunton tradition
are the winners of this year’s
Sandover medal - (for W.A.’s
“best-and-fairest”) and Magarey
medal (S.A.’s equivalent). John
Todd, 17-year-old South Fre-
mantle and W.A. rover, won the
Sandover in his first year of
Aussie Rules league football,
he’s the youngest to have won
it. Lindsay Head, 19* West
Torrens and S.A. centreman, is
the youngest to have won the
Magarey.
* * *
Downing the All Blacks 8-3 in
the third Rugby Union Test at
Auckland on Saturday, the Aus-
tralian touring team’s forwards
played at their peak. The Walla-
bies, in fact, gave a first-rate dis-
play all-round.
The only team to win Sydney’s
Union comp, three years in suc-
cession, University repeated
their feat of 1926-27-28 by de-
feating Gordon 21-8 in Satur-
day’s “grand.” The nippy
students scored four tries to one.
“Old Rep.”: In his young
days Sir H. Y. Braddon took
the field with the first Southland
(N.Z.) Rugby Union team, back
in the early ’eighties of last cen-
tury ; he died (at 92) as the pre-
sent Australian team was claim-
ing victory over his old province
at Rugby Park, Invercargill.
For many years he gained repre-
sentative honors on both sides
of the Tasman, playing for
N.S.W. on many occasions. Like
present writer, he played for
Invercargill City (“The Blues”),
and though never above 10st.,
was renowned as a fine fullback
and a tigerish tackier.
* * *
Australia’s Soccer XI, which is
chopped-and-changed for every
Test, underwent its usual re-
modelling for the third Test
against South Africa in Ade-
laide ; a couple of Westralians
got a run for the first time.
Result of all the chopping
around was Australia’s worst
Test drubbing this year, 8-0.
However good the individual
players in them, makeshift com-
binations will rarely defeat good
teams.
* * *
South Sydney, with a patched-
up side, snatched victory from
Newtown in the last five minutes
of the Sydney Rugby League
grand-final, and then almost had
it snatched back. again—when,
after a “free,” Newtown goal-
kicker Clifford just missed with
a long one. Behind 7-11 close
to the bell, it was a tearaway
try and conversion which gave
Souths its third successive
premiership and its fifth in
the last six years. This year’s
was a good effort —Souths lost
their first five games!
* * *
British Open champion Peter
Thomson won the Speedo Golf
tourney with a four-round card
of 69, 71, 75, 75—288. Concord
assistant pro. Frank Phillips was
two strokes behind the winner
in second place with 290. First
prize was £750; total handout
£2OOO. Leading amateurs were
Jack Barkel, with 299, and
Barry Warren, with a net 303.


Changes and Contrasts
Adelaide Royal Show, 1955
By PAT RIVERS
r\ DELAIDE ROYAL
SHOW is tired of being
| a country cousin. She is
having a face-lift and she
has brought her admission-
charges into line with inter-State.
In tune with the State’s develop-
ment, industrial-entry numbers
have jumped, while agricultural-
entry numbers have dropped.
Opening attendance-figures,
too, have fallen sharply. Despite
perfect weather, attendance in
the first three days at 215,904
was 77,718 fewer than last year,
and a good many people said
they would cut their number of
visits this year.
Miles of roadways have been
built or resurfaced. There’s a
new cattle-pavilion; gallons of
fresh paint have been slapped
on by an army of workers-; new
cattle classes have been thought
up.
Like almost any show, it’s a
kaleidoscope of crowds, cattle
and cool-drinks. The difference
is that this year the admission-
charges for adults jumped from
2s. to 45., while pasties and pies
now cost 1 Id., a cupper runs to
7d., cool-drinks are 9d. a glass:
once you’d get the glass as well
for that.
Many folk brought hampers
to enjoy on the lawns: but Way-
ville showground has no lawns.
The president of the Royal
Agricultural Society, Sir Keith
Angus, said he was sorry that
the new dog- and poultry-
pavilions which were promised
had not materialised. Work was
to begin on them soon, he said.
The poultry pavilion is to be a
two-story affair.
Inter-State judges were more
lavish than usual in their praise
of top cattle and pigs.
Sections which have shown a
marked decline include: cattle,
sheep, swine, fat-stock, horses of
all types, dairy and agricultural
produce. Those which have
risen, to create the impression of
record entries at 17,808, include
dogs, S.A. industries, and judg-
ing-competitions.
Among the cattle, Shorthorns
and Poll Shorthorns were the
only beef-breeds to increase;
Guernseys were up by 10 p.c.
while Friesians soared by over
a third to 114 entries. This was
surprising, because S.A. recently
introduced measures to curb
Friesian breeders. Under a
revised bull-subsidy scheme the
butterfat minimum became 4 p.c.
So, when the S.A. Minister of
Agriculture attended the Jersey
dinner, he said he preferred to
be there rather than at the
Friesian dinner. Friesian
breeders didn’t altogether appre-
ciate this sample of Ministerial
wit.
The show brought forth its
usual flow of children with lost
parents. This year the kids were
entertained by policewomen
with spaceships, ice-creams and
toy drums.
First-aid posts were kept
busy. One man was treated for
gashes on both arms from a
ruffled rooster. He was entered
in the records as “henpecked.”
Adelaide pressmen again found
numbers of those convenient
birds “veteran ringsiders,” on
whom they pin opinions too
poignant to be made by people
with names.
A wine-restaurant gave away
wine with its meals between
the hours / when it is moral to
drink wine with meals in South
Australia—l 2 to 2 and 6 to
9 p.m. A choice of riesling,
sautemes or claret was offered in
bottles bearing labels with the
words “presented with the com-
pliments of the Winemakers of
South Australia.” Trade-names,
of course, being put aside for the
occasion. A pleasant and appro-
priate geesture in the land of the
vine.
In odd contrast, however, were
the tables at the annual dinner
of the Jersey Herd Society (S.A.
branch); here the drinks were
beer or soft-drinks. Milk was
absent, even from the coffee, and
butter and cheese were both
scarce.
Occupying pride of place in
the Department of Agriculture
exhibition were loaves of bread
to deiponstrate the superior
baking-qualities of the wheat
variety, Gabo.
Recent statistics have shown a
marked rise in the acreage of the
low-protein wheat, Insignia 49,
which has been grown in the
State, and this has disturbed
authorities. They have also been
disturbed by disappearance of
the loaves, in whole or part!
Restaurant meals at the show-
S round this year were the most
cost ly yet-
In conjunction with the wool
<B s Play this year was a speed-
knitting competition which
LINE-UP FOR JUDGING AT THE ADELAIDE SHOW
attracted 41 entries. One of them
... a. man!
A feature of Adelaide Royal
Shows is the number of
splendid displays of fruit, vege-
tables, wool, handwork and pro-
duce from country districts. This
year’s winner was the Barossa
Valley town of Tanunda. This is
its tenth successive win.
.
Dairy Cattle
In the Jersey section, K. H.
Armstrong of Retford Park,
Bowral (N.S.W.), said that the
top cows he saw would compare
favorably with those in any other
Royal Show. He has judged at
208 shows since 1935.
“All the top animals in almost
all classes showed the type that
has made the breed universally
popular,” he said. “And the
quality of young stock augured
well for the future.”
Mr. Armstrong put everyone
in a good mood. For the first
time for years, exhibitors and
stewards had the afternoon off.
In fact, he got through the judg-
ing so quickly that some ex-
hibitors were caught napping.
Last year, judging was still under
way around 5 p.m.
He was praised for the work-
manlike way he pulled out his
selections—and kept them there,
Champion Jersey ' cow came
from a stud in the 16-inch rain-
fall country of the State, north
of Jamestown far from the
lush pastures associated with
dairying.
She was Mrs, V. A. Robinson’s
Mannanarie Petals Myra, winner
of the three-year-old in-milk
class and best-uddered cow.
Champion bull was the old
favorite, T. L. Krieg’s Mornmoot
Paxies Quartermaster, now 12-
years old. He was ousted last
year after years of consistent
championships.
Guernsey judge, A. W. Pad-
bury of W.A., said that all the
cattle were in excellent condition
and bloom. He selected B. H.
Basham’s Pleasant Banks Faith
for champion cow; and for
champion bull, P. L. Basham's
Yarraview Juror. The Bashams
have separate studs, both at Port
Elliot (S.A.).
At the A.I.S. ring, visiting
breeders from the foundation
studs in the Illawarra district of
N.S.W. were enthusiastic.
“We had no idea that you had
this type of cattle here or so
many of them,” they said.
Judge R. J. Hayter, of Byron
Bay (N.S.W.), seemed very
struck with the champion and
reserve-champion cows.
No doubt his enthusiasm was
justified, for the reserve cham-
pion cow was next day awarded
the grand-championship over all
breeds. She was J. R. Williams
and Sons’Naldene Primula 61st,
which replaced the champion
A.I.S. cow, A. W. Braendler’s
Clover View Begonia 7th.
She had been busy calving the
night before and was hardly out
of bed.
J- R - Williams and Son are
fr° m Meningie (S.A.) and A. W.
Braendler is from Hahndorl
.
Cnampion A.I.S. bull was
Black! ands Cudgen, exhibited by
K- Llewellyn of Lynonga
Stud, Mypolonga (S.A.).
The champion Ayrshire cow
this year was unique: she was
dehorned. The judge, A. Bunn,
of Wattle Park (Vic.), made up
his mind quickly about her and
later described her as a fine
example of the breed with
plenty of type and quality, carry-
ing a well-formed vessel.
All this was about Davada
Linda, exhibited by G. H. and
T. A. Martin of Kadina (S.A.).
Champion bull was Uroonda
Bright Boy from the Broadview
Stud of A. J. Broad, Leighton,
near Burra (S.A.). The day was
a triumph for this breeder, who
won eight firsts, nine seconds
and one third prize, besides
champion bull and reserve
champion bull and cow.
The judge of the Friesians, L.
Edwards, of Griffith (N.S.W.),
was pleased with most of the
females but disappointed with
some Qf the bulls.
The champion cow, Allenby
Auklod Dorrie, was exhibited by
C. H. Norman, of York (S.A.),
and brought from the judge the
comment that she could hold her
own in any Royal Show in
Australia. L. Greenslade’s Glen*
hope Netherland Serenade, im-
ported from New Zealand, won
the bull championship. Mr.
Greenslade has imported five
N.Z. bulls to his stud, Riverton
(S.A.).
Production classes were
won by H. R. Bonython’s extra-
ordinary little cow, Blytheswood
Princess Madeira, which pro-
duced 7071 b. of butterfat with a
5.3 p.c. test.
A class introduced by the S.A.
Advisory Committee for the
Improvement of Dairying gave
a novel touch. It was a bull and
progeny class, judged on type
and production. Object was to
judge the value of the sire on the
figures of all his tested daughters,
plus the appearance of five of
them paraded before a judge.
Three breeders entered teams
for scrutiny by the S.A. judge,
H. H. Shillabeer. One bull was
dead, and the winning one had
been sold ; his whereabouts was
unknown to the breeder who
exhibited him.
Visiting the Adelaide Royal
Show after an absence of many
ye ars was Mr. Ted North,
Friesian breeder from New
Zealand, who said that by com-
parison with cattle back home,
s.A. young stock looked stunted.
He believed breeders should
guard against any reduction in
size G f animals which would be
reflected in lower yields.
Beef Cattle
Beef cattle made an imnre«ive
J maae
in brilliant sun-
the ° f th ®
Adlide a „ j on sand
~ dela * a ® are . l ud B ed on sadd
“ u£* C ** h f
occupied by bookies at the trots
J UI iP °* Shorthorns and Poll
Shorthorns, Jack Young, or
Kikiamah, Young (N.S.W.), said
that both the quality and
numbers in these two sections
exceeded his expectations.
Breeders from Lucindale
(S.A.), R. I. G. and J. D.
Hawkes, showed the champion
Shorthorn bull, Falconers Pala-
din. Champion Shorthorn cow
was Kibah Princess, from the
stud of R. A. Norris, Little-
hampton (S.A.). Poll Short-
horn supreme champion bull
was Hazelton Style* shown by
the highly-successful exhibitor
J. G. Kelly, of Tarlee (S.A.),
who also showed the champion
cow, Hazelton Merry Lass 2nd.
This stud has been founded only
six years and has been showing
for five of them.
In the Hereford section the
junior and senior champion bull
was Silverton Victory, exhibited
by E. W. and U. Hayward, of
Delamere (S.A.), who also
showed the junior champion
heifer, Silverton Glamor 7th.
These cattle had not been
foster - mothered. The bull,
nine months old, and the heifer
eight months old and not yet
weaned, were by a bull from the
famous Golf Hill Stud (Vic.),
now dispersed.
Poll Hereford judge, E. W. G.
McCamley, Eulo g i e Park,
Dululu (Q.), was highly satisfied
with the parade of his entries.
He awarded the bull champion-
ship to Kildrummie Sanatok,
from J. W. Spehr’s stud, Furner
(S.A.), and the female cham-
pionship to Dalwhinnie Kate
2nd, from the stud of L. E.
Greenslade (S.A.).
Judging keenly - contested
Aberdeen Angus classes, Lewis
H. Graves, of Battery Park,
Mansfield (Vic.), commented on
the big improvement in the
breed since his last visit in 1952.
Champion bull was Terinallum
Gallant, exhibited by H. T. Kid-
man, Mount Compass (S.A.).
Champion cow, and supreme
champion of the breed, was
Talara Nit 2nd, shown by R. C.
Shepherd, Myponga (S.A.).
Dual-purpose Cattle
Red Polls this year lacked the
softness and fleshing qualities
needed by the breed, according
to the judge, " Brigadier G. S.
Hurst, Larkhill, Goulburn
(N.S.W.). He said that many
entries showed the effect of
S.A.’s severe winter, so that they
were not shown in the best
condition.
Champion bull was Under-
wood Ferdinand, shown by
A. H. W. Reid, Thrington
(S.A.). The female champion
Was Woodburn Fairy from Mrs.
I. Launer’s stud at Sandilands
(S.A,).
The judge commented that
some of the exhibits had breed
faults such as white hair and
faulty-colored noses.
At the first sales of the show
a Poll Shorthorn bull created a
record for the State when it
sold for lOOOgns. The bull
was Hazelton Style, champion
of the Show, from the Hazelton
stud of J. G. Kelly and Sons,
Tarlee; bought by L. Green-
slade, Ettrick Stud, Riverton
(S.A.). Last year’s top figure
was 975gns. for the champion
Poll Shorthorn.
Another feather in the cap of
J. G. Kelly and Sons was the
award of a sash for the most
successful beef-cattle exhibitor
at the Show.
Champion steer in the fat-
cattle competition was a Short-
horn shown by the Beltana Pas-
toral Co. A fortnight previously
it had been on lush country in
the far north of the State. The
judge, J. P. Cahalan, said that
this steer was ideal in weight,
age and quality, and fulfilled the
butchers’ ideal. Second place
was taken by an Aberdeen
Angus steer, an entry of Mr.
Melrose, M.L.C.
Pigs
With one of the State’s lead-
ing breeders absent, pig-entries
were lower than last year’s
record number, but judges said
( Continued, on page 33)


Don't worry
§
about weeds
Write today and be sure
MELILOTUS, CHARLOCK, DOCK, SKELETON
WEED, THISTLES —these are the weeds you
used to worry about. Nowadays, wheat and all
sorts of crops and broad pasture lands can be
cleared of weed pests at a very reasonable cost in
money and labour. Mobilco AMICIDE and
Mobilco ESTERCIDE are two highly-concentrated
killers that are doing a sterling job in all parts of
Australia right now. Just jot down in the coupon
the weeds which worry you. We will be very quick
to study your problem and advise you, free of any
cost or obligation.
- FILL IN AND POST TO MOBILCO ★
My problem is
Name
Address.
MOBILCO CHEMICALS PTY. LTD
Division of Mobile industrial Equipment Ltd.
SG-54 SILVERWATER RD., AUBURN - PHONES: YX 1244-1245
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
WIMOBI (9 LINES)-BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
tm
IctqeP
as you
/fa#/
Tooth's
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY. lOOIH & CO. LIMITED
KB- 187-1*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KREMLIN CONVERSATION
A N imaginary discussion in the
Kremlin, as conceived by
David Lawrence, editor of “U.S.
News and World Report”:
Bulganin: “We have made
many mistakes since 1945.”
Khrushchev: “Mostly we have
stirred up the United States to
build vast armaments.”
Zhukov: “It would be a mis-
take to fight the United States —
a war would be suicide.”
Bulganin: “Let’s all agree to
that. In fact, if should be a
cardinal point in our policy not
to have any war with America.”
Zhukov: “Will they believe us
if we say so?”
Khrushchev: “The funny part
of it is that we are really sincere
on this.”
Zhukov: “I know it, I’ll try to
convince Eisenhower that it’s
true.”
Bulganin: “We can at least
show the world that wp do not
intend to fight America and that
we want peaceful coexistence.”
Khrushchev: “The fuhda-
mental goal is the success of
International Communism. We
can control Europe and Asia if
the United States is not in our
way.”
Bulganin: “Our real aim must
be to bring about the withdrawal
of the armies of the United
States from Europe and Asia
and the abandonment of their
overseas bases. We can accom-
plish this without fighting—by
negotiation and by talking
‘peace.’ ”
Zhukov: “Exactly how do we
go about it?”
Khrushchev: “By urging that
international conferences be held
frequently ‘at the summit’ or at
lower levels, by arranging per-
sonal missions of the high offi-
cials of our countries, by ex-
changing visits of students and
farm groups and newspapermen,
by emphasising that we are a
committee government and not
a dictatorship, by removing the
censorship on news dispatches
of foreign correspondents in
fact, by every means that will
show our friendliness. This will
produce the right kind of
‘climate’ and it will ‘relax
tension.’ ”
Zhukov: “What do you think
will be the result?”
Khrushchev: “We will surely
bring about a reduction of the
arms budgets of all the Western
countries. Their peoples will
never go on spending such big
sums every year for armaments
if there is to be peace. And we
can assure them there will be
no war.”
Bulganin: “If we only had
thought of all this in the five
years between 1945 and 1950 —
and if Stalin hadn’t encouraged
the mess in Korea five years ago
—the Americans would never
have built'up their big Air Force
or spent so much money on the
development of nuclear
weapons.”
Khrushchev: “We must not
make the mistake of threatening
countries in Europe, either. That
only stirs up the Americans. We
must play ball with Tito and
offer to withdraw our troops
from all the satellite countries.
We’ll get some concessions from
the West when we do that. We
should make sure that Chou
En-lai says repeatedly that China
doesn’t want war with the United
States, Let’s play it peacefully
all along the line. That’s good
party doctrine. Lenin always
said that we must adapt our
strategy to circumstances and
change tactics. We can depend
on our good spy system. We can
really achieve more by infiltra-
tion everywhere than we could
get by war. In war, everybody
loses”
Zhukov: “Amen!”
Khrushchev: “and if we
can convince the American
people that we don’t intend ever
to fight them. Nato will fall
apart it already is showing
weakness —and we will be able
to dominate Germany even if
it is reunified. That should be
our goal.
“It’s costly—this peace offen-
sive. But our billions of roubles
spent annually for propaganda
have paid off. Look at the
trouble we’ve been able to stir
up in North Africa. French
divisions wanted by Nato are
being moved away from Europe
to Africa. Look at the way we
have been able to exploit the
tension in the Near East. Look
what we’ve been doing in Malaya
and Singapore without involving
our own troops. Look how we
have scared Nehru into neutral-
ism, and Burma, too. We’ve got
Indonesia in the bag, and Indo-
China, too.”
Zhukov: “Will Peiping stay
with us?”
Bulganin: “Sooner or later we
will get Japan by infiltration.
That will bind the Chinese to us
in self-protection. If we are a
bit patient, we’ll also bring Chou
En-lai into the United Nations.
Things are going our way on
that now. The Americans are
softening up, and the British and
French are with us.”
Khrushchev: “ ‘Peaceful co-
existence’ is wonderful —we will
slowly but surely, and in the
nicest manner, guide the Ameri-
cans out of Europe and Asia
—London “Daily Mail"
FOR FRANCE
back to their own continent
where they belong.”
Zhukov: “You think the
Americans will accept all this?”
Khrushchev: “Sure, I do.”
Bulganin: “Then what are we
waiting for?”
All together: “Horosho, poid-
yom! ” (Translated freely, “0.K.,
let’s go.”)
U.S. and China
Commenting on the talks at
Geneva between the U.S. and
China, London “Time and
Tide” opines that it is obvious
“that China is determined not
to give an inch unless in return
for certain specific concessions
on the part of the United States”:
“China’s spokesman, 47-year-
old Wang Ping-nan, a Party
member of 30 years standing, is
an old hand at intrigue and
has close ties with Moscow.
Before the war Wang studied at
Berlin University, where he met
and married his German wife.
He then spent some time in
Russia. Wang has had much
experience in dealing with
Westerners. He was aide to
Chou En-lai during the war,
when Chou was ‘Communist
Ambassador’ to Chiang Kai-
shek’s Government in Chung-
king.
“Wang acted as Chou En-lai’s
liaison-man with all foreigners
and is credited with having done
more than any other to sell to
the West the idea that the
Chinese Communists were
‘agrarian reformers’ anxious to
build a democratic China un-
connected with Moscow. When
China turned Communist Wang
became secretary of the Chinese-
Soviet Friendship Society. Last
November he was appointed
Assistant to the Foreign
Minister and three months later
was sent as Ambassador to
Poland.
“The dramatic release of the
eleven US airmen by China was
arranged only when, through the
intervention of Delhi, the United
States agreed to have face-to-face
talks with the Chinese. America
has made it clear at Geneva that
she does not intend to discuss


GUARD
Co^l
PROTECTA
stml-§£^
■%>
Y/f
Bailable for every type of business i« record*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. .. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID CHARLES ASHDOWN late
of 28 Pine Street Manly.—TAKE NOTICE
that EDNA MAY ASHDOWN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2877 of _ 1954
on the grounds of your desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in _the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 25th November 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from K. BRUDENELL-WOODS &
CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT JOHN SMEE, late of 430
Sydney Road Balgowlah N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that UNA BEATRICE SMEE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3260
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 28th November 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from RICH & SOLARI, Solicitors, of 188
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE STANLEY MILLER of 81
Todman Avenue Kensington.—T AK E
NOTICE that THELMA MILLER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1815
of 1955 on the grounds of habitual
drunkenness and cruelty for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 21st day of November 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from, PURVES MOODIE &
STOREY, Solicitors, of 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARCHIBALD AITKEN late of No. 8
Pile Street Gladesville. —TAKE NOTICE
that JEAN McKENZIE AITKEN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1909 of 1954
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 28th November 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. H. FISHER, ESQ., Solicitor, of
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE CLIFFORD NICHOLSON.—
TAKE NOTICE that RELIETHEA ELIZA-
BETH ALICE NICHOLSON has filed a
Petition No. 3639 of 1954 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney in the State of New South
Wales by the 2nd day of December 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN WARREN BINNEY,
Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
OUT
NOW!
THE GREAT NEW UP-TO-DATE
HOME DOCTOR
NEWNES
Family Health
Encyclopaedia
Your complete guide to
Personal and Family Well-being
Every family needs this medical work to-day
because it is in keeping with the worrying times in
which we live. You will find it so helpful—so
reassuring! The newest work of its kind, it covers
in 824 pages the whole life span—from ante-
natal days to old age. Newnes family health
encyclopaedia does not supplant the doctor . . .
but a doctor has compiled it for your home, in
language you can understand. It is yours for
7 days’ free examination.
Yours
M FOR
/days
, W££
OmketiiMr
Half-a-million words! 824 pages-244 illustrations
Charts, tables and full-colour plates-thumb indexed
1,250 main medical subjects in A-Z order
ALSO 18 ADDITIONAL SECTIONS—MentaI Strain, Love
and Marriage, Inferiority, Health Checks for the Middle-
aged, Slimming Guides, First Aid. Deals understandingly
with Blood Pressure, Alcohol, Tobacco and Health, Illnesses
in Women, Rheumatism, Sex Teaching to Children, etc.
Includes outline of Australian National Health Scheme.
FREE CLINICAL THERMOMETER
FOR EVERY PURCHASER
A thermometer is essential in your home. It tells in an instant
when to call the doctor and when fears may be groundless.
The thermometer is hygienically packed in an attractive non-roll
plastic case. Remove the Encyclopaedia from the box. Look
inside on the wall of the box for the package containing the
thermometer. '
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
NO COST—NO OBLIGATION
TO GEORGE NEWNES (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 119 YorkSt.Sydney;
Capitol House, Swanston St., Melbourne-; Rex Buildings, 186 Wickham
St., The Valley, Brisbane; S.A.A.C.C. House, Hindmarsh Square, Adelaide.
Please send me NEWNES FAMILY HEALTH ENCYCLOPEDIA.
It is understood that I may return the work within eight days.
If I keep it, I will send a first payment of 10/- eight days after
delivery of the Health Encyclopaedia and only 10/- monthly there-
after until the sum of £5 has been paid. Cash price within eight
days is £4/15/-.
Name
Address
Occupation
Your
Signature
(Or yow Parent’s Signature if under 21)
FHE 29
Place X where
it applies.
any other subjects until the 40
American civilians still held cap-
tive in China are released. Red
China has countered with a
demand that all Chinese in the
U.S. who are not American
citizens should be returned to the
mainland. This would affect
about 117,000 Chinese.
“Mr. Johnson, the American
representative, has stated that any
Chinese who wish to do so are
in fact free to leave the U.S. at
any time. Indeed, a Chinese
student, who voluntarily returned
to the mainland from the US in
1952, turned up in Hong Kong.
He had returned to China for
two reasons: one was to see his
parents and the other was to
find out for himself what Com-
munism had done for China.
“Immediately on his return he
was sent to lectures followed by
study groups for indoctrination.
In subsequent discussions he was
too outspoken and finished up in
jail. Today he is one more
refugee from Red China in Hong
Kong.
“Mr. Wang’s second demand
was that some neutral Power,
presumably India, should investi-
gate the status of Chinese
students in the U.S.A. The aim
behind this demand is obvious.
China feels that if the U.S. would
recognise a third Power as their
representative in such a matter,
it would be a major step towards
American recognition of China
herself and a fatal blow to the
Nationalist regime, which is still
in the eyes of the U.S. respon-
sible for the Chinese in America.
“President Eisenhower,
realising Chinese motives, has
made it plain that there can be
no change in American policy
under existing circumstances.
Among the circumstances to
which he has referred is the fact
that Communist China still
stands condemned as an
aggressor in Korea, not only by
America but by the United
Nations, since there are still
Chinese troops in North Korea.
“It is important, however, not
to overlook the human and moral
factors in the story.
“The Americans have admitted
that much of the suffering under-
gone by prisoners-of-war in
China was due to their inability
to adapt themselves to the
Chinese standard of living. ‘FeW
prisoners,’ they said, ‘were
tortured for information or con-
fessions.’
“The [London] ‘Daily Worker’
gleefully reported this as evidence
that its readers can ‘dismiss all
the stories of American service-
men being tortured by the
Chinese to extract confessions or
information from them as so
much hooey.’ Of course, it all
depends what you call torture.
Out of 7190 American prisoners-
of-war in Korea, 2730 died in
captivity, which is a record for
modern times. Such a figure can
hardly be attributed entirely to
a lack of central heating and
ice-cream.
‘The terrible thing is that the
Communists are probably quite
sincere. They really think it
unimportant that a ‘few’ indi-
viduals should be tortured and
killed. They see nothing wrong
in using prisoners as bargaining
counters. Until the Western
world understands that Com-
munists do not accept moral
—London “Daily Express”
“We can bear the facts that they’ve no sense of humor, that they don’t understand our outlook,
that they’re excessively tidy, that their pin-up boys are different, and that we have had disagree-
ments —but what we will not and cannot endure is that they WORK!”
principles which we have always
taken for granted, any attempt to
negotiate will rest on a very
dangerous misconception.”
German Unity
A possible solution to the
German unification problem, as
suggested by the Kansas City
(U.S.A.) “Star”:
“East Germany has caused
Russia more trouble than any
other satellite-State except Yugo-
slavia, now on its own. The
East Germans revolted openly
with factory strikes and anti-
communist riots in the famous
uprising of June 17, 1953. Be-
fore and since then East Ger-
mans have been slipping across
the border to freedom in large
numbers.
“Largely because of this
exodus, the population of the
Communist zone has dropped
more than a million since 1949,
according to the West German
Institute for Economic Re-
search.
“Russia won’t give unity back
to Germany, so East Germans
are uniting themselves with their
50,000,000 countrymen in the
West. The way Russia is
stalling on the German problem
there may not be many East
Germans around if or when the
Soviet Government ever agrees
to let Germany become whole
again.”
Atomic Progress
An editorial assessment by
London “Financial Times” of
“certain important facts” which
stood out clearly at the inter-
national conference at Geneva
on the peaceful uses of atomic
energy:
First: “It is evident that pro-
gress in the development of
nuclear energy in the three
major nations in this field,
Britain, the United States, and
Russia, has been far greater than
had been generally realised. In
the case of Britain, for example,
the announcement that the
amount of plutonium created by
the breeder-reactor, Zephyr, at
Harwell had been double the
amount the reactor consumed,
was at first simply not believed
by the leaders of the American
delegation. American experi-
ments in this most important
field of research had proved far
less successful.
“The extent to which Britain
planned to utilise the waste pro-
ducts from atomic power-stations
and research reactors for indus-
trial and medical purposes like-
wise caused much comment.
America also, whose nuclear-
energy effort has been on an
immense scale for a decade, has,
it is evident, successfully
switched a major part of this
effort to the production of
atomic power and radio-isotopes
during the last nine months.
“This indicates that British
companies, who have so far
received more than a dozen ‘very
serious inquiries’ for atomic
power-stations as well as orders
for electronic and other equip-
ment worth several millions of
pounds as a result of the Geneva
conference and trade fair, must
be prepared to face even fiercer
competition than was anticipated.
“Russia’s announcement that
she had been operating a heavy-
water reactor designed for test-
ing materials required for atomic
power-stations and novel types
of nuclear reactors since 1952 —
an announcement that was borne
out by the results of the research
reports she presented—came as
an unexpected shock to many
of the scientists present. The
electronic equipment exhibited
by Russia in the scientific exhibi-
tion at the Palais des Nations
was also impressive to those who
did more than examine the some-
what outdated styling of the
cabinets in which it was con-
tained.
“As one eminent British
scientist put it, the Russian con-
tribution to Geneva contained no
great surprises in the way of
advances not achieved by others,
but it did show that she had
achieved practical results in more
fields at an earlier date than
had been thought to be the
case.”
Second: “The extent of the
demand for atomic power in
such countries as Italy, West
Germany, France and Holland,
in Europe, and Brazil, Colombia
and Bolivia, in South America,
as well as in those parts of the
British Commonwealth not
easily supplied with coal or oil
and lacking hydroelectric power,
was unexpectedly great.”
Third: “The range of sizes of
atomic power-plants required
by these countries was extremely
varied, ranging, to judge by
requests for atomic power-plants
made to British countries and
the United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Authority alone, from
packaged units of 5-megawatt or
15-megawatt capacity up to full-
scale atomic power-stations of
from 150-megawatt to 200-
megawatt capacity.
“For Britain this varied de-
mand poses a serious problem,
since atomic power-plants of
from 5-megawatt "to 30-mega-
watt capacity do not fall within
the bounds of her projected
nuclear-power programme. The
reactor-furnaces of such atomic
power-plants will probably have
to be of different design, burn-
ing a different type of uranium
fuel —namely, enriched uranium.
“There is, therefore, a question
as to how far the Government is
prepared and can afford to help
British companies to develop
such power-plants with a view
to export trade.”
Finally: “It is evident that,
whatever Britain may do, France
is prepared to take the lead in
marshalling the efforts of Hol-
land, Norway, Sweden and other
European countries in this field
into a by-no-means insignificant
competitor to Britain and
America.”
Various Voices
Malcolm MacDonald: “This
is a revolutionary time. Right
across the continent (of Asia) an
upsurge of nationalist feeling
like a tidal-wave has been
sweeping away foreign colonial
Governments, whether they were
good, bad or indifferent. In
spite of Sir Stamford Raffles,
Singapore is not part of Eng-
land, it is part of Asia.”
Senator Clinton Anderson
(Chairman of U.S. Joint Con-
gressional Committee on Atomic
Energy): “I think the outstand-
ing undertaking of our tune may
prove to be the work to achieve
a controlled thermo-nuclear
reaction. If we are ever to have
a peaceful world it will be on the
basis of a reasonable supply of
food and power for all men, and
since research in the controlled
thermo-nuclear field offers the
possibility of producing ample
power to fill all men’s conceiv-
able power-needs, it is a research
undertaking of primary import-
ance to all mankind.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Land Resumptions
A Country - party member of
Westralia’s Labor - dominated Parlia-
ment is trying to have the Public Works
Act amended to ensure that property-
owners get .a fair deal when their land is
resumed by the Government. Every
landowner in the State should be wishing
him luck.
In W.A. now no owner can feel quite
sure that he won’t suddenly receive a
notice saying that his land has been
resumed and that he’ll be notified later
how much he will get for it. Admittedly,
owners of quarter-acre blocks in built-up
areas haven’t much to worry about—
although even they may be affected by
projected new railways—but practically
every vacant block within miles of Perth
has been considered, and hundreds have
been resumed during the last few years.
In most cases the land has been taken by
the State Housing Commission, which
means that it has been taken from some
owners and sold to others with either the
commission making a cop on the sale
or the new owners getting it cheap. Where
land had been bought in a block purely
for speculation, with the obvious inten-
tion of forcing up prices, resumption
might have some justification ; it could
be justified, too, where it enables the
commission to build in a block and thus
save expense. But in any case the owner
should be paid a fair price.
One case illustrates the point. A man
paid £lOO for a block which he was
holding for his son. It was resumed at
less than that, and his claim for repos-
session was rejected because the son was
still single and didn’t contemplate build-
ing immediately. When the son married
some months later he had to pay £2OO
for a similar block. Some owner of a
commission home gained at his expense.
In other cases poultry-farms and
market-gardens were resumed and the
owners put out of business.
Where land is resumed the action
must be considered to be in the public
interest, and the public should be pre-
pared to pay. Certainly the landowner
shouldn’t be the loser, because what he
loses in the deal becomes a form of
direct and unfair taxation; instead he
should be paid a fair market-price and
compensation for any inconvenience.
Where a man’s house is resumed the
inconvenience is considerable, and where
his livelihood is concerned it’s even
greater.
Many of the owners affected by the
latest grabs were working-class people
who might have expected some protec-
tion from a Labor Government; that
they didn’t get it provides ample pre-
cedent for any Government which gets
the idea of splitting big farms into
smaller holdings for their own type of
“settler.” After World War II thousands
of acres were bought from big farmers
for the Soldier Settlement Scheme. For
any further schemes the land might be
“resumed” at the Government’s price.
The suggestion presented to the
Westralian Parliament is that the Gov-
ernment pay market-value, plus a per-
centage for inconvenience, with the
owner having the right of appeal. Pro-
vided that the Act covers all resumptions
—by any Government department or
local-governing body—its passage should
put a lot of minds at rest. — Nanga-
brook (W.A.).
Spending for the Pension
“Keima” (B. 31/8/’55) asks a simple
question: “What’s wrong with Aus-
tralians spending their savings on a world-
tour?”
There is nothing wrong, of course,
provided that, when they return to Aus-
tralia, they do not immediately make
themselves a charge on their more thrifty
fellow-citizens. The good old Australian
saying of “Don’t bludge on your mates”
just about covers it.
These tourists are among many
thousands of others who, by spending
on this, that and the other, are qualifying
for the charity involved in taking a
pension. For charity it is, unless the
scheme is contributory. It’s about time
the Federal Treasurer realised what is
going on. I can’t see why I, and many
like me, who have provided for our old
age should pay taxes to enable people
of the type we are discussing to draw
£416 a year as a handout.
Arguments about the profits which
shipping companies and others are
enabled to make out of such spending
are beside the point. By all means let
“the money go round,” but let it be your
own cash, not your mate’s.
The pension was originally intended
for those in necessitous circumstances,
and, until some contributory scheme is
devised by the Treasurer, it should be
confined to that class. It is quite wrong
to make it extend to the purchase of
cars, washing-machines, refrigerators and
world-tours. — Ceg (Vic.).
Charles Darwin
Strange how people love to debunk
Darwin (B. 24/8/’55). Perhaps they feel
that, by pulling him to pieces, they are
having a crack at the theory of evolu-
tion, still regarded by many as morally
odious.
Certainly Darwin’s theories are very
far from the final word on evolution, but
it is his theory of natural selection as
the cause of evolution that is mainly
under fire, not the idea of evolution. That
theory has been shown to be hopelessly
inadequate, but that is no discredit to
Darwin, who did his best with the
material available and got a bit further
than anyone else had done up to that
time. After all, the theory of universal
gravitation is now known to be inade-
quate to explain the mechanism of the
universe, and is being supplanted by the
theory of relativity, but nobody thinks
any the worse of Newton for that.
The difficulty about the theory of
natural selection is that, though we know
it won’t do, nobody has yet
produced anything better. To
give an example, we have heard
how, after D.D.T. had promised
to exterminate flies, strains of
flies almost immune to D.D.T.
gradually appeared. The
Darwinian answer would be
that there were always a few
of these immune flies about, that
the widespread use of D.D.T.
wiped out all their weaker
brethren and gave them a
monopoly of the available food,
so they multiplied exceedingly.
But there is no evidence at all that any
such immune insects existed when
D.D.T. was first used. Possibly the
mating of partly-immune insects would
give their offspring increased resistance,
but again evidence available does not
support that this could bring about such
a significant change in constitution in a
few years. Perhaps the fortunate indi-
viduals which received a non-fatal dose
built-up an immunity which they passed
on. Darwin would have said no to this
—he held that acquired characteristics
could not be passed on —and modern
researchers are inclined to agree, though
some long and painstaking experiments,
such as those of Dr. Kammerer with
salamanders, have thrown some doubts
on the matter. There the problem rests
at present.
That is not to say that natural selec-
tion is purely a figment of Darwin’s
imagination. We know a good deal
“Like ’em or not , Hardacre , pressure-groups have their uses”
more today about the Jaws of heredity,
and know that there are circumstances
in which it can cause a limited change in
the characteristics of a species. To
return to the flies, if there had been a
blending of several races of house-flies
with varying sensitivity to D.D.T., it
would have favored the survival of those
who were descended, wholly or partly,
from the most resistant race. But once
it had weeded-out the others and pro-
duced a single pure race, it could go no
further. But if the differences in sensi-
tivity had been individual and innate, or
if they had been caused by external
circumstances during the lives of the
various flies, natural selection could do
nothing, because it seems certain that
neither of these types of variation is
hereditary.
What we need now is a theory to
explain how, at the onset of the first
tertiary ice-age, certain reptiles managed
to build from their keratin covering not
scales, but feathers or fur, which would
hold non-conducting air close to their
bodies, and conserve their warmth. Also,
how did they manage, about the same
time, to alter the structure of their hearts
and so raise their body-temperature?
And how did the feathered ones adapt
this new covering to give them the power
of flight?
So far, as I have said, we have no
satisfactory theory on these matters. It
is no answer to say that they are the
work of a Divine intelligence. To the
believer, all the laws of nature, known
and unknown, are framed by God, and
it is the job of the scientists to under-
stand them, and of the technicians to
apply them, when understood, for the
use of man. This law is still hidden from
us, but Darwin, more than anyone,
started the search for it, and we really
haven’t got very much further since he
died, except for recognising as such
several blind-alleys that he thought
promising. He deserves honor for his
efforts, not belittlement. — Magnoon (Q.).
Boards
A propaganda barrage against Queens-
land’s Fish Board from a group of
prawners makes we wonder how many
people remember that, in most cases, these
boards were set-up not at the request
of the consumer, but at the request of
the producers?
The real reason behind the producers’
demands was that they did want organised
scarcity, whatever they say now. Their
'main aim was to “iron-out” the gluts and
see that producers received uniformly
high, or at least medium, prices all the
year.
That meant storing goods such as
apples and, to a limited extent, fish, or
dumping goods such as tomatoes and
greenstuff.
Consumers criticised the set-up be-
cause they knew that they had no
chance of getting cheap food during
gluts. Their complaints were ignored
until such time as producers found that
they could get still higher prices by by-
passing the boards, which had made such
a good job of organised scarcity that con-
sumers would pay almost anything for the
scarce goods.
That was what smashed the Potato
Marketing Board in Queensland —greedy
growers sold outside the board at ridicu-
lous prices. People were willing to pay
because the board had been so inept that
a lot of its potatoes had gone bad in
storage.
Some Queensland fishermen are com-
plaining now because they are not getting
enough for their catches. They want the;
free system back, or a co-operative which'
will remove even the vestige of considera-
tion for consumers which does operate
faintly now through the board.
Don’t they remember their conditions
before the board was set-up? If they get
rid of their board and find hard times on
them again they’ll come running to the
Government for help.
Which raises another, but related, sub-
ject. I don’t like Mr. Power’s powers as
Queensland Prices Minister, but when so
many industrialists claim that removal
of price-control would enable them to
reduce rather than increase prices, I
wonder why they don’t reduce them any-
way—there’s nothing to stop them. —
No Sirrah (Q.).
Make Penalties Uniform
One of the principal canons of taxa-
tion is uniformity, and rightly so —unless
taxation is levied on a uniform basis
taxpayers feel that an unjust burden is
laid upon them.
A similar principle should apply to
penalties for road-offences. As the law
is administered at present, punishment
varies from court to court according to
the severity or otherwise with which
the offence is regarded by the presiding
magistrate.
In the same week, Melbourne magis-
trates in different courts imposed widely-
inconsistent penalties for serious driving-
offences. Motorist A was in a collision
and crashed into a red light; fined £3O.
Motorist B, according to police evidence,
had to be carried bodily into the police-
station and came-to a couple of hours
later; fined £2O. Motorist C drove at
excessive speed and collided with
another vehicle; sentenced to one
month’s imprisonment.
The uniform features of the three
cases quoted were that each motorist was
a first offender, and was convicted of
drunken driving. The penalties differed
so greatly as to infer that at least one
magistrate was widely astray in his assess-
ment of the appropriate punishment.
The only remedy to a most unsatisfac-
tory situation would appear to be the
establishment of special courts dealing
only with traffic offences —and which
would apply just and uniform rules in
the punishment of offenders. — D. J. G.
(Vic.).


Research in Industry
/_ f
No. 17 of a Series
Identification
Parade
Ever since man has grown
seeds he has been battling
against weeds. Weeds, which
rob the soil of plant foods so
essential to growing crops.
Today, new chemicals are
helping to solve this problem
by providing weed-killers
which, when properly applied,
can kill weeds without harm-
ing the crops. MCPA is a
typical example, of that long,
patient, large-scale research
that the unique organisation of ICI makes possible. It all began in
1936 with a series of experiments carried out with ICI Research
Station at Jealotts Hill to determine the effects of synthetic hormones
in plant growth. Hormones are complex chemicals made by nature in
the plants themselves to control their development, and it was dis-
covered that some hormones were capable of stimulating the growth of
certain plants and checking that of others. Because of this, a research
programme was started in 1940 to find a chemical which would kill
weeds without harming the crops and at the same time be quite safe
to use. Within two years a promising chemical had been found with
the forbidding name of 2-methy-4-chloro-phenoxyacetic acid MCPA
for short. Today, as a result of this work, selective, hormone weed-
killers such as “Methoxone,” “Butoxone,” and so on, are made in
Australia for use in eliminating the weeds which rob our crops of
essential light, nutrients and moisture. Once again research has
played its part in helping to produce more food for a hungry world.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
L. 768.1824——
f >,
IST PRIZE—A Chrysler-Plymouth clutchless “Belvedere”
and Hunter Special caravan with shower room,
refrigerator, etc. Valued at £3272.
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT
ART UNION No. 0
2nd Prize—ZEPHYR SIX CONVERTIBLE, valued at £1,366; and Many Other Prizes
TICKETS
ONLY
10/-
1
n
#
mk
And with each ticket a free entry form in the Limerick Competition, the winner of
which gets a First-class Trip to London and back, leaving on the Lloyd Triestino Liner
“Oceania.”
All proceeds to be divided, 40 % to T.B.
Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen’s Assn, of
N.S.W., 40% to the House That Jack
Built (school for partially blind children),
and 20% to the N.S.W. Institute for the
Deaf and Dumb and Blind Children.
LIMITED NUMBER OF TICKETS TO BE
SOLD, 48,000.
HIP OPT & POST
To The Promoter,
The House That Jack Built Art Union, No. 6,
Box 7051, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please allot me Tickets In The House That
Jack Built Art Union No. 6.
I enclose £.. and two stamped addressed
envelopes for tickets and result slip.
NAME
ADDRESS
Tickets are also available at office, 3rd Floor, Optometry
House, 283 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY. Phans 8M3102.
B. 21/9/’55
Anzaas in 1955
The thirty-first meeting of the Aust-
ralian and New Zealand Association
for the Advancement of Science was this
year held in Melbourne. As in Sydney,
in 1952, it spread itself lavishly over
eight busy days with sixteen sections
concurrently lecturing, arguing and
occasionally making out-of-city excur-
sions. For those whose thirst for gather-
ing or imparting knowledge was still un-
satiated there were, in addition to official
social functions, two pre-sessional and
three post-sessional field-days.
Although much the same subjects were
covered as at the Sydney meeting, the
association now shows evidence of be-
coming more practical and human. This
is in accordance with its avowed objects.
Even the first-day muddle —which appears
to be inevitable in functions of this
nature —was less evident than in 1952.
In other respects the organisation gave
signs of maturity, and the way in which
Melbourne University acted as host —
despite the loss of its bumt-out Wilson
Hall—was beyond praise. Although it
was impossible to cover more than a
small part of the meeting, one was able
to listen to chosen subjects in ample
lecture-theatres, and it was the only oasis
in Melbourne where a car could be parked
all day without charge or inconvenience.
Having learnt from past experience
that public interest would be attracted
only if Anzaas showed willingness to
place at least one foot on the ground, the
association went the whole hog and pro-
vided information of considerable prac-
tical value in a manner easily understood
by the layman. Notable in this respect
were the geology and engineering sec-
tions: the former even going so far as
to commence its session with a symposium
on petroleum which, in parts, had enter-
tainment deftly combined with instruc-
tion. Even disgruntled shareholders who
came, presumably, to learn how their
money was being spent were heard to
chuckle.—L. O. (N.S.W.).
Cheque-exchange
Subsequent to my initiation last year
of the topic of cheque-exchange (B.
22/12/’54), and later publicity by other
writers, two big city firms have deleted
the “Please add exchange to country
cheques” from my accounts. But here’s
another angle. After long trading with
another business-house I queried a 2|
per cent, charge on invoice-amounts, and
was told it was an “accommodation
charge,” added to all ledger-entries, to
help defray the overhead exes, thus in-
curred. As this trader is in a big way,
the “A.C.” paid by country customers
must represent an enormous amount of
dough. Well, I’m not allowed to deduct
the 2\ per cent, if account is paid within
30 days of invoice-date; apparently, any
client who doesn’t kick is still mulcted the
21 per cent, as a penalty for ignorance,
even though he is a prompt settler. As
I see it, the practice penalises the country-
man, and has little to recommend it. —
Quo Vadis (Q.).
Hospital Contribution Fund
The sudden steep increase in hospital-
fees in N. S. Wales has brought a storm
of protest from people who joined one
or other of the contribution-funds in the
fond belief that it would meet all their
hospital-commitments in the event of ill-
ness. They know differently now; and on
one hand there has been a rush of
members to join higher groups, and on
the other a demand that still higher
groups be formed, even if this means a
corresponding increase in the rate of
contribution.
The Federal health-authorities have
also stepped in to forbid the Hospitals
Contribution Fund of N. S. Wales mak-
ing any further distribution of its annual
surplus to hospitals, the Federal Health
Minister (Sir Earle Page) arguing that
the fund must have a substantial reserve
to meet all possible commitments in the
event of an epidemic.
That is excellent as far as it goes, but
is Sir Earle aware that, in addition to the
moneys it distributed to hospitals
annually, the fund also has a nest-egg
out of which it is offering to lend money
to municipal councils for developmental
work? Not many people seem to know
that, but I have a newspaper-clipping
which says that a few months ago the
fund wrote to the Penrith (N.S.W.)
municipal council offering to lend it
£30,000 at the current rate of interest.
It is good business for a non-profit
organisation to invest portion of its
annual surplus, thereby increasing its in-
come, but was it ever contemplated that
the Hospitals Contribution Fund would,
in a few years, reach such affluence that
it would be able to make an annual
distribution to hospitals and lend money
to councils, on top of a reserve fund
which presumably stands to its credit at
the bank?
I would rather see the fund just make
ends meet than charge a rate of con-
tribution which is demonstrably far
above its needs. —M. F. D. (N.S.W.).
Outer Space
The building and launching into space
of earth-satellites is the main cosmic
interest at the moment. At the same
time, research is proceeding into the
secrets of outer space, millions and
millions of miles further away.
At Mt. Palomar (Cal., U.S.A.) stands
the 200 in. telescope, biggest in the world,
and, with the aid of this giant, it is hoped
to discover, for instance, the source of
stellar energy and the chemical com-
ponents of distant stars —whether those
same elements known on earth occur
regularly and of the same abundance in
all stars, or whether there are other
elements in some stars as yet unknown
to us. It may help to discover new
principles of Nature.
To gain some idea of the penetrative
ability of this 200 in. ’scope, consider the
Great Nebula in Andromeda, which is
just outside our universe, some 815,000
light-years away. (That distance in
millions of miles would be far too astro-
nomical to be printed!) Well, the 200-
incher can photograph galaxies a
thousand times farther away than the
Great Nebula! On the other hand, it
couldn’t be used for viewing Mars when
that planet was close to Earth last year*
—it wasn’t designed to deal with an
object a bare 35 million miles away.
This year, incidentally, is an important
landmark in astronomical work, with the
projected publication (if it’s not already
on the streets in America) of a huge
Sky Atlas. Palomar and the National
Geographic Society have combined to
produce it —nothing like it has previously
been attempted. It represents a most
comprehensive survey of the heavens,
mapped by a 48in. Schmidt telescope at
Palomar which has been photographing
the sky since 1949 and will probably
complete its job around 1956.
This Sky Atlas will be some achieve-
ment on its own ; but, in fact, the results
incorporated in it are to be used merely
as the starting-point for those intensive
probings outside our galaxy by the 200 in.
telescope, referred to earlier. This work
may even, in the long run, prove more
important to mankind than the making
of new moons.— Maros (W.A.).
Seamanship—or Semantics?
Despite “J.H.B.’s” nautical pedantry
(B. 31/8/’55), “freighter” is a better
word than the clumsy hyphenate, “cargo-
ship.” It is a sound rule in English
never to use two words where one word
will suffice.
“Freighter” is “not imported from
where all sorts of similar cheap and
catchy words and phrases originate”
(presumably that means the U.S.A.). It
is a correct English word that means
what it says and is of respectable
antiquity. If “J.H.8.” rejects Webster's
definition of freighter as not only mean-
ing one who loads a ship but also a
vessel used to carry freight, he might
accept the Oxford Dictionary, which
includes among the meanings of
“freighter” a vessel for transporting
goods, a cargo-vessel. Examples cited:
1878, N. H. Bishop, Voyage of the Paper
Canoe (p. 278), “Though a freighter and
not a royal yacht, the Rurik looked every
inch a Government vessel.” Eighteen
ninety-three, “Leisure Hour,” April (p.
389), “Our ships get larger whether they
are freighters or expresses.”
To be consistent, “J.H.8.” should
insist on calling a “drogher” a “cargo-
lighter” and resent the whittling-down
of coastal vessel to “coaster,” so that
Masefield should have apostrophised the
“Dirty British coastal vessel.”
“Freighter” is no more purely Ameri-
can in origin than is “chore” for a small
domestic job. “Chore” is a good old
English word derived from several
county dialects. Examples: 1746,
Exmoor Scolding Glossary, “chuer, a
chare, a Jobb of work”; 1882, West
Worcestershire Glossary, “when thee’st
done up all the chores thee’s canst go
out of [if] thee’s a mind.” Eighteen
eighty-eight, Elworthy, West Somerset
Word Book, “Chore, a job, a piece of
business or work, hence chore-woman
(hence the modern ‘charwoman’).”—
Clem Lack (Q.).


• fr t
All present & correct sirj
Photograph Courtesy Australian National Publicity Association.
i?vv!?vv
m
m
mm
m
m
y
y
V-
r« v,
% *
V V V
thanks to
‘PHENOVIS’
Trade Mark
Use 'Phenovis' Superfine Drench and keep \
ALL your sheep in healthy top wool-producing
condition!
• ‘Phenovis’ effectively controls the major
intestinal parasites in sheep.
• Sheep drenched with ‘Phenovis’ eat more
grass . . . produce up to 25% more
wool!
• Ewes drenched with ‘Phenovis’ give up to
60% more milk . . . produce fatter lambs. : .
• ‘Phenovis’ is equally effective whether swallowed into the paunch or the fourth
stomach.
No other drench contains phenothiazine MORE FINELY GROUND than ‘Phenovis*
it’s positive . . . sure!
Order your Supply of the Superfine Quality
‘PHENOVIS’
The most efficient remedy for WORMS IN SHEEP
PRODUCT
PHE.40X.1465
The "EARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul*
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
s
h e attach- j
ent illus-
trated is the [
world -
famous
“FARMERS' |
BOY”
ROTARY
SOY T H E
(9
Write or telephone pour
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration o]
the attachments that interest you".
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St.. Sydney. BUISII.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-, so
William St., Melbourne. MU 8051.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1001.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd-,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
M Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY IM SENDINE IT TO
GRAZCOS”
AT WAGGA SHOW
■COR months—ever since May
•*- in fact —the New South
Wales Riverina has been .satur-
ated by unusually frequent rains,
so that it presents a rather
waterlogged appearance,
pasture-growth is retarded and
tinged with yellow, no kind of
tillage has been possible, and
shearing has been frequently
interrupted. Roads, too, have
deteriorated: so the 70-mile
drive from our home near
Temora to Wagga, took an hour
longer than usual and we arrived
late, jaded and hard to please.
A committeeman at the
entrance-gates of the show-
ground seemed delighted that
his show was to be reported in
The Bulletin ; possibly anti-
cipating that remarkable
immunity from adverse comment
in public speech and writing
which country shows tradi-
tionally enjoy.
The approach from the gates
led us immediately into the
biggest and thickest mass of
sideshows we have ever seen.
The “Wagga Daily Advertiser”
had been reporting, for some
days, statements by various
prominent persons that the
Wagga show was, next to
Sydney’s, the best and biggest in
the State. In the matter of side-
shows we have no intention of
disputing the claim; we have
never seen anything like the
number at Sydney.
But at last there seemed to be
a chance of escape from them.
We discovered a small building
labelled “Secretary’s Office.”
Surprisingly, for a show of its
size, they had no map of the
grounds which they could give
me: they showed me a wall-
map, however, from which I.
gathered that if I walked long
enough along “sideshow alley”
in one direction I would at last
come to the cattle-pavilion, and,
in the opposite direction,
eventually reach the sheep-
pavilions.
The sheep seemed the nearer,
so I plunged into the noisy,
crowded sideshow-street again,
tried to orient myself, walked
past all the lurid signs, ignored
the beckoning sirens and
shriekers, and at last came, not
to the sheep I was expecting, but
to the cattle.
This, however, was a happy
miscalculation because it was
undoubtedly the best part, of the
Show. Some of McCaughey’s
Beef Shorthorns and some of
Merryville’s Poll Shorthorns
very nearly won me over from
a lifelong preference for Here-
fords and Aberdeen Angus.
Some of these animals had won
championships at. Sydney Royal,
so no technical descriptions are
"necessary. Their company was
the more welcome when a fierce
wind blew up an Arctic shower ;
had I been a few minutes slower
I might have had to take shelter
in a tent in which a young lady
in a Bikini was frozen solid in
a block of ice.
Soon I was joined by some
near-relatives who had occupied
the back-seat on the way down,
and a high-school friend, all in
financial difficulties. The friend
was an intellectual lad who
intends to become a brain-
surgeon, but after we had spent
some time looking at the cattle
and discussing them with their
devoted attendants (there were
very few other people in the
pavilion at the time) he was
inclined to think that there
might be something to be said
for the life of a cattleman —
going round all the shows with
these much-admired animals and
sleeping in elevated bunks above
their stalls on heaps of fragrant
hay.
Earlier, the boys had been
rather derisive, in their tough,
masculine manner, about the
tone of a judge’s report I’d
shown them on a certain prize-
winner—“a very nice heifer —a
very soft and sweet animal”—
but on going to see the animal
in question they agreed entirely
with the judge: they went
further, becoming quite senti-
mental about another which
hadn’t even won a prize, an all-
white heifer named “White
Rosebud.”
The high standard and wide
competition seen among the
Shorthorns was not quite main-
tained among the Herefords and
Aberdeen Angus. W. J. Lenehan
seemed to have collected most
of the Hereford prizes, and
Bulgary and Gregadoo studs
took a good swag of the Aber-
deen Angus awards. All, how-
ever, were won by stock which
did great credit to the Riverina.
But the fat-stock entries,
among which one could expect
to see large numbers of steers
and vealers grown by local
farmers on the commercial scale
for the local abattoirs, were few
in number and went to stud-
breeders: a regrettable trend
away from the old ideal of the
agricultural show.
The dairy cattle, while excel-
lent enough in their classes,
showed a sad lack of compe-
tition. Apart from the Aus-
tralian Illawarra Shorthorns
all the awards and even all the
entries tended to be from one
exhibitor: Brunskill’s Friesians,
Robinson’s Ayrshires, Yanco
Experiment Farm’s Guernseys—
all admirable stock, but the
same thing happening year after
year is likely to become
monotonous.
In the long walk back to the
sheep-pavilions, attempting to
“Gee, Bill, doesn't it remind y' of th' balance and grace
of a ballet-dancer?"
outflank “sideshow alley,” we
found some interesting exhibits
of local secondary industry,
mostly farm-equipment and
machinery made of welded steel.
The award given in this sec-
tion was won by Murphy Indus-
tries, Ltd.,' with earth-moving
machines and the hydraulic
equipment to control them, as
well as bulk-grain handling-
gear, silos, bins, elevators and
augers. Second prize to L. and
F. Fitzsimmons with cast-iron
products, stoves, grates, storage-
tanks. Tubular-steel buildings,
stock-transport crates, motor-
ramps, and gates, functional and
ornamental, won third prize for
Ben Koth and Sons.
A surprise in this section was
an impressive display from the
tiny rural village of Burrum-
buttock: welded-steel farm-
equipment, much of it of
original design, done by F. W.
Jacob and Son. Since the bulk
of their machines were designed
to elevate thiflgs, hay-elevators,
forage-loaders, pick-up systems,
we consider that an opportunity
is being lost in not calling the
enterprise by the catching title
“Jacob’s Ladders, Inc.,” as
would undoubtedly be done in
America. We hereby offer the
suggestion at current advertiser’s
fee.
In the imported (non-
Riverina) machinery, one saw
the emphasis on pasture-growing
and away from wheat and,
more gratifying still, plenty of
evidence that the Riverina is
tremendously interested in
fodder - conservation. Probably
there were more hay-balers than
any other machine; and every-
where there were the clover-
seed-harvesters with their sheep-
skin rollers, showing the import-
ance of this aspect of farming.
The feature of the sheep
exhibits was the quantity of
entries in the British, dual-
purpose and fat-lamb breeds,
and the secondary place taken
by Merinos. Of the many large,
continent-famous Merino studs
located in the Riverina, only
Anthony Hordern of Mungadal,
Hay, exhibited.
A sheepwise acquaintance of
mine, a stud-breeder with a life-
time’s experience, explained to
me that good sheep-breeders are
not necessarily sheep-showmen.
Showing sheep is a specialised
business —hence the reluctance
of some owners of studs of
j
established reputation to show
their sheep. I was gratified to
see that the major Merino prize-
winner, after Mungadal, was
Temora’s J. E. Vogele; he
shared the rest of the prizes
with the Parmenters.
The Corriedales were the most
numerous of any section. H. W.
Bahr of Henty and B. W. A.
MeGeoch of Wagga took most
of the prizes. Polwarths were
next, major awards to A. J.
Kendall of Henty. There was
some competition among the
Dorsets, but Brunskill had all
the Southdowns, Blake all the
Border Leicesters, and the
Alleyn family—who are better
known as breeders of Dorset
Horns —all the Romney Marsh.
In the fat-sheep and -lambs
and lamb-carcass section, there
was the same lack of competi-
tion as in the fat-cattle section.
In a district which produces so
many lambs of 'export-quality
this is deplorable. But country
shows seem to be changing in
character: becoming less and
less exhibitions of produce local
farmers have to sell, more and
more media for advertising
things for farmers to buy.
In a pavilion among the jams
and jellies, cakes and preserves
there was evidence, of a kind,
in the other direction. Home-
gardeners seemed to be as
fiercely competitive as ever,
though, of course, they do not
represent major producers of
the district.
The southern district exhibit,
winner at the Sydney Royal
Show, was there in all its
detailed perfection—evidence of
the- variety and quality of local
products. But show committee-
men know that the success of
these symbolic exhibits usually
depends on the enterprise and
organising ability of one man;
in this case, Roth of Tum-
barumba. Four junior farmers’
exhibits were very good.
Of poultry, particularly fancy
breeds, there was no end;
hordes of pet-birds; and dogs
in such variety that one recalled
the familiar experience of any
local show-committee —a letter
to the secretary generously offer-
ing a prize for a breed of dog
hitherto unknown in the town or


i
Nuffield Universal
Tractor in action,
equipped with a 13-
tyne cultivator. This
is one of the many
"approved-after-test”
matched implements
available that speed
up your work . . •
make it easier.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear and
6.00 x 16 front tyres, costs only
£1,015/18/- (Cap. city).
At this competitive price, your Nuffield tractor
includes this standard equipment: Hydraulic
lift, 3-point linkage, p.t.0., belt pulley, draw-
bar, drawbar extension, seat cushion, canvas
tractor cover, electric starter and horn, head-
light, agricultural rear light, tail and side lights,
heat gauge, hour meter, foot plates, chaff
screens and radiator shutters. (Alternative
magneto ignition can be supplied at slightly
extra cost.)
Other tyre sizes available: 11 x 36R, 6.00 x
19F; 13 x 26R, 6.00 x 16F; 14 x 30R, 7.50 x 18F;
11 x 36 Dual Rear, 6.00 x 19F. (Tractor,
when fitted with these alternative sizes, varies
accordingly in price.)
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor & Implement
Division, Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor Range
and “Approved-After-Test” Matched Implements.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
Place X in this square if for school project.
VOI9VVI 7VSVJA/AVI
Gld lid (IN
IfiW®
-'"Ju
L_
■*QTOtf
BMC
NT. 36.32
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
um
i.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
---- lxn . IIMIT n r thf- BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUS'TRALIA) PTY. LTD.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. A UNIT OF THE BRITISH muiun u
that quality was high. Berk-
shire breeder L. B. Dean, of
Mount Barker (S.A.), was the
absentee, and the breed’s num-
bers fell from 113 last year
to 84.
Berkshires were dominated
by Roseworthy College (S.A.),
taking the bronze-medal with
last year’s champion sow, Rose-
worthy Dainty Queen, from the
aged class. N.S.W. judge, D. J.
Murray, of Taree, said she was
all that could be desired of the
breed.
The college also took the
boar championship with Rose-
worthy Malvenes Major 2nd.
Mr. Murray believed that
S.A. stud-breeders were show-
ing just the right sort of pig for
commercial breeders. Large
White numbers fell from 81 to
68, but the judge, D. Campbell,
of Wamberal (N.S.W.), declared
that the sows were the best
hammed that he had ever seen.
For the first time showing
under his own name, S. L.
Dawkins, of Gawler River
(S.A.), took eight firsts, three
seconds and four third prizes
and showed the champion boar,
Parra Wirra Dennis Compton
20th. He thus maintained the
great Show record of his father,
S. L. Dawkins. The bronze-
medal this year went to the
champion sow Davada Hand-
some 30th, shown by G. H. and
T. A. Martin, of Kadina (S.A.).
Judging Tamworths, Queens-
land judge A. C. Fletcher, of
Jimbour, thought that sows,
especially, were equal to the
best inter-State standards. The
bronze-medal went to W. G.
Dawkins, of Gawler (S.A.), who
was competing for the first time
as a Tamworth breeder. His
champion sow, Meadow Banks
Rosalie sth, gained the honor
for the stud. All male cham-
pionships went to L. R. Deacon,
of Golden Grove, who showed
the champion boar, Lesdale
Count.
A new class for porkers was
won by the Berkshire breeders,
J. B. Snell and Co., with an
entry of three pigs from one
litter.
In “The Chronicle” baconer-
carcass appraisal the winner
showed Large White Berkshire-
cross pigs, reared in the pad-
dockland fed on crushed barley,
skim-milk and meat-meal.
Although heavy-horse entries
had dwindled to 39, interest in
them was keen. Perhaps there
is something symbolic in this
interest: who knows, which
thriving section of today may
attract merely a handful of
enthusiastic diehards tomorrow?
district, and at the show an
entry by the same gentleman,
who continues to annually
collect his own prize until the
dog dies of old age.
There were lots of other
things one bould have looked at
with interest and perhaps even
with profit. Ring-events going
on all the time; but what killed
interest in these events was the
suspicion that the performers
would be the same hardy and
experienced equestriennes and
equestrians who regularly share
all the same prizes at all the
other shows.
Rather than watch their near-
perfect performances we would
prefer to see the local graziers
or their sons or employees in
action: certainly we’d get a
much more satisfactory laugh if
the chap who tumbled into the
pond at the water-jump was
someone we knew. But the local
farmers probably don’t own
horses and perhaps their sons
can’t even ride.
Perhaps competitions in the
handling of jeeps or utilities or
whatever they use for mustering
would be appropriate for
country shows something to
exhibit current local rural skills.
Or tractor-driving and -servicing
competitions—anything that has
a definite relationship to present-
day farming. There were no
draught-horses at Wagga, by the
way.
There were sheep-dog trials;
and, if some of the things said
about show exhibits seem un-
gracious, it is only fair to add
that some show-ring dogs could
be very useful on the farm, too.
For all the things we missed,
the wet weather and its effect
on the roads must be blamed;
a late arrival and an early
departure because the storm-
clouds came up again. The
creeks were higher on the way
home (our motor stalled in the
middle of one) and potholes and
washouts invisible under sheets
of water and through curtains of
rain in the rapidly descending
darkness shook our chassis as
soon as we left the bitumen at
the Wagga end ; and these trials
became worse as we proceeded
into the hinterland.
“Fasten your safety-belts,”
warned the future brain-surgeon
when we read the sign indicating
that we were entering our own
shire.
A good many people who
attend country shows travel fair
distances: the incidental dis-
comforts are, perhaps, a tribute
to the more publicised pleasures
of such outings.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Pruning Citrus
“Sundowner”: Essentials of
pruning citrus-trees are:
Regularity with the emphasis
on a light touch. Lemons and
mandarins benefit more from
pruning than other types.
Prune branches by cutting
back to the laterals. Thinning
or shortening of less desirably
placed branches often benefits
young citrus.
Always remove dead and
diseased branches and fruiting
wood declining in vigor.
Gradually remove lower
branches, but pruning to raise
the skirt should not be excessive
as a large proportion of the crop
is carried on this part of the
tree.
Shorten very long side- and
top-branches and control the size
of large trees to prevent crowd-
ing and facilitate orchard opera-
tions.
In this last-named connection
W. A. Fletcher, of the N-Z.
Agricultural Department,
says it is unprofitable to allow
lemon-trees to grow more than
10ft. to 12ft. high.
If trees have been damaged by
frost it is best to wait for at
least six months before going
to work.
As large wounds in the tree
following pruning are subject to
attack by fungus, it is important
to see that these wounds are
protected as quickly as possible.
Cuts greater than lin. in
diameter may be trimmed neatly
with a knife and then covered
with bituminous paint or heavy-
grade petroleum-jelly. Renew
the dressing from time to time
while the wound is healing.
Application of a disinfectant
before the wound is treated can
be beneficial, and acidulated
mercuric-chloride is recom-
mended. To prepare, dissolve
one gramme of chloride in 15c.c.
concentrated hydrochloric-acid,
adding this to IOOOc.c. of water.
Farm Hints
“Bill”: It doesn’t pay to buy
stock from a bloke who over-
stocks his land (B. 31/8/’55).
They always know all the tricks
of getting under or over fences.
“Will C.”: There’s no fortune
in the skins of small bush-
creatures in spite of the high
prices ruling (B. 17/8/’55).
Though wallaby - skins in
Queensland are fetching up to
15s. per lb., and the wallabies
are about in thousands in many
districts, rifle cartridges are not
cheap, rail-freights are high, and
the Government takes five per
cent, of the value of each
return, besides socking trappers
£1 a year licence-fee. Trappers
have to buy hessian-sacking to
parcel their skins, also arsenic
to paint skins against weevil-
attack. And running around
setting snares, skinning and the
like, isn’t easy work.
“C.A.A.”: Losses of chickens
will be minimised if their mash
is kept supplied with a high
level of vitamin D, but the use
of vitaminised oil-emulsions will
probably be unnecessary where
the birds can be exposed to the
direct rays of the sun for several
hours each day. Minimum
quantity of the oil containing
500 units of vitamin D per
gramme is 3oz. per 1001 b. of
all mash for chickens up to six
weeks old. This quantity will
supply over 400 units of the
vitamin per lb. of feed. Use of
cracked-grain in addition to the
mash requires more of the vita-
min. If using a dry product
containing 1000 units per
gramme a minimum level of
Hoz. per 1001 b. of mash is
necessary. This also applies to
prepared feeds, whether in the
form of mash or' pellets. As
vitamin D declines with holding,
don’t retain mixed mashes
longer than two weeks.
“W.C.Q.”: Add to the list of
grasses for wet parts the hardy
South American para-grass (B.
17/8/’55). It is propagated
chiefly by runners cut into seb-
tions by being run roughly
through a chaffcutting-machine.
Sends rooting shoots in all direc-
tions and shoots rise to 4ft. or
sft. at intervals. It will run out
into stagnant water and dry up
swampy areas. Is sensitive to
heavy frosts, but comes on freely
in the spring. Grows in any
marshy terrain inland and on
the coast, stands heat well, and
is one of the best protein-grasses
for cattle-feed.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/9/’55)
The poor conditions should continue in
during October, although some moderately good ram is
indicated on portion of the south coas ur is a ,
ton—with light rain on the Darling Downs and south-
west. No really good general rains should occur until
January, when widespread flooding is like y. n .
Conditions should bo patchy in N.S.W. dur.ng October
although good rain is indicated between Sydney and JerTO
Bay. The North Coast, n.w.-slopes and plains, southern
tablelands and s.w.-slopes should receive moderate . rall J s ’
but only showers and light rain can be expected in the
remainder of the State. . ~ ,
Rainfall in Victoria and South Australia should be
Ught to moderate and mainly below normal during October.
In W.A. good rains should occur on the south coast
and in the south-eastern division.
LENNOX WALKER.


mm
SB
H
i
<?'<e
555
vs
1 9BS
■3*
m
kg
i
mm
Men whose vision and
enterprise have built
the Nation
OUR0 UR records contain the details of many fascinating
stories of success in Australian enterprises, both
in the cities and in the country, down through the years
•—some as far back as 1834.
Behind these records are warm, human stories of
men and women and their friendship and co-operation
with this Bank; stories also of the Bank’s traditional
service to its customers both large and small.
At Head Office, or at the branch nearest to you, our
officers will be glad to discuss the friendly and efficient
service this Bank has to offer you to-day.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
DOUG came in a few minutes
later, changed into his
heavy boots and put on a thick
coat. He stopped beside her as
she sat staring into the glowing
fire.
“Don’t worry, Dell,” he said,
putting an affectionate arm
round her shoulder. “We’ll
soon find them now. These
chaps know these hills like the
palms of their hands.”
“What about Terry?” shd
said, not taking her eyes from
the fire.
“He’ll be all right. Phyllis
will look after him like a
mother.”
“Phyllis!” There was scorn,
even hatred, in the utterance of
the single name. Her husband
pretended not to notice it.
“Chin up,” he said, sliding his
hand round till it caressed her
cheek. She remained motionless
and unresponsive and he left
her and went out into the night.
The clock on the shelf ticked
on with a relentless steadiness
as the woman sat listening and
thinking. She shrank before
the threat of disaster, frightened
and angered by her impotence.
More than at any other time in
their lives, she thought, the
children needed her, and she
could not help them.
She wished she had thought
of that before Doug went out.
She’d told him, over and over,
that this was not a fit place to
bring them, and now events had
proved her right. The bitter
vindictiveness of her thoughts
eased slightly the grief and fear
she felt because of Terry.
“It’s all right for Doug,” she
thought. “He’s doing some-
thing. I’m the one that has to
sit and wait.”
After a while she dozed un-
easily in her chair in the warm
kitchen. She awoke instantly
when Joe pushed open the door
some time later. They had
found traces of the children.
One party of searchers had
crossed the river and in a patch
of damp sand had found prints
of a girl’s shoe and of a
small sandshoe —Terry’s. The
children had been heading
towards the house but on the
opposite side of the river.
The mother, still with the
black water sliding and gurgling
about her, asked: “Did they
search along the river?” and
the boy replied, “Yes, they
searched all the way down. The
river’s pretty shallow except in
odd places. They didn’t find
anything.”
Then he added, hesitantly,
“You don’t think they could
have tried to cross back higher
up?”
She shook her head dumbly,
indicating her inability to think
any more, and crouched deeper
in the chair, hugging the dull
comfort of stupor. The boy
moved restlessly for a few
moments, then, without speak-
ing, went out. The woman
heard his footsteps die away
towards the river and remained
motionless. She waited, thrust-
ing away thought, as though
her fiumbness were an armor
against evil, an ■ armor which
mental or physical activity
would destroy. The fire burned
low but she made no move to
replenish it.
At last she heard Joe return-
ing. Her body remained
motionless but her senses stirred
as she tried to read a message
from his footsteps. They seemed
hurried steps, beating louder and
louder in the silence. Her
began to thump madly. With
the pounding of her heart and
the .thudding of the footsteps
the whole air seemed to be
vibrating. She cowered in her
chair. The footsteps crashed up
to the door, which rattled and
scraped harshly across the floor.
Then there was silence as Joe
paused in the doorway, thinking
her asleep.
After what seemed a long
time, the mother slowly turned
her eyes towards him, searching
his face. He shook his head.
“No sign of them there,” he
said. “I thought you were
asleep.”
Behind him, through the open
door, she could see the river,
grey now, with shreds of mist
abpve it. She felt her thumping
heart grow quieter and raised
herself slowly, rubbing her
clammy palms on the tiny ball
of handkerchief.
“No,” she said. “I wasn’t
asleep. I guess you’d like a
cup of tea.”
C*HE made a pot of tea and
she and Joe drank in silence,
Joe washing down with the hot
tea thick slices of bread and
butter, that he cut from the end
of the loaf. It was daylight now
and the woman turned down
the pale light and blew it out. A
thin wisp of smoke rose from
the wick and there was the dis-
tinctive smell of a newly-
extinguished lamp in the kitchen.
Upstairs she could hear the
children stirring and, for once,
welcomed the beginning of
another day.
The morning hours, however,
dragged by with a tantalising
slowness. Long ago she had
learned to reduce her household
tasks to a minimum and now,
with the baby asleep and the
other children fed and turned
outside to play, there seemed to
be little to do but to wait. There
were all the curtains to put up,
of course. She toyed with the
idea and then decided that she
had too much on her mind to
worry about putting up curtains.
She had changed from her
skirt and blouse and high-
heeled shoes into a print-frock
and a worn pair of blue felt-
slippers. The change had
released her shapelessness and
robbed her walk of its briskness.
The dark hair which framed her
heavy face curled slightly about
her shoulders; she wpre it long
in a pathetically unsuccessful
attempt to look girlish.
For the twentieth time since
breakfast she came to the
kitchen-door.
“Betty and Joan, for God’s
sake stop that din,” she shouted,
although they were playing
more quietly than usual. But
she glanced only casually at the
children. Her eyes went quickly
to the road that led to the
bridge, rested a moment and
then shifted slowly to the sur-
rounding hills, which rose
steeply in cliffs and gorges from
the river valley, stretching away
to the north, east and west
;without homestead, road or
track for fifty miles or more.
Then, her face expressionless,
she turned again to the kitchen,
moving heavily in her shabby
slippers across the rough slab
floor.
The alarm-clock read five-past-
ten. And the children had
been missing since three-o’clock
the previous day. She made a
half-hearted attempt to calculate
the number of hours, gave it
up and let her eyes wander to
the curtainless window which
overlooked the river.
She stirred herself at last,
remembering that potatoes were
needed for dinner. She took her
tin-dish qnd was about to fill it
from the bag near the kitchen-
door when the thought, “There’ll
be four less today,” brought the
first sharp, stinging tears to her
eyes. She bent quickly and
clattered more than the usual
quantity into the dish.
She had just strained the
potatoes and pushed them aside
when she heard the joyous shout
from the garden. A moment
later the children burst in with
the news that the others had
been found and were coming.
The mother moved quickly to
the door and gazed down the
road. They were all there,
Terry riding on the shoulders
of one of the men.
The mother built-up the fire.
Relief flooded over her and her
movements quickened. She
kept saying “Thank God . . .
Thank God . . .” but it was an
expression of relief, not a
prayer.
She put on the kettle and
hurried out to the yard to meet
the children.
“Well, you’ve found them,”
she said to the men, taking
Terry into her arms and hugging
him. “I guess you’d like a cup
of tea.”
BUT the men wouldn’t wait.
They hurried back to the
truck and the mother and
children were left alone. The
other children pressed the
wanderers with eager questions
but they answered dully. They
had, for the last few hours,
been the centre of interest of the
men who had found them, and
now, safely home again, could
not rouse themselves to impress
their brother and sisters.
“Well, come on and have
something to eat,” the mother
said. She heaped-up the food
on their plates, partly because
she expected them to be hungry
and partly as a gesture of thank-
fulness. But the children were
not hungry. They had been
fed by the men, and they were
very tired.
Joe came in and surveyed,
from the hearth, the rather
silent party.
“Wasn’t you scared last night,
Terry?” he asked.
“No!” Terry replied, stoutly.
Joe laughed. “You’re a
beaut,” he said.
“I wasn’t scared, was I?”
Terry said, turning to Phyllis.
“You was crying once.”
“I wasn’t.”
“You was,” she said, a note
of fine scorn in her voice. “You
was crying for Mum.”
“I wasn’t.”
He hit at her peevishly. His
arm, in its ragged sleeve, caught
the cup, sending the hot tea
across the table and on to his
sister’s bare legs.
The mother turned quickly
from the stove and in a sudden
burst of anger caught up the
little boy and slapped him
fiercely.
“Now, behave yourself,” she
said, dumping him roughly back
on- the chair, a dull flush mount-
ing from her neck to her heavy
cheeks. “And when you’ve
finished your food you can get
off to your bed. God knows,
I’ve had trouble enough with
you for one day.”
district missed-out on the usual
summer storm-rains. He said
that some orchardists seemed to
have become “rocket happy.”
He could be right about the
effect on the rain-clouds —the
report quoted earlier frequently
mentions the dispersal and
breaking -up of storms. A
reasonable conclusion is that if
the hail had been allowed to
fall it would have turned to rain
by the time the storm reached
the Warwick area.
But the Granite Belt
rocketeers haven’t given up
their rockets. One of them said,
in reply to the indignant aider-
man, that he was willing to stop
using rockets —on terms. He
said: “If Warwick people pay
for hail-damage I’ll sit on my
veranda and let the hail sweep
through my property.” No
takers.
People with a stronger claim
than Warwick wheatgrowers to
object to the rocket-firing are
pilots flying commercial-planes
above and around the Granite
Belt. They claim that the
rockets are a definite flying-
hazard. Provided the planes are
at a height of 4000 ft. or lower,
they appear to have a case. An
explosion equal to that from a
three-inch mortar-shell could do
quite a lot of damage to an
aircraft.
The pilots’ main objection
seems to be not so much against
the firing of the rockets as such,
but against the fact that they
are fired without warning. Just
what warning could be given is
hard to see. A plane flying
through or above cloud of the
type likely to produce hail
would be very unlikely to be
able to see a ground-warning,
and because hailstorms build-up
so fast a radio-warning would
probably be impracticable.
Up to now the pilots, like the
wheatgrowers, have taken no
action, and orchardists are
planning an even bigger barrage
against the cumulo-nimbus
green-tinted clouds of the
summer of 1955-56.


PORTAL TO PARADISE
by Cecil Roberts. The latest book
by this favourite author is set in
Italy. Cecil Roberts exercises the
blend of scholarship and charm that
has won him a faithful public over
the past forty years, and he paints
a lively picture of life amid the
vivacity of the Italian character.
Illustrated.
25/- (post lid.)
SOMETHING OF VALUE
by Robert Ruark—an outstanding
novel, the theme of which is the
Mau Mau peril in Kenya. Though
there are things in this book to
shock and disturb, there has been
no exaggeration or heightening of
the horrors, and the author writes
with understanding of the problems
of both settlers and natives.
22/6 (post 1/3)
You’ll find these > and all dhe books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagli Street, Sydney - - 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
Available at all booksellers
Love Is Eternal
by IRVING STONE - - is/9
Author of “Lust For Life”
A Novel of Mary Todd and Abraham Lincoln
COLLINS
seem that Dr. Bialoguski was not a
little taken-aback to find that the con-
ditions would constitute no drawback
at all. As for Petrov, “he soon
began a performance that made my
‘audiences’ look like a schoolboy’s
prank.” Here, indeed, is virtuosity in
dissimulation, appearing against its
graver background like an unrelated
few bars of melo.dy in the bridge-
passage of a sonata, which by their
exuberance and perfection testify to
the easy mastery the composer has of
his art. Art for art’s sake.
The musical analogy might be again
called in to evoke the wonderful com-
plexity of the main part of the book:
the meetings with Petrov in Canberra
and Sydney, the visits to Australian
inventors anxious to give their secrets
to the Soviet, the maze of parties and
confabulations with Communists and
fellow-travellers, the withdrawal of the
Security Service’s patronage, and
Doctor Bialoguski’s efforts to interest
the Prime Minister and the American
authorities while he continued, a
soloist without an orchestra, his duet
with Petrov—as, perhaps, a double-
concerto for violin and ’cello, it would
demand the most tortuous of annota-
tions.
Or perhaps the Doctor’s role might
be best described as that of conductor.
The sharpest of his few strictures is
reserved for what seems to have been
an evasion by Sir Eugene Goossens
of an agreement to teach him conduct-
ing; and probably to be credited with
this role, if only in practical affairs,
would constitute his greatest satisfac-
tion.
Reviewed Briefly
In Dreams and Nightmares (Penguin),
after exhaustively reviewing Freud’s,
Jung’s and Adler’s approaches to the
subject, J. A. Hadfield advances the
suggestion that the function of dreams
is. by the reproduction of the problems
of the day, objective or subjective, to
work towards their solution, in some
cases, he says, they go no further than
calling attention to the problems; in
other cases they lead to suggestions of
a solution which are tentative and
inadequate. In other cases they offer
real solutions to both the moral and
practical problems of life.
* * * #
2000 Fathoms Down in the Bathy-
schape: Georges Houot and Pierre
Willm (Hamilton). The bathyschape,
described as “an independent deep-
water submarine,” was designed to
withstand the pressure 2\ miles down
in the depths of the ocean, and in this
interesting craft these two French naval
officers went down 4050 metres off
Dakar. It was a great adventure, and,
proving that masses of plankton exist
down to 2000 metres, and lower, may
yet prove of economic importance, for
the authors believe that mankind may
be able to eat this fish-soup; but the
reader familiar with Cousteau and
wanting to hear more of the wonders
of the depths, will be disappointed in
the book, which is mostly filled with
preliminary and technical matters and
only gets down to the “starry sky” of
the deep ocean in the last few pages.
* * * %
The Living Earth: Sheila Mackay
Russell (Longmans). In blizzardly cold
Canada the beautiful Paula Hoode,
highly qualified as a nurse from a
large modem city hospital, sets out
for Mud Creek as the new district
nurse, and makes friends on the
journey with the highly-qualified and
(so the author says, but her behavior
hardly supports the claim) highly-
sophisticated new teacher. And, amid
forest fires, confinements and the stock
primitive passions and vices always
attributed to such stock primitive
landscapes, the two females discover
themselves—i.e., they both end up with
the right husbands.
* * * *
Gathering No Moss: Eva Knox
Witte (Robert Hale). Mrs. Witte
writes the well-known children’s-
books about Araminta; here she
describes her life in Alaska and New
Hampshire and something of her
Russian-bom husband’s experiences in
such unlikely places as Urga. Perhaps
you need to be an American or an
Araminta-fan fully to appreciate it, but
there is plenty of general interest in
the snow, huskies, Mongols, bandits
and exotic Russian foods; in the story
of the happy and adventurous
marriage; and in the general theme of
outdoor living.
* * * *
“Rise, Canadians!”: M. Bellasis
(Hollis and Carter). A history, in a
style at once popular and sensitive, of
the Canadian rebellion of 1837 which,
though it had a Scot, William Mac-
kenzie, instead of an Irishman for its
leader, might be compared with our
own Eureka Stockade. But the fighting
and subsequent hangings and shoot-
ings were on a larger scale and were
prolonged for some time by support
from America. One of the most color-
ful of the leaders was “Doctor”
Theller, who bombarded Amherstburg
from the schooner Anne and who,
given to wearing his cloak like a toga
and striking noble Roman attitudes,
had belonged to a Free Love Associa-
tion in New York State.
* * * *
Sir Anthony Eden: Lewis Broad
(Hutchinson). Mr. Broad wrote the
life of Churchill, which sold 100,000
copies, and there will no doubt be
many readers—if not quite so many—
for this sober, solid and immensely
informative biography of his succes-
sor. It is essentially journalistic, a
marshalling of military and political
facts, but impressive as such, and con-
siderably enlivened by anecdote; as
when Eden had an interview with
Chamberlain to warn him about the
slowness of British rearmament, and
Chamberlain told him to “Go home
and take an aspirin.”
* * # *
Bull Fever: Kenneth Tynan (Long-
mans). A description of a dozen bull-
fights which the author saw in Spain
in 1952. Mr. Tynan approaches the
spectacle as a dramatic-critic, and
certainly he describes the fights with a
rare vividness; giving also a lively
picture of life in Spain, where, from
menus translated by the cafe-
proprietors into English, he ate such
strange dishes as “Calamary in his
Own Ink” and “Anahogs in a Seaman-
• like Manner.”
* * * *
Science Makes Sense: Ritchie Calder
(Allen and Unwin). One always
inspects popular scientific books of
this kind to find out what the author
thinks about the chances of blowing-up
the world, about flying-saucers and
about space-travel. Mr. Calder thinks
that the scientists may or may not blow
up the world, which is more-or-less
comforting, or not, as the case may be.
On flying-saucers, except that he men-
tions their design as useful for space-
travel, he is unaccountably reticent.
And he thinks that “the Columbus of
the moon” has already been bom:
which is highly satisfactory. His book
is chiefly a defence of science and an
account of the benefits which, since
the year dot, it has conferred on man-
kind. Some of it is rather dull, but at
least he explains clearly what the
“sound-barrier” is.
* * * *
Ashes Triumphant: Bruce Harris
(Hutchinson). Australia v. England,
1954-55, with forewords by the two
captains, Hutton and Johnson, and
designed to appeal more to the English
than the Australian reader. Harris, on
his fifth tour with an English team, was
here as correspondent for the London
“Evening Standard.” He describes all
the main matches, with off-the-field
chattipgs, comments on the Barrier
Reef and the 1954 Davis Cup, etc., and
a few grouches, justifiable, no doubt, on
various aspects of Australian life,
notably our public transport.
* * * *
Intrusions?: J. W. Dunne (Faber). A
most curious book, as indeed one would
expect. Part of it is an “explanation,”
with formidable diagrams, of the
author’s theory of “serial time”; the
rest an account of several “meetings”
the author had with an angel in his
dreams—on one occasion it told him
that “God’s shadow lies all over the
world” and why we don’t see it is
“because it has no edges.” Dunne
professes to regard the angel as an
allegorical creation of his own mind
and to accept a psychological explana-
tion for the dream-voices which told
him to “Hurry, hurry!” to finish this
last book before he died; but he does
sound very much like William Blake.
V * * *
Shakspeare, Spokesman of the Third
Estate: Lorentz Eckhoff (Basil Black-
well). This English edition of the
essays by the professor of English
literature in the University of Oslo has
been published in honor of his 70th
birthday. The professor sets out to
find Shakspeare’s character and
“message” in the plays, examining in
turn his pessimism, his analysis of the
perils of passion and the temptations
of power, his faith in Nature (Pro-
fessor Eckhoff finds him “pagan”
rather than Christian) and his humor.
It is chiefly interesting as a Norwegian
viewpoint; most of the ground has
already been covered in English.
* * * *
The Charming Boy: Mary L. Hacker
(Cape). Two cousins—a divorced man
and widow respectively—he with a
teenage son, she with a teenage
daughter, arrange to live close to each
other in the New Forest district so that
their children may be companions. As
Charles and Katherine grow older they
come to love each other, and the tale
develops as a study of the conflict
between his shallowness and her more
mature approach to life. Within a
narrow compass the problems of the
young people both between themselves
and involving their elders are well and
interestingly handled. This is a read-
able first novel, and, if its author learns
to handle more complex groups of
characters, her name may be worth
watching for.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 348
Across
I—Mince seen to be minced by
rises of the country cardinals
starting with one letter in
another. (9)
6—A couple more letters do very
well. (5)
9 —Griffin sends one more letter to
a boy whose “on” is off. (6)
10—The sunburnt are secretly born by
letter. (7)
12— The weather bureau uses such a
yardstick for evaluating fiction
by Maugham? (4-5)
13 — A prohibition establishment
likely to be ruined by prohibi-
tion. (3)
14— Demonstrates chop in a steamer.
(5)
15 — Range equipment which sets
fire to Georgia? (3-6)
17 —Gets smaller guarantees of con-
ditions for film-stars, etc. (9)
21—Giant heart of 30-across. (5)
24 Where to put up a Danube
tributary. (3)
25 — It gave tar (anagram). (9)
26 — Republican provoking Street,
M.P. (7)
27 — Little time for the dumb holding
in a secretarial note. (6)
29 — Two more letters named a girl.
(5)
30 — Tandem Virago League halved by
a rabble-rouser. (9)
Down
1 — News par. concerning drapes? (7)
2 Poetical opposite. (7)
3 The lug and the gob who
whispers? (3-6)
4 Dalmatian dialect article is under
100. (2)
5 Quietens payments made by a
member to his club and his
union. (7)
6 Call up an apple-eater swallow-
ing approval, too. (5)
7 Australian stage and radio actor
takes 4-down bonza modifica-
tions. (7)
8 — Francis, a Continental artist (in
Hollywood films), drew the
Queen a couple of times. (7)
11 —Wildly excited if 21-across is
beheaded. (4)
16 — International significance without
intent. (9)
17 — Sea wave is one unable to move
naturally. (7)
18 — Who isn’t a swell direction on to
fortissimo? (3-4)
19 — Cleaner boy made a map. (7)
20 — Sink into this and hide? (4)
22 — A horse stopper in a tree. (7)
23 — Poultry holding no Italians. (7)
25 —Search for something like the
blind G-string (coarse style). (5)
28—A thousand are singular. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 347


II ItT)
IP 1 '
SD
HD SO
!!
Hi
m.iffittDHu
fiij uii tm on
tan
I
mm
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T.' G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
W. J. McCRISTAL,
M.R.A.C.P.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.A.SIA., A.C.I.S.
Actuary:
H. V. NAPIER, F.I.A.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA,
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins, 8.A.,
LL.M., Dip. Ed.
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.A.S.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers, Q.C., LL.B., M.P.
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke, LL.B.
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry, F.C.A. (Aust.)
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878 )
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1954:
NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 9,937
Policies assuring £13,976,467.
ASSETS INCREASED BY £2,866,200 after providing £19,918
for Depreciation, and now total £28,613,779.
q Policies in Force exceed 132,000, assuring
over £93,000,000
q Premium Income amounted to £3,364,864
q * Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1954,
totalled £1,063,463, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£16,800,000
q Special Additional Reserves amount to
£1,000,000
q Bonuses substantially increased
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
