

/
epP
eltt
SOLERO
•j®.
The Bulletin
NEW GUINEA LAND OF PROMISE — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3918
Wednesday, March 16, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 231 : the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt
TREASURY OF MEDIEVAL BRITAIN, COTEHELE HOUSE
HIGH above the Cornish bank of the River Tamar, six miles south-west
of Tavistock, stands the grey granite mansion of Cotehele —one of the
best-preserved baronial manors of medieval days in Britain.
The passage of time has left few marks on this historic house which was
originally the country seat of the Earls of Mount Edgcumbe. In the
reign of Edward 111 (1327-1377) Hiiaria de Cotehele married William de
Edgcumbe. His great-grandson, Sir Richard Edgcumbe, built most of the
manor buildings as they exist today, and in essentials Cotehele remains
much as it was during the period 1485-1539 in the reign of Henry VII. For
nearly six hundred years the family held the property and they made every
effort to preserve, not only the medieval structure, but also the historic
contents of this beautiful home.
In 1944, when the 6th Earl of Mount Edgcumbe succeeded to the family
estates, he suggested that Cotehele and its 1300 acres should be accepted in
part payment of death duties. It was received by the Treasury in 1947,
the first to be taken over in this way, and it passed into the care of the
National Trust and is now open to the public.
In the richly tapestry-hung chambers can be seen a superb collection
of period furniture. The walls of the old Drawing Room arc adorned
with a Brussels Tapestry illustrating the history of man. A massive refectory
table stands on the rough stone floor of the Great Hall which has a
remarkably fine timber roof. On the walls hang trophies of war and of
the chase; they include battle-axes, armour, gauntlets, matchlocks, pistols,
spears, swords, halberds, pikes and daggers. Some of the weapons were
used at the Battle of Agincourt and at Bosworth and other famous battles.
Among the exhibits can be seen a massive two-handed sword which belonged
to the Black Prince.
Many Royal visitors were entertained at Cotehele during its long history
and they include Charles I, George 111, Queen Charlotte and Queen Anne.
Heraldic panels in the windows bear the arms of the Edgcumbe family and
of those with whom they have been associated in marriage. The grandfather
of Sir Walter Raleigh was a distinguished member.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/ Type writ ing
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Meeh., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stolls Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Svdney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 2l Grenleil
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 055) AGE
BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
ABORIGINAL ART
It is not very long since one called
on Mr. Peter Bellew, once occupier of
the fearsome position of Art Critic to
the “Sydney Morning Herald,” in his
present comfortable office in the dingy
Unesco building in Paris . . . just round
the corner from the Arc de Triomphe
with its frieze of triumphant tourists
on the top, and easily reached by
crossing only about six of the innumer-
able streets, like the spokes of a
bicycle-wheel, from which the city hurls
its traffic at you in the Place de
l’Etoile.
Which seems a long way from the
hot red rocks of Oenpelli in Arnhem
Land.
But Mr. Bellew, after he had
courteously sketched a map to show
where was the gallery of the Impres-
sionists with its glorious early Sisleys
and Monet’s incredibly lush and lovely
waterlilies, where was the special
Cezanne exhibition and where the
Picasso—which, as it happened, had
closed because there was a law-suit
about the ownership of these paintings
looted by the Soviet Government after
the revolution and now claimed by
their original owner—Mr. Bellew, as
one says,- mentioned that he was
editing art-books for Unesco; and
there on his table was the superb and
enormous book of “Paintings from
Ajanta Caves,” which are located, if
one remembers rightly, in India and
which Mr. Bellew, straying far indeed
from Hunter-street, said he had per-
sonally visited. Equally superb and
enormous there was also “Egypt—-
Paintings from Tombs and Temples.”
And now, superb and enormous
again, with Mr. Bellew’s name beside
Anton Schultz’s as joint-editor, is
Australia Aboriginal Paintings
Arnhem Land; the third of this Unesco
series devoted to “rare art masterpieces
of the world,” in which further
volumes are to be “Yugoslavia—
Byzantine Frescoes”' and “Norway—
Paintings from the Stave Churches.”
So does the art of our natives, once
universally described as the lowest of
human types, go round the world and
come to the august notice of Sir
Herbert Read, who in his foreword to
the Unesco volume observes:—
As the cultured reader turns
these pages his delight in the
paintings will be expressed in
wondering evocations of the names
of modern artists —now Braque,
now Klee, now Giacometti, now
Wilfredo Lam.
Perhaps we have spun the great
wheel of taste a little too far. It is
surely not surprising that aboriginal
art resembles the art of Braque, Klee,
Giacometti or Wilfredo Lam when
these artists deliberately sought to get
back to the primitivism of the child
and the savage; nor does it seem
greatly to their credit that, civilised
European men in the 20th century, they
could do no better. Sir Herbert Read’s
extraordinary belief that the difference
between the exquisite drawings of Cro-
Magnon man in the Altamira caves and
the infantile sketches of the aborigines
at Oenpelli is
basically climatic.... A people
hunting bison and reindeer across
icy tundras and retreating periodi-
cally to the shelter of caves is
bound to produce an art different
from that of a people chasing
kangaroos through the hot
desert ...
is surely an evasion of the simple and
obvious acknowledgment that one set
of drawings is infinitely better —more
sure, more graceful, more, refined, more
civilised —than the other.
Why, incidentally, are people who
chase bison in cold climates “bound”
to produce art different, except in
subject-matter, from those who chase
kangaroos? It is still a cold climate
in Europe, still hot in Australia, and
Sir Herbert himself has just stated that
Klee and the aborigines produced art
not different but strikingly similar. It
is not climate that makes Cro-Magnon
art better than aboriginal, but refine-
ment of mind and superiority of crafts-
manship.
It would be absurd, of course, alto-
gether to deny aesthetic quality to these
aboriginal paintings. Even if their
appeal is immensely enhanced by the
beautiful green and rose and umber
of the rock-colors in the reproduc-
tions, something queer and spidery and
spearlike remains to capture the
imagination in Plate V, for example,
“A group of long-bodied Mimi spirit-
people, Inagurdurvil,” and —though the
ancient rock-drawings are generally
far more effective than the naive
tapestry-patterns of the recent paint-
ings on is a distinct decora-
tive quality in the two elegant crabs of
Plate XXIX which are so surprisingly
described as “The Spirit Men Eradbatti
and Kumail.”
But on the whole this is surely a
form of art as elementary as a bark
mia-mia is elementary in comparison
with Salisbury cathedral; and one pre-
fers to leave it in its proper domain
of anthropology where it remains a
fascinating record of primitive man
and where we can learn from Charles
P. Mountford, in his introduction
following Sir Herbert Read’s, who
these Mimi spirit-people were:—
The aborigines believe they
[the rock-paintings] are the work
not of their own kind but of a
tall, thin-bodied fairy people
known as the Mimis, who live in
the rocky plateau. Nobody has
seen a Mimi.... for [they] are a
shy people, particularly keen of
hearing, who, at the faintest sound
of an intruder, run to a cleft in
the rocks of the plateau and blow
upon it. The cleft opens, admits
the Mimis to their underground
home, then closes behind them to
keep out all intruders.
The volume contains 16 colored
reproductions of rock-paintings and 16
of bark - paintings. Reproduction,
printing and binding are by Amilcare
Pizzi of Milan, and the volume is pub-
lished for Unesco by the New York
Graphic Society. The material was
prepared with the co-operation of a
working-party formed by the Aus-
tralian Unesco committee for visual
arts, comprising C. P. Mountford, Hal
Missingham, Desiderius Orban,
Margaret Preston and Wallace Thorn-
ton. An expedition led by Mr.
Mountford, accompanied by W. E.
Harney and William Brindle (photo-
grapher), and sponsored by the Com-
monwealth Government, visited the
Oenpelli area—which Mr. Mountford
had previously explored with the 1948
expedition to Arnhem Land —in 1949
to secure the photographs of hitherto
unphotographed rock-paintings. — D.S.
FUSION
I leaned against the bare white cliff
That is the earth’s strong bone;
I held her flesh in both my hands
And loved it as my own.
Below, the river that is life
Ran swift and silent by,
The gneat veins in their rocky bed
Beneath the noonday sky.
I felt my own flesh, firm and good,
The bones that gave me power,
And the warm blood that beat and
drummed—
A clock that set the hour.
I crumbled loam between my hands
Where the live waters ran,
And life was one in earth and stone,
In river and in man.
N.S.W.
RUTH BEDFORD.
Moorehead on Italy
It can be taken for granted that
when two young couples, one English
and one American, are living as close
friends in a village in Italy what is
felicitously known as “the worst” will
happen: otherwise what would become
of the minor novel, which is eternally
based on the eternal triangle?
Thus one minor novel is so much
like another that you really can’t tell
the difference; and since A Summer
Night (Hamish Hamilton) by the Aus-
tralian writer Alan Moorehead is
exactly like all the others, he might
perhaps do better to avoid fiction and
keep on with the direct description of
Italian life he did so attractively in
“The Villa Diana.”
Though he writes fairly well (with
an occasional blunting into bad
grammar), and though his characters
are pleasantly drawn, his real gift
remains that of war-reporting, and the
only memorable passage in “A Summer
Night” is that in which a general strike
is called because of the assassination
of a Communist leader in Naples, when
four young Communists, behaving like
the Fascists of old—except that they
take their orders from Moscow instead
of from Mussolini —roar into the
village on motor-cycles, shut up the
shops and, at night, are the cause of a
riot in which a blackmarketeer and
former Fascist is nearly kicked to
death. This is indeed a most effec-
tive piece of drama: —
It came in the way that such
events —whether strikes or menaces
of war or simple Acts of God —
always came to the village: the
lights went out. One after another
all the neighboring towns were
blacked-out, until for twenty miles
along the coast there was nothing
to be seen by night but the head-
lights of the passing cars, and the
faint glow of an occasional boat
where a fisherman stood poised
with his spear above an acetylene
lamp waiting for the fish to swim
into his reach... .Probably it was
the absence of news that was the
most corrupting thing. Since no
newspapers arrived and the radio
was silent no one had any means
of knowing how strong the Com-
munists were, or how far the strike
had affected the rest of the country.
They felt deserted and rudderless.
One theme that would have given
variety to the convention of uncon-
ventional love that develops when Mrs.
Curtis steals away to join Philip Sin-
clair in Venice is a bizarre affair which
starts between an ageing English
governess and a young Italian post-
man —a situation something like Mau-
passant’s “Miss Harriet.” But Mr.
Moorehead doesn’t seem quite to know
what to do with such an outlandish
intrigue, and settles it quickly by having
the governess packed off home in
disgrace.
However, it should be emphasised
that the central love-affair is both
pleasantly and plausibly handled. Mr.
Moorehead’s people are intelligent and
well-bred, and an attractive impression
is conveyed of Mrs. Curtis’s beauty.
And, necessarily, the description of
Italian life, which might have been
done simply in a travel-book, is still
to be found in the novel: the primitive,
charming and impassioned villagers
and fishermen; the lovely coastal
scenery; the traditional magic of
Venice; a drive through the lavish
countryside of vines and olives and
old castles on the mountain-tops to
watch the Palio in ancient Siena when
the crowds pour down the stone steps
and the steep narrow streets to watch
the carnival riders racing bare-backed
around that curious fan-shaped piazza.
The novel as a whole, demonstrat-
ing once again Mr. Moorehead’s skill
as a writer on politics and war, has a
strong effect of prophecy: the villagers,
without news, transport or electric-light
and power, returning “instinctively and
easily to the most primitive ways of
life,” while, temporarily demented with
excitement, the young men try to recap-
ture the days of the liberation when
they dashed about gloriously on motor-
cycles and shot their private enemies.
CLOSE YOUR EYES
Close your eyes, close your eyes.
They are too brilliant.
Beauty spawns in the skies
And he who dare
Lie with a goddess here,
Courts disenchantment.
She is complete and grave.
Under the gumtrees
We must lie down and laugh
If we a soul would halve.
It’s by such ways as these
Lovers lie easy.
Franchise my rising hand;
There’s sense in touching.
Though she is contraband
And in the dark we lie,
We may with Beauty fly
While she’s not watching.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Reviewed Briefly
Someone Waiting: Emlyn Williams
(Heinemann). This three-act thriller
went on in London in November, 1953,
but they don’t say for how long. The
play opens with wealthy John Ned-
lands trying to get the dead woman to
walk out of the flat. The next scene
is five months later, when the. father ef
a young man who has been hanged
for the murder gets a job as tutor to
Nedlands’s adopted son, who had been
his hanged son’s best friend. Together
tutor and adopted son plot to trap and
punish Nedlands. The play is worked
on the suspense and repeated anti-
climax of revenges that are foiled by
unforeseen interruptions. Finally the
old tutor shoots himself dead in cir-
cumstances which inevitably will put
the crime on Nedlands. Perhaps, as the
publishers suggest, it is a “gift to any
company, amateur or professional'’;
but read in cold blood it creaks with
adjustments, such as the tutor’s having
been in Australia to explain his not
having been publicised; the unpractised
thriller-writer’s effort to make the crime
fit the exposition. .
Twilight of the Dragon: Peter
Bourne (Hutchinson). This historical
novel is set partly among the foreign
diplomats in Peking, partly in the
walled city of the Chinese Empress,
during the Boxer Rising; but the main
trend of the story is to display the
cruel old Empress’s decision to force
Sweet Virtue to be the concubine of
her impotent son, the Emperor, and,
having submitted Sweet Virtue’s fiance
to a fake-operation to make him a
eunuch, to take him as her own, the
aged Empress’s, lover —the preliminary
arrangements for the operation form
the subject of the picture on the jacket.
Side by side with this story of Eastern
love runs the problem whether the
Russian Prince Igor or the American
Randall Lockhart shall be betrothed
to Sir Oliver Strangeway’s daughter,
Evelyn; and every now and then
history raises its evil head to ask,
pop-eyed, how things are shaping.
* * * *
You Pay Your Money: Michael
Cronin (Museum Press). This knock-
about thriller hardly lives up to the
delicious girl tied to a chair on the
cover. The hero is a strong-arm fixer
for a big-time London spiv; there are
robberies, perfunctory battles in
crooks’ mansions; drives to the mid-
night river-bank to secure the contra-
band, which is hijacked by rival
dealers; there is co-operation by
swarthy Eastern gentlemen in tortur-
ing secrets from other swarthy Eastern
gents; and a beautiful bad girl and a
delectable good girl. Mr. Cronin tries
a bit too hard; from his photograph
on the back cover one would expect
him to do better illuminating some
text in some pulpit.


Anthony Horderns’ has
Cool Summer fashions for homes!
Windows are the background of all furnishing schemes, so give your windows the perfect finish they deserve with our
beautiful “Hordura” blinds —blinds designed to give the maximum amount of shade and protection from
the summer sun to your precious furnishings. We can supply Venetians direct from our factory in either wood or
metal in materials that are the finest available and work carried out by skilled workmen under careful supervision.
■sm.
:
r: ' th
m
r: j n
rj:rrz±zrziz
c
- —,
ZZ”
r
r ~
r*
''"■»«*»*ii»~v.iii.~....i»>'-.iWt.
p*' , - ' 11 ■•■■■'■ ii r*
~+, »k™+., !•—.>-.
i .. im.ii
-»r'—
i
WSWoW
pVW.'.V.;.?
te'Mx'Mk&jwyr.
>w-,
ii
s
Hor dura Wood Venetians
Our wood Venetian blinds are made from fine
selected timbers. The laths are made from
selected Canadian cedar, and we will gladly
match any colour to suit an individual furnish-
ing scheme in your home, modern or traditional.
ILLUSTRATED.
Hordura Metal Venetians
Our Hordura metal lath blinds are made from a
specially processed lightweight aluminium lath
which has a baked enamel finish that will not
break or chip ehid is easily cleaned. These
blinds have a wood head rail and neatly
moulded fascia which covers all working parts.
Ten lovely pastel shades available. Include
Cream, Pink, Blue, Green, Primrose and Ivpry.
Have your Canvas and Holland made to
ORDER
•• • 1
We will make up canvas and holland to order for you m any size you wish,
and in any style you may require to blend with your home and furnishings.
l ’
|it§gfg§l!!
Holland Blinds
Genuine best quality Scotch Holland
Blinds are made to any size and
various styles such as Plain, Kilted
or Fringed. Colours availible are
Beige, Brown, Reseda, Buff, Jade
Green, Cream, Red and White.
Canvas Blinds
We make up all types of canvas
blinds in Plain, Drop or Florentine
Style. There is a large range of
designs from which to choose. We
can do plain stripes or gay multi
stripes in either woven canvas or
the famous “Brella” proofed canvas.
Send for our free booklet
Send for our helpful pamphlet showing you
how to measure for blinds and illustrating
various styles in all types of blinds, Vene-
tians, Holland and Canvas. Quotations free.
"—m
*
iwii"'<«iiHliW^. ll )llt)JlWA^WWAV^WWy>WW l l!WwW‘'' J^:v>l, !- > '' : '^^‘^‘
wv&z&.w
f . .'im
WwWWw
mmm,
s%#&&&s&
wMt m
M
'• *%'/■'& ; ■ v
VENETIANS, CANVAS AND HOLLAND BUNDS, THIRD FLOOR. ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2712 G.P.O. SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 16, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3918
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
OPERATION CATASTROPHE
THE lesson of the floods in t the most settled parts
of rural N. S. Wales, oldest of Australian States,
is that Australia is still an unorganised country
which lacks the precautions which most other
civilised peoples in the world possess.
This is the more remarkable and blameworthy
because it is also one of the richest countries, per
capita, in the world, and one of the least hard-
worked.
But Australians and those who rule them
appear to have a pathetic confidence in the kindness
of fate, and seem to look on preparations for self-
help as something of an affront to Providence.
Time after time the Hunter River area, not
to mention the regularly floodable parts of the west
of N. S. Wales and North Queensland, has been
inundated, houses washed away, stock drowned in
tens of thousands, property ruined, lives lost. The
hardy denizens of the flooded region always come
back for more. They plough through the mud,
collect their quota of the relief-funds, press the
Governments concerned and the local authorities
to restore public utilities and start off again—until
the next disaster.
It would be an interesting calculation which
could determine how much this casual, fatalistic
attitude 'has cost the country in waste of
resources, in disturbance of industry and in direct
money investment. The amount is large enough
to be startling, and it only needs a few more
experiences like those of the past two or three
years to begin to dry up the wells of sympathy for
those who suffer and for the plight of public
and civic authorities who see towns washed
out time and again and do nothing in the
way of prevention or provision of rescue-
work equipment. It is an almost unbelievable fact
that in Maitland or Singleton, when the waters
struck, there was not a single power-boat capable
of weathering the current of the floods. There
was no flood-plan, no warning-plan, no emergency
food, no organised arrangement whereby, in case
of disaster, the homeless would have somewhere to
sleep and be taken to some prearranged and pre-
equipped area and be sure of food and beds and
medical attention. Yet these are towns where every
wet season has its dangers.
Everything was left to a last-minute decision.
And it can safely be said that if the Army had not
been in a position to act quickly, with its ducks
and other vehicles and its background of order and
decision, the story would be much more tragic even
than now. At the sacrifice of some of their own
lives the members of the defence services have
done —and are still, when this is written, doing—a
tremendous job in the flooded area. And there are
many people who owe their lives to their sacrifice
and resource.
What is true of flood-organisation is obviously
true also of every other type of emergency-planning.
Nowhere in Australia is there a town of any size
which knows what it would do, much less how it
would do it, if there were a swift outbreak of war,
if parachute troops suddenly arrived in the district,
if an atom-bomb were dropped in their own or
adjacent town, and even if there were just a whole-
sale civilian fire- or factory-explosion.
Under present circumstances everything would
have to be improvised at the last moment by any-
body who happened to be on hand and ready to
do the work—the mayor, the town clerk or
anybody, capable or incapable, who was prepared
to do an unorganised best until the inevitable yell
for the Army, Navy and Air Force had been
answered. If circumstances arose in which the call
could not be answered, it would be just too bad.
What applies in the country applies equally,
and with even more force, in the big cities. None
of . them as yet has suffered a major cataclysm of
nature or from the effects of attack. What would
happen to Sydney if it were hit by a hundred-mile-
an-hour cyclone or a nuclear missile is beyond
; imagining. The plans would have to be made after
i or during the event.
It is a matter that the Premiers’ Conference
should early discuss. A “war-book” for times of
catastrophe, local or national, is called for —a
document which sets down the procedure which
is to operate in the case of any major disaster from
flood, fire or war. In each centre this should be
in charge of a responsible warden who would
have power to act and set the machinery moving,
to direct the population, to requisition and to apply
resources, and, generally, to make himself obeyed.
There should be a civil-defence organisation
trained and fitted out not merely for war but
for the catastrophes of peace. Towns which are
likely to be flooded should be properly equipped
with boats with the means of quickly assembling
food- and medical-supplies. Those which are
certain to be flooded by sudden severe rises of
adjacent rivers should be removed to higher ground
whether the inhabitants like it or not. It is a
matter in which the local authorities and the State
Governments can use considerable pressure.
Other countries have such organisations in
some degree, though many have not. Few can
be less prepared than Australia. If war should
come tomorrow, the country would be in confusion,
without trained civilian personnel or leadership.
It is not a pleasant picture, and one day we
may pay dearly for our neglect of the essentials of
ordinary precaution.
A Judge on Obscenity
IT is a curious coincidence that just at the time
when one enlightened judge in Great Britain has
given new hope for a saner outlook on censorship
throughout the British Commonwealth the N. S.
Wales Government, marching steadfastly back-
wards after Queensland and Victoria, has introduced
its Obscene and Indecent Publications (Amend-
ment) Bill to bring in, by the power to register
and deregister printers and publishers, a form of
censorship which England abolished 300 years ago.
The judge is Mr. Justice Stable; the case
“Regina v. Seeker and Warburg and Others,” in
which the Crown alleged that Stanley Kauffman’s
novel about a modern Don Juan in New York, “The
Philanderer,” was “an obscene libel.” In his
summing-up to the jury (which found the publishers
not guilty) Mr. Justice Stable said:—
Remember the charge is.. . .that the
tendency of the book is to corrupt and deprave.
The charge is not that the tendency of the
book is to shock and disgust. That is not a
criminal offence. The charge i 5.... to corrupt
and deprave.
Then you say: “Well, corrupt or deprave
Whom?” and again the test: those whose minds
are open to such immoral influences and into
whose hands a publication of this sort may fall.
Members of the jury, what exactly does that
mean? Are we to take our literary standards
as being the level of something that is suitable
for the decently brought-up young female
aged 14? Or do we even go further back
than that and are we to be reduced to the sort
of books that one reads as a child in the
nursery?
The answer to that is, Of course not. A
mass of literature, great literature, from many
angles is wholly unsuitable for reading by the
adolescent, but that does not mean that the
publisher is guilty of a criminal offence for
making those works available to the general
public.
The N. S. Wales bill purports to exempt works
of literature from its penal clauses. But that is
hypocrisy. It exempts works of literature in one
clause, then instantly brings them into the net again
in a sub-clause. They are exempt
... . unless the court is satisfied that notwith-
standing its literary or artistic merit the
printing, publishing, making, possessing.. . .or
causing to be posted was not justified in
the circumstances of the particular case having
regard, in particular, ( to the persons, class of
persons or age-groups into whose hands it was
intended or likely to come.
In short, they are not exempt.
If the clause means what it appears to mean,
in fact, works of literature are so far from exempt
that it is an offence not merely to write, publish,
sell or post a work which the court may decide is
obscene but even to possess it: every citizen in the
State who happens to own a copy of “Ulysses” or
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover” or “Droll Stories” or
the “Lysistrata” of Aristophanes illustrated by
Norman-Lindsay (the subject of a current outburst
of lunacy in the U.S.), or any other work which
happens to be in the gun at the time, and which
is “likely” to fall into the hands of a child, is
apparently liable to three months’ jail.
Penalties under the legislation are, for
companies, up to £lOO fine for a first offence,
up to £2OO fine for a second. For indivi-
duals, up to £5O fine or up to three months’ jail
for a first offence ; up to £lOO or six months’
for a second. Where any distributor of printed-
matter is convicted — on summary conviction before
a court of petty sessions, of an offence against any
provision of the court may in its dis-
cretion, by order, direct that his registration as a
distributor of printed matter be cancelled, or that
registration be suspended for such period as the
court directs.
In other words, a magistrate (possibly a police-
magistrate) decides—not a Supreme Court judge
or jury. Appeal is permitted— to a court of quarter
sessions.
Australia has always needed one enlightened
judge, like Mr. Justice Stable or like the Hon.
John Woolley, who decided that “Ulysses” could
safely enter America as “emetic rather than
aphrodisiac,” to interpret its censorship laws with
a reasonable liberality. Possibly under the old
N. S. Wales Act it was open to the late Judge
Studdert, when he upheld the ban on “We Were
the Rats” and admitted that he might also have to
ban Shakspeare or other classics if the works were
brought before the court, to have decided that
civilised adults of the 20th century need not be
governed by the standards of the 14-year-old
schoolgirl.
If this last-ditch defence of literature was
possible then, as it is still possible in England, it
does not seem that magistrates or judges of the
N. S. Wales court will ever, under the new Act,
be able to adopt so sensible and liberal a view-
point. For
a publication or advertisement shall be held
to be obscene when it tends or is likely in any
manner to deprave, corrupt or injure the morals
of any such persons or the persons in any such
class or age-group, notwithstanding that persons
in other classes or age-groups may not be
similarly affected.
It is enough for the court to be shown that the
book could conceivably injure the morals of the
schoolgirl and out it must go.
As to whether schoolgirls, and the young in
general, are really so very much depraved and
corrupted by what they chance to read, Mr. Justice
Stable has again some words of wisdom:—
You have heard a good deal about the
putting of ideas into young heads. Really,
members of the jury, is it books that put ideas
into young heads or is it Nature? When a
boy or girl reaches that stage in life’s journey
when he or she is passing from that state of
blissful ignorance through that most perilous
part of the journey that we call “adolescence”
.... sometimes, I am afraid, from a bad home,
without a guide, it is the natural change from
childhood to maturity that puts ideas into young
heads. It is the business of parents and teachers
and the environment of society, so far as is
possible, to see that those ideas are wisely and
naturally directed to the ultimate fulfilment
of a balanced individual life.
However that may be, nobody is going to
object very much if the Government, entering the
business of parents and teachers, decides to stamp-
out the so-called “horror-comics” which are said
to be depraving our young on all sides and which
are the ostensible reason for the bill. But the
measure is very far from being restricted to comics
and juvenile literature ; on the contrary, it submits
all literature to the standard of what is suitable
for juveniles and obliges policemen and magistrates
to judge it on that absurd level.
And nobody with his wits about him can
believe that the Government intends to stop at
squashing a few comics. Leslie Haylen, “Labor”
M.P., has already exhibited the irresponsible A.L.P.
fist behind the move ; and there are other fanatics
interested. The bill, with its formidable power of
deregistration which could completely deprive a
publisher of his livelihood, is aimed at the one
thing which is the target of all censorship: sex in
literature. Mr. Justice Stable thinks that civilised
adults should be able to face the commonest facts
of life:—
I, at all events, approach that great
mystery with profound interest and at the same
time a very deep sense of reverence. We cannot
get away from it. It is not our fault that but
for the love of men and women and the act of
sex the human race would have ceased to exist
thousands of years ag0.... ..This is a very crude
work, as you may think. It may be that
you think that it is not altogether
an exaggerated picture of the approach that
this society is seeking to reproduce towards
this great problem of sex, and you may think
that if this does reflect the approach on that
side of the Atlantic towards this great question,
it is just as well that we should know it and that
we must not close our eyes or our minds to
the truth because it might—not shock or
disgust—conceivably corrupt or deprave any
somewhat puerile young mind.
That is the enlightened English outlook ; and
the jury agreed with it. But what we are obviously
getting in Australia, as, wherever “Labor” is in
power, State after State tightens-up its censorship, is
a movement —with little hope of redress from the
courts —towards the lamentable condition of
Ireland, where not only many of the country’s own
greatest authors and the classics of the world are
banned but even such remarkable purveyors of
alleged “indecency” as “Time,” “Life,” “Picture
Post,” “Argosy” and “Ladies’ Home Journal.” It
can happen. It has. -


“SINK PINK S-U-N...."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Common Cause and Defence
The Seato Conference, the Prime
Ministers’ Conference in London, the
advocacy of regular joint U.S.-British
Empire talks by Mr. Menzies all are
coeval with an obvious increase of
interest abroad in the future of Australia
as an industrial nation and the growing
certainty that its very remoteness and
position of isolation paradoxically are
likely to make it a bulwark in modern
war.
Though the danger of inflation looms
with the rise in wages and other costs —
at bottom the trouble is insufficient
production per man-hour —this does not
deter the overseas investor. As Viscount
Chandos last week pointed out, the work-
force in industry in Australia has in-
creased by 1,100,000 since the end of the
war.
Viscount Chandos and his electrical
and chemical industries are, despite the
40-hour week and other disabilities,
pressing on with plans to expand
their activities here. It was announced
last week by the U.S. Secretary for
Commerce that 475 U.S. firms had
acquired or established interests in the
development of manufacturing indus-
tries in Australia, and that U.S. invest-
ment in Australia now totalled
$328,000,000.
Investment does not necessarily mean
progress. It may, indeed, in its early
stages, when it goes a little wild, mean
inflation ; but provided it forms the basis
for later profitable production it cures
its own initial side-effects.
The ultimate success of the new over-
seas tendency to put capital into Aus-
tralia does not depend on the investors.
Their fate, as well as that of the Common-
wealth, is in the hands of the Australian
Governments and Australian workers.
It is up to Australian State Governments
in these times of labor shortages to
encourage the greatest possible produc-
tion per man-hour and the will to work
a day and a week of economical length.
Production is the sovereign antidote for
inflation. It is also up to them to con-
dition the extent of their enthusiasm for
public works to the needs of the labor
market created by the investment of new
capital.
The position can easily arise in which
new capital might be a burden rather
than an advantage if it is not properly
and economically served with skill and
sufficient labor. There is little question,
on the basis of U.S. and Canadian ex-
perience, that population-growth, plus
production-growth, are the secrets of
development, prosperity and security.
In respect of the last element a
doubling of the present population is
not merely desirable but imperative. If
the whole nation were harnessed to the
task, if every consideration were sub-
ordinated to defence, if every service
save the defence services were pinched,
Australia still, with its present population
—or twice its population—could not stand
on its own feet if attacked suddenly.
The coming of overseas capital is
therefore the more welcome, and so is
the arrival of those facilities for defence
experiment which long-hairs and Reds
so bitterly decry.
Every foreign pound invested in Aus-
tralia for development or defence is more
than merely a help to the increase of
population and the expansion of the
Commonwealth’s means of livelihood.
It provides one more reason why the
major Powers whose financiers invest
here must help to provide for our pro-
tection in case of world war. It also
establishes one more reason why we
should expand local facilities such as aero-
dromes, oil-bases, efficient land- and sea-
transport, food-supply, roads and water-
supply that go with major defence-
measures.
Co-ordination of defence facilities, of
industrial policies and of industrial
method should go with interchange of
capital and goods between the great
English-speaking countries.
Menzies as Mediator
“In the ACT”: Suggestions that Men-
zies’s mission to Washington was primarily
to act as mediator in the differences of
view between Britain and U.S.A. on
the Far East were reinforced by his
first utterance on reaching New York.
His proposal of periodic British Com-
monwealth-U.S. talks, with, presumably,
the U.S. President and his advisers sitting
in with the Commonwealth Prime Minis-
ters and their advisers, is the sort of thing
that seizes the imagination, although the
mechanics would need a lot of care.
One of the apparent obstacles would be
the political reactions of the U.S. Middle
West, even if, as at the confabs of Prime
Ministers, no decisions or votes were
taken. In the meantime, the Menzies role
in Washington obviously includes a dis-
cussion with Eisenhower of the attitude
of the U.K. and Australian Governments
on the Formosa Strait issue, and on the
general Far East problem of checking
Communist subversion now and of pre-
venting military aggression later. Casey
doesn’t seem to have got very far as inter-
mediary between Eden and Dulles at
Bangkok, but he may have paved the way
for closer understanding on both sides of
a problem which concerns not merely the
future of the two Chinas but also the
need for enough powerful discourage-
ments aimed at preventing Peking from
further excursions. The American view
is that an armed and potentially-aggres-
sive Formosa will deter Communist
China from moving against Thailand,
Malaya and parts south, and we must
surely agree with this in broad outline,
despite some difference, perhaps, on
detail.
Preliminary talks in Ottawa have pro-
voked speculation that Canada is closer
than formerly to the Australian attitude
on Pacific problems, and that as a result
Menzies may have the reinforcement in
Washington of Canadian support. For
various reasons the United States is in-
creasingly conscious of Canada’s import-
ance, and such help would be wel-
come and useful. However, Menzies
will be making no commitments, and
will probably receive none in Washing-
ton, although he will have a clearer pic-
ture of what the U.S. will be able and
willing to do if certain things happen,
and may be told what the military plan-
ners at Manila next month will expect to
find offered by Australia under the Seato
pact. At the same time Air Minister
Athol Townley may have ascertained
the numbers and costs of modem planes
which may be available and needed to
modernise the R.A.A.F., and his report
thereon is likely to give the Treasurer a
major Budget headache.
Menzies made it clear in London that
there would be no commitments at this
stage, and that policy and obligations
would be determined by the Government
after his return and later submitted for
Parliamentary approval. He said, inci-
dentally, that he had cut away the “woolli-
ness” surrounding the present defence
problem, and could thus see its nature
with precision, as well as the extent of
forces, and where, when and how they
might be needed. This much at least is
satisfactory, even if whatever may be dis-
closed will show more clearly the near-
ness of the menace we face, and its loom-
ing size.
J. S. Elkington
From “Ek Dum”:
I had known Dr. J. S. Elkington for 46 years
when he died last week—all the J. S. Elking-
tons. I first knew the one who wore a trim
beard, spotless whites and a crimson cummer-
bund, the pre-1914 one who was Queensland
Director of Public Health in 1909, the first
man who introduced me to wine for
the stomach’s sake and to the works of
Suetonius and Vegetius. I knew the ver-
satile Elkington of middle years, the con-
troversialist whom I once heard, in a train,
devastate that formidable adversary, Randolph
Bedford. All that could be said of the result
of the argument was that Bedford did not get
under the seat. He was, in fact, too big to
get under a railway-carriage seat, which was
the only reason he didn’t. I knew the Old
Master, the philosopher of Mooloolaba, of
World War II and after.
Elkington was about the nearest to all things
to all men I ever knew. He was equally at
home with savants, scientists, strategists,
artists, artisans, Communists, Conservatives,
Prime Ministers, journalists and Billy Hughes.
His paragraphs carded the trademark of a
citizen of all the world who was stored with
facts, and could serve them up well larded
with love of his fellow-man. There was no
unkindness or malice in him, no partisanship.
Many a man owed his start to him. The
Lindsays owed a good deal to his comrade-
ship, and so did the Dysons. He was an early
encourager and backer of Raphael Cilento
in the field of medicine.
His picturesqueness in his early days when
he ranked with the great characters of the
North —Archie Meston and company—was as
genuine and unstudied as the solid unobtru-
siveness which marked his garb and manners
in his later days.
His writing had a polish which professional
journalists envied, and his company was a
balm to the wounded soul. In time of trouble
he was a tower of strength, always the
optimist about the Commonwealth, which he
knew like a book.
Something has gone out of the country with
the disappearance of his special type, which is
nearly extinct. It is not easy to describe their
quality. There was nothing meretricious about
their learning or their views, their sturdy
independence or their pride. Their zest for life
was as real and solid as their own large,
square-shouldered, well-muscled figures.
Twenty-four carat perhaps describes them.
The real thing. Men who were a little bigger
than the rest of their race both mentally and
physically and in breadth of outlook;
pleasant companions, looking at life leisurely
and with half-amused detachment but serious
in their beliefs and convictions. They were
a breed that, in the last two generations, had
a great, if little-observed, influence on the
development of the national outlook and of
Australia’s confidence in itself and its future.
Time to Be Young
There never was a better time to be
young than in Australia right now. It
hardly needed Jim to prove it, but his
brief story Is worth the telling; as an
example of what is happening ail over
this continent.
Jim lives near Gosford (N.S.W.) He’s
20, and has just been fined £3 for failing
to obey a National Service notice. It
wasn’t that Jim had any objections
to National Service. It was simply
that he runs a carpentering busi-
ness with a capital of £3OOO, made
a net profit of £lBOO last year,
happened to be in New Zealand
when the call-up notice came and forgot
it, or something, when he came back.
He was told -by the magistrate to obey
call-ups in future and presumably he will,
having been reminded that a country
which could give him such a start is worth
defending—even if only for himself.
All over Australia young chaps and their
sisters have the ball at their feet. A great
many of them are earning much more
money than their fathers earned at the
same age (or even earn now in many
instances) and, while the fathers find the
cost-of-living doesn’t leave so much out
of heavier pay-envelopes, the youngsters
have a great deal left over. Savings-banks
deposits show that much of it is being
saved, frequent sight of youths running
their own little businesses shows that
much of it is being invested, tourist ships
packed with young Australians going
abroad show another good form of invest-
ment.
The other important thing is that
youth is wanted. The land, industry and
commerce, the professions —all are
hungry for young men. Young women
can choose the work they want to do —
and keep their jobs while they marry
and rear a young family.
The young family no sooner reaches the
age of four than a widespread system of
kindergartens hungers to take daily care
of it while the mother goes to work ; at
primary- school age it is catered for —
despite all the criticism about public
schools—by schools and teachers among
the best in the world, with cheap and
often free, transport, and access to high-
and technical-high-schools; with a wide-
open field waiting the child the moment
it finishes its secondary schooling.
And before anyone rushes in to say
these conditions apply only in the big
cities, let’s hear from outback Queens-
land :
“Quo Vadis”: Central Queensland
schools have come a long way since
“Spinifex’s” day (B. 23/2/’55). Most of
them now have grassed playgrounds, with
swings, seesaws, slippery-slides and other
playing facilities. Inter-town school tennis,
football and basketball fixtures take place
annually between Blackall, Longreach,
Winton, B'arcaldine. The modern,
spacious school-buildings are equipped with
fans, radiograms, libraries, and some even
have refrigerated drinking-water. The kids
have their regular dance-nights, run tuck-
shops, organise concerts and debating-
societies. The girls are taught homecrafts
and the boys manual-training (trades).
Taken all round, these country schools are
pretty good places for our future citizens
to grow up in.
Which just about sums up the position
in all Australia. And if any oldster,
perhaps a bit narked because his youth
was spent in a harder environment,
wonders what sort of a future H-bombs
offer the young, the reply is that the
young couldn’t care less. Being young,
to them things are as they should be.
Hands Off Pinky Fiat
The name-changers are at it again, this
time in Adelaide, which of all Australian
capitals can probably point to the fewest
picturesque and aboriginal touches in its
nomenclature. This is no fault of its
present citizens—every street and square
was drawn and named on paper before
the building of the city began, and the
names given were those of English
worthies connected with the foundation
of the colony or of its well-known
officials and residents. In the naming
of the suburbs little imagination was
shown. There are no Woolloomooloos,
Kirribillis, Yerongpillys; no Breakfast
Creeks, Kissing Points or Brickfield Hills.
Just an interminable repetition of “tons”
and “villes” and other place-names torn
from the English landscape and thrust
into Australian soil.
The current argument concerns the
proper designation for a portion of park-
land along the north bank of the Torrens,
just below Morphett-street bridge, where
the City Council is converting what was
formerly waste land into a public-garden
area. In depression times this was a
place of humpies and shacks, similar to
Sydney’s Happy Valley and Melbourne’s
Dudley Flats. Later it was frequented
by metho-drinkers and “plonk”-addicts,
a fact which earned it the name Pinky
Flat.
What has upset some of the City
Councillors is a recommendation from the
Parks and Gardens Committee that this
name, long in popular use, should now
be officially applied to the garden-area.
Apparently those objecting feel that some-
thing more dignified is called for. More
power to the elbow of the P. and G.
Committee. Names that grow on a place
are almost always more picturesque and
imaginative than those given merely to
ensure that the name of some alderman
may be remembered after his works have
been forgotten. What would the pro-
testing councillors do with Sydney s Sow
and Pigs, Hen and Chicken Bay, Goat
Island, Tom Ugly’s Point, Bottle and
Glass Head and Soily Bottom Point?
"Labor's" Black Week
As this is written the postponed confer-
ence of the Australian Labor Party is
about to meet in Hobart, and no doubt
it will be opened with a silent prayer of
thanksgiving to the Federal Government,
which has decided not to open Parliament
until April 26 or May 3. - Nuclear fission
would lead to a loud explosion if the con-
flicting elements of “Labor’s” front-
bench were brought together and asked
to function as a Parliamentary party now.
The w£ek preceding the conference has
been an unnerving one for leaders. It
began with the issue of a report that Mr.
Shortell, president of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P., had said at Goulburn that if
there was outside interference by any-
body in the affairs of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. Executive he would have some-
thing to say; that he had accused Mr.
Stout, the president of the “new” A.L.P-
in Victoria, of having said that his union
backers were not supporting Dr. Evatt
but “hiding under the name of Dr. Evatt,
though not pro-Evatt.” He was said to
have declared that “Dr. Evatt must go.
A denial by Mr. Shortell merely brought
an affirmation of its previous report from
Sydney “Daily Mirror,” which added that
he had gone further. Mr. Leslie Haylen,
M.P., lent color to the charge by allegedly
stating that “a number of false prophets
were peddling the slogan ‘Evatt must
go,’ ” and that “Mr. Shortell was one of
the false prophets.”
Next among “Labor’s” troubles came
the Donnybrook over the Obscene Pub-
lications Bill in N. S. Wales ; and it is
certainly a measure which the A.L.P. and
the Cahill Government wish they had
never seen, if only for the reason that it
brought Mr. Clive Evatt into rebellion
and perilously near to so flagrant a breach
of the party rules as to render him open to
expulsion. Any move against him would
certainly affect his brother’s position.
On top of this came the issue of the
new Federal electoral maps for N. S.
Wales. The general effect in N. S. Wales
has been to reduce the number of seats
by one, but to create a new seat—a safe
“Labor” one, embracing the Liverpool-
Blacktown areas; “Labor’s” majority
there should be 6000-7000 on present
figures. Outside this sop, the changes
worked devastation. Except for Lawson,
the seat held none too securely even now
by Mr. Failes (Country party), which
(Continued on next page j
TRIBUTE
From George Ferguson, president,
Australian Book Publishers’
Association: —
I have been requested by the members
of this association to write on their
behalf and congratulate The Bulletin
oh attaining its seventy-fifth anniver-
sary and on the fine Anniversary
Number issued to mark the occasion.
We are glad to have this opportunity
of acknowledging the great debt that
we and all others who are interested
in Australian writing owe to The
Bulletin for what it has done and
is doing.
Please accept our very best wishes for
your next 75 years.
[The Bulletin wishes to thank its
many other readers who sent con-
gratulations and good wishes on the
occasion of its seventy-fifth birthday.]


acquires an unwelcome gift in the
“Labor” strongholds of Kandos and Glen
Davis enclaves, no Liberal or C.P. mem-
ber has suffered much materially by the
changes, save that in some cases addi-
tions of titbits have increased the task
of hard-worked members in getting round
their constituencies. Riverina, for
instance, which was about 350 miles
wide, is now nearer 400 miles wide.
Among the “Labor” seats in the swiftly
changing Sydney environs, where whole
new suburbs go up between elections,
there are greater damage and consterna-
tion in the “Labor” constituencies. Two
seats —Grayndler, held by F. M. Daly,
the Opposition Whip, and Martin, held
by the well-liked W. O’Connor —disap-
pear altogether, and it would be easy to
deduce that their two incumbents had
been struck down by a Red Providence,
and Mr. Gordon Anderson, of Kingsford
Smith, incommoded with them because
they do not like Dr. Evatt and his ally
E. J. Ward. It might be possible to attri-
bute to the same sort of providential
intervention the improved position of
Mr. Dan Curtin, the prawn-red “Left-
wing Ward supporter,” as “S. M. Herald”
palls him.
But the theory falls down somewhat
when applied to Leslie Haylen, whose
electoral A.L.P. branches have been
scattered over the countryside—other
members’ countryside. Some members,
notably those for Kingsford Smith and
Watson, are not quite sure what seats
they represent. And Mr. Haylen seems
faced with the prospect of having to
contest the nomination with Mr. Daly.
Mr. O’Connor’s seat has been divided
between Liberal Evans and “Labor”
Dailey.
In St. George Mr. Lemmon will find
his fight harder —he loses perhaps 1000
of his majority ; but there is little change
in Barton. That, perhaps, may not matter
much to Dr. Evatt. On top of all this
the Liberal seats of Mitchell and Robert-
son, for which “Labor” was making
special plans for next election, seem to
have slipped out of their reach. And
Hume is a precarious perch for “Labor’s”
Mr. Fuller.
No details of the changes in Victoria
have yet been made public by the com-
missioners, but if report speaks truly
“Labor” will find no consolation there.
Seats like Fawkner are in for a big dust-
ing from the winds of change. South
Australia and Western Australia will each
gain a seat without annoying or
endangering anybody, and other States
will remain on their present strength. The
total number of seats (excluding the NT.
and Canberra) will be increased by one
to 122.
“Labor” has taken the changes ill, and
there has over the week been talk of
legal action. But at present “Labor’s”
talk is wild and incoherent like that of
most cyclone victims just after the big
blow.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Ides of March have come, affording
an outlet for some more “Labor” stabbing.
Perhaps a few who have been suffering
from the “grievous fault” of ambition
may fall, as Caesar fell. But there’s no
sign in the ranks of any Mark Antony.
• •
On two sides of the world this is a
week of trial for Labor. In Hobart the
A.L.P. conference is writhing its way
through unpleasant agenda, and in
London the British Labor party is
debating whether or not to expel Nye
Bevan.
o •
When Cahill and Co. go electioneering
around the country later in the year they’ll
have some good news for the farmers ;
they’ll be able to point out that the com-
pletion of the Circular Quay loop and the
Eastern Suburbs railway will be of great
benefit to primary producers. If anyone
doubts, they can quote Queensland
“Labor” member Les Woods, who told
the people of Hughenden how they and
all other primary producers would bene-
fit from the electrification of the Brisbane
railways. Even if it doesn’t impress the
folk outback, it should amuse them.
Hughenden sot quite a laugh.
• •
On Monday it looked as though
Frankie Forde would be able to write
M.L.A. after his name after a lapse of
more than 30 years. Counting in the
Flinders (Q.) by-election was only half
complete. Figures: Forde (Labor),
1042; Lonergan (C.P.), 622; Corney
(Ind. Lab.), 476. Later returns were
expected to reduce Forde’s lead, with the
probability of a very close finish.
• •
Full employment was one of today’s
social revolutions, the head of the Com-
monwealth Employment Service told
Adelaide Junior Chamber of Commerce.
He didn’t tell the chamber how he keeps
his own staff employed when nobody is
out of work.
• •
Adelaide’s Metropolitan Milk Board
has raised the price of bottled milk to 9d.
a pint, thereby incurring the wrath of the
State A.L.P. Sydney’s Milk Board
charges lid. a pint, apparently with the
complete approval of the Cahill A.L.P.
Jacky Ferguson, who runs it and was
put there by the Cahills, used to be presi-
dent of the Federal A.L.P.
At the same time a 20 per cent,
difference in price is rather difficult to
explain. Is it that the N. S. Wales cows
are harder to milk? Or the N. S. Wales
consumers easier?
• •
We may think it bad enough in Aus-
tralia, with six State Governments en-
titled to ban books, but in the U.S. not
only each State (48) but also the county-
and city-police have the power. In
Detroit alone the city-police have banned
250 books since 1951, one being Heming-
way’s Across the River and Into the Trees
in the cheap edition, though the book
may be freely sold in the full-size edition.
One New York publisher now sends the
Detroit police advance proofs of his books
before allocating any to booksellers in
that city.
• •
“R.A.”: “Champion of small nations”
the Doc. may be. But more pronounced
now is his role as “champion of small
notions”— and his singular ability to turn
them into major conflicts!
• •
Somebody broke into Castlemaine
(Vic.) jail, where 22 short-term prisoners
are held. He broke the padlock off the
door of the governor’s office, took the
key of the main gate, opened the gate
and parked a car there. He then stole a
safe from the office, a .45 pistol and an
axe, drove off in the car (believed to
have been stolen). No one heard any-
safe and contents was
, the cash amounted to
* . s - 9d. The news from Victoria’s
prisons certainly becomes more interest-
ing. Any time now we. may hear that
someone has broken into Pentridge,
erected a scaffold, and hanged himself.
0 0
Flood victims have been granted an
extension of time for payment of income
tax, but the Taxpayers’ Association of
N.S.W. points out that this may not be
sufficient to meet actual cases of dire
distress. It draws attention to Section 265
of the Income Tax Assessment Act,
which provides that
in any case where it is shown to the
satisfaction of a Relief Board that a tax-
payer has suffered such a loss or is in such
circumstances that the exaction of the full
amount of tax will entail serious hard-
ship, the board may release the taxpayer
wholly or in part from his liability.
The Taxpayers’ Association will assist,
without obligation, any taxpayer in
the flooded areas to submit a relief
application. Correspondence should be
addressed to: The Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion of N.S.W., 11c Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
0 0
Ah, would that the advice given by
Disraeli to a new nlember of the House
of Commons be accepted by some
of our own politicians. The member
asked Dizzy if he should participate in
the debates. “I think it would be better
if the House were to wonder why you
didn’t talk rather than why you did,”
Dizzy replied.
0 0
Opposition parties in the Queensland
Parliament will fight next year’s election
CANUTE CAHILL AND THE OBSCENE SEA
as a joint team with a joint policy. This
was the plan Robson and Bruxner tried
to get accepted in N. S. Wales, but which
was turned down by the Liberal party.
Nicklin (C.P.) and Morris (Lib.) have
had better fortune ; their parties will not
oppose each other in any electorate, so
that, apart from Independent nomina-
tions, there will be no three-cornered
contests.
There is one big difference between
the electoral set-up in the two States. In 1
N. S. Wales, with preferential voting,
there are two schools of thought on the
subject of three-cornered contests, but
in Queensland, where first-past-the-post
is the rule, the nomination of rival anti-
“ Labor” candidates merely makes
“Labor” a present of the seat.
• •
Ansett, boss of the airline company,
says that the Civil Aviation Department,
which has banned Ansett airliners from
Canberra, claims “that the Capital Terri-
tory is outside section 92 of the Consti-
tution.” He proposes to challenge the
claim in the courts.
• •
“Fuzzy-Wuzzy”: Commissioner of
Tides at Moresby has rejected the claim
by H. R. Wahlen, of Hamburg, Germany,
for certain goldmining rights in the
Morobe district. Wahlen claimed, under
an ordinance set up to re-establish title-
records destroyed in the Jap occupation
of New Guinea that he had rights
acquired from the German Government
before August, 1914 —including exclusive
prospecting rights over 5000 square
miles. He lost, it being ruled, as in
previous cases involving Americans and
a Swede, that any such German conces-
sions ceased to exist in 1923, when all
gold and other metals became Australian
Government property.
• •
During the exchange of civilities in
Athens Menzies said that in visiting
Greece he had fulfilled the ambition of a
lifetime, and that the ancient spirit of
Greece influenced the new culture in Aus-
tralia. He said we had inherited from
ancient Greece a mass of great ideas.
The “golden generation” of the Parthe-
non’s time had given the world the
the most superb ideals, and the practice of
clear thought, integrity of mind, and con-
centration upon discovering the good lire.
Perhaps we’d better ship a few “Labor”
politicians there when the smoke clears
over Hobart.
• •
N.S.W. Minister for Social Welfare
Landa, in the debate on the Cahill’s
“obscene literature” bill: “The primary
object of the bill is to protect the youth
of the community from obscene publica-
tions. Persons over eighteen have no need
to be protected from this literature.”
Then surely the simplest solution would
be to extend to the book-buying of the
under-eighteens the prohibitions now
existing on firearms, drink, and motor-
licences.
• 0
A report that over 100 camels had
already been exported to Hollywood
from Adelaide this year and that another
50 would follow caused some surprise
until it was pointed out that Australia
was the only camel-country free of foot-
and-mouth disease. Most of the camels
are descended from those imported to
South Australia by Sir Thomas Elder
nearly a century ago. For a long time
they and their Afghan drivers provided
the chief form of transport in S.A.’s Far
North. Rail- and motor-transport put
them out of a job ; hence the bid for
fame in Hollywood.
• •
Maisey, a Farmers’ Union head in
Westralia, says the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment “pulled one of the greatest con-
fidence-tricks of all time” with the wheat-
stabilisation plan. He claims that the
farmers weren’t told the plan would bring
wheat under Ministerial control. They
were —by this paper among others—but
they were too dazzled by their own
spokesmen to realise the danger.
• •
Question asked at a meeting of the Vic-
torian L.C.P., where Melbourne’s
Sunday-paper ban was discussed:
Are we to be parochial enough to say
that we are right and every other country
is wrong in publishing on a Sunday?
Apparently, yes.
• •
“In the ACT”: When a firm of con-
tractors ceased work on the dome of Mt.
Stromlo’s new 74-inch telescope, the
new swimming-pool and other projects
in the national capital, there was little
indication of what, if anything, would be
done by the authorities. There was a
suggestion that the Works Department
might take over the Stromlo job, but
but even this was uncertain. Canberra,
promised the swimming-pool for
years of dither and delay by the
Department of the Interior, thought
resignedly of the promises of completion
by next September, and wondered if the
job would be finished by 1960. One bus-
traveller, passing the jumble of half-
finished buildings, suggested that at
least the pool should be filled in mid-July
next, and the Minister and the secretary
of the department thrown in at a sort of
unofficial opening ceremony. The pro-
posal was carried by acclamation.
• •
Banking is at last receiving attention
from Cabinet. A sub-committee stated
to consist of Sir Arthur Fadden, Sir
Philip Mcßride and Mr. Holt is reported
to be considering the need for further
banking reforms and possible amend-
ments to the Banking Act of 1953. The
private banks have been pressing for
separation of the Central Bank from the
Commonwealth Trading Bank and for
modification of the special-accounts
requirements. The fear is that these
could be used to effect nationalisation by
“the back-door” without appeal or
compensation.
• •
The Caterpillar Tractor people (U.S.A.)
have bought a site at Essendon (Vic.) and
mean to form an Australian subsidiary
with a capital of £3 million. Another
piece of proof that Australian industrial
expansion and American interest in Aus-
tralia are by no means running down.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
A/fELBOURNE police-sleuths went on
safari when a crocodile was reported
in Flinders-lane. It was a 6ft. goanna, and
very dead. Small boys found it at the
markets and put it on the seat of a utility.
After the ute-owner recovered he put it
on the seat of a friend’s ute, and he
chucked it into the glitter, whence some-
body reported it as a croc. The police
heaved it into the Yarra, that once-beau-
tiful river being now the main drain of
the city. Dead dogs, cats, sheep and
fowls are thrown into it, the refuse from"
a thousand factories pours into it, and
any citizen who is tired of life throws
himself into it, first clearing a spot so
he won t break his neck on the surface.
—“X.S.” (Vic.).
♦♦♦ *x* ♦♦♦
D.J.G.”: With all the talk about im-
ported comic-strips being a danger to our
youth, I gave some serious study to the
subject. I’m convinced that, whatever
other effect they may have, the comic-
strips in our dailies will certainly not
sully our language. Mild expletives char-
acterise all the comic-strip heroes. As
for youngsters picking up their style of
talk, I ve yet to hear one of my lads say,
'Good-night!”, “Great Scott!” or “Sizz-
ling sausages” when an expression he
has picked up from his old man would
fill the bill.
5* +}+
“Viper”: A fashion-note that really
the rather blase sub-editor of our
women s pages : “Women are now wear-
ing their breasts higher than for the last
125 years.”
"Now then , Romeo, don't you go putting wrong ideas
in that female's head."
“M.F.D.”: Had to smile at the effort
, of an A.B.C. news-writer to avoid using
the common (and correct) phrase applied
to a leaking-ship, “making water.” In-
stead, he said she was “taking water.” A
ship does that only in port, when she’s
filling her tanks. A.B.C. has to be most
careful about double-meanings—which is
why a reporter was not allowed to
“prophylactics” when telling of anti-
disease measures for N.S.W. flood-areas.
Yet A.B.C. didn’t hesitate to use “evacu-
ate” when talking of removing people
from flood-threatened places. Evacuate
is strictly a medical term.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roirp”: When B. E. Minns sat bliss-
fully transferring some of Pittwater’s
Hawkesbury beauty to canvas, he was
starting something. During the war a
young R.A.F. man saw the picture in
London. The scene was a complete anti-
thesis of the world he then knew—a
world of war. He decided that, if spared,
he would come to Australia, find Pitt-
water, locate the exact spot where Minns
had sat, buy the land, build a home and
settle there. And now he has done just
that!
❖ ❖ *
“Spinster”: One lady has found a solu-
tion to the low marriage-rate in Eng-
land. This is what she told London
“Daily Sketch”:
Have single women ever thought of
praying for a husband? At 36 I. went into
a church and prayed, “Look here, Lord,”
I said, “if You want me to be married it’s
up to You to find me a husband.” Imagine
my surprise three days later when a com-
plete stranger (from that church) asked me
to marry him.
Well, go to it, sisters. There are plenty
of churches in Australia. Best to prav
out loud.
* ❖ *
“Cine Ma”: The new stadium which
is to rise on the ashes of the old within
three months at West Melbourne is to
be named Dudley Gardens. Well, it
ought to grow cauliflowers.
❖ * ♦+♦
“8.M.”: You can now see a fair bit
of Peter Bladen’s “Walkabout” country
by bus. The run is from Adelaide to
Perth, via the Eyre Highway, which runs
731 miles from Port Augusta, across
Eyre s Peninsula, then along the coast to
Eucla, thence across the Nullarbor,
where, south of Kalgoorlie, it links with
the West Australian road-system. The
trip takes six days, costs £32 10s. single,
£63 return, including full accommodation.
On the way are the beautiful grottoes of
the Koonalda Caves. Overnight-stops
are made at Whyalla, Penong, Madura,
Norseman and Southern Cross. The bus
leaves Adelaide every other Saturday
and arrives in Perth on the following
Thursday afternoon. A seven-seater of
a type extensively used in Europe, it is
fitted _ with reclining seats, is equipped
with icebox and wireless, and a portable-
telephone for hooking into the trans-
continental telephone-wires if necessary.
“Spinifex”: An elderly spinster
marched into the office and announced
she’d come for a driver’s-licence. I
sauntered out to the street, but there was
no motor-vehicle in sight. “Where’s the
car?” I asked. “Oh!” she said, blithely.
“It’s in the garage. I thought it would
be a much better test if you watched me
drive it out.” It was only a hundred
yards down the street. The applicant got
the car going and reversed straight back
for about 25ft. until she encountered a
wall. Then she jammed on the brakes
and stalled the engine. Starting afresh,
she drove straight back into the garage
and stalled once more. After the fifth
encore I suggested putting the car on
"Care to stay for lunch ?”
the lock when reversing. Eventually she
reached the street without serious accident
and we started off at a dignified five
m.p.h. There were some youngsters in
the street, so I said, “You’d better give
those Ipds a toot.” “Yes, officer,” she
said, “I will.” Perhaps they hadn’t told
her about the hooter, or maybe both
hands were occupied with steering-wheel
and gear-lever. Anyway, I nearly leapt
from the car when an ear-piercing
soprano close to my ear yelled “Toot!
Toot!”
5 4 ❖
“Kune”: Nyngan (N.S.W.) “Observer,”
on the new issue of the local telephone-
directory :
We don’t like the expression “Nurses’
Quarters”.... butchers refer to quarters as
part of the animals they handle.
%
“Stanford”: Outpourings in Melbourne
papers from visiting Sydney motorists
incensed at the southern city’s alleged
addiction to “cutting-in” make one
tremble for their reactions to Brisbane.
There, even the most sedate driver of an
elderly vehicle pushes it to the limit to
cut in on anything and everything. And
if it entails practically mounting the
opposite kerb, who cares? I asked a
seasoned Brisbane motorist what, if any,
were the road rules. “Oh, there are
rules,” he replied, “but I don’t know what
they are, and neither does anyone else of
my acquaintance.” He did admit to
knowledge of a 30 m.p.h. limit in built-
up areas, but this was regarded merely as
a joke. All the thrills of the speedway
are available free to anyone who cares
to stand in Wickham Terrace and watch
the taxis dive madly down the precipitous
Creek-street, which 1 , with its bridge over
the railway set flush with the slope of the
road, must be unique.
❖ * ♦♦♦
“Sandy”: Should “Viper” decide on
that £7B 10s. cashmere coat he was shown
in a Sydney shop (B. 2/3/’55) he might
top it off with a 36-dollar (£AI6) handker-
chief. But wouldn’t it be better to spend
the £94 10s. on a psychiatrist?
“Bo”: When Haydn went to London
under the aegis of the impresario Salomon
to compose and conduct symphonies i
he complained that the ladies, “fresh from
the dinner-table,” fell asleep during the
slow movements. So in his “Surprise”
Symphony a very loud chord breaks in
upon the gentle, meditative music of the
second movement. “ There ” quoth the
great Austrian, “the ladies will scream.”
The young attractive thing in the next seat
to me at Sydney’s Con. would have
laughed at Haydn’s effort. She got only
as far as the slow movement of a Beet-
hoven Piano Concerto before her chin
hit her chest, and for the rest of the night’s
proceedings, and through some of the
master’s most potent music, she
slumbered, waking uneasily only at
the unaccustomed between-movements
silence, or when her worried swain
nudged her. At the next concert she
didn’t even last out the
Overture before giving an
impressive demonstration
of how to beat insomnia
with over 80 instruments
going flat-out syds. away,
while her anxious partner
desperately tried to prod
her to consciousness. The
third night of the series
she wore dark glasses with
wide opaque side - wings
and snoozed in comfort
through the “Egmont” and
the “Eroica.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“G.W.S.”: It seems that
the realms of art and
literature are frequented
by gangs of deceivers,
frauds and impostors. It
is common knowledge that
Shakspeare was an im-
postor, his plays being
actually written by Bacon
(and/or a dozen others).
I read recently that King
George V, when Prince
of Wales, wrote some of
the best plays with which
George Bernard Shaw is
credited. Last week I
noticed that someone
claimed that the face of
the Mona Lisa is not
the fate of a woman, but
the face of a man. Thus
Da Vinci has deceived us.
And did you know that
Das Kapital was not
written by Marx, but by
a certain J. McCarthy?
Furthermore, did you know that paintings
which bear the label Picasso are really
the work of one Walt Disney? You
didn’t ? v
* ♦> ♦>
“Narumee”: A visiting American
architect deplores our lack of civic pride,
shown by householders who surround
their gardens with fences; he cites the
“unimpeded vista of gardens” enjoyed
by inhabitants of American suburbs and
towns. Well, I lived in a block of flats
girt with land intended as a horticultural
“vista” ; if sported young trees, shrubs,
flower-beds, and even some grass. The
owners, despite repeated pleas, would not
build a fence, so the unfenced space was
a godsend for bicycle short-cutting, dog-
exercising, rubbish-dumping, child- and
car-parking and, on occasions, flower-
and greenery-culling. After three years
any garden remaining was purely acciden-
tal. Now, in my own home, I enjoy an
Bft. backyard-fence, a 6ft. front-hedge, a
beautiful garden and no civic pride at all!
♦j
“An Chuidh”: Was “Ning” (B.
23/2/’55) merely remembering Dr.
Johnson when he said that Bimam Wood
consists of two trees, or has some whole-
sale timber-felling taken place in the last
two years? Birnam is surrounded with
trees, and Birnam Hill is completely
covered with venerable giants and the
valley of the Tay is all forested. Right
through to Glamis broken forest
predominates,
♦♦♦
“Sackfair”: I’ve grown blase to Tin-pan-
alley song-writers informing their be-
loveds that they intend to build a love-
nest like a dove-nest. If the damsels are
not a wake-up to the jerry-built job
they’re going to get, it’s their pigeon—or
dove. And I no longer squirm at the
thought of a poem by Kipling “rippling"
along: “Like a poem by Kipling our love
will go rippling,” etc. I can even close
my eyes to the claim that a dance-number
called the “Kangaroo Hop” is the latest
thing from America (40 years ago a num-
ber on the old cylinder-records ran, with
almost modern inanity: “Come and do
the Kangaroo. 00-a-00-a-00-a-00. Come
and do the Kangaroo —Hop —Hop’).
But there’s one bloke I’d love to hand
over to the Mau Mau on Ritual Night—
the bloke who wrote the current hit,
“Happy, Happy Africa.”
FLOODS AT MAITLAND
Now is the fabric of our living rent.
The cold brown racing gruel of savage
flood
Has turned the water in the tanks to mud,
And parched with fires of thirst the
innocent.
The major shaves in milk and tired
complaints,
The farmer, cursing the scant shelter of
the stack,
Farewells his house, his children on its
back,
When flood-borne timber cracks its last
restraints.
Hampered by thirty-foot of chain the
heavy stud,
His harem drowned, swims thirteen miles
and feels
The firmament give comfort to his heels,
And paws the ground, then fills his hollow
cud.
He, while we weave the warp and woof
again,
His herd replaced, will graze the richer
plain.
N.S.W.
OLAF RUHEN.


A MAN can have some queer experi-
ences in a hotel bar, but I’ll nomin-
ate the Mayor of Moree (N.S.W.) to have
had one of the most unusual. He had a
trip around the lounge-bar at the Hotel
Max there in a rowboat—and didn’t
have a drink of anything. And he wasn’t
playing the clown. It was during the
floods, when the upper stories of the
Max, along with other hotels in the town,
were thrown open to those whose homes
had become flooded. They were brought
to the kerb, hanging on to every avail-
able piece of iron, on the shire graders—
the only vehicles that could battle through
the waters. There they were picked up
by the row-boats and delivered to their
haven via the lounge ! One bedraggled
woman voiced her gratitude thus: “Well,
thank God for that! And only jthe other
night, when me ’usband was late home, I
"Looks like one of those silly new mens fashions .”
said all pubs should be burned down! ”
‘ Nonnel.”
* ♦♦♦
, +
Benbow”: Water-powered organs (B.
jo/2/ 55) were not entirely unknown in
Australia. The large three-manual organ
still used at Burwood (N.S.W.) Methodist
church was driven by water from the
town-pipe until about 1916, and the
water-engine was kept for some time
after that as a standby. Reason for con-
version to electricity was the diminishing
pressure supplied by Sydney Water
Board. My father, as conservative as
only a Cornishman can be, himself a
trustee of the church, was opposed to the
change because the type of switch sup-
plied with the newfangled electric-
machine worked with a click that just
about shook the building. It certainly
served to wake up his six somnolent sons
at the close of the morning sermon, when
the organist switched on the
motor for the final hymn.
❖ ❖
“Urarnao”: Stimulated
by Dame Flora Mac-
Leod’s visit to New Zea-
land, Scotsmen have been
trying to debunk the
notion that Christchurch
and Canterbury were
settled by Englishmen.
True, it was sought to
establish an Anglican State
by John Robert Godley
and his confreres, but the
scheme petered out. Ten
years before the First Four
Ships unshipped their Eng-
lish cargo a band o’ Scots
camped in what is now
Hagley Park. Twa o’ them
made a deal with an old
whaler for 50,000 acres at
ss. an acre. An agent with
the un-English name of
McKinnon looked after the
twa’s interests. The Scots
—Deans, Hays, Sinclairs,
Mansons, Gebbies —pion-
eered Canterbury, Cale-
donians claim. They con-
cede, however, that English
settled Lyttelton, Christ-
church’s port, but “climbed
the hill that separated
the city from ft the port,
and prospered there.” One
result is that the English city has some
eight bagpipe bands. Its splendid Art
Gallery was the gift o’ a pairson named
McDougall.
♦ ❖ ❖
“Old 2nd”: That “Uncabled Addi-
tions” cartoon “Say, Bud, whereabouts in
Formosa is Sydney?” (B. 23/2/’ss> re-
minds me. Went to the Kaiser’s war
aboard Demosthenes via Panama in 1917.
Some American troops, told where we
were from, declared, “Aw, that’s a British
coaling-station.” Later, in Norfolk (Va.),
a car-driver asked us whose side we were
on. That was before Uncle Sam came
in.
❖ ❖ *>
“Joel”: The holy calm of Adelaide’s
Public Library was shattered by people
seeking answers to a newspaper quiz.
Urged on by a juicy prize they milled
around the premises- like fox-terriers in a
fowlyard. Books were so manhandled,
mislaid and abused that the library autho-
rities, in self-defence, placed a board
outside bearing the quiz-questions and
what they believed to be the answers. If
anyone henceforth suggests that academic
people don’t rub shoulders often enough
with the man-in-the-street, I can see the
staff of the library rising up in a body
to shout, “Oh, yeah! ”
“Ward”: The visit of Japanese scien-
tists to Harwell Atomic Research Station
is nothing remarkable. Harwell is
the showplace of the atomic scientists
and an important research-centre, but is
no longer the key outfit. At least six
other atomic establishments are spreaci
around the British Isles and we don’t hear
of visitors going into these; Harwell is
chiefly basic research and production
of industrial-medical isotopes, which are
no longer top-secret processes. Their pro-
“Go away - my exhibition isn’t open until tomorrow !”
duction is a self-supporting, indeed profit-
making, side of a larger concern which
otherwise absorbs much money and pays
no dividends, except in national security.
The Harwell station is surrounded by
quiet farms and peaceful countryside;
the vast buildings tucked away behind
high wire fences erupt unexpectedly and
strangely in the old rural scene. The vil-
lage of Harwell, two miles away, has the
narrow .streets, winding lanes, thatched
houses, little shops, and old inns of tradi-
tional England, but these are giving way
to modem houses where many of the
scientists and technicians working at the
atomic station now live.
❖ ♦> *
“Narumee”: Competition between
Melbourne dailies (B. 2/3/’55): there was
also “Sunball,” in which readers had to
guess where, in an Aussie Rules photo-
graph, the ball had been painted out;
this was swiftly followed by “Skillball,”
in which “Argus” readers were invited
to mark with “X” the missing ball on a
cricket picture. In “Junior pages” there is
rivalry between “Argus Eyes” and “Sun-
beamers.” But now the “Age,” previ-
ously, like Auntie “Times,” aloofly liter-
ary, has plastered suburban railway-
stations with vast posters announcing a
“£5OOO Dream Home Competition,” a
radio-quiz and —comic strips! Can The
Bulletin be far behind?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kwokwo”: In America they don’t
need to bother with this barbecue non-
sense. No, sirree. Just pour “liquid-
smoke” (price two-dollars) over your oven
grills and bring the he-man odors of the
backwoods to- your dinner-table. Get
that primeval-forest feeling among home
comforts!
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.Q.”: Where there is an open go “too
old at 60” doesn’t always win in Mel-
bourne. A 74-year-old man applied for
an accountant’s job with a city firm and
was given it in preference to eleven
younger men who applied for the
position.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Honest Frank”: Friendly-like, I
asked the New Australian, going for the
fish-and-chips with his beer at the coun-
try pub: “Hungry?” He confided in
slow, precise Australian: “No. I come
from Czechoslovakia.”
❖ ❖
“Mullum”: Can’t understand why 10-
o’clock closing should affect Army cooks
as “Baggyduds” says (B. 2/3/’55). What
has happened to the Army’s wet canteens?
The one in the R.A.A.F. establishment
which I know best offers more and better
amenities than any N.S.W. pub. Inci-
dentally, experience shows that at least
40 p.c. still prefer to stand at the bar,
rather than use the tables and really com-
fortable chairs provided,
ANXIETIES
Whenever 1 go to the barber
And he says: “Light trim, sir? ” 1
scowl.
Does he think I look sillv ?
With a glance rather chilly,
Pretty short back and sides!” 1 will
growl.
As he s wielding the shears, though, 1
harbor
A feeling uneasy. Rebuffed,
Wdl he get rather savage,
My back and sides ravage
And leave just a Hottentot tuft ?
My tram-ticket I, on occasion
Have idly rolled up, flicked — it’s gone !
And, though conscience-easy,
l feel a bit breezv
In case an inspector gets on —
Five smackers it brings, fare-evasion.
I’m not paying twice, that’s a cert.
And so, while I’m carried
Along I am harried,
For that dread “Show tickets!” alert.
To chivalry somewhat addicted,
I’ve stepped back in lottery-queues
Some woman allowing
My place, and then vowing
By such damfool act I could lose.
Till the drawing by frets I’m afflicted.
What if she clicked, for something of
size !
Would I get dead shirty ! . . .
One hundred and thirty
Off even the lowliest prize.
I've decided that new shoes I needed.
With care I’ve selected a pair.
The salesman invites me
{And thereby affrights me)
To “try one for fit.” For aware
I become of a thought I’d not heeded
Till then. So I try to control
A memory defective,
With this sole objective :
Which sock, right or left, has the hole!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
'TWAS ST. PATRICK HIMSELF
SURE THAT DID IT
YI/HEN Neil O’Reilly joined the Army
in 1941 he arrived at Ingleburn
(N.S.W.) with a pocketful of money, a
shining medal of St. Patrick bound with
some sort of soiled green-fibre, and prac-
tically nothing else. Though as Austra-
lian as the grey ghost-gums which sur-
rounded his Monaro home, on the subject
of St. Patrick he was better than the best
Irish.
St. Patrick, according to Neil, was the
most forgotten saint in the long calendar
of saints. Everybody knew of hirfi, and
thousands of churches, schools, orphan-
ages and homes were named after him.
But did anyone pray to St. Patrick? Not
on your life —that is, no one except Neil
O’Reilly. So Neil O’Reilly got all the
privileges.
Neil’s tales of the power of St. Patrick
were treated as bunkum by all his mates
until one day in Hunter-street, Newcastle,
when the crowd found itself broke and
the day hot and dry. Here wa| the
challenge for Neil: “Get St. Patrick to
give you some money.” Neil pursed his
lips, and within a few minutes he had
picked up a crumpled pound-note from
the gutter. St. Patrick was duly thanked
in the nearest hotel.
On the Atherton Tablelands there
seemed to be no beer, but Neil and St.
Patrick always managed to ferret out
some secluded shanty and the grog would
be flowing.
One night, after visiting a town miles
from their camp, Neil and his mates
straddled a high hill and searched vainly
for a hitch-hike. There was none in
sight, although they had a full-scale view
of the countryside for many miles. It
was 9 p.m. before Neil was prevailed upon
to get St. Patrick on the job. At 9.10
p.m. a utility-truck appeared and brought
the crowd back to camp. Unbelievably,
too, the ute was stacked with Melbourne
bottled-beer, destined for some officers’-
mess.
Then one humid day in New Guinea,
Neil in his brown Australian boots
squelched his way down the Sanananda
Trail, where the bodies of dead Japanese
snipers were still rotting in the trees. A
day passed and tnen two, and Neil was
given up for lost. On the third, a patrol
probing for trip-wires caught the glint
of silver as a thin shaft of sunlight pene-
trated the jungle. There it was —the
medal of St. Patrick, sparkling, dancing,
and as comfortable as if it nestled on a
bed of shamrocks near the Lakes of
Killarney.
The patrol probed further, knowing
Neil could not be far away. They found
him within 10yds. of the medal, wounded
in the leg by a Jap sniper’s bullet. Neil
was carried back to Dobodura, then to
Oro Bay, and then shipped to the main-
land.
No doubt St. Patrick got Neil O’Reilly
a job of some importance in civvy-street,
and no doubt at all that Neil O’Reilly
will be really celebrating tomorrow,
March 17, 1955.
JOHN O'SULLIVAN.


Airlines all over the world are ordering Viscounts
the fastest, smoothest, most popular, medium-range airliner in the world
*
NPV36A
38 Viscounts
c
60 Viscounts
*; r France
\* Viscous
*‘ rUn ®?ntS
22 Viscounts
TAA
fu&ia
Atußaica
MUlimju
Reservations: 119 Phillip Street, Sydney. Phone 80526
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia’s leading “career-diplomat,”
Sir Keith Officer, who retires at the end
of the month, with the Paris Embassy
his last official address, has represented
Australia in one capacity or another in
London, Washington, Moscow, Tokio,
Chungking, Batavia and The Hague since
he joined the External Affairs Depart-
ment thirty years ago.
Before that he was political-officer and
private-secretary to the Governor of
Nigeria and earlier still had five years
with the A.1.F., starting with the Bth
Light Horse and finishing as D.A.A.G.,
Australian Corps Headquarters, with
0.8. E.- M.C. and four “mentions.” A
mixed but full career for one who in-
tended to practise law and was associate
to Justice Higgins when war came in
1914.
Alfred Stirling, who takes Officer’s
place as Australian Ambassador in Paris
(he moves from a similar post in Holland),
is another old hand at the diplomatic
game who entered it via the legal pro-
fession. He could be described as the
conference specialist of the External
Affairs Department; he’s attended a
whole string of ’em since he made his
debut at an Institute of Pacific Relations
meeting at Banff, Canada, in 1933. He
has also been High Commissioner in
Canada and South Africa and Australian
Minister in Washington.
T. M. CONROY
For long with 1.C.1.A.N.Z., chiefly con-
cerned with the commercial application
of the newer agricultural chemicals, now
appointed Controller of Chemical Group
in the company. Controlled the 2/32
Battalion in Tobruk, the 2/5 in New
Guinea, rank of lieut.-colonel.
One of John Flynn’s Inland Mission
men, C. T. Goy is to be next year’s
Moderator of the Presbyterian Assembly.
Now minister at the Ewing Memorial
Church, East Malvern (Vic.), he served
seven years in the Inland and was senior
chaplain at Darwin during the war.
• •
Four-fifths of Australia’s barley, the
staple ingredient of beer, whisky and
malted-milk, comes from South Australia,
and four-fifths of South Australia’s barley
comes from Yorke Peninsula. And from
Yorke Peninsula recently came into The
Bulletin office Len Slade, who has been
growing barley on Y.P. since the begin-
ning of the century and reading The
Bulletin for just as long. To prove the
former statement he reeled off facts and
figures, and to support the other he
quoted Edmund Fisher verse. Slade first
grew barley on his father’s farm, but
about 40 years ago he bought a rundown
property of despised land a few miles
from Stansbury, down towards the heel
of the Peninsula. His first visitor was a
bearded old man who greeted him with,
“I hope you’re going to keep up the
reputation of the kitchen.” He explained
that a former owner, an old Scot, had
kept a five-gallon keg of whisky in the
kitchen and had dispensed hospitality to
all-comers. “There’s been more whisky
drunk in that kitchen than in all the
pubs on the Peninsula,” he ended. Slade
converted the waste-land into a profitable
farm. He doesn’t claim to have emulated
his predecessor, but the barley from his
paddocks has contributed to the brewing
of a powerful lot of beer and whisky
in many lands. Whether his production
has yet overtaken the consumption of
the original owner is for the statisticians
to calculate.
• •
When S. A. (“Mick”) Taylor relin-
quished the job of W.A. Public Service
Commissioner at the end of February, he
had 48 years service to his credit, includ-
ing a torrid period with the old Bth
Battery which involved the loss of a leg
on Gallipoli. In the Treasury Depart-
ment during the depression years, he held
down the arduous job of inspecting-
accountant and was Auditor-General for
years before being selected for the
commissioner’s job in 1945.
• •
Had his 91st birthday on March 4,
Archbishop Mannix. Eight days later he
passed the record of Archbishop Goold,
who died in 1886 and was Archbishop
of the diocese of Melbourne for 37 years
and 309 days. Dr. Mannix is still extra-
ordinarily vital, though he no longer in-
dulges in a daily walk from his palace in
Kew to St. Peter’s, in Melbourne.
• •
The East Africa High Commission
asked U.N.O. for a highly-qualified
meteorologist with wide experience of
tropical conditions: it got Dr. Eric
Bradshaw Kraus, who, till he left for
Africa recently, was engineer-in-charge of
the met.-section of the Snowy scheme.
Austrian by birth, just on 43, now
naturalised British (he married a Sydney
lass in London during the war), Kraus
got an honors diploma in economics and
commerce in Vienna, his Ph.D. at Charles
University, Prague, and a solid met.
teaching at the Institute of Geophysics in
Bergen, Norway ; he speaks French, Ger-
man, Czech and Norwegian, and is a
Fellow of the Royal Meteorological
Society.
In War II he was squadron-leader,
R.A.F., in charge of the Service’s met.-
recco. flights, operating 21 aircraft from
the U.K., Gibraltar and Iceland. On
these mainly depended the briefing for,
or cancellation of, bomber-raids over
Europe.
Appointed to C.5.1.R.0. soon after the
war (following a turn in China and South-
East Asia), he led a group which accom-
plished what is recognised as the first
successful rainmaking experiment. Since
1952 he’s been up round Cooma (N.S.W.)
and snowy parts adjacent, responsible for
investigating maximum rainfall for spill-
way design, looking into drought-
sequences and making micro-climatic
studies for soil-erosion and suchlike. In
Africa he’ll work from Nairobi, in Kenya,
applying his met. know-how to the fore-
casting of desert-locust movements. If
he succeeds, millions of Africans and
Asians will cease dreading the cloud
which, for centuries, has brought ruin
from the skies.
• •
Alan Hodge, C.5.1.R.0. research-officer
at Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne, who
recently spent two years at the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology studying
biology on a research studentship and
while there gained a Ph.D. for work on
the structure of proteins, has been
awarded the Rennie Memorial Medal
given annually for the most important
contribution to chemical science by a
member of the Royal Australian Chemi-
cal Institute under 30. The work which
won Hodge his medal was in connection
with the study of muscle-fibres.
Six weeks ago, in The Bulletin’s 75th
Birthday Number, Norman Lindsay told
of his first meeting with J. F. Archibald,
away back at the beginning of the cen-
tury. Last week, at Mooloolaba (Q.),
died the man who brought Lindsay’s work
to Archibald’s notice and was responsible
for the artist’s joining The Bulletin
staff.
Son of a Professor of History at Mel-
bourne University, Jack Elkington was
at that time a young doctor just back
from Europe. He had studied tropical
medicine in Edinburgh and Glasgow,
had done research-work in one plague-
spot, Bombay, and put his knowledge to
practical use in another, the Punjab. Re-
turning home at the time of a smallpox
scare he became Commonwealth Medical
Officer in Tasmania. The job was plea-
sant enough, but offered no scope for
trop. med., so after five years he took
the post of Commissioner of Public
Health in Queensland and, later, Director
of Tropical Hygiene.
A great lover of art and literature,
Elkington was a forceful writer and, as
“Colonel Bungstarter,” wrote for The
Bulletin most of his life. This paper last
saw him a little over two years ago when
he paid a visit to Sydney. Already over
80, he was then still tall, erect and rugged,
with a springy step and an active mind.
Eighty-three when the call came.
• •
Tasmanian electors put two women
into the House of Assembly at the
general-election last month. Mrs. Mabel
Miller, LL.B., deputy Lord Mayor of
.Hobart, pushed an Independent out in
becoming the first woman elected to the
Assembly. Close behind her was Miss A.
M. Best, who replaced veteran Neil
Campbell, retired from Wilmot.
e •
Bruce Turner, newly-appointed United
Nations Secretariat Controller, is another
Enzedder who has made his way into a
big job. A Christchurch boy, graduate
of Canterbury University College, Turner
joined the N.Z. Legation in Washington
in 1946. This job took him to Bretton
Woods, to meetings of the Board of
Governors of the World Bank and to
numerous other international assemblies.
• •
Asked his nationality, Arthur Sewell,
president of the S.A. Chamber of Manu-
factures, replies, “English by birth,
American by experience and Australian
by inclination.” By the time he was 16
Sewell had been a cadet in the R.N.
training-ship Mercury and a very young
member of the R.F.C. At 20, he was in
America as a “Fuller-brush” man, knock-
ing on doors and totting-up sales and
knockbacks in “the world’s toughest
LUBRICATION
sales-territory,’’ the Bronx. Back in
England again he became assistant-sales-
manager and later sales-director of
Tecalemite, manufacturers of car-greas-
ing equipment. He is now managing-
director of the Australian subsidiary. In
Hitler’s war, his part in the immense pre-
parations for the Normandy invasion, as
C.O. of a Royal Ordnance Corps depot,
brought him an 0.8. E.
Rugged formation hereunder depicted
represents John Sullivan, Westralian geo-
logist, who put in a considerable time in
Northern Australia with the Common-
wealth Bureau of Mineral Resources and
was prominent in the early recognition
of Rum Jungle’s possibilities. Born at
Boulder, on the W.A. goldfields, Sullivan
was educated at New Norcia, won a
Coombs Scholarship and a Hackett bur-
GEOLOGIST
sary, worked during vacations in the
mines and on farms, and graduated B.Sc.
at the University of W.A. in 1935. After
post-graduate study he joined C.5.1.R.0.
and became a field-geologist specialising
on ore-deposits. He was also for a time
consultant-geologist for Broken Hill
South. His papers on ore-deposits and
prospecting, published in overseas scien-
tific journals, made him known to the
Kennecott Corporation (U.S.A.). Result :
he’s now in Canada as that concern’s
Director of Exploration. Last summer
the job took him among the sub-zero
temperatures of the Arctic Circle —an icy
change from the heat of Rum Jungle.
• •
In Melbourne by invitation of the
College of Radiologists of Australasia to
attend clinics and deliver lectures, Dr.
Peter Kerley, whose business is with the
cardiac murmurs of the British nation;
he’s head of Britain’s mass X-ray- and
radiology-services. Kerley has already
visited India, Burma, Thailand and
Malaya and has started an organisation
for making the natives of Borneo con-
scious of their inner mechanisms. Born
at Cork, he has spent most of his life
in London, where he is president of the
Faculty of Radiologists.
• Q
Into the Silence:
In Albany (W.A.), Mrs. Sarah Marguerite
Robinson, mother of Mayor of Albany Denis
Robinson, and widow of former Mayor
Herbert Robinson, M.L.A. Born in Limerick
(Ireland), . she was an international hockey-
player before she came to Westralia as a young
woman. Co-founder, first coach and former
president of the Albany Women’s Hockey
Association, she was, more recently, a com-
missioner of Girl Guides.
At 71, in Sydney, C. M. Collins, a practis-
ing barrister for 45 years, recognised as one
of the State’s leading authorities on land laws.
He wrote several standard law-books, and was
editor of the journal, “Land Laws Service of
N.S.W.” He had appeared in court at Lithgow
on the day he died.
In Melbourne, at 56, William Lawrence
Taylor, for eight years, till he retired in 1953,
assistant g.-m. of Australian Estates Co. He
flew with the Ist Squadron, Australian Flying
Corps, in War I, and in the second war helped
form the Air Training Corps of the R.A.A.F.
A director of several pastoral companies, he
was for two years chairman of the National
Council of Wool Brokers.
In Hobart, at 67, Francis Xavier de Bavay,
son of Auguste de Bavay, a founder of Amalga-
mated Zinc (De Bavay’s, Ltd.). An original
Anzac with the 10th Light Horse, he later
worked on power-alcohol production, became
head-brewer for Tasmanian Breweries in 1926
and g.-m. in 1933, and retired two years ago.
In Adelaide, at 79, George Hebbert Boykett,
secretary of the S.A. Employers’ Federation
from 1907-51 and of numerous other organisa-
tions.


THE DRIP


ABORIGINAHTIES
ADD things happen during big floods.
w At Tamworth (N.S.W.) a cow was
washed up safely into a backyard where
there was a bit of high ground, and
almost at her tail floated to land a bale
of hay!—“23ls.”
* * * *
“Spinifex”: After earlier floods the
foundations of Nyngan (N.S.W.) Court
House subsided a little and one of the
interior walls developed a crack. To de-
termine whether the fault was still
extending, the District Works Officer
stuck a couple of pieces of stamp-
selvedge across the crack, and left it at
that. A bushman watched this
operation with disgust. When the
officer had gone he exploded: “That’s
the silliest damn’ thing I’ve ever seen!
Here’s a solid brick wall cracked from
top to bottom, an’ that flamin’
galoot thinks he can stick it to-
gether with stamp-paper!”
* * * *
“Derwent”: Three Tasmanian
youngsters playing in a dry creek
near Exeter, on the Tamar, killed
a three-foot snake. Opening it up,
they found about 20 small snakes
inside, including one with two
perfectly-formed heads. The two-
headed specimen was taken to
Launceston Museum, where it was
identified as a copperhead. There
is a similar freak in the same
museum.
* * * #
“Phoongyee” (J’burg): In
Bulletin pars, referring to South
Africa two words are always spelt
wrongly. The rolling plains of
the Transvaal and the Orange Free
State are called veld (meaning
in Afrikaans, one of our official
languages, “field”). Your writers
always put a “t” on the end of the
word, making it “veldt.” Over 60
per cent, of the white population
of the Union are Afrikaners;
calling them Afrikanders makes
them into the large ox (bullock
to you) used in South Africa both
for transport and for sustenance
via the kitchen. This species of
bovine is obviously a descendant
of the Madagascar type, for he usually
has a small hump on his back and is
noted for immense spread of horns.
Please do not refer to our fellow-citizens,
the Afrikaners, as Afrikanders, even
if some do think they are “fair cows.”
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: As usual, the fly appeared
from nowhere. He settled on my arm
and I told him to beat it. Out the window
he flew to dodge the flick of my hand.
He insolently returned, again taking me
by the arm. Now he wanted to make
a game of it. Half a dozen times he
was ejected out the window and as many
times he returned. I snuck up, slammed
the window shut and thumbed my nose
at him through the glass pane. Then I
pondered over the aerodynamic principle
involved when a fly darts in and out the
carriage-window of a train travelling at
60 m.p.h.
“Fairf”: The excited barking of a fox-
terrier drew our attention to the echidna
that had wandered on to the camping-
area at Crookhaven Heads (N.S.W.).
About a third normal adult-size, Porky
had his head well down and quills up;
occasionally he gave a quick, shuddering
movement, then a spurt of dirt shot out
and upwards to left or right, flung up by
one of the concealed, burrowing forelegs.
Blase critters, these spiny anteaters;
they will wander into close proximity of
humans with a lack of fear completely
alien to most bush animals ; supreme con-
fidence in their armor could be the
reason. Amidst his quills were four ticks.
Whether they would have killed him is
doubtful—most bush animals are immune
from tick-poisoning—but what baffled me
about little Porky was the fact that the
ticks, though bloated, were merely
attached to the middle of the quills, an
area from which it would seem impossible
to extract blood.
* * * *
“Uramao”: At Cape Island, off the
southernmost coast of N.Z., a party
"No, he cant read, but he's very interested in the comics."
under Dr, Falla, Wellington Dominion
Museum’s director, has discovered a
colony of saddlebacks, thus ending the
belief that this native bijfl was extinct,
Rather like a starling, it has back-feathers
m the shape of a saddle; it also has
blight orange wattles at the base of its
Deat '
* * * *
“Malua”: Bill had his three 10-weeks-
old red-kelpie pups camped with him
while he was working on our bottom
boundary-fence when a stray kid-goat
wandered into the pamp one day and
palled up with the pups, so Bill, after
some consideration, adopted it. Coming
home at night a week later he found his
camp deserted, the pups and kid gone.
He tracked them for several miles before
losing the trail; then he spent the next
two days searching the saltbush in his
ute, till a couple of inches of rain ended
any further moving-about. A week later
a neighbor, rounding-up a mob of goats
30 miles away, was surprised to find two
red-kelpie dog-pups, fit and strong, run-
ning in the mob, and to Bill’s delight they
were back with him that evening. The
third pup, a rather timid little bitch, was
written off as lost. Twenty-two days later,
and 32 days after kid and pups went
walkabout, the timid one was found on
the same neighbor’s property, whimpering
j n a dry creek, not far from a well,
Though very weak and weighing only
81b., which rose to 141 b. after a week’s
care, she is doing well. “It would have
saved a hell of a lot of bother,” said
Bill, as he brushed the flies off the pup’s
face, “if I’d done what I first intended
and cut that flaming goat’s throat for
dog’s-meat.”
MELOONAH
Hers was the glowing legend that gilded ray
childhood years,
That reached to my heart’s recesses and misted
my eyes with tears;
Only the old men knew her, but many a time
I’ve trod
Where dust of the dark Meloonah has merged
with the rich dark sod.
She had spied on the secret council, on
warriors decked for war,
And she would die with the dawning for breach
of the tribal law.
She slipped away from their clutches, like a
racing wraith in the night,
She came to the Scottish lady, whom she loved,
while the stars were bright.
Scarce had her story started, with gasp and
with broken word,
Than out of the depths of slumber the life of
the station stirred.
Long had the tribes been quiet, but this was
the final rout
That would win for the black forever and
harry the white men out.
The oaths of the startled bushmen. It was every
hand to the hall,
Flintlock and the muzzle-loader, the powder-
keg and the ball. *
A check of the frightened children, a kiss for
the brave bush wives;
By God, but these painted spearmen would
pay a price for their lives!
Then silence fell on the homestead. It was
dawn when the dark men came,
But the walls and the doors were guarded
and the loopholes flashed with flame;
And deep in that homestead fortress, where the
smoke-wreaths curled like foam,
With blood on her hands Meloonah was ram-
ming the charges home.
Snap shot at a flitting warrior; sure aim at a
burning spear;
The battle was waged and ended ere ever the
light grew clear.
Raked by the withering gunfire the black men
broke and fled,
And left on the garden pathways their dying
and their dead.
Then boot and saddle and musket while rays of
the sunrise glowed,
And out from the threatened homestead the
grim avengers rode.
Skirmish with a band of warriors. The chase
and the flying kills.
Oh, few were the straggling spearmen who won
to the sheltering hills.
She was the doomed, the outcast. She could
not seek her breed!,
Death to defiant woman the laws of the tribe
decreed.
She lived through halcyon seasons that followed
that dawn of fears,
The mate of a Scottish lady who warded her
through the years.
This was the glowing legend that gilded my
childhood days,
And I would dream of the gunfire and the
burning spear ablaze,
The hunt in the death-swept morning through
the ridges, wave on wave,
As I stood at the weathered railing that guarded
Meloonah’s grave.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.
THE TREASURE-DUMP
npHE three boys found the council dump
A by accident. Searching for their milk-
ing-goats, they wandered into its precincts,
cloistered by hills of rusty tins and
guarded by a dilapidated notice reading:
“Rubbish To Be Dumped Over Pit-
head Only.”
It became the font of treasures no
story-books had ever mentioned, a source
of lucre and startling discoveries. Per-
haps bottles for the cordial factories (?d.
each); corn-sacks at Is. 6d. apiece;
copper-wire, brass, old radiators and
batteries for the scrap-metals man.
One weekend a store-stocktaking bon-
anza awaited them: 51b. tins of very old
Old English toffee ; tins of humbugs glued
together; solidified barley-sugar ; weevily
honey-balls; preserved-fruit; dark
cherries; pie-apples;
peaches and ancient jams ;
discolored sugar and
doubtful potatoes all
came home to the old
house.
False pride was a
mighty stumbling - block.
To be seen carting from
the dump was a major
social crime; it had to be
a work of stealth. Some-
times the haul was too
big: an ice-chest; posts
and netting; building-
boards ; an old water-tank.
Then Uncle with his ute
reluctantly helped out,
gingerly picking his way
among the debris, wanly
surveying the dead goats,
stray cats and pdisoned
dogs, supposedly inciner-
ated by the health authori-
ties.
The dump almost kept
that family. Father had
long gone to “rest,” his de-
mise accelerated by asso-
ciation with a person
named Bacchus, who had granted his
request for a “short life and a happy
one.” Poverty had been a familiar visitor,
but the new well of plenty swamped him
out; it altered life’s whole outlook.
Shoes and socks were there, of old-
time style and gay colors ; materials;
cast-off dresses ; shirts, trousers, caps and
hats were all transformed under Mum’s
skilful hands. She raised her brood to
manhood and kept the wolves away.
And the glory-box kept on producing:
stale bread for the fowls; half-full com-
pacts of face-powder; aged hair-oil;
squeezed tubes of toothpaste; odd cos-
metics of doubtful age. Old paint to
brighten the furniture; tired brooms for
sweeping; faucets and plumbing-parts.
Reading-matter was plentiful: comics ;
magazines for Mum; old writing-
materials ; pencils, pens, ink.
One day the boys found the canoe, a
rattling skeleton of cane. Under thrilled
hands it became a thing of beauty. They
lashed, and glued it; tacked on a gauze
covering, and spread a piece of tarpaulin
over the framework, painting it pink, the
color the mixing of odd paints produced.
That canoe opened up a wealth of recrea-
tion and wonder; its erstwhile owner
knew of its reincarnation and kept his
peace.
The days of the rubbish-dump are long
past for that family, but sometimes its
members think with nostalgia of the kick
they got out of the furtive trips ; the
eager “What’d you get?” when checking
the spoils; the dubious sampling of the
lollies and tinned-goods; the keen
appraisal of the haberdashery.
Still, it would constitute a serious faux
pas to recall publicly those occasions to
the notice of a certain bank-manager and
another successful businessman of the
moment. It’s quite O.K. with me though.
I’ve got no stinking pride; I was the
third boy.
QUO VADIS.


SPECIAL
TOLLEY’S
fgg
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
A fine
companion
ffl
m
m
m
m
eSS
£
SPITAL
a friend
in need
Q5T.39.12
THE ENTIRELY NEW MOTOR OIL
is available where you see this sign . . .
Special
EIMERGOL
VISCO-STATIC MOTOR OIL
combines
4> GRADES tH I
SAE 10, 20, 30, 40^
OIL
At least doubles the time between overhauls . . . Cuts
petrol consumption up to 18% . . . Gives increased
power equal to 3 or 4 additional octane numbers . . •
Safety-sealed for your protection.
SAVES SO MUCH MORE THAN THE EXTRA IT COSTS!
Metropolitan prices: 19/6 per gallon, 5/6 per quart
(Prices vary slightly in Queensland, Tasmania and country areas)
Marketed throughout Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
an associate of The British Petroleum Company Ltd
8/C251/1011
Old Lush songs
This tune is probably derived from “The Boys of Wexford,” an Irish street-
ballad. It is used for an earlier immigrant song, “Dennis O’Reilly,” which has
a similar chorus. The tune was collected by John Meredith and Dr. Cecil English
from the singing of Mr. Goodwin, Leichhardt (N.S.W.). The tune was published
by the Folk Lore Society in “Speewa” with the words of “Dennis O’Reilly.” The
words here given are in Paterson’s “Old Bush Songs.”
-DELL-MINERS—the bellbirds of Aus-
tralian poets—usually establish them-
selves in an area where very tall trees
rise out of tangled undergrowth, and
there they will stay for many years,
unless conditions change. The only bird
likely to share their territory is the whip-
bird, which adds its startling call to the
perpetual din, but, of course, keeps to
the undergrowth. Other birds mostly pay
fleeting visits to the area. Either they
are disconcerted by the great numbers
and intense activity of the bell-miners, or
they just can’t stand the racket. The
tinkling, bells sound strange and sweet,
but I wouldn’t like to live beside a bell-
birds’ colony. After a six-months’ spell
of ceaseless chiming one would long for
the sound of a circular-saw ripping
through a log.—“Saaedi.”
* * * Y
tt ‘Archaen”: Tornadoes are more
thermal” in origin than “electrical” (B.
16/2/’55). They are caused by masses of
hot and cold air meeting head-on when
atmospheric conditions are very unstable.
These set up a column of rotating air and
a tornado is born. The weather is usually
humid, with heavy clouds overhead;
masses of cloud are seen to be moving in
different directions, and the movements
increase to a violent churning. The
clouds assume a peculiar oily look, piled
fold upon fold, then a long funnel of black
vapor appears and descends. Damage
is confined to the spot where the tail
of this funnel reaches the earth. Brilliant
flashes of lightning dart around the storm,
and the noise, once heard, can never be
forgotten. It is a roaring, rolling thunder
with a humming undertone caused by the
spinning of the whirlwind.
* * * *
“Norque”: That throat-cutting sow of
“Bellfield’s” (B. 9/2/’55) takes me back
to the West Darling (N.S.W.), where, at
Yancannia, there was a free-ranging
herd of large-framed Tamworths. My
first view of those 16 pigs sliding down
the far bank of the creek into brown
water about 10ft. deep, and then swim-
ming strongly for the station-side, made
me raise the alarm about them cutting
their throats. This was received scorn-
fully by the oldest inhabitant, smoking
in the shade near by. Meanwhile the
porcine flotilla, in line-ahead, with snouts
and ear-tips showing above water,
ploughed sturdily on. They emerged
with nary a slit throttle. In succeeding
years I saw them make the crossing
several times daily—and they included
three-weeks-old piglets that followed Ma
into the water like ducks. None ever
suffered harm.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Despite size, strength and
obvious potentialities as a fighter, Big
Bob is the mildest of men, never heard
to utter a profanity. The new laborer —
no featherweight, either —for days kept
up a sarcastic chipping, without wiping
off Big Bob’s goodnatured grin. Then,
just on lunch-time, when Bob was talking
about his roses, the tormentor made some
disparaging remark. At that moment the
boss hollered “Blow up!” Big Bob
slowly walked up to the laborer, tapped
him on the chest, and said flatly : “You’re
a mug!” Without waiting for any re-
action he walked on, collected his billy-
can, turned and came back. Abreast of
the flush-faced laborer he stopped again,
pushed his chin out, and elaborated on
his first statement: “You’re a bloomin’
mug!” The laborer stood with right fist
drawn back, ready to swing, then he
turned and walked away. “Not quite
such a mug,” chuckled my mate. “Not
mug enough to go on with it when Bob
said ‘bloomin’.’ ”
* * * *
“Sand y”: A German scientist
has built an electrical device to make
fish give themselves up. I’m agin it, not
because I don’t believe in simplifying
commercial fishing, but because of the
amateur-electrifiers who’re bound to turn
up in my favorite fishing-spots. I’ve
already suffered netters, carbide-bottlers,
home-made grenaders and spear-fisher-
men. None of these people come to
angle; they come to get fish, which is a
far, far different thing. There is no
philosophy in a carbide-bottle or an
electric stunner, and philosophy is part of
the joy of true fishing.
WITH MY SWAG ALL ON MY SHOULDER.
When first I left old England’s shore,
Such yarns as we were told,
As how folks in Australia
Could pick up lumps of gold.
So when we got to Melbourne town
We were ready soon to slip
And get even with the captain ;
All hands scuttled from the ship.
Chorus:
With my swag all on my shoulder, black
billy in my hand,
1 travelled the bush of Australia like a
true-born native man.
We steered our course for Geelong town,
Then north-west to Ballarat,
Where some of us got mighty thin,
And some got sleek and fat.
Some tried their luck at Bendigo,
And some at Fiery Creek ;
I made a fortune in a day
And spent it in a week.
For many years I wandered round
As each new rush broke out
And always had of gold a pound,
Till alluvial petered out.
’Twas then we took the bush to cruise,
Glad to get a bite to eat;
The squatters treated us so well
We made a regular beat.
So round the “lighthouse” now I tramp,
Nor leave it out of sight;
I take it on my left shoulder,
And then upon my right,
And then I , take it on my back,
And oft upon it lie.
It is the best of tucker tracks,
So I’ll stay here till I die.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each week.]


t
4T^
C
l
/>»
The amazing Contex Adding Machine ends
“after-office-hours figuring,” leaves you and
your wife free to enjoy a normal family life.
Contex will do your figure work swiftly and
accurately. You can master it in 5 minutes
Contex adds in whole numbers, £.s.d., decimals,
weights and measures. Over 15,000 Contex
machines are now in use. Investigate Contex
to-day and start living again.
f Handsome carrying
1W " case, 55/- extra.
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE M 0425
POST THIS TO-DAY
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Contex.
NAME
ADDRESS C 029.16
o'*
&
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
d
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
m
*4
£
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate Dental Cream
instantly removes enzyme-producing bacteria and
prevents tooth decay. Scientific tests showed that
the Colgate way of brushing teeth right after
eating stopped more decay for more people than
ever before reported in all dentifrice history.
ONE Brushing with Colgate Dental Cream removes
Enzymes that cause Bad Breath and Tooth Decay!
MO6
«
Busines, Rollery, Etc.
Uncertain Share Outlook
"pROM the beginning of this
year The Bulletin has
counselled investors to be
cautious in their approach to
the sharemarket. It has ex-
pected lower share-prices for
reasons which can be sum-
marised as (a) lower prices for
wool and wheat, and, conse-
quently, a smaller export
income ; ( b ) tighter bank-credit
conditions, which have already
prompted hire-finance com-
panies, among others, to offer
6 p.c. and 7 p.c. for four-five-
year debenture-money; (c) a
general insistence on higher
yields from most investments;
(d) the cost to industry of rises
in wage-margins; and ( e ) the
likelihood that while consumer-
spending should remain high,
the accumulation of investible
funds by the public was likely
to be slowed-down during 1955,
with a consequent shrinkage in
the supply of funds for Stock
Exchange purposes. And it has
been contended that, while
many industries should be doing
better this year than last, higher
finance and wage-costs, tighter
credit-conditions and the
increased price of steel and
other metals would create a
cautious approach in some com-
pany boardrooms to div.-
policy.
With 2i months of 1955 gone,
however, there has been a
strengthening in the price of
most shares which go to make
up Stock Exchange indexes,
even though other economic
trends have followed the fore-
casts made here.
It appears that buying by
fixed-trusts has had an extra-
ordinary influence on the
strength displayed by many
front-rank stocks on ’Change.
But it is a patchy market, with-
out general buoyancy. Apart
from those concerns which are
being supported by fixed-trusts
in a big way, sharemarket buy-
ing is highly selective. Due
regard is paid for increased dis-
tributions and other merits, but
any setback in a co.’s fortunes,
however temporary, is taken to
heart by investors, and support
rapidly wanes. High yields —
7-10 p.c.—are obtainable from
anything of an uncertain nature.
An influence in maintaining-
market-support for front-rank
stocks has also been the
increased prices being paid
overseas for most metals, and
the inflationary possibilities of
a major conflict off the China
coast.
In this period of prospective
economic gear-changing it is
helpful to get a second opinion.
An interesting and experienced
one was offered in Melbourne
by Staniforth Ricketson, chair-
man of Haliburton Investments
(Aust.), Ltd. Addressing share-
holders, he said: — .
The problem confronting investors
today is to decide whether the present
phase is merely what may -be termed
an “Indian Summer” or whether it
forms part of a definite pattern of
continuing prosperity and confidence.
The major economic aspects, in other
times, would almost certainly have
provided grounds for uncertainty and
uneasiness as to the future trend, and
prompted a cautious and watchful
attitude on the part of investors
generally. Why then the difference
on this occasion? How may we
account for the sustained buoyancy
of the equity sharemarket, with rela-
tively strong buying demand and
high turnovers on the Stock
Exchanges?
Some older folk, who have lived
through alternating periods of boom
and depression since World War I,
with only occasional and compara-
tively short-lived intervals of stabil-
, ity, are disposed to discount the
p surface indications and to anticipate
less favorable economic and monetary
► conditions and some reversal of
optimism as 1955 proceeds. They are
inclined to argue that, despite the
high level and recent upward trend
of share-price indexes, the unusually
good yields available from a wide
range of stocks indicate deteriora-
tion rather than growth in confidence.
In support of their attitude, they
point out that stocks which can now
be bought on an income-yield basis
of around 6 p.c. offered much lower
returns in 1950-51—in some cases
below those available from gilt-
edged securities.
These experienced investors are also
conscious of the fact that influences
not previously present to anything
like the same extent are now at
work in the market to sustain buy-
ing demand. Amongst these are the
operations of the fixed-unit invest-
ment-trusts, whose funds have
shown considerable growth during
the last few years. With millions of
pounds to invest, these fixed-trusts,
which, through widespread advertis-
ing, have attracted large amounts of
public capital, all have panels of
investment stocks for which they are
continuously in the market. In the
meantime, also, the funds of invest-
ment companies of the management
type have been greatly augmented,
and they, too, are almost constant
buyers of a wide range of stocks.
Further- sources of market-support
have been institutional and provident
and superannuation funds, which
have entered the equity-share
market in search for more income to
enable them to meet greater com-
mitments for pensions, retiring-
allowances, etc., resulting from gen-
erally higher salary- and wage-
levels. Moreover, it is argued in less-
optimistic investment circles that the
record spate of new share-issues on
favorable terms during the last 12
months or so has served to stimulate
greater market-activity than would
have been the case if these specially
attractive opportunities had not been
available.
Whilst the number of new issues
injected into the market and the sup-
port accorded to them may be
regarded as providing evidence of
growing confidence in the long-term
outlook for Australian trade and
industry, many of them have
undoubtedly been prompted by the
tighter credit-conditions and the
non-availability of bank-accommoda-
tion to finance higher monetary
turnovers. The fact that some of
these new-issue stocks, even by out-
standing companies, have been
purchasable on such high income-
vield bases, whilst serving to stimu-
late public buying may in’ itself
support the argument that the
apparent high level of security prices
is somewhat illusory.
Most of industry continues to
expand. Business is brisk,
except in odd instances, such as
the woollen-textile trade. There
is a strong demand for man-
power, with a shortage of some
skilled labor and raw materials.
Up to December 31 most public
companies showed higher
profits.
The effects of higher wage-
margins should soon reveal
themselves in costs. It remains
to be seen how industry as a
whole, including the work-force,
will react —in other words,
whether any of the increases will
be met by greater production
from those getting the increases,
and whether all or part of the
cost-increases can be met by
these or other means.
The impact of higher costs, if
there is not an offsetting increase
in output, will first be against
profits. The pressure will then
move to prices, then to the basic
wage again, and then to the
exchange-rate, more especially
if overseas raw-material prices
(for wool, wheat, etc.) do not
rise, at the same rate as internal
prices.
Because of our existing high
costs and lower export income a
crisis in external trade is already
approaching.
Oil Search Drop
A fall to around 10s. in the
shares of Oil Search has followed
an announcement by Austra-
lasian Petroleum that testing of
the Omati No. 1 well immedi-
ately below 13,740 ft. has pro-
duced small quantities of gas.
It was around this level that
high gas-pressure was reported
to have closed the hole previously
and forced the co. to drill a
“dogleg” to the same level. At
the time the pressure of gas was
considered to be so high that
special surface-control equipment
was brought from overseas
before drilling recommenced.
The small quantity of gas now
reported has consequently disap-
pointed the sharemarket.
Drilling is continuing under
tricky circumstances, and Omati
No. 1 has been deepened from
13,780 ft. to 14,222 ft.
Omati No. 2 has been sunk a
further 479 ft., to 8834 ft., with
drilling continuing.
Masonite Corporation
Masonite Corporation (Aust.),
Ltd., and Australian Consoli-
dated Industries, Ltd., have
bought from the Victorian Gov-
ernment the major part of the
Eildon township for £325,000.
The sale covers workshop-
buildings, administrative offices
and 200 houses.
Masonite, the major dealer
in the transaction, intends to
erect a factory in the Eildon
workshop - buildings which
would be only slightly smaller
than the present factory
at Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.)
More than a million pounds
will be needed to establish the
industry, which will provide
direct employment for from 150
to 200 men, absorb an estimated
1600 tons of forest products a
week, and yield forest royalties
to the State of over £7500 a
year.
A.C.1., which holds a sub-
stantial interest in Masonite,
plans to erect engineering fac-
tories in the town.
Masonite, which has a paid
capital of £500,000, has not yet
announced how it will finance
the purchase and the new plant.
The deferred shareholders repre-
sent a problem. There are
at present 166,656 deferred
shares of 2s. 6d. each, against
479,168 ords. of £1 each, and
they are entitled to half the
profits after the ords. get 7 p.c. —
which means that 10s. of every
£1 put up by ord, shareholders
has been working for the
deferreds after 7 p.c. has been
declared on the ords. But by
keeping the div. at p.c. and
ploughing-back a greater pro-
portion of the profits, the
deferreds have been contributing
£-for-£ of undistributed profits
(without increasing their equity
in future profits) in order to
finance new plant, etc., and so
promote earning-capacity.
If debenture-money is used
to finance the new construction
programme it will relieve both
ord. and deferred shareholders
of the necessity for finding new
capital, at the same time provid-
ing each class of shareholder
with a half-share of the extra
profits earned (whether distri-
buted or not) above the 6 p.c.
or 7 p.c. which the debentures
would probably cost.
Dangar Gedye
The issue of 89,100 £1 ords.
(two for five at par) by Dangar,
Gedye and Malloch, Ltd.,
was announced at a time when
the old shares were around 355.
They then firmed to 365. Books
close March 16, and applications
(payment in full) on April 7.
The co. and its subsidiaries
handle a large variety of
pastoral and farming machin-
ery, as well as pumps, refrigera-
tors, etc. Distribution-franchises
cover the wide range of Lister
products (including shearing-
machines, lighting-plants and
separators), products of Rotary
Hoes of England, Ltd., and the
British Seagull Outboard Motor
Co.
Trading for the six months to
December 31 showed increased
turnover, and “indicates that
satisfactory dividends should' be
maintained.-” Last term 12 j
p.c. was paid out of earnings,
equal to 25.7 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal. After the new issue is
fully paid there will be £311,850
of ord. capital'and £175,000 of
pref., most of it cheap at 5 p.c.
The “rights” market for the
new ords. should be interesting


MUTUAL CREDITS LTD
C lncorporated in New South Wales on 19th April, 1932.)
Registered Office: 16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ISSUE OF 200,000 £1
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
CONVERTIBLE
NOTES AT PAR
Tl
CONVERTIBLE TO
ORDINARY STOCK
UNITS OF 5/- EACH
ON 30th JUNE, 1959,
OR REPAYABLE AT
PAR ON 30th JUNE,
1960.
ISSUE NOW OPEN
APPLICATION FORMS
And copies of the full Prospectus may be obtained from: Any branch in New South
Wales of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd., Members of any recognised
Stock Exchange and the Registered Office of Mutual Credits Ltd.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
RALPH W. KING AND YUILL, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
BANKERS TO THE COMPANY AND FOR THE ISSUE:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allotment is
£200,000. Applications for Registered Unsecured Convertible Notes of this issue will be
received only on one of the forms of application referred to and endorsed upon the printed
copy of the Prospectus. This is an abridged Prospectus only and does not comply with
the provisions of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 of New South Wales.
CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
Rms. H. & C. and Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trains. FISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
SURE TRIPS IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOB HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
London Airnail
From Herbert Holman
'T’HE Stock Exchange is not
likely to forget the week
which opened with a run on the
market and a “slide” in share-
prices and which closed with a
flurry after the raising of bank-
rate, by an unexpected 1 per
cent., to 4i per cent. —the high-
est since 1932. Both these dis-
turbances put jobbers and
brokers on their mettle, for
business has been brisk and,
maybe, too easy for many
months.
When bank-rate was raised by
i per cent. (Mr. Butler’s
“amber light”) a month earlier,
gilts fell but equities continued
their astonishing climb to an
all-time peak of 197.5 (“Finan-
cial Times” index). This was in
defiance of expectations and
intentions. The difference in the
yield between the two stocks,
already very small, narrowed
still more. Bank-chairmen and
Mr. Butler himself uttered por-
tentous warnings. So the private
investor thought again, for the
twenty-second time, on whether
or not he should take his profit.
Given to treating his holdings
as a useful hedge against infla-
tion, he was influenced by the
consideration that some tighten-
ing of credit was more than
likely. And as, in many
instances, he had bought his
shares on a bank-overdraft, it
was more urgent than merely
prudent to cash-in while the
going was still good. On the
other hand, the institutional
investors, happily not bound by
such hand-to-mouth considera-
tions, were undisturbed. Their
steadying influence prevented a
fall which, because of political
and other eventualities, might
well have been more severe.
The financial world, having
accustomed itself to the new
idea of a flexible bank-rate, was
divided on whether the January
increase was fulfilling its pur-
pose or on whether a further
i per cent, was imminent. But,
after the-initial shock, the steep
rise was acknowledged as a
courageous and welcome jolt,
particularly in view of the
adverse terms of trade and the
weakening of sterling abroad.
The general opinion is that its
purport is mainly psychological
and that, in view of the Govern-
ment’s concern for more capital
expenditure in industry, the rate
will be reduced just as soon as
practicable.
Hire-purchase contracts, esti-
mated to amount to an out-
standing £430 million a year,
form the main inflationary head-
ache at home, doubly so as the
demand for household goods
following the lifting of restric-
tions last July is pulling against
the export programme. But,
since the better-established
firms tend to be very careful in
their selection of customers, it
is now held that too-orthodox
financial opinion is apt to exag-
gerate the effect of hire-
purchase. The Chancellor’s
reintroduction of comparatively
mild controls implies that his
concern was rather over the rate
of increase in this type of
business.
On the Spot
Mr. Butler wears a harassed
look, and no wonder. He has
anxieties of a capital nature.
This is not the sort of capital
that is the immediate concern
of his advisers at the Treasury
or of his friends at the Bank of
England, but the illogical and
insidious kind that springs from
party warfare like armed men
from Cadmus’s dragon’s-teeth.
Labor, as a party-chairman has
recently remarked, is “on the
eve of big events.” That is to
say, it is becoming more confi-
dent of winning the next general
election.
How cock-a-hoop it is, too,
to have Mr. Butler on the spot!
Here are the Tories having to
climb down after plugging
“Conservative freedom,” crow-
ing about setting the people free
and, most important, doing very
well. Then Mr. Butler, some-
what preoccupied with the
adverse terms of trade and a
serious balance - of - payments
situation, walks right into the
ambush only two months before
his Budget and at a time when
faces are being scrubbed for
electioneering. Like the high
price of tea, any inconveniences
that may follow his policies are
“the kind of things that happen
under a Tory Government.” He
has acted too late. He should
never have dissipated Labor’s
magnificently effective system
of controls. He has failed to
cope with inflation. His panic
measures threaten full employ-
ment. How are the mighty
fallen!
Prattling, yes, but irrespons-
ible and dangerous stuff. The
Chancellor has not, in fact,
altered his policy at all. His
precautionary check is bold and
broad, not fussy and ineffectual.
He is not even in a state of
crisis. And his Prime Minister
will certainly not have to throw
in his hand because of the
appalling mess he’s got into, as
happened in 1951. And that was
largely due to the incompetence
of successive Chancellors of the
Exchequer.
Whether, under the provoca-
tion of a smear campaign, the
electorate will remember past
history remains to be seen.
Meanwhile, the Conservatives
must reflect that, if the margin
of seats in the House is slight,
the margin of error in their
tactics and performance is
potentially enormous. And Mr.
Butler has many teasing prob-
lems to solve, of which not the
least is what to do with his hefty
Budgetary surplus. He might,
after all, have graver worries
than that.
Dupery and Dalliance
A manly and not unworldly
vicar takes a living in an Eng-
lish village and immediately
comes to grips with the local
bad-hat, who picks pockets in
the vestry, pours filth into the
choir-boys’ ears and seduces the
village maidens in turn. The
vicar buttonholes this 17-year-
old for a tete-a-tete, with no
punches pulled, but the lad is
altogether too fly to fall for the
direct arguments of muscular
Christianity. He thinks and acts
with lightning cunning and
accuses the parson of homo-
sexuality. This is aggravated by
the biting fury of a woman
scorned, in the person of a
spiky old maid whose gushing
advances the vicar has firmly
rejected. All goes ill for him.
Sods are thrown, his windows
are broken and even the school-
master doesn’t believe in him.
For is he not, as well as a
parson, a bachelor with artistic
tastes?
That is the essence of Philip
King’s taut and expertly-
contrived play, “Serious Charge”
(Garrick Theatre). If the inci-
dent that everything turns on is
powerful the consequences are
quite frightening. An innocent
man, as brave as he is strong
and good, is plainly in danger of
blemish for life. How will he
get out of it? From this point
the drama develops into an
exciting thriller, not a forum
for exposition of a social prob-
lem. And fair’s fair, at least
here. It is a good play, tense,
amusing, realistic and credible,
despite some overdrawing. In
no way is it offensive to an
adult mind and it should act
well in the Little Theatres, so
long as an occasional strong
word is admissible.
An unknown (and reprehen-
sibly unbilled) actor, Patrick
McGoohan, gives a perform-
ance °f meticulous subtlety and
f° rce as the vicar who turns the
.j?y borrowing some of
fi* s vilifier s cunning. 01§ a
makes a charmingly
different mother - housekeeper
anc * Anthony Wager a forbid-
mirror to contemporary
delinquency. Frank Lawtons
schoolmaster belongs to the
green-room rather than to the
§ re f n sward, but Victoria Hop-
P er s „ cap-setting spinster is an
fxceUent *u si ™ o£ S ush “ d
temerity.
"A Kind of Folly” (Duchess
Theatre), a comedy by another
new playwright, Owen Holder
is less suitable for amateurs!
Or, indeed, professionals. Two
acts of Edwardianity, with
elderly husband (Wilfrid Hyde
White) nonchalantly having his
own way, rejected wife (Flora
Robson) murmuring urbane
nothings and blonde, voluptu-
ous mistress (Jean Kent) postur-
ing to little purpose, all three
together under one roof, are
funny enough in a nonsensical
way. But the last act branches
o ff unconvincingly into the
straight-and-narrow. Miss Rob-
son’s second essay in comedy is
less fortunate than her first (a
sparkling Lady Cicely Wayn-
flete), for the play is too thin
an d the part too empty and
flippant,
Faith in the
Future
Uranium! Ten years ago it lay in waste,
unclaimed and practically worthless. Now it is a
treasure of the nations: sought after to open perhaps
one of the greatest ages in human history.
* I wonder if Australians are fully aware of the
prospect that is opening for their country with the
development of atomic power for industrial use.
Every concept of our national development
can be changed by the employment of nuclear
power—and Australia has the uranium to fuel the
age.
Since 1945, the international accent has been
on production of more powerful atomic weapons
for defence. But now we are beginning to get a
more balanced view of what atomic energy is going
to mean in Man’s onward march.
Britain is to spend £3OO million on the
building of nuclear power stations for commercial
use. She hopes to have 12 in operation by 1965.
Combined with what America is doing in
mastery of the atom, this spells the beginning of an
era of achievement the magnitude of which one
hesitates to guess.
There has been nothing in the past by which we
can measure it.
However, we can give ourselves some idea of
what is beginning in atomic power, by comparing
the vast system of telecommunications in the world
to-day with the first feeble taps that told Marconi
of his initial success in transmission.
Put our nuclear scientists in the place of
Marconi standing at the edge of an enormity he
could not gauge—and we get some inkling of what
the next quarter of a century will yield.
Linking it with a fond thought of my own, I
can foresee among its many boons the enrichment of
Australia’s backlands under water drawn there by
nuclear power.
I believe that this will come—to the Northern
Territory, to Queensland, to South Australia, where
now lies the uranium that will make this possible.
H. Hastings Deening


<2?'
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; G ; D. Young; W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme;
A. R. E. Wiltshire, C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
J. Cadwaliader; Sir Eeslie Morshead, K.C.B.
K. C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas
B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones;
Alan G. Potter.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element’’ Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
TR14C.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kauri Timber Co.
the barometer in the timber
trade began to fall about three years
ago, most of the big milling and distri-
buting cos., of which Kauri is one of the
largest in Australasia, were caught with
heavy stocks, especially of Baltic and
southern European timbers ; and there
was some price-cutting in order to work
down inventories and reduce debts to
the banks and others. However, the tide
turned by the middle of 1953, and sales
have steadily increased since. For some
lines, especially pine from the west coast
of America, and jarrah from Westralia,
where two of the co.’s mills were destroyed
by fire a year or so ago (the loss was
covered by insurance), demand has
been recently running ahead of supply.
So Kauri’s profits, which came down
with a rush from £382,123 in 1951 to
£170,276 in 1953, shot up to £321,872
for the year to August 31 last:
Kauri Timber and Subsidiaries, f
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
1950. .233,236 5 8 81,250 151,986 449,222
To taxation, £8822 .. .. .. 440,400
Capital profit, £2624 .. .. 443,024
Added intangibles, £92,109 .. .. 350,915
Reduction reserves, £40,617 .. 310,298
1951. .382,123 5 8 85,000 297,123 607,421
To taxation, £5311 .. .. .. 606,110
Capital profit, £3844 .. .. .. 605,954
Added reserves, £85,337 .. .. 691,291
Added intangibles, £366,225 . . 325,066
1952. .281,109 6 8 85,000 196,109 521,175
Tax overprovided, £35,977 .. .. 557,152
Fire insurance recovered, etc.,
£86,363 ~ .. .. .. 643,515
Net addition reserves, £87,500 .. 731,015
1953. .170,276 5 8 85,000 85,276 816,291
Tax overprovided, £1899 .. .. 818,190
Net addition reserves, £123,260 . . 941,450
1954. .321,872 5 8 85,000 236,872 1,178,322
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
* After deducting intangibles, £879,353 at 30/6/’54.
The £321,872 of profit was written after
allowing for losses in subsidiaries
(£16,131, down £10,310), depreciation
(£207,249, up £2441) and taxation
(£344,705, up £97,792). It leaves out of
the reckoning a net addition of £123,260
to reserves-r partly adjustments following
purchase of additional outside holdings
in subsidiaries —but includes £53,600 ear-
marked for redemption of pref. and de-
benture capitals. Distributable profit was
therefore £268,272 (up £151,596), or
enough to pay the pref. div. (£25,000)
and show 32.4 p.c. on the £750,000 of
ord. capital as against 12.2, 27 and 40.4
p.c. for the three preceding years. The
cautious board kept the div. at 8 p.c.,
and £236,872 of the year’s declared profit
was ploughed back into the business,
lifting reserves to £1,178,322 in excess of
intangibles (£879,353).
This and other things enhance the pros-
pects of the scrip as a holding proposition.
Expansion has been rapid during the post-
war period, and has been financed largely
from 5 p.c. pref. (£500,000) and 4 p.c.
debenture (£715,000) moneys, which are
earning a lot more than their keep. These
moneys are y redeemable during the periods
1955-59 and 1962-67. At the close of last
accounts reserves for the redemption of
pref. and debenture capital totalled
£264,762.
The co.’s big freehold and leasehold
timber-stands are in New Zealand, Wes-
tralia, Tasmania, Victoria and the
Solomon Islands. The mills and mer-
chandising organisation are scattered
throughout the Dominion and Australian
States, except N. S. Wales, and there
are plywood- and box-making plants in
New Zealand and at Melbourne and
Brisbane.
During the year £547,734 was slashed
off the overdraft, £150,986 was added to
book-debts and stocks were reduced by
£249,901:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Reserves . . .. 1,403,181 1,692,675 2,057,675
Outside interests.. 471,336 563,687 589,197
Debentures . . 715,000 715,000 715,000
Overdraft .. 2,763,490 2,494,223 1,946,489
Sundry creditors* 1,348,785 898,099 1,041,883
Inter-co. suspense 65,934 55,129
Final divs. .. 37,500 37,500 37,500
£8,055,226 £7,651,184 £7,692,873
Properties .. 996,097 1,207,434 1,252,638
Plant, etc. .. 1,110,629 1,056,184 1,083,091
Shares in other cos. 101,547 84,502 84,328
Stocks . . .. 3,533,072 3,019,540 2,769,639
Book debts . . 1,312,945 1,268,231 1,419,217
Inter-co. suspense. 20,895
Cash, etc. . . 118,929 118,014 204,607
Intangibles .. 882,007 876,384 879,353
£8,055,226 £7,651,184 £7,692,873
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£1,312,462) was
£315,604. Still, when the books closed
there was 245. 7d. belonging to the bank
and sundry creditors, etc., in the business
for every £1 of shareholders’ net tangible
assets. This appears to be the chief
obstacle in the way of an early and sub-
stantial lift in the dividend-rate.
At 345. 6d. (28s. a year ago) the ords.
return 4.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution.
The investor who looks for 5.8 p.c. on
his money counts on the distribution
reaching 10 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 51s. sd.
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
AGGREGATE plant-capacity in the
Australian cotton-textile industry is
now able to take care of current demand
for most of the lines produced. So, to
help meet competition from abroad, which
has strengthened with the easing of import-
restrictions, the emphasis in local mills
is upon costs, quality and selling-prices.
Among other things, that means further
improvement in operating techniques and
plant-efficiency. To these ends Bradford
is constantly sending its technicians and
executives abroad, and machines are often
scrapped long before they are worn-out
in order to quicken output and reduce
the high-cost labor-content of the
products.
The Bradford group is the biggest of
its kind in Australia, with Davies, Coop
and Co. close on its heels. It consists of
14 separate mill-units —seven in N. S.
Wales and like number in Victoria—en-
gaged collectively in spinning raw cotton
and weaving the yams into all kinds of
cotton drills, tweeds, denims, ducks' and
motor-tyre cords, etc., as well as in dyeing,
finishing, shrinking and flame-proofing.
Recently rayon-spun yams were added to
the list of manufactures, following pur-
chase—on favorable terms —of a con-
trolling interest in Burlington Mills
(Aust.), Ltd., which.is also a large buyer
of Bradford’s cotton yarns.
Last term output and sales, except for
duck, reached record levels, and wage-
rates were steadier. So, despite a slight
strengthening of raw-cotton prices, the
board was able to write net earnings
£132,370 (36.2 p.c.) stronger at a record
£497,734:
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
/ Dividends——, To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.f
1950.. 018 6 pic. 10 p.c. 173,565 13,453 1,151,809
Share premiums, £66,001 .. ..1,217,810
Removal exes., etc., £58,884 .. 1,158,926
1951.. 424 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 186,144 182,280 1,341,206
Share premiums, £300,631 .. .. 1,641,837
Removal exes., etc., £38,268 ..1,603,569
1952.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 248,144 127,782 1,731,351
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ' .. ..1,726,351
1953.. 364 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 266,535 98,829 1,825,180
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . . . 1,820,180
Add reserves adjustment, £Bll6 .. 1,828,296
1954.. 6 p.c. 12ip.c. 354,818 142,916 1,971,212
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,961,212
* Excluding outside interests, t After deducting in-
tangibles (£2863), and excluding depreciation re-
serve (now £1,756,905).
The £497,734 of profit, which was written
after setting aside £349,647 (up £72,537)
for depreciation and £265,220 (up
£124,551) for taxation, was enough to
cover the pref. divs. (£9186) and show
17.6 p.c. on average ord. capital, com-
pared with 13.8, 15.3, 14.6, 10.8 and 11.7
p.c. back to 1949. The div., steady at 10
p.c. since 1940, was lifted to 12i p.c. And
developments since the close of accounts
suggest a better showing at next balance.
Balance-sheet movements reflect healthy
expansion, and the ratio of current assets
to current liabilities improved from 1.03
to 1 to 1.13 to 1:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £2,663,758 £2,782,808 £2,999,823
Reserves .. 1,729,214 1,823,043 1,964,075
Depreciation
reserve .. 1,190,721 1,461,330 1,756,905
Outside interests 12,502 12,502
Mortgage loan 1,150,000 1,125,000 1,100,000
Overdraft .. 1,233,549 989,296 388,400
Creditors .. 989,802 1,033,700 1,556,053
Staff fund .. 12,880 15,016 24,223
Tax reserve s . 146,018 190,667 354,168
Final divs. .. 130,239 136,282 218,097
£9,258,683 £9,569,644 £ 10,361,744
Freeholds .. 1,680,671 1,737,749 1,758,949
Leaseholds . . 78,226 124,858 131,127
Plant .. 3,890,566 4,202,021 4,346,284
Stock . . 2,724,975 2,448,264 2,567,349
Debtors .. 862,152 918,511 1,176,841
Cash, etc. .. 19,230 135,378 378,331
Intangibles .. 2,863 2,863 2,863
£9,258,683 £9,569,644 £10,361,744
On fixed assets £171,732 more was spent
than was written off, mainly on account
of new dyeing-plant and other replace-
ments. To help meet the outlay, carry
an extra £119,085 of stocks (wholly on
account of raw cotton), add £258,330 to
book-debts, slash £600,896 off the over-
draft and reduce mortgages by £25,000,
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., was increased by only £522,353. The
year’s improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£481,580) was £469,388.
Though competition, local and over-
seas, is likely to keep margins fine, the
output of yarns, drills, jeans, denims, etc.,
has continued to increase since the close
of accounts, and the market for duck has
strengthened following a lift in the
tariff on this item in August last. Pend-
ing increases in margins for skill will, of
course, lift operating costs, but it is
unlikely that the rise will materially affect
the current term’s net result.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords. has
strengthened from 365. to 425. over the
last 12 months. At 425. the return is 5.9
p.c. on a 12? p.c. div. basis, and investors
may have to wait a while for further
benefits. Still, the long-term outlook is a
satisfactory one. The second prefs. (6
p.c.) at 21s. yield 5.7 p.c. The well-
protected first prefs. seldom come on to
the market. Net tangible cover is
£52 14s. lOd. seconds and 335. 9d. ords.
Malleys, Ltd. (Sydney)
'T'HIS 35-year-old, and its two recently
acquired subsidiaries, which are not
yet- pulling thier weight, turn out builders’
and plumbers’ hardware and sheet-metal
products, as well as bath-heaters, hot-
water systems, dairy utensils, washing-
machines and kitchenware, etc.
Earnings, which are sensitive to condi-
tions in the building trade, reached their
peak in 1952, and then receded sharply.
But the outlook has brightened since the
close of last accounts. To provide for
the manufacture and distribution of new
products, including steel porcelain enamel
baths, 180,742 new £1 ords. were issued
at par, one-for-four, in January last.
Paid capital has thus become £923,596 in
30,000 9 p.c. prefs. and 893,596 ords. On
that lot the pref. div. and 8 pic. to the
ords. will call for £31,945 more profit
than was claimed last term. However,
the board expects to maintain 8 p.c. to the
ords., for the present term at any rate.
There was a further slip of £20,831 in
the parent co.’s net earnings for the year
to April 30 last:
, Dividends >,
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.f
1960.. 67.800 2,700 10 p.c. = 42,500 22,600 257,990
Unexplained addition, £439 .. .. 258,429
Revaluation of properties, £129,880.. 388,309
1951.. 80.565 2,700 10 p.c. = 42,500 35,365 423,674
Reserves capitalised, £212,382 .. 211,292
Net share premiums, £7600 .. .. 218,892
Surplus sale assets, £44,055 .. .. 262,947
June, 8 p.c.
1952.. 88.237 2,441 8 p.c. = 51,863 33,933 296,880
Share premiums, £3654 .. 300,534
Capital profit, £583 301,067
1953. .63,078 2,400 8 p.c. = 57,028 3,650 304,717
Reserves disappear, £4460 .. .. 300,257
1954.. 42.247 2,700 8 p.c. = 57,028 282,776
t After deducting intangibles, £22,682 at 30/6/’54,
After paying the pref. div., the balance
of the year’s profit was 5.5 p.c. on the
£712,854 of ord. capital employed.
But, thanks to the change in out-
look, the div. was kept at 8
p.c., reserves being drawn upon for
£17,481 to pay it, reducing them to
£282,776 in excess of intangibles (£22,682).
Over the last four years net earnings
averaged £68,531, or enough to ’pay the
pref. div. and show 7.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as it now stands. Obviously much
will depend upon how the new products
turn out and upon when and how much
the subsidiaries contribute to the pool.
In 1952 the board considered the posi-
tion good enough to scatter £212,382 of
bonus-scrip, of which £127,882 came from
a capital assets reserve created by writing
up the book-value of freeholds, and the
balance \from share-premium account —
the gift makes 8 p.c. worth 10.3 p.c. on
capital as it stood before the bonus-issue.
At the same time the co. withdrew from
the retail field, which meant closing three
branches in and around Sydney and one
at Brisbane. Also, A. Joyce and Co.
(Melbourne), makers of dairy utensils,
etc., was bought for £168,436 net, and the
small business of National Water Heaters
Pty. (Sydney) was absorbed at a cost of
£9500 in scrip (including £3654 of share-
premiums). In 1953 John Roberts Pty.
(vSydney), makers of washing-machines,
etc., was taken over for £11,866 in cash.
At Melbourne production of some old
lines has been scrapped and additional
plant installed for making a fuller range
of the parent co.’s products. Although
this southern offshoot traded at a loss
in 1953, it appears to have picked up
since, but not sufficiently to pay a div.
The Roberts business is also in process of
reorganisation. These two subsidiaries,
which have been more of a hindrance
than a help so far, are expected to soon
earn reasonable profits on the capital
involved.
The brisker trading towards the close
of accounts is reflected in a growth of
£157,505 in book-debts:
Parent Co.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £787,008 £742,854 £742,854
Reserves .. 319,562 327,399 305,458
Mortgages .. 50,000 50,000 50,000
Overdraft .. 229,544 146,279 324,164
Creditors, etc.* .. 258,477 212,613 157,231
Final divs. .. 52,211 57,336 57,636
£1,646,802 £1,536,481 £1,637,343
Freeholds .. 308,424 331,454 336,194
Plant, etc. .. 235,152 255,260 244,704
Shareholdings .. 177,936 189,802 180,302
Stocks .. .. 652,804 483,396 442,193
Book debts .. 244,566 253,173 410,678
Cash, etc. .. 5,238 714 590
Intangibles .. 22,682 22,682 22,682
£1,646,802 £1,536,481 £1,637,343
* Includes provision for taxation.
To carry the extra book-debts and reduce
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., by £55,382, the overdraft was
increased by £177,885. There was little
change in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£264,430).
At 235. (21s. 6d. in January last) the
ords. return 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The 9 p.c. prefs. seldom appear on
’Change—now that the long-outmoded
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act has been
repealed, they will in future continue to
receive their full contract rate. Including
the new issue, net tangible cover is
£4O 4s. 4d. prefs. and 265. 4d. ords.


Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance .Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
7
ENVELOPES
of every type
and
size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3 h ins.,
6§ x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [{j;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
804 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 174 of 1955.
TO JACK DE CONEY.—TAKE NOTICE
that JEAN STUART DE CONEY has
filed .a Petition for Divorce No. 174 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards. If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th May 1955 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from A. R. SHAW, Solicitor, 34 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT DF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARIE ELVIS McMILLAN late of
Mayfield in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ALLAN
McMILLAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4448 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the tenth day
of May 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
JOHNSON & O’NEILL, Solicitors, 69
Hunter Street, Newcastle.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
% t^'r-?r
.
A:
SS
*r
i
>.
3?
7 ;
55.
ANNUAL
PO/NTS
REPORT OP
THE
HE
V
NAT
MUTUAL
NAL
ASSURANCE FUND NOW OVER £100,000,000
A record increase of £7,300,000 during the year
57,318 NEW POLICIES ISSUED
New assurances totalled £49,502,799 the
highest figure in the Association's history.
INTEREST RATE INCREASED
Average interest rate was £4-10-2 per cent. Net
rate after deduction of rates and taxes, £4-3-7
per cent. an increase of 3/4d.
BONUS RATES MAINTAINED
Bonuses for this year will be at last year's
increased scale.
, RESULTS FOR 85 YEARS-1869 TO 1954- —-
Amount Paid to Policyholders .... £124,616,704
Assurances in Force £363,589,215
I Assurance Fund £100,436,955
The Association transacts Ordinary Department
business only (including Group and Staff Superan-
nuation). All Profits belong to Policyholders alone.
There are NO shareholders.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD
ESTABLISHED 1869 (Inc. in Vic.)
VICTORIA:
395 Collins St., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
293 Queen St., Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
81 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
350 George St., Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
91 King William St., Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
119 Macquarie St., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
Custom House Quay, Wellington.
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.
' I'HE public became interested
in this old-established Sydney
business, which distributes type-
writers and accounting- ,and
calculafjng-machines and other
equipment which contributes to
increased efficiency in the office,
m 1951. And the co. has since
earned more than enough to pay
a steady 10 p.c. on the £90,000
of share capital, though profits
-fell from £28,160 in 1952 to
£16,622 last term. The slip was
due partly to general trading
conditions, including import-
restrictions, and partly to
expenses connected with changes
in agency agreements and exten-
sion of the business to Victoria
and Tasmania:
May r *'° ® e " ® ,e ' *
31. Profit. Dividends, serves.serves.
1951 21,876 10 p.c.= 7,116 14,760 62,379
Unexplained addition, £-152 62,531
1952 28,160 10 p.c.= 9,000 19,160 81,691
To retiring allowance,
£4,000 .. ••
1953 20,012 10 p.e.= 9,000 11,012 88,703
Tax overprovided, £352 .. 89,050
Profit sale shares, £899 .. 89,954
1954 16,622 10 p.c.= 9,000 7,622 97,570
* Subject to intangibles, £9,000,
31/5/’54.
Last term’s £16,622 (down £3390)
of profit was equal to 18.4 p.c.
on capital as against 22.2, 32 and
24.3 p.c. back to 1951. The
£97,576 of reserves is subject to
£9OOO of intangibles.
In 1953 the co. relinquished,
by agreement, its agency in
N. S. Wales for the Addresso-
graph Multigraph Corp. (U.S.),
and took over franchises, cover-
ing Victoria and Tasmania, for
the products of Underwood
Corp (U.S.), Block and Ander-
son, Ltd. (U.K.) and Original-
Odhner (Sweden). It already
held the N. S. Wales franchises
for the products of these cos. A
small subsidiary, Precision Parts
Manufacturing Co. Pty., provides
specialised engineering services
in connection with the various
typewriting, computing and other
machines handled.
Following the extension of
franchises just referred to, the
co. bought two freeholds —one
for office and showroom and the
other for servicing purposes—in
Melbourne at a total cost of
£41,085. To help meet the
outlay, install additional plant,
etc. (up £10,337), and carry more
stock (up £55,037), an extra
£20,213 was raised on mortgage
and £68,761 was added to the
overdraft: —
1952. . 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £90,000 £90,000 £90,000
lieserves .. 81,691 88,703 97,576
Mortgage . . 29,600 29,600 49,813
Overdraft . . 90,235 40,560 109,321
Creditors, tax
provision . 81,467 44,806 47,582
Due to sub-
sidiary . . 324 905 554
Final divs... 4,500 9,000 4,500
£377,817 £303,574 £399,346
Freehold . . 57,250 57,250 98,335
Plant,
vehicles .. 28,797 28,406 38,743
Sha r e s in
subsids. .. 6,404 6,405 1,005
Stock . . 188,043 99,794 154,831
Debtors . . 87,611 102,063 96,843
Due from
subsids. .. 229 27
Cash, pre-
payments 483 629 589
Goodwill .. 9,000 9,000 9,000
£377,817 £303,574 £399,346
When the books closed more-or-
less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£40,502, but for every £1 of
shareholders’ funds there was
225. belonging to mortgagees, the
bank and sundry creditors in the
business.
To help lighten the debt and
provide more working capital,
180,000 new ss. shares are to be
offered to those on the register
at March 21, one for two, at
par. The issue will lift paid
capital to £135,000, on which
10 p.c. will call for £3122 less
profit than was claimed last
term. Record sales are reported
for the first six months since the
close of accounts, but the cost of
expansion has gobbled all the
gain. However, an interim 5 p.c.
div. has been paid, and, subject
to economic developments, it
should not be long before net
earnings begin to improve.
After exercising the rights to
the new issue and allowing for
brokerage, the net cost of the
scrip, which recently sold at
7s. 2d., is 6s. 6d. The rights thus
have a theoretical value of Is. 6d.
The return at 6s. 6d. is 7.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (including the new
issue) is Bs. Bd.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd.
The co. (paid capital £127,500
in 10s. shares) is back on the
dividend-list with an interim
p.c., payable March 31. And
the price of the shares, which
fell from 19s. to 10s. 9d. during
1954, recently stood at 165., at
which figure the return is
9.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Finances are comfortable. At
the close of last accounts
current assets totalled £112,710
and current liabilities £13,783.
The co. has been mining and
treating beach-sands at Byron
Bay (N.S.W.) for the last 20
years, and has paid dividends
totalling £120,434 to date. The
rate dropped from 15 p.c. in
1948 to 5 p.c. for the next two
years, and rose to 15 p.c. again
for the three years to the close of
accounts in 1953. For the 12
months to that date the profit
was £21,599. For the succeed-
ing year a loss of £7324 showed
up, and no div. was paid.
Weakening of the American
market was responsible for the
fall in earnings and divs. in
1949 and 1950. Then, follow-
ing the outbreak of hostilities
in Korea, demand revived and
prices strengthened. The loss in
1953 was again due to lack of
American demand, following
liquidation of stocks after the
Korean settlement. As 1954
advanced the pressure of
accumulated stocks in dealers’
hands eased, demand revived
and prices strengthened. Aus-
tralian rutile concentrates are
now fetching £6O a ton (mini-
mum assay 95 p.c.) c.i.f. U.K.,
or about £2O a ton more than
at the middle of last year.
And, for the most part, local
producers have forward con-
tracts covering their 1955 out-
put. Long-term prospects for
the industry depend largely
upon developments in the corn-
mercial uses of titanium and
zirconium, which are expanding
rapidly. The growing use of
zirconium in connection with
atomic developments has con-
siderably strengthened demand
for this metal.
G.M. of Kalgoorlie
The co. issued 332,653 of its
f.-p. 10s. shares in part-payment
for the shares in South Kalgurli
Consolidated, Boulder Persever-
ance and Kalgoorlie Enterprise,
whose leases adjoin those of
G.M. of K. (including Paringa)
to the west on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile. To meet the other
(cash) part of the deals, financed
temporarily by the bank, and to
provide for extension of the co.'s
mill, etc., 1,869,510 new 10s.
shares were issued (underwritten)
at a premium of 2s. 6d. each to
those on the register at
February 28 last.
Paid capital will thus become
£1,869,510, on which the board
expects to maintain a 15 p.c.
distribution, with prospects of
better when amalgamation and
reorganisation of the recently
acquired properties are complete.
All the mines are to be worked
as one unit, and G.M. of K.’s
mill is being expanded to treat
the entire output, now about
38,000 tons per four-weekly
period. The work is scheduled
for completion by September
next. As a result of the deals in
question, the co. also acquired
an interest in the Croesus Prop.
Treatment and Kalgurli Ore
Treatment cos. It has since sold
its interest in the first-mentioned
mill to North Kalgurli (1912);
Ltd., for £150,000.
On the basis of last published
statements, total ore reserves of
all properties combined was
1,529,000 tons, averaging s.Bdwt.,
and the leases are far from being
completely developed.
G.M. of K.’s old shares
recently sold, ex rights, at 15s. 2d.
The rights have been fetching
around 3s. The return in each
instance is approximately 9.6 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The possibility that Princess Margaret
may become engaged to Group-Captain
Peter Townsend has been the chief
topic of conversation during the week
because newspaper-posters, headlines and
front-page stories have stressed the
rumors so consistently.
There is really no news at all. It is
all conjecture, and when one sees a_
poster saying, for instance, “Margaret
To Name Day,” one can be sure that
the story will be that someone told
somebody else that someone who ought
to know heard it said that Princess
Margaret looked very happy and had
bought a new hat.
Still, not being above a bit of gossip
herself, this Letter believes that if there
is to be any such engagement there will
be no official announcement until
August, when the Princess is 25. Before
then she cannot contract to marry with-
out the consent of the Queen, who, as
Defender of the Faith, could scarcely go
against the wishes of the Church of
England to give such a consent. (The
Bishop of Bradford, appropriately named
Dr. Blunt, said this during the week.)
The Princess would not be able to marry
for 12 months after the announcement
of an engagement, which means that it
would be August, 1956, before a
marriage could take place. She would
then become Lady Margaret Townsend,
and would have to renounce her right of
succession to the throne.
The fact that Captain Townsend is a
commoner does not seem to worry any-
one. That he is divorced (though the
innocent party) is the cause of most of
the conjecture. His two young sons, by
the way, are called Giles and Hugo,
names which somehow conjure up
pictures of medieval England.
ft ft ft
Opening concerts in the A.B.C.’s
Symphony Orchestra’s 1955 series were
heard during the week by full'houses on
each occasion, in spite of the great heat
which, it was thought by many, was the
cause of the collapse of Mr. Eugene
Goossens on Saturday night. It is
reassuring to hear that Mr. Goossens
is now making good progress.
The queue for tickets to the Youth
Concerts bore testimony to the great
interest in classical music there is in
this city (the queue began' to form 26
hours before the sale of tickets).
What a difference there is to the early
days of the Symphony Concerts, when
music-lovers spread themselves round the
Town Hall as widely as possible and
many wore evening-dress “so that the
audience would look larger”! Ballerinas
seem the most gala wear these days.
Noticed on the first night were Mrs. Roy
McCaughey in a mauve-grey chiffon with
cherry gloves, Lady Lloyd-Jones in navy
lace, Mrs. Frank Louat in pale-blue
patterned with black, and Mrs. Tibor
Paul all in black.
'ft ft ft
The Blake Prize for religious art
drew, as usual, a big crowd to its open-
ing. Mr. E. W. Burbridge spoke the
magic words declaring the exhibition
open, sprinkling his speech with gay
excerpts from English literature as he
did so. Frensham’s Miss Bryant spoke
briefly, too. Mr. and Mrs. Weaver
Hawkins were there, Mrs. Dora Sweet-
apple, Miss Hilda Lane-Mullins, Mr.
and Mrs. Lloyd Rees, Father Michael
Scott, Mrs. Harald Bowden, Mrs. Ben
Coombs with son Anthony (who seems
to have very definite ideas on art), Mrs.
John Davoren (formerly of Melbourne),
Mrs. Henry Gunson, and Mrs. Peter
Kirschener, who came especially from
Adelaide for the exhibition.
ft ft ft
A new note in trading was struck
during the weekend when an Italian
greengrocer said to a customer who
wanted to buy extra parsley, “I can’t
sell you any, because then I would not
have enough left to give away!”
ft ft ft
The mannequin-parades are gathering in
strength as the season of mists draws
closer. During the week Hanni Wilson,
who trades as “Boriss,” had her autumn
showing, and from it one would gather
that winter-clothes are to be distinctly
H-liney. Day-time wear features a wide
line from shoulder to shoulder and a
slim skirt. Colors are mainly black, some-
times grey, and accents in red. For even-
ing the Elizabethan motif was seen with
statuesque gowns, padded hemlines and
panniers. There were also several ex-
amples of “slipped waistlines.” An
attractive fashion among the furs was
the muff, especially one in sable.
Busy with preparations for her wedding
at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, on April 15,
is Diane Fuller, second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. B. Fuller, of Elizabeth Bay.
Her fiance is Pat Gunning, son of the
late Mr. J. P. Gunning and Mrs. Gunning,
of Double Bay. Photo by Dayne.
There >were many delightful things to
be seen at the exhibition of modern and
antique table-settings at David Jones’
Gallery in aid of Kuring-gai Karitane
Child Welfare Mobile Clinic.
Mr. George Auchinachie recreated the
atmosphere of an 18th-century tavern
with genuine oak- and pewter-pieces, and
included a tobacco-box which ejected
enough tobacco for a pipe on receipt of
one penny. There was a lovely jade
ornament on the Chinese dinner-table by
Mrs. S. H. Sih, in the form of a tree
with cornelian, amethyst, white- and
green-jade fruits and flowers. Mrs. I.
Stenstrom’s table was set specially for-
eating “krafter,” which are similar to
yabbies, and had interesting glass-botties
in the shape of animals.
There were coaching-horns on the wall
behind Mrs. C. Scott Waine’s 17th-cen-
tury formal table; a filigree perfume-
container on the Pakistan table (this is
passed from hand to hand before the
meal, said Miss S. Rahman, who set the
table); on Mrs. A. V. Maxwell’s table a
huge silver venison-dish on which supper
for a whole party could be kept hot
(where to keep it in between parties
would be the problem); intriguing early-
American milk-glass salt-dishes designed
as a hen on a nest on the informal Ameri-
can-luncheoft by Mrs. M. A. Macgregor ;
and a beautiful heptagonal Regency table
in Mr. J. W. Shand’s perfect setting for
a card-party. It would take too long to
describe all the 22 settings, but each in its
different way was a pleasure to look
upon.
☆ ☆ ☆
The date of the International Ball has
been set for August 4 at the 'Trpcadero,
and already the committee, under the
presidency of Mrs. C. M. Guiney, is plan-
ning attractive features for the ball itself
and for functions to precede it. The
decoration of the tables will again be a
feature, and there will be something
similar to the pageant which has been so
popular in previous years.
☆ ☆ ☆
Seemingly ingenuous remark over-
heard at exhibition of modern art: “You
know, one should buy these pictures and
look at them often. Then one would get
to know and love them. It’s like an old
teapot or anything else you have for a
long time. You can’t help getting fond of
it no matter what it looks like.”
☆ ☆ ☆
At a meeting attended by about 150
people, an auxiliary has been formed to
work for Dr. Bamardo’s Homes in N.S.W.
under the presidency of Mrs. Rupert
Scammell. The honorary-secretaries are
Mrs. Alfred Vercoe and Mrs. Norman
Jones. There is a very distinguished list
of vice-presidents, and the membership
seems particularly keen. It is expected
that much will be heard of this
committee in the future.
MELBOURNE
The Governor, with Lady Brooks and
members of their personal staff, and the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. F.
P. Selleck and Mrs. Selleck) arrived at
Henley by launch to open the Moomba
festivities. On the gaily decorated house-
boat the vice-regal party was received
by Mr. E. B. Coles, president of the
Henley committee, and Mrs. Coles. But
when his Excellency came to send up the
largest balloon ever, he had to confess
ruefully that it had been “pinched.”
The Lord Mayor’s houseboat, on
which the official party had afternoon-
tea, was decorated with petunias and
flock in pots and an imitation lawn which
covered the deck. Red-and-white-striped
blinds added to the gay effect, and at
each end of the boat there was a bar and
a kitchen. Lady Brooks looked attractive
in a black-spotted white-chiffon frock and
large black silk-straw hat. She was
accompanied by Mrs. R. H. Spraggett,
who wore with her black-patterned white
frock a tiny white hat. Mrs. Selleck’s
pastel-pink tie-silk pleated frock was pat-
terned with clusters of tiny black flowers ;
her hat was of small white flowers.
Mrs. Coles’s jacket-suit of powder-blue
shantung was dotted with white flowers.
Among the guests were Sir Frank and
Lady Beaurepaire; Sir Frank and Lady
Richardson; Mr. and. Mrs. Bernard
Evans and daughter Mary ; Mrs. Alec
Finlay and her daughter Virginia (who
wore a white broderie-Anglaise frock and
a pink-tulle-swathed pink-straw picture-
hat) ; Sir Harold and Lady Gengoult
Smith and their daughter Marion ; Sir
Clifden and Lady Eager ; and' Councillor
and Mrs. Douglas Cox (she in white with
red accessories).
Mrs. Margaret Saker, organising-secre-
tary of Victoria’s “Loveliest Mother
Quest" (which is to help Prince Henry
Hospital’s £250,000 building-fund appeal),
was organiser of this State’s post-war
Miss Australia quests which between
1947-50 raised huge sums for charitable
organisations. In connection with her
work for St. Vincent’s Hospital building-
fund appeal Mrs. Saker, in collaboration
with well-known mannequin Greta Dutch,
organised the first successful “Loveliest
Gown of the Year” function, in which
various fashion-houses co-operated. Mrs.
Saker lives at Bayswater, has a married
son and daughter and two grandchildren,
Mrs. William Forbes and Elizabeth Tay-
lor. Her chief interests outside organi-
sational work lie in the theatre and in
music. John Warlow photo.
Christ Church, Berwick, was the setting
for the marriage of Jane Alice Camilla,
only daughter of Mr. R. G. Casey, Minis-
ter for External Affairs, and Mrs. Casey,
of Edrington, Berwick, and Murray
Wynne Macgowan, of Sydney. The Rev.
W. P. Daunt, an old family-friend, cele-
brated the marriage.
Jane’s lovely gown was fashioned from
a gold-edged cream sari her mother
brought her from India. It was made on
redingote lines, with a U-neckline and
short sleeves, and opened to show an
underskirt of ivory satin. The short
cream-tulle veil was held with a gold-
filigree coronet, and an ivory-and-gold
prayer-book was carried. *
In attendance on the bride were Mrs.
Robert Dalziel, Claire Cornish and
the bridegroom’s two small nieces, Susan
and Dina Dodds. They wore frocks of
turquoise-blue organza with high necks
and very full skirts. Their shoes matched
the gold snoods worn on the heads of
the older attendants and the Alice-in-
Wonderland ribands worn by the little
girls. The bridegroom, who is the
youngest son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
C. G. Macgowan, formerly of Belgrave,
had Don Richardson, of Hamilton, as
best man and Robert Dalziel as grooms-
man. After the ceremony Mr. and Mrs.
Casey gave a reception at Edrington.
☆ ☆ ☆
Victoria’s famous dramatic-soprano
Sylvia Fisher made her first appearance
at the Moomba Festival concert in the
Town Hall with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra conducted by Joseph Post, and
she was given a splendid ovation after
singing arias by Mozart and Weber. The
singer wore a French-model gown of
black-and-silver brocade with sash-
draperies of black satin. Her only jewellery
was a brooch, the gift of her husband.
After the concert the soprano and her
husband, Übaldo Gardini, were enter-
tained at a reception in the Lady
Mayoress’s room, when the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs, F. P.
Selleclc) also entertained the conductor,
representatives of the Moomba Festival
and members of the A.8.C.,* among them
Victorian manager Ewart Chappie and
his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
•It would seem a natural thing for
Mrs. Alexander Frere, wife of the chair-
man of William Heinemann, London pub-
lishers, and daughter of the late Edgar
Wallace, to be a lover of “whodunits”;
and this was confirmed at Mr. F. I.
Sam bell’s cheery late-afternoon party at
the Oriental Hotel to give local writers
an opportunity to meet the visitors.
Admired was the ink-blue silk-shantung
frock and natty jacket worn by Mrs.
Frere. Mrs. Sambell assisted her hus-
band to entertain the guests, as did Val
Arnott, whose cinnamon-brown satin
cocktail-frock was trimmed with opales-
cent pearls. Among the guests were
Mr. and Mrs. Dale Collins, Nevil Shute
and his wife, Dr. Mary Kent Hughes
(she wrote Matilda Waltzes With the
Tommies), Charles Barrett, and Professor
and Mrs. Maurice Belz.
Mannequins appearing in the fashion-
show at the Moomba Ball in the Royale
Ballroom on March 22 will wear original
jewellery designed by Christian Dior.
The function will commence with dinner,
and the parade will take place while
coffee is being served. The Governor and
Lady Brooks will be present, and the
official party will include Lord Mayor
Cr. F. Selleck and Mrs. Selleck.
Moomba (an aboriginal word loosely
meaning “let’s get together”) will set the
decorations-motif. Already Melbourne
is enjoying the street-decorations, and is
all set for the two weeks of carnival, of
which the ball is one attraction. Replicas
of the Moomba motif done in fruit and
vegetables will decorate each table in the
ballroom, and a huge Mr. Moomba,
harnessed to strings of balloons and
streamers will greet guests as they arrive
Tickets (£2 12s. 6d. each, proceeds to
Legacy) may be obtained from Mrs. W.
Comeadow (WA8170), Mrs. M. Nathan
(BJ 2282), Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson
(BL2880), Mrs. Bruce Rose (UY7181)
and Mrs. Joseph Wiedenmayer (UY 4509).
☆ ☆ ☆
At the monthly meeting of the Ameri-
can Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital, held at the E.S.U. rooms, tradi-
tional farewell silver spoons were pre-
sented to two former members who leave
shortly for the U.S.: Mrs. John L. Sulli-
van (wife of a U.S. attache) and Mrs. N.
M. Pearson. Welcomes were also extended
to several members who have been back
to the U.S. on a visit: Mrs. Marvin
Bryant, Mrs. J. O’Neil, Mrs. L. E.
Tewkesbury and Mrs. T. R. Blarney.
Hostesses for afternoon-tea, which fol-
lowed the meeting, were Mrs. Bryant,
Mrs. O’Neil and Mrs. A. Evans.
At the meeting president of the auxiliary
Mrs. R. van Zytveld announced that the
£4OOO-odd raised last year by the
auxiliary was the second-largest donation
ever received by the Children’s Hospital.
Usually the money goes to the hospital’s
building-fund, but £llOO will be spent on
three isolettes, for saving the lives of
prematurely-born babies.


Appointment
x to H. M. King
frederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment;
to W. M. the
Oueen of the
Netherlands
rpk
....
m-
r; mii«c °eo»m* 6 !l
•• ' '
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark's
liqueur delight.
for your after
dinner enjoyment
Cwf *
i
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
OLD MASTERS
Renowned private collection of
oils and watercolours for sale.
Write
COLLECTOR,
P.O. Box 1021, BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD' JACK WILLIAMS late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that JOAN
WILLIAMS has filed her Petition for
Divorce No. 4577 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
intend to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 18th
May 1955 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MR. G. M.
STAFFORD, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW '
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 1100 of 1953.
TO RONALD SYDNEY BONNER.—TAKE
NOTICE that RITA MAY BONNER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1100 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under 5.19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
20th day of May 1955 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
HAROLD MUNRO, Solicitor, of 81 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
II? THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FRANK RALPH BEGGS late of
Adams and Frank Streets Narrandera. —
TAKE NOTICE that JOAN BEGGS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 810 of
1954 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by. 10th May 1955 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
JONES, JONES & JONES, Solicitors, of
183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 2758 of 1952.
BETWEEN ELSIE MAY WELTON
Petitioner and ARTHUR LESLIE
WELTON Respondent.
TO ARTHUR LESLIE WELTON late of
13 Searle Street Petersham. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELSIE MAY WELTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2758 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th day of May 1955 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSIEURS LIGIITOLLER
TALTY & BROOKE, Solicitors, of 2b
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE FINEST AUTOMOBILE HIRE SERVICE
to Britain and the Continent
Mi
Wm
UNIINtIUD
NlllE^GE
at an all-in rate
Full S/6 Seateis
Radio
K\t Conditioned
:Jt,W '*«'■******
VAUXHALL CARS
Here’s a luxury self-drive hire-
car at economy rates. Big car
comfort, speed and amenities at
one all-in charge. A week’s
travel wherever, whenever you
like for £2O (Stg.). Whatever
the mileage there are NO
EXTRA CHARGES. Vauxhall
5/6 seater cars backed by
General Motors service in
Europe, ensures economic,
trouble-free travel. Book
GOLDENWAY for faultless
service throughout your stay.
Write, phone, cable or call
NOW for details.
WE EXCLUSIVELY
USE and RECOMMEND
GOLDENWAY
AUTOMOBILE HIRE COMPANY LIMITED
(fsso)
V^EXTRA^/
PETROL
(Aust. Div.) St. John’s Wood Roundabout, London, N.W.B
3 Phone: PRIMROSE 6412. Cables: GOLWAYHIRE, LONDON.
’Grams: GOLWAYHIRE, NORPHONE, LONDON.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Blake Prize
In the Wallace Collection in
London there is the exquisite
“Holy Family” of Rubens,
probably the loveliest flesh-
painting in the world, with the
bodies of the infant Jesus and
His attendant cherub, at once
supremely solid and almost
translucent, glowing like rose-
buds ; a display of warmth and
craftsmanship in oil-paint
hardly to be matched even by
his captivating “Helena Four-
mont” and uproarious “Silenus”
in London’s National Gallery.
So there, after mile upon
gloomy mile of religious art
through the galleries of Europe,
sometimes good, often indiffer-
ent, and in the mass obviously
needing to be dispersed into the
churches for which it was
painted, is at last the freshness
of the morning.
It is this freshness of delight
and vision and this infinitely
delicate craftsmanship which
one misses most, this year as
other years, in the exhibition
of Blake Prize entries at Mark
Foy’s, Sydney. With a few
echoes from Cezanne, from
Seurat and the cubists, most of
the competitors seem to hold
that religious art began with
the muddy melancholy of Rou-
ault, relieved with its dabs of
color, and should end there.
However, everyone can’t be
a Rubens. These are the styles
of the age; and, with fewer
merely horrific entries and a
good deal less crude slapstick
in paint than in previous year,
there are quite a number attrac-
tive enough in their own way.
Donald Friend, the prize-
winner, who wields probably the
most sensitive line in black-and-
white and tinted drawings to be
seen in Sydney today, has never
seemed to this commentator
truly a technician in oils.
Nevertheless, under his mean-
ingless figure of St. John, there
are a richness of color and
bizarre animation in his pattern
of heraldic birds and lions like
a medieval banner.
Eric Smith’s “Pilate Washing
His Hands,” taking the second
prize, is again something to
catch, if not precisely to
enchant, the eye. Again, it- is
weak in the central figure but
redeems itself in its disembodied
head and other objects, floating
about on flat spaces of red and
green, so that it looks oddly
like a map. A sketchy but effec-
tive “Crucifixion” by the same
artist is very much after Rou-
ault ; as also is an almost
exactly similar, except more
finished, “Passion” by William
Gleeson in subdued green and
orange.
Third prize—these are all
well-chosen awards —went to
Lawrence M. Daw’s “Golgotha,”
a curious, murky, cubist com-
position, dramatised by a criss-
cross of light in the distant
ceiling.
Some other paintings that
stand out are Charles Bush’s
“Lot’s Wife,” with a fire in the
background and the lady duly
turned into a pillar of salt;
Richard Crichton’s rather
crowded “Vision” of a cubist
Lamb over the rooftops; Mary
Ann Telfer’s “He Is Not Here
but Is Risen” in thin lozenges
of blue and yellow light; and,
perhaps, since it is alive in a
wild and woolly way, S. L.
Waldron’s “Moses Destroying
the Tablets.”
+jt
Flower Paintings
Mrs, Louise Klem, at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries, paints
typically like an intelligent
amateur. Though unable to
subdue the tackiness of her back-
grounds, she has some talent in
oils; she obviously loves
flowers ; and she sees no reason
why she shouldn’t paint them.
Nor, indeed, is there any reason.
There is at least some feeling of
life about her work; garden-
lovers will thoroughly enjoy her
crimson-and-white camellias, her
pink tiger-lilies, “Miss Godson’s
Hollyhocks” and the fuschias of
“Corps de Ballet” ; and “Winter’s
Last Rose,” a more adventurous
composition than the others,
would hang pleasantly in
respectable still-life company.
♦l+
Abstracts
Two painters are showing
abstracts at Sydney Bissietta
Gallery, Roy Fluke and Gordon
McAuslan. Mr. Fluke has a
large “Sydney Nocturne” like one
of Klee’s jigsaw cities, a black
jigsaw of “Night Eyes” and a
“Guitar” like one of Picasso’s.
Mr. McAuslan has an affection
for pears; and “Nocturne,”
“Dark Bird Passing,” “Vase,
Fruit and Evening” and even
“Shape Tensions” all turn out to
be dimly concerned with this
estimable vegetable. Both
painters seem to have talent as
designers ; and both to be wast-
ing their time.
Stage and Music
“Darkness at Noon”
Judged by the Independent
Theatre’s production of Sydney
Kingsley’s stage-version of it,
Arthur Koestler’s Darkness at
Noon is a pretty fierce sermon
on a text from Isaiah 59.
Rubashov, one of the old
guard in the Communist
hierarchy, is nabbed as a scape-
goat for failures in the Soviet
scheme of things and slung into
prison to be worked-on for a full
confession of his “crimes,”
Ivanoff, another of the old guard
and a friend of Rubashov, is the
commissar in charge of the
prison, and plays for a scheme of
partial confession whereby
Rubashov might be restored to
the party to work for the old
aims of the revolution. Gletkin,
Ivanoff’s second-in-command,
gets wind of the scheme, Ivanoff
gets a bullet in the neck very
smartly, and Rubashov gets the
same after “a full confession”
has been dragged from him.
It is a terrible play in that
there is nothing good in it, and
that any momentary flickers of
humanity are smothered by a
fungus of evil. Rubashov’s love-
affair and Ivanoff’s attempt to
save him—two fleeting and
recognisably human aspects —
are swiftly obliterated by the
omnipotence of the machine.
Even Rubashov, the victim for
whom one might feel some
sympathy, is a fanatic and a
murderer caught by a fanaticism
more cold and more ferocious
• than his own —a kind of
cannibalism with evil devouring
evil and growing more monstrous
by it.
It also looks like a very difficult
play to produce. As Kevin
Brennan remarked after the
curtain, it was put on in New
York with the aid of two revolv-
ing stages and four levels. The
Independent, having nothing like
that, makes-do with a split stage,
a wing flung-out to one side and
translucent screens; altogether
it manages very well, slipping
smoothly through a score or
more scenes, including flash-
backs, and with Doris Fitton’s
production swatting each point
of emphasis with admirable
force and clarity.
The one weakness in the pro-
duction stems from some dis-
parity in the relative strengths of
. the players, Brennan’s Rubashov
is admirable —full of force and
arrogance, but with streaks of a
human being showing through as
he crumbles under the ferocity of
his jailers, Marcel Wattel, that
excellent afctor of whom one sees
all too little, is even better as
Ivanoff —his acting has the same
force as Brennan’s, but he brings
more variety, more and finer
nuances to it.
The power that destroys these
two is represented in Gletkin ;
and Bruce Menzies, although
very noisy about it, seems quite
unable to generate anything like
the heatless passions and
calculated mechanical cruelties
needed to make the destruction
of Rubashov and Ivanoff look
feasible. The result is that the
final cracking of Rubashov has
nothing like the impact it should
have —he should be smashed by
a juggernaut of his own making;
instead, he collapses before a
scooter.
Menzies might have got away
with his Gletkin in lesser com-
pany, but matched \ against the
combined force of Brennan and
Wattel he hasn’t much show —it
might have been better to have
set strength against strength by
casting Wattel as Gletkin.
The rest of a long cast acquit
themselves well, with Patricia
Hill lending distinction to the
role of Rubashov’s secretary and
mistress who is caught and
crushed like an ant in the cogs
of the machine.
$ ❖ ❖
“La Boheme”
National Opera’s production
at Sydney Palladium of Puccini’s
opera on the loves and lives of
bohemians in the Latin Quarter
of Paris had only one change
from last-season’s cast: that of
Colline, sung by bass Douglas
Parnell, who contrived to look
rather like Abraham Lincoln and
sang his farewell to his overcoat
in a manner that smacked of the
concert-platform rather than of
the stage.
As Mimi, Tais Taras captured
well the frailty and gentleness of
that ill-starred heroine, and her
singing was excellent, lacking the
metallic edge which marred some
of her work earlier in the season.
Betty Prentice’s Musetta was
coquettishness personified, and
her “Waltz Song” had good tone
and plenty of animation.
Ronald Dowd began on a
minor note as Rodolfo, but he
threw himself into the apostrophe
to the new-found Mimi’s digits
with some fire. In his singing in
the love-duets, however, he per-
sisted in gazing, not as a lover
should into his inamorata’s eyes,
but with glazed look somewhere
into the distance.
Once again Geoffrey Chard’s
work as Marcel, the painter, was
outstanding. He and Neil Easton
(Schaunard) have baritones
which project well, and they
mostly dominated the ensemble
singing—which had its best
expression in the septet outside
the Cafe Momus.
The Death Scene, a credit to
all concerned, was made the
more moving by its restraint.
The Four Bohemians had to
struggle in the first act against
an orchestra that was allowed too
much weight; elsewhere
Warwick Braithwaite kept a
tighter rein on his forces.
Talkies
“Beau Brummell” (St. James):
Polished and witty dialogue,
good acting, elegant dressing and
lavish sets in color do much to
offset the weaknesses of mis-
applied sentiment which stud
this story of George Bryan
Brummell and the Prince Regent.
Stewart Granger wears clothes
as the Beau may have done and
generally does well in the role.
If Peter Ustinov draws a dis-
torted view of the Prince’s talents
it is less his fault than the script-
writer’s. Robert Morley gives a
brief but striking portrait of the
unbalanced George 111. Eliza-
beth Taylor, as the Lady
Patricia whom the Beau wooed
and lost, is dumbly decorative.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
In the six previous instalments
of his fascinating travel-record,
Peter Bladen has done the gold-
fields and the other parts of his
native Western Australia en
route and has crossed the border
into South Australia. He is now
near Fowler's Bay.
COORABIE TO FOWLER’S
BAY, continued
/*| PPRO ACHING Fowler’s
f 1 Bay the road leads over a
L | dry salt-lake and skirts
the sandhills, passing
the site of Kent Town, now a*
forgotten settlement. Kent Town
was named after an old
kangarooer, Tom Kent, but the
name was never gazetted. An
1892 survey-map shows an “old
chimney” near the site and
“graves” are noted near by. In
recent years the chimney has
again become visible above the
sand-drifts. Some have seen a
string of bottles marking the
edge of a path, but Kent Town
has all but vanished, with its
memories. I saw only the
chimney and fox-tracks over the
sandhills.
Fowler’s Bay was originally
known as Yalata (a corruption
of Yerlata), but the name
Tarombo was selected for the
Government town-site in 1916.
It was originally proclaimed a
port under the name of Port
Eyre, to commemorate the
explorer’s journey, but general
usage has given the name
Fowler’s Bay to the locality
(sometimes rendered, affection-
ately, as Fowlhouse Bay).
An obelisk near the beach gives
this record:
Matthew Flinders, R.N. (1174-
1814) Commander of H.M. Sloop In-
vestigator on 28 January, 1802,
named Fowler’s Bay and Point
Fowler after his First-Lieutenant,
Robert Fowler, and Cape Nuyts
after Pieter Nuyts, of the Gulden
Zeepaard. The coastline was dis-
covered by Nuyts in 1627.
A native legend remembers the
coming of a great white bird
which folded its wings and rested
on the bay, referring perhaps to
the arrival of the Investigator.
At Fowler’s Bay there are two
petrol-depots, a small store
[where it is said you can buy
anything from a stumpjump-
plough to a packet of salts, and
a smaller school, a storage-shed,
the post-office and the police-
station, a hall and the jetty,
several homes and the sandhills,
but it is another of those places
where I met people who had
come for a visit and stayed 50
years,
Fowler’s Bay is a leisurely
place. “There are still plenty of
days for what doesn’t happen
today,” as somebody told me.
Until the war the main road
went through the township, but
now it is isolated from the high-
way, the centre of an, out-of-the-
way community of people who
call themselves “the Top-enders.”
There are still echoes of the
past. Once there were many
whalebones, relics of the whaling-
days. One character told me he
thought “the Bay” was used as a
whaling-station, perhaps by the
Dutch, before Australia was
settled.
On East Point there are old
dray-tracks and the troughs once
used for melting fat. Some claim
to know the path taken by Eyre
over the sandhills; and it is
related how the early settlers
watched natives coming from the
sandhills with water, and so dis-
covered that drinking-water was
obtainable there in shallow
soaks. By 1869 there were two-
hundred people at “the Bay.”
Once ’roos were here in great
numbers. Towards the end of
last century, they were
slaughtered by the thousand. Big
Bill, a Russian Finn, and other
’rooers built great V-shaped
yards, sometimes with miles of
fences, into which the ’roos were
driven. Remains of some of the
old fences, and of the heaps of
bones, can still be seen. At one
time 1500 kangaroos were
counted on a trip from “the Bay”
to Penong. I didn’t see any.
A well-known figure in bygone
days was the aboriginal mailman,
Old Jimmy. At least as far back
as 1884 there was a mail-coach
running from Fowler’s Bay to
Eucla, but Old Jimmy was “on
the run” when there wasn’t a
coach.
It is said that he carried letters
only, to the telegraph men at
Eucla, taking a fortnight for the
trip in each direction, travelling
from waterhole to waterhole.
He was very trustworthy, and
at the end of his journey would
receive a stick of tobacco, and
sit down for several days until
replies had been written. Roy
Gurney remembered seeing him
in his declining years, a sick and
lonely old man, forgotten by
those whose messages he had
carried for so many hundreds of
miles.
The old hotel is now in ruins,
but the local inhabitants still
point out the rooms of the
original Yalata homestead, and
the bullet-holes around the walls
of the Commercial Room, said
to have been made by Richard
Maurice.
Wild and not always sympa-
thetic stories are told of him.
His father returned to England,
and when his remittance wasn t
sufficient Richard would “go
bush” for a while on the pretext
of exploring, and once made a
trip to Wyndham.
One of his favorite pastimes
was shooting at bottles lined up
on the hotel windowsills. He
would also lick a stamp and stick
it to the ceiling by flicking it on
a coin, then fire at it. After
one big jamboree in Adelaide he
came back to “the Bay,” and
walked around half blind for
several days before collapsing
with D.T.s and dying in the hotel
bar. That was his story as one
man told it.
Part of the old hotel is now
used as a beach cottage. Tractors
are loaded at the front ramp and
pigs are kept in the cellars.
The name, the Globe Hotel, has
almost faded from the facade.
There was nowhere else to
stay, so I went to the police-
station, anticipating a cell to
sleep in, and bread-and-water
for supper, but the Top-enders
are hospitable people, and
Constable “Pen” and his wife are
no exceptions. They apologised
because they were going out for
the evening, and Mrs. “Pen”
“rustled up a hasty snack,”
which was one of the most
delicious meals I could have
encountered, with many pleasant
trimmings, made all the more
enjoyable because I had missed-
out on lunch.
They prepared for me the
children’s play-room, which was
once the old police-station, and
one of the earliest buildings in
“the Bay,” and, having washed
the desert from my hair, with the
company of a friendly puppy
and a playful kitten I sat read-
ing through old police-records
by lamplight.
The police-station was as com-
fortable as any suburban home.
Outside it was pleasantly cool.
Orion stood poised in the hunt.
I could hear the whir of the
windmill and the wash of the sea,
and at a time when most city-
folk are preparing for an evening
of slick commercial entertain-
ment I was carried back to the
days of a colorful past, to times
when schooners called at the little
port, and the police-horses went
out on patrol, rounding up
sheep-stealers or investigating
lonely suicides; Jester and
Modestey, plucky animals often
called on to cover hundreds of
miles in a fortnight.
Some of the journals were
written in beautiful script, but
Constable Gardener was
chastised by his “shief” for bad
spelling. In a letter on natives,
referring to “their imperfect
knowledge of English language,”
he displayed his own prowess
with such words as “inteligent,”
“extreemly,” “assistance” and
“interperting.” His writing was
so bad that he gave the impres-
sion of/ stating: “I have the
horror to inform you ”
In those good old days there
were many charges of riotous and
drunken behavior and other
misdemeanors, such as the theft
of “The History of the British
Empire value 25., one billy-can,
value 2s. also some flour tea and
sugar and about 61b. of bacon
value 25.,” “being drunk and
wandering with aboriginal
Judy,” and “being a pauper
lunatic,” which charge was later
dismissed, while the offender was •
sentenced instead to two months’
hard-labor for stealing a shirt
and razor and even for removal
of a stockyard.
There was reference to a child
who had died at Eucla, choked
by two green quondongs; the tax
on animals crossing the border,
ss. for horses, 2s. 6d. for horned
cattle, sheep 3d. and pigs 25.;
the need for preserving order at
the Yalata annual races; the
lively presence in town of the
shearers ; sly-grog selling; the
traffic across the Nullarbor Plains
via Eucla to Coolgardie from
April 6 to July 8, 1894, totalling
162 men, 226 horses and 161
camels ; and even a letter, written
in 1915, referring to Mrs. Daisy
Bates, the friend of the
aborigines.
And there was reference to the
explorer Richard Thelwall
Maurice. Later I was to know
more about him, and to see him,
through the reading of his letters
and papers, not as a wild and
reckless larrikin but a sensitive
and very human personality.
Richard Maurice was born at
Fourth Creek, South Australia,
in 1859, and, after an educa-
tion in England and Brussels,
travelled in the United States and
served a cadetship in New
Zealand. On a visit to England
in 1883 he was “cut off” by his'
father, who had returned there
to live, and came back to Aus-
tralia to go prospecting at the
Kimberley goldfield.
Later he went kangarooing and
made several trips of exploration,
notably from Fowler’s Bay to
Ooldea and from “the Bay” to
Cambridge Gulf. His life was an
interesting mixture of polo,
English country life and the dry
outback with its mysterious
native customs.
His letters, written to his friend
Winnecke, another explorer, are
rich with interest and humor.
At Mt. Eba, his father’s
station, during the drought of
1882, a native had told him of a
water “long way” to the


north-west, which had never been
seen by whites. He later wrote:
‘"This excited my inborn explor-
ing propensities.” Through the
years his thoughts returned to
Tallarinja, the native well where
water bubbled out of a hole in
the stone, secretly longing to be
the first white man to see it.
Despite his education, he pro-
fessed himself to be not a city-
lover. “This life suits me down
to the ground,” he wrote.
“People talk about its being
rough—all rot. It’s a damned
sight worse in a city where a
man leads an artificial life —
eating when he does not want
to—likewise drinking and talking
for talking’s sake —voila tout.”
Fowler’s Bay was far from
being citified. He found it “a
straggling little township dumped
down on the verge of a dreary
waste of sand,” and wrote that
the place “certainly does not
possess an opera-house or
theatre, but it has a store where
all necessaries can be procured
and a very comfortable hotel.”
To a thirsty traveller from the
bush it was “a perfect paradise.”
Dick Maurice tells of two
brothers who came up from Port
Lincoln and took turns at firing
from 100yds. with a Winchester
rifle at a box of matches held
on a plate by the other. The
brothers’ names were Jom and
Harry, and it has been remarked
that Tom, Dick and Harry were
all up to the same kinds of
tricks.
Another tale relates that a
coach-driver was telling a new-
chum that the kangaroos were
used as letter-carriers. “They
meet the coach,” he said, “and
I give them their master’s letters,
which they put in their pouches
to carry home.” The newchum
was incredulous until, a kangaroo
chancing to hop into the roadway
and pause in front of the advanc-
ing coach, the driver shouted
out: “Nothing for you today!”
and the animal turned and dis-
appeared into the bush.
Maurice had few pretensions
about his worth. He wrote to
Winnecke: “I don’t pretend to
be an explorer like yourself and
others.” He was only a traveller
seeking to use whatever abilities
he possessed to promote a greater
knowledge of his country, its
native peoples and plants, and to
satisfy his own tastes, because
he could not “remain in a house
doing nothing.”
Planning a trip, he would
write: “You know better than I
that these traverses look right
enough on the chart with a bottle
of beer by your side, but they
don’t look the same in the field,”
or that the notion was to “potter
about outback” and. fatten the
camels with a chance of rain.
Half-blind or with his hand
“burst out and [the hand] as
plump as a fat chicken,” travel-
ling “a distance of three sleeps”
between rockholes, getting water
from mallee-roots, or wild
natives, and eating lizards, he
would prefer to travel as the
natives travelled, without
animals, because of the lack of
water. Once when his camel
knocked up and wouldn’t shift,
Maurice had to pull it while the
natives held a burning stick under
its tail, to drag the unfortunate
creature a few yards into shade.
Of his natives, he would write:
“There is nothing active in their
system, unless it be their
stomachs,” or that one “was so
far civilised that he had been in
jail for stealing flour.”
But he had a great admiration
for them. Life in the bush would
have been intolerable without
them, he wrote. “The ordinary
white man after a few weeks
either repeats his stories over
again or invents others, both of
which are painful to have to
hear, whereas the black reads
the bush like a white the news-
paper and there is always some-
thing fresh every day.”
He collected “dream stones,”
the “little fly corrobberie stones”
and others. He was for ever
reforming. “Here we are again
as the clown says in the circus,”
he wrote in 1899. “But before
beginning let me inform you I
have sworn off whisky from this
day evermore, and/when I say
that I need say no more. I gave
my friends here a terrible fright
by having a fit which they in
their innocence thought would
remove R.T.M. from this
material world of self —it did
not—but rather than risk any
more of these sensational acts —
have knocked it off for ever,”
and, one day or another, he con-
tinued to “knock it off” until his
final fit.
On the eve of his journey
covering 1500 miles in four
months, mainly through “terra
incognita,’’ the first crossing of
the continent from south to
north by the route he had*
planned, he wrote: “My dear
old Winnecke: It’s 9 a.m. All
is ready with the exception of
the camels, and that you know
is a big item. My little game of
‘walkabout’ is about to
begin.... I ought with luck to
have a right good time” ; and in
the postscript: “Off all intoxi-
cants for ever last night’s
parting glass was done on W.
sauce.”
He was to be elected a member
of the Royal Geographical
Society, for “generous and
valuable services to geographical
science and to this State,” his
journals and records were pre-
served, and he gave a travel-talk
at the Lyric Club-room, but he
professed: “I do not care for
publicity I want peace and
can only find it in the bush
if I write and say what I have
seen the learned men of letters
argue.”
He is still living to anyone who
reads his papers, because few
history-books have sought to
embalm him in cold facts.
Perhaps,, as he admitted, he
wasn’t much of a scientist, or an
explorer, and he succumbed to
an evil of the artificial life which
he despised, but he was a true
Australian, a lover of Australia
for itself, despite its loneliness
and its hardships, as few men
are in our more comfortable
days. And I think he was made
happy, when, nine days out from
Ooldea on his northward
journey, he at last reached Tal-
larinja, the first white man to see
its bubbling waters; and he
would no doubt be content to
know that his grave is set on the
hilltop at Yalata, where soon
there may be a native mission
established, and where the
horizons are still wide and there
is peace.
FOWLER’S BAY TO
CEDUNA
A CHAP gave me a lift as far
as Boree (meaning “stone,”
named from a granite outcrop
on the hill), and I cycled through
paddocks to visit the Spencer
Youngs. They live in an old
stone cottage, and we sat chat-
ting in a kitchen adazzle with
snowy linen and silver and blue.
At Bookabie (the native “bu-
ku-gabi,” “stinking water,”
named from a brackish water-
hole) I returned to the highway.
Petrol, meals and accommoda-
tion are obtainable at a house
just off the road, nestling behind
a hill. For most overlanders it
is the last port-of-call before the
overlanding commences in all
seriousness.
The proprietors are pastoralists
and run the establishment more
as a goodwill gesture to travellers
than for profit.. They are typical
Top-enders and provide hot-
baths and meals at all od<J hours
of the day and night. The
Visitors’ Book, signed by folk
who arrived at midnight in some
cases, indicates their popularity:
“Put this place on wheels and
we’ll take you with u 5.... fit for
another four-hundred miles
a lifesaver.”
It was sunset when I arrived.
A hot bath was soon prepared
and a good meal. A sweet-faced
little girl kept presenting me
while I was eating, first with
kitchen utensils, then a doll and
finally my own bicycle-clips. I
had phoned some friends of the
Gurneys, who invited me to tea,
and we spent a pleasant evening
by a friendly fire.
My host crossed the desert by
pushbike in 1908, and his son
went 150 miles to a dance by car
only the night before, evidently
sharing my love for distances. I
remember there were moths
everywhere at Bookabie, even in
the bath.
The settlement was planned, if
at all, somebody said, with the
object that no more than any
two buildings should be in sight
of each other. The people are as
scattered in actuality as they are
close in friendship. There is a
school far past the house where
I stayed, and, out of sight of that,
a hall. The cemetery is on a
quiet hilltop, overrun with
rabbits. As a final gesture of
hospitality, one of the Top-
enders drove me to Penong in
his utility.
Penong, named from a native
rockhole, is “a nice little town'’
with wide views of open country-
side, a compact and substantial
township, set neatly along the
highway, with mainly stone
buildings. The Flying Doctor’s
plane was in a near-by paddock.
At the hotel amateur concerts,
I believe, are held in the bar on
Saturday afternoons, with songs
and mimes and recitations. The
local poets are held in high
repute. One of them, Mr. George
Price, was in hospital during my
visit, and I spent a pleasant
morning listening to his verses,
as rugged and sincere as the Top-
enders themselves, on the Flying
Doctor, the Pioneers and New
Year’s Day at Fowler’s Bay, a
local favorite, each ending with
a deprecatory laugh, or a clear-
ing of the throat and the rustle
of paper as George rolled
another smoke.
On Saturday a chap called
Fred, with his man Richard, took
me on a drive to the coast.
Richard was from Fitzroy and
called me “Bud” from the start.
As with all" the Top-enders, I felt
instantly at home. With Fred’s
two young sons, and two grey
staghounds on the running-
board, we piled into his ancient
jalopy, rumbled away towards
the lakes.
We passed the gypsum-
deposits, where I was shown
Australia’s (somebody, of course,
said “the world’s”) longest
flying-fox, over five miles of
cable and tall towers with
motionless buckets suspended.
The gypsum is raked into heaps,
mechanically, and carted away
by trailer. The flying-fox and a
sput railway-line constructed
here are out of use.
Once there was a guesthouse
on the spot, not to mention a
football-team with its own oval.
After a post-war revival, work
has slumped again, and little is
now being done. Gypsum was
gathered in gleaming heaps,
glistening hills of it. In the back-
ground there were sandhills, as
dazzling as snowpeaks in the
sun.
Near by are the salt-lakes,
worked in summer by contract.
Like the gypsum, the salt is raked
into heaps, and I was told that
it goes straight to the dinner-
table. As at Esperance, I found a
pink lake and a blue lake side by
side. Once again they were
“unique in Australia.”
A causeway leads over Lake
McDonald. On the right is the
pink lake, and I found it a sight
of breathtaking beauty. The
white sandhills were reflected;
and the sky, in contrast with the
stormy sky above, was mirrored
as a glorious sunset scene.
The blue lake, despite the
storm - clouds, remained an
intense blue, backed by white
sandhills and bushes vividly
green.
A solitary palm marks the spot
where once the manager of the
salt-works built his home.
These lakes are dangerous
with quicksand. There are wild
cattle in the sandhills, and some-
times they perish in the
treacherous sands. Wild-ducks
and rabbits are also plentiful.
Fred and his companion have
scarred wrists, achieved on spot-
light raids against “the little
enemies.”
Dick had broken-down six
months earlier while on his way
through to the West by motor-
bike, and the local carpenter had
broken-down similarly 25 years
earlier. Both had stayed. They
asked if I had any mechanical
defects.
I rather liked Penong and was
tempted to stay a little longer
when Dick repeated: “Bud, are
.you sure you haven’t got any
mechanical defects?”
I left Penong on Sunday by a
road leading up by Cemetery
Hill. It was my wish, to visit the
Koonibba Mission, and the
policeman had told me I would
have to leave the reserve by
sunset.
A few miles out the road
forked, without signs, and later I
passed an underground-tank not
marked on the map. There
weren’t any mileposts, but at last
I came to a sign “Charra 8”
(Charra is said to mean “emu
droppings,” and is the name of a
township which ceased to exist,
by proclamation, because no
settlement had taken place there).
Twenty-three miles from
Penong there was another
underground-tank, and a turn-
off through a gate Ayhich bore
the sign “Koonibba.” The road
branched at every turn, winding
among good timber, and I kept
wondering in which direction I
should head, but at last I could
hear voices and subdued
laughter, and there were flashes
of color in the bush, where
natives were moving around, and
I could hear a football being
kicked. It was almost sunset.
Suddenly the mission settle-
ment came into view. There
were natives standing at the
doorways of a neat row of
cottages, and on the oval mobs
of boys were playing “footie,”
while a number of younger
children dodged around the
bushes, stopping now and then
; as though wondering if I was a
ghost.
When I introduced myself to
Mr. Gaden, the manager, he at
once made me welcome, phoning
the pastor to come over to show
me around, and making arrange-
ments for me to stay the night.
The settlement is a surprise, as
it appears on the map unpreten-
tiously. It is practically a self-
supporting community, with its
own post-office, store and street-
lights, an old church which
became a workshop and then a
spare dormitory, and a new
church, and a school which was
once the hotel at Denial Bay,
and there are children’s play-
grounds and farm-buildings, and
a hall used for meetings and
films. Most of the buildings are
of stone.
Many natives live in family
groups in the cottages, but there
is a children’s home, with
dormitories, dining-rooms and
bakehouse, and there is a spot-
lessly clean hospital, where we
saw a small black babe asleep in
a cot, and a man who absconded
later in the evening (natives don't
always like hospitals).
We also saw the schoolrooms,
as interesting as any
that could be imagined, with the
blackboards around the walls
decorated with crayon-drawings
and paintings by the children.
Some of the art-work had been
( Continued, on next page )


LAViNA
Cr
Perfect craftsmanship which the particular will
appreciate ... Beauty in design the discriminat-
ing demand . . . Faithful reliability based on
Swiss Chronometer standards . . . Priced to
suit keen judges of value.
Here are illustrated two new Lavina models in
the modern trend of larger watches for men and
daintier watches for ladies.
Lavina prices range from—
Men’s: £l4/5/-. Ladies’: £l4/10/-
LAVINA
ffilZ ( 'j&oicA
o/ c M^W
Since 1852
■r
4v,
m
mm
wm
mt
m
The wedding anniversary
present my wife wifi
never forget
Easy to saw
“Fm no carpenter but I turned an old kitchen into a modern kitchen
full of cupboards, using Timbrock. I even made that snack bar which
the children love! Including paint, the cost ran out at less than £10!!”
Check these moneysaving features of Timbrock
Easier to work. Splinterless, grainless. Use ordinary carpenters’ tools.
Flexible. Bends around corners, modern fashion.
Finest paint surface. A glass-smooth pressurised finish that takes
every type of paint beautifully.
6 inches wider than other hardboards—4' 6"—a money-saver for
interiors, this width fits standard 18" studding, no wasteful cutting.
Five lengths s', 6', 7', B', 14'. Handy short sizes available also.
White-ant proofing is standard with Timbrock.
TIMBROCK . natural wood made better
Made by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division:
Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth
there for over a year without
being smudged.
On one of the blackboards
was written: “God is love . . .
Just see this jug,” perhaps
symbolic of the fact that religion
is presented to the children not
as something unrelated to their
daily lives. There were baskets
and painted trays on display and
some very fine needlework.
The mission is run by
Lutherans, mostly third- and
fourth-generation descendants of
German migrants. There is quite
a community of white workers,
with three-hundred natives,
including just over a hundred
children, in their care. Unlike
the mission at Kurrawang
[described in an earlier chapter],
there are rations in plenty for all.
The,manager lives in a house
with a cellar, surrounded by trees
and gardens. There'was a large
and happy gathering for the
evening meal, and when the meal
was completed there was a
playful interlude when the pet
kangaroo had to be put to bed
in the wash-house.
First, he was brought into the
house, and visited each room by
himself, clicking that the
children were in bed. His
mistress petted him, and he put
his arms about her neck, his little
black claws as intriguing and
gentle as a baby’s fingers, play-
ing with her hair, while he
watched us timidly with his soft
brown eyes. Set down again on
the floor he hopped along, his
tail slipping on the polished lino.
Koonjibba was the original
name for the mission (from
Kunjureba, or Kundruba, varia-
tions of the name of a rock-
spring). The spring was situated
on higher ground, and once a
charge was inserted to enlarge
the outlet, but the flow was
stopped instead. Water has
always been a problem, but the
mission has flourished
undaunted. ’
I hoped that one day the
Norseman Mission and many
other similar settlements might
thrive as Koonibba has done.
The property covers 20,000 acres,
running two-thousand sheep,
with over a thousand acres under
wheat.
Back on the highway I found
a small cluster of houses at a
siding also named Koonibba,
and cycled on to the crossroads,
four miles from Denial Bay and
10 from Ceduna. I had wanted
to visit Denial Bay. Someone
had told me of a short-cut, and
when I followed the directions
and found by the next signpost
that it was six miles away, my
strength failed.
Denial Bay was settled in the
early 1890’s. One of the first
arrivals was a man called
McKenzie, a farmer and a
mason, a remarkable individual.
It was station country until the
turn of the century, when it was
surveyed as farming land, and
the settlers came in three main
waves, many of them German
families from the Red Hill
district, Yorke Peninsula and
later Yankalilla and the south,
stout-hearted folk encouraged
by “Mac,” who had made several
lecture tours.
Gradually “Mac’s” farm
assumed the aspects of a town-
ship. He ran the post-office,
store, butcher’s and saddler’s
shops, and later the telephone-
service. He was harbormaster,
and built the school, the police-
station and the show-pavilion,
and held dances in the dining-
room of his home.
It is said that he could build
a cottage in a week and a plough
in a day. At Bookabie I had
seen a house which he erected in
16 days, the stone, lime and bush
timber being found on the spot,
at a charge of £1 a day.
Truly, as J. D. Somerville, the
historian, commented, Denial
Bay is the graveyard of hopes.
It was the end of Pieter Nuyts’s
journey, and was beyond the
reach of D’Entrecasteaux;
Flinders, in disappointment, gave
the names Point Peter and Denial
Bay “in allusion to St. Peter and
the deceptive hope of penetrating
into the interior” ; Baudin’s work
was abandoned there on his first
visit, Freycinet failed to make
the rendezvous planned, and
Canaan’s survey was upset by the
condition of his boat and the
weather. And now I was to miss
it because of mistaken directions!
Flinders named Cape Bauer
after Bauer, the painter of
natural history on board the
Investigator, but during the First
World War, when the Govern-
ment was getting rid of the
“enemy place-names” on our
map, the name was changed to
Cape Wondoma. Some of* the
other local names, with interest-
ing derivations, have managed
to survive.
Flinders honored the work of
Pieter Nuyts by preserving the
names of the Island of Sint
Francors and Island of Sint
Pieter (as St. Francis and St.
Peter), the first names to be
bestowed along the Australian
coast, but most of the names
along this peninsula were given
by Flinders himself. The French
navigators on Le Geographe had
spent too much time collecting
shells and butterflies in Van
Diemen’s Land to discover this
coast before him, but because the
weather was bad during
Flinders’s visit, Baudin was later
enabled to honor the French
admiral and Minister of Marine,
Antoine Jean Marie Thevenard,
when he explored Denial Bay
and sighted and named Cape
Thevenard.
Gulf Josephine and Gulf
Bonaparte duplicated the names
of St. Vincent and Spencer, given
by Flinders, but Murat Bay
(within Denial Bay), named after
the son of an innkeeper who
married Napoleon’s sister,
remains on our maps. Ceduna
was named after a native water-
hole some miles distant, and is
said to mean “sea-snake.”
The road in to Ceduna is the
worst of the trip. Fifty years
ago there was only one tin-hut
at Ceduna. Now it is a thriving
town with an airport and a deep
seaport. There are attractive
shops, even with plaster dummies
in the windows, and a
community-hotel. The atmos-
phere is very much that of a
holiday-resort.
When I cycled down to the
jetty in the evening the
stevedores were trudging out
along the jetty to the Comlie-
bank, a ship from Glasgow,
which was taking on wheat. One
chap noticed my beard and said
to his mate: “Who the hell’s
that?” During my visit the
record for a day’s tally was
broken, with, the loading of
12,262 bags.
A man who was killed not
long ago by a car in Adelaide,
believed to be Australia’s oldest
pensioner, a Mr. Alexander, was
the first Ceduna blacksmith. He
was still able to wield a good
sledgehammer at 93, and friends
cited his age at anything from
103 to 106.
My stay in Ceduna was brief,
partly because, in a particularly
lazy moment, I had decided to
go on to Streaky Bay with the
mailman in order to see some of
the back roads, but I had time
to pay a visit to the Flying
Doctor.
I had always wanted to meet
a Flying Doctor, and was even
more keen when I heard that
this one was a lady, Dr. Freda
Gibson. She is a charming
woman, as pleasant and efficient
as the hospital in which she has
her headquarters. She has been
piloted on her errands of mercy
for over 16 years, covering many
thousands of miles each year, on
some of her present regular trips
as much as 700 miles in three
days. She confided to me that
she was more scared of city
escalators than of flying upside-
down.
CEDUNA
TO STREAKY BAY
T>URRY, in 1717, proposed a
-*• scheme for the settlement of
a Dutch colony somewhere in
Nuyts’s Land, picturing a
possible native population of
giants, giant in stature, intel-
ligence and knowledge, with
fortified towns and “machines of
war more terrifying than our
bombs and cannons.” Eight
years later Swift wrote the book
of Gulliver's Travels, setting the
scene of his first adventures to
the north-west of Van Diemen’s
Land in latitude 30 degrees
2 minutes south, which would
be somewhere in the vicinity of
Ceduna and Streaky Bay.
The map printed in the first
editions shows the tip of
“Dimens Land” and the two
islands of Blefuscu and Lilliput,
as neighborly as the islands of
St. Francis and St. Peter, which
later appear in a corner of the
map of the Land of the
Houyhnhnms, but instead of
picturing giants Swift peopled
them with creatures “not six
inches high,” armed with bows
and arrows.
Both Purry and Swift were far
from the truth, but if Purry
could see the present-day
Woomera Rocket Range, some
distance inland, he could make
the comment: “I told you so!”
Nobody cried “Hekinah
Degul” in admiration when I
appeared on the scene, or greeted
me as Quinbus Flestrin, “The
Great Man-Mountain,” and
fortunately nobody cried out
“Tolgo phonac,” discharging
arrows at me ; but several times
when I had pins-and-needles I
wondered whether any little
ghosts were around.
Travellers steeped in Swift’s
book might worry at the thought
of boarding-house fare in a
locality where loaves were once
portrayed as being as small as
musket-balls and legs of mutton
smaller than the wings of a lark,
but they need have no worries,
nor are there any sleeping-
potions in the wines.
Gulliver’s progress was slow.
It took a day or so to travel the
half-mile to the metropolis from
his landing-place, carried on an
“engine” with 22 wheels, drawn
by 1500 of the Emperor’s largest
horses. The mail-bus was much
more comfortable and much
more speedy.
The driver was a hard-bitten
chap, as good-natured a com-
panion as you could meet.
Loaded with mail and bread,
luggage, a couple of other
passengers, and my bicycle on
the roof, we left Ceduna at eight
in the morning. We passed
through Merghiny. One of the
passengers, a native of Bathurst
Island, said that “Merga” means
“no,” and certainly, as at most
of the places marked on the map
hereabouts, there was nothing
there.
Maltee is translated as “night,”
and Chillundie refers to “water,”
but one can only guess at its
meaning, and wonder whether it
is native dialect or frivolous
English. Mudamuckla means
“sore knee,” and near-by Murra-
minga “sore finger.” Perhaps
the natives had heard of
Gulliver’s tribulations at the
hands of his little captors.
Puntabie is said to be a name
for “stony waterholes,” or “the
waterhole of the porcupine.’
Winding about among the farm-
lands, we had left the highway,
and for a while followed one of
the old original routes leading
north-east into the interior. At
Chinbingina there was once a
school. A bough-shed and a
homestead are still situated there,
somewhere out of sight in the
bush. Nunjikompita, in transla-
tion, means “burned hair.”
The mailman deposited mail
in the isolated wayside boxes—
old bread-tins nailed to trees and
packing-cases and four-gallon
drums cut down.
We visited the post-office at
Carawa homestead, where the
o Continued on page 27)


Gillette
with
Quick-feed DISPENSER
Quick-action RAZOR
w
#/&/////&%s&
■m
■■■:■/
A
t
s>-
Quick-feed Dispenser
Blue Gillette Blade
sharpest in the world
Quick-action Razor
Speed from the word go. It’s the system that does
it. Twist the quick-action Gillette Razor’s open, a
new blade frorti the quick-feed Dispenser, twist
the razor’s closed ready for the fastest, smoothest
shave. And the 10-blade quick-feed Dispenser has
a built-in container for used blades. Start Superspeed
shaving today.
Quick-feed Dispenser loads
new blade in a flash
VN
Container at back ends used
blade nuisance.
mm
m
ms
Gillette
O'SPENStR
0/S
Always buy Blue Gillette Blades m a
Dispenser —IT COSTS NO MORE!
10-blade DISPENSER 3'9
10-blade Packet . . 3'9
5-blade Packet . . FlOl
052 a
Good mornings' begin with Gillette
SAFE FROM JOHNNIE
By Jack
Lusby
—T HAT’S right, mate, Red
/ Leary. You read the
V j northern papers you’ll
remember me. Johnnie
and Mac and Harris got a long
stretch over that bank job. Still
in clink up there. They had guns.
I didn’t. Makes a hell of a
difference when they get you.
Lucky for me. Like Johnnie
said, you don’t have to shoot.
Me, I say you don’t want to
have anything to shoot with.
I came out and got a plane to
Sydney. She’s a big town. You
come out of your first bit of
a stretch you don’t know if
you’re going to have another
crack at copping it the easy
way. Big Town’s best to sort it
out in. Like I told the demons
up there, I got dummied into
that bank job off-balance.
Wasn’t a crook then. In jug you
hear a lot of talk makes you
think different. You do a lot of
thinking in there. One thing
they can’f stop you doing. I
know, mate.
Sydney’s a jack-town. Army-
jack. To hell with you, Jack,
I’m all right. The way it goes
my part of Sydney. Got to
watch yourself in Sydney.
Right. I was having a beer
in Sherrin’s Hotel. Nice pub.
Big, quiet bar. About eleven-
o’clock in the morning. Like
me, there was another bloke in
there on his own. Tall, well-
filled bloke in a fawn lounge-
suit and snap-brimmed Stetson.
“Like it on your own, mate?”
I said. “Or will you have one
with me?”
“Why sure,” this bloke came
back. “I’ll be real glad to join
you.” Voice said he was a
Yank. I knew plenty Yanks in
the Jap act. Know their form.
This Yank’s form looked O.K.
Like I said, I knew plenty when
it was on and some when I was
working in New Guinea just
after.
“Beer?” I said.
“Sure.”
While we drank the schooners
I got talking to this Yank.
Funny how you can pick what
a bloke did while it was on. I
reckon I can pick a bloke for
Army, Navy or Air Force.
They’re a bit different. But
mostly got a have-a-go look.
This Yank was wearing the old
have-a-go look. He looked O.K.
“What is it you do with your-
self?” the Yank said. I spared
him the jug sob-story.
“Last thing was truck-driving
up north,” I said. “Didn’t work
out. Couple of months I’m
heading up to New Guinea.”
I’d worked it out New Guinea
would be a pretty good place
to be in whep Johnnie and Mac
and Harris got out. The thought
of Johnnie and Mac and Harris
walking round loose again with
their guns made New Guinea a
number-one health resort.
“You know it up there?” the
Yank said.
“Sure thing,” I said. “Up
there a while back. Air-freight
set-up.”
Yeah, mate, I was talking a
bit. Out of practice drinking
beer. No harm in this talk.
“Going back to the air busi-
ness?” the Yank said.
“All I know, up there,” I
said. “Wish I’d never left it.
Came down and no Dick Tracy
flying left in Australia, so got
mto the truck-business. Wash-
out like I said.”
The Yank got checking in a
tair enough way. What were
the kites, what were the motors,
freight-charges and some more
of that stuff? Just sort of
interested.
YEAH, the Yank was
interested, all right. Next
day I was in there again and he
put it up to me. He said when
would I be back in Australia?
and I told him a month after I
hit New Guinea. Kite to come
south for overhaul and a fresh
one to go back. :
“On the face of it I’m here to
buy opals,” the Yank said.
“But I’ve been looking around
a bit. Up there where you’re
headed you got birds-of-para-
dise. A good one gets around
two-hundred, two-fifty dollars
in the States. Some can get
more. Getting birds down here
can be your end of it. Getting
them over there can be my end
of it.”
“Contraband out of New
Guinea,” I said. But I under-
stood him. Not a hard bloke to
understand. But I had to pick
him right. I talked it along a
bit, like you do, watching it,
watching it like you do every-
thing about a job like this. No
business of mine to tell him
about the dozen plumes I
brought down with me this trip.
Sold them to a sailor for a quid
each and no questions asked.
What I lost on the sailor I can
make on the Yank.
“How do I get these feathers
in here?” I said. “Somewhere
along the line they go through
you. You come into Australia,
Thursday Island or anywhere
south it’s all the same. They find
the birds on you you get a year
or more in jug. They don’t find
the birds on you and someone
else does, the boys that missed
them get slapped down. Right.
Customs even smell you’re
anxious about something you’re
a gone coon. Sort that one out
and we’re in business.”
This Yank pushed his snappy
hat back on his head and fished
a pack of Chesterfields out of
a pocket and we lit a smoke.
“Yes, please, lass,” he said.
He turned back to me and said,
“Man, you haven’t told me one
thing I don’t know. Customs
get the idea you’re being sfnart
they’ll find the birds. They
don’t get the idea you’re being
smart the chance is they don’t
find the birds. That’s the chance
you’ve got to take if you want
the kind of dough I’ve got for
you. If you’ve got what it takes
say yes. Say no and we’ll talk
about weather.”
It was sucking me in, this
job. Felt myself going. Not
what Johnnie’d call real big. A
big enough thing to be the extra
lurk that can make a lot of differ-
ence. Reckon I can pick
phonies. This Yank looked jake.
I was thinking Customs might
open one bag. Might open
none. Might open everything.
Simple as that.
“I’m taking a chance on you,”
I told the Yank. “You take a
chance on me. Put down two-
hundred-and-fifty-quid now and
we’re iff business. I’ll bring
down fifty bird 6 the first run.
Yellow, red or blue. Maybe a
bit of each.”
“I want blue,” the Yank said.
He had a roll in his hand and
was peeling tenners off it. Look-
ing at the tenners I got that
been-here-before feeling. Got it
sharp like an electric shock. I
remembered counting tenners
right after the bank job. It was
tenners I’d held out on Johnnie
and Mac and Harris in the bank
job.
“Two-hundred-and-fifty,” the
Yank said. I folded my fist
round the twenty-five bricks.and
put them in my pocket.
“When you get back I’ll be
around,” the Yank said. “Watch
it.”
“I’ll watch it,” I said.
IT was a good way to come into
New Guinea. They’d fixed it
for me to ferry a kite up there.
From Thursday Island I climbed
high in the air and plunked
down bang in the middle of New
Guinea. Like a golfball belted
bang on to the green dead-
centre. No approach-shots.
Going in that way it’s not
even an ordinary sort of land-
fall. First a lot of reefs sticking
out of the sea a couple of miles
down, looking daggers at you
from down there. Then a lot of
reefs sticking out of the clouds
right up alongside and looking
bloody savage. Went through a
bit of rain and I was in the clear
again over a lot of green ridges
like cut-throat razors. Picked
up a creek that splits off the
Purari and trailed it round.
Knew where I was now, good
thing, too. Not much gas over,
going 'in direct from T.I. in a
small kite.
Spotted this strip. Looking a
bit like a green scarf somebody’s
stretched out on the top of New
Guinea to dry. Pretty soon I
was walking around on it shak-
ing hands with a few blokes in
white togs in among a lot of
locals wearing next to nothing.
Real New Guinea this was,
mate. Big grass-valley up about
six thousand feet with dark-blue
mountains sticking to hell up all
round. Plenty timber growing
on the mountains.
Strip I had to work from was
a good way further on. New
valley. They didn’t have much
control on the kanakas yet.
Some survey and patrol stuff
going on.
Kenomari was my man.
Headman of the Maras. Maras
was a big fighting mob up on the
Kagoa-Rimi divide. Over on
the Rimi side. About five hours’
climb up the range and then
down a bit, from my base strip.
(Continued on next page )


THE BOSS KNOWS
,# # <s> m .#
; j* / ■ N /. , s < §
LOOK AT OUR FLEET-
k
m
ALL
INTERNATIONALS
“We changed to International two years ago. We’d had a
mixed fleet until then—just trying them out. Figures proved
there was only one in it —International. With a show like
ours, when men handle all types of loads in city traffic and
on long country trips, every truck must be ready for any job,
any time. Internationals are built to take all the rough
knocks! The big thing the boss liked about Internationals is
the range of Australian-made trucks. This means a con-
tinuous supply of both trucks and parts. So we all agreed,
International is the best truck investment today!”
There’s an INTERNATIONAL for every jo b !
THE AUSTRALIAN-MADE
INTERNATIONAL
LINE INCLUDES
There’s also a line of heavy-duty
imported International models. Call,
phone or write your International
Branch or dealer about the
right truck for your job.
Note: Chassis and cab cap-
acities include body weights.
Mode!
AR-162
mv
International Harvester
Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Gfief
Works: Dandenong and Geelong
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
FMTS27-36
Walking-climbing. Strip was
down on the Kagoa side. Means
nothing to you, mate. Got it
fixed in my head, that’s all.
About once a year this Mara
mob got together. Big sing-sing.
Bit like these Aussie blacks’
corroborees must have been
back when they were fair-
dinkum. Song-and-dance night
after night sometimes for weeks.
Sometimes five thousand blokes
in it. And maries.
And all these Maras wore
blue bird-of-paradise plumes in
their hair. Blue feathers a
couple of feet high. Didn’t
wear much else. Bark belt round
their bellies, bit of grass net
hanging down in front, shells,
lot of paint on their mugs.
They all hump bows and
arrows and stuff like that
wherever they go. They all turn
up to this sing-sing greased with
pig-fat. Maries too. Maries
wear a bit less than the blokes.
Tell you, mate, some of these
maries are lookers. You just
look at them you’re jake.
This sing-sing stunt was on
now. I had it timed in my head
talking to that Yank in the hotel
back in Sydney. Learned a bit
about timing seeing Johnnie
work that bank over. I was
watching the timing right now.
And watching all these greased
kanakas dance. Paint, blue
feathers and all. Tell you, mate,
the whole flaming dance looked
blue on top. Up over the range
night-time and all lit-up by fires.
Some sight.
They got all these blue birds
trading reds and yellows with
kanakas in places the blues live.
Legal for kanakas to have birds.
Not whites. Something about
the birds getting extinct if white
traders get an open go at them.
The talk goes up round
Hawaii they had the birds.
Chiefs used to make cloaks with
them. White operators got at
them. New Guinea only place
on earth you see the birds now.
According to the talk.
T IKE I said, I was up there
looking at thousands of the
birds waving about on thousands
of kanakas’ heads. Thousands
of two - hundred, two - fifty
dollars. The time was good.
Couple of patrol blokes show-
ing the flag along the other end
of the valley. District-officer
holding the fort at the post back
the other way. Tell you, I was
in, mate. Yeah, I will have the
makings. Thanks.
These kanakas know about
money. Where they got them
controlled white blokes pay
hard cash for land. Coffee land.
Tea land. Any land kanakas cop
cash for. And the talk goes all
over the island. Yeah, they all
know about money. But not all
about money.
I had my translator boy along.
Turnimtalks, they call them.
Turn kanaka place-talk back
into pidgin. You don’t savvy
pidgin you got no business to
be up there..
Like I said, old Kenomari’s
the kin g Pi - 1 showed this
kanaka twenty-quid in singles,
1 S ave him the straight talk. You
give these kanakas any other
talk, talk you don’t back up,
they don>t you It . s sa £er
j n there if they like you. '
T ~ . . . ,
I told this Kenoman the
lwe my quia were his when ne
brought fifty birds down to my
donga at the strip in the morn-
n , vn „ r bnme
j Told him you go tafking Yo the
Government blokes about this
deal there > s no more ids Yo u
keep t shutj later there’s
more money for birds
N J T w „„ n / tbinkin2
about doing’ it again You can
be i llckv t w,>p likp T lpt
the Yank think there mi ht be
re , . . Kenomar j tbmk ; t
„ , . • , • H . . • ‘
keep his mob quiet. ' Percentage
Qn b uyi for twe nty-quid and
seUi at fift times a couple
of hundred dollars was goin g
to do me. Allowing the Yank’s
cut Yank had t 0 find the
market. Just once more like I
said. Once more can be too
often.
Kenomari was standing up
hanging on to a ten-foot special-
occasion spear they use. Fire-
light on the pa i nt on his face
and t h e feathers. Looking about
as fierce as they come. I knew
ll was i ake - Th e old bloke
didn’t have to do much think-
ing- Pointed to his head that
he’d got the talk. Pointed to
where the sun was going to come
up. Pointed down over the
range to where my donga was.
Then he slung the talk through
my bloke to clinch it.
Nothing round this strip but
kanakas. Government blokes
pounding the kunai sixty,
seventy miles away. Pretty safe
having these birds brought down
in the morning. I told this head
bloke to pack them in bark
splints. Keep the feathers
stretched out and flat. This kite
T had down nn thp stH™ thf»
f .^ a< : down on the strip was the
klte 1 was takmg south for over _
, ipo-Jina in thp mnm
“ auJ - 1 ,' vas * ea Y in the/horn-
to hell out of there
with the birds.
POMING off New Guinea
over where the Fly River
hits the sea I got thinking I just
cross th is stretch of soda-water
and I front this Thursday Island
bloke - The Customs bloke,
Couple of hours ahead. Com-
ing up I’d studied him, like
everything else about the job.
His once-over looked casual
coming up. But you wouldn’t
know wbb this bloke. Expert
on any job has always got that
casual look I know, mate, been
sucked in before,
My experience you can worry
about just one thing at a time,
Thinking about getting through
Thursday Island there wasn’t
room to be thinking about just
one motor was pulling me over
tb c drink. This motor died
Jhere’cl be no Customs check,
Not where I d be going.'
You don’t put her down on
T. 1., mate. No strip there. You
put her down on an island close
to. Customs meets you. Then
you want to book-in at a pub
or something you get in a launch
and beat it over to Thursday,
j saw the c i ouds p ii e d-up on
top 0 £ these islands and stuffed
t he nose down. Ordinary times,
coming down on it feels pretty
good after sweating-it-out over
the drink. Not this time. Like
I said, mate, this was it.
In behind on the cargo-floor
there was a suitcase and a- big
wood box and some harmless
junk. The wood box was the
bomb.
I switched off and climbed
out on to the ground. He was
right there standing against a
rattletrap truck. Peaked cap.
Brown face. Khaki shirt and
shorts. Couple of Torres
kanakas up on the truck. Recep-
tion-building over behind the
truck. I was glad it was hot
on the ground. Covered some
extra sweat I wiped off my face.
Sweat’s a bad thing on a job
when the heat doesn’t rate it.
“Good trip?” the Customs
bloke said.
“Fair enough,” I said. “Bores
me rigid coming over the drink.
Look it over now?”
“Just for the record,” he said.
He climbed up through the
cargo-door and stood in there
looking around. I leaned against
the bottom of the door and
looked in.
“Box and a suitcase,” I said.
“Might be some contraband ;q
the box. Either there or the
suitcase.”
The bloke just gave a bit of a
laugh. I turned and walked
away from the kite a bit and lit
a smoke.
“Will you come here a
minute?” the Customs bloke
sang out from inside the kite.
Tell you, mate, I was glad
he was inside and didn’t see me
jump. Felt like some jump. I
chucked the smoke away and
walked back to the cargo-door.
Legs felt shaky. Mouth going
dry. Felt like I was sitting be-
side Johnnie in the truck again
after the bank job, my pockets
stuffed with tenners and
Johnnie wondering where the
tenners were.
Inside the kite the Customs
bloke had the suitcase undone
and he was holding up two
unopened bottles of scotch.
“Have to sock you a bit of
duty,” he said.
“ ’Struth, things are getting
tough,” I said. Took it out of
me, mate, just to say something
ordinary.
“What’s in the box?” the
Customs bloke said.
“Pretty near the whole ward-
robe,” I said. “Be down south
a fair while this trip.”
..“Used clothing?”
' “Yeah.”
Tell you, mate, Thursday
Island’s about the roughest-
looking beachcomber set-up ever
came out of Hollywood. Got a
broken-down driftwood look
about it. I was going over there
now in the launch for a night’s
shuteye in the pub. Before fly-
ing on south. And to me, mate,
the joint looked beautiful as any-
thing you ever dreamed about.
A job like that’s over and you’re
in the clear everything looks
pretty good. Even Thursday
Island.
YEAH, I came down into the
Big Smoke and delivered
the goods. Fifty blue birds-of-
paradise in good order and
condition. Neat enough job.
Delivering the birds I was
thinking, My luck’s running
pretty good. Only one thing
to watch. Johnnie and Mac and
Harris would be out now. And
odds-on looking for Leary. Me.
About that bank job. I know
their form, these three blokes.
Johnnie’s the toughest. I had
to keep somewhere safe from
Johnnie.
What did I get for the birds?
Sure. Was going to tell you.
Tell you this, mate, right now
my run of luck’s getting me real
worried. This Yank sat down
drinking beer in Sydney and I
did all his leg work to New
Guinea and back. Turned out
the Yank was investigating this
end of illegal stuff reaching the
States. How it could be done-
see? ' . ,
You’re right, mate. Times
un See you exercise-time to-
morrow. Yeah. I’m safe from
Johnnie.


Former Administrator Looks Ahead
Murray on New Guinea
(A Special Interview for “The Bulletin”)
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
LIVING now at his St. Lucia
home in Brisbane, Colonel
John Keith Murray, 8.A.,
B.Sc.Agr., former Admini-
strator of the Territory of Papua
and New Guinea, has given more
than 40 years’ service to Aus-
tralia in agriculture, the Army,
education and civil administra-
tion.
Born at Brighton (Vic.) in
1889, he took both his degrees
at Sydney University, served in
transport in World War I, topped
his national-diploma course in
dairying at Kilmarnock (Scot-
land) m 1919, and returned home
to become head of Gatton Agri-
cultural College and Professor
of Agriculture at Queensland
University.
In 1945 he was appointed pro-
visional Administrator of the
Territory of Papua and New
Guinea, the “provisional” part
of the title being dropped in
1949.
During World War II he com-
manded the 25th Battalion,
Darling Downs Regiment. Then
he was colonel commanding the
A.I.F. training - depots of
Northern Command; then
research-officer for Allied Land
Forces headquarters. Later, at
the School of Civil Affairs,
Duntroon, he trained recruits for
military government in New
Guinea and Borneo.
He has been, among other
things, member of the Federal
Dairy Investigation Committee
(1930), president of the Queens-
land Royal Society (1936) and
J. M. Macrossan Memorial
lecturer at Queensland University
(1946). He is a member of the
Queensland University Senate,
governor of Cromwell College,
Brisbane, and a lecturer for the
Queensland Board of Adult
Education.
These days he has consistent
calls to microphone and
platform. It is estimated that
since he stepped down from his
post as Administrator in 1952
he has addressed more than
35,000 listeners, excluding radio
audiences. His main subject is
the N.G. territory, and its one
and a half-million native people.
Until his retirement from the
post, Murrays had governed non-
stop in New Guinea for 40 years
—Sir Hubert, Sir Hubert’s
nephew Leonard, and J. K.
Murray.
J.K. is not related to the pre-
ceding Murrays, though he
carried on the name and the
tradition. When the Common-
wealth Government sought a
post-war Administrator, it was
no doubt especially pleased to
find a man not only with the
necessary qualifications and wide
experience, but bearing a
name which is almost a “house-
hold” word among the islanders.
When J. K. Murray took
charge, New Guinea had all the
marks of a theatre of war. Lae,
for example, had been entirely
destroyed ; he transformed this
war-wreck to a modern town on
a new site, with a first-class wharf
and communications.
On his recommendation, Port
Moresby was selected as capital
because of its good harbor and
adaptability to easiest defence.
His administration began with
Government personnel number-
ing no more than 100. When he
left, the number exceeded 1300,
and strong establishments of the
departments of Civil Aviation
and Works and Housing had
arisen, together with a good
meteorological section. Mean-
time he had restored his area
ot the big island territory from
the ravages of the war.
He says about this restoration
and development that the Chifley
Government started a new epoch
for New Guinea by providing
millions of pounds where
previous Governments provided
only tens of thousands for the
territory’s growth. He adds that
the present Government is con-
tinuing the Chifley policy.
About £lO million a year is
now being spent in the territory.
It calls for an investment for the
future on a much larger scale.
Through his Adult Education
lectures, radio - talks and
addresses to groups, institutes
and other bodies, J. K. Murray
has probably done more than
any other man to foster a public
The term “New Guinea” here is to be taken generally
to mean Australian-controlled New Guinea as distinct
from Western or Dutch New Guinea, and Australian-
controlled New Guinea to mean Papua and the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea, which includes old German
New Guinea, the Bismarck Archipelago, Manus Island
and the Northern Solomons. Today Papua and the Man-
dated Territory are regulated by the one directorate,
comprising the Administrator, a Civil Service and a
Supreme Court. *
conscience—at least in Queens-
land —about New Guinea and its
peoples. He needs to be heeded
more in those official circles
without whose seal nothing of a
practical nature can be done for
the advancement and preserva-
tion of the territory within the
Commonwealth. This is where
his knowledge and experience as
a rriature agriculturalist, an
educationist, an exponent of
economic and social welfare and
a military scientist should count
most.
Here are some of his views,
reported from an interview
accorded this writer:
New Guinea, Strategically:
“It is an area we cannot afford
to let fall into the hands of
possibly hostile Powers. In order
to safeguard against such a hap-
pening, not only must naval- and
air-bases be maintained, but the
one and a half million people
who live there must be trained to
defend it.
“Out of this population it
should be possible to form a
force for capable defence, and
the natives make good soldiers.
Witness, the great service which
the Papuan Infantry Battalion
rendered during the last war.
“A start has already been
made. The Australian Army has
founded the first battalion of a
brigade known as the Pacific
Islands Regiment, and the Royal
Australian Navy has established
a small Papuan and New Guinea
naval division. Australia must
make New Guinea a safe bastion
of defence, but at the same time
she must develop the country
and the people.”
Politically: “The political
future of the western half of the
island of New Guinea necessarily
concerns Australia, and every
effort should be made to see its
administration is controlled by a
Power or by Powers favorable
to Australia.
“This is important not only
from the angle of defence but
also from the angle of public
health, since serious diseases,
such as smallpox and cholera, are
prevalent in those parts of the
island which are not Australian-
controlled.
“It is obvious that Indonesia,
with its 80 million population,
wants Dutch New Guinea. If
we could be sure of Indonesia’s
goodwill towards us, then we
could have no objection to
Indonesian occupation there. If
we cannot be sure, that is another
story.
“The Dutch of Dutch New
Guinea are favorably disposed
towards us, I think ; they and
we have certain things in
common. If they go out, then
it is up to us to have views about
who goes in.”
New Guinea and the United
States: “We hear, and we our-
selves indulge in, some rather
foolish criticism of America;
but she is our greatest friend
in the Pacific, the sheet-anchor
of our defence, and Australia’s
survival is not going to be easy.
Such an agreement as the Anzus
Pact is most important to us.
“Unfriendly occupation of any
part of New Guinea, including
the Bismarck Archipelago and
the Solomons, would be a danger
to Australia. America has strong
bases between us and the East in
the Micronesian Islands north of
New Guinea. These islands are
held in trust by her.
“If she wishes to conduct
hydrogen-bomb experiments in
the Marshall Islands, then surely
that is her own business. These
experiments in Pacific Trust
territory have a bearing on the
future security of New Guinea,
and I do not think any country
with a Parliamentary Govern-
ment would misuse an H-bomb.
The danger comes from the
dictatorships.
“I should have preferred to
have seen an American base at
Manus Island. We could have
well afforded to continue to let
America have Manus, because it
is in the least productive part of
New Guinea. It was a mistake
in long-range defence-planning
for us to have caused the base
to lapse. I saw valuable equip-
ment go into complete discard
there.”
New Guinea and Production :
“Peace-time New Guinea can
become a world source of
primary produce, and it can, if
given the chance, produce the
whole of the tropical ingredient
at present lacking in the Aus-
tralian economy —commodities
such as tea, coffee, cocoa, rubber,
copra and fibres, which we have
to import. It would take about
five years to achieve production
of most of these.
“Effective production of
rubber would take seven or eight
years. Within 10 years we could
obtain from the country all we
needed of this commodity. Dur-
ing the last war 2000 tons of
rubber were produced a year;
but the production-mark could
reach tens of thousands of tons
a year.
“New Guinea could produce
cheaper sugar than we are get-
ting at present, and animal-
production in the country has not
yet been touched. Neither has
the huge potential of its vast
rain forests.
“When its immense hydro-
electric potential is developed,
the territory will be a producer
of those things which depend on
very cheap power. The installa-
tion-cost per kilowatt for New
Guinea hydroelectric schemes
would be about one-third of the
cost for any similar schemes in
Australia.
“Speaking as a layman, but
with a good knowledge of what
the Australasian Petroleum
Company has done in New
Guinea, I believe that oil in com-
mercial quantities can be found
in Papua.
“I visited every oil bore-site
in the country and saw the steps
that are being taken to obtain
technical advice on oil-
exploration. You can actually
see oil on the surface in New
Guinea.
“Since the war the Austra-
lasian Petroleum Company has
spent more than £l3 million in
the territory, and the company’s
current rate of expenditure on
oil-search there is £1,500,000 a
year.
, “Aluminium-mining is also a'
possibility, and the British
Aluminium Company, in associa-
tion with the Commonwealth
Government, is carrying out
surveys.”
New Guinea, Socially: “New
Guinea can have no security-
value for Australia unless it is
peopled by human beings with
a culture and technology similar
to our own. And the colossal
but necessary task confronting
us is the education of the New
Guinea peoples. They must be
educated, if only for defence
purposes.
“There is no scientific evidence
to indicate that the potentialities
of the New Guinea human being
are any less than those of his
white brother. What the native
person in New Guinea has lacked
are the opportunities —particu-
larly education —open to every
Australian in a civilised
community.
“There are 1,500,000 native
people in New Guinea (more
than the population of Queens-
land), and, in addition, about
12,000 Europeans, 3500 Chinese
and 1500 people of mixed bloods.
“Only a few thousand out of
the native population can speak
English. This population could
without difficulty treble itself in
50 years ; but 10 million people
could still be kept in the country
at a reasonable standard of
living. The present standard
must be raised.
“The people are as yet
unskilled. The natives are
regarded by some Europeans
primarily as a source of
unskilled labor, and some people
display antipathy towards the
Government and the missions
which are aiming at educating
the natives.
“About 80 to 100 New Guinea
Administration schools and 3000
mission schools are tackling the
problem of educating them. The
Administration schools are
higher schools as distinct from
the vernacular schools of the
missions.
“The work of the missions is
a basic contribution to the social
development of the natives.
While a Government maintains
law and order, it is the missions
which will provide the codes of
morals and ethics by which the
native people will be able to lead
lives in keeping with a civilised
society.”
Colonel Murray’s last word is:
Australia must attempt to
develop such a dependent area
as New Guinea.
But he adds the rider: “There
are some people who propose to
develop it in such a way that
when it is developed its best agri-
cultural lands will no longer
belong to the New Guinea
people.
“I hope that in 50 years’ time
the native people will still own
their own country and will be
running it well, perhaps still
under our guidance.”
So They’ve Bridged the Markham
By “DINKILA”
THE recently completed
bridge over the Markham
River near Lae, New
Guinea, important for
future Territory development,
marks the end of an epoch.
Old N.G.V.R. men in par-
ticular, and members of the sth
Independent Company, will
recall the early days of the
Pacific war when the Nips
swarmed in Lae, while our men
patrolled and kept touch from
little camps hidden in the bush.
They were the days when
Tommy Zoffman had the
courtesy title “Admiral of the
Markham Fleet.” The rank
implied that he was flag-officer
of four canoes—dugout type,
with outrigger and mast.
His fleet was manned by
kanakas from Chivasing village,
rather reluctant and likely to
mutiny, since they reckoned,
with a fair show of logic, that
the Japanese were the likely
winners, and they didn’t want to
be supporters of the losing side.
Geographers call the Markham
a “braided” river, which means
that it consists of several more-
or-less separate channels, divided
by large islands which change'
their size and position with every
flood.
Crossing in pre-bridge days
was liable to be exciting. While
you crouched on the tiny piece
of rough decking, the boat’s crew
of four, stripped to the skin,
pushed off from the shallows into
the first swirling torrent. The
current rushed you downstream
at a breathless rate, but, with all
paddles straining on the one side,
the crew gradually edged the
canoe into the shallows fringing
the first island.
The point of landing, however,
was up to half a mile down-
stream from the point of
departure.
With a rope cut from bush
vines, they dragged the canoe
through the slack water to the
upstream end of the island, and
so off into the second stream;
and after that the third.
A single crossing of the
Markham in the “wet” was like
a triple crossing of the Styx.
The canoes shipped water all the
time, and you baled like mad
with a half coconut-shell which
usually broke just before sinking-
point.
When the kanakas got to the
north side, which was reckoned
Jap territory, they urged you
ashore and hurried back, in case
the Nips turned up as a
reception-party. When you
wanted to get back to the safety
of the southern bank, you fired
three shots from your rifle, and
the canoe came the half-mile or
so to get you—if you were lucky.
Of two vivid Markham
memories of the writer, the first
was when some humorous
R.A.A.F. types in Beaufighters
buzzed the canoe sm midstream.
Overboard went the boat’s crew
in four different directions, leav-
ing canoe and passenger, for all
they cared, to float merrily down
to the Nips in Lae.
It wouldn’t have been so bad
if the R.A.A.F. hadn’t made a
second run, dipping their wings
gaily just to show it was all in
fun.
Second: when matters were
too pressing to wait for canoes,
and the Markham had to be
swum. What gave the impetus
to last flie distance was the many
pieces of driftwood that brushed
past. Every piece felt like a
hungry Markharh crocodile, and
produced a few more convulsive
and propulsive kicks.
Yes, quite a number of people
would like to walk over that new
bridge and revive memories of
stirring times 12 years ago.


is better tobaceo f
“For me the Capstan blend has everything for
complete smoking enjoyment.
“The fine, mild Virginia leaf used in
Capstan’s own blend gives it the flavour and
fragrance you, too, appreciate.”
Ask everywhere for —CAPSTAN j
mm
mmmm
m
m
m
m
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
206D.11.54
Missing Friends
HOLLAND and HENNESSY.—WiII A. E.
(or F. E.) HOLLAND and/or D.
HENNESSY, who in 1941 may have lived
in the Edgecliff-Double Bay area, or at
King’s Cross, or Annandale, and who on
12th March, 1941, witnessed a Will of
DAVID HENRY SHEPHERD' STEWART,
then of Edgecliff, King’s Cross or Annan-
dale, gardener, and later an employee of
Carlton Hotel, Sydney, or any person
knowing their whereabouts or having
information concerning them communi-
cate with T. W. PACKER & SON, Solici-
tors, 83 Pitt Street, Sydney (8U1443),
or write to Box 2870, G.P.0., Sydney.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2
.... £2/10/-
Foreign
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SPORTING NOTIONS
The V.R.C.’s w.f.a. Queen
Elizabeth Stakes (12fur.), the
Newmarket and the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes come up at Flem-
ington on Saturday. The locals
have powerful opposition from
New Zealand and Sydney. The
talent is so good that fine
weather would give the crowd
a great day’s racing.
The Queen Elizabeth Stakes
has attracted toprankers, among
them Rising Fast and Prince
Cortauld.
The clash between this pair
alone will get the crowd in, and
the field is much better than in
last year’s contest, when Cromis
had an easy win over Flying
Halo and Olympic Girl. The
beaten lot included Wodalla,
Hydrogen, Gallant Archer and
Advocate. This time the race
is a furlong shorter.
Sydney’s two-year-olds appear
to hold a mortgage on the Sires’
Produce. They filled the places
in Caulfield’s Merson Cooper
Stakes, outclassing ? *the Victor-
ians. All the same, this time last
autumn Indian Empire looked a
paper certainty for the race
after a winning sequence of five
races in Sydney and Melbourne.
He went out a hot favorite, but
was easily beaten by 14-to-l
Acramitis, with Spritsail third.
Indian Empire handed out
another failure at Caulfield last
Saturday.
• • *• •
It is 14 years since a Sydney -
trained two-year-old won
Flemington’s Sires’ Produce, the
last one being All Love in 1941.
High Caste, Trueness, Hua, Gold
Rod, Sir John and Kuvera, all
from Sydney, won between 1932
and 1940. Since Hua’s year
(1937) several Sydney-owned
youngsters have managed minor
places in the classic. The
V.R.C.’s Sires’ Produce was first
decided in 1861 and is one of
Victoria’s oldest races. Acramitis
last year made a race-record of
1.24.
On his Futurity display
Raconteur looks a Newmarket
chance. Dicast has the chance
of equalling Birdwood’s per-
formance of last autumn, when
he won both the Oakleigh and
the Newmarket. A penalty of
41b. has taken Dicast to 8.11.
He’s a speedy type and could
win from Raconteur and Cow-
boy Bill.
Shadow Play, a 33-to-l shot,
easily beat the 2-to-l favorite
Lady Mogambo at Caulfield.
Why 33 to 1? Shadow Play won
twice and was placed twice in his
last four starts. He is a three-
year-old Carbon Copy colt from
Sun Chick, by Solar Bear (imp.)
from Girella by Parenthesis
(imp.).
Nevana, winner of Caulfield
Hawksburn Handicap, in which
several Newmarket chances were
defeated, is raced by his breeder,
C. M. Burns, and is by Nebris
(imp.) from Katonah, a mare
bred in 1929- by Manfred from
New Shot by Pistol (imp.). As
Nevana equalled Caulfield’s
record for six furlongs, I.lo|, he
comes into the Newmarket
picture with 7.7 (including a 41b.
penalty).
Maltster figures in the back-
ground history of Doomben
Juvenile winner Red Cave, who
apparently wasn’t fancied, as she
started at 20 to 1. Red Cave
dealt backers of the 2-to-l-on
Big Wonder a body-blow when
she scored by a neck. Bred in
New Zealand, Red Cave is by
Panair (imp.) from Waiotama
Queen by Diatomous from
Palardo by Paladin (imp.). Her
half-sister, Petition, won a
number of sprints in New
Zealand, while another member
of the family, Royal Scotch,
won a'Caulfield Guineas.
Breeder of Prince Cortauld,
whose winnings now total
£28,566 from 18 firsts and six
places, is N.Z. studmaster Ken
Austin. Austin was once a
Sydney bloodstock - salesman
and is a regular tripper to Aus-
tralia. The stud is at Kaiapoi.
Prince Cortauld is a son of Sun
Kiqg (imp.) and Capricious, and
his Futurity win was full of
merit, as he carried 10.6, includ-
ing the maximum 201 b. penalty.
The win brought him right into
Doncaster calculations. Prince
Cortauld has joined a select
band which won the Futurity
with 10.6; Ajax, High Caste
and Attley. Eurythmic won with
10.7 in 1922.
Horses for courses and pets
for the wet came good when
Brisbane galloper Gascar Lad
won the Rosehill Handicap on a
soft track. He had scored three
times before at Rosehill and
evidently is partial to that track.
On previous visits he showed
ability on wet courses. The
stable now is considering a start
in the Doncaster, especially if
the going is soft. Gascar Lad
has 7.3.
New Zealand has a crack
three-year-old colt, Somerset
Fair, who is unbeaten this
season in 11 races on end, latest
being the North Island Challenge
Stakes at Trentham. His
complete record now is 17 starts,
13 wins, three seconds and a
third, for £15,650 in stakes. He
will compete in the N.Z. St.
Leger on Saturday, and early in
the coming season will be
shipped to Australia for spring
racing.
“Kodak Kid”: We’re quite
used to messages coming over
the air at football, race and
similar gatherings, such as “Is
thefe a doctor on the ground?”
“Would any veterinarian listen-
ing please report to the com-
mittee-room?” “Would the
owner of Car No. AMJ-430
please go to the parking-area?”
and so forth. But what would
you make of this? It came over
the air at the Maori Race Club’s
Otaki (N.Z.) meeting: “Is there
an apiarist present? If so, will
he please report to the
committee?”
Heroic Victory, bred at St.
Aubins stud, Scone, cost
800gns. as a yearling last year.
He’s just scored his first
win, a Kembla (N.S.W.) novice,
doing it in good style. By Hua
from Vindication, by Kuvera,
the gelding is a brother to
Acquittal, and is related to
Merry Archer, who has won
several races this season at
Newcastle and provincial
fixtures.
* * *
The £3OOO which Penrith
(N.S.W.) trainer G. Hall paid
for Delvyn Ringer seemed
embossed in well - developed
features and strong pedigree.
And his dazzling win in a Two-
year-old at Harold Park suggests
he’ll make the £3OOO look
slender. By Ringtrue (N.Z.) out
of Attain (N.Z.), he is related to
Altivolo, Bangaway and Raidat-
tain through the dam, and to
Ambassador through the sire.
He meets a winner of nine races
on end, Joe Raid, tonight
(Wednesday).
Sydney trotting-Derby hopes
had another warm-up for the
“classic.” By the same sire as
Inter - Dominion winner
Tennessee Sky, Sky Charter
showed his first glimpse of
emulating his brother. Given a
solid run, he won the Ilf
furlongs nicely, from Minia-
ture Bill. Highly rated N.Z. colt
“I don't think it approves of your slice, Sunnie."
First Variety and strongly
fancied Frisco Sky both ran on
well,
+ 4-
“Roscoe”: ’Twas the last over
in a Footscray-’Varsity pennant
game in Melbourne. ’Varsity
was 6-88 in reply to ’Scray’s
6-90, closed. One run came, then
wickets fell from the fifth and
sixth balls, the seventh brought
a run-out, the last Was srficked
but the ’keeper dropped it. With
one batsman already home he
threw at the bowler’s wicket.
No one backed-up and the ball
went on, while the batsmen went
through for an
’Varsity the winner.
“K.R.”: Cumberland (Sydney)
has a former English county-
cricketer, Wal Cornock. He
was born in Sydney, but his
parents returned to England
before he could walk. He
played for Leicestershire (which
has two other Australians, Jack
Walsh and Vic Jackson), includ-
ing a match against Bradman’s
1948 Australians, and in 1950
came back to Australia and has
been with Cumberland since.
“Mid-on”: lan Johnson wrote
in Melbourne “Argus” that
there was not one smoker in the
Australian fifth - Test side.
Still, according to critics, it had
its drawbacks.
* * *
“Honest Frank”: Rugby
League coaches are paid real
dough in Queensland. Even little
towns with less than 2000 popu-
lation in the big-money pastoral-
belt pay up to £3O weekly, plus
free fares, free board and
employment for the winter
season. Aggregate total value
of fees, wages, board, expanses
(if married, wife is welcome) of
the player-coach for the season
of up to 16 weeks may exceed
£lOOO.
* * *
“Moorapi”: It seems the
ordinary bloke who doesn’t
belong to a sporting organisa-
tion of some standing will have
to take pot-luck for a seat at
any of Melbourne’s Olympic
fixtures next year. For example,
60,000 tickets have already been
bagged by 4000 M.C.C. mem-
bers on a preferential basis.
And this is only one of 90 clubs
which will enjoy the blessings
of special privilege. If I want
to see an event I’m interested
in—provided I can pay the
price—l look like adorning a
queue and getting some sort of
perch at the back for my
As for taking the
family . . . !
* * *
North Steyne is the middle
stretch of the long three-beaches-
in-one of Manly’s (N.S.W.)
ocean-front, and there the Aus-
tralian surf-carnival was held.
Rough seas and tropical weather
provided thrills, discomfort and
bruises. Freshwater (N.S.W.)
won the march-past, Mooloolaba
(Q.) the rescue-and-resusciation,
Ron Bradley (N.S.W.) the senior
surf-race, calm-water swimmer
Murray Garretty (N.S.W.) the
junior surf-race (both lucky to
catch a shoot when behind), and
Steve Wilkes (Q.) the senior belt-
race, for the second successive
time. Second in the belt-race
was Westralian Don Morrison,
who in eight belt-races has four
wins, three seconds and a third.
“Beltman”: Three of the last
four Australian surf-carnivals
have been held on N.S.W.
beaches. If the annual carnival
is not to be caught on a dumper
the other States should stage it
more frequently.\


Bathurst Island native introduced
me to his sister-in-law, a local
full-blooded aborigine, who is
employed there. Explaining the
meanings of local names, the
chap from Bathurst Island said
that “minga” refers to sickness
or soreness. He said that one
day, when he has a really bad
hangover, he will christen some
out -of - the - way camping-site
Gagaminga.
I doubt that there is anything
very poetic in my appearance,
but when in the country I am
always being approached by
people keen to recite verses.
Perhaps it is because country
people are more genuinely poetic
at heart than their city brothers,
and poetry is more naturally a
part of their speech and pleasure.
The further outback you go, the
more this seems to be the case,
and in bygone years, when the
life was rougher, poetry was even
more in evidence. It was enjoyed
rather than scoffed at as the
work of modern poets is derided
by the average city-dweller.
As we travelled on, the
Bathurst Island native recited
the “Camooweal Shepherd’s
Song,” a lusty ballad which he
had learned while working out
near the Queensland border:
Oh, one night when minding sheep
All my cobbers were asleep,
Not a star or moon lit up the summer
sky;
I suppose I must have dozed,
But my eyes were hardly closed
When a very strange procession passed
me by.
The procession was made up
of kangaroos carrying swags,
rabbits and snakes singing “Auld
Lang Syne,” the pelican and the
crane doing the highland-fling,
and a bandicoot with a flute,
smiling lizards and emus
delighted with the music, swamp-
frogs and a wombat complain-
ing that he was getting lame.
The ballad ends with the lines:
Then the boss beneath his cart
Woke me up with quite a start:
“Dreamy! Where the bloomin’ hell
are all the sheep?”
“There they are, straight
ahead!” said the mail-driver,
answering the chorus, and we
had to slow-down until we had
passed through a wandering mob
of them on the road.
From Pimbaacla (“the end of
the pine-trees”) we headed south
to Petina (“a place of pines”),
where we found a beautiful
white-stone homestead, newly
erected, with a cement veranda,
and a shell-paved yard fronted
with a patch of vivid green lawn.
Galahs screeched over the pad-
docks, and the crows were as
numerous as gulls about a liner,
like a shower of dark confetti
over the land.
We rejoined the road leading
out to Poochera on the highway
to Port Augusta. As always on
these horizons, there were sand-
hills like snow-capped ranges.
By lunch-time we had arrived in
the settlement of Flinders at
Blancheport, better known to the
little world that knows it as
Streaky Bay.
Streaky Bay is an interesting
place, and at times I felt as wide-
eyed as Gulliver exploring the
metropolis of Mildendo, but I
cannot compute how many
“blustrugs” I must have walked
during my visit.
There was no chance of
obtaining accommodation at the
two hotels, because one of the
oldest-established firms on the
coast was holding a closing-down
sale and buyers had come from
all over the peninsula, but I
managed to secure a room at a
guesthouse overlooking the bay.
As Mick Allen, the local poet,
wrote: — ,
Streaky Bay has wakened up,
It had a lengthy nap;
Big-game fisherman Alfred Dean
Has put it on the map.
In April, 1952, Alf Dean at
Streaky Bay, as though to
confound fqr ever the ghosts of
Lilliput, landed the then-biggest
shark ever caught with rod-and-
reel anywhere in the world,
23331 b., more than a ton, of
fighting fury. Streaky Bay again
hit the headlines nine months
later when he broke this record
by landing a female white-pointer
weighing 23721 b., after a 90-
minute battle.
Years ago local fishermen gave
the name Barnacle Bill to a
monster so large and tough that
“barnacles grew on his back.”
Dean once just missed landing
another monster, recognised by
a huge scar on the right gills,
which was nicknamed Barnacle
Lil. The new record-breaker
was promptly named Barnacle
o Continued on page 30)
Tricks of the Game
Writing For Radio
By J. E. MACDONNELL
should like,” said
\ A / the producer pleas-
\f\f antly, “tb script your
novel Wings Off the
Sea for radio.”
“I should,” I said, “like that
very much. You have a script-
writer in mind? It’s a bit
technical, you know.”
“Exactly,” said the producer.
“You’ll do it yourself, won’t
you?” . . .
At this point, if this were the
script, there would be a music
chord—time for the audience to
recover from shock . . .
The book was scripted, has
been produced, and is on the
air; altogether, 26 episodes.
The experience taught me’ that
there is only one way for a
script-writer to learn his trade
—by scripting. And that there
is only one man—the producer
—who can help him through the
intricacies into which the inex-
perienced scripter immediately
plunges.
The book mentioned was not
easy to adapt, because, in a
story of action, particularly
aboard a ship, the scene is, of
necessity, continually changing;
there are no nice long conver-
sational pieces in a pub lounge,
for instance.
And changing scenes —and ■
bridging them —is the first pit-
fall.
Your characters, aboard ship
in this case, are talking on the
bridge. The scene shifts —quite
understandably in your mind —
to the engine-room. But to
listeners, with no means of fol-
lowing you except their ears,
the next voice to speak would
still be on the bridge—unless you
had done something about it.
So the change of position
is suggested, preferably by
dialogue.
“Bosun’s-mate,” says the cap-
tain, “go down to the engine-
room and find 0ut....”
There follows in the script a
direction to studio, or “c.-o.” —
“control-operator,” the many-
handed genius who sits behind
his panel and feeds-in sound-
effects, whether they be wind on
the flight-deck or dance-music
in a cabaret; gunfire, or a car
moving off. In this case the
bosun’s-mate would start off
down a ladder, so the direction
is to the studio, where a spare
actor tramps convincingly on
the tubular-steel back of a
studio-chair, arranged so that it
rocks a little and gives the
impression of a loosely hung
ship’s ladder.
With the messenger’s depar-
ture from the bridge pointed,
the control-operator turns a dial
on his panel—the footsteps fade
out. Almost at once c.-o. brings
in, from one of the records on
his half-dozen turntables, the
muted whine of engine-room
turbines. A gesture from the
producer, and the waiting
bosun’s-mate speaks—now deep
in the fumy engine-room.
For compactness, and to
maintain interest and con-
tinuity, a period of time has
to be bridged. A character
might take-off in a car and drive
five miles to the nearest pub.
The sound of his engine over
five miles could become
monotonous; this time-lapse is
bridged by music, always appro-
priate to the character’s mood.
This selection of the right music
is one of the c.-o.’s prime func-
tions it is of considerable
importance. Every direction
must be included in the script.
The above scene would be
scripted like this:
C.-o.: Car starts up. Fade,
Studio :
and merge into light
music. Build music,
fade, bring in car.
Bring car to stop.
Open car-door Feet
on gravel, up concrete
steps, across veranda.
Bar-room atmosphere
in back.
Directions to studio come in
there because doors, telephone-
bells, beds of gravel or blue-
metal, buzzers and suchlike are
kept in the studio ; c.-o. feeds in
only those effects which have
already been recorded on disk.
Which points the fact, of course,
that the would-be scripter must
visit a studio and control-room
and watch at least one episode
of a radio-play being produced.
There are few radio-shows in
which a telephone does not have
to be used —in my case there
was much dialogue on radio-
telephone, from aircraft to air-
craft, and from ship to aircraft.
So the actor talking on the far
end of the line is put on
“filter.”
When he sees this direction
he crosses the studio to another
microphone, which, while wired
into the main system, is so
arranged that his voice is given
a resonant, echoing sort of
effect, exactly as it would be
heard through a receiver. This
instrument is called the “filter-
mike,” the other the “main
mike.” Technicians can give a
voice on filter-mike as much
echo as is required, necessary
when a speaker’s voice is rever-
berating from a loudspeaker in,
for instance, a steel-sided ship’s
compartment.
The filter-mike has other uses.
Hpllywood grabbed my leading
actor ; for the following episode
the new man was put on filter,
tip in an aircraft, for almost the
whole of the episode. This gave
the audience two weeks to forget
the first chap’s voice.
Words which on paper seem
exactly right to convey an
impression have a somewhat less
satisfying effect when spoken.
So a scripter must mouth his
own dialogue to himself before
submitting the work. Strange
sight, seeing two radio-writers
collaborating —they smile to
themselves, mouth, sneer, shout,
whisper, and now and again
break into a dreadful sound
which is meant to indicate a
music-bridge. But the actors
will find no fault with their
dialogue when they get it.
Sibilants are anathema. A
succession of “s’s,” ripped out
when an actor is speaking
quickly in a tense scene, must be
tried to be appreciated. But
the thing which must be striven
for, continuously and deliber-
ately, is not to be obvious. The
worst thing a writer can hear in
a studio is an actor looking at
his script and grunting “Pearl-
handling!” This phrase stems
from an old soap-opera. The
dialogue went something like
this:
Studio: Open door.
Smith: Ah, so there you are,
Brown. I have come
to kill you. See, I
have taken out my
pearl-handled revol-
ver. Now lam going
to shoot you.
C.-o.: Revolver-shot.
It is surprising how easy it is
to indicate what you want by
putting yourself in the scene
and imagining the dialogue. Two
men, for instance, coming into
a room which has been ratted
by thieves —mattresses ripped
and strewn on the floor, furni-
ture overturned, drawers
tumbled out. Imagine yourself
there —you would not say “Look,
Jack, the drawers have been
emptied.” Obviously Jack has
his own eyes. Your comment
would be something like “If it
was in those drawers, they’ve
got it.”
Elementary? Listen to a
radio-serial and note just how
obvious most of the comments
are. This point applies, of
course, to all writing, but it must
be remembered that in radio
everything is left to the imagina-
tion —a wonderful field for
thoughtful, effective writing.
You have nothing to distract
your audience’s attention.
Radio-actors are not always,
shall I say, appreciative of your
meaning. If it is meant that a
line should be said facetiously—
especially in a Service play,
where a non-Service actor could
take the line seriously—the
direction “throw-away” is
marked in. Then he will say it
sneeringly, or facetiously, or
jokingly. To “cod it” means to
“put on dog,” assume deliber-
ately an accent, as though aping
a very English Englishman.
Simplicity of language is
paramount. A phrase which on
paper seems trite can be given
tremendous significance by a
good actor. This is another
instance of why every word of
the script must be spoken by
the writer himself before sub-
mission—shortly you will be
writing for sound, not appear-
ance.
Speaking of sound . . . Effects
can be the most irritating (if
overused) or the most effective
medium in a radio-play. One
of the most dramatic effects I
have heard is used to introduce
a serial written by James Work-
man, author of “Eternal Night,”
not long ago playing at Sydney’s
Independent Theatre.
One of the finest scripters in
the game, a writer with a hatred
of the obvious, a constant seeker
after new ideas, Workman
recently wrote “Heart-beat,” a
crime series. For long he cast
round for a suitable effect, and
finally decided that he couldn’t
do much better than open his
show with an actual heart-beat.
So a control-operator at
A.W.A. had a microphone
placed over his heart —he had
previously been adjudged quite
healthy—and the sound of his
beating heart was recorded. The
effect, backgrounding the narra-
tor’s voice, is almost overpower-
ingly dramatic.
Another effect for which I
think I can fairly claim unique-
ness is used in Wings. At sea
aboard carrier Sydney at the
time, watching Sea Fury fighters
coming in for their landing ; two
recording-engineers from Aus-
tralian Record Company, their
tape-machines on the pom-pom
platform just abaft the bridge
and directly above the “crash-
barrier,” the huge steel net which
is designed to catch an aircraft
whose hook has not caught the
arrester-wires, thus preventing it
from ending-up amongst the
parked aircraft right on the bow.
I facetiously mentioned to one
of the engineers that in Episode
22 Commander Baume crashes
into the net, and an effect to
that effect would be very nice.
Hs as facetiously agreed to
record said effect.
Not ten seconds later a Sea
Fury came in, too high. The
batsman waved him off; the
pilot opened his throttle to clear
the deck, but he was too late.
With a shuddering smack he
crashed into the net, directly
below us ; the engineer had his
microphone hanging over the
platform.
It came out beautifully, and
is in the show. Not.often is
the Navy as co-operative as
that.
Sometimes effects have to be
faked. A car-door slamming
sounds, over the air, nothing like
a car-door slamming. On the
other hand, the radar-aerial’s
electronic spinning behind us
on the pom-pom platform,
recorded, gives exactly the effect
of a wardroom atmosphere,
with air being continually
blown through long ventilating-
shafts. That’s in, too.
Effects have another import-
ant function. Radio-shows are
not timed to the second, but to
the fraction of a second. A good
producer will always cut his
effects in preference to dialogue
if he’s running a bit over. So
14 steps down a ladder can be
reduced quite passably to 10 to
end the show dead on the time-
signal pips.
It must be remembered when
timing a show with pages of
script—usually about seven-and-
a-half foolscap pages run 13
minutes —that tense dialogue will
be spoken quickly. If you
don’t watch that you’ll have the
producer making frantic ges-
tures with his fingertips, as
though drawing out an invisible
piece of elastic. This means
“spin out.” It can be a salutary
experience. Happened to me,
with Rodney Taylor and
Lloyd Berell, two of the best,
in the studio. They got the pro-
ducer’s signal and “ad-libbed.”
The resultant dialogue was the
best part of the show.
Finally the narration. This is
used to bridge scenes, or, in an
omniscient sense, to lead the
listener by the hand and show
him over the ship or whatever is
your vehicle. In the perfect
radio-script a narrator has no
place —he is extraneous, superflu-
ous. But on Australian radio,
at least, he still has a long life.
Producers, especially in Syd-
ney, are perennially short of
good script-writers. Those pro-
ducers I have met are enor-
mously keen to help a writer
they think can help them.
Remembering that even in Ehg-
land TV is on for only a few
hours out of the 24, sound-radio
in this country still has many
years of useful life ahead of it.
The field is wide open for a
writer willing to trouble him-
self to learn how to graze in it.


OUR
A
"TSTF^fffflQr
f7P®PU<
i
iltMiM/ (
m
m
m
PROSPERITY
v,;
as 8
*>S
W
y>v\
■» 3
s»st
1
.'V*
11
PTi
>v
arcs
52 St’/'
i'»i. I
The Bank plays its part
Ever since this bank was established in 1834, we have made
it our business to aid enterprising men in their activities.
We are proud of the part we have played in our service to
Australia’s industries —both primary and secondary—which have
enabled the people of this country to enjoy their substantial share
of the good things of life.
To those who wish to increase profitable production, we offer
the same traditional service—efficient, helpful, friendly—and the
benefit of our long experience.
At Head Office, or our branch nearest to you, our officers
will gladly give particulars of our service.
■ THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
kiiv moms UkW
AMttv
SANDERS
tf^FILES
Correspondence, latolc**.
statements, etc., idled in the
“Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Price* an* »■*-
tiler infornatlaa
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents— .
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Lta.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sonf Ltd.
PERTH •• ..Docket Rook (Jo. (AuifcJ
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET AGRICULTURE
When Malenkov took the
blame for failures in Soviet agri-
culture, and party-secretary
Krushchev promised better
things for the future, not much
was said about factors described
by Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun” as
two persistent sources of weak-
ness —the farmers and the land
itself:
“The farmers, as Lenin often
acknowledged, are fundamen-
tally hostile to socialisation.
They have disrupted one after
another of the Communist
schemes for socialising agricul-
ture. They have been able to
do so because starvation is their
ally. It has not so far proved
practical to' grow more food by-
killing and beating farmers.
“As for the land, the simple
truth is that, population and
population-growth considered,
Russia is not well endowed with
agricultural land.
“The great northern band of
Russian land stretching from
Scandinavia to the Pacific, 4000
miles from east to west and 1000
miles from north to south, is
agriculturally hopeless podzol
land, marsh, thin forest and
frozen tundra, grossly deficient
as to both soil and ■ growing-
season warmth. -
“In the south there is a desert-
belt of almost equal extent; and
most of the land that lies be-
tween is inferior as to soil and
deficient as to rainfall.
“Good arable land in Russia,
the belt of ‘black earth,’ amounts
to less than 25 per cent, of the
whole area, as compared with a
similar proportion in the United
States of 65 per cent., and most
of the really good arable land is
already under the plough.”
As to Krushchev’s plans for
the future, London “Economist”
notes that “the dramatic up-
heaval at the Supreme Soviet on
February 8 overshadowed the
preceding meeting of the Central
Committee of the party.
“It was there, however, that
Mr. Krushchev not only pro-
claimed the supremacy of heavy-
industry, but also outlined the
next five-year plan for agricul-
ture. Within the next five or six
years the Soviet grain-crop is to
exceed 160 million tons, and the
output of livestock-products is to
be roughly doubled. No targets
were given for actual livestock-
breeding.
“Mr. Krushchev omitted to
say that the grain-target now set
for 1960 is actually lower than
the original 1955 objective of
180 million tons. Soviet grain
figures, however, are very
obscure. Up to 1952 they
referred to -the standing or
‘biological’ crop and were there-
fore highly inflated in com-
parison with normal and realistic
‘barn-crop’ calculations. Then
Mr. Malenkov officially admitted
this distortion, and no official
figures have been given since.
“From the circumstantial
evidence available it may be
gathered that the present yield is
somewhat below the record of
130 million tons. Mr.
Krushchev’s new objective may
well be calculated in real terms,
Even so, it seems strangely low
when taken in conjunction with
his other schemes.
“His vast plan to ‘conquer
virgin land’ in Kazakhstan and
Siberia apparently still stands;
100,000 new permanent settlers
are to be sent there this year.
The continuation of the process
despite the general change in
economic policy is not surprising,
since the factories producing the
chief tools needed for the
— N. Y. "Herald Tribune”
ALL SET FOR A WHILE?
‘conquest’—tractors—can easily
be switched to less peaceful uses.
Now—on paper, at least'—some
30 million tons of additional
grain are expected from the 70
million acres of new land to be
reclaimed by next year.
“This is not all. Mr.
Krushchev has just produced
yet another gigantic scheme, his
own version of the race ‘to equal
and surpass America’: large-
scale maize-cultivation is to
provide the fodder for Soviet
livestock.
“In 1953 the total area under
maize in the Soviet Union was
less than 9 million acres and the
maize-crop amounted to 3.8
million tons. By 1960, according
to Mr. Krushchev, the area
under cultivation is to be raised
to over 70 million acres and the
harvest is likewise to be increased
eightfold, reaching nearly 30
million tons.
“Is Mr. Krushchev becoming
‘dizzy with success’? He appears
bent on gigantic plans, and the
use of storm-tactics, in com-
parison with which Stalin’s ‘plan
to change nature’ seems the fruit
of sober calculation. Indeed, to
the sceptic with a long memory
his plans recall the wild schemes
in vogue during the early years
of the Stalinist era —when it
was, for example, suggested that
the mass rearing of rabbits be
undertaken to make up for the
slaughter of cattle during collec-
tivisation. Mr. Krushchev will
surely endanger his political
future if he chases after similar
hares.”
U.S. and Asia
Another view on America’s
Asian policy from Chester
Bowles, formerly Democratic
Governor of Connecticut and
Truman’s Ambassador to India.
As quoted by C. L. Sulzberger
in “New York Times,” Bowles
observed ■ while touring Africa
and Asia that Communism could
not be “contained by maintain-
ing a thin wall of minor anti-
Communist nations on the
periphery of China and the
Soviet Union. Although a
barrier of this kind, with its re-
assuring line of little flags,
appears impressive on the Pen-
tagon [U.S. Army] maps, it
cannot provide us with decisive
strength.
“The key to the security of
free Asia lies in the development
of dynamic centres of indigenous
political stability and potential
power. In Asia the two .major
centres of such potential demo-
cratic strength and stability are
Japan and India. Asia cannot
be made secure without them.
“If they go under, the Com-
munists are likely to take over
from Tokyo to Cairo.
“China can save at least twice
as high a percentage of its gross
national product for develop-
ment purposes as India can.
The Soviet Union has further
strengthened Chinese economy
by sizeable loans and thousands
of technicians. The Soviet Union
may soon be ready to expand
this assistance to other Asian
nations, and indeed the begin-
nings of such an effort are
already taking shape in Afghani-
stan and India.”
Advocating a massive
American aid-programme in
Asia, with economic but not
political strings, Bowles added
that “a major reason for the
ineffectiveness of some of our
[U.S.] Asian aid-programmes has
been our failure to recognise this
distinction. As a result, the
recipients of American aid have
often used our grants and loans
to perpetuate corrupt Govern-
mental practices and inadequate
and unfair tax-systems, to
squander foreign - exchange
balances in luxuries, and to
maintain feudal land-systems.
“Thus, instead of winning
their people to the side of
democracy, our aid has served
to underwrite their corrupt and
ineffective Governments, to
postpone the basic economic
reforms which are essential to
the defeat of Communism, and
to disillusion those who should
be our friends.”
Formosa
London “Economist” views on
the need for defending Formosa:
“If the island fell to Com-
munist China, whether by out-
right war or by decay from
within, the chances of maintain-
ing even the present degree of
mental steadfastness against the
Communist propaganda-
onslaught on South-East Asia
would be sharply reduced.
“Those people in Britain who
simply argue about Formosa’s
legal status, declaim against
America and heap not un-
deserved calumnies on the Chiang
Kai-shek regime are dismissing
two realities of prime importance
to themselves.
“One is that, having spent
years building up the Nation-
alists, no Administration in
Washington can just drop them
and walk away ; and if America’s
allies insist that it do so, they
may one day find that the same
thing is done to them.
“Secondly, however nasty the
taste of Chiang Kai-shek’s own
name today, the collapse of
resistance to Communism in
Formosa would have incalcul-
able repercussions all the way
from Tokyo to Cairo.”
Nuclear Power
One subject on which the
British press is practically
unanimous in its optimism is
Britain’s £3OO-million pro-
gramme for the development of
nuclear power.
In a typical comment, London


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
£ruiMM°'nnn,' VIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
a n umm ERT S° N ' NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
f" u. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JJ. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all states Agencies in all Country Centres
FLY BRITISH —TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
Speedbird Services
link Australia with—
Indonesia, Malaya, Burma,
Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan,
Ceylon, India, Pakistan,
Middle East, Africa, Europe,
Great Britain, U.S.A.,
Canada, Central America,
Bermuda.
See your Travel Agent for
complete trip-planning help —
no charee l
%
f i r^rni
ACROSS THE WORLD
8.0.A.C. takes good care of every passenger, but especially
good care of babies travelling with parents and children travelling
alone. Special foods, drinks and all those comforts these
young travellers need are supplied by attentive,
well-trained stewardesses. Concession rates
f LV
apply for infants and school children —
and students to the age of 26.
8.0.A.C. links 51 countries on all
6 continents. Stop-overs at no
extra fare. No tips ; no extras.
SPECIFY 8.0.A.C. “AIR CARGO ” FOR YOUR OVERSEAS SHIPMENTS
Reservations and information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. {8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH OANTAS. TEAL AND S.A.A.
A4I/AUb
“Financial Times” points out
that the economic history of the
world in the last two centuries
might well be written in terms of
the development and exploita-
tion of new sources of power and
energy:
“The growth of British
economic pre-eminence in the
19th century was based on the
abundant supply of what was
then cheap and high-quality coal.
“The economic pre-eminence
of the United States in this
century has owed just as much
to the luxuriant American supply
of cheap fuels, of oil, coal,
natural gas and water-power for
hydroelectricity. In both
countries cheap fuel has been the
source of economic vigor. In
Britain the lade of fuels other
than coal, andxhe limitation of
the coal-supply itself, have been
correspondingly severe handi-
caps in recent years.
“These handicaps, which are
the inherent defects of the
economy, now turn out to have
had their own strange advantage.
The new British programme for
nuclear power goes well beyond
what has been achieved or is in
prospect in any other country.
“One of the principal reasons
for this adyance is that Britain
has the strongest incentive to
construct nuclear-power-stations.
Facing a perennial coal-shortage,
and with electrical power costing
more than it does in the United
States, Britain was almost com-
mitted to the development of
nuclear power, whether it seemed
economical or not. Certainly
the point at which it would
become economical could not
fail to arrive earlier.
“It is unlikely that any new
electrical-power-stations other
than nuclear-power-stations will
be constructed in Britain after
the beginning of the 1970’5.
Inside the next 10 years nuclear-
power-stations will be con-
structed which will produce as
much electricity as five- to six-
million tons of coal a year.
“The total nuclear-power
capacity installed by 1975 will
be of the order of 10-million to
15-million kilowatts. The
equivalent amount of coal that
would be required would be
about 40-million tons a year. By
1975 nuclear-- stations will
account for between 15 per cent,
and 25 per cent, of capacity, but
they will account for a much
higher percentage of actual out-
put. The nuclear-power-station
does, of course, cost more to
build and less to run.
“With these prospects in view,
the Minister of Fuel and Power
was justified in describing his
announcement as the most
momentous that any holder of
his office had ever made since
the office was first created.”
I.B.M.
The letters stand for “inter-
continental ballistic - missile,”
which, further translated,
signifies a weapon capable of
travelling for about 5000 miles at
something like 9000 miles an
hour and landing within 10 miles
of its target. When “married to
a hydrogen-warhead” it is,
comments Stewart Alsop in New
York “Herald Tribune,” “the
true ultimate weapon.”
And, while the British press
is very satisfied with John Bull’s
progress in things nuclear for
peaceful purposes, it is quite the
reverse regarding his 1.8. M-
. In fact, comments
London “Daily Mail,” “our
information is that there are no
rockets in production [in
Britain], and that it may be three
years before we have them in
reasonable numbers”:
“Britain is most vulnerable to
air-attack and also most
capable of being protected by
rings of guided-missile intalla-
tions, by rocket-firing planes,
and by retaliatory measures.
“The Americans (and prob-
ably the Russians) are far ahead
of us in all three. The U.S.
Falcon air-to-air missile is in
mass-production. Even a year
—Amsterdam “Algemeen Handelsblad”
THE MOLOTOV PLAN
ago 10 big cities were circled by
the Nike surface-to-air projectile.
“Now the talk in the U.S. is
of the 1.8. M., or inter-continental
ballistic-missile, which is said to
travel into space at 20 times the
speed of sound and to drop on
its target 5000 miles away. One
model of this ultimate weapon,
fitted with thermo-nuclear war-
head, navigates by the stars.”
Possibly the “Daily Mail’s”
information, or lack of it, is
further evidence of that British
trait of being awfully secretive,
even misleading, about such top-
secret things as guided-missiles.
As far back as a year ago an
American press-correspondent,
visiting Britain, recorded that,
although he didn’t see much, he
saw enough to convince him that,
in the event of an attack, guided-
missiles “would rise like waves”
to meet the attacker.
“The talk in the U.S.” referred
to by the “Daily Mail” probably
concerns three atomic items men-
tioned by Stewart Alsop in the
course of noting that Britain and
America are negotiating for a
5000-mile missile-firing range
extending from Florida to the
Ascension Islands in the
Atlantic.
The items needing such a range
would seem to be the Snark —
jet-propelled, pilotless, guided by
the stars, and flying a shade
under the speed of sound ; the
Navaho, a ram-jet flying at twice
the speed of sound ; and,
ultimately, the “mighty Atlas,” a
“true inter-continental ballistic •
missile which climbs an
incredible 600 miles into space
before it plunges into the kill.”
These weapons, adds Alsop,
and America’s accelerated plans
to produce them, give Uncle Sam
“about an even chance” to beat
the Soviet into the field with the
first inter-continental ballistic-
missiles.
Government by Crisis
Since the end of World War II
the turnover in Allied Govern-
ments has been: U.S., two;
U.K., three ; Netherlands, five ;
Italy, 11; Belgium, 12; and
France, 20.
Taking rather a dim view of
the French score, “U.S. News
♦
and World Report” comments
that “one day out of four,
according to independent French
estimates, France is waiting for
a political crisis, undergoing a
political crisis or recovering from
a political crisis”:
“Only one Premier in the last
nine years has held office long
enough to collect his full annual
salary of $7360. That was
Henri Queuille. His first Cabinet
lasted one year and 26 days.
Two succeeding Governments)
fell in a matter of weeks, so the
Assembly gave Queuille another
try. His second Cabinet lasted
less than three days.
“The average life of a French
Government since the war has
been five months and six days.
And many Governments lasted
that long only by postponing
decisions which eventually
brought their downfall. Between
Governments, France has gone
as long as 36 days with no leader
capable of speaking for the
country.
“There is a President in France
who serves for seven years, but
he hasn’t much power. His main
job is to pick a man to try to
form a new Government each
time a Cabinet falls. It keeps
him busy.
“Even the French Premier has
little real power. On matters of
importance he must seek the per-
mission of the Assembly. Gov-
ernment by Assembly in France,
as one American observer has
put it, is ‘government by crisis.’
For more than three years a
group of Communist Deputies
has helped prevent the rearming
of Western Germany.
“Through this period the U.S.
has pumped billions of dollars in
economic and military aid into
France. Without this aid the
French economy would have
collapsed. But even with this aid
France remains the weakest link
in the Western Alliance, the
slowest to move and often the
last to act.
“A dozen political parties
emerged from the [French] post-
war scene. Year by year, some-
times month by month, they
splintered, merged, dissolved
reformed. During elections, they
formed coalitions to get votes ;
after the elections, these coali-
tions dissolved into warring
factions.
“No single party through this
period was strong enough to rule
alone.. Only the Communist-
party leaders actually can deliver
the votes of every Assemblyman
in the party.
“Communists won 26.5 per
cent, of the popular vote in the
1951 elections. They are
expected to lose a few Deputies
in 1956. For the present, how-
ever, Moscow appears content
to have French Communists do
what they can to encourage the
confusion inside the Assembly.
“French instability is nothing
new. From 1789 to 1946, France
had 13 different Constitutions,
In the 65 years before World
War 11, the French had 93.
different Governments. But
French political instability, at
this point in world history, is
turning out to be a dangerous
weakness in the Western
Alliance.”
If Russia Would—
“Do you think the day will
come when we can trust the
Russians and so live at peace
with them?”
The question was put to the
U.S. magazine “This Week” and
replied to by former U.S. Presi-
dent Herbert Hoover. As quoted
by the U.S. News and Informa-
tion Service, Hoover commented
that, “if they are sincere, the
Soviets have great opportunities
to demonstrate their good faith,
not with words, but with
works”:
“Specifically here are four
tests they could meet right now:
“Sign the treaty giving freedom
to Austria.
“Join in the unification of a
truly free Germany.
“Get free elections in satellite
countries.
“Stop Red conspiracies in free
nations.
“It is not impossible that the
day could come when this Com-
munist revolution devours itself
or disintegrates or reforms its
conduct. But before we start to
relax it is important for us to
recall certain facts:
“In the past 34 years Soviet
Russia has signed and broken 38
non-aggression treaties and peace
covenants with other countries.
“In 15 years Soviet Russia, by
direct or indirect conquest, has
brought into the Communist bloc
15 once-free countries represent-
ing ‘five times the land area of
the United States and nearly one-
third of the total population of
the earth.’ ”


BABCOCK
m
FULLY EQUIPPED
WITH FACILITIES AND EXPERIENCE
TO HANDLE ALL CONTRACTS
FOR STEAM-RAISING PLANT
This hydraulic v ,press for bending steel plates
up to 5” thick is one of the many items
of equipment recently installed at Regents
Park Works for the production of fusion-,
welded boiler drums and pressure vessels.
The installed capacity of Babcock boilers has reached a
total of approximately 4,000,000,000 lb. of steam per hour.
This represents thousands of installations in central power
stations and industrial steam plants throughout the world,
providing economical steam generation with all types of
fuels of widely varying characteristics, from coal and oil to
bagasse and sunflower seeds. This wealth of experience
gained, plus intensive and continuous research work, is
embodied in all Babcock boilers and auxiliary equipment.
Babcock has maintained its pre-eminence in the field of
steam engineering and is proud of being entrusted with the
manufacture and supply of the steam-raising plant for the
first atomic power station at Calder Hall in the U.K., which
is now under course of construction. Extensive and superbly
equipped works at Renfrew, Scotland, and Regents Park,
N.S.W., provide unrivalled facilities for the manufacture of
broiler units and all the additional equipment, such as coal
and ash handling plant, which is used in the modern boiler
house.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ SAFE —SIMPLE —CANNOT SPILL
★ 12 LIGHTER HOURS BURNING ON
ONLY l£ PINTS OF KEROSENE
★ NO SMOKE —NO SMELL
★ WILL GIVE A LIFETIME OF SERVICE
★ 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all Good Hardware’Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
Phyl. Another member of the
family, a baby of 18081 b., was
later landed by fisherman
Corbett and christened Barnacle
Dill.
Fishermen are never satisfied,
and will always return in search
of the ones that got away, and
the Marietta, which was in port
during my visit, will doubtless
make many more trips with
strong men and high hopes
aboard, and many eyes will turn
seaward as she re-enters the bay,
seeking the flag-signals indicating
success, as one of the men said:
“Small flag, small shark; big
flag, big shark. For Barnacle
Lil or bigger, everything we have,
including Alf Dean’s pants!”
During my stay I met Mick
Allen, a sprightly old man with
narrowed blue eyes and a white
Kaiser’s-beard. Apart from his
poetry he has had many interests,
having been a kangarooer at
’Fowler’s Bay in the 1880’s, later
the Eucla mailman, and a
prospector at Coolgardie.
He remembered Kent Town
when it was a little cluster of
cottages inhabited by
kangarooers and their families,
a green patch backed by the
sandhills. He remembered Old
Jimmy, the aboriginal mailman,
setting out along the track for
Eucla. It was nothing, he said,
for one of the Eucla ladies to ask
him to deliver a letter to Sand
Patch, and off Old Jimmy would
set, without a murmur, on the
lonely trip, 150 miles to the west.
Mick Allen remembered meet-
ing many queer characters on the
road during his own days as the
mailman. Once he met a man
carrying an onion and a table-
spoon wrapped in orange cloth,
and was asked the way to
Hudson’s Bay, where the chap
said there had been a gold-strike.
At times in the bush he would
find the bones of men he had
passed on the road, and some
he met or to whom he had given
a lift walked on and were never
seen again.
Streaky Bay is half-way be-
tween Cape Leeuwin and Sydney
Harbor, marking the point at
which Nuyts turned back. In
the main street of the township
is an obelisk, possibly the only
one in Australia commemorating
a local historical event of 300
years ago, bearing the
inscription:
This beacon was erected by the
District Council of Streaky Bay in
the year 1927 to commemorate the
tricentenary of the voyage of dis-
covery made by Pieter Nuyts, who
visited these shores in the ship
Gulden Zeepaard in the year 1627.
To the north is Wingilpin
country, whose will-o’-the-wisp
waters were sought by the
explorer Stuart, and near by
there are such places of interest
as the Talia Caves, the Pool at
the Granites and Whistling Hill.
Whistling Hill is oddly named,
because it is a sunken valley
which doesn’t whistle ; but when
tides and the wind are favorable
the seas surge into a cavern fac-
ing the sea, and strange music is
played by organ-like vents in the
roof of the cavern. Once the
music used to be even more weird
and impressive, but visitors
throwing stones have blocked up
some of the “pipes.”
Before leaving Streaky Bay I
went to the sale. Everything
under the sun was being
auctioned. People were going
frantic buying-up tins of paint,
clothing and groceries. One man
dropped a box of curtain-rings,
and was crawling around on the
floor for quite a while.
Wanting a souvenir of the
sale, I made a bid of five-
shillings for a “box of tricks,”
and was even more surprised
than Clefren and Marsi Frelock
at their inventory of the contents
of Gulliver’s pockets, when I
later examined my wares. For
several weeks I was presenting
acquaintances with backache-,
cough- and stomach-remedies,
oils and pills, shaving-cream,
razor-blades and combs, watch-
bands and bath-plugs, cuff-links,
studs, cake-icing attachments and
even cellotape dispensers.
It seemed a long way to Port
Lincoln, and believing that the
mail-bus would travel along the
by-roads I once again decided to
be lazy.
STREAKY BAY TO PORT
LINCOLN
'T'HIS time the bus left at six,
and we sped past paddocks
with the sky brightening beyond
them, and there was mist in the
hollows ahead. Port Kenny
(named after Michael Kenny,
“the founder of Colton”) . . .
Venus Bay ; two tall windmills,
a small township with a pub,
garage and three stores . . .
Talia; a few farm-homesteads
and here and there ruins . . .
Lake Newland, where in. the
early days, according to local
gossip, and also according to
Richard Maurice, who wrote that
the victim was one of his friends,
a young shepherd returned to the
hut near Lake Newland, where
he camped with his father, and
on lifting the lid of the camp-
oven found his father’s head
inside . . . Port Elliston ; named
after a governess, a girl called
Ellen Liston, who was held in
high esteem by the early settlers.
We had breakfast and con-
tinued our journey, through land
once dense with wild oaks, but
now bare and desolate,
with low stone-walls,
patiently built by the
pioneers, snaking over
the gentle hills. There
were Salvador Dali
landscapes with the
skeletons of trees
twisted in agonised
writhing.
Through Way, to
Sheringa (“a kind of
yam”), where we saw
two little churches, a
lonely patch of trees and
a couple of homesteads,
past the turn-off to Nowhere Else
Huts, we continued on by marshy
flats and the white-stone hills to
Lake Hamilton. Some circus-
trucks passed us, going west,
driven by men with hard-bitten
faces, looking bent on anything
except entertainment.
Once when Price Maurice had
a property at Lake Hamilton,
some dynamiting had to be done
and the man in charge of the
work thought that the power of
the explosive would be increased
if it had been warmed in the
oven . . .
The lake was blue, freckled
with ducks, and with white shores
and dull green slopes beyond.
On a green-grassed flat with
yellow flowers rustling, and the
rumpled hills around, sleeps tire
old township of Lake Hamilton,
with trees and bushes growing in
the ruins and fences falling apart.
The lake was calm, tinged with
sandbanks and green shallows.
The road wound on, through
Mt. Hope (there is also a Mt.
Hopeless, the two commemorat-
ing the ups and downs of Eyre’s
journey), where we saw the little
school with its neat garden-plots,
a garage and several houses, and
a couple of wagons, with two
elephants kissing each other at
the roadside, if elephants kiss
with their trunks.
It seemed strange to be seeing
more elephants along the road
than kangaroos.
(To be continued next week)


Does more
jobs et
less cost!
More versatile because it has
more Farm-right Features than
any other tractor
The range of jobs you can do with the Fordson
Major is greater than with any other tractor . . .
because Fordson alone has all the farm-right
features necessary for straight agricultural jobs
and “round-the-farm” maintenance and con-
struction work.
And the latest overhead valve, low-friction
engines provide more power for the use of
less fuel . . . mean less work per farmer
and more income ,per acre.
FARM-RIGHT
IN LINKAGE
WORK
“Touch-control” hydraulics and
3-point linkage allow faster, surer
control of mounted implements.
FARM-RIGHT IN
TRAILING WORK
53
6-Speed transmission, lower centre
of gravity, choice of power-take-off
position with raised or direct drive
and more power at the drawbar
mean new efficiency with broad-
acre implements.
FARM-RIGHT IN
APPLIED WORK
Matched to the efficiency of Ford-
son Major, a versatile range of
implements and equipment means
easy, one-man handling of round-
the-farm maintenance
and construction work.
m
m
m
M\w
rREROSENE^
£9lB
WITH PNEUMATIC
V TYRES >
Your Fordson Dealer will arrange a
demonstration on your property.
£1077
WITH PNEUMATIC
TYRES
ratsEMSOca
Your local Fordson dealer will supply further details.
FM7-40
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 64 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of F. M. Bailey’s
The Queensland Flora, 7 vols.,
including index, Brisbane, 1899-1905;
R. T. Baker and H. G. Smith’s
A Research on the Eucalypts, 2nd
edition, Sydney, 1920; R. T. Baker
and H. G. Smith’s Hardwoods of
Australia, Sydney, 1919; J. Banks’s
Mempirs Historical and Scientific,
edited by G. Sutton, Parramatta,
1855 ; N. Bartley’s Australian Pion-
eers and Reminiscences, Brisbane,
1896; and Belcher’s Birds of the
District of Geelong— 6ol6.
To buy copy (illustrated) of
Ernest Hemingway’s The Old Man
and the Sea. —6ols.
To buy copy of Such Is Life by
Tom Collins.—6ol2.
To buy copy of first edition of
Lady Chatterley’s Lover by D. H.
Lawrence.—6ol3.
To buy copies of My Island Home
by Mrs. Campbell Praed, History of
the Eight Hours’ Movement by
Murphy, How Labor Governs by
Childe, Saturdee by Norman Lindsay,
Knocking Around and Swags Up by
J. Le Gay B'rereton, Below and On
Top by Edward Dyson, and any-
thing written by Francis Adams. —
6014.
Information Sought
What is the cause of sleepwalking ?
Sleepwalking is one of the neuroses
of deep sleep, really an acted dream.
The exciting causes are usually mental
excitement, overwork, bodily fatigue,
or digestive disorders; it is met with
chiefly in persons of nervous tem-
perament or those who have an
inherited proclivity to neurotic
disease; nobody who is in perfect
health walks in his sleep. An im-
portant point is that a sleepwalker
found wandering should not be
roughly awakened, but led back to
bed as gently as possible.
* * * *
Words of Thomas Gray’s four
verses used as an aid to memory in
safety on the high seas ?
For two steamships meeting:
When both Lights you see ahead
Starboard wheel and show your Red.
For two steamships passing:
Green to Green—or Red to Red —
Perfect Safety—go ahead.
For two steamships crossing:
If to your Starboard Red appear
It is your duty to keep clear ;
To act as judgment says is proper
To Starboard —or Port —Back—or stop
her..
But when upon your Port is seen
A Steamer’s Starboard Light of Green
There’s not so much for you to do,
For Green to Port keeps clear of you.
All ships must keep a lookout and
steamships must stop and go astern
if necessary
Both in safety and in doubt
Always keep a good lookout;
In danger with no room to turn,
Ease her —Stop her—go Astern.
* * * *
How did driving on the right-hand
side of the road (as in America )
originate ?
The origin of the common law
regarding rule-of-the-road, either lelt-
or right-hand, is too remote for other
than conjecture. Those seeking a
reason for the choice of left-side
driving (as in Britain and Australia)
surmise that it was because drivers
of coaches, etc., in coaching days
had their whip-hands free (which
would not have been possible with
right-side driving on the narrow
tracks and roads then existing); or,
again, a more fanciful explanation is
that it was due to the wisdom, in
turbulent times, of keeping to the
side of the road which would permit
of the sword-arm being free in case
of attack. These explanations,
though plausible, leave unanswered,
as the Encyclopedia Britannica
points out, why most European
countries (and, in time, America)
adopted right-hand road-usage; and,
apparently, this last question has
never been satisfactorily answered.
(Neither rule appears nowadays to
have any particular advantage over
the other.) Incidentally, in Britain
the only statutory enactments deal-
ing with the ordering of road-traffic
are the Highways Act (1835), which
ordained that all vehicle-traffic must
keep to the left side of the road
when meeting oncoming traffic, and
the Motor Car Order (1904).
* * * *
A few particulars about Lord Howe
Island ?
Lord Howe Island is situated about
436 miles north-east of Sydney, and
has an area of 3220 acres. The
climate is mild and the rainfall
abundant, but on account of the
rocky formation of its surface only
about 300 acres are suitable for
cultivation, most of which are
devoted to the production of Kentia-
palm seed. The land belongs to the
Crown and is occupied rent-free on
sufferance. Discovered in 1788, the
island was first settled by a small
party of Maoris in 1853; afterwards
a colony was settled from Sydney.
Constitutionally the island is a
dependency of N. S. Wales and is
included in King, one of the State
electorates of Sydney, and in the
Federal electorate of West Sydney. A
board of control at Sydney manages
the affairs of the island and super-
vises the palm-seed industry. The
population was 179 at the 1947
census.
census '
Brief Answers
ISnel Answers
J.L.K.: The Collected Poems of
Jack Sorenson was obtainable a few
years back from the Service Printing
Co., 971 Hay-street Perth.. . .C McL.:
“Meanjin” was the aboriginal name
for Brisbane. It means “spike,” and
was the name given to the finger of
land bounded by the Brisbane River
and extending from the city proper
to the Botanic Gardens, the old
university and the Domain. Pro-
nunciation is Me-an-jua, accent falling
on the second syllable... .J.G.L.:
See article “The Debunking of Errol
Flynn” by Frank Clune in The
Bulletin of April 13, 1938
E.F.D.: Write . Australian Broad-
casting Commission, 264 Pitt-street,
Sydney W.McK.: Les Darcy was
born at Woodville, near Maitland
(N.S.W.), on October 28, 1895, and
died at Memphis, Tennessee (U.S.A.),
°n May 24, 1917. Darcy died of
pneumonia, according to official
announcement. L.B : A moderately
light properly drained, friable, well-
dug loamy soil suits bouvardias. If
gro und is heavy it should be lightened
by adding lime, well-decayed manure
and sand. It is essential that the
ground should be porous H.D.:
Wantabadgery is a New South Wales
aboriginal place-name meaning “fight-
ing place” A.D.: Phil May was
born at Wortley, near Leeds, Eng-
]and, on April 22, 1864, and died in
London on August 5, 1903 Miss
j.k.McD.: It’s not an island, but a
seaport province, Chile),
No information available on the pro-
portion of foreigners to native-born
j n the local population F.L.R.:
The British book magazine the
reported That ki 1954
more books were nroduced in the
United Kingdom than in any other
year a total of 13,342 new titles hav-
f llg ’ been placed on the market; the
gross total was 19,188, but 5846 were
reprints JLN - Write Cement
and ’ Concrete ' As'sockdion of Aus-
tralia°l4SprinSS Sydney
WaL' Write Collector o/customs
rw nf tThe T,H r,,TnmT TT ’
Dept. HouJ circuUr Oi2v I’vdnev
toms House, Quay, Sydney.
'' I' ~ p C ° hsnr L f | T cnrd-
9 uantlty leather- more
“g to of co Tse if the 'saddle had
water (Rjing Tr attached saddlecloth
any padding or attached saddledo .
A h® ctiffwipH Lh
such T P HpTfimn V St nppHin * mTirtfnil
f n b i y rnhhin* tnrpimrp it The
Cffi-T “ X might he nnlv a few
TCP rnn }d nnlv he ascertained
rfnrSent I Mcf, and F P
G/U tP Northern’ Collierv' Pronrietors’
Association Kembla 58
Mamaret-street Sydney AH' A
, . V J chosen bv Walter Mur-
, . , ’Alan Mulaan miblished
h Oxford University Press Mel-
EL,T e 1950 H R W The Vanish-
■ Horsemen bv A E Yarra was
W Lotffian Melbourne
?T'iq3o CAS \ Shramel Cre!n
Other Verses was written by
Qscar Walters, and published in
p C rth in 1931 M McE • In Tas-
Sia the^wettest'partis in the West
coast region the average rainfall at
Lake Margaret being 145.53 in„ with
a maximum of 177.30 in. in 1948
jj.C. : The Commonwealth Observa-
tory is situated on Mount Stromlo,
w hich forms part of a ridge of hills
about seven miles west of Canberra,
The highest point in the ridge is
2560 ft. above sea-level, that is, about
700 ft. above the general level of the
surrounding country... .V.S.: A
special article on the “Islands off
the Coast of Australia” was pub-
fished in the Official Year Book of
the Commonwealth of Australia,
No. 5, page 51 N.K.: For its
part in the Battle of Kapyong,
Korea, on April 23-24, 1951, the
3rd Battalion, Royal Australian Regi-
ment, was awarded the Distinguished
Unit Citation by the President of the
U.S.A C.M.: The net issues of
Australian coins to June 30, 1953,
were: silver, £32,196,000; bronze,
£2,633,000; total, £34,829,000.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.W.: Your henpecked husband
who suddenly gains domination of his
home doesn’t ring true W.M.S.:
Pleased to note that the chorus-girl
landed the rich, young squatter....
R.C.: Nobody in real life speaks like
that J.A.: Three cardsharpers
deprived of all their cash by an
innocent from the bush —no, thank
you C.F.: The Religious Editor
wants to know where is that pub
where Mine Host is so generous with
free drinks... .P.F.D.: Still trying to
find out who murdered whom and
with what... .T.T.: Well, although
you didn’t land a Bulletin cheque,
at least you caught a decent haul of
fish M.N.C.: A chronic drunk is
not reformed as easily as all that....
A.F.: You stand as much chance of
getting into print as driving a mob
of cattle over the Sydney Harbor
Bridge through the peak-hour traffic.
B.A.H.: Your fairies won’t.
flutter their wings in our pages....
C.R.: Set to music it might please
a song-publisher, but it is not
Bulletin material A.D.C.: Noth-
ing extraordinary about that character
except his extraordinary capacity for
rum - and - peppermint... .G.H.C.:
You use up a terrific number of
words to say so little... .D.O’S. : “I
have a unique collection of editors’
rejeStion-slips and would like to add
a Bulletin one to my collection.”
Pleased to oblige C.K.: The
characters are unreal E.L.D.: As
a last resort you might try cooking
and eating “Mick Malone’s Magpie.”
S.G.: It is a muddle from begin-
ning to end... .T.E.: We have yet to
meet the bwllocky who would prefer
“a plate of meringues to a steak-and-
kidney pie”... .D.J.: About all your
story did was to remind us that a
“hansom-cab was a two-wheeled
cabriolet for two inside, with driver
mounted behind and reins going over
roof” F.S.M.: You do not appear
to know the difference between a
story and a soapbox-oration....
A.R.C.: You only toy with the
subject... .H.J.: Plot is far too com-
plicated for a short story of that
length RJ.: Page after page of
description of “the terrifying delu-
sions to which heavy drinkers are
liable” was a little more than we
could stand N.H.: That is one
juvenile delinquent who will not be
featured in our pages... .C.C.:
Merely a retelling of Henry Lawson’s
“The Loaded Dog”. .L.S.: The fact
that Mr. Nelson Postlethwaite wears a
cummerbund, smokes a meerschaum-
pipe and only drinks kummel was not
sufficient to steer him into print....
A.J.T.: “Pat and Pam” is a namby-
pamby story W.K.R.: It is not
necessary to inform the Australian
reader that a kangaroo is “a mar-
supial mammal with strongly de-
veloped hindquarters and great leap-
ing-power”... .S.M.K.: It is jerry-
built. .. .8.C.: Unable to detect any
signs of improvement R-.M.: It
rontains more words than are wanted.


See tlie Farmers’ Boy display on Anthony Horderns’
stand at Sydney Royal Show.
• ••> "
.. '
Hfli
wmm
The' K “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached
“FARMERS’ BOY’’ Series 11, Mark XII, li h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin. 3Pool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
a
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
'guillotined !
Rotary Hoe
Sawbench
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St.. Launceston.
S. Aust.: A. M. JOHNSON & SONS Ltd., 200/204 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Teles: W 1495 and 1824.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmower
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR
tyres, Spray-painting, etc.
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC
GENERATOR for hole-boring,
for inflatin?
FURROWER
HARROWS,
lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Plerfse post to your nearest State
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
A/fETHODS of control of the
-*•*■*- cattle-tick mentioned by
J. F. Doyle (B. 26/1/’55) remind
me of a kitten trying to catch its
own tail.
Thirty-five years ago my father
took up land 60 miles north-
east of Hughenden; ticky
country. [Mr. Pearce writes from
Hughenden, North Queensland.]
We stocked with Shorthorns
carrying a few ticks, enough to
make them safe against redwater
(tick-fever).
During the first two or three
winters, the breeders got pretty
low, showing a. lot of ticks.
Neighbors were dipping more-
or-less frequently. We did not
dip. From then on, the ticks
hardly worried the cattle, except
for one or two short periods
when ticks were extra bad.
The property was in our family
for 28 years, during which time
we did not dip a beast. From
1938 until 1945 I was there con-
stantly. During that time we
didn’t lose one breeder through
ticks, nor was one fat bullock
reduced to store - condition
through them. On the other
hand, I heard buyers comrqent
bitterly about the state of cattle
on properties where dipping was
the rule.
In 1926 I went to the Upper
Burdekin, about . Greenvale,
Kangaroo Hills, and other
stations. Although ticks nearly
ate my horses, I saw no cattle-
dips. I asked an old man about
it. “We did dip here one time,”
he said, “but the cattlemen got
together and agreed to cut it
out. The ticks kept the cattle
low for a while, but they have
very little effect now. If you
would beat the tick, lad, stop
dipping.”
After reading Mr. Doyle’s
article I asked a young man
from the Territory how they
managed about ticks out there.
“We have ticks,” he said, “but
as we never dip, they don’t
worry us. On the Queensland
side they dip. The knocking-
about the cattle get in the muster-
ing and going through the yard
so heats the blood that the ticks
come on again in thousands.”
I spent five or six years in
Central Queensland, much of the
time around Rockhampton,
where the cattlemen, particularly
dairyfarmers, appear to have a
dipping complex. I worked it
out that by 1970 they would be
dipping about twice a day. I
saw more redwater there in five
years than I have seen elsewhere
in a lifetime.
Mr. Doyle refers to the
arsenic-resistant tick. As I under-
stand it, the arsenic-resistant tick
—so called —is an ordinary tick
that is not feeding. Arsenic does
not kill a tick by contact; it is a
stomach poison.
The cattle-tick of Queensland
and Territory, as we
know, came from the buffalo
herds. So far as I know, they
have very little effect on the
buffaloes, but were Very severe
on Queensland cattle when they
first appeared here.
The only solution, as I see it,
is to gradually ease-off dipping
and so build up a herd of tick-
resisting cattle. It has been done
in many parts of Queensland and
the Northern Territory. It can
be done elsewhere.
Robert C. Pearce.
Wool Earns Dollars
“ACT”: In a review of wool
as a dollar-earner, Margaret
Fead and B. R. Dufffn (Bureau
of Agricultural Economics)
point out that there has been a
decline of 40 per cent, in the
U.S. wool-clip and a 50 per
cent. rise in U.S. wool-
consumption since before the
war. The use of wool for
apparel in the dollar area has
become one-quarter of the
world’s consumption, compared
with one-sixth before the wan
Raw-wool imports into the U.S.
from sterling areas before the
war were 2.6 per cent, of the
total imports from that area.
Now they are about 10 per cent.
In 1953, for the first time,
wool replaced rubber as the
most important dollar-earner
among raw materials, although
both commodities showed a sub-
stantial decline compared with
1952.
Australia and South Africa
have benefited, as more than
half of all apparel-wool used in
the U.S. is 60’s or finer, and
wool is now four-fifths of the
value of all Australian exports
to the U.S.
The average value of raw-
wool imports in 1952-53 was 10
times their pre-war value, and
the quantity was four times
higher. Value of wool-
manufactures imported by the
U.S. has increased by 470 per
cent, since before the war, most
of them being from Britain.
Feed f@r Beef Catfle
“Meapro”: Feeding beef-
cattle in Australia has been
largely a matter of having plenty
of grass—the cheapest feed.
Only recently have we begun to
test more expensive feeds (which
may be justified by higher prices
for beef) in an endeavor to
determine whether faster gains
in weight will be economically
rewarded by higher returns per
acre or per pound per annum.
But, as yet, we have nothing
like the wealth of information,
derived from carefully conducted
comparative-feeding tests, which
are available to the American
fattener of cattle. Nor can we
apply this information wholesale
to Australian conditions.
Local tests are necessary. And,
until the results of local tests of
this kind are available, practice
will run ahead of research, and
some unwarrantable assumptions
and mistakes will be made.
Still, we can learn something
from these overseas experiments.
How many cattlemen in Aus-
tralia who are feeding more than
pasture would, for instance,
believe that steers fed a relatively
high-fat ration may require as
much as 1001 b. less feed per
1001 b. weight-gain, and would
have a lower percentage of fat in
the rib-cut, and a higher propor-
tion of lean, than those on a low-
fat ration?
These results, obtained recently
in a feeding-test made at the
Texas experiment-station, suggest
a re-evaluation of the need for
fat in cattle-rations.
In our early enthusiasm on
“Go! un off a chap called Shanks .”
beef-feeding in Australia we have
also endeavored to stress the
importance of steadily increasing
the weight, without any setback.
But a careful test recently at the
Purdue University experiment-
station has demonstrated that
steers wintered at a low level of
nutrition gave much higher yields
of beef per acre than steers
wintered at a high level of
nutrition.
Eight Frames or Nine?
“B-herd”: Eight frames in the
supers (B. 16/2/’55) is very com-
fortable for everybody, but it’s
a bit like sitting in the one place
with the bees-—it’s a luxury
denied to the hustling migrator,
who likes fat frames as much
as any stay-at-home bee-herder,
but must stick to the nine frames
if he wants the quick honey.
Because “0.T.8.” has watched
the honey come to him over the
years, he sees the problem merely
as eight fat combs or eight skinny
ones ; but the migrator sees it
this way: Come dearth or
drought, that colony is ready
and compact to move on the
moment. He hits the yard an
laou*' before sundown, and before
the dark sets in the eighty are
ready to throw on, and not a bee
is fretful.
Compare that to knocking-off
the lid, smoking, jamming-over
of frames and insertion of
another, and then the colony
strapped - down. Before
“0.T.8.’5” done, the whole yard
is disturbed, on the wing and
stinging before the real task is
started.
If that were all, it would be
enough; but when the eight
frames are jammed over to make
room for the ninth, some of the
“fat” could very well be the
doom of the hive, for, if the
bees weren’t moved following
the last extraction, two combs
could rub together in packing
and moving, honey drip through
and cause smothering-down.
Spilt or loose honey in a
confined hive on a long move is
a sure recipe for a smothered-
down colony at the end of the
road. A newly drawn frame of
foundation, for that reason, is a
source of concern to the careful
migrator. Allow the bees to keep
the bee-space safe throughout
the hive.
Assuming he has travelled
through the night, the migrator
arrives on the new site about
sun-up and releases the bees. Is
he then going to pull them to
pieces again to whip out the
offending comb? Not even a
lion-tamer type interferes with
bees after he pulls out the
entrance-plugs. Chuck the straps
on and the tuckerbox and let’s
get to hell out of it, is the creed
of the moving-men.
Or what is he going to do
while the bees settle down?
Whht about the other two loads
waiting the ride, and the hired-
hand sleepin’ there in the shade?
No, sir, there’s no time now.
The migrator-man never finds
the time to pull out the ninth
comb; he’s gone back for
another load, or he’s bringing
up the extractor, or he’s gone to
the siding for tins. He knows,
too, that he might shift these
bees on again without undoing
the straps, and he might do the
same on the next stand.
And, finally, what has he lost?
He doesn’t lose any honey, that’s
sure. Bees have a way of storing
the extra bit, come what may.
Leave a hive in two decks on a
heavy flow to find that out.
And about speed on the knife?
I’d like to show “0.T.8.” just
how lightning-fast a good man
is on his “outmoded” short knife
in the migrator’s van.
There are two things, among
others, that the big-tally men
stick to, and they should know.
First, nine frames to the box,
and, second, a short knife to rip
it out of ’em.
Drenching Sheep
“S.”: Never make a rush job
of drenching sheep. If the
drench goes down the windpipe
it can kill a sheep; in any case,
it does it no good.
Don’t sit the sheep on the
ground: hold it in a standing
position between your legs, knees
pressed against its shoulders.
Insert the first and second fingers
into the mouth with the thumb
over the bridge of the nose.
Place the nozzle of the instru-
ment in the mouth at the
opposite side, between cheek and
lower jaw, pointing backwards
(not between the teeth or over
the tongue). Touch the tip of
the tongue with the first finger,
and as the tongue moves deliver
the dose in an even stream.
No need to keep sheep off
feed before or after drenching,
but don’t allow them to drink
for about three hours after being
dosed.
Potash for Potatoes
“Vite”: Watch potatoes for
potash-deficiency late in the
growing-season. The trouble
can be found in parts of nearly
all Victorian potato districts.
The symptoms can be mis-
taken easily for those of a
disease. When potash is lack-
ing, potato-plants are backward
and somewhat bushy. Leaves
are shiny-green at first, but
develop a typical bronzed
appearance with scattered small
brown blotches, yellowing and
scorching around the edges. In
severe cases, the tops die pre-
maturely and yields are down.
The Victorian Department of
Agriculture’s cure: Use enough
complete fertiliser to make sure
of applying at least 1 cwt. of
potash an acre.
Cocksfoot for
Irrigation
“Jubilee”: At Rukuhai (N.Z.)
soil-research station it has been
found that cocksfoot, with irri-
gation, yields more feed than
perennial rye-grass, and the
latter more . than short-rotation
rye-grass—all with white- and
red-clover and grazed by beef-
cattle.
Short-rotation rye, after a
perod of hot, dry weather, was
stunted. The clovers with it
were responsible for the feeding-
value this plot had. The
cocksfoot-with-clovers plot was
outstanding.
These tests bear out the find-
ings of the N.Z. Grasslands


FOR SALE AUSTRALIAN COPYRIGHT
Annual Publication
The Proprietors wish to dispose of the Australian rights of a Farm Publication
which has a wide and successful circulation in New Zealand. Would suit active
retired Farmer or Business Executive prepared to travel. Bank references required.
Reply to Publication, care of this paper.
i
kk
POST-HOLE DIGGER w. 7
by
WESTERN IMPLEMENT CO. LTD.
The Company is well known to you all as a pioneer in
the field of rock-boring post-hole diggers. By its sincere
efforts, truth in advertising and its service, the Company
has made popular post-hole diggers capable of penetrat-
ing rock and concrete. It has always acted on the guaran-
tee that the purchaser will get his money back if the
implement will not do what is claimed for it. Our slogan
is:
tf iVo bore-No buy 9
The Company now presents without hesitation, and under
the same guarantee
The “Rochmaster”
ROCK-BORING POST-HOLE DIGGERS.
A Digger so jar advanced that it
could only have been designed by a
Company with experience and prac-
tical knowledge gained over years.
• GEARS RUN IN SEPARATE OIL BATH.
G SELF-OILING MAIN SHAFT.
• 2-STAGE AND 8-POINT CUTTER TO
OFFSET SHOCK.
G FRICTION RELEASE CLUTCH—MEANS
SAFETY FIRST.
• DESIGNED TO MINIMISE BREAKAGES
AND WEAR.
Sole Distributors:
WESTERN IMPLEMENT
CO., LTD.
The “Rockmaster” has no connection with any
other make of post-hole digger.
974 PORT ROAD, WOODVILLE, S.A.
Business hours,
Phone:
M 6258.
i
After hours,
C. H. Lines.
ML6357.
p
•m
m
MSB
1
Sgßfef?.
m*.
m.
W*
m.
m
MM
n
urn
M,
m
%
m
THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
Ist to 12th April, 1955—10 days 8 nights
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE *
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by W.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for So years
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND;
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore^
N.Z.:
” DISTRIBUTORS "
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.). 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
Division (8.19/l/’55) that it is
heat as much as lack of mois-
ture which restricts the growth
of rye-grass.
Experts recommend sowing a
cocksfoot-clover (red and white)
mixture in autumn, for irriga-
tion ; if rye-grass is wanted it
should be oversown a year
later. For spring sowing, rye-
grass could be included —it
shouldn’t restrict the establish-
ment of the cocksfoot much.
The main point is that cocks-
foot-clover pasture responds
better to irrigation than the
pasture with no cocksfoot. If
rye-grass is wanted for spring
and winter growth it should be
used sparingly, preferably by
oversowing.
Weedkiller
“Chlobo”: There’s been a bit
of a to-do in Sydney about a
chemical for ridding Ryde streets
of paspalum; there’s a long-
standing reward, offered by the
Ryde Council, for anyone who
can produce something to do the
job economically.
The weed-specialist of the
Department of Agriculture tried
one lot of stuff out, and is
inclined to think it was sodium
chlorate. If so, and if the council
uses it, residents of Ryde, walk-
ing along treated streets on a
warm day, are likely to hop like
demented bullfrogs when their
shoes catch fire. Sodium chlorate
has a nasty habit of igniting
inflammable material.
When, it first came out as a
weedicide some years ago there
were several cases of burnt feet
among farmers.
Chlorate-borates (obtained by
adding common borax to sodium
chlorate) have considerably
increased the weedkilling quality
of the original, as well as remov-
ing, or, at any rate, greatly
diminishing, the danger of
combustion.
The chlorate-borates have been
on the market for some years.
They are used extensively, as
contact weedkillers, on railroads,
telegraph and electricity trans-
mission-line right-of-ways in
America.
Fire Protection
“Sundowner”: If combustible
materials are classified, and due
precautions taken to deal with
any outbreak with the right
equipment, danger of a serious
blaze will be greatly minimised.
Broadly, the following classi-
fications will serve as a guide in
selecting extinguishers:
Freely-burning materials such
as wood, paper, fabrics, coal and
grain; highly inflammable
liquids, fats, waxes, oils, petrol,
alcohol, naphtha, paints, varn-
ishes, tars; electrical fires due
to arcs, short-circuits, overheat-
ing, fusing, faulty or overloaded
cables, storage-batteries, motors,
transformers, generators, switch-
gear.
The cooling-down method is
the best for freely burning
materials, and for this purpose
the red extinguisher, or soda-
acid, is the appliance to use.
As it is the vapor which burns
in highly inflammable substances,
smothering is the method of
extinction. This also applies
to burning gases. Blue
extinguishers (foam) and red
extinguishers branded “CO2
Dry Chemical Extinguisher”
are the correct appliances in
these latter instances.
The smothering method is
also most generally suitable to
deal with electrical fires.
Vitamin-D
“Gnarkert”: If you’re won-
dering whether to spend money
on vitamin-D for your sheep,
the answer is “Don’t except in
certain very special circum-
stances.”
W. J. Pryor, a veterinary
officer of the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, advises that
last year’s experiments showed
no response to injections or
drenches of vitamin-D under
average conditions.
The only time vitamin-D
might be needed is during very
wet weather early in the winter,
and when weaners are on green
oats for fairly long periods.
This applies, particularly,
when weaners are poor for any
other reason than the effect of
internal parasites.
When deficiencies are likely,
you can feed-out good-quality
hay which is rich in vitamin-D.
. The other way is to buy artificial
vitamin-D and inject it in the
autumn. Dose: 2 cc. for weaners
and 1 cc. for lambs.
Crosscuts
The “Murray Pioneer” (S.A.)
reports that Murray Lands
farmers want bulk-handling of
wheat.
* * *
Percentages of Australian leaf
used in blending of tobacco (i.e.,
minimum percentages permitted
for the imported leaf to qualify
for duty-rebates) go up from
July 1.
* * *
“The economics -of the sugar-
industry will not tolerate the
industrial - banditry tactics
pursued by some cane-gangs
during the 1954 season.” (R. H.
Watson, Cairns growers’ execu-
tive chairman.)
Commenting editorially on the
above, the “North Queensland
Register” makes the point—it has
been made before —that some of
the trouble was due to mistakes
by the Immigration Department:
“When a proper probe is made
into the causes of the unfor-
tunate, and even chaotic, circum-
stances of the 1954 harvest, it is
only meet that the Federal
Cabinet should come in for its
share of criticism. The position
was so bad that the sugar-
industry this year passed a vote
of no-confidence in the depart-
mental system and sent three
emissaries overseas to recruit
migrants for the coming season.”
First three places in a wheat-
crop competition sponsored by
the W.A. Flourmillers’ Associa-
tion went to northern-district
crops. First and third were
Gabo, second Eureka. Points
were awarded on a basis of yield
and baking-strength.
* * *
The “Geraldton Guardian”
(W.A.) reports some interesting
facts about Moonyoonooka, a
5000-acre property near Gerald-
ton : Herefords (Windsor,
Lochiel, Colly Creek, Herbert
Park and Dirk Brook blood);
thoroughbreds (sire is a son of
Blue Peter, English Derby win-
ner), an Arab stud, and pedi-
gree pigs and fowls. Besides
baby-beef (stud bulls on grade
cows) and about 4000 sheep.
Soil is mainly first-class clay
and red loam; with the yearly
use of about 100 tons of super.
This produces good clover and
lupins, as well as native-grasses
and cereal crops. Marine fossils
in the hills.
♦ * *
N.R.M.A. general-secretary,
H. E. Richards, advises members
“insured under the N.R.M.A.
comprehensive policy” that they
are covered for flood-damage.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: Long spells of
humid weather this summer
make body-strike likely. Any
of the latest dressings containing
aldrin or dieldrin will reduce the
incidence to a minimum for
eight to 14 weeks after spraying.
Dressing at 0.05 per cent, con-
centration is effective for five to
seven weeks, and will give good
protection up to 14 weeks. The
0.1 per cent, concentration will
give very good protection up
to 14 weeks. With the aid of a
knapsack-spray finely set, wet
a strip of wool 6in. to Bin. wide
from head to tail along the back.
A five-hole cyclone jetting-
nozzle is ideal for the job.
From the N.R.M.A.: “In no
circumstances” attempt to start
a motor affected by flood-waters.
If vehicle has been completely
submerged, cylinder-head and
engine-ramp should be removed,
and cleansing done by compe-
tent mechanics. If an engine
hasn’t been completely sub-
merged, then, “under expert
supervision,” drain engine, gear-
box and differential, brake-
hydraulic-system, and replenish.
Drain oils and replenish again
after 100 miles. At first oppor-
tunity, have a reliable electrician
check electrical components.
Also remove and clean wheel-
bearings at first opportunity.
Upholstery should dry in due
course; take out cushions and
squabs.
“Sarina”: Don’t clean with a
damp rag eggs for setting. A
bit of dirt won’t hurt, but wash-
ing removes the gummy coating
from the eggs and clears the
way for destructive fungi.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(6/3/’55)
There now [at date above] seems little doubt that the
North Coast, including Dorrigo, will receive the heavy rains
which were mentioned in previous reports.
This is a further remarkable example of the repeti-
tion of the Single cycle of 1919, as a cyclone moved down
the coast in that year to Victoria between March 3 and 6,
giving heavy rains 'on the lower South Coast of Queens-
land, with falls of over lOin. in 24 hours in parts of the
N.S.W. North Coast. At time of writing, it remains to be
seen whether this will strike again at the same place.
During May heavy rains should fall in southern
Queensland, and particularly heavy rains on the whole of
the coast of N.S.W. and general rains elsewhere. This
should also be associated with a cyclone, which [in 1919]
moved down the coast from South Queensland and New
Caledonia, followed by a further disturbance later in the
month.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
National Disaster Authority
While the response of Australians to
emergencies is usually wholehearted and
willing, no long-term policy has yet been
evolved in a national sense. The present
methods of dealing with floods, for in-
stance, are patchwork—disjointed, often
too late, and suffering from haste, impro-
visation, and lack of funds on hand.
There are civil disasters yet to come,
and, in the event of war, nuclear weapons
could produce calamity and devastation
far worse than anything caused by flood,
fire and drought.
Our one hope of coping with national
emergencies, whatever they may be, is to
speed-up the pressing of the buttons, and
to ensure that such a signal will produce
immediate action, fully supported by
transport, communication and supply.
Work along such lines must be started
soon-—it should already have been under
way, in fact —but if no Authority is to
possess overall directive power and
ability it is obvious that nothing con-
structive will be done anywhere.
To achieve anything in time, a new
national authority is needed, clothed with
sufficient power and funds to make its
presence felt even in the face of State
Government obstruction. It need not
have despotic power; rather a power of
coercion. Experience would soon show
how many teeth were required. Direc-
tion would be in the hands of men quali-
fied to temper it with thought and com-
monsense; the professional bureaucrat
could become a menace in such a
position.
A National Disaster Authority would
need far-reaching; powers to advise and
recommend on the use of equipment,
methods and supplies. It would need
sufficient power to be able to initiate the
use of recommended equipment by any
other body, defence or otherwise, and, in
the event of dispute, to require the dis-
puting body to show cause why such
equipment should not be used.
The Authority could examine, intelli-
gently and quickly, relevant methods and
equipment which can be found both here
and overseas. Members of the Authority
should be qualified to evaluate these
things themselves as far as possible—
e.g., if a helicopter or a truck is in ques-
tion someone responsible to the Author-
ity should be capable of deciding the
matter.
Members of the Authority should be
selected by a panel of defence and civil
experts and be fully employed for a
maximum of three years. After that the
individual member might be in need of
a refresher. The Authority should receive
its own allocation of funds from the
"Did y' put the alarm on for five-o'clock, Arthur?”
Budget, these being regarded as part of
civil and defence needs.
Here are some of the powers the
TT/° n ? ty sboud have:
Weather-reporting : The big cities,
which have received too much attention
because of their political power, are now
a major problem because of the possi-
bihty of military devastation. Nothing
practical is being done to deal with this
situation. With a city built around a
harbor or near the sea the dangers are
increased more than tenfold because of
the possibility of contaminated spray fall-
ing down-wind. That makes accurate
weather-forecasting as important as the
possession of fighter-aircraft.
The National Disaster Authority could
see to the establishment of proper
weather-stations inland, and of automatic,
unsinkable weather-stations off the
coast of Australia to any distance and
spacing needed for adequate weather-
warnings. Reports from these stations
would need to be digested and broadcast
every four hours when necessary.
Location: One of the most important
functions of a National Disaster Author-
ity could be in modifying
or moving unsafe town-
sites, where practical.
Alternatively, it could en-
sure safety-measures where
required. That reduces
itself to the involved and
tangled question of pro-
perty-rights, -values and
-compensation. It is basic-
ally the same, whether
flood-devastation (civil) or
blast-devastation (military)
is being considered. Yet,
owing to its complexity,
this matter is shirked ; and
no one State or Federal
department has any real
power to deal with it.
Roads: Wherever pos-
sible roads should be re-
garded as potential air-
strips and autobahnen for
military traffic. The Auth-
ority could require or
direct that such roads be
brought to the necessary
standard, and that obstruc-
tions, such as wires or trees,
be modified to suit the
prime need.
Equipment: All emerg-
ency equipment should be
examined critically, and
the earliest replacement or
modification rec o m-
mended where necessary.
Communications: The telephone-net-
work is as vulnerable as a railway-line to
unexpected trouble. A complete R/T
system should duplicate all line-networks
and be ready for immediate use at
exchanges when required.
Standardisation : The Authority should
be able to recommend or direct the
standardisation of auxiliary equipment
used by civil and defence organisations—
trucks, cars, accounting-equipment, nuts,
bolts, foods and packages, etc. Civilian
supplies should also be directed towards
that end, where relevant.
Supplies: The Authority should have
an up-to-date inventory of food-stocks
and equipment. It should be able to dis-
patch, say, 1000 tons of flour by the best
means to any part of Australia within
eight hours. It should be able to gather
units of materials’—blankets, medical-sup-
plies and so forth—from any or every
warehouse, store, town or manufacturing
company in Australia. It should know
exactly what it can collect and be able
to dispatch it within eight hours. And
that from a standing-start, whether a
holiday weekend has just commenced or
not.
Security: The Authority should be
able to ensure instant and adequate
policing of devastated areas and their
surroundings.
Those are only some of the things, but
they give the general idea. So long as
we continue to deal with national emer-
gencies in a hasty, improvised and dis-
connected manner we invite disaster from
several directions.— Buster (N.S.W.).
Too Dear
In Brisbane the Boilermakers’ Society
is indignant because the State Govern-
ment has given an Italian firm a £510,000-
contract to build a new rail-bridge over
the Brisbane River at Indooroopilly.
The Italian firm tendered £6OOO lower
than the Queensland firm which the
boilermakers claim should have got the
contract. And the Italian firm had to
“I'm bringing it home to get the knack of it.”
allow £68,000 for Commonwealth duty
on imported steel; the local firm didn’t
have to include that in its tendering.
The boilermakers complain that much
of the bridge will be built by workmen
not observing a 40-hour week, rest-
pauses and all the other trimmings, and
that Australian workmen are being done
out of their rightful jobs. They forget
that their 40-hour week, etc., is one of the
reasons the Queensland firm was knocked-
out of the picture,— M’Boro (Q.).
March of Bureaucracy
Figures released by Commonwealth
Statistician S. R. Carver show that the
number of Government in
Australia at December last was 701,200,
an increase of 20,000 during 1954.
Of the total, 68,400 were employed by
local-government authorities, leaving
632,000 on the payrolls of the Federal
and State Governments. Bald figures
can scarcely convey the seriousness of
the position. The fact is that in Aus-
tralia today one in every four employed
persons (there were 1,999,900 in private
employment in December) is an employee
of the State.
It is little wonder that those who be-
lieve in free enterprise and individual
effort are becoming soured at the failure
of the present Commonwealth Govern-
ment to honor its election promises and
reduce the steadily growing bureaucracy
that is stifling business and maintaining
taxation at a crippling level.
It is fantastic, yet nonetheless true,
that Britain, with its large population,
gets along with 633,380 civil servants,
only a few hundred more than in Aus-
tralia.
In Britain, too, the Conservative Gov-
ernment has made a genuine approach
to the problem of reducing the army of
public servants they inherited from the
Labor regime, and over the past three
years 55,000 have been retrenched and
absorbed in business and industry.
In direct contrast, State and Federal
Ministers in Australia have steadily in-
creased their staffs, generally with an eye
to personal aggrandisement.
The numerical increase in the public
service, coupled with salary margins
recently awarded by the Arbitration
Court, add up to a tax-slug on business,
agriculture, industry and the professions
that is becoming too burdensome to carry.
A question public servants in non-
essential positions should ask themselves
is whether a future Government, in time
of financial recession, could afford to
keep them in employment, and what the
future for them, in those circumstances,
would be in private employment?— Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Cabinetmaking
It would seem that speed is a more
valuable asset to the modern-cabinet-
maker than skill. Craftsmanship seems
now to be gauged by how fast a man can
assemble a job or —more so—a batch of
50 jobs.
The few workshops, mostly producing
period-furniture, which manage to keep
the true art of cabinetmaking alive do
so against competition from up-to-the-
minute mass-production methods, which
can duplicate— at least in general appear-
ance—the fine pieces the few turn out.
Mass-production is here to stay. It
is a necessity of the modern age, and we
cannot afford to go backwards. Never-
theless, it is a shame to see the quality of
furniture suffer as a result of the “got-to-
get-r it - on-the-market-cheaper-than-you”
attitude of lots of furniture-manufac-
turers.
Even the designer—the man respon-
sible for turning out the workshop draw-
ings and rods—in few cases is allowed
free play. He has to limit his designs to
conform with material, labor and overall
costs in relation to an opposition
product.
All too often the design comes from
the opposition in the first place, for
plagiarism in the highly competitive fur-
niture-trade is free-for-all. A few minor
changes, apparently, is sufficient protec-
tion against possible action.
It has come to a point where the keen-
edged chisel,, which, in the hands of an
expert, used accurately to chop out dove-
tails and pare joints to ensure perfect fit-
ting of members, has little more use
now than to scrape away excess glue.—
Clyde (Q.).
No Opposition
Throughout the history of British
Parliaments a vigorous and searching
Opposition has been the lifeblood of
the system. Until recently this has also
applied in Australia, particularly in the
Federal sphere, where the leaders of the
“outs,” on the floor of the House and
elsewhere, have called attention to what
they consider to be the faults of the
party in office.
Labor today seems to have lost its
vigor, and hardly a voice is raised in
criticism of Liberal policy or adminis-
tration. The leaders of the past would
have attacked hourly, because the present
Government, in some respects, is wide
open for such action —jaunts overseas,
handling of the coal position, defence,
margins, public expenditure, and other
matters. What a time W. M. Hughes
would have had!
It is the function of an alert Opposition
to oppose. That makes for sound admin-
istration and keeps the governing party
alert to its responsibilities.-
(N.S.W.).
C. B. M.


Profit-sharing—a Panacea
Under the heading of “Businessmen
Get a New Religion,” “Time” news-
magazine has some interesting things to
say on profit-sharing in the U.S.
It notes that in American industry
“there • are no more fervent evangelists
than the growing number of businessmen
who believe that profit-sharing is the
answer to the problems of productivity,
morale and retirement.” It goes on to
say that there are now 8000 profit-sharing
plans as against 60 in operation 40 years
ago. And “each month 200 or more are
pouring in for approval.”
Employers who have tried out the
profit-sharing idea on the grand scale
(Sears Roebuck, for example) admit that
it is no panacea for the ills which afflict
industry and industrial-relations. Theo-
retically, profit-sharing should make
workers feel they are part and parcel of
the concern, that they matter, and that
its success or failure is of vital concern
to them.
In huge organisations, however, “with
many diversified jobs,” employees are
apparently “too far away from the end-
results of their work” to be influenced
sufficiently by this feeling.
Nevertheless, most companies appear to
be satisfied with the success of their plans.
A survey of 300 companies disclosed that
“77 per cent, considered them ‘success-
ful’ or ‘very successful,’ only 1 per cent,
considered them a failure.” Even when
“Hey - something's missing!"
a profit-sharing company gets into the
red and has to put the pressure on its
workers, they accept the fact that the
speed-up is for their benefit as much as
for that of the shareholders.
On results, cash-payment programmes
appear to be superior to deferred-pay-
ment plans. As an example, “Time”
points to Cleveland’s Lincoln Electrical
Co., which each year awards 1100
employees, “on a merit basis, all profits
after a 6 per cent, return on capital; in
recent years the payments have equalled
or bettered wages.”
The Lincoln Electric Company’s
organisation in Sydney endorses the
success of this type of plan. Operating
on the merit-basis principle it has built
up an enviable record of labor-satisfac-
tion in its plant. By comparison with
many Australian concerns, its success in
this respect is spectacular.
It does seem that profit-sharing plans
offer probably the best alternative to-date
to industrial chaos and distorted
employer-employee relationships. At pre-
sent there is too much opportunist “grab”
on the part of many unions and too much
ruthlessness by many employers towards
the man on the job. Surely it’s possible
for both sides to share problems as well
as profits. America’s businessmen are
about the toughest in the world. If
profit-sharing is their '‘new religion”
there must be a lot to be said for it.
Distrustful unionists and employers alike
might find it a solvent of the bitter class-
hatred which today threatens our indus-
trial structure. — Una Auld (N.S.W.).
The Queensland Parliament
Queensland is the only State in the
Commonwealth without a Legislative
Council, a Parliamentary phenomenon.
It has allowed capricious Ministerial
actions to go unchecked and
unchallenged.
Labor first came to power in Queens-
land in 1915, and, save for a three-year
hiatus between 1929 and 1932, it has
been constantly in office. For all practical
purposes it has dominated Queensland
State politics for 40 years. One of the
first major moves of the Ryan Labor
Government in 1915 was to attack the
Legislative Council. Admittedly it was
not until six years later (1921) that
Labor officially identified itself with
one-party-State objectives, yet the Ryan
Government’s attempt to abolish the
Legislative Council suggests that there
was plenty of support in 1915 for those
aims.
The Constitution Act Amendment Bill
of 1915, proposing the abolition of the
Legislative Council, was defeated by the
Council itself. Undeterred, the Ryan
Government introduced precisely the
same bill the following year. It was
again rejected by the Council. This
second rejection by the Legislative Coun-
cil of Lower House legislation allowed
the Government to avail itself of the
provisions of the Parliamentary Bills Act
of 1908. This provided that in the event
of the Legislative Council twice rejecting
a measure proposed by the Legislative
Assembly the issue shall be decided by
the people at referendum. This was done
in 1917, and a large majority (63,000)
voted against abolition of the Council.
, But Labor was not to be put off. It
wanted a unicameral system of govern-
ment, and was determined to get it.
Appointments were made to the Legisla-
tive Council of men who were indubit-
ably loyal to Labor, and who could be
relied upon to do exactly what the party
asked of them. In March, 1922, the
Queensland Legislative Council went out
of existence. Eminent Constitutionalists
didn’t hesitate to pronounce the abolition
of the Council as unconstitutional, but
Labor was unmoved by the arguments.
The significance of the abolition of the
Queensland Legislative Council in rela-
tion to Labor’s continued occupancy of
the Treasury Benches in that State is very
real. With a bicameral system of govern-
ment in Queensland it is extremely
unlikely that there would ever have been
such gerrymandering of electorates.
Again, with a House of Review it is
unlikely that Queensland would have
suffered so many Acts of legislative folly.
Nor has the abolition of the Legislative
Council meant that Queenslanders pay
less for the running of their Parliament.
Of the seven Australian legislatures,
Queensland is the fourth-highest in
cost of upkeep. —D. J. K. (Q.).
Teaching Art
The Victorian Education Department
is paying about 30 student-teachers a
living-wage to learn art-appreciation from
a professor of the subject at Melbourne
University, so that they can teach art to
schoolchildren. What they are taught is
to let the children do what they like, so
why teach them? Any mother completely
ignorant of art could do that. —F. S.
(Vic.).
Egg Boards
As a fruitgrower and poultryfarmer,
I must protest against two comments in
B, 23/2/’55. The first concerns the
shipment of eggs oyer the border into
N. S. Wales from Victoria. I know that
we can do very little about this under
Section 92 of the Constitution, but it
does not alter the fact that the average
poultryfarmer is not in a position to
combat competition of this kind, and I
do not think eggs would be cheaper if
the small farmer were eliminated.
N. S. Wales is the biggest producing
State in the Commonwealth. During the
food-shortage in Great Britain poultry-
farmers were asked to increase produc-
tion to help the Old Dart.
Now, because of increased home-pro-
duction and imports from much closer
markets, England has seen fit to end the
agreement with Australia. As a result
we are now producing 40 to 50 per cent,
more eggs than are required in N.S.W.
at the present consumption-rate. Eng-
land subsidises its poultry business to the
tune of nearly £1,000,000 a week.
All that means that the poultryfarmer
in N.S.W. must subsidise the doss on the
export sale of this surplus to the extent
of Bd. a dozen on all the eggs he produces.
Victorian dealers, by avoiding both
pool-fund and Victorian Egg Board hand-
ling charges, have approximately lid. a
dozen to finance the unloading of their
eggs in N.S.W.
The N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board is
not Government-controlled; it is pro-
ducer-controlled and N.S.W. poultry-
farmers would be in a desperate position
without it. The housewife, too, would
be worse off, particularly if the position
arose where eggs were at the mercy of
the dealer and speculator.
The second Bulletin comment
accepted the statement that, while N.S.W.
Egg Board salaries were £22,041, sick and
holiday pay for the same period was
£40,845! That is obviously incorrect.
The facts are that wages and salaries
amounted to something like £220,000,
compared with the sickness and holiday
pay as stated. —E. N. S. (N.S.W.).
Two of a Name
Congratulations to John Meredith and
his fellow-workers of the Australian
Folklore Society (B. 2/3/’55). The col-
lecting and publishing of these old bush
songs is of the utmost importance and
long overdue.
It is well to know, however, that there
has been a Folklore Association of Aus-
tralia in Sydney since 1938. Its early
members included a Bard of the Gorsedd,
several with diplomas from the English
Folk Dance and Song Society (one of
the largest organisations of its kind in the
world), and one who held the certificate
of the Royal Scottish Country Dance
Society. Some of them had known
prominent figures of the “folk-revival”
Which took place at the end of the last
and in the early part of this century —
Cecil Sharp, Vaughan Williams and Mar-
jorie Kennedy Fraser, to name only
three.
The Folklore Association’s first presi-
dent was the Director of the N. S. Wales
State Conservatorium, Dr. Edgar L.
Bainton, whom I succeeded in 1946.
The Folklore Association has done
splendid work in bringing to public
notice our heritage of British and Euro-
pean folklore—folk-songs, folk-dance,
folk-plays, legends, arts and crafts. It
has organised concerts and folk-dance
displays and arranged folk-festivals in the
Sydney Town Hall (with hundreds of per-
formers) in the style of the international
folk-festivals held in London’s huge
Albert Hall. The Sydney folk-festivals
have raised hundreds of pounds for
deserving charitable causes, and have
been patronised by many notable person-
ages, such as H.R.H. the Duchess of
Gloucester.
It seems a little unfortunate that two
entirely worthy and separate organisa-
tions should bear almost identical names,
which must inevitably lead to some con-
fusion in the mind of the reader.
Whether the bush songs collected by
Mr. Meredith and his friends are folk-
songs in the generally accepted British
and European sense may be open to ques-
tion. In Europe, a song is considered to
be a folk-song only when it has originated
among peasants. The purist might ask
Mr. Meredith if members of the Aus-
tralian Folklore Society claim that the
songs they have gathered were actually
composed by the people who sang them
here in the old days, or are they, like
“Waltzing Matilda,” merely variants of
songs known elsewhere? Also, in what
manner, apart from their words, are they
peculiarly Australian? Everybody should
know that the aforementioned “Waltzing
Matilda” has no claim to be called an
Australian folk-song; the tune is that of
the well-known Scots’ song, “The Wood
of Craigielie,” which is itself not a folk-
song.
Such things aside, however, all who
have a genuine interest in traditional
song will hope that the work of the Aus-
tralian Folklore Society will prosper and
that more and more of the old bush songs
will be retrieved from an .undeserved
oblivion.-
CLEMENT HOSKING
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 321
Across
t—The German sickness is a rail-
way mishap. (10)
6—To become the fiance of
fortissimo in the affirmative. (4)
10 — More fragmentary squabbles on
the wharf. (9)
11— Negative heroine of Massenet’s
best-known opera loses her
mother. (3)
12— That is about 550 unemployed.
(4)
13 — Net one university faculty from
right to left, and confine the
street air with variations to
number. (8)
15—Continuing to irritate a fish in
English films? (8)
17 —Canberra namesake of Idriess
and I may be seen in a Canberra
suburb ingredient of adventure
films. (6)
19—Sixes recorded by one Leigh. (6)
-o—Flatter flower loses a hundred for
• an airborne goat. (6, 2)
23 Provides a business project with
a new * ot workmen. (8)
24 German woman in a fur. (4)
27 You duck a famous English
medal-maker. (3)
28 Half of the dangerous Africans
hsh a hesitant remark from a
tomb. (9)
29 — Ragout study. (4)
30 — Film seen during the accom-
plishment of a purpose. (10)
Down
1— Darker of the French sportsman
*on Kosciusko. (7)
2 Agrarian play by Capek Capone.
(5)
3 Yours Truly is footnote devils.
(4)
4 Wets a moustache, but is X, dix,
dieci, half-score, zehn? (8)
5 A boy invader of Britain. (6)
7 Canine fir chopped up by a
moneylender. (9)
8— An affirmative located in the
middle of Melbourne’s water-
supply. (3, 4)
9 Pole and I whip the east munch.
(9)
14—The sweep finds it difficult to
keep this unbranded member of
a herd, bovine or political. (9)
16 —Always equal to or less than the
raven’s remark. (9)
18— Pants delivered by this train.
(4-4)
19 — Referendum advice in which five
turned to optics. (4, 3)
21— Fruit ran into a bricklayer’s aid.
(7)
22 Rebel society holds the parent
you doubled. (3, 3)
25 — A magistrate about an original
girl. (5) .
26 — Some ringing interruption to
motoring on the Sydney Bridge.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 320


Va
HYPLATE with SILVIUM
BATTERIES
. . . the only batteries containing
■ • • the only batteries with the HYPLATE
■ • ■ the only batteries GUARANTEED 3 YEARS
iST’“ ~« SST rSSSSSFra
SILVIU M
hard
Rubber
V:■
S l*ls
“bzted
I- 8 ; Iset
:
H J
m
Sit*
wm,
They contain SILVIUM—the amazing new additive
developed by Century engineers.... increasing the life
of grids and plates and ensuring GREATER START-
ING CAPACITY.
2
They are equipped with HYPLATES.... these are
much larger than the plates in any other battery....
thus they provide much GREATER P-O-W-E-R.
3
They have GLASS INSULATION... .this prevents the
plates shedding active material, thus ensuring LONGER
EFFECTIVE PLATE LIFE.
4
They are fitted with the famous “CENTEX” high
porosity SEPARATORS which ensure LOWER IN-
TERNAL RESISTANCE and enable Century batteries
to deliver high current rates for LONGER PERIODS
....and they’re backed by Century with a THREE
YEARS’ GUARANTEE. ~
fonttim
W— MMr
Class Insulabed
HYPLAJ£„„ S/LVWM
BATTERIES:
Available in 6 v. 13 plate, 6 v. 15 plate and 6 v. 15 plate
Ford, 6 v. 17 plate, 12 v. 9 plate, 6 v. 25 tractor and
12 v. 25 tractor are made by
SILVIUM
THE MAGICAL
NEW ADDITIVE
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED
Alexandria, N.S.W.
o Century also manufacture a complete range of STANDARD {HEAVY DUTY) Batteries, available at slightly lower prices).
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS, TRUCKS, TRACTORS, EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT, MOTOR CYCLES,
RADIO, HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage
Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham Street,
Alexandria. Smith Sons & Rees Ltd., 30-32
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley Bros.
Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty.
Ltd., Parramatta Road, Lidcombe. Motor
Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Commonwealth
Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.)
Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery
Supplies Pty., 458 Brunswick Street, Bris-
bane. Plant & Plant (Machinery) Pty.
Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx
Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan Street,
Cairns. Lawrence Motor Company, Bols-
over Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough.
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy.,
Mary Street, Gympie. Jas. Croker &
Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co.
Pty. Ltd., Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries
(S.A.) Ltd., sole concessionaires, ! 5
Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors
Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86
Bathurst Street, Hobart; 224 Brisbane
Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros.
(Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
•3s
%tu
*P£9
HVp,
at e
U^PflUB
united
HYp L
ate
silviuM
\\V
$
®as4w
-4
HYp
I ATe
SILV| Um
\\v
"UJsfij
HVp u
T E
SILy .IUM
\\s
&&ea
Castei
HY Pk
ate
h Vpl
ate
S "v| UM
**■
■ Si
■--r.:.
HYp L
ate
.silvium
sauiru
HVp,
at e
S'IVIUm
p
J '*■
D MIL E S BETTER
