

THE HOUSE
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TAXUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“WEEKLY TO CITY”-mge27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76 —No. 3909
Wednesday, January 12, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
SCOTKAND'S FINEST SHOOTING CENTRES ROUND BLAIR CASTLE
NORTH of Pitlochry, near the confluence of the rivers Garry and Tilt,
stands Blair Castle, the ancient family seat of the Dukes of Atholl.
Many of Scotland’s castles have romantic settings but few are situated in more
delightful surroundings than Blair, for the district is renowned for the wild
beauty of its mountain scenery, to which its wooded glens and extensive
forests add variety and charm. Nearby is Loch Moraig, a small Highland
loch which provides good trout fishing, and between the lake and the foot of
Ben-y-gloe (3,671 feet) are the nesting places of curlews, lapwings and the
red grouse. The curlews and lapwings arrive in April and stay until the end
of July, while the grouse remain in the Highlands throughout the year.
The village of Blair-Atholl has been noted as a base for sportsmen lured
by the fame of the Atholl grouse moors and deer forests, by the salmon and
trout fishing in the Tilt and Garry, and in winter the slopes of Ben-y-gloe
attract many skiers.
Dating from the 13th century, Blair Castle has had an eventful history in
the course of which it has been in turn the headquarters of Montrose and
Dundee, and, after the latter was killed at the Battle of Killiecrankie, the
Royalists continued to use it. Bonnie Prince Charlie spent three days at Blair
Castle on his way south to Perth, and later it was held for the Duke of
Cumberland.
One of the privileges of the head of the Atholl family was to present
a white rose to the Sovereign when he or she arrived at, or passed through,
Blair-Atholl. In Queen Victoria’s Memoirs it is recorded that a white rose
was given to her by the Duke of Atholl. Blair Castle was lent to the Queen
during a visit to the Highlands in 1843, and on that occasion she presented
colours to the Atholl Highlanders—a gift which is usually conferred by the
reigning Sovereign only on a national Regiment. The Atholl Highlanders
were first raised by the young Duke of Atholl in the year 1778, after being
given authority by Parliament to raise 1000 men for the service of the State.
The oldest part of Blair Castle, which is in the Scottish baronial style,
is Comyns Tower, said to have been built by Red Comyn in 1269. Today
this great mansion is open to visitors and it contains a fine collection of
arms and armour, portraits and interesting Jacobite relics.


BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
NORMAN DOUGLAS
I Grand Man (Seeker and Warburg),
mey Cunard’s memorial tribute to
>rman Douglas, does not quite arrive
the portrait she is striving to paint of
n. Her style, a portraiture of herself,
the wrong medium for revealing a
rsonality at opposite poles to her own.
is exclamatory, hectic, and darts
her and thither in quest of definitive
)els which will convey her impression
Norman Douglas to the reader.
)bust, sanguine, virile, decisive, incisive,
rthright, terse, blunt, astringent . . .
Such sketch-terms may have a certain
lue in relation to portraiture, but they
ght be applied equally to a film-
oducer, a financial magnate, or any
ch type used to functioning with an
of authority. And Norman Douglas
is not a type, but a unique individual;
unique that he stands out as an
dated figure from the whole mass of
5 generation, a thinker who rejected
ntagion from its mad conflict of “isms,”
ciological, political, or aesthetic. A
fficiently damning estimation of that
neration that only one figure emerges
am it who was never thrown off his
ilance by its cataclysmic furies, and
10 retained the same rationality of his
ltlook on it to the end.
Nancy Cunard does better when she
/es up portraiture for reporting, as in her
;count of a journey she took with
ouglas in Tunisia, and later on, when
ey were together in London during
e last World War. As in all biography,
is not the analysis of character but the
cord of simple factualities which
sualises its subject to a reader; and,
recording them, Nancy Cunard does
icceed in giving us a picture of Douglas
id the genuine nature of her intimacy
ith him. A queer intimacy, since sex
iayed no part in it, and as for an
itellectual union of ideas and an outlook
a life, Nancy Cunard was an extreme
sample of everything that Douglas was
ot.
She was the product of that generation
ating from the ’twenties, the self-labelled
vant garde of any new movement
manating from that sink-hole of
lental disintegration, Paris. She
x>k up dadaism, cubism, Negro art —•
ny studio buffoonery that happened to
e going about. An expatriate, France
/as her spiritual home. She inaugurated
, hand-press there for printing small
ditions of precious brochures as
ollectors’-pieces.
Driven by a daemonic restlessness,
he involved herself in the American
acial antagonism between blacks and
vhites, taking, of course, the cause of
he Negro. She produced a Negro
Anthology, whatever a “Negro
Anthology” may consist of. Her rustlings
about the earth included South America
and Mexico, doubtless because of revolu-
tionary conflict in those places. The
Spanish uproar between Fascism and
Communism found her in the thick of
it; figuring as a journalist for a London
newspaper.
All this as a content of her intimacy
with Douglas, who detested all pauses,
all Socialistic utopia-mongers, all dictator-
ships by imperial-minded demagogues,
all uplifters, herd evangelists and rabble-
rousers. His letter to Nancy Cunard
during the Spanish war precisely defines
his outlook on all such tribal imbroglios:
I can’t excite myself over nations and
causes and creeds —my contempt for
humanity in general is too great. Indi-
viduals are the only things that interest me.
If the Spaniards like to cut each other’s
throats, and get the Germans and Russians
to help them —why not let them? It’s not
my affair. If they eat each other up to the
last man, like Kilkenny cats, let them!
This will sound unsatisfactory to you. But
if you want the truth, there it is. Nobody
is going to compel me to “take sides.” To
hell with sides. If Fascists annoy me, I
hop it. If Communists annoy me, I hop
it. Everything that ends in an “ism” is
just bloody assm as far as I am concerned.
Those dismal war years in London
show Douglas at his best. He was hard
up and had to take pupils in languages
to make a little money. He had been
deprived of all that made life tolerable
to him, his books, his flat in Florence
which housed his various collections in
past cultures, his saunterings about
Greece, Italy, Africa, from which he
drew so much of the material of his
books, his scholarly investigation
of matters botanic, geologic, and
archeological, good food and drink,
and the leisured exchange of talk with
that select circle of friends worthy to
compete with his inimitable wit, wisdom
and humor.
In the blacked-out limbo of London,
with bad food and drink, uncomfortable
lodgings, and amid the incessant crash
of Hitler’s bombs, he retained the un-
shakable balance of his sanity and
humor. Even when it came to the V-
bombs, he refused to leave London or
allow them to disturb his equanimity.
For both Hitler or a taxi-driver who
refused to answer his hail he had the same
derisive rejection, “God damn them, how
they make us suffer.”
While there he wrote one of his last
works, Late Harvest, a sort of running
commentary on his other books. He was
in his late seventies, an endurance test, if
ever there was one, for a man to retain
his sanity in Bedlam. It warmed me
much to get a greeting from him at that
time through my son Phil, who met him
in a pub one night during the blitz. We
had corresponded in the past over, among
other things, matters referring to the
Fanfrolico press, which discretion advises
me not to enlarge on here.
Quite apart from his work, Douglas
must have had great personal charm. In
her memorial Nancy Cunard includes
half a dozen tributes to him from friends,
and they all loved him deeply as a man.
He had that ease of self-communication
which allowed him to exchange talk on
equal terms with all varieties of the human
species that engaged his interest, as much
at home with Italian peasants in a village
wine-shop as at the dinner-table of
Reggie Turner, a highly cultured virtuoso
of the era of Aubrey Beardsley and The
Yellow Book. The only people he refused
to tolerate were bores, snobs, notoriety-
hunters and “ism”-evangelists.
I can find only two instances where
intimacy with him evolved a personal
rancor, and those instances are in them-
selves a tribute to his worth, by contrast
to the feelings that engendered them.
One derived from the disgruntled Richard
Aldington, and the other from that
peevish, petulant post-adolescent, D. H.
Lawrence.
Though these personal tributes by his
friends to the work and personality of
Norman Douglas make pleasing reading,
they really contribute little to the intimate
knowledge of both to be derived from his
works. In those he has drawn the por-
trait of himself life-size, so that a lifelong
acquaintance with him could hardly tell
us more about him. Less, probably, be-
cause that portrait is drawn with the un-
forgettable clarity of his prose.
Never was prose so seemingly effortless,
yet so much the product of a matured
craftsmanship in words. His style is
unique because it is the expression of him-
self. It conveys the effect of the spoken
word as no plodding adherents of the
Hemingway colloquial school ever suc-
ceed in doing. As one reads, Douglas is
in the room with one, at ease in a com-
fortable chair with a cigar in his mouth
and a bottle of good wine at hand. Only
a great love for life, as distinct from love
for man, can create this warm bond be-
tween writer and reader.
That love is defined by Douglas’s pet
affirmation, “Everything is interesting.”
And to the investigation of everything he
brought to the profundity of his thought,
his amazing erudition and his unresting
observation of all natural phenomena.
But one theme dominates all Douglas’s
thought: that of the conflict between
Greek and Christian. In that enchanting
allegorical fantasy They Went, he has
defined the Greek effort to civilise man
by self-knowledge and a sense of beauty,
and the Christian endeavor to throw him
off balance as a creed-crazy fanatic.
Douglas never stresses emphasis in this
eternal conflict between barbarism and
the civilising principle, as Nietzsche does
in his Antichrist. They Went, and his
other allegory on much the same theme,
In the Beginning, are told almost in the
light-hearted key of a fairy-story, but
they are charged with the devastating
vitality of his thought. Perhaps Lytton
Strachey has best expressed the under-
lying profundity of his knowledge of life,
so often masked by an air of casual incon-
sequence over life’s seeming trivialities.
In a letter to Douglas he wrote:
Your books are so full, there is so much
of many things in them —so much experi-
ence, so much learning, so much art, so
much humor, so much philosophy, and so
much proof that there is so much, so very
much, more underneath that is unexpressed.
Douglas is of the genera of Aristotle
and Montaigne, and if those are Jwo of
the wisest men who ever lived, Douglas
is the wisest man of his generation. And
that is much to say of any generation.
It is wrong to define such minds as that
of Douglas as the highest product of
civilisation. They are in themselves the
cause of civilisation. If the tolerance and
sanity of Douglas’s thought could pene-
trate the mass-mentality of mankind, this
earth would cease to be the madhouse it
is.
But then, we know, the earth was
designed to be a madhouse. How else
could the supreme sanity of a Norman
Douglas be vindicated? And if there is
a cosmic principle worth taking seriously,
that sanity, defined as an impassioned
love for life, must be its major objective
in time and space. Perhaps one ihight add
to that the sardonic utterance Douglas
puts into the mouth of his wise old satyr
as a tail-piece to In the Beginning : “Gods
or men, I do not know which is the worst.
To the crocodiles with both of them.” —
Norman Lindsay.
Young Cricketers
Reading Green Sprigs: Cricket's Age
of Youth, by Ray Robinson (Collins), one
is reminded of the limerick
There was once a young fellow called
Grover,
Who bowled thirty-two wides in an over. •
It had never been done
By a clergyman’s son
On a Friday, in August, at Dover.
The remarkable feats herein listed all
deal with “youngest evers.” For instance,
So-and-so, at 18 years 297 days (precise
to the day in most cases), was the youngest
left-hander going in first-wicket-down to
hit the fastest century (or double-century)
at Lord’s (or Leeds) since (or before)
World War 11.
Not but that, ranging over all the
British Commonwealth countries where
cricket is played, it isn’t all very engaging
reading. We discover that Cecil Dacre,
from N.Z., was the youngest first-class
cricketer ever, at 14 years 5 months (for
Auckland v. Wellington, 1914); that
another New Zealander, Gifford Vivian
(at 19 years 121 days), was the youngest
of all Test century-makers; and that
Hanif Mohammed, at 16 years 10i
months appearing for Pakistan against an
English team, would have been the
youngest Test-cricketer but that Pakistan
had not then been granted Test status.
In all 39 teenagers have become Test-
cricketers, 12 of them having come for-
ward in six countries since 1948. Some
of the 39 have had falls as precipitate as
their rises ; but most of those now longer
in the tooth and head have stayed at the
top. Robinson says it’s not a matter of
“Is he old enough?” to play Test-cricket
but “Is he good enough?”
The dustjacket depicts a left-handed
batsman, bandaged round the head, hit-
ting out vigorously. This is yet another
New Zealander, Sutcliffe, and the incident
concerned, in “the most sensational drama
since bodyline rocked the cricket world
21 years earlier,” occurred in aN.Z.-South
Africa Test at Ellis Park (Johannesburg)
on Boxing Day, 1953, with the N.Z. flag
flying half-mast because of the N.Z. rail-
way tragedy on the Christmas Eve (the
fiancee of one of the N.Z. Test-players
was lost in it).
Sutcliffe (incidentally one of the few
players discussed at length who wasn’t an
infant-prodigy in cricket) was felled after
being cracked on the head by fast-bowler
Adcock. Many thought he’d been killed.
Taken to hospital he again lapsed into
unconsciousness. When he returned to
the ground N.Z. was 6-82, and hard-
pressed.
Batting again, dazed and shaky,
Sutcliffe quickly ran to 80 not-out —-four
fours and seven sixes! He confidently
faced Adcock. Last-man in was the grief-
stricken Blair, with whom he added 33.
“The greatest 80 ever made in Test-
cricket,” said a Johannesburg writer.
And Robinson adds that it was an inn-
ings played previously only by school-
boys in their dreams.
There are one or two minor errors in
the book. In a list of youngest Test
century-makers (in Tests between all
countries) Harvey is third, at 19 years
270 days, in making 112 for Australia v.
England, Leeds, 1948. Actually Harvey’s
first Test-century was made in the fifth
Test against India in February that year ;
he was born on Oct. 8, 1928, and his 153
was completed on the second day of the
Test, Feb. 7, which makes him 19 years
122 days, or just one day older than the
New Zealander, Vivian. Though, if one
knew the hour of Harvey’s birth, he may
be even exactly the same age as Vivian:
a point of great subtlety which Mr.
Robinson should surely not have over-
looked.
A second slip—South Africa went to
England in 1951, not 1950. Also, it could
have been expressly stated that Benaud’s
“first Melbourne appearance” was for a
Second N.S.W. X.l, not the Sheffield
Shield side —which would have avoided
a misleading impression that a compara-
five unknown, Brian Dwyer, had cap-
tained the N.S.W. Shield side.
The book has much interesting lore,
and (apart from one or two atrocious
musical puns) is well written.
Delaney the Third
In the newest Bant Singer thriller, Don't
Slip, Delaney (Collins), Mr. Delaney has
married Kathy, the helpful hotel-maid
of his first adventure, You're Wrong,
Delaney.
The story opens with Delaney and his
friend Dusty on a Double Bay jetty look-
ing at a houseboat. Dusty removes his
shoes and goes aboard the houseboat.
When he doesn’t return, Delaney goes
after him, and finds a throttled dame.
Delaney thinks it’s Dusty’s wife who has
been two-timing him ; but in the “Herald”
next morning it turns out to be a young
unmarried doll.
Next Delaney and wife are visited by
a hophead gunman employed by an evil
master-mind with a flat in Hie Cross and
a heavyweight chauffeur. The big boy
has thrown-over Dusty’s wife, who was
his paramour, for this done-in damsel;
and whoever done her in has popped with
jools, so the big boy is a little put-out.
Mr. Singer continues to provide his
popular mixture of crime, mystery, tough-
guy stuff and Vamour, and Sydney readers
in particular will no doubt be gratified to
have such goings-on going on in their own
town —at a block of flats facing Wynyard
Park, for instance, and in a pub in the
North Shore suburb of St, Leonards,
A Good! Time with Timms
Many of E. V, Timms’s many novels
have been reviewed in The Bulletin, but
the present commentator has never had
the pleasure of evaluating one of them;
so that it was with the liveliest interest
one seized at last upon the latest, The
Fury (Angus and Robertson), to try to
discover exactly what qualities have made
them so popular.
There is, of course, no dearth of his-
torical information. Mr. Timms seems
to keep a stack of reference-books at
his elbow, ready to drop in hunks of
information from them whenever the
narrative requires it; and at least on one
occasion in The Fury he forgets that he
has dropped in the required hunk and
drops it in again. On page 45 we are
told that what people wore to the Vic-
torian gold-diggings was:’ —
Red shirts, blue shirts, grey flannels,
moleskins, cabbage-tree hats, frock coats,
stove-pipe hats, beaver hats, blucher boots,
elastic-side boots, Wellingtons, Napo-
leons. . .
and on page 102 practically the identical
boots, boots, boots, boots go marching
into Geelong ; with
cabbage-tree hats, pith helmets, top-hats,
plush and straw bonnets; colored cotton
shirts, long coats and short jackets, shawls,
print and linen dresses; blucher boots,
elastic-side .boots, lace-up boots, jackboots,
Wellingtons, buckled shoes....
This is a little odd ; and so, too, is Mr.
Timms’s other method of imparting infor-
mation which some other reader has
noted on the Red Page—his practice of
letting one of his characters spout history-
book facts by the yard in the course of
normal conversation; as, for instance,
does the hero of The Fury, Richard
Temple, when after promising Sally May
“I’ll be brief,” he discourses for four solid
pages on the early days of Geelong:
“ln ’forty-four was the first re-
gatta”—
“What’s that?”
“A race between sailing-boats out on
the bay. And in the same year the town’s
first theatre was opened. The Barwon
bridge was built three years ago, and two
years ago Geelong got its first fire-brigade.
But the town really grew up when the new
Council held its first meeting in the Royal
Hotel, last year, the motto of the new
Corporation being ‘By the Right Use of
God’s Gifts’ : .
One may not be able fully to share in
Mr. Timms’s enthusiasm for “firsts” nor
joyfully to exclaim with Sally in the
almost imperceptible pause between that
paragraph and the next, “Yus, Richard,
it’s wunnerful! ” ; but, oddly presented or
not, historical information is a dish we
can all take a good deal of ; and here we
have not only the discovery of the Vic-
torian goldfields but —very timely when
all the hullabaloo is going on —the
Eureka Stockade itself, with Peter Lalor
and Raffaello, and the redcoats and the
bullets and the bayonets and all the
appropriate sentiments ... the event
occurring, too, just at the moment when
Mr. Timms’s lively domestic drama is
reaching its climax with the drunken
Arlene trying to murder Sally May
(Continued on page 35)


i
m
w*
m
IP
i
a
n
:
x
i
7/A
: :
T //A
n>
I
at
\v\(
\u»
1
I
IP
I
I
5f
The Wolf Cub Kit, drill
horizontal stand, portable
saw, sanding, grinding, buff-
ing, polishing, etc. 240-volt,
£22/5/'-, 32-volt, JE23/BA.
The K.B.C. kit. Standard
chuck model, £2l/5/6;
geared chuck model De Luxe
priced at £23/16/6. Six
months’ guarantee on this kit.
Drill master kit, with shock'
proof plastic housing, balh
bearings. With portable
saw, £24/9/6; less saw,
£2l/2/6; geared 3 jaw chuck.
mm*.
The Desouter heavy duty
drill gun kit, made up into a
home power tool kit, 1,400
R.P.M. Ball-bearing, geared
chuck. £22/?/'. Saw 67/6
extra.
This is a picture of a Boon*
*Boon
“A favour, a gift, a blessing, an advantage, a thing to be thankful for” (Shorter Oxford English Dictionary).
The Boon pictured above is even something more. It is a BENEFIT received
and enjoyed! The Boon above is the basis for a complete home workshop.
The Wolf Cub J" Drill. In performance and versatility, it is far more than
a portable tool; it’s the power unit which drives a saw bench, wood turning
lathe, fret saw, drill press, sander polisher, grinder and buffer. Price of the
£" drill is £ll/10/-; saw bench, £5/15/6; lathe set, 32/6; fret saw, £7/7/-;
drill, £6/7/6. All of our power tools are available on the easiest of terms.
One of the largest ranges in SYDNEY!!
We’re proud that we stock such famous brands as Desouter, K.B.C, Black
and Decker, Stanley, Sher, Star and Millers Falls. Come in and discuss your
particular needs with our salesmen. They are trained to help you.
saps?*®
mm
mm i
Famous Black and
Decker Power Kits
Black and Decker combined wall cabinet
and carrying case, containing all-purpose
unit with accessories. Priced at £26/13/6.
Black and Decker “Utility” power tool
chest. drill, and accessories fitted into
shelves and clips. Priced at £2l/19/-.
I "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns
ADDRESS ALL YOUR ENQUIRIES TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
’PHONE: 80951. RING T.O.P.S. FOR
i V-' : • ' .


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 12, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3909
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;,
•Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wbstralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW GUINEA POLICY
WITH the move to form an Asian-African comity
of nations, which was perhaps a foreseeable
addendum to the organisation of Seato, the future
of the lands to the north and east of Australia takes
on an added importance for the Commonwealth.
It might be at a not-so-distant period that
this country will find itself enclosed by seeping
Asiatics who, using U.N.O. as their gate of entry,
forced their way into the New Guinea archipelago
and down through the Solomons and Hebrides. It
would be difficult to stem such a flow if it began,
say, from India, with U.N.O. in charge. And with
it would come both all the problems which curse
South Africa and Fiji, plus a lot of new ones arising
out of the impact of the immigration on White
Australia policy and defence.
Australia at present seems to be administer-
ing New Guinea with its head in the clouds. The
place is our gun-platform from which an invader
must be kept at arm’s-length, our rampart to be
manned first of all in case of war. Apart from that
it has the makings of a large and prosperous State
of the Commonwealth, a matter which must be
taken into account when the Constitution comes
up for revision.
Instead, however, of tightening our grip on
these islands the tendency has been to loosen
on that part which is our own. Papua, which is
Australian territory, has been brigaded with New
Guinea trustee territory for administration under
one piece of legislation which makes it subject to
all the limitations and policies of trustee territory.
This is not the doing of the present Government,
but of Dr. Evatt’s internationalist regime.
It is now time that the whole matter was
reviewed and policies reframed with a view to
expansion of settlement and development and the
encouragement of personal and adventurous private
enterprise carried on with a due regard to native
rights. It is not necessary to criticise the present
Administration to advocate this. Both the present
Government and the local-government have made
splendid even if their policies are
necessarily infused with the nonsense forced on
them by busybodying theorists via those who
control U.N.O. trusteeships.
The land policy, which is the heart of New
Guinea problems, needs liberalising. At present
a would-be settler must search out his land, deal
with the native owners and then wait for the
Government to buy it for him and give him a
99-years’ lease, after public hearing of an appli-
cation at which objections may be lodged. It works
reasonably well in respect of some land—far better
than the tangle of Socialist red-tape which passed
for a land policy in Ward’s day and bemused and
obstructed both natives and would-be white
settlers. But it is apt to put off the native com-
munities which have large areas of unused land.
They prefer to know who their neighbors are, and
while they are often ready to sell to persons whom
they know and esteem, they are chary of selling
large blocks blindly to the Government not
knowing what type of settler will be allocated to
their area.
The system thus, with all its merits, serves in
some senses to penalise the type of immigrant
who gets on with the natives, is qualified to main-
tain friendly and helpful relations with them and
who should be encouraged and assisted to the limit
especially since he is usually a man able to look
after himself and requiring little help from the
Administration apart from the provision of his
land.
The policy of the Government now is to acquire
large tracts of land, survey and soil-test them and
settle them with a regimented influx according to
the mode which seems ideal to Canberra officials.
But such a scheme is dependent on the willingness
of Parliament to grant money; its tempo and
expansion are governed by the available Govern-
ment resources, and it debars would-be settlers of
the type who scorn to be dependent on Govern-
ments and who are eager to go ahead on their
own account.
Mr. Hasluck has said that “there is no short-
age of land for any genuine landseeker in the New
Guinea Territory,,” and this is theoretically true.
There is magnificent land to burn, but the genuine
settler has little chance to get at it, and this at a
time when a spate of enterprise could well fill the
Australian tea- and coffee- and perhaps pepper-
markets with products grown by Australians, and
expand the booming cocoa-growing business —
killed by the muddlers of the “expropriation
period” after the Germans had founded it, but
now renewed and growing to be the staple
agricultural industry.
The rich Warangoi-Keravat valleys and a
dozen other areas in New Britain almost
a virgin territory so far as settlement goes,
though it holds a booming capital in Rabaul —New
Ireland and Bougainville call for big increases of
population. But the policy seems to be affected by
the different natures of the two halves of the Terri-
tory which have been unnaturally yoked together
for government.
In the trustee area, though won in 1914 by
Australians, settlement is discouraged; in Papua,
which is Australia proper, it is encouraged. Thus
areas quite close and accessible to Rabaul and its
fine harbor are left virgin and savage, because
Moscow might describe it as being “exploited” if
Australians turned it to account to help feed the
hungry world instead of leaving it to the lady
anthropologists as a playground in which to study
—under careful protection—the habits of the wild
man.
Nothing could be more foolish. Wherever
there has been a growth of native wealth and
prosperity and a development of native culture in
New Guinea it has followed European settlement
by the right type of settler. There is no need to
look farther for an example of this fact than the
Talai people of the Gazelle Peninsula of New
Britain, where the planters got in before Mr. Ward
and Dr. Evatt introduced Russianised ideas into
Pacific colonisation. The Talais number about
30,000, and are some of the most rapidly advanced
natives in the Pacific.
It is certain that if the same policy which has
been established of yore in the Gazelle and some
other small areas were applied generally to all
fertile land in New Guinea the country would be a
safer, more, civilised, better-defended place. And
there would soon be a trend towards the ideal of a
community in which white and native worked side
by side in a common framework of free enterprise
and in which the “native problem” would cease to
exist.
Our Antarctic Territory
ON February 13 the Australian research-station at
Mawson, on the shores of Macßobertson Land, the
farthest-south inhabited point on the earth’s surface,
will celebrate its first birthday. Already it has made
news by its discovery of a new Antarctic mountain
range. The station, which carries out meteorologi-
cal observations and research work in geological,
magnetic, geophysical and other fields, has been
enlarged by the transfer of some of the buildings
and equipment from Heard Island. That base,
which has been in service for seven years, will not
be manned in future, but a nucleus of buildings and
supplies will be kept there so that the island may
be used as a staging-base for expeditions bound for
Mawson and other parts of Antarctica.
When the Heard Island station was set-up in
1947 it was the only meteorological station in that
part of the world, but now the South Africans have
a station at Marion Island and the French at
Kerguelen and Amsterdam Islands, so Heard is no
longer considered essential. Information gathered
by South African and French observers will be
available to Australia as required; Macquarie
Island will still be fully maintained, and Mawson
will furnish reports from 1000 miles south of
Heard.
Although much very fine work has been done
at Heard and Macquarie Islands, the successful
establishment of the station at Mawson is of far
greater importance than was the setting-up of those
two bases. It is an earnest that this country intends
to maintain its claim to sovereignty over the huge
tract of ice-covered land called by us since 1933 —
though by no means universally recognised as such
—the Australian Antarctic Territory.
The estimated area of the Antarctic continent
is between five million and six million square
miles, and the Australian sector has an area of
2,472,000 square miles, almost equal to that of
Australia itself. It comprises “all the islands and
territory, other than Adelie Land, situated south
of 60 degrees south latitude and lying between 160
degrees east longitude and 45 degrees east longi-
tude.” On the map this stretches east from Enderby
Land and Macßobertson Land to Victoria Land.
The excluded territory, Adelie Land, wedged in
between Banzare Land and King George V Land,
is French territory.
Seven nations have laid claim to portion of
the Antarctic continent —Britain, Australia, New
Zealand, France, Norway, Argentina and Chile.
The first five of these recognise each other’s claims;
the last two dispute with Britain the ownership of
the Falkland Islands Dependency—in addition,
their own claims overlap. America does not
recognise any claims to Antarctic territory.
International practice in relation to claims to
territory recognises three stages: (1) discovery, (2)
formal claim, (3) occupation and administration.
Discovery gives an “inchoate” title to terri-
tory—a temporary right which lapses unless fol-
lowed up by further action within a reasonable
period. Such action usually includes “hoisting the
flag” and announcing a formal claim to sovereignty;
but even these acts merely serve as temporary
measures to extend the inchoate title; acquisition
must be completed by such occupation and
administration as is called for by the nature of the
territory.
In 1933 the Permanent Court at the Hague
gave judgment on the disputed sovereignty of
Eastern Greenland, claimed by Norway on grounds
of discovery and one-time occupation; Denmark
claimed on possession and ancient rights. The
decision was in favor of Denmark, because that
country was able to prove acts of an administra-
tive nature over a long period, although there had
been no effective occupation—not even annual
visits. The principle laid down was that the estab-
lishment of settlements on the coastline of a country
inaccessible by nature of its terrain or climatic
conditions, but forming a single geographical unit,
was sufficient to give a valid title to sovereignty
over the interior.
Almost all the exploration that has been done
in the Australian sector since Enderby Land was
first sighted by John Biscoe in 1831 has been done
by British or Australian expeditions. Scott’s first
expedition penetrated the area from the Ross Sea
end in 1901-4, and Shackleton traversed it to
within 100 miles of the South Pole in 1909, while
two Australian members of his expedition, Edge-
worth David and Douglas Mawson, discovered the
South Magnetic Pole. Scott was in the territory
again in 1911 en route to his triumph and disaster,
and Mawson led his own expedition, mainly Aus-
tralian, which put 700 miles of new coastline on
the map, raised the flag in seven different localities
and was the first party to winter on land in the
territory.
Another Australian, Hubert Wilkins, visited
the Antarctic in 1928 and again in 1929, but his
explorations were confined to the South American
side of the continent. Mawson made a third trip
in 1929-31 as leader of the British, Australian and
New Zealand expedition, using Scott’s old ship, the
Discovery. This expedition discovered Macßobert-
son Land, charted 800 miles of new coastline,
roughly delineated a further 200 miles and charted
150 miles which had been sighted and vaguely
mapped a century earlier. Wilkins raised the Aus-
tralian flag in Princess Elizabeth Land in 1939.
Last year’s expedition, under P. G. Law,
director of the Antarctic Division of the Department
of External Affairs, besides establishing the base at
Mawson, visited points in Princess Elizabeth Land
and raised the flag at Vestfold Hills. Robert Dovers,
who was left in charge of Mawson with a pro-
gramme of exploration, geology, meteorology and
biology, has had experience at both Heard and
Macquarie islands and spent 12 months with a
French expedition in Adelie Land, where he tra-
versed 1200 miles by tracked vehicles and dog-
sledge. Most of the other members of the party
have had sub-Antarctic experience.
Australia has very substantial grounds for
recognition as the sovereign Power over the terri-
tory claimed. Its part in the work of discovery
and exploration can scarcely be disputed; Britain,
by recognising the Australian claim, has waived
such transitory title as was earned by British
explorers from Biscoe down to Scott and Shackle-
ton, and no other nation held even a shaky title.
The second stage, formal claiming, dates from an
Order-in-Council of February 7, 1933, which came
into force on August 24, 1936, after the passage of
the Australian Antarctic Acceptance Act on June
13, 1933. In October last year the Australian
Antarctic Territory Act, 1954, was passed provid-
ing for the application to the Territory of the
system of law in force in the Australian Capital
Territory. This, with the establishment of the
permanent base at Mawson, would seem to meet
all the requirements of international law in regard
to sovereignty. It might, however, be worth while
considering W. C. Wentworth’s suggestion of
another station in the portion of the Territory to
the east of Adelie Land.
In 1936 Sir Douglas Mawson was able to say
that the southern continent was “at present” of
very little economic value, but current opinion now
is that the time is rapidly approaching when the
Antarctic will be no longer regarded merely as a
desert of snow and ice. If and when development
of its mineral and other resources becomes prac-
ticable our action in establishing a firm claim to its
control will probably be acclaimed even by those
who now think it merely as a grandiose gesture.


WHAT’S COOKING?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Stalemate in Peace
Any thinking Russian must have felt im-
pressed as he read President Eisenhower’s
State of the Union message to Congress
in the first week of the New Year —that is,
if there are any Russians left who know
how to think.
The essence of what he said was that
the aim of the free world must now be to
make it clear to the Russians that Western
retaliation against any attack would be so
swift and salutary that the attack would
be futile. This, he suggests, would produce
a stalemate during which civilised Western
countries would strive by every means pos-
sible to negotiate enduring peace.
It seems a dreadful way of obtaining
peace. Having regard to human nature
it almost is an impossible one, because
it cannot produce a willing peace ; only a
long armistice enforced under the com-
pulsion of superior strength. And no
country in the mood of the Russians has
ever been ready to realise that strength
lies behind a threat against aggression.
Japan was a case in point. In the years
before World War II it was faced with
just such a situation as Russia appears to
face today, but in the teeth of world warn-
ings and superior strength it went on
arming for attack when occasion should
arise, being convinced that it faced a
hostile world.
Still, there seems to be no alternative.
It is Russia’s creed that there can be no
peace without world conquest by the
Communist movement, without the com-
plete blotting-out of the capitalist world,
which at present is so much better a world
than the half-starving Communist world.
And it is unbelievable, in view of the
momentum which its plans have received
from the fall into its clutches of one de-
bilitated country after another round its
borders, that anything will deter it from
an ultimate test. Country after country
will fall to it until it meets the hard core
and mortal resistance hnd has its lesson.
This is the more likely because those
that remain of the capitalist world round
its immediate rim seem to be so easy, and
in some cases almost willing, to be over-
come.
The one approach to Russia that might
succeed would be based on a conversion
of the Russian leaders to a saner outlook,
if they were capable of seeing matters for
a time through Western eyes. But they
are scarcely the men to do this, since the
very nature of Communism leads them to
assume an arrogant superiority of moral
and material capacity in themselves. They
are quite unable to appreciate what
chances they have missed, or what lie
before them in the future.
Russia in the closing months of World
War II had its chance. The whole world
was its friend, if it were possible to be
friendly. The capitalist press of the
Western world actually loved and lauded
its leaders and Army above their own.
Every great Western country was willing
to welcome the Russians into a world
comity—to exchange resources and tech-
niques, to pour out wealth for its rehabili-
tation. The papers waited eagerly for the
approach in Germany of the flower-
decked, superior, singing soldiery who had
defeated the Germans (it was alleged)
and who would now exhibit themselves as
an example to the sordid and timid West.
It is a fact that had General Eisenhower
and Mr. Churchill not allowed Moscow’s
armies to take Berlin and forestalled their
flow to the Elbe, they themselves might
have been blasted into ruin by popular
indignation.
Yet it was not the singing brothers-in-
arms of the daily-press propaganda that
arrived in the West. It was a sordid, surly
horde, not unlike Attila’s savage
mob, ravaging and plundering. And these
hung aloof from their friends as from a
plague. Their Government behaved with
savage atrocity.
Had the vision been realised, what a
different world it might have been! By
this time a restored Russia might be en-
joying the prosperity which floods the
Western Anglo-Saxon countries, and the
world might be free of fear. Instead,
Russia lurks behind its Iron Curtain, red-
eyed, armed to the teeth, every now and
then reaching out a bared claw with a
snarl to grab another small bit of some-
body else’s dinner. Its “prosperity” by
Western standards is a little below that of
the depression of 1930-31. And there
seems no way to deal with it save by
waving a stick at it and fending it off by
threats and force, like any other wild
animal whose mind is impervious to
reason or friendly approach.
It is very sad. But President Eisen-
hower’s stand seems to be the only
one left which is likely to produce results.
T ele vision-licences
Next week the Australian Broadcasting
Control Board will begin its public hear-
ing of applications for commercial tele-
vision-licences. Melbourne applications
will be dealt with first, and the board ex-
pects to get through them by the end of
the month, though this may be a trifle
optimistic, as Dr. Evatt is among the appli-
cants.
The decision to limit the licences to
two each in Melbourne and Sydney has
brought about alliances of interests which
in a bigger field would probably have
been keen rivals. This has kept the
number of applications in Melbourne
down to four; there are eight contenders
for the two Sydney permits.
Melbourne’s biggest group is the General
Television Corporation Pty., Ltd., whose
members include representatives of Hoyts
Theatres, Fox Films, Union Theatres,
Cinesound, J. C. Williamson, Electronic
Industries, Ltd., the “Argus” (and through
it the London “Daily Mirror), the Argus
radio-network, the “Age” and radio-
stations 3AW, 3UZ, 3XY and 3KZ, the
last-named of these the Melbourne
Trades Hall station. Melbourne “Herald”
is not concerned with G.T.C., but has
put in an individual application. The
third application was lodged by V. de W.
Margetts, and the fourth by Dr. Evatt and
T. Dougherty “as joint and provisional
trustees of the A.W.U. and the A.L.P.”
The Evatt-Dougherty application
presents something of a problem for a
“Labor” movement already knee-deep in
problems. A.L.P. policy is a Government
monopoly of TV, as deputy-leader Cal-
well reminded Evatt last year when the
Doc. spoke of Government and com-
mercial TV existing side-by-side. The re-
minder has now been repeated by R. A.
King, of the N. S. Wales Trades' and Labor
Council and secretary of the committee
which controls the Sydney “Labor”
station 2KY, who says:
Dr. Evatt faces opposition from his own
party. A large section of the Labor party
believes TV should be run by the Govern-
ment. I don’t think Dr. Evatt can commit
the Labor party to private ownership.
King’s complaint against his Federal boss
would carry more weight if he had kept
2KY aloof from TV. Instead, he has com-
mitted it to the same policy as the Mel-
bourne “Labor” station 3KZ —alliance
with a capitalist group. This partnership
includes Consolidated Press, the Rother-
mere newspaper interests in London, Para-
mount Films, Philips Electrical Industries,
2SM and 2KY. A bigger group still is also
after a Sydney licence. Its main share-
holders are the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
Associated Newspapers, Macquarie Net-
work, Amalgamated Wireless, E.M.A.1.L.,
Melbourne “Argus” and Alexis Albert.
Sydney radio-stations concerned are
2GB, 2UE, 2UW and 2CH. Apart from
its interest in the Consolidated Press
group, 2SM has lodged an individual
application. “Truth” has also applied for
a Sydney licence, and other applicants are
Associated TV Pty., Ltd., Transconti-
nental Broadcasting Corporation and
L. H. Benson Greene. And again Dr.
Evatt and T. Dougherty.
All applicants are presumably quite cap-
able of putting their case to the board,
and most of them will have no difficulty
in proving that they really represent the
organisations for which they claim to
speak. To this rule Dr. Evatt will be a
notable exception.
Baby Figures
The 1953 figures for births in Australia,
issued in Canberra, show a healthy total
of 202,235 births for the year—boys, as
usual, being in the majority, with 103,499.
There were some unusual features.
Canberra, with a rate of 26.69 per 1000 of
population, showed its lowest figure in
five years, and lost the Australia-wide
supremacy it had maintained in the pre-
ceding four years. It was beaten by the
Northern Territory, which scored 27.47.
The Australian average was 22.9.
Ex-nuptial births in the A.C.T. were
only 1.4 per cent, of the total births, a
figure smugly below anywhere else in
the Commonwealth, which had an aver-
age of 3.97. The wooden-spoon in this
respect went to the N.T., which had a
percentage of 10.87—less than in 1950
and 1952, but still a high score.
The two territories had other distinc-
tive aspects. The masculinity of births
for the whole of Australia averaged
104.82: in the A.C.T. the proportion was
112.4 ; in the Northern Territory—still a
frontier area, perhaps—it reached the
remarkable percentage of 131.16. This
must be near to a world’s record.
The number of nuptial first-born chil-
dren in marriages of eight months and
less was 12,304. On the other hand, one
boy was the first child of a couple who
were about to celebrate their silver-
wedding anniversary.
The tables do not show the ages of the
youngest mothers, but eleven mothers
under 20 had their third children, and
four in the 20-24 age-group had their
seventh child.
One mother in the group between 35
and 39 had her 20th child, and there were
337 mothers more than 45 years of age.
Average ages of parents were 31.58 years
for fathers, and 28.07 years for mothers.
The figures are interesting enough in
themselves, without calling for moralising
or theorising. The babies, so carefully
tabulated, are now between a year and
two years old. They couldn’t care less
what the Statistician prints about them.
Under the Durian-tree
“Feng-Shui” : An “Argus” special writer
on a world-tour landed at Djakarta in time
to attend the Asian conference, and he
expressed himself as much worried and
keenly disappointed about Indonesia.
The burden of his disappointment was
that by comparison with other Asian
countries Indonesia was lying down on
the job of national rehabilitation, evidence
for this being that there was no accom-
modation for visitors, poor facilities for
washing, no transport services worthy
of the name and other symptoms of being
behind modem fashions.
'What was he wanting the easy-going
Javanese to do? Was he wanting them
to be more like the Japanese, when they
were kicked out of their isolation by
Admiral Perry, trying to make them-
selves as much like their Western brothers
as possible and doing it very quickly?
Does he want to see an Indonesian army,
navy and air force, heavy industries,
atom-bombs and so forth and more
national aspirations than they’ve got
already?
One gathers from the “Argus” man’s
article that the Javanese is still faithful
to his immemorial habit —out of which
even the Dutch weren’t able to shake him
—of lying under his coconut- or durian-
tree waiting for the fruit to drop into
his lap; and it appears that even the
Indonesian politicians who are bellowing
for the return of Dutch New Guinea
aren’t really serious about it. Having
pulled the legs of the foreign correspond-
ents, they go back to their hut under
the durian-tree. The fruit doesn’t fall
until it is ripe and just ready to be eaten,
and it has a stench which the white-man
simply can’t stand but which the native
doesn’t notice; but the flesh is positively
delicious, and has a distinctly aphro-
disiacal effect upon the eater. I don’t
know' how the modern Indonesian
expresses his aphroditic feeling nowadays,
but the worst he did when I lived in his
country was occasionally to run amuck.
If I were the “Argus” man I would
leave him under his durian-tree. The
worst thing that could happen to him
then would be for a durian to fall on his
head from 80ft. up, as they some-
times do. They have long spikes all over
them which are as hard as steel, and I
have seen a man who got under one and
he was a very sad sight. But that would
be far less dangerous than national
rehabilitation.
The Army Modernises
The announcement of Mr. Francis,
Minister for the Army, of modernisation
of Army training is welcome, though in
fact the plans have been in progress for
some time.
Mr. Francis said that the changes were
essential to meet the conditions of atomic
and thermo-nuclear war. Their introduc-
tion will see the end of the interim period
which began with the Chief of Staffs con-
ference of 1946, when the doctrines of
mobiHty and elasticity in defence began
to be evolved.
Generally speaking, methods and train-
ing have been marking-time since that
conference. Plans have been improvised
to meet immediate conditions in war,
which' all concerned have known could
be only temporary after the outbreak
of world hostilities—until the nations con-
cerned pulled out of their sleeves the new
weapons, transport methods, tactics in
general and overall procedure.
The Russians no doubt generated the
Korean war in a spirit of hope that it
would force the West to produce some of
its secrets, but that war, save for trans-
port, was only a curious extension of
World War I in France on the ground and
of World War II in the air.
The basic task of the Army in chang-
ing over to the conditions of the new
era when guided and other missiles,
nuclear and otherwise, come into the field
is a large one. It will be cursed from the
beginning with bottlenecks in officers, of
knowledge and imagination, of instructors
and of specialists generally, not to men-
tion materiel.
The Minister has announced that 23
Army schools will be held this year to
deal with 10,000 specialist students.
It is intended that there shall be a close
co-operation between the R.A.A.F.
and the Army for experience, and no
doubt the R.A.N. will have its part to
play.
Certain numbers are to be trained in
the flying of light aircraft. Commando
units are to be developed, and attention
is to be given to tropical training.
All this is something that cannot be
done at leisure, with the position in For-
mosa and Indo-China and Indonesia what
it is.
The serious meetings of the Cabinet to
which the heads of the Services were sum-
moned during Hast week are enough to
prove to anybody that there are more
important issues for the Australians at
present than 10-o’clock closing.
For Australian defence —as for the
world—l9ss and 1956 will be crucial
years.
Rubber Problem
“In the ACT”: While AustraHa grapples
with the economic headaches caused by
lower wool prices and the competition of
synthetics, a large part of Asia faces
an even more disturbing situation in the
rubber market. Rubber, “the Hfeblood
of Asia,” suffered serious setbacks during
the war, when many plantations were
destroyed in the fighting and others were
bled ruthlessly to supply the vital latex.
In the meantime the development of
expensive synthetics went on apace,
especially in the U.S., where it was
declared that the nation should never
again face the possibility of war-inter-
ruption of supplies. All this has resulted
in a post-war situation of considerable
gravity in Asia, where a solution cannot
be seen easily. One of the effects has
been an increase in sales to Communist
China, doubtless for the use of the whole
Communist bloc, and this, in turn, has
created unfavorable reactions in America.
In Akron, U.S., the “heart of the
American tyre-country,” last month the
Ceylonese Prime Minister told the Rubber
Manufacturers’ Association that if a fair
price were not paid for rubber there
would be no alternative to Communism
in Asia. Sir John Kotelawala, whatever
may be thought of his views on other
subjects, is a strong opponent of Com-
munism, and his warning must be given
attention. He told his hearers that
American aid could not win as much
support for U.S. ideals and beliefs as “the
simple expedient of a fair price for
natural rubber,” and he added that if
synthetic-rubber prices forced natural
rubber off the world market then more
than nine million acres would go out of
production and nearly 25 million people
would be “willing to listen to the hot
gospel of Communism.” His protest was
against the price fixed for synthetic
rubber, and he declared that Asia sought
only a fair price.
In terms of human life and the preser-
vation of civilisation the problem is real
and urgent. It affects many areas of
south and south-east Asia, their living-
standards and future outlook. Mainten-
ance of the natural-rubber industry—an
industry in which New Guinea is taking
an interest —also demands adequate pro-
vision for the replanting of old planta-
tions and facilities for turning out the
highest grades of crude rubber. The
United States, as the pioneer and largest
producer of synthetics, must take the lead
in seeking some solution which will give
hope to the millions of Asians whose
livelihood and future are in the balance.
Milking the Ratepayers
When Alderman C. E. Bunton, Mayor of
Albury and president of the N. S. Wales
Local Government Association, said
recently that “the property-holder as a
milking-cow was fast running dry” he
was voicing what a large proportion of
those interested in local-government
affairs have been thinking for some time.
The president was concerned mainly with
the problem of financing the road needs
of the community. He pointed out that
in N. S. Wales local authorities were
responsible for 100,000 miles of roads,
for which they received £l2 million
yearly.
Of this, £lO million was needed for main-
tenance, yet to improve the low standards
of present roads £lOO million would be re-
quired. Instead of this, only £2 million was
available in the form of road-grants by the
Commonwealth Government.
Upkeep of roads is only one item on
o Continued, on next page)


a long list of local-government responsi-
bilities to which others are constantly
being added. Alderman Bunton feels
that the only solution is a closer nexus
between the Commonwealth and the
councils and shires; he suggests that
the Federal Government should “put tags
on” portion of the money it allocates to
the States, as was done this year with
road-grants. If this means a review of
the Constitution the necessary powers
should be sought.
Local-governing bodies find them-
selves up against a blank wall in the
matter of finance. The Federal Govern-
ment tells them it cannot deal directly
with them, and the usual reply of the
States is “Why don’t you put your rates
up?”
Quoting Alderman Bunton:
That is no solution. Local-government
raises its revenues on a land-rating system,
which means that one section —the property-
owner —is required to foot the bill. Many
of the services given are enjoyed by the
whole community and the whole com-
munity should therefore contribute.
This is more than ever true in New
South Wales since the introduction of
adult suffrage and compulsory voting for
municipal and shire-council elections.
Aldermen still talk of their responsibili-
ties towards the ratepayers, but they
really mean towards the people who
elected them, who in many cases are not
ratepayers at all. The system reaches its
ultimate absurdity in the Sydney City
Council, where the “ratepayers’ repre-
sentatives” don’t even consider them-
selves responsible to the electors, but
merely to the “Labor” junta which gave
them their preselection—and can with-
draw it.
POLITICAL POINTS
Anglican bishops have been discussing
the existence of angels and demons. So
has the A.L.P. hierarchy.
0 0
It will be interesting to see what argu-
ments Evatt and Dougherty put up to
support their applications for TV-licences
in Melbourne and Sydney. Will they
place most stress on entertainment, cul-
ture or education? Listen-in to 2KY or
3KZ for a week before replying.
0 0
Looking down Sydney’s Pitt-street now
one can see two bridges—the Big Coat-
hanger and the overhead spans of the
Quay-railway. This has led a determined
optimist to comment that even though the
long-promised City railway is not yet
completed it is at least possible (in theory)
to walk around Sydney on it.
• 0
Britain’s bureaucrats are in for a rare
old time if Attlee’s Labor party regains
power at the next election. The party has
just issued a policy statement on “Agricul-
tural Marketing” in which it pledges itself
to restore Government bulk-buying of
foodstuffs. The existing milk, potato and
wool boards will be retained and new
authorities will be set up to control eggs,
cereals, livestock, meat and sugar. There
should be some grand openings for
Britain’s Fergusons, Finnans and
McGrrrrrs.
0 0
P.M.G. Anthony is back in harness
after three months on the sick-list.
0 0
International practice when more than
one country is mentioned is to place them
in alphabetical order so that no nation
will feel slighted in the matter of prece-
dence. Following this custom first refer-
ences to the impending conference of
countries from Africa and Asia spoke of
the Afro-Asian conference. Now it is
being called the Asian-African conference
because “there are more people in Asia
than in Africa.” A tiny point, perhaps,
but not without significance.
0 0
N. S. Wales Department of Transport
has taken a sensible step in extending
the compulsory retiring-age for non-
salaried employees from 65 to 70.
Optional retiring age will still remain
at 60, so there is no question of forcing
men to work after they wish to call it a
day, but the new rule will permit those
who are fit and willing to stay in harness
for another five years, to the advantage
of themselves and the community.
• 0
Criticising U.S. Admiral Radford and
Lord Montgomery for “foolish talk,”
Aneurin Bevan said in the course of a
by-election speech: “This nation is not
going to be run by irresponsible field-
marshals.” It "would be a bad day for
Britain if it were ever run by irresponsible
field-marshals —almost as bad as if it
were run by irresponsible Bevans.
0 0
For a while last week it seemed that
the two Queensland delegates to the
A.L.P. Federal Executive would be
instructed to oppose the move to post-
pone the Federal conference from
January 17 to March 14 —a manoeuvre
designed by Evatt and Co. to give them
time to change the Victorian executive.
Sweet compromise triumphed and no
instructions were issued. Instead, a
motion was carried recommending to
the Federal body that the conference
should be held before the end of
February. One of the factors influenc-
ing the decision was the knowledge that
one delegate, J. Schmella, was most
unlikely to obey the instruction.
Present line-up on postponement is
Westralia, South Australia and Tas-
mania in favor; N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria against; Queensland one foot in
each camp.
• 0
The Brown family, of England and
Australia and England and Australia,
have been shopping-around for four years
looking for the best country in the world.
In 1951 they were “sold” Australia, but
two years later went back to England
with other browned-off migrants, having
decided that there was no place like
Home. Now they’re here again to make
another try—father, mother, grown-up
daughter and two schoolboy sons —and
they don’t expect to change their minds
again.
Extravagant publicity which leads
migrants to expect too much of Australia
is what the Browns blame for their first
disappointment—and they are probably
right. This time they know what to
expect.
0 0
Duthie, M.H.R., told the World
Assembly of Moral Rearmament in
Washington that M.R.A. was “the only
force which could unite the Australian
Labor party and build a new Australia.”
While it is extremely doubtful whether
and Buchmanite teachings could unite the
present warring factions of “Labor,” it
seems certain that nothing else could.
Duthie further said that in future he in-
tended to act “not as a politician for the
next election, but as a statesman for the
next generation.” That wipes him with
both factions.
0 0
When F. F. Ward, dead in Adelaide at
84, made his maiden speech in the
Senate in 1946, he was probably the
oldest newcome* the Chamber had ever
listened to; his Senate nomination at 76
"NINETEEN FIFTY-SEVEN"
(The controversial A.L.P. “horror” television programme that has created
such an uproar in Trades Hall circles.)
was a reward for a lifetime of service in
the A.L.P. The double-dissolution pre-
vented his finishing his six-year term as
Senator and he did not stand for re-elec-
tion. Ward filled many positions in
Adelaide “Labor” circles and was secre-
tary of the S.A. branch of the party for
21 years. Erect in stature and severe in
countenance, he was an active cricketer
until quite late in life.
0 0
“Stromlo”: Almost 30 years ago a
Victorian M.L.C. was constantly critical
of the S.E.C.’s efforts to bum the “mud”
from the opencut at Yallourn. During
a Parliamentary inspection of the Yal-
loum power-house he was invited by
John Monash, chairman of the commis-
sion, to peer into a grate under a boiler
to see the intense and flaming heat gener-
ated by the “mud.” As he bent down to
do so, Monash flourished his walking-
stick in a mock attempt to stoke the
M.L.C. into the combustion-chamber.
The incident is recalled by the statement
of Prof. H. K. Worner, dean of the en-
gineering faculty at Melbourne Univer-
sity, that Victoria would be foolish to
rush into atomic power while it had such
wonderful brown-coal resources in the
Latrobe Valley. Worner says there is
scope for great development there for the
next 20 years.
0 0
A new political party has been an-
nounced in Britain. Proclaiming as its
purpose a drive for closer unity in the
British Empire in order to make it a
“third force” as a counter to America and
Russia, it calls itself the Elizabethan
party and intends to contest seats at the
next general election. Its sponsors are
no doubt well-intentioned, but their
choice of a name shows poor judgment,
and the showing of the British Liberals
in recent elections does not encourage
the belief that the United Kingdom wants
a third party.
0 0
The Queensland Committee of the
World Council of Churches has come
out in favor of a scheme for selective
immigration of Asians into Australia. It
sees “no moral justification whatever for
excluding Asians entirely.” Then what
is the moral justification for excluding
them almost entirely, which is what the
quota-system or selective immigration
really amounts to? The committee con-
tinues, “Christian duty should prompt
Australia to give aid to underfed and
ill-housed Asians.” That is virtually
what the Colombo Plan is doing. But
assistance to Asians must be thought of
in terms of helping them to help them-
selves in their own countries. Bringing
selected bands of Asians to Australia
merely creates problems here without
solving any in Asia.
0 0
Northern Ireland doesn’t share the
prejudice of other British communities
against having a tiffed Prime Minister.
Lord Brookeborough, at present visiting
Australia, was created a viscount in 1952,
after he had been Prime Minister nine
years, but he was already a baronet when
first elected to Parliament in 1921. The
North’s first Prime Minister was also a
baronet when, as Sir James Craig, he
was chosen to form a Government. He
became Viscount Craigavon in 1927 and
continued in office until his death in
1940. Possibly to show that the Govern-
ment could also jog along without a titled
head, Parliament sandwiched in between
the two viscounts plain John Miller
Andrews, who had been Finance Minister
under Craigavon.
• •
“Melbn”: When, over the first New
Year weekend, bushfires destroyed houses
in Victoria’s Western District and the
Dandenongs, burned tens of thousands
of sheep and cattle, threatened a million-
pound pine-forest and left an ugly scar
over 100,000 acres of rich wool-country,
the State’s modem fire-fighting equip-
ment, said to be as good as any in the
world, got its first real test for five years.
It could have been worse. It was a day
of intense heat and strong winds like
Black Thursday, 1939, when hundreds of
homes were destroyed and 70 people lost
their lives. Nothing could be done in
those conditions with the equipment and
methods then available, but the fact that
the recent fires weren’t as disastrous indi-
cates that if the fire-prevention services
can’t stifle the fire-fiend, it can mitigate
its effect.
• 0
B.H.P.’s new coke-ovens at Newcastle
—6B of ’em, built at a cost of £3 million
—began to produce just before Christ-
mas. Their output is to be 1200 tons a
day in addition to by-products.
0 0
Cheque-clearings by Sydney and Mel-
bourne banks during 1954 totalled £10,162
million, a record figure and £629 million
above the previous highest, recorded in
1951. Note-issue climbed to £393.8
million on December 23, but dropped £lO
million by the end of the year.
• •
Squealing by “Labor” men chagrined
by the prospect of a long sojourn in the
wilderness surely reached a new low in
the attack by Senator Ashley on the
appointment of the electoral-boundaries
commission. After declaring that the loss
of seats in Sydney’s inner-metropolitan
area might create an opportunity for the
Prime Minister “to embarrass his most
persistent critics in the Parliament,”
Ashley actually suggested that the
appointment of the commissioners had
some party bias. He said it was signifi-
cant that one was a man only recently
retired from the Federal service, and
recalled that .the Government had brought
Mr. Justice Nicholas from retirement to
report on Parliamentary salaries. “This
type of appointment,” he said, “should
be kept free of party bias.” Such a com-
ment, typical of Ashley and his group,
reveals the poor opinion “Labor” leaders
have of the integrity and impartiality of
public servants. “Labor” politicians
shouldn’t judge others by themselves.
• •
Although progress in the search for oil
in 1954 disappointed many of the optim-
ists, the use of petroleum-products in
Australia climbed to a new record. It
was expected that the record set in 1953
of 5,125,300 tons would be exceeded in
1954 by at least 10 per cent., the largest
increase being in industrial fuel-oil.
• •
While scientists and politicians con-
tinue to discuss the slow advent of atomic
energy, some remarkable discoveries are
being made in the possible use of solar
energy—in which the energy is com-
pletely free, and the economic pro-
blems are only in first costs and mainten-
ance. A substance has already been made
which will absorb solar energy and yield
it later, and the Bell Telephone labora-
tories recently developed a photo-electric-
ally-active surface which converts as
much as 6 per cent, of sunlight falling
on it into electrically-useful energy. Aus-
tralia has plenty of sun to spare even
after the bathing beauties are fully
tanned. Some day, perhaps, we’ll be
able to put it to full-time use.
• •
Cape York Peninsula, once a great
gold-winning area, may be facing new
life as a result of the discovery of radio-
active “anomalies” in aerial surveys by
the Bureau of Mineral Resources. Only
a detailed survey by ground-parties can
determine the economic significance of
the discoveries.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
CJ LEEPING-OFF the New Year dinner,
° was awakened late in the afternoon
by excited kids’ voices in the street and
the doorbell ringing like a fire-alarm.
“Mister, did you see a flying-saucer?”
asked the biggest of a trio of 10-year-
olds. Memory of an eminent scientist’s
warning about the possibilities of visitors
from space, digested from the morning-
paper with the salt of scepticism, turned
sour in the stomach. “It’s on your roof,”
said the saucer-hunters’- spokesman.
Dazed, I led the way to the back; they
held a ladder while I climbed, prepared
“ Marj-ey! Left your iron on!”
for anything. There it was, behind a
chimney, a bright yellow plastic wheel
with bladed spokes. I threw it down and
let them out, too shaken to listen to their
eager thanks and explanations of how
the contraption worked, and went inside
with unkind thoughts about toymakers
and eminent scientists. No. . . there was
not a dog’s-hair left in the
house. —“Murph.”
“S.”: Poignant note on
New Year’s Eve at King’s
Cross from “S. M. Herald”:
“Police said that the crowd
was less than half as big as
last year’s. Only about 30,000
people were in the heart of
King’s Cross The rest
gathered on footpaths in
Victoria-street and Bays-
water-road and hung from
windows.” That, of course,
would explain why the
crowds are decreasing each
year.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Civare”: Airport - con-
trollers aren’t permitted to
answer any queries relating
purely to airline-traffic busi-
ness, but we made an excep-
tion in the case of Mr. Smith.
He’d come from Roma to
make a connection which
would take him to Marybor-
ough, and he was going to
be late arriving at Brisbane.
He couldn’t stay over, he was
due in Maryborough that
night; his business was
urgent—and he was going to
miss the Maryborough plane.
He explained it to the
hostess, who told the cap-
tain, who told the controller; he
talked it over with the airline company,
and when they heard the details they
agreed to hold their plane for Mr. Smith.
He was first down the gangway; an
attendant grabbed his bag and hustled
him along the tarmac to the Maryborough
aircraft. The door slammed, and Mr.
Smith was on his way. Nothing really very
remarkable about it, except that this was
on the evening of December 24. Mr.
Smith was going home for Christmas.
Mr. Smith is 10 years old.
❖ *t* ♦♦♦
“Woe Wun”: In three and a half
months in the United States “Miss Aus-
tralia” of this year acquired, according
to our newspapers, “a slow American
accent.” Did someone say that these
girls were ambassadresses for Australia?
❖
“Willpar”: Three years ago my love
of bluegums and blue waters, and the
offer of a home at a reasonable price,
took me to a suburb on
the shores of Pittwater,
a pocket of still water
north of Sydney divorced
from the ocean by the
Newport - Palm Beach
peninsula. Rustic living,
like camping, has its set-
backs, and very soon I
called a public meeting
of locals and a progress
association was formed.
Many civic authorities
had neglected us only
because nobody had ever
pestered them in an
organised fashion. We
began to pester. The re-
sults were —a new surface
to the main road, street-
numbers were allotted,
street-lighting was added
to, steel water-mains re-
placed ihe frequently
bursting cement-pipes,
and most of those await-
ing telephones had them
installed. Everybody was
happy. Came this recent
Christmas Eve, and
among the last-minute
Christmas-cards in my
rustic mailbox was a
cheery communication
from the Valuer-General.
It informed me that the
unimproved value of my
land had increased in
three years from £550 to
£22oo—in plain language, my rates
would be four times greater. The docu-
ment neglected to say, “We thank you for
your efforts on our behalf and wish you
a prosperous New Year.”
❖ * *
“Uramao”: Newspapermen and a
learned panel in Christchurch (N.Z.) have
been cudgelling their brains over a series
of questions asked schoolchildren in an
English-examination. A bench of five
sub-editors of a city paper, after failing
to answer all the questions, had the paper
passed on to a panel comprising a theo-
logian, an M.P., a lecturer in psychology,
an associate-professor of economics, a
"The artist was most careless. He's only painted two diamond-rings
instead of three."
medical officer, and several others.
Though these took longer than the time
allotted to the pupils, they seemed to have
answered some of me questions to their
own satisfaction only. Scholars had to
answer five questions to qualify. Trans-
lations of foreign proverbs were given,
and an equivalent English proverb or
story was demanded:
(1) God gives almonds to some who have
no teeth. (2) The cockroach is never in the
right where the fowl is concerned. (3) In
time grass becomes milk. (4) If the prince
wants an apple, his servants take the tree.
(5) Good bargains empty the purse. (6) A
golden bit does not make the horse any
better. (7) Never let the bottom of your
purse or of your mind be seen. (8) You can
tie a broken cord together, but there will
be a knot in it.
❖ * *
“Clyde”: My six-year-old daughter
considers New Australian children very
clever, for not only can they speak “Aus-
tralian” but also the native tongue of their
parents. “There’s a Dutch boy in our class
who can talk Dutch,” she said, “and a
Greek boy who can talk Greek . . . And
there’s a little girl can talk Polio!”
“Ye Shoppe”: Among this year’s many
centenaries is that of Melbourne Uni-
versity. On April 13, 1855, the first lec-
tures were delivered to some 16 students
in a building now occupied by the Royal
Mint in William-street. The first per-
mahent building at Carlton still bears the
inscription-stone dated the following year,
1856. Today Melbourne University has
6785 students enrolled in some 60 teach-
ing-departments. Relatively, its needs for
buildings and the other sinews of learning
are as great as they were then.
♦♦♦ +j+
“W.P.T.”: Complaints about speed-
hogs go back a long way. Looking
through an old file of the Bega (N.S.W.)
“Budget” I read:
It is time the speed of motor-cars travel-
ling the shire roads was regulated. Within
the municipality it is expected that they
will at least observe the laws relative to
turning corners. A Motor is allowed to
dash about the streets and round the
comers, causing horses to break bridles,
yet nothing is said about it.
That was in 1907.
❖ * ❖
“K.A.”: On a dull, gloomy day during
the Sydney Test-match the cultured voice
of the A.B.C. commentator described the
atmosphere as “heavy,” ascribing it to
dull, overcast skies and threatening rain.
The ordinary listener probably pictured
the ball positively boring its way through
air dripping with moisture, which thus
helped to impart additional spin or swing
to the bowler’s delivery. While not pre-
pared to debate the effect of humidity
and temperature on a cricket-ball in
flight, I must point out that the moist air
of an overcast day is actually lighter than
the drier air of a bright sunny day, and
if higher density does help the bowler,
then the atmosphere was against him,
not for him, on the day in question.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hallcraft”: A sign over the entrance
to a used-car dealer’s premises in Mel-
bourne reads: “Trade-in your old car
now. Soft-hearted salesman on duty.”
“Narumee”: The day before New
Year’s Eve, the family along the street
prepared to depart for their holidays.
Dad, grim-faced, worked at stowing
suitcases, ports, bundles and boxes into
the pre-war car. The back seat jam-
packed, the luggage-grid groaning be-
neath its load, the jalopy barely cleared
the kerb ; still Mum and the kids issued
from the house dumping more parapher-
nalia which they shrilly protested they
“couldn’t do without.” Dad, wordless
as yet, produced more rope and soon
footboards and mudguards were piled to
capacity. When the wife and progeny
staggered forth with further instalments
of tennis-racquets, cricket-bats, fishing-
rods, bulging baskets, knapsacks and
string-bags Dad spoke. Sweat dripping off
his nose, he eyed his family and said
bitterly: “Well, there’s one thing you
can’t take —and that’s the Davis Cup.
Because it’s bloody well gone to
America! ”
“Billy S.”: The press-photos, and no
doubt the newsreel shots of the 1954
Davis Cup antagonists, as in former
years, seemed to be centred around
racquet-covers branded with the name of
the firm supplying the racquets. There’s
no doubt about it, the lilywhite amateurs
of the tennis-courts are handsome in
their acknowledgments of the help
gained from their favorite brands of
weapon. After the vital doubles-match
Granny “Herald’s” front-page picture of
Trabert showed him waving one arm to
the mob, the other arm supporting a
racquet wearing a dark cover with the
name of some sporting-goods company
emblazoned across it. He was also hold-
ing a bottle of soft-drink, label-side
happily uppermost. My tired old eyes
were not equal to identifying the brand,
but my four-year-old niece, who knows
her lollywaters if not her ABCs, sang
out the name when I showed her the
picture. The local lads, who had been
walloped, achieved a nice balance ; from
the “Herald” photo (same page) it may
be suspected that Hoad is inclined to
favor the goods of a company named
“Dun”-something or other, and that Rose-
wall is partial to the products of
“ zenger.” “Half-mourning,” it is
called in Court circles.
“Soc.”: Seixas, at the microphone
afterwards: “I knew I was going to win
today—no man has ever beaten me nine
times in a row.”
THE BURNING QUESTION
“After Sydney’s 104-degree New Year
Monday, the ‘Herald’ said the beaches had been
too hot to sit on, and the ‘Telegraph’ published
a picture of a girl frying eggs on the pavement.”
Scorning hat or beach-umbrella
Susie baked on burning sand.
In the shade her sister’s fella
Toyed with that young lady’s hand .
“What lengths,’’ he said, “the papers go
to !
Did you see the Sydney sheet
With the heat-wave’s model’s photo
Frying eggs upon the street ?
“Can such curious tales be true ones?
Can a hen’s-egg thus be fried ?
I’ve brought half a dozen new ones —
Let us break them and decide.’’
Susie’s sister’s fella’s chatter
Gave way to a startled whistle :
On the sand in their tin platter
All his eggs began to sizzle.
“Clever boy !” said Susie’s sister,
“Proud of you and pleased, I am ;
Just to make it perfect, mister,
Rustle up a slice of ham.”
Then —no need for his replying —■ 1
Both saw Susie in the sun
In a kind of coma lying,
Red and raw, superbly done.
Pausing only to commend her,
They cut Sue up slice by slice:
“Try the leg !” “My God, how tender !”
“No pork so sweet!” “No veal so
nice !”
Happy Sue, when all are yearning
For a long midsummer bake
Without its aftermath of burning —
The oils, the sleepless nights, the ache !
Oh, happy, happy, happy Sue!
But happier, far happier I,
Who do not have to look at you
And shudder as you pass me by !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


'T'HIS modern age! A friend heard that
A his young nephew was having a job
to make ends meet while concluding an
engineering-course. He was so moved
by the tale of the struggle that he told
the mother to send the lad round and
pick up a cheque for £25. Next day the
struggler arrived, driving his own 1954-
model car. —“T. McN.”
•)£<■ ♦+♦
“Argee”: Unk White’s “In case the
missus happens to come in” (B.
22/12/’54) reminds me of a Sunday many
years ago when a party of us motoring
in N.Z. called in at a country pub. I’ve
forgotten what the law was in N.Z. in
"Come back, Hilda, and We'll find a quiet one.”
those days about travellers getting a
drink, but we were shown into the dining-
room, and seated round a table, and a
waitress arrived with a teapot and cups
and saucers. The beer was in the teapot.
There was no limit to refills, but it all had
to go into the teapot and be drunk out
of the cups.
❖ *X+ +j+
Mac Hoots”: I am enchanted to learn
that flying-saucers are neither hallucina-
tions nor secret-weapons but space-ships
from outside our solar system manned by
Uramdes —or so says Professor Her-
mann Oberth in “s. m. Herald.” It
would be too disappointing if they weren’t
some sort of nonsense like that. But I
can t see why the professor insists that
the intrepid navigators of these craft do
not resemble men or “any living beings
known to us.” Surely, if they made a
machine, they must have hands—l don t
think you’d do much good trying to bolt
oi weld a flying-saucer together with a
tentacle —and, if hands, then why not feet
also? I really think that at the worst they
must look like monkeys, frogs or pos-
sums ; but I have no opinion on whether
or not they wear tails.
* * ❖
“C.M.”: Rotary’s 50th anniversary on
February 23 is to be commemorated by
the issue of a special Australian 3jd.
stamp in carmine, with the Rotary badge
superimposed on a globe showing parts
of the Australian and American contin-
ents. Other countries will also issue
special stamps.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Stromlo”: The replica of the Queen’s
Vase, presented to her Majesty by the
British Pottery Manufacturers’ Federation
in July, has reached Australia, and will
be displayed first at the Museum of
Applied Arts in Sydney. Eleven copies
of the vase have been made, each 25jin.
high, with an extreme width of 11 jin.
Weight, with wooden base, is 201 b. The
vase commemorates the Coronation, and
the federation has said that china,
although in some senses fragile, has a
remarkable power of endurance.
♦> ♦>
“Joel”: If descriptions of French wines
and period-furniture in novels is snob-
bery (B. 8/12/’54), it has its points.
From these same English writers and
their outworn form of snobbery I and
hundreds like me learned of Waterford
glass, Adam fireplaces, Inigo Jones ceil-
ings, Chippendale chairs, Liberty fabrics,
etc. Not that we’ll ever own any of these
adjuncts of gracious living, but an appre-
ciation of them adds to the joy of living
in an age of Ballyhoo, Blah and Busts.
$ >s> *x«
“Zake”: Once more an annual farce
has been enacted —I refer, of course, to
the end-of-the-year announcement from
the U.S. of the names of “the world’s 10
best-dressed women” —this time three
more have been added. It speaks volumes
for the ability to manage of some of the
contestants that they were able to get a
place on a dress-budget as low as from
8000 to 10,000 dollars, and no doubt some
of them were forced by economic circum-
stances to have to wear the same Russian
sables in public twice. The competition-title
is a misnomer. It should be “The World’s
10 Most Expensively Dressed Women.”
I’ve seen a girl walk down a Sydney street
with less than twenty-quid’s-worth of
clobber on who looked infinitely better-
dressed than another who flaunted five-
hundred-quid’s-worth.
❖ ❖ ❖
“No Sirrah”: Asking “Quo Vadis”
(B. 22/12/’54): Is distilled-water neces-
sary for car-batteries? My garageman
says not. His argument is that a car-
battery lasts only two years, anyway, and
tap-water can’t do it any harm in that
time.
❖ ❖ ❖
“X.S.”: Melbourne’s police-chiefs
once wore uniforms which, with their
close-fitting helmets with massive chain,
silver epaulettes, tight-fitting braided
trousers and heavy swords, looked more
suitable to an admiral than a copper. But
the new man, H. S. Porter, has broken
with the tradition. He wears an Army-
officer blue cap and silver police-badge,
It recalls that time during the last war
when the police-uniform was almost indis-
tinguishable from that of the Air Force,
An old lady looked out from a Collins-
street tram and, shaking her head, said
“Look at those poor flying-boys—they
oughtn’t to be allowed to have liquor at
“The wonder-drugs seem ineffective, nurse. As a last resort I think
We'll try castor-oil.”
their age.” Three figures were stagger-
ing arm-in-arm along the pavement. Two
were policemen ; the one in the middle
was a drunk being lumbered,
SHEKELS FOR SHACKLES
“A Sydney clergyman says a surprising
number of prospective bridegrooms show
obvious resentment at what they consider ex-
cessively high marriage-fees, and some even
want to haggle over it.”
When he’s seeking to be married
Swain becomes a trifle harried;
He’ll be fearing
He is nearing
Going broke :,
Endless things to do his brass on;
But the first slug’s on the parson,
Just for parsoning
By fastening
The yoke.
’Struth ! The Reverend cops it easy !
Twenty minutes’ work for fees he
Should be taking
Hand a-shaking —
What a nerve !
Just to legalise a missus!
What a lovely racket this is!
Nothing off it ;
All is profit,
He’ll observe.
Though his honeymoon’s not distant,
’Groom-elect is sales-resistant.
Quote’s too pricey
For a splice. He
Knocks it back.
Then he makes a counter-offer;
Reverend now becomes the scoffer.
Looks like deadlock.
Hopes of wedlock
Rather black.
Haggling over fee is drawn-out
Till both ’groom and Rev. are worn out.
’Groom’s being shot at,
And being got at.
There’s a tiff.
But harmonious relations
End vexatious situations.
No more veto —
Both agree to
Split the diff.!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
SPECIAL-BARGAIN MORNING
NOW are you all in your places, girls?
It’s only five minutes to zero-hour!”
“Yes, Mr. Barlow.”
“Good. Lewis, here is the front-door
key. Take up your position. And remem-
ber, immediately you remove the pad-
lock take a leap smartly to the left—
you’ll have to clear at least four feet to
be safe—and then dive for the protection
of the foundation-garment counter. If
you fail to make a clean getaway that
crowd of vultures waiting at the door will
surge forward and flatten you between
the door and the back of the show-
window. That’s what happened to poor
Wilson last bargain-day—he wasn’t more
than about three-inches thick when we
picked him up.”
“I’ll watch myself, Mr. Barlow.”
“Good. Now, Ferguson, there’s really
no need for you to look so green about
the gills, even though you are on the
cotton-materials counter, and it is your
first sale. We’ve all had to face our
first blooding, you know—our ordeal
by bargain-hunting. You’ll be all right
if you bear in mind the first safety-
maxim of sales-assisting: if threatened
by the weights of two or more enraged
and contending matrons, vault the counter,
And you should have mastered the
tactics of how to meet a full-scale counter-
attack, for you’ve done the store’s full
commando-course.
“Whilst you may not hope to match
the strength of a berserk woman-shopper
you are expected to be able to rescue a
roll of material that is being threatened
with disintegration. And remember —
no violence; though, of course, a surrep-
titious kick in the shins of a particularly
fractious shopper has been known to
work wonders . . .
“H’m, they look a particularly fear-
some bunch of battle-axes outside this
morning, Stutchbury. You’d better take
cover behind that concrete pillar until
after the first wave has charged. Now,
everybody, action-stations! Lewis, when
I count three—l shall be halfway up the
stairs by the time I call the last number-
whip off the padlock and leap for your
life. Is everybody prepared? One . . .
two . . . three . . .”
LILA, quick! Look at this material.
It’s just what you’ve been after —
a polished cotton, with a black design on
a white background, and it’s only five-
and-eleven a yard. Now if you’re going
to make it with a flared skirt, cap-sleeves
and a little bolero you’ll get it out of
four-and-a-half yards. You could . . .
Well, the damned hide of her! Did you
see that, Lila? Simply snatched it right
out of my hand!” . . .
“Joan, how much is three-and-five-
eighth yards at six-and-elevenpence-ha’-
penny a yard? I’m simply hopeless at
figures”-
“I tell you I saw this frock first,
madam. Anyway, you couldn’t get into it
with a shoehorn, with a bust the size of
yours. It’s like a veranda.”
“Why, you skinny, insulting little
hussy! At least I don’t have to wear
‘falsies’—if you didn’t wear them you’d
be straight-up-and-down like a door. Let
go the frock this instant or I’ll push your
silly-looking face in!”
“You try it and see ” . . .
“Look at this printed-cotton frock,
Barbara, marked sixty-nine-and-eleven,
supposed to have been reduced from four-
guineas. I saw exactly the same thing at
Bullswool’s last week for sixty-five-shil-
lings. That’s a real take-down, you
know” ...
“But, madam, you can’t sit on that roll
of material”
“No? Well, I am sitting on it, and I
intend to keep on sitting on it until I
can get one of the sales-assistants to
cut me off two four-yard lengths. I’m
not going to the trouble of fighting my
way through all these maniacs to get to
the very material I want, just to have
someone take it from under my nose.
I’ve been caught like that before” . . .
“ She ripped the bodice of this frock
when she grabbed at it as I was holding
it in front of me to see if it was the right
length. I had hold of it first . . . Call
the manager, then! I demand another
one exactly the same as this. It’s s.s.w.”
“This woman knocked my glasses off
just because I wouldn’t let her have this
pink-taffeta slip, which is miles too short
for her, anyway. I want to give her in
charge!”
“It was she who hit at me! Did she
think I was going to stand there and do
nothing? Serves her right if her glasses
did get broken. I saw the slip first. She
deliberately tried to trip me up so I
wouldn’t get to it before she did. It’s just
what you’d expect from someone who’s
been dragged up in the gutter.”
“You nasty thing—take that!” . . .
“Give me that nightie, you bottled-
ginger-haired hag!”
“ ‘Hag’! I like that! You look as if
you were middle-aged when motor-cars
had brass oil-lamps and leather-
straps!” . . .
“Ti/fISS Martin — please ! Walking around
iVI in a bra!”
“She had her blouse ripped off, Mr.
Barlow, when she tried to separate two
women fighting over a summerweight
coat! ”
“Oh, well, that’s different. You may
select one from stock to replace it, Miss
Martin. Lewis, there’s really no need
for you to be here now—l think you’d
better go back to ironmongery. Were
there any casualties among the staff?”
“Mr. Stutchbury went down in the first
rush, and a fourteen-stone woman trod
on his collarbone. It was awful! I could
hear it crack from over here. Mr. Lewis
thinks it’s broken in two places. The
store-matron’s bandaged him. And Mr.
Lewis got a kick in the back when he
bent down to pick up a rackful of skirts
they knocked over.”
“Ah, well, that’s not bad going for a
bargain-morning. I really expected more.
I remember back in 1938 we filled two
ambulances with the staff alone.
“I see by the gory state of your nose
you’ve had your baptism of bargain-fire,
Ferguson. You have done very well in
your first engagement. Now don’t think
I am cavilling, Ferguson, for the staff is
allowed some latitude on such trying
occasions as these, but it may be as well,
if in future you have to mediate between
two infuriated women shoppers, not to
address them as a ‘cranky pair of old
bitches.’
“Now to work cleaning-up the battle-
field while I go and see to Stutchbury.”
BO.


Keep in
good
SPiR' TS
Otlotuta
»«R SfR
(HGTH
p hoSPITAL
“RANDY
PERSONAL ITEM
The Admiralty announces that the
students of Aberdeen University have
elected as Rector, Admiral of the Fleet
Sir Rhoderick McGrigor, G.C.8., K.C.8.,
C. 8., D. 5.0., LL.D., First Sea Lord. He
succeeds Mr. Jimmy Edwards, the
comedian. Gently, Bentley.
• •
Smoking the largest cigar in the largest
holder seen around these parts for a
long time, and wearing a suit made of
synthetics discovered by his own research
men, Lord McGowan discoursed at the
Hotel Australia, Melbourne, on the
achievements of 1.C.1., of which, at 80,
he remains world-president. The figures
he is proudest of coucern the “dip into the
unknown” the vast chemical concern is
making with its 700 research-men, who
are allowed full scope to look for any-
thing they fancy. Sometimes they land
on something valuable to pure science,
at others something likely to change the
clothing habits of the world, like the
chemical suit the visitor was wearing.
So far they have come out with some
12,000 ideas and articles. McGowan rose
to chairmanship of one of the world’s
biggest industrial corporations from five-
bob-a-week office-boying.
• •
“X.S.”: There was great excitement in
Melbourne literary circles when it was
announced over the air that G.B.S. was
contemplating visiting Australia. The
report was correct, but the Bernard men-
tioned was Bernard Shore, musician, lec-
turer and author.
• •
Whatever else Melbourne will do, John
D. Porter (of the war-time “Porter’s
Mob”) will be the director of the richest
hospitality gesture to Olympic visitors to
the southern city.
It was Porter who stage-managed the
dinner in the lions’ cage at Wirth’s in
1936, when 98 distinguished citizens, in-
cluding Tommy White, munched, with
the man-eaters as spectators. Doris Wirth
has asked him to repeat the dose with an
Olympian guest-list of 400.
Nobody political below the rank of
Premier will be invited, and the Gover-
nor-General, the Governors of five States
and R. G. Menzies are expected to be
present, with the leaders of the various
Olympic societies inside the cage and
their wives outside, the only lady daring
the savage creatures being hostess Doris.
Porter’s habit of doing things on the
grand scale —he cooks with his own hands
a dinner for 100 at his home every Christ-
mas —will find expression in 12 national
dishes cooked in wine and £lOOO-worth
of champagne, to be wheeled in on the
backs of five ice-lions. There will be tele-
vision, a world broadcast of speeches,
the choicest of Australian wines, an Aus-
tralian ballet (probably by Borovansky)
and invitation-cards designed by Albert
Namatjira and printed on satin. The
specially built cage will be erected in the
Exhibition Building and the show will
open on Melbourne Cup night.
Incidentally, the lions were born last
week, and are being suckled by a mother-
bitch.
o •
“Waddlin’ Willie”: Aboard the Kista
Dan when she left Melbourne recently
with the 1955 Macquarie Island relief -
party (B. 29/12/’54) was a complete six-
metre very-high-frequency radio-station,
built and donated to the Australian
National Antarctic Research Expedition
by Frederick George Bail, one of Aus-
tralia’s best-known radio-amateurs. Bail
is convinced that communication will be
possible between Macquarie Island and
the mainland on this v.-h.-f.; he spent
the last two months before Christmas
building the gear. One piece he had to
import from Britain. A carpenter by
trade, with six years in war-time R.A.A.F.
signals, Bail will have tough battling to
make the first contact from his own
equipment. Many of his friends live in
Hobart, 300 miles nearer the southern
outpost.
Lumping his oar inland when he gets
Himalaya back to London (she’s recently
cast-off from Sydney), Captain D. G.
Baillie has had 44 years of it. His first
ship was a cargo-vessel, Pera, which Old
Diggers may remember at the Landing.
In Hitler’s stoush Baillie, then captain,
was in Stratheden, which younger Diggers
may remember in the North African
show. Korean Royals may recall the
Empire Fowey —Baillie had her, too, and
transhipped soldiery from Japan across.
Since 1953, when he took command of
his present and last ship, he’s been com-
modore of the P. and O.
• •
“C.Q.”: Sir Alan Herbert’s first visit
to Australia was in 1924. Met in Mel-
bourne on his third visit the ex-“ Punch”
humorist hasn’t altered much, except in
the matter of fewer hairs on his head,
and greyer. He still radiates humor,
mainly inconsequential, on every sort of
subject. His latest foible is a pair of
wrist-watches, one registering Greenwich
time, the other local. In consultation
with the Astronomer Royal in London,
they decided it would be a good thing if
there were one time in the world; the
two watches are part of his propaganda
to produce this revolution. Under the
new dispensation Melburnians would go
to bed at 2 p.m. and have their morning
bath at midnight.
On his first visit A.P.H. walked into
The Bulletin office in Sydney at lunch-
time anxious to meet its writers, and
especially its cartoonists; he explained
to the only person he found in the build-
ing (present commentator) that he had
always envied The Bulletin cartoonists
because they were allowed to say the im-
polite things he would have liked to say
but wasn’t permitted to in “Punch.” His
comment on the deserted state of The
Bulletin building was “How like
‘Punch’
• •
Herewith George Adrian Todner,
A.A.S.A., B.H.P.’s new chief-accountant.
Melbourne-born, he entered the steel
business early—Hoskins Iron and Steel
Co. at Lithgow, in 1925, assistant-account-
ant. He was transferred to Port Kembla
when the Hoskins Co. was reorganised
into Australian Iron and Steel, built the
new steel-plant there and became its first
works-secretary. When B.H.P. acquired
FIGURES FOR B.H.P.
control of A.I. and S., Todner was sent
to Newcastle, where he was engaged prin-
cipally in commercial reorganisation of
B.H.P. subsidiaries, which were then
cropping up like mushrooms. He later
became business-manager of Common-
wealth Steel and in 1944 gravitated to
B.H.P. head-office in Melbourne. He
finds time to give the Yorick Club in
Melbourne a helping hand in the capacity
of hon. secretary and as a friendly host
to visitors.
Lower-deckmen who have reached
commander’s rank in the R.A.N. are
about as scarce as eggs in the crow’s-nest.
One of the few, Commander Herbie
Gunn, D.S.C., of Lingayen Gulf and
Luzon, goes shortly to Port Adelaide,
commanding-officer of H.M.A.S. Torrens,
the naval depot there. In the Service 33
years last month, Gunn is, of course, a
gunner. Back in 1948 they used to call
him “The Snob”—he was the only com-
manding-officer of the Frigate Flotilla
who hadn’t run his ship aground.
• •
Among those honored:
K.C.M.G.:
John Dudley Lavarack got his first commis-
sion (R.A.A.) the year after he left sch<?oi;
served through War I with artillery (British
and Australian), and collected D. 5.0., C.M.G-,
C.B. When War II broke he was Australia s
Chief of General Staff; went on to outstanding
military service—G.O.C. 7th Division; led the
Ist Aust. Corps in Syria; planned the defence of
Tobruk; was right-hand man to Wavell in the
N.E.1.; commanded the Ist Aust. Army in the
early New Guinea campaigns. In 1946, after 4u
years of Army service, was appointed Governor
of Queensland (he was bom in its north).
g£ .
Air-Marshal John McCauley, who went
through Duntroon, Malaya, Java, France, Ger-
many and Japan to his latest appointment—head
of the R.A.A.F. . ~ ... n
Frank Kitto, High Court judge since mid-1950
After brief experience of the Law’s mechanical
side in the N.S.W. Crown Solicitor’s office, was
called to the Bar (1927), took silk at 39, and be-
came a top Constitutional lawyer. A fine advo-
cate with a most effective command of the
language, he closely liaised with fellow-knight
Barwick on the Privy Council banking case.
Wilfrid Fullargar, who joined the High Court
Bench a few months before Kitto, and, like him,
a specialist in Constitutional Law and Equity.
Took an armful of prizes from Melbourne Uni-
versity, was a Victorian judge for five years
from 1945; was an artilleryman in War I.
Kt.:
Edgar Bean, Parliamentary draftsman m
South Australia for years; one of the best legal
authorities on Parliamentary procedure m Aus-
tralia. Graduated in law at Adelaide Univer-
sity (twice winning the Stow prize), B.A. and
M.A. at Oxford, and three years with the first
B.E.F. Walking his hobby.
Frank Perry, as busy a man as Adelaide pos-
sesses. As well as running his own engineering
company, he’s been'president of the Australian
Metal Industries Association, of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures, of the South Aus-
tralian section of same, of the S.A. Iron Trades
Employers’ Association, mayor of St. Peters
and Assemblyman for East Torrens, 1933-35.
Since 1947, M.L.C. , _
Dr. Roland Wilson, Commonwealth Statis-
tician at 32; now secretary to the Treasury.
Tasmanian Rhodes man for 1925, holds Doc-
torates of Philosophy from both Oxford and
Chicago Universities, likes hammering nails and
making metal-castings in his spare time.
Giles Chippindall, sometime telegraph-
messenger, now D.-G. Posts and Telegraphs, and
a board-man of wide coverage —overseas tele-
communications, Commonwealth disposals, ship-
ping and other boards or commissions. His
first public statement as Sir Giles was to the
effect that the Post Office handled a record
Christmas mail in 1954. .
Adolf Fitzgerald, accountant, lecturer in the
subject at Melbourne University, now chairman
of the Commonwealth Grants Commission.
Editor of an accountancy journal, author of
half a dozen works on accounting.
Archibald Collins, with, added to medical
degrees, D.S.O. and M.C. He practised with the
Ist A.I.F. in France, and as a surgeon-com-
mander in the Navy in his next war. President
of the 8.M.A., president of the Medical Con-
gress due to be held in Australia this year. A
governing pillar of Sydney’s Royal Prince
Alfred for many, many years.
• •
Dr. Alan W, Greenwood, director of
the poultry-research centre of Britain’s
Agricultural Research Council, awarded
a C.B.E. in the New Year honors, hails
from Melbourne. Of Wesley and Uni-
versity of Melbourne, he Diggered in
War I, and afterwards went to Edinburgh,
gained a Doctorate of Philosophy and
joined the Institute of Animal Genetics
in the Scotch city. In 1947 he became
first director bf the poultry-research
centre. He married a daughter of Bob
Crockett, probably best-known of all
Australian Test umpires.
• •
Perth physicist Noel White, first
woman to take her B.Sc. with first-class
honors in physics from the Westralian
University, is off to Oxford for two years
on a Hackett Scholarship awarded by the
University Senate. For the past two
years she’s been researching in X-ray
crystallography and into the molecular
structure of chemicals, the last-named
designed to extend the usefulness of
penicillin and other drugs. Hopes to
return with the Oxford D.Sc.
John Daniel O’Sullivan, formerly chief-
of-staff of Canberra “Times,” has taken
up duty in Parliament House, member of
the Government’s public-relations set-up.
He served his cadetship on the same
“Times” 17 years ago and had been there
ever since, apart from three years as a
Digger in New Guinea, and a shot at
subbing on Sydney “Sunday Sun.” His
appointment marks reorganisation of the
public-relations staff, which is headed by
Hugh Dash, due to accompany the
Prime Minister abroad for a couple of
months.
J. ELLIS RICHARDS, O.B.E., Command
Dental Surgeon, Eastern Area. Captain,
30 years in the Navy, in cruiser Hobart
for the Coral Sea battle.
A news item in a Melbourne daily
identified E. G. Kruse (an outbacker who
has just received the M.8.E.) with The
Fizzer, the famous mailman of We of the
Never Never; but Kruse, the Maree
mailman who starred in the Shell Com-
pany’s film “Back of Beyond,” was born
a bit late to earn this distinction. The
original Fizzer was a mailman who was
drowned crossing the Victoria River in
1911 and was buried near by. Since
Mrs. /Eneas Gunn wrote her book every
mailman on the same beat has been
named The Fizzer. The Quiet Stockman,
Little Lad and the author herself, who
lives in Malvern, Melbourne, are actu-
ally the only characters remaining of
We of the Never Never.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 73, Frederick
Sinclaire, Professor of English at Canterbury
University College for 17 years till his retirement
in 1949. An M.A. of Oxford, before returning
to New Zealand he held lectureships in English
at the Melbourne and Westralian Universities,
and had been Director of Adult Education in
Westralia. One-time editor of the “Socialist
and “Fellowship” in Melbourne.
In Sydney, at 80, James Clark, for 20 years
senior modem-language master at Sydney’s
Shore. From Edinburgh University and the
Sorbonne.
At 82, at Apollo Bay (Vic.), G. F. Young,
author of Under the Coolibah Tree, which was
published last year and written (by dictation)
after he had gone blind. Born at Maitland
(N.S.W.), he went to the W.A. goldfields in
1894; his book was the autobiographical
reminiscences of his vivid experiences there in
the gold-rush days.
At 71, at Horsham (Vic.), Archibald Dobie,
president of the Victorian Rowing Association,
the Mercantile Rowing Club and the Victorian
Old Oarsmen’s Association, and himself one or
Australia’s best-known oarsmen. He had ms
finest success in 1903, and next year was in the
eight-oar crew that won the Australian cham-
pionship in Brisbane. It is only two years since
he gave up rowing.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 50, Sydney Ernest
Mailer, who controlled the Australian and IN.Z.
companies of H. M. Mailer and Co. Member
of the Royal N.Z. Yacht Squadron, he bought
the Rawhiti in Sydney, sailed her to Auckland
in 1946, and raced her successfully there.
In Perth, at 70, Michael Joseph Eustace,
railwayman, repertory actor and producer, who
first trod the boards in the old Abbey Theatre,
Dublin. Coming to Australia after the Sinn
Fein disturbance (in which he’d been a friend
of Michael Collins) he joined the Westralian
Railways, retiring about 10 years back. He
was for years actor, producer and committee-
man of Perth Repertory.
At 54, at Mornington (Vic.), John Bruce
Chirnside, of the pastoral Chirnside family. He
owned large grazing properties on the Morning-
ton Peninsula and was a leading racehorse-
owner.


V
\\pASr B££F For. M£ ,
AnP An CoTSipl? CuT / Pi.EAS£ »
sw ooi's/pz <%>?' X& mur?
4u &(&?, /ti Tak£ //■ 0U75-/PP W 7%£
FLAM/n' lArtt AMP CUT /f FOR yoo. /y
THE GOURMET


ABORIGINALITIES
VTET a mob of about 400 jumbucks on
-*-*-*• their way to market on a back-road
in Gippsland (Vic.). The two young
fellows droving them were riding a big
old-model tractor, and a trailer acted as
packhorse, carrying camping-gear, tucker
and a couple of old wethers that had
knocked up. They still had real dogs, but
I expect it won’t be long before radar or
something takes over there. —“Eyenan.”
* * * *
“Alban”: One of the aftermaths of
Christmas in our town was a duel between
two of my neighbors. One of them had
given his youngster a cheap violin for
Christmas. The kid kept on playing in a
most melancholy way until the family
hound woke-up, listened for a few
moments and joined in. Neighbor No. 2,
roused from his Sunday-morning nap,
hollered across the fence: “Good playing,
son, but would it be asking too much of
you to play something the dog doesn’t
know ?”
* * * *
“Pisces”: All genuine fishermen will
be glad to know that Fred Washer, of
Tauranga, Maoriland, at long last has
won his argument that the Lauwiliwinu-
kunukuoeoe is the smallest fish in New
Zealand waters. Those who plumped for
Humuhumunukuapuaa have conceded
defeat. All is now quiet on the North
Island front.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Nearly five years Long
Tom and Hungry Herman had shared the
hut in the Murray bend, shared the labor
“Hot today, Mrs. Thrip.”
of running drum-nets in the season and
rabbit-traps in the winter, with a bit of
fencing and rouseabouting on the side.
They worked and played together and to
pick one was to pick both. Then the
startled bend learned by radio one day
that the pair had struck second-prize in
a lottery. As soon as Tom and Herman
headed for town in their ute pretty well
everybody else headed that way. There
the crowd hung round the two pubs,
drinking casually, waiting, knowing the
two were in the solicitor’s office. At last
they came out. Both shed their coats and
hopped into each other. It was the dead-
liest fight seen for many a day. Both,
ended up in the care of the Bush Nurse.
The next day, without buying a drink for
anyone, Tom caught the coach for Bal-
ranald and Herman drove the ute down-
river. A week later there Was an auction-
sale of their hut and goods. By this time
the bend had learned that the partnership
was split for ever —all because Herman
had wanted to make Sydney for d holi-
day and Tom had wanted Melbourne.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: The fish was something
like a small bream, but more oval in
shape, black on top speckled with
small yellow dots, fading off to a
lighter color underneath. A row of
yellow spines ran along the back-
bone and under the belly, and one
of the spines pricked the hand of
the young fellow who caught the
oddity. Within seconds the punc-
ture was giving pain and the hand
swelling. For five hours the vic-
tim suffered intense pain, head-
aches, faintness and dizzy spells;
then the malady vanished with in-
credible abruptness, the poison
evidently having exhausted itself.
An old fisherman on the lake said it
was a black trevally. Ordinary
trevally don’t treat you like that,
and the name black trevally is un-
known among my angling friends. Is
there an ichthyologist in the house?
* * * *
“S. Cane”: Our gang of canecutters
consists of two Queenslanders (Tom and
Alf) and two New Aussies (Gus and
Chris). A laden truck had run off the
tramline and was being put back on the
rails by means of a jack, which Chris
was working under the orders of Tom,
who was the ganger. “Lift him a bit
higher, Chris. Woah! That’ll do him!
Now give her a shove over, boys. Woah!
That’ll do him. Now let her down
slowly, Chris, and then take the jack
out. Good! Now give her a push.
Good-oh, she’s apples!” As the gang
started loading again, Gus, shaking his
head, said: “You Australians always say
t’ings dat are not right, you say der
truck of cane is a bloke, and den you
say it is a sheila and den you say she is
apples and dere is no fruit, only sugar-
cane.”
* * * #
“Macquarie”: Called in to replace the
old weatherboard-house’s rotted tea-tree
stumps with brick piers, I was crawling
under like a snake when I came on the
de-necked bottles —and went back in
memory over 30 years. The youth who
lived with his parents in the place then
was a magician to my juvenile eyes: he
was experimenting with some new-
fangled thing called radio and making a
weird electric gadget with numerous jars
of liquid. I recall him sitting in front
of the open log-fire on a winter’s night,
a loop of wire in the blaze and an array
of beer-bottles close at hand. At regular
intervals he would withdraw the wire,
place it over the neck of a bottle, and in
some marvellous manner the top would
lift off, leaving an open-necked jar to
add to what he called his “wet-cells.”
Don’t know what happened to him after
they left the district, but I’d lay odds
that he finished up as a big man some-
where. Embryo geniuses did it the hard
way in rural districts those days, but when
they had the spark in ’em nothing could
hold ’em back.
“J. 8.”: The James Ramsden Wollas-
ton mentioned by “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
8/12/’54) was also Colonial Chaplain at
Bunbury from 1841 to 1848, and during
that time built with his sons’ aid what is
now W.A.’s oldest church, at Picton, a
tiny village just outside Bunbury. Origin-
ally of wattle-and-daub, the building has
now been lined with jar rah. The huge
iron fastenings for the diamond-shaped
windows were a gift from Wollaston’s
friends in England. The pews were con-
structed from timbers of ships wrecked
off the near-by coast, with the result that
each pew-end is of different shape. The
church is cared for by the W.A. Historical
“Garni Get into a queue!”
Society, which is trying to trace the graves
of pioneers in the little churchyard—
difficult, because of obliterations by
bushfires. Two of the oldest graves are
known to be those of the Scott family,
first farmers around Bunbury, who also
worked land for Governor James Stirling.
Wollaston, who died at Albany in 1856,
enjoyed at one time the munificent salary
of £3 per annum!
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: People who make an
unscientific test and then conclude that
a cigarette can’t start a bushfire (B.
22/12/’54) are the despair of the fire-
control officers. Here’s the proper way
to set about it. First, there must be some-
thing to transfer the fire from cigarette
to grass and leaves. Any one of a dozen
things will do —a bit of old bagging, some
dried manure, or sawdust, or a piece of
dried fungus. Put the cigarette-butt on it
in some dry grass or leaves on a day when
everything is dry and there is a bit of
wind blowing. It will start smouldering.
Presently, a stronger gust than usual
comes along, a flame appears, and away
goes the fire. I’ve carried out scores of
such demonstrations ; once, with a strong
and hot north wind blowing, the flames
started to spread in lmin. 35sec.
“Wham”: I had the same impressions
as “Not Least” about bushfire-warnings
regarding cigarette-butts until I started a
fire which could have done a lot of dam-
age. It was on the north-west corner of
the Speck, where the average rainfall is
from 50 to 60 inches, where the tempera-
ture rarely reaches 70 in the shade, and
where three weeks of fine weather consti-
tutes a drought. I was sitting on a log
at night angling for blackfish and keeping
a cloud going to discourage the mossies
when I flicked away a butt. About 200
mosquito-bites later the end of the log I
was sitting on, at the edge of the bank,
flared into flame, and it had such a grip
that it took a while to prevent its reaching
the tinder-dry, heavily timbered, narrow
gully near by. In those parts I’ve seen a
bushfire, driven by a high wind, make 200-
yard leaps from stump to stump across a
cleared hillside.
* * * jt
“Harbel”: The discovery in a Berowra
(N.S.W.) quarry of footprints more than'
4ft. long, believed to have been made by
a prehistoric reptile of a type unknown
to scientists, recalls the prints we found
impressed in a concrete foundation. The
cottage had been built about 40 years
before, but was being sacrificed in a
noble cause —to make way for a pub.
When we knocked off the last course of
bricks the footprints were revealed.
Dogs, of course, will blunder across wet
concrete, and cats, for some inexplicable
reason, mince over it with calm, deliberate
intent; but no cat or dog made those
spreading prints. “There might have been
a whopper goanna about in those days,”
the apprentice submitted; the foreman
reckoned a go. would have to be the size
of a crocodile to leave such impressions.
That started a line of thought. The
chippy pointed out that a creek still ran
near by—in the old days there might
possibly have been a wandering croc,
about. At that point old Darby, the
laborer, came back from boiling the
billy. “I helped to put that concrete in,”
he drawled. “Old Smutty, the bloke who
had this joint built, used to run geese in
the paddock.”
“Morayda”: The best kangaroo-dog I
have seen is owned by a native stockman
on Elkedra station (N.T.), mostly dingo
with a bit of greyhound. A kangaroo is
play to him. He’s been credited with
downing an emu and I watched him knock
down a half-grown wild-donkey, which
his owner rescued and uses now as a
swag-carrier on walkabouts. The dingo-
greyhound cross is a favorite with the
Elkedra blacks.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: “Karruk, karruk,”
comes the far-carrying harsh command
of the majestic brolga from lofty heights.
Just a flashing, speck of silver in the sky,
he looks for all the world like a tumbling
mirror, reflecting in the midday sun.
Above the hawks and lesser birds he
floats, an ungainly land creature trans-
formed by air-currents into graceful
beauty. Few gliding birds attain his poise,
fewer still may surpass his ascension
figures. What are they?
* * * *
APPREHENSION OF MERMAID
SERGEANT O’GORMAN’S REPORT
Whilst on duty near the Park
Road Jetty did I receive
Phone call from Inspector Dark
To go at once to Jetty.
Time being 4.5 a.m.
Arrived at Jetty 4.10.
Saw woman near river rim
She was swimming up and down.
She was naked at that hour
As she swam in the moonlight
And made no reply to our
Questionings other than laugh
At me in a wistful way.
I then entered the river
Constables Bailey and May
On Jetty. Time 4.30.
She dived and came up near me
As I swam nearer to her.
Her long hair was silvery.
She wore fins on her ankles.
She swam away. Her skin was white.
And she had violet eyes.
I followed her to the light
At the bend and back again.
Time by Constable Bailey
Being 5.30 a.m.
Which time the Mermaid gaily
Waved and returned to the sea.
QUEENSLAND.
KEVIN McAULIFFE.
FIRST WHITE-MAN
The following letter, which appeared
in the “British Australian” of November,
1906, presents an intriguing footnote to
Alec Chisholm’s article on the first white-
man to land in Australia (B. 29/12/’54):
In your last paper you print an interview
with a Mr. Hope Johnston, in which he
claims that his family represents the oldest
direct family connection with Australasia.
I beg, Sir, respectfully to state that my
family claims that honor. There are in my
possession some 400 letters and documents,
covering a period of three centuries, which
absolutely prove my case.
It was on February 23 of the year 1606
at 4 o’clock in the afternoon, the Dutch
ship Duyphen sailed into the Gulf of Car-
pentaria as it is now called. They thought it
was New Guinea. The captain’s name was
Ohlafson. A boat was sent ashore, and in
that boat sat a sailor —my ancestor —Johann
Schmidt. He was the first man to jump
ashore, and so he was absolutely the first
white-man to set foot on the shore of Aus-
tralia. They landed on what is now the
York Peninsula, and were attacked by
blacks, and then sailed away. My ancestor
returned to Batavia, where he married and
had several children.
Now, Sir, I can trace my family from
him in direct descent down to my great-
great-grandfather, and so to my father.
There are writings in Batavia which can
settle this beyond all doubt. So I think I
am just in saying that ours is the oldest
family which has any connection with Aus-
tralia, as it set foot there in 1606.
The date, the captain’s name, and about
my ancestor has never been published be-
fore.
PETER JOHANNES SCHMIDT,
London, October 7, 1906.
Several years ago I tried to trace Peter
Schmidt through the Missing Persons
Bureau at Scotland Yard, but without
result; nor do I know of any official
search for the Schmidt family papers. If
still in existence they would be a find of
great historical importance.
JONSHAW.


(COMMITTEE of Miallo (N.Q.) State
School charters towards the end of
each year a T.A.A. plane, which takes
pupils on an aerial-geography lesson.
This year 19 kids from a DC3 saw hun-
dreds of square miles of Cairns hinter-
land, including Barron Falls, from 7000 ft.
An idea worth copying.—“Jez.”
* # * *
“Bogaduck”: An inexpensive weapon
will knock all the fight out of the most
savage dog on earth (B. 22/12/’54). I
once saw this demonstrated by a country
policeman who had to search the camp
of some tough people for stolen goods.
When we were within 50yds. of the camp
the pack of savage dogs they kept
charged at us. When the first of the
mongrel stag-hounds was 6ft. away the
trooper aimed his weapon and squeezed
the trigger. The dog braked to a stop,
turned a somersault, then began to cough
and yelp. Dog No. 2 did likewise ; then
the rest of the pack fell back. The weapon
was a kid’s water-pistol loaded with
household ammonia.
* * * *
“Rameses”: Euclid was on the side
of the cocky when in his Book 111 he
stated, inter alia, that in any triangle
whose base is the diameter of a circle,
and whose apex lies on the circumfer-
ence, the angle subtended by the base
must be a right-angle. So, without benefit
of any measuring-stick, the cocky can
set out a truly rectangular paddock
using only a length of wire and four
“Pick up the step there!”
surveyor’s-pegs. And, done properly, the
Surveyor-General couldn’t fault it.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Many townships on
unsuitable sites came into being in some
such way as did Whitemark, the one-pub
capital of the eastern Bass Strait islands
on the sou’-west corner of Flinders
Island. First chosen in 1832 by civil ser-
vants as a spot to isolate the now-extinct
Tasmanian blacks, with convicts and sol-
diers as attendants, it was originally
known as The Lagoons. It’s on a low,
sandy ridge between sea and swamps and
doesn’t even boast a decent anchorage.
In a year or two the soldiers, convicts and
blacks moved 15 miles north to the more
fertile Peajacket Point. But because of
the buildings left behind and its geo-
graphically central position for the 100
islands, islets and rocks of the Fumeaux
Group the place lived on as a meeting-
spot for the islanders and the “colored
gentlemen”—as descendants of the early
sealers and Tasmanian gins prefer to be
called. When a store and (in 1910) the
one hotel in the group were built there
the town’s future was assured. Saw a
race-meeting there years ago—it had to be
staged along the beach! Incidentally, the
little capital takes its present name from
a survey-mark erected there by H.M.S.
Myrmidon in the 1880’s.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We parked the truck
in Forbes, had a drink and a bite, and
were taking a stroll before hitting the
road again. Near the Town Hall a big
fellow in sports-shirt blundered into Mat
and, before Mat could say anything,
took a swing at him. Mat got stuck
into him and, as soon as it was over,
we headed for the truck and shot through.
About a month later, out beyond
Wyalong, we gave a fellow a lift. “I’ve
seen you blokes before,” he said. I was
driving, so Mat did the looking. “Blowed
if I know your face,” Mat said. “Don’t
let that worry you,” the bloke said, “I
didn’t know it meself for a coupler days
after I run into y’ in Forbes back in
March.”
* * * *
“Harden”: They’re hard to toss on the
N.S.W. sou’-west slopes. Petty Sessions
were on, and ’s’Worship was wagging
an admonitory finger at the local soak,
whose wife was seeking to have him
placed under the Blackfellows’ Act.
“Why do you consume liquor to such
an abnormal extent?” Bench asked
the diminutive-in-figure-but-mighty-in-
consumption offender. “S’like this,
y’Worship. I suffer from a severe com-
plaint, and the only thing that does me
any good is ‘Doctor X -’s Tonic,’ ”he
sadly answered. S’Worship reddened as
the Court tittered. He didn’t know that
“Doctor X ” was the local Bung
favored by the accused. When he did
find out, a minute later, it was curtains
on the grog for 12 months for the villain
—who promptly shot through, jet-
propelled, to the nearest lager-well and
sank four pints before the news trickled
through that he was, by law, under the
Dog Act.
♦t+ ♦}*
“Mackville”: I’ve struck several blokes
who “run” the traps on pushbikes. They
all agreed on these advantages: (1) You
can get round in a fraction of the time,
therefore can set more traps ; (2) pedalling
is easier than walking ; (3) you can carry
a bigger load of traps or bunnies by
stacking them on the grid and pushing it.
A horse isn’t in the race with a bike —
you have to feed a prad, and cockies
whinge about losing a bit of grass ; and
if you come to a fence you have to jump
him over it or ride for miles to a gate:
a grid can be chucked between the wires,
under the rail or over the top. One
trapper used his old mangle for another
purpose. “The freezing-works knock-
back a bunny if a fox has torn its head,”
he confided., “So when I get a torn one
I spin the front wheel and shove bunny’s
head between the spokes. It just looks
like an accident while it was hanging from
the handle-bars.”
* * * *
, “Mick O’Mallee”: When it was begin-
ning to look as if the old trade of the
“I Warned you to look both ways before crossing.”
saddler and harness-maker was dying out,
with hardly a shop stocking saddlery left,
an Adelaide man realised that gear would
still be required for racehorses and
trotters, and that if few people now rode
horses for work, more and more were
doing it for pleasure. Also he noted a
tendency among Australia’s remaining
stockmen, especially the youngsters, to go
in for gear of the fancy-cowboy type:
decorated bridles, stamped-leather boots,
and so forth. He started to make them.
His workshop soon grew into a factory.
Old handicrafts, such as fancy plaiting,
were revived; new lines were added.
Then he started a magazine, “Hoofs and
Horns,” devoted to horse-riding, camping,
etc. It now circulates all over Australia.
He is R. M. Williams, of Prospect (S.A.),
and he now has more business than he
can handle.
WILD DUCK
I was riding alone through the clover,
The dogs at the heels of my horse.
There was Judge, the gallant old spaniel,
And the little black kelpie, of course,
When I heard a whirr and a rustle,
Like the crumple of leaves brown and dead;
And I saw two beautiful wild duck
Circling over my head.
They wore a necklet of feathers
Jade-green round each beautiful throat,
And they honked with peculiar sadness
Their sweet and beautiful note.
Their wings were like burnished copper
Stretched out from each pure white breast . . .
As I watched they circled lower
And quietly came to rest
On a bed of grass and flowers
Where once there must have been,
Winding its way through the clover,
Some wild creek long grown over.
I pulled the reins of my pony
And called the dogs be still
As I watched the beautiful wild things
On the plain, at the foot of the hill:
And they fed with a trusting quiet
As they watched me standing there,
And honked with that thrilling sadness,
As the wind blew back my hair.
1 stood quite still in the clover,
“Dear God,” I silently prayed—
“ Defend these beautiful wild things,
Defenceless and unafraid.”
N.S.W.
BETTY CASEY.
MIXED METEORS
/COUNTLESS thousands of meteors
plunge into the earth’s atmosphere
every day. Most of them are tiny, rang-
ing in size from a grain of sand to a pea.
As they are travelling at speeds up to
40 miles per second, the air can’t get
away from in front of them. It piles up
as a wad of highly-compressed gas, heated
by compression and by friction with the
air through which it is thrust. In this ball
of incandescent gas the meteor usually
burns away in the familiar fiery streak
of the “shooting-star.”
At long intervals, large masses of
meteoric matter plunge earthward. Most
of them also burn out, but occasionally
one lasts long enough for portion of it
to reach the earth. At least twice chunks
weighing around a million tons have hit
the earth. One made the great Canyon
Diablo crater in the U.S.A., the other
the Wolf Creek Crater in the Kimberleys,
North-west Australia.
Intensive world-wide search for large
pieces of meteoric matter has bagged
some 1500 specimens. They fall into four
main classes. The first are composed of
an exceedingly tough natural alloy of
iron and nickel. The second type are
the pallasites, consisting of the same
nickel-iron studded with large crystals of
stone. Then there are the stony ones,
usually calcium or magnesium full of
specks of metal.
There are also the tektites; small pieces
of natural glass, ranging in size from a
pea to a hen’s-egg. At least six showers
of them fell to earth at some time in the
past. The biggest lot fell on the southern
half of Australia, and are known as
Australites.
The S.A. Museum has the world’s
largest tektite collection; over 18,000
specimens. Until lately the only two
certain things about them were that they
had originated somewhere outside the
earth, and that when the minute specks
of slag shot out by the funnel of a rail-
way locomotive are examined under a
lens these are found to be of the same
shapes as the main types of Australites.
The study of meteorites has been inten-
sified in the U.S., where the University of
New Mexico specialises in such things.
Here are the conclusions:
At some time in the remote past there
was an additional planet in the solar-
system. It had a core of nickel-iron
alloy. Above this was a layer of the
same alloy filled with nodules of stone.
Over this was a layer of rock, and the
outer skin was composed of natural
glass. The planet was still so hot that the
outer skin was in a molten state.
This planet was torn to pieces, pro-
bably by the strong gravitational force
exerted on it when it passed close to a
much larger nlanet. The molten-glass
outer layer was thrown off in a shower of
drops, which cooled into the button,
dumb-bell, boat and tear-drop shapes
familiar to anyone who collects Aus-
tralites.
The wreckage of this lost planet con-
tinued to move in an orbit around the
sun, but gradually the material became
dispersed. Today it exists as belts of
fragments strewn through the solar
system. Occasionally the earth passes
through a thick belt, and then we have
a meteor-shower.
The theory that the lost planet had a
skin of molten glass is something new ;
it has been advanced by William Cassidy,
a young American scientist who came
here under the Fulbright scheme to study
our collections of meteorites. It is the
only one which can fit all the known
facts about tektites; it resulted from his
study of the collection in the S.A.
Museum.
And where does it all lead to? Thanks
to this study of meteorites, we now know
what the interior of our own earth must
be like, with the same nickel-iron core.
We also have a check on the abundance
or rarity of some elements in the solar-
system.
Finally, space-travel is no longer a
wild dream. The people who have been
studying meteorites have been able to
pass on a great deal of information con-
cerning some of the hazards that will be
met as soon as the first man-carrying
rocket leaves our earth’s protecting shield
of atmosphere.
H. A. LINDSAY.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL PICNIC WHEN
I WAS A CHILD
Spotless white dresses and pinafores clean —
Little girls early are grouped on the scene:
Boys in white sailor-suits wait by the gate—
Every one frightened that he might be late.
Handkerchiefs held by a large safety-pin;
Taped from the shoulder, a mug made of tin;
Ticket in pocket and hope in the heart,
Everyone waiting and ready to start.
Regular scholars with nose in the air,
Convinced they have earned the right to be there,
Scoff: “Picnic sharks!” at the scholars who
came
On the last Sunday their tickets to claim.
Ah! Here’s the parson. A cheer from the boys!
And nobody minds their making a noise.
Teachers start forming the kids into rows:
A whistle is blown; the cavalcade goes.
Down at the station, the cattle-trucks wait
And children go scrambling in through the gate:
Everyone seated, the guard’s whistle blows,
Off to the country the picnic train goes.
See the first magpie! The cows in the grass!
Waterholes shining in paddocks like glass!
Hie long train pulls up at the foot of the hills;
Out of the cattle-trucks children it spills.
Away to the picnic-ground everyone runs
Anxious for sandwiches, jam-tarts and buns:
Little boys go off to swim in the creek:
Little girls wander for wildflowers to seek.
Faces are tanned at the end of the day:
Pinafores grubby and sailor-suits grey . . .
Such gladness was there, such joy undefiled—
Sunday-school picnic when I was a child.
VICTORIA.
Z. V. WEBB.


NORTH AMERICA
AFRICA
MIDDLE EAST
BRITISH
TO All SIX
CONTIH IT
ENGLAND
£3?
ASIA
WEST INDIES
Fly on any of 1,000 Speedbird
routes across the world within your
travel time and budget. Choose
from first-class luxury or tourist
travel comfort on many services.
Fly-in-a-hurry there and back—
or take a year, with stop-overs at
no extra air fare. Hotel accommo-
dation, meals and surface transport
provided at scheduled night stops.
Fully pressurized 4-engined air-
liners. See your Travel Agent for
complete trip-planning help —no
charge.
Speedbird Services link Australia with
Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand,
Hong Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India,
Pakistan, Middle East, Africa,
Europe, Great Britain, U.S.A.,
Canada, Central and South
America, Bermuda.
FI MOM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Batn-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 15/- per day
Double Rooms —
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,”
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
■
V 2.
M'-
Mi
m
*l2
w,
, :
_
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Patchy Sharemarkets
TSUYING by some fixed-trusts
to fill new investment port-
folios was mostly responsible for
Australian sharemarkets open-
ing for 1955 with a firmer
demand for some industrials,
especially for- front-line stocks
such as 8.H.P., A.C.1., Henry
Jones, Burns Philp and Bradford
Cotton. But otherwise the
markets were patchy, and higher
bidding was mostly in evidence
for stocks that have either
announced bonus-issues or
similar benefits, or from which
such benefits are imminently
expected by the market.
In pricing Henry Jones shares
to give a yield of 3.6 p.c. some
such benefit is obviously needed
by the investor who pays 555.
It is a long time since Henry
Jones thought fit to do anything
exciting in this connection. Last
bonus issue was in 1927.
Most forward movement in
share-prices during the next
three months is likely to be
based on “picking winners,” not
so much on general buoyancy.
Yields are low in many cases
already, especially in view of the
rising rates for debenture-
capital. The industrials which
return 8-10 p.c. are usually those
subject to seasonal influences or
which are precariously situated
in some other respect.
Interim dividends in February
and March may attract special
interest to particular stocks. But
while most companies should do
well, in the sharemarket there
may not be the amount of invest-
ment-money available that was
a feature of early-1954.
Rough Range No. 6 Well
From L. Owen: The failure
of Rough Range No. 6 well to
strike anything more than an
odor of petroleum and salt-
water should not come as a
surprise to Bulletin readers —
in spite of the fact that it was
located only 860 ft. from the
point at which the No. 1 (“dis-
covery”) well penetrated a pocket
of oil-impregnated sand, and in
view of the large “safety-
factor” (B. 22/12/’54) which
such close spacing would
ordinarily give.
Had the oil been a normal
crude petroleum, and had the
structure of the Permian beds,
underlying the horizon at which
the pocket of oil was
encountered, possessed anything
approaching the simplicity which
was assumed by the pre-Wapet
surveyors, the absence of oil at
such a short interval would have
justified file disappointment
expressed.
But the No. 1 oil was of an
obviously migrated type, and had
been inspissated to an extent
which rendered it almost non-
fluid at ordinary temperatures.
In addition, particularly after the
drilling of No. 4 well, there was
no room for doubt as to the
complexity of both the Permian
strata and of the Permian-
Cretaceous interface immediately
underlying the petroleum mani-
festation.
In view of these facts, it is
difficult to appreciate why the
development programme —which
would have been admirably
suited to normal conditions —
was continued to the sixth well.
While this well has driven the
final nail into the coffin holding
any hopes of commercial pro-
duction in the northern part of
the Rough Range structure, it
has also, in my opinion, damned
the prospects of the Cretaceous
beds as substantial oil-reservoirs
in the southern portion. There
is, of course, the meagre chance
of another “miraculous” (the
expression was used in
December, 1953, by a senior
Federal civil servant) strike of a
larger pocket of migrated oil, but
no responsible oil-geologist
“ Unfortunately , after your novel's been expurgated there'll
only be enough for a short-story."
would advise the expenditure of
shareholders’ money in the hope
of such a double miracle.
This must not be taken to
mean that Wapet has no justifi-
cation in drilling “a line of
several wells across the southern
section of the structure,” the first
of them being located about two
miles south-west of No. 1 well.
It should, however, be clearly
stated that the wells are being
drilled with the object of obtain-
ing information as to the sub-
surface structure in an area
where surface outcrops are
absent and where the conditions
for geophysical operations are
unfavorable, and not in the hope
of striking a commercial “pool
in the lower Cretaceous beds.
It is to be hoped that the data
from the proposed exploratory
structural wells, combined with
an intensified study of the older
beds at outcrop and the inter-
pretation of the information thus
obtained by experienced oil-
geologists, will throw light on
the pre-Cretaceous geological
history of the Carnarvon Basin
of W.A., which is practically
unknown in detail and which
has, up to the present, been
misunderstood.
In my opinion, such work,
ultimately, should lead to the
successful tapping of petroleum
at depth in what still remains—
in spite of unwarranted optimism
and unjustifiable forecasts by
officers in positions of respon-
sibility to the public—the most
promising oil-prospect in the
Commonwealth.
Myttons, Ltd.
At 12s. 6d., ex rights, for the
ss. fully-paids in Myttons, Ltd.,
investors are prepared to accept
a yield of 4.8 p.c. for the
present. This at first sight seems
a low return to accept from a
concern which originally set up
to manufacture cutlery in Aus-
tralia: cutlery being a line in
which there is particularly keen
competition, especially from
overseas. But the co. is also
engaged in making stainless-steel
sinks and s.-s. beer-barrels. The
demand for s.-s. sinks exceeds
supply, and since the close of
accounts on June 30 the output
of all manufacturers has been
increased, without overtaking the
lag. Sinks made of cast-iron
covered with porcelain-enamel
are losing ground to stainless-
steel sinks, and the s.-s. product
will probably oust' the other
article when full supplies are
available.
Another part of Myttons’
business is the supply of pressed-
steel bath's. Arrangements have
been made with General
Industries, Ltd., whereby
Myttons supplies complete press-
ings to two G.I. subsidiaries —
Metters, Ltd., and Metters
K.F.B. Pty., Ltd. —which enamel
the baths and merchandise them.
Extensions have been made at
the Myttons Fishermen’s Bend
factory to handle the new
operations.
The present issue of new ords.
(one for three at par) will finance
the recent expansion and provide
for additional stocks. The new
scrip will rank for div. as from
January 1. Present paid capital
of Myttons is only £400,000, of
which £25,000 is in 6| p.c. prefs.
Net tangible backing for the
ords. was 7s. 7d. last balance-
day, and profits for the year
equalled 19.2 p.c. on ord. capital.
The div. was 12 p.c.
In paying 7s. for the rights to
the new issue (making 12s. paid)
investors are looking to the
future for their rewards.
Packing Containers
Output of metal cans, drums,
crown seals and metallic cap-
sules at present is about 30 p.c.
higher than for the correspond-
ing period of last year. The
making of the various types of
metal containers and enclosures
involves a big industry in Aus-
tralia, representing a public
capital investment of several
millions. Among the chief com-
panies concerned are J. Gads-
den Australia, Ltd.; Gadsden-
Hughes, Ltd.; Containers, Ltd.;
and Rheem Australia Pty., Ltd.
Although the output of metal
cans for the six months to Sep-
tember 30, 1954, showed a sea-
sonal fall of about 13 p.c. on
the March level, current produc-
tion is running at a rate 30 p.c.
higher than at the correspond-
ing period of last year. Produc-
tion of crown seals for the six
months to September 30 also
showed a slight seasonal down-
ward trend, but was 35 p.c.
higher than at the same time
last year. Metallic-capsule pro-
duction is also up about 40 p.c.,
and drum-production continues
to increase.
Canners’ requirements of con-
tainers are closely related to
seasonal conditions and to the
supply of fruit, meat and vege-
tables. Sales of crown seals
reach a high level in the summer-
time, when bottled drinks are in
demand, while the demand for
drums and large cans follows
the general trend of activity in
the paint, chemical and oil
industries.
Studying the outlook for
1954-55, the Division of Indus-
trial Development, Canberra,
says that even if the past year’s
record fruit-crop is not repeated,
some improvement may be
expected in canned tomato pro-
ducts. There has been a fall in
the demand for cans for con-
densed - milk and powdered
skim-milk, but an increased de-
mand for full-cream powdered-
milk cans. The paint, oil and
chemical industries are expected
to keep the demand for general-
type cans and drums at a rela-
tively high level. Uncertain
overseas demand for Australian
canned meat may affect output
of meat-containers. But a strong
seasonal demand for bottle-
seals and metallic capsules is
expected.
One of the biggest manufac-
turers in the industry is J. Gads-
den Australia, Ltd., which has
a capital (all ordinary) of
£3,000,000. The co. and its sub-
sidiaries had an aggregate net
profit of £350,886 last year, after
providing £235,000 for taxation.
Allowing for outside interests,
that represented 11.3 p.c. on ord.
capital, and a tax-free 7 p.c. div.
was paid. Enough is left in tax-
free reserves to pay three more
annual distributions of 7 p.c.
each.


v SVH 3H
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
I No Pads —
' No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
„ ... , upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
m all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3f), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
50,000 LETTERS EVERY DAY
In the course of service to customers, A.NiZ. Bank
handles an average of 50,000 letters and other items
of mail every business day. They are posted to and
received from all over Australia and New Zealand
and the far corners of the world.
This great volume of mail is another indication of
the growth and popularity of A.N.Z. Bank—with over
780 branches and agencies to serve you throughout
Australia and New Zealand, in Fiji and Papua, and
■n London.
A-N-Z
T?
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which ate merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
- - AWg-infl-io
The new &YSAGHT
500 BUSHEL GRAIN SILO
saves you money and worry
c ■
Enjoy freedom from
• HIGH BAG COSTS
• RATS AND MICE
• DETERIORATION OF
GRAIN IN BAGS
Prefabricated from heavy
gauge galvanized iron.
Rodent and weatherproof.
Simple to erect.
Permanent asset.
Generous depreciation
allowance for taxation.
Steel floor is part of each
500 Bushel Silo Set.
Ready to erect on Earth
Ring or other Base installed
by the Owner.
Write for Data Sheet on.
Foundations and Bases. |
h
* i
mia,
mttam
mamma
Eagasasaa
as 8
mm
Z4AHM
PRICE £7O (AT WORKS) *
PRICES OF OTHER LYSAGHT SILOS
1,000 Bushel £llB (AT WORKS)
2,000 „ ‘ £lB2
3,000 „ £236
3.500 „ £259
4.500 „ £306
II
II
Lysagbt Augers are avail-
able for all LYSAGHT
SILOS. Vertical Sets
range from £ B2/10/ -
Write for further information and Agents' Names to
LYSA6HT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., CAPITAL CITIES
L47a
Unwritten History of the
New Guinea War
By "WUZZY-FUZZY"
WHAT has become, I
™ wonder, of the Flora and
Fauna Reserve near Port
Moresby which was one of
Blarney’s pet schemes, which at
one stage had a staff of more
than 100, including natives, on
its 50 acres, and which evoked
some terse comments on the
official files during and soon
after the end of the war?
The Department of (External)
Territories took it over without
any enthusiasm, tagged trees,
pathways around the lagoon
and all. Has it reverted to the
jungle, or is it a show-place?
The project began long before
the war’s ending, when General
Tom Blarney announced to all
concerned in November, 1943,
that a site had been selected
between Hombron Bluff and the
Laloki River. He said also that
the reserve had three purposes:
(1) To ensure preservation and
development of an area near
Port Moresby where native flora,
fauna and bird-life might be
preserved and have sanctuary;
(2) to provide a sanctuary where
“the above” could be studied
by troops employed in New
Guinea; and (3) to develop an
area which would become a
centre of study of the natural
history of New Guinea after the
military occupation ceased to
exist.
By the end of June some’
anxiety was being expressed con-
cerning progress, and Brig.
W. C. D. Veale went up to look
at the place. He reported that
the lieutenant in charge had been
helped with labor and materials,
although some native labor had
been unavailable “owing to
other pressing duties and scarcity
of natives.” He added that the
lieutenant was a botanist who
“lacked training in military pro-
cedure and engineering prin-
ciples.”
However, the brig, said a
great deal ha,d been accomp-
lished. The jungle had been
thinned, a road had been laid-
out around the lagoon, and
a lot of construction completed.
Drainage had been effected,
palms transplanted and a num-
ber of native trees labelled with
neatly printed boards giving full
botanic name and description.
Some silt had been removed
from the lagoon.
In addition, the, lieutenant
had “prepared over 100 plates
of the flora and fauna, hand-
painted and described, which
should grace the Canberra
Museum and should prove to
be of great value in the study of
flora and fauna and butterflies.”
To aid this warlike activity
an engineering sergeant was
attached, with plant, but it was
decided to restrict the full pro-
gramme because the reserve had
no war-establishment, and there
was no authority to carry per-
sonnel detached from units.
There was no keenness on the
part of any soldiers to be posted
to the reserve, in the absence of
any establishment within which
they could be promoted.
Veale urged that the show
should be handed to Angau,
and this was done with almost
indecent haste.
In December, 1944, when the
venture had been under way for
a year a wry note appeared on
the files, pointing out that the
reserve was being managed by
an officer, “assisted by three
n.c.o.s, six other-ranks and 90
to 100 natives.” Incredulous
authority asked if all these were
crammed into a mere 50 acres.
From inception of the scheme
to June, 1944, expenditure of
more than £2OOO had been
incurred for Army and native
pay and rations. There was no
accurate record of the cost to
Army of buildings, transport and
other items. Annual expendi-
ture looked like being more
than £6OOO a year.
There were other drawbacks.
“The road for two miles to the
summit is very rough and steep,
and may only be traversed by a
vehicle with four-wheel drive.
The usual flora and fauna com-
mon to most areas in New
Guinea were observed. Very
little bird-life was in evidence.”
But “paintings in watercolor of
flowers and butterflies have been
prepared by the manager and
have been forwarded to LHQ.”
It was apparent that it would
then be some time before the
scheme was completed, but it
was presumed that “competent
authority” was satisfied that the
civil administration would carry
on with it when military control
ceased. There was a further dry
comment:
“Apart from affording the
manager opportunity to pursue
his horticultural vocation, the
scheme has little to commend it
owing to the engineering work
necessary to construct an all-
type vehicle road, and the
apparent excess expenditure
necessary for the upkeep of the
reserve. It is questionable
whether, at this juncture, the
expenditure is warranted, and
problematical whether it will
ever achieve the purposes for
which it was established.”
This outspoken document
caused some flurry on the main-
land.
Another critic said openly
that, despite the reasons given
for its establishment by the
Commander - in - Chief, the
scheme was extravagant and had
no ultimate purpose.
A still higher authority made
a crisp annotation:
“If the expenditure of £6OOO
p.a. is a reasonable estimate, it
would seem beyond the limited
financial resources of the Terri-
tory, judged on pre - war
standards. If the project lapses
the expenditure is wasteful. The
reserve was not established for
military reasons, and I think the
department responsible for the
civil development should be con-
sulted before new ventures
involving recurring expenditure
are begun. The request to
h.q. Angau for comment can-
not be expected t g
ful reply. The C.O. £,
not comment on the ,
futility of & decision g y
the C.-in- C. .
Secretary of the Territories
Department said in May,
that he had just learned tne
reserve. He added that in lyjo
an outside body had suggested
establishment of sanctuaries in
the Territory, _ b^f bese
consid reasonable nro-
legislatio g . , . there
tection to lard-Iffe and
were few arnmab
wallabies and which we
hunted by the natives for food.
The lieutenant in charge was
reposted, and the native staff
reduced to nine for maintenance,
ln September, 1945, the Trea-
sury in Canberra reported that
the C -in-C. said the reserve had
been developed as an amenity
for the troops, but felt that the
number of troops then in the
area no longer justified its con-
tinuance for Arm y P ur Poses.
In May, 1946, Territories
reported that it was considering
whether the reserve should be
continued or abandoned. What
has happened since.


Incorporated in Victoria in 1871
Acting as Executors of Wills,
Trustees of Estates, Attorney under Power, etc., for 75 years
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
TR16A.35
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
T ATEST accounts of this big Victorian
brewing organisation make pleasant
reading for shareholders. Among other
things, they disclose a 15 p.c. increase in
gallonage sales, a leap of 77.5 p.c. in de-
clared net earnings, and a lift in the div.
from 6} p.c. to 8 p.c. Furthermore,
those on the register—they were rewarded
with a one-for-one gift-scrip issue in
1951 —are presently to be asked to put
up £1,950,000 of fresh capital at par to
help finance continued expansion, etc.
The co.’s total output of beer for the
year to June 30, 1954, was 54,104,698
gallons (up 15 p.c.), which includes
10,218,038 dozen (up 47 p.c.) of bottled
beer. It was thus able to meet the entire
local demand for draught beer, gnd there
was little or no margin between the
supply of and demand for the bottle stuff,
the chairman says. The co.’s total gal-
lonage for the year was equal to 25.2 p.c.
of the whole Australian output of beer
for the same period; and 27.2 p.c. of Aus-
tralia’s population was domiciled in Vic-
toria at June 30 last. So, all things con-
sidered, it is not surprising that the man-
agement is now exploring the possibilities
of expanding the co.’s inter-State markets,
and of “responding to demand for the
co.’s products from overseas.”
Other factors which helped to bump
up the year’s net earnings were a small
increase in controlled selling-prices,
steadier markets for hops, malt, sugar and
other raw materials, the basic-wage
standstill, the gains which followed instal-
lation of a lot of modem labor-saving
plant and improved layout in the
breweries, malthouses and storage-cellars ;
and a steadily growing return from hotel
properties.
After setting aside £494,338 (up
£188,654) for depreciation, and whatever
was considered necessary for taxation,
etc., net earnings shot up by £394,525,
reaching a record £903,618:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.!
< Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 12J p.c. 12 / p.c. serves. Reserves.*
j£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 554,212 37,500 328,125 188,587 3,705,471
Revaluation freeholds, £5,371,484 .. 9,076,955
Reserves capitalised, £2,925,000 .. 6,151,955
Add reserve adjustment, £12,665 ..6,146,620“
9§ p.c. 9§ p.c.
1951.. 467,110 28,125 337,500 101,485 6,266,105
Profit sale assets, £3683 .. .. 6,269,788
Net tax arrears, £3339 .. .. 6,266,449
Add reserve adjustments, £29,345 ..6,295,794
7 p.c. 6£ p.c.
1952.. 450,762 21,000 346,875 82,887 6,378,681
Excess tax provision, £2861 .. .. 6,381,542
Profit sale assets, £3417 . . .. 6,384,959
Add reserve adjustment, £1273 .. 6,386,232
1953.. 509,093 21,000 346,875 141,218 6,527,450
Excess tax provision, £6092 6,533,542
Profit sale assets, £6959 .. .. 6,540,501
Add reserve adjustment, £1513 ..6,542,014
1954. . 903,618 24?000 1 352 36g 6 Bq . „„„
Arrears div. paid, £83,260 j d52,<568 6.894,382
* After deducting intangibles, £905,361 at 30/6/’54.
f Excludes outside interests in subsidiaries.
The £903,618 was 15.4 p.c. on capital (all
classes combined) as against 8.7, 7.7 and
8 p.c. for the three preceding years. So
the lift in the div. was a comfortable
matter; and the 8 p.c. is worth double
that rate on capital as it stood before
the gift-issue in 1951. On shareholders’
net tangible funds (capital and reserves
combined, less intangibles) the year’s
profit was 7.1 p.c. Shareholders are en-
titled to a reasonable return on these
funds, and the board considers that cur-
rent trading results are moving toward
that level, which might be taken as hint
that further lifts in the div., if any, are
likely to be moderate in the near future.
The proposed one-for-three new issue
cff “Z” shares, further details of which are
yet to be announced, will lift paid capital
to £7,800,000 in 300,000 7 p.c. prefs.,
which advance with the ords. in any dis-
tribution beyond that rate, 2,625,000 ords.
and 4,875,000 “Z” shares. The latter
rank equally with the ords. for divs., but
carry no voting rights, and do not parti-
cipate in surplus assets in the event of a
wind-up. On £7,800,000 of capital an all-
round 8 p.c. would call for £624,000, or
£279,618 less profit than was claimed
last term. Although a cut in selling-
prices in June last of 9s. per hogshead
bulk and Bd. per dozen bottled is expected
to reduce the current term’s revenue by
over half a million pounds, the net result
is expected to remain at or around last
term's level, thanks to continued improve-
ment in both sales and production
efficiency.
During the year the co. issued
£1,500,000 of 5 p.c. debentures, maturing
December 1965-68 —£82,250 of the money
was still to come when the books
closed:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £5,850,060 £5,850,060 £5,850,000
Reserves* .. 6,378,681 6,527,450 6,894,382
Outside interests 22,903 29,394 31,211
Debentures .. 1,417,750
Mortgage .. 179,054 166,504 124,353
Overdraft .. 862,170 1,071,870 113,128
Creditorsf .. 1,221,245 1,712,782 2,215,063
Suspense a/c .. 27,020 937
Pinal divs. .. 190,875 190,875 346,500
£14,231,948 £15,549,812 £16,992,387
Breweries,
hotels! .. 9,550,206 9,743.227 9,994,889
Plant .. .. 1,724,746 2,514,728 3,365,778
Stocks .. .. 1,294,842 1,446,540 1,526,245
Book debts .. 1,374,760 1,704,620 1,816,569
Gash, etc. .. 287,394 140,697 288,337
Suspense a/c .. 569
£14,231,948 £15,549,812 £16,992,387
* After deducting intangibles, £905,361 at 30/6/’54.
t Includes tax provision. $ Includes hotel leaseholds.
The debenture-money,- together with an
extra £502,281 from sundry creditors,
etc., and surplus earnings, was used to
slash £958,742 off the overdraft, add
£251,662 to the book-value of hotels, etc.,
£851,050 to plant (largely on account of
the new Collingwood malthouse), £79,705
to stocks and £111,949 to book-debts. Two
of the co.’s Melbourne hotels are being
rebuilt at an estimated total cost of
£750,000.
C.U.Bv’s capital is not held directly by
the public, but mostly by the following
holding cos., whose scrip is listed on
’Change:
Shares
Paid in Market
Capital. C.U.B. Price
Company. £ Number. Scrip.
Melb. Co.-op. (10/-) .. 1,727,923 1,974,676 17/6
Carlton (20/-) .. 1,633,984 1,873,244 38/-
Oastlemaine (15/-) .. 450,000 352,240 17/-
Foster (20/-) . . .. 230,400 249,158 29/-
Shamrock (20/-) . . 282,690 249,146 28/-
Figures in parenthesis are face-value of shares.
Shares held in C.U.B. are all of £1 each, and
include pref., ord. and “Z” scrip.
Market price is for holding co.’s scrip on 6/l/’55.
Including C.U.B.’s proposed new issue,
and assuming the big operating co. con-
tinues to pay an all-round 8 p.c., the
return on respective total holdings
would be equal to 12.1 p.c. on Melbourne
Co-op.’s present capital, 12.2 p.c. Carlton,
8.3 p.c. Castlemaine, 11.5 p.c. Foster and
9.4 p.c. Shamrock. Three of the holding
cos. intend to make new issues of their
own scrip, Foster and Shamrock each
three-for-ten, and Castlemaine one-for-
five. Carlton, which has enough ready
funds to meet the first call on its propor-
tion of the C.U.B. issue, does not pro-
pose to ask its own shareholders for more
at present. Melbourne Co-op. has yet to
announce its intention.
John McGrath Industries, Ltd.
AN interesting development in
which the board has capitalised the
rapid and profitable post-war growth of
this big motor-vehicle distributing and
engineering group, which has a long and
pleasing history. Paid capital of the
original holding co., John McGrath, Ltd.,
was £225,000 at June 30, 1946. Four
years later the figure had grown to
£750,000 with the aid of £275,000 of cash
subscriptions and £250,000 of bonus-scrip.
Over the same period divs. averaged 11.1
p.c. Then, in January, 1951, John
McGrath Industries, Ltd., bought the
issued capital of John McGrath, Ltd., for
£1,500,000 in its own scrip—in effect a
one-for-one bonus-issue.
Early in 1952 shareholders put up
£500,000 of fresh capital at par to help
finance the new Melbourne subsidiary,
National Forge Pty., which hasn’t yet
had an opportunity to show what it can
do in the way of profit-earning. Another
£500,000 was subscribed at par during
the latter half of last term to provide for
further all-round expansion. Issued
capital thus became £2,500,000, of which
there was £1528 to come in at June 30
last.
Principal operating subsidiaries are:
Australian Forge and Engineering Pty.,
Sydney. (Paid capital £350,000.) Australia’s
biggest supplier of ferrous and non-ferrous
forgings for the manufacture of motor-
vehicles, tractors, internal - combustion
engines, earthmoving-equipment, aircraft,
etc. General Motors-Hoiden’s is among this
co.’s customers.
National Forge Pty., Melbourne. (Paid
capital £500,000.) Supplier of ferrous and
non-ferrous forgings, primarily to the Vic-
torian automotive and aircraft industries.
This co. also turns out forgings for
G.M.-H.
John McGrath Motors (Pty.), Sydney.
(Paid capital £375,000,) Distributor in
N. S. Wales for Rootes Group vehicles —
Humber, Hillman, Commer, etc.
John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty., Bris-
bane. (Paid capital £200,000.) Rootes
Group distributors in Queensland.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty.,
Sydney. (Paid capital £250,000.) Distributor
of tractors, earthmoving-, roadmaking-,
materials-handling, mining- and transporta-
tion-equipment, diesel-, kerosene- and
petrol-engines, cranes, power-shovels, wire-
ropes, etc.
Perkins (Aust.) Pty., Sydney and Brisbane.
(Paid capital £200,000.) Steel and machinery
merchant; distributor of petrol- and diesel-
engines, power-shovels, air-compressors,
machine tools, generating-sets, Diamond T
trucks (N. S. Wales only), etc.
Perkins Pty., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, and Perth. (Paid capital £100,000.)
Same as Perkins (Aust.) Pty.
The organisation’s extensive inter-
ests, and the field covered, help
explain the rapid growth of profits
until 1952, their abrupt contraction in
1953, and their recovery last term, when
expansion of consumer credit, com-
parative steadiness of operating costs
and reduction in the rate of co. tax also
helped the figures along:
John McGrath Industries and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. t —Dividends serves. serves.f
£ £ £ £
Add net reserve adjustments on
reconstruction, £1,358,765 .. .. 2,119,138
Reserves capitalised, £760,000 .. .. 1,369,138
’sl*. 351,722 10.1 p.c. = 165,000 186,722 1,555,860
’52.. 349,014 8 „ ~ 133,333 215,681 1,771,541
Reserves added on purchase of outside
interests, £10,298 1,781,839
Unexplained additions, £8337 .. .. 1,790,176
’53.. 162,642 8 p.c. = 160,000 2,642 1,792,818
Reduction in stock reserve, £485 .. 1,792,333
Tax overprovided, £40,789 .. .. 1,833,122
Share premiums, £625 .. .. 1,833,747
’54.. 242,032 8 p.c.=171,823 70,209 1,903,956
*l3 months. f Subject to intangibles, £1,296,974
at 31/7/’54.
Of the spring of £79,390 in last term’s
profit, £40,789 was in respect of over-
provision for taxation in 1953. The
allowance for depreciation was £143,375
(up £27,534) and for taxation, etc.,
£119,769. The £242,032 of profit was
11.3 p.c. on average capital as against
8.1, 21.7 and 23.4 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. An encouraging result
considering that the bulk of the new
capital had little opportunity of contri-
buting much to the pool. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c. for the third year in suc-
cession, and the 8 p.c. is worth 13.3 p.c.
after allowing for cash and bonus share-
issues over the last eight years.
Both the forge cos. are “busily occu-
pied” making forgings for the Holden
car. Australian Forge is also developing
a large general business. National
Forge, which operated at a loss in 1953,
is now earning profits, and is tooling-up
for a “large long-term Government con-
tract.”
The motor-vehicle distributing cos. are
showing “very satisfactory” results. Fol-
lowing a vigorous advertising campaign,
sales of Hillman and Humber cars, both
excellent examples of British engineering,
showed marked increases last term, and
the improvement has continued since the
close of accounts.
The Perkins cos. are “steadily
recovering from the setback ex-
perienced in 1952,” and are now giving
a lot of attention to the marketing of
locally manufactured and imported steels.
The Industrial Sales and Service offshoot,
which handles the International Harves-
ter co.’s products, etc., is operating pro-
fitably, and “more than holding its own
in the present competitive market.”
The next table shows how the £498,472
of fresh share-capital, and an extra
£215,957 from the bank and more besides,
were used:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,498,472
Reserves . . 1,776,541 1,792,818 1,903,956
Outside interests 141,298 5,685 5,147
Overdraft .. 1,636,528 940,901 1,156,858
Creditors, etc.* .. 1,876,265 1,291,329 1,071,260
Inter-eo. suspense.. 251,799
Pinal div. .. 83,333 100,000 111,823
£7,765,764 £6,130,733 £6,747,516
Freeholds .. 1,349,975 1,671,355 1,713,003
Plant .. .. 510,040 844,014 910,393
Stocks, etc. .. 3,220,574 1,624,227 1,932,973
Debtors .. 884,702 545,699 612,647
Shares in subsidiary 189,875
Shares in public co. 609,250 3,000 3,000
Cash .. . . 22,046 32,439 20,255
Inter-co. suspense.. 113,604 68,396
Intangibles .. 1,269,177 1,296,895 1,296,974
£7,765,764 £6,130,733 £6,747,516
* Includes provision for taxation.
Stocks (in at cost or under) increased
by £308,746, book-debts by £66,948, and
fixed assets by £108,027, while £220,069
was clipped off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. The new item,
shares in subsidiary (£189,875), reflects
purchase towards the close of accounts
of the issued capital in Lion Rolling Mills
Pty., which held a 61 p.c. interest in Mel-
bourne Iron and Steel Mills Pty.
McGrath’s interest in the lastmentioned
co. has been increased to 97 p.c. since the
close of accounts.
At the moment everything points to a
better group showing at next balance. At
ss. Bd. (6s. a year ago) the holding co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares return 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 6s. 2d.
Howard Auto-Cultivators, Ltd.
nrHE business is shaping well, and recent
-*• developments suggest that the man-
agement is alive to its problems, which
are likely to multiply before they dimin-
ish. The post-war mechanisation of farm
properties, and consequent expansion of
demand for the rotary-tillage equipment,
etc., which the co. turns out from a well-
equipped factory at Northmead, near
Sydney, sent turnover bounding along
from more than £400,000 in 1946 to over
£1,400,000 in the 1951 term. Profits
responded, and shareholders, who had
been passed by for the six years to 1944,
came into the picture again, the div.
climbing from 5 p.c. in 1945 to 10 p.c.
for the three years to the close of accounts
in 1951.
Then initial demand for tillage-equip-
ment began to lose some of its strength,
credit tightened, competition sharpened,
and drought conditions, especially in
Queensland, and floods in N. S. Wales
and Victoria affected sales. The manage-
ment immediately concentrated on pro-
duction of the more profitable lines, re-
duced overhead, halted capital expendi-
ture, worked down stocks, lightened the
outside debt and widened the range of its
own factory and franchise lines. The
broad aim was to cushion the effect upon
earnings of possible deterioration of
demand from the agricultural industries.
Profits, which fell sharply in 1952,
have shown heartening improvement


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established isos in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The *‘Atla»” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
C England)
NJS.fr. Branch:
9 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CUARL
Cii&h/
PROTECTA
6lml-RegidVil+t^
Suitable for every type of bnslnen It record
ail Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing ta appearance. Bend for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. LuL
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon A Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Amt.)
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed! leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of "Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
since, due partly to factors
already mentioned and partly
to reduction in the rate of co.
tax. The div., which was cut in
halves three years ago, reducing
it to 5 p.c., was lifted’ to 6 p.c.
and then to 7 p c for the year to
June 30, 1954:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividendsserves, serves.*
1949 43,904 10 P .c.= 21,753 22,151 62,689
SS? isiiif 10 :: IKS fS'99l lo till
Howard Auto-Cultivators and
Added on con’d B atX T £27, 058 132,526
1952 41,145 5 P . c .= 23,210 17,936 150,461
iol! 541028 7 ” ”J® 092 if o36 ltl’nt
* After deducting’intangibles,’ £16,952.
Last term sales increased by over
25 p.c. Net earnings benefited
by £10,719, reaching £54,028,
equal to 10.8 p.c. on average
capital as against 8.6, 8.8, 15.5,
19 and 20.2 p.c. back to 1949.
Over the last three years profits
averaged 9.4 p.c. on capital as
against an average of 18.1 p.c.
for the preceding triennium.
During the year the co.’s four-
wheel-drive tractor was re-
modelled, and 30 of them were
delivered to the N. S. Wales
Government railways toward the
close of accounts; a contract was
secured from the R.A.A.F. for
60,000 251 b. aircraft training-
bombs ; a new sod-seeding
attachment was produced for use
in connection with the recently-
developed fertiliser - and - seed
dropper; arrangements were
made for manufacture under
licence of “Wade-rain” irrigation
equipment, which is extensively
used in the U.S.; a considerable
business is being built up in cast-
ings, forgings and machined
components used by other
engineering cos.; and more
attentiop is being given to pro-
duction of spare parts for the
co.’s own factory products. Also
a new shell-moulding plant for
making investment-moulds for
the factory is expected to reduce
unit costs.
On the financial side the posi-
tion has been strengthened,
too:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £499,873 £499,884
Reserves .. 180,658 199,694
Overdraft .. 156,437 135,560
Creditors, tax pro-
vision .. 204,039 176,020
Final divs. .. 29,992 19,995
£1,070,999 £1,031,153
Freeholds .. 72,221 72,040
Plant, etc. .. 233,094 233,850
Stocks .. .. 649,661 590,786
Debtors .. .. 97,136 115,763
Cash .. .. 1,935 1,762
Intangibles .. 16,952 16,952
£1,070,999 £1,081,153
To carry an extra £18,627 of
book-debts, clip £20,877 off the
overdraft and £28,019 off the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc., stocks (said to be
conservatively valued in the
books) were reduced by £58,875.
The year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£376,736) was £18,472.
Doubtful of the long-term
outlook for this class of busi-
ness, the market prices the co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares at 17s. 6d. (18s. 6d.
a year ago) to return 8 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 275. 3d., of which 11s. is
represented by surplus liquids
and the balance by fixed assets,
worth what they can earn.
Finney Isles & Co. (Bris.)
nrOO much importance need
A not be attached to the con-
traction of £6182 in Finney’s net
earnings for the year to July 31,
1954. It was due to special
and temporary causes, namely,
extensive alterations, additions
and improvements to the store,
and the inevitable dislocation and
expense associated therewith.
One of Brisbane’s biggest and
most fashionable department-
stores, the shop is in the middle
of the city’s busiest trading area.
But competition is getting more
of an edge on it. So, to maintain
its position, and strengthen
its individuality as a trader, the
co. spent approximately
£230,000 last term on extending
and brightening the premises
and improving facilities and
amenities for customers. In
these respects, the store is now
second to none, the chairman
says.
In common with other
retailers, turnover (amount un-
stated) increased, and gross
profit stepped up by 5.5 p.c.
(£35,064) to a record £668,888.
But much of the reorganisation
of departments had to be carried
out at heavy overtime rates of
pay, and trading exes. (£521,493)
gobbled £23,854 of the gain. So
after allowing £33,735 (up
£13,589) for depreciation—the
increase was mainly on account
of new escalators —and £39,500
(up £3803) for taxation the net
result was £6182 lighter at
£74,160:
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ p.c'. £ £ £
1949.. 10 =40,206 42,113 400,003
Maintenance res. down £2988 397,015
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 392,015
1950.. 91.060 12i = 50,259 40,801 432,816
Maintenance res. down £1132 431,684
To staff fund, £5000.. .. 426,684
1951 113,021 12J = 51,353 61,668 488,352
1962.. 29.718 10 „ 46,943 472,127
Profit sale freehold, £81,914.. 554,041
1953.. 80.342 124 = 56,516 23,828 577,868
1954.. 160 124 ~56,515 17,645 595,513
The £74,160 was 16.4 p.c. on
capital as against 17.8, 6.5, 27.5,
22.6 and 20.4 p.c. back to 1949.
That a 2\ p.c. bonus was again
added to the 10 p.c. div. —the
latter has been an annual event
since 1938 —making 12} p.c. for
the year, can be taken as an
expression of the board’s confi-
dence in the outlook. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) a 12} p.c.
distribution would call for only
5.4 p.c.
Principal change in balance-
sheet figures was the net addi-
tion of £184,055 to the book-
value of property and plant:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. 452,124 452,124 452,124
Reserves .. 472,127 577,868 595,518
Overdraft . . 153,744 40,534
Mortgage .. 50,000
Creditors,
etc. .. 105,749 178,967 211,099
Tax reserve 43,187 54,201 47,915
Pinal div. 22,606 33,909 33,909
Staff fund 16,794 1,535 2,108
1,266,331 1,298,604 1,438,202
Property,
plant, etc. 653,805 567,320 751,375
Stock .. 497,061 511,106 568,920
Book debts 95,169 83,050 91,637
Cash, etc... 20,296 137,128 21,270
1,266,331 1,298,604 1,433,202
Stocks (in at cost or market-
price, whichever is the lower)
increased by £57,814. The
moderate level of book-debts (up
£8587) suggests that the em-
phasis in trading is upon cash
transactions. To meet the year’s
outlay £50,000 was raised on
mortgage, £40,534 on overdraft
and £32,132 was added to the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc. The holding of cash,
etc. —swollen during the previ-
ous term by sale of a city free-
hold at a handsome profit—was
drawn upon for £115,858. When
the books closed 52.4 p.c. of
total assets was represented by
property and plant, thus em-
phasising the need for brisk
turnover, which means, among
other things, shrewd buying, a
tight hold upon controllable
outgoings and an attractive store.
The current term opened
with sales well above the level
of a year ago, and, with the
major expense connected with
reorganisation out of the way,
a better showing at next balance
is a reasonable anticipation. The
market expresses its confidence
by pricing the f.-p. £1 shares at
475. 6d. (38s. 6d. a year ago) to
return 5.3 p.c. on a 12} p.c.
distribution. At the moment it
is doubtful when better need be
expected. Net tangible cover is
465. 4d.
Gold-production Subsidy
The rather involved conditions
under which the Federal Gov-
ernment has decided to pay a
subsidy to large producers
(over 500 oz. fine gold per
annum) of the yellow metal has
caused disappointment in some
quarters. Still, there is little
doubt that goldmining will
benefit substantially, and that the
Government has acted wisely in
taking this first step to protect
an industry which is worth much
to Australia in terms of both
employment and dollars.
Without going into the com-
plicated details connected with
the conditions of payment, the
broad effects of the subsidy are
that: (1) All small producers,
prospectors, gougers and the like
will be eligible for payment of
subsidy at a flat-rate of 30s.
a fine ounce, a very welcome
lift; (2) for large producers the
subsidy operates on different
lines. For each fine ounce of
gold produced during the year,
the subsidy will be three-quarters
of the amount by which the cost
of production (per ounce)
exceeds £l3 10s. Maximum pay-
ment will be £2 per fine ounce.
This means that those mines,
and there are many, which are
now only breaking even, or are
operating at a small loss, will be
able to show a small profit, and
thus keep alive to await the day
when, according to optimists, the
statutory price of gold will be
substantially increased.
All producers in the industry
would prefer a straight-out
subsidy of, say, £2 an ounce.
The opinion is widely held that
the cost and awkwardness of
administering and policing the
scheme in its present form is
likely to be such that it will be
replaced before very long by a
straight subsidy per ounce of
gold produced.
Barrytown Gold Dredging,
Ltd., has completed voluntary
liquidation, and shareholders
have got their capital back and
a trifle more. Meanwhile they
were offered 180,000 £1 shares
at par, one-for-two, in Raven-
shoe Tin Dredging, Ltd. (N.Q.),
which bought Barrytown’s
dredge. The machine, together
with other equipment and build-
ings, realised £56,074 net, invest-
ments £60,177 and surplus
current assets £14,738, a total of
£130,989, of which shareholders
received £129,062. The liquida-
tion was thus handled at small
cost. Paid capital was £128,750
in 125,000 £1 ords. and 75,000
Is. deferreds. The ords. received
20s. Ofd. per share and the
deferreds Is. o|d. Formed in
1934 as an offshoot of Alluvial
Gold —before the lastnamed
passed to English interests—to
work gold-bearing black sands
about 19 miles from Greymouth
(N.Z.), the co. paid one div.,
6d. a share, in 1941. The
recovery problem—the yellow
metal occurred in an extremely
fine state —and buried timber in
the overburden upset original
estimates. Then shortage of
skilled labor, and steeply rising
wage-rates and prices for stores
and parts, bumped up costs.
Faith in the
Future
Beef is a favourite topic with me. Perhaps it’s
because I’ve always liked the sight and sound and
smell of cattle herded.
The subject interests me especially now, as a
tremendous opportunity unfolds in the expansion
of our beef industry.
The Australian Meat Board has revealed in
its annual report that beef and veal production
reached a record 706,000 tons in 1953-54.
The 10,728,000 beef cattle in Australia in
March this year were nearly 1,000,000 more than
the average carried in the past nine years.
Alongside this increase in stock numbers is
the fact that Australians themselves are eating less
beef, and therefore have proportionately more for
export.
In the three years before the last war we were
consuming 1441b. per head a year. During the war,
under rationing, we were down to 851b. In 1953-54
it was 1191b.
But we are still well fed. The post-war con-
sumption in Britain—to which we sent most of the
129,800 tons exported last year—has been from
30 to 401b. per head.
Now that the bulk buying of meat between
the British and Australian Governments has ended,
and the market has returned to open trading con-
ditions, we have a golden opportunity to raise the
production of beef.
The 15-years agreement on purchase and price
continues. Australia and New Zealand haye an
unrestricted right of entry to the U.K. market until
1967. No other country has that right.
If the 12-months’ average for each class of
meat falls below the agreed price level, the British
Government will make a deficiency payment to the
Australian Government.
At the very base of this liberal arrangement is
the condition that Australia should try to build up
a steadily increasing export.
That’s our responsibility now—to produce
more beef, and more beef of a high quality.
H. Hastings Deening


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The civic reception held in honor of
Lord Brookeborough, Prime Minister of
Northern Ireland, and Lady Brooke-
borough was attended by the Prime
Minister, who had Dame Pattie and
daughter Heather with him, and Premier
John Cain.
Lady Brookeborough wore a frock of
lavender-blue Chantilly-lace and a tiny
black rose-trimmed calot. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. F. P. Selleck, was in
black silk-taffeta, the skirt finely pleated,
and a tiny white straw hat massed with
lily-of-the-valley. Dame Pattie’s nylon
jacket-suit was finely checked in grey-
and-white; her . straw hat soft-rose.
Heather Menzies’s cotton frock in bril-
liant-flame tonings was worn with a white
cloche.
Among the guests were Chief Justice
of Australia Sir Owen Dixon; Minister
for External Affairs R. G. Casey and
Mrs. Casey; Minister for Immigration
and Labor Harold Holt; U.S. Consul
Givon Parsons and Mrs. Parsons, Con-
sul for Switzerland M. Paul-Emile Cattin
and Madame Cattin, and Chinese Consul
T. Liu and Madame Liu.
Victoria’s Agent-General in London,
Sir John Lienhop, was with Lady Lien-
hop, whose black frock was worn with
a tiny white satin tricorne spotted in
black. Mrs. T. J. Ryan was with her
granddaughter Jillian Lambert. Mrs.
Bernard Evans wore a natural Honan-
silk suit with a wide-brimmed Leghorn
hat trimmed with black velvet. Mrs.
James McGauran teamed a frock of grey
organza coin-spotted in white and a wide
grey polished-straw hat. U.K. Trade
Commissioner A. R. Stark was accom-
panied by his wife, who wore with her
ice-blue jacket-suit a black straw hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the reception given by the Royal
Empire Society in its beautifully decor-
ated rooms to Lord and Lady Brooke-
borough the guests were welcomed by
the president, Sir Newman Morris, and
members of the council.
Lady Brookeborough chose a frock of
pale-yellow nylon imprinted with a large
black floral-design. Among those at the
reception were the State’s Chief Justice,
Sir Edmund Herring, and Lady Herring,
Sir Robert Knox and Lady Knox (who
covered her floral chiffon frock with a
coat of parchment-toned cloque faille
cuffed with mink).
Lady Grim wade’s choice was a dove-
grey chiffon frock and a matching velvet
coat. Lady Hay’s long-sleeved dinner-
frock was of black French crepe. Of
slate-blue silk-shantung was the pretty
frock worn by Lady Michaelis. Mrs,
Howard Buchanan wore azure-blue
Chantilly-lace. Mrs. T. Alan McKay’s
short frock and jacket were of deep-grey
faille trimmed with silver embroideries.
Mrs. W. J. Jungwirth chose ice-blue silk
printed in a black floral design, Mrs.
H. G. Connell a black faille frock which
had a fully-pleated skirt.
☆ ☆ ☆
General and Mrs. Rufus Ramey (as
Colonel Ramey he was former Military
Attache here) are back from the U.S.
on a three-months’ visit to their daughter
and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Reg.
Williams, of Toorak. During their stay
parties will be given for them by his
successor in the post, Col. Walker R.
Milner, and Mrs. Milner by Dr. and
Mrs. Arnold Richardson, and Captain
Robert Macpherson (U.S. Naval Attache)
and Mrs. Macpherson. General and Mrs.
Ramey have already spent a few days
at Ballantrae, the Macedon home of Mr.
and Mrs. John Mack.
☆ ☆ ☆
A romance which began when Eliza-
■ ceth Joan John was doing arts and Dr.
Donald William Hossack medicine at the
university culminated in their marriage
at Trinity College Chapel. The bride,
who is the only child of Mr. and Mrs.
H. G. John, of Toorak, wore a gown of
white brocade, the bouffant skirt featuring
wide pearl-embroidered panels with the
hemline and train finished with tiny
pleated frills. The bodice had an off-the-
shoulder neckline. The veil fell from a
matching brocade cap, and taberna mon-
tana, flown specially from Queensland,
fashioned the bouquet.
Attending the bride were Clarissa
Starey, Pamela Middleton and Betty
Chenoweth, in white embroidered organ-
die frocks with crocus-yellow cummer-
bunds, and 12-year-oLd Virginia Hender-
son, who wore a frock of crocus-yellow
organdie. All wore Alice-in-Wonderland
bands on their hair and carried bouquets
of frangipani. The ’groom, who is the
son of Mr. and Mrs. D. A. Hossack, of
Abbotsford, had Dr. Hylton Poulier as
best man, and Robert Wills and lan
Hossack were groomsmen. Reception was
at the Dorchester.
☆ ☆ ☆
Among those who made Peterborough
their headquarters for the holidays were
Dr. and Mrs. Frank Stephens, of Ver-
mont ; Brigadier and Mrs. W. Tinsley,
with Michael and Jane; the Warren
Moores; Mr. and Mrs. Rod Calvert;
Mr. and Mrs. Bryan Austin; Mr. H.
Armstrong, of Melbourne. Jane, younger
daughter of the Andrew Chirnsides,
will on Friday night celebrate her
coming-of-age at her parents’ summer
home at Peterborough, where two
marquees on the lawn , will accommodate
the guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
Rae Smithson has returned to this city
to visit her parents after nine years’
absence abroad, seven of which were
spent working in the Australian Embassy
in Washington, where she lived with her
sister, Mrs. Thomas R. Mackie, whose
husband is a U.S. Navy captain. While
there Rae was a member of the Southern
Cross Club, members of which are Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders, and Ameri-
cans who have lived in these parts.
Googie Withers, English stage- and
film-star, who is here for a tour with
actor-husband John McCallum, is fair,
with expressive eyes and a ready wit. John
and Googie have acted together in eight
films —they first met on the set of “The
Loves of Joanna Godden” —which is why
their four-year-old daughter, who, with
Googie’s mother . Mrs. Lisette Withers,
has accompanied them on the trip, is a
Joanna. The pair open on February 12
at the Comedy in “Simon and Laura,” a
comedy by the author of “Dear Charles.”
The New Theatre is currently producing
“Dodo and the Bunyip,” a play for
children written by well-known actress
Letty Craydon. The cast includes Letty
herself, Frank Ritch, John Edmund and
Jessica Noad. There are two presenta-
tions daily: at 10.15 a.m. and at 2.15 p.m.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a cool, pleasant day for the
races at Moonee Valley, and the course
was a picture. Lady Brooks, who was
the guest at luncheon of Lady Burston,
wife of the M.V.R.C. chairman, wore
with a suit of beige lightweight wool a
small hyacinth-blue straw hat.
Lady Burston’s draped frock of white
silk was lightly patterned in black ; her
platter-hat was of black straw. Wife of
the club’s vice-chairman, Mrs. A. J. Moir,
chose a black-printed white silk frock and
small black lace-straw hat. Mrs. George
Harris (from U.S.A.) wore a lightweight
black wool suit and a small white hat •
her compatriot, Mrs. A. E. Lyon, wore a
white silk frock patterned in cinnamon-
brown-and-black, a mink stole and a small
white hat.
SYDNEY
This week the founder of this Woman’s
Letter, Mrs. Pattie Fotherioghame, cele-
brated her 99th birthday, and thus entered
the hundredth year of a life devoted to
observation and report. She came to
Australia from Yorkshire at the age of
eight, and in her twenties began to write
for The Bulletin, with which her
brothej-in-law, W. H. Traill, was then
associated.
Here she pioneered photo-engraving
and was the first person to make process-
blocks to illustrate newspapers in this
country. This was even more venture-
some than it sounds, because little was
known about the process, and Mrs. Fother-
inghame herself was on one occasion
nearly overcome by cyanide-fumes in her
experiments.
Her later journalistic enterprises in-
cluded the production and editing of a
women’s paper called “Splashes,” and
Australia’s first paper for juveniles,
“Young Australia.” She was associated
with the late George Taylor in his
production of “The Soldier” during World
War I, and with “Harmony,” produced
by Mrs. F. M. Taylor in later years. She
married a sea-captain from the Orkneys,
Captain James Fotheringhame, and has
a son and a daughter who are both living.
In the century-span of her life, Mrs.
Fotheringhame’s reporter’s-eye has seen
the full pageant of fashion: the crinoline
as it gave way to the bustle (the “new
look” of her girlhood); the rise and fall
of the leg-o’-mutton sleeve; the arum-
lily line of the Edwardians; later the
huge Merry Widow hats; then the dash-
ing hobble-skirt; the split-skirt (rather
fast, don’t you think?); the panniers
after the war, the excesses of the 1920
fashions, which thought of themselves as
“simple”; the padded shoulders that
marked the ’thirties; the up-swept hair
and the short skirts of.the ’forties; the
“new look” and the return of femininity ;
and today the “Italian” 100k —though
now at last, perhaps, fashion seems to
her not quite so important as it did.
For she has seen, too, against the
drama of world-events, all the famous
people pass by: the beauties, the great
singers, the wits, the reformers, the
writers. She has seen the celebrations
and the griefs of the century, the rise of
ideologies, the fall of nations. Science
has filled the world with wonders during
her lifetime, but she knows that marvels
are relative, and that television and the
atom-bomb and the jet-plane are no more
amazing than that first photograph she
produced for The Bulletin nearly three-
quarters of a century ago, nor the first
typewriter which she saw brought to
Sydney when, according to her papers,
“We gave a tea-party at The Bulletin
office which was attended by all the noted
literary men and women in Sydney. Here
the owner of the machine showed us with
his two index-fingers how it was worked,
and we were all filled with wonder.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Fashionable wedding of the week was
that of Wendy Birks to Andrew Clayton at
All Saints Church, Woollahra. The bridal
gown was heavy white satin, long-sleeved
with a full skirt widening to a train, the
full length covered by a tulle veil held by
a tiara of orange-blossom. The bride’s
flowers were white water-lilies. Of white
sunray-pleated chiffon were the brides-
maids’ dresses, and white velvet bows with
brilliant centres decorated their tiny caps.
Three of the bridesmaids, Mary Alice
Bowen, Briony Sharp and Cecily Hay-
ward, were from Adelaide ; the fourth was
Sara Hordern, of Bellevue Hill. They car-
ried trailing bouquets of frangipani. The
’groom’s attendants were Alan Coogan,
John Clayton (Woodside, Illabo), Philip
Simpson and Mervyn Finlay. The bride is
the only daughter of the late Mr. Norman
Birks, of Adelaide, and of Mrs. Neville
Manning, of Bellevue Hill. The ’groom
is the younger son of Colonel and Mrs.
Hector Clayton, of Woollahra. Reception
for 300 guests was held at the home of
the bride’s mother.
☆ ☆
Another wedding of interest was that of
Margaret Wall, youngest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. L. M. Wall, of Randwick, to Dr.
Brian Creighton Sproule. The bride is a
member of one of our pioneer families,
being a fifth-generation Australian whose
forebears arrived here in Governor Mac-
quarie’s time. Dr. Sproule is the son of
the late Mr. H. Sproule and Mrs. Sproule,
of Waverley. The bride wore a bouffant
gown of white organza over satin. Her
bridesmaids (Anne Stenmark, Margaret
Coyle) and flower-girl Jill Stanborough
wore mist-grey organza over apple-green
satin. The wedding was celebrated at St.
Mary’s Church, North Sydney, and the
reception was at Sherbrooke, Double Bay.
& ☆ ☆
With the death of Dr. Katie Ardill-
Brice last week Sydney lost one of its
most distinguished and beloved women
doctors. Having graduated from Sydney
University in 1913, Dr. Ardill-Brice had
the distinction of being the first Australian
woman doctor to serve with the Allied
forces, and on her return from France
after the war she founded the free clinic
to care for relatives of ex-servicemen
which is still functioning. She was keenly
interested in Prince Alfred Hospital, in
the cause and welfare generally of women
doctors, the St. John Ambulance (which
created her Dame of St. John), and in her
busy Macquarie-street practice. An
ardent golfer, lover of tennis and cricket,
she was also an accomplished pianist and
a perfect hostess. Daughter of the G. E.
Ardill who was the founder of the Sydney
Rescue Work Society, Dr. Ardill-Brice,
who was 68, combined all the qualities
that make for a strenuous, valuable and
happy life.
A visitor to Sydney during the holiday-
season was Judith Milling, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Milling, of Dubbo.
She came to town principally to see her
brother Peter off in the Orontes for Eng-
land. Photo by Falk.
Everyone was lost in admiration at the
calm way the Prime Minister of Northern
Ireland, Viscount Brookeborough, and
Lady Brookeborough coped with intense
heat and incessant engagements during
their five-day stay in Sydney. Entertained
by the State Government, the Lord
Mayor, the joint Empire Societies, the
Ulster Association, the Country Women’s
Association and the Irish Linen Associ-
ation, they gave a soothing impression of
unruffled urbanity and poise. During their
stay they were the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
Geoffrey Ashton, at Darling Point, and
later visited them at their country pro-
perty, Markdale, Binda, Crookwell.
Lord Brookeborough told the guests
at the Empire reception that once a
friend asked him why Northern Ireland
didn’t join with the Southerners, “who
are such fine and wonderful people,” to
which Lord Brookeborough replied,
“Perhaps that is so, but I know a number
of fine and wonderful women, yet I don’t
want to marry them! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
Most experienced hostesses agree that
it is not wise to invite too many “lions”
to the one party, because you must have
the hearers as well as the heard, the
admirers as well as the admired; but
J. C. Williamson do not proceed on this
principle at all, and their New Year
cocktail-party was alive with lions ram-
pant. It worked well, too, probably
because there were a large number of
press-people there, adroit in “feeding”
questions, intent on hearing the replies.
John McCallum, Australian actor
returned for a year’s tour, and his wife,
film-star Googje (christened Georgette
Lisette) Withers, were guests-of-honor;
and there were Sophie Stewart, of “Dear
Charles,” greeting them as friends from
home, and Ellis Irving reminiscing with
John Dunne about when they played
together in “The Ringer” with Maurice
Moscovitch (some time ago now), and
Bettina Welch looking glamorous and
Elsie Beyer looking grave, and many
other theatrical stars. But it was agreed
that the two who stole the show were
John McCallum’s delightful mother and
his 85-year-old father, down from Bris-
bane to welcome the young folk home.


CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
& C. and Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING BOOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trams. PISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
™mcJn IP , S n IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. WEAL FOB HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £3
Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 765 Wellington, N.Z.)
SPECIAL
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
iffeij
4^
vm
TV-1
SB
L*Bush£ O *
S&alhqlS
tOVlL«». •CO**^"'^
TST.43. i«t
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Under the Sycamore Tree”
In George Orwell’s Animal
Farm the animals, having ousted
their human masters and taken
to running their own affairs on
human lines, finish-up living
under a painful Communist
dictatorship; in this current
offering at the Independent
(North Sydney) the ants go to
the humans and consider their
ways, and come out of it a little
more profitably than Mr.
Orwell’s animals.
The play, described by its
author, Samuel Spewack, as “a
farcical fable in three acts,” is
set in an ant-hole under a
sycamore-tree ; an ant-scientist,
after studying the human world,
introduces to the ant-colony love,
monogamy, diplomacy, horror-
weapons in the form of D.D.T.,
and other ideas from the world
above; then, in a moment of
inspiration, when the colony is
threatened by enemy ants which
have also obtained some D.D.T.,
he issues gas-masks to both sides
on the theory that, if both have
the same weapons and the same
defences, war will be useless.
This apparently removes the
problem of war from the ant-
world, and the ant-scientist is so
anxious to spread his gospel to
the human-race that he journeys
by poodle to the White House,
climbs to the President’s ear and
shouts thereih the secret of peace
among men —or ants. The
President goes for the lick of his
life, not sure whether there is a
talking dog in the vicinity or if
he is developing bats in the
belfry from worrying about the
fact that his country’s main
potential enemy is sitting on a
pile of arms as big and as deadly
as its own.
Whatever the merits of his
argument, Mr. Spewack makes
entertaining fancy of it, and
Doris Fitton’s production gives
him a smooth, clear run for his
trouble. Robert Levis’s per-
formance as the ant-scientist
gives a touch of flourish and
manner to the whole show;
Creina Murray-Brown makes a
charming ant-queen and adds a
lot of delightful “Ooos” in the
process of laying 300-odd eggs ;
and Bruce Menzies, Michael
Aron, Janne Coghlan and Jon
Ewing bring up the tail in good,
reliable fashion.
Artbursts
The Danger of Sunsets
There seems to be almost a
suspicion that Nature has been
vulgar with the sunset. Most
artists avoid it altogether, and
only one ever painted it success-
fully: Turner, who didn’t paint
it for its color but for its light.
Lawrence Alcock, at David
Jones’s, Sydney, has plunged
into the yellows and crimsons,
color without light, and the
result is yet another warning of
the peril of the subject. Merely
to make the attempt was, per-
haps, an indication of a cer-
tain insensitivity in this artist,
noticeable throughout the exhi-
bition in saccharine color, ineffi-
cient drawing (as in the circus
ponies) and a tacky handling of
oil-paint.
David Jones’s is a large
gallery, and Alcock, who has a
genuine but very slight talent,
as made the mistake of trying
to fill it.
Seen by themselves, or with
a few others for company, “Girl
with Parasol,” “The Clowns,”
“Flowerpiece,” “Sea Shells,”
“Chinese Dancer,” “The Mad
Woman” ' and, especially,
“Scotch Girl” would make quite
an impressive little exhibition
compounded of the feathery
charm of the parasol, the bright-
ness of the clowns, flowers and
dancers, the vague watery grace
of the shell-piece, the unex-
pected firmness and dryness of
the Scotch girl. Seen in a total
of 92 paintings and in the lurid
glow of the sunsets, these
candles shine but dimly.
Talkies
“Souvenirs Perdus”
In this well-devised French
film the camera, as a prelude,
sweeps the shelves of a lost-
property office, lighting in turn
on four articles, the histories of
which form the basis of four
stories.
Three are light-hearted, the
fourth a powerful study in
criminal insanity. The tragedy
concerns a young man who
escapes from the asylum to
which he had been committed
by three people in a conspiracy
to acquire his property. It has
a superb piece of acting by
Gerard Phjlipe.
The second story is that of
an abandoned violin which had
been scraped in agonising prac-
tice by the quite ungifted young
son of a widow. To make his
marble good with her, the vil-
lage cop gets an itinerant street-
singer to pose as a musical
authority and back up his pro-
fessed opinion that the kid’s a
genius. He is hoist with his
own petard when the singer, also
attracted to the widdy and
accepted by her, teaches the brat
the guitar while the fiddle is
ironically presented to the
uniformed loser by the widow.
In the third story the aban-
doned mistress of a gay, wealthy
young roue storms into his
house only to be told by his
butler that poor Jean-Pierre
Delagrange is being buried that
day. So he is, but it is the roue’s
uncle of the same name. The
lady arrives at the graveside,
loudly lamenting, upon which
the assembled relatives are
forced to grudging admiration
that the old boy did have a
mistress. The young man also
arrives for the obsequies, not
knowing the woman is already
there. The comedy of errors is
played out to a joyful reconcilia-
tion, the ornate wreath being
the object that goes to the 1.p.0.
The fourth story is an O.
Henry-like comedy about a
young couple, both in strained
circumstances, and each
endeavoring to put on a pre-
tence of affluence during a brief,
renewed affair. A very polished
performance from Pierre Bras-
seur as the suave lover who
lives by his wits.
At Sydney Savoy.
❖ ❖ ♦!«
“Cauboy”: Australian actor
John McCallum and other
experts are urging Australian
producers to forget the Great
Outback and make more
sophisticated films. I have my
doubts.
What’s wrong with the outback
film is not the subject-matter but
the way it’s handled —Henry
Lawson found no difficulty in
writing interestingly about it;
but he had sympathy and insight
and imagination. The average
Australian producer doesn’t
seem to have much imagination,
and if he started making
allegedly sophisticated films
about our cities they would be
just as dull and documentary as
the films about sheep, cattle and
gum-trees.
If our producers have nothing
to say themselves, why don’t
they take the works of Aus-
tralian writers who have some-
thing to say—Henry Handel
Richardson, for instance?
Magnificent films could be made
by an intelligent producer out of
The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony and The Getting of
Wisdom.
Theatre in Decline?
Perhaps the theatre is largely
to blame for its own lack of
purpose and vitality. It has for-
gotten its proper place in the
scheme of things and allowed
itself to become part of the vast
business of popular entertain-
ment which we call the “show
business.”
The theatre has no place in
this huge and desperate industry,
for it is essentially a religious
institution —taking the word
“religion” in its broadest sense.
About 100 years ago there
began in Europe an astonishing
upsurge of dramatic writing,
from Russia, Scandinavia,
France, Germany, England,
Ireland, beginning with Ibsen
and ending with Shaw. It was
spontaneous and splendid revolt
against spineless melodramas
and against conditions of living
which were becoming intoler-
able. It was as though writers
everywhere had suddenly
remembered the true purpose of
the theatre as a place of inspira-
tion and of revelation. Strind-
berg, Bjornson, Hauptmann,
Chekhov —they stormed into the
playhouses of Europe with their
manuscripts under their arms,
understanding again (as Tolstoy
reminded them) that the theatre
is the most influential pulpit in
the world.
To the younger playwrights
growing up in this atmosphere
it must have seemed that the
theatre was at last asserting its
authority and true importance.
Eagerly they took up the chal-
lenge and sought to maintain
and strengthen the work that
had been begun.
“The larger truth of the
matter,” wrote Shaw, “is that
modern European literature and
music now form a Bible far
surpassing in importance for us
the ancient Hebrew Bible that
has served us so long. The
notion that inspiration is some-
thing that happened thousands
of years ago, and was then
finished and done with, never
to occur again: in other words,
the theory that God retired from
business at that period and has
not since been heard from, is
as silly as it is blasphemous. He
who does not believe that reve-
lation is continuous does not
believe in revelation at all.”
The theatre, then, was staking
its claim as the modern church
of an awakening Europe. But
before that theatre could fairly
make its influence felt the
civilisation it had sought to save
was overwhelmed by the very
disasters it had foreseen.
For a year or two after World
War I playwrights were still
striving to keep alight the torch
of this new and vital theatre,
and in the plays of men like
Toller, Chlumberg, Capek,
Odets, Galsworthy, O’Casey and
O’Neill the work went on. But
when France fell and the first
bombs crashed on London in
1940, the playhouses all over
Europe closed, and since then,
with very few exceptions, the
whole tenor and purpose of the
drama has changed. From a fine
promise that it was about to
take its place of leadership, giv-
ing inspiration and instruction,
the theatre reverted again to the
glitter and temptations of “show
business.”
We saw, therefore, an era of
revivals, of past musical suc-
cesses and of trivial plays. To
its credit the Old Vic seized
the opportunity to present the
classics —Shakspeare, Euripides,
Marlowe, Sheridan—in splendid
and colorful array. Indeed, the
decade immediately following
the war has perhaps seen these
plays produced in better style
than ever before. Unfortunately,
this glittering success has
temporarily blinded us to the
fact that the promise of the early
years of this century has still to
be fulfilled.
We are drifting even further
away from the vital and chal-
lenging theatre that Shaw fore-
saw. Instead, the fine produc-
tions of the Stratford players
and the Old Vic company repre-
sent the highlights of what has
become a producers’ instead of
a playwrights’ theatre. When
revivals are the order of the day
the producer is in the saddle. It
is not difficult to make fashion-
able entertainment out of Con-
greve and Sophocles ; not diffi-
cult to give these plays the color
and the uplift which, while it
may be founded on a sort of
intellectual snobbery, will
qualify the plays for inclusion
in the realm of “show business.”
But a producers’ theatre, how-
ever fine it may be, is not a
vital, living force in the com-
munity. It is a museum-theatre
and will remain so until the
playwrights of the day again
emerge from obscurity.
Two things are necessary if the
theatre is to rediscover its mis-
sion of leadership and instruc-
tion. It must study and under-
stand the work of the European
playwrights mentioned in the
foregoing, and learn to present
their plays in ordered and intelli-
gent manner, so that the exposi-
tion shall be continuous and
consecutive. So far, the plays
have been imperfectly under-
stood, and presented only in
haphazard and spasmodic pro-
ductions in a somewhat apolo-
getic manner by the smaller and
more venturesome groups.
. Second, the theatre must
search for new playwrights,
which means, in effect, creating
a theatre in which their work
will be welcomed and produced
instead of discouraged and
ignored.
What is the significance for
Australia? The great need, I
think, is that we should cease
striving to copy this “producers’
theatre,” which, however fine it
may seem in its classical revivals
and in its decorative spendors, is
none-the-less a museum-theatre.
We must begin to understand the
difference between true theatre
and that “show business” of
which we have had such a
surfeit, mostly in its third- and
fourth-rate grading.
GEOFFREY THOMAS.


Finito
By
Standby
R.S. Porteous
I WAS thinking of home, of
sheep and gum-trees along
a winding creek, when Mr.
Karapoulis introduced him-
self, and it took me a moment
or two to bring myself back to
the cafe in the Place Mahomet
Ali, Alexandria.
“Pardon that I interrupt your
thinking, Captain,” Mr. Kara-
poulissaid. “May Ibe permitted
to introduce myself? Karapoulis
is the name. Of the Mediter-
ranean Trading and Shipping
Co., as you see.”
He produced his business-card
and with a flourish that claimed,
“one of the best-known firms in
Alexandria,” placed it beside my
coffee-cup. According to the
card Mr. Karapoulis was
managing-director of the Medi-
terranean Trading and Shipping
Co., whoever they were.
“I’m afraid you’re making a
mistake, Mr. er . . . ” I
balked at the pronunciation.
“I’m not a captain, nor am I
likely to be one for a devil of a
long time, if ever.”
“The traditional modesty of
the British seaman.” Mr. Kara-
poulis smiled deprecatingly.
“You have your master’s-ticket,
Captain, and for me that is
sufficient. May I join you?”
I nodded and said rather
irritably, “I wish you wouldn’t
keep calling me ‘Captain.’ There's
a hell of a difference between
having your master’s-ticket and
getting a command. I was
second-mate when they put me
ashore here and I’ll be second-
mate when, or if, I go back to
my company.”
I wondered how this man knew
I held a master’s-ticket and why
he was interesting himself in me.
He looked prosperous,
undoubtedly a man well-up in
the business world, and despite
his too-precise English, sallow
skin and heavily lidded eyes there
was an air about him that
attracted me.
“Another cup of coffee?” he
suggested. “Or would you care
for something stronger?”
“I’ll stick to the coffee,
thanks,” I said. “It’s the one
thing about this port I do enjoy.”
“Ah, yes, the Egyptian coffee.
It stands supreme.” Mr. Kara-
poulis clapped long pale hands
and ordered a coffee for me and
an absinthe for himself.
Egyptian coffee may have been
supreme, but for a mid-morning
drink he apparently preferred
something with a bit of a kick
in it. “You are thinking of
leaving the company, Mr.
Carter? Of returning to your
native Australia perhaps?”
SURPRISED at his knowledge,
I snapped, “You seem to
know a devil of a lot about my
private affairs, Mr. —— er . . . ”
“Karapoulis,” he prompted.
“Pronounced as spelt. There on
the card beside your cup, Mr.
Carter. Actually I know but the
wider facts —that you were
brought ashore from the Caledon
Star with an urgent appendix. I
was informed that you were an
Australian, which was of interest
to me because of certain financial
interests I have there. As for
you leaving your very excellent
company” Mr. Karapoulis
spread his pale hands in a
typically Levantine gesture—
“you yourself said, ‘lf I go
back.’ ”
I apologised for my rudeness
and added, “I’m afraid I’m com-
pletely out of touch with Aus-
tralian affairs, Mr. Karapoulis.
My people own a sheep property
in northern New South Wales,
but I went to sea when I was
sixteen —that’s eleven years ago
—and I haven’t been back to
Australia for over seven.”
“I have not intruded myself
to talk of Australia,” he
informed me quietly. “I sought
you out to offer you, if your
health permits, a command.”
I showed my surprise by
gasping, “A command! But,
hang it all, you know nothing
of my capabilities.”
“Enough to give me complete
confidence in you,” he assured
me. “To be a second-mate in
your very exclusive company is
regarded as almost the equal of
a master in some lesser-known
lines.”
There was a certain amount of
truth in that, but commands —
at least worth-while-commands
—are not simply dropped in one’s
lap by a complete stranger. For
all his air of prosperity, I
couldn’t help feeling that Mr.
Karapoulis was about to suggest
that I take over some dirty,
broken-down little tramp, trad-
ing to obscure Mediterranean
ports. If that were so he was
wasting his time.
“What sort of ship is she?” I
asked. “And where is she trad-
ing?”
I’ll swear he read my thoughts,
because he smiled and said, “One
admits she is small, of but one-
hundred-and-fifty tons.” With
an elaborate gesture he shrugged
off the matter of size. “But she
is what you term a trim craft,
with an Al-rating. And she is
not engaged in any trade. She
has been sold; and I want you
to deliver her to her new owners,
in Darwin, Australia. Does that
not interest you, Captain?”
What a shrewd psychologist
that man must have been!
Interest me? Of course it
interested me. Since I came out
of hospital I’d had a longing to
see Australia again. Inquiries at
the various shipping companies
had shown that I might have
quite a long wait for a sea-
passage, and when Mr. Kara-
poulis introduced himself I’d
been toying with the idea of
flying home, in spite of the
expense. And now I was being
offered a passage with master’s
pay thrown in.
Feeling that it was too good
to be true I said cautiously, “It
might. It depends on a number
of things—the seaworthiness of
the ship, conditions aboard,
crew and, of course, the pay.”
Mr. Karapoulis explained
everything. He was willing to
pay handsomely for the right
man, he said. He mentioned a
salary that I considered adequate,
and on top of that a really
generous bonus for safe delivery.
The ship was an ex-Navy trawler,
so there could be no question
about the soundness of her con-
struction or her seaworthiness.
She was ready to sail immedi-
ately. The crew were aboard,
and she was topped-up with fuel,
water and provisions. She was
powered with diesel engines, had
a cruising-speed of twelve knots,
and, a most important point, her
chief-engineer was a man with
excellent qualifications.
“Do you speak Italian?” Mr.
Karapoulis asked. And when I
said “No” he remarked that it
was a pity because the crew
came from Sardinia and spoke
no English. Still, that was a
matter of no importance. They
were good seamen, and the
bosun, a man of exceptional
ability who spoke both English
and Italian fluently, would act as
interpreter.
“I’ll have a look over her
before I decide,” I said. “What’s
her name, by the way?”
“The Cypriot Maid. You
will like her, Captain.”
I didn’t know about that, but
I do know the flattery of that
insidious “Captain” was begin-
ning to influence me. In one
way and another I had taken
quite a liking to Mr. Karapoulis.
AND I liked the look of the
Cypriot Maid. Admittedly,
as we looked down at her from
the wharf, she seemed very small
for a long ocean voyage, but
she had good lines and all the
outward appearance of a ship
that has been well cared for. She
was built of wood, double-
planked and very strongly con-
structed, Mr. Karapoulis pointed
out.
He hailed, “Below there,
Chief,” three times before a
muffled voice answered and a
head came up through the after-
hatch. Recognising Mr. Kara-
poulis, the chief wriggled through
the small opening.
If the Cypriot Maid was neat
and clean her chief-engineer was
certainly the opposite. Never in
my life have I seen such a
filthy, grease-stained boiler-suit.
But it wasn’t the boiler-suit that
made me gasp in amazement; it
was the man’s upturned bearded
face.
Like all the officers in my
company I was an R.N.R. man.
In my Navy days I’d seen beards
of all shapes and sizes, but never
one like this. It wasn’t a beard ;
it was a monstrous growth of
whiskers, black whiskers that
grew in uncontrolled confusion,
bristling out at all points of the
compass until most of the man’s
face was hidden beneath the
dense growth. It fanned out
over the greasy boiler-suit so
that it was difficult to say where
the whiskers ended and the black
stains began.
Mr. Karapoulis said, “We are
coming aboard, chief.”
From somewhere behind the
whiskers a deep voice rumbled.
“So what? What am I supposed
ta do about it? Turn out the
band or give three hearty bloody
cheers?”
The accent was unmistakably
Australian, and the tone so
deliberately rude that I took an
instant dislike to the man. I
wondered how Mr. Karapoulis
would react, but he merely smiled
tolerantly and led the way
aboard.
“Chief,” he said. “Permit me
to introduce Captain Carter, a
countryman of yours. Mr.
Wharton, the chief-engineer.”
“Well, Gawd stone the bloody
crows!” The black whiskers
split to reveal grinning lips and
a set of strong white teeth.
“What part?”
Very coldly I told him, “New
South Wales.” I knew I was
acting like a complete snob, but
I wasn’t going to let this bearded
lout get on familiar terms with
me. I’d met too many of his
kind in foreign ports, stranded
seamen who were by no means
a credit to their country.
“Brisbane, me,” this one
announced proudly. “Good ole
Queensland. You cornin’ skipper
with us?”
I think Mr. Karapoulis sensed
my coolness because he put in
hastily, “Captain Carter wishes
to study the ship’s papers before
deciding. If you will excuse us,
Chief, we will examine them in
the master’s cabin.”
“Suits me, mate,” the engineer
told him. “I got work to do.
But don’t forget what I told you.
We sail tomorrow or you get
yourself a new chief.”
“He is what you term the
rough-diamond,” Mr. Karapoulis
said when we were by ourselves.
“But he has splendid qualifica-
tions.”
I grunted and followed him
into the master’s cabin.
nrHE cabin was a glorified
packing-case. It was set,
abaft an equally diminutive
wheelhouse, and with two of us
squeezed inside the place seemed
uncomfortably overcrowded.
I’m afraid I didn’t study the
ship’s papers as carefully as I
should have. To my inexperi-
enced eye everything appeared to
be in order. The crew had signed
on under a Captain Phelp who
had been taken off to hospital
the day before he was due to sail.
As shown on the articles of
agreement the Cypriot Maid’s
crew numbered nine all told.
The master and chief-engineer
were the only two certified
officers. Next came the bosun,
who was entered in the articles as
a British subject, despite the
fact that his name was Demetrius
Casimatas. From my point of
view the important thing about
him was that he was stated as
capable of watch-keeping duties.
After Casimatas came the cook,
then the hands, two being
assigned to the engine-room and
three to the deck. A small
enough crew certainly, but pro-
vided each man knew his job,
adequate for a vessel of that size.
“Right-oh,” I decided. “I’ll
take her. When do you want me
to sail?”
“As soon as you have com-
pleted the formalities and
obtained the necessary clear-
ances, Captain.” Mr. Karapoulis
spread his hands in an eloquent
gesture. “We have for too long
been held up. The expenses
mount. And besides, there is
your chief-engineer. As you
heard, he.is anxious to get away,
and should he leave he would
be a difficult man to replace.”
From the little I’d seen of my
fellow-countryman I felt that
any replacement could only be
an improvement. The prospect
of a long sea-voyage in his
company was not appealing.
However, I said, “No reason
why we shouldn’t get away
tomorrow morning. I’ll have my
gear put aboard and get all the
ship’s business finalised this
afternoon.”
TyrO reason why we shouldn’t
get away tomorrow morn-
ing! I can look back on that
now as the rashest and most ill-
considered statement I’ve ever
made in my life.
I had stowed my gear, and
was checking charts in my cabin
that evening when my chief-
engineer looked in. The boiler-
suit had been replaced by a
navy-blue suit and a clean white
shirt, but the ridiculous beard
made it impossible to tell
whether the Chief was wearing
collar or tie. The whiskers, I
noted, had at least been combed
into some semblance of order.
Caressing them lovingly, my
fellow-countryman said, “What
about coming for a run ashore,
Skipper? Do the old town over
before we sail, eh?” His voice,
even in ordinary conversation,
had a deep, harsh quality about
it.
“Not for me, thanks,” I told
him. “I’ve got work to do.”
“Aw, let it wait. You’ll be
cooped up in this crate for long
enough before we get her to
Darwin.”
Even more than the logic of
the statement the word “we”
decided me. Much as I disliked
this man I realised that for the
next few weeks I would be, to a
great extent, dependent on him.
Without his help I couldn’t get
the Cypriot Maid anywhere, and
it could well be that an evening
ashore would reveal something
of his qualifications.
“Right-oh,” I said. “I’ll clear
this mess up and join you.”
Our evening in Alexandria
revealed one thing. My chief-
engineer could mop-up beer with
the speed and consistency of an
oil-burner topping-up her tanks.
Being a very moderate drinker
myself I took refuge in my
favorite coffee.
“Rot yer guts, that stuff will,”
the Chief informed me. “There’s
only two drinks, beer and tea.
If it hadn’t been for me we’d be
puttin’ to sea without a pound
of tea in the stores. Them
Wops only drink coffee.”
“What are they like?” I asked
him. “As seamen, I mean.”
“You got me there, Skipper.
The Maid’s been tied-up ever
since I joined her, and I been
flat-out in me own department.”
“How do you get over the
language-difficulty, Chief?”
“Sam,” he grinned. “Just
plain Sam’s the name, Skipper.
Oh, I get by.”
Instead of telling him my
first-name was David I said.
“Have you been at sea long?”
“Hell, yes.” He tossed down
half a glass of beer without
appearing to swallow. “Ever
since I was seventeen.” Watch-
ing him carelessly light a
cigarette I wondered why his
whiskers didn’t go up in a cloud
of smoke. I also wondered how
far back his seventeenth birthday
was. Beneath a head of hair as
black and vigorous as the
whiskers his forehead was
unwrinkled. The brown eyes,
sparkling with humor and vitally
alive, could have belonged to a
man of any age. Any further
clues were hidden behind the
monstrosity of a beard, but at a


.
‘My truck gets the
best 9 and . . •
the best
yet...
You gain in more ways than one when you fill
up with the new, higher-octane C.O.R,
with BP 08*, and ‘a little something others
haven’t got’. You get ALL the PLUS
performance features greater pulling
power, better acceleration, more miles
per gallon, less engine wear.
*BP 08 is the latest, safest
and most effective solution
to the problem of interior
engine care yet devised.
*3
gives Plus
n r*t* pH »**- it mr#*#*
CAPS OFF TO C.0.R...
TO-DAY’S MOST POPULAR PETROL
and use ENERGOL the oil
THAT IS RECOMMENDED BY ROLLS-ROYCE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd)
C220/8088
rough guess I would have said
Sam was in his mid-thirties.
“You’re wonderin’ how long
ago that was,” he said. “Well, I
got full last Monday celebratin’
me twenty-fourth birthday.”
I must have shown my amaze-
ment because he threw back his
head, roared with laughter and
said, “Rocks yer a bit, don’t it?”
“It does,” I admitted. “I’d
have added at least ten years on
to that. I suppose it’s all that,
er, face-fungus. By the way,
what’s the idea of it?”
“It bumps me age up. You
got no idea the difference it
makes. I look like a kid without
it. For the last eighteen months
I been battlin’ around the Med.
and a man wouldn’t have been in
the race without the whiskers.
They been worth money to me.”
Sam grinned and curled the stray
ends around his fingers.
“Besides, I’m gettin’ real fond
of ’em.”
“But surely,” I suggested,
“you could trim them up a bit.”
He shook his head. “Not now.
I used to keep ’em trimmed
down to a nice neat point, but a
few months back I got a yen to
see the old home-town again. I
was a bit short of the ready so
I decided to work me passage
home. But things were tough.
Fair dinkum, you wouldn’t read
about the knockbacks I got. So
I digs me toes in and says, ‘Sam,
stick at it till you get a ship.
And until you’re signed-on for
Aussie these whiskers will not
feel the touch of cold steel.’ And
they haven’t.”
“That’s rather obvious. But
since you’ve signed-on now why
not hack a fathom or two off
them?”
“No,” he said, running his
fingers through the luxuriant
growth. “I’ve extended the time-
limit to the day I sight the Aus-
tralian coast.”
It was after midnight when we
got back aboard, and it seemed
to me that Sam had swallowed
enough beer to float the Cypriot
Maid. Still, I had to admit he
carried his liquor well. He had
talked a lot, mainly about
broken - down Mediterranean
tramps and their incompetent
engineers. He told his stories
with such a light-hearted humor
that I very quickly summed him
up as happy-go-lucky and utterly
irresponsible.
“I hope,” I remarked, inter-
rupting one of his yarns, “that
our engine won’t let us down in
mid-ocean.”
He laughed and said, “She
shouldn’t. I stripped her down
and did her up meself.”
An answer which did nothing
to reassure me. It struck me
afterwards that Sam had been
willing to talk about any subject
but the one I was most interested
in. Any question about the
Cypriot Maid or Mr. Karapoulis
he dismissed with a laugh or an
evasive answer. When I remem-
bered the handsome bonus I’d
been promised, and remarked
that our employer seemed a very
decent chap, Sam took a half-
turn in his beard and said:
“All right if you go for that
type.”
YI7E were through the Canal
and even clear of the Red
Sea before I learned what Sam
really thought about Mr. Kara-
poulis, and by that time I’d dis-
covered quite a few unpleasant
things for myself. One of the
first was the fact that my bosun’s
English vocabulary consisted of
two words “excusa” and
“okeydoke.” And that was
exactly two words more than any
other member of the crew knew.
To me Casimatas looked more
like the lead in an Italian light-
opera than a ship’s bosun. He
was a fine physical specimen,
broad-shouldered, deep-chested
and swarthily handsome. Being
the slight, fair-haired type myself
I always admired his olive skin
and the way his great chest
strained against his striped
T-shirt. He had dark, flashing
eyes, a thin pencil-line moustache
and black, carefully oiled hair.
I never saw him ashore, but I
can imagine what a hit he must
have been with the ladies.
Of the deck-gang he was the
only one who could keep the
ship on a compass-course.
Indeed he appeared to be the
only one who had seen a compass
before joining the Cypriot Maid.
But as a watch-keeping officer he
was a constant pain in the neck,
invariably letting the ship get so
far off course whenever I turned-
in for an hour or two that I
began to have visions of myself
going without sleep for the entire
voyage. Reefs seemed to attract
him as a light attracts moths.
With clear water to port and a
dangerous reef to starboard it
was an odds-on bet that he’d let
the helmsman crab over to star-
board.
Asking for explanations or
bawling him out was equally
useless, and the same applied to
the other deckhands. The cursed
language-barrier was insur-
mountable. Casimatas merely
smiled his flashing smile and said,
“Excusa?” Or when I lost my
temper and abused him in the
vilest language I could think of,
“Okeydoke.”
“If you say that again,” I
yelled at him once, “I’ll murder
you.”
His white teeth flashing in an
even wider smile, he answered,
“Okeydoke.”
It was then that I realised I’d
started chewing my fingernails.
But with all his faults
Casimatas was at least cheerful.
The others were the most sullen
bunch of men I have ever been
shipmates with. They muttered
together, scowling whenever I
looked at them. Never once did
I see one of them smile. At first
I put it down to the Red Sea
heat. That and the fact that I
couldn’t speak a word of their
language. Whatever the cavjse
I found it distinctly irritating.’
AND then there was Sam. My
doubts about him were
rapidly hardening into the con-
viction that he was both irre-
sponsible and incompetent. Our
speed had never exceeded seven
knots, even under the most ideal
conditions, and already we had
had two breakdowns.
Sam, of course, denied they
were breakdowns, claiming that
he had merely stopped the
engine to make minor adjust-
ments. When I drew his atten-
tion to our speed, or lack of it,
he explained glibly:
“Runnin’ her in sort of steady.
After a full overhaul it don’t do
to push these diesels.”
And, since I knew nothing of
diesels, I had to accept it.
You’d think that in such a
small ship the only two English-
speaking members of the crew
would be constantly in each
other’s company. Actually we
saw very little of each other.
Our duties kept us apart. I had
neither the time nor the inclina-
tion to visit the engine-room
and Sam never sought my
company.
Not until we had dropped
Perim astern did he pay a visit
to the wheelhouse. The worries
of intricate navigation were
behind me, but I was concerned
about our lack of power if we
struck heavy weather in the
Indian Ocean.
Revealing an insight I had
never credited him with, Sam
said, “Take it easy, Skipper.
We’ll get there. And there’s no
use lettin’ these Wops get your
goat. They’ll drive you nuts if
you let ’em get under your skin.”
“That’s all very well for you,”
I retorted heatedly. “But you
don’t seem to realise that I’m
responsible for the safe naviga-
tion of this ship.”
“Aw, we’ll get her there,” he
repeated breezily.
“Will we?” I found it impos-
sible to keep the sarcasm out of
my voice. “What about your
engine? Are you sure you under-
stand it? And when do you
propose opening her up to her
normal cruising speed?”
“She’s on it now. Been on it
for the last few days.”
“What!” I snapped. “Do you
know that for the last forty-eight
hours our average speed •' was
seven knots? Seven knots in
calm water! Don’t tell me you
can’t get more than that out of
her.”
“Not without bustin’ some-
thin’,” he grinned.
“But that’s ridiculous. Mr.
Karapoulis assured me her
normal cruising-speed was twelve
knots.”
“Twelve, eh?” Sam stroked his
monstrosity of a beard, and
regarded me with a definite
twinkle of amusement. “He sure
was bungin’ it on a bit.”
“Why should he do a thing
like that?”
“Search me. Anyhow, knock
off worryin’ about it, Skipper,
and relax a bit. We’ll get her
there.”
“Relax!” I snapped. “How
can I relax under these con-
ditions? And don’t keep saying
‘we’ll get her there’ like a blasted
parrot. You’re as bad as
Casimatas with his ‘okeydoke.’
I’ve got a ship that will be
practically hove-to in any sort of
a head sea and a useless crew
who can’t steer and can’t under-
stand a word I say. My blasted
bosun is as ignorant as the rest
of them, and Karapoulis told me
he spoke English fluently.”
Sam pushed his outspread
fingers up through his beard,
spreading it out like a fan of
black ostrich-feathers. “Now
why,” he said with a positive
leer, “should he do a thing like
that?” Murmuring something
about his engine, he left, and he
left a very worried skipper
behind him.
THE following morning I
invited him to walk the fore-
deck with me ; it was the only
space big enough for exercise.
In bad weather, of course, even
that would be denied us. But
this was flying-fish weather with
a cloudless blue sky and a blue
ocean lifting only in a long,
scarcely perceptible swell.
Pointing aft to our zigzag
wake I said, “Look at it! Just
look at the way that organ-
grinder’s steering.”
“He’s sure got the wanderlust,”
Sam admitted. “Can’t make up
his mind between Madagascar
and the China coast.”
“That’s the sort of thing I
have to put up with. And if I
say anything to any one of them
they just scowl at me. With the
exception of Casimatas they’re
the surliest bunch I ever saw.
“You and Casemate hittin*
it off together all right, eh?”
“At least he’s not sullen like
the rest. I think he tries to knock
a bit of sense into them, but it
doesn’t get him anywhere. No
one could make seamen out of
them.”
“I dunno. Ever tried knockin’
one or two of ’em down?”
“Don’t be a fool, Sam. I’ll
admit I’d like to, but you can’t
get away with that sort of thing
under the British flag.”
“We ain’t under the British
flag,” he reminded me.
And that was one thing I did
not like being reminded about.
If I’d read the articles properly
I’d have seen that the Cypriot
Maid was registered in Panama,
in which case I most certainly
would have refused to sign on.
Since the war many obscure
owners had taken to registering
their worn-out old hulks in
Panama, and since these ships
never visited their port of
registry and were never surveyed
it was only natural that the
average seaman regarded any-
thing flying the Panamanian flag
with suspicion. I knew that the
sight of that flag fluttering over
my own ship’s stern as we left
port filled me with such shame
that I couldn’t get the thing
down quickly enough. Sam,
however, had no such qualms.
“What’s the difference?” he
laughed. “I’ve served under
everything bar the Hammer and
Sickle. It’s all sea-time and
experience. The worse the ship
the more experience.”
SAM’S philosophy of life lay
therein. It took me some
time to recognise him as a true
adventurer, one who preferred
to serve in decrepit old tramps
where anything might happen,
rather than put up with the dull
routine of well-found ships. He
liked little ships, and he liked
worn-out engines that presented
a series of problems, where main-
tenance and repairs were a matter
of makeshift and ingenuity. Put
him ashore and he would have
gravitated from one ancient car'
to another, glorying in their
noisy inefficiency.
I tackled him seriously next
morning. “Sam,” I said. “Why
would Karapoulis deliberately
lie to me about the speed of this
vessel?”
“He wanted a skipper, didn’t
he?” he countered.
“Yes, but there must have
been others available. His terms
were extremely generous.”
“I bet they were.”
“What exactly do you mean
by that?”
“Oh, nothin’.” He twisted a
bunch of whiskers around his
hand as if trying to tie them in a
knot. “Only it’s about time you
woke up to that joker.”
“In what way?”
“To put it in good old Aussie
lingo he’s the biggest bloody
scoundrel this side of the black
stump. You couldn’t have known
him long or you’d have been on
to that.”
“I only met him the day before
we sailed, but I must admit he
seemed to know quite a lot
about me. 1 wondered where
he’d got his information.”
“He gets around, old Kara-
poulis does. He’s like a chook —
picks up everything. Probably
knows a lot more about you
than he let on, even your
grandma’s maiden-name. And,
believe me, he uses his know-
ledge. Talk about kiddin’ a man
up a tree and then choppin’ it
down! He’s the bloke that
invented that idea. He promised
you a nice fat bonus, didn’t he?
Well, I’ll lay you the odds you’ll
never sight it.”
- “Then why did you sign on?”
“I told you. I’d made up me
mind to grab the first offer of a
ship headed for Aussie. I was
in Alex, when I heard the
Cypriot Maid wanted an engineer
to do a complete overhaul, and
then sail in her for Darwin.”
White teeth flashed through the
whiskers. “And here I am, on
me way.”
“Would you say you’re
satisfied with the state of the
engine now?”
“I dunno about satisfied,
but I’d say she was as
good as a man could expect an
engine to be after a month or two
under water.”
I pulled up with a jerk and
said, “What?”
“Your pal Karapoulis didn’t
tell you about that, did he? No,
I’ll bet he didn’t. This ship hit
a reef and went aground up near
Jaffa. They reckon she filled up
and took quite a bashin’ before
they got her off, so you wouldn’t
expect her to be exactly in her
prime, would you?”
“But she must have been dry-
docked and surveyed since.”
“I believe they patched her
up, but I wouldn’t go too much
on her havin’ any survey. She
makes a fair bit .of water when
she’s lying alongside a wharf,
and I’ll bet she’ll leak like a
bloody sieve if we strike heavy
weather.”
Sam laughed heartily at the
idea, but I’m afraid I failed to
see the joke.
“If you’re telling the truth,”
o Continued on next page)


FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.1265.12C
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
I told him, “you must be mad.
Stark, raving mad. Even a
madman would know we couldn’t
expect calm weather all the way
from Aden to Darwin.”.
Quite cheerfully he retorted,
“Oh, we’ll battle through. I may
be a bit weak in the head, but I
made our pal come to light with
a new pump. She’s a little
beaut. If the water comes in
faster than she can toss it out
I’ll admit I done the wrong thing
by signin’ on.”
“I suppose it doesn’t occur to
you that it will be too damned
late then,” I snapped. “Why
didn’t you tell me all this before
we left Alexandria?”
“You’d have walked ashore
and left me.” Sam’s eyes
twinkled. “Karapoulis wasn’t
the only bloke anxious to get
this crate to sea.”
“Too right I’d have walked
ashore,” I assured him. I felt
like abusing him, but there was
something so likeable in his
happy-go-lucky manner that I
merely said, “You talk about
Karapoulis being a scoundrel. It
strikes me you’re a well-matched
pair.”
MY feelings towards Sam
turned with that conversa-
tion. The more I saw of him
the more I appreciated his true
worth. We arranged our watches
so that we could have our meals
together, and if it hadn’t been for
him I think I would have given
up eating altogether.
Of a surly crew our cook was
undoubtedly the surliest. Still, I
could have put up with his
scowls if he had made the
slightest attempt to vary the
menus. We lived on pasta, the
most tasteless macaroni I’ve ever
eaten. We had pasta for break-
fast, dinner and tea till my
stomach refused to accept it.
“You get used to it,” Sam
said, winding a slimy mass of it
around his fork. “It kinda grows
on you after a while.”
“It’ll be growing in your
whiskers if you’re not careful,” I
pointed out.
Sucking up the strands that
had become entangled in his
beard he bellowed for the cook.
I would never have described
Sam as modest, yet, while dis-
claiming a knowledge of the
Italian language, he always
managed to make himself under-
stood. “Picked up a word here
and there,” he admitted once. “I
dunno what half of ’em mean. ’
Nevertheless a few of his words
bellowed at the cook could
usually produce something in the
way of tinned stuff to at least
flavor the everlasting pasta.
On my part I learned one
Italian word — Finito. It was one
that seemed to crop up, always
loudly emphasised, in every
scrap of conversation I over-
heard. According to Sam it
meant “finish.”
When I asked him what he
thought was the cause of the
sullen attitude of the hands he
said, “I dunno yet. It certainly
ain’t the tucker. You mightn’t
believe it, but they like that
bloody pasta." 4
“Well I don’t like it,” I told
him. “And I don’t like anything
about the whole set-up. The
ship is unseaworthy; she’ll prob-
ably founder in the first bad
weather we strike. We’re risking
our lives for a man who, accord-
ing to you, is an unprincipled
scoundrel. Then there’s the
crew. It’s no use you telling me
not to let them get under my
skin. There’s something
definitely wrong there, Sam. I’ve
got a feeling that we’re in' for
trouble, real trouble, with them
and I’m seriously considering
turning back before it’s too late.”
Sam, of course, talked me out
of it. He assured me he could
easily cope with any water the
ship might make, and strangely
enough I believed him. Regard-
ing the crew, he said that if we
two Aussies couldn’t cope with
the bunch we had oh board we
ought to be ashamed to show our
noses in a civilised port for the
rest of our lives. I agreed with
that statement, pointing out that
if trouble did break out we would
have Casimatas on our side.
“I wouldn’t count too much
on that joker,” Sam said. “It’s
you and me, Skip. And that’s
plenty.”
WITHIN twenty-four hours he
had a chance to prove the
truth of his claim about coping
with incoming water, for we were
bucking into a really nasty head
sea. Having spent all my sea-
going life in big ships I found
the antics of the Cypriot Maid
distinctly alarming. There was
no stately roll, no majestic rise
and fall of bows about her. She
staggered before the onslaught of
the waves, struggled half-
heartedly to the crests and
swooped recklessly into the
hollows. She buried her nose
in each tumbling crest, deluging
herself in flying spray and solid
water. She rolled with a wild
corkscrew motion, dizzying to
watch, hell to retain a foothold
against. And all the time she
complained bitterly, creaking
and groaning as though in
desperate agony.
She was straining herself, I
knew, but there was nothing I
could do about it except keep her
headed into the seas. Taking
each helmsman in turn I
explained, by elaborate
pantomime and an occasional
“Finito,” the danger of letting
the ship get broadside-on to the
seas. Not only did they under-
stand, but they showed willing-
ness to obey. Fear had replaced
sullenness, and fear succeeded
where all my efforts and curses
had failed.
“How are you makin’ out?”
Sam asked, climbing to the
wheelhouse late the second
afternoon. His whiskers, drip-
ping and bedraggled with spray,
streamed to leeward in the gale.
“Just about holding our own,”
I told him. “Might even be
losing ground. But so far I’ve
managed to keep her headed into
it, by the grace of God. How
are things below?”
“About the same. Holdin’ me
own by the grace of that new
pump. Gawd, Skip, the water’s
pourin’ into her. The old girl
must be workin’ her seams wide
open. If that pump breaks
down ...” Sam wrung the
water from his beard and
grinned. “Finito.”
nrWO days later the gale blew
itself out, leaving the
Cypriot Maid only a little the
worse for her buffeting. The
leaks took up until Sam declared
they were nearly back to normal,
and it wasn’t long before the
crew were back to normal —
sullen, scowling and careless of
their steering.
After four almost sleepless
days and nights I was worn out
and only too glad to hand over
to Casimatas. There were no
reefs to hit, so for the next eight
hours I didn’t care if the ship
went round in circles.
I don’t know what woke me
that night. Some sense of
impending danger perhaps. Or
it may have been the sound of
excited voices through the bulk-
head. Whatever the cause it
brought me out in a bound.
In the wheelhouse Casimatas
and the helmsman appeared to
be struggling for control of the
wheel, one trying to pull it one
way and one the other. I looked
ahead, yelled “Hard-a-starboard”
before realising the futility of
orders and grabbed the wheel
myself. The black mass of an
oncoming ship loomed high over
our bows, her red and green side-
lights glaring menacingly down.
For a few terrifying seconds a
head-on collision seemed
inevitable. I had the wheel hard
over, the panic-stricken helms-
man had bolted shrieking from
the wheelhouse and Casimatas
was jabbering like a demented
ape.
We missed that ship by the
thickness of a coat of paint. Her
bow-wave rolled us aside, her
port light glared redly down on
us, and from above it someone
bellowed a string of curses.
“What the hell’s the idea of
steaming without lights?” he
roared as we swept past.
When I’d recovered from the
shock I motioned Casimatas to
the wheel, and confirmed the
fact that our navigation-lights
were off. As Sam would have
said, I did me block then.
“You bloody great useless
idiot!” I yelled. “Why didn’t
you notice your lights weren’t
burning? Why didn’t you see
that ship? You must have been
asleep on watch.” I also called
him a lot of particularly foul
names.
Casimatas retorted in a
torrent of words that rapped
out with the staccato clatter of
machine-gun fire. Leaving the
wheel he pointed to the naviga-
tion-light switch and fired another
burst of either self-defence or
abuse. I had no idea which it
was. Undoubtedly the switch
was in the “on” position, but the
idea of anyone using that as an
excuse made me so mad that I
made a futile and undignified
attempt to out-shout my barrel-
chested bosun. It was then that
Sam looked in.
“What the hell’s goin’ on up
here?” he inquired. “What’s all
the racket about?” I had
scarcely started to explain when
Casimatas cut in, evidently
determined to give his side of the
story regardless of the fact that
neither of. us could understand a
word he said.
He didn’t get far. Sam thrust
his head forward till his beard
almost touched the bosun’s chest,
and for the first time I realised
what a splendid asset those
whiskers were. In the dim glow
from the binnacle lamp they
stood out, magnificently aggres-
sive and dominating, seeming to
rise and bristle like the hackles
of a snarling dog.
“Silenzo!” Sam roared, his
deep voice booming through the
little wheelhouse with the
vibrant, penetrating harshness of
a ship’s foghorn.
Just that one word, but backed
by those ferocious whiskers it
was enough. It forced Casimatas
a full pace backwards and it
silenced him. It reduced him
from a bombastic brigand to a
humble peasant.
“The infernal idiot damn’
nearly rammed us head-on into
a thumping great steamer,” I
explained. “My God, Sam, it
was the closest thing I’ve ever
seen in my life! And this
useless animal didn’t know his
lights weren’t burning. See if
you can fix them, will you? And
dig up the duty helmsman. He
bolted when he saw the crash
coming. Our friend here might
as well turn in for all the good
he is. J couldn’t trust him with
another night-watch.”
Ten minutes later Sam had the
lights burning. Casimatas had
departed, and the helmsman was
making a half-hearted attempt
to keep the ship within twenty
degrees of her course.
“A loose connection in the
switch,” Sam announced, pocket-
ing his screwdriver. “She’ll be
jake now. You stayin’ up for
the rest of the night?”
“I’ll have to,” I answered. “I
can’t trust Casimatas with any-
thing except daylight- and fine-
Weather-watches now.”
“I wouldn’t trust him with a
two-bob watch,” Sam declared
emphatically. ' “You want to
keep an eye on that bird.”
“I keep an eye on all of
them,” I assured him. “But at
least Casimatas is the best of a
bad lot. By the way, what was
that word you used on him
tonight?”
“Silenzo ? I dunno what it
means, but it shuts ’em up.”
After promising to bring me
up a good strong cup of tea at
daylight he went off.
ON the following day the
sullen attitude of the crew
developed into something uncom-
fortably like open hostility.
When I turned out to take a
noon sight the hands were
grouped on the foredeck. They
scowled up at me, muttering in
half-tones, and when I ignored
them their voices rose to an
angry babel interspread with
elaborate gestures. They raised
clenched fists towards me and
pointed demanding fingers
astern. They indicated the
horizon ahead and chorused
“Finito” with a series of down-
sweeping gestures.
This was something I couldn’t
ignore; for, with the exception
of Casimatas, who was at the
wheel, every member of our
small crew was taking part in
the demonstration. I gathered
that they were demanding I
should turn back because they
feared the ship would sink. The
down-sweeping gestures and the
shouted “Finito” seemed to
indicate our sinking, though
why they should fear that on a
perfectly calm day I couldn’t
imagine.
In desperation I appealed in
pantomime to Casimatas, but he
dismissed the antics of his ship-
mates with a contemptuous
sneer. Shrugging his broad
shoulders, he tapped his fore-
head significantly. Plainly he
meant “Ignore them. They are
all mad.”
“A hell of a help that is,” I
grunted.
As master of the ship I could
not ignore them. Nor, since I
could not speak their language,
could I reason with them. I was
still wondering how to tackle the
problem when Sam appeared.
He stepped out on deck,
whistling cheerfully and wiping
his hands on a lump of cotton-
waste.
He gave no indication that he
noticed things were other than
normal, merely strolled up to
the group of demonstrators,
grabbed one of his greasers by
the ear and led him aft. When
abreast of the wheelhouse he
put his boot against the man’s
backside and propelled him
vigorously towards the engine-
room hatch.
“Commencio!” he bawled,
and turned his back.
There were no heroics about
it. The whole thing was done
so casually that it looked like
part of the daily routine, a
normal way to call the next
watch. The demonstration
fizzled out, only the cook
remaining to go through the
whole pantomime again,
apparently for Sam’s special
benefit. As before, he finished
with the down-sweeping gesture
and the expressive “Finito.”
“Finito?” Sam said. “Finito
for you, eh? Goin’ to jump
over the bloody side? No
mor’a da bloody pasta then.
Hooray!” The last word was
spoken with such obvious relish
that the cook could only stare
open-mouthed as Sam climbed
the bridge-ladder.
“What the devil was it all
about, Sam?” I asked. “What
did you make of it?”
“You wouldn’t read about it,”
he chuckled. “Fair dinkum, it’s
the best thing since the horse-
and-buggy days. They reckon if
we keep on goin’ we’ll sail right
over the bloody edge.”
I refused to believe it, remind-
ing him that the world had pro-
gressed considerably since the
days of Columbus. “Nowadays,”
I said, “even the most ignorant
clod knows that the world is
round.”
But Sam laughed and said “I
wouldn’t count too much on
these jokers believin’ it. This is
the first time they’ve been out of
sight of their own little fishing-
village, and I’ll bet none of ’em
went to school. Take a gander
at the Articles. How many of
’em signed their names?”
I nodded, remembering that
with the exception of Casimatas


YOUNG SHAVER
mm ■■
■
■
m
Wk
m
Boys will be men, soon
enough it’s those snap-
shots made when they are
only “young shavers” that
will be treasured in later
years. For indoor or outdoor
snapshots you can’t beat
KODAK Super-XX Film.
Kod sffS
IWk
S Ai
CH£2
I
p AN
high
KF674
K
K DEALERS EVERYWHERE
each man had merely put a cross
against his name.
A LTHOUGH matters did not
improve, there were no
more incidents until the day fol-
lowing Sam’s report on the bilge-
pump. He came up to the
wheelhouse one noon when
Casimatas was at the wheel, and
for the first time since I’d met
him he looked worried and
depressed.
“It’s that flamin’ new pump I
had put in,” he said. And then,
seeing the look of alarm on my
face, “No, she hasn’t broken
down —yet. But it’s on the cards
any tick of the clock now. A
big brass stud on the after-end
of her worked loose, and if I
hadn’t spotted it in time the
pump would have ripped the
guts out of herself in a few
seconds.”
I said “But you were able to
fix it, weren’t you?”
“Yes,” he admitted. “I
tightened the stud up as far as
I could without stripping the
thread. But the point is, if it’s
worked loose once it might do
it again. In this weather I can
keep the bilges dry with the
pump runnin’ at half-speed, but
if she broke down altogether the
water would be over the engine-
room floor in a couple of hours.
Say another three to four hours
and the main engine would be
under. And then, finito.”
We discussed the matter for a
few minutes, but since Sam
assured me that nothing further
could be done I could only
keep on and hope for the best.
My noon position that day
showed that we were less than
four days’ steaming from
Colombo, if the weather stayed
fine.
I spent the whole of that
night trying to decide what I’d
do when we got there. I knew
that I would be quite justified
in refusing to take the ship any
further, for apart from her
unseaworthy condition there was
the matter of the crew. It may
sound like an admission of
weakness when I say that by
then they had got completely
under my skin. That sullen, hos-
tile attitude, day after day until
at times it seemed as {hough
the lid must blow off.
Even Sam admitted he had
the feeling that they’d like to
stick a knife into his back.
“Only they haven’t got the guts,”
he said.
I wasn’t so sure. I felt that
if they decided to gang-up on
us we wouldn’t stand much
chance. A lot, of course, would
depend on Casimatas. If he
remained loyal to us we could
have a valuable ally. Both Sam
and I were medium-sized men,
and the same applied to most
of the crew. Casimatas alone
stood out as a man of splendid
physique.
To me the worst of the whole
wretched situation was my com-
plete inability to do anything
about it. Had I been able to
speak their language I would
have found the cause of their
attitude and done my best to
either remedy it or let them
know where they stood. After
all, I had the whole weight of
the Merchant Shipping Act
behind me. "
I was standing the eight-to-
twelve watch when the lid blew
off. It was the morning after
Sam had told me about the
pump, and although I’d been up
all night I didn’t feel at all like
sleeping. Casimatas was sit-
ting on the forehatch washing
some clothes in a bucket. He
wore only a pair of shorts and
I was admiring his muscular
shoulders when Sam appeared
on deck.
Unless one had a leaning to-
wards wild whiskers there was
nothing to admire about Sam.
His hair was untidy and his
boiler-suit looked greasier than
ever as he clumped for’ard ih
the heavy black boots he always
wore.
I called down “Good-morn-
ing, Sam,” but instead of
, answering me he marched
straight up to Casimatas, said
something I didn’t catch and
kicked the bucket of soapy water
into the scuppers.
Eyes blazing, Casimatas
leaped to his feet in time to
collect Sam’s straight left on his
jaw and a smashing right in the
region of his belt. He screamed
like a brumby stallion then and
hurled himself at Sam, obviously
trying to grapple with him. Had
he succeeded in securing a hold
the brawl must have ended
quickly. With his immense
strength Casimatas would have
crushed Sam until something
snapped.
BUT right from the start it
was obvious that Sam had
been in more than his share of
all-in, bar-room brawls. He
eluded the big bosun’s every
lunge, and at the same time
scored heavily with both fists.
He had successfully bunged-
up one eye and was starting on
the other when Casimatas
reached for the big sheath-knife
he always wore on his hip. I
saw Sam’s boot flash up, the
knife clattered to the deck and
Casimatas, forgetting all
caution, bent to pick it up. He
wasn’t nearly smart enough.
There was an agonised scream as
Sam’s heavy boot crashed down
on the back of his hand, grind-
ing it into the deck.
I thought the fight had ended
then. I w'as wrong. It was only
starting. Casimatas, with one
useless hand, was struggling to
his feet, yelling to the crew
now clustered just for’ard of the
wheelhouse. If he was appeal-
ing for help he got an immediate
response. They surged forward
in a gabbling, menacing rush.
Things happened so fast then
that it is impossible to remem-
ber them in their correct order.
I know that Sam promptly
secured his rear by picking up
the empty bucket and swinging
it down with a resoupnding
clang on Casimatas’s head.
“You stay there,” he ordered.
“You’ve had your whack.
You’re out of it now.”
His example inspired me to
deal with the helmsman. Evi-
dently anxious to be in at the
kill, he was leaping for the
ladder when I struck my first
blow. I had no bucket, but I
did have a pair of heavy binocu-
lars. They were valuable, high-
powered glasses, presented to
me by my father. Many times
I’d had occasion to bless their
power, but never so whole-
heartedly as at that moment.
Swinging them by the strap, I
brought them down on the
helmsman’s bare skull. That
ended his interest in the brawl.
It also secured my own rear
and reduced the odds against us
by one more.
I can put it on record that I
got from the wheelhouse to the
deck without using the ladder.
It didn’t occur to me that Sam
had wilfully precipitated a
mutiny ; I was only glad that it
had come at last and that I was
now in the thick of it.
The strap of the binoculars
broke on the second swing, and
I was glad of that, too. Fists,
at that moment, were the only
satisfactory weapons. I wanted
to feel my bare knuckles crash-
ing into faces that had scowled
at me day after day. I’m afraid
there wasn’t much science in my
attack. If a face came within
reach I lashed out at it, putting
every ounce of my strength
behind each blow.
Well, at least some of them
got home. I know I floored one
man with a terrific round-arm
swing and found myself facing
the cook. Of all things he was
armed with a tremendous frying-
pan, and never was there a more
useless weapon in a tight, all-
in brawl. Had he been armed
with a rifle and bayonet it
wouldn’t have made any differ-
ence to me. Just one glimpse
of his face and I could see
nothing but pasta. Greasy,
tasteless pasta, meal after meal,
day after day. I waded-in with
both fists flying.
He tried to brain me with the
frying-pan, but it was too heavy
and too cumbersome. Had he
used it as a shield I would have
broken my knuckles against it.
Fortunately, it didn’t seem to
occur to him. I had him retreat-
ing backwards almost at a run,
and I think he would have gone
over the rail if Sam hadn’t
grabbed my arm.
“Lay off it, Skip,” he said.
“It’s all over bar the shouting.”
He sank, panting heavily, on to
the hatch and added, “You sure
get enthusiastic when you
start.”
I sat down beside him on the
hatch and struggled to regain
my wind. It was quite obvious
that the opposition had had
enough. Casimatas lay at our
feet, still out to it, and his sup-
porters had retreated aft to
patch up their injuries and com-
miserate with each other. There
was no fight left in any of them.
I was unmarked, but Sam was
holding his face between his
hands, cursing steadily.
“Are you hurt, Sam?” I asked.
“Hurt! ” he raved. “Of course
I’m flamin’ well hurt. One of
those cows grabbed a handful of
me whiskers and tore ’em out
by the roots.” He removed his
hands so that I could inspect the
wound.
Instead of showing sympathy
I laughed. Certainly the left
side of his face did look a little
bare, and there were a few
smears of blood showing through
the sparser growth. But after
such a desperate brawl the loss
of a few hairs seemed such a
trifling thing.
“It’s all very well to laugh,”
Sam complained. “But it hurts
like hell. I tell you, Skip, you
don’t know what pain is till
you’ve been plucked alive. I’ve
a good mind to go aft and do
that joker over again.”
“Which one was it?”
“That’s the trouble. I don’t
even know whether it was one
of your seamen or one of me
own greasers, and I don’t feel
like draggin’ the mob on again.”
He stood up and, pointing to
the swinging curve of our wake,
said “Hey! Are we goin’ any
place in particular or just
chasin’ ourselves round and
round?”
I said “I couldn’t care less at
the moment,” and suddenly
remembered the helmsman I’d
laid out. For all I knew the
man might be dead. So also
might Casimatas.
As usual, Sam laughed at my
fears. “You couldn’t kill these
galahs with the back of an axe,”
he assured me. “They got skulls
like coconuts. We’ll chuck a
bucket of water over this one
and go up and do the same for
yours.”
He was right. A bucket of
sea-water revived Casimatas so
rapidly that he scrambled to his
feet and backed hastily away
from us.
“Playin’ possum,” Sam de-
clared. “Let’s have a look at
the other joker.”
The “other joker” didn’t need
reviving. He was sitting in the
corner of the wheelhouse
tenderly feeling a sizeable lump
on the top of his head. I’ve no
doubt he was feeling pretty
groggy, but I wasted no sym-
pathy on him. Instead I put the
ship back on her course*and
motioned him to the wheel.
‘“lyrOW,” I said, turning to
' Sam. “For God’s sake tell
me why you started all this.”
“It’s your pal Casemate,” he
explained. “I never did trust
that bird, right from the jump.
-He was pretty thick with old
Karapoulis in Alex., but there
was more to it than that. Some-
how I got the idea he could
understand everything we said,
and I doped it out that he was
puttin’ us in crooked with the
rest of the mob. Don’t ask me
why; it’s just a feelin’ I had. I
chewed things over and finally
came to the conclusion that
Karapoulis had never meant the
Maid to get to Darwin. He’d
insured her for as much as he
could get on and put his pal
Casemate aboard to make sure
she didn’t get there.”
“Sam,” I said. “You’ve got
a nasty suspicious mind.”
“Too right I’ve got a sus-
picious mind,” he admitted.
“And you’d have one, too, if
you’d worked for some of the
sharks I’ve worked for lately.
Anyway, I set a little trap for
Casemate. That yarn I told
you about the stud in the after-
end of the pump was all boloney.
It couldn’t work loose of its own
accord, and it wouldn’t make
any difference if the thing came
right out. But your pal fell for
it. I’d tightened the stud with
a spanner, and when I went
below this morning you could
turn it with your fingers.”
“But that’s fantastic, Sam,”
I protested. “If we did founder
Casimatas would be in as much
danger as the rest of us.”
“That wouldn’t be such a hell
of a lot. There’s plenty of room
for us all in the lifeboat. And
plenty of tucker, too. How long
since you inspected it?”
“More than a week, I’m
afraid.”
“Well, take a gander into it
now. It’s the best-stocked life-
boat I ever shipped with. Some-
one’s makin’ sure he won’t be
on short rations when it’s
lowered.”
“I think,” I said, “you and I
had better have a talk with Mr.
Casimatas.”
The correct thing, of course,
would have been to summon the
bosun to the wheelhouse, but the
place was already overcrowded
with three of us in it. We inter-
viewed him on the hatch, where
he sat gingerly bathing his
injured hand in the bucket.
“In one way and another you
seem to have got yourself into
quite a mess, Casimatas,” I said.
“I suppose you realise that you
will now be charged with
attempted barratry and inciting
a mutiny?”
Without lifting his head he
(Continued on page 34)


\
mt
m
mm
■
M«r
What is stronger than steel t
My Dad says a fibre of wool is diameter for
diameter, stronger than steel I don’t know what
diameter means but my Dad’s a scientist, and he
knows. Because this is so, my Mother always buys
Stamina for me, for Stamina clothes are made
from these strong pure wool fibres.
My Dad says all Stamina clothes are made from
8W1.113
pure wool Crusader cloth and
that’s why they wear so well.
Stamina clothes are comfortable
to wear. They keep their colour,
and they keep their shape, too.
All Stamina clothes are good.
ASK FOR
btcumuva
4
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
, 1909-1949.
AT.T, persons, firms, companies and assod-
atioris' being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which thee Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949, has been applied, in respect ot
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State; are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them in
respect of the said property to such in-
surance companies during the year .1954.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1955, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default. .
Note: Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
W. C. OSBORNE, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the total amount
of the premiums received by or due to
such companies in respect of risks against
fire during the year ending 31st December,
1954, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies; less
any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other in-
surance companies contributing under the
said Act. .
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1955, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
W. C. OSBORNE, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy an illustrated copy of Ernest
Hemingway’s The Old Man and the
Sea— s97l.
Words of “The Wild Colonial Boy.”
—5972.
To sell the Journal of Marie Bash-
kirtseff. —5974.
Information Sought
(1) Names and addresses of com-
panies engaged in seismic surveys in
Australia ? (2) Qualifications for posi-
tion of party-chief in charge of field-
party? (3) Approximate salary-range
for (a) party-chief, (b) computer ?
(1) Two companies only at all likely
to be taking on any staff. They are
(a) Electro-Technical Labs., Inc., 504
Waugh-drive, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
(Sydney agent, R. Foot, Aust., Pty.,
Ltd,, 89 Elizabeth-street, Sydney); ( b )
Seismograph Service, Ltd., Holwood,
Keston, Kent, England (Sydney agent
not yet appointed). However, these
firms will bring in their own drilled
personnel and the chances of getting
employment here with them are
meagre, except for non-specialist
work. The Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources might engage a well-qualified
seismist, but he would have to be
thoroughly conversant with Australian
conditions. (2) Experience in carrying
out seismic surveys and in interpreting
data, with particular reference to Aus-
tralian geological conditions. (3)
Varies according to company. Com-
puter might he offered £SIOOO and up
if experienced; party-chief £S2OOO to
£S4OOO, according to size of party and
his own experience.
* * * *
(1) Brief account of the cricket tour
of the West Indies by India in 1953 ?
(2) Who were best performers in the
Tests? (3) Test scores?
(1) The tour lasted from January to
early April, 1953. It was India’s first
visit to the West Indies, and it con-
stituted India’s fourth Test-series
within 18 months. West Indies won
the second Test, and thus the series,
the other four Tests being drawn. Of
the nine first-class games played (in-
cluding the five Tests) India lost
one (the Test) and won one (against
Jamaica), and the rest were drawn.
(2) The Tests generally were high-
scoring affairs. Century-makers were:
West Indies —Weekes, 207 in the first
Test, 161 (third), and 109 (fifth);
Worrell, 237 in the fifth; Walcott, 125
(fourth) and 118 (fifth); Stollmeyer,
104 not-out (third); Pairaudeau, 115
(first). India —Umrigar, 130 (first
Test), 117 (fifth); Apte, 163 not-out
(third); Manjrekar, 118 (fifth); Roy,
150 (fifth). Most successful bowlers:
India—Gupte (27 wickets, av. 29.22),
Phadkar (9, av. 25.55) and Mankad
(15, av. 53.06); West Indies —Valen-
tine (28, av. 29.57), King (17, av.
28.23), Ramadhin (13, av. 36.15) and
Gomez (11, av. 31.9). (3) First Test:
India, 417, 294; West Indies, 438,
0-142. Second: West Indies, 296, 228 ;
India, 253, 129. Third: India, 279,
7-362 (closed); West Indies, 315,
2-192. Fourth: India, 262, 5-190;
West Indies, 364. Fifth: India, 312,
444; West Indies, 576, 4-92.
* * * *
Premiers of Tasmania since 1900?
Sir N. E. Lewis (Oct. 12, 1899-Apl.
9, 1903); W. B. Propsting (Apl. 9,
1903-July 11, 1904); J. W. Evans (July
11, 1904-June 19, 1909); Sir N. E.
Lewis (June 19, 1909-Oct 20, 1909);
John Earle (Oct. 20, 1909-Oct. 27,
1909); Sir N. E. Lewis (Oct. 27,
1909-June 14, 1912); A. E. Solomon
(June 14, 1912-Apl. 6, 1914); John
Earle (Apl. 6, 1914-Apl. 15, 1916); Sir
Walter Lee (Apl. 15, 1916-Aug. 12,
1922); J. B. Hayes (Aug. 12, 1922-
Aug. 14, 1923); Sir Walter Lee (Aug.
14, 1923-Oct. 25, 1923); J. A. Lyons
(Oct. 25, 1923-June 15, 1928); J. C.
McPhee (June 15, 1928-Mar. 15,
1934); Sir Walter Lee (Mar. 15, 1934-
June 22, 1934); A. G. Ogilvie (June
22, 1934-June 10, 1939); E. Dwyer-
Gray (June 11, 1939-Dec. 18, 1939);
R. Cosgrove (Dec. 18, 1939-Dec. 18,
1947); E. Brooker (Dec. 18, 1947-
Feb. 25, 1948); R. Cosgrove (Feb. 25,
1948- ).
* * * *
Some information on Woodlark
Island, off the coast of Papua?
The first payable goldfield worked
in Papua was on Woodlark (Murua is
the native name of the island; Wood-
lark was named by Captain Grimes,
of the Woodlark, of Sydney, around
1836). Over £700,000-worth of gold
was produced there, and the island has
been thoroughly prospected; some
prospecting is still carried on. There
are only some half-dozen whites on
the island. The natives are of Mela-
nesian type, like those on the east
coast of the mainland. Woodlark is
some 200 miles off the east coast, and
is 38 miles in length from east to
west. There are good anchorages on
the south coast, including Guasopa
Harbor and Suloga Harbor. The two
main centres are Kulamadau (on the
north coast), where the principal
mission-station is, and Bonagai (on
the west), which is a police post. The
island, a succession of hills and valleys,
is covered by dense tropical jungle.
From Woodlark was obtained so-
called “greenstone” for axes, adzes,
chisels and ceremonial stones. The
stone is an impure serpentine, almost
as hard as the nephrite (jade or green-
stone) of New Zealand. Allied forces
occupied Woodlark during the war.
Brief Answers
1.N.: Information you require is
available in U. R. Ellis’s Australian
New States. .. .R.G.F.: The informa-
tion you seek is unfortunately not
available to this office; but Alderman
Hills himself may oblige you with
the biographical details... .K.H.:
We haven’t kept a tag on every
cartoon that’s ever appeared. The
one you mention is a good one; it
could quite easily have been a Bulle-
tin gag... .H.W.S.: The dictionaries
give as correct both pronunciations of
“falcon” —the “1” silent or pro-
nounced. .. .Hopeful: A single person
eligible for the old-age pension is
allowed an income up to £3 10s. a
week without the pension being
affected. Income in excess of £3 10s.
a week up to £7 results in a corre-
sponding reduction in pension. No
pension is payable if income is £7 or
more a week... .Mrs. N.C. and E.P.:
The “Bulletin” Reciter is out of
print; only prospect of getting a copy
is through a secondhand-bookseller,
such as Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 281
George-street, Sydney, or Gaston C.
Renard, Box 5295, G.P.0., Melbourne.
It is worth noting, by the way, that
the cream of the poems in the Reciter
will appear in Australian Bush Ballads,
to be published by Angus and Robert-
son in February C.J.V.: (1) It’s
known as expanded verniculite, and
is available from Neuchatel As-
phalt Co., Union House, 247 George-
street, Sydney. (2) The heating gadget
mentioned is available from Furnace
Technology Pty., Ltd., 20 Burton-
street, Sydney... .Anne G.: The coin
is just an ordinary specimen. Its value
is its face-value, 3d G.8.M.: Per-
mission to reproduce poem is readily
granted, provided that due acknow-
ledgment of the source is given....
R. 8.: Spilhead is the roadstead in
the English Channel, between Ports-
mouth and the Isle of Wight, about
12 miles long and four wide. Spit-
head is often selected for naval
manoeuvres —it was the scene of the
magnificent naval pageant staged at
Queen Victoria’s jubilee in 1897. In
1545 a naval battle was fought there
between English and French fleets,
resulting in the overwhelming defeat of
the French E.S.: The coin is a
Spanish eight-real piece of the time of
Charles 111 (1759-88); its face-value
is about $l. As an old coin, if in
good condition, it is valued at 7s. 6d.
(It is not a rare coin,) A similar coin
in gold would be valued at around
£2O if in good condition.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and. no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.M.: Maybe if you had thought
more about it we shouldn’t have to
say we don’t think much of it....
R.D.T.: The only reason that bloke
should not have married that girl was
your determination to have a bright
and cynical ending... .G.S.: Stories
by experts are very welcome, especially
by experts in industry and factory-
practices; but they need to be expert
writers, too. That makes it harder
B. : We’ll let you in for just this
long:
Last Sunday, seated nice and calm
We heard a cry of wild alarm,
Then like a bolting horse from stall
Mollie came galloping down the hall—
“A rat, a rat, a rati” shrieked she,
“Is near the bathroom lavatory 1”
... .T.G.: Your “Summer Fancy”
encountered the winter of our discon-
tent A.P.M.: “When a girl meets
a boy, one of two things happens”—
you’ll have to live around a little....
C. : Too long, and too long a bow.
....F.D.: No, your Christmas story
could not be remodelled into an
Easter story 8.R.G.: Do not ideal-
ise radio personalities—leave that to
them... .E.T.: Well, it was not so
much overflowery as reminiscent of a
cheap jack scent-shop.... 5.8. V.: No-
body writes well about the suburbs;
in your case it’s because you see the
people as writers of 20 years ago saw
them... .A.G.F.: Your “Day in
Prison” doesn’t seem to have im-
proved you.... Felix S.: Those that
were not second-hand were second-rate.
R.L.: It might have a better
chance if you took it out of the first
person and gave it to some other
person—or some other editor JJ.:
“The Ship,” for all you made of it,
must have been one of those that
passed in the night P.M.: Return-
ing “Knock-kneed Kate” quick and
lively.... S.McC.: We’ll give you the
dawn, also the sunset, and will throw
in the moon for good bargain—if you’ll
stop writing about them C.M.S.:
We decline to shelter Salvation Sal
and the reformed drunkard
L.T: Well, seeing it’s such a very
short poem, we’ll print it here: —
HOME
(The Gallant Third Battalion from
Korea)
Life plucked thee back from the lone
edges darkening,
Back to Australia where breezes are
sweet:
Breezes to breethe for hopes now
rehearkening,
With no country but thine for heavy,
tired feet.
E.HX.: Sorry, mate, but spring
is far behind E.D.A.: Pars, are not
acknowledged in this column; to do
so would require pages E.F.:
Thanks for the seasonal compliments.
We return them —with, alas, the poem.
E.V.: They all have merit; but
we prefer something more directly
Australian 8.5.: Why a cobra in
the boundary-rider’s hut —haven't we
snakes of our own? W.W.: It’s
like an “In Memoriam” poem—more
praiseworthy for its intention than its
execution F.A.: Wicked wives
carrying daggers in their garters—they
come in here by the dozen. We have
no truck with them... .HJ.: Why
do racing stories seem to edge up to
us muttering about dead-certs that are
always beaten on the last page?....
8.5. L.: You appear to subscribe to
the axiom that without at least one
incredible coincidence in a story, you
feel that you are not keeping faith
with the public M.F.: Well, we
doubt whether you know much at
first hand about country pubs, or, if
you do, you’ve a lot to learn about
short stories... .H.D.: No room for
your whale... .T.S.: Spare us those
domestic details.,. .P.J.: You do not
add very much to the considerable
amount that has already been said
about the moon, but it is sad to have
to reject such beautiful handwriting.
K.N.: “Scattered remnant,”
“bear witness,” “mark the progress”—
you can’t write a poem in the clichds
of journalese... .E.F.: Does your
first attempt show any promise? If
you are 9 or 19, yes; if you are 90 it
hardly seems worth bothering....
W.H.E.: The best New Year resolu-
tion is never to write a New Year
poem... .M.M.: If you wander down
the old bush-track as often as you
say, why not describe somp of the
things you see there?... .G.M.: Except
in special cases, our idea is that what
a dog thinks isn’t evidence.... A.L.S.:
You dine at the Hotel Australia, you
walk up Martin-place, you see a
deadbeat picking up bumpers from the
gutter, you go home to your luxurious
Pott’s Point flat, you write a sad
little story about it all, and we send
it back to you.


Where the Blue Asbestos Grows
She's Rugged, All Right!
By "NIMROD"
THEY said Sydney or the
bush, and tossed a coin.
Heads came up, and here
they were, some 3000 miles
from Sydney as the plane flies,
at Wittenoom (W.A.). Several
ex-inhabitants of The Cross and
adjacent parts made up their
minds to come here in that
precise fashion. They noticed a
difference.
“One pub!” they say. True
enough; one pub, one store, a
newsagent, picture - theatre,
police-station and post-office.
With a school and 152 houses,
that’s the lot. No wonder, then,
that some of them become sud-
denly homesick for the whoop-
ing traffic of William-street, the
promenade of Darlinghurst-
road, the neon-lights and the
rest.
Still, as an old inhabitant
always makes haste to point
out, it isn’t so bad. Nothing
like it was in the old days—
“ She was rugged, then, all
right!” The pub is a good one
—“best in the North-west.”
Pictures twice a week.
He’s not so very ancient, this
old inhabitant. Maybe 35.
Cecil Radley, local haulage-
contractor, bears him out. Cec
remembers the place back in
1936, when the first prospector
opened-up the first claim —in
Yampire Gorge, about 20 miles
from Wittenoom. Leo Snell was
his name. Radley sold his first
asbestos for him.
Islyn Walters, an agent, after-
wards well known throughout
the Pilbara as “Issy,” had
recently arrived in Roebourne,
nor’-west coastal town, from
London. He was on the look-
out for white asbestos. Cec had
a sample of Leo’s blue asbestos
and handed that to him. Cables
brought to light the information
that London was prepared to
pay £35 a ton advance or £44
for outright sales.
+ -I-
Soon there were from 150 to
200 men out in the ranges. Cec
Radley saw them go in old
jalopies and broken-down utes,
eager to get a cut of the £35
per ton which was so easily
obtainable from the walls of the
gorges. Radley followed them
out, carted their stores and
brought back their asbestos.
Alec Mcßeth Cooper, pen-
sioner, was out there, too, in
those days.
He had a good claim. Among
the beauties of the well-known
Dales’ Gorge he knapped
asbestos by hand from the hard,
blue “riebeckite rock” with
which it is allied. A bag a day,
he reckons, was his average:
1001 b. of asbestos-fibre, which
he sold to the agent for £2 15s.
His expenses were 14s. per bag,
so he showed a cop of some-
thing like £2 —good money,
then.
“Just the same we was
robbed,” he still contends.
“Them agents got between sixty
pounds and seventy pounds for
the stuff they got from us for
thirty-five pounds. She was
rugged, all right.”
“Sfie” still is. Rugged and
beautiful. Writers have visited
here by the dozen, but I don’t
know one who has captured the
beauty in words. I think it would
need poetry to do it justice.
Several artists have put it down
in color. But they haven’t
caught the essence of it. And
cameras! It is a photographer’s
benefit; so much so that one of
the Dutchmen set up in business,
developing and printing the local
efforts, and has made a good
thing out of it.
Even in the sober pages of the
report by J. S. Foxall, State
mining-engineer at the time,
who visited the place in 1938,
you can see a slight lift of the
official eyebrow at the country
he had to traverse. “There was
a steep declivity,” he writes.
“The last 12ft. to 15ft. were
ascended by scrambling up a
cleft in the face of the vertical
cliff.”
And later: “The deep gorge
appears to terminate abruptly in
a cliff, halfway across which the
wide ribbon (asbestos) has been
worked. After reaching this
point it was necessary to descend
to the creek bottom and scale,
by means of a rope, a precipice
about 60ft. high.”
The prospectors also had to
scale these precipices. They used
spars, spiked for foothold. Some
of these can still be seen rest-
ing against the cliff-face. Tools
and materials were raised, or
the ore lowered, by flying-fox,
aerial ropeways of a primitive
nature.
“A small hoist would have
been much more efficient and
economical,” comments Mr.
Foxall.
But the market was touchy,
and the 200 men soon flooded
it. Sales stopped abruptly, and
the rush melted as suddenly as
it had started. By 1939 most of
them had gone.
Radley’s trucks were diverted
to other uses. “A good job,
too,” he said. “There was no
bitumen into the gorge in those
days. It was up the creek-bed
then. Donkeys were used to
cart it out to the mouth of the
Gorge and we’d take it from
there. She was rugged, all right.”
A few lingered on, making a
fair living out of the fibre.
Several summers passed—
typical summers of North-west
Australia, with thermometers
registering daily centuries for
months on end. Sometimes, too,
they were flooded out. Not
often. But about once a year
they got a good rain. And then
didn’t she come down!
Twenty-three inches were
once registered on the Fortescue
in one fall. Another time, at
Whim Creek, they had 29in.
That was in 1898. Falls of lOin.
or 12in. were to be expected.
Only this year they had 9in. in
the town of Witten oom in five
days.
After two or three years
several companies became
interested in the proposition.
Lang Hancock, who had retained
an interest in the holdings from
the first rush, sold part and
later all of his interests in
Wittenoom to Australian Blue
Asbestos. One of the De
Bernales companies took Up the
Yampire Gorge holdings, but
when “Deb’s” empire began to
crack-up he, too, sold out to
A.8.A., which still retains
them, only working the leases
at Wittenoom Gorge.
A.B.A. is an offshoot of
Colonial Sugar Refining. The
general-manager in Wittenoom
is C. H. Broadhurst, known to
all as “Joe.” He has been here
since 1943, and he, more than
anyone else, has been respons-
ible for the development that
has taken place.
He has been the chief influ-
ence responsible for the fact
that there are now over 200
men employed on the leases,
that they live in suburban con-
ditions, that they are trans-
ported to work in 20 minutes
(where Radley’s first truck took
two hours), that they have a
clean, modern, well-equipped
little town where Alec Cooper
and his mates lived in humpies
on corned-beef (tinned) and
damper.
Today, although the natives
of the ’Loo may find it hard to
get used to, there is a thriving
community of some 600 people,
They have their Sports Day
and Race Day; a branch of the
R.S.L. marches on Anzac Day;
the unions and the P. & C. hold
a Christmas-tree for 150 or 200
children every year.
There is a hospital which cost
£3O qoo staffed by a highly
qualified matron and staff, and
PttmArA iw nr rPQ ;
: n th/tnwn AnaHrp Fr
n’Qnilivnn in nwn i-Cinnp
fnrfniaht f mm Pnrf
Sa4
w ith three teachers, caters for
intellectual needs
. . .
„ 1S in l er ® s hng to take a
, k around the town. A plenti-
tel water-supply ensures green
gardens. There are children
e yc r ywhere you look. Innumer-
a . do ® s ever Y sor t and
yanety * A hd every now and then
a colorful touch of costume
attracts the eye—a man in velvet
pants, or a child in leather
overalls, a bloke stepping it out
in clogs.
In the evenings you will hear
Italian music on accordions,
snatches of Czech or Polish
songs from a veranda; every
radio seems tuned to a station
of different nationality. This
creates a false impression ; only
a third of the married people
woo live in these houses are
New Australians.
be s tegle men who live in
an area known as the Compound
* bat ~ a
mgher proportion of migrants,
inte resting to watch them
a , s tbe Y em-bus for the mine in
tbe mornmg: I taß ans, Dutch,
of buff and’sandalled it’s hot
or nun ana sanaaiiea. it s not.
I Q a years time it would be
more interesting to see how
many of these will still be here,
Big changes are in the offing.
Thirteen years ago Foxall
wrote in his second report on
the place (referring to the
departure of the prospectors):
“This period was not without
value. Firstly, it demonstrated
the unwisdom of uncontrolled
production in a market that is
not firm.”
Later he writes: “To estab-
lish this industry on a sound
footing will require a consider-
able amount of organisation in
preparatory work, production
and marketing.”
Now the organisation has
been done, the preparatory work
is complete, adequate produc-
tion is assured—but the markets
are not there yet. They should
be. Australia imports about
30,000 tons of asbestos-fibre,
duty-free, annually.
+ +
“Australia needs industries in
the North” is a political cliche
these days ; but only lip-service
is paid to it. Here is an
industry, established after years
of thought, experiment, sweat
and money, lying ready at hand
to be used as a national asset;
an industry responsible for
bringing several hundred
migrants to North Australia,
where we need them. And this
industry looks like going back
into the pack simply because
the mineral that is produced
can be imported more cheaply
from South Africa, where it is
mined by sweated fiative-labor.
Australian Blue Asbestos,
Limited, has applied for a
tariff-concession, or, alterna-
tively, for a fixed percentage of
sales to be of Australian origin.
This would ensure the life of
a thriving community, one of the
very few in Northern Australia.
Rhymer of the Rivers
By WILL LAWSON
AN Australian writer whom
few will remember, in
fact whom few ever
knew, was Francis
Humphris Brown, whose father
and brothers all were captains
of river-steamers on the Murray
and Darling. His book Songs
of the Plains carries no date. By
way of foreword it has some
verse by J. le Gay Brereton:
If you are chilled at Fortune’s
frown,
Your funds reduced to less than
half-a-crown,
And grim despair has got you
down.
Well —that’s the time to send for
Francis Brown.
With all his fun, too, he can
stand the test
Of human sympathies, for in his
breast
There beats, as many a verse will
manifest,
The hungering heart of all the
spacious West.
Brown’s verse certainly is
redolent of that area, being
filled with songs of drought and
far-western tales of rough race-
meetings and fights and
disasters by fire and flood.
He wrote of the river-boats,
those wooden arks that went
where no ships were ever meant
to go, urged on by mighty
paddle-wheels and steered by
gigantic rudders that could
swing the boats round sharp
bends and make sudden swerves
to avoid snags or reefs of sand.
The father of this family was
a river-skipper known as Gol-
conda Brown, after the name of
his famous paddle-boat which
managed to get everywhere in
drought or flood. Many tales
were told about Golconda
Brown.
He was towing a barge to
Bourke, then a thriving western
town. The barge, towing
astern, was loaded with pianos,
sewing-machines, all sorts of
merchandise, when it struck a
snag and half-sank. A salvage-
steamer, the fast Freetrader,
which had a locomotive-boiler
and could make 16 knots, was
sent from Echuca.
On arrival the skipper
decided to plug the hole in the
barge, then put both crews to
work with buckets. Soon the
barge became almost buoyant,
and the skipper of the salvage
craft persuaded Brown, who
was a non-drinker, to allow the
men a tot of rum. Reluctantly
Brown agreed, and after their
refresher the men set to work
with a will, making the water
fly.
But one man’s bucket acci-
dentally struck a man from the
rival boat, who dropped his
bucket and flew at the other
with his fists. Soon there was
a glorious free-for-all, during
which the barge foundered.
Pianos and such floated down
the Darling for miles. They
were not, of course, modern
steel-framed pianos.
In 1923 I was in Bourke, my
first visit, and I was disap-
pointed to learn that there had
not been a boat up for two
years because of low rivers.
Then, one day, the sound of
paddles, and alongside the tall
wharves (today all deserted)
swung the Nile, commanded by
Captain Brown, son of Gol-
conda and brother of the poet.
It was my first sight of one
of these historic craft, which
traded on “the West Coast of
New South Wales,” and were
all registered in Sydney, or
Melbourne, or Adelaide. This
younger Captain Brown invited
me on board and showed me
everything—the 7ft. wheel, the
20ft. paddles, the great wooden
rudder with its chains and the
barge which lay alongside.
No steamer, he told me, ever
went without its barge, which
was used not only to carry
freight but also to help over
dry places, when everything
would be taken out of the
steamer and put on the barge;
when the steamer crossed the
bar the cargo would be put back
on board, until the barge was
light enough to float.
There were no mechanical
aids, no winches, no cranes.
Cargoes were manhandled off
and on board. Wool-bales were
rolled along gangways and
hauled up the banks with gear
rigged to trees from the boat’s
engine, which had a drum to
take a heaving-line. Hard
work. But the men seemed to
manage—on two-guineas a week
and tucker.
At Wilcannia one day, in
intense heat, horses dropped
dead in the streets. A police-
sergeant went down to some
boats working cargoes and
warned them: “Some horses
have dropped dead, you’d better
stop work.” To which the
river-men shouted back: “We
ain’t horses. We’ll be right.”
Francis Brown, in “The Last
of the Dreadnoughts,” gives a
picture of the old Nile:
Her journeying done, ’neath a
sheltering gum,
Where the mudlark builds her
nest,
With her keel sunk deep in a silt-
ing hole,
Where the cod-fish moves on a
night-patrol,
By a couch-grass bank where the
wood-ducks stroll
Lies the s.s. Nile at rest.
Never again shall we hear at dawn
As the wild-ducks fly ahead,
The splash, splash, splash of her
paddle-wheel,
As out from a timbered bend
she’d steal,
To straighten her barge on an
even keel,
With a load from the Dunlop
shed.
Francis Brown was born at
Echuca in 1884, and educated
at Fort-street school. He was
employed in the N.S.W. Rail-
ways and Tramways Depart-
ment. After the 1917 strike he
had a nervous breakdown and
went to Bourke to join his
brothers, still running steamers
on the rivers. There he wrote
of the plains and rivers, but
when he came to Sydney to get
his verse published he suffered a
recurrence of an old malady and
returned to Bourke. There he
died in 1933.
He was the first man to sing
of our great rivers and their
steamers and hardy crews.


The name is
(D c CdlUim’s
CTFCaUiurt;
%
SoobdlhUv
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807.
MC 22/3.2
the whisky is
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your -women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SPORTING NOTIONS
Official attendance-figures for
Canterbury on Saturday were
given as 21,500. The S.T.C.
provided a well-balanced pro-
gramme, with keen racing, but
the attendance was down a few
thousand compared with the
corresponding fixture last year.
(Whatever it was kept the crowd
down at Canterbury it made no
difference to the roll-up that
night at Harold Park, where
22,879 watched the trots.)
•• • '
Woltara, outsider and last-
stride winner of the Canterbury
First Ashbury Stakes, is one of
the fastest horses on Rose-
bery training-track over a three-
furlongs course, but he had let
the stable down badly at Rand-
wick when considered a “good
thing” for the Novice Handicap
because of his brilliant track
efforts. In the Randwick race
he was ridden by Bill Camer,
and with plenty of vigor, but he
beat very few home. At Can-
terbury (he had run the best
three of the morning at Rose-
bery two days before) he was
ridden by apprentice Jim Shean,
son of former crack horseman
Fred Shean, and this time con-
sented to live up to track efforts,
winning easily.
Main objective of jockey Ted
Doon at Canterbury was to get
a quick win after his period of
suspension for some months,
and he succeeded by hard riding
in landing Booka first past the
post in the Welter, for which
his mount opened favorite. How-
ever, for some reason or other
Headingly, who had let backers
down at Randwick, was backed
for a fortune, from 7 to l v to
favoritism at 5 to 2 ; at no stage
did he look a winner. It gave
Booka’s late supporters a much
better price than expected.
Sydney thoroughbred-breeder
K. Quinn had only one yearling
to offer at the Randwick Easter
sales last year, and secured a
nice price for her, 1200gns., the
bid of Randwick trainer Jack
Mitchell. Racing as Fairy
Dream, the filly, a daughter of
Star Kingdom (imp.), easily won
the Canterbury Two-year-old
Maiden for fillies. Reared at
Barr a m u 1 Stud, Kerrabee
(N.S.W.), she is raced in part-
nership by Mrs. J. Mitchell and
Lou Tasker. Her dam, Luci-
mond, is a Veilmond mare from
Lucie Manette, winner of races
in smart company in Melbourne.
• • • •
Fran Mac, winner of the
Canterbury Maiden Two-year-
old for colts and geldings, and
Fairy Dream, winner of the
fillies’ division of that sprint, are
related on the dam’s side of their
pedigree. Fran Mac, a 600gns.
yearling purchased at the Rand-
wick sales last Easter, is a Royal
Blue (imp.) colt from Overland
by Brueghel (It.) from Tele-
graphy by Marconigram (imp.)
from Lucie. Manette by
Chrysolaus (imp.). N Lucimond,
dam of Fairy Dream, is a half-
sister to Telegraphy, dam of
Overland. Fran Mac, haying his
second race-start, is trained at
Rosebery by K. W. Suttle.
Jim Morsillo, who won on
Fairy Dream, had his first city
success for more than 12 years,
so the taxi he drives must have
been his best horse. He had
an armchair ride and won
easily. He rides work at Rand-
wick and Rosebery. Another
jockey who had driven a taxi
for some time and now rides a
lot of work at Rosebery is Bill
Feggins.
Winner of five races on end,
Victorian three-year-old filly
Estache is believed by her
trainer, R. Trihey, to be the
fastest of her sex in Australia.
She won her latest race, the
Moonee Valley First Preston
Handicap, by several lengths in
lmin. 11 9/10sec. Trihey won
the Newmarket with High Jip
(1950) and with Regular
Bachelor (1936). He knows
what it takes to win that tough
event up the Flemington
straight-six, and is confident of
a third success with his flying
filly.
• • • •
Hawkesbury winner Reigning
Star was yet another of the very
successful progeny of imported
sire Star Kingdom. Having her
first race-start, Reigning Star
cleared out with the Maiden
Two-year-old in near-record
time (55sec. for the 4\ furlongs).
Costing 850gns. as a yearling,
she is raced by Mesdames E. M-
Body, T. E. Windeyer and J. K.
Thompson, and is trained at
Randwick by Jack Green. From
a half-sister to Monarch, winner
of last year’s A.J.C. St. Leger,
Reigning Star is a daughter of
the Double Remove (imp.) mare
Echo, who is a half-sister to
Bankbrook, Slander and Grand
Vite.
• • • t
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate winner
Kingster has not long returned
to training, but evidently he is
fast getting ready for his first
race after the summer spell. At
Randwick the other day he was
given his first real hit-out since
returning from the break, and
on the grass-track ran half a
mile in 50isec., a fraction of a
second outside the best for the
session. Trained by Jack Green,
the colt should be in the head-
lines over the autumn round of
big fixtures.
Bill Cook’s 126 winners for a
Sydney metropolitan season
(1939-40) remains Australia's
best. In the same season Ted
McMenamin piloted 117
winners. There have been no
totals here comparing with those
figures. But for really big figures
they’re not in it beside American
records. For the season just
ended there topline U.S. jockey
Willie Shoemaker rode 380
winners; in 1953 he had 485
successes —the world’s record for
12 months. Over the past four
seasons his aggregate has reached
close on 1500 —an amazing tally,
even allowing for racing in the
U.S. being an almost daily affair.
This year’s Sydney Cup is to be
a £13,000 contest. Run on April
11, it should produce one of the
best races in the Cup’s long
history. The presence of Rising
Fast should attract extra
thousands to the Randwick
autumn carnival.
Upwards of 400 yearlings are
catalogued for the 29th annual
New Zealand auction on January
17 and 20. In 1954 New
Zealanders Rising Fast, Gold
Scheme, Lancaster, Commodore
and Prince Cortauld lifted much
Sydney and Melbourne stake-
“Now see if you can keep your eye on it THIS
time, caddie !”
money. Early lots to be offered
on the first day of the yearling-
sale include close relatives of
Beau Vite, Akbar, Mainbrace,
Gold Salute, Commodore,
Closing Time, Proctor and
Hiraji.
There are no place-only bet-
ting facilities on Sydney courses
apart from the tote. In former
years punters could make a
place-wager with bookmakers,
but the fielders made it so hot
with prices that the scheme killed
itself. “Dynamite” odds were
the rule all the time. The posi-
tion is different in Melbourne
and on other Australian courses,
where the punter secures a
quarter of the ruling straight-
out odds if he desires to make
a place-bet only. A section of
bookmakers wager this way, and
it has been found that punters
secure the right odds, and, inci-
dentally, the Government and
clubs -get some extra revenue
from the fielders. It would seem
the N.S.W. Government is
missing a chance of making
more money from racing by not
amending the betting-laws to
enable place-only bets to be
made with bookmakers. Tote
odds for a place are often well
under a quarter the straight-out
price.
Racebooks now contain many
of the things previously not con-
sidered important. For instance,
a recent book for Randwick had
two or three brief references to
inquiries by club stewards at the
previous race-meeting. These
were concisely written and
approved by racegoers.
* * *
Case for a royal commission?
To discover exactly who it was
who advised Tyson, after the
first Test, to shorten his run to
suit Australian conditions.
The second and third Tests (at
Sydney and Melbourne respec-
tively) followed a remarkably
like pattern. In both games
England, batting first, were dis-
missed for under 200, and Aus-
tralia proceeded to a first-innings
lead, 70-odd in Sydney, 40 in
Melbourne.
* • • •'
England in its second-innings
each time managed over 200.
Both times May led England’s
fight back into the game, a fine
century (104) in Sydney, 91 in
Melbourne. Both second-innings
ended with lusty slogging, by
Statham and Appleyard in
Sydney, by Wardle in Melbourne.
With just over 200 set to win
each time Australia twice looked
certain. (How lightly would
such a task have been essayed
in the days of Bradman and
Ponsford, opposed by bowlers
of the same quality!) Australia
still appeared to have the better
chance when, at stumps on the
two Tuesdays, its score was prac-
tically the same both times —
2-72 in Sydney, 2-75 in Mel-
bourne. In Sydney 151 were
still needed; in Melbourne 165.
In Sydney Australia failed by
39 runs; in Melbourne by 128.
(Third Test scores: England,
191, 279 ; Australia, 231, 111.)
It was the same destroyer—
T.Y.S.O.N. (with good help from
Statham). Sheer pace beat the
Australian batsmen. Tyson’s
great Sydney figures of 4-45 and
6- were overshadowed by his
7- on the final day in Mel-
bourne. Shattering figures,
particularly for Test-cricket —
they’d be chalked-up as remark-
able in any grade of the game.
The important finishing-off
part played by Tyson and
Statham in England’s two wins
overshadows the performances
of May and Cowdrey, the two
most consistent of England’s
batsmen; but, without their
scores, the fast-bowlers’ destruc-
tive part would have been
unavailing.
Another important English cog
is ’keeper Evans. Now in his
mid-thirties, Evans has lost none
of his speed and brilliance behind
the sticks. He’s been labelled
showman; but his spectacular
leaps and dives make catches out
of what, to a lesser ’keeper,
wouldn’t even rank as “chances.”
(Such his amazing catches to
dismiss Miller in the first- and
Harvey in the second-innings in
Melbourne.) Holding catches
like these wins Tests.
Australia’s weakness lies in its
batsmen; its bowlers have done
well enough. There are sure to
be one or two changes for the
fourth Test; yet the team beaten
in Melbourne is practically the
best possible side, and it’s
extremely doubtful whether any
other selected team could have
handled Tyson on the day any
better.
The Shield match between
N.S.W. and Queensland was
somewhat like the third Test —
see-sawed back and forth.
N.S.W. collapsed twice, were six
down for 80-odd in both innings,
then recovered to win after more
than once looking to be facing
defeat. (N.S.W., 278, 167 ; Q.,
230, 167.)
• • • •
The game brought to light two
up-and-coming young fast-
bowlers, Crawford (N.S.W.) and
Fisher (Q.). It was Fisher’s first
first-class game, and he took
eight wickets in all. Crawford,
who took 12 wickets for the
match, six in each innings, has
been doing splendidly for N.S.W.
since playing his first big game
against M.C.C. last November.
He looks the most likely prospect
a§ Lindwall’s eventual successor.
* * *
Seixas, holder of the U.S. and
South-west Pacific titles, runner-
up to Rosewall in the last Vic-
torian championships and star
of the American win in the
Davis Cup, added the South
Australian title to his recent
successes, beating the Swede
Bergelin in straight - sets,
6-3, 7-5, 8-6. Trabert, Hoad,
Rosewall and Hartwig didn’t
play; Rose was eliminated in
the semi-finals by Seixas.
American junior Mike Green
won the junior singles title.
In the 1952 American cham-
pionships Seixas and Rose,
pairing at the last minute, won
the doubles final from the then
all-conquering Sedgman and
McGregor. Last week, again
pairing at the last moment, they
won the S.A. doubles. In the
final, a hard-fought five-set
game, they defeated the English-
men Becker and Barrett, two
young players (Becker in par-
ticular) who look most likely
to put Britain back on the tennis
map.
Ken Rosewall won the Sea-
side championship (at Manly,
N.S.W.), beating promising
Queenslander Mai Anderson
6-1, 6-4. Worthington and
Candy won the doubles from
Rosewall and a Sydney “week-
end” player, Jack May.
• * *
There should be some keen
golf this season when the
promised overseas players turn-
up. They include Britain’s Peter
Alliss and South Africa’s Bobby
Locke, due to compete in the
major tourneys.
The English Professional
Golfers’ Association turned
down a proposal by English
Ryder Cup captain Henry
Cotton, who held that far too
many overseas players were hav-
ing a lash at English tourneys,
so that locals weren’t getting a
fair go. He wanted the P.G.A.
to limit visitors to three or four
tourneys. The committee held
that if this were done many
promoters would drop their
tournaments altogether, because
they wouldn’t get a very big
drawcard.
* * *
In the N.S.W. swimming
championships last week, girl
swimster Lorraine Crapp, who
won the 110yds. and 440yds.
freestyle events at last year’s
Empire Games in record times,
and just before leaving Australia
for Vancouver had set new
world’s-record times for 440yds.
and 880yds., broke the Aus-
tralian 110yds. freestyle record
by I.3sec. Time, lmin. 6.6 sec.
(In second place Jan Munro, of
Queensland, also broke the
record.) In the 110yds. junior
breaststroke final, 13-year-old
Canberra swimmer Betty Sykes
made another to break an Aus-
tralian record: her time,
lmin. 27.55ec.


With Half the Races of the Earth
Weekly to City
By B. A. KER
~ 1 \EEKLY to city,” I
\A / anc * P us k or "
y\f ward my money:
getting, in return,
something more than a ticket to
Sydney—so I sometimes think.
Remember, before World
War 11, quite a run of “train”
films? “Night Train to
Munich,” “Istanbul Express,”
and such. I liked them
because they had the fascina-
tion of the exotic, giving stay-
puts like myself a chance to see
something of other peoples and
customs, to hear (faintly) the
enchanting babble of alien
tongues; however Hollywooded
the version may have been.
Now I can stand on our rail-
way-station and see the cosmo-
politan parade at first-hand.
There are more New Australians
in our municipality than in all
Western Australia.
Monday morning. Unravel-
ling far from, the ticket-window,
a long queue, in which the male
components are mostly native-
born: a fair sprinkling of New
Australian women, not many
New Australian men. Why? Is
it that they are more methodi-
cal than native males and,their
own womenfolk, sensibly chang-
ing their tickets at the weekend?
A couple charging on to the
station provide an explanation.
She takes her place at the end
of the queue. He hands her his
old ticket and the money,
strides down the platform, waits
impatiently, eyes darting from
signal to ticket-window. Maybe
the Old Australian isn’t so
ungallant, after all.
I stroll down the platform,
weaving my way around the
circles of young, shock-headed
Italians. This habit of standing
in groups in the middle of the
platform seems to be a national
characteristic an annoying
one. No doubt, when they are
properly assimilated, the erst-
while Italians will have lost the
habit; perhaps they’ll lean
against the station-walls or the
picket-fence instead.
+ +
A thick-set man catches up
with me, grumbling. “No use
tryin’ to edge round ’em. You
want to go through ’em. That’s
the only treatment they under-
stand.” Angry glances. “They
come here and take possession of
the place,” he adds, a final
indictment.
The complainant has a Lan-
cashire accent that reminds me
of Ulbert and the Lion . . .
Well, he’s assimilated, anyway.
I pass a very short, blocky,
red-chaeked man who always
reminds me of the toymaker in
a storybook we had as kids.
Mentally I call him “Hans.”
Then a little chap—a German —
in a coat with velvet lapels. His
moustache is greying, luxurious,
sweeping down in two graceful
Kaiser Bill arcs, with the
beginnings of ascending curls.
Exactly the German type Cap-
tain Bairnsfather caricatured
back in World War I.
Here, too, we’ve been able to
watch a little drama of court-
ship. The man looked like an
elderly diplomat Viennese,
perhaps. Every morning he
waited, with many impatient
glances at a gold-hunter, until a
tiny, grey-haired, neatly dressed
lady came hurrying towards
him.
In the early stages they used
to shake hands with gentle but
lingering warmth every morn-
ing. Later he greeted her more
warmly. Heedless of onlookers,
he bent low over her hand and
kissed it. This became the rule.
Months passed. We —the
regulars—became accustomed to
the courtly scene. Then one
morning the lady stopped some
20yds. up the platform. The
man did not see her —he was
standing with his back turned
stiffly, deliberately, towards the
direction from which she always
came. Days passed; the rift
remained unhealed.
The first indication of a
change for the better came when
he pulled his watch out one
morning. A minute later he had
it out again. Then she came,
hurrying down the platform, her
small face beaming. He fairly
ran to meet her, sweeping off
his homburg as he ran. It was
a joyful moment —for all of us.
They never catch this train
now; perhaps they’re married
and have settled down on one
of the poultry-farms that ring
the outskirts of the town. But
somehow I can’t think of that
distinguished-looking man with-
out his homburg; and a hom-
burg doesn’t seem the sort of
headgear to wear when mixing
a dry-mash, or to flap at chooks.
Of course, they could turn up
again. The fellow who always
wore a Chinaman’s suit did that.
When I was a lad all the
Chinese market-gardeners—and
there were scores of them in this
district then —wore shapeless
blue-dungaree coats and pants.
Only a very hard-up white-man
ever wore that outfit. An asso-
ciation of ideas made me feel
very sorry for the aged Old
Australian who used to wear the
unattractive garb to work.
When he stopped catching the
train I began to wonder what
had happened to him. Six weeks
went by, and I found myself
still thinking of him, and of the
bitterness of poverty and old
age. It was with genuine relief
I saw him back on the station
one morning. He sat behind me
in the train —and gave his com-
panion a very interesting account
of the Barrier Reef. He was
going there again for his holi-
days next year, he said . . .
I pass a tall, fair man in his
early thirties. High cheek-bones
under a sallow skin; hair, very
long, and brushed past the ears
until the ends almost meet at
the back, forming a kind of part
up the back of the head. His
jacket has leather patches sewn
over elbows and shoulders.
Something about him makes one
think of Poles working in
dwindling parties in dim forests,
under the rifles of their guards.
A few years back he would
have been called a “Balt”; every
fair-haired man with an accent
was a Balt in those days. Now,
of course, he is a “New Aus-
tralian.” We lump them all into
that convenient category —half
the races of the earth!
The Italians keep to their own
groups; so, in the main, do the
Maltese, the Poles and the
Dutch. And each group speaks
its native language.
The train comes in and the
rush is on. As usual, the tall,
thin yOuth swings in through an
open door as the carriage flashes
past him. And as usual some-
body gasps and prophesies that
he’ll do it once too often. Per-
haps he will. Crowds mill
around the doors as the train
grinds to a stop. The slow-
off-the-mark and gentlemanly
have little chance of getting a
seat.
In the struggle to get aboard
quickly I jostle a woman rather
badly. With a sense of shame I
realise that, in my anxiety to
get a seat, I’ve behaved like an
oaf. I step back sheepishly and
apologise.
The woman is in her forties,
small, with a clear, cold-climate
complexion. Passably good-
looking—if her fair, almost-
golden hair were not pulled up
in a taut, severe bun a little
higher on the head than is
usual.
My apology seems to em-
barrass her. She steps back
nervously as though she is
frightened of Australian men.
“No, no.” She waves me to
go ahead of her. “It is that you
go first.”
I feel even more of an oaf.
I enter the carriage. Too late
for a seat, of course. I stand in
the aisle. Three girls have a
seat on my left. They are
Italian or Maltese —hard to say
which. Girls of both races have
that ivory skin, dark, wavy hair,
fine teeth and wonderful eyes.
And, unhappily, they get fat.
Two of the girls take out
knitting. New Australian girls
use a peculiar method of their
own when knitting. They hold
the needles almost on the points:
clumsily, it seems to a masculine
eye. No forefinger flicks out
repeatedly, like a snake’s tongue,
as it does when our girls knit,
yet the rows seem to build-up
with amazing rapidity.
Discussing the subject with my
wife, I was told: “They work
the wool on the needles. We
work the needles on the wool.
Their method is a lot faster —
if you could learn it.”
Other New Australian girls in
the carriage: tall, fair girls
whose hair-style seems to be
achieved by combing the hair
upwards ail around the head
and fastening it on top with a
bunched, sophisticated effect.
Saxons, perhaps. Two dark
girls with big, drop ear-rings
and slick-looking hair-do’s are
not Italian or Maltese types, I
decide, but a modern Carmen
could look like either o,f them.
A girl whose fresh-com-
plexioned face is partly framed
with light-brown loose curls
chatters happily to a young (I
guess) Dutchman, but I cannot
isolate one word in English—
until I catch “Malta Story.” She
must be telling him about the
film that was shown at the local
on Saturday night.
The girl with the blue eyes is
in the carriage again today.
There are other girls with blue
eyes, of course—what makes this
girl’s eyes so noticeable is the
color of her skin. She could be
an Indian.
A group of Italian youths
stand in the aisle near me. In
spite of the reputation Latins
have for being fervent lovers, it
is rare to see Italians encourag-
ing Cupid in the train. Perhaps
they need the right- atmosphere.
Generally the youths keep to-
gether, .conversing in loud tones,
in Italian. Their feminine com-
patriots, three or four to a group,
talk together quietly with
fluent tongues, darting eyes and
expressive shoulders. Judging
by the little titters, they talk
about the same things as our
girls; boys, mostly.
Last Wednesday, however, I
did see an “understanding”
ripening between a young
Italian and a girl who would
have passed for his compatriot
in appearance, but obviously
could not speak his language.
He was trying to explain some-
thing ; evidently it could be
eaten. The girl listened care-
fully, then hazarded: “Goose-
berry?”
+ +
He shook his black-curled
head, wrinkled his forehead,
then produced a pencil. On the
back of a cigarette-paper packet
he wrote one word. She spelt it
out: “R-i-s-o,” and shook her
abundance of dark hair in
mystification.
Cupid looked to be in danger
of falling at the hurdle of gastro-
nomy. However, the Italian had
one more resource left: he took
the pencil out again and drew
carefully.
Enlightenment came with a
rush.
“Rice! That’s what you
mean —rice! ”
“Ripe?”
“No; rice,” she corrected.
“Rice —r-i-c-e.”
His education in English had
begun.
It is strange how differently
individual New Australians
regard the matter of learning
English. Some seem to have no
desire to learn: others display
a fervent, almost pathetic,
anxiety to pick up every crumb
of English carelessly dropped in
their paths. Some study ortho-
dox two-language dictionaries in
the train. But twice I have seen
New Australians take out note-
books —their own home-made
tutors: pencilled words written
in English on one side of the
pages, in a foreign language on
the other.
This looking over shoulders
can leave one pondering. A big,
dark-haired, light-skinned man
seated near me some weeks back
produced a magazine that could
have been mistaken for the
“Saturday Evening Post” at first
glance. When he opened the
publication, however, I read, in
bold headlines:
QUO VADIS?
ROM IN FLAMMEN.
WAR-NUNGS SIGNAL.
Not being a linguist, I could
only wonder. But there seemed
a familiar ring about it.
On another occasion I stood
near a tall, very thin, sallow
young man. He wore a light-
khaki safari-jacket and was read-
ing a book illustrated with old-
fashioned woodcuts. I glanced
over his shoulder to see what
old classic he had dug up. I
still don’t know. When I find
out what language other than
English uses the word “were”
I’ll have a clue to the language
printed in that book.
Several days later the young
man was reading another book.
Again I looked over his
shoulder.
Bar 20 Days. Clarence Mul-
ford.
Hopalong Cassidy!
One morning I was looking
through a New Zealand journal
which featured a double-page
illustration in conjunction with
an article on Holland. When the
crowd thinned-out at Central a
broad-shouldered, blond young
man slid along the seat (one of
those that run lengthwise on
each side of the small compart-
ment).
'“Excuse me,” he said, with
scarcely a trace of accent.
“Would you allow me to look
at that photograph of Holland?”
I handed him the publication
and he glanced through the
captions.
“As I thought.” His tone was
very close to disgust. “Non-
sense.” He read aloud: “Girls
working in the tulip-fields still
wear the traditional dress.”
His blue eyes turned back to
me. “In Holland we wore the
same sort of clothes as your
people do wear: as wearing I
am now. Even my grandmother,
who was 80 years, had not worn
those garments. On two very
small islands such clothes still
are worn —for the tourists to
see. Elsewhere such garments
are just the . . . the fancy-dress.
“But it is of no use to try to
explain to your people. To
them Holland is . . . is . . . I
will tell you. Yesterday one of
the girls at my place of work, she
said: ‘I would last night have
liked you to meet a man I met.
He also came from Sweden.’
Sweden!”
The expression on his hand-
some face lingers in my
memory.
On the homeward journey one
night I sat, with a mate, in front
of three men who were speaking
in Italian.
At the next stop an elderly
man entered the carriage and
sat next to me. Just after the
train started he suddenly jerked
upright, wheeled around in his
seat and glared behind.
“What happened? What did
they do to him?” asked my mate
in a whisper.
“Don’t know. I didn’t see
anything,” I whispered back.
The old chap did not turn
around again, but he squirmed
restlessly for two more stops.
At the third stop he got up,
walked towards the door, then
suddenly wheeled around and
shouted at the three Italians:
“Learn to speak English!”
I have always contended that
anybody could distinguish a
New Australian, although identi-
fying his erstwhile nationality
might be difficult: cut of clothes
and hair, little mannerisms, that
sort of thing. Then a mildly
drunk Scotsman, on the home-
ward journey one Friday night,
sat down beside me, started a
conversation and suddenly shot
the question: “Where were you
born?”
I named the town. A long
pause while his grey eyes stabbed
at me from under his greying
prickly bushes of eyebrows, then
he declared flatly: “Ye no can
tell me that. But y’ dinna ha’e
to be frightened o’ telling me
you’re a New Australian. I
wouldna refuse to speak to a
mangy blackfellie. But ye canna
deceive me. Ye know what gi’es
ye away?” His eyes pierced me
like cold, steel knitting-needles.
“ ’Tis your tongue, mon! ”
I was shaken. Mine is an
outdoor job, and my face is
sun-tanned in consequence.
Perhaps I could look like an
Italian or Maltese. But my
speech!
+ +
However, the Scot was going
on. With a Harry Lauder
accent he informed me that he
was a “North o’ the Tweed
mon,” but nobody would ever
know it, and for why? Because
he mixed with Australians. That
was where we fellies made the
mistake —we kept in little com-
munities and talked our own
language. The consequence was
we never learnt to talk like
Australians.
For the next half-hour he
carried on a one-sided quiz-
session, in an extremely loud
voice, as he endeavored to estab-
lish my place of birth.
There is no creature on earth
more persistent than a slightly
inebriated Scotsman, but short
of fighting him or getting up
and striding into another
carriage, to stand up all the way
home, there was nothing I could
do.
Between brief periods of eye-
ing me appraisingly like a judge
assessing beef-cattle, he toyed
with different possibilities.
Italian, Maltese, Spaniard,
Hungarian, Pole, German,
Russian, one after the other
he checked them with my cast
of countenance and rejected
them.
“But I’ll find out, mon,” he
declared confidently and re-
peatedly. Not until —to my
great relief —he was making
preparations to get out, did
enlightenment come with a
flash.
“O’ course, that’s what ye
are!” he exclaimed. “A Syrian.
I should’ve kenned it first time.
My neighbor’s one! I told ye
I’d guess it.” He weaved to the
door in obvious delight. In the
doorway he turned and waved.
“I’ll tell him I saw ye,” he
promised . . .
And now the train is pulling
into Redfern. There will be
seats for all after this station.
On one of the vacant seats is
now revealed the work of some
unknown vandal. A big-boned
Slav-type of man points to the
wanton destruction ; disapprov-
ingly.


FOR
BETTER MOTORING
AND
FRIENDLY
Mobil
Service
Always buy
Mobilgas
ana
Mobiloil
Mobilubr ication
Accessories
Batteries
Tyres
at the sign of the
FLYING RED HORSE
a
Mob
Mobil
ifi
r Vi Ce
X
JO
6552
Twenty questions
on dogs
Can every dog be trained to
obey? When choosing a pup,
what should you look for? How
much does a good one cost?
What’s the best food for your
dog; how much should you
feed him? How can you stop
his barking, jumping up? Janu-
ary Reader’s Digest answers
the twenty most common ques-
tions on dogs.
You’ll enjoy thirty other
stimulating articles in January
Reader’s Digest including
“Don’t let etiquette stop you”,
“Can we farm the ocean?”
“The book of 1000 tongues.”
Plus a 24-page book condensa-
tion of foreign correspondent
Harrison Salisbury’s “Russia
Re-Viewed”. January Reader’s
Digest, on sale now —1/6 at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA AND U.N.
The first U.S. Senator Henry
Cabot Lodge helped block the
entry of the U.S. into the League
of Nations ; his grandson, Henry
Cabot Lodge, Jr., is now the chief
American delegate to the United
Nations. In the following
excerpt from an interview with
“U.S. News and World Report”
he sets out something of the
U.S. attitude towards the U.N.,
Russia and Red China:
Q. How would you define the
purpose of the United Nations
Charter, Mr. Lodge? Is it the
purpose of the Charter to provide
a meeting-place for Govern-
ments?
A. No. The purpose of the
Charter was to create an
organisation of peace-loving
nations —and I underline peace-
loving—who would get together
in case of an aggression and
repel it —who’d try to prevent
aggression, in the first place, and,
if an aggression occurred, would
get together and repel it.
Q. You don’t regard the
machinery of the United Nations
itself as a formal structure such
as a federation would be?
A. I think “federation” is
much too strong a word. It’s not
even as much like a confedera-
tion as the [American] Con-
federacy at the time of the Civil
War, and that proved to be too
weak to maintain itself in the
face of opposition. The United
Nations is nothing like as formal
an organisation as that was.
Nothing like it!
Q. Is it an alliance?
A. It’s not an alliance. We
have no alliance with the Soviet
Union. It’s a centre for
harmonising.
Q. In practice is it any more
than a debating-society?
A. It isn’t a society. We are
not on a basis of a society with
the Soviet Union. It’s an arena,
it’s a device, it’s an instru-
mentality. It is, among other
things, a place where we stand
up against the Soviets when they
try to use the U.N. as a forum
for prosecuting their “cold war.”
And, if we’re successful in doing
that, we can generate world
opinions which will influence the
Communists in the Kremlin.
We’ve proven that several times.
Q. You underline “peace-
loving.” Do you mean by that
that if we had it to do over
again, Soviet Russia might not
have been in it?
A. Absolutely! Ido mean
that.
Q. What is your definition of
peace-loving?
A. Well, I can define it
negatively. It is a nation that
has not been convicted of aggres-
sion by the United Nations. I’ll
put that down as a minimum
definition.
Q. That would take care of
Red China, wouldn’t it?
A. In my opinion, that takes
care of Red China.
Q. Would you be in favor of
pushing the Soviet Union out
of the United Nations?
A. That’s a calculation you
have to make. There are lots of
pros and cons on that, you know.
From the standpoint of logic,
yes, they ought to be out. And,
as I say, if we had known in San
Francisco the way they were
going to act, I don’t think we
would have ever been in favor
of admitting them. But there are
certain advantages in having
them there, too. It gives them a
chance to make an exhibition of
themselves, and that’s a chance
of which they take very frequent
advantage. And part of the
effect of their making an exhibi-
tion of themselves is a unifying
of the free world.
I’ve seen it happen many times
—the free nations, being free,
start to drift apart, and everyone
follows his own way. The poli-
ticians in the free nations start
attacking each other. But when
it gets to that point, the Soviet
representative will say something
that is so monstrous, so shocking,
so irritating, that the free people
start pulling together again.
Japan's New Premier
New Japanese Premier Ichiro
Hatoyama, succeeding Shigeru
Yoshida, leads a Government
consisting mainly of dissident
Liberals (who have now formed
the Democratic party), depend-
ing on Socialist support, and
expected to hold office until
elections in March or thereabouts
—long enough for it to have
some effect on both foreign
policy and domestic issues.
Three comments on possible
effects:
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“Ichiro Hatoyama, 71 years old,
and out of the political spotlight
since World War 11, differs from
Yoshida principally in favoring
full diplomatic relations and
increased trade with Russia and
Red China. He is not, however,
inclined toward Communist or
even neutralist sympathies.
Convinced that Communist
infiltration constitutes a genuine
threat to Japan, he strongly
favors a pro-Western orienta-
tion.”
* # *
“New York Times”: “The
irony of the situation is that Mr.
Yoshida was persuaded to resign
rather; than call new elections
which his political advisers
thought would be costly and
unsettling. Now Mr. Hatoyama
has had to promise new elections
to the Socialists as the price of
their support.
“This development also indi-
cates a probable shift away from
close collaboration with the
United States toward a more
‘independent’ national policy and
toward the Left.
“Mr. Hatoyama, though
purged from political life during
the Occupation, avows both his
conservatism and his firm
adherence to Japan’s security
arrangements with the United
States. But ip line with both the
Progressives, who constitute the
bulk of his new party and who
want Japan aligned with the
Asian nations, and the Socialists,
who demand a rapprochement
with the Communist world, he is
pledged to seek diplomatic
relations and trade-expansion
with Communist China and
Soviet Russia.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “Japan
in fact wants the best of both
worlds. To get it Tokyo will
move closer to the Communist
bloc, and the people of Japan
will applaud any politician who
appears to stand up to the United
States. The cynical may say that
this is really an affair of mirrors ;
that Japan has no intention of
working itself out of the
American camp ; that its new
Democratic-party Government is
conservative to the core, and
would never deliberately allow
Japan to slip into Communist
clutches.
“All this is true. But it still
underrates the potential dangers
of the current Japanese attitude,
which is now stimulated in part
by a growing determination to
do more trade at almost any
cost; by a Japanese belief, like
that of the Germans in regard
to the Russians, that they can
outsmart the Chinese, whether
Communist or not; and by the
natural personal resentments of
a new Cabinet, 10 of whose 18
members were at one time
‘purged’ under the American-run
Occupation.”
Atom-bomb Decision
The West’s military authorities
in Europe have made it pretty
plain that they are basing their
New York “Herald Tribune ”
JUST ON PAPER
strategy in the event of war on
the use of atomic weapons—
they say, in fact, that the point
of “no-return” has been reached
in that respect.
There remains, however, the
problem of who shall make the
decision to use such weapons,
and, as the following British-
press comment demonstrates,
opinion on that is by no means
unanimous:
“Yorkshire Post”: “The
question is in what circumstances
atomic weapons are to be used,
and who is to decide when the
moment has come. A rash order
given by a flurried commander
could bring on the most
calamitous results. For this
reason the question demands a
cool examination.
“In the condition assumed [of
a war against the Russian bloc]
we must further assume that
numerical superiority will be
with the other side. The stark
choice between surrender and the
use of atomic weapons may
therefore soon be forced on the
commander. The vital question
is—shall the choice be left to
the Supreme Allied Commander
Europe, or shall he delegate it
to certain subordinates, or shall
it be reserved to some or all of
the Governments concerned?
“The difficulty lies in the fact
that a subordinate commander
may not be in a position to judge
properly about what is at least
partly a political decision. The
opposite danger may arise if the
decision is reserved to Govern-
ments. Agonising decisions may
have to be made: a politician
may be compelled to sanction a
course of action involving at
least temporary ruin for his
country. Fatal hesitation may
result.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“It is the duty of the 14 Foreign
Ministers in Nato to direct
jointly the Supreme Commander
in Europe, General Gruenther.
There is no question that they
will regard such decisions as too
serious a matter to be left to the
generals.”
* » at
London “Daily Express ”;
“The politicians are wary of
giving the say-so to the generals,
whom they regard as hasty. The
generals fear that, if left to the
politicians, the order would come
too late. Let the politicians ask
themselves this: Where the
commanders do not command
their own weapons how can they
command the battle, let alone
win it? When the fighting starts
the politicians have already
failed in their task.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“What might happen in the
sudden, terrible instant of
challenge—in face, let us say, of
a vaster and far more devastating
Pearl Harbor —nobody would
now dare to foretell. It is, how-
ever, quite obvious that we must
take all feasible steps to prevent
a vaster and perhaps more
devastating Pearl Harbor
happening to us. And one
method is to speed-up and
streamline the methods of
decision, and the means of com-
municating and implementing
that decision, so that they are
ever ready and capable of being
made instantly effective.
“A leisurely Nato committee of
the representatives of sovereign
nations could not possibly be
given the authority of decision.
That authority must rest, surely,
where it has always rested since
1941, in Washington and/or in
London and in constant, full and
rapid understanding between
these two capitals at all times.
Granted these conditions, the
whole question falls into focus—
though there are some who, of
course, would like the Western
nations to consult the enemy


you can put 700 lb. of meat
m
m
V»A\.% vV'VAV
&SB»>V*
;
Si
%
®SVvWvX* * .*
in this llashjteefe quick-freezer
///////
///////
There are many times when you have meat or supplies
in quantity or when reliable food preservation over a
long period could be of great assistance to you. Stock
might be at its best for the table ... an abundance
of vegetables . . . Spring, for killing poultry at its
best. All are occasions when you really appreciate a
■ Flashfreeze quick-freezer. For with a Flashfreeze you can
store food in bulk at these times and keep it safely,
till needed. For instance, fresh beef, lamb, mutton,
pork, veal, poultry, butter, fruit, vegetables, baked bread
and fruit cake can all be stored in a Flashfreeze
for as long as 12 months without deterioration in
flavour or nutritional value. Then, there is the
convenience to be considered. Besides having food at
its best, you always have a goodly supply on hand
because these units are large, the one illustrated at
left having a capacity of 20 eu. feet and holding
700 lb. of meat or an equivalent quantity of vegetables
or other food stuffs. All Flashfreeze models have at
least 2 compartments for long storage quick-freezing.
However, some models have an additional section for
refrigeration for your normal day to day needs—a
combination of the best in quick-freezing and
refrigeration.
Other Flashfreezers include:
PR22. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination,
cu. feet of freezing space,
cu. feet of refrigeration.
PR 14. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination,
cu. feet of freezing space, cu. feet
of refrigeration.
PI2. Freezer capacity 12 cu. feet.
Publicity Manager,
Noyes Bros. (Sydney] Ltd.,
Box 1587, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
I would be pleased to receive full inform-
ation about Flashfreeze.
NAME
ADDRESS.
before bombing them, and these
will never be satisfied.”
* * *
London “ Spectator” : “Obvi-
ously, the member-Governments
of Nato would have to lay down,
at the outset of a war, in as clear
and precise a manner as possible,
their conception of the condi-
tions which would justify the use
of atomic weapons, and clearly
the military command would be
obliged to respect these condi-
tions. It is equally plain that
a sudden decision might have
to be taken, and that the High
Command might not be able to
wait on the exact instructions
of 14 Governments. In such a
case, the soldiers would have to
make up their own minds, in the
knowledge that they would be
called to account for their actions
by the politicians.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “It
seems then that the statesmen
could only reserve the decision
as to when and where to employ
the bombs. For this reservation
to be effective it would have to
be agreed by the statesmen of all
the warring countries on our side.
There would be consultation and
agreement, not only with the
Commonwealth but among 14
Nato nations.
“This, however, would mean
taking the most suicidal risks.
The war might well be lost
before the consultations were
finished. Surely the sensible
thing to do is to concert prior
plans, based on a number of
alternative situations, and to act
accordingly. In the highly
unlikely event of war, the states-
men would sanction a plan, and
the soldiers would know at once
what they could or could not do.
“This seems to us to be not
merely the most sensible way but
the only way.”
* * *
"Manchester Guardian”: “The
only way out is for the [North
Atlantic] Council to give clear
and detailed instructions in
advance to its military com-
manders. These instructions
would lay down the circum-
stances in which military officers
may decide to use atomic
weapons. It would be surprising,
in fact, if such instructions have
not already been issued.”
Gone Awa '
In an editorial review of the
Scottish Registrar-General’s re-
port on emigration from Scot-
land, Edinburgh “Scotsman”
comments that “only a country
of exceptional resilience could
stand such a severe drain on its
population”:
“From 1861 to 1951 the net
emigration total was 1,588,000,
which was actually 2000 more
than the number who left Eng-
land and Wales during these
decades. Yet Scotland’s popu-
lation was only an eighth of that
of her southern partners. All of
the emigrants, of course, did not
go to die Commonwealth, but
the heavy disproportion shows
that Scotland has done far more
than her share of Empire-build-
ing.
“An interesting feature of this
report is that it illustrates the
Scottish diaspora by citing
figures from U.S. and Common-
wealth censuses. More than
650,000 people born in Scotland
are now living in America and
the Commonwealth.
“Had it not been for the out-
ward flow, our population, the
Registrar - General computes,
would be now over seven-mil-
lion. It is hard to say what is
the optimum population for a
country of Scotland’s size, but
there is little doubt that she
could provide for all the natural
increase, as her resources are
not fully exploited. The popula-
tion of England and Wales has
expanded more rapidly than
that of Scotland, partly on
account of the heavier incidence
of emigration here. It is quite
probable that a similar expan-
sion could have been absorbed
without inconvenience in Scot-
land.
“There was a time when this
country’s greater contribution to
the development of the Com-
monwealth would have been
hailed with satisfaction. Now
we are more conscious of the
losses. The disadvantages of
emigration cannot be expressed
solely in statistical terms, for it
is well known that the young,
the skilled and the enterprising
are the most likely to seek better
opportunities abroad, as they
are certainly the most welcome
immigrants. Owing to their de-
parture our population is ageing,
but more serious is the intangible
loss of vigor and initiative.
Exported energies might have
been spent in developing the
Highlands and other places
which suffer most from the drain
of population.
“Emigration is not all loss.
There is some compensation in
the fund of goodwill for the
home country which its children
create. The envoys of the Scot-
tish Council and of the Tourist
Board, for instance, find in their
missions to North America in
the interest of export-trade and
tourism that they can rely on the
powerful assistance of the exiled
Scots. For how many genera-
tions these will remember is
uncertain, but, in the meantime,
the sentiment forms a strong
bond with the people at home.
“Scotland has done her part
nobly in populating the Com-
monwealth, and appeals for
organised emigration should
now be addressed to her neigh-
bors. Unfortunately, the tide of
emigration still seems to be flow-
ing. Despite the world-wide
depression of the 1930’5, the
restrictions of the war-years and
subsequent full employment,
about 220,000 persons left Scot-
land between 1931 and 1951.
“That was certainly less than
in each of the three decades after
1901, but it shows the persist-
ence of the outward trend, even
when economic conditions at
home are exceptionally good.”
Holland
Compared with French vacil-
lation on European integration,
the Dutch have been solidly
behind a united Europe. They
were the first to ratify the Euro-
“De Gazet van Antwerpen,” Holland
THE TWO BLOCS—DUTCH VIEW
pean Defence Community pro-
posal, subsequently killed by the
French National Assembly, and,
despite their doubts about some
aspects of the latest concept of
a united Europe (accepted by
the French), they have welcomed
the fact that a military substi-
tute has been found for E.D.C.
“Why,” asks London “Econo-
mist,” “should a phlegmatic
people retain so passionate a
faith in an ideal which has been
abandoned by some of their
neighbors with less of a repu-
tation for caution and common-
sense?
“The war,” it comments, “left
an indelible mark on Dutch
minds ; a mark so deep that this
thoughtful people can still
remember not only the horrors
of Nazi occupation but also the
fatal shortsightedness that made
that occupation possible. They
remember the abject collapse of
their policy of neutrality, the
ease with which the German
invaders overwhelmed their tiny
Army, and the rapid ebb of all
hope of an improvised counter-
attack from the south by the
allies from whom the Low
Countries had stood aloof until
it was too late.
“Today, although less imme-
diately menaced than in 1940,
they can see how exposed is their
position, with the Red Army
poised a mere 150 miles away
across flat country without
natural barriers.
“Yet, even if Hitler’s war
finally destroyed the long-
cherished concept, which the
Kaiser’s war had reinforced, of
neutrality as a practicable goal
for Holland, no visitor to the
country can help being struck
by the single-minded way in
which the Dutch have embraced
the idea not only of integration
but also of German rearmament
within the Western alliance.
“On the German issue the
contrast between Dutch feeling
and that in Britain, let alone in
France, is remarkable. No
Western country suffered worse
devastation at Hitler’s hands
than Holland; none has more
bitter memories of German
ruthlessness; and all history
shows that no people has
excelled the Dutch in determina-
tion to remain an independent
nation despite all the efforts of
larger States to absorb them.
“Yet Dutchmen are virtually
unanimous in their welcome for
a German defence-contribution
—which would, of course, de-
cisively change the military
picture which now meets their
eyes as ; they look eastwards
across the bare northern plain.
“As for the seductive attrac-
tions of ‘peaceful coexistence’ on
the Muscovite model, they have
no champions in Holland other
than the Communists them-
selves ; most Dutchmen, indeed,
seem to have as good a nose for
doubtful political panaceas as
their foremost connoisseurs for
a dubious cheese.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Address, Please
Today, while my postal-staff settled
down to clearing-up the aftermath of
Christmas (the usual late postings), I
waded through a large basket containing,
at a minimum, 2000 greeting-cards
which were undeliverable during the peak-
period because posties could not spare
time to fossick-out the correct addresses.
Some bore streets but no numbers;
others did not show the town or suburb;
still more had such additions as nearly
opposite hotel,” “a few doors from
the corner of street,” etc.
With the aid of a telephone-directory,
copies of the electoral rolls and the latest
street-maps published by the Lands
Department covering this metropolitan
area to a radius of 30 miles, 1 managed
to dispose of 10 to 15 per cent. The rest
will eventually find their way to the dead-
letter section.
Multiply that several hundred times
throughout the Commonwealth and over
a period of two to three weeks, and you
get some idea of the loss to the public
in the cost of cards, postage and labor.
Every year through its public-relations
sections and the press the P.M.G.
urges the public to take a few elementary
steps to ensure delivery of their greeting-
cards, and every year the dead-letter sec-
tions work overtime to clear-up the accu-
mulation of undeliverable mail. — The
Super (W.A.).
Writing for Radio
The great drawback to writing for
radio (B. 3/11/’54) is that there’s usually
nothing enduring about the work. Only
one radio-play in a thousand is given
repeat broadcasts. That also applies to
feature^.
As a result, those who write for radio
seldom get any of those additional divi-
dends, such as royalties, serial-rights,
commissioned articles, etc., which belong
to those who write for a reading public.
Even the top-liner makes no fortune
from radio, while the average script-
writer, who may average one play or
feature accepted per fortnight, makes
little above the basic-wage. There is the
chance of hitting a jackpot by placing
a radio-serial, but the market for them
is limited and confined mainly to com-
mercial stations, whose sponsors demand
melodrama or a sequence of startling
events.
Money is to be made by writing for
radio, but not in the way mentioned by
“Sluggardly knaves! They always seem to know when We
are going home.”
“V.J.H.” Commercial stations provide
the market, and it falls into two classes,
The first is to make up the gags which
“stars” use in their shows. If you can
turn out the stuff which makes an
audience roar—and keep it up week after
week—you’ll make money. But your
name is never mentioned; all the credit
goes to the compere.
Even bigger money comes to those
who can write compelling advertising-
copy. It looks deceptively easy to out-
siders. All you have to do is to turn out
things such as “Don’t envy your little
daughter’s rose-petal complexion. Give
yourself one just like it by using Slasho
Soao'” But when you try your hand
it’s tou'ffi going.
Almost anyone can think-up a few of
these selling slogans, but the catch is
that you have to keep it up or make way
for somebody else.
But “V.J.H.” is correct about TV. If
the commercial stations would combine
to employ somebody now to tram
writers in this new technique, they would
save themselves from some awful head-
aches in the future.— Bridge Music
(S.A.).
Interest Charges
A curious feature of financial accom-
modation today is that the applicant
rarely seems to worry about the cost ot
'the assistance. Not many years ago a
borrower, whether farmer, grazier, store-
keeper or manufacturer, treated the
charge for interest as a serious part. ot
his annual business-outlay. Taxation
(the debit mentioned would be a deduc-
tion) and the prosperity of the past few
years have possibly made interest seem
unimportant.
With business becoming more competi-
tive, however, and profit-margins smaller,
a changed outlook towards interest can
be expected.
There are many enterprises in Aus-
tralia carrying heavy annual interest-
commitments —fixed loans, preference
capital and overdrafts--which could
easily become very irksome. In many
cases only limited consideration has been
given to capital expenditure; thus, this
part of the structure has become top-
heavy and will have to be written-down,
but interest will go on.
Within, say, two years, falls in rural
prices and keen trade rivalry will have
made such an impression that “Old Man
Interest,” who works night, day, week-
ends and holidays, will commence to be
a burden. Then the demand for credit
will slacken and ample money will be
available to the prudent borrower with
sound security and the assured capacity to
repay without finding interest an encum-
brance. —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
An Antarctic Ship
Australia must have its own polar ship
if it is to continue to develop its claims in
Antarctica, but it would be uneconomical
to build a special ship solely to take men
to and from the south for a feW months
each year.
This year, for the second time, the
Australian National Antarctic Research
Expedition has chartered the Danish
ship Kista Dan. Strengthened to more
than double Lloyd’s requirements for
polar regions, the ship is ideal. It is
specially built for this type of work and
the skipper can stay up in the crow’s-nest
indefinitely and carry on by remote con-
trol as if he were on the bridge. With
a specialist crew, nothing more could be
wished for, particularly as Australia can
use the ship in the northern polar winter
when it has no assignments in the
Northern Hemisphere.
But this is costing big money which
could well be put into a ship made and
built in Australia for use in its Antarctic
exploration.
Perhaps the best economic solution
would be for the Royal Australian Navy
to build its own special corvette, rein-
forced for ice-breaking. It could make its
annual trip to the south and carry out
normal naval duties in the remaining
eight months.
Oceanography, as mentioned by
“V.J.H.” (B. 29/12/’54), is an excellent
and profitable way to spend the winter
months, but not necessarily in the south.
Many stretches of the North Australian
coastline have not been charted for
almost two centuries.
In ped!fce-time the Services must extend
their activities beyond operational duties,
An interest in the Antarctic, with their
own special ship and crew (trained by the
Scandinavians if necessary), would add
another chapter to the R.A.N.’s admir-
able record.
And what better name for the ship than
“Could you please exchange this Christmas-box for a pair of nylons?”
H.M.A.S. Antarctica?— Waddlin’ Willie
(Vic.).
Cheque-exchange
The simple principle to apply do
exchange on cheques (B. 22/12/ 54) is:
Where is the money payable? Under
that test the number of instances where
city merchants evade exchange will turn
out to be very few.
If I, as a country farmer, buy goods
from a city store, the bill is payable in the
city and I must add exchange to my
country cheque. If I receive a cheque as
refund for goods returned, the refund
was due to me at the city store and the
firm does not add exchange. If I send
a consignment of potatoes from my
country farm to the city for sale, I must
pay the incidental costs of getting the
proceeds to the country.
But, on the other hand, if the agent of
a city produce-merchant buys my pota-
toes at an agreed price at the farm, his
firm’s cheque should include exchange ;
otherwise I am short-paid to that extent
and I should bill them for the balance
owing.
Australian cities being the biggest
markets for country produce and the
main sources of manufactured goods, the
majority of financial transactions are due
for settlement in the cities, with the
country-dweller liable for exchange. It
is true that some city firms advertise:
“Country cheques accepted f.o.e.,’’ but
this is merely another way of giving a
small discount to catch business. —
M.A.W. (N.S.W.).
National Service Training
“Tidak Makan” (B. 22/12/’54) invites
me to nominate the “modem weapons”
which might be used in South-East Asia.
I do not feel it necessary to specify them
in detail, but my argument was reinforced
by Air-Marshal Sir John Slessor (“Un-
cabled Additions,” B. 22/12/’54), who
said recently that we should take advan-
tage of every aid that science and tech-
nology can give us.
I admit he also said that we should
aim at getting more real fighting-value out
of our existing allocations of manpower
and material, and that he endorsed the
old maxim that (in the minor wars to be
expected in the area) “nothing can be a
substitute for tough, self-reliant infantry
and, above all, for the highest degree of
battle-discipline under war-seasoned
officers of high quality.”
We have, as “Tidak Makan” pointed
out, many such officers in charge of
C.M.F. units. But it must be doubted
whether, despite their fine enthusiasm,
the scope of their training over the last
decade has kept pace with tactics learned
in the closing years of World War II and
in Korea, and whether the raw National
Service trainees under them are given
any real opportunities of developing into
“tough, self-reliant infantry” capable of
dealing with the requirements of modem
warfare.
In other words, the men are doubtless
as good as, or better than, their fathers
were at the same age (they are huskier, if
less used to discipline and discomfort),
but they are not being made familiar with
the latest “aids” supplied by science and
technology, and their training is not good
enough to give them a chance against a
trained, ruthless and modernly equipped
enemy. In most cases it would not be
good enough to give them any hope in
the kind of jungle-fighting of ten years
ago.— Mugga Way (A.C.T.).
Bank Profits
The suggestion (B. 8/12/’54) that
banks might increase their profits by
carrying their own fire-insurance is given
point by figures released by the State
Savings Bank of Victoria.
That institution was authorised in 1920
to establish a trust-fund in which to
insure against damage by fire, or any
other prescribed cause, any building or
other property owned or held as security
by the bank. On June 30, 1954, there
were 19,032 current policies providing
cover of £41.3 million. Premium income
for the year was £67,934, and interest
from investments was £10,611. Claims
amounted to £15,894 and expenses (the
figure seems high) to £32,538. After
transfer of £125,000 to the general reserve
of the Savings Bank Department there
was £336,889 at credit of the account.
It certainly appears that the suggestion
made by “W.C.K.” (B. 27./10/’54) is
worth serious consideration by the direc-
tors of the trading banks. Margins of
profit in ordinary banking business are
slender and here’s one way in which they
might be improved with very little risk.
As regards the savings-bank figures
quoted above, it must be remembered
that the premiums charged by the bank
are a good deal less than those of the
tariff companies.— Ceg (Vic.).
Road Tax
For transport, baled lucerne-hay is
tied either by wire or string. As the
railways have been unable to devise a
safe-loading diagram for string-tied bales
in truck-loads, these may be carried by
road on a nominal charge of Is. per load,
irrespective of size or weight. Wire-tied
lucerne-hay, which can be carried by the
department in any quantity, is charged
on the road at vehicle-capacity plus tare.
Thus a load of 1 ton on a 3-ton lorry with
a tare-weight of 2 tons is freighted as
5 tons. This arrangement, of course, rules
out competition with the railways.
The reasoning upon which road-tax is
charged on the capacity of the vehicle
plus its tare has never been revealed.
Goods carried on the railways are charged
by weight or measurement. The weight
of the vehicle in which it is transported
is not charged for. Such a charge would,
of course, be ridiculous, and it is just as
ridiculous and unjust to apply it on road-
vehicles.
Intra-State hauliers have not access
to an impartial body like the Privy Coun-
cil, as inter-State trade is not direct!}
affected. However, the same principle is
involved —free trade plus the right o
every man to earn his own living in 3
legitimate manner unhampered by pen 3
laws. — Colonial Bill (N.S.W.). -


* Justice for Bill Johnson”
A. H. Chisholm’s paper on the Dutch
discoverers of Australia (B. 29./12/’54)
was lively, instructive and timely. And
why shouldn’t a little bronze Duyfkyn
and plaque with descriptive legend on a
marble plinth find a, place in a park in
every Australian capital city?
There need be no mystery about why
the Dutch failed to found an empire in
Australia. They were not interested in
empires. Lucrative trade was what they
were after—a trade where Dutch and
European goods could be exchanged for
foreign goods with a lively and pricey
market in Europe. Spices, fine textiles,
rare woods, gums, cinnabar, pepper,
coffee, etc.
The only military forces brought into
play were such as were necessary to
protect Dutch lives and property from
the predatory activities of other European
nations and from the barbarian peoples
and sultans with whom the Dutch traded.
Here and there Dutch settlements were
founded and became cities, but they were
entrepots, not colonies. And what admin-
istration was done was confined to these
settlements. To the Dutch it seemed that
amicable, bilateral treaties with sultans,
potentates and tribal chiefs were just as
productive of lucrative commerce as con-
quest and empire; and much cheaper.
Consider the whole Dutch effect on
South Africa. The swiftly expanding
Dutch commerce in the East Indies de-
manded capital equipment, mainly ship-
ping. Dutch shipping of the 17th century
was scant-built of softwood. It stood the
long voyage to the East but poorly. Butts
started, caulking fell out, and bilges
filled with foul water that damaged
cargo, sickened crews and took mortal
toll of the V.I.P.s who were the usual
passengers. The means of preserving food
that were adequate for temperate Europe
failed in tropical seas. There were
scurvy and short-commoms.
The Cape (Die Kaap ) was established
in 1652 solely as a staging-camp. There
were a farm run by farm-servants, ship-
ping-stores and an arrangement with the
Hottentots for the purchase of beef-
cattle. The single large farm failed of
its object and was replaced by a system
of land-grants to free settlers. The supply
of fresh vegetables was greatly improved,
but the staging-camp had now become a
colony—which could not be closed or
moved when its usefulness came to an
end. Administration became necessary
on a European scale, and that was costly.
In the effort to place the settlement on
a self-supporting basis the Dutch East
India Company considered alternative
proposals of increased emigration of free,
white settlers, or an increase in the num-
ber of slaves. The accountants and actu-
aries consulted reported that, while an
increased number of white settlers woiild
improve the settlement’s production to a
desired proportion, an increase in the
number of slaves would have the same
effect but at one-third the cost. In con-
sequence emigration of free settlers was
“I don't think it's GOING to go green, dear."
discouraged and more slaves were im-
ported from Batavia.
The inquiry took place during the term
of Governor de Chavonnes (1714-24).
The Governor’s brother, Ludovic de
Chavonnes, an important official at The
Cape, disagreed with this decision and
pressed for an active policy of free, white
emigration and land-settlement. He
pointed out that the pressing need of the
settlement was a market for its produce,
and that the only dependable market was
the home market and an increasing, free,
white population. He was transferred to
Malabar.
Before the end of the 18th century The
Cape had become unnecessary as a stag-
ing-camp. Shipping and food-preserving
had greatly improved, and Dutch. ship-
masters called at The Cape only on
orders. Foreign shipping was discour-
aged, and the settlement became a
crippling liability on the Dutch East India
Company. After Waterloo, the Dutch
Government sold The Cape outright to
Britain for £6,000,000 in gold across the
counter and considered it good business.
Had the Dutch East India Company
and the Netherlands Republic accepted
De Chavonnes’s proposal a powerful
Dutch State could have emerged in
South Africa. But would it have
emerged? From the time of the rise of
the Dutch Republic to its death at the
hands of Napoleon, and all through the
140 years since, whenever, to the Dutch
people, the road ahead seemed to lead to
colonies and the growth of new Dutch
States, they have turned aside to the
counter and the market-place.
When the Dutch sold South Africa
the whole of the American continent,
with the exception of the thirteen States
of the U.S.A., was the colonial territory
of some European nation —Britain, Spain,
Portugal, etc. Some of these colonies
were powerful supports to the mother-
nation. Simon Bolivar had not yet flung
the torch of “liberty” abroad. Yet the
Dutch preferred £6,000,000 gold to the
creation of a daughter-State in South
Africa. To quote Chisholm’s elderly
Dutchman, they “settled for cash.”
It is not surprising, therefore, that in
1606 the Dutch turned away from further
interest in a land where there was neither
city, farm, nor bestial; where the few
inhabitants had nothing but their wooden
spears and bent sticks and wanted nothing
more. Willem Jansz might, perhaps, have
said to himself and his Governors:
“Somewhere in this vast land there is a
Potosi, a Kalgoorlie, a Broken Hill.” But
who was to find it? The native inhabi-
tants knew as much about silver or gold,
or indeed any other metal, as they knew
about Euclidian geometry. And the
Dutch were too few to explore a con-
tinent.—S. McC. (N.S.W.).
Australian Ballet
The success of the Borovansky Ballet
in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide is
surely proof that Australia could well
afford to run its own national ballet on
much the same principle as the symphony
orchestras.
Thanks to people like Edouard
Borovansky and his dancers, ballet has
had a new life in Australia within the
last two decades, much the same as in
America, where it also remained dormant
for many years.
J. C. Williamson has had to meet most
expense, and the ballet has not been a
real money-spinner for them, as ballet
is expensive theatre. But the point has
been reached now where Boro, and “the
Firm” could step out and let the country
run its own national ballet under the
direction of Borovansky (like the guest-
conductor at a symphony) or some other
ballet-master appointed every year or
two.
The national ballet would need to be
subsidised by the Government for a
start, but it would soon pay its own way.
Small ballet corqpanies which have
tried to start in Australia have failed
because they were not big enough and
not good enough. Borovansky has proved
that good ballet can be very well received.
But it must be good ballet with a corps
de ballet as good as the top stars —“A
tiny mistake in the corps de ballet shows
up as much as one of the leads falling
over,” says Borovansky. Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
St. Kilda Road
The Melbourne press and a panel of
“advisers” can take credit for saving from
destruction an avenue of 400 trees lining
the greater part of St. Kilda-road. Two
years ago the City Council decided to
chop them all down because of their high
“ I'm gratified to note that practical joking in this squadron has ceased."
incidence of damage and disease, but,
following a press howl, a stay of execu-
tion was granted until after the Royal
visit.
As a result of persistent newspaper pres-
sure and diagnosis and advice by forestry
specialists, the council has now not only
reprieved the avenue but has embarked
on an enlightened programme of tree-
surgery, plus an elaborate scheme for
growing special replacements for indi-
vidual trees which may have to be
removed.
Incredibly enough, the intention of the
council (which must have access to highly
qualified advice) had been to replace the
50-year-old silver-poplars with die slow-
growing and comparatively drab desert-
ash. No doubt somebody had said that
this was a tractable tree which needed
little individual attention. And such a
standard, it seems, was to have been
accepted for St. Kilda-road.
Whatever may be said about the popu-
lar press today, all power to those news-
papers that can turn in a neat job like
this. — Rigel (Vic,).
Queensland Roads
“D.J.K.” represents the cost of 475.46
miles of “roadwork done” in Queensland
as £6,747,821, or over £14,000 for each
mile. The Queensland Main Roads report
plainly shows that the length of roads
completed during 1953-54 was 1195 miles.
The 475 miles were “new works” only.
There were also 321 miles of upgrading
and 399 miles of re-sheeting. Further,
at June 30, 1954, 1120 miles of new con-
struction, 815 miles of upgrading and
165 miles of re-sheeting w 7 ere under con-
struction.
The cost of plant purchased—£476,347
—was one of the heaviest in the history
of the department, and must also be in-
cluded in the figure misrepresented as the
cost of 475 miles.
“D.J.K.” also gives a false picture of
Queensland’s new road-transport legisla-
tion. It was not “bulldozed” through
Parliament. It had an undisputed pas-
sage and was supported by the Opposi-
tion. The Leader of the Opposition and
one other of his party were the only anti-
Govemment members to speak, and they
supported the bill.
“D.J.K.’s” assertion that the roads are
the Queen’s highways for the use of
everybody without fear is shallow reason-
ing. In effect, he says that hauliers of
overloaded vehicles, particularly those
operating on inter-State roads, have the
right to cut-up and damage roads as they
please and pay nothing for it. As Oppo-
sition Leader Nicklin pointed out, a
great deal of damage is done to the high-
ways between Brisbane and the border,
and some of the drivers of these inter-
state transports have no regard for other
users of the road. The fact that they
are subjects of the Queen does not give
them the “right to use the roads freely
and without fear” to the detriment and
inconvenience of their fellow-citizens.
The whole point of the legislation is
missed by “D.J.K.” While the Privy
Council decision ruled that a tax cannot
be levied for general- or for railway-
revenue, it was made clear that a reason-
able charge for bridges and other facili-
ties may be made. Roads are facilities,
and, in terms of the judgment, it is there-
fore equitable that a charge should be
made to compensate for the wear-and-
tear and damage caused by transport.
The irony of the situation is that, while
the States are obliged under this Privy
Council decision not to exact one penny
more from inter-State hauliers than the
cost of maintaining the roads, the Com-
monwealth can, and does, through the
petrol-tax, exact revenue for other than
road-disbursement purposes. Revenue
derived from sales-tax on motor-vehicles
and parts can go to Federal consolidated
revenue, but State Governments cannot
act Similarly in respect to inter-State
competition.
The total amount paid by motorists in
Queensland to date, including the propor-
tion of petrol-tax returned by the Com-
monwealth to the State, is £61,772,000.
The amount spent on roads is £74,850,000.
The difference of approximately £l3 mil-
lion represents expenditure from other
funds.
The record is the reverse of “dreary.”
Unofficial road-works are being efficiently
carried out through the length and
breadth of the State. Roads in North
Queensland have earned the commenda-
tion of touring motorists who have
travelled from Brisbane as far north as
Mossman. Nearly £1 million was spent in
1953-54 on permanent work and main-
tenance on the State highway north of
Mackay. Works on hand total nearly £1
million ; and new schemes are valued at
approximately £1,400,000. —C. L. (Q.).
Justice and Judges
The claim by Victorian Premier Cain
that his Governnjent would not be in-
timidated by the Bar Council on the ques-
tion of judges’ salaries must have caused
many a smile.
The word “intimidation” imports some
quality of threat, and it is clear that no
offensive action was either contemplated
or indeed possible. It was only too
obvious that Mr. Cain was fighting a
phantom of his imagination.
The fact remains that, in Australia, w#
have overlooked the position of the
judiciary, the character of whose mem-
bers is such that it is unusual to find
them involved in public controversy. We
expect judges to limit themselves to their
judicial work exclusively, and their salary
is usually their sole source of income. If
they have savings for investment, the
avenues available are severely limited
because they are expected to be com-
pletely independent of any outside organi-
sation.
We cannot afford to have second-rate
men in the judiciary, but it cannot be
denied that their present salaries are con-
temptuous compared with those avail-
able in the commercial world. Experience
has shown that whenever a community is
indifferent to its judicial institutions the
pathway to injustice becomes wide open
to the unscrupulous.— Mac D. (Vic.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC*
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
~:i ' :
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established jor 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS-!
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
£
JACKSON $
osittLn&vtt
% vncim. „
eW*S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co..
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HTTAn OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
e' COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE NORTH
THE issue at the 1954 Summer
School of the Institute of
Political Science had what Sir
William Slim, who opened the
school, called the “somewhat
formidable title v of “How should
we develop Northern Australia?”
What the school was really
doing, the Governor-General
remarked, was making what the
Army calls an “Appreciation of
the Situation.”
Such a comparison would
naturally occur to a soldier ; but
the subject is one to which
military concepts seem not only
natural but inevitable. For
Bulletin readers there is no
need to labor the point. Sir
William’s concluding remarks
sum-up the position:
There is some discussion on whether
resources and money spent in develop-
ing the Northern Territory would not
be moire remuneratively employed in
the South. I could not answer this,
but I would ask you for a moment to
look at the problem through Asian
eyes....
But the term itself can bear
definition. A military “apprecia-
tion” is a survey of a problem
leading up to a plan of action, set
down in a certain logical
sequence: object, factors, courses
open, plan. In everyday life
people naturally make “apprecia-
tions” all the time: Where to go
for holidays, how to make more
money, etc. But it is remarkable
how the simple process of writing
down the steps in a predeter-
mined order, Army style, clears
the mind of the writer, separates
fact from opinion, and sorts out
a mass of conflicting detail.
A military “appreciation” is
neither a human-interest story
nor an address by counsel, and
a good deal of what one reads
about national problems are one
or the other. It is an exercise in
logical thinking, and any such
approach to the problem of our
undeveloped territories in the
North is very welcome.
There is the big difference that
the deliberations of the various
experts and Parliamentarians at
the Summer School are not
guaranteed to produce action:
still, they might. In a conclusion
to the collected papers A. G.
Lowndes makes rather gloomy
mention of the other possibility:
A great question remains: Who will
tackle the task? Who will translate
thought into action? For unless this
is done our deliberations will achieve
nothing, and we shall have produced
merely another publication to be
pigeonholed with the Research Bulle-
tins and the Reports of Royal Com-
missions, Committees of Inquiry and
Administrators.
It is a military axiom that
“intelligence,” however accurate,
to do any good must be distri-
buted —to the right people at the
right time. The papers have
been published under the title
Northern Australia, A Task for
the Nation (Angus and Robert-
son), with an attractive jacket
and maps and photographs
which tell a story: so the danger
of dusty extinction, to a degree,
has been eluded. And the title
seems to be a considered reply
to Mr. Lowndes’s rhetorical
question.
One must, of course, beware
of working an analogy to death:
but the military one is very strik-
ing. The Army is strict to the
point of pedantry about the
proper definition of the object,
or aim, in an “appreciation.”
The object of the Summer School
was clearly stated at the begin-
ning: how should we develop
Northern Australia? Not why
but how. This, in itself, indicates
a change in national thinking.
The subject is vast; and, as
Norman Cowper puts it:
Few of us who attended the school
deluded ourselves that it would be
an easy task to develop the North;
or that the fullest possible develop-
ment would bring, in our lifetimes at
any rate, a large population; or that
the general picture was ever likely to
be other than one of predominantly
pastoral and mining development, with
a limited amount of agriculture, and
with the towns and services which can
be expected to follow grazing and
mining activities.
Mineral resources are an
obviously important part of the
general picture. Leaving that
aside, however, the pastoral
potentialities are, with all diffi-
culties admitted, enormous: that,
at least, is the considered
verdict: —
In broadest generalisations, we
can say that it would be physically
possible to double the output of beef-
cattle within a very few years, and
the necessary measures would be
financially sound. There are hundreds
of thousands of acres which could
probably be irrigated for tropical
crops, such as rice. There are indi-
cations that the cultivation of
sorghums and other tropical fodder-
crops may revolutionise the current
ideas on station-management and
production-capacity.
It is recommended that the
Federal Government can do
much to influence this develop-
ment by way of incentives. In
this connection it is interesting
“I don't care WHERE you've tracked it from — I've NOT
seen a roan mare with front offside shoe missing!"
to note that in 1954 the Govern-
ment did, in fact, provide some
incentives to individuals in the
Northern Territory by way of
credit-guarantees; as was noted
on this page at the time. Like-
wise, the Commonwealth has
lately been doing something
about water on stock-routes. But
something more ambitious is
envisaged:
“Surely [runs the school-
conclusion] the task of states-
manship is to provide the incen-
tives and opportunities for which
individuals will take the risks
and face the difficulties. From
the studies in this book there
emerge several courses, which
could be pursued quickly and
with immediate results. First
importance I give to taxation-
concessions. In several papers,
strong arguments have been
made for substantial remissions
of taxation. These arguments
amount to the simple proposition
—that southern Australia would
never have been developed if the
pioneers had not been able to
claim their rewards and re-
invest them without the burden
of today’s high taxation.
“The annual loss to Common-
wealth revenue of the far-
reaching scheme proposed by
W. A. Leslie is estimated at less
than £2 million, a sum hardly
worth mentioning in the present
Federal Budget. Immediate and
generous action in the taxation
field seems essential.”
W. A. Leslie, chairman of the
Northern - Rehabilitation Com-
mittee, suggests that all territory
north of the 26th Parallel in
Western Australia, the whole of
the Northern Territory, and an
area of Queensland to be defined,
should be declared a tax-free
area for a period of 20 years for
all wage- and salary-earners;
that all business enterprises
operating in the defined area
(“be they mining, pastoral, pearl-
ing, fishing, whaling, store- or
hotelkeeping, or any other busi-
ness, whether limited-liability
companies, partnerships or
individual owners, whether
resident or non - resident”)
should have 60 per cent, of their
income which is derived from the
defined area free of tax;
remainder to be tax-free if
invested within the area:
“We realise that the outstand-
ing need of the North is capital,
and we further realise jit is
quite beyond the bounds of any
Government to supply sufficient
capital to develop a country prac-
tically the size of Western
Europe.”
The idea is to create an
anomaly in favor of the North,
and let the capital flow in.
Replying, as it were, in
advance to criticism that tax-
freedom has been tried in the
Northern Territory, Leslie said
it hadn’t:
“The reasons for the failure
of the Northern Territory
scheme have been carefully
analysed and taken into con-
sideration in the forming of our
plan.
“The Northern Territory
scheme did not exempt wage-
and salary-earners from tax, it
imposed a residential qualifica-
tion, it was renewed for only
five years at a time, it included
no reinvestment clause, and
applied to primary-producers
only. But, despite all' these
drawbacks, it is not purely
coincidental that during the
period of this concession, such
as it was, the cattle-population
of the Northern Territory
doubled, while that of the
Kimberleys, just across the
border, with similar climate and
pasture, halved.”
Dr. Harold Bell, economist to
the A.M.P. and, as such, closely
associated with the development
of the A.M.P. land-settlement
scheme in South Australia and
Victoria, in his paper examines
the tax-exemption proposals put
forward by the Northern
Rehabilitation Committee in
some detail:
“It would seem, so far as the
granting of further taxation-
concessions to employees is con-
cerned, that, with the exception
of the finance of home-owner-
ship, they would make little
direct contribution to the capital
needs of Northern Australia.”
But there would be an indirect
stimulation of investment:
population would attract ser-
vices, and a greater availability
of labor would “make the opera-
tion of business enterprises more
facile.”
On the rather weightier
matter of taxation-exemption
for business, Bell comments on
the difference between the old
N.T. scheme and that advanced
by the Northern Rehabilitation
Committee: in particular, the
time-clauses (20 years as against
five) and the lack of discrimina-
tion between residents and non-
residents :
“It can be argued that the
adoption of the proposals would
create anomalies. Against this
two things can be said. The
first is that in taxation legisla-
tion it is impossible to avoid
anomalies. The second is that
any anomalies which might
arise could scarcely be as unjust
as the present position, which
discriminates between the
Northern Territory, on the one
hand, and some adjacent areas
in Western Australia and
Queensland, on the other,
although the problems of the
three localities are largely
uniform.”
Bell makes the point that the
proposals, if implemented,
would, in effect, be concealed
subsidies. And it could be
argued that, if assistance is to be
given, a direct subsidy would be
preferable, since its true cost
would be known. He quotes two
opposing opinions on subsidies,
and raises the question whether
the proposed exemptions would
infringe Section 51 of the Con-
stitution, which precludes the
Commonwealth, in the exercise
of its taxing-powers, from dis-
crimination “between States and
parts of States.”
Security of tenure is an im-
portant aspect. Bell quotes from
the Payne-Fletcher Report of
1937:
Notwithstanding that different
generous concessions have from time
to time been granted, the outlook of
Northern Territory land-administra-
tion is wrong. It is steeped too much
in the old traditions of Australian
land-history. The protection of future
public interests tends to become an
obsession, and prevents reasonable
business-terms being given to the
lessees.
And the more recent opinion
of R. J. Kleberg, of the King
Ranch, Texas:
I cannot make myself believe that
individual ranchers will be willing to
spend the money necessary to de-
velop Northern Australia, unless they
actually own the land, and feel that
it will very rarely be taken from them
for any reason.
But in that regard, so far as
the Northern Territory is con-
cerned, there is evidence of
improvement. Provision has
recently been made for leases
in perpetuity for resident land-
holders, and for extension to 50
years of existing leases, subject
to certain conditions. In both
types of lease there is a mini-
mum-improvements condition.
In the Kimberleys land-
tenures are mainly leases which
run to 1982, without improve-
ment or residence conditions. In
the Queensland cattle-country
land-tenures are mostly ter-
minating leaseholds of up to 40
years’ duration, carrying certain
improvements, with perpetual
leaseholds of “living areas.”
Bell comments:
“However benignly these laws
are administered, the complica-
tions of land-tenure, particularly
in Queensland, can hardly have
encouraged investment.”
Transport is the giant prob-
lem. The Clapp Report in-
cluded two major proposals—a
standard-gauge railway linking


MOST NEW CAR BUYERS AGREE
Holden is today’s finest value
Here’s the plain proof of Holden’s
extra value. During the first nine
months of 1954, official registrations
of Holden were more than three
times greater than those of any other
car model. There are so many
reasons for this Holden popularity.
Australia’s Own Car is the only car
that gives you this ideal combination:
• 6 cylinder performance at the
lowest price • 30 m.p.g. as reported
by owners • 6 passenger roominess
at the lowest price • Dependability
proven by more than 170,000 satisfied
owners • List prices from as low as
£B7O plus tax • High resale value.
And, in addition to these big-
value features, it’s good to know that
anywhere in Australia you can rely
on being able to get low cost factory
guaranteed Holden parts and service.
With all these real benefits Holden
is to-day’s finest value—the car
you’ll want to see and drive first.
In view of the very heavy demand
for “ New-Look ” Holden Sedans may
we suggest that you place your order
as soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Car
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O
PLUS TAX
■X 1 Registered trade mark
• Convenient G MAC hire purchase
available.
• Air Chief car radio is specially
designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
Bourke (N.S.W.) and Townsville
and Dajarra (Q.), and a
standard-gauge line between
Dajarra and Darwin. Estimated
costs (in 1945) £21.6 million and
£10.9 million.
A promising venture in W.A.
is the Air Beef Scheme. lan
Grabowsky, who is largely
responsible for starting the
scheme, in his paper gives some
interesting details of costs, etc.
In later discussions Grabowsky
replied to criticism of air-
transport as a “complete
answer” in these terms:
Mr. Lambert criticised air-transport
by suggesting that we chose a spe-
cially favored little area. What has
been proved in the one case has been
proved in another, for the whole of
the Northern Territory is virtually a
series of pockets of production, and
these pockets have to be developed
first.
On the Air Beef Scheme, Bell
has some interesting comments:
“This is a private-enterprise
project, but with the present
limited scale of operations the
yield available would not
adequately compensate private
risk-capital in the absence of a
Government subsidy. Whatever
its limitations, the scheme does
have two advantages from a
capital-market point of view:
“1. To the extent that it taps
private-capital resources it pro-
vides, at least temporarily, part
of the very heavy capital invest-
ment in transport which would
otherwise be a public responsi-
bility.
“2. It is a bold concept and in
actual operation. As such it is
likely to capture the imagination
of investors, including overseas
investors.”
These are mere selections from
a fairly comprehensive survey.
The military analogy cannot be
altogether sustained, since it is
the expression of many opinions.
But there is meat in the
opinions, and a clear picture of
the needs and difficulties of the
northern country emerges.
J.F.
Feeding Our Future
Population
Officials of the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, J. N.
Lewis and E. A. Saxon have
lately looked into what food-
stuffs Australia may need to
produce by 1976. The bureau’s
plans in the past have been used
by Governments in framing
production-programmes, so the
figures now presented may lead
to action.
A first step, however, may be
checking by the Bureau of
Census and Statistics, which is
not always happy about its sister-
bureau’s figuring.
The two officials, who have
published their findings in the
quarterly review of agricultural
economics, have necessarily
made reservations, including
uncertainty about the rate of
immigration over the 22-year
period, but they have indicated
the essential and vigorous
measures needed “along the
whole of the agricultural-policy
front.”
These include Government
programmes affecting prices,
research and extension, farm-
credit facilities, taxation-
incentives, supplies of essential
plant and materials, land-tenure
and rural amenities.
They estimate that the volume
of rural production will need to
'be expanded by 27 per cent, from
the 1952-53 level for a popula-
tion of 10.9 million (natural
increase without immigration),
and by 56 per cent, for a
possible population, including
migrants, of 13.9 million.
The volume of rural produc-
tion in 1952-53 was 20.5 per
cent, above the three pre-war
years, so that output in 1976 will
probably have to be 88 per cent,
above the pre-war level. This
could be done if there were an
expansion of output of 2 per
cent, annually, and the officials
say that, while this is well within
the limits of Australia’s physical
resources and scope for agricul-
tural development, its attainment
will require maintenance of a
steady rate of progress over the
whole 22 years.
It is pointed out that the
larger population would not only
mean a much greater demand for
foodstuffs for home-consump-
tion ; there would also be a need
for a much higher value of rural
exports if chronic external
imbalance and reduced levels of
living were to be avoided.
“Obviously,” they say, “the
expansion of output necessary
will depend upon a great number
of factors, including the terms
of trade, capital movements from
overseas, the extent of import-
replacing industrial develop-
ment within Australia, and the
extent to which Australia can
build-up overseas trade in non-
rural products.
“Further, the composition of
the increased output will depend
upon changes in local tastes and
changes in overseas demand and
in supplies from competing
sources.”
It is assumed that there will be
a decline in the level of beef-
and veal-consumption in Aus-
tralia, and increased pig- and
mutton - consumption. Less
butter and more cheese will be
eaten and more whole-milk
drunk.
The writers set out in tabulated
detail their estimates of the Aus-
tralian per capita consumption
of foodstuffs, compared with
earlier averages and the 1951-52
figures. They believe that in
1976 each Australian will be
using 58.41 b. of milk a year
(47.1 in 1951-52), 2151 b. of meat
(216.5), 2871 b. of grain (282.7),
1151 b. of sugar (127.2), 1951 b. of
fruit (180.6) and 2481 b. of
vegetables (237.9).
In addition, it is estimated that
exports of wool and sheepskins,
wheat and flour, mutton, lamb,
beef and veal will have to be
increased by 75.9 per cent., for
a population of 13.9 million to
obtain the total export-revenue
which will be required. How-
ever, these figures may be
modified if Australia succeeds in
establishing an increased export-
trade in minerals and manu-
factured goods.
The officials admit that various
factors may upset their figures.
Even so, the survey must perform
a highly useful function, not
merely for Government but for
those agriculturists assessing
long-range trends and prospects.
C.M.
Healthy Soils Mean
Healthy People
“Thilly”: Wimmera (Vic.)
wheatgrowers noticed last year
that red-spider attacks were
much worse in crops on poor
ground than in crops on fertile
soil; which supports the theory
that healthy plants on healthy
soil can resist insects and fungi.
Victorians have already ob-
served that the “take-all” fungus
attacks plants on soils of
depleted fertility. In a classic
experiment, Dr. W. A. Albrecht,
of Missouri (U.S.A.), showed
that weeds which colonised
overcropped plots did not cross
the line into land in which fer-
tility had been maintained. He
also showed that healthy plants
resisted aphids.
Transferring his studies to j
humans, Albrecht pointed out
that American sailors from the
eastern States, where soils were
run-down, had a higher inci-
dence of dental-caries than had
sailors from the western States,
which had been settled later.
Last year Victorian experts
noticed that clovers were crowd-
ing weeds from formerly run-
down soils in which fertility had
been restored. It is also com-
mon knowledge that wheat-
quality improves on clover-
ground.
Summing it up—healthy soils
grow healthy plants which feed
healthy people.
Lightweight Aggregate
“C.A.A.”: Development of
lightweight aggregate for
concrete from heat-bloated clay,
which has a bulk density only
one-third that of ordinary
crushed rock or gravel, is
reported by the C.5.1.R.0.
Concrete made from the
aggregate is adequate for all
normal uses, the tests showed.
Use of such concrete in buildings
and bridges results in large sav-
ings in deadweight, with con-
sequent saving in cost of the
structure.
Exhaustive work showed that
excellent bloated aggregate can
be produced from widely distri-
buted clays and shales in Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Concrete made from Sydney
shale had a compressive strength
of 72001 b. per square inch, even
though the density was only 821 b.
per cubic foot, compared with
1451 b. for ordinary dense
concrete.
A similar material being
investigated by the organisation’s
division of building research is
the ultra-lightweight aggregate
“perlite,” produced by rapidly
heating volcanic glass (obsidian)
to 1100 degrees Centigrade.
Perlite weighs only 71b. to 101 b.
per cubic foot.
The material is used in
concrete and plastics which can
readily be handled by mechanical
means, such as spraying or
pumping.
Australian obsidian is well
suited to the manufacture of
perlite, the plaster form of which
has excellent fire - proofing
qualities.
By using lightweight concrete
floors and lightweight perlite
plaster for fire-proofing, the
dead-weight of a multi-story
building can be reduced by up
to 50 per cent., and the structural
steel by 30 per cent.
Summer Pruning
“Billjim”: This is an import-
ant operation in the orchard, as
elimination of wood during the
growing-season is recommended
only in special circumstances.
Removal of unwanted growth
in young and grafted trees means
maximum vigor thrown into the
main framework. But some-
times a fruit-tree becomes over-
vigorous, and removal of the
foliage by summer pruning
will help to reduce this vigor
and encourage cropping.
Old stone-fruit trees may also
be headed back to reinvigorate
them, as infection of big cuts by
silver-leaf spores is less likely at
this season. Cut half back this
summer and the other half next
summer. Protect wounds by an
application of bituminous paint.
During the development of
berries on grape-vines a certain
amount of foliage should be
removed. Break off the tips of
growing shoots after the fruit
has set so that increased energy
will go into fruit-development.
But don’t be too drastic with
summer pruning of vines ; it can
have a weakening effect. When
the fruit begins to color any
overhanging leaves should be
removed to expose the bunches
to sunlight and promote ripen-
ing.
Farm Hints
“Scratch”: The depluming-
mite generally appears in the
spring or summer. It attacks the
base of the feathers, which
break off. Irritation causes
inflammation, which is made
worse by fowls pecking each
other. Sulphur-ointment, or
creosote and vaseline (1 to 20),
usually gets rid of the trouble.
If the disease is in an advanced
stage use a warm dip consisting
of foz. sodium-fluoride, 2oz.
soft soap and flowers-of-
sulphur. Ruffle the feathers to
allow penetration. Do the job
on a warm day, in time to allow
drying-out before roosting.
“Sundowner”: To avoid
storage losses with onions:
Don’t stack if bags are damp or
during showery weather. Good
ventilation is essential. Don’t
build stack too high (to minimise
pressure on lower layers). See
that bulbs are thoroughly dry
before being bagged.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
The appearance of a southern sunspot-group may
account for some showers and rain in early January, but,
on the whole, rainfall during January should be poor:
mainly scattered' showers and light rain.
The wet season in Queensland may be late in com-
mencing, but there is a possibility of a repeat of the
cyclone which visited Bowen on January 30, 1884, causing
floods in that area.
A cyclone was also indicated at Broome (W.A.) on
January 16. It is interesting to note that one has just
occurred at Roebourne of a very similar character.
LENNOX WALKER.


growled “You got no proof. No
proof of nothing.”
“See!” Sam exclaimed de-
lightedly. “No spika da English,
eh? ” . •
Casimatas raised his head
then and glared at Sam through
his one good eye. “I spik with
your captain,” he said with an
attempt at dignity. “Not with
engine-room scum.” And then,
turning to me: “Mutiny! This
scum attacks me. Attacks me
when Ido not even look! My
shipmates, they come to my aid.
Is that mutiny?”
“It’ll be worse than mutiny
before I’ve finished with you,” I
promised him. “I’ll push this
thing to the limit. And I won’t
have you speaking disrespect-
fully to my chief-engineer. You
will address him, and me, as
‘sir.’ Understand?”
It may have been my new-
found air of authority, or it may
have been the way Sam wist-
fully eyed the bucket, but Casi-
matas looked from one of us
to the other and said meekly:
“Yes, sir.”
“One more thing, Casimatas.
You are relieved of all duties
until further notice, but you’d
better get yourself cleaned up
and then report to my cabin for
a dressing on that hand.”
Again he answered “Yes, sir.”
As we walked aft I felt posi-
tively elated. The relief at being
able to talk to and make myself
understood by one of the crew
was indescribable. I even smiled
at the group of silent, suspicious-
looking men. Sam went much
further. He strode into their
midst, slapping shrinking backs,
shaking unwilling hands and all
the time grinning broadly.
“Bloody good scrap, eh?” he
said. “Now all finito. All good
cobbers. Bueno Italiano. Si,
si.” He laughed heartily and
spread his arms in a manner that
plainly indicated there were no
hard feelings on his side.
The cook came out of his
galley, a somewhat battered-
looking cook, I was secretly
pleased to note. He marched
straight up to Sam and, with an
elaborate flourish, pressed an
opened bottle, into his hand.
Sam took one sniff and
exclaimed delightedly “Ah!
Vino 1” He held the bottle aloft
and, with the air of a bishop
pronouncing a blessing, said
“Here’s to cookie. May he
choke himself with his own
bloody pasta. Viva Italiano!”
He took a long swig, smacked his
lips and passed the bottle to me.
It was cheap wine with a dis-
tinct vinegary flavor. But that
didn’t matter. I drank, the men
drank and finally cookie drained
the bottle. Amicable relations
had been established at last.
Peace had been signed.
“They’re not bad jokers when
you get to know ’em,” Sam said
as we climbed to the wheel-
house. “Pity we had to knock
’em about. The poor cows
couldn’t fight their way out of
a paper-bag.”
THIRED by the success of Sam’s
goodwill mission, I gave the
helmsman my most beaming
smile, patted him gently on the
shoulder and indicated that I
would take the wheel for the
rest of his watch. The poor
devil looked terribly scared, as
though he feared some sinister
motive behind my generosity.
However, he went below, clutch-
ing a head that must have been
throbbing painfully. The ship,
I noted, was right on her course,
and her wake stretched clear
and straight astern.
“In one way and another,” I
informed Sam, “you seem to
have very successfully cleared
the air.”
“We,” he corrected. “There’s
two of us in this, Skipper.”
“Up to date my share hasn’t
amounted to much. And don’t
be so blasted formal, Sapi. The
name’s David.”
His white teeth gleamed
through the whiskers. “0.K.,
Pave,” he answered. “I’d better
slip below and check-up in the
engine-room. We’ll have a yarn
about things later on.”
We discussed the situation
that night, sitting up ..on top of
the wheelhouse, where we got
the full benefit of the cooling
breeze. It was a perfect night,
starry, calm and clear. Below
us our bows ripped the dark
velvet of the sea apart arid tossed
it aside to reveal a lining of
glistening silver. Astern of us
stretched the churned-up phos-
phorescence of our wake.
I knew now that Sam was
right when he maintained that
Casimatas was aboard the ship
to make sure she never reached
Australia. So many things
pointed to the bosun’s guilt —
his fondness for reefs during our
Red Sea passage, the well-
stocked lifeboat, the desperate
measure of the near-collision
and finally the tampering with
the pump.
“Oh, no,” Sam said when I
told him my conclusions. “The
cash is waitin’ for us in Colombo
right enough. I fixed that. I
didn’t trust Karapoulis as far as
I could kick him, and I told
him so. I went along with him
and had his draft in favor of
the master of the Cypriot Maid,
Colombo, okayed by the bank
before I’d sign on. ‘You don’t
leave me stranded halfway,’ I
says. But I slipped a bit, Dave.”
“In what way, Sam?”
“We’ll get the Maid to
Colombo, but we won’t get her
any further. You know what
you’ll have to do now Case-
mate’s shown his hand, don’t
you?”
I did. I would have to report
the whole affair, lay charges
against Casimatas and, if there
was sufficient evidence against
him, have him arrested. That
would only be the start. The
ship would have to be dry-
docked and surveyed. In view
of what I knew about her I
would be held solely to blame
if I took her to sea in her
present condition. A survey
would disclose the need for
repairs. Repairs would cost
money, and I very much doubted
whether Karapoulis’s credit in
Colombo would cover more
than the bare necessities insisted
on by Sam. We would take the
Cypriot Maid into Colombo, we
would go through endless for-
malities, suffer endless delays,
but we would never, never take
her out again.
I explained that I was in duty
bound to make these disclosures
and place ourselves in this posi-
tion, and Sam said “Yair. I
had it doped-out like that. It’s
tough luck. Just shows how
stiff a man can be.”
I sat there, staring into the
darkness ahead, and, knowing
Sam was downcast, I, too, felt
thoroughly depressed. For
about ten minutes neither of us
spoke. I handed Sam a cigarette,
lit one for myself and then,
because I dared not risk ignit-
ing his whiskers, passed him the
“Sam,” I said. “You’d really
made up your mind to get this
tub to Australia, hadn’t you?”
“I had,” he admitted. “If
you’d seen that engine when I
started on her, Dave, you
wouldn’t have given two-bob for
her. I worked like a flamin’
nigger on her, day and night,
and I says to myself ‘Sam, you
may not be gettin’ overtime for
this, but this old chaffcutter is
goin’ to haul you right back to
Australia.’ ”
I said, my mind irrevocably
made up, “And so it will.”
When I told him what I
intended to do, and not do, he
did his best to talk me out of
it. “Don’t do it, Dave,” he
pleaded. “You’ll be stickin’
your neck right out, just for
_ 99
me.
“For you and me, Sam,” I
amended. “We’re both in this.
We started to do a job and
we’ll see it through together or
sink together.”
VI7E made our landfall to the
” accompaniment of a
wildly enthusiastic demonstra-
tion by the crew. After sixteen
days of empty horizons there,
in front of them, was land! And
Casimatas had told them they
would never see land again!
Without seeming to pause for
breath they jabbered excitedly
until we dropped anchor in
Colombo harbor.
If the port authorities there
noticed the unusual number of
cuts and bruises on the faces of
our crew they were polite
enough not to mention it. They
took me ashore in their launch
while Sam stayed aboard. Know-
ing how he would have revelled
in a round of the pubs, I hated
leaving him but one of
us had to keep an eye on Casi-
matas. I had told the bosun that
I would be making arrangements
to have the ship dry-docked
here and that I hadn’t made up
my mind what to do about him.
“Here, Charlie—let him Wash it down with
a glass of Water.”
He replied to the effect that
he couldn’t care less. I had
absolutely nothing on him, he
maintained. He would have no
difficulty in clearing himself of
any piffling charges I might
make. Moreover, he insisted on
seeing a doctor. All he needed,
he said, was a medical certificate
stating that his injured hand
made him unfit for duty, and I
could take the ship to Australia,
or hell, without him. I told him
that he would certainly see a
doctor.
I came back aboard late that
afternoon after a highly success-
ful shore visit. Karapoulis, evi-
dently confident that the money
would never be called on and
desirous of creating a good im-
pression with the underwriters,
had been generous with his
draft. In the lighter that fol-
lowed me out to the Cypriot
Maid I had more fuel than Sam
had asked for, enough tinned
and preserved stores to keep us
off pasta for the rest of the
voyage, and money to pay all
our wages to date.
I also had with me the purser
of an Italian ship lying in port.
He was a very decent chap and
anxious to give whatever help
he could when he heard of our
difficulties. I told him that our
crew needed someone to explain
the articles to them and to
reassure them. I did not mention
Casimatas.
As soon as we got aboard I
called the crew together and let
the purser address them. There
was no sign of Sam or Casi-
matas. A flood of questions fol-
lowed the purser’s speech, but
he apparently answered them to
the satisfaction of all hands.
“I have told them,” he said
to me afterwards, “that they
have signed an agreement to
take the ship to Australia, that
they will be well treated so long
as they do their duty and that
when the ship reaches Australia
they will be returned to Italy free
of charge. I told them you have
money here to pay them and if
they have any complaints when
they reach Australia they have
only to contact our Consul and
all will be well.” He smiled
apologetically. “They are very
ignorant of things outside their
own little bit of country,
Captain.”
I thanked him for his help,
and as he was stepping into the
waiting launch I said “Don’t
worry about them. We’ll get
along well together now.”
We worked until ten-o’clock
that night getting the fuel, stores
and water aboard. Shortly after
eleven we hove-up, and when
daylight came the port of
Colombo was nearly fifty miles
astern.
“You can let Casimatas out
now,” I told Sam when he
brought my early-morning cup
of tea up to the wheelhouse.
“We won’t spoil a good cup
of tea by lettin’ him loose before
we’ve finished,” he answered.
“You should ’a’ seen the act he
put on when I locked him up
yesterday. I had to sit on his
head while that bloke was
aboard spoutin’ to the crew. I
tried to explain how I was doin’
it all for his own good and he
showed his gratitude by sinkin’
his fangs into me. If it hadn’t
been for a good thick boiler-
suit I wouldn’t be sittin’ down
for a week.”
CASIMATAS put on another
act when Sam released him.
He raved about the Merchant
Shipping Act and demanded that
I put back to Colombo, where he
could see a doctor. He was no
ignorant fisherman like the rest,
he declared. He knew his rights
and he’d get them first and take
me to court after.
“To quote your own words,
Casimatas,” I said, “you’ve got
nothing on me. You can’t prove
a thing. We’re at sea now, and
I’m your doctor and your cap-
tain. Speaking as your doctor,
I’d say there were no bones
broken in your hand. It needs
bathing and dressing every day
and it needs exercise. Speaking
as your captain, I’m appointing
another bosun and reducing you
to the rating of seaman. Your
doctor advises exercise for your
hand, so you will relieve the
wheel at eight-o’clock. Now get
off the bridge.”
He went. He was beaten and
he knew it. The only redress he
would have would be through
his Consul in Australia, and I
was fairly sure he’d never risk
starting up a hornet’s-nest of
inquiries there.
I paid the crew that day, an
act that advanced me very con-
siderably in their favor. Smiles
permanently replaced the scowls,
the steering was all I could ask
for, and even the cook did his
best to please us. As Sam had
said, “They were not bad jokers
once you got to know them.”
Only Casimatas remained aloof,
a fallen idol and a social out-
cast.
The Cypriot Maid chugged
steadily on, shouldering the sea
aside with the slow complacency
of a stately old duck in fine
weather, groaning and complain-
ing loudly when it turned rough.
Her leaks increased or decreased
according to the weather, but
Sam was always able to cope
with the inflow.
ttIGHLIGHTS of the last
part of our voyage were
the concerts held on deck every
fine evening. I remember how
timidly the first one started and
how it warmed-up .as soon as
Sam joined in. Those Italians
could sing, and they loved sing-
ing. Sam couldn’t sing for nuts,
but what he lacked in tone and
technique he made up for in
volume. In self-defence the
others simply had to raise their
voices.
Then there was the trumpet,
a battered old instrument that
Sam admitted to having “sal-
vaged” during a hectic night in
Naples. He couldn’t play it, nor
could any of the crew, but that
didn’t stop them from trying.
Those concerts were a wonder-
ful outlet for Sam’s irrepressible
nature, so who cared if his
raucous voice and the tootings
of that damned trumpet often
made the night air hideous?
Even Casimatas, I noticed, was
joining in.
“Captain,” he said to me one
morning off Timor. “What say
you and me we forget the bye-
gones? It is not good that we
make the troubles for each
other.”
“That suits me,” I told him.
“I’ll reinstate you as bosun be-
fore we sign off, but I’ll be sur-
prised if you ever see the money
for it.”
As a goodwill-gesture Sam and
I had agreed to divide our wages
among the crew. “I’ve got all I
wanted out of Karapoulis,” he
said. “A free trip home and a
lot of fun chucked in.”
I wondered what the new
owner would have to say when
we delivered the crawling, leak-
ing Cypriot Maid. All we knew
of him was that he was in the
pearling trade. But as Sam put
it, “We should worry. If he’s
mug enough to buy a ship on
Karapoulis’s say-so he’d fall for
anything.”
Day was just breaking when
I called him up to the wheel-
house for the last time. “Sam,”
I said. “Do you see that bank
of cloud ahead? Look down
under it and you’ll see the
darker line of low-lying land.
That, my whiskered friend, is
Australia.”
“You wouldn’t be kiddin’ a
man?” he asked.
“No foolin’, Sam,” I assured
him. “We’ll be in Darwin to-
night.”
He said “Well, you wouldn’t
read about it,” and vanished
down the ladder.
T THOUGHT he’d gone down
-*• to get our usual morning cup
of tea, but I had to wait till the
cook brought it up at sunrise.
I had finished the tea and was
enjoying a cigarette when a man
appeared at the head of the
ladder. He wore a boiler-suit
that was undoubtedly Sam’s, but
I would have been prepared to
swear I had never seen the face
before —a likeable, boyish face,
strangely white below the eyes.
“Look, Dave,” he said, grin-
ning from ear to ear and finger-
ing his freshly shaved cheeks.
“Get on to it, will yer? Finito.”


AUSTRALIAN BATSMEN
by A. G. Moyes
This book describes them all: the
champions, the near champions, and those
slightly lower in the scale, but fine
players none the less. The author divides
Australian batting into three eras: those
associated with the names of Trumper,
Murdoch and Bradman, and he treats
each of these in detail. He compares
them all, from Bannerman to Harvey,
in a book that everyone w r ho takes a
serious inter ;t in cricket will want to
read. Illustrated.
18/6 (post 9d.)
GODS OB FLANNELLED FOODS?
by Keith Miller and B. S. Whitington
A spotlight on the world of contemporary
cricket, including three “gods" of
cricket—Fry, Richardson and Warner ;
and three “gods in the making”—Benaud,
May and Cowdrey. Ulus. 18/9 (post 9d.)
THE BATTLE OF THE STUMPS
by W. A. Oldfield
A delightful series of reminiscences of
great cricketing occasions, and also a
blueprint for the new generation of
cricketers. Illus.
13/3 (post 7d.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these , and all the books you want to . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Available from all booksellers
GREEN SPRIGS
By RAY ROBINSON - -18 s. 9d.
“This is more than just another cricket book. It ripples with Mr.
Robinson’s own rapier wit and sparkles with his apt choice of phrase.”
—Melbourne Herald.
COLLINS
• •
PUBLISHERS
(thank Heaven she is foiled) in the
Haunted Shaft.
Arlene is a character at whom one
pauses. Sally May, the stalwart waif
from the outback whose parents have
been burned in the great bushfire of
Black Thursday, is no more than another
heroine, except that she says “whar
and “thar” in an intriguing sort of way ;
Richard, Arlene’s husband and Sally s
would-be lover (nobly rejected by her in
the end), is just a hero ; but Arlene’s
drunken brother Phillip, her amorous
brother Gerald and her stricken but
aristocratic mother —flotsam of the
ruined Montcains of Melbourne —are
people of some note ; and Arlene herself,
whisperingly and acidly drunk and as full
of malice as of whisky, cold as a toad
and deadly as a spider, is distinctly a
creation ... in a melodramatic way, no
doubt, but then so many of the memor-
able characters of fiction are also a little
larger than life.
So Mr. Timms has his history, and his
highflown romance, and his Arlene ; and
if one finds his Mr. and Mrs. Gubby, said
on the dustjacket to be old favorites from
earlier novels, quite unbearable in their
homely Cockney humor, one must not
forget that it is through their voices
(however unbearable) that Mr. Timms
expresses another strong-point of his
novels —their patriotism. “Horstralia,”
says Mrs. Gubby (oh ’elp /)—“Horstralia
. . . someday . . . will be great ... an’ of
that there can be never a doubt . . •
never a doubt.” In the dots, if not pre-
cisely in Mrs. Gubby’s outrageous idiom,
lies all the innocent charm of this robust
bestseller.
Arnold Bennett
The Penguin people made publishing
history when Shaw, Wells and Lawrence
had a million of their books reprinted.
Now Arnold Bennett joins the hierarchy
of dead authors with five of his novels,
plus a new selection of the personal jour-
nal he kept every day of his life. Anna
of the Five Towns, The Grand Babylon
Hotel, Riceymm Steps, Clayhanger and
The Old Wives’ Tale are the five novels ;
the journal—the full bulk of which is
enormous —consists of nearly 500 pages.
Bennett loved publicity, and fifty
years ago there was no better-loved liter-
ary figure, so there is some irony in the
fact that his personal journal, which he
wrote for his own edification, lives more
than do his novels. Bennett was natur-
ally a writer: he ran as naturally to writ-
ing as another individual runs to cricket,
and, just as the individual who loves
cricket for its own sake doesn’t mind
playing on any sort of wicket, so Bennett
didn’t seem to mind what he wrote, how
much or for whom he wrote. Some of
the contracts he took on would have
daunted Edgar Wallace and even Dumas
pere. On January 11, 1910, he writes : —■
Too excitingly busy just now to keep this
journal every day. Hueffer telephoned me
on Sunday at lunch-time asking me to do
him a 3000-word political article on the
crisis for the 20th. In pursuance of my
policy of never declining work that I am
practically challenged to do, 1 accepted
without a moment’s reflection, though I
knew that 12 guineas will be far from
repaying me for my nervous expense on
it. On Monday morning the “Sunday
Chronicle” telegraphed accepting my price
of 10 guineas for an 1800-word article. I
posted the article to them tonight. And in
the last two days I' have also written 2700
words of my novel. Terrific productive-
ness.
Then he walks down Brighton pier and
makes the observation, “And yet, at this
election, when all wealth and all snob-
bery is leagued together against the poor,
I could spit in the face of arrogant and
unmerciful Brighton, sporting its damned
Tory colors.”
Every year he took stock of his per-
formance in his journal. In 1909 it
was-
The Card, novel; The Glimpse, novel;
“The Honeymoon,” 3-act comedy; scenario
for a play on the subject of “Don Juan”;
“The Revolver,” short story; “The Tiger
and the Baby”; “Under the Clock”; “Hot
Potatoes”; “The Heroism of Thos. Chad-
wick” ; “Why the Clock Stopped”; “The
Boy, the Girl and the Blue Suit”; 70-odd
articles; my journal. Total 313,000 words.
Much less than last year.
In 1899 he wrote 228 articles and
stories, including four instalments of a
serial of 30,000 words ; “Polite Farces,”
a book of plays; the greater part of a
55,000-word serial, “Love and Life”;
the whole draft of his Staffordshire novel,
Anna Tellwright, later renamed Anna of
the Five Towns; and his total emolu-
ments were £6OO, so it could scarcely be
said that he was preoccupied with making
money.
Then, again, he writes:
Last night 1 finished my sensational
novel, The Curse of Life, 50,000 words, in
exactly three months, with all my other
work. The writing of it has enormously
increased my facility, and 1 believe that now
I could do a similar novel in a month....
1 rather enjoyed it. I could comfortably
Avrite 2500 words in half a day.
He was frequently ill, but sickness
stimulated rather than diminished his
production. He was miserably sick for
most of July, 1913, but on the 30th he
writes, “I finished 75,000 words of
Harper serial on Monday, having written
over 12,000 words in seven days. Health
much better....l beat H. G. Wells at
tennis; he played in bare feet.”
He was thus evidently the type of
writer who, like Dostoievsky, Tolstoy and
Heine, could only solace himself with
writing. As with Heine, both his happi-
nesses and unhappinesses found
expression in his writing. He had
an enormous admiration for those
writers and assiduously read them
in order to discover the secret of
their power, or what he called their style.
Why is it, then, that he wasn’t more like
them? Although he was one of the most
worshipped writers of his generation, the
modern consensus of opinion is that his
serious novels—at least a dozen of them
popped up on the surface of his journal-
istic deluge—lack just that profundity
which we sense in the great writers.
On the evidence of his journal, he was
the least reflective of writers. lie never
concerns himself with his own feelings —
it is always some outward manifestation
that excites him —and he even makes a
merit of it. He reads back a year’s
entries in his journal and remarks that
the thing he is proudest of is that he has
never brought himself in. He devotes
half a page to the discovery that
the price of a French postage-stamp has
risen from a penny-halfpenny to two-
pence, but when he mentions Rodin, the
greatest sculptor since the Greeks, all he
has to say about him is that a Madame
N., a very pretty woman, told him that
Rodin has the peculiar habit of taking
lady-visitors aside to show them his little
erotic statues. Compare this with the
two-page masterpiece of description that
G. B. Shaw wrote when Rodin sculpted
his portrait.
The real writer is revealed in his inter-
esting description of the genesis of one
of the longest of his novels. He saw a
little old woman, lonely and ill-dressed,
sitting at a table in a French provincial
cafe, and when he went to sit down, com-
fortable and well-dressed, the waitress
chivvied the social outcast to another
table. He instantly identified himself
with the old woman, could feel her
plight and wondered about her story. It
obsessed him for years, and out of his
worrying about it came The Old Wives’
Tale, the narrative of revolutionary Paris
in which he probably came nearest to
greatness.-
M.G.S.
Polite Murder
Dr. Elie A. Cohen, a Dutchman, is
well qualified to write about Human
Behavior in the Concentration Camp
(Cape); he lost his family in one, was
himself a prisoner at Auschwitz, and was
one of the few survivors of the death-
march on which prisoners were taken
to prevent them falling into the hands of
the advancing enemy, either by removal
or death.
The planned murder of some six-mil-
lion people, which was regulated only by
the speed at which the bodies could be
burned or buried, the use of human
beings as guinea-pigs by doctors, the
Sonderaktionen, or special-actions, such
as burning live prisoners in huge pits on
piles of wood soaked in petrol, are here
recounted in sufficient detail for Dr.
Cohen's purpose: which is a study of
the effect of these camps upon prisoners,
and an attempt to account for their
jailers.
He records the decay of personal clean-
liness, prostitution for scraps of food;
the food-fantasies responsible for as
peculiar and powerful aberrations as
erotic fantasies; the “lack of compas-
sion” of older inmates that struck new-
comers, a “result of repression of normal
sensations” ; and that most strange of
all adaptations, “identification” of the
victim with the aggressor, in which the
prisoner sought to compensate himself
mentally for what he suffered physically
by admiring the cruelty and strength of
his jailers.
These matters get full-dress treatment,
with all the psychological authorities
paraded ; then, with similar methods, Dr.
Cohen goes to work on the German SS.
Here his bible is Freud’s Group Psycho-
logy and the Analysis of the Ego, which,
though it is an exposition in terms of the
Army and the Church, amounts to almost
a textbook on Fascism. Dr. Cohen
blames German family-life, in which the
father is an absolute despot, for the
inability or unwillingness of German
soldiers to question orders, and thus for
their readiness to excuse their own part
in any atrocity by simply saying they
were told to 'do it.
As Chicago gangsters were “blooded”
by being made to do murder as a kind of
initiation-fee, so the SS members were
expected to co-operate in or supervise an
atrocity to show their subservience to the
regulations; and there seems no doubt
that Sonderaktionen, deliberately cruel
mass-burnings, etc., were contrived to
familiarise officials and executives —the
German public being kept in the dark —
with murder; so that it meant no more
to them than rat-hunting or fox-hunting.
This is seen in extracts from the diary of
a Professor Kremer, in which shootings,
burnings and operations to obtain fresh
human liver are mixed up with pork for
lunch, soap, tench for dinner, concerts of
80 musicians, coffee, excellent ale and
rolls.
There is a symposium of various
psychologists’ views on Hitler. His
father’s father was unknown ; he may
have been Jewish; his father may have
been a half-Jew ; the death of his father
when he was thirteen was, in terms of
the Freudian CEdipus-theory, “a success-
ful patricide” ; the kindness of a Jewish
doctor to his mother when she was ill
set him up as a new “father image,” and
thus a further subject for patricide; and
his first girl turned him down for a
Jewish artist —unwilling completely to
underwrite these theories, Dr. Cohen con-
siders that Hitler’s refusal of meat, and
to handle animals without gloves, among
other things, tend to prove his neurotic
infantilism and could be a reason for the
importance he attached to anything con-
cerned with blood, especially its purity.
It is a frightful book, kept by what
effort to quiet scientific objectivity only
the author knows ; and with a documen-
tation of 157 books and studies.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 312
Across
1. —Sport setback caused by repro-
ductive cells. (7)
s—Stairways before being canonised
tune methods and communica-
tions. (7)
9 African territory which gives the
tree air but may make the ear
tire. (7)
10— A sort of suit on a woolgrower
taking transport for Taronga
Park. (3, 4)
11— Ringless roaring in a Spanish city.
(3)
13— Employ. (3)
14 — Greengrocery introduces Harry to
eight notes on the piano. (4, 7)
16— And (French). (2)
17— Belches heads from Greek uni-
versity cleaners keeping Socrates.
(5)
19— The Maori boy with the facsimile
art of viewing remote objects. (9)
20 — Street ego takes us to the wizard’s
territory in reverse for eccentric
attire. (4, 5)
23 —Andronicus bird meets us. (5)
25 Constables leave Johnson half the
field. (2)
26 — Sweet equipment for an execu-
tioner is crammed. (5, 1,5)
28— Cabin occupant in the direction
of fifty score. (3)
29 A keynote commotion. (3)
30 —Liar offers two articles I like, but
I am also found among pine-
apples. (7)
32 — Now in the middle of this Austra-
lian goldfield. (7)
33 — Name lay back for an educated
American. (4, 3)
34 — Sprinkle the liquid on again
during prayers. (7)
Down
1— Horse stopper in a tree. (7)
2 In the labyrinth I get the corn. (5)
3 To a Papist, he is among flash-
lights. (7)
4 Red evidence of an old wound
with a tenant. (7)
5 Digger with a sixpence? (5)
6 Equilateral parallelogram. (7)
7 Dry tune. (3)
8— Total Queen interrupting my de-
scription of fine, hot weather. (7)
12 —Frequently related of a marquee
by no means young. (5, 4)
15 —Concerning a boxing engagement.
(5)
18—Vegetable language of some
South American natives. (5)
20 — Taylor of Washington, or Scott of
Hollywood, makes alphabetical
extremes reluctant. (7)
21 — Kiss him secretly as a form of
religion. (7)
22 The south corner and the Queen
variety of pool. (7)
23 This is the “gate,” thanks to
their Majesties. (7)
24 Problem child (female) gives a
synopsis rather like 8-down. (7)
27 — Bowl with a sort of relief before
batting. (5)
28— What tows a skyscraper? (5)
31 —Tout across the Channel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 311


IMm
* *
□
»
■va-
v
US
* -ft
£
>5
««$
t > l v
\
:
!*
gJT;S
wru
,>i
V
<r
f£
.V-tT?*.’*,*
'mil
s«;«sb
14
ss
Iff
/•
*» ' m
&
*&i'r
::
we
&s@*
C*S*
■f%
£?^2i
Vw
• •a'V^v-
rC<
a
fr)
*4
«5
#**
SB
*33
-ijWHS
Hi
*»»AS
S
it
Million Pound Menace”
When they put the match to it there was no wind and the
fire burned quietly with an undulating flicker of flame,
sending a blue haze of smoke drifting up into the sky.
There was no warning except a quickening of the air, then
a faint breeze, then the gusts from the west that fanned the
flames and smoke into a swirling, fiery cloud that raced in
eager frenzy towards the timber.
Tongues of fire licked their way up the tall trees and exploded
in flaming bursts at the feathery tops, then flung forward
their fiery advance guard, a frightening, seething mass of
flame a hundred feet ahead. It was hopeless to try and stop it
and the desperate men stood gasping, red eyes glaring from
sweaty faces, watching the flames increase in malevolent fury,
hearing the unforgettable, hungry crackling roar of the
Australian bushfire.
For five days and nights they fought the fire—men from a
dozen towns and hamlets——and, 300 miles away to the east,
housewives in the city sniffed the air, cocked knowing eyes
at the coppery sky and said to each other, “Must be a bushfire
somewhere. It’s real bushfire weather, too.”
• • • •
The bushfire “season” is usually reckoned from October to
March. In the worst season in New South Wales (1951-52),
£5,319,040 worth of damage was caused to an area of
5,275,957 acres outside the State Forests.
Of the known causes, that of burning off is rated the highest:
566 instances of burning off were reported in 1951-52 as
being the direct cause of bushfires. Some other main causes,
roughly in order of danger, were lightning, uncontrolled or
carelessly attended campfires, lighted cigarettes and matches
carelessly tossed away.
Besides the ruin estimated in pounds, shillings and pence,
the bushfire does untold damage by burning the soil to a depth
of several inches, destroying its fertility for years.
The big yellow machines are doing their part in trying to avert
the national bushfire menace. Caterpillar Motor Graders and
Caterpillar track-type Tractors all over the Continent are busy
making fire breaks, clearing potentially dangerous under-
growth and tinder-like scrub . . . big, powerful machines in
the hands of men determined to protect the soil and the crops
Australia needs.
• • • 9
This is bushfire weather. Be careful: make sure your camp-
fire is out; extinguish your cigarette; blow out your match
and break it.
Don’t play with fire —the price of entertainment runs into
millions!
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
a-**.
EARTH MOVING
TRACTORS
IN
ENGINES
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD. ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA!
LIMITED, LAE.
