

iik/tfW'
e
e
DRY
SWEET OR
/T'
The Bulletin
MELBOURNE ’VARSITY'S CENTENARY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3922
Wednesday, April 13, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
/"OXFORD’S chief attraction lies in the
variety of architectural styles found
in the beautiful old stone buildings of its
twenty-two colleges. Each college, built
around one or more quadrangles, has a
dining hall and a chapel, besides living
quarters for the teaching staff and under-
graduates.
On the west side of Radcliffe Square
stands Brasenose College, founded in
1509 by William Smyth, Bishop of Lin-
coln, and Sir Richard Sutton, a member
of Henry VIII’s council. Its well-pro-
portioned and richly decorated gateway is
on the site of a former Hall from which
the college gets its name. This original
hall of the 13th century was known as
“Brasenoze” because of the conspicuous
feature of its knocker, a lion’s head
made of bronze and pierced with a large
ring which is believed to have been a
sanctuary knocker of the 12th century.
It is one of the oldest and most treasured
relics of the University and it has an
honored place above the high table.
A feature of the hall is the glass in
the south window which contains the
arms of England and of France and is a
memorial of the occasion when, early in
the nineteenth century, the prince who
was to be Louis XVIII visited Brasenose
and had lunch in the hall. A portrait
hanging in the hall is mentioned by Izaak
Walton in the “Compleat Angler.” It
is a painting of Alexander Nowell, Dean
of St. Paul’s, student, principal and bene-
factor of the college; a keen angler, he
spent much of his time fishing and dis-
tributing his catch among the poor. One
of his minor claims to fame is that he
invented, accidentally, bottled beer. Hav-
ing a bottle of that liquid buried in the
ground he found it later on “Not a bottle
but a gun such was the sound of it when
opened.”
There have been many famous Brase-
nose men of letters, one of whom was
R. H. Barham, author of the Ingoldsby
Legends, and another Richard Bamfield
(1574-1627), who wrote the well-known
lyric on the nightingale which begins:
As it fell upon a day
In the merry month of May
Another Brasenose man was Field
Marshal Earl Haig and it was the college
of Lawrence Washington (1619), great-
grandfather of George Washington, first
President of the United States. When
Lawrence Washington departed from the
college he left outstanding a buttery bill
of seventeen shillings and tenpence,
which was paid off by a party of American
lawyers visiting Oxford in July, 1924.
No. 241: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
BRASENOSE, FOUNT OF LEARNING FOR OXFORD'S STUDENTS


BQOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
will find the book you want-fiction,
sport, history, science, textbooks, classics or
ecclesiastics. Write BOOKHUNTER now.
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red Page
PITH OF HISTORY
The most striking feature of Professor
C. H. M. Clark’s two volumes of Select
Documents in Australian History,
1788-1900 (Angus and Robertson) is
that they are the product of a detached
outlook and a level head. It seems easy
to take a pair of scissors and cut out
from the pages of historical records
and journals a cross-section of fact
and opinion during 50 years. Actually
to do it with anything like efficiency
and with maximum usefulness to the
genuine student and the careful
teacher—is far harder than writing a
normal history.
It is work that is perfected only by
exercise and long experience, and Pro-
fessor Clark’s second volume, which
runs to 866 pages, including his notes
on sources and a comprehensive index,
shows the marks of his progress in the
art since he issued the first one in 1950,
covering the period 1788-1850. The
first volume had a tentative air about it
and needs some revision, though by-
and-large it was a splendid and original
experiment. ,
The second volume dealing with a
period of expansion in a new country
without paralW in world history
presented far greater difficulties in
selection and presentation and also in
arrangement. Nobody is likely to know
this better than the author, who has
something to say on the subject in his
introduction. Much of the difficulty
develops from the fact that almost
everybody has preconceived views
about the events of the period 1851-
1900 and expects to find those views
reflected in documents of the time.
Professor Clark gives illustrations of
his problems:—
First of all we had to reject one
of the popular romantic interpreta-
tions of the period between 1851
and 1900. We did this with regret
because the historians who put it
forward did so with a warm heart.
What we have in mind is their
tendency to inflate the significance
of Eureka, to attribute the move-
ment for land-reform, political
democracy, and the agitation
against the Chinese to an un-
specified and unidentified group
of radicals on the goldfields.
Then, with the results of such
activities left delightfully vague,
and skipping 30 years with a leap
only equalled by the ram from
Derbyshire, or our own Spring-
heeled Jack, we are invited to
watch again the activities of these
men (presumably their spiritual
heirs) for a brief moment in camp
at Barcaldine in Queensland in
April of 1891. Then there is an
interval of seven years: the scene
is changed to Kalgoorlie, where
we meet the diggers again, this time
jostling Sir John Forrest, digging
him in the ribs with an umbrella,
and demanding the repeal of the
odious “Ten Foot” regulation.
He comments:—
This will not do. The objection
is not only the veneer of idealism
with which it covers the activities
of the diggers—a veneer which,
incidentally, they found em-
barrassing. It also gives approval
to a simple rather than a broad
conception. What is even more
serious is the violence done to the
truth and the emotions. After
drinking in such an interpretation
and probably becoming drunk with
it, the mind of the reader builds
up a picture of a weak and
tottering privileged group. The
truth is that the century ends with
neither their economic nor their
political power seriously
threatened.
Primarily and with modesty
Professor Clark declares that his book
is not intended for the research student,
though that cannot be altogether true.
He designed it for the undergraduate
doing a degree course, to a lesser extent
for the matriculation candidate. But
it must have a much wider field of
readers, for it is a living entity, one of
those compilations which have a
natural place on every friendly
domestic bookshelf beside, though far
from being of a piece with, Brewer’s
“Phrase and Fable,” the “Oxford
Companion to English Literature” and
others of a diverse family to which the
inquiring turn and in which the literary
browser can browse cheerfully and
profitably.
It provides the reader with instances,
with descriptions, with narratives, with
sample law (and lore), with statistics
about gold, its discovery, development
and politics, romance and social setting.
It summarises with contemporary
extracts and bibliographies and source-
notes, economic and political history
over 50 startling years. It sets out
in these sections extracts from, or copies
of, documents and legislation difficult
for the teacher, the student, the news-
paper-writer to put his finger on at a
moment’s notice. It has an excellent
section devoted to social legislation
covering factory - reform, conciliation
and arbitration, old-age pensions. Its
social-history section covers the growth
and change in nature of population,
social conditions, trade-unions, strikes
and lockouts and Australian behavior.
None of it is dry-as-dust. Its range of
informants and interpreters runs the
whole length of the period of the book
and the whole scale or gamut of
opinion, from W. C. Wentworth to
“The Bulletin” and James Edmond,
from the pastoral letters of Roman
Catholic Archbishops on secular edu-
cation to the immortal Furphy on the
pleasures of tobacco and the social
scene and Henry Lawson’s poem “The
Shearers.”
An author who compiles a book
of this sort is a public benefactor,
and in the corpus of organised and
printed knowledge about Australia,
“Select Documents” will, without
question, become an essential work.—
M. H. Ellis.
Dylan Thomas
A collection of his talks and
features for the 8.8. C., Quite Early
One Morning (Dent), is, alas, prob-
ably the last we shall hear from Dylan
Thomas: for with the radio-play
“Under Milkwood” and the film-
scenario “The Doctor and the Devils”
both now in print there cannot be
much more to unearth after his death
in America, crammed with whisky,
despair and sleeping-tablets ... as
desperate an end as any poet has met
since Keats went out in that grim red
house in Rome by the tall stone steps
and the dolphins spouting under the
marble gondola.
There is good reason for a compari-
son between Thomas and Keats. There
was something of the same rich-
ness, the same loading of every
rift with poetic ore; and if Thomas,
under the influence of Freud and
James Joyce, was too obscure in
his early poems (as he admits himself
somewhere in “Quite Early One Morn-
ing ) some of the later poems of his
childhood in their fresh and lavish
delight might well be taken as odes to
spring which Keats had not time to put
down—“lt Was My Thirtieth Year to
Heaven,” for instance, quoted in the
present volume in a talk “On Reading
One’s Own Poems,” with the mellow
rhymes of the “Ode to Autumn”
changed to an ingenious set of asson-
ances, very fine and musical once the
ear has learned to accept them:—
A springful of larks in a rolling
Cloud and the roadside bushes
brimming with whistling
Blackbirds and the sun of
October
Summery
On the hill’s shoulder,
Here were fond climates and sweet
singers suddenly
Come in the morning where I
wandered and listened
To the rain wringing
Wind blow cold
In the wood faraway under me.
Much of “Quite Early One Morn-
ing” is very slight, mere paragraphs
and snippings from, talks and debates,
but still interesting for Thomas’s
opinions: for example he praises W. H.
Davies and does that great modern
lyrist a good service by singling-out
not the Nature-pieces which everyone
knows, but the deep little human
dramas, like Wordsworth’s lyrical
ballads, of “The Inquest” and “The
Bust.” There is an admirable tribute
to the soldier-poet Wilfred Owen, too
much neglected since Yeats recklessly
omitted him from his Oxford
anthology.
The highlight of the book is a prose-
piece entitled “Return Journey,” a
dramatised rediscovery of Thomas’s
boyhood in Wales, in which we see
him, instead of being chilled by the
microphone like so many speakers,
revelling in the opportunity to let him-
self go in words and semi-poetic
cadences:—
The wind cut up the street with
a soft sea-noise hanging on its
arm, like a hooter in a muffler. I
could see the swathed hill stepping
up out of the town, which you
never could see properly before,
and the powdered fields of the
roofs of Milton Terrace and
Watkin Street and Fullers Row.
Fish - frailed, net - bagged, um-
brella’d, pixie-capped, fur-shoed,
blue-nosed, puce-lipped, blinkered
like drayhorses, scarved, mittened,
galoshed, wearing everything but
the cat’s blanket, crushes of shop-
ping-women crunched in the little
Lapland of the once grey drab
street, blew and queued and
yearned for hot tea, as I began
my search through Swansea town
cold and early on that wicked
February morning.
The writing is often overloaded;
and in the prose as in the poetry there
is too much looking-back into child-
hood, not enough stepping-out into
objective creation as Keats stepped out
in his narratives; but it is surely
unique radio-writing, and rich and
rare in any field.
A Music Shop
In Music for a Hundred Years
(Ziegler), Eva Keane tells “The Story
of the House of Paling” in particular,
and the concurrent story of music in
Australia in general. More than half
of the little book leans heavily, rs the
author acknowledges, on the researches
of W. Arundel Orchard, McGuire and
C. H. Bertie into Australian music and
the Australian theatre; and a little
more attention might have been given
to the actual music-business ; some-
thing more about structural develop-
ments of pianos during the years, for
instance.
However, the main facts are set
out. William Paling, son of a piano-
manufacturer of Rotterdam, a favorite
pupil of the violinist Berthold Tours,
landed in Sydney in 1853. He taught
violin and piano privately and at Lady
Murray’s boarding-school, Springfield
College, Darlinghurst; established a
music-shop in a galvanised-iron ware-
house in Wynyard-square ; celebrated
the N. S. Wales railway - opening
(Sydney-Parramatta) in 1855 by com-
posing “The New South Wales
Railway Waltz”; and in that year
established an academy at 5 Bligh-
street. In 1856 he was organist of the
Sydney Choral Society and conducted
a Philharmonic concert in which his
brother, J. G. Paling, played the
Mendelssohn G Minor piano concerto
with orchestra. In the same year he
was advertising pianos for sale from
his Bligh-street address.
In these early days he seems to have
been the life of the party, working up
as an artist the enthusiasm he satisfied
as a shopkeeper. In the early 1860’s
he returned to Europe and came back
in 1865 with a large selection of pianos
which were put on show at the
Wynyard-square warehouse, repeating
this performance in 1870. In 1875 his
business, which had been moved to
Barrack-street, moved again to a
bigger showroom at 352 George-street.
He opened a box-office for sales of
tickets to concerts ; and the place
became a kind of club for local visiting
performers. The opening of this
building was celebrated with a grand
concert at which the ladies in the
audience each received a souvenir pro-
gramme and a bouquet of flowers. At
this time he formed the business into
a limited company.
The Ash-street premises, which have
long resounded with the anguish of
piano and singing pupils and students
of ballet, had been put up in 1881,
when it seemed that George-street
was to be widened to what is
now Ash-street. It was to have been
an “international centre where notable
people of the business and cultural
world could meet,” but its space was
needed to house more instruments and
sheet-music; and the solid vaults
became a safe-deposit. And then,
by 1891, even the commodious
premises at 352 George-street, with
their pianoforte show-room capable of
seating 600, and their huge organ-loft—
in which instruments were not exhibited
only on the floor, but on galleries
rising two and three stories respectively
above it—were not enough ; and a
seven-story building was put up in
front of the Ash-street building, at
338 George-street.
By this time, Paling had pushed the
real cares of his business upon a young
Austrian, P. F. Marich, whom he had
met in Europe. In 1895 he died at his
Stanmore home, 18 years after the
death of his wife, Mary. In 1943, when
Leichhardt Council decided to turn
the old Balmain cemetery into a public
park, the workmen paused over the
red-granite gravestone of William
Henry Paling’s wife: “It’s so beautiful,
it seems a shame to touch it. We’re
leaving it till last.” But there were no
descendants to weigh the value of this
tribute. Paling’s own best memorial,
besides his business, was the gift of his
farm, Grasmere, as a convalescent
home to the people of Sydney: he gave
it as a tribute to the British Empire,
and insisted that Lord Carrington’s
name, as Governor, should be
connected with it rather than his own.
He gave many concerts for charity ;
and he is said to be the hero of the
story of the great fiddler who took the
blind beggar’s fiddle and played until
the beggar’s hat overflowed with
money. Among the little else that can
be remembered of him is the story of
how members of his firm played upon
his belief that he was a great chess-
player, inveigling him into a match
with one of his youngest employees,
who trounced him —soundly but
remained many years in the firm.
The book goes on to the advent of
broadcasting, when the firm began
2UW. There is a deserved tribute to
the management of Oswald Anderson,
later N.S.W. manager for the A.8.C.,
in those early days of broadcasting ;
and to anyone who knew Mr.
Anderson the story told here of the
life of Paling will give additional insight
into his and some idea of the
tradition of uniting business and public
service, and remembering charities,
handed down by the great old artist
and salesman.
In the 1930’s Palings sold the Ash-
street safe-deposit to the Bank of N. S.
Wales ; the depression seems to have
given them a nasty knock ; but after
the war “trade soared, bringing a
record turnover and making the
development of Palings im N. S. Wales
and Queensland outstanding in the
history of the company.” A deputation
of the firm, referred to as “The Big
Four,” toured Europe ; premises were
remodelled, etc. With appendices of
directorates and managers ; branches ;
and celebrities who have toured Aus-
tralia during the past 20 years.
The Fascinator: Theodora Keogh
(Peter Davies). An oddly compelling
novel of a New York transformed, for
the purposes of tight construction, into
the dimensions of a village. Ellen
Hunter is contentedly married to Sandy,
an attractive and ambitious young
lawyer, and a foreign sculptor, Zanic,
ugly and earthy and with a pro-
gressively disabling illness, attracts
first the attention of Ellen’s super-
ficially intellectual “set,” and then of
Ellen herself. His family run the
market-stall which Ellen has always
patronised (but she does not know they
are his kin), and the tale has many
queer but not incredible coincidences.
The theme is the story of Ellen’s
temptation treated with great skill and
taste. The flavor of the prose is exotic
and pointed up with the admirable and
original drawings of Tom Keogh.


f/
%
\
ater
'4W
wmmm
pi s'' «"i
Miiiinfii 1 1 "12
: miM
Wm
for the community!
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ have long been famous for the efficient way in which they cater for
the public. Nothing is too much trouble for them. A wedding reception for 200 guests is
just as easily arranged as a birthday party for your young four-year-old at their restaurant.
ur
•• -ir- ' ! /V- > h*' y , . vJv •••
labour saving catering service!
Whether you’re having a cocktail party, a dinner party or a wedding reception,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ catering experts will arrange everything for you . . .
food, cutlery and decorations. ANTHONY HORDERNS’ will also lend crockery,
cutlery and glassware for all your functions or receptions at which you’re doing
your own catering. Charges are very moderate. Write, ’phone or call for particulars.
»
n 4.
ustmlia’s biggest, best birthday party
What a wonderful party the children
can have at ANTHONY HOR-
DERNS’ on a Saturday morning.
No less than 30 birthdays are cele-
brated here each week at one big
Birthday Party. The fun starts at
9.45 a.m., when the children gather
in our special concert hall for a full
hour’s entertainment and community
singing. Then at 10.45 a.m., they all
troop down to our dining room for
their birthday parties. What a won-
derful idea for parents! All you have
to do is book a table for your party,
any number, at 3/3 a head and
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ will do
the rest.
udor Room!
Quietly situated on the mezzanine
floor, just down the stairs from the
Silk Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt St.
Here you can have tempting savoury
dishes and cool salads. We serve
wine by the glass with all meals.
mm
m
m
&
Our marvellous
wedding cake service
Let us make your wedding cake for you.
We are famous for beautiful cakes—
cakes that are made and decorated by
experts. We also make birthday cakes,
anniversary cakes and all special occa'
sion cakes.
Ground Floor Milk
and Soda Fountain
Adjacent to our Cake Department and
Doughnut Kiosk, this spotlessly clean
Milk Bar serves all types of milk shakes,
soda drinks and fruit drinks. Coffee and
doughnuts a speciality.
Ground Floor Buffet
This quick service buffet, just by the
Electrical Centre, is ideal for busy shop'
pers and business girls. Tea and coffee
and light refreshments are served every
day from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The Second Floor
Restaurant
This is our main restaurant. It’s open
daily for morning and afternoon tea and
mid'day meals when bottled ales and
light wines may be obtained with meals.
NOTICE
Breakfast in the Store 8.30
Did you know that ANTHONY HORDERNS’
serve breakfast in their second floor restaurant
every morning, Monday to Friday, from 8.30 a.m.?
ATRU rH I N ADVC ftTl s I
nthony Horderns’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2712, G.P.O. 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 13, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3922
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 f,
* Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
EVATT AT THE EXIT
AT the meeting of the A.L.P. Federal Executive on
April 5 the N.S.W. Branch Executive hoisted the
flag of surrender—in return for temporary respite.
It was a pink flag instead of a white one, involv-
ing a surrender of Rightist principles. The N. S.
Wales Executive, in fact, achieved “unity” with
the Hobart Conference and the Federal Executive
on the same principle on which a carpet-snake
achieves unity with a rabbit. The Federal Executive
swallowed the N. S. Wales stalwarts whole, after
allowing it a last nibble at Dr. Evatt, though it
hopes to spit out presently the long-hairs and bones
in the shape of people like Dr. Lloyd Ross and
Mr. Laurie Short of the Ironworkers —two curious
people to be represented as the core of what Dr.
Evatt calls the “Santamaria Movement,” since
neither is a Catholic.
The proceedings of the Federal Executive pro-
vided a mirror in which to observe the moral and
ethical condition of “Labor” politics. The Can-
berra branch of the “Labor” party, with the full
and open backing of one of Dr. Evatt’s own Shadow
Cabinet (Mr. Fraser, M.P., of Eden-Monaro), had
in the previous few days declared its Federal leader
out of the party, he having neglected, in accord-
ance with party rules which owed a great deal to
his own legal advice, to renew his membership-
ticket in his declared residential district at the due
time. Under the rules, “members and applicants
for membership must be resident in the State elec-
torate, and in the prescribed area within the
electorate in which the branch is situated,” but a
member of Parliament “must join a branch in the
prescribed area in which he resides,” and “if he
does not reside in the electorate he represents he
may, in addition, join a branch in that electorate,
but shall have no voting-rights therein.” The
N. S. Wales Executive supported the view of the
Canberra branch.
Of all this, no doubt, Dr. Evatt, as a former
High Court judge, knew the full significance, and
he also knows that a rule is a rule and cannot be
waived merely by an executive resolution. His
first riposte to the unchallengeable allegation that
he had failed to renew his meriSt§?ship in Canberra,
where he allegedly lived, was that he had registered
in Barton in January, a plea which obviously did
not hold water unless he lived there. And at the
same time a Mr. Godfrey rose up in Mosman and
offered to accept him for his local branch on the
plea that he had a home there. It appears that
Dr. Evatt is an all-pervading entity who lives every-
where —omnipresent as well as omniscient—but, in
any case, the task set the Federal Executive was
to save Dr. Evatt’s face, and, in the process, its own.
And when a Federal Executive of the A.L.P. finds
itself in such a position rules and laws go by the
board. The executive not only decided to give Dr.
Evatt a ticket on a basis which no rank-and-file
member would have had a chance of getting one—
especially if Dr. Evatt had the chance to give a legal
ruling—but it also decided to give him that con-
tinuity which he has not got by its mere
action in restoring him to membership, so that he
can continue to be a Federal Member and leader of
the party.
The N.S.W. Executive not too meekly agreed, but
the resistance was less than could have been
expected if the frightened delegates from Sydney
had not cast a fear-stricken glance behind, perceived
“Labor” being devastated at the Monash by-
election in Victoria, and realised that it would
be no worse off absorbed into the metabolism of
the “Federal” party than it would be out in the cold
world on its own. It will, in the new-found
surrender of its soul and “principles,” at least have
the shelter of Mr. Kennelly’s effrontery and the
support of the Communist party in its policy,
instead of having no better allies than Mr. Cahill,
Mr. Sheahan and Mr. Gus Kelly, who have joined
its frightened huddle. Now, though Dr. Evatt is
still on their tracks, baying loudly, he cannot catch
them all.
The back-down of the New South Wales dele-
gates was complete and typical of the party’s ethics
and methods. They abandoned the industrial-
groups, to whose influence a good many of the
executive members owe their positions. They
abandoned the insurgent Federal and (very few)
State members to whom they had pledged them-
selves. Both these groups they, in effect, declared
rebels against the party.
They agreed abjectly to accept the same foreign
policy as that of the Australian Communist party,
the substance of which Dr. Evatt and his henchman
Dr. Burton have foisted on the A.L.P. —one which
is hostile to the United States and advocates, in
effect, whatever the intention may be, a surrender
of Asia to Communism and a surrender of the
United Nations to the same influence. The admis-
sion of Communist China to U.N.O. would not
merely mean another vote on the side of Russia but
the creation of another Communist power of veto in
U.N.O.
The N.S.W. Executive knows so much about the
goings-on of the Federal Executive and the Federal
Executive knows so much about the N.S.W. Execu-
tive that neither has nerves strong enough to face
a full-dress public showdown. With the great
Communist unions on their side, Messrs. Cahill and
his myrmidons have been saved the scandal which
might have wrecked the State elections for them
next year, and they may be able to go to the polls
with the money and support of the Watersiders
and Seamen.
If, of course, the allegations of the Federal
Executive and its N. S. Wales supporters have been
valid, the position is a curious one; for it means
that Dr. Evatt’s backers have taken to their bosom
a nest of vile conspirators, including some who are
palpably, according to the Doctor, members of the
noisome “Santamaria-Menzies-Fadden cell” which
has been eating the soul of “Labor” like a canker
from within.
Despite his supposed “victory” at the executive
meeting in Melbourne, however, the gathering was
somewhat humiliating for Evatt. The voting on
two resolutions which achieved his continuance in
the party was eight to four and seven to five. On
the latter motion one more vote the wrong
way would have meant that he was dependent on
the chairman’s casting-vote. Those who voted for
him were the South Australian delegates, the W.A.
delegates and the Victorian delegates from the
“new” executive whose supporting State Govern-
ment will certainly be defeated by “Labor” votes
the moment it meets Parliament and in the country
the moment it meets the electors.
The votes of delegates of his own State (N. S.
Wales) and of Queensland, including the Queens-
land Premier, Mr. Gair, and the secretary of the
Q.C.E., Mr. Schmella, and of*one of the two dele-
gates from Tasmania, meant that they were not
merely in favor of expelling him from the leader-
ship but from the “Labor” party. The fact that
the majority from the other States did not make
his membership so much an issue as to suppress
the conquered N. S. Wales and Queensland emis-
saries in their courses showed clearly that even
that majority couldn’t care less if Dr. Evatt ceased
to occupy his position. With the Federal Executive
the vote was a matter of expediency. It signed his
political death-warrant by securing a vote of want-
of-confidence in him in his own State and the
A.W.U. State of Queensland, while not putting
itself to the inconvenience of having to choose
between Messrs. Arthur Calwell, P. J. Clarey, Alan
Fraser, Eddie Ward (if not too ill), Nelson Lemmon
and Dan Curtin for the leadership vacated by his
exit.
All concerned are in a pretty spot, and this
entirely through Dr. Evatt and his intervention on
the side of the Communists and in conjunction with
them before the Petrov Commission. Australian
“Labor” has a Federal leader whom its Federal
Executive delegates from his own State and State
Executive and local branch have repudiated
and tried to expel. The A.L.P. has a N. S. Wales
State leader with the memories of the Joe Arthur
and Aubrey Doyle incidents hanging round
his political neck, one who has been accused
of association with Dr. Evatt’s great discovery “the
Santamaria-Menzies-Fadden cell.” It has a deputy,
Mr. Calwell, whom neither of two Victorian A.L.P.
Executives supports. It has a Federal Whip who
is a “rebel” and has lost his electorate through
redistribution. It has only one State in which
“Labor” is in one piece—South Australia. It is
faced with the prospect of having to compel half
its Federal Parliamentary front bench and caucus
either to surrender abjectly—far more abjectly than
the N. S. Wales Executive surrendered —or go into
the wilderness. There are enough of these M.P.s
to form a separate party; and there are some with
seats that, on the showing made at the Monash poll
in Victoria, might easily be # won by them as Inde-
pendents. Moreover, if they are cast out they will
take with them knowledge of what goes on behind
the scenes in the A.L.P., which is enough to destroy
that mass of decay and political corruption out of
hand.
With the new Communist foreign policy tacked
on to it, “Labor” is on its deathbed anyway. If it
is to continue to exist it will have to die and rise
anew —and without Dr. Evatt, who will go down
to history as the leader who poisoned and laid it
out for burial.
Fairy-tale Country
“EK DUM”: One of the countries which have
pleasant and permanent commercial and diplo-
matic relationships with Australia is Denmark,
which has contributed a number of able citizenry
to our population.
Every few months the Commonwealth is
reminded of its existence in a quiet way by the
arrival of one of its modest delegations—a ship-full
of cadets in training, a red-coated postman who
has been awarded a world tour for being polite
(something that could scarcely happen in the Com-
monwealth, where official politeness is somewhat at
a discount), or just a few Danish youngsters
tripping round the world on a shoestring, displaying
their native prowess at folk-dancing and helping to
popularise the national hero fhrough whose genius
Denmark is probably best and most universally
known, a writer of fairy-tales, Hans Andersen.
It was a curious social experience a few days
ago in Sydney to see an audience which well might
have been called “distinguished”—judges, profes-
sors, diplomats, tough adventurous writers and blase
columnists—listening intently while young Aus-
tralian actresses read to them in a university hall
some of Andersen’s tales, and a galaxy of young
Danes gave displays of eurhythmies which are so
much a feature of their physical-training system
and of the dances which link them through tradi-
tion with those earlier Danes who even captured
Dublin from the Irish, burnt bits of London and
gave their name to the church of the oranges and
lemons and haughtily ordered back the waves of
the English Channel, though without effect.
All these things are good to be remembered in
Australia because they are a reminder that fairy-
tales may go with progress, that wide spaces
are not everything, and that small spaces moulded
into countries with strong community of interest and
a proper spirit of united patriotism are apt to get
along very well.
Denmark is a bit bigger than half the size of
Tasmania—l7,ooo square miles. Yet it has a popu-
lation close to 4,500,000. Its capital holds a million
people. It has managed to retain in the cities and
towns historic buildings and streets and to embody
the symbols of the past in an entirely modem
economy. It is a monarchy—but its king rides a
bicycle about the town. It has a Socialist Govern-
ment —but it is a Government without the hates and
class-war complex that disfigure Australian politics.
Country, with the Dane, comes before class. Its
liberties are highly respected, its educational system
one of the most enlightened and diverse as behoves a
country with a rich and old culture. It had a
technical university as far back as 1829, and boasts
a university founded in 1479, and another founded
at Aarhus in 1933. It has a brewery whose profits
are devoted to public welfare. Its Tivoli Gardens in
Copenhagen are one of the pleasure resorts of the
Continent. It has the most intensive social-service
organisation in Europe considering its needs, and
about as low a prison population as it is possible
to achieve in a world of human beings.
It has conscription, and 20,000 youths are
registered annually for 18 months’ military service.
It has a sizeable navy of small ships, and eight
fighter-squadrons of aircraft are in process of
organisation under its newest scheme. It has never
yet shown fear in the face of a great Power.
With a population of not less than 40 to the
square mile in any district, and an average of 260
per square mile overall, 23 per cent, of the popula-
tion live on agriculture and forestry on 208,000
farms, and 24 per cent, on industries and handi-
crafts. The civil services, municipal services and
professionally employed together only cover 9 per
cent, of the population.
On the agricultural side the cultivated area
is round about 8,000,000 acres, three-quarters of
the kingdom. It is to be noted that grasslands are
all cultivated. Off these areas the Danes produced,
in 1953, 2,191,000 metric tons of barley, 290,000
tons of wheat, 324,000 tons of rye, 820,000 tons of
oats, 818,000 tons of mixed grains, plus 25,471,000
tons of root crops. Denmark’s potato-yield of
1,830,000 tons is about three times that of Australia.
Its butter production is greater than that of Aus-
tralia; its cheese output is about the same. It runs
as many horses as N.S.W., Queensland and
Tasmania put together, despite the fact that its
farms boast 45,000 tractors. It has over 3,000,000
dairy-cattle and 4,000,000 pigs. Its exports are
worth about £400,000,000 Australian a year. It
owns 1,400,000 tons of shipping.
It is a country intensely industrialised even in
agriculture, organised on a co-operative basis. Yet
it is a country, also, whose people have more fun,
music, entertainment, amenities and tourist traffic
than most, even though it prefers Hans Andersen
to American comics, and its best-known statue is
not one of a politician in a top-hat but a bronze one
of a mermaid sitting on a rock in the harbor of
Copenhagen.


LAOCOON
[Based partly on reports by Homer and Virgil, and partly on conflicting accounts by Dougherty, Santamaria, Colboume, Mullens,’, Jack Lang, "the
victims themselves (including 1500-word telegrams from one) and numerous others.]


PLAIN ENGLISH
Change of Horses
The retirement of a man of Sir Winston
Churchill’s stature in Britain is always
a major event in a way unknown in
Australia. In the United Kingdom there
is a greater intimacy between the Gov-
ernment and the people, at least in the
capital, which is the centre of everything,
and not as in Australia a sort of
monastery for politicians hidden away in
tall timber.
Thus the Prime Minister’s retirement-
ceremonies were not of the kind which
mark those of an Australian Prime
Minister. Every move made by the
aged but still-colorful national figure
was observable and observed and
carried out in unguarded streets lined
with cheering crowds. The day of resig-
nation culminated in his last appearance
at midnight at the windows of his official
home in a dressing-gown, a domestic
touch indicative of the atmosphere.
Who could imagine a Stalin, or a
Malenkov, or a Bulganin appearing at a
window of the Kremlin at midnight to
face a crowd —a splendid target sil-
houetted against the gaslight? Such a
gesture would not be permitted even to
a President in the United States; but in
London, the city of good humor, and
running true to form save for a blackout
of newspapers (which is being taken with
calm), this sort of thing is a mere matter
of course.
Tons of ink have been spent on
recapitulation of Winston Churchill’s
long record of service. Some of those
who have spilt it have in the past used
a good deal to brand him as a no-hoper,
a mountebank and even a menace in his
indiscretions. But his is a record that
needs no spilling of ink. It is a human
story, with its failures and its triumphs.
His reputation is of the kind that will
survive not through print, but in the
traditional memory. It is probable that
Pitt, Gladstone and Disraeli were all
greater Parliamentarians, and Lloyd
George as tough and courageous a
fighter, if not so steadfast in principle
nor so much part of England. But
Churchill, being more typical of every-
thing the Englishman idealises and that
appeals to the sentiment of free mankind,
will be longer remembered. In him
prowess and leadership have been
mingled during his period of power with
a lack of swank and a proper, modest
display of weakness and naughtiness to
prove that he is what hero-worshippers
like their great men to be—human.
Linked with the retirement of a Prime
Minister, especially of one who has been
on a pedestal and whose word has been
law over a long period, is the anxious
process of replacing him with a new man,
though Mr. Eden is far from new.
He has been in politics from youth.
He, like Mr. Churchill, has a long family
political tradition reaching back into the
centuries —but the Edens have been
lawyers, dilettante social - thinkers,
arguing and bargainers in
Continental politics rather than tough
John Bull characters —able, pleasant
fellows, well-bred and correctly tailored,
unswervingly honest, ready to fight and
die for their country, but regarding with
distaste the task of dealing with foreign
politicians of the Stalin-Khrushchev sort.
In politics Mr. Eden has been a suc-
cess, but his foreign policies in the pre-
war days were not so happy, and it
remains to be seen whether he has since
toughened sufficiently to symbolise be-
fore the world the sturdy attitude of the
British race. He has served always as a
subordinate, though he has been leader of
the House of Commons during the
present Administration by way of an
apprenticeship.
It also remains to be seen whether, in
the period which now begins, he will
measure-up to the job. His appearance is
sure to be the occasion of the develop-
ment of pressures from without. Not
only will enemies like the Russians and
Chinese, who will certainly become
tougher and more guileful—they are
showing signs of it within the past few
days—feel out the new man and see
whether he can be bullied or wheedled
more successfully than his predecessor.
Some of the larger friends of the British
Commonwealth will be in the same mood.
He has chosen his new Cabinet; and
now Britain will be waiting for his
policy at the traditional election cam-
paign which will follow quickly on the
heels of his appointment to office, and
at which, apart from foreign issues, the
reform of the House of Lords and great
internal economic policies will certainly
have to be put before the electorates.
If he goes back, as he almost certainly
will, with a larger majority than the
Government won with last time, he will
have a clearer road ahead than the present
Government, a firmer mandate and a
country behind him which is now slowly
getting out of the wood economically. He
will, in fact, have every basic advantage
for building a successful Government.
Not the least of them in his apprentice
years, it is hoped, will be that there will
be still sitting on the back-benches for
Woodford, a town in which Oliver Crom-
well once lived, an elder statesman who
even in the ninth decade of his years can
still be drawn on as a fountain of wis-
dom derived from the experience—the
mistakes, the misfortunes and the
triumphs—of a long and active lifetime.
An Old Reflection
When Winston Churchill stepped down
from the Prime Ministership last week
he was accorded a sheaf of eulogies such
as usually do not come to a man until
after his death. The 80-year-old leader
has outlived most of his early con-
temporaries—though the 8.8. C. was able
to record a tribute from a kinsman older
than himself, and also brought to the
microphone an old soldier who spoke
with the young Winston at Omdurman —
and the keynote of most of the com-
ment was the inspiration and leadership
which the Prime Minister gave to his
country and the free world during World
War 11, and the confidence and affection
he now commands. All these comments
were made with the advantage of hind-
sight. Thirty-five years ago, when
Churchill was a much more controversial
figure, an English journalist wrote an
appraisal of his character which is
interesting when placed alongside this
generation’s verdict.
In October, 1920,> in The Mirrors of
Downing Street, an author using the pen-
name “A Gentleman with a Duster”
published a batch of acute and penetrat-
ing character-studies of 13 men promin-
ent in British public life. Of the men
considered, Churchill alone survives. Of
him the author, after discussing his
qualities and defects, said
His effect on men is one of interest and
curiosity, not of admiration and loyalty.
His power is the power of gifts, not charac-
ter. Men watch him, but do not follow
him. He beguiles the reason, but never
warms the emotions.... He has almost
every gift of statesmanship, and yet, lacking
the central force of the mind which gives
strength and power of character, these gifts
are for ever at the sport of circumstance.
This summing-up may seem a trifle off
the beam to those whose mental picture
of Churchill is of the war-time bulldog of
indomitable will and courage and of the
orator with the power to transmit his
own spirit to the nation. But the
“Gentleman with the Duster” did not
altogether despair of Churchill. Asking
“Is it too late for him to acquire strength
of character?” he decided that
Character for him must lie in those very
qualities which are now chiefly responsible
for his defects —his ardor, his affectib'ility,
his vehemence, his impetuous rashness, his
unquestioned courage. One thing only can
convert those qualities into terms of
character; it is a new direction.
There is perhaps only one other man in
the present House of Commons who could
do more than Mr. Churchill for his country
and the world. All Mr. Churchill needs is
the direction in his life of a great idea. He
is a Saul on the way to Damascus. Let
him swing clear from that road of destruc-
tion and he might well become Paul on his
way to immortality. That is to say, that
to be saved from himself, Mr. Churchill
must be carried away by enthusiasm for
some great ideal, an ideal so much greater
than his own place in politics that he is
willing to face death for its triumph, even
the many deaths of political life.
The “new direction” which the “Gentle-
man with a Duster” sought for Churchill
came to him in 1940. As far as con-
temporary opinion can judge, it put him
well on the way to immortality.
A Relic at the Show
A peculiar quadruped came from Vic-
toria and was exhibited to the wondering
crowds at Sydney Show. From the shape
of its head, its general largeness, and the
thick clumps of whiskers on its ankles,
together with the canny air common to
Aberdonians, it was finally identified as
a member of the equine genus of herbi-
vores known as Clydesdales.
They had a man from Mudgee at the
Show who seemed to have heard or read
about these beasts; anyhow, he declared
it to be Champion Clydesdale of the
Show, whereupon its already beribboned
neck was decorated with a red-white-and-
blue ribbon with gold lettering on it.
Subsequent inquiries discovered the
fact that at one time these horses were
actually used to haul ploughs, wagons,
and other things. This, of course, was
in the days before tractors and heavy
motor-trucks. How much slower, and
possibly quieter, life was then can best
be assessed by the fact that whereas it
took one of these horses an hour to haul
a ton six miles on a good road and all
day to plough an acre, the same work
is done today in a jiffy by a tractor or
motor-truck.
City people, of course, are familiar with
horses. Any Saturday they can hear
about horses on their radios, and at
holiday resorts and in sundry parks
people can be seen riding horses.
But the Clydesdale champion and a few
others of his kind which marched in the
grand parade seemed rather lonely.
Time was when there would literally be
a herd of them on the showground. Still,
Valetta Flash Imprint, beribboned and
proud, and with the whiskers on his
ankles flourishing, was undiminished by
the fate of his kind.
Perhaps he realised that had it not been
for his breed the great farmlands would
not have been cultivated and the desert
scrubs conquered. Fading away they
may be before the onrush of a mechanical
age, but the Clydesdale name is firmly
written in the land his great hooves
helped to win.
A Chance for New States
The N. S. Wales State Government is
following its usual course in relation to
flood-prevention, and the Queensland
course of “action” seems likely to be no
better.
The matter is being treated purely and
simply in terms of the political expediency
of the moment. Almost ever since there
has been settlement in Australia —indeed,
since the disastrous flood nearly wrecked
settlement completely, when its crops were
utterly destroyed on the Hawkesbury in
1806 —floods have had a retarding effect
on both the pastoral and agricultural
development. This effect has been inten-
sified as population has grown and the
value of land and property has increased.
Indeed, the country has been fortunate in
that up till the last decade it has not
during the last generation had to face the
sort of seasons which were common in the
early ’seventies and ’nineties.
However, now that these seasons have
returned there is no disposition to look
at them from the point of view of their
effect on capital-values or the long-term
productivity of land. Governments have
other things to think of —votes to be
bought, not only in the Hunter Valley but
in the industrial districts from which they
draw their political majorities. Therefore
all they appear able to do is to fling a
sop to flood-stricken districts and hope
that the beneficiaries of the gesture will
choke on it till the next election is over.
The committee which the Cahills —
more concerned with the great political
flood than with the one on the Hunter —
are to appoint to deal with the matter is
purely advisory, and the measures which
it produces will be timid and piecemeal;
or, if they are not, will be ignored.
Meanwhile, the whole of the mid-
north-west of N. S. Wales is virtually a
swamp in which the stock are in a pre-
carious position, in which more rain will
mean disaster, in which wheat cannot be
planted in the usual areas, and much work
is at a standstill The Hunter River
country (a rich tract —as large and as
rich as Belgium, in fact) has become an
area for gamblers. In Europe it would be
carrying 10,000,000 people at economic
living standard. As it is, during the rainy
season, no property-owner can be sure
that at the end of the next week he will
not be without his home, his cows
and even the soil on his lucerne-flats.
If the New England movement and
that which is agitating for separation
in Queensland could come forward
now with specific schemes for a per-
manent flood-scheme linked during the
developmental years with a flood-damage
insurance plan, it would probably turn
the scale in favor of their plans. After
all, floods are a regional problem, and
the great difficulty about combating their
effects is that under present conditions
the regions affected have neither the
specific responsibility nor the resources
and authority necessary to deal with them
on a long-term basis.
Norfolk Island Protests
In protest against a Customs Ordinance
proclaimed on November 30, 1954, resi-
dents of Norfolk Island have petitioned
the Queen for the repeal of the ordinance
on the ground that it is “contrary to the
fundamental principle of British govern-
ment that there shall be no taxation with-
out representation.” They also ask for
the repeal of the Norfolk Island Act,
1913, under which the island became a
territory of the Commonwealth.
A copy of the petition, with a covering-
letter setting out further grievances of
the islanders, has been sent to every mem-
ber of the Federal Parliament in the
hope that the matter will be ventilated
during the coming session. The Norfolk
Islanders complain that in 40 years of
Commonwealth rule the economy of the
island has gone steadily downward. They
say that individual whims of Administra-
tors and Ministers have precluded a
continuity of policy and that the popu-
lation is declining, with the young men
drifting away to Australia and New
Zealand.
Most of the people of Norfolk Island
are descended from the Pitcairn Islanders
who were shifted there in 1856 when the
original home of the Bounty mutineers
was no longer able to support them.
Among the 375 signatures on the petition
appear a score of Christians, over two
dozen Quintals and several Adamses,
McCoys and Youngs. The name Nobbs,
introduced into Pitcairn by a minister of
religion who joined the settlement shortly
after its existence became known to the
world, also appears several times. R. H.
H. Nobbs, who signed the covering-letter
to Buckingham Palace, is chairman and
president of the Norfolk Island Advisory
Council, of which the islanders complain
that, “being advisory, it has no power.”
Most Australians know very little of
Norfolk Island. This move by its in-
habitants should at least ensure that their
grievances get an airing in the national
Parliament. But their objects seem a little
ambiguous. They beseech the Queen to
“restore to us the democratic right of
control over our domestic affairs,” but
at the same time ask for the repeal of the
1913 Act. This would merely place the
island under the control of New South
Wales instead of the Commonwealth.
And that could mean, as their neighbors
on Lord Howe Island could tell them,
that they would get a Council with power,
but one that, far from being democratic,
would be nominated entirely by the
N. S. Wales Government.
"Bulletin" Cadet Trophy
The results of the shoot for The
Bulletin Cup among the public schools
of New South Wales, which has been a
feature of cadet-corps activity since the
end of the war, have been issued by
Lieutenant-General E. W. Woodward,
G.O.C. Eastern Command, who
remarked that “the trophy is a great
incentive to the schools and does much
to improve the standard of rifle-shooting
within the cadet-corps.” He added that
he was very pleased with the overall
standard, and, in particular, with the first
four schools, headed by The King’s
School, Parramatta, which scored more
than 700 out of a total of 750 points.
The results in order:
The King’s School, 724; North Sydney
Boys’ High, 710; St. John’s College, Wood-
lawn, 705; The Armidale School, 701; Knox
Grammar, 682; M.B. High School, Parra-
matta, 682; North Sydney Tech. High School,
682; Holy Cross College, Ryde, 680; Mosman
Inter. High, 679; C.8.C., Manly, 674; Barker
College, 673; St. Joseph’s College, 663; St.
Pius X, 658; Casino High School, 655;
Parramatta High School, 647; M.B. College,
Forbes, 637; M.B. College, Randwick, 633;
All Saints’ College, Bathurst, 631; Hornsby
Central Technical School, 628; Wagga High
School, 623; Crow’s Nest High School, 621;
Sydney Boys’ High School, 620; Wollongong
High School, 617; Westmead Central Tech-
nical School, 589; Manly Boys’ High School,
584; Hay War Memorial High School, 573;
Young High School, 570; The Cranbrook
School, 564; Katoomba High School, 558;
M.B. College, Darlinghurst, 546; Cowra High
School, 542; Paddington Tech. High School,
519; Griffith High School, 516; Leeton High
School, 493; C.8.C., Young, 493; St. Bernard’s
College, Katoomba, 488; The Scots School,
Bathurst, 487; C.8.C., Rose Bay, 487; St.
Anne’s, Temora, 451.
What Is Aggression?
Among the S.-E. Asian nations which
have initiated the forthcoming Afro-Asian
conference this month it is customary
for politicians to denounce “all forms of
aggression.” A review of the conference’s
prospects, published lately in Ceylon,
went further and declared that the live-
liest and most widely-shared apprehension
among the invited countries was that of
Communist aggression and subversion.
It .was suggested that Communist China
(which has accepted its invitation) would
be called on to show that it did not intend
to use local Communists or Chinese
nationals in any country in the region to
subvert existing national Governments.
This, if it comes off, will be an interest-
ing debate, even if nothing material is
(I Continued on next page)


achieved. But the same review believes
that the conference may also use “its
moral pressure” to induce the Western
Powers to pledge themselves to ultimate
liberation “of all colonial territories.” It
goes on: “By this is meant not merely a
vague and platitudinous declaration on
the lines of the now-forgotten Atlantic
Charter, but a planned programme with
definite dates for the grant of independ-
ence for each colony.”
If this hope is realised it seems likely
that Australian and Dutch observers
sitting on the sidelines at Bandoeng—if
they are invited to be present as observers
—will hear a discussion on the date by
which the Dutch should relinquish West
New Guinea. On this point those able to
vote will include, probably, Afghanistan,
Egypt, Japan, Liberia, Yemen and as-
sorted others from the two colored
continents.
It will be claimed, of course, that
“moral pressure” does not represent
aggression, and on this point it may be
necessary to wait for some clear definition
of the phrase. In the last 20 years the
world has seen the sad results of “pres-
sures” which those exercising them pos-
sibly called “moral,” and is a bit chary
of accepting these or similar words at
their face-value. The nations outside
Asia and Africa are fully aware of Com-
munist aggression and subversion and
are prepared to check it, but they can
hardly do so adequately while the coun-
tries to be protected are not only stand-
ing aloof from the painfully-erected bul-
wark, but are also plotting from behind
that shelter to launch their own subver-
sive attacks, by “moral pressure” or
otherwise.
The present Lord Birdwood, in a care-
ful study in “International Affairs” of
the defence of S.-E. Asia, concludes that
the core of the problem is the ability not
only to prevent the internal process of
Communist sabotage, but to pass to a
positive advocacy of the gospel of democ-
racy. He suggests that the progress of
the countries which signed the Manila
Treaty in every aspect of their national
life, on the moral front no less than in
economic prosperity or social welfare,
may well prove the measure of a final
victory in the battle for South-East Asia.
If Lord Birdwood has found the answer,
then those Afro-Asian countries which are
apprehensive about Communism should
recognise that attacks on “colonialism”
will be dangerous as well as futile. Any
problems offered by colonies and colonial
policy will be solved by a process of
democratic evolution rather than by “pres-
sure.” But this solution will be possible
only by all manning the barricades
against the common and cunning enemy,
and by mutual goodwill and understand-
ing behind the barricades.
POLITICAL POINTS
Main problem of the pro-Evatt faction
is to decide whom to get rid of besides
Evatt.
• •
Zero-hour for the A.L.P. Executive’s
investigations into the N. S. Wales Execu-
tive’s actions appears to be fixed for
Sunday. Tom Dougherty is promising
to make delegates’ flesh creep.
On April 18 there will be a Parlia-
mentary dinner in Canberra at which
Mr. Menzies will be presented with an
ornate casket in which to keep his scrolls
and ceremonial documents. On the 19th
Parliament will meet, but adjourn in
mourning for the late Tom Sheehan, of
Cook. From then onward the fun will be
fast and furious. There will probably be
a very important statement on inter-
national relationships and defence from
the Prime Minister and possibly a very
important statement on the principles of
“Labor” unity from Dr. Evatt —if he is
still there.
• •
In Britain’s county-council elections
Labor lost in the vicinity of 160 seats.
Rather a good augury for Eden if he
intends to follow the prophets and seek
an early election.
• •
Residence in Moscow apparently makes
even journalists cautious. A.B.C. News
Service, reporting the reappearance of
Malenkov, commented: “Western press
correspondents said this seemed to dis-
pose of rumors that Malenkov had been
executed.”
• •
When a Brisbane man was charged with
infringing Queensland’s gaming laws by
selling a ticket in the Tasmanian lottery
he pleaded that although the Government
made it illegal to sell tickets for inter-
state lotteries in Queensland it allowed
its own Casket tickets to be sold in other
States. He was fined just the same.
This matter of foreign lotteries is to go
to the courts. Drysdale, who runs Tas-
manian Lotteries, is to sponsor an appeal
to the N. S. Wales Full Court on behalf
of a Sydney agent convicted on a charge
similar to that of the Brisbane man.
Drysdale is pleading Section 92, and says
he is prepared, if necessary, to fight it
through to the Privy Council.
• •
Cain is calling the Victorian Parliament
together on April 19, the day the Can-
berra talking-shop resumes. He’ll face
an immediate no-confidence motion by the
Liberal-Country party which, if carried,
will mean an early election. But despite
the fact that Cain can command only 25
votes out of 65 Assembly members the
result is no foregone conclusion. The
L.C.P. and the Country party between
them muster only 23 votes, and Hollway
has not given any indication that he will
alter his earlier decision to cast his four
votes for Cain. This means that the sup-
port of the Coleman-Barry Laborites will
be needed to carry the motion. If Barry
and his colleagues merely abstain, Cain
will get a reprieve. There should be a
lot of behind-the-scenes bargaining be-
tween now and Tuesday.
• •
For a few days last week there were
suspicions that the Victorian Country
party might be thinking of “doing a
Dunstan,” but a party-meeting at Spring-
street decided to join the L.C.P. move for
an election.
• •
Cain has no reason to love his Federal
colleagues. Chif.’s Bank Grab put him
out of office in 1947; Bert’s conspiracy-
hunt looks like repeating the performance.
• •
Hoping that parking-meters will solve
Sydney’s parking-problems and still
further postpone the evil day when City
Council and State Government will have
to do something, Lord Mayor Hills an-
nounced that a “special body would have
to be set up to control them.” More
jobs for the bhoys?
• •
The heads of some of the biggest private
concerns in Australia have decided to
set up an “Administrative Staff College,”
to train men between 35 and 40 for top
executive jobs in private enterprise. The
outline of what the students will be
trained in suggests that it’s going to be
mighty interesting when the first crop of
graduates comes into contact with the
herd of Governmental and semi-Govern-
mental “heads” who are determined to
run the country on anything but the lines
favored by private enterprise.
• •
Vic. Government has reversed its
decision and granted Southern Airlines a
licence to operate between Melbourne
and Echuca. Interested parties are trying
to work out whether this represents a
genuine change of heart or whether it is
just new Transport Minister Ferguson’s
way of emphasising that he is not old
Transport Minister Coleman.
• •
E. W. Peters, “Labor” M.H.R. for
Burke (Vic.), who is not one of the
expelled or suspended Victorians, but a
supporter of the Federal Executive, has
given notice that he intends to move a
VAPOR-TRAILS
no-confidence motion against Evatt’s
leadership when Caucus meets on
April 18.
• •
A special meeting of the executive of
the New England New State Movement
will be held at Armidale (N.S.W.)
on April 23 to consider the ques-
tion of nominating candidates at
Federal and State elections. At
the eighth convention of the movement
in February, 1954, a resolution was
carried recommending the running of can-
didates, but there is still a division of
opinion on the advisability of doing so.
The purpose of the Armidale meeting will
be to give the matter full discussion.
• •
The British Government’s bill to ban
the publication of “sadistic and sexy
horror comics” has been passed by the
Commons, with a Labor-sponsored
amendment limiting its life to ten years.
The Cahill Government’s Smutty Books
Bill was ostensibly introduced for the
same purpose, but turned out to be a
blanket measure under which even works
of great literary merit could be proscribed.
And Cahill refused to consider any Oppo-
sition amendments.
• •
Although Evatt vows he will continue
(yes, continue ) to fight Communism the
Communists don’t seem to bear him atfy
resentment. Sydney “Tribune” applauds
him for his “forthright stand” on Malaya,
which it says “will be endorsed by the
entire Labor Movement.”
• •
“In the ACT”: The Prime Minister
has been astonishingly coy concerning
the communications between himself and
former G.-G. McKell before the double
dissolution of 1951. He originally indi-
cated that they might be made available
for students of Constitutional history and
other interested persons (including
“Labor” politicians) when Sir William left
office, but subsequent attempts, in and out
of Parliament, to persuade him to release
them have been unavailing. He was
asked about the papers at his first press
interview in Canberra after his return
from abroad, the questioner mentioning
the Yalta papers. Menzies smiled —but
didn’t offer to produce any documents.
• •
There has never been a time when it
was easier to get a “Labor” nomination
for the Victorian Parliament or harder to
win a seat with it.
• •
“A’chrannag”: The concern that built
the Eildon Weir (B. 30/3/’55) is the Utah
(Australia) Construction Co., an offshoot
of the Yankee show. It began as con-
tractor, but after 14 months arrange-
ments were made to continue under
a management-fee of £120,000 with
a bonus for early completion and a
fine for late. On outside work Utah
receives 5 per cent, above cost. This
includes a fish-hatchery for the Fishery
Department and a power-house for the
S.E.C. All equipment used belongs to
the State Rivers. The co. also tendered
for the completion of Cairn Curren weir;
their tender was considered too high, but
they were offered the management at a
fee of £30,000. They accepted.
• •
Utah Construction is undertaking an-
other water job—the widening of French-
man’s Creek, the inlet channel from the
Murray to Lake Victoria, which provides
the drought-reserve for the South Aus-
tralian irrigation settlements. Cost:
£300,000, to be shared equally by the
parties to the Murray Waters Agreement
—the Commonwealth, N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria and S.A.
• •
A Sydney M.L.C., Mrs. Melville, is
reported as saying, in support of the
N.S.W. obscene-literature Act, that she
condemned “young writers of intelligence
who deliberately wrote obscene and sexy
stories and distributed them among
children.” But surely the Cahill Act isn’t
aimed at young reprobates who write rude
notes and pass them round the class?
• •
April 19, as well as seeing the opening
of the Federal and Victorian Parlia-
ments, will also be Budget day in the
Commons.
• •
Emu Fields, atomic-test area, was
several hundreds of miles n.-w. of
Woomera, a position with some advan-
tages, but many drawbacks. The new
area, Maralinga, will be reasonably near
the transcontinental line, and easily
accessible for observers and for the trans-
port of heavy materials. A safety com-
mittee of “eminent Australian scientists”
will check and examine all plans for tests
to ensure there will be no risk of injury
or damage. The new proving-ground
will be “baptised” later this year by deton-
ations of high explosive charges to test
techniques relating to atomic weapons.
No hydrogen-bomb tests are planned
there.
• •
The New York correspondent of Mel-
bourne “Herald” observes that middle-
class families are moving out of the city
to the suburbs, and most of the big
department-stores have branches in fast-
growing suburban communities. What
does he think is going on in Melbourne
and Sydney?
• •
Afghanistan still seems to believe in
the law of an eye for an eye. When
Pakistan protested over an incident in
which a Pakistan flag had been torn
down from its Embassy in Kabul the
Afghan Government offered to let Pakis-
tanis pay a similar insult to the Afghan
flag. Offer rejected.
• •
Between the 1947 and 1954 censuses
the white population of the Northern
Territory increased from 10,868 to
16,469. The statistician observes that the
rate of increase of females in the Terri-
tory was almost double that of males. He
didn’t say what proportion of the females
represented Government typists.
• •
Opposition parties in Queensland are
doing some intensive planning for the
State election. The State has been divided
into six zones, within each of which a
joint committee of Liberal and Country-
party representatives will choose joint
candidates and co-ordinate campaigning.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
of the late Sir George
Robey, the “Prime Minister of
Mirth,” have been given to the London
Museum, including the famous bowler-
hat and cane. Closest his opposite-
number in Australia, “Mo,” ever got to
a museum, was his broadcasts for the
A.B.C. —“Mugga Way.”
❖ ❖
“Stoker”: While agreeing with Queens-
land Transport Minister Duggan that
many road-mishaps are caused by
“fatigue, absentmindedness, impatience,
irritation, petulance, arrogance, exuber-
ance, vanity and fear,” I cannot help but
think, feel, believe and perceive .hat beer,
rum, wine, gin, brandy and stout also
are contributory causes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.C.T.”: Canberra’s statue of Bobbie
Burns is in the news again. This land-
mark, familiar to thousands of visiting
motorists caught in the cobweb of Can-
berra streets, developed some founda-
tional weaknesses, and there was a
search to decide the ownership. It was
found to be the property of the Depart-
ment of the Interior, and not of the
Burns Society, as many had supposed.
Some local Scots are reported to be
indignant, but so far none of them has
offe ",d to buy it.
“Eve”: There’s an amiable gent, in
Sydney’s Victoria Arcade who placidly
watches the world mooch by as he sits
at his weighing-chair. A few Wednes-
days back the shutter was over
the show, and people looked, then
chuckled at the notice he’d left chalked
on the shutter for all of us: “Gone for
overhaul —the old bloke, not the old
chair.”
♦>
“Bo”: An unsolved mystery is the
Case of the Vanished Bottle-oh. There
hasn’t been one sighted in our Sydney
outer-suburb in five years, yet there is
more bottled-beer consumed than ever
“Excuse me —can you spare a moment for a rush job?"
before. Why the thusness? Perhaps it is
that all the old-time raucous-voicers
retired with comfortable fortunes —they
should have been able to, for they never
gave more than fourpence a dozen, and
probably flogged-’em to the bottle-ex-
changes for three times that —and nobody
has thought to cash-in on the vacant
bonanza. For a bonanza it is. The
garbage-blokes know it, and they dredge
the cans for them, keeping a special bag,
or bags, on the truck to carry them—
it’s the one thing they don’t bust on their
merry way. But the disposal of the
empties becomes quite a problem for the
householder who has been caught up at
home in a series of festivals. If some
cow would come around I’d gladly give
him the lot. But perhaps when one does
eventually cast up and see the mound
he’ll want me to pay him to cart ’em
away.
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.L.”: The newsboy’s nine different
pronunciations of “paper” (B. 2/3/’55)
was nothing to the massed intonations of
50 lusty-voiced lads emulating the cries
of paper-sellers at a Sydney high school
I attended in 1925. Their headlines con-
cemed two classmates whose stock
excuses for lateness never varied, so earn-
ing for them the nicknames of “Big Fog”
and “Big Smash.” Because he lived at
Mosman, the first lad would excuse his
unpunctuality with, “Big fog on the
Harbor, sir; the ferries were running late.”
Looking out of the window at a cloud-
less sky, the master would remark how
localised fogs seemed to be in certain
districts. To this his pupil would readily
agree, pointing out that the warm mois-
ture-laden air rising from a large body
of water and meeting the colder tempera-
tures produced the phenomenon. The
master always declared that in future he
would check with the weather bureau,
but sportingly never did it. “Big Smash”
lived at Hurstville, and about this period
the Illawarra line was notorious for minor
rail-mishaps. So his never-failing excuse
for late appearances was “Big smash on
the Illawarra line, sir,” explaining
dramatically and in detail before the class
on one occasion how a train had jumped
the points at the bottle-neck tunnel and
delayed all rail-traffic for hours. He
really won the day, and was chased
around the school-yard during the lunch-
hour by an excited throng of admirers
yelling, “Extra, extra, big smash on the
Illawarra line! ” “Big Fog” felt out of the
limelight for a time, but a group looking
for diversion spotted him and took up the
additional cry of, “Big fog on the Harbor,
‘Sun’ or ‘News,’ paper!”
❖ ❖ <*
“Clyde”: Growled Flannery: “Not
content with accepting the fact that the
world is round, after all, scientists have
to set about trying to flatten it with the
atom-bomb. And they’re succeeding —
everything’s getting flatter and flatter . . .
flatter and flatter.” He banged his beer-
glass down on the counter, and glared
at Bung: “Including your beer, Kelly.”
“Here, now, don’t you go running down
my beer,” Kelly retaliated. “Anyway,
the reverse of what you said is also the
case: When you first started drinking my
beer, you were flat. Now look at you —
getting rounder and rounder . . . rounder
and rounder ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“X.S.”: The Law flapped its ears in
the South Melbourne court when a clerk
was charged—under an Act dating from
the English Middle Ages—with being a
scandalous and evil-disposed person,
devising and contaminating the morals
of divers liege subjects of the Queen by
behaving obscenely, the divers liege
subjects in the case being two police-
men requested by a neighbor to observe
the accused’s behavior. Asked by ’s
Honor whether their morals had been
corrupted, the police witnesses looked
surprised and said they hadn’t.
Discharged.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Oldster”: “Bioko’s Niece” (B.
23/3/’55) claims 50 years’ continuous
association with The Bulletin. Well, I
was born in January, 1886, and my
father never failed to bring The
Bulletin home every week until he
passed “into the Silence” in the late-
’nineties. Except for a brief period
since, it has been with me over the years
to date. My wife can go back to 1890,
when her father was a well-known
contributor. After I was married in
1908, we were the proud recipients of a
complimentary issue by post for some
years (due to my wife’s association), but
since the cancellation thereof —out of
sheer decency—l have never failed my
newsagent every week. So what?
“Jobber”: No, “Bioko’s Niece,” your
family’s continuous association with The
Bulletin is not a record. I had been a
reader prior to 1897, and that year saw
my first contribution in print under the
pen-name I have used ever since, with
pars from our own bush, Egypt, Gallipoli,
England and France and then back home.
It was a drawing, full-page, by the late
Alf Vincent that started me on the Inky
Way. Vincent was a great artist, but if a
station-hand had put down a saddle in
the manner Vincent portrayed he wouldn’t
have lasted long. I carried that par. in my
pocket until it went back to the pulp from
which it was made.
I
* *
“Tangreen”: Peter Bladen says that
“Lincoln” in Port Lincoln is “appropri-
ately enough a hybrid word meaning
deep ipool,” and notes that the
name commemorates Flinders’s love of
his native Lincolnshire. Most Roman
authorities agree that Lincoln is Lindrum
Colonia abbreviated over the centuries to
its present form, and is thus a garbled
relic of the name of one of the many
colonies of ex-servicemen who, when dis-
charged from the legions, elected to settle
there with their British wives. For several
centuries time-expired soldiers of the
legions were given the opportunity of
settling in colonies in the occupied out-
lying parts of the empire. Cologne, in
Germany, is another instance. This was
Colonia Agrippinencis to the Romans.
“D. Jay”: Peter Bladen, in his “Lazy
Walkabout,” says the chapel of the old
Poonawindie Mission has “of course the
only church-chimney in Australia.” I
don’t know how many there are, but if
he would go to the Monaro, he would
find three churches with chimneys in the
Berridale parish. The parish church in
Berridale has a chimney in its vestry, a
part of the church. St. Andrew’s, Jinda-
byne, soon to be engulfed by the Snowy
River scheme, and St. James’s, Boloco,
near Dalgety, each has a fireplace in the
west end, and a chimney on top instead
of a cross.
“Comber”: Travellers through Book-
ham, on the Hume Highway, will see
three buildings worthy of a bigger settle-
ment: the Memorial Hall, the R.C.
Church and the Scotchbyterian ditto.
They probably don’t realise that the last
has a chimney, as —in conformity with
latter-day (1926) ideas of church archi-
tecture —the chimney is only about two
bricks high.
“Cyril, DO close the window — there's quite a frightful draught on my back."
DIVIDE AND DROOL
I’m Battering Bertie; I rise at twelve-
thirty —
My parties are getting too rough;
In public, I stand with my gloves on my
hand,
But I beat-up the Groups with them
off. . ,
I’m Bert! Bert! Kneel in the dirt —
I’m strong on religion, you know;
Politics has for me only one blasphemy :
“Battering Bertie must go!’’
I’m hale and I’m hearty; I’ve cut up my
party ;
It’s parted to Left and to Right ;
Both halves, full of slaughter, will offer
no quarter,
And I’ll be left, after the fight:
Bert! Bert! Alone and unhurt,
With “Labor” reorganised — so:
One member, one leader, and no one to
heed a
Suggestion like “Bertie must go !”
1 think this equation might work with
the nation:
A civil war’s quickest, that’s clear;
If you want them to slay ya, don’t go to
Malaya,
But wipe out each other down here ;
Then Bert! Bert! The brisk and alert
Will advance on the Communist foe
With jujubes and sweeties and well-
worded treaties —
They’ll never say “Bertie must go !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


"Holy smoke! What has the union sent us now ?”
rpHE ramifications and fluctuations
of the Stock Exchange have never
meant a thing to me, and the following
sentence might have been written in
Greek for all it conveys to my intelligence
(or lack of it): “The Sydney Stock
Exchange monthly average index of
ordinary shares happens to have touched
its yearly low point more often in April
than in any other month during the 27
years for which records have been kept.”
Why did I read it, then? Because it
opens up an article in the “S. M. Herald’s”
financial page headed: “April Is the
Cruellest Month”; and finding T. S.
Eliot’s famous opening words to The
Waste Land quoted in such surroundings
was too much for my curiosity. Only
the London “Times,” says the preface to
a notable edition of Norman Lindsay’s
watercolors, would leave being literary to
a supplement; but the Sydney “Herald”
goes further, and reserves such elegances
for its financial supplement.—“ Piper.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Stanford”: Rail-refreshments? An
acquaintance once purchased a cuppa,
with comestibles, from a wayside
station, and having paid her 2s. deposit,
took same on the train with her.
Arrived at her destination, she handed
over the crockery, together with a knife,
at sight of which the official-eye gleamed.
“Where did you get that?” was the angry
demand. “At the refreshment-station,
where the rest came from,” she told
him. “I’ll have a piece of them up
there,” he muttered crossly. “Got no
business letting people take knives on
trains.” And he snatched the knife into
custody, a sad specimen even of its kind,
any edge it might once have possessed
long departed in unequal combat with
railway-scones.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nakh”: Mildura had to go a long
way to find a bullock-cart for its Raisin
Festival on Easter Saturday. Victoria
was combed without success, but a
screw-brake wagon was found 50 miles
from Wentworth (N.S.W.) on Mr. Toby
Bornholm’s Big Bend station, Callal. It
was on its way with a team of 17 bullocks
when this was written.
*l* £*
“Stan”: My nomination for the
Commonwealth’s oddest traffic-rule:
that by which the City Fathers of Rock-
hampton (Q.) require motorists to angle-
park their vehicles by reversing into the
kerb. Granted, to angle-park one must
reverse somewhere along the line, but
surely it’s a darn sight simpler to insinu-
ate your car between two others while
following your nose, than while squint-
ing over your shoulder. Couldn’t
discover who introduced the notion, but
residents and visitors alike are unanimous
in fixing his trade as panelbeater.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Chang”: “A. Kay” says (B. 9/3/’55)
that the “Young Farmer Movement”
stamp was Australia’s first bicolored
postage-stamp. I was always under the
impression that, back in 1913, the
P.M.G.’s Department issued the following
stamps: —ss., grey and yellow ; 10s.,
grey and pink; £l, brown and blue; and
£2, black and rose. These were not
exactly works of art, being in the design
of the old map and ’roo, but they were
certainly bicolored. Had “A. Kay” said
that the “Young Farmer” stamps were
the first bicolored Australian stamps
issued for the prepayment of postage on
ordinary letters I would have agreed with
him. Those I mention were for use on
telegrams, special parcels, etc.
“Wondi”: Surely “Honest Frank” (B.
9/3/’55) does not deny the humble
bank-johnny one of his few perks—that
of issuing his own cheques free of
exchange to the presenter. Most indus-
tries give their employees concessions.
The railwayman has the benefit of practi-
cally free rail-transport on annual leave,
the shop-assistant his rebate on goods
bought. If “Honest Frank” had also made
inquiries of the wealthy grazier he would
probably have found that the grazier
paid at his own bank for exchange on
all his own cheques presented from other
towns —quite a common practice. In
other words, he is good-fellow enough to
pay the bank-exchange for all recipients
of his cheques.
❖ ❖ ❖
“HA.L.”: I have been overpaid by a
bank-teller (B. 30/3 / ’55). In 1916 I was
employed in the banking department of an
Adelaide shipping firm. In company with
another lad, I was sent to the bank to
cash a cheque for £2OOO, and counting
fivers at the bank counter I made them
one too many. Had there been one short,
I would have recounted; I took one over
to mean an error on my part. When I
handed in the money to our cashier he
also found a fiver over and told me to
take it back immediately ; also that any
error, over or under, had to be checked
before leaving the bank. I handed the
fiver to the bank-teller and said: “This
"I cant hear t’ see Women smoking—it doesn't look right."
was over in our cash.” He snatched it,
scowled and said: “We’d have known
where it had gone.” Perhaps I shouldn’t
have done it with several clients standing
at his counter —but it wasn’t exactly an
exhibition of gratitude.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hugh Galleon”: Spike Jones cer-
tainly seems to have impressed Mel-
bourne. Already a seaside guest-house is
advertising as a star attraction its “five-
piece dancing band.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Honest Frank”: In the maple-room
bar of the Cairns Brewery (N.Q.) stands
an outsize (80oz.) German stein. The
management is said to have a standing
offer of 12 months’ free brew to anyone
downing the half-gallon from the jug
inside 10 minutes. Somehow I’ve a feel-
ing the brewery offer cannot have been
given full publicity; there’s a hard-bitten
ringer in inland Queensland I’d back to
clock inside that time. But mugs beware!
It’s no lay-down-misere ; a little prelimin-
ary practice will convince the scornful
one of that; the last two ounces are the
worst. Still, I wonder how long the offer
will stand from now on.
Hjs4 +> lj*
“Taggerty”: Mary Gallati’s waitress
(B. 30/3/’55) may have been a Dennis
student. One of his characters in the
poem “Jim,” in Digger Smith, uses the
quotation half a dozen times. The only
difference is that he says: “Be the Hokey
Fly.”
“Ecilat”: The glossary of Selected
Verse of C. J. Dennis (Angus and Robert-
son) explains “Be the Hokey Fly” as “A
mild expletive without any particular
meaning.”
❖ ❖ *>
“Zorok”: Siamese-twins from Thailand
were lately in the news. Must be about
the first pair of Siamese Siamese-twins
since the original pair. One expects
nowadays to find such afflicted ones to
be anything but Siamese. There is an
analogy, perhaps, with “Labor” parties,
which aren’t really Labor any longer
and which have no resemblance to the
original Labor parties. Particularly is the
name inappropriate in Australia since the
big split, as, with all the expulsions,
threatened expulsions and whatnot from
both sides, nobody knows for certain now
who’s really Labor and who’s not.
+> ♦♦♦
“D.J.G.”: “Don’t they teach lads
anything at the schools these days?” said
an exasperated acquaintance the other
day. The previous week my friend, a
small builder, had engaged a young fellow
who had done two or three years of the
building-construction course at a local
technical college. Within 30 minutes of
beginning work he had fallen between the
floor-joists of the house they were build-
ing, narrowly escaping serious injury to
his back. Five minutes later he stumbled
over a length of hardwood; the sharp
edge of the chisel he was carrying stuck
in his belt, dangerous end upwards, in-
flicted a deep gash in his right forearm.
The boss lost the rest of the morning
taking the lad to the doctor’s and then
home; the boy was absent four or five
days on worker’s compensation. It sounds
like a strong argument for including
“safety on the job” lectures (preferably
with films depicting the results of
carelessness) in the technical-school
curriculum.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: An odd point of law
cropped up,in the Ballarat (Vic.) Court
the other day, when 26 cyclists were
fined from two-and-six to five-bob each,
with half-a-crown costs, for having
wheeled their bicycles along footpaths
in the main shopping-centre. Section 5
of the Police Offences Act in Victoria lays
down that “A person driving or leading
any horse or other animal, or carriage, or
wheeling or pushing any barrow on or
along a footpath,” is liable to a fine of up
to £2O. The legal pundits declare that,
under this Act, a mother pushing a baby-
carriage could be prosecuted and fined,
if the law were strictly enforced.
“Pawang”: A quainter application of
the No. 13 superstition than people stay-
ing away from Tatt.’s in Melbourne on
that date comes from Newark, New
Jersey (U.S.A.), where Judge Waugh
told Elijah Walton, found guilty of man-
slaughter, to come up for sentence on
April 13. “Oh no, judge,” said Elijah,
“not the thirteenth —Tm superstitious.”
“Very well,” said the Solon, “April 22.”
They might both have been suited much
better by April 1.
♦+♦
“Tas.”: Woman! As a very old friend
of the family, I was invited to propose
the toast of the bride and bridegroom at
the wedding of a girl named Flora. She
had seven sisters (all single). In the
course of my remarks, I used the phrase,
“flower of the flock.” The sisters? Fail-
ing to see my apt allusion to the name,
they evidently thought I had singled out
Flora as the best of the lot! They haven’t
spoken a word to me or my family since
that happy day,
❖ ❖ ❖
“L.R.M.”: Europe was not always as
free from health-checks as “Dee” found
it (B. 9/3 / ’55). Witness Tom Coryate’s
complaint: “At Lyons our bills of health
began: without the which we could not
be received into any of those cities which
lay on our way towards Italy.” That
was in 1608. France and Italy handle
such matters with a lot less fuss now.
But Coryate strikes another note that has
a familiar sound when he records in his
Crudities that: “If a man doth carry
more money about him than is warranted
or allowed in the country, it is ipso facto
confiscated to the Prince or Magistrate
in whose territory a man is taken.”
❖ ' *> *>
“Narumee”: When England’s Alexan-
dra Palace was televising fuzzy images to
the moneyed few I was astonished to see
television-aerials topping so many small
terrace-houses —this was long before tele-
vision-sets were generally available. In-
quiring how the occupants were able to
afford luxury viewing, I was told: “Oh,
they haven’t got sets —they just like the
neighbors to think they have.” So this
new form of keeping up with the Joneses
may indeed bring television to our already
unbeautiful suburbs before we are ready
for it, with what an English magazine
calls “these knock-kneed, cockeyed,
waffly, quavering, wambly, rickety-look-
ing erections.”
PISCATORIAL PROGRESS
“Among exhibits of rare fish at Sydney’s
Royal Show were four-legged Mexican walking-
fish.”
Just because a fish may stare
At you goggle-eyed, or mope,
Be inclined to easily scare,
Don’t regard him as a dope.
Though around his bowl he drifts
In an aimless way, some gifts
He has which you would scarcely be
suspecting:
He lives well, and on no pay;
He can also drink all day —
They’re things that you cant do, if
you’re reflecting.
When they hear of man’s proud boast
Of his conquest of the air,
Flying-fish along the coast
Give a piscine laugh, aware
That they’d learned that (eons ago.
And, another thing, to show
That fish have talents of some
catholicity,
They can point out how designed
Are some others of their kind,
Who cleverly make potent electricity.
Evolution is a force
Never ceasing. By its urge
Sea-quadrupeds have in course
Been evolved, and now emerge.
And who knows but that in time
They will reach that stage sublime —
Having learned to gallop, run in tiny
traces —
When we’ll bet in quids or bobs
On them (also taking swabs),
As they furnish photo-finishes in races.
For, although it may seem strange,
It is possible, understand
That their habits they may change,
And they’ll spend more time on land.
Yet you’d hardly think a fish
That has any nous would wish
To leave the safety of a realm that’s
tidal
To invade domain of man
As a poor pedestrian,
Unless his tendencies are suicidal.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Airlines all over the world are ordering Viscounts
the fastest, smoothest, most popular, medium-range airliner in the world
NPV36A
o tich Europe* 11
38 Viscounts
c< s »r
ffi viscounts
Mr franc-®
£ Viscounts
-Can a '
>ada
Tr *\rUnes
21 Viscounts
170M4
AttdHaiia
win
wm
119 Phillip Street, Sydney. Phone 80526
PERSONAL ITEMS
Visiting Melbourne to advise on how
to go about establishing a chain of motels
over the face of this fair continent is
William Edmundson, of Houston, Texas.
A motel is a super-carpark, and the U.S.
has 50,000 of them, each more luxurious
and more free and easy than the last one,
and is building more of ’em at the rate
of 3000 a year. The visitor is a founder,
director and former president of the
American Motor Hotel Association, and
owns a few himself in Texas. He
reckons it will take at least 10 years for
Australia to get a sufficient supply of
motels to accommodate her itinerant
motor-population. Melbourne alone could
do with a couple of hundred of them to
meet the needs of the Olympic influx.
• •
“M.”: Of course he’s had a lifetime of
diplomacy, but “smooth” is always the
word I’ll associate with Britain’s new
P.M. At the time I met him at Sydney’s
Town Hall, on his visit of a few years
back, London national papers were
branching out into the provinces (as, per-
force, their country cousins have now
been doing, in reverse). Asked Sir Anthony
how this development was affecting his
wife’s “Yorkshire Post.” He had just
finished a half-hour speech (at a time
when the British elections were almost
due) in which he’d really said nothing.
He listened courteously to my question,
bending forward, in his left lapel an
R.S.L. badge, in the right the Kiwi equiva-
lent, which he’d received that morning in
Auckland. He started in surprise, then
grabbed my lapel. “I say, old chap, that’s
jolly decent material. Made here? Your
own wool, of course? Look, old man,
I’m off up to Newcastle tomorrow. Now
what should I wear there, eh? Hot?
Something light? Tussore? By Jove,
they’ve really turned out something in
this material of yours . . .’* And so on,
a learned sartorial dissertation, covering
all the clothes he’d worn in all the places
he’d worn ’em. But nary a word on the
“Yorkshire Post.”
• •
“Finance, organisation, management”
is the legend on the visiting-card of Emile
de Monchaux, now looking over his old
haUnts in Sydney after many years abroad.
He’s been concerned with those three
words ever since he joined the original
staff of the Commonwealth Bank in
Sydney in 1912. The bank didn’t hold
IN FROM BOGOTA
him long; England and Europe called
and after them Canada (for years until
War 11, when he was a financial adviser
to the Canadian Treasury), U.S.A. and,
since the war, Bogota, in the South
American republic of Colombia. De
Monchaux and his associates could be
described as medical consultants to sick
business-undertakings. Diagnosis begins
with a study of symptoms in the patient’s
balance-sheet; a cure is considered com-
plete when its shares rise firmly on the
Stock Exchange. Before returning to
Colombia De Monchaux will fulfil a
United Nations’ assignment as financial
adviser to the Honduran Government in
Central America. He’s one of a large
Sydney family; a younger brother,
Charles, is a medico who has twice run
for the Federal Parliament, missing on
the second occasion by only a few hun-
dred votes.
• •
Most of the champion chippers at
Sydney’s Royal use a hand-forged axe,
but not many know the hands which
forged them. They belong to Percy
Miller, managing-director of Miller
Cyclone Forgings, Melbourne, who has
for long hobbied with axe-heads. He
watched the axemen, discussed their pro-
blems, applied his intensive research into
superior steels and improved methods of
manufacture and evolved an axe which
is world-famous. Since War II he has
made 400 of them. Retired now from
his directorship, he will continue with his
hobby.
• •
“Macnell”: John Eastman, erstwhile
lieutenant-commander of the Royal Navy,
now resident in Sydney, is a quiet, stead-
fast man who joined the R.N. in 1909,
served through the Kaiser’s war in sub-
marines, and in E 8 was the fore-end
torpedoman who pushed down the firing-
ball which shot a torpedo into the vitals
of German cruiser Prinz Adelbert in the
Baltic. Before the Japs broke loose, he
had served in most of the Navy’s far-
flung stations, from South Africa to
Jamaica; after Pearl * Harbor he laid
minefields round Hong Kong, then took
on the lieutenancy of the island’s big
dockyard. A Jap bomb blew him some
40ft. along his charge; he was paralysed
in both legs when the Japs caught him.
That was 14 years back—sailors are an
adaptable breed, and the other day the
judges of Sydney’s R.A.S. gave Eastman
first prize in the open section for rug-
making, as well as a first and special
prize for the same art in the blind section ;
he has been blind, through malnutrition,
since his p.-0.-w. days.
• •
“Uramao”: Having notched three-
score years and five, Cecil Malthus, Pro-
fessor of Modern Languages at Canter-
bury University College (N.Z.), will give
it away next January. He was wounded
in the Kaiser’s war, studied at the Sor-
bonne, and before crossing the Tasman
back to Canterbury was associate-profes-
sor in his subject at the University of
Tasmania.
• •
A scientist who went from Sydney
University to England 27 years ago on an
1851 Exhibition travelling-scholarship
and studied for three years at the Caven-
dish laboratories under Lord Rutherford
has been appointed Professor of Instru-
ment Technology at the Imperial College,
London. He is Dr. J. D. McGee, who
has been working on electronic devices
in the laboratories of Electric and Musical
Industries for many years. Before and
since War II television vacuum-tubes were
his chief concern ; during the war, infra-
red image-converter tubes.
• •
“Pip Tok”: W. S. Lonnie, taking on
the newly-created job of administrative
officer and inspector of building and sup-
plies in the Westralian Medical and
Health Department, is an official of
medium size but maximum energy, with
a good record of service in peace and
war. To the M.C he won as a lieutenant
of the 2/43rd Battalion on Tarakan, he
added M.V.O. for his organising work on
the Royal tour of Westralia. Since the
.war he has been industrial officer of the
Department of Labor; otherwise he’s a
C.M.F. lieutenant-colonel and senior
vice-president of the State R.S.L.
The most brilliant graduate in music
at Melbourne University last year was
20-year-old Allan Nuske. He got honors
in all but one subject, yet he is the only
one of the 30 Bachelors of Music who
got their degrees recently who hasn’t a
job teaching. He happens to be blind,
like his sister Dulcie, who graduated in
1949 in the same subject. She had to wait
three years before she got a job.
• •
John Denvir, a miner on New Zealand’s
West Coast, invited to be the guest of
the War Veterans’ Association of the
Republic of Slovenia, will leave with his
wife for a three-months’ stay in Yugo-
slavia. He served in Greece with the
Kiwis, was taken prisoner in April, 1941,
and escaped with an Australian tank-
gunner named Colin Cargill, and a Royal
Marine, “Ginger” Martin. The Kiwi
and Digger joined the Partisan forces of
Slovenia and battled with them till Car-
gill, suffering from frost-bitten feet, was
captured by the Italians and was shot
with others of those forces. Denvir had
so commended himself to Tito that by
1943 he was raised to the honorary rank
of lieutenant of the National Freedom
Army and Partisan Detachment of Yugo-
slavia. By the end of that year he was
promoted to brigade-commander. With
victory in Europe, Denvir rejoined the
British forces in Italy. The British liaison-
officer in Slovenia recommended him for
the D.C.M., for his bravery in an attack
on a German unit, when a train and all
its equipment were destroyed and 85 of
the enemy killed in hand-to-hand
fighting.
• •
Harold Norman Hirst, South Aus-
tralian manager for the A.M.P., made the
headlines in Adelaide recently when he
HIRST
gave a luncheon to three of his men who
between them had completed £l5 million-
worth of life-assurance business. Born
in Sydney 55 years ago and schooled at
Shore, Hirst is the doyen of A.M.P. top
branch-managers—the other seven are
all under 55, and all have been appointed
since he took over in South Australia six
years back. In his spare time his mind
still runs on figures—in just how few
strokes he can get round a golf-course.
• •
In July Dr. E. M. (Rita) Stang will
resign the dual post of senior medical
officer of schools in the Westralian Educa-
tion Department, and medical adviser, in-
fant-health, which she has held since
1929. Bora in Melbourne, and a gradu-
ate of Melbourne University, she had
a few years’ private practice before going
to Westralia as medical officer for schools
in 1925. Four years later she toured
Britain, the Continent and America to
study infant-health work, and was given
the extra appointment under the W.A.
Health Department on her return. After
retirement Dr. Stang hopes to see some-
thing of Northern India, Japan and
Formosa, returning to Melbourne in time
for the Olympic Games. Her outside
interests include pottery and carpentry.
The worth of New Zealand-born Colin
Horsley as a pianist may best be gauged
by an unusual honor bestowed upon him:
for the past three seasons he has appeared
in concerto work with the London Phil-
harmonic Orchestra under Sir Thomas
Beecham, who is usually reluctant to
engage outside instrumentalists with
him it is mostly singers, or the key-men
in his own orchestra for concertos. A
scholarship-winner to the Royal College
HORSLEY
of Music, Horsley has had three teachers:
Herbert Fryer, Matthay and Katherine
Goodson, who was a friend of Melba.
In 1943 he made his debut with the Halle
Orchestra under Barbirolli, since when
he has been in increasing demand on the
concert-platform. He is here on an
extended tour for the A.8.C., for the
second time; last here in 1950.
• •
A pioneer of Australian paper-making
passed on when William Dearden died at
83 in Brisbane. For 12 years he was
manager at the Melbourne end of Millar’s
Karri and Jarrah Co., and then formed
his own timber co. in Queensland.
About 1916 he conceived the idea of con-
verting the waste timber from a mill at
Yarraman Creek into wood-pulp, and
brought an expert from *Sweden and
machinery from Germany to start the first
wood-pulp mill in the So.uthern Hemis-
phere. The then Governor of Queens-
land opened the plant and prophesied a
big Australian industry, but water-
shortage, a two-years’ drought and the
outbreak of War I brought the mill to
a standstill. Thirty years later a second
attempt was made, Dearden forming a
company in Queensland to turn hard-
wood into paper. A son, Charles
Dearden, deals with paper in another
way—he is J.C.W.’s public-relations man
in Melbourne.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Bendigo, at 76, J. J. Stanistreet, whose
name is synonymous with the gold-boom in
that city. Of the 100 or so companies he
directed with the late Senator McColl, the most
successful were the Central Blue and Central
Nell -Gwynne; the cheques for dividends he
signed exceeded £1 million. The Deborah
came later, but was exceeded by the North
Deborah, whose dividends totalled £685,000.
In Sydney, at 65, the Rev. Frank Hanlin,
widely-known Presbyterian. He had edited
the Church paper for close on 20 years, last
year was Moderator in N.S.W., and had chaired
the State branch of the World Council of
Churches. Earlier duties took in chaplaimng
with the First A.1.F., and heading Fairbridge
Farm School at Pjnjarra, Westralia.
In England, Brigadier-General Sidney Goodall
Francis. Grandson of one-time Victorian
Premier- James Goodall Francis, he served in
the British Army in the Boer War (D. 5.0.), on
the N.W. Frontier, and in World War I (bar
to D. 5.0.). He did War Office duty in the
late war.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 53, James Duncan
McGuire, blind since he was seven. His me
was devoted to those similarly afflicted-
teaching at the Auckland Institute of the
Blind, where he was trained, and later direct-
ing the N.Z. St. Dunstan’s organisation tor
war-blinded veterans. Appointed by the
Government as a trustee for the Institute tor
the Blind, he was awarded M.B.E. in 1946.


ABOUT A DOG


ABORIGINAHTIES
RETURNING south after a hitch-
1V hiking trip through Queensland, my
mate and I were picked up at Beaudesert
by an aborigine and his wife in a brand-
new ’54 ute. We camped for the night
in the McPherson Ranges, close to the
border. In the course of a pleasant yarn
around the fire he told us he had been
working on a station up north. He was
travelling to Woodenbong to visit his
people at the settlement there. Walk-
about, 20th-century style!—“Townie.”
* * * *
“Aub.”: Morning smoke-oh for the
fettling-gang; hot sun in a cloudless sky.
As we sat around sipping our tea the
Nullarbor silence was shattered by a yell
from Peter as he leapt off the rail and
grabbed his rear—a small piece had been
cut out of both Peter and Peter’s pants.
He’d learned the hard way that expansion
and contraction of Trans-line rails is pro-
bably the greatest in Australia, and sitting
over a fishplate is the most efficient way
to test it.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Assuming that Peter
Bladen speaks with the voice of Westralia
in “Lazy Walkabout,” the Sandgropers
are more enlightened than their neighbors
in South Oss as regards what manner of
vehicle a jinker is. Bladen wrote that
heavy machinery was brought to the gold-
fields on j inkers; to a Croweater that
would sound ridiculous, they suffering the
delusion that a jinker is the light, two-
wheeled vehicle which New-South-
Walesers —and presumably Sandgropers
—know to be a sulky, trap, dogcart or,
with certain modifications, a gig. A
jinker is—or used to be before motor-
trucks swept old Punch off the roads —
a vehicle with a body consisting of noth-
ing more than a long pole. The wheels
were attached fore and aft and were very
heavy, as befitted a vehicle primarily in-
tended to transport huge logs over rough,
scarcely-formed roads. The first time a
Croweater began to enthuse to me on the
delights of bowling merrily along a
country-road behind a spirited high-
stepper I was heartily agreeing—until he
mentioned the vehicle. The idea of a
jinker whizzing along behind a trotter
left me wondering whether all the people
in South Oss were as great liars as that
one.
* * * *
“Ymar”: In Horsham (Vic.) Botanical
Gardens there’s a fine specimen of
Bunya-pine from which, at intervals of
three or four years, a few cones fall.
This year three have fallen, weighing
respectively 121 b., 12ilb. and 141 b.
Horsham considers that a record.
* * * *
“Sebak”: The fish I’d caught was about
9in. long, strikingly pretty, with vari-
colored bands. I asked a bait-gatherer to
identify it. “A Maori,” he said, and
pointed to the thin green lines curved
around the fish’s face like Maori tattoo-
ing. A while later two kids arrived,
spotted the fish where it lay in a rock-
pool and announced its species: “A
butcher.” Asked what gave them that
idea, they replied definitely: “It is. A
greasy-butcher—you feel how slippery it
is!” Some time after, a chap carrying a
rod pronounced it a “cocky.” Back at the
camping-area it was identified as a
parrot-fish.” That was when I sought a
fellow who really does know something
about fish, and told him of the four
names. “That’s right,” he said. “They’re
all the same fish.”
*' * * *
“Old-timer”: All this talk of muster-
ing sheep on motor-bikes reminds me of
a Tyrolean family who took on a sheep-
property in the hills out of Lithgow
(N.S.W.). The father and the three sons
were unable to train sheep-dogs; they
couldn’t handle Australian dogs at all, so
that trained dogs they bought very
quickly became so confused by the
shouting and screaming that they were
like sheep themselves. With horses the
Tyroleans were just as hopeless. By the
time the eldest boy was 16, the next 14
and the bambino 11, they’d given away
horses and dogs and did their mustering
on foot. When I discovered them even
Pop could cut out 50yds. under evens,
and any of the boys could outspeed any
of their big wethers on a short spurt or
wear them down when it came to a
staying flutter. In fact, I had my eye on
“No! You don't paint the inside !”
them for the Olympics, but the boom
in wool allowed them to mechanise the
farm and hire labor. Whereupon all
four became overweight and, about a
year ago, the youngest couldn’t keep up
ith me when I ran for a Sydney bus.
* * * *
“Mullum”: Maybe I’m behind the
times, but I have never heard of aircraft-
tyres containing a conducting-material to
discharge static-electricity (B. 23/3/’55).
In most cases a piece of spiral wire is
attached to an axle and extends below
the tyre, so that it will be in contact with
the ground. Only one is necessary, as all
“ Yair—but why do you Want to PUT it in a bottle?"
components of an aircraft are bonded
together.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: The age-old urge to return
to the same place each year to breed must
be very strong in that pretty sprite the
spotted pardalote. For years I have
watched them return to the hill they favor
near my place. Over the last few years
the hill has become covered with houses,
and the slow-moving, friendly fowl has
suffered grievous losses through attacks
by domestic cats. Yet, despite the danger,
they are back again, busily digging their
nesting-tunnels in soft sand-banks, and
collecting material to line their homes.
Incidentally, the spotted-pardalote is
probably Australia’s champion ventrilo-
quist. Its quaint call “Sleep babee” does
anything but indicate the bird’s position.
* * * *
“Fairf”: A local mother has achieved
what has generally been regarded as an
obstetric impossibility—having triplets at
the age of 16, and dogdom is barking its
praises for this distinguished member.
The vet. who attended the confinement
likened the event to an 80-year-old woman
having a child, but gave as his opinion
that, having got back into the spirit of the
thing, as it were, the proud mother could
repeat the performance next season ; in
which case there was every possibility of
the births being normal and trouble-free,
* * * *
..puzzy-Wuzzy” : Collection and preset-
vat;on 0 f historical records of Papua and
New Guinea is part of the task of H. J.
Gibbney, of the Commonwealth National
Library, who is now in Moresby. In
addition to giving archival advice he is
anxious to obtain any historical material,
including letters, diaries, photos and
drawings, to supplement the library’s
present collection on the Territories,
These can be either gift or loan, and if a
request is made they will be held un-
opened for specified periods—which might
reassure some would-be donors and
others. Gibbney also hopes to make
tape-recordings from Europeans and
natives whose memories of events have
special historical value.
* * * *
“S.”: One of the funniest sights
in the bush is a pair of rollers engaged in
confab. Perched high on a dry branch,
both gabble away at a tremendous rate,
bobbing up and down continuously.
Should one bird lose interest in the con-
versation and start to preen its feathers,
the other will indicate extreme dis-
pleasure, whereupon the inattentive part-
ner will give a sudden start, and the dis-
cordant clamor will take on renewed fury.
Seen in direct sunlight the roller is a most
attractive bird, with dark-green and blue
plumage, and bright-orange beak. Under
its wings are the silver markings from
which it derives its other name of “dollar-
bird.’’ The roller has an effective method
of discouraging human proximity to its
nest, and even though you know the
bird is going to zoom up out of its dive-
bomb attack when it’s about 15ft. from
your face, the appalling screech it gives
and the wide-open beak coming at you
at top speed usually make the tactics a
success.
* * * *
OTRANGE that amidst the grand
J scenery where the little creeks hesi-
tate between joining the Murray, ’Bidgee
or the Snowy, almost all the birds of any
size are black!
Kelly the crow is common, for, apart
from the chance of gorging on carrion
in the snow-leases, the tufty grass of
those altitudes is alive with grasshoppers.
Somewhat similar in flight but immedi-
ately distinctive in call are the curra-
wongs; the cheeky pied fellow common
along the coast is here, and a slightly
larger and very melodious dark-grey
chap—near enough to black from the
nearest distance he will allow you to
approach.
A peculiar floppy flight and a cry all
his own (the abos pronounce it “kareela”
and reckoned that was a good enough
name for fowl itself) marks the arrival
of a small flock of black-cockatoos, the
yellow cheek-patches and tail-markings
pretty hard to see unless you get fairly
close, which the bird doesn’t encourage.
Lastly, weaving fast along the course
of the larger streams, circling over any
sizeable pool, hungry heads twisting on
snaky necks, are the big black cormor-
ants. Bane of the anglers, unattractive
in appearance, habit and voice, they are
little more than wandering appetites.
Maybe when the Snowy scheme begins
to fill the valleys the birds will congre-
gate and multiply into flocks like those
to be seen now on the Hume Reservoir.
Whether the trout respond to an open go
in the same way will be awaited with
interest by those who go after them,
feathered- as well as fly-experts.
WIPPEGONG.
MOLLY MORGAN’S CAMP
Mistress Molly Morgan stood days gone on
Campbell’s Hill
—Wallis Plains or Maitland, it is Molly
Morgan’s still —
When creeping teams from Morpeth and the
wretched gangs in chains
Left charcoal from their camp-fires round the
shanty on the Plains.
Molly watched the valley where the lush-green
farmlands blend
With the silvery Hunter sweeping round the
Horseshoe Bend,
And the vista soothed and softened the gnawing
deep unrest,
The bitterness, the canker, rooted in her breast.
So like —so like to England—the corn—the
fallowed loam,
A memory of Shrewsbury—the chequered fields
of Home.
Ah God! Ah God!—the poplar groves, the
shaded combes and dales,
A vignette of the Motherland, this vale of
New South Wales.
Wallis Plains or Maitland—it was Molly
Morgan’s Camp,
Crouching by the river where the logged road
met the ramp.
When Hunter spilled her waters, a gulf across
the flat,
The shanty lights a-glistened, an Ark on
Ararat.
The village throve and prospered; last the
flowering city threw
Her arms out to the highlands where the
stately suburbs grew;
Whiles the river soughed her warnings—could
Pride remember that
Or the old lag Molly Morgan and her shanty
on the flat?
The wraith of Molly Morgan stood this day
on Campbell’s Hill;
’Midst the dazed and awestruck mortals, silent,
she, and still,
And grimly stared down-valley where the
scoured levees trend,
A jagged frieze and broken round the
Horseshoe Bend.
Where sand-wastes cloak the rich black soil
of Lome and Pit-na-Cree,
And the flotsam of a city goes a-drifting to the
sea,'
And chaos shrieks to heaven as the yellow
flood recedes
From the pall of mud unending and the dank
wreath of reeds.
Is this is this my city where Long Bridge’s
broken back
Sags drunkenly and sodden by the twisted
railroad track?
And the vacant sites and wreckage where once
a homestead stood
Cry loud the searing sorrow of a people on
the Rood.
Is this is this a vengeance laid upon
posterity;
Is this a retribution for my long-lost liberty?
•J s Bus the price of servitude—is this the legacy
Paid in wrack and ruin for what was done to
me?
Better far and cheaper they had left me o’er the
sea,
’Twas I that laid the first stone—the scourge
must fall to me.
Wallis Plains or Maitland, let them call it
, what they will,
1 must bear the heartbreak—it is Molly
Morgan’s still.
N.S.W.
HILTON BARTON.


Old lush songs
, Tune collected from Mr. Joe Cashmere of Sylvania (N.S.W.), by Edgar
Waters and Jeff Way, and published by them in “Speewa,” the magazine of the
Australian Folklore Society. Mr. Cashmere learned the song at Booligal (N.S.W.)
in the ’nineties. The tune is a variant on a popular music-hall ditty called “Bow
Wow Wow,” a tune which was used for dozens of parodies from the ’fifties
onward. The words supplied by Russel Ward.
'T'HE generally-held belief that the
Maori is a casual cuss who works
only when he is obliged to procure the
wherewithal to eat is refuted by the
experience of an oiled-canvas clothing-
factory at Opotiki in the North Island.
The employees are all Maoris except the
European supervisor, and for five years
there hasn’t been a day’s idleness owing
to strike, nor a case of absenteeism. In
fact, the enterprise has been so successful
that expansion is contemplated.
—“Uramao.”
* * * •
“Gravelsnatcher”: A peregrine falcon
was killed recently near Perth —a pity,
because the little thunderbolt is probably
Australia’s fastest bird and certainly one
of the most beautiful in flight; and
although it seems to be spread pretty
well over the whole of the continent it’s
not common anywhere. That’s not due
to any avian enemies, for no bird is its
master in the air. The fastest of the
hawks, it can take a wild duck in full
flight, and it’s been known to decapitate
a bird with one wing-stroke, probably
delivered when it was touching 180
m.p.h., its fastest clocked speed.
# * * *
“Gar”: Ted O’Connor, Jack Drew and
Bob Dunne struggled through Hunter
River to the ridge
where the cows of several farms were
bunched. They milked them, did their
best to feed them and stayed there
marooned by rising water for two days.
They had little to eat and were fed-up
with milking and drinking milk, when a
plane came over. They gesticulated
hunger, and the plane dropped them a
bundle of food. Yes —tinned-ihilk!
“R.D.M.”: Different but equally
annoying flood-effects in Maitland
(N.S.W.) are dust and mildew: powdered,
dried mud blowing from streets and
yards, and walls and furniture spotted
and discolored a foot or so above
floodwater-level. Can’t do anything
about the dust, but the “Abo.” Council
may know a cure for the fungus; dry-
brushing or scrubbing with soap-and-
water doesn’t banish it permanently.
* * * *
“Ypen”: A sheep-dog on a farm near
South Australia’s Maitland puts in over-
time by rounding-up foxes. Seven have
been disposed of —four of which he
dragged to the homestead sheepyard and
held there until someone came along to
destroy them. Old-timers in the district
have never known of a similar case.
* * * *
“Harbel”: The vision of an under-
water swimmer is confined to a mere
couple of yards, even on a sunny day in
crystal-like water —if the water comes in
actual contact with his eye. Yet, when
glass keeps the eye dry the range of vision
can be 20yds. or more. Spear-fishermen,
of course, have long made use of this
knowledge, and now orthodox fishermen
have discovered another peculiarity of the
eye and adapted it to their particular
requirements. By setting a sheet of glass
in the bottom of a waterproof box and
immersing it to a depth just short of
allowing the water to run in, a clear vision
can be obtained of lobster-pots three or
four fathoms down, thus avoiding the
necessity of hauling them up for
inspection.
"It's we go back a bit an' get a run at it we're right."
JOG ALONG TILL SHEARING
The truth it’s in my song so clear
Without a word of gammon:
The swagmen travel all the year
Waiting for the lambin’.
Now when this dirty work is done,
To the nearest shanty steerin’,
They meet a friend, their money spend,
Then jog along till shearing.
Chorus:
Home, sweet home,
That is what they left it for,
Their home, sweet home.
Now when the shearing season comes,
They hear the price that’s going:
New arrivals meet old chums,
Then they start their blowing.
They say that they can shear each day
Their hundred pretty handy,
But eighty sheep is no child’s play
If the wool is dense and sandy.
Now when the sheds have all cut out
They get their bit of paper;
To the nearest pub they run
And cut a dash and caper.
They call for liquor plenty
And are happy while they’re drinking,
But where to go when their money’s done
It’s little they’d be thinking.
Sick and sore next morn they are
Of course, when they awaken.
To have a drink of course they must
To keep their nerves from shakin’.
They call for one and then for two
In a way that’s rather funny.
The landlord says “Now, this won’t do ;
You men have got no money.”
They’re very sad next morning,
And are lounging on the sofas:
For to finish off their spree
They’re ordered off as loafers.
They’ve got no friends, their money’s
gone,
And at their disappearing
They give three cheers for the river’s bend
And jog along till shearing.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will he continued each week.]
SNAKE versus GOANNA
IN “Snakes —Fact and Fiction” (B.
23/3/’55) A. Holmes says: “As a
matter of fact I would be interested to
hear a reliable account of a hostile
engagement between a snake and a
goanna.”
The buildings at Tapalin Vineyard, 17
miles by road and 90 miles downstream
on the Murray from Euston (N.S.W.),
are (or were in 1917-20) built in a row
along the old bank of the river, flanking
the stock-route. The river, some centuries
before, had cut itself a new channel,
leaving a chain of billabongs below the
houses and sheds.
Between the boss’s house and the
pumping-station was a gully with gently-
sloping banks clothed in spear- and
barley-grass, usually green because the
gully carried the overflow when the near-
by citrus-grove and flanking vine-blocks
were irrigated. On the far side of the
gully from the house, in splendid isola-
tion from the timber lower down, stood
a magnificent river-redgum.
We had worn a foot-track into and out
of the gully on our way to and from the
pumping-station. ' One summer morning
I started down this track, between foot-
high seeding grass, on my way to the
pump. The bole of the tree was
six or eight feet to the left of the track
and, naturally, the area close around it
was bare of grass. As I came to the
brink of the gully I could see across the
little sea of grass.
Facing me, clear in
the sunlight on the bare
patch under the tree,
stood a go, probably a
four - footer. Partly
coiled round his
shoulders, with its head
held down by the go.’s
off-front claws, was a
brown snake about the
same length.
For a moment, while
I instantly “froze,” the
tableau below remained
perfectly still. One or
other or both had heard me. It was
not surprising to me that they should
instantly “freeze” their struggle. Most
wild creatures will do that on the intrusion
of man.
Remember that what followed was too
quick for words.
The snake whipped its head from under
the claw, threw itself sideways and back,
appeared to wrap another coil around the
go.’s body. The go. stretched its neck
and opened its mouth and stiffened its
legs against the ground. With the snake’s
head whipping about and striking at the
go.’s head both suddenly rolled over twice
in a flurry of dust and bark.
In that flurry they came apart. The
snake made as though to clear out, but for
some reason —perhaps dazed by the fight
—turned round and was actually flowing
over the go.’s back when the go. went
up on its hind-legs, twisted its body and
clamped its jaws about six-inches behind
the snake’s head.
In a flash the snake had three or four
coils around the go., whereupon both
thrashed about on the ground in such a
flurry that I couldn’t see details of move-
ment. Then the snake was free of the
go.’s mouth-grip, but the go. had the
snake’s head under its front claws again.
All this time the go.’s tail had lashed
frantically, and the battlers had heaved
and strained over an area of about 16
square feet.
What followed seems incredible, but
here it is. The go., holding the snake’s
head under its claws, seemed to wonder
where the blazes the head had got to.
It turned its own head from side to side,
its long tongue whipped in and out, its
throat swelled and it gave out the familiar
muted roar.
The snake then slowly uncoiled itself
from the go., withdrew its head from
under the go.’s claws, and quite slowly
crawled off into the grass, the go. remain-
ing still, save for its slowly lashing tail.
Thinking the snake must have got its
fangs through the go.’s armor somewhere
and filled it with venom, I waited, expect-
ing the go. to keel over. Minutes passed.
The morning was blue-and-gold. I could
hear the pump throbbing and, further off,
white cockatoos screaming. I watched
the go.
Suddenly it struck me that the go.
looked for all the world like somebody
who’d won the field, and was wondering
why he hadn’t made a thorough job of the
other bloke while he was at it. By now
convinced that he wasn’t going to die, I
waved an arm and cried, “You’ll do me!”
The go. whirled and went up that tree
like a shot. No, it didn’t run away and
eat some herb or other.
I went on down to the pump and told
them about it. I was only 18 and they
were men in their forties. To this day
I believe they received it as just another
snake-yarn.
Anyhow, Mr. Holmes can accept it as
“a reliable account of a hostile
engagement.”
C. S.


ANNOUNCEMENT
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LIMITED
perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) takes
pleasure in announcing that its associate Company,
Perpetual Trustee Company (Canberra) Limited,
opened in Canberra on 4th April, 1955.
The Board of Directors comprises, in addition
to the directors of the parent Company, Messrs.
Warren D. McDonald (Vice-Chairman) and S. G.
Macfarlane, both well-known residents of the
Australian Capital Territory. Mr. A. G. Armytage
is Managing Director. Mr. J. S. Carson, a former
senior officer of Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), is Manager.
The Company’s offices are situated in Industry
House, at the corner of National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra.
The opening of this office will be of interest to
solicitors and to all persons desiring the services
of a trustee in Commonwealth Territory, as well as
to residents of the Territory, seeking to employ a
corporate trustee in any of its numerous capacities.
Enquiries may be directed either to this
Company or to the Canberra Company.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £71,000,000.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN-
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ORANGE AND TAMWORTH
There is no
unanswered prayer
God may not answer just the
way we. want when we pray
for help for a loved one, or
strength to fight our own
weaknesses, or success in
landing a job—but He does
answer. In April Reader’s
Digest, a noted minister tells
three ways God responds to
our pleas.
Thirty other stimulating
articles in April Reader’s
Digest, including “Preview of
the next 25 years,” “Do
dreams come true?”, “How
to help someone in grief,”
plus a 14-page book conden-
sation of "Assignment: Chur-
chill,” by Inspector Thompson
of Scotland Yard.
On sale now, 1/6 at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS •
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (ViceChaima*)-
b'i’KUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. JJ. E. M ANION, Manager.
Brunches Lu all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
Business, Rollery, Etc
Foy and Gibson
■COLLOWING what amounted
-*• to something like an inter-
national auction, Cox Bros.
(Aust.), Ltd., apparently with
great confidence in its ability
to rejuvenate the old com-
pany’s earnings, has made the
winning bid for the Foy and
Gibson business (excluding the
Eagley textile-mills). Terms of
the Cox Bros, offer, accepted
by the Foy and Gibson board,
are:
Four Cox Bros ss. ords. and 255.
in cash for each £1 F. & G. ord.
share.
At last week’s price of 7s. for
each Cox Bros, ord., total con-
sideration has a market-value of
535. per F. and G. ord. The
Eagley subsidiary, according to
a recent revaluation, is worth
another 15s. per ord. share
(£1,300,000 altogether), and is
at present the subject of negotia-
tion with other interests.
In the term to June 30, 1954,
the Foy and Gibson group
earned 10 p.c. on its ord. capital,
allowing for the prefs. Woollen-
mill earnings were down. On
an immediate-past earning-
power basis Cox Bros, are
paying a high price for the Foy
and Gibson business (for
example, four Cox Bros. ss.
shares alone exchanged for one
F. and G. share would have
given a div.-return of 25.,
against F. and G. Is. 6d., on
1953-54 experience), but appar-
ently the Cox Bros, management
believes that it can pep-up
earning-power and bring it more
into keeping with the recent
independent valuation placed on
F. and G. assets.
Cox Bros., with a paid capital
of £2,165,490 in 7,500,000 ord.
stock-units of ss. each and
290,488 7 p.c. £1 prefs., earned
18.5 p.c. on a smaller ord.
capital last term and paid 10 p.c.
It has a chain of 43 retail stores
—ll Victoria, 11 W.A., eight
N.S.W., six S.A., six Tasmania
and one in Canberra. There are
also two wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries —E cono m i c Stores
(Perth), bought three years ago
for £353,000, and Sydney Snow
(Sydney), taken over from
March 1, 1954, at a cost of
about £1,500,000. Sales-expan-
sion at Snow’s since the take-
over has been “really
phenomenal.”
Consideration payable to
F. and G. ord. shareholders will
involve the issue of 6,876,000
new Cox Bros. ss. ords. and the
raising of £2,148,750 in cash. A
new cash-issue of ord. shares is
not contemplated. But when
the deal is through Cox Bros,
will be next only to G. J. Coles
and Woolworths in size of
capital among retail stores.
Foy and Gibson has a paid
capital of £2,369,000, of w,hich
£1,719,000 is in £1 ords. and
£650,000 in prefs. Its head-
quarters are at the corner of
Bourke- and Swanston-streets in
Melbourne, with branches at
Fitzroy and Prahran (Vic.) and
Rundle-street, Adelaide (where
Cox Bros, has recently acquired
a freehold). There is also a
minority investment interest in
Foy and Gibson (W.A.), Ltd.
Other bids made for the Foy
and Gibson business were by
G. J. Coles (at first in conjunc-
tion with Cox Bros.), which
offered two Coles ords. and 15s.
in cash for each F. and G. ord.;
and a later one by Sears,
Roebuck (U.S.A.) in conjunc-
tion with Walton’s, the Sydney
retailer —terms not announced,
but rumored to be equivalent to
about 475. per F. and G. ord.
Oil-finding Technique
L. Owen: The announcement
that Rough Range No. 8 well
has been plugged and abandoned,
and that the rig has been moved
to the northern section of the
structure for testing the upper
strata in Rough Range No. 1
well, suggests that the “develop-
mental” technique in the search
for oil within the Exmouth Gulf
area of W.A. has failed to pro-
duce the expected results.
It now appears to be recog-
nised that the purely fortuitous
striking of a “fossil” oil-seep in
Rough Range No. 1 did not
justify the classification of
the Birdrong sandstone as
a “reservoir” - bed, and that
the original conceptions
of the Rough Range structure —
particularly the pre-Birdrong
structure —were incorrect. Per-
sonally, I have grave doubts even
whether the sand associated with
the fossil oil-seep is strictly cor-
relateable with the oil-free Bird-
rong sandstone.
In common with the general
trend in recent years, Wapet has
emphasised geophysical examina-
tion of its oil-permits and has
used such surveys to replace,
largely, the former practice of
intensively studying all outcrop-
ping formations. This practice,
as the older generation of pet-
roleum-geologists well know,
was mentally laborious, physi-
cally exhausting, and often
tedious and slow. On economical
grounds the change cannot be
criticised where “textbook” (or
near-textbook) conditions pre-
vail, and where the geological
history of the area has been
studied in detail.
In Australia, however, the
regional geological history of
most areas —including the west-
ern edge of the mainland —is
practically unknown, except in
general terms, and most of the
work done has consisted of bare
interpretations of structure, which
constitutes only one facet of the
many-sided operation of search-
ing for petroleum. It is essen-
tial, therefore, that the field-
geologist must revert, at addi-
tional cost in money and time,
to the minute and painstaking
examination of all outcrop-
evidence.
Unfortunately,* training in this
specialised geological craft (for
it is much more of a craft than a
science) has been neglected in
“Are you now , or have you ever been, a member of any
temperance organisation?”
our universities. Anyway, the
knack of it can be acquired only
by long experience in the field ;
the correct interpretation of the
data thus obtained, for applica-
tion to oil-finding, is also a highly
specialised craft requiring long
apprenticeship in the field.
Had an adequate amount of
time been spent in intensive out-
crop - study at Kurrangong
Heights (N.S.W.), it is unlikely
that the well would have been
located at a point where it is
now reported that “tension-
breaks, creating joints and
fissures.... have been encoun-
tered at numerous levels result-
ing in a loss of circulation of the
drilling fluid.” In plain language,
that means that the well has been
drilling in a fault-zone. It is to
be hoped that these conditions
will not be repeated in the well
(although it is probable) when-
ever “competent” beds [those
which do not flow under pres-
sure] are encountered.
Sears, Roebuck
Possibly to become an in-
fluence in Australian retailing
(even though its offer with
Walton’s, Ltd., for control of
Foy and Gibson, Ltd., was
abortive), Sear s, Roebuck,
Inc., began as a Chicago
mail - order house (at first
watches only) in the 1880’s,
and its catalogue became almost
world-famous, offering a great
variety of household goods.
“Send no money” (until after
receipt of goods) was a slogan
which built up the firm’s reputa-
tion for reliability, and it paid
off handsomely. Today the co
believes that its system of
assembling, packing, checking
and mailing over a million
articles a day was the fore-
runner of assembly-line produc-
tion in industry.
It was not until 1925 that the
first Sears-Roebuck retail store
was opened. Now the retail
stores account for the greater
part of the turnover, though
prices in the stores are about
6 p.c. above those in the cata-
logue. Stores have been estab-
lished in most Latin-American
countries. Turnover last year
totalled more than $3OOO million
on shareholders’ funds aggregat-
ing $869 million. For a quarter
of a century expansion has been
financed out of ploughed-back
profits.
Time-payment Boom
The £l6O million of hire-
purchase balances outstanding
throughout Australia on Decem-
ber 31 was £l7 million higher
than three months earlier (the
growth in the previous quarter
was £l2 million), and £5l
million up on the figure of a
year previously.
There has been little slowing-
down in terms-finance up to
December 31 last in spite of
bank-credit restriction and the
like.
The figures apply to concerns
which finance retail sales, but
which are not themselves
retailers.
The average h.-p. advance in
respect of motor-vehicles,
tractors, etc., was £686 during
the December quarter, represent-
ing 58 p.c. of the amount of
sale. For plant and machinery
the figures were £632 and
62 p.c.; for household goods
£Bl and 80 p.c.
N. S. Wales is still the leading
h.-p. State, especially in respect
of household appliances. But
on a population basis Queens-
land makes most use of hire-
purchase facilities.
Of all the hire-purchase
balances outstanding on Decem-
ber 31 last about £34 million, or
roughly 21 p.c., were financed
by the Industrial Acceptance
Corporation and its associates.
This is the largest concern of its
kind in the Commonwealth.
Within the last two years some
trading banks have entered the
h.-p. business in a big way.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
of every type
and size
Famous for man/ years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
6$ x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturint Stationers and Printers
804 - 308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
UUbssf
-
-‘Vt4\
an A.N.Z. Bank
cheque account
is easier for your
wife...
In the past few years
you may have spent a
good deal of money
buying labour - saving
appliances for your
wife. But have you
thought of giving her the convenience of a
cheque account at A.N.Z. Bank?
Work out the cost of drawing 50 or 60
cheques a year, and balance this cost against
the effort and expense of paying in cash.
Consider how much easier household budget-
ing would be with A.N.Z. Bank statements
and cheque butts to show exactly where her
money goes. Think about the added confi-
dence that she would have if there were no
occasion for concern about large sums of
money left at home or carried in her handbag.
Why not make arrangements with the
Manager of the branch of A.N.Z. Bank
nearest your home to-day?
A*N*Z
rjL*j£j
w
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London. Agents throughout the World.
ANZ.41.1325
Would you like good
whisky better?
r
fl
BELLS
100% SCOTCH WHISK 1 ”
distilled and bUH 0 *®
j IN SCOTLAND a
D| stillers««™scoJ^
pecial RES£
* Et CONTENTS PI« T 6
>?A\
If whisky is really good,
made in Scotland —can one
ask for anything more ? We
think you can—that it
should bear the name
‘Bell’s’. We are independent
distillers. Independent to
go on making the finest
whisky our long experience
can produce. Buy a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if
it is not Scotch Whisky at
its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISIfY
Arthur BeU& Sons Ltd.,DistiUers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
10
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
London Oiunail
From Herbert Holman
'T'HE tumultuous progression of
out-of-hand mischief in
Dukas’s symphonic poem, “The
Sorcerer’s Apprentice,” is not
inapt as an analogy of the
internal chaos in the Labor
party. Although Aneu r i n
Bevan’s distinctive magnetism
may contain an element of
sorcery he has never been sub-
missive enough to serve an
apprenticeship to anything or
anybody; and Clement Attlee,
for all his milk-and-water pacifi-
cation, would never have been
fool enough to leave his
organisation in charge of such
a wayward lieutenant.
But the effect is much the
same. The eldritch power of
Bevan’s spell is torrential and
incalculable. His broomstick
divides and subdivides. The
stalwarts of the Labor move-
ment are impotent to stem the
rising floods. They are, more-
over, divided among themselves
as to the remedy. And no
master-magician will appear,
with dramatic suddenness, to
restore order and peace.
Supernatural powers, unfor-
tunately, do not extend to the
Labor bosses, otherwise Bevan
might be sitting aloft, blithely
uttering incantations to his own
accompaniment on the Crwth.
What are they to do, when,
under shadow of expulsion, over
500 protests come in from the
constituencies and two from the
powerful railwaymen’s and
engineers’ unions? Dr. Sum-
merskill, Morrison, Gaitskell
and the trade-union leaders
would grasp the nettle firmly
and let the purge go forward.
But at least they would
clear the sultry air and make a
clean start. Attlee, after an
80-minute talk with the problem-
child, influenced the executive
(by a vote of 14-13) to give him
“one last chance.”
By this intervention, the focus
“Looks as if We’ve arrived a bit too late”
has shifted from rebel to leader,
Attlee became leader in 1935,
after having proved himself a
shrewd and competent deputy to
Lansbury during the difficult
years 1931-35. Twenty years
is a long time, especially for a
party which is under the per-
petual strain of doctrinal
conflicts. Since 1945 he has had
an uneasy passage, both in the
catastrophic failure of the experi-
ment he was elected to launch
and in reconciling the several
factions and ideologies under his
banner. To have retained the
leadership during this second,
and more troublesome, ten-year
period is an astonishing achieve-
ment, by any standards. But,
so far as internal rivalries and
disagreements were concerned,
he has been able to do so only
by dodging the issues.
It remains to be seen whether
or not his falling-back once
more on this frayed technique
will be too much for his
patience-spent colleagues on the
Right.
Blaze Away
It is paramountly clear that
Churchill, at all events, has
stepped down from office in a
spread of glory. There is no
better indication of this than in
the tone of official Labor
propaganda which is ingeniously
dissociating Churchill from
the Tories. They had no use for
him before the war. They have
campaigned to “get him out.”
Now he has gone, the handling
of foreign affairs and the
H-bomb question will suffer,
and his successors will be' less
inhibited in their cynical
grinding-down of the masses.
These calculated slurs are
unlikely to cause any loss of
s l ee p— or an y twinges of con-
science—in the Eden, Butler or
Macmillan households. Indeed,
they have a certain nostalgic
flavor, reminding us of a similar
“line” in 1945.
Since the political life, with
its poisonous smears and below-
the-belt slashes, is more likely
to unmake reputations than the
reverse, there is comfort in the
realisation that the Old Man is
not to be denied his just reward
—while he is still alive to
enjoy it.
Bores in Arcady
Denis Cannan’s new comedy,
“Misery Me! ” (Duchess
Theatre), is vexingly disappoint-
ing both as a successor to
“Captain Carvallo” and as a
play that is more fecund in
ideas than convincing in
performance.
All is set for an evening of
intellectual tomfoolery. The
title has a picaresque appeal.
All the characters have romantic
names, most of them foreign
ones. The scene is an inn “a
mile from Arcadia.” The inn,
very romantically, is in the high
mountains and its delightful
higgledy-piggledy interior (by
Hutchinson Scott) anticipates a
cycle of comings and goings
very different from the
humdrum routine of Streatham
or Hendon.
The innkeeper (Philip Stain-
ton) is physically and socially
larger than life and on the verge
of paternity. His guest is
moping, though hardly mum,
over his plight—merely the
futility of having to go on living
in a war-torn world—and con-
templates suicide.
a glamorous product, at
rather a high level, of the com-
mercial world below arrives in
the person of a tycoon’s private-
secretary (Yvonne Mitchell),
she, at once escaping civilisa-
tion and fleeing from the men in
her life, has only to cross the
near-by frontier to reach her
birthplace and peace of mind,
Inevitably the first of these men,
her employer (Clive Morton)
arrives, as hot in temper as in
pursuit, to distribute money with
irascible largesse. He is soon
followed by his rival, a Left-
wing militant (Colin Gordon),
w ho appears to have dumped his
skis outside. The rivals plot
against each other even to
mutual elimination, with the
guest as assassin. The girl and
the guest fall in love, she with
cynical disparagement, he with
slight hope for better things.
There are comic scenes of
incriminating documents, uncon-
ventional bathrobes and a not
entirely undeserved frustration
of the rivals. Then, after much
revolver-shooting offstage, the
play ends on the celebration of
the birth of the innkeeper’s son
—with no one left to participate
but the city-pent doctor,
“Misery Me! ” contains wit
as well as natural high spirits,
yet it misses the mark widely,
Mr. Cannan’s preoccupation
with suicide is too tedious and
too long for the good health of a
comedy. Although he obviously
is an uninhibited icono-
clast and would-be satirist, he
does not give evidence of bring-
ing to his subjects that extra
knowledge or experience which
makes the crash more resound-
ing or the satire more pungent.


Cape York
\
QUEENSLAND
\
* 1
NEW SOUTH WALES
victoria
"From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORA T B AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E T. H Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, KJB.,
C.B.E. Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.,
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
„ N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colm Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); Byrne Hart; Cecil Brenan;
A. E. Axon, M.E., M.I.E. (Aust.); W. Hamilton Hart.
Manager: C. E. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and CharleviUe.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Holeproof, Ltd.
T TSING nylon and other synthetic fibres
' as well as wool, silk, and cashmere,
Holeproof and its two subsidiaries—
Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd. and Holeproof,
Apparel, Ltd—are one of Australia’s
leading producers of men’s socks,
women’s hosiery, shirts, ties, rainwear
and sportswear, etc. The emphasis is on
quality, style and value, which have their
roots in managerial and plant efficiency.
To keep abreast, and in some lines lead
the field, in the ever-changing demands
of fashion, a research team is constantly
at work, and of recent years most of the
old plant has been replaced with fast,
labor-saving more-or-less automatic
machines, and output and costs have
further benefited from adoption of the
latest techniques in production-planning
and -control. The other factor behind
the group’s rapid and profitable post-war
development has been good team-work,
inspiration for which has come from the
boardroom.
Paid capital grew from £205,955 in
1945 to £1,268,536 at December 31, 1954.
Of the difference £867,581 came from
cash-issues, which brought with them
£137,669 of share-premiums, the other
£195,000 being bonus-shares, handed out,
one-for-three, on December 9 last. Over
the same period reserves rose from
£61,348 to £809,060, subject to £21,352 of
intangibles, and distributions climbed
from 8 p.c. to 10£ p.c. for the three years
to 1950, followed by 6, 8 and then 12}
p.c. for the two years to the close of last
accounts. And the bonus-issue—it came
from share-premium reserves and partly
from a reserve of £360,000 created by
writing-up the book-value of freeholds—
would make p.c. worth 16.6 p.c. on
ord. capital as it stood before the gift.
Last term prices of imported nylon and
rayon yarns were reduced, imports of
women’s hosiery, etc., increased, and,
under the combined pressure, cuts were
made in local selling-prices of hosiery
and some other lines. Foreseeing
its difficulties, the board gave more
attention to production of men’s socks
and apparel, and recently entered the
lingerie field, but activities here are not
expected to contribute to net earnings for
some time. A deal with A.K.M. will
further broaden the base of trading.
Turnover increased by 12} p.c., pass-
S^ 4 ? 500 After allowing
U P £44,915) for depreciation
and £238,956 (up £47,495) for taxation,
net earnings of the group were £58,865
(34.6 p.c.) stronger at £228,912:
Holeproof ahd Subsidiaries.f
' -Dividends Nominal
„ r — Pref. Ord T?p-
Dee., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 10* p.c. serves.*
,6 °‘ 37,243 2215 3000 9^4
Share premiums, £57,000 .. 359 230
Expenses written off, £lBBO ” 3571350
Added reserves, £lBl7 .. 359 167
To outside interests, £22,198 ** 336’969
Less adjustments, £10,867 .. .. 326,102
* 6l ”, L 39 ’ 3 * 6 2215 3000 13,000 24,926 413,277
Added reserves, £584 ~ t 413 816
’ s2 "rn ™ 7 + B7 2245 3000 !5.500 41,120 440,813
To contingencies, £30,000 .. 410 813
Added reserves, £2752.. .. ” 4 13 565
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 423,565
63.. 1(0,047 2215 3000 18,000 66*,020 504 377
From contingencies, £15,500 .. .. 5i9’577
Assets-revaluation reserve, £360,000.". 869’877
Reserves capitalised, £195,000 674 877
Unexplained additions, £2325 net 677’9fi9
° *"\n 228 a}? ,? 215 3 ?°° 20,500 71,339 809,060
* q deduetln S outside shareholders’ interests
* Subject to intangibles, £21,352, at Dec. 31? 1954.
The £228,912 was enough to pay the
pref. divs. and show an attractive 30 p.c.
on ord. capital, as it stood at the close
of accounts, compared with 27.8, 13.1,
27.7, 38.6 and 27.3 p.c. back to 1949.
So maintenance of the 12£ p.c. distribu-
tion was an easy matter.
Continued growth and stiffening of
the financial structure are the features
of balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Ord £514,000 £539,000 £780,851
Pref 387,685 487,685 487,685
Reserves .. .. 410,813 519,877 819,060
Outside interests.. 283,412 188,187 205,747
Mortgages .. 263,340- 267,620 272,681
Overdraft .. 282,753
Creditors .. .. 431,464 419,339 481,136
Inter-co. suspense 106,226 177,735 276,352
Tax reserves* .. 358,652 388,600 507,499
Pinal divs. .. 32,793 66,993 73,132
£3,071,138 £3,055,036 £3,904,143
Freehold, plant,
etc 1,214,696 1,266,748 1,740,930
Shares other cos. 4,175 4,175 4,075
Stocks .. .. 1,501,471 1,172,283 1,400,618
Book debts .. 328,810 219,841 270,563
Cash .. .. 596 370,637 466,605
Goodwill, etc. .. 21,390 21,352 21,352
£3,071,138 £3,065,036 £3,904,143
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Of the year’s net addition of £474,182 to
the book-value of fixed assets, £360,000
was on account of the writing-up already
referred to. To meet the difference, carry
an extra £228,335 of stocks, add £50,722
to book-debts and strengthen the big
cash holding by £95,968 only £66,858 was
added to the outside debt. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£526,986) was £84,502.
A year or so ago arrangements were
made with Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.,
to make and sell men’s socks under Hole-
proof’s new trade - mark, “Zealon.”
Since the close of accounts Holeproof
has bought A.K.M.’s £635,625 of ord.
capital for £508,500 by an exchange of
scrip—four f.-p. ss. Holeproof ords. for
five f.-p. ss. A.K.M. ords. The deal,
which should benefit both parties, was
over 90 p.c. complete early in March.
A.K.M., which is a large manufacturer
of wool and cotton yarns, underwear,
outerwear, lingerie and hosiery, has a
paid capital of £639,375, including £3750
of p.c. prefs., which advance with the
ords. beyond that rate. Net tangible
assets at June 30, 1954, amounted to
£934,892. For the 12 years to 1951 the
ords. received a steady 10 p.c., followed
by nil, 6 p.c. and 8 p.c. Profit for the
year to June 30 last was £73,743, equal
to over 14 p.c. on the face-value of Hole-
proof scrip involved in the deal. A 12Jr
p.c. div. on this scrip would be equal to
10 p.c. on A.K.M.’s ord. capital.
The market prices Holeproof’s ss. ords.
at 9s. 4d. (6s. 9d. two years ago) to
return 6.7 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
At 21s. and 14s. 9d. the 6 p.c. B and
5 p.c. C prefs. yield 5.7 p.c. and 6.8 p.c.
respectively. The well-protected 8 p.c.
A prefs. seldom appear on the market.
Net tangible cover is £3O 16s. 4d. B,
£3 12s. 9d. C and 6s. lid. ords.
Standard Motor Products, Ltd.
r T'HE British-made Standard car was
A growing in popularity locally before
the war. But during the European blitz
the works of the Standard Motor Co.,
Coventry (Eng.), were destroyed, and
didn’t get back into export production
until 1945. From then on the
story, in the Australian market, has
been one of extraordinary prosper-
ity. To help overcome the twin
obstacles of the tariff and new fiscal
device of import-restrictions, the Eng-
lish co. and its Australian distributor,
Standard Cars, Ltd., decided to get to-
gether and extend local activities to
assembly and, progressively, manufacture
of Standard and Triumph cars and com-
mercial vehicles.
A new jointly-owned concern, Standard
Motor Co. (Aust.) Pty., was formed for
the purpose, and a factory was set up at
Port Melbourne (Vic.). Then, to bring
the distributing, assembling and manu-
facturing activities under one control,
Standard Motor Products, Ltd., was
formed in 1952. It bought the English
co.’s half-interest in the assembly co.
(valued in the books at £330,000) for
330,000 of its own f.-p. ss. shares issued
at a premium of 15s. each. It also
acquired all the shares in Standard Cars,
Ltd., by an equitable exchange of its own
scrip.
This Products co. thus kicked off with
a paid capital of £742,500 in 355,000 £1
5£ p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,550,000 ords. of
ss. each, and four subsidiaries—Standard
Cars Pty., which holds the Standard dis-
tributing franchises for Victoria and
N. S. Wales; Standard Motor Co. (Aust.)
Pty., which does the assembly, etc., for
the whole of Australia and near-by terri-
tories ; British Farm Equipment Pty.,
distributors for Ferguson Tractors in
Victoria and N. S. Wales ; Bishops Imple-
ments Pty., which assembles the tractors
and makes grain elevators, conveyors, etc.
It also holds exclusive rights to manu-
facture and distribute Standard vehicles
in Australia for a period of 25 years, as
well as the rights to manufacture Fergu-
son Tractors, etc., as decided upon from
time to time. The English co. has also
agreed to provide all necessary technical
assistance on the manufacturing side.
Altogether it is a very satisfactory set-up
from the Australian point of view.
Net earnings of Standard Cars, Ltd.,
shot up from £29,401 for 1947 to £550,212
for 1951, and the ord. div. was jacked up
from 10 p.c. to 60 p.c. over the same
period. In 1953 the profit dropped to
£340,494, due to the balance-of-payments
crisis and difficulties which accompanied
it, but the 60 p.c. div. was repeated with
comfort. After that the new products
co. took up the running, with the follow-
ing results for the whole group:
Standard Motor Products and Subsidiaries.
/ Dividends— To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. , Ord.— serves, serves.
30 £ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Written off intangibles, £30,000 .. 1,553,435
Share exchange bonus issue, £30,000.. 1,583,435
1953. .251,218* 5J 35 = 155,150 96,068 1,679,503
From tax equalisation res., £2lOO .. 1,677,403
1954. .660,185 5£ 60 = 252,025 408,160 2,085,563
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 2,065,563
* Includes £76,044 transferred from provision for
stock fluctuation.
The troubles already mentioned again
show up in 1953, when the div. was
lowered to 35 p.c.
Last term there was a marked growth
in vehicle and other sales, and turnover
increased by £4,638,000, reaching a record
£17,460,000 —the Standard is now fourth
best-seller on the Australian market.
Also net earnings began to feel
the benefit of the increasing activities
of the assembly co. After allowing
£348,951 (up £256,042) for depreciation
and £503,000 (up £342,704) for taxation,
the profit was £660,185 (up £408,967).
That was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show a lush 165.3 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 59.8 p.c. for 1953. The div.
was restored to 60 p.c. again.
The bigger trading and growth of the
Port Melbourne project, etc., are further
reflected in all-round increases in balance-
sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1953. 1954.
Pref £355,000 £355,000
Ord 387,500 387,500
Reserves 1,679,503 2,065,563
Mortgage .. .. .. 343,750 338,750
Creditors, etc 1,680,509 1,699,838
Staff fund .. .. 30,000 50,000
Tax provision .. .. 164,666 515,403
Final div 106,638 203,512
£4,747,566 £5,615,566
Freehold 709,242 865,099
Leasehold, etc 469,741 555,185
plant 433,324 536,069
Investments .. .. 12,000 1 2,000
Stock • • . . .. 1,599,200 2,230,223
Debtors 419,818 951,781
Cash, etc. .. .. 1,104,241 465,209
£4,747,566 £5,615,566
To meet the outlay on fixed assets (up
£344,046) and carry more stocks (up
£631,023) and book-debts (up £531,963),
the big holding of cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £639,032 net, and only £19,329
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors.
Since the close of accounts £387,500 of
bonus-scrip has been handed to the ords.,
one-for-one, and the pref. div. was lifted
from 5\ p.c. to p.c. Also those on
the ord. register at March 26 last were
offered 1,550,000 new ss. shares at a
premium of ss. each, and 200,000 new
£1 6} p.c. prefs. were offered firstly to
those on the pref. register. The new money
(£975,000 in all) is wanted primarily
to enable the Standard Motor Co. (Aust.),
Ltd., to increase its output of bodies
from about 70 to 100 daily (equal to, say,
24,000 per annum) and to provide the
plant necessary to manufacture a corres-
ponding number of engines from imported
and local components. The aim is to
increase the local component of the co.’s
products to 65 p.c. by 1956.
When all the money on the new share-
issues is in, paid capital will be £1,717,500
in 555,000 £1 61 p.c. prefs. and 4,650,000
ords. of ss. each. On that lot, the pref.
div. and, say, 35 p.c. to the ords. (=7O p.c.
on capital as it stood before the gift)
would call for £217,235 less profit than
was claimed last term.
Doubtful of what the future holds, the
market sums up the risks by pricing the
f.-p. ss. ords. at 15s. to return 11.6 p.c.
on a 35 p.c. distribution. Rights to the
new shares recently sold at 4s. 4d. each.
The 61 p.c. prefs. at 20s. 6d. yield 6.3 p.c.
International Resistance Hldgs., Ltd.
npHE foundations of this young and
A expanding organisation—holding co.
and five operating subsidiaries—were laid
in Sydney in 1934 by W. J. McLellan
and M. Walker (present managing-direc-
tors) when they secured the Australian
rights to make the electrical resistances,
etc., turned out by the International
Resistance Co. (U.S.). But it was not
until the rapid post-war industrial expan-
sion got under way that the business really
began to forge ahead.
The present holding co. was formed in
March, 1950, with a paid capital of
£171,930 in f.-p. ss, shares, which had
been exchanged for the issued capital in
the International Resistance Co. (Aust.),
Ltd., and its distributing subsidiary, Wm.
J. McLellan Co. Pty., and in National
Transformers Pty. (all Sydney), and
Australian Engineering Equipment Co.
Pty. (Melb.). In the following year the
scrip in Conqueror Cables Pty. was
bought for £25,000, one half cash and the
other half shares. The group manufac-
tures, imports and distributes a very wide
range of electrical resistances, condensers,
aircraft and automobile cables, chokes,
coils, fluorescent lighting, and magnetic
sound-recording equipment, etc., and has
Common wealth-wide connections.
Excepting a temporary setback in 1953,
demand for the co.’s own products and
agency lines has called for constant
additions to premises, plant and working
capital. To help meet the outlay, those
on the register were offered at par
382,280 new ss. shares in 1951 and a
further 280,000' ss. shares in 1952, thus
lifting paid capital to £350,000.
The recovery from the economic
malaise in 1952-53 was prompt, as the
following table shows:
International Resistance Holdings
and Subsidiaries.
t __ To Re- Re-
on6 Profit. f Dividends—. serves, serves.*
oU, £ £ £ £
1950 .. 31,525 8i p.c. = 14,274 17,251 41,763
To asset revaluation reserve, £22,295 64,05 s
Unexplained additions, £7199 .. 71,257
1951 . . 42,712 10 p.e. = 20,832 21,880 93,137
Unexplained additions, £2 .. .. 93,139
1952 . . 49,294 10 p.c. = 28,000 21,294 114,433
Tax overprovided, £648 .. .. 115,081
1953 .. 13,077 3 p.e. = 10,500 2,577 117,658
Tax overprovided, £2709 .. .. 120,367
1954 .. 40,756 10 p.c. = 35,00 0 5,756 126,123
* Subject to intangibles, £141,361, 30/6/’54.
Last term’s £40,756 (up £27,686) of
profit was written after setting aside
£14,036 (up £2528) for depreciation and


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
pTrade Marks.—Advt.
X/ 'P p'6-i
k§ ’•/&
>' a A s>
' A 0-
A //
9 5-
•9~
X
AVv s
AX >
iiii
Additions
take care of themselves
-> CONTEX
Adding Machine
Yes, you can relax and know that your figure
problems are a thing of the past when you
own a speedy, accurate Contex.
So simple to operate you can master your new
Contex in 5 minutes.
Contex adds in whole numbers, £s. d.,
decimals, weights and measures. Investigate
this essential personal, portable adding machine
to-day.
. -
£23'io-
Handsome
carrying
case,
55/- extra
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE M 0425
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Contex.
NAME
ADDRESS C 029.16
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 8416. BU 3446, BU 1409.
Missing Friend
WOULD any next-of-kin of ANINE
THEODORE (also known as THEODORA)
HANSEN (nee TALLACKSON), born in
Grimstadt, Norway, and widow of
GABRIEL ENERVAL HANSEN, formerly
of Stavangter, Norway, later of Mel-
bourne, Victoria, and Goomalling, West-
ern Australia, please communicate with
the undersigned—JACKSON McDONALD,
CONNOR & AMBROSE, Solicitors, 50 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia ?
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862 t
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS s
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances ol every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
£22,230 (up £3630) for taxation.
It was equal to 11.6 p.c. on
capital compared with 3.7, 17.6,
20.5 and 18.3 p.c. back to 1950
The div., which was raised from
81 p.c. in 1950 to 10 p.c. for the
two following years and then
dropped to 3 p.c., was lifted to
10 p.c. again. Considering that
intangibles exceeded reserves by
£15,236 at June last, it was a
liberal distribution.
Continued growth of the
undertaking is further reflected
in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
£ £, £
Paid capital .. 350,000 350,000 350,000
Reserves .. 114,433 117,658 126,123
Mortgages .. 19,812 43,321 60,718
Overdraft .. 48,269 64,702
Creditors, etc.* 96,615 60,611 80,845
Final div. .. 14,000 10,500 17,500
594,860 625,359 699,888
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. 147,613 187,177 243,325
Leaseholds . . 3,601 2,547 1,493
Stocks . . 214,686 205,518 209,349
Debtors, etc. .. 69,295 87,320 103,018
Cash . . . . 18,262 1,394 1,342
Intangibles .. 141,403 141,403 141,361
594,860 625,359 699,888
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet last term’s net addition
of £56,148 to freeholds and
plant, £15,698 to book-debts and
£3831 to stocks, the co. raised
an extra £17,397 on mortgage,
and added £21,433 to the over-
draft and £20,234 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc.
To finance further expansion,
especially in connection with
electronic equipment, £70,000
was raised by the issue of 6 p.c.
registered unsecured notes in
October, 1954, redeemable
November, 1959. But it was
not enough; the co. came on
the market last month with
£lOO,OOO £1 1\ p.c. cum. prefs.,
underwritten by William Tilley
and Co., the Sydney brokers.
That will lift paid capital to
£450,000, on which the pref.
div. and 10 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £52,500. Certified
net earnings (after allowing for
tax) for the six months to
December 31 last were £29,775,
which is at the rate of £59,550
p.a., or enough to pay a full
year’s pref. div. and show 13.1
p.c. on ord. capital. So the 10
p.c. to the ords. appears to be
in no immediate danger.
However, the 1953 result, and
other things, suggest that net
earnings are very vulnerable to
fluctuations in economic condi-
tions. The market sums up the
risks by pricing the f.-p. ss. ords.
at 7s. sd. to return 6.7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution. On the basis
of figures at December 31 last,
net tangible cover is £4 11s. 7d.
prefs. and ss. Id. ords.
McDonnell & East, Ltd.
THE market looks upon the
scrip of this old-established
Brisbane draper, whose store
is in George-street, just off the
main shopping - centre, as a
steady 8 p.c. proposition, which
it has been since 1948, with a
2 p.c. jubilee bonus added in
1951. Still, the price of the f.-p.
£1 shares has eased from 265. to
245. 6d. over the last 12 months,
despite a marked recovery in net
earnings.
That was partly because in-
vestors look for a better return
on their money than they did a
year or so ago, and partly
because trading conditions are
expected to get steadily more
competitive, and so push further
into the background prospects
of anything more than a
fractional rise in the dividend
rate. At 245. 6d. the return is
6.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover is 355. sd.
(book-value), of which slightly
more than half is in trading
assets and the balance in
premises and plant.
During and since the war the
board has followed a cautious
financial policy, keeping the div.
moderate and, until the last few
years, ploughing back substantial
sums into the business, thus
greatly strengthening the position
of shareholders. However, with
arrival of the balance-ot-pay-
ments crisis about three years
ago, the easy trading conditions
of the early post-war period,
when goods were easier to sell
than to get, have given way to
more competitive activity in
which margins have been pared
and the emphasis placed on
quality and price in order to
hold custom.
In the struggle McDonnell and
East’s net earnings dropped from
an average of £41,107 for the
four years to January, 1951, to
an average of £27,018 for the
four years to the close of last
accounts:
f Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit.B p.c. Ord.* serves, serves.
£/ £ p c £
’50..34,099 720 8 = 14,882 18,497 148,912
Keserves disappear, £10,524.. 138,388
’51..50,815 720 10= 18,603 31,492 169,879
Revaluation assets, £53,348.. 223,227
Reserves disappear, £13,085.. 210,142
’52..28,449 720 8 = 15,846 11,883 222,025
Reserves disappear, £11,528.. 210,497
’53..29,823 720 8 = 22,882 6,221 216,718
Reserves disappear, £9182 ..207,536
’54..19,591 720 8 = 22,882 203,525
From tax reserve, £11,331 net.. 214,856
'55. .30,211 720 8 = 22,882 6,609 221,465
* Includes special payments to directors
to 1951.
It was the sluggishness of
turnover, slimming of margins,
stubbornness of costs and need to
adjust inventory values that were
responsible to the poor showing
for the 1954 term. The resilience
of the figures for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts,
however, suggests that the
management has overcome the
worst of its problems. The
£30,211 (up £10,620) of profit
covered the small pref. div. and
10.3 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 6.6, 10.2, 15.5, 29.1 and
19.4 p.c. back to 1950. On share-
holders’ funds the year’s profit
was 5.8 p.c., which is below
average for the trade. Of
£25,000 overprovided for taxa-
tion in prior years, £13,500 was
earmarked as managing - direc-
tor’s retiring allowance and the
balance was added to con-
tingency reserves, up £11,331
net.
Movements in balance-sheet
figures are healthy:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Pref 9,000 9,000 9,000
Ord 286,027 286,027 286,027
Reserves . . 216,718 203,525 221,464
Mortgages .. 903 903 902
Overdraft . . 117,212 150,143 121,909
Creditors . . 43,697 73,105 66,815
Staff fund 13,500
Tax provision. . 55,913 36,581 20,564
Final divs. .. 13,591 13,591 13,591
743,061 772,875 753,772
Freehold, plant,
etc 223,541 234,062 238,752
Stocks . . 419,308 431,558 389,315
Book debte .. 98,046 105,020 121,110
Cash, etc. . . 2,166 2,235 4,595
743,061 772,875 753,772
The reduction of £42,243 in
stocks, growth of £16,090 in
book-debts, cut of £28,234 in the
overdraft and recovery in net
earnings could mean keener and
more selective buying with a
better stock-turnover ratio. The
year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£282,239)
was £17,749.
Since the cost of carrying
large stocks is much greater than
it used to be, and since the
availability of imports is more
dependent on the ebb and flow
of export earnings than on the
level of national income, retailers
in future will be inclined to turn
increasingly to local manufac-
turers who can offer prompt
delivery of competitive lines.
Kia Ora Gold Corp.
Four small Adelaide gold con-
cerns, operating on the Tennant
Creek field, have decided to pool
their interests. Kia Ora Gold
Corp., N.L., has been formed
for the purpose with a nominal
capital of £250,000 in 2s. 6d.
shares. Of the lot 1,200,000
contribs. are offered to those on
the vendor co.’s registers in the
proportion of three for 20
Central Mines, one for two
Doria Gold, one for four Merloo
Gold and three for ten Territory
Scheelite. The money is wanted
Is. application, April 21, and the
balance as required. Vendors of
the leases get 136,000 fully-paids
plus £lO,OOO cash. A further
135,000-paids (33,750 each) are
to be handed to the four cos. in
the group.
Territory Scheelite and Doria
have taken working options over
part of the Burnt Shirt line of
lode. Doria recently suspended
operations on the Great
Northern mine. Merloo has just
completed a new s&aft through
which it expects to haul 100 tons
ore daily to feed a crushing
plant, now ready, with cyaniding
vats to come.
Chief interest at the moment
is in the Burnt Shirt leases of
the Central, where a patch of 3oz.
stuff has been met with on the
40ft. level. From a new shaft at
the northern end of the lease, a
crosscut at 50ft. has entered a
lode 40ft. wide, with “values not
yet determined.” Speaking
generally, it takes about 20 days
to crosscut 40ft., and only a
few hours to dolly and assay
samples. The “Wild Cat” leaves
the speculator to guess prospects
for himself.
Faith in the
Future
Two of the world’s greatest contemporary
figures recently celebrated their 80th birthdays: Sir
Winston Churchill and Dr. Albert Schweitzer, whom
the Queen has just made an honorary member of
the Order of Merit, one of the highest awards a
British monarch can bestow.
What quality do these totally different men
possess that gives them both a title to fame?
One was a scion of the British aristocracy,
vivid in his young career, and destined in age to
be known as the loftiest Briton of his time.
The other, shunning the world as a young
Alsatian doctor, chose the solitude to build a
missionary hospital for natives on the bank of a
river in French Equatorial Africa.
While one was demonstrating his political skills
in the full glare of public life, the other was living
the same years in a lantern-lit loneliness.
\
Is this the reason they attained so high in their
different ways: that both possessed in outstanding
degree the Courage without which nothing
significant in Life is ever achieved? I believe that
is the reason.
Churchill was a mail unafraid when fear was
seizing all around him; and he had the gift to
inspire that fearlessness in others.
To Schweitzer, the African wilds were no
area of darkness but a field of opportunity for his
heroic dedication to another race.
And both, at 80, continue to work in their
respective spheres —proclaiming that greatness is
not set at limit by the years, and that so long as the
spirit drives there is no retiring age for men’s minds.
Apply that thought to our own Australia.
Here we have a field of opportunity richer and
wider than that which Schweitzer knew, with
problems far less frightening than those which
supremely challenged Churchill.
Its flowering in greatness will depend on what
each one of us, young or old, is prepared to do for
it so long as he lives, according to the gifts that
God has given him.
H. Hastings Deening


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The Autumn Race Meeting gave its
verdict on the new line for clothes ; it
was “Not Proven,” for there was not
much startlingly new to be seen, although
the all-over picture was most pleasing.
A few women wore copies of Dior’s
A-line, with double-breasted jackets very
long and straight. Mrs. Ken Stewart,
whose suit was black grosgrain with a
velvet half-collar, and Mrs. Noel Vincent,
who wore sables with her mustard-flecked
tweed suit, looked particularly smart.
Most women compromised with the
new line, wearing slim dresses or suits
with some hipline interest. Mrs. Rupert
Moses, for instance, had a flat, black
bow at the hipline of her black dress ;
Mrs. Michael Read’s black woollen suit,
worn with a tiny leopard pillbox-hat,
was buckled at the low waistline.
Among the few dresses with fuller
skirts, Mrs. Bob Walsh’s was notable
especially for its glowing tawny color,
worn with ropes of gold pearls and a
wide hat of caramel angora. Mrs. John
Bovill also wore a full skirt, in the
princess-line, of flecked tweed, with a
black hat.
Although suits and dresses were in
neutral, subdued colors—black, anthra-
cite-grey, flecked-tweed and some navy
*—there was much beautiful “jewel” color
in the hats. Rich reds predominated:
rose, ruby, amber, tan, cyclamen and,
for contrast, peacock and turquoise.
Mrs. Gordon Johnston was one of
those who wore a small hat of turquoise
with a black-and-white flecked tweed suit
which had a black velvet collar. Mrs.
W. J. Smith pinned a diamond brooch to
her turquoise suit, worn with a black
hat. Mrs. Michael Fitzpatrick’s hat was
mushroom-pink hatter’s-plush, her suit
pink-and-grey jersey. Several wide hats
were worn, many in fluffy angora, and
among these Mrs. Len Plasto’s in fuchsia
tones was most striking. Mrs. L. J.
Tiedman’s wide white grosgrain hat was
worn with a beautiful dress in navy wool,
with a flying side-panel to the slim-fitting
skirt.
* ☆ ☆
Many country visitors attended the
Town and Country Ball in the Rainbow
Room at the Australia on Wednesday.
The president, Mrs. Clinton Ayers,
included in her party Mr. and Mrs.
John Thompson, of Bylong, Mudgee,
and Mr. and Mrs. K. Mazoudier (Eden-
bah, Trundle), while Mr. and Mrs. David
Downs (Brownlow, Camden) entertained
a large party.
Among the many lovely dresses worn
one of the most striking was Mrs.
George Osborne’s black silk-organdie,
with its bodice and overskirt delicately
embroidered in birds and blossoms. Mrs.
Dan Osborne wore a graceful gown of
black lace, and Mrs. Charles Parsons
aqua-net, with guipure-lace medallions in
the same color encircling the lowered
waistline. Another very beautiful dress
was that of Mrs. Duncan Anderson
(Garrawilla, Mullaley). Cut on simple
lines, its white Chantilly lace was re-
embroidered all over with whirls of
narrow white ribbon.
A feature of this ball, proceeds of
which are in aid of the Smith Family,
was a parade of fur garments specially
selected by members of the Fur Trade
Association.
* ☆ ☆
Among the parties for younger people
one of the brightest was that given as a
“coming-out” for Julia Macfarlane and
Jane Lindsay by their parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Hector Macfarlane, of Milly Milly,
Young, and Mr. and Mrs. David Lind-
say, of Cucumgilliga, Cowra. Julia wore
a bouffant frock of white nylon net with
a lace bodice sparkling with mother-of-
pearl cabuchons. Jane’s strapless dress
was embroidered Swiss-organdie with a
tiered hem of plain organdie. About 120
guests danced in the ballroom of the
Hotel Australia, the atmosphere particu-
larly gay.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Scots to the fore,” the opening words
of the “Scots College Song,” will be the
theme at the school’s ball on Friday,
April 22, at the Trocadero. With a skirl
of the pipes and a waggle o’ the kilt, the
school pipe-band, in the Black Watch
tartan, will swing into the hall to play for
the opening waltz and reel, and old boys
from every part of the State and some
from as far afield as Malaya wifi be
among the revellers. The Women’s
Committee, with president Mrs. E. A.
Burbury and secretary Mrs. Reddel, the
Younger Set under Miss Ann Dunlop and
Miss Barbara Still, and hon. organiser
Mr. J. B. Maltman assure old boys and
their friends of a really grand night at
the ball, proceeds of which will be
devoted to the War Memorial Fund.
Joan Helene Law, only daughter of
Mr. J. H. Law, of North Rocks, and Mrs.
Helene A. Rankin, of Killara, is wearing
a solitaire diamond ring since the
announcement of her engagement to
John Richard Harris, second son of Dr.
and Mrs. Richard G. S. Harris, of
Killara. John, an engineer on the
Idomeneus, has left for Macassar and
Singapore, and on his return in May
wedding plans will be made.
How austere fashions are becoming!
Contrast the gorgeousness of the clothes
in “Paint Your Wagon” (apparently
representing the 19th century) with
Audrey Hepburn’s skimpy and un-
adorned attire in “Sabrina.” Except for
her evening-dress, which is very sumptu-
ous, her clothes have an almost puritani-
cal simplicity. In Sydney the best-
dressed women generally wear a dark,
simple suit with an undecorated hat, and
this trend seems to be continuing. It
may be an advance in taste, or an expres-
sion of the greater grimness of the age,
but the most curious thing about it is
that the extreme simplicity seems to cost
as much as the gorgeousness and glamor
did.
☆ ☆ ☆
“My Three Angels” opened at the
Royal last week with a satisfying number
of evening-dresses and diamonds (or
what passes for them) to be seen in the
audience. Mrs. Lennox Bode wore a
beautiful black-faille dress of cocktail-
length, and others in black were Mrs.
Don Service and Mrs. lan Potts, who also
wore a short coat of white faille spotted
in black.
☆ ☆ ☆
Ball-committees are getting well under
way with their arrangements even when,
as with the Black and White Ball, the
event is not scheduled until next October.
Mrs. Dick Allen is president of the com-
mittee again this year, and bright ideas
for making money for the Royal Blind
Society are coming thick and fast, includ-
ing a performance here of the play by
Charles Macarthur Onslow which London
society’s bright young things are trying-
out. It was a shock to hear that Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere has resigned from
all her committees, though she has offered
to help with several causes. Her talent
as an organiser and her brilliant chair-
manship have been of great value to
charitable causes in Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting afternoon-party is that
to be held on Sunday, May 8, at the
Elizabethan Theatre (until last week the
Majestic Theatre, Newtown), when Mr.
Hugh Hunt, director of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, will introduce visitors to
its new home. Tickets for the party are
155., and Mrs. Hans Tronser (FM4545)
can supply them to those interested.
MELBOURNE
Thousands gathered outside the Town
Hall to give Prime Minister Menzies one
of the finest welcomes he has ever
received in this city, while in the main
hall 3000 gathered to listen to his inspiring
speech, which centred round the theme of
friendship. At the back of the stage, on
which many official guests sat, was a
large map of Australia made of glowing
gold marigolds.
After the public welcome, the Lord
Mayor (Cr. F. Selleck) and the Lady
Mayoress entertained official guests at a
buffet-luncheon in the reception-room.
Dame Pattie wore a grey tailored suit
with a grey straw platter-hat trimmed
with coral-pink chiffon; Heather chose
a pale-green silk-shantung suit with black
velvet collar and cuffs and a small black
velvet curvette. The Lady Mayoress’s
choice was a white-spotted suit of navy-
blue tie-silk and a small white hat; her
daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, chose a
black barathea suit and a hat of winter-
white melusine.
It was a gathering of the Menzies clan,
for at the reception were brother Frank
and his wife (she chose a navy-blue silk
frock and coat and small white hat),
brother Syd Menzies, accompanied by
his wife (she chose a loose coat of black
French-faille and small white hat trimmed
with French violets) and sister Mrs. Isobel
Green.
Members of the Federal Cabinet were
also there with their wives, including
Minister for Commerce and Agriculture
McEwen and Mrs. McEwen, Attorney-
General Senator Spicer and Mrs. Spicer,
and Minister for Labor and Immigration
Harold Holt and Mrs. Holt (Mrs. Holt
wore a trim suit of dark-grey wool and
tiny cinnamon-brown velor beret. City
councillors and their wives were at the
reception, also heads of the Services, in-
cluding Rear-Admiral R. R. Dowling and
Mrs. Dowling, Air-Marshal Sir John
McCauley and Lady McCauley, and
Major-Gen. H. G. Edgar and Mrs. Edgar.
Mrs. Henry Bolte, who accompanied her
husband (leader of the Lib. Country party
in the State House), chose a carbon-blue
suit and coral-pink cloche. Other guests
were Senator Ivy Wedgwood, Sir William
and Lady Angliss and Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Coulter.
Photographer John Warlow, whose
studio portraits appear often in this
Letter, has as a lovely subject his own
wife, whose picture is seen here. Mrs.
Warlow, who lives in Toorak, is the
mother of two schoolgirl daughters, Vaile
and Diane, who are being educated at
St. Catherine’s. Mrs. Warlow is an
ardent worker for the school and is also
a ticket-secretary for the dinner-dance
being organised by the Raveloe Auxiliary
of the Animal Welfare League Lort Smith
Hospital. Giro’s is the venue for the
dance and date is April 15. Mrs. Warlow
has great charm, and her clothes are
always greatly admired. Other ticket-
secs. for the dinner-dance are Mrs.
David Campbell (BJ 1505), Mrs. Denis
Walpole (UY 5659 ) and Joy Donoghue
(UY 7655). Mrs. Warlow’s number is
BJ 4083.
The foyer of Her Majesty’s Theatre
on the opening night of “Aida” was an
entrancing sight, the gala gowns very
beautiful. Coral-pink, soft-yellow, blue
and green glowed in the lights, and
materials were as varied as the colors.
Filmy laces, heavy satin, brocades, faille
and chiffon made these lovely gowns.
Mrs. Frank Tait wore one of the most
striking, in amber silk-taffeta. Cut on
sheath lines, the material was knotted
just below the knees, where it billowed
out into a deep flounce. Over it was
worn a full, long coat of black satin.
Mrs. Maurice Nathan chose a short
evening-gown which featured the H-line.
It was of beige tulle, and the H-line was
emphasised with a sash and large flat
bow of pervenche-blue taffeta, the strap-
less bodice finished with a wide band of
the blue taffeta. Mrs. F. H. Wright chose
pale-grey slipper-satin for her gown,
which was heavily beaded ; her daughter,
Mrs. Ronald Marriott, chose coral-pink
chiffons. Brown - and - gold - patterned
brocade made the gown worn by Madame
Mario Vigano. From the bodice came
swathes of green taffeta, which draped
across the waist and fell in a wide panel
down the back of the bouffant skirt.
Mrs. Don O’Donnell chose emerald-
green faille for her bouffant gown, with
the bodice cut to show one shoulder.
Mrs. Frank Lee wore a full-skirted gown
of dark-green satin, jet embroidered on
the bodice and skirt. Lady Richardson
chose a short frock of white, patterned
in brilliant green flowers. Mary Tait,
who accompanied her father, Mr. Nevin
Tait, from London for the opera season,
wore a slim gown of sea-green brocade,
Lillian Wightman wore a natural mink
stole with her cigar-brown faille gown.
Lady McConnan’s cream Chantilly-lace
gown was topped with a tiny brown
velvet jacket; Mrs. Charles Davidson’s
crinoline gown was of Chantilly lace in
cream tonings. Mrs. Alan Benjamin’s
short evening-gown was of dove-grey
faille, with white guipure lace trimming
the strapless bodice; Betty Inwood’s
grey-and-white brocade gown featured a
huge bustle bow of shot-green taffeta, a
large pink rose and lily-of-the-valley posy
trimming the bodice. Mrs. M. Sloman
chose white and pink brocades; Rina
Malatrasi, who accompanied her hus-
band, Ferdinando Li Donni, looked
attractive in a gown which featured a
halter-necked top of pink taffeta allied
with a bouffant skirt of matching pink
tulle ; Mrs. Eric Fowler wore a beaten-
silver stole over her gown of black
Chantilly lace. Others in the audience
were Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. George
Winwood, Mrs. G. Christian and Mrs.
John Osboldstone.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the most important fabrics seen
in a parade of delightful lingerie from the
firm of Hilton was Nylodown, a soft 100
per cent, brushed nylon, which was used
to make summer bed-jackets and brunch
coats. Another attractive fabric was Sea
Breeze plisse, which is woven from the
finest cotton and is featherweight, sheer,
cool and, what is more important, needs
no ironing. Plisse, in a delightful shade
of buttercup-yellow, was used to make
short tomboy pyjamas trimmed with em-
broidered nylon. This style was for Big
Sister, while Little Sister'wore the more
conventional style, but in the same color
and material.
Another of importance is Summer
Sheer, a novelty fabric made entirely
from bemberg. It looks like nylon, feels
like silk and is as light as a whisper.
Hilton’s are producing Little Lady
lingerie, which will give the little girls a
lot of pleasure and start them off to a
love of pretty clothes. One attractive
nightgown was cut on Empire lines, was
made of celanese with rosebuds trimming
edges of flock-printed nylon. Hearts and
Flowers was the theme of a set compris-
ing slip, pyjamas and nightgown. This
flower trimming was used on the V-neck-
lines, and also on the pretty puff-sleeves
and full-gathered waists. Most popular
colors in the collection were blossom-
pink and blue.
Nightgowns featured full-gathered
skirts, sometimes elasticised at the back-
waist for fit, and had pretty cross-over
or bra tops, finished with shoulder-
straps. A very attractive hip-slip was
made of plisse, the well-shaped skirt
having an inset of graduated permanent
pleats of nylon embroidery. A feminine
ruffle of nylon-tulle formed the hem.
Blue Mist was the name given to a night-
gown which had an iridescent look,
achieved by the double skirt of blue
nylon-tricot overlaid with blossom-pink
nylon-tulle. Nylon-tulle veiled the varie-
gated embroidery on the bodice and also
formed ruffles on the sleeves and neck-
line. Nylon-guipure-lace was featured on
many lovely garments, and a Grecian-
style nightgown in nylon-tricot had a
boat-shaped neckline with nylon-guipure-
lace as trimming. The full, softly draped
bodice had criss-cross nylon ribbon at
the midriff.


-INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bony Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDSEXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN JAMES HEAT late of Parra-
matta—TAKE NOTICE that BEATRICE
ELEANOR KEAT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 367 of 1955 on the grounds
of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
17th day of June 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NELLIE WILSON late of 37 Lamb
Street Lilyfleld.—TAKE NOTICE that
HUNTER ROY WILSON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4102 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the 24th day of June 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CLIFTON R. PENNY 4s
DAVIES, Solicitors, 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Ik convinced CAPSTAN
is better tobacco!'
“For me the Capstan blend has all the qualities
to make my smoking enjoyment complete.
“'Capstan’s own blend of fine Virginia leaf
maintains a consistent standard—fine flavour,
fresh fragrance and smooth smoking.”
Ask everywhere for —CAPSTAN
Imim
'll"®
/«
CAPSTAN
_ better tobacco
«8»B8S88888®!*S»
M
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
205D.10.54
SUNDRY SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Paint Your Wagon”
After a slow start, “Paint
Your Wagon,” at Sydney
Empire, suddenly leaps into
action when Kevan Johnston
dances a jig in what looks like
the authentic fashion —no move-
ment above the waist, and with
head, shoulders and arms so
controlled that they seem merely
the extensions of a pair of
dancing legs. It’s a lively
number, and when it is followed
by a male chorus singing “They
Call the Wind Maria” —which
sounds like a lovely American
folksong—the show more-or-less
has the audience in the bag.
Cut from the pattern now
established for American musi-
cals, with lively choreography
and a heavy sprinkling of male-
ensemble singing, this latest
effort by Lerner and Loewe (they
were responsible for “Briga-
doon”) is set in California in the
covered-wagon, gold-rush days,
and its nine changes of scene in
the first act and seven in the
second are excellently contrived.
The dancing-girls do not enter
until the end of Act I, so that
the audience looks forward to
their arrival as eagerly as the
women-starved goldminers; the
eventual entrance of a dozen
lovelies from a coach is one of
the highlights of the show.
The best dancing is a taut
performance by Janette Lidell
(Liat in “South Pacific”) of a
can-can with Spanish overtones.
Helen ffrance (ffrom the Boro-
vanskys) has feathers for feet and
a graceful, forlorn quality about
her arabesques.
A slight and pretty melody,
“I Talk to the Trees,” serves the
romantic moments between
Lynne Lyons and Richard
Curry, the two principals from
America. Betty Hutton comes
inevitably to mind for this role
of a gauche backwoods girl, but
Miss Lyons’s baby voice and
shy style shine as prettily as her
pale corn-silk hair.
Alec Kellaway carries the
“story” on shoulders more than
broad enough for the task; Jill
Perryman, Kenneth Werner and
Billie Fowler add a little humor
and character-acting as a family
of Mormons, and turn in the
best rendition of “I’m On My
Way,” the theme-song, which,
being the best number in the
piece, is served-up four times.
❖ ❖
Brisbane Youth Concert
Rudolph Pekarek got away to
a good start in his first Brisbane
Youth Concert with a pro-
gramme solidly based on Handel
and Haydn and topped-off with
some brilliant but flashy moder-
nity. The hall was packed with
a greater number of subscribers
than ever before.
Elgar’s ripely-scored version
of Handel’s Overture in D Minor
began the concert. This is one
of those pieces that make a fine
sound for several minutes and
then stop abruptly, leaving most
audiences unsure whether to clap
or wait to see if there is any
more. This audience clapped
at the right moment, and the
players went on to give a briskly
beautiful performance of
Haydn’s “Military” Symphony,
strikingly unmartial except for
the trumpet fanfare in the slow
movement. The orchestra shone
here —a good sign, because in
past seasons their Haydn per-
formances have usually been
pedestrian.
Young Westralian pianist
Donald Thornton played the
Rachmaninoff Variations on a
Theme of Paganini. He won the
piano-section of the concerto and
vocal competition with this piece
last year, and his brilliance seems
undiminished. The orchestra did
not seem to know the music as
well as he did, but the lively and
attractive variations still sounded
well, and the audience was justi-
fiably delighted.
Czech music would have been
better represented by Smetana or
Dvorak than by the over-long
Slovakian Suite by Novak,
played very well, but tedious
nevertheless. There was more
life in Ibert’s “Divertissement,”
a Spike Jonesish piece with some
comic brass effects and a raucous
solo for a postman’s whistle.
This was an effective novelty to
end the concert, but later con-
certs will no doubt show that
modern music can do better
when it wants to.
D. J. M.
♦2* ♦*«
Horsley and Rostal
The pianist and violinist
collaborated admirably in both
joint-recitals they gave at
Sydney Con.
There was Brahms’s big
Sonata No. 1 in C Major, its
vapors of melancholia not blown
away until the last movement;
the “Duo Concertante” of
Stravinsky—badly spotted in the
first two movements, but there-
after showing such improvement
as to be almost unrecognisable
as being by the same composer
—and the glowing beauty of
Cesar Franck’s A Major Sonata.
Sparkling playing by both,
and just-about perfect integra-
tion, gave a memorable reading
to Beethoven’s “Spring Sonata,”
contrasting sharply with the
impoverishment of ideas in
William Walton’s Violin Sonata.
Schubert’s C Major Fantasy,
a complex work of rich, warm
lyricism and harmonic invention,
gave both musicians ample
opportunity for ffelicate and
sensitive playing and, in the
case of the violinist, some intri-
cate figuration work, of which
Rostal is an easy master.
Artbursts
Melbourne Women Painters
The most sensitive piece of
painting in the Melbourne
Society of Women Painters’
show at the Victorian Artists’ is
“Panorama, Notting Hill,” by
Lesley Sinclair: it is aptly named
“panorama,” because, if it
doesn’t give a complete view in
every direction—an impossibility
in two dimensions —it has so
much space and air in one direc-
tion that it seems to defy the
limitations of the canvas.
That can’t be said of many of
the others. Although paint is
handled in an interesting manner
by Joan Malcolm in “Walhalla,”
the eye stops at the surface of the
canvas, whereas in Miss Sin-
clair’s landscape it goes far be-
yond it.
There is some of Nature's
accent in Roma Ward’s “Dara-
combe Avenue, Kew” and
“Rhyll, Phillip Island” ; there is
depth in Vera Morrison’s
“Asters” and Elizabeth Colqu-
houn’s “Summer Roses”; and
Mary Mac Queen hag caught the
movement of the crowd in
“Royal Visit.”
Mary McLeish continues her
fight to keep paint off the canvas
in “Virginia Paris,” but her half-
dozen sketchy brush-strokes do
succeed in giving something of
the personality. The late Miss
A. M. E. Bale is represented by
two pictures, and there is warmth
in her “Autumn.”
The women sculptors have a
look-in. Marguerite Mahood has
been experimenting with some
lovely metal and has achieved a
rich, if too stylised, effect in her
metal and ceramic figure,
“Legend,” a tall saint draped in
folds of copper. Looking at Ola
Cohn’s “Cherub” one thinks
first of the nice wood out of
which it is carved and then of
the clever way she has used the
concentric circles of the grain to
express the navel. Then one
wonders if she has ever observed
a walking baby its legs look
more like those of a cabriole
table.
Talkies
Picasso
Art-lovers in London are
reported to be paying thousands
for Picasso’s latest efforts, which
include “sculpture” consisting of
bits of an old shovel, a broken
gas-tap, two old forks and some
dashes of white paint put to-
gether and called “The Crane.”
In a magnificently done film
at the Italian Film Festival at
Melbourne Esquire you can
actually see him at it. Wrapt,
absorbed and utterly unself-
conscious, he lays what looks
like a length of drainpipe on his
studio-floor, looks at it rever-
ently, then looks round at the
studio junk and grabs another
object and lays that down.
Then, with great excitement,
he seizes a couple of vases and
adds them to the composition.
Follows a long period of con-
templation, and he suddenly
rushes out into his garden, tears
a bough off a tree and runs back
and puts it in one of the vases.
The commentator announces
that the master has produced an
imperishable symbol of modern
society and its disintegration.
Then Picasso is off on a paint-
ing-racket, giving beautiful
women noses like firemen’s hoses
and eyes at the back of their
heads; or with a few deft
touches he turns lumps of clay
which a young potter is throw-
ing on a potter’s-wheel behind
him into doves of peace by the
dozen—an example of mass-
production which should interest
Australian sculptors; or he
dashes a string of his distorted
figures on to a wall with a piece
of charcoal, then stands off,
looks at them for several
minutes, and suddenly, with one
swift stroke, adds a blob of
color.
It is all done . with the com-
plete absorption of a child
creating his image of life on a
sandheap.
The film traverses the whole
life of the great exemplar of the
modern movement from his
student days, when he painted
and drew relatively well in the
tradition as taught in the ateliers
of Spain, and through his “blue”
and “pink” periods until he sud-
denly reacted into new and
strange forms in Paris.
Every now and then he
throws off a few drawings in his
earliest manner, presumably
just to show that he can do it,
but they are of no higher
standard than can be seen in a
thousand exhibitions, and
wouldn’t attract attention in any
Melbourne art-show.
Then back he goes to his
tapir-faced women with as much
intensity as ever.
The film is wonderfully living,
and makes one think of Picasso’s
“confession,” in which he is
alleged to have said that he was
merely amusing himself at the
expense of the patrons and the
critics with the oddities which
passed through his head, and
that the less they understood him
the more they admired him;
now that he was rich and
famous, and when alone with
himself, he hadn’t the courage
to think of himself as an artist
in the great and ancient sense of
the term.
“Giotto, Titian, Rembrandt
and Goya were great painters,”
he is alleged to have said. * “I
am only a ‘public entertainer’
who has understood his times
and has exhausted as best he
could the imbecility, the vanity,
the curiosity of his con-
temporaries.”
If thoughts like those were
passing through his head when
he was being pictured he doesn’t
show it in the film.
M. G. S.
“Doctor in the House” (Syd-
ney State): The spirit of care-
free cheerfulness which invested
Richard Gordon’s novel about
the med. students of St.
Swithin’s is faithfully captured
in this English-made screen-
version. J. Robertson Justice, as
the brutally-blunt but very
human surgeon Sir Lancelot
Spratt, takes top-honors in a
highly-skilled cast.
* * *
“On the Waterfront” (Sydney
Capitol): A brilliantly-acted and
-directed drama of corruption
and terror on New York’s
wharves as practised by a union-
boss and his thug-offsiders, who
include murder and mayhem in
their methods of making the
wharves a close and profitable
preserve for themselves.
Marlon Brando’s performance as
an ex-pug and ex-collaborator
whose conscience is worked
upon by the sister of a murdered
friend and by the parish priest,
and who turns at last on the
terrorists to cleanse the union,
has a touch of greatness about
it.
* * *
“Innocents in Paris” (Sydney
Embassy): The proceedings of
this English comedy about the
various adventures of several
Britons, unknown to each other,
who fly to Paris for a weekend
are lively enough; they contain
a priceless episode wherein a
dyspeptic top English diplomat
(Alistair Sim) gets shot on
vodka plied by his surly Russian
vis-a-vis, the binge leading to
acceptance by the Russian of
terms of an economic treaty he’d
been holding-out against for
months.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
Peter Bladen’s “lazy walk-
about,” per pushbike, “lifts” and
other means, has brought him
from Perth, through the Wes-
tralian goldfields country and
around the fringe of the Bight,
to the very interesting {often old-
German ) closer-settled hill-
country nearing his destination,
Adelaide. He is now at Auburn,
looking into C. J. Dennis records
there.
WATERVALE TO
AUBURN (continued)
[STAYED at the Auburn
Hotel, which was C. J.
Dennis’s birthplace. It was
an interesting building.
Around the walls of the bar
there were murals, mainly of
forest scenes, painted by a visit-
ing swagman called Leonard, in
1926 ; and throughout the hotel,
which was constructed on
different levels, there were more
steps than I have ever encoun-
tered in a single-story building,
either a step up or a step down
into most of the rooms, and
occasionally short flights of half
a dozen steps or so.
The poet’s father, formerly a
master-mariner, was the hotel-
keeper, and Clarence Michael
James was born on September
7, 1876. His mother died during
his infancy, and he was reared
by two maiden aunts at near-by
Mintaro ; ladies of quiet dignity,
culture and moral strength.
Their influence on the lad was
doubtless profound, and echoes
beneath the exuberant vitality of
his verse.
“Den” lived for a while at
Laura, and spent his later years,
until his death in 1938, at his
bushland home at Toolangi on
the Rise, in Victoria, but Auburn
has not forgotten him. Recently
a water-fountain was unveiled to
his memory, and I had the
pleasure of meeting some
enthusiastic members of the local
Dennis Society.
.We chatted away by the hour
on literary topics, mainly about
the poet who found his inspira-
tion in the Australian way of
life and in our own national
idiom. Men who shun romantic
couplets unrelated to everyday
life thrill to a poet who could
declare: —
Wait till I wave me magic mitt at
Rose
An’ turn ’er into Mrs. Stone-the-
Crows,
and they can believe more truly
in Doreen, the little factory-
worker, than in all the ages of
milk-white and pearly-teethed
heroines: —
Er name s Doreen . . . well spare
me bloomin’ days,
Yeh could a’ knocked me down wiv
arf a brick!
Yes, me, that kids meself I know
their ways
An ’i- ? s . a name for smoogin’ in our
click!
I just lines up and tips the saucy
wink—
But strike! the way she piles on
dawg! yeh’d think
A bloke was givin’ back-chat to the
Queen . . .
’Er name’s Doreen!
We laughed together at
Dennis’s version of a
ance of “Romeo and Juliet”: —
Then Juliet wakes up and sees ’im
there,
Turns on the water-works ’an tears
er ’air,
“Dear love,” she sez, “I cannot live
alone! ”
An’, wiv a moan,
She grabs ’is pocket-knife an’ ends
er cares!
“Peanuts or lollies!” sez the boy
upstairs.
This is the poetry of “balmy
coves” and “stror ’at coots,” of
flowers that have a “bonzer
smell” and air “like a long, cool
swig o’ beer.” Apart from
The Bloke, such books as Back-
block Ballads, The Moods of
Ginger Mick, The Glugs of
Gosh, Digger Smith and Jim of
the Hills expressed his humor
and his homely philosophy,
while his sense of beauty lives
supremely in The Singing
Garden. What other Australian
has written books of which
millions of copies have been
sold? “Den” would be as
popular today as in his heyday,
but, as his illustrator, Hal Gye,
sadly records: “Try and buy any
Dennis books now . . . all of
them are as scarce as bottled-
beer.”
Hal Gye and “Den” were great
cobbers, and the little naked
cherubs with wings which are a
feature of the illustrations are
as celebrated as the characters
created by the poet.
I saw some of the Dennis
Society’s treasures: the pen with
which The Sentimental Bloke
was written, now with the nib
crossed ; the various books with
notes by the illustrator himself,
as bright and lively as the verses,
mainly concerning the models
for the illustrations; and the
comments in the Visitors’ Book,
signed at the unveiling of the
fountain, of which the most
appropriate was assuredly the
quote: “I dips me lid.”
The visit was an exhilarating
one, and returning to the hotel
full of enthusiasm I flung myself
into my room, all too literally,
having tripped over the doorstep,
and settled down to read again
the stories of Doreen and her
bloke,” and The Glugs of Gosh,
with their nonsense about
feasible dogs and the like sin-
cerely hoping that I would never
be classed as a Glug.
The waitress at the hotel was
a very pretty girl, and being a bit
of a “sentimental bloke” myself,
I wondered if her name could
possibly be Doreen!
Honeysuckle Flat is near
Auburn, and also Koonowla
( the home of the emu”),
formerly known as Rose Hill’
and Undalya, which I visited in
the morning.
It is an old settlement,
originally gazetted as Kercoonda,
and once boasting three wool-
washing businesses, which failed
when the big floods of 1879
washed the river-bed too deep
lor wool-washing operations to
continue. A magnificent iron
bridge now spans the creek, but
there is little left of the town
except the post-office, the school
and a tennis-club.
There are some quaint old
homes, °f unusual design, built
mto hillsides, off the old bullock-
team road, and at the old
cemetery the slate headstones
bear witness to the many early
Irish settlers in these areas, the
Fagans and Mahers, O’Mealvs.
Riordans and Donnellys, and a
William Long, who died a long,
long way from his native
Tipperary.
By beautiful groves of trees
and gentle hillslopes I returned
to Auburn, and prepared to leave
the village which had already
become for me more than a
transplanted memory of Gold-
smith’s Deserted Village, a little
Australian township where life
just “mooches on.”
AUBURN TO STOCKWELL
A/fINTARO lay 10 miles to the
north-east, side-roads taking
me gently uphill, unfolding wide
and patterned panoramas. I
wasn’t at all sure of the direc-
tion, since the only signboards
would declare simply “Burra”
or “Adelaide” without indicating
which way.
Copper was first discovered at
Burra Burra in 1845. The
aboriginal name, Kooringa
(“sheoaks and creek”), is said to
have given way to the Hindu-
stani name, meaning “the City of
Big Big,” when shepherd coolies
in the locality called it Burra
Burra.
The Burra mines prospered
for 30 years, when cattle-
disease and bushfires combined
to destroy the working-bullocks
and their feed; and also the
mines became flooded. It is now
a farming area, with memories
of the mine’s mascot, Johnny
Green, “The Silent Miner,” on
an elevation overlooking the
workings; of Lovers’ Seat;
Sunday Row, where the smelters
lived; and of the mule-teams.
In 1852 a Mr. Horn went to
Valparaiso to buy mules for the
Smelting Company. Seventy
mules survived the journey by
sea, and for many years were a
familiar sight, with their Spanish
muleteers, on the old road to
Port Wakefield. It is popularly
believed that Mintaro, one of the
stopping-places on the road, was
a Spanish word for “resting-
place,” though linguists fail to
agree.
Alec Brierley, the cartoonist,
has ably depicted a Spaniard
strumming a guitar, accompany-
ing a couple of mules with ore
in their pack-saddles and their
tongues hanging out. The
bullock-teams were driven by
Australians, dour old characters
(only old men would have
acquired the necessary fluency
for the job), and the cartoonist
has depicted them with drooping
hats and moustaches, and the
bullocks with shocked expres-
sions on their faces. It is said
that as many as 50 Spanish mule-
drivers would camp overnight at
Mintaro, passing the hours in
riots of fighting and drinking.
I had expected to see only
several houses, but Mintaro, in a
tree-filled valley, surrounded by
hills, with the quarries gleaming
away from the outskirts, was a
beautiful village. A lamb chased
after me in the main street.
There were old stone walls and
buildings with ladders and lofts,
a flourmill in ruins, fences of
slate-chips, and quaint little
places which make the visitor
stop and stare.
“Ah, Senor, welcome to
Mintaro! Git along there, li’l oF
mule! ” My dreams did not seem
too extravagant, but the publican
was a friendly Australian, bear-
ing out the promise on his sign-
board that the hotel, formerly the
old Magpie and Stump,
specialised in civility and service.
“You know,” he said, with
wide eyes, and in a tone which
conjured up visions of Spanish
galleons trespassing in southern
waters long before Captain Cook
or Flinders, “this place must be
hundreds of years old. Tt was
named by the Spaniards. Well —
that just shows you!”
I visited the quarries. Mintaro
slate is as fine as any in the
world. It is used for city pave-
ments, for headstones and
benches, crazy-paths and urinals,
and even for billiard-tables. The
slabs for the billiard-tables are
in four sections, which are fitted,
and bolted together, and polished.
The surfaces are so smooth they
are poetry to the touch. I
watched the workmen with
electric cold-chisels taking off
the corners where the pockets
were to be fitted. Billiard-tables
of Mintaro slate have been used
by champions all over the world.
On the way back to the town-
ship the road passed the
cemetery, an overgrown allot-
ment which has become mainly a
pine-grove brambled with wild
roses. While musing there I
heard a voice: “Are you looking
for someone?” An old lady
wearing a red shawl over her
head, and looking just like a
Spanish peasant woman, had
appeared from nowhere. She
seemed almost a ghost from the
past, a kindly old soul with sad
eyes, and a billycan in her hand.
We walked back together, and
she left me at the church. She
said it wasn’t so lonely when
you could meet someone and
have a chat. Mintaro, despite its
friendliness and the busy
quarries, seemed rather lonely, a
little resting-place for memories.
I had passed the oval, with its
gates erected to the memory of
Frederick Ranson Mortlock, and
now came to Mortlock Bridge
over a pleasant creek. Not far
from Mintaro the road turned
left to Martindale station, with
its shearing-sheds and cottages
and homesteads, and tractors at
work in undulating sheep-
paddocks, while straight ahead
was the entrance to Martindale
Hall, the home of the Mortlocks.
This land, first taken up in
1842, was acquired by Edmund
Bowman in 1855, and the hall
was built by his son, also
Edmund, in 1879. Edmund Bow-
man was in love with an English
lady who was unwilling to
migrate to Australia, fearing its
unknown rigors. As an induce-
ment to her, he built a replica
of the Georgian mansion in
which she lived.
It is a magnificent place of 40
rooms, rather like a Treasury
building, of stone throughout,
with many cellars, and a vast
entrance-hall, with a great
wooden stairway leading to the
upstairs galleries.
For all his efforts the lady
didn’t marry Mr. Bowman. He
lived in great style, with his own
pack of foxhounds, cricket-
ground and training-track, and
even reared pheasants for shoot-
ing—living a little too lavishly,
and in 1892 the Mortlocks were
able to acquire the bulk of the
estate, together with Martindale
Hall.
In the days of struggling
farmers in makeshift dwellings,
and the even more modern days
of convenient but less permanent


homesteads built in an era of
sudden prosperity, such homes
remain symbols of a more
gracious era, luxurious, even if
at times a little encumbered,
typical of the vanishing elegance
of the old English landed-gentry.
Mrs. Mortlock was in resi-
cence. I found her at tea on
the lawn, reading the papers.
She was a charming hostess,
kindly, and not at all ruffled at
my wide-eyed wonder, and my
helpless laughs of amazement,
during the tour of inspection.
There were two coats-of-arms
above the entrance, that of the
Mortlocks, surmounted by that
of the Bowmans. A short
corridor, enhanced by an etching
of Coffin Bay by John French
Angas, led to the hall. There
were magnificent framed
tapestries and paintings around
the walls, flooring of polished
wooden tiles, and huge painted
vases, a beautifully carved teak
centre-table, and a great
chandelier with electric-candles
was suspended above, from the
giant skylight. The staircase at
the end of the hall branched to
the gallery, and there the family
portraits were hung.
We visited the billiard-room,
lined with bookshelves, the
dining-room with its huge dresser
rich with trophies for champion
sheep and racehorses, its ceiling
patterned with fruit-clusters and
rimmed with gold, and windows
overlooking the lawns; but I
hoped in vain for a glimpse of
pheasants. They were shy for
the occasion.
In the dr|awing-room- there
were antique chairs, and tables,
sofas and cabinets, writing-desks,
and the piano . . . and the room
of treasures, the smoking-room,
and the beauty and magnificence
gathered there.
Here were collections of
muskets and pipes ; and various
weapons, darts and spears;
Indian carving, ivory and brass,
and Javanese masks; most
beautiful cabinets resplendent
with carving, one with an ornate
tree branching out to support
the glass shelves ; and there were
countless ornaments and little
statues, tiny stuffed alligators,
snakes and Buddhas, and Maori
carvings, a desk from an ancient
monastery, dragons and angelic
faces, coral and shells, mosaic
and pearlshell, exquisite inlays
and marble ; and in the centre
of the room a writing-desk, and
I wondered how anyone could
possibly write there, with such a
feast for the eyes on every hand.
In the gallery there were glass-
topped tables of curios from all
parts of the world, medals and
great seals and scrolls, and a
piece of the old gumtree at
Glenelg. Even the bathroom
was palatial, with a massive old-
fashioned bath, and oil-paintings
on the walls.
I was still in a daze when I left,
with visions of suits of armor and
bronze statuettes, Venetian
scenes, the Taj Mahal in
alabaster, quill-boxes, wood so
beautiful it had fo be stroked,
and sundials and gardens and
parklands.
In a paddock near the
entrance-gates a tractor was at
work, and I turned again to look
at the coat-of-arms, and the
family motto: “Hie Labor, Hoc
Opus” “This labor, that
achievement! ”
More splendid than any
museum with labelled curios,
such a home is a living symbol
of a gracious past, and if I had
felt a little like a swagman in a
vast cathedral of beauty, swag-
men have more poetic souls than
most, and are more likely than
most to treasure a gem found in
a forest, for its own sake, rather
than for its commercial
possibilities.
There were pleasant sloping
paddocks and quiet farmhouses,
and straw-thatched sheds. Sunset
came and I found myself hum-
ming a waltz, still dreaming of
the hallway and the great stair-
case. It was nearly dusk when I
came to an intersection, startling
a rabbit in some ruins near a
little church and cemetery, and
down a road lined with beautiful
gums I entered Manoora in the
valley of the Gilbert.
Manoora is a town in two
sections. The first settlers named
their selection after the English
Chingford, while the town-site
later surveyed was named
Burton. The argument about the
choice of name was bitter, and
was finally resolved when the
native name Manoora was
gazetted.
There is still a Burton Hotel,
and people remember the early
days when water was drawn from
the community well, much as in
Biblical times. The old-timers
credit the town with any age
from 90 to 103 years. The towns-
folk admit that the Adelaide
Steamship Company named one
of its vessels Manoora not
because the place possessed any
particular beauty, but because,
in pursuance of its policy, the
name began with an M and
ended with an A.
Wandering through the streets
I noticed such names as Frost
and Winter, and thought them
most appropriate.
Four miles further on, a few
hundred yards off-course, on the
road to the north, was Waterloo,
and to the east, reminiscent of
early days of hardship on the
fringes of the low-rainfall areas,
a place called World’s End.
Colonel George Gawler, the
second Governor of South Aus-
tralia, had taken a prominent
part in the battle of Waterloo.
It was only through a clash of
opinions that the famous battle
missed being commemorated in
South Australia in much more
spectacular fashion.
The Duke of Wellington had
so warmly supported the bill “to
erect South Australia into a
British province and to provide
for the colonisation and govern-
ment thereof,” that Wakefield
wished the capital to be named
Wellington, but he was “shabbily
frustrated.”
Instead, New Zealand honors
the name of the Duke, and
Wellington-square in Adelaide,
and Wellington on the Murray,
while little Waterloo honors the
scene of his triumph.
A large sign gave the invita-
tion: “Slow down to 20 m.p.h.
and see Waterloo.” The town
consisted of little more than
several cottages, Bluchers’
Garage and Pikes’ Wellington
Hotel. I saw an old lady in a
balaclava hoeing in a garden, a
man who could have been Old
Kaspar himself; and, calling at
the hotel to toast Josephine or
Wellington or whomsoever I
should have toasted, I met a
young chap called Ivan and the
barman, a gentleman wearing a
hat and scarf, and looking very
much “the old soldier.”
Waterloo, Blenheim and
Balaclava! Like the old friend
of Wilhelmine and Peterkin in
Southey’s poem, I was very much
in danger of getting my battles
mixed. But Blenheim was little
more than a century before
Waterloo, and they were both
famous victories, so we had a
drink together at the pub, toast-
ing all famous victories, and I
set off again, southwards, on the
road to Hamilton.
Schoolchildren rushed to the
gates of their playground to wave
to me, and out of the township
I came to a “Primitive Methodist
Chapel, a.d. 1866,” looking very
primitive, in a square of tall
eucalypts, with a small neat
cemetery beyond.
There were rabbit-skeletons
around. At crossroads, just past
Steelton, an old post-office set
in farmlands, a signpost pointed
to TOTHILLS BLt, whatever
that was, and Saddleworth. A
friendly horse trotted alongside
me behind his paddock fence.
At Marrabel, a small town
strung along the highway, scene
of the famous annual rodeo
which attracts visitors from all
over Australia, I left my bicycle
alongside a hitching-post near
the ruined flourmill, and had
lunch in a former wheatfield.
The township was established on
a two-acre plot once cultivated
by John Edward Marrabel.
The road was now bitumen
again, fringed by weird steel and
cement poles carrying power-
cables. Away from the road
could be seen the small Belvidere
pioneer church, but the church at
Hamilton was the one I wished
to see.
The storekeeper at Hamilton
kept the key of the church, and
I was fortunate enough to
borrow it. He drove me to his
home to collect it. In a quaint
little cottage, which has been in
the same family for four genera-
tions, I was shown an old clock
which was brought out from
England in 1836 and was still
keeping time.
Three friendly dogs nearly
bowled me over, and sitting on
a sofa I met old Mrs. Winde-
bank, the storekeeper’s grand-
mother. At first I thought she
was embroidering the hem of
her gown, and became
enchanted with the romance of
my little excursion into the past,
but she was busy plucking grass-
seeds from her skirt.
Hamilton Church, a beautiful
building with a tower, ivied walls
and red-tiled roof, was “built,
adorned and endowed” by Henry
Dutton, Esquire, of near-by
Anlaby, in 1896, and “further
beautified” in memory of his
wife and daughter, Helen
Elizabeth and Ethel da Silva
Dutton.
The doors were well pad-
locked. It was very dark inside,
but after a while I could see the
glass-doors leading to the porch,
the stained-glass windows and
carved woodwork, and the fine
ceiling, the intricately worked
knee - mats, brass tablets,
tapestries, and beneath their dust-
cloths the tall brass candlesticks
studded with rubies.
There were treasured altar-
hangings and vestments in the
vestry, and, asleep in the
shadowsj the pipe-organ.
Here, in past years, the lady
from Anlaby would play
magnificent hymns while little
boys or the old caretaker
trembled and slaved to keep pace
with the hand-pump, and the
coach would draw up outside,
with the coachman alighting to
place a cushion on the ground to
ease his master’s ailing leg.
I struck a match and lifted the
dust-cloths, and the rubies
blazed like flashing fire in the
darkness.
The cemetery alongside the
church, the resting-place of
members of the family, and of
faithful servants and friendly
neighbors, was in keeping with
the chapel, a symbol of loving
care and devotion.
On the road to Allendale, three
trucks went by, each bearing two
prefabricated homes for the
Electricity Trust. X passed the
golf-course and the old Wheat-
sheaf Hotel, decorated with
buffalo-horns, and two farm-
houses with bright orange roofs.
Beyond the siding of North
Kapunda a road turned left to a
grove of trees and great white
gates, and ahead were the streets
of the prosperous township of
Kapunda itself.
Kapunda derived its name
from that of a native tribe. The
original “Cappieoonda” meant
“water jumping out,” rendered
by poetic souls as “the meeting-
place of waters.”
Captain Charles Bagot and
Frederick Hansborough Dutton
established the original sheep-
station at Mt. Dispersion (the
native “Pudna,” now Mt.
Waterloo) in 1839, and Dutton’s
property was later renamed
Anlaby after Anlaby in York-
shire, the home of one of the
Duttons of Dutton in Cheshire.
His flock was once the largest in
South Australia.
One day in 1842, while look-
ing for sheep in a thunderstorm,
one of the Duttons found speci-
mens of copper-ore. Captain
Bagot’s son had also found speci-
mens while gathering wild-
flowers. The neighbors acquired
a section which was to become
the Kapunda Coppermine.
Those were times of depres-
sion in South Australia. The
colony was running out of funds,
and the discovery of copper
here, and soon afterwards at
Burra Burra, was the first bright
ray of hope.
The mine flourished for 30
years. The township at first was
only an appendage of the mine,
but when, due to rising costs and
flooding, the mine closed, sheep
and agricultural pursuits became
the mainstay of the town. In its
heyday it was the largest country
town in South Australia. It is
still an important centre, most
visitors to which are impressed
by at least two highlights in the
town’s history: Kapunda was
the home of David James’s
Auraria, winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1895, and also of
Sir Sidney Kidman, the Cattle
King.
At an early age Kidman ran
away from his Adelaide home,
and, while learning self-discipline
and determining never to drink
or swear, and especially never
to give in, dreamt of a chain of
stations linked by the inland
floodwaters.
His first home was built at
Kapunda, and later he took over
Lanark House, the home of the
Greenshields, renaming it
Eringa, the name bestowed on a
number of his properties. Apart
from his dealings in sheep and
cattle, and his interests in more
than a hundred stations, from
1904 he conducted horse-sales in
Kapunda which attracted buyers
from all over Australia, as well
as from overseas.
The entrance to Eringa was the
white gateway with the grove of
trees which I had noticed, and
in the morning I paid the old
home a visit. Sir Sidney pre-
sented the building and its
grounds to the Education Depart-
ment in 1921 for use as a high
school) and it was the head-
master who received me, a
friendly chap who took time off
to take me on a conducted tour.
The headmaster’s office was
once the office of the Cattle
King. There are many store-
rooms in the basement, cellars
and the old strong-room, and an
underground-tank, where the
stone for the building was
originally quarried. The kitchen
was converted into a cloak-
room, and classes are now con-
ducted in the many rooms which
comprised the servants’-quarters,
and even in Lady Kidman’s
bedroom.
We visited the coach-house,
and the old glasshouse, still con-
taining ferns and pot-plants, and,
unbelievably, still with much of
its glass intact. There were
memories of swans, and of duck-
ponds, orchards and croquet-
lawns, and in the entrance-hall a
photograph depicting a heavy
snowfall in Kapunda. . As I was
leaving, the school-bell rang, and
instead of maids and butlers,
o Continued on next page)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney '
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 15/- per day
Double Booms—
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLEr
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
1
1
young people changing classes
scurried in all directions. ,
I had arranged to visit Anlaby,
and thought it would take little
time to cycle the nine miles from
Kapunda. The road turned to
Eudunda, 15 miles away, the
town commemorated throughout
the State in the name of the
Eudunda Co-operative, a great
chain of stores originated by a
humble storekeeper who sup-
ported struggling farmers in their
days of hardship by taking
mallee-roots in exchange for his
wares.
A track branched away to
Anlaby. Finally the Summer
Road came into sight, and I
realised that I had travelled the
Winter Road. A bridge, to be
crossed at the visitor’s risk,
spanned a little stream, and two
wild ducks were startled at my
approach.
Beyond the sheep-paddocks
there were groves' of trees, set
among gentle hill-pastures, pines
and willows and frail disrobing
poplars, as lovely as any English
park, and a tree-lined drive with
a white iron gate bearing the
name Anlaby.
It seemed miles to the second
gate and the station buildings,
set behind tall hedges. The road
skirting the house was fringed
by trees which at first looked like
fruit-trees, and, feeling ravenous
after the stiffest ride of my
journey, I gathered from the
ground handfuls of fruit resem-
bling loquats, but, reconsidering
that they were probably a type
of wild plum, resisted temptation
and kept only one. My scien-
tific curiosity to find out what it
was saved me from eating it. It
proved to be a Kaffir-apple.
A gateway opened upon the
gardens of the old home, a
beautiful building, like an
English mansion. Knocking at
every door I could find, I fol-
lowed its rambling contours,
through courtyards and terraces,
to secluded corners, porches
looking out over lawns and
gardens, to the main entrance,
where stone balustrades encircled
the lawn with its pond and fir-
trees. There were pillars and
chains lost in ivy, and steps lead-
ing up to balconies, and stone-
walls creepered with age.
I lost myself several times in
enclosed gardens and hidden
nooks, but finally discovered the
manager in one of the cottages,
and received my directions. It
was an adventure into
Wonderland.
A house which I hadn’t noticed
before, a spacious residence with
autumn gardens and semi-
circular drive, materialised
beyond one of the hedges of
trees.
“You made it!” declared my
host, making me welcome at
once, and within a few minutes
the rigors of the journey were
forgotten, in an atmosphere of
warmth, and books, and quiet
luxury. There was a cheerful
fire in the drawing-room, and on
the walls there were hunting-
pictures, and oars from the Old
School, and I met the little dog
which was always getting lost.
Even before we had drained
our glasses I realised that there
were two little dogs, both
dachshunds, and both sleek and
plump, with sable-red coats. No
little degs could ever have had
such a smooth nuzzling beauty
to the touch, or have been so
eager to make friends. One was
Trubshaw, and the other was
Benjamin.
Benjamin was no ordinary
little dog. I had read about him
some time ago when his home
was in Perth, and he frequently
wandered away and lost himself.
He became famous for getting
lost in the city streets, particu-
larly because his master was the
Governor of the State, and an
English knight.
It was a surprise to find him
at Anlaby. His days of unknown
city streets had given place to the
timeless peace and quietness of
an almost-English countryside,
with stud-sheep instead of speed-
ing cars to be barked at, and if
he enjoyed vice-regal luxury,
music and literature, and visits
from knights with their ladies,
archbishops and other distin-
guished company, all these were
still l|is to enjoy; while Trub-
shaw was almost as well-bred as
himself, and even the cat was a
vice-regal cat, one from the home
of the Willoughby-Norries.
Benjamin and Trubshaw
watched us dining. The service
impressed me immensely, as I
am sure my appetite must have
impressed my host.
After lunch we visited the
library. It holds one of the
finest private collections in Aus-
tralia. There were rare first
editions like those of Cook’s
Voyages, a “King’s copy” of
Dillon’s Voyages, with an inscrip-
tion to the French sovereign
penned by the author, Blake’s
sketches, and beautiful volumes
with gold edges and vellum or
soft-leather bindings, each book
not only a book, but a treasure.
Many people would have
found it difficult to select a
favorite from such a collection
of rare editions, and I wonder
how many would have shared
my preference.
Because I have seen humble
nasturtiums growing in pic-
turesque surroundings, beauti-
fying simple garden-corners or
upturned fishermen’s baskets in
little fishing-places, I frequently
think them more beautiful than
roses, and of wild ducks as more
beautiful than'serene and gliding
swans, because of the freedom
expressed in their flight; and of
all those books, concerning the
histories of nations and journeys
by land and sea, I preferred the
story of a man’s adventures
within himself, the record of a
sincere and noble adventure in
living, Henry David Thoreau’s
Walden. And because it was
such a beautiful edition, and
despite the vast differences
between these two worlds, I shall
always remember Anlaby when
I think of Walden.
There were portraits and paint-
ings and sketches also to be seen.
My host’s mother has painted
exquisite flower-pieces, and his
brother is a poet and novelist.
His most recent book concerned
a journey from London to
Adelaide, mainly by car.
Such feats must run in the
family. In one of the garages
I was shown a car with a history,
an ancient Clement Talbot, the
first car to be driven overland in
Australia from south to north.
The trip was made by the father
of my host, from Port Mac-
Donnell to Darwin in 1908.
“What do you think of it all?”
I asked Benjamin, when my host
was out of earshot, thinking of
a countryside rich in its memories
of distant and old-time battles,
of beautiful chapels and homes,
treasures and paintings and
books, the Old School tie, and
gracious living, noble hearts and
kindness, sheep and., pheasants,
and a land which could be
strangely harsh, yet a refuge for
all these things. “What do you
think of it, boy?” He looked up
with soulful eyes and wobbled
vigorously at the further end.
When I left he ran after me
and barked when I pedalled like
fury trying to outdistance him,
and when, half-way down the
drive, I looked back I could see
him still running, though a little
less hopefully, and I think I knew
why he was always getting lost,
because that is what happens to
little dogs that have deep and
sudden affections.
"Somewhere between Bagot’s
Well and Stockwell I became lost
myself, having taken a side-road
in the hope of seeing Dimchurch
and Ebenezer, and finally ended
up in someone’s farmyard.
I followed the farmer’s direc-
tions, and eventually I came to
the landmarks which he had
indicated: the creek where the
bridge had been washed away,
and the road that was closed, the
padlocked gate over which the
bike had to be lifted ; and far
past the scattered farmhouses
and the tractors on their way
home for the night there were
taunting hills, misty and
lavender-blue, distant white
buildings and smoke, and a tall
tower, though I didn’t know until
later that this was my first
glimpse of Angaston, over
beyond Nuriootpa in a corner of
the Barossa Valley.
Towards darkness I passed
through Dimchurch and
Ebenezer, and reached the high-
way. Nuriootpa lay only four
miles away, but just along a side-
road, the treetops and the roofs
and the church-spire visible
above the rim of a paddock, was
Stockwell, a little town by-passed
by the usual tourist, and there I
spent the night.
The shopkeepers have kept the
precise speech and accent of their
German ancestors, but the
publican was Scotch. In a com-
fortable room, piling my bed
with extra blankets and eider-
downs against the cold, nearly
enough to crush me while I
slept, I prepared for the night,
thinking of the pleasant world in
which I had been a transient
intruder, and remembering
Benjamin. It was then that I
realised there was something
almost as soft and moist as his
friendly nose, in my pocket. It
was the Kaffir-apple.
NURIOOTPA
OTOCKWELL was named
after a butcher and colt-
breaker who owned the section
on which the township was laid
out.
Ebenezer church was the first
church to be dedicated in this
district. A granite stone in the
grounds— not the usual polished
token but a magnificent stone as
rough and sturdy as the pioneers
themselves—commemorates the
holding of the first Lutheran
services at the home of Andreas
Schneider in 1852, and the dedi-
cation of the church in 1859.
The Riverina church was
established from this community,
and here in 1921 the United
Evangelical Lutheran Church in
Australia was founded.
Ebenezer commemorates the
words of Samuel: “Ebenezer —
Hitherto hath the Lord helped
us.” Dimchurch (the origin of
the name, as someone appro-
priately commented, is obscure)
stands not far distant. Ebenezer
and Dimchurch, and Light’s
Pass and Plush’s Corner (named
after J. Saddington Plush, an
orchardist) are small settlements
where vineyards cluster about
churches with picturesque spires.
It was a cold day, but well-
garmented people in twos and
threes were pruning in the vine-
yards. Misty rain was in the air,
and a heavy fog shrouded the
countryside. The main road
leads past the turn-off to Willows
Hospital and by Dirty Corner
to the brickyards and on to the
Community Centre of Nuriootpa.
Some time ago an old man,
nicknamed “Camphor Joe” after
another local character, camped
with his dog under the big gum-
trees near the oval. He came
from the West, a swagman in
tattered clothes. His dog died
at the camp, and he buried him
there before setting off again for
the West. Later, feeling that he
had deserted his only friend, he
managed to save up £2O, which
he forwarded to one of the busi-
nessmen of the town, with the
request that the dog’s remains
be sent over to the West in a
suitable coffin. Because of the
expense it was decided to
cremate the remains of the dog,
and when the casket was duly
forwarded the old man wrote a
touching letter of thanks.
The Barossa Range was named
by Colonel Light in 1837, after
Barossa, a vine-growing district
in Spain, where his friend Lord
Lynedoch won a battle in 1811.
Many giant bluegums grew in
the valley, which was a favorite
spot with the natives. Light was
the first man to hear the name
Nuyruitpataya, which was
thought to mean “blue kangaroo
comfortable and friendly place
in which to hold the corroboree
which is a feature of magy a
walkabout.
The Bacchus Club had had a
dinner at the hotel the evening
before my arrival. The club, an
offshoot of the Adelaide branch,
has 40 members, essentially men
who are interested in good wines
as complementary to good food.
At the club’s dinners, Sydney
oysters, Queensland crabs and
Tasmanian trout, wild-ducks and
sucking-pigs and such delicacies
are accompanied by the choicest
of wines, selected by the cellar-
master.
Less exclusive are the celebra-
tions at the Annual Vintage
Festival, attended by people
from all over the Common-
wealth, when processions are
held, with windmill- and rabbit-
floats, giant swans made of
flowers, and large champagne-
bottles bubbling over with
balloons, chateaux and lifeboats
and many other wonders.
Wine, they tell me, flows
freely, and the revellers often
sleep where they fall, even on
straw in the streets.
(To be concluded next week)
hiding in grass.” Mr. Tindale
believes the name came from
Nguraitpa, “the neck country,”
referring to the valley which the
Kaurna people believed in
legends to represent the neck of
Ngairo, a giant being. Today
most people accept it as a name
of pleasing significance, referring
either to “a place of barter,” or
“a friendly meeting-place,” and
many visitors, and even some of
the inhabitants, mispronounce it
as Nurioopta.
Nuriootpa became a German
settlement, one of many in the
Baroosa Valley. We tend to
forget that Australia was settled
by waves of migrants, a long
sequence which our present post-
war influx has merely continued.
For many years the German
language was used in the Barossa
schools and churches, and
occasional services are still held
in German, but the language is
now confined largely to the older
people, and even incorporates
many English words with
German endings.
The visitor can find such
traces of the German as the
accent and the heavy speech,
and the variety of sausages in the
windows of the stores; and there
are echoes of legend and folk-
lore, such as Siebenschlafer,
“The Seven Sleepers,” an old
superstition which held, so I was
informed, that if it rained on
June 19 the rain would continue
in force for seven weeks.
It rained on June 19 and I pre-
pared for a lengthy stay in
Nuriootpa. After several days
someone else assured me that
Siebenschlafer was on June 27,
and I had to wait with heart in
mouth to see whether June 27
would also be wet.
The days were dull and cold,
with rumors of snow and sleet
on the road to Eudunda, and
once I am sure that I saw a
snowflake melting against my
windowpane; but I had been
looking forward to a rest, and
the Community Hotel was a


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State o! New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, as a Proprietary
Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000.000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £l each
577^045 New Ordinary Shares of £l each
.. £1,205,500
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £ 1 each.. .. .. .. ~ 300,000
J. 505,300 £1,505,300
HELD IN RESERVE
494,500 Shares of £1 each .. .. .. .. .. .. 494,500
2,000,000
£2,000,000
300,000
NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/- EACH, PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
CAPITAL REQUIRED to Operate Valuable "Caterpillar"*
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to secure the
greatest possible returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of the valuable
franchises held by the Company and its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS DEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY.
LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
?^ T jl ERP !!: LAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria. U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD n
Caterpillar"’ Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment for
STATE OF QUEENSLAND
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
Rf AND COMPANY of Illinois, U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for the
whole of Australia.
ON
TRACKS
1904
1954
"CATERPILLAR'S" WORLD STATUS!
• Throughout the world the most-bought troctor on tracks is
"Caterpillar. 1 *
• In Australia, too, "Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by far the
highest user preference, as every year more "Caterpillars"
are sold than any similar type.
Cateepttlar Is a registered Trade Mark.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
augers well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this Issue of new Ordinary Shares are proposed to be applied as
working capital for the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompanying the Prospectus,
dated 28th February, 1955, and must be lodged direct with the Company’s Office.
Copies of the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained upon application
to the Company’s Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Diesels Limited will be given absolute priority of
allotment of shares applied for not later than the 31st March, 1955. Any shares not
then applied for by such shareholders will be dealt with as the Directors may
determine. The Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without
notice, whether the issue be then fully subscribed or otherwise. In the event of
applications being received for more than 300,000 New Ordinary Shares, the Directors
reserve the right to allot additional shares ranking pari passu in all respects with
the New Ordinary Shares offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such
additional shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing further working
capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must be raised by the
issue of shares offered for subscription by this Prospectus is £20,000, being required
solely as working capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
DIRECTORS •
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 77 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W., Chairman and
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General Manager.
LESLIE EUGENE BRANDON, 61 Seventh Avenue, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Qld., Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W., Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
JOHN DUDLEY LOBB, Lum Road, Wheeler’s Hill, Victoria, Architect.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN PEARSON, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Manager.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES, F.C.1.5.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s Registered Office.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been tulip complied with) is published tor
information only and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe. The Prospectus, of which this is an
advertisement, is dated 28th February, 1955, and copies thereof have been filed respectively with the Registrar-Generdl in New South
Wales (who takes no responsibility as to its contents), the Registrar of Companies in Queensland, South Australia, Western
Australia and Tasmania and the Registrar-General in Victoria.
Applications will be received only upon one of the forms of applications referred to in and endorsed upon a printed copy
of the Prospectus.
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M., ON 30th JUNE, 1955. CONSIDERATION WILL BE
GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED, PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT
THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
NOTE: The
minimum subscrip-
tion having been
received the
Directors have
proceeded to
allotment.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address.


It's Today; But Celebrations Are "Off"
Melbourne University’s Birthday
By J. DANIEL
THE Melbourne “Age” of
Friday, April 13, 1855 —
one-hundred years ago!
An eight-page paper, cost-
ing one-penny. News of the
Crimean War received by ship;
leaders on “The Export Duty
on Gold” and “An Import Duty
on Chinamen” ; current books ;
Supreme Court proceedings;
theatre ; such advertisements as:
“Parties going a Digging to
store their boxes, Sixpence per
week” . . . History in the
making!
But I can find no mention
that a great event was to take
place that day in Melbourne.
In the next day’s issue, how-
ever, there is an article headed:
“Inauguration of the Melbourne
University.”
“This most interesting event,”
records the paper, “so important
in the future history of Victoria,
and so pregnant with great
results, inasmuch as it is to
form the matrix of the minds
of many of the great men who
will wield the destinies and
guide the course of events in
this, the confessed chief, of the
Australian colonies, took place
at noon yesterday in the Exhibi-
tion Building.... The attend-
ance, though not numerous, was
what is usually denominated as
select . . . and the charms of
the gentler sex were not want-
ing to complete what would,
without this element, have been
imperfect.”
So there is no doubt about
the event having happened, nor
about the day—April 13.
His Excellency the Lieutenant-
Governor and Lady Hotham
were present, and after presenta-
tion of the members of the
council, the professors and the
students, the Chancellor rose
and, “with much dignity and
feeling,” read the address.
Unfortunately, a footnote to
the report adds, a copy of the
address which had been
furnished to a rival newspaper,
with the usual understanding
that slips should be sent to the
other papers, was received at
such a late hour that it was
necessary to postpone publica-
tion of it till the next issue.
After the address the Chancellor
announced that on the next
Monday the actual labors of the
students would commence in the
Exhibition Building.
The University was launched.
The celebrations, however, like
those of the jubilee (1905), are
“off,” for the present. Perhaps
Friday, April 13, was not an
auspicious date. However, let
us celebrate the event on the
right day—in a noggin of
printer’s-ink—and let the Uni-
versity catch up, in due course,
a year or two hence . . .
Sir Redmond Barry was the
first Chancellor; and on the
Monday after the great occa-
sion there in type was the
address —three long columns of
it. Sir Redmond began:
“The first matriculation of
undergraduates of the Univer-
sity of Melbourne has occurred
in your presence .... It is
impossible to conceal, and, in
my judgment, to overestimate,
the importance of this
proceeding.”
He reminded his listeners
that the University was being
founded in “the second year of
the political existence of the
country,” and that its object
was “to promote sound learning
in the colony of Victoria.”
The foundation-stone of the
University buildings had been
laid on the third of July in the
preceding year, but Sir Red-
mond announced that classes
would be held in the Exhibition
Building until the Univer-
sity’s own were ready for
occupation.
He referred to the fact that
the University was preceding
the foundation of colleges in
the young colony, and trusted
that these would be “provoked”
to rise as a matter of course.
A London committee had been
formed to select the professors
required, with the celebrated
Sir John Herschel its chief
guide. The four professors had
duly arrived, and the Chancel-
lor, with a suitable Latin quote,
mourned the passing of one of
them before he had had time
to commence his duties.
The Chancellor added a
special word for the tutors:
“And the youth who is
committed to our guidance
should be looked on not indif-
ferently as a mere lump of wax,
on which any particular tutor
is to stamp his image, but
regarded as virgin ore, fresh
from the mint to be thrice
refined, and moulded into coin
for universal currency.”
The University was to form
the character not of individuals
alone but of the nation.
“And we hope,” concluded
the Chancellor, “that the Uni-
“He's one of them literary lions."
versity of Melbourne may stand
forth, amidst the institutions of
the Southern Hemisphere, with
a steady and increasing reful-
gence, the nursing-mother and
generous instructress of a race
of distinguished scholars, and
that there is no presumptuous
anticipation of her late-born
renown in the spirit and confi-
dence with which we have
chosen as her motto: ‘Postern
crescam laude.’”
Sir Redmond Barry was
closely associated with the Uni-
versity for so many years that
he has come to be known as
“the founder,” but that distinc-
tion must, in fairness, be
granted to Hugh Culling Eardley
Childers.
Childers was born in England
in 1827. In the biography
written by his son it is recorded
that the father of Childers was
a clergyman, and one of his
ancestors had some claim to
fame, having owned Flying
Childers, “the fleetest horse
that ever run at Newmarket.”
Hugh Childers went to Oxford
for a year, since no vacancy
existed at the college of his
choice, and was then able to
transfer to Cambridge, where
he took an arts-degree. His
uncle was a member of the
House of Commons, and occa-
sionally the young man was able
to listen to debates. He was
interested in the proposal “to
detach from New South Wales
its southern district of Port
Phillip, and so to form a separ-
ate colony.” He began to think
that there might be a better
chance of “getting on” in Aus-
tralia than if he were to face a
long engagement with doubtful
success at the Bar in England.
In May, 1850, he married,
and in July left for Australia
with his young bride. The news
that the Home Government had
passed a bill detaching Port
Phillip from New South Wales
and creating a new colony under
the name of Victoria reached
Mr. Childers landed. The new
colony was to have its own
Parliamentary government, and
celebrated the event with a
Melbourne a few days before
public holiday extending over
four days.
Gold was found at Clunes, 70
miles north-west of Melbourne,
on July 1, 1851, the day Victoria
celebrated the commencement
of her independent existence.
Mr. Childers had brought
letters of introduction to Super-
intendent (later Lieutenant-
Governor) La Trobe, and his
hopes of finding a niche in the
new colony were not dis-
appointed. He was unanimously
appointed an inspector of
schools at a salary of £250 per
annum.
In October of the following
year he became Auditor-
General with a salary of £l2OO
“and possibly more,” his duties
being “control and expounding
of the finance of the colony,”
as he wrote to his mother.
He felt the immense responsi-
bility of a position which
obliged him to manage between
£2 million and £3 million a
year. He enjoyed “getting-on,”
but it should not be thought
that he was in any measure a
vain or selfish man. Any
vanities connected with his
rising fortunes were humorous
sidelights.
His later career, on his return
to England, showed him to be
an unselfish servant of others,
both in public- and private-
affairs. He was a most con-
scientious man in any activities
connected with his work, and
identified himself so fully and
vitally with them that the failure
of a scheme he had adopted
would be felt as a deep personal
setback. He was a kind man
and declined honors for
himself.
One of his first acts on obtain-
ing his appointment in Victoria
was to propose to the Legislative
Council the establishment of a
university. He said in his
address:
“It is necessary to found a
system of education in the
colony applicable not only to
children, but adults .... I look
forward to the time when the
colony will have its own Inns-
of-Court; when physicians will
be able to learn their profession
in it, and when the clergy of
all denominations will be able
to study in the colony for their
sacred calling .... There has
been a great deal said as to
whether the democratic or
aristocratic principle ought to
prevail in the colony; if there
is to be an aristocracy it should
be one of intelligence, and not
of wealth.”
There was no opposition to
the scheme. A Select Committee
appointed to consider the estab-
lishment of the University
reported (on January 4, 1853)
that the work should progress
without delay. A site near
Spring-street was first con-
sidered, but a larger grant of
land was made, on the present
site, not far from the northern
boundaries of the city—2s acres
at first, later increased to 40
acres, with an extra 60 acres
“for ultimate educational uses
in subordination to the
University.”
New honors came to Mr.
Childers. In 1853 he moved to
a worthier house. “The rent
must appear to you enormous
(£750), but it is really very
little,” he wrote —for he had
received the post of “the Hon.
the Collector of Customs,”
with a salary of £l5OO, plus £6OO
allowances; and he was now
appointed Vice-Chancellor of
the new University.
The need for a university was
generally accepted. The prac-
tice of referring questions of
all kinds dealing with life in
the new colony to experts in
England indicated the need to
educate our own scientists and
professional men. The cultural
need was also felt. And the
financial condition of the colony
was so favorable that not a
quibble could be made about
the expense. “We have an over-
flowing Treasury,” one paper
commented. Gold had brought
prosperity to Victoria.
Management of the Univer-
sity was to be by a body
appointed by the Governor,
until the first hundred M.A.s
and doctors could form a
Senate. The committee had
recommended a sum of £20,000
to be expended, doubling the
sum requested by Mr. Childers.
An endowment of £9OOO had
been proposed for professor-
ships, fellowships for gradu-
ates, and scholarships, “any
surplus to be expended in the
formation of a library, museum
or laboratory.”
Degrees in arts, medicine
and law were contemplated,
and also in philosophy and
music, though there was to be
no Conservatorium of Music
for nearly 50 years (it is thought
that Childers had proposed this
course because of his own love
for music).
The bill giving statutory
authority for the establishment
of the University received
Royal assent, and as soon as
it became law, Lieutenant-
Governor La Trobe invited Mr.
Justice Redmond Barry to
become the first Chancellor
“pro tem .” He accepted, and
on May 17 the University
Council elected him as Chancel-
lor and Childers as Vice-
Chancellor.
Sir Redmond Barry—the
judge who passed sentence on
Ned Kelly, and who did not
long survive him —was born in
1813, a son of General Barry,
of the County of Cork. He
graduated from Dublin Univer-
sity in 1835 and was admitted
to the Bar.
An early notebook, pre-
served in the Melbourne Public
Library, which he founded,
illuminates hi s developing
character. It includes jokes
taken from various sources: a
typical example:
“I rise for information,” said a
member of a legislative body.
“I am very glad you do,” said a
bystander, “for no man wants it
more.”
In his “teens” he played the
part of Douglas in a stage-
presentation, wearing Highland
“breeches”; and he wrote
poems, including an “Ode to a
Scrubbing Brush,” a lengthy
oration commencing with the
lines:
Oh! Thou which held in the
tenacious grasp
Of redarm’d Kitchen-wench, or
chamber maid,
& ever & anon in soap suds plunged,
Oh! Scrubbing Brush of wood and
hair compound,
All hail! Thee the united boards
do celebrate
Of Parlour, staircase, passage and
schoolroom, —
Made clane and dacint, by thy
friendly rubs.
Barry heard of the new
colony as a land of promise,
was admitted to the Bar of
New South Wales, and arrived
in Melbourne in 1839. The
Court of Requests, the first
legal tribunal, was established,
with Barry as chairman.
He helped to organise the
Mechanics’ Institute, and
through the years gave lectures
on such subjects as poetry,
music, agriculture and architec-
ture (including an address on
the halls of Europe to the


A4B/AUC
&
wi®
NORTH AMERICA
fIF
AFRICA
—Travel Royal
FIY
BRITISH
TO All SIX
on: EHTS
ENGLAND
o
ASIA
7
MIDDLE EAST
WEST INDIES
Fly on any of 1,000 Speedbird
routes across the world within your
travel time and budget. Choose
from first-class luxury or tourist
travel comfort on many services.
Fly-in-a-hurry there and back—
or take a year, with stop-overs at
no extra air fare. Hotel accommo-
dation, meals and surface transport
provided at scheduled night stops.
Fully pressurized 4-engined air-
liners. See your Travel Agent for
complete trip-planning help —no
charge.
Speedbird Services link Australia with
Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand,
Hong Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India,
Pakistan, Middle East, Africa,
Europe, Great Britain, U.S.A.,
Canada, Central America, Bermuda.
FLY YOUR FREIGHT AT PASSENGER SPEED BY 8.0.A.C
FI W M F
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
workmen employed in the
building of the great hall of the
Library and Museum in 1866).
He worked zealously for the
establishment of a hospital,
and having become Solicitor-
General when the colony of
Victoria was created, was
appointed judge in the follow-
ing year. At a time when the
discovery of gold occupied most
men in their own selfish
schemes, he devoted himself to
“the practical execution of
carefully considered schemes for
the benefit of his own and of
future generations.”
In its leader on the approach-
ing jubilee celebrations in 1906,
the “Age w said the University
had been founded “in an out-
burst of democratic enthusiasm
of the highest order” at a time
when two-thirds of the popula-
tion had been in the State for
only three years (a result of the
gold-rushes). Young people were
“impatient of the obstructive
conservatism of the Old World,
and eager to put their demo-
cratic principles into practice.
They had a most ardent convic-
tion of the supreme value of
education in individual and
national progress.” It paid
tribute to Barry:
Fortunately Victoria had in the
late Sir Redmond Barry a man who
identified himself heart and soul
with the University and Library at
a time when most other citizens con-
tented themselves with a cheery assent
to the general propositions that they
were good and desirable things to
which public money should be
devoted. He had opened a free
lending-library in the back kitchen
of his little home in Bourke-street,
the germ of the present Library and
Galleries in Swanston-street.
Childers himself had stated
that he had rendered the Chan-
cellor all the help he could, but
that after its foundation by far
the largest share of the Univer-
sity’s work was done by Barry.
The Chancellor’s hospitality
was famous, and his vintage
port was remembered by visi-
tors with great affection for
many years. Each bottle bore
appropriate lines from an ode
of Horace, written on parch-
ment which had been allowed
to mellow with the contents of
the bottle. He liked to enter-
tain ceremoniously, wearing a
blue tailcoat with large gilt
buttons, silk breeches and
stockings, and buckled shoes,
for, as Ernest Scott noted in
A History of the University of
Melbourne, he belonged to
those Georgian days
Whose style still breathed a faint
and fine perfume
Of old-world courtliness and
old-world bloom;
When Grace was conscious of its
gracefulness,
And man, though man, was not
ashamed to dress.
Of the four foundation-
professors, Frederick McCoy
was the dandy of the Univer-
sity, and one of “the immacu-
lates” of the city, a very
ornamental functionary, who
looked “as neat and smooth as
if he had just emerged from a
bandbox.” He had reddish
Dundreary whiskers, was most
meticulous, and fond of writing
letters to committees. His
brogue was mimicked witn
affection by generations of
science students. He was the
first Australian professor to be
knighted, and died, still in his
professorial chair (Natural
Sciences), in 1899.
William Parkinson Wilson,
quiet, industrious, a confirmed
bachelor, fond of gardening,
riding-exercises and entertain-
ing, with a household including
butler and valet, was Professor
of Mathematics. He died in
1874.
Professor Irving was the
athlete of the team. Ernest
Scott remembered him in old
age “striding down Collins-
street in his ‘seven-league
boots,’ against a strong westerly
wind, which blew his long white
beard in two streams back over
his shoulders.” He founded the
University Boat Club. He was
an accomplished classical
scholar, and, to the regret of
some and the gain of others,
resigned in 1871 to become
headmaster of Wesley College.
He had been appointed origin-
ally to the University to replace
Professor Rowe, who died soon
after reaching Melbourne.
The fourth and most famous
of the original four was Profes-
sor Hearn, an Irishman, genial
and friendly, 29 years of age
on arrival. His books had a
wide vogue “in the scholastic
world of his day.” He was easy
and unconventional in manner,
and would stroll into the
lecture-room from his adjoining
apartment, wearing slippers,
and with jokes and anecdotes
galore. But he was a man
“brimful of work.” On several
occasions he managed to take
over, in addition to his lectures
in modern history and litera-
ture, when other classes were
left stranded.
Professors were not permitted
to contest elections, but at a
later date, as Dean of the
Faculty of Law, Hearn was able
to sidestep this ruling, and was
appointed to the Legislative
Council as its “unofficial
leader,” an unpaid position
which was found useful and
has since been maintained. He
was neither a member of the
Government nor Leader of the
Opposition, but a member
selected by virtue of his experi-
ence and knowledge to examine
bills critically and advise the
House as to their meaning and
import. His most remarkable
work was the preparation of a
gigantic bill of 1300 clauses, the
first attempt in the British
Empire to “codify the law.”
It was seriously considered,
but other urgent questions
intervened.
There were few students at
first, and few even of these went
as far as graduation. The
University buildings were avail-
able in October, 1855. No
matriculation exams had been
held for the first year’s work,
but only 16 students had
applied, and of these only three
eventually took the degree of
B.A.
Regulations for degrees in
law were instituted in 1860, for
medicine in ’62, engineering
’7l, science ’B7, music not until
1890, dental-surgery 1907, agri-
cultural-science in the following
year, and veterinary-science in
1909. The Diploma of Educa-
tion dates from 1903. Women
were admitted to all courses
except medicine in 1879, and,to
the Medical Faculty in 1887.
One of the first students to
graduate has achieved some
fame, being celebrated by the
bright yellow “Rev. T. C. Cole”
rose which he produced.
The peaceful existence of the
little flock was shattered in
1878, when Professor Strong (a
successor to Irving) compared
the docile students with the
high-spirited hordes at Oxford
and Glasgow. The wild Com-
mencement scenes which cul-
minated in 1907 with the ban
of all except graduating students
from Commencement cere-
monies can be traced back to
this occasion.
It is recorded that at the
1907 ceremony, even the well-
beloved Chancellor, Sir John
Madden, recently back from
abroad, was interrupted at
almost every sentence in the
following fashion:
“It has been my opportunity
during the last twelve months to see
something”
A voice: “Where? In Paris?”
Another voice (solemnly): “And
you our Father?”
One of the earliest pieces of
business, when the question of a
University was raised, was the
selection of a motto. On
August 28, 1854, after select-
ing a large number of quotes
“more or less apt,” from classi-
cal sources, the committee
selected the phrase “Postera
crescam laude” from a passage
of Horace, which has been
rendered:
Ever new my after-fame shall
grow, while pontiffs climb with silent
maids the Capitolium heights.
As Ernest Scott pointed out,
the selected phrase ended at a
safe place, since there was no
question at the time of the
admission of women students.
The designs submitted for the
seal were not very promising,
and finally it was decided to
have an engraving from an
isometric view of the proposed
buildings, drawn by White, the
University architect.
In 1863 the University
obtained a grant of arms from
the College of Heralds —a
beautifully-drawn female figure,
presumably based on \ design
submitted by Dr. Ludwig
Becker some years earlier:
Azure a figure intended to repre-
sent victory robed and attired
proper the dexter band extended
holding a wreath of laurel or
between four stars of eight points
two in pale and two in fess argent.
This glorious figure bears
little likeness to some of its
later representations on letter-
heads and invitations —stiff
figures in nightgowns weighed
down with pelican-wings, and
awkward young people stand-
ing painfully on the points of
stars!
“Victory! My after-fame
shall grow!” Through the years
many famous and influential
men and women have passed
through the University’s portals,
both as lecturers and students.
John Walter Gregory for a
time held the Chair of Geology ;
Richard Berry (referred to by
The Bulletin as “Berry the
bone man”) was Professor of
Anatomy ; Frank Gavan Duffy,
John Latham and Isaac Isaacs
were all students, destined to
become Chief Justices and to
be knighted ; General Sir John
Monash was a graduate in arts,
law and engineering, and later
a Vice-Chancellor.
The celebrated names would
fill many pages. To realise their
significance one need only know
that as the University grew, the
State increased, and in every
avenue its influence was
indispensable.
Of the University’s benefac-
tors, once again their names are
legion. Hearing of the need of
a hall, in 1875 Samuel Wilson
(sometimes known as Sir Salmon
Wilson, because of his generous
grants for the acclimatisation of
salmon and trout in Australia)
sent a cheque for £30,000, and
although the dignified and
graceful Wilson Hall was
destroyed by fire in January,
1952, his name is to be perpetu-
ated by a new hall already under
construction.
There have been many
scholarships and endowments,
small bequests from little-
known men and women, and
most worthy gifts from well-
known benefactors. Some
bequests have had unusual
histories ; for instance, the one
commemorating John Neville, a
shepherd at Bulla. There was
a lawsuit over his will, the non-
negotiable securities accumu-
lated, and the sole remaining
trustee eventually bestowed the
money on the University.
It has been a notable fact
that, though the University was
born in an era of gold, few
bequests have come from
mining-men, but many from
pastoralists.
As no benefactors were forth-
coming to found the colleges,
portions of the available land
were granted to the Church of
England, Presbyterian, Wesleyan
and Roman Catholic bodies,
and the colleges were established
in that sequence, beginning
with Trinity in 1872. Newman,
the fourth, was founded in the
year of Queen Victoria’s Jubilee,
1887.
Jubilee—“year of rejoicing”!
In 1905 —50 years ago today—
the University’s own jubilee
was due to be celebrated.
Unfortunately the establish-
ment’s greatest scandal had
broken a few years earlier, when
it was discovered that the
accountant, Dickson, had been
embezzling funds (to the sum
of nearly £24,000) over a period
of years, and finances were at
an extremely low ebb.
It was high scandal. Out-
rageous. The celebrations were
postponed; they would be held
in April, 1906.
That was the month of the
San Francisco earthquake, the
Olympic Games in Athens, and
in Victoria the Eight-hours’
Jubilee. The “Age” in a lead-
ing article declared that the
Dickson frauds had brought the
“searchlight of public inquiry”
upon the University and that
its tone had become “woefully
relaxed from that due to the
generous burst of democratic
feeling in which it originated.”
It was commented that
“through an amiable and inno-
cent oversight on the part of its
founders, who seemed to
imagine that the average pro-
fessor must live on so high a
plane of thought that when he
falls behind the day and
becomes unequal to his duties,
he is sure to retire voluntarily,
certain professors cling "to their
posts in a condition of hopeless
senility with disastrous results
to their departments; but as no
provision had been made for
their removal, they sat trium-
phantly in their chairs and
drivelled on full pay.”
The University, moreover,
had grown out of touch with
the flow of national life, but, at
the time, efforts had been made
to remedy the defects, and the
note was struck for further
reforms: “It is wise to recog-
nise that the University suffered
its temporary eclipse through
becoming unfaithful to that
spirit of democratic earnestness
in which it was founded.”
Now, in the year of centen-
ary, as we salute the founders,
remembering all that has been
achieved and looking forward
to a still richer future, we hear
echoes of what was then
spoken: some complain that the
University is still too aloof and
out of touch with the man-in-
the-street.
At the jubilee celebrations one
o Continued on page 29)


SPORTING NOTIONS
Fire Dust’s Warwick Farm
win a week earlier convinced this
page that only Karendi looked
like beating him in the Don-
caster. So it turned out. With
Karendi scratched, McGrowdie
took Fire Dust wide at the turn,
and, though Count Roussel got
an inside run and nearly got
there, McGrowdie got his mount
up in time.
McGrowdie has a good record
in Cups and big handicaps. This
was his first Doncaster. Fire
Dust, a “bush champion,” is
trained by G. Brown, a trotting
reinsman of note in past years
who has done well with gallopers.
Brown’s best horse was Murray
Stream, winner of two Metro-
politans (1945 and ’47) and a lot
of other good races. Fire Dust,
a cheap purchase as a yearling,
is by Precept, a winner of the
V.R.C. Derby, from Bruena by
Brueghel (imp.).
• • • •
On sprint form Gay Vista
stood out above opponents for
the Doncaster Handicap, but a
mile isn’t a sprint, and, though he
had been placed at a mile in
earlier races, all his form in the
immediate past had been over
seven furlongs or less. He had
won five successive races before
the Doncaster, and his trainer,
L. O’Sullivan, qualified his hopes
by stating, “He’s fit enough if
good enough to see the mile out.”
The final half-furlong found him
out under his big weight (9.4),
but his fourth was a meritorious
effort.
• • •' •
When weights appeared for
the Doncaster early in February
Fire Dust wasn’t considered by
early backers of doubles. At
least four of the first picks didn’t
see the post, and as they included
the early first favorite Belbeiys,
as well as Prince Cortauld, Pride
of Egypt and Karendi, doubles
bookmakers secured a wad of
“dead money.”
Pride of Egypt’s win in the
A.J.C. St. Leger increased his
stake earnings to £20,281. The
colt started at 25 to 1 on, true
enough odds, as he beat the only
other starter, Roebuck, by a
week. Pride of Egypt easily
won the V.R.C. St. Leger from
seven others, which seemed to
start some sort of a panic among
Sydney owners. A.J.C. chairman
Potter lifted a cheque for £6OO
by starting Roebuck, and the
A.J.C. won the third prize, £3OO.
If wasn’t the first two-horse
St. Leger. In 1907 Poseidon,
who carried all before him
at three years, winning the two
Derbies, the two St. Legers and
the two Cups, had one opponent.
Ridden by T. Clayton, Poseidon
was 100 to 4 on and beat Oak-
ton (D. Callinan) by two lengths
in 3.22*, first money being £596.
Pride of Egypt got £2362 —really
for an exhibition gallop.
The Randwick crowd of 60,000
gave Prince Cortauld and rider
N. Sellwood a rousing cheer after
the Autumn Stakes. It was a
drop of about 13,000 on last
year’s crowd figures, but most of
those who attended the fixture
showed a profit. Longest start-
ing-price about a winner was
Fire Dust at 8 to 1 in the Don-
caster, but he was heavily sup-
ported at that price. Prince Cor-
tauld, Electro, Sabah and
Kingster took a lot of money
from the ring.
When statistics about stake-
money are compiled at the end
of the present racing season it’s
likely that Prince Cortauld will
be much nearer top of the Aus-
tralian list. Now 14th on the list,
he should add to his £37,216 be-
fore the term closes. He could
add next Saturday’s £BOOO
Queen Elizabeth Stakes to his
tally. He easily won the A.J.C.
Autumn Stakes. Rising Fast,
having his first run in Sydney,
never looked like beating “The
Prince.” Carioca was half-a-
head away third.
Prince Cortauld narrowly de-
feated Karendi and Tarien in
the All-Aged Stakes last year.
He is among the entrants for
today’s All-Aged Stakes, in
which a restricted field is ex-
pected. This fast-run mile has
seen some stirring contests, and
has been won by the best of
them. Ajax won in 1938-39-40,
dual winners include Malt King,
Gladsome and Yaralla. J. Pike
won on Chrysolaus in 1920 and
later won on The Hawk, Fuji
San, Amou n i s, Winooka,
Chatham and Peter Pan.
Cook’s three winning rides on
Doncaster day brought him much
closer to A. Ward, who is lead-
ing the Sydney jockeys’ premier-
ship with 48 firsts. Cook’s win
on Electro made him 45. T. J.
Smith is out on his own so far
as the trainers are concerned.
Kingster, who proved too
solid for Knave and Sir Newton
in the Randwick Sires’ Produce
Stakes, already is being hailed
as a likely Derby winner. Lind-
bergh won the Sires’ Produce
last autumn and also was re-
garded as a likely Derby pros-
pect, but he missed a place.
Magnificent, Reading and Nuf-
field were winners of the Sires’
Produce and Derby, but usually
the sprint has been no guide to
the Derby. Kingster, however,
has staying background. His
sire, Star Kingdom (imp.), is by
Stardust, a son of Hyperion. On
the dam’s side Kingster traces
back to St. Simon. His dam,
Canvas Back (imp.), is by
William of Valence from Canvas
by Solario from Scuttle (a winner
of the One Thousand Guineas)
by Captain Cuttle. Canvas Back
is a half-sister to Xaret, a winner
of the longest flat race in the
world, the French Prix Gladia-
teur (3 miles 7 furlongs).
The field was a pretty good
one: Prince Standard, Achilles,
Wirralie, Knave, Indian Empire,
Royal Forest, and a couple of
good yearlings. The pace
wasn’t a cracker, but the judge
had to watch them closely. In
the end the two-year-old Knave
won the R.A.S. thoroughbred
stallion championship at Sydney
Show, with Achilles runner-up.
Knave also got the prize for
“best thoroughbred exhibited.”
Valoncourt was champion mare.
The Queen Elizabeth Stakes,
w.f.a., If mile, principal event on
Saturday’s Randwick programme,
replaces the historic A.J.C. Plate,
two miles (reduced last year
from 2* miles), and which had
been a fourth-day feature race
for many years. Should Rising
Fast, Pride of Egypt, Prince
Delville and Prince Cortauld see
the post, racegoers could get a
real thrill. Maybe the A.J.C.
Plate has been run for the last
time. Its winners included practi-
cally every high-class Australian
stayer.
Close on 200 yearlings are
listed for auction by William
Inglis and Son, Ltd., at Rand-
wick tomorrow (Thursday),
second day of the annual sale.
Altogether upwards of 700
youngsters are catalogued, and
sales will continue on Friday and
conclude on Monday. Several
attractive and well-related Mid-
stream (imp.) colts, as well as a
batch of Nilo (imp.) colts, and
four each by Star Kingdom (imp.)
and Jambo (imp.) will come
under the hammer tomorrow.
An interesting draft of colts and
fillies by former crack miler
Achilles will be submitted by
Widden stud, Kerrabee.
Winner of two races at Flem-
ington at her last three starts,
Vesper Chime is a smart filly
with a bright future. She started
favorite for the Juvenile Stakes
for two-year-old fillies, and
scored with a deal in hand. She
is by Detector (imp.) from Ves-
talis (a Dhoti mare) from Vestal
by Pantheon (imp.). As she is
related to The Trump, winner
of the Melbourne and Caulfield
Cups, she could show ability
over a distance when she races
as a three-year-old. The well-
performed Victory Lad also
appears in the pedigree. Vesper
Chime had finished close to the
placed runners in the Ascot Vale
Stakes, won by Sir Newton.
• • o «
St. Joel, a consistent Mel-
bourne performer, won the
V.R.C. Victoria Handicap on
Saturday, and is to be prepared
for winter racing in Brisbane.
St. Joel proved his class when he
carried 9.9 to the front, con-
ceding up to 301 b. to rivals.
The son of St. Magnus will be
nominated for the Stradbroke
Handicap and the Doomben Ten
Thousand.
Two-year-old Grand Chancel-
lor repaid portion of his yearling
“He Wastes ten minutes limbering-up before each game."
purchase (lOOOgns.), when he
easily won a Juvenile Handicap
at Gosford (N.S.W.). The colt is
trained by J. Denham and is by
High Chancellor (imp.) from Miss
Milfred by Mildura from Frangi-
pannie by Spearhead (imp.). As
he has Carbine blood in his
make-up, the Gosford winner
could later develop into a stayer.
Moderately priced as year-
lings, Permel and Colza,
winners of two-year-old races at
Kembla (N.S.W.), both started
favorite. Permel is trained at
Moorefield by A. S. Croall for
Miss L. A. Smith and is a grey
colt, like his sire Persia,
from the Melfort (imp.) mare,
Melcovent. He cost 325gns. as
a yearling and comes from the
family which produced a noted
English performer, Sun Chariot.
Owner-trainer T. J. Ward races
Colza, a 160gns. purchase. She
is from a daughter of Trimer-
cian and is related to a speedster
of other years, Trimmer, who
had no rival at gathering early
pace. Colza is by Persian Book
(imp.) from Penercian by Pen-
theus from Trimercian by
Cistercian (imp.).
• « • •
Having her first start in Aus-
tralia, the imported English
filly Adelina showed enough
pace to the home-turn in the
mile Warwick Farm Cabra-
matta Handicap to mark her
down as a likely early winner.
The filly has started once only
and that was in England in
April of last year, when she won
from 19 others over five furlongs
with 8.9. She is raced by the
Chrystals.
» $ *
When the winner of Sydney
Lord Mayor’s Cup, Kissing
Cup, left the Dominion, the
“N.Z. Trotting Calendar” said
of her: “One of the best pacers
to go to Australia from this
country ...” As a four-year-
old, she received 48yds. from
Johnny Globe in the Autumn
Handicap (13fur.) and beat him
by three lengths in 3.29 4/5. A
few starts here brought her to
her top, and she was soon lower-
ing respected colors. Her recent
spell, brought on by frumpy
form, topped her off for Thurs-
day’s booty. The mare made
merry in the heavy going, and
Liverpool trainer-driver J. T.
Brown must have thought it fair
weather, too.
Runner-up in the rich cup,
Active Ayr looked unlucky.
Placed on 12yds., he was paid a
compliment in his first open-
handicap start. Slow to begin,
as usual, he broke once in
running, only to sweep through
his field with a customary super-
sonic burst. Kissing Cup had
the wood on him at the turn ;
but the mud-spattered grey had
turned in a performance that
stamps him one of the pacers of
the day. The aged Van Ayr-
Rose Royal horse has always
shown glimpses of brilliance
coupled with an unwillingness
to produce it at the right time.
En route to South Australia
after his third in the Lord
Mayor’s Cup, Merchant picked
up his fares and exes, by winning
the Melbourne Free-for-All, his
31st win. He found the 9*fur.
more to his liking than the
13|fur. of the Sydney event, in
which he had every chance.
Patsy’s Gift pushed him to a
head, with Findella four yards
away third. The 3.32 4/5 was a
track record.
By the same sire as Kissing
Cup, the Dillon Hall (imp.)-
Rowena Lass filly, Explicit, won
the three - year - old Ladyship
Stakes with ease. McKay had
the Victorian pacer in front
from the tapes, and she did not
look in danger of defeat.
Though beating only her own
sex, she ran the 12fur. Derby
distance with an ease that rates
her a strong chance in next
week’s classic. Placegetters
Super View and Spring Scott
will win more races.
The Easter Handicap lost
much of its glamor with the
scratching of four-year-old
champion Van Hall. In his
absence, Springfield Guy and
Dali Scott were best favored.
The determined-looking Spring-
field Globe horse made up his
48yds. in good style to win well
from improver Silver City and
promising Glenwarree. Dali
Scott lost all chance by gallop-
ing from the mark, but by
beating two of the eight starters
home he proved his ability.
This Noble Scott five-year-old
would win a string of races if it
weren’t for his barrier malice.
+ +
“Jock”: Fifty years ago
Austin Diamond delighted
cricket crowds with sparkling
batting in Sydney first-grade and
in inter-State matches. Today,
at 82, he is active on the
bowling-green, although he took
up the sport only a few years
ago. He created a sensation in
the recent Northern Seaboard
(N.S.W.) bowls carnival when
he defeated champion of cham-
pions Garney Noble, 21-17, in
an early round of the singles.
He plays with Chatswood Club.
“Mid-on”: Keith Miller is
finished as a Test all-rounder ;
through risk of injury to his
knee he will now concentrate on
batting. Fittingly, during the
first Test against the West Indies,
in which he made 147 and took
5-98, he passed Wilfred Rhodes’s
Test all-round record for most
runs, most wickets. Rhodes
made 2325 runs and took 127
wickets; Miller, to the first West
Indies Test, 2431 runs and 132
wickets.
• • • •
“Bosey”: West Indian bats-
man Clyde Walcott, a century-
maker in the first Test against
Australia, once modestly said he
was only included in the
“Terrible W’s” with Worrell and
Weekes because he had the
same initial. Worrell and Weekes
have both lately been handi-
capped by leg-injuries; but it’s
clear that Walcott, who scored
well against England last year,
is now the best of the three.
• * *
“Goalsneak”: Alan (Baron)
Ruthven “retired” last season
after playing 222 games and
booting 426 goals for Fitzroy.
He won the Brownlow Medal
for “best and fairest” in 1950.
Now 33, still one of the best
rovers and an exponent of short-
passing, he’s been turning-out
with Hawthorn.
. • • •
“Roscoe”: Collingwood, seek-
ing a full-forward since “Mocca”
Dunstan lost form a year or two
ago, may have him in Peter
Schofield. Schofield kicked 96
goals for Moorabbin in V.F.A.
football last year, including 22
against Sandringham, 14 against
Camberwell and 13 against
Brighton. Earlier on two V.F.L.
clubs, Richmond and Mel-
bourne, tried and discarded him.
♦ * *
“K.R.”; Avery Brundage,
president of the International
Olympic Committee, is an
Olympic competitor turned
businessman. He represented
U.S.A. in the pentathlon and
the decathlon at the 1912
Olympic Games in Stockholm.
Later he founded his own
engineering business. A parallel
case is Australia’s Frank Beau-
repaire, Olympic swimmer (in
comparison a greater athlete
than Brundage), and founder
and still boss of Olympic
Rubber Co.
* * •
A week after the Clive French
v. Bill Blacka contest, middle-
weights again met at Leich-
hardt, the headliners being
Clarrie Grogan (11.1*) and
Kevin Clues (10.13*). Clues
had convincingly outpointed
Grogan in their Sydney Stadium
bout a month earlier, and he
looked like repeating the per-
formance for a few rounds at
Leichhardt. Then Grogan
struck form and stopped Clues
in round five. Emerging from
a clinch with his right eyebrow
gashed open in the fourth round,
Clues seemed to lose heart, and
Grogan piled into him with
every punch at his command,
particularly left hooks to the
head. Grogan switched to
leading right swings in the fifth*
one of them flooring Clues for
nine, and when Clues went down
again referee Jack Burns gave
it to Grogan. Grogan now
wants to fight French for the
Australian middleweight cham-
pionship. Alfie Sands is gener-
ally considered holder of this
title, but Grogan’s supporters say
their man would lick Sands.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today'B values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
91 YEARS OF SERVICE
tOTEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “TLe Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
"The Bulletin" or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Bored and Lodging
by S.Y.Ray
<< K I OW, that plate,” said
the old lady, “’oo d’you
I I think gave me that?”
The young man
shook his head and looked into
the fire. Then he let his eyes
travel slowly sideways and
downwards till they rested on
the book which was open on
the arm of his chair furthest
from his companion. It was a
good book, an escape-story.
“It was Mr. Kendall,” said
the old lady triumphantly.
“Ooh, ’e was a nice man, Mr.
Kendall. ’E gave me that plate.
But ’e got sick and they took
’im away to ’ospital. I don’t
think people ought to go to
’ospital, do you?” She shot the
question at him with a wild con-
cern.
He shook his head. The
prisoners were tunnelling for the
fifth night. Any moment now
the big break would begin.
“ ’E never came back,” said
the old lady. “I knew ’e
wouldn’t. ’Ospitals! And then
’is mother came for ’is things.
Took ’em all. She never left
me nothing. You’d of thought
she’d leave me something,
wouldn’t you . , , Wouldn’t
you ?”
He nodded.
“But she couldn’t take that
plate. Because Mr. Kendall
gave it to me. ’E bought it for
me special. Ooh, ’e was a nice
man, Mr. Kendall!”
She lapsed into silence. The
fire hissed softly in the grate
and the radio affirmed in muted
tones that seven lonely nights
made one lonely week. The old
lady dozed and the young man
travelled a further three yards
down the tunnel. When she
awoke it was with a violent
start.
“Where did ’e go?”
“Who?”
“’lm that was ’ere!”
“You’ve been dreaming.
There wasn’t anyone here.”
“Wasn’t there? Well, now, I
could of sworn . . . Ooh, lam
an old juggins, aren’t I?”
She leaned forward and poked
at the fire with misdirected
fury. It fell apart and the
flames flickered and died. Her
eyes roamed vaguely round the
room till they detached a large
tin canister, decorated with
koala-bears, from the cluttered
mantelshelf.
“Excuse me, but ’ave you ever
been to Australia?” He shook
his head with desperate
vehemence. “I come from Aus-
tralia. I came across in 1894.
Special offer it was. Ten-bob
fare and bring your own food.
All very well, I say, but ’ave
you ever ate sandwiches four
days old? I came for a ’oliday,
six weeks. Then them shipping
people put the fare up. They
didn’t ought to be allowed to do
things like that, did they? Did
they ? Ten-bob they said and
bring your own food. That’s
what they said. Them shipping
people didn’t ought to be
allowed to change it like that.
I been here in New Zealand
ever since. I never did get back
to Australia.”
Her eyes once again made
their wandering circuit of the
room.
“Now that plate over there,
you see that plate, ’oo do you
think gave me that? It was
Mr. Kendall,. ”
HPHE telephone rang. The
young man dived for it but
he was on the far side of the
room and the old lady fumbled
it from under his fingers.
“’Oo? ’Oo? No, I don’t
know nobody of that name. No,
you must of got the wrong
number. No, I never ’eard of
’im.”
The young man, gesticulat-
ing, tugged at her elbow, but
she slapped him away wildly.
“No, I don’t. Oh, ’e works
at the post-office, does ’e?
Well, why didn’t you say so in
the first place? . . . It’s for
you,” she said, passing the
receiver over and frowning
balefully at the young man.
When he had finished with the
telephone, he turned and said
slowly and very loud:
“Look, my name’s Cameron,
Bert Cameron, see? If anyone
asks for Cameron or Bert, it’s
me.”
“Oh, it is, is it?” she
grumbled.
“Yes, it is. And I’ve written
it down by the phone, here,
see, so that you’ll remember.”
She said sulkily, “Well, I
haven’t got me glasses.” Then
her faded eyes twinkled at
him. “Cameron, Campbell,
McCannibal, it’s all the same
to me. I never did ’ave no
truck with Scotchmen.”
At nine-o’clock she began to
fidget round the room.
“Ah well, time for bunky-
boo! ”
The young man settled more
solidly in his chair.
“ ‘Early to bed and early to
rise.
Makes a man healthy,
wealthy' and wise.”’
“Look,” he said aggressively,
“you go to bed. I’m sitting up
for a while.”
“You’ll put the fire out?”
“Yes.”
“ ’Ow do I know you won’t
go slipping out and leaving the
door unlocked?”
“I won’t, I promise.”
She stumped off, grumbling.
He heard her moving through
the house, her heavy footfalls
punctuated by an occasional
metallic grind and click. She
was locking-up for the night.
Creak, that was the back door.
Click, click, the kitchen win-
dows. A whining groan, the
kitchen door. Her footsteps
paused at the living-room door.
He turned his head and saw for
a moment her suspicious,
gnomelike face peering in at
him from the semi-darkness of
the hall.
Then with incredible sudden-
ness the door slammed-to and
the turning of a key ground the
lock into place.
TTE jumped from his chair,
hurled himself across the
room, twisted the handle futilely
and hammered on the door,
shouting. A distant grumbling
from the bedroom was the only
answer, and when it rose to sharp
squeals of alarm he desisted
and turned back to the fireside.
He opened the wood-
cupboard and piled all the logs
that were in it on to the heap
of dying embers and soon the
structure was laced through
with lively flames. He pulled the
armchairs to face each other at
an angle to the hearth, settled
himself in one and put his feet
up on the other, and for three
hours suffered gloriously with
the escapees to the frontiers of
Switzerland.
When the fire had at last sub-
sided into ash, he switched off
the light and following a rou-
tine that had become familiar,
but not stale, since he first took
board with the old lady three
weeks previously, he opened the
empty wood-cupboard and
wriggled into it. With his
pocket-knife, he forced back the
outer latch, pushed the reluctant
door open, and slid like a snake
into the cold, damp garden. He
rummaged behind the abutilon
for a benzine-box which he had
“Did I ever tell you about how I had to take the teeth
out of a draughthorse once?"
concealed there, and with its
help scaled the garden-trellis
which separated him from his
bedroom window.
He felt the usual sense of
exhilaration as he scrambled
among the passion-leaves and
dropped on to the soft earth
below. That night an errant
branch from a near-by rose-
tree interrupted his fall and
ripped a small three-cornered
tear in his sports-trousers.
“No, it’s too much,” he
thought as he heaved himself
across the windowsill into his
own room —he had long ago
taken the precaution of remov-
ing the window-lock. “No, it’s
beyond a joke. I shall have to
leave.”
He darned the tear unsuccess-
fully and slept sound in the
resolution that the next day he,
too, would break for freedom.
A T breakfast the old lady
said, “There was a man
round ’ere last night. I ’eard
’im. ’E needn’t think I didn’t.
I would of rung the police if I
could of found me glasses.”
“It was me,” he told her.
“You locked me in the sitting-
room.”
“Oooooh,” said the old lady,
“ooooh, I never did. I wouldn’t
do a thing like that. ’Ow did
you get out? Them windows
are nailed.”
He returned her stare, not
giving ground. “That’s my
secret.”
That day he searched the
accommodation-vacant column
of the local newspaper and
found two seeming possibili-
ties. One, in a general way,
offered bed-and-breakfast, mod-
erate tariff, while the other,
more specific, announced that a
friendly home-from-home
awaited a respectable young
man, non-drinker.
He visited the first address in
his lunch-hour. It was a great,
pretentious house of an earlier
age, its ugly dignity degraded by
the addition of many lean-tos
and outhouses. In the hallway
a stark black notice shouted
that guests must not use radios
in their bedrooms. The land-
lady showed him round. She
had laddered stockings and an
improbable coiffure. Her mouth
was as red as a letter-box,
hard, square and smiling.
The notice in the bathroom
said that guests must not occupy
the room for more than fifteen
minutes. The notice in the
passage said that guests must not
leave the lights burning. The
notice in the bedroom said that
guests must not be late for
meals, that guests must not have
visitors after 9.30 p.m., that
guests must not run radiators
from the light-sockets. It was
as though a shower of notices
had blown through the house
and had adhered to every vacant
space.
The landlady spoke in the
same jargon; guests must be
out of their rooms by nine a.m.,
must not bring liquor on to
the premises, must not use the
iron for more than one half-
hour weekly, must not wash
clothes in the bathroom.
AT five-o’clock he caught a
bus to an outlying suburb
and inspected the home-from-
home. “We’re just ordinary
folk, Mr. Cameron —Bert, I can
call you Bert, can’t I? —I’m
sure we’ll — Sandra, give over
hitting David —make you very
comfortable. You must take us
as you find us— Wayne, put
down the gentleman’s hat this
minute —but we’re real homey.
We’ll treat you just like one of
the family. Glenys, leave the
door-bell alone; I’ll give you
such a hiding!”
It was nearly seven when he
again rang the doorbell of the
old lady’s house. The bell
echoed into silence three times
before her face popped wildly
from the door, half-opened.
“He don’t live ’ere!”
He relaxed with a sweet sense
of homecoming.
“It’s me. I’m sorry I’m late.”
She stared at him as at a
ghastly apparition. “ ’Oo are
you?”
“It’s me. Bert Cameron.”
“Never ’eard of ’im!”
He caught the closing door
with his hand and shouted, “I
work in the post-office.”
“Oh, it’s you, is it? Well,
why couldn’t you say so?”
He walked happily into the
house.
She had kept his dinner —
sausages, potatoes and cauli-
flower, with stewed prunes to
follow. The cauliflower was
garnished with sweet vanilla-
custard and the white sauce was
piled plentifully on the prunes.
“Ooooh,” said the old lady,
“oooh no, I’d never do that.
’Ere, let’s ’ave a taste . . . well,
I am an old juggins! That’ll
teach me a darn good lesson. I
won’t do that again in a
hurry.”
TIE sat before the fire, tired,
hungry and not altogether
discontented.
“You see that plate,” said the
old lady, “ ’oo d’you think gave
me that?”
He allowed his eyes to
become dreamy and fixed.
“That plate . . . that plate . . .
I see a man, a nice man . . .
but he is unfortunate ... he
has a selfish mother . . . and
there is worse. He goes to
hospital, he does not return.
His name . . . wait, wait, I have
it . . . his name is Mr. Kendall.”
Her eyes gleamed wildly and
her voice rapped the air.
“ ’Ow did you know?”
“I work in the post-office. I
know everything.”
She stared painfully, then a
slow smile relaxed her face.
“Aw, go on with you. I told
you before.”
He smiled back at her and
reached for his book. It was a
good book, an escape-story.
The fire hissed softly in the
grate, and the room was filled
with quietness and peace. But
the painted koala-bears and the
little model-boomerang stared
and stared at the old lady and
she heard the plaster kooka-
burras screaming in the silence.
She leaned over and tapped the
young man on the arm.
“Excuse me,” she said, “but
’ave you ever been to Aus-
tralia?”


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
mfs saxom dtivt
AlfUtu
SANDERS
Correspondence. ln*olc#«.
statement*, etc.. Oled to the
"Sanders” can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfeci book of reference at
the end of each month — oe
any other period.
‘A
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lnx
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent 9—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Au*t.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
REPORT ON RUSSIA
THE TOP MEN
VITILLIAM Randolph Hearst
’* Jr., editor -in - chief of
Hearst Newspapers, lately visited
Russia and was there at the
time of Malenkov’s fall. Hearst,
who took two associates with
him, made no attempt to travel
widely in the Soviet; as they
were seeking interviews with the
top Russians, they confined
themselves mainly to Moscow
and Leningrad.
The following excerpts from
Hearst’s keen and lively impres-
sions are taken from an address
he delivered to the National
Press Club in Washington, the
full text of which was published
by “U.S. News and World
Report”:
“We became aware from the
very first day of our arrival that
we were getting the red-carpet
treatment —no question about
that —or rather what we call the
‘white-wall treatment,’ from the
tyre-sides of the gleaming
Packard-like Zis that was made
available to us. When we first
got there we got a Buick-type
machine. They build four cars.
The next-to-top car is the Buick.
After our first interview
appeared on page one we got
promoted to a Packard without
any request by us.
“We knew we were seeing
and would see only what the
Soviet Government wanted us
to see, and that no secrets or
unflattering inner problems
would be exposed to our gaze.
But what we did see of the
Russian people encouraged us
to believe that a strong senti-
ment of friendliness toward
Americans exists among them.
“When we were recognised as
Americans —or spotted, if you
will—in the streets, the theatres,
or restaurants, or stores, we were
greeted almost invariably with
friendly looks, an occasional
smile. There were no incidents,
or no hostility shown us at any
time by either individuals or as
a plan. Ten post-war years of
anti-American propaganda seem
to have had less effect on the
Russian people than one might
expect.
“For an over-all impression of
life in the Soviet as seen from
Moscow and Leningrad, I would
say that living-conditions in
Russia are less bad than the
West generally believes, but by
no means as good as the
Russian people are led by their
Government to think they are.
“The subjects of our inter-
views ranged from Khrushchev
to Shostakovich, the composer;
from Marshal Zhukov to the
Patriarch Alexei, the head of
the Russian Orthodox Church;
from Molotov to Svetlana
Stalin, the late dictator’s
daughter.”
“Hope of Peace”
“The strongest hope of peace
which I found in my three-
weeks’ visit in the Soviet Union
was the shrewdness of these
rulers of Russia. -They believe
the end justifies the means, and
for them the end remains Com-
munist domination of the world.
There isn’t any question about
that, nor never was in our minds.
“Khrushchev said to me quite
frankly that they hoped to gain
the upper-hand one day. And
you know what happens to the
guy who winds-up at the lower
end. These men are cold, calcu-
lating realists.
“I don’t believe they are
possessed by the madness that
drove Hitler to bring Germany
down in ruin, nor by the reckless-
ness that led Mussolini to tie
Italy tight to the shooting-star
of Nazidom’s short-lived con-
quest. They know the destruc-
tive power of nuclear weapons.
Even if they possess the H-
bomb, which some British
officials doubt, and even if they
use it first, they know that
America has superiority in these
weapons and ample means to
deliver them.
“Furthermore, as Eden put it
to us, and which is true, the
Soviets have now become the
bourgeois of the Communist
world. They have established
an empire extending from the
heart of Germany to the
borders of China. They are
becoming property-owners. They
have cars, television-sets, ice-
boxes, some even country homes.
They have a vested interest to
protect.
“As long as they feel that they
are not going to be directly
attacked, I seriously doubt that
they will deliberately precipitate
a thermonuclear war. Come
the time when the Soviets
thought they could deliver a
knockout blow that would
neutralise the U.S., then the
temptation to strike would be
strong, and I wouldn’t give odds
that they’d take a shot at us.
“For the present, however, I
think they realise that they could
not pull an atomic Pearl Harbor
on Uncle Sam without getting
back a nuclear punishment that
might well knock the Red day-
lights out of them. That is why
we felt the present American
policy of firmness without
provocation, of keeping our
guard up and maintaining a
strong retaliatory force in readi-
ness, was the correct one.
“We must never make the mis-
take that we made before and
think that we can base our rela-
tions with the Soviet Govern-
ment on trust in their good
intentions —or their words, for
that matter.
“The present leaders were all
part of the top echelon of the
regime during the period when
Stalin broke faith with us. These
men were all in the Kremlin or
close to it during the bloody
purges. And, therefore, we must
not be misled by their smiling,
benign appearances when they
wish to be friendly in order to
serve their own ends.
“The history of Soviet Russia
during the past 30 years has
shown that one can never be
sure what is going to happen,
especially within the inner circle
of the Red hierarchy. As
Marshal Zhukov said to us,
‘Fortunetellers can go wrong,
too, you know.’ ”
Bulganin
“As to the personalities. My
own opinion is that if another
Stalin is to emerge on the
Russian political scene, it will
not be the new Premier. Bul-
ganin, with whom we all talked
for over an hour, did not
impress us as the type who
would be capable of seizing
power and making himself the
absolute ruler as Stalin did. He
lacked the dynamic personality
and forcefulness of Khrushchev
even. He does not seem to
possess the cunning that would
be required for victory in a
struggle for power inside the
Kremlin.
“Bulganin struck me more as
a front man for the principle
of collective leadership. That
principle, I think, for the time
being at least, continues to be
the basis on which the Soviet
system is now being run.
“In his talk with us, Bulganin
adopted a conciliatory tone. He
New York "Herald Tribune”
FARMER IN THE DELL
“There is talk of sending Soviet farm experts to learn how lowa
( U.S.A .) raises corn and hogs." — “U.S. News and World Report"
seemed to be trying to offset the
violent attacks on the United
States which he himself and
Molotov had made just a few
days before in the Supreme
Soviet. We took him to task for
those attacks. We told him we
did not see how he could recon-
cile them with the protestations
for improved relations with our
country. He denied that the
attacks reflected any decision of
the new Government to pursue
a more antagonistic attitude to-
ward us. He insisted the Soviet
leaders were sincere in their
desire for re-establishment of
normal, friendly relations with
America.
“There’s so much double-talk
in Soviet verbiage that it’s diffi-
cult to know when they’re speak-
ing the truth. They can always
go back and say: ‘Well, on that
day, don’t you see, I said so and
so’—and they did, probably, and
the same day they said just the
opposite. So they can refer to
their notes with great conveni-
ence. However, I do feel that
they think that it is in their own
interest to try to improve rela-
tions with us.
“We thought, we smoked-out
Bulganin on one thing. Molotov
had claimed in the Supreme
Soviet that Russia had surpassed
the United States in the produc-
tion of hydrogen-bombs. We
called Bulganin’s attention to the
warnings of scientists that the
continued explosion of nuclear
weapons could have dangerous
effects on human and animal
life. We asked him whether
Russia would be willing to enter
into an agreement with the
United States and Great Britain
to limit the number of these
explosions for experimental
purposes.
“The quick and sharply nega-
tive reaction of the Soviet
Premier convinced us that the
Russians ■ are behind us in the
stockpiling of these new
weapons. That’s what he re-
ferred to. That’s another thing
about setting-off the bombs —
it’s the stockpiling that they’re
worried about. Whatever they’re
worried about is good for us—
believe me.”
Khruschchev—“The Boss”
“Of the four top leaders we
met, Khrushchev was in many
ways the most impressive. If
any of the four were to grab
power and build himself up into
a Stalin-like dictator my guess
is that it would be this boss of
Russia’s seven-million Com-
munists. A bull-necked, blunt,
rugged individual, this heavy-set
little man with small blue eyes
and aggressive vitality gave the
impression of being boss of the
Kremlin at the moment and
knowing it.
“On the day Malenkov pub-
licly lost his job as Premier it
was Khrushchev who dominated
the scene in the Supreme Soviet,
who nominated Bulganin as his
successor, and, as he did so, he
remarked that he was sure the
Deputies would accept the Sug-
gestion. He was right. There
was more than an expression of
hope in the remark. It was clear
that the boss was speaking. No
one else was nominated and no
one else spoke up for—nor,
needless to say, against
Khrushchev’s candidate.
“The vote was called and the
hands of 1300 Deputies popped
up automatically into the air.
The chairman glanced quickly
over the room, said there were
no dissenters and no abstentions
—how he could tell that, I don’t
know —and announced that it
was unanimous. That was
democracy at work in Russia.
“During our private interview
with Khrushchev, which lasted
about two and a half hours, he
spoke with a voice of authority,
unquestionably. He did not
seem to bother to weigh his
words. He spoke on foreign
policy, you know, which
ordinarily might have been out
of his line. Molotov stuck to
foreign policy, the other fellow
stuck to military, another fellow
stuck to local. Not Khrushchev.
Anything. Anything goes. His
interview lasted two and three-
quarter hours, actually, and had
to go four of the six columns
in ‘Pravda’ and jump inside to
another three or four.
“He did not seem to bother to
weigh his words the way Bul-
ganin, Molotov, and even
Marshal Zhukov had to. He
was fast on the comeback and
he talked with as much ease
about foreign affairs as he did
about internal policy. He made
no bones about the hope of the
Communists to gain the upper-
hand in the world one day, and
he sought to convince us that
the Soviet leadership wants to
confine the global struggle
between the Communist and
capitalistic systems to measures
short of war.
“Unlike American Com-
munists, he and most of the
other Soviet leaders we met dis-
played a sense of humor. He
laughed and joked and at times
showed flashes of wit. He
would doubtless have ordered us
liquidated without batting an
eye if he thought it would serve
Soviet interests, but he can be
amiable.”
Molotov
“Molotov seems to have be-
come the elder statesman of the
Soviet Government —he was
Premier once. Always the pro-
fessional diplomat, he was
cautious in his statements, but
quick to give us the propaganda
line on anything. We talked at
length about American military-
bases, or rather he did, sur-
rounding the Soviet Union, and
referred to our protection of
Formosa as ‘interference in the
internal affairs of China.’
“He spoke deliberately with
an air of self-confidence as
though supreme in the handling
of Soviet diplomacy, which I’m
sure he is, without worrying
about what the other members
of the Presidium might think of
his methods or words. However,
I’ve much the same feeling about
him as I have about Bulganin.
I don’t quite picture Molotov
developing into another Stalin.
He seems to lack the flair for
lone-wolf leadership.”
Zhukov
“Of all the four top men with
whom we talked, Marshal
Zhukov was the most pleasant,
and somehow, I guess because of
his American associations, you
felt that you were a little bit
nearer to the fellow. Not that
you were going to sell him any-
thing, bufr he seemed to talk a
little more frankly.
“Here was the old soldier, who
had been on such friendly terms
with General Eisenhower in the
closing period of the European
war and for a short time there-
after, sitting in the corner with
three American newspapermen
sitting around popping questions
at him. I must say that they are
either awful sure of themselves
or they blundered somewhat, be-
cause they took on the three of
us in every instance, come what
may—no advance questions, no
writing them out in advance,
and, boy, we worked up some
pips, I can tell you that.
“One question (we asked
Zhukov) was that if he was A 1
Gruenther (Supreme Com-
mander of the Allied Powers in
Europe), what would he think of
the situation —would he need,
would he like to have German
assistance in the European
defence?
“He swallowed once. He
said, ‘Well,’ and very cleverly,
I must say—they rarely answer
directly—he said, ‘Well, if the
General realised who his enemy
was, he wouldn’t —you know,
we’re not his enemy —he
wouldn’t be talking like that.’
You know they go off on a
tangent. He didn’t answer the
question.
“This forthright military man
commanded the defence of Mos-
cow, prepared the Soviet stand


of the highlights was a per-
formance by the students of
Ormond College of the “Wasps”
of Aristophanes, in Greek, and
it was regretted by many that
such a comedy should have
been chosen, since it was one
thing to present culture in a
language few would understand,
and another to place an audience
under “an uneasy apprehension
that it is expected to see a joke
now and then”!
And now the “year of
grace” which expired before the
celebration of the jubilee has
been extended to “two years of
grace” before the celebration
of the centenary. Perhaps the
occupation of a building will
be celebrated, instead of the
actual inauguration, and perhaps
the staging of the Olympics
will be the excuse for another
year’s delay.
Nevertheless, if in 1957 we
are to witness delayed pageantry
and strange comedy, let us now,
at the right moment, toast the
founders, with the pious hope
that, with the foundations they
have provided, ever new our
after-fame, also, shall grow.
at Stalingrad and led the Red
Army to victory against Ger-
many in Berlin. He gave me the
impression of being sincere in
his expressed hope for improved
relations with the United States
and the warm sentiments he
voiced about President Eisen-
hower.
“I felt almost a sense of relief
later when I heard that he had
been moved up to the post of
Minister of Defence. He would
not hesitate to do anything
within his power to defeat us in
the event of war between our
two countries, but because I be-
lieve that soldiers like the Presi-
dent and Zhukov know all too
well the horrors of war and want
to avoid it, I believe that that
promotion is almost for the
better.
“The presence of Zhukov in
the high councils of the Soviet
regime might literally be a con-
servative, perhaps even restrain-
ing, influence on recklessness.
But he’s a dedicated Communist,
being a member of the Central
Committee, and said once or
twice to us, ‘We soldiers follow
the party-line.’
“Nevertheless, I had the feel-
ing that Zhukov was a patriotic
soldier first and an international
Communist second. As long as
he remains in the top echelon
of the Government I feel he
would raise his voice strongly,
and perhaps effectively, against
any demands for a war that
might lead to the destruction of
‘Mother Russia.’ ”
What We Face Now
“With these four coldly
realistic men at the top in the
Soviet Union, I could not help
feeling that any immediate threat
to world peace is more likely to
come from Red China than
Russia. Khrushchev told us he
was confident that the Chinese
leaders would show what he
described as commonsense.
“If that is so, and we are not
going to have war in the foresee-
able future, then I believe we
are going to face a struggle that
may prove more difficult for us
to wage successfully than a
military conflict. In the long
run, however, this struggle will
involve the survival of our way
of life just as much as war
would.
“I am referring to the conflict
of competitive coexistence. This
is intended to be an ideological
and economic struggle aimed at
achieving Communist domina-
tion of the world by measures
short of an all-out war. That
is what we face now. It will be
much less terrifying and much
less destructive in a material
way than a military conflict. It
will be far more subtle than the
‘cold war’ was under Stalin—
though its ultimate objective, as
far as we are concerned, will
obviously be the same.
“The second half of this
20th century will determine
whether Khrushchev was right
when he told us that Commun-
ism would ultimately gain ‘the
upper-hand’ throughout the
world. This indicates the chal-
lenge of the future as clearly as
any other hint during our three-
weeks’ visit to Russia.
“The faith of the bald, blunt
man who bosses the seven-
million card-holders in Russia
must be matched by a belief just
as strong and just as deep. Time
alone will tell whether the free
world is equal to the sacrifice,
the self-denial and the courage
required to first control and then
turn the tide against Commun-
ism.
“That means keeping our
guard up. It means being pre-
pared for the next five, ten or
twenty years to risk war at any
moment to restrain Communist
imperialism from further mili-
tary conquests, just as we’re
doing today in respect to
Formosa.
“We must not let coexistence
lull us into a false sense of
security. Unless and until
Russia, Red China and the rest
of the Communist world accept
a really effective system of
international control and inspec-
tion of armaments, we must
maintain in a state of constant
readiness a powerful retaliatory
force.
“I am absolutely convinced
that is the only hope of pre-
serving world-peace. For, let
me repeat, if the Soviets or
Chinese Reds thought they could
neutralise us with a quick knock-
out blow, they would not hesi-
tate to do so.
“They are not refraining from
war because they have renounced
it as an instrument of national
or international policy. Nor be-
cause they are worried about
what war would mean for Wes-
tern civilisation. We heard
Molotov tell the Supreme Soviet,
‘World civilisation will not
perish no matter how much it
might suffer from a new war.’
He predicted that what would
perish would be our way of life.
“That should make it clear
enough that the Soviet leader-
ship does not rule out war be-
cause of its possible effect on
civilisation. It rules it out for
the present simply because of
the respect it has for the effec-
tiveness of America’s counter-
offensive power.”
“On Every Front”
“But preparedness alone will
not win for us the battle of
coexistence. Something more
than that is needed. The Wes-
tern programme of building
armed strength should be
widened into a more flexible and
imaginative strategy for com-
petitive coexistence with the
Commies in every field and on
every front.
“While in Moscow I gained
the impression that Communism
was moving ahead in many fields
which the present Western
strategy overlooks or considers
minor. The arms-race is not the
only event in which they are
competing with us. They have
taken sports and culture—they
call it —and the impressionable
years of youth and transformed
them into arenas of the cold
war.
“Dedicated materialists though
they are, they are working
mightily on the minds of men
and seeking to capture the
imagination of the susceptible.
Our reliance upon armed
strength alone as our primary
concern is permitting Commun-
ism to take long strides forward
in those fields which we have
largely neglected.
“By inviting to Moscow picked
delegations from the satellite
countries and wavering neutrals
like India, they strive to convey
the impression that Soviet cus-
toms are superior to those of
the West.
“The delegations are carefully
chaperoned, of course. They
only see what the Communists
want them to see. On that basis
the good things of Moscow can
be impressive—the splendid
Moscow ballet, the mosaic-
adorned subway, the up-to-date
classrooms of the towering Mos-
cow University, the new apart-
ment-buildings ‘skyscrapers’
they call them—they always put
an extra thing on top to make
it go higher—and the progress
that has unquestionably been
achieved in the industrialisation
of a backward, almost primitive
agricultural nation.
“It would be cause for wonder
indeed if the Indians, the Chinese
and even the Communist mili-
tants of Eastern Europe did not
go back to their homeland some-
what impressed.
“Sports is another front on
which the Commies are moving
full-steam-ahead. On one frigid
night while we were there 75,000
Muscovites jammed Dynamo
Stadium —a sort of Yankee
Stadium —to watch the home
team humble West Germany in
a hockey game, 10-3. Everybody
in town knew it two minutes
after the game was over.
“The United States is likely
to have a tough time at the 1956
Olympic Games in Melbourne,
when the Soviet enters a team
which now is being prepared for
this big test. America has
dominated the modern Olympic
Games since their inception. It
has also been a source of prestige
to us throughout the world,
especially with sport-conscious
young people. How will the
youth of the world feel,
especially in the doubtful areas,
if the Russian team ends
America’s long sway at Mel-
bourne? It’s just a shame.
“Of course, these Russian
athletes are not really amateurs.
We might be able to put up a
beef on that score, but I don’t
know. They are pros., they are
London “Daily Express”
"IF ONLY WE COULD GET HIM TO TAKE A PEERAGE ”
trained under Government guid-
ance, with Government help,
and they receive bonuses and
money-prizes. We should find
some way, though, of making
sure that our own Olympic con-
tenders get everything they need
in the way of training-oppor-
tunities.”
Commissars in the Arts
“The lively arts are another
field wherein the commissars
are operating with the professed
intention of proving to the
young people of the world that
Russian achievements far
surpass the West. The ballet,
literature—all are shaped toward
aiding Communism’s long-range
scheme of world domination.
Top artists know that they are
not only expected to perform
but to give their services at
clinics where the plastic minds of
youthful visitors can be
influenced.
“From Moscow radiate
troupes of athletes and artists,
circulating through the Soviet
world and the satellites, ventur-
ing into countries like Red China
and India with their gospel of
friendly-nation sociability. It
stands to reason that such ex-
tensive wooing of impressionable
minds is likely to pay dividends
—unless we compete vigorously
with the Communist effort and
even surpass it. We have so
much more to offer than the
Communists that any compari-
son must show up in our favor.
“But it is not enough to sit
complacently by while the Soviet
Union throws its smaller re-
sources onto the scales and
makes its weight felt because
we do not choose to compete.
Nor is it enough for us to
advocate and appropriate large
sums of foreign military- and
economic-aid and think we have
met the challenge.
“Money is not enough. I
came away from Russia con-
vinced that only deep thought
and long-range planning on our
part would suffice to prevail
over Communism in this conflict
of ‘competitive coexistence.’
Money spent on foreign aid will
not get the most effective results
unless it is thoughtfully ex-
pended in those fields where it
will do the most good.
“We [the U.S.] should seek to
convey to the world —to our
allies, to the uncommitted
countries especially, and to the
Russians if possible—the idea
that America is not only proud
of its motor-cars, bathtubs and
other material benefits, but also
of our cultural achievement.”
"Uncurk and Alfsea"
London “Economist” on
“alphabet soup”:
“Reports that Gatt is to vanish
from the ken of newspaper
readers and be replaced by a
gallant body known as the OTC
suggest that the tide may be turn-
ing against the mid-century
fashion of shortening cumbrous
titles not merely into groups of
initials but into pronounceable
words formed from those
initials.
“If so, it will be a relief to
some people and a pang to
others. We have become accus-
tomed to a language full of such
exotic combinations of sounds as
ecosoc, icao, anzus and saclant.
Some items in this fast-growing
vocabulary strongly suggest
packaged foods or beverages—
we have already have ecafe, ecla,
cocom, sunfed and benelux.
Some have been suggestive of
their purpose, like care, or picme,
the committee concerned with
would-be emigrants ; others, such
as unwrapne, which provides
shelter for refugees from Pales-
tine, have a misleading sound.
“There are those that possess
pedigrees: shape the son of
shaef, seato the heir to seac; but
one or two, such as uncurk and
alfsea, have sounded decidedly
illbred to many ears. Inter-
national organisations and the
armed services have been their
most fertile breeding-grounds,
but not the only ones; Ishra, a
hitherto unknown Old Testa-
ment prophet, may be found in
financial columns.
“Among those that remain
obstinately capitalised, with each
letter separately enunciated, are
the unpronounceable, the sturdily
conservative, and those, like
WHO, that would lead straight
into chaos if they were treated
any other way. This resistance
ought perhaps to be encouraged.
There are already signs of a ten-
dency to baptise new organisa-
tions more according to their
vowel-sounds than to their func-
tions; and it will be a sad day
when Englishmen begin to speak
of the tuc, and Americans of the
gop.”
Paper-work
Barely a year ago Field-
Marshal Montgomery exploded
in a brief, terse and slightly be-
wildered outburst against the
amount of “paper-work” that
came his way from Washington.
Now, a report lately issued by
the U.S. “Commission on the
Organisation of the Executive
Branch of the Government,”
includes some astonishing
statistics which would seem to
support Montgomery’s irritation.
As “New York Times” sets it
out, the commission “found that
the Government annually
‘handles some 25,000 million
pieces of paper’ requiring ‘an
expenditure of more than $4OOO
million,’ and labor equivalent to
the amount of work done by
750,000 full-time employees”:
“It [the commission] said the
Government, every year, put out
1000 million letters (552 per
employee), 18,000 million forms
and 135,000 reports. More than
25,000 persons, it said, were
employed full-time in handling
incoming mail. For filing-space,
the Government uses the
equivalent of seven Pentagons.”
Commenting, the same paper
notes that Government-records
would fill a drawer reaching
from the Pentagon to the
Kremlin —5000 miles —and the
annual cost of maintaining them
is $130,000 a mile. Or: the
1000 million letters produced
every year would make a stack
reaching 390 miles into the
stratosphere. Or: the 25,000
million pieces of paper produced
annually by the U.S. Federal
Government would, placed end
to end, reach to the moon 13
times over.
The “N. Y. Times” adds that
the commission “acknowledged
that much of the paper-work was
necessary. But it said that by
increased use of business-
machines, better personnel-
policies and more attention to
economy of words the Govern-
ment could make annual savings
of $255 million on its paper-
work expenses.
“What steps the Government
will take to implement the report
is not yet clear. But the Presi-
dent made plain he is open to
any useful suggestions. He said:
‘lf they have found a practical
way to accomplish something
along this line, I am going to
design some new type of medal
for them.’ ”


Veep Y oW *
HES
,\\ll Mm//,/
SPECIAL ENERGOL
VISCO-STMUC
The only 4-GBADES-IN-l
ygSCO-Sl
MOTOR
V!SCO-fTA« c
Motor oi»
MOTOR OIL
REDUCES
ENGINE WEAR
BY 80°/ o
Completely eliminates engine wear at start up
at least doubles time between overhauls . . .
cuts petrol consumption up to 18% • • •
adds years of life to a good used engine.
SAVES SO MUCH MORE THAN THE EXTRA IT COSTS!
Metropolitan prices: 19/6 per gallon, 5/6 per quart
(Prices vary slightly in Queensland, Tasmania and country areas)
Marketed throughout Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
an associate of The British Petroleum Company Ltd 11/C2SS/1025
m
KEROSENE g gj g PRESSURE
Regd.
\v i /
/ / \ \
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF - USE IT IN OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY iRD PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Amathea by Henry
G. Lamond. —6025.
To buy copy of the “Lone Hand”
for May, 1908.—6028.
Whereabouts of the hypnotist Van
Loewe? —6029.
Words and music of old song called
“Wedding Bells.” —6030.
To buy copies of Ave (first vol.
of George Moore’s Hail and Farewell
trilogy), Some Do Not by Ford
Madox Ford, and Lachlan Macquarie
by M. H. Ellis.—6o3l.
Information Sought
(7) We had an unusual number of
butcher-birds on our N.S.W. farm
last summer, and fewer soldier-birds
and other smaller birds. Do butcher-
birds prey on smaller birds ? (2)
Have butcher-birds any economic
value ?
(1) Yes, it is quite probable that
the reduction of various birds in the
area is due to the presence of
butcher-birds. The grey butcher-bird
often kills small adult birds ana
sometimes takes young birds from
nests. (2) Yes, the butcher-bird
certainly has economic value: apart
from its frequent attacks on sparrows,
it kills many noxious insects and is
partial to mice. Although there
may be “rogues” among butcher-
birds —those which mainly kill small
birds —most members <?f the species
give their attention mainly to insects
and rodents, and so the balance is
probably in the butcher-bird’s favor.
* * * .*
Particulars regarding (1) a brass
cannon said to have been found on
Facing Island, Port Curtis, Glad-
stone (Q.), inscribed “Santa Barbara,
1596,” and now believed to be held
by a Sydney collector, and (2) an
old wreck near the entrance to Port
Curtis, commonly referred to as the
“Spanish Galleon” ?
(1) and (2) It is alleged that the gun
was found by a survey party in 1853,
when laying-out the township of
Port Curtis, embedded in sand at
South Trees Point, bearing the
inscription “Santa Barbara, 1596.”
Later it was alleged that the wreck
of a vessel was found on Facing
Island. These stories were investi-
gated many years ago and it was
found that Captain Flinders, who
visited and named Port Curtis, made
no reference to any wreck in that
locality; nor did Lieutenant Oxley,
who was there in 1824, nor Colonel
Barney in 1847. The area was
examined and surveyed by Surveyor
McCabe in 1853-54, and his reports
make no mention of a wreck or of
the cannon. In 1869 a vessel, the
Prince Regent, which came to Port
Curtis to land cattle, was wrecked.
A man named Henry Friend stated
in a letter to the press in 1903 that
he found a cannon amongst the
ballast of the wreck and that at that
period the keel was still buried in
the sand. A newspaper correspondent
in March, 1912, claimed that the
Prince Regent’s cannon was at Ban
Ban Station in the Burnett (Q.) dis-
trict. Another newspaper corres-
pondent claimed that three cannon
were found at Port Curtis: (a) the
alleged Santa Barbara gun; (6) one
picked up by a shipwrecked crew in
the 1840’s; and (c) the Prince Regent
weapon. However, the consensus of
opinion amongst historians is that no
Spanish vessel was ever wrecked at
Port Curtis or Facing Island, and
that the cannon was certainly not
from the wreck of such a vessel.
* * * *
(i) How much was the licence to
dig for gold at the time of the
Eureka riot? (2) How is the right
to prospect obtained in Victoria
today ?
(1) By a local Act of Jan., 1852, a
licence-lee of 30s. a month was
imposed on all diggers on the Vic-
torian goldfields, the penalty for
mining without a licence being £5
for the first offence and subsequently
imprisonment for terms of up to
six-months. In Dec., 1853, an
amending Act reduced the fee to £1
a month—but did not alter the
diggers’ great grievance, which led to
the riot, that they could be
imprisoned for not having the licence
actually on them, even though their
possession of one could be proved
through official records. (2) For a
miner operating on a small scale,
all that’s necessary is the possession
of a miner’s-right, obtainable for a
few shillings from the Receipt and
Pay Office, Treasury Buildings, Mel-
bourne, or at any Clerk of Courts’
office.
* * * *
(i) What is proof-spirit ? (2) Can
a liquor be described as 40 p.c. proof
—or should it be, say, 40 p.c. under-
or overproof ?
(1) Proof-spirit is a strong distilled
alcoholic liquor, or mixture of
alcohol and water, containing a
standard amount of alcohol. The
Spirits Act of 1816 (British) gave
for the first time a legal definition —;
“that which at the temperature of
51deg. F. weighs exactly 12-13ths of
an equal measure of distilled water.”
The Act did not state the temperature
of the water, but evidence since dis-
covered indicates that it was also
intended to be 51 deg. F. The
British proof-system is now based
upon volume-percentage at 50deg. F.
(owing to difference in rate of expan-
sion of alcohol and water, volume-
composition of any mixture of these
substances varies with temperature).
This change is ignored, so the system
is not strictly correct at other tem-
peratures; but it is convenient both
for revenue authorities and the spirit
trade. American, Dutch and other
proof-spirit varies slightly from the
British. (2) Spirits at strength other
than “proof” may be described as
containing a percentage of proof-
spirit (i.e., 40 p.c. proof) or as
“overproof” or “underproof.”
Brief Answers
A.N.G.: Write W.A. Govern-
ment Statistician, Prudential Build-
ing, 189 St. George’s-terrace, Perth.
E.J.C.: Article “Plaiting a
Stockwhip” by “Bogaduck” was
printed in The Bulletin of Novem-
ber 10, 1954....C.F.: Write Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, 414 Collins-
street, Melbourne j.L.H.: As far
as we are aware, silverlish have no
affinity for concrete. This opinion is
also maintained by the entomologist
at the Australian Museum, Sydney,
a leading firm of pest-exterminators,
and the technical-officers of the
Cement and Concrete Association of
Australia K.R.H.: The World
Book Club should suit you (to join,
write Morgan’s Bookshop, 9 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney) 1.5.: (1) The
fifth Olympic Games were held in
Sweden (at Stockholm, in 1912). (2)
The Olympic Games have not yet
been held in Canada. (3) Each
Canadian province has its own par-
ticular liquor-laws; but, generally
speaking, drinking-hours and -condi-
tions are much the same throughout
the Dominion. (4) Don’t know of
any prominent men in that profession
in Australia who are Quakers; in
America, however, it has always
had a proportion of Quakers of
high standing J. 0.: The abori-
ginal word for “carpet-snake,” as
given in H. M. Cooper’s Australian
Aboriginal Words, is Wanambi; other
words for “snake” include Mettika
and Wabma H.C.K.: As it’s a
purely hypothetical problem, with
solution yielding no practical applica-
tion that we can see, would it be
worth the complicated calculations
needed to work it out? We’d
hazard, though, that what you
suggest would be correct
A.G.C.: (1) The annuities payable
to her Majesty are known as the
Civil List, which is granted by the
British Parliament upon the recom-
mendation of a Select Committee.
The annual provision made for her
Majesty the Queen under the Acts
of 1937 and 1952 is as follows: her
Majesty’s Privy Purse, £60,000;
salaries of household, £185,000;
expenses of household, £121,800;
Royal Bounty, alms and special ser-
vices, £13,200; supplementary provi-
sion, £95,000; total, £475,000.
Payments to other members of the
Royal family do not form part of
the Civil List, but are separately
charged on the (British) Consolidated
Fund. (2) and (3) No information.
M.H.R.: You should be able to
withdraw the whole or part of your
investment whenever you wish
J.D.M.: Your pension would be
affected. For a single person, the
old-age pension is not payable to
anyone with property of a net value
exceeding £1750, “property” includ-
ing money in hand, in a bank,
invested or lent, stocks, shares, etc.
P.W.R.: Thanks for information
on the verses intended as an aide-
memoire to navigators. The version
we quoted (B. 16/3/’55) was taken
from the Manual of Seamanship,
which should be correct. We have
particularly noted that it was a
Thomas Grey who wrote them; we
did not think it could have been
Thomas Gray, though the Manual of
Seamanship so prints the name
J.S.P.R.: Dec. 15, 1829, was a
Tuesday; Dec. 15, 1830, was a
Wednesday; and Dec. 15, 1831, was
a Thursday 1.5.: (1) They haven’t
been published yet. (2) It was
formed to fight Communism in the
trade-unions, and it is linked with
the Labor party; most of its mem-
bers are probably members of the
Labor party. (3) A lot of people
would like to know that.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.F.N.: You write with a heavy
hand J.S.: That plot has seen
better days and so have the charac-
ters R.8.C.: It just jogs on and
on and gets nowhere C.D.Si.:
You have yet to learn how to deliver
the goods A.E.McD.: Such a run
of luck passes the bounds of possi-
bility L.J.T.: Haven’t we mat
that old codger before, or was it his
twin brother? C.C.: That type of
lavender-and-lace yarn has long gone
out of fashion V.M.: The sort
of yarn that is always quite at home
in the w.p.b W.G.: We have no
intention of revealing the awful
doings that'took place at the Sunday-
school picnic S.A.S.: You say
that writing is “child’s-play” to you.
We are inclined to agree
C.R.D.: Poem about Johnnie Ray’s
trousers is a trifle threadbare
W.H.McL.: Not for us the old boy
who has nothing else to say but, “Ay,
there’s the rub” J.J.P.: That
tangled yarn got into a sorry mess
before the end of the third page
G.F.S.: Generally speaking, people
who write for their own amusement
reap a fine crop of rejection-slips.
L.G.: Your “dog-tired, fagged-
out, weatherbeaten deadbeat” sank
exhausted into the basket E.G.:
The trouble is that it is too easy-
going L.S.: We spent an unhappy
twenty-minutes trying to get the
grasp of that muddle N.W.:
Sorry, but you are just frittering
away time A.P.T.: So far as we
can see you failed to “keep the ball
rolling” H.S.: “Bullocky Bill’s
Beer Party” was consigned to the
scrap-heap W.M.L.C.: “It could
have happened in Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide or Perth.” We
doubt it, or in Tibooburra, for that
matter 8.5.8.: Our pages are not
an asylum for such fantastic charac-
ters... .L.P.8.: It would be better
with an infusion of humor J.E.F.:
That plot was on its last legs half
a century ago N.R.: Cluttered
with too many characters who have
no bearing on the development of the
story... .M.T.: No saucer of milk
for Tim R.C.: Just another wee
bird “twittering from the coolibah.”
M.S.: Judging from the latest
batch of river poems the Murray
seems to be the only river in Aus-
tralia. .. .J.P.L.: Not for us “the
light and leaping glory of the sun.”
G.E.T.: Not so bad, except that
it has been done so often
8.A.M.8.: Why not seek permis-
sion to recite it to the Victorian
Legislative Assembly?... .M.E.U.:
The answer to “The Question” is
in the negative R.G.H.: A mere
trifle B.B.: That old salt lies
pickled in the basket E. 8.: We
are shipping that ring-barked tree
back to Queensland... .8.A.: Almost
everybody who can put pen to paper
writes almost the same love-lyric
in lovely youth... .W.H.8.: Half of
the editor’s mail consists of conven-
tional poems of that type C.L.W.:
Only space for the opening stanza
of “The Wall Doodler”: —
A little boy starts scribbling
On his nursery wall;
He later takes promotion
And scribbles in the hall.
His parents takes objection
To each ugly scrawl;
Their preventive action
Sometimes makes him bawl.
E.D.: The news that you had
200 more like the samples sent filled
us with dismay... .P.J.M.: One ot a
hundred flood poems that was
washed down the Tank Stream. •• •
J.S.C.: Four lines, then, of your
“Ode to Sciatica”: —
Sciatica is an old fashioned name
For a pain that gives you gyp. .
It grips you like a ball and chain
From the ankle to the hip.
W.G.P.: When it is not
chopped-up prose it is tame album-
verse. .. .J. 5.8.: Too slight for us.. • •
M.deJ.R.: “The Half-way House
is only half-way to print... .M.L.rl. •
Still “grunting and screaming, the
bulldozers lumbered out of the office.
M.Q.K.: “Am I kidding myself
that I am a poet?” You are....
H.8.M.: Your lost and lovely one
was found wanting A.S.: That
style of writing went out of fashion
about 100 years ago A.V.F.: Do
not think much of your prospects
while you continue to write in that
bombastic style R.8.E.: We
pulled the curtain down on ihe
Third Act”... .E.R.K.: You must
have them badly:
Those blasted Argentina ants 1
They’re in my shoes and socks,
They’re in my bed and in my pants.
They’re in my curly locks.
F.G.S.: We wish that we could
have a word or two with your “well-
meaning friends” V.M.E.: “To
the Lads of the P.M.G. Department
from the Unhappy Wife of a Post-
master” was considered pretty good
by our postman, but, alas, not by
our verse-reader R. 8.: To be
quite frank, we are unable to make
head or tail of any of them....
A.E.T.: Well, we will allow this one
in:—
For days and nights, for weeks and ages,
I’ve worn out pens and pencils many,
But still I can’t reach “The Bully’s ’
pages
My poems earn me not one blessed penny.
G.R.: You cannot apologise to
Rudyard Kipling in our columns....
D.W.D.: Suggest you try “picking
up a few points on the nobler art’
by reading the best poets... .C.F.:
It is, as you say, “hardly the most
polished of verses” E.M.K.: That
“Desert Pea” will not bloom in our
garden N.R.: The third “creature
of passion and torment” to hit the
basket this week W.G.H.: Not
quite our style... .J.S.H.: We will
leave it, thank y0u.... W.L.W.: Not
allowing those Malayan animals to
scamper around The Bulletin’s
pages D.K.: That song fell on
deaf ears J.A.K.: It needs to be
much better expressed J.S.: In
the olden days Mick Hogan might
have stood a chance, but not these
times.... J.W.T.L.: The editorial-
desk is on the point of collapsing
under the weight of an avalanche
of such poems, all less than medi-
ocre W.E.C.: Not listening to
the story about the one-horned
Jersey c0w....M.A.: Your castle
needs rebuilding J.S.J.: For the
999th time we do not want any
parodies of Kipling’s “If.”


c.v
o'*
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
ifi
m
.
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate Dental Cream
instantly removes enzyme-producing bacteria and
prevents tooth, decay. Scientific tests showed that
the Colgate way of brushing teeth right after
eating stopped more decay for more people than
ever before reported in all dentifrice history.
ONE Brushing with Colgate Dental Cream removes
Enzymes that cause Bad Breath and Tooth Decay!
MO&
CREATING THE NATIONS WEALTH
%
x\
£
K
m
>5
«S'
&
%
%
&
\
[O]
The Bank's Service to Enterprising Men
It is largely the men of enterprise, vision and courage, on
the land, and in industry, who create the Nation’s wealth.
The policy of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited, when it was established in 1834, was to aid such men
with an efficient, helpful and friendly banking service. It has
been our policy ever since.
To men who wish to increase profitable production, to the
benefit of themselves and the Nation, we offer, to-day, the same
traditional service through Head Office and our wide network
of branches.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
A MUSEUM MUSING
IHAD been enjoying one of my periodic
browsings around the Museum, and
was contemplating the vast chassis of one
of the Dinosaur family when an atten-
dant, who had been strolling back and
forth, stopped beside me. Apparently
he had mistaken my 1 look for one of rapt
admiration.
“A wonderful specimen, that,” he
remarked.
Very obviously by his tone the fellow
took an enormous pride in the thing.
Some people will enthuse about anything.
“Oh, I suppose it’s all right, as far as
it goes,” I observed, “but”
“I can’t see how much farther you’d
want it to go,” he whipped in, springing
to the defence of Dino as a doting mother
might to a traduced offspring. “It is a
perfect specimen—there isn’t a thing
missing! ”
“Come, come,” I said. “What about
its rind? You Museum people leave far
too much to the imagination. You sling
a few bones together and expect us to
fill in the details of anatomy, the most
interesting part from the spectator’s point
of view, as best we may.
“Was this thing covered originally with
fur, wool or feathers? Did early man,
when he captured one, have to pluck,
skin or scale it when he wanted to dine
off it? These are questions vital to the
man who would like to know something
of the creatures which inhabited our
Earth several millions of years ago. Yet
all you can offer is its bare framework.
Presumably it had a brain —surely it
could have been shown.”
“That’s ridiculous! ” the attendant
replied hotly. “This reptile’s brain was
so small in proportion to its size it couldn’t
be seen from here even if a fossilised one
had been found. And how could we
have got hold of a fossilised brain.
They’re not made of bone ... at least”
—here he gave me a searching and signi-
ficant 100k —“not a dinosaurus’s.”
“Another thing,” I went on critically,
“this specimen”—l flung a hand towards
it—“gives us no notion whether the crea-
“ There I Was —observing our shelling at Sebastopol—when suddenly
there came a great wind ”
ture had any hearing-mechanism, or
where his lugs were situated if he had
any.”
“Well,” the attendant snapped, “where
else would you expect him to have ears
but on his head?”
“Nature has played many odd tricks
on its creatures throughout the ages,” I
argued. “All of them, including man,
have ears on their heads nowadays. It
is all a matter of evolution. But it is pos-
sible that these reptiles’ ears might have
been attached to the lower parts of their
bellies so as to make it easier for them
to put an ear to the ground to listen for
the approach of enemies while they (the
dinos) were dining off the top of a forty-
foot tree.”
“Ar, nuts!” he shouted. “You’ve just
come here to pull it to pieces—and I tell
you there isn’t a more perfect specimen
anywhere.”
“That’s the whole trouble,” I went on
inexorably. “It’s too perfect. Take its
foot-long teeth. Perfect in every way.
No dental caries to be seen anywhere.
Yet it must be obvious to even a quarter-
wit” —and here I gave him a long, mean-
ingful 100k —“that no herbivorous crea-
ture, even though its diet consisted chiefly
of what we now know to have been food
charged with chlorophyll, could possibly
go through what must be assumed to
have been a fairly long life without get-
ting holes in its teeth. No dinosaurus,
remember, could have had any feeling for
the necessity of personal hygiene, and,
anyway, it entirely lacked the means,
even if it had had the urge, of cleaning
its teeth thoroughly. It is my personal
opinion that the teeth depicted in this
thing are phonies! ”
“You’re the sort of cow,” gritted the
attendant, “who rushes overseas and raves
about specimens in foreign museums, and
comes back and doesn’t have a good
word for those better ones in your own! ”
“And now take a screw at all the
joints,” I continued coldly. “They give
an entirely wrong conception to the on-
looker who might know no better, and
who would spring to the conclusion that
the reptile was held together in its
natural state in the long ago by heavy-
gauge steel wire, a commodity which
obviously was quite unknown in the
Mesozoic Age.
“Actually,” I went on, “its joints must
have worked on exactly the same prin-
ciple as that of every other vertebrate,
including us. Their perfect state as shown
is again a misleading feature which is to
be deplored.
“The dinosaurus had its habitat in
swampy areas. It follows then, having
its feet in water continually, that it must
have been a martyr to rheumatism or
arthritis and the one place in which such
a condition must show up would be the
joints. These are as healthy-looking as
my own, and I’ve never had a twinge of
screws in my life. It doesn’t make sense.
“I am now going to inspect the
molluscs, which I trust will be less mis-
leading than this bag of bones.”
As I moved off I heard a gasp of pure
anger and a muttered “The blank’s
batty!”
BO.


m
m
M
m
v,>
3 ■
mm
The Nuffield
Universal Tractor
shown excavating
with a front-mounted
loader, hydraulically
operated from the
internal hydraulics.
NUFFIELD
The Nuffield Universal is a thoroughly
efficient, reliable and easy-to-handle tractor.
It is a Task Force in itself and, combined
DO YOU KNOW THESE
*
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear
and 6.00 x 16 front tyres, sells at only
£l,ol s'lB'-
F.0.R., F. 0.8. Capital Cities.
(Plus Sales Tax only where applicable.)
At this price your Nuffield tractor is ready to go
with the comprehensive range of "approved-
after-test” matched implements, speeds up
your work . . . makes it easier.
MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
to work, and includes the following equipment:
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage and power take-off,
belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter,
electric horn, headlight, agricultural rear light,
tail light, side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters.
BMC
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
urn
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
NT29.32
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS”
THE BEEFMASTER
[The writer of this article is the
younger R. G. Keats of Kingle
(Richmond, N.Q.). Back from a
visit to stock-raising parts of Argen-
tina and the U.S.A., he spent some
time on the Lasater ranch.]
'T'HE Beefmaster was officially
recognised as a breed by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture
in January, 1954. The breeder’s
name is Tom Lasater.
In 1908 Tom’s father, Ed. C.
Lasater, introduced the first
Brahman bulls to south-west
Texas and began mating them
with registered Hereford cows.
The idea was to breed cattle
capable of standing up to the
rigorous climate and the diseases
and insect-pests of the hot Gulf
Coast country.
There was an improvement;
but the Lasaters continued to
experiment. In 1933, shortly
after his father’s death, Tom
Lasater mated some registered
Shorthorn bulls with pure Brah-
man females, and crossed the
progeny with the Brahman-
Hereford stock. The resulting
calves were so far superior to
either of the original two-way
crosses that it was decided to
go ahead with the three-way
blend, which became known as
the Beefmaster breed.
From then on the Beefmaster
was developed as a closed herd.
The Beefmaster breeding-plan
is rather unorthodox, judged by
conventional standards.
The cattle are range-bred in
relatively large herds ; there is
no hand-mating, no record of
which bull serves which cow.
Nature’s own selective-
process, survival of the fittest,
has been utilised to the full.
Selection is based only upon six
characteristics, which Lasater
considers essential to produce
an efficient beef-animal. They
are: (1) Disposition, (2) fertil-
ity, (3) weight, (4) conforma-
tion, (5) thriftiness, and (6)
milk-production.
The result has been a herd of
big, docile, deep-fleshed, good-
doing cattle, basically red in
color. Color or color-markings
aren’t essential to Tom Lasater ;
he isn’t willing to sacrifice beef-
making ability for color.
Enlarging on the six charac-
teristics on which selection is
based, Lasater says an intelli-
gent, responsive disposition is of
prime importance, particularly
in large-range herds, in order to
facilitate working, managing and
marketing the stock.
The problem of fertility is
attacked from both sides. The
heifers are bred as yearlings to
calve as two-year-olds and are
required to drop, raise and wean
an early calf each year. The
bulls, beginning as yearlings,
are bred in multiple-sire herds;
hence, through the natural
selective process, the large
majority of the calf-drop is
sired by the more fertile
individuals.
Selection is ruthless: the first
80 per cent, of cows with bull
calves on the ground each year
are the only ones retained in
the herd.
Weight is a major basis for
evaluation. All calves are
weighed at weaning-time. In the
case of herd-sires, their weight
is recorded periodically through-
out their lives and they remain
in the herd only so long as their
weight-record is in the top
bracket.
Conformation —the aim is an
animal which will produce the
maximum pounds of the best
cuts of beef.
. Thriftiness is stated by
Lasater as “the animal’s ability
to maintain a healthy, vigorous
body under range-conditions and
without assistance by man. It
includes high resistance and
combative ability towards
diseases, heat and insect-pests.”
Calves with high weaning-
weights naturally have good
milk - producing mothers.
Lasater reckons a beef-cattle
breeder is just as much in the
dairying-business as the dairy-
man, although he may not
always know it.
To illustrate how this rigid
selection has paid-off: At the
Falfurrias ranch, from Dec. 1,
1951, to Sept. 1, 1952, only
8.1 lin. of rain was recorded.
During this same period 90 per
cent, of all cows, including two-
year-old heifers, dropped and
raised calves which weighed an
average of 5931 b. when weaned
at slightly less than eight-
months. The cows were fed a
protein-supplement for 75 days
during the winter.
Heaviest range-raised calf so
far bred weighed 9061 b. at nine-
months. His dam, a three-year-
old, weighed 13201 b. on the same
day.
Lasater often presents visiting
breeders with the following
table, which clearly illustrates
what calves are costing to pro-
duce. (Most breeders in the
southern U.S. sell their calves
shortly after weaning, either for
slaughter or for feeders, which
go straight to feed-lots.)
Assuming that the total
annual cost of carrying each
cow is $BO, then:
Cost Average Cost of
Calf per weaning- production
drop. calf. weight. per lb.
90% $B9 5501 b. 16c.
4501 b. 20c.
3501 b. 25c.
80% $lOO 5501 b. 18c.
4501 b. 22c.
3501 b. 29c.
70% $ll4 5501 b. 21c.
4501 b. 25c.
3501 b. 33c.
Lasater now maintains two
herds, one at Falfurrias, south-
west Texas, and the other at
Matheson, in southern Colorado.
Although most of the cattle
are now sold for breeding
purposes, the ranches are still
maintained as commercial-beef
concerns, and all cattle are run
under range-conditions.
All culls are sold on condition
that they must be slaughtered.
Beefmaster is a copyrighted
name and is protected through
the use of a name-franchise
contract which all purchasers
are invited to sign. This
contract provides for the use
of a prefix-name to be selected
by each individual breeder.
This prefix-name may bemused
solely by him. Hence, there
are “Smith Beefmasters,”
“Circle W Beefmasters,” etc.
In this way the fruits of each
breeder’s efforts are individually
identified with his product.
The Beefmaster breeding- and
selling-plan represents a practi-
cal, down-to-earth approach to
the problem of producing a
more efficient beef-animal,
Beefmasters have been bred
to withstand conditions very
similar to those under which a
great many of Australia’s beef-
cattle are raised. They could
play a part in future develop-
ment of the industry here,
particularly in the north.
Conservation
The moral aspect of soil-
conservation has been raised
fairly frequently by “Man On
the Land” contributors. E. O.
Schlunke, for instance, wrote
that it was the fundamental
question, and the one about
which he felt least optimism.
It seems that our Australian
society called “Men of the
Land,” established last year with
the general aim of encouraging
conservation and proper land-
use, must also acknowledge the
difficulties; but we are
optimistic.
The moral issue seems to be
this: Whether a person having
title to land, either freehold or
leasehold, has also the right to
exploit it and exhaust its
fertility.
The legal right does seem to
exist. Only in certain, restricted
cases can any outside authority
intervene, and in these cases —
rabbits, noxious weeds and the
like—the landowner’s failure to
control a pest obviously inter-
feres with the rights of his
neighbors. But, generally speak-
ing, the care and well-being of
the land remain a moral issue.
This has been so for a long
time. There is something in Job
about it: “The waters wear the
stones ; thou washest away the
things that grow out of the dust
of the earth ; and thou destroyest
the hope of man.” In more
modern times Theodore Roose-
velt put it this way: “To skin
and exhaust the land will result
in undermining the days of our
children.”
One could go on quoting for
ever, from ancients and
moderns ; a process limited only
by the industry of the student.
The Bulletin commented
recently that so much has been
written about the need for con-
servation that it seems little
more can be said ; and yet we
still have unchecked gullying
and our land continues to slide
gradually into the sea.
It takes a rich land to support
a civilisation. Other civilisations
have withered from neglect of
the soil. If we cannot face up
to this moral duty to the soil,
to ourselves, we cannot expect
much sympathy from other
nations. And in a rather
frightening modern world there
are urgent reasons why Aus-
tralians should not only husband
their national resources, but
develop them as rapidly as
possible.
But, taken all round, there are
grounds for optimism. There
is no point in repeating the
various factors mentioned by
other contributors —publicity,
education, etc. —but their con-
tributions are symptomatic of
an increasing interest in conser-
vation, an interest which our
society considers it is its duty
to spread and encourage and
lead into practical channels.
D. W. Petherbridge (Hon.
Secretary, “Men of the Land.”)
Family Agreements
“Stillwater”: Too many
farm-families have disagreed
and broken-up because of un-
satisfactory agreements —or no
agreements at all.
The “Livestock Bulletin”
(U.S.A.) gives the following
hints to families:
1. Encourage fami lies to
discuss farm problems freely.
2. Keep all transactions,
including transfer of ownership,
on a strictly business basis.
3. A son who is operating
the farm should be allowed to
gain ownership as quickly as
possible in keeping with the
responsibility he carries, and as
quickly as he can pay for it.
4. It is better to transfer
ownership in livestock and
equipment before transferring
ownership.
5. Provide immediately for


•Get to the Heart of Truck-Buying
“The Boss studied
the International
situation and
gave me a BONUS.
“The Boss got right into it the other day
called in the Secretary, the ‘costing boys’, the
senior driver (that’s me) and said he wanted
all the facts and figures on operating costs of
the 20-months-old Internationals in our fleet.
Sure, all he proved was what I’d told him
months before Internationals are the world’s
best truck investment. Maintenance costs were
way down the Inters were on the job day in
and day out; and night-times, too, pretty often.
It didn’t take the Boss long to see he was
getting reliable low-cost performance from the
Internationals, and I’m sure he realises now he
could’ve lost a packet if he’d sunk his cash
into trucks without the brawny, rugged
stamina of Internationals.
Of course, he also knew that he’d coupled the
famous International name with his own—and
he’d got plenty more prestige in the trade.
Yd recommended Internationals in the first
place so that’s why 1 got the bonus!”
C 3
5=3
K
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
■
1
=£s
The World’s Best
Truck Investment
International Harvester
Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities
Works: Dandenong and Geelong
ii- FMTS74-36 .
a
If
11
■ ■ :
*s■■l vi 18E
•>
■f 1
THERE’S AN INTERNATIONAL FOR EVERY JOB!
AR-110 Utility, 12-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-110 Chassis
and Cab, 18-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b. AR-110 Chassis and Cab,
19-cwt. cap., 127-in. w.b. AR-112 Utility, 15-cwt. cap.,
115-in. w.b. AR-112 Chassis and Cab, 21-cwt. cap., 115-in.
w.b. AR-112 Chassis and Cab, 23-cwt. cap., 127-in. w.b.
AR-130 Chassis and Cab, 35-cwt. cap., 134-in. w.b. AR-131
Chassis and Cab, 35-cwt. cap., 134-in. w.b. AR-160 Chassis
and Cab, 3-4 ton cap., 154-in. w.b. AR-160 Chassis and Cab,
3-4 ton cap., 172-in. wJ>. AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5 ton
cap., 154-in. w.b. AR-161 Chassis and Cab, 4-5 ton cap.,
172-in. w.b. AR-162 Chassis and Cab, 5-6 ton cap., 154-tn.
w.b. AR-162 Chassis and Cab, 5-6 ton cap., 172-in. wJb.
There’s also a line erf heavy-duty import-
ed International models. Call, phone or
write your International Branch or dealer
about the right truck for your job.
Note: Chassis and cab capacities include
body weights.
the unexpected death of either
the father or son.
6. Keep the transfer-plan
flexible.
7. Transfer farm-property to
the son before the parents die;
such transfer must be in keeping
with the security-needs of the
parents and the son’s ability to
pay.
8. Keep in mind the tax-
problems of transfer.
9. Employ a solicitor to
handle all legal problems
involved in the transfer of farm-
property.
Grazing Rye
“Secale”: In the Bible, and
also still in the U.K. and some
European countries, wheat is
known as corn. We don’t use
the term for it, so it’s a bit sur-
prising that cereal-rye is called
rye-corn.
Rye is the principal grain-
crop in northernmost Europe
and Asia; it’s more resistant to
cold than is wheat.
To cater for some of our New
Australians, brownish-black rye-
bread is now being made here.
But despite this appetite for rye-
bread, the market for rye-grain
is relatively small in Australia.
Rye is, however, definitely
superior to wheat, oats or barley
for winter grazing, especially in
our colder districts, or on soils
of relatively low fertility. It’s
a matter of management.
Most Australians who have
grown rye characterise it as
rather coarse and unpalatable
to stock. It is, if it is allowed
to stem-up with the approach
or arrival of spring. But it’s
a different plant when caught
young.
A few Australians have
learned by experience how to
manage rye to get good grazing
from it, but a close study made
recently by the Massey Agricul-
tural College (N.Z.) has pro-
vided the first good explanation
of its growing-habit, on which
its proper utilisation for grazing
should be based.
This study has shown that rye
makes a very rapid growth to a
height of about sin., and then
slows off. At such a young
stage of growth, rye has an
extremely high palatability, but
as soon as the later (relatively
slow) growth begins, the plant
starts to get less palatable,
increasing in fibre-content and
decreasing in protein-content.
Rye should, therefore, not be
allowed to begin that slow stage
of growth before it is grazed,
and such grazing should be
made with a heavy concentration
of stock.
Quick recovery of growth is
thus ensured, and many similar
grazings of highly palatable and
nutritious feed are thus obtained
from rye in autumn and winter.
It is certain that it is chiefly
ill-informed management that
has given rye a bad name as a
grazing-crop in Australia.
There’s been the same mis-
management of rye as an
orchard cover-crop. Rye makes
an apparently tall, bountiful
crop for green-manure if it is
allowed to stem-up nearing, or
in, spring. But, by then, it has
practically exhausted the soil-
moisture, to the detriment of
the trees.
Ideally, if it can be done, the
best way to treat an orchard
cover-crop of rye is to graze it
down with stock as soon as (and
every time after recovery) it
makes about sin. of growth.
With such highly-nitrogenous
grazing, the soil is much
enriched by the droppings and
urine of the stock.
Failing the use of stock in
the orchard, the next-best
course is to mow the rye at
every sin. of growth, leaving
the mowings on the ground.
The soil is thus not exhausted
of soil-moisture, nor severely
deprived of nitrogen, as occurs
when a big growth of rye in an
advanced stage of growth is
ploughed-in.
Nitrogen-fertiliser helps rye
make continued winter-growth
for its utilisation either as
grazing or as orchard winter-
cover.
Changing Pattern
“S.”: C.5.1.R.0. and Depart-
ment of Agriculture experts in
all States are agreed that the
modern Australian farmer has
long ago thrown overboard the
“It's a uranium outcrop! We re rich! We're radioactive!”
inhibitions that made his fore-
bears take a stubborn stand
against anything in agriculture
savoring of newfangled ideas.
Science now goes hand-in-
hand with the progressive
farmer, as recent remarkable
successes with trace-elements and
the sowing of subterranean-
clover have proved. On lands
which, a few years ago, were
looked on as so poor that they
were next-door to desert,
graziers now carry two, and
sometimes three, sheep to the
acre, and field-days and experi-
ments have led fo a vastly
improved knowledge of the finer
points of farming.
On the N.S.W. North Coast
another example is the increased
practice of contour-furrowing
on the steep hill-country. The
Soil Conservation Service
demonstrated what could be
done, and farmers have obtained
excellent results by soil-
renovation and sowing improved-
pastures between the furrows.
Cost has worked out at about
£5 an acre, excluding labor. A
typical example—l 2 acres of
contoured hill-country was done
for £4 16s. Bd. an acre: furrow-
ing cost, £1; renovation, 13s. 5d.;
seed, £1 7s. 9d.; fertiliser,
£1 15s. 6d.
Feeding Bees
“Waxy”: If it’s necessary to
feed bees, boil honey to eliminate
the possibility of disease. If it’s
candied, put it in a tin without
a lid in a copper of water and
heat enough to melt it.
Mix one part of honey to two
parts of water by volume and
boil for 30 minutes. If this
amount of water isn’t added the
honey will burn.
Never feed bees in the day-
time : causes a general upset and
encourages robbery. Remove the
empty combs from the colonies
during the day and take them to
a bee-proof room for filling.
Hold the combs over the con-
tainer of liquid-food at an angle
of 45 degrees, and fill with a
tin, or ladle, from a height of
2ft. to drive the syrup to the
bottom'of the cells. A well-
filled comb will hold about 61b.
of diluted honey. Allow to
drain over a drip-tray and feed
to the bees at dusk, after they
have finished flying.
Empty jam-tins or similar
containers can be used to help
in feeding the hives. Fill in the
evening, and the bees will empty
them during the night. Be sure
to put wood-chip floaters in the
tins for the bees to alight on,
otherwise there’ll be drowned
bees in the morning.
Wool, Beef and Crops
“In the ACT”: The Common-
wealth Statistician reports that
total number of holdings in
1953-54 is some 6000-odd less
than in 1938-39, but the total
area of 947,083,000 acres is more
than 50 million acres greater.
N.S.W., with 73,371 holdings,
just beats Victoria.
Total area of all crops in
1953-54 was 21,138,000 acres, an
increase of 767,000 acres, or 3.8
per cent., compared with 1952-53,
but 2,360,000 acres, or 10.1 per
cent., less than in 1938-39. In
N.S.W. the rise for the year was
588,000 acres, or 12.2 per cent.
Total area lying fallow is not
available, but the area under
sown grasses and clovers, includ-
ing paspalum, in 1953-54, was
more than 23 million acres:
Victoria, 7,461,000; N.S.W.,
6,016,000; W.A., 4,527,000.
Production of most crops was
higher than in 1952-53, and
barley, sugar and wheat were at
record or near-record levels.
The real measure is the quantity
of production, and the indexes
of quantity show satisfactorily
progressive improvement. Tak-
ing 100 as the average quantity
for the period from 1936-37 to
1938-39, the index-figures since
1948-49 haye been:
Other All
Season. Wheat. Crops. Crops.
1948- .. 116 102 108
1949- .. 133 107 117
1950- .. 112 105 108
1951- .. 97 107 103
1952- .. 119 123 121
1953- .. 120 134 128
(1953-54 figures subject to
revision all round.)
Total area of 1,614,000 acres
irrigated in 1953-54 was the
highest yet recorded: it was
9.5 per cent, greater than the
previous season’s, and 98 per
cent, greater than the 1938-39
area.
The Commonwealth Bureau of
Agricultural Economics reports
that a newly found price-stability
was the outstanding feature of
the 1953-54 wool-sales, and
(Continued on next page )


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
m
W&& 3
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by NJ3.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD..
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
" DISTRIBUTORS ~
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins'St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
Missing Friends
TO VERA COLLERY formerly of Alex-
andra in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband THOMAS COLLERY has
commenced divorce proceedings against
you on the ground of desertion during
three years and upwards Unless you
enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at
Melbourne on or before the 15th day of
May 1955 and file an answer in the said
office on or before the 25th day of
May 1955 the suit may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs.—FOWLER & HICK, 31 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1878 of 1954.
BETWEEN CORAL VERONICA POTTS
Petitioner AND JOHN NORMAN POTTS
Respondent.
TO JOHN NORMAN POTTS late of Lot
4 Garden Street Narrabeen North in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that CORAL VERONICA POTTS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1878
of 1954 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th day of June
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. A. S.
BOULTON LANE REX & CO.. Solicitors,
of 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachA
me n t illus-
trated is the
World-famous
“ FARMERS >'
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd..
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’laiHl : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian 3 gents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
appeared to have helped to
strengthen wool’s competitive
position. World consumption
had shown some decline, mainly
as a result of the textile recession
in the U.S.; opening sales in
the 1954-55 season had been
below last year’s figures:
“But world consumption, sup-
ported by buoyant economic
conditions in the leading con-
suming countries, is still rela-
tively high and is likely to react
favorably to somewhat lower
wool-prices. Moreover, trade-
stocks are low and appear to be
in need of some replenishment.
There seems little reason to fear,
therefore, that the average price
for the present season will finish-
up much below the remunerative
level of the past two seasons.”
On synthetics it is suggested
that non-cellulosics are likely to
maintain a steep rate of increase,
and that the newer synthetics, in
the longer run, will replace wool
in some end-uses. But this
development is likely to be as
much a reflection of the slow
increase in world wool-supplies
as of any weakening of wool’s
competitive position.
Consumption and stocks are
analysed. One conclusion is that
the steady increase in world-
population and -incomes,
together with the relatively
inelastic supply of wool, makes
it appear unlikely that any
serious surplus-problems will
arise in the foreseeable future.
Review of the beef situation
by the bureau shows that the
beef-cattle population was prob-
ably the highest on record,
output of beef and veal was well
above the previous record, and
exports of carcass beef and veal
also reached new records. A
peak of 10,751,000-head of
cattle was reached, and output
in 1953-54 was 706,300 tons of
beef and veal.
The outlook for the next year
is most favorable. It is believed
that prices will remain attractive
in the U.K. market, probably
above the guaranteed minimum:
“Apart from the buffer pro-
vided by the U.K. taking the
exportable surplus, home
demand, with increasing popula-
tion, will remain firm for about
two-thirds of production. In
the longer term the guarantee of
a satisfactory market for Aus-
tralia’s exportable surplus is an
important safeguard, and a con-
tinuation of the favorable
outlook appears likely.”
Recent developments in world
exports have been the decline in
shipments from the Argentine
and Uruguay, and the rapid
emergence of Denmark and Eire
as important exporters.
There was a fall last year in
Australian consumption of
canned-beef, but the bureau
thinks the local demand will now
remain firm, and that there is a
chance of building up a useful
market in dollar-countries,
particularly Canada.
Pines
“Breck”: The pine most suit-
able for coast and tableland
districts in N.S.W. is the
insignis (JPinus radiatd ). The
Norfolk Island pine ( Araucaria
excelsa ) thrives on coastal sites
adjacent to beach-sand. The
Aleppo pine ( Pinus halapensis )
and the Canary Island pine
(Pinus ccmariensis) are best for
the slopes and west.
The insignis is excellent for
shade or windbreaks. It grows
quickly in rainfalls as low as
20in., and is usually disease-
free. In hot climates it fre-
quently dies back at 15 to 20
years. A porous, well-drained
loam or sandy soil is best for
it; it can’t thrive in stiff soils.
For windbreaks, plant with a
low-growing tree to cut off the
ground-draught: on the coast,
pittosporum (Pittosporum undu-
latum) is a good partner ; on the
tablelands, the quick-growing
Black Sally (E. stellulata), or the
lambertiana cypress (Cupressus
lambertiana). Allow Bft. be-
tween pines and pittosporum
and 10ft. between eucalypts and
cypress, and also between rows.
Many coastal towns of N.S.W.
are noted for picturesque
plantations of Norfolk Island
pine. This is very symmetrical,
and makes the most rapid
growth when raised from seed
collected in the district. It grows
well even when digging its main
roots into beach-sand. The
Christmas-tree trade shows an
is?? 3 ?!?® demand , for it—a
sidelight on its popularity.
1 • Aleppo pine is fast
growing m popularity in low-
Ground a RmLn° f WC n ‘
develrmod ™
& + e Said
three a t J° + &nd
anc j dronffht r P c,v! ba rdy type,
good Iheher on drv ’.tnL
Tdow “ gToweT ‘ban" *e
s UWCI llldn inc
insignis, but it lives longer.
Timber is of poor quality. This
pine rpakes better development
when the seed is planted on the
permanent site. It has few soil
preferences.
Canary Island pine makes a
good windbreak when planted
alternately with eucalypts. It
is not a first-grade shade-tree,
but produces valuable timber.
It is not fussy as to soil. Because
of its lengthy tap-root, it doesn’t
transplant well, open-rooted.
Seeds should therefore be
grown on the permanent site.
Beetroot
“C.A.A.”: Always useful in
the garden. Autumn is a good
time to sow for a late-winter
or early-spring crop in soil
previously prepared with a
complete fertiliser plus potash
(4:1), or blood-and-bone plus
potash (3:1), at loz. per yard
of drill-row.
Varieties recommended for
autumn sowing by Vic. Depart-
ment of Agriculture are Detroit
Dark Red, Chieftain, or Derwent
Globe; first-named is favored
because of the deep-red color of
the root. Sow seed fairly thinly
at a depth of lin. to lin. in rows
lft. to Ift. 6in. apart.
Thin at an early stage (that
is, after the first leaves have
developed), with the final thin-
ning leaving 3in. to 4in. between
plants. This operation should
be carefully done after the bed
has been well watered.
This crop is practically free
of disease (another advantage),
but overwatering can cause
leaf-moulds and underwatering
the appearance of white rings
on the flesh. A thorough
watering to a depth of 6in. to
Bin. once weekly is advised.
To ensure a tender, succulent
plant the roots should be grown
as quickly as possible, and for
this purpose nitrate-of-soda, at
loz. per yard of drill-row,
every three weeks, will provide
the necessary stimulant.
Tobacco-harvesting
“Billjim”: Tobacco expert C.
Vaughan, of Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, on tobacco-
harvesting :
Although there is an under-
standable anxiety to press on
with the harvesting, irrigation
of the crop must be done at the
same time, or leaf-quality will
suffer. Soil should be kept moist
until the last good leaf is
gathered.
Don’t pick leaf until it has
ripened on the plant. Leaves
gathered at any one picking
should be even in maturity,
otherwise some will cure much
faster than others. After pick-
ing, the leaf should be placed
in the shade.
Maximum load advised for
any one hang - stick ; not more
than 84 large leaves. Sticks
should be loosely packed into
the kiln to facilitate circulation
of air to carry away moisture
removed in the curing. If
packed to ° tightly curing will
be retarded. About 80gals. of
water is carried away from every
10001 b. of gretn leaf in the
, .
Uurillg . f drying-out part of
tbe cun ng its advisable to make
f- persona \ ns P ect ion of condi-
Hons around the top ventilator.
If * e air appears to be floating
ana DOttom ventilators should
be manipulated to generate a
definite upward air-current.
Minerals for
Fruit-trees
“C.A.A.”: Research by Vic-
torian horticultural expert P.
Baxter discloses that to make
growth and produce fruit, trees
need about a dozen minerals
from the soil as raw materials.
Experiments were conducted at
Croydon in the heart of the
State’s apple-and-pear district.
Many soils, says Baxter, cannot
give these essential minerals,
consequently regular use of fer-
tilisers is needed. An acre of
apple-trees, for instance, removes
from the soil each year 1001 b.
nitrogen, 151 b. phosphorus,
1251 b. potassium, 451 b. calcium
and 201 b. magnesium, and about
a third (potassium one-half) of
these minerals is permanently
lost to the soil.
Most important of the minerals
are nitrogen, phosphorus and
potash. Extra nitrogen may be
required for trees at bud-burst
and in late summer to ensure
good bud-development, but it
must be used carefully or it may
decrease the color and storage-
life of the apples.
A yearly application of lib. to
21b. of potash-salts per tree is
recommended. In addition,
straw-mulching or the regular
mowings from a grass-sward help
to supply this mineral.
As to minor elements, Baxter
is cautious, and points out that
zinc is the element most likely
to be deficient. Small, pale,
bunched-up leaves are a sure sign
of this.
If the soil has been heavily
limed, boron-deficiency may
occur, but an overdose may be
equally harmful.
As a general rule Baxter
recommends at least 61b. of
1:1:1 “complete” fertiliser per
tree each year, plus 41b. potash
per tree each year if the trees
have not previously been regu-
larly fertilised.
Soldier-settlers
“Selector”: When soldier-
settlers all pull together they can
accomplish much, as has been
proved on the old-established
property of Woodhouse, at
Penshurst (western Victoria).
Cut up into blocks, 12,000
acres now support 25 soldier-
settlers and their families. As a
private estate Woodhouse carried
about a sheep and a quarter to
the acre and some cattle. With
blocks averaging just under 500
acres each, the soldier-settlers
have raised the carrying-capacity
to three sheep to the acre; one
man is carrying six.
Most of this has been brought
about by liberal topdressing with
super, for better grasses and an
increase in fodder-conservation
to the point where 80 per cent,
of the settlers are putting away
hay or silage, or both.
Most of the soldier-settlements
on Woodhouse are one-man
farms, and the improvements
have all been effected by sheer
hard work. The settler does the
work two men would do on
most big properties ; they help
each other through shearing and
hay-making by pooling labor and
equipment.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: Acetonaemia
among dairy-cows is caused by
lack of food, particularly during
the first six weeks after calving.
Treatment can be quite success-
ful, glucose being the missing
element. Dissolve 6oz. in a pint
of boiled-water and inject under
the skin in the same way as for
milk-fever. Two or three injec-
tions at daily intervals may be
needed. In prescribing this treat-
ment Vic. Department of Agri-
culture experts point out that
glycerine may be used as a
drench —lib. per day for two or
three days—but isn’t so effective
as glucose.
“Billjim”: Autumn treatment
of the cockchafer-beetle is
usually effective. Use 2oz. to
4oz. lindane per acre in super-
phosphate or by direct applica-
tion. D.D.T. dressings at lib.
per acre are also beneficial.
“Sundowner”: Tomatoes,
particularly the tall staked
varieties, may be kept in bearing
during the autumn by continuing
three-weekly applications of
liquid-manure, or sulphate-of-
ammonia at half a handful for
each stake. Late - maturing
tomatoes may be ripened by
placing them on an inside
windowsill on the north side of
the house or putting them in
a box covered with a pane of
glass and placing the box so
that the sunlight falls on the
fruit.
“Tutye”: If a ewe goes blind
just before lambing, give it a
good dose of Epsom-salts to
clear its system. Follow by in-
jecting a calcium solution.
“Splash”: Although swim-
ming-water isn’t essential for
ducks see that they have enough
water to wash their plumes. In
hot and windy weather their
feathers become stiff and dirty.
A periodical bath will remedy
this and provide a refreshing
tonic.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/4/’55)
The Single cycle continues to exert considerable
influence on the season, and reasonably heavy rains should
be experienced on the Coast of N.S.W. this month, with
light to moderate falls on the Tablelands and Riverina.
Rainfall should be poor in Victoria during April,
although it is interesting to note that the Saturnian cycle
of 1896 indicates very heavy rains in the Western districts
of Victoria, and these will bear watching.
General rains should fall throughout N.S.W., Victoria
and South Australia during May, and there is a likelihood
of further flooding on the coast of N.S.W.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FEĹOW'S MIND
Floods
The proposal to shift the city of
Maitland (N.S.W.) to a spot some
distance from the river and less suscept-
ible to flooding is not much use. It
would cost millions, none of which
would lower the bed of the river or add
to the security of other Hunter River
towns.
Fifty years ago a regular line of
pretty hefty coastal-steamers plied
between Sydney and Morpeth; they
were a prime factor in the development
of the Hunter Valley. Today, under
normal conditions, nothing bigger than
a surfboat could make the passage up
the river; within measurable time all
that will be wanted to cross it will be
a pair of jam-tin stilts.
Newcastle Harbor, once a fairly safe
deep-sea port, is now a patchwork of
silt-banks that threaten to reduce it to
a mud-flat.
Obviously, the catchment is too great
for the present outlet, which means that
every tributary of the Hunter should be
dammed wherever and as often as
possible. That also means water-
conservation. At the same time, both
the Forestry Commission and farmers
should be made to plant trees and sow
pastures, especially lucerne and deep-
rooted grasses upon slopes, which should
not be ploughed. That would check
erosion; and if the dams were properly
built the intake of silt into the main
channels of the tributaries and of the
Hunter itself would be greatly reduced.
The other day, on the Clyde in Scot-
land, there was installed a Dutch
“trombone”-type dredge capable of
sucking-up 100,000 tons of silt a month
and spilling it over the countryside. This
is said to be the last word in dredging ;
two or three such dredges could be
expected to lower in a few years the
beds of the Hunter and. of Newcastle
Harbor, to lift depressions near by to a
safer level, and to transform swamps into
rich alluvial flats. If the Scots think
these dredges worth while we should at
least consider them.
The Hunter is not going to be tamed
by a multiplication of committees and
boards trying to get a big job done by
harangues around big tables. —F. A.
(N.S.W.).
Ruthlessness?
Una Auld’s phrase—“too much
ruthlessness by many employers towards
the man on the job”—was an unhappy
one (B. 16/3/’55).
The boss of our printing-shop is a
practical man, never guilty of anything
remotely “ruthless.” He retains his
team of printers all through slack times,
making work for them if necessary.
They are paid well over award-rates
(including margins for skill), yet not one
of them now works his full 40 hours a
week. They come late and leave early,
not worrying about the few shillings for
time lost. And they consistently jib
when called on for overtime.
The firm prints for certain magazines
and periodicals. Some of these special
jobs require overtime to keep to publica-
tion date. More often than not, the
men who are called on for this extra
work (for which they get iiberal pay-
ment) drop out “sick.”
That means that the boss himself must
dp the work, and I’ve known him to work
the full 24 hours a day to do it. And
he’s no exception. The days of “ruth-
lessness” towards employees have gone,
and the pendulum has swung too far in
the opposite direction. — Pica (Vic.).
Settling Sharks
There is a simple method used by
professional fishermen when sharks start
to take snapper off their lines. In the
Army we used it off beaches where
troops were swimming, in W.A. and in
North Queensland.
Gear required: one launch or whale-
boat, one sugarbag of coagulated blood,
several bullock-hearts and a tin of
caustic-soda.
As soon as a shark is sighted, the boat
“ Butterfingers! Now Well have to go back and get another tyre."
puts-out, towing the bag of blood. Any
shark which tastes that streak of blood
in the water comes tearing after it.
A slit is made in one of the bullock-
hearts, the knife twisted in the cut to
hold it open and two tablespoons of
caustic-soda placed inside.
The bag-of-blood lure is hauled in
before the shark can grab it and is
replaced by the bullock-heart. A few
minutes after it has swallowed that
surprise-packet, you have a very dead
shark.— Bogaduck (S.A.).
Adequate
Refusing an airline company a licence
to fly passengers from Melbourne to
Echuca (Vic.), Vic. Minister for Railways
Coleman boomed that “transport-facilities
were already adequate to Echuca” and
“uneconomic and unnecessary competi-
tion with public transport means Trea-
sury deficits or higher railway-freights
and -fares, which are undesirable at a
time when every effort is being made to
reduce costs so that primary and secon-
dary industries can compete on overseas
markets.” Mrs. Jones or Smith, of Kan-
yapella or Moama, sitting with her
family for five weary hours in the Echuca
train and reflecting that the journey could
be done under the hour by air, will doubt-
less study Coleman’s gospel and be
comforted.-C. S. (N.S.W.).
Road-safety
“Willpar’s” suggestion (B. 23/2/’55)
that the scene of each fatal road-accident
should be permanently marked is a good
one.
The West Australian authorities
adopted a similar measure. A large white
cross was painted on the roadway at the
scene of each fatal road-accident. I
understand that the road-toll in Perth
and Fremantle was appreciably reduced
by this idea.
Other States’ traffic authorities should
follow suit.—V.E.C. (N.S.W.).
Journalism
Where did “D.J.K.” (B. 30/3/’55) get
the notion that the newspapers of today
are full of hackneyed expressions and
drab cliches? No reporter would last a
week on any modern metropolitan news-
paper if he turned-in copy “bristling’'
with anything of the sort.
If anything, newspapers have gone to
the other extreme. There is a smart-
alecky style of journalism today which,
in its desire to be crisp, original and
snappy, ineffectively apes the “Time”-
school of writing, but succeeds in achiev-
ing only short, jerky sentences. Because of
narrow columns an.d type-restrictions, it
labels its stories with herring-gutted head-
ings which are as cryptic as Sanskrit.
As for the journalism of Sydney a cen-
tury ago there was nothing “pedantic” or
“ponderous” about the bright young lads
on the Sydney press or the copy they
wrote. It is easy to picture them, crowned
by furry, curly-brimmed belltoppers,
tailed-coats, and nankeen trousers
strapped under the instep, hurrying back
to the office to write-up the brighter
details of the inquest held at the Cat
and Mutton in Kent-street; or over a
pot ®f colonial beer at the old E)og and
Duck on Brickfield Hill interviewing the
Flying Pieman on his latest pedestrian
exploit; or racing down to Bradley’s
Head in watermen’s skiffs for the latest
English news, only three months old,
from the incoming packet.
A lad on the police-court round for the
“Gazette” had a style which made the
pages sparkle with flamboyant frivol: —
John Sennet, with a face resembling a
pancake fried ugly, was handed to the Bar,
and pulling up his larboards until they
settled under his listeners, accused the
Charley of having purloined him two hours
in the stocks.
Or take this sparkling anecdote: —
Benjamin Lewis was charged with peeling
a constable like an onion and endeavoring
to spit him with his own staff that he might
resemble a turkey, as he said, lit for a
Christmas-dinner. He had to pay 20s. for
this frolic.
The shipping-columns were lightened
with items like this one: —
Captain Croft, of the Bencoolen, on arriv-
ing in this port, to his no small astonish-
ment, found that a most awful deficiency
had taken place in the bottled ale; spirits
and liquors had been played the devil with;
in fact, about one-fifth of the liquids had
disappeared, and the crew being always
drunk the captain gave ten of them into
custody.
Where could one find a better descrip-
tion of the untoward ending of a voyage
which, from the forecastle viewpoint,
must have been almost ideal?
Ponderous and pedantic journalism !
To borrow a cliche, perish the thought!
—-Clem Lack (Q.).
Loan Failures
“G.B.M.” (B. 2/3/’55) and others
needn’t feel nervous because Common-
wealth loan was undersubscribed.
Broadly, the explanation is that much
of the money which would otherwise
have been invested in Government and
semi-Government loans is, in fact, being
sunk with equal benefit into private-
enterprise.
If maintained, the rate of expansion of
private-enterprise during the last five
years guarantees full employment for all
hands in Australia for many years
ahead.—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Centralisation in Queensland
True, North Queensland is suffering
from the effects of centralisation (B.
2/3/’55), and population is desperately
needed to develop the North. Actually,
however, the whole of the State is
affected by the same disease.
Brisbane accounted for 59.4 per cent,
of Queensland’s increase in population
between 1939 and 1954. Of the remain-
ing 121,667 people, all but 29,656 are
accounted for in 13 cities and towns,
Ipswich and Toowoomba alone absorbing
30,000.
In 1942-43 there were 2641 factories in
Queensland. Of those, 1106 were in
Brisbane. Today there are 5068 factories
in the State and 1825 of them are in
Brisbane. That is a slight improvement,
but nothing like what is required.
In 1942-43, 64,822 people were
employed in Queensland factories; in
1952-53 the number had risen to 93,790,
an increase of 28,968, or 45 per cent. Of
that increase, 13,924 found work in Bris-
bane factories.
By way of contrast, between 1942-43 and
1952-53 the increase in rural workers
was under 2000’— 2\ per cent, increase
against 45 per cent, increase in factory-
employment. The disparity is distinctly
dangerous.
Queensland’s Labor Government is not
concerned. Its legislation is invariably
designed to catch city voters at the
expense of country voters, but the
arrangement is a big drawback to
Queensland’s economy and to Queensland
generally.
D.J.K. (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 325
Across
I—Such1 —Such humbug makes a dancer
wise about a card-game. (7-6)
9 —Love one of the commonest
exclamations before you name
Honolulu’s surroundings. (4)
10—Pampering a girl firm prelate
with fish. (5-8)
12— Ties is also Ep, presumably. (8)
13— A point perceived a monkey
papist and you. (6)
16— Ring parent possesses American
Indians. (6)
17 — The furious are on such wool-
producer buttons. (7)
22 —Secretes the canonised trophy
coveted by Test cricketers. (7)
24 —To the French keynote city for
best Spanish steel. (6)
27—Supernatural officer commanding
a system of religious worship. (6)
30—Mountains write numbers. (8)
32—Patrick West cutting a punish-
ment. (5-8)
34 — Sent in to bat in these for prac-
tice. (4)
35 Such gaiters defame punctuation.
(13)
Down
1 — A sweet spread that is his French
antiquary friend of Scott town-
ship in Victoria. (8)
2 Gad about and embitter a
terrible fellow before tea. (9)
3 Spiny gate reconstructed by
Copts. (9)
4 The portent farmers of small
estate. (6)
5 The prices offered by the ring.
(4)
6 Who can be found in the middle
of any heronry. (3)
7 Gayer misrepresentation of an
old-time German infantryman.
(5)
8 — An insect which drones a sweet
imposing canterf (6)
11—One provost devilkin. (3)
14— Girl matched vowels when hail
is rising. (3)
15— Bark from Port Phillip, foi
example. (3)
18— Tyre was to be found in this
hidden lonic heap. (9)
19 — Re-chewing minced observatory’s
address. (9)
20 — Mount Chifley. (3)
21— The wise men of some oil
company bodices. (8)
23—Island group off North Australia.
(3)
25 — Business ruler is making a fuel
from coal. (6)
26 — This makes a wool-producer pour
water on the woman. (6)
28— Police street taken up by
Egyptians. (5)
29 — By whom was a lass wooed 1905
years ago? (3)
31—Peer. (4)
33—It kills like piano as a matter of
course. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 324


Thi* entire pare Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
m.V. RGRICULTURHL REIIIS
April
HOW LONG GAN AUSTRALIA RIDE
ON THE SHEEP’S RACK?
The haste with which Import Restrictions were re-imposed indicates the uneasiness of the Federal Government about
our trade position.
It is common knowledge that the export of our wool is allowing Australia to continue to trade with other countries.
Wool Exports pay for two-thirds of our imports, so that, should anything happen to the demand for wool, and a fall
m price occurred, we would immediately suffer.
Here are a few recent newspaper
comments on the delicate trade
situation . . . “There must be no
illusions about the effect of import
restrictions. In themselves, they cure
nothing. They can effectively sup-
press one of the most troublesome
symptoms, but they tend to aggra-
vate the disease. The combined total
of spending by individuals, industry
and Governments is growing out of
hand.” “There is no longer a suffi-
cient supply of goods—especially in
basic materials—to meet all de-
mands, and prices are again tending
to rise.” “All this points towards
higher costs, and higher costs are the
root of the trouble.”
Australia is living in a false paradise
in which the bulk of our secondary
production is not competitive with
that of the rest of the world. The
figures, although approximate,
quoted below, tell a story that needs
no further comment.
The wage rates per hour for skilled
male workers (quoted in Australian
currency) are: Australia, 9/6; U.K.,
4/6; America, 15/9; France, 3/6£;
Sweden, 6/3; West Germany,
Japan, 1/6. American workers obvi-
ously earn far more than their Aus-
tralian cousins, but because of the
huge domestic markets available to
US. Industries, mechanisation plus
volume production lowers costs and
keeps their products competitive in
price.
It is only because of the inflated de-
mand, and therefore the high prices
paid for our wool that Australia is
able to pay such generous wages to
its workers. Our position of depend-
ence on the vagaries of the inter-
national market cannot continue.
But how can we place ourselves in a
sounder position? Primarily by a
combined effort from both manage-
ment and labour to produce more,
and cut out inefficiency so lowering
the costs of production. This applies
to Primary Producers to as great a
degree as to Secondary Industries...
Our Primary Produce is auctioned
on the world markets in competition
with similar products from other
countries. As our costs rise, the
menace of competitive natural and
synthetic substitutes from other
countries grows.
Moffat-Virtue’s experts believe that
by the efforts of every Australian we
can build a strong nation that can
stand proudly alongside the rest of
the world. They believe that the
grazier can and must lower the cost
of his product by scientific breeding,
classing of flocks, pasture improve-
ment and by using modem stream-
lined equipment like the Handpiece
mentioned below.
Every factory, every farmer can, and
must, strive for greater efficiency.
Our very survival in the future may
depend on our efforts now to build
a sound economy geared to meet the
challenge growing daily in the teem-
ing countries of Asia and Africa.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. are doing their
share at their modern Rosebery,
N.S.W., factory. By using modern
machine tools, up-to-date processes,
and by better co-operation between
all departments of the firm, they are
improving their products, and pro-
ducing them as efficiently as they
can.
I
m
" \ y
s\.\ ■
Sw*#!
*
m
K
a
ii
H
!/
s r
,
I
s(&&s£
mm
m
<. ■ V
m
■ . , ■ ■ -
mmam
'' s'
c§ \ M
m swm
mm
*mmm
m
illillll
1. Highly-skilled ex-
perts assembling
TRIMMER MARK 5
Handpiece.
2. Precision turning
of grooved spindle
bush.
Craftsman assem-
bling Patent Back
joint.
4. Milling of hand-
piece body.
5. THE NEW
TRIMMER HAND-
PIECE MARK 5.
TRIMMER HANDPIECE
This new Moffat-Virtue product, the
new TRIMMER MARK 5 Shearing
Handpiece is a case in point. Manu-
factured completely in Moffat-
Virtue’s own factory, it has been
designed by Australians for Aus-
tralian conditions alone!
It is another step in Moffat-Virtue’s
drive to manufacture a complete
series of quality machines for the
Primary Producer of the most up-to-
the-minute design, and at competi-
tive prices.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. are fulfilling the
need for superior Australian tools
for our special requirements, includ-
ing Equipment for Shearing, Jetting,
Light and Power, Pumping, Milking,
as well as Spray-Plants, Irrigation
Equipment, Sawbenches and many
other lines. Further particulars
may be obtained from any of
the State Distributors listed
below.
ONLY ONE
HANDPIECE
HAS THEM
These are the features that
suit heavier Australian fleeces
... the features shearers want
for faster, easier, and better
shearing . . .
1. 20% Greater Oil Capacity
means cooler running and
reduces maintenance to a
minimum.
2. Larger Bearing surfaces
mean longest life and smooth
operation.
3. Every part is precision
engineered to run with mini-
mum wear.
4. No necessity to adjust
Centre Post. . . Handpiece will
operate both with new and
worn cutters. Saves time . . .
Makes for better shearing.
5. Greater strength in fork
design, which can be removed
from handpiece without dis-
turbing centre post.
6. Smaller, more comfortable
grip . . . Desired by shearers
who find shearing easier and
faster when the handpiece
“feels right.”
7. Incorporation of Patented
Screwed Bush means un-
restricted movement of Back-
joint giving ease of Control in
the Wool.
8. Lighter weight reduces
normal shearing fatigue, in-
creases shearer’s tally and
results in good shearing well
done.
9. Entirely new patented
spring-loaded backjoint elimin-
ates force in one direction
caused by downtube revolu-
tions, and compensates for this
“thrust,” thus assuring perfect
Alignment of Back-Joint cogs
for more freedom of move-
ment —Less Wear.
10. “Livelier shearing”
through better combing of the
wool brought about by preci-
sion-finish, balance, compen-
sating back-joint and screwed
back-joint bush, making for
better tallies.
11. The scientific design of the
handpiece creates perfect level-
ling between comb and cutter
faces which ensures perfect
tension for clean cutting, and
eliminates undue comb and
cutter wear.
12. The exclusive “Force-
feed” lubrication system of the
handpiece allows oil to be
pumped continuously to the
Crank - Head through the
grooved spindle bush. This
Reduces Friction, Reduces
Heating, eliminates wear and
ensures comfortable, non-stop
shearing.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
0;;x ' V ’ VV <V V 7< “ -
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
