

Wz/m!
-iWL
m
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
Th e Bul leti n
ANZAC DOCTOR —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3923
Wednesday, April 20, 195 E
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 242: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
KEW GARDENS, BELOVED OF LONDONERS, MECCA OF ALL GARDENERS!
BESIDE the Thames on the western outskirts of London are the Royal
Botanic Gardens or Kew Gardens as they are more widely known.
These famous botanical gardens, the largest and finest of their kind in the
world, cover an area of 288 acres. They possess 25,000 varieties of plants,
magnificent trees and vistas of surprising beauty. A favorite excursion for
Londoners in spring is the one to Kew where, beneath the majestic trees in
the bluebell woods, a mist of color promises the early arrival of summer.
There, too, in undisturbed woodland can be seen the nesting-places of many
rare birds.
The gardens are composed of two properties which were originally the
grounds of Richmond Lodge and Kew House, which were combined about
the year 1785. Lord Capel had a spacious garden there with many trees
imported from foreign countries, which were described in Evelyn’s Diary.
The actual founder of Kew Gardens, however, was Princess Augusta, mother
of George 111, who began the formation of an exotic garden there in 1759.
Some idea of the variety of plants to be seen at Kew is indicated by the
names of some of the gardens—the Herbaceous Ground, Italian Garden,
Rose Garden, Winter Garden, Bamboo, Rock and Azalea Gardens, the
Rhododendron Walk, the Water Lily Pond, the Fernery, to mention but
a few.
The immense Palm House, shown in the accompanying illustration,
occupies the centre of the gardens and was built by Decimus Burton in 1848.
It is 362 ft. long, 100 ft. wide and 66ft. high, with a gallery 30ft. from the
ground. Almost every known variety of palm is grown there in addition to
the banana-trees, coffee-plants, etc. Plans have been made to rebuild the
Palm House, using the giant arches which spanned the Mall during the
Coronation of her Majesty the Queen in 1953.
Kew Gardens are maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture chiefly for
the purpose of botanic study, and this great institution has rendered
invaluable service to the Commonwealth and to civilisation. Among these
services was the introduction of the breadfruit-tree to the West Indies in
1791. of quinine to India in 1860, and of rubber to the Malay Peninsula
in 1875.


WIN PROMOTION
If you have the urge to write and the
. to ex P ress Jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stones, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
earnings from my writing total almost
£<0. (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £106/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted bv 3LO
and broadcast by the A.B C ”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
I f0, ? r stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
mm\)
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereae-h
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.-
-C'UT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
A DURESS *
(S.B. 855) AGE
Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, Box 2671, GJP.O., Sydney. Quick
service moderate charges.
The Red Page
SEA STORIES
It says a lot for the short-stories of
R. S. Porteous (“Standby”) in Close to
the Wind (Angus and Robertson) that
after one has read so many of them in
“The Bulletin” and often again in
“Coast to Coast” they should still seem
not merely good but astonishingly so.
Stories that will stand up so firmly to
so much re-reading are not found every
day.
Perhaps it is impolite to be
astonished. One should know what a
writer can do. But it is the repetition
of excellence, the cumulative effect of
the stories put together in a book,
building a world and establishing a
standard, that creates the surprise.
Who would have thought, reading a
story here and a story there, vaguely
following the writer’s career from his
first efforts in “Little Known of These
Waters” and “Sailing Orders,” that
“Standby” had become so matured and
expert a craftsman?
He takes you, without faltering in
style, character or exciting suspense,
through the long adventure of “The
Promise”—the pilot aboard the
modern steamer telling of the ship-
wreck of the old windjammer;
the apparent harmlessness of the
grounding in shallow water swiftly
changing to peril as the sea rises; the
mast toppling, the boats stove-in, the
28 seamen crowded into one small life-
boat, the craft capsizing and four men
trapped in it to drown; 20 men left at
daylight clinging to it as it floats awash
and upside-down, slipping away one
by one to their deaths—right through
to the dramatic conclusion when, after
another night of terror, Petersen the
Swede says, “Ve leave her now, Yack.
Svim!” and the four survivors struggle
at last ashore.
And then, after the extraordinary
pictures of terror, horror and heroic
endurance in this story—
For me the others had ceased to
exist as individuals ; they were just
a mass of clinging humanity.
Individuals! I didn’t even realise
that our captain was no longer
with us till I looked down into the
water. He was lying right under-
neath me, athwart the stern of the
boat, his head and shoulders pro-
truding and his eyes staring
straight up into mine—
he does the shipwreck theme again with
almost equal power, in a very different
setting of heat and calm waters, in
“Old Lou’s Landfall,” when the life-
boat, under the command of the
inexperienced young officer, is search-
ing for some speck of land in the
Pacific and, “There was no land in
sight next morning, nor was there any
sign of it when Andy took his noon
sight and announced the cutting of
the water ration.”
And this excellence in its kind—not
on Conrad’s level but as good, below
that, as you would find in sea-writing
anywhere in the world —continues
page after page, with only a couple of
weaker efforts, throughout the book.
“Standby” is an uneven writer, as
who is not? He seems to have a natural,
if reprehensible, ambition to make his
fortune by writing a detective-story,
and when, as in the title-story and
“Hatred,” he drops into that vein, he
produces neither good seafaring nor
good detection, but something uneasy
and “magazinish.” It is not his field.
But the sea is; and with these two
exceptions, though one or two others
are no more than light-hearted yarns,
it is the sea pure and simple, without
detectives, that is his theme and terri-
tory throughout the book.
If he reaches, as is natural, his
highest level in the dramas of storm
and shipwreck, the lighter stories serve
very well to give variety, humor and a
wide range of geographical interest.
“High Finance” gives us a cheerful
glimpse of life in Madang, with its
natives, Chinese and mosquitoes.
“Jettisoned Cargo” is gun-running to
Borneo. “Experience” a most
interesting story of a ship going ashore
on a sandbank and of the crew’s
attempts to refloat it—moves between
Brisbane and Hong Kong.
Undoubtedly one reason for the
strikingly fresh impression which the
book makes on this reader is that two
or three of the stories are, in fact, new
to him. Perhaps they were published
in the U.S. or Canadian magazines to
which “Standby” occasionally contri-
butes. But so do the familiar
“Bulletin” and “Coast to Coast” stories
still strike with undiminished force. It
is still a very notable gale in “Quite a
Blow” where Captain Swinsby jumps
his ship over a sand-bar to shelter on
the run from Brisbane to Darwin:—
Captain Swinsby practically
wrapped himself round the
standard compass, crouching over
it so that he looked as much a
part of it as a shellfish glued to
its rock. Speech, of course, was
impossible. To open one’s mouth
facing the wind would have
invited instant suffocation. An
order or warning shouted down-
wind would have been torn to
pieces as it left the lips, drowned
in the roar of the gale that was
like the continuous roll of thunder,
occasionally rising to a wailing
shriek as the wind split itself on
the funnel-stays just behind us.
And “Salvage Saga” remains one of the
best things “Standby” has ever done,
with its sturdy and resolute young Aus-
tralians sweating in the stoke-hold to
bring their abandoned and waterlogged
prize to port—through the rising sea
that threatens every moment to sink
her:—
The billy fell from Chook’s hand
and clattered down the slope, I
remember clutching at the staging
and thinking, “God, this is it.
She’ll never come back this time.”
But she did. Slowly, reluctantly,
inch by inch, she dragged herself
upright. Then, with a roar of
water behind the bulkhead, she
tumbled over to port. Over she
went, carrying our precious heap
of coal with her. Over, till an
avalanche of water, ashes and coal
from the starboard bilge crashed
across the floor-plates, sweeping
us and our staging ahead of it in
a mad rush downhill to port.
Half-drowned, battered almost
insensible by planks and coal, we
struggled to our feet. Amazingly
the ship was still afloat.
Surely if any book can break the
hoodoo which is supposed to stop
volumes of short-stories from selling
as well as novels, this is the one to do
it. It is popular writing at its best,
continually crossing from one side to
the other of that mysterious border
where pleasant story-telling becomes
literature; it is vivid with drama and
rich with adventure in Australian and
near-Australian waters; its characters
are drawn with a firm, if rather blunt.
pencil; and, being wholly concerned
with the sea. it has, in a sense, a novel’s
continuity of theme as well as of
setting.
Ada Reeve
Many an odd claim to immortality
is made, and if Ada Reeve’s claim in
Take It for a Fact (Heinemann) seems
a little odder than most it is to be under-
stood that here we enter the special
world of theatrical history where it is
indeed something to be able to assert:
I was the first woman to intro-
duce cartwheels in skirts to the
music-halls. It had been done
before, of course, but in boy’s
clothes. They told me it couldn’t
be done in skirts without an
indecent exposure of legs and
underwear, but I proved the con-
trary. I turned over so quickly that
the skirts came swirling with me,
leaving nothing but my ankles to
be seen.
“Take It for a Fact” is the larger
cartwheel of an autobiography; and a
very good one, too, with a great deal
of special interest for Australia.
Ada Reeve’s parents were Jews, both
on the stage in Whitechapel when they
met, and her real name was Adelaide
Mary Isaacs. She sang in an East End
pantomime at the age of five; at six
went on tour of the English provinces,
playing, of course, Little Willie in
“East Lynne”; and at nine she was
earning 250 dollars a week at Koster
and Bial’s music-hall in New York
while one of her five theatrical sisters
was making 100 dollars a week at
another New York music-hall—“so, as
we both gave all our money to dad and
he paid my aunt very little for our
accommodation, he must have done
well out of our American tour.”
With a start like that—no good
looks, as Ada Reeve herself cheerfully
admits, but the ability to sing a song
and turn a cartwheel, the brilliance of
mind that had her reading Shakspeare
before she was eight, and the indefin-
able thing called “personality” that
makes a great star of the music-halls
—it is hardly surprising that she went
to the top of her profession. Before
long, appearing nightly at two London
halls, changing in a cab as she sped
from one to the other, she was making
£100 a week; and, after marrying
Wilfred Cotton, “a husband with a head
for finance,” established a regular fee
of £400 a week.
When Hugh D. McIntosh brought
her to Australia in 1917 and she was
appealing to her audiences to raise
£15,000 for the Anzac Buffet, she was
on a profit-sharing basis,
taking 65 per cent, for myself and
my whole company. As a matter
of fact my artistes were getting
comparatively small salaries ; but
they had a two-years’ guarantee,
with all frotel bills paid, whether
they were working or not. My
share was Sometimes £1500 and
my salary list no more than £200
a week. When he saw this Mac
realised how much wiser he would
have been if he had paid me my
previous salary and had taken
over the payment of my company.
Alfred Rothschild, she says, “was
good enough to take a friendly interest
in my financial affairs. Many years
later I heard that he had invested Dame
Nellie Melba’s savings for her, making
them multiply enormously. He made
me a similar offer, which I was foolish
enough not to accept.”
One must apologise for discussing
finance instead of the stage so much in
this review, but it does crop up and
glitter throughout the autobiography;
and it is a pleasure to contemplate
such large sums of money, even if they
are earned by someone else. The
financial story must certainly be com-
pleted by a note on the setback which
occurred, alas, in Sydney. Miss Reeve
had her jewellery stolen at the end of
a trip from Hollywood to Australia,
and. though her insurance-policy had
not been renewed,
the “days of grace” for the renewal
of my policy had not expired, so
the insurance company admitted
my claim. I found myself in
possession of a good solid capital
sum of about £10,000, which I
decided to invest in real estate.
So in due course my jewels were
transmuted into a block of luxury
flats in Sydney with the attractive
name of Te Hongi—a Maori
phrase meaning approximately
“Welcome to my Hearth.” [Does
it? So far as this reviewer knows,
it would mean “The Oven” —
which is still, of course, an appro-
priate name for a block of flats
in Sydney.]
The returns from these flats,
with a couple of small cottages in
one of the suburbs, brought me in
a nice steady income and made me
independent of the theatre. I had
not exactly retired, but in my
middle-fifties I had obviously
passed the peak of my career.....
A frequent visitor to my flat was
dear old Earl Beauchamp, who had
a fine house overlooking Sydney
Harbor. He liked to eat chicken
in aspic, which I prepared myself
and garnished with cold tomatoes
stuffed with a mixture of celery,
apple and chopped nuts . . .
Then came the depression, Jack Lang
and the moratorium:—
I tried every means of inducing
the tenants to pay up, but appeals
to their sense of fairness were
unavailing. Nor could I evict
them —l just had to keep on meet-
ing my own liabilities in connection
with the building. This went on
for a long time, until I found my-
self financially very unsound and
was compelled to get back to work
again. Te Hongi was no longer an
asset but a burden. I could not
even sell it at a reasonable price,
for in the circumstances nobody
wanted to invest in real estate. In
the end I had almost to give it
away. That moratorium in Syd-
ney, I estimate, cost me the whole
of my £lO,OOO insurance money,
and more into the bargain.
Exactly what qualities had Ada
Reeve to make-—and lose—such excel-
lent sums of money? Compton Mac-
kenzie in his foreword says she was
“the best Aladdin I ever saw or any-
body is ever likely to see again,” and
that she had “a French perfection
which no actress of the British stage
in musical-comedy has rivalled”; and
with that the reader will have to be
content—for you can’t get stage per-
sonality in a book, least of all in an
autobiography.
But at least you can “feel again the
warmth of the footlights,” in these
memoirs, as Compton Mackenzie says,
and “hear again the fizzing of the
limes, smell again the orange-peel and
see once more those magical panto-
mimes of long ago.” And, having hob-
nobbed with a hundred celebrities
from Edward VII and Queen Mary to
Hugh D. Mclntosh and J. C. William-
son (to whom Miss Reeve went in
tears over her first husband’s amours);
having heard something of the odd
story of her two marriages; having
read the hundreds of entertaining little
anecdotes such as how she was tempted
to wear her souvenir-pair of Queen
yictoria’s drawers (“What beautiful
linen and fine needlework! Each piece
has ‘V.R. 36’ and a crown neatly
worked into it”) when she lately
appeared on television, or how in her
innocent childhood she recited a
temperance poem at a Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ dinner; having seen her enter-
taining the Diggers at Malta Cottage
and starting the passengers on her
famous song-hit of “There’s a Long
Long Trail” when her ship was
menaced by a submarine; and having
followed her in pantomime, revue,
musical-comedy and radio in America,
England and Australia, in the end
there seems to be no reason whatever
to disagree with Mr. Mackenzie’s claim
that ‘ Take It for a Fact’ is the best
theatrical autobiography we have had
for a good many years.”
Judah to Islam
In spite of the suggestions by the
publisher and the author, The Road to
Mecca (Max Reinhardt) cannot pre-
cisely be described as the odyssey of a
Westerner from Jewry to Araby.
Leopold Weiss, later to become
Muhammad Asad, had in spirit at
least severed any real ties with the
Western world before he was 18
(>Continued on page 35)


N-" : ‘ -
Ssss
m
1/
//
m
w
i i
i
[?,
m
■s*
«
ms
j
t%W >
y\.v.^
=i • • - W^
'N *V
□
Enjoy a living-room outdoors with - - -
Retractable Aluminium Awning
Imagine your home with an outdoor living room like this.
Protected from the hot sun—cool and inviting all day,
wonderful for entertaining. It’s yours with an Ajax Awning for far less than you
think. The revolutionary new Mello-Lite Retractable Awnings combine inter-
locking aluminium panels mounted on pantographic arms. Simple to erect,
Ajax Awnings defy the wind and weather . . . are rattleproof, rustproof and
watertight. HORDURA METAL VENETIANS: Our Hordura Metal
Lath Blinds are made from a specially processed lightweight aluminium
lath which has a baked enamel finish that will not break or chip and is
easily cleaned. These blinds have a wood head rail and neatly moulded
fascia which covers all working parts. Ten lovely pastel shades available.
Including Cream, Pink, Blue, Green, Primrose and Ivory. CANVAS
BLINDS: We make up all types of canvas blinds in Plain, Drop
or Florentine style. There is a large range of designs from
which to choose. We can do plain stripes or gay multi-
stripes in either woven canvas or famous “Bralla” proofed
canvas. Send for Brochures covering all types of inside
and outside blinds, or ring and our Representative will
call and measure anywhere in the Metropolitan Area.
i m r.
ifcv ■
f
r
pjt'rtn'r.'.tirwrwt'.tJ’
V-
w
w™-
r
gp
■
r
w-
Wm
jppr-w^.
r
■
gffSsss ■
r
r
■
mm
I :
sa#**
■
BLIND DEPARTMENT. THIRD FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY. 'PHONE T.O.P.S.
•’/r.'.V, ' • ■'■ ■■ ■ ‘‘-'A \i • *
FOR SERVICE 80951.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 20, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3923
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE VISION OF EDEN
WITH Anthony Eden as Britain’s new Prime
Minister, and the Afro-Asian Conference meeting
at Bandoeng, the world enters on a new era in
foreign relationships.
The Afro-Asian Conference is the child of
Nehru, who recently has been eating rice from the
same bowl as the Chinese Communist leaders,
who is more concerned with Asian nationalism
than wider world issues, and who is prepared to
team with the Communist Powers while keeping a
foot in the West. He is a Brahmin, a Cambridge
graduate, an ex-Marxist and, like various other
South-East Asian leaders, he has a feminine quality
of mind. He and they need political husbands, and
if a political suitor speaks them fair they are apt
to marry in haste and repent later.
At a juncture when the growth of Germany in
potential must bring the matter of Communist
aggression in Middle Europe to an issue, when the
Russian polit-bureau is wooing Austria, the
strategic pass to Western Europe, with a view to
making it another East Germany, Sir Anthony
Eden will have enough on his hands in Europe to
keep any statesman occupied. But the issues which
will arise at Bandoeng and the use which will be
made of them by the friends and allies of Commun-
ism will certainly produce new and urgent world
problems.
It is unthinkable that with men like Chou
En-lai, of China, present the conference will not be
used to promote the interests of the Iron Curtain
bloc and to fan hatred of the West on the basis
of such slogans as “colonialism” and the White
Australia policy. These will certainly make life
more difficult for Eden and every Foreign Minister
concerned with the defence of the free world.
So far Eden has shown himself inclined to put
the best face on things. Last January he broadcast
over the 8.8. C. world network on “how we have
been getting on with our work for peace.” It
appeared that “as the result of rough and difficult
negotiations last summer at Geneva,” he and others
had “reached an agreement which brought the fight-
ing in Indo-China to an end, after eight years of
bitter conflict,” so that “for the first time for more
than 20 years there is no war anywhere in the
world.” Except, of course, as was soon evident, off
Formosa, where in a few days it was threatening to
burst into world proportions. Also in Indo-China
where it was in being, and is still in being, with “full-
scale civil war threatening Saigon” and promising
to leave the “door wide open for Communist seizure
of power from within.” Soon after Eden’s broad-
cast it was discovered that a large terrorist base
had been impudently established in Siamese terri-
tory to renew the civil war in Malaya.
The new P.M. found that “agreements with
Persia and Egypt” had helped to improve the
atmosphere throughout the Middle East and “add
to our defensive strength by allowing us to redeploy
our forces” and “bring some of our soldiers back
to this country and so rebuild a strategic reserve.”
Anybody who relies on any agreement with unstable
entities like Egypt and Persia in their present states
and moods is incautious indeed. On the day on
which the Kremlin lifts its little finger and points
in the direction of Tehran any British agreement
with that country may become waste-paper.
On the European question Sir Anthony’s dicta
were almost as doubtful. He was thoroughly confi-
dent in January that “once the Paris agreements are
ratified by all countries concerned I believe
opportunities will present themselves for negotiation
with the Soviet Union.” The opportunities are now
so “promising” that France’s Government, which
fathered the Paris agreements, has been wrecked and
the Soviet Union was showing, in the week after the
new Prime Minister’s accession to office, how much
there is to hope from negotiation by trying to hook
Austria into the Iron Curtain bloc by a unilateral
agreement behind the back of the Western occupy-
ing Powers, and by setting out to denounce the
non-aggression pacts with Britain and France made
in the atmosphere of war-time alliance.
Sir Anthony is pursuing steadfastly his hope
that by bringing “stability and common purpose to
the West”—an aim impossible of achievement
while Germany is in halves and France in its present
state and mood and Italy full of Communism below
the surface—“we can seek an understanding with
the East.” But at the same time he is playing with
another vision—“a project for a Western European
Union” which will be “something more than a
military alliance”; something more than a com-
bination which will, as now, “pool and standardise
Western arms.” What he aims for is a real union
with France and Germany within it, “at last able
to work constructively together.” Actually, the
best that can be hoped for from France and
Germany with their mutual suspicions, fears and
claims is that they will leave each other alone
for a while during a period of common and
imminent danger, and that in time memories of the
immediate past may fade.
The Bangkok conference showed how much
a shadow Sir Anthony’s aspirations were in South-
East Asia. With the exception of one or two small
and wilting and unstable countries like the
Philippines, every Power concerned was external to
Asia. Their Asian policies—as interpreted in Peking,
Moscow and Delhi—are summed up in the label
“colonialism,” which is pictured as a horrible
imposition of a brutal slavery of the mind and
exploitation of local resources for the benefit of the
London and Wall-street capitalists. Had the
Bangkok conference been held in Canberra
little capital could have been made out of it by
the Communist leaders. But held in Bangkok it is
being represented effectively as an invasion of Asia,
with the collusion of a few feeble Asian countries,
for the purpose of securing a stepping-stone from
which to enforce further colonialism and aggression
against Asian nations.
It is ironic that Asian political catch-cries have
been provided not by themselves but by outsiders,
notably the American press, which was so anxious
to see Britain divested of its Empire as the reward
of having held back the tide of Hitlerism for three
years before the United States was forced into
World War II by actual attack, and by well-meaning
British politicians of Eden’s own type who have
been so eager during the past generation to start
discussions in the process of what the new P.M.
has held for over 30 years to be “the helping-forward
of the unity of free nations our work of easing
tension in those areas which are still dangerous to
peace.”
He and all English-speaking Governments,
ruling as they do the only stable units of the world
today, would be much better employed if they
withdrew from many of the cackling assemblies
which meet every year and always end in broken
agreements and fresh causes for dissension. The
present meddling policy is jam to the Kremlin.
U.N.O. and such bodies, by providing it with a
world forum, have done more to advance Com-
munism in the world than any other influence.
"Labor" and Socialism
LONG before Dr. Evatt discovered his Santamaria’s
nest and split his party into two factions “The
Bulletin” pointed out that by soft-pedalling its
Socialist objective “Labor” had left itself without a
policy. The soft-pedalling was, of course, induced
by the adverse reaction to bank-nationalisation and
by the realisation that as a result of it “Labor”
was condemned to years in the wilderness. Under
Evatt, expediency, never far down the list of
“Labor’s” political values, became the prime factor
in determining policy. Socialism, however dear it
might have been to the hearts of some stalwarts of
the party, was bad election-material, and mention
of it was therefore to be avoided. It was not neces-
sarily to be abandoned, but it must be watered-
down, tucked away, wrapped-up—any of a dozen
similar terms would do so long as the unpopular
love-child of “Labor’s” youth was thrust unob-
trusively into the background. The immediate
objective was to regain power in the Federal Parlia-
ment. Socialism could be argued about after that
was achieved.
Within the party expediency was wedded to
compromise. Some members were not keen on
socialisation, anyway. By them the watered-down
objective could be accepted as the real credo. Others
could regard it as a temporary evil, to be corrected
when opportunity offered. The split has further com-
plicated things. The Right-wingers don’t want
straight-out Socialism; they will be content with
reform. The Left-wingers, or those at present sup-
porting Evatt, don’t know just what they want.
Some of the big unions behind them know all right
—they want Communism. The few doctrinaire
Socialists still remaining are temporarily under the
Evatt banner and so are industrial Socialists such
as Ward and Cameron. The rest are mainly time-
servers who don’t know what they want and don’t
care, so long as the plums of office are forth-
coming.
But if “Labor” is without a policy and doesn’t
know where it stands on Socialism, it is not without
people who are prepared to give it one and to tell
it where it should stand, One band of well-wishers,
the Victorian Fabian Society, has just published a
book of essays, “Policies for Progress.” Since the
society “consists of democratic Socialists who
support the Australian Labor Party,” it must be
assumed that the policies are designed for “Labor”
and that it is to “Labor” that the Fabians look for
progress. Not that they think “Labor” perfect.
Far from it. They admit that
like all parties it has its full share of fools and
knaves; on many issues it has been narrow and
conservative. It has spumed the support of
intellectual friends, so intense is its class suspicion.
Yet, despite all the temporising vote-catching
necessary to attract a majority of the electorate,
gradualist Socialism is still one of the several
important strands of Labor thought.
For all its faults, they love it still, particularly
as the Liberal party is, “above all, the party of
wealth and organised capitalism and the party of
organised Babbittry.” They see no liberalism in the
Liberals: indeed “an indication of the comparative
liberalism of the Australian parties is provided by
the remarkable support of school- and university-
teachers, journalists and civil servants for Labor.”
The assumption that people of the callings men-
tioned are necessarily more liberal in outlook than
the rest of the community is perhaps explained by
the fact that all the essayists whose names are listed
in the book either are or have been school- or
university-teachers or civil servants and that most
of them are also part-time journalists. ,
The Fabians seem to have adopted the watered-
down interpretation of the socialisation objective.
They are now “democratic Socialists.” The intro-
duction to the volume—written by the editors, Alan
Davies and Geoffrey Serle, lecturers respectively in
political science and Australian history at Mel-
bourne University—sets out the aims of the
democratic Socialist. He
.seeks a society wherein these unnecessary evils [of
capitalism] are eliminated, fundamentally by
extending the practice of democracy to the
economic sphere by subjecting economic power to
the control of the community. He seeks to elimin-
ate insecurity by conscious and responsible
planning in economic life, by transferring to
community - ownership those resources and
industries which are essential to the general wel-
fare, and by redistributing income so as properly
to recognise each man’s labor.
The joint editors regret that neither the
“Labor” party as a whole “nor its diverse com-
ponent groups have ever had any clear picture of
the sort of society they wanted, or, for that matter,
any systematic policy.” Unfortunately, the Fabians
don’t seem to have a very clear picture, either. They
want Socialism, but they’re not sure how much.
They want the benefits they hope will spring from
it, but they are more than a little fearful of its
implications.
Discussing the relaxing of controls at the end
of the war, Davies and Serle say “no democratic
Socialist could tolerate the continuation of such
features as direction of manpower.” Yet they
regret the defeat of the 1944 and 1946 Evatt referen-
dums which would have made the retention of
“such features” possible. Professor Arndt, who
contributes an able essay on “Economic Policy,”
is more clear-headed. Discussing full employment,
he says the main problem is how to keep the
economy balanced between the twin evils of infla-
tion and deflation, with the Right preferring to err
on the side of deflation—a “high and stable level
of employment,” or “no prolonged unemployment
for individual workers” —and the Left on the side
of inflation—“full employment,” or “more jobs
than men”: —
The issue is neither simple nor clear-cut,
particularly if it is recognised that even the more
radical aim cannot avoid all unemployment at all
times, unless Governments are given powers of
compulsory direction of labor.
Kingsley Laffer, whose contribution is a com-
plicated plan whereby the wage-structure is geared
to the price of farm-products, doesn’t agree. He
feels that the difficulties associated with a “more-
jobs-than-men economy” could be dealt with
satisfactorily by “capital-issues and materials-
controls,” and that there is good reason to suppose
that under full employment there will be sufficient
•willingness of labor to move from one job to
another to ensure that labor is available where it
is required Neither a generally accepted
flexible wage policy nor manpower-control seem
to be necessary.
Like the “Labor” party, the Fabians are
floundering in search of a policy. The Communists,
by demonstrating the crudities and cruelties of
State-Socialism in practice, have set other Socialists
the difficult task of reconciling their beliefs with
undeniable facts. Complete socialisation is now
off the agenda, and with it has gone the virtue of
believing in a simple panacea for all social ills.
Instead there is now the necessity for determining
the correct amount of'the dose and the proper
means of administering it. The “democratic
Socialists” seem to be making a sincere attempt
to do this, but the conflict evident in their thinking
shows the difficulty of their task. But that diffi-
culty will be as nothing in comparison with the job
of getting the warring sects of “Labor” to accept
a policy which discards expediency.


WHERE VULTURES FLY


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Salk Vaccine
With rather more stage-managing than
has attended such announcements in the
past, the U.S. National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis last week told the
world that large-scale tests had estab-
lished that the poliomyelitis vaccine
produced by Dr. Jonas Salk was “safe,
effective and potent.” The announce-
ment was the culmination of experiments
extending over four years and tests last
year on a massive scale involving more
than a million children. It was not
claimed that the vaccine was 100 per cent,
effective or that it would give lifelong
immunity, but the recorded results are
sufficient to raise strong hopes that polio-
myelitis may soon be classed with small-
pox, diphtheria and other scourges of a
few generations ago which have been
tamed through the patient researches of
men like Dr. Salk.
What is claimed for the Salk vaccine
is that it is effective in about 84 per cent,
of cases and that the immunity lasts
several months, after which a booster
dose is necessary. It is not yet clear for
how long the second dose is effective or
whether periodical reboosts are needed.
Apparently the original regimen was
three injections, but in the American
campaign planned for this year this is
being broken down to two. This, how-
ever, seems to be partly a matter of
supply.
Reaction to the news of the vaccine
has naturally been enthusiastic. Nine
million children are to be treated in the
United States this year, and the U.S.
Government has licensed six drug-
manufacturers to make and sell the
vaccine, at the same time taking steps to
provide for fair distribution and avoid-
ance of blackmarketing. Canada is
making similar arrangements. Denmark
and Sweden have announced their inten-
tion of buying a supply of the vaccine ;
Mexico has put in an order and several
other countries have expressed similar
intentions. This has brought down on
Health Minister Earle Page a storm of
criticism for his refusal to make a
decision until he receives a full report
on the experiments.
The criticism is a little premature.
The Minister said at the weekend,
Before we start giving; anyone injections
we must know how frequently they can
be injected. That can only be determined
by careful study of the whole of the
experiments in the United States, and
there they do not seem to have settled
how they are going to administer the
vaccine. We must also know whether,
if we give these injections, we will create
a condition in the blood which makes a
person immune to further injections.
Attempts to make political capital out
of the Minister’s caution, as Dr. Evatt
has already tried to do, are irresponsible.
Unlike the other countries mentioned,
Australia has the advantage of having a
man on the spot from whom a full report
may be expected. Dr. P. J. Bazley, of
the Commonwealth Health Department,
has been working with Dr. Salk on the
production and testing of the vaccine, so
that the Commonwealth’s decision when
made will be based on first-hand know-
ledge, not on emotion. Another point
is that it is one thing to “accept” the new
vaccine but quite another to get supplies
in sufficient quantity to attempt mass-
immunisation. U.S. production is at
present limited, and it has been stated
that until a method has been discovered
of producing the vaccine synthetically it
is unlikely all demands can be met. Sir
Earle Page is to discuss the possibilities
of local production with drug-house
representatives on Friday.
No one doubts that an effective vaccine
for polio, will ultimately be in general
use. The Salk discovery is obviously the
best news that has so far come out of
the laboratories engaged in this research,
but to accept it as final without studying
the whole of the data available would be
reckless. When treading these still-
uncertain paths “Doc.” Page may be no
fearful angel, but he’s not quite a rushing
fool, either.
The McMaster Gift
Not many Australians these days die
and leave nearly a quarter-million as
a public benefaction, as the late Sir
Frederick McMaster did. Particularly
in N.S.W., where death-duties and high-
income-taxes discourage or prevent the
leaving of large sums. In Sir Frederick’s
case his only son, Captain lan McMaster,
M.C., was killed in action in 1942. With
his widow and daughter holding life-
interests in F. D. McMaster Pty., Ltd.,
the Commonwealth Scientific and Indus-
trial Research Organisation ultimately
benefits to the extent of £216,403.
All his life the knight of Dalkeith was
noted for his benefactions, particularly to
the pastoral industry. Among the more
notable were gifts of pure-bred rams to
struggling graziers and soldier-settlers,
the establishment of the McMaster
Animal Health Laboratory at Sydney
University and the more recent £50,000
to finance the lan McMaster Memorial
Wing of the laboratory.
Captain McMaster’s death in action
caused his country one of those war losses
which are never overcome. Lor it meant
the end of the family name —an end to
a line which, if continued in the traditions
established by Sir Frederick, would have
meant very much in times to come.
However, apart from the national bene-
fits that will accrue from the McMaster
veterinary foundations, there is also the
famous Dalkeith Merino line. Duncan
McMaster bought Dalkeith 65 years ago
and went for Tasmanian blood. Within
ten years Frederick had switched to
Boonoke blood, and on that built the
modern Dalkeiths, a line that will hold.
British Election
Prime Minister Eden was prompt in
announcing the date of the United King-
dom election. He has chosen May 26
three days before the official beginning
of summer on Oak Apple Day, when the
Guards have always been wont to change
from winter-grey to scarlet.
Presumably the policy is cut and dried,
and it is a good time. The British are
particularly prosperous by post-war
standards just now. They are also rest-
less about Labor, and particularly about
the Leftists and extremist strikers. The
real policy-speech will be Mr. Butler’s
Budget-speech, which is due for delivery,
and it can be taken that it will be a very
carefully constructed document, for,
though the general prediction is that the
Government will win, it has no leeway
to play with. Mr. Butler has a surplus
to play with. The country’s produc-
tion is rising, but costs are too high,
and Britain has not yet come out of the
post-war melting-pot; the melting is
marked by a struggle for increased wages
and conditions on the catch-as-catch-can
principle which has shut down the London
newspapers for nearly a month and
threatens to shut down the railways
before the election takes place.
The demands will extend to the Budget,
and, with inflation ever present and over-
seas marketing growing more difficult —
especially with world Communism con-
centrating on transport and small key
mechanical unions to wreck the capitalist
economy—every Budget-maker this year
will have abnormal problems. The
change-over in weapons, wage-demands
from everybody and stoppages in large
industries don’t go harmoniously with
cuts in taxation, concessions on excise
and reductions in the price of petrol. But
these things the mass is being taught to
demand unearned. The best that can
be said for the United Kingdom is that
its people are generally a bit more
responsible and commonsense than the
rest.
Labor claims to have been taken by
surprise by the announcement of the
poll. Mr. Attlee was away in Canada;
Mr. Morrison, his deputy, in Germany.
Where Mr. Aneurin Bevan was nobody
has yet announced. The poor fellows
have only had about five months’ warning
of what was coming, but Mr. Morrison
says the announcement during his
absence is a “party manoeuvre,” and the
gallivanting Mr. Attlee is confident that
Labor will win. On the voting at recent
municipal polls he is an optimist; but
the Government now has no more than
320 seats to Labor’s 294, and it is over a
month to polling-day. However, a land-
slide would be almost as embarrassing
to the Conservatives as the loss of half
a dozen marginal seats, in view of the
internal stresses operating within the
party about industrial matters and foreign
policy.
Unless the daily papers come to light
it will be a peculiar election, one in
which the platform, the loudspeaker and
perhaps radio, if the 8.8. C. will let it,
will have a greater influence than ever
before.
It will not be all roses for anybody
who does win. The loads and perils of
the next five years will be outsize. The
problems raised by the new concord of
India and other Asiatic countries with
the Communist bloc, the brash, boyish
diplomacy of the United States, the prob-
lem of China, the problem of Malaya,
the problems of relationships with France
and Germany, the competition with
Japan, the growing labor questions which
are developing, along with the new Com-
munist type of strike which holds up
industry every few months in some
important branch by merely calling out
key mechanics, the internal Consti-
tutional questions, such as the reform of
the House of Lords and the future of
the industries so hastily socialised by the
Attlee Government form a mighty weight
to carry when put together.
Crime and Youth
Just about the time Sydney police dis-
covered that ’teen-age boys working as
a gang had been getting away with stolen
cars worth thousands, and the usual sob-
sisters were getting ready to excuse them,
J. Edgar Hoover, head of the American
F. 8.1., came out with a timely blast on
the subject.
“A ’teen-age bandit,” declared Mr.
Hoover, “can kill you just as dead as an
old one can. You can’t treat them like
children any more. If kids want to be
big-time crooks they have to take a big-
time rap for it when they’re caught.”
He was talking to a Government sub-
committee set up to look into the
prevalence of criminal youths, and he
named four causes of youthful crime:
immorality, lack of religious training,
poor home conditions, and “the maudlin
sentimentality of do-gooders.” On this
last aspect he added, “There’s too much
clemency, probation and easy parole.”
The point always (perhaps conveni-
ently) overlooked by “do-gooders” is that
these young criminals know about the
law and what it means. But in Aus-
tralian States where “Labor” administers
the law on the theory that criminals are
victims of the “capitalist system” and are
therefore more to be pitied than blamed,
irrespective of what suffering they inflict
on their victims, punishment for crime
has become a joke. It is certainly no
deterrent, not because punishment isn’t a
deterrent but because a rap over the
knuckles isn’t sufficient punishment for
serious offences.
Once these youths are taught, pain-
fully if necessary, that if they intend to
bash, rob, murder and rape they can
expect to pay heavily for it, big cities
will be safer places for law-abiding
citizens.
"Back-benchers"
Canberra journalists privately hostile
to the Government (and some do exist)
have a favorite theme now getting a little
shopworn—the “frustration” of the back-
benchers on the Government side of the
House of Representatives. Admittedly
Menzies is sticking to some of his
Cabinet “old guard” to an extent which
invites some criticism, but he is giving
future Cabinet material a chance to
sharpen its brains and teeth.
The Parliamentary under-secretaries
Reg. Swartz (Commerce and Agricul-
ture) and John Howse (Territories) have
learned a lot and done a great deal of
work in the course of their honorary
duties, and “Jo” Gullett is still Whipping
with a vhn which suggests undimmed
ambition for something better. F. A.
Bland has made the Public Accounts
Committee a useful thorn in the side of
departments and Ministers, Alan Hulme
is presiding over a committee looking at
the problem of depreciation and taxation,
Allen Fairhall has been to the U.N.
General Assembly, and Charles Davidson
has presided over the committee (non-
Parliamentary and non-departmental)
investigating greater use of aviation in
Australian development.
The members of the Foreign Affairs
committee, despite the lack of stimulus
from missing “Labor” members, are prov-
ing in the House and outside the value of
their researches, and generally the atmos-
phere at the moment on the Government
side is singularly lacking in frustration.
On the other side of the Speaker, of
course, it’s a different matter.
Dr. Evatt's Firm Allies
Dr. Evatt will probably rate April,
1955, as the unhappiest month of his
life. Seven Victorian members of the
Federal House have definitely broken
with him and formed their own party with
Robert Joshua (Ballarat) as their leader.
Other members are T. J. Andrews (Dare-
bin), W. M. Bourke (Fawkner), W. G.
Bryson (Wills), J. L. Cremean (Hoddle),
S. Keon (who is deputy-leader), and J. M.
Mullens (Gellibrand). There is no
drawing-back for them. Their leader is an
able man, a commissioned officer, and a
Tobruk veteran with considerable mili-
tary service, and he has never looked very
happy behind Dr. Evatt.
The crack won’t be confined to Vic-
toria. With Messrs. Burke and Beazley
pushed out in W.A. and a large and rest-
less group (or groups), including Senator
McKenna, Senator Armstrong (Deputy-
leader in the Senate), Mr. Daly (Federal
Labor Whip) and Allan Fraser, of Eden-
Monaro, in N. S. Wales, the schism will
ultimately assume such proportions that
the party will be in halves —the Lefts
under Dr. Evatt on one hand and the
Rights (on whom he has pinned a sec-
tarian label) on the other. That is if Dr.
Evatt has survived the elections of officers
and other hazards in early caucus meet-
ings.
The elements on the industrial-group
side will be as well financed as (or better
than) those on the other side, and Dr.
Evatt must deeply regret that he included
the groups in his excommunication. With
the support of the Clerks and Ironworkers
they will make it a sorry day for him
when the fight is really joined.
His own array has yet to be seen in
clear perspective. It is headed by the
A.L.P. Federal Executive and the A.W-U-
-shouting Communist slogans like “No
troops for Malaya,” “Down with
Colonialism,” “Recognise Bandoeng,”
“Communist China for U.N.0.” He has
the support of Mr. Eddie Ward, the party
invalid. He has half the support of Mr.
Arthur Calwell, who seems to have been
sawn in two. Mr. Dan Curtin is faithful
to him, and so is Senator “Fixer” Ashley.
His staff has appeared on many battle-
grounds and is virtually hors de combat
at present, which is a disadvantage. He
hasn’t a chance of getting the support of
Mr. Cahill, who is now a Doctor of
Science —his gown is red, his hood yellow
—and whom the Federal Executive has
been getting out its tongs to question
about Santamaria groups, preliminary, it
is expected, to finding Mr. Cahill’s friends
of the N. S. Wales Executive “guilty on
all counts” and due for the axe. Mr.
Cahill is busy trying to find niches for
some of them in the public service.
Even his own supposed supporters are
strangely silent at the moment about
Dr. Evatt’s virtues. His only enthusiastic
followers are in the Communist party,
which is with him all the way despite the
fact that he insists, without much vigor,
that “there is no element of sympathy
with Communist doctrine in the A.L.P.’s
foreign or domestic policies.” The
“Tribune” last week wrote in its leader:
The policy declaration of the Hobart
Federal A.L.P. Conference against atomic
war, for a delegation of A.L.P. observers
to the Asian-African Conference and
opposition to Menzies plan to send troops
to Malaya is a first step to a policy of
friendship with Asian peoples. _ _it
is on such a policy that the majority
of Australians wUI unite in the defence
of peaee, and our national security—for
the defeat of the Menzies Government
The paper rejoiced at the success of
the Sydney A.L.P. regional conferences
“despite all attempts of the N. S. Wales
Executive to prevent them.” It declares
that “Labor-party members are enthusi-
astic over Dr. Evatt’s first steps towards
a genuinely independent foreign policy.”
So is Moscow. The “Tribune” chides the
“S. M. Herald” for attacking him and
his “commonsense views.” It is con-
cerned about the horrible persecution of
Dr. Evatt’s staff by the Petrov Commis-
sion. It speaks in the same slogans that
he uses, lauds his friends and smites his
enemies.
It is a queer stand by a party for whom
Dr. Evatt says he and his followers have
“no element of sympathy.” The Com-
munists are behaving in Australia as if
Dr. Evatt were their official leader. His
name is mentioned with approval these
times far more often in the Communist
press than that of Sharkey and Dixon,
their local Bulganin and Khrushchev.
What Party Now?
“In the ACT”: With “Labor” apparently
irreconcilably divided on basic issues in
Britain, Australia and New Zealand, the
crying need in those countries (which
have Parliaments based fundamentally on
the two-party system) is for Oppositions
with sound policies and responsible
leaders. Whatever its party, her Majesty’s
Opposition should always be in fact a
potential successor to the Ministerial
benches, and thus its opinions should
carry weight at home and abroad, and it
should be able to conduct a constantly-
critical survey of the actions and legisla-
tion of the Government in office. In the
Parliament which has reassembled in
Canberra this week this state of affairs is
impossible.
If the struggle now in progress were
merely a political brawl of personalities
it would be possible to await the outcome
philosophically. But now policies and
principles are at stake which must affect
every man, woman and child in Australia.
There is obviously no future for any
section trying to keep a lifeboat afloat
under a “Labor” flag on which familiar
symbols have become obscured by im-
ported ones. This poses an issue of great
(i Continued on next page).


significance. Can any survivors of the
wreck agree on definitions which they
feel can express the aspirations of an
acceptable political group? It is a for-
midable problem, and not the least of the
difficulties in a practical world is the
need for setting up a political organisa-
tion, with funds for propaganda and
research as well as for electorate cam-
paigning. The day is obviously past
when a proportion of all union-dues will
be automatically allocated to any politi-
cal party, and this satisfactory develop-
ment unfortunately means that whoever
now becomes the Opposition will neces-
sarily have meagre finances.
The business of framing a policy which
will try to express correctly the outlook
of those who previously voted “Labor”
(ignoring the extremists on either wing)
is another task calling not merely for
keen brains, which have never been lack-
ing in certain “Labor” circles, but for a
combination of intellectual perception
and clearsightedness which has been miss-
ing. Any new group which rises from the
red ashes of “Labor” now should have,
if it wishes to succeed, the objective of
making a contribution of the first magni-
tude to the political scene, while at the
same time being prepared to undertake
the exhausting and thankless task of
campaigning throughout the continent
for a term of years which may cover
several Parliaments. Only in this way
can a political organisation of national
structure be built and maintained. Ten
years ago, on the other side of politics,
Mr. Menzies was doing this kind of job
with a verve and capacity which eventu-
ally had its due reward, but there is no
sign at the moment that his political
opponents have discovered a comparable
figure with corresponding capacity.
Yet the job must be done.
Opportunists and job-seekers will not
undertake it, because there is no prospect
of early reward of the kind that appeals
to the selfish. It will be a long time
before the plums of office appear ripe,
but an attentive audience can be
secured at once for the job if it is tackled
in the right way, with vigor and humor
and foresight, and if Government policies
are subjected to a scrutiny of the kind
that has been lacking in recent years.
Australia is facing a crucial period.
It needs in that time a virile Opposition.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Australian Labor Party. The Aus-
tralian “Labor” Party. The Australian
Labor “Party.”
• •
Following yesterday’s adjournment in
respect of the memory of the late Tom
Sheehan, M.H.R. for Cook, Federal
Parliament will get down to the business
of the new sessioii today. Main interest
should.be Menzies’s statement on world
affairs and Australia’s commitments in
Malaya, but it is more likely to be
centred on finding out who’s who on the
Opposition benches.
• •
Britain is to have a general election on
May 26, the present Parliament being
dissolved on May 6. Eden’s broadcast
announcement —London is still without
newspapers—said:
Uncertainy at home and abroad about
Britain’s political future is bad for our
influence in world affairs, bad for trade
and unsettling in many ways. I believe it
is better to face this issue now.
To this Labor’s deputy-leader Herbert
Morrison replied that the Government
was rushing the election because it
expected “rough economic weather and
still higher living-costs.”
State of parties in»the present House
of Commons is: Conservative, 320;
Labor, 294; Liberals, 6; Irish
Nationalists (elected but do not attend),
2. There are three vacancies for which
by-elections were pending. These, of
course, will not now bp held.
Both Opposition-leader Attlee and
Morgan Phillips, secretary of the Labor
party, have expressed optimism about
their party’s chances, but neither has said
what his opinion is based on. It can’t
be on the result of the municipal elections
a fortnight ago at which Labor lost
heavily.
• •
Mosman A.L.P. branch has admitted
Evatt to membership. If Bert has any
sense of gratitude he will now stand for
that electorate next election.
• •
If Mr. Howe’s suggestion that Prime
Ministers’ conferences should become
movable feasts is adopted, perhaps Avery
Brundage could be engaged some time
before Canberra’s turn arrives to make
sure that accommodation and other
facilities are brought up to standard.
m •
Leader of the breakaway “Labor”
party in the Federal Parliament will be
neither Bourke, the first of the group to
criticise Evatt’s policy in public, nor
Mullens, first to be expelled from the
party. The job has gone to R. Joshua,
M.H.R. for Ballaarat, whose election to
the leadership was announced on Satur-
day. Other members are S. M. Keon
(Yarra), deputy-leader ; T. W. Andrews
(Darebin); W. M. Bourke (Fawkner);
W. G. Bryson (Wills); J. L. Cremean
(Hoddle); and J. M. Mullens (Gelli-
brand).
Joshua’s followers assert that they are
still members of the A.L.P., but wish to
preserve it from Communist infiltration
and promote genuine “Labor” policy;
they also wish to maintain a pro-Australia
foreign policy, and they reject “the pro-
Communist foreign policy which Dr.
Evatt and Dr. Burton have sought to
impose on the Labor movement.”
The Doc. suggested that the appro-
priate name for the breakaway party
would be the “Santamaria Group.” His
suggestion wasn’t accepted; Joshua and
Co. wish to be known as the Australian
Labor Party (Anti-Communist). If it
spreads to N. S. Wales —it has invited
others who don’t like Bert to join—-the
name may cause a little confusion. Jack
Lang still calls himself the Australian
Labor Party (Non-Communist).
• •
With sterling at a higher level than
for many months and an election due on
May 26, Britain was expecting Chancellor
Butler to announce tax-cuts in his
Budget speech last night. Hot tips were
a cut in income-tax, petrol-tax and
entertainments-tax and a lower excise on
beer.
On Friday price-control was lifted
from the remaining 22 items on the once-
formidable N. S. Wales list. Main goods
affected were beer, bread, butter,
cigarettes, petrol, soap and sugar.
• o
While Opposition-leader Bolte was
saying he was confident that the Cole-
man-Barry party would support his no-
confidence motion against the Cain
Government, and Barry was saying that
his party was prepared for an election
and the sooner it came the better, Cain
remained silent. Still, Saturday’s Mel-
bourne papers carried advertisements
calling for nominations for “Labor” can-
didates for 31 Assembly and five Legisla-
tive Council seats. These are the seats
for which the earlier nominations have
been affected by the split.
• •
An all-women expedition is to tackle
the Himalayas. It looks as if the Abom-
inable Snowman will be caught at last.
• •
Urgent affairs in Canberra have pre-
vented Evatt from jumping on the
Bandoeng wagon, but Burton is there. It
OLYMPIC TORCHBEARER
looks as if his “observing” will be rather
difficult; just before the conference began
it was announced that the sessions would
be conducted in private.
• •
A demand is being whipped-up for the
N.S.W. Government to build an electric-
railway connecting the beaches north of
Manly with Sydney. Those organising it
have committed themselves to something
far beyond the grave if the Eastern
Suburbs railway is any criterion.
• •
One of the matters for discussion by
Federal Parliament during the current
sittings will be the proposed redistribu-
tion of seats. There were early hints that
“Labor” would object to the new
boundaries in N.S.W. and Victoria, but
the segments of Opposition seem likely
to be too busy with their own redistribu-
tions inside the House of Reps, to be
greatly troubled about the actual elector-
ates. That worry will come later.
• •
Gollan, N.S.W. Minister for Mines,
gave Blackburn, a union official and
senior vice-president of the Cahill A.L.P.,
the job of employees’ representative on
the State Coal Mines Authority. The
State coalminers promptly announced
they wouldn’t have him, as hitherto
they’d elected their representative.
Whereupon Blackburn fell over himself
to get out of the job and Gollan came
out with a ponderous statement §.bout
his nominee’s big-heartedness and
jealousy for the good of the industry.
But Gollan had refused to admit
Chalmers, Independent Labor M.L.A. for
Hartley, wherein lies the Lithgow State
mine, to a deputation, and that will be
stored against the Cahills for the next
election. Gollan, aptly enough, chose
April 1 to make the appointment.
In the course of the argument Gollan
did not enhance his reputation as a dip-
lomat when he commented that the post
was “almost in the nature of a sinecure.”
• •
Who foots the bill for the Doc’s
1500-word telegrams? Many taxpayers
are wondering whether it’s their
responsibility.
• •
“In the ACT”: Broome Pearl Shellers’
Association made an effective reply to
the A.W.U. by disclosing that Jap. divers
earned a minimum of £lOB7 10s. in a
season —some as much as £lBOO. They
work on a bonus-system, and the mini-
mum is for men on a two-diver boat
capable of fishing ten ton a year. That
answers the union—but surely some of
our own abos can be trained to do the job
as well, and be given the same money.
• •
Frankie Forde’s period of anxiety
ended last week when he was declared
elected for the Flinders seat in the
Queensland Assembly. With a handful
of votes outstanding he headed Lonergan
(Country party) by 300, with Independ-
ent Laborite Corney in third place.
Owing to floods there was only about a
60 per cent, poll compared with 84.5 per
cent, at the previous election. Lonergan
was probably the main sufferer from this
—a fact which is causing the Country
party to build high hopes for the general
election next year.
• •
Canada may buy more tinned pine-
apples and other fruit from Australia as
a result of deputy-Prime Minister Howe’s
visit to Queensland —and the tins to
hold them may come from Canadian
tinplate, of which the Dominion is now
producing more than it needs. Howe
intends to put the suggestion to the right
people when he goes home.
• •
At least one pensioner isn’t asking for
more. Instead, he’s renounced a £2-a-
week pension. He’s the Aga Khan, who
must be the world’s richest pensioner.
His family has had the pension since
1844 “for help given to the British East
India Company.”
• •
A tea-expert from Assam thinks pros-
pects for tea-growing in Queensland are
good, and he is coming to have a look
at the place. He should be warned
that the moment he starts tea-growing
in Queensland there’ll be a State Tea
Board set up, with jobs for the bhoys,
and the cost of the board will bump up
the price of tea as similar boards bump
the price of potatoes, fish, eggs and
canary-seed.
• •
Rylah, deputy Opposition-leader in
Victoria, has made a suggestion for the
employment of over-age men who have
retired from the police-force or public-
service. He’d like to see established
something on the lines of the Corps of
Commissionaires, its members to do much
of the routine work now performed by
the police.
• •
“Stromlo”: New wars have provided
new headaches for the board of manage-
ment of the Australian War Memorial in
Canberra, especially in provision of space
for the growing collection of historical
exhibits. Another difficulty faced recently
was a Government decision of 1924 that
the names of the fallen in the 1914-18
war should be recorded on bronze under
towns and districts. Now that the
memorial covers all wars in which Aus-
tralians have participated there are “in-
surmountable difficulties” in doing this
accurately, so Cabinet has agreed that all
names shall be grouped under the names
of the units in which their bearers were
serving or last served.
• •
“Mugga Way”: With the barometer
“set fair” for the Government, Canberra
Libs, feel that a greater degree of con-
sideration by Ministers for the needs of
the Territory might result in the election
of a Liberal next time for the A.C.T.
Interior Minister Kent Hughes is not
helping this idea by his attitude towards
representations for 10-o’clock closing.
It’s nearly a year since the Advisory
Council recommended the change, and
it’s a long time since the Minister indi-
cated that his decision might rest on the
result of the N.S.W. liquor-poll. Now
back from the Far East, K.H. has rented
for six months the house of Lib. party
Federal director Bob Willoughby, so per-
haps he’ll discover for himself the
neglected footpaths and roadways, the
half-finished swimming-pool where work
is still at a standstill, and other disabilities
of the capital.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
/~vUR ancestors might have wondered
what savage religion survived
in Tasmania if they had heard the appeal
over the air for blood-donors, “as they
needed plenty of blood for the Easter
holidays.”—“Tasma.”
❖ ♦> ♦♦♦
“Orang Puteh”: I nominate the follow-
ing as a pretty fair bag for one who en-
listed as a private in the First A.1.F.,
was a front-line soldier right through, and
never rose above the rank of lieutenant:
Met and had conversation with: Sir
Douglas Haig, Commander-in-Chief;
Lord Jellicoe, Admiral of the Fleet;
General Birdwood, Commander of the
A.I.F. Lunched at officers’ club in
France with King George V and his two
sons, later Edward VIII and George VI.
Was a guest at a Gallipoli-luncheon in
London in November, 1918, after the
Armistice, at which the guests-of-honor
were Sir lan Hamilton and Winston
Churchill.
*t* ❖ ❖
“Doric”: If Johnnie Ray had lived at
the end of the last century he would have
found many more songs suitable to his
crying - abilities than at present just
think what he could have done with
“Don’t Go Down the Mine, Daddy,” “A
Bird in a Gilded Cage,” “In the Luggage
Van Ahead,” “Ring Down the Curtain —
I Can’t Sing To-night,” ‘‘Just Across the
Bridge of Gold,” etc. Since then our
popular songs have gradually become
less lugubrious, the most outstanding
miserable ones being “In the Heart of the
City (that has no heart)” and “The
Prisoner’s Song.” We have a lot to be
thankful for that these dirges have
vanished from our pop-tunes, although
it seems that a huge audience is still there
for anyone who can bring musical tears
up-to-date. If Johnnie Ray really had a
voice it would be interesting to hear how
he would render
Caruso’s “On With the
Motley” from “I Pagli-
acci”—and couldn’t he
just murder Tosti’s
ballads!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Clyde”: Now some-
one suggests that there
should also be a margin
for strength. Why not
one for tidiness, like-
wise punctuality, and
when everybody has
benefited equally, may-
be it will be possible to
re-apply for a margin
for skill.
“j oc k”: Newcastle (N . S .W.) Lord
Mayor’s Flood Relief Fund rece ived
£25 0 from the « Rockem B oys,” and this
brought to light a group of local business-
men who have hiding their light
under a bushel> Seven years ago some
businessmen were having a drink when
a friend told them of a widow in financial
difficulties. An on-the-spot collection was
generous that the originator said:
.EhJS 11 rock em, boys! A club was
formed membership restricted to 20-
ey er since the members have gone
a^out Last year £734 was
spent helping 29 families in financial
stress, bringing the total distributed since
1948 to £3665. In the organisation are two
optometrists, a surgeon, a doctor, a solici-
tor and a den tist who give the hard-ups
honorary services,
J
❖ ❖ ❖
ei r „ , ,
nV^fL°” S & f p ordon s
Permanent flow of U.S. entertainers
doesnt develo P mto a draln •• •
,♦«. *
“Bolton”: Lancashire folk aren’t
mean, but they’re careful. The Bench
in my home-town was recently called
upon to deal with a drunk-in-charge case
“How do they fit, dear ?”
(first-offender). He drew a £5O fine, a
two-years’ disqualification and was
ordered to pay the municipal medical
officer’s fee of two-guineas for certifying
him incapable of driving a motor-vehicle!
The Bench must have been in lenient
mood that morning, as the ex-driver was
told that if he appeared before it again
on such a charge it would be compelled
to take a serious view of the matter.
Australian Beaks, please copy—especially
the M.O.’s fee!
♦j* ♦>
“Metax”: Lord Mayor Park was the
first customer; he bought space for his
car in Collins-street, near Elizabeth-
street, Hobart, for half an hour while he
“ Women leave me cold!”
explained parking-meters (3d. a quarter-
hour) to onlookers on April 1.
“Jock”: April Fool’s Day cliches had
one variation in our suburb, where an
engineering apprentice telephoned a
number he was given (it was the local
police-station) to ask for “six-feet of
copper.”
♦+* <♦ +♦♦
“F.H.”: As to Brisbane traffic, I took
a taxi last Christmas Eve from Roma-
street Station. The driver shot off at such
a bat that someone’s luggage bounced out
of the open boot before we’d cleared the
station-yard. Our driver’s technique was
superb. One second we were tearing hell-
for-leather up the middle of a tramline ;
next second, braked to a stop, a tram
practically climbing our back bumper
while a passenger alighted. Driver
grabbed the fare, let in the clutch, hurled
out the change, and got around to closing
the door 100yds. down the street. Sud-
denly turning left, he grinned “This is
worth a try.” It nearly came off, too: we
had gone practically the full length of
one-way Turbot-street before an irate
member of the Force materialised and
demanded that we go back the way we
had come —in reverse.
*X* ❖ ❖
“The Nosebag”: On January 2, 1884,
my brother started work for a man in
Brisbane. The following year his boss
took him to Sydney. At Christmas, 1888,
he came home for a visit, bringing with
him a copy of The Bulletin. I was so
interested that he said he would post it
to me regularly. He is still at the office
of the same people —Bills Bros., Kent-
street, Sydney, and I still receive my
weekly copy of The Bulletin.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Asphar”: Old Kruger is dead. Those
of us who frequented the Public Library
no longer start and look hurriedly over
our shoulder as a particularly thrilling
wolf-call floats down to us from the bal-
cony of the Court Hotel on the corner
across the way. No more do starting
trams pull up with a jerk at the James-
street corner on which the hotel stands,
while harassed conductors in a busy peak-
period wait in vain for the shrill-whistling
late passenger, who never materialises.
No more will perplexed youths, passing
innocently about their affairs, hurry by
in an embarrassed silence, wondering
what they have' done to the haughty
blondes, brunettes and redheads who toss
their heads, and stare at them in stony
silence while a cooing wolf-call floats
about. In 1915 Young Kruger arrived
from South Africa, was enthroned in his
swinging cage, and through sun and
shadow ever since had delighted the
admiring multitudes who taught him all
t he tricks he was so adept at learning,
Yanks during World War II rounded off
his education with the famous wolf-call
that has rocked Perthites in the know
ever since. Yes, Old Kruger is dead, and
involuntarily many of us in passing will
look up to the Beaufort-street balcony
with a twinge of the heart. To many a
dark cloud Old Kruger seemed symbolic
of, and provided, the silver lining. One
grey parrot loved by all who knew him.
♦j* +j+
“Bo”: The current passion for what
may be termed the etymological abortion
finds its most flamboyant expression in
the suffix “orium”: our district, as well
as the noW-accepted crematorium, is
cursed with a lubritorium, and one
spaghetti-fancier announces in bold
letters that his establishment is a
“fruitorium.” Then the undertaker
capped it by turning his mortuary into a
“mortorium.” Well, abattoirs is a word
regarded with distaste because of its asso-
ciation with blood. What about bowing
to the finer feelings by altering it? And,
after all, “Gorium” is at least mellifluous.
♦J.
“Stromlo”: Official statements rarely
contain what the journalists term a
“punch-line,” but an exception is pro-
vided by a U.K. Ministry of Information
release. This relates that Leonard Gas-
coigne, a Yorkshire boy, has had a 100
per cent, school-attendance record —2200
out of that possible of attendances. His
mother, who has received a letter from
the Minister of Education, says the secret
is that he had the usual illnesses before
he started school. In his schooldays he
.never had even a serious cold or cough.
The punch came in the last sentence. This
said: “Leonard is now training to be a
coalminer.”
ifc <£»
“F.A.”: If the Getting referred to by
Eric Baume in his verse on the Australia
(B. 6/4/’55) alludes to the late Captain
Frank Getting, R.A.N., this seems to be
in error. Frank Getting, who was killed
during a surprise night-action in the
islands, was, at the time of his death, in
command of cruiser H.M-A.S. Canberra.
The Japs, who were scared of a trap,
sent up a flare and put a broadside into
the Canberra, one shell from which tore
across the bridge, fatally wounding
Captain Getting, who died shortly
afterwards. Frank Getting was a Manly
(Sydney) boy—a six-footer and a good
all-round athlete. He served as a middy
at Jutland, and as a lieut. brought our
two submarines Oxley and Otway from
England, where he had completed a
course in under-water warfare. A mid-
shipman who was on the Canberra’s
bridge when the fatal shell arrived told
me that Captain Getting insisted on all
other wounded being attended to before
he was carried below.
MR. BRUNDAGE’S UMBRAGE
“Chairman of the International Olympic
Committee, Mr. Avery Brundage, lamenting
the state of Melbourne’s preparedness for the
Olympic Games, says, ‘Apparently there is
no organisation to cope with the problems
properly.’ ”
Well, Melbourne may have been a spot
For village-life, as history claims;
But Mr. Brundage says it's not
The kind of place for fun and Games:
No place, at any rate, for fun —
“So much to do ! So little done!”
The runner out of Marathon
Heading the nations from the sea
May have to march them on and on
By bush-trails blazed from tree to tree,
Instead of proper racing-tracks,
And lead and leave them to the blacks.
And then from every gunya-porch
Will babel international ire,
And then the old Olympian torch
Will corruscate in Coles of fire;
And watching its departing flashes
We’ll know we’ve lost both Flame and
Ashes.
Well, Melbourne’s merchant-princes seem
To cut across each other’s grain ;
Her “Labor” party’s in a dream
Of raising, or depressing, Cain;
And other parties, more or less,
Are in a — well, Olympian — mess.
Ah, Melbourne, in your blooming youth
When Geelong raised her haughty head
You wasted neither time nor truth,
But drew a clever map instead,
A map in which your town was made
Much nearer to the goldfields-trade:
Awake from your Olympian nap,
O Melbourne ! Take a hint from this
And put yourself upon the map
Where Sydney at the moment is:
Thus may your troubles be dispelled
And Games correctly staged and. held !
SYDNEY.
SWILLIAM.


are often scathing about “comma-
"" pushers”—people who worry
the hours away about whether to put a
comma here or there or leave it out alto-
gether. But at least I am cured of being
scathing any more. The other evening I
heard an announcer on a commercial
radio-station tell his listeners: “Dine
with confidence men at the XYZ
Restaurant.” Of course, he quickly
corrected himself by saying that he
meant “Dine with confidence, men, at
the XYZ Restaurant.” For in any high-
class restaurant the people to be wary of
are not the people you dine with, but the
people who make out the bill. —“C.W.J.”
® * t*
“J. 8.”: Tell “A.J.S.” (B, 30/3/’55)
that the phrase “By the Hokey Fly” is in
“A dab of paint makes a difference.”
constant use in at least one district along
Queensland’s north coast, only, as we’re
an easy-going mob up this way, it’s
usually abbreviated to “By the Hokey,”
with the emphasis on the “by.” No, I
don’t know what it means myself, but,
judging by the sudden subsidence of my
hostess’s small daughter when her mother
used it in no uncertain tones, she did!
v * *
“A.L.D.”: On reading of the man who
was fined for working in his annual holi-
days, though he had the reasonable
excuse that he did so in order to meet
medical charges for a sick son, I thought
of a successful businessman who in youth
had worked in the N.S.W. Railways. He
was a skilled worker in leather, and in
his spare time ran a little manufacturing
business. During his annual holidays he
used to push his wares in country towns,
taking advantage of the free railway-
pass allowed with annual leave. Nothing
wrong in that. If
anyone prefers to use
annual holidays to
better his or her
economic position,
instead of in pleasure,
more power to them.
In time this man
built up an important
business which gave
employment to many
workers. A young
man who shows
similar enterprise to-
day is liable to a fine.
❖ *> *l*
“Mullum”: That
disk-jockey of
“Eurimburra’s” (B.
30/ 3/ ’55) who
smashed a popular
record for a quid
was a piker. Several
years ago an
announcer had a
similar request to
smash “The Little
White Cloud that
Cried.” He asked his
listeners what they
thought of the idea.
Three-quarters of an
hour later he
announced the poll:
41 in favor of smash-
ing, 57 against. However, the financial
result was the opposite ; £72 in favor and
£6O against. To please everyone, he
first played the record, and then smashed
it. Checking up a week later, it was
found that £l2B 17s. 6d. of the promised
donations had been received.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Edward’s”: I was almost across the
empty street-intersection when a brand-
new sedan, shooting suddenly out of a
side-street, cut across the rear of my old
Austin, buckling the mudguard. I pulled
in to the kerb, cursing. A short, stout
woman in a ridiculous hat scrambled out
of the Hillman, calling joyfully, “Aren’t
I silly!” I received this gross under-
statement balefully. “You ...” I began.
“I’m always doing that,” she confided,
having reached my car, and leaning
against the door. “Hubby keeps on telling
me . . . but bang goes my foot on the
accelerator instead of the brake whenever
I’m flurried . . . Maybe it’s because I’m
right-handed.” I opened my mouth to
say something, but she continued regard-
less. “Still, never mind. No harm done”
—glancing cursorily at the large dent in
my old warrior’s mudguard—“ Easily
mend that.” She began to move off.
“Hey!” I shouted. “Send me the bill,”
she cut in, opening the door of the sedan,
“Nobody can say I don’t pay”—starting
the motor. “8ut...” I yelled. “I always
do,” she bawled above the roar of the
exhaust. “I’m that conscientious.” And
she was gone in a flurry of smoke and
dust. I had neither her name nor address,
and hadn’t been able to note her number.
I paid.
“A.C.T.”: Six heads of foreign
missions in Canberra are among the
members of the new Commonwealth
Club, just granted its liquor-licence. Sec-
retary is former Hansard chief George
Romans, and there are 117 foundation-
members, most of whom attended the
inaugural cocktail-party in the club’s re-
modelled premises, formerly the residence
of the U.K. High Commissioner. The
club will have women associate-members,
and there will be accomodation for half
a dozen visitors to Canberra. Graziers,
professional men and an eminent retired
public servant told the licensing magis-
trate that such a club was badly needed
in Canberra; hotel licensees and secre-
taries of some other clubs are reported
to be less enthusiastic.
+
“Mullum”: If “Recla” objects so
strongly to “siltation” (B. 30/3/’55), no
doubt he will request the Water Board
to remove all their filtration-plants, and
replace them with filtering-plants, though
whether the water, or the language, will
be purer and simpler is still doubtful,
Besides, to nearly every listener, siltation
replaces two words: “silting up.” Don’t
know what value the preposition has, but
it is always included,
, *** ♦♦♦ *
“Mugga Way”: There’s a Flying
Doctor service akin to the Australian,
in an unexpected part of the world. A
similar air-ambulance unit serves the
islands and highlands of the west coast of
Scotland. It has carried more than 2500
sick or injured people to mainland
hospitals.
OVINE UTOPIA
“Soviet chemists are reported to be hopeful,
after years of experimenting with drugs on
sheep, that they may be able to remove the
wool without the necessity of shearing.
Attention, attention
To Russki invention !
It’s rich, of amazing variety:
That’s why they’re in clover.
It’s thought-up, moreover,
In nothing but strictest sobriety.
So bold their adventures:
Cows fitted with dentures,
And pigs that refuse to go wallowing;
Sanaan goats with square udders,
Herefords without rudders
And horses that eat without swallowing.
i
The mite in the cheeses
That clicks for diseases
Gets poultices stuck on its cranium;
Milk’s radioactive
(The taste’s more attractive)
From feeding the cows on uranium.
They’ve even made rabbits
Change ancient habits —
They walk now; it’s easier to shoot
at ’em.
Their cats “freeze” on seeing
A man, ’stead of fleeing —
He can’t miss when slinging a boot at
’em.
And for Ivan’s Merino
A chemical beano
They’ve planned; it’s devoid of all
painfulness.
They ply her with lotion,
With tablet and potion,
Resulting (they hope) in much gain-
fulness.
Collectivised shearer
Embarks on an era
Of progress; shears soon quite
dispensable,
His jumbukski peeling,
Oh, blissful his feeling:
No tar, and no words reprehensible.
N.s.w.
S. W. K.
WHO KILLED THE MONKEY?
PETER BLADEN was not correct m
“Lazy Walkabout” in giving Captain
Elm the credit for keeping a menagerie
at the old Lealholme homestead at Risdon
Park, Port Pirie (S.A.).
The menagerie was kept
by Fred Lacy, a one-time
mayor of Port Pirie, and
it was dispersed at least
12 year’s before Captain
Elm’s occupation of the
palatial old residence.
Between the date of
dispersal and the purchase
of Lealholme by Captain
Elm the place was vacant
as often as occupied; its
size, state of disrepair, area
of wilderness garden and
distance from the township
frightened all but non-rent-
paying caretaker tenants.
Very early one Sunday
morning in 1913 the
baboon escaped from its
cage at the Grey residence
and ambled down the
road a couple of doors, to
enter the home' of Henry
Barwell, later Sir Henry
and Premier of South Aus-
tralia, at that time a prac-
tising solicitor in Port Pirie
and an aspirant for
political honors.
It was firstly discovered by a servant-
girl whose screams awakened the house-
hold. The baboon retreated into the
bathroom, and the door was held closed
while Henry Barwell phoned Fred Grey.
Before the owner could be found
the animal escaped through the bathroom-
window and was next seen by the excited
household gambolling with the Barwell
dog on the front lawn. Henry Barwell
grabbed a gun and, taking aim through
an open window, shot the baboon dead.
A 12-year-old at the time, barefooted
and on my way to Pelham’s paddock to
beat the crows to my rabbit-traps, I, to-
gether with a couple of near-by residents,
heard the heated row between Barwell
and Grey which took place on the lawn
beside the dead baboon,, and in which
Barwell was accused of unnecessarily
destroying a valuable pet which would
have harmed nobody.
The death of the star attraction hastened
the dispersal of the rest of the menagerie,
mainly kangaroos, wallabies, peacocks,
and native birds. 1 do not know what
happened to the large collection of native
weapons and nardoo-stones which was
housed in a shade-house adjoining the
baboon-cage.
The happening sounded the death-knell
to whatever chances Henry Barwell had as
a candidate in the then impending South
Australian elections, as the organisers for
his opponent (Harry Jackson) took full
advantage of the circumstances and
plastered every telegraph-pole and hoard-
ing with the slogans: “Who Killed the
Monkey?—Barwell.”
I am still conscious of my part in the
unfair criticism at the time as I joined
the other kids, whether of Liberal or
Labor parentage, in bawling the question
to Henry Barwell every time he drove
down the Terrace in his pony-and-sulky
and in screaming the answer, “Barwell”
The catcall was hurled at Sir Henry
whenever he visited Port Pirie in the
years that followed, and I can recall that
the late Lionel Hill who also became a
Premier of South Australia, never opened
an election-meeting at Port Pirie with-
out first bawling “Who Killed the
Monkey?” He received a roar from the
crowd in answer, “Barwell! ”
By the way, the name of the Pirie
suburb is Risdon Park, not Risden, as
stated in “Lazy Walkabout.” It is named
after Tasmania’s Risdon, a close associate
of Port Pirie inasmuch as zinc-concen-
trate roasted at Pirie is shipped to
Risdon for electrolytic extraction of the
zinc, the residue being returned to Port
Pirie for recovery of the small lead con-
tent. It was while returning with residues
that the old Pareora ran on the rocks at
Wardang Island some 30 years ago, and
was lost with but one survivor.
SEMAL NAMADDIF.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Met in Perth, Mrs. A. Frere, a daughter
of Edgar Wallace, and herself a journa-
list and an editor of radio- and film-
scripts. With her husband, who is chair-
man of the English publishing house of
Heinemann, she is making a world-tour ;
next landfall, South Africa, where her
father started his journalistic career. Mrs.
Frere has been plying the pen since she
left school in 1922, to start as a reporter
on London “Daily Telegraph.” She
joined the “Sketch” and “Tatler” a few
years later. After War II she spent four
years with the J. A. Rank organisation,
looking for stories and plays suitable for
screening. While on this, she induced
Somerset Maugham to agree to the film-
ing of his “Trio.” Later, casting-agent
and story-reviewer for the Goldwyn
people in London, France and Italy, she
signed up Madeline Prelle for Goldwyn.
On the air, she has compered a life of
her father for the 8.8. C., and has
appeared on television.
• •
Herewith James H. Boulware (pro-
nounced “Bowler”), new U.S. Agricul-
tural down in Sydney from
Canberra. Tall, loose-limbed, soft-
speaking, he gives the impression of
being very much the observer —which an
agricultural attache chiefly is. For the
past four years he’s held the same job
in Rangoon; before that, soldier and
civilian, chief of the production-branch
in Japan from 1946 to late 1950 —one of
those jobs in which the wearer of a
uniform appears at his desk one morning
in civvies. Earlier, infantry service, and
a Master’s degree in science (Dairy
AMERICAN
Chemistry) at the University of Cali-
fornia, after graduation from Clemson
College, South Carolina, where he
majored in Dairying. He’ll be giving a
public lecture on conservation-practices
and -organisation ill the U.S.A., with
particular reference to flood-problems, at
the Assembly Hall, Margaret-street,
Sydney, on Monday night, June 6 —Sheep
Show week. The lecture will be spon-
sored by the Australian society called
Men of the Land.
• •
John William Goodsell, new president
of the Sydney Metropolitan Water Board,
already knows much about water, and
about a good many other things also.
Lately Under-Secretary of the Treasury
and Comptroller of Accounts, he has had
under his wing the Treasury, Government
Stores, Printing and Insurance, Stamp
Duties, Lotteries and the Bureau of
Statistics and Economics. A sizeable field,
to which is added some 10 years’ experi-
ence in looking after country water-
supplies and sewer age-works. Other
diverse duties have included membership
of the State Library Board and chair-
manship of the Bookmakers’ Revision
Committee. Son of an A.I.F. major, he’s
had 33 of his 48 years in the Public
Service.
Turning over to Goodsell, Thomas
Haynes Upton will have been turning
Sydney’s (sometimes off) for 20
years to the day since he joined the
Water Board from the Assistant Com-
missionership for Main Roads in N.S.W.
Doctor of Engineering and Master of
Science, Upton was assistant to Sir John
Monash in concrete-construction just
before War I, and during it remained in
engineering—first with the Royal Naval
Division, sapper ; later captain of Royal
Engineers and chief-instructor in the
R.E. bridging-school. He was twice
wounded, and won three “mentions.” In
1947 he was awarded the Kernot
Memorial Medal for distinguished en-
gineering achievement.
“In the ACT”: Retirement of Sir Keith
Officer, Australian Ambassador in Paris
(B. 16/3/’55), prompted External Affairs
Minister Casey into a letter touching on
Officer’s work over 30 years in the
Department. Casey wrote:
I have just been looking at the list of
posts which you have filled —and filled so
well: London, Washington, Tokyo,
Moscow and Kuibyshev, Chungking, The
Hague, Nanking, and finally Paris. It is
a career which not many Foreign Service
officers of any country could match. They
have all been important jobs and you
have not only enjoyed doing them, but
have done them magnificently.... Your
war-time assignments in Tokyo, Moscow
and Kuibyshev and Chungking were front-
line assignments in which physical difficul-
ties and dangers added to the ordinary
problem of life overseas. That you should
have had three such posts in a row is a
good indication of how your services have
been valued by Governments of different
colors. You can properly regard yourself
not only as one of tl\e founders of the
Australian Foreign Service but as a model
which men of succeeding generations can
seek to emulate. If we collected your
letters and dispatches over the last 20 years
or so, they would provide an extremely
informative history of our own time, full
of terse wisdom and a knowledge of men
and affairs.
Perhaps Sir Keith will take a hint in the
last sentence, and produce a book of
memoirs.
• •
Now in Westralia as a Fulbright re-
searcher, Dr. Graham B. Bell, Associate-
Professor of Psychology in the Louisiana
State University, will spend eight months
studying labor-conditions in Westralian
factories, with special attention to the
ability of foremen to understand indus-
trial workers, and the efficiency of the
groups under them. One personal pro-
blem he solved in the U.S. before he came
here —how to fit his 6ft. sin. and 14-odd-
stone into beds which everywhere are too
short. Which is why, on his own admis-
sion, he “sleeps curled up.”
• •
“Spokeshave”: I was one of the 3000-
odd crammed into Melbourne Town Hall
to hear R. G. Menzies, fresh from over-
seas, being showered with laudatory com-
pliments and good wishes from his old
friend and political enemy John Cain, and
I couldn’t help wishing that Sir Charles
Lowe had been chairman. The ex-
Chancellor of the University is famous
for his cracks ; if he had been present
he would certainly have enlightened the
proceedings with some dry comment.
One of his I remember was when he was
welcoming Bertrand Russell at the Wilson
Hall, now unhappily no longer in
existence. “It is a unique thing,” he said,
“that I am able to welcome on to the
platform a peer with intelligence.”
• •
Richard Hicks, with National
Emergency Services in War 11, now goes
to Flood Emergency Services in N.S.W.;
direotor in both cases. Solicitor by pro-
fession, he’ll co-ordinate all flood-rescue
and -relief activities in the State. For
the past 10 years he’s been in the Child
Welfare Department; director there, too.
• •
“Pip Tok”: The late Edward Rowland
(B. 30/3/’55) was not the begetter of the
music of “Mademoiselle from Armen-
tieres,” though he may have made some
contribution to the form the song assumed
during and after the First World War.
In the Boer War I heard other words
sung to the music that 1914-18 Diggers
knew so well. These were a Rabelaisian
parody of a ballad by the German song-
writer Uhland, which the Iron Duke’s
men picked up from their Prussian allies
in the Waterloo campaign. The older
words were superseded by the more
topical verses of the “Mademoiselle”
version, which increased and multiplied
with the war-years until they vied in
number with those of that other classic
of the trenches “She Was Poor, But She
Was Honest.” The authorship has always
been a matter for dispute. One of the
earlier claimants was a Canadian named
Gitz Rice. Between the world wars
Rice sued an American gramaphone-
record company for royalties, but, if I
remember rightly, he failed to establish
his claim to authorship.
• •
Sighted in his birthplace, Fremantle
on his way to take up duty in Adelaide,
Wing-Commander Alan C. Rawlinson,
R.A.F. He flew for 10 years with the
R.A.A.F. —D.F.C. and Bar; in the
R.A.F. he added A.F.C. More recently,
he has been commanding a wing of
R.A.F. Vampire and Meteor jets. In
Fremantle he met his father, one-time
champion East Fremantle footballer.
Appointed the first principal of the
Ceylon Agricultural College for Women,
Evelyn Murray, wife of former New
Guinea Administrator Jack Keith
Murray. He held the Chair of Agricul-
ture in Queensland’s University; she
holds an Agricultural Science degree from
Sydney Uni.
• •
Arrived in America to join the
chemistry-research staff of the Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute (N.Y.), Henry J.
Gardiner, who graduated in science at
the Westralian University in 1947 and
took his D.Sc. degree in 1954, basing his
thesis on work done while a member of
the physics and chemistry faculty of
Sydney University. For the past twelve
months he has been senior demonstrator
in physics and chemistry at Melbourne
Uni. At the Rensselaer he will work on
the electro-chemistry of titanium com-
pounds in molten salt-mixtures, a job
sponsored by the U.S. Office of Naval
Research.
• •
On the opening day there were two
noteworthy donations to the million-
pound appeal Melbourne University is
making for its rebuilding-programme.
One was £20,000 from J. R. Montgomery,
a leading Melbourne citizen, the other a
fortnight’s pocket-money one-bob
from Frank Pa.ton. Frank is the eight-
year-old son of Vice-Chancellor George
Paton.
• •
Most R.A.A.F. units, and Woomera,
will be aired for inspection by visiting
Air-Marshal F. J. Fressanges, C. 8.,
C,-in-C. of the British Far East Air
Force. He might see some old faces.
In War II he commanded the flying-boat
wing which included the R.A.A.F.’s
famed 10 Squadron of Sunderlands. No.
I Squadron, in Malaya, is under his
command.
• •
Awarded the 1955 Barrett Memorial
Medal for distinguished services to town-
planning, E. F. Borrie, Melbourne’s chief
town-planner and the driving force be-
hind the master-plan for the city. The
medal has been awarded to only three
others—one of them Charles B. Bennet,
Los Angeles city-planner.
• •
Avery Brundage, here depicted, dis-
pelled the local legend that his real name
should be “Umbrage” within 24 hours of
his arrival as chief inspector of the works
that have been going on and stopping and
going on again in Melbourne for the
Olympics. Melbourne, he said, had been
given the Games six years ago and
could have done a lot more, but he felt
that (jumping over a fence) with a year
and a half to go (hopping lightly over
a heap of rubble) all could be finished.
He said, moreover, that he felt sure all
facilities would be ready, and it was with
gratified pride the Melbourne committee
heard him say that the people of Mel-
bourne were ready to welcome visitors
from all over the world, and that said
visitors would be delighted with the hos-
pitality extended to them. Also that he
would do his best to dispel the bad im-
pression abroad created by sundry Aus-
tralian knockers who promised visitors
that a park-seat or a hollow-log would be
all the accommodation they were likely
OLYMPIAN
to get in Melbourne. Hence smiles on
all faces, including Mr. Brundage’s. He
has other things to smile about —he is a
Chicago millionaire. Also, a construc-
tional-engineer able to sum-up what had
been done and what had to be done at the
Olympic Pool and the M.C.G. He is
also an athlete- -pentathlon champion at
the 1912 Olympics. At 68 he is still ath-
letic enough to get round the works well
ahead of some of his official guides.
Busily looking over Australia from
north to south, and a good many places
in between, Clarence Decateur Howe,
herewith. Senior Minister of the Cana-
dian Cabinet, deputising as such for
Prime Minister St. Laurent, the visitor
has held some of the most crucial politi-
cal posts since he left the Chair of Civil
Engineering at Dalhousie University in
Halifax to become a naturalised Canadian
in 1913. Born in Massachusetts, owning
CANADIAN
a Bachelor of Science degree from the
famed Institute of Technology there, in
the middle of War I he formed his own
company of consulting-engineers in On-
tario, and in 1935 went into the Canadian
Commons as member for his local elector-
ate. His firm specialises in, among other
things, construction of harbor-works —his
first portfolio was Minister of Railways
and Canals and Minister of Marine. With
both departments merged in 1936, he
became Minister of Transport, and then
really got to work, establishing the
National Harbors Board, the Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation, and the coun-
try’s first transcontinental airway-system.
He also face-lifted the administration of
Canadian National Railways. His biggest
job was to come. Canada’s production of
war-munitions in Hitler’s bid was extra-
ordinary—Howe, as Minister of Muni-
tions and Supply, was the powder behind
shot and shell. Now holding the Trade
and Commerce and Defence Production
portfolios, he has honorary doctorates
in Law or Engineering from no fewer
than a dozen American and Canadian
Universities, and here now has added the
thirteenth —hon. LL.D., Melbourne Uni.
• •
“Uramao”: Chosen to deliver the John
Locke lectures at Oxford next year, Pro-
fessor A. N. Prior is the first New
Zealander so honored. Son of a Master-
ton medico, graduate of Otago University,
he joined the Canterbury University
College in 1946, and became Professor
of Philosophy there in 1952. The John
Locke lectures commemorate the 17th-
century philosopher. American, British
and Swedish scientific journals have dis-
seminated the prof.’s expert knowledge,
while Oxford’s Clarendon Press pub-
lished his Logic and the Basis of Ethics,
and has in hand another volume of his
called Formal Logic. Prior organised the
first congress of the N.Z. section of the
Australasian Association of Psychology
and Philosophy, held in Christchurch in
1953.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Mount Barker (S.A.), at 58, Athol Lykke,
for the past 20 years State concert-manager of
the A.B.Q. Earlier a radio-announcer on
station SCL, he was married to Lisette Foglia,
the violinist.
At Timaru (N.Z.), at 90, James Aitken
Pearson, old-time rifle-shot of note. At Bisley
in 1905 he was leading shot in the New Zealand
team, and in the McKinnon Cup, open to all
Empire riflemen, he was -fourth. He was the
last survivor of that N.Z. Bisley team.
After a car-accident in Melbourne, Norman
Rupert Mighell, Acting High Commissioner m
London till 1950, and later a director of Zinc
Corporation. Born in North Queensland,
barrister by profession, he was the Common-
wealth's first Coal Commissioner (1941), and
for six years before that was chairman of the
Repatriation Commission. Wounded on
Gallipoli, he was one of the founders of the
R.S.L. in Queensland. A very good citizen, he
was knighted in 1951.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 68, Clifford Charles
Sheath, manager and chairman of directors of
Pacific Forests, Ltd., which he founded some
30 years ago. He lived in Australia for 20
years, but made regular business visits to New
Zealand, and settled in Auckland last year-
He won the A.J.C. Derby and the Caulfield
Futurity Stakes with Ammon Ra.
At Laverton R.A.A.F. hospital, at 33,
Squadron-Leader Jeffrey Tuck, one of the
Service’s top-flight jet-pilots. He flew in the
War II Pacific, was chief flying-instructor at
three main training-centres, and, as chief test-
pilot of Laverton’s research-unit, piloted the
second Canberra jet-bomber from England to
Australia on its record-breaking delivery flight.
Lately he had been C.O. of an experimental-
unit at Woomera.


THE LAST RAYS OF SUMMER


ABORIGINALITIES
'T'HERE was something about the bear-
ing and appearance of Tamu, the
boss-boy, which made him differ greatly
from the other fuzzy-wuzzies. I often
used to gaze at his intelligent-looking
face and make guesses as to his ancestry.
His well-shaped head, with its finely cut
features, was always held high as he
silently—and contemptuously, I thought
—gazed at the antics of the rest of them
frolicking, during breaks, like school-
boys showing-off. Unlike the others, he
wouldn’t break up tailor-mades offered
him and roll the tobacco in newspaper
to make an Bin. “cigar,” but would smoke
them as they were meant to be smoked.
Then came disillusionment Tamu
“ Bai jove, Smithson, the Charaxes Jasius! Rarest butterfly of all Africa !”
arrived for his morning orders unself-
consciously wearing one military boot
on his left foot, while the other reposed
on his head, the lace tied neatly in a
bow under his chin.—“ Clyde.”
* * * +
“Notaword”: The train from Quorn
(S.A.) to Alice Springs (N.T.) obtained
its name, The Ghan, from the fact that it
supplanted the Afghan camel-teams
between Oodnadatta and the Alice. When
the recent change was made from steam
tc diesel it was lamented in the press that
the name Ghan would pass out of exist-
ence, but I still hear radio-announcers
referring to “passengers aboard the
Ghan.” My most pleasant memory of the
Ghan is of sitting for hours on end
dangling my feet from the steps at the
end of one of the carriages with my boots
being brushed by the golden-faced ever-
lastings that stretched from my toes to
the horizon. My most curious memory
is that of looking out at Coward Springs,
in arid country 300 miles from the sea,
and seeing hundreds of seagulls
squabbling around the overflow from a
water-tank.
* * * *
“Kune”: Our full-time V.D.C. unit
during the last war included several
locally-recruited professional fisher-
men, part-owners in a deepsea
fishing-launch. The C.O. soon had
the launch “on strength” at a moor-
ing beside the camp; then he authorised
the soldier-fishermen to draw what
rations they needed from the Q.M.-
store, twice a week, and detailed
them to “special fatigue” duties
which kept the unit’s 160 person-
nel amply supplied with fresh fish.
As a sideline, many a succulent snapper,
packed in ice and fern, was dispatched
along communication-lines. To whom, I
never bothered to find out, though as
orderly-room staff-sarge for the unit I
did notice our liaison with H.Q. improv-
ing—fish by fish.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Near the western end of the
Sir Colin Mackenzie sanctuary for wild-
life at Healesville (Vic.) is the old
cemetery of the one-time aboriginal reser-
vation of Coranderrk. Here are the
graves of some 300 aborigines who lived
there. To them has now been added a
memorial to William Barak, last chief
and last surviving member of the once-
numerous Yarra Yarra tribe. Three years
ago members of Melbourne’s Bread and
Cheese Club, visiting Barak’s grave,
found the old wooden headpiece weather-
worn and partly dislodged. They also
ferreted-out that a memorial to Barak,
donated 25 years ago by Mrs. Anne
Bonne, reposed in the municipal coun-
cil’s yard. With the help of the Field
Naturalists’ Association and the Vic-
torian Lands Department the reservation-
ground has been cleared and the
memorial set up on the grave, about
which suitable shrubs will be planted to
do further honor to the old tribal chief.
* * *
“H.A.P.” (Vic.): The boys were down-
ing their beers behind locked doors and
discoursing on the 10-o’clock-closing just
over the river when the Law arrived.
Some of the mob made a dash for the
back-doors, and a couple tried the win-
dows, but all exits were covered. Buster,
a new arrival in town, wasn’t too well up
in the geography of the pub, and his
doorway to freedom turned out to be
the broom-cupboard. As names and
addresses were being jotted down Buster,
clad in Boots’s greasy overalls and carry-
a bucketful of dirty water, blithely
mopped his way along the passage to the
street an d safety,
* * * *
“Montrose”: Do any other of our
indigenous birds stage impatience as
elaborately as a kookaburra? If I’m late
with the evening meal for my gang of
them there will be one or more with a
stick or stone held in his beak and used
as a hammer on a hand-rail for about
half-a-minute. Then stone or stick is
dropped and stared at intently for a
couple of seconds before kooka flips to
the dining-stump for his cut. Seems to
me after watching this ritual for years,
that once started it must be carried
through. The proximity of food doesn’t
shorten it; only fright brings it to a
premature end.
* * * *
“El Arem”: Cocky’s gates can give
as good as they get. Passed one near
Perth which said: “If this gate is too hard
to shut don’t open it.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Wild lilies are blooming
now on the rain-soaked flats of western
Queensland. The bulbs, dormant since
last summer’s rains, and a foot or more
underground, have sent up their fleshy
green half-round two-foot stems, one to
three to each plant. Each stem bears up
to 12 six-inch flower-spikes, which carry
six long white linen-textured petals
shaped like miniature canoes, enfolding
a raspberry-red stamen with its yellow
pollen-cap, all centred around a simple
pistil. Bred in the open spaces, the lilies
have abundant perfume, sharp and tangy ;
it does not cloy. Swaying in full bloom
in a gentle breeze, they look like a group
of white-frocked ballerinas dancing.
They can be cultivated ; in a vase they’ll
stay fresh for days, until the last flower-
bud has opened and bloomed its life
away.
“H.A.L.”: Henry Lamond’s splendid
account of the crow in ‘The Black
Paradox” (B. 9/3/’55) includes one in-
accuracy: he describes the female as
having white eyes, while the male has
brown. Actually, both the Australian
raven and the Australian crow have
brown eyes when young. They become
white when the birds become adults.
They are distinct species, but known
by the general name of a crow.
The true crow has a white-blue
base to its body-feathers; the
raven a brown down. The front of the
raven’s throat has a slightly baggy look,
with a bunch of loose-looking feathers.
The crow has the clean outline of a bird
such as the magpie. It is the raven which
pecks out the eyes of sheep and lambs.
The crow is the egg-stealer. With regard
to the king-crow, whose death is mourned
by the flock, scientists have ceased scoff-
ing at this idea since Konrad Lorenz
authoritatively established the existence
of a hierarchy among European jack-
daws, with the flock venerating the oldei
birds. Australian ravens kept in cap-
tivity also regard one of their number as
the boss-bird. If this leader is removed
to a spot beyond the hearing of the others
in the cage, they exhibit unmistakable
grief and bewilderment, and joy when
the old bird is returned.
* # * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d fluked a mixed-
train one night from Narromine to Peak
Hill (N.S.W.); it knew it had all night
to get there. The beer we’d had in
Narromine made me drowsy, but had
Mat stirred-up. We had the compart-
ment to ourselves and, after about an
hour, he started going crook about the
train, the time it took, and so forth.
Now and again the train would pull up
and have some fun shunting around or
just sit there while the crew maybe
went rabbiting. I’d just about “had”
Mat when, during a halt, a family of five
joined us out of the night. “What place
is this?” Mat asked the father.
“Mickibri.” “Mickibri?” I said. “Never
heard of it. What’s the population?”
“Cripes,” Mat snorted, “don’t tell me y’
can’t count up t’ five!”
* * * *
“Wham”: Phee-no-menal was how one
old-timer who’s done his share of bush-
haul bullock-driving described the price
recently obtained by Tom Bellinger, of
Forest, on the Speck’s north-west coast,
for a team of eight Devon-crosses. The
team would be one of the very few
remaining in an area which knew
scarcely any other form of transport 50
years ago, and it’s odd to see the coast’s
record price of £l5O per pair paid for a
form of haulage which has long been
regarded as wiped out by the tractor. A
sawmilling firm will use the team —in
country “too rough for tractors.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: The newly-acquired siren
wailed and our local volunteer fire-
brigade turned out smartly. Clouds of
thick black smoke guided the driver to
where the house-garage was well alight.
A fireman jumped off the engine and
snatched up a hydrant. Where was the
nearest plug? Nobody in the gathered
crowd knew. Somebody thought there
was a sign on a fence up the street a
bit. There was, but no hydrant-box was
visible. The fireman swore. “It’s on
again,” he said. “Council builds up the
road and covers the plug.” Three of us
dug unavailingly to locate the thing while
firemen dashed up and down the street
in search of another. An electricity-pole
bore the familiar sign. We couldn’t un-
earth that one either. Finally somebody
discovered a box about 300yds. away.
The water reached the nozzle just as the
roof fell in. Casualties: One garage, one
motorbike, one car and a panel of paling-
fence. Fortunately the wind had blown
the flames away from the house. A fire-
man informed me bitterly: “We’ve com-
plained to the council about this sort of
thing dozens of times. Last month a
house burnt right down while we were
trying to find a plug.” But hope may be
in sight now. A shire-councillor owned
the garage.
PHONE-CALL
He hailed us on the roadway through a patch
of Murray scrub,
And asked us would we use the phone next
time we struck a pub.
He only gave a trey-bit, though the phone-call
cost a zac,
So we made the rest a loan we knew we never
would get back,
And we sent word from Cobdogla, where next
we chanced to roam,
That as Tom had run a bearing would they
go and tow him home.
He was long and brown and awkward, and
met us with a grin,
And in five words explained the mess his lorry
had got in.
He didn’t like to trouble us, but would we he
so good
As to get his dad to tow him and his
seven-ton of wood.
So we set the wires a-singing from Cobdogla
’cross the creek,
That as Tom’d run a bearing would they tow
him home this week.
They were talking hard at ’Dogla of wet blocks
and of dry,
Of irrigation-channels and of vines and fruit
to try,
Of sales and costs, of orange crops, of
apricots and trade,
And a little bloke kept boasting of the profits
he had made,
While we shouted out to Berri through a rather
noisy phone
That Tom had run a bearing, and was stranded
on his own.
Then we went along the river, past redgums
on its banks,
Past orange groves and vineyards, and by
irrigation-tanks,
Till a pelican went fishing, and the sun set
like a flower
—While the Murray went on rolling, a nation’s
wealth and power—
And we wrote a song at Barmera, and sang it
by the hour,
How Tom had run a bearing near Woolpunda
water-tower.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


Old Lush Songs
Sung to an old Irish tune called “Irish Molly O.” This tune was also used
for “Banks of the Condainine,” “The Wild Colonial Boy” and “Bold Jack
Donahoe.”
FIRST early-morning duty on a steam-
loco. calls for a clean shovel. Snags,
eggs, bread, together with a dab of fat,
plus’ the skilful manipulation of the
“banjo” in the firebox, provides break-
fast and puts two boiler-busters in a
happy frame of mind. In the meantime
a stout piece of brown paper is laid out
and smeared with butter ; on this is piled
a lamination of sliced-potatoes, diced-
onion or mushrooms in season, a selected
cut of porterhouse steak, and again work-
ing back to the potato. Firmly wrapped,
the preparation is placed behind a hot
steam-pipe. In'four hours, when it is
dinner-time, I challenge anyone to offer
a more delectable feed. Other menu-
variations can include fish, poultry, green
veges, and sugared-apples. A billy of
tea is always on tap. But these diesels!
Worried murmurings on the matter are
being mixed with the froth of those places
where enginemen are wont to meet. —
“J.P.C.”
* * * *
“Bump”: Biological miracle from
behind the Iron Curtain. “Calf quads,”
reports “Zycie Warszawy”; “two
bullocks and two heifers have been born
to a cow owned by a peasant near War-
saw.” Still, according to my Funk and
Wagnall, secondary meaning of “bullock”
is “a bull calf.” Even Czarist cows could
produce that.
* * * *
“Ecilat”: A doctored sign in the bar
of a N.S.W. country pub: “Drink More
Beer and Prevent Bushfires.”
* * * *
“Swelpme”: I’d feel much more at ease
if “No Sirrah’s” statistics, besides proving
that the number of horses bred in Queens-
land has risen considerably in the last
five years (B. 23/3/’55), also showed
where the horses went and how many
lived long enough to be broken-in. In
the Ma State horses are still being bred —
to be slaughtered for dogs’-meat. Any
innocent who believes that only old, worn-
out horses are used for the purpose should
watch the ,mobs being driven into a
knacker’s yard (he won’t be able to get
inside to see what goes on, because
knackers have a very discouraging way
with strangers who might carry tales). A
large percentage of the doomed horses
will be found to be young, healthy
animals not even mouthed.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Said to be only the fourth-
ever caught, an “oil-fish” has been
landed off Cape Palliser (N.Z.). The
oddity, whose official monicker is
Rivettus, has razor-like scales which
stand out half an inch long. It measured
4ft. 6in. and weighed 301 b. The fish is
indigenous to Maoriland’s waters.
* * * *
“L.R.M.”: Radio-programmes could
be more explicit. “Destination Somer-
set” was the title of a radio item that my
wife, from the cider-apple county, stayed
home to hear. “About the jardines,” she
said. “Wonder if they are the same who
used to live outside our village at Home?”
But the background noise was not the
ruminant lowing of placid dairy cows ; it
was bellowing Herefords. Somerset was
12,000 miles out of plumb, somewhere
near Cape York, and the Jardine depicted
was no simple country gentleman.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Read my par. again,
“Clyde” (B. 23/3/’55). I ran warm water
under the joints, not in ’em. Of course
water would swell the timber in tenons
or dovetails, but difficulty was in deal-
ing with cleats glued across the grain to
strengthen partitions and shelves. As for
casein-glue being derived from slaked-
lime —why, the very name comes from
the French-Latin caseus, meaning cheese,
and modern English accepts casein as
being the curd or cheesy part of milk.
But even if the main ingredient in casein-
glue were slaked-lime, the contention that
it provided the water-resisting agent
would make me smile. I’ve handled more
slaked-lime than most people and can
testify that there are few substances so
completely soluble in water.
* * * *
“Emel”: A Cavendish (Vic.) boy was
unlucky enough to prove how long bush-
fire dangers can persist even after the
actual outbreak has been quelled. The
fire had become only a memory, when
the boy, followed by a younger sister,
ran up a mound of earth, the crust of
which collapsed under him. Fortunately
this stopped the sister in time, but the
boy was severely burnt by ashes still red-
hot before he could struggle out again.
JIM JONES AT BOTANY BAY.
Oh, listen for a moment, lads, and hear
me tell my tale —
How o’er the sea from England’s shore
I was compelled to sail.
The jury says, “He’s guilty, sir,” and
says the judge, says he —-
“For life, Jim Jones, I’m sending you
across the stormy sea.
“And take my tip before you ship to
join the Iron-gang,
Don’t be too gay at Botany Bay, or else
you’ll surely hang —
Or else you’ll hang,” he says, says he,
“and after that, Jim Jones,
High up upon the gallows-tree the crows
will pick your bones.
“You’ll have no chance of mischief then ;
remember what I say,
They’ll flog the poachin’ out of you, out
there at Botany Bay.”
The waves were high upon the sea, the
wind blew up in gales,
I would rather drown in misery than go
to New South Wales.
The wind blew high upon the sea, and
the pirates came along,
But the soldiers on our convict ship were
full five-hundred strong.
They opened fire and somehow drove
that pirate ship away ;
I’d have rather joined that pirate ship
than come to Botany Bay.
For night and day the irons clang, and
like poor galley slaves,
We toil and toil, and when we die must
fill dishonored graves;
But by and by 111 break my chains, into
the bush I’ll go,
And join the brave bushrangers there*
Jack Donahoe and Co.
And some dark night when everything is
silent in the town,
I’ll kill the tyrants one and all, and shoot
the floggers down.
I’ll give the Law a little shock, remember
what I say,
They’ll yet regret they sent Jim Jones
in chains to Botany Bay.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each week.]
CEDAR
Graham Phillips (b. 9/3/’55)
says cedar is not borer-proof. I’ll
contend that an article made entirely of
red cedar is completely borer-proof.
“Try it again , Hot-lips—I can still recognise the melody.”
I have a 100-year-old clothes-cupboard
of red cedar: not a sign of borers in it
(nor of moths in its contents), even
though it has been standing up close to
borer-infested skirting-boards. Same with
an aged chest-of-drawers, hall-table,
dining-table and chairs. But in another
small chest wherein the insides of the
drawers are of pine or white cedar there
arfe borers.
Yes, red cedar is a good wood, soft and
strong, so that it can be carved and
shaped elegantly. But white cedar is a
snare and a delusion. Most people do
not seem to know that there are the two
types. White cedar never attains the good
mahogany-like color and solid patina of
well-polished red cedar, no matter how
much Vandyck Brown is mixed with the
shellac by the polisher. It goes an
anaemic orange
In the very early days the red cedar
was sent home to England and Scot-
land to be made into furniture by skilled
craftsmen
iar , . . ,
I have a piece of Australian red sent
to Scotland fairly early in the last century,
made into a two-door press, one half hav-
ing smoothly-sliding shelves, the other,
hanging-space. It is unobtrusively
decorated with fine acanthus-leaf carving.
It has a long deep drawer as a base, useful
for storing such things, as blankets. My
grandmother bought it in England and
brought it here in the eighties. Moth- and
borer-proof, I reiterate.
Always inspect the insides of red-cedar
pieces to make sure that the whole object
has not been ruined by the addition of
shoddy bits of pine and other woods,
You can test for real cedar (as against
the so-called “cedar-finish” furniture of
dubious woods foisted on to the gullible
buyer) by gently pressing a fingernail into
the underside of the wood where it won't
be noticed: genuine cedar is so soft that
you will leave a mark ; indeed it is the
most plastic and workable of woods. The
small marks or dents may be removed
by pressing gently with a hot iron over
thick brown paper.
Red cedar has a typical slightly sweet
smell that one can learn to recognise,
Unpolished red cedar (inside drawers, for
instance) is dark, with a pinkish tinge to
its brown and readily recognisable.
It may be of interest to quote here the
words written in the ’seventies by that
peppery and righteous historian John
Dunmore Lang, in his Historical and
Statistical Account of New South Wales:
“Of the vegetable production of New
South Wales the first is timber, of which
the most valuable description as yet dis-
covered in the colony is the red cedar,
which is uniformly found growing on the
alluvial lands on the banksof rivers flow-
in 8 into the Pacific. This article o
colonial produce sustains considerable
coasting trade, and affords remunerating
employment to a somewhat lawless popu-
lation ; the cedar-cutters in New South
Wales bearing a sort of family likeness
to the lumberers of British America,
The colonial cedar is as soft and light
as American pine; but it takes a fine
polish, and many of the finer specimens
ar , e . e f al *°Jf* nish mah ° gany ’
w^ n U greatly resernbles
urc es , an , « fitted
concourse, which are generally fitted up
with this wood, have a much finer appear-
ance j n tbe interior than buildings of the
same kind at home . and it is some time
before the co i onial eye , which has been
accus tomed to a house of cedar as the
ark 0 f God, can reconcile itself to the
eSS entia.l vulgarity of the American pine.
“Considerable quantities of this valu-
abie timber used to be exported to Eng-
jand. but j s now cb i e fly consumed in
jsj ew South Wales and the neighboring
colonies. There has of late, however,
been a considerable and steadily increas-
ing export of the hardwoods of the colony
—principally ironbark, bluegum, spotted-
gum, etc. It is used for the same purpose
in shipbuilding as African oak, the supply
being inexhaustible.”
That old fellow would probably
have been shocked to know how
much timber we now import from Canada
and New Zealand ; and even more
shocked at the jerry-built stuff our modern
factories are turning out from the really
high-grade woods available,
Anyway, perhaps it doesn’t really
matter, after all, because soon we may all
be using furniture made only of plastics,
aluminium, foam-rubber and steel. Then
indeed will our forests thrive and hold
our fly-away soil together!
THEA HARKER.


BABCOCK
FULLY EQUIPPED
WITH FACILITIES AND EXPERIENCE
TO HANDLE ALL CONTRACTS
FOR STEAM-RAISING PLANT
A
This hydraulic press for bending steel plate!
up to 5" thick is one of the many items
of equipment recently installed at Regents
Park Works for the production of fusion-
welded boiler drums and pressure vessels.
The installed capacity of Babcock boilers has reached a
total of approximately 4,000,000,000 lb. of steam per hour.
This represents -thousands of installations in central power
stations and industrial steam plants throughout the world,
providing economical steam generation with all types of
fuels of widely varying characteristics, from coal and oil to
bagasse and sunflower seeds. This wealth of experience
gained, plus intensive and continuous research work, is
embodied in all Babcock boilers and auxiliary equipment.
Babcock has maintained its pre-eminence in the field of
steam engineering and is proud of being entrusted with the
manufacture and supply of the steam-raising plant for the
first atomic power station at Calder Hall in the U.K., which
is now under course of construction. Extensive and superbly
equipped works at Renfrew, Scotland, and Regents Park,
N.S.W., provide unrivalled facilities for the manufacture of
boiler units and all the additional equipment, such as coal
and ash handling plant, which is used in the modern boiler
house.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
rms
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
ct high-priced imported
SENT) FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion oi their cost. The
’’National" Rotary Dupl)
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans
Music, etc.
Built entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. . .Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Y early Subscription... ... 22/6
Research in Industry
No. 12 of a Series
£
Sorcery
and Science
RUMPELSTILTSKIN is
said to have spun coarse
straw into threads of
gold. In recent years a
transformation hardly
less remarkable has been
achieved in 1.C.1.’s
laboratories, where a
new fibre called ‘Ardil’
has been derived, by a
complex chemical pro-
cess, from the protein of
peanuts. When blended with other fibres ‘Ardil’ makes fine,
soft fabrics, which can he turned into coats and suits and
into warm, lightweight winter dresses, or —such is its versa-
tility into carpets, blankets and rugs. This new fibre,
too, is low and stable in price, unattractive to moths, and it
is produced in a form that makes textile manufacture easier.
1.C.1. has lost no time in putting into production this out-
standing textile material which opens up new fields in fashion
and design. A factory capable of manufacturing some
10,000 tons of ‘Ardil’ staple a year has been built in Scot-
land at a cost of £-3 million sterling, and clothes containing
the fibre are already being made. ‘Ardil’ is but a further
example of the way in which modern industrial research is
developing valuable products from unlikely substances for
the benefit of all.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
or AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
L.70C.1351
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Gold in the Solomons
Goldmines in tropic isles! The
very thought is enough to make
metropolitan Australians forget
for a moment the humidity,
the rain, the sweat, the mos-
quitoes and the malaria usually
associated with such enterprises.
Sydney “Daily Mirror” has
quoted an announcement by the
Western Pacific Commissioner at
Honiara of the discovery of gold
lodes at Gold Ridge, on Guadal-
canal, in the British Solomon
Islands. The report declared
that the lodes were believed to
be important. They are said to
be the source of the concentra-
tions of alluvial gold in the
Tsarivonga, Sorvohio and Meta-
pona Rivers on the northern
side of the central mountains of
Guadalcanal, and are described
as a tricky type of deposit, with
surface indications resembling
closely those of the Fiji gold
fields.
Surface prospecting is virtually
impossible near the ridge-crest
because of deep weathering and
leaching of the ore-bodies, and
diamond - drilling is recom-
mended. The area has recently
been granted under licence to the
Balasuna Syndicate, which was
prospecting the area before the
war.
And so the story of the search
for gold in this part of the Solo-
mons goes on a few more pages.
Plump alluvial slugs from the
Sorvohio and Tsarivonga rivers
have lured many interests to
Guadalcanal. One of the biggest
was Prattens, of Alluvial Tm
about 22 years They lost
interest after Percy Penman had
looked the proposition over for
them. The Bulletin in March
1933, reported: The first 12
boreholes put down on the
Belesuna area, as well as a
dozen on the Tinshula groun ,
have all been disappointing.
Prospecting along the Tsari-
vonga River continues in the
hope of locating the source of
gold found on its banks,
Then early in 1937 Pioneer
Expedition, which had promoted
Mandated Alluvials, formed
Solomon Islands Gold Sluicing
in Sydney. Engineer H. J. Ault
looked over the property, and
reported that the gold occurred
in stream-beds and flats along
2.3 miles of the Tsarivonga River
and 6.6 miles along the Sorvo-
hio. Boulders and furious daily
floods in the streapis, caused by
tropical storms, were among the
chief mining problems. The
promoter of Solomon Islands
Gold Sluicing also mentioned a
lode proposition in the same
area—thought by him to be the
elusive “mother lode” from
which the alluvial was washed,
and towards which the thoughts
of all prospectors in the area
have ultimately turned,
But the speculating public was
sick of goldmines after the 1935-
36 boom-and-bust, and the float
was not supported sufficiently to
proceed with the rather am-
bitious mining job that was con-
sidered necessary—a crawler-
type dragline swinging-crane to
shift the boulders, which were
to be used to form a creeping
roadway above the stream, and
above which again the sluice-
boxes were to be fed with a
gravel-pump.
Next development was the
formation in Melbourne, in
“What superannuation will I get?”
April, 1939, of Solomon Gold
Mines, N.L., of which Wallace
H. Smith, T. R. Victor and P. F.
Cody were directors. It was a
prospecting venture with a sub-
scribed capital of only £4500.
The co. sent T. R. Victor across
to have a look at what one in-
dependent report described as
“an option of purchase over an
alleged large gold-bearing lode
on Valikorta Ridge, between the
Tsaravonga and Sorvohio rivers,
on the island of Guadalcanal.”
In the merry month of May that
year the scrip soared to £22 on
Melbourne, ’Change, slipped
back to £8 in a little over 24
hours, and then crashed in
earnest on the announcement of
T. R. Victor’s recommendation
that the option “be abandoned
forthwith.”
The presence of alluvial gold
in the rivers is undoubted. But
no one has yet shown that it
can be worked profitably. The
real lure remains the where-
abouts of the “mother lode.”
And whether it has now been
found will depend on results of
the proposed diamond-drilling
by the Balasuna Syndicate.
Many others have thought they
had found it. But always it was
a false-alarm.
The Loan and the Market
The cash part of the Com-
monwealth’s £239 million loan
was apparently a success —the
£40 million asked for was over-
subscribed by between £4 million
and £5 million, though subscrip-
tions included £5 million put up
by the Commonwealth from
counterpart funds arising from
International Bank loans. Re-
sults of the £199 million conver-
sion loan are not yet to hand,
and the proportion of the cash
loan that will be available for
public works will depend upon
the extent to which holders of
the old 2 p.c.’s fail to convert
into the new issue of 3 p.c.’s and
4| p.c.’s.
The total cash-subscriptions
to Commonwealth loans during
the present financial year has
been just under £l3O million.
During the whole of 1953-54
cash subscriptions to loans were
£llB million. Another £lB mil-
lion was raised from Inter-
national Bank borrowings, £56
million from the Debt-re-
demption Reserve (to which it
had been transferred from the
1953-54 Budget surplus) and £6
million from a Swiss loan.
The result of the latest loan
was announced the evening be-
fore the Stock Exchanges re-
opened. The tone of the
industrial market as a whole
was very much the same as when
it closed for the Easter holidays
—steady and fairly busy. The
large turnovers which occurred
in some stocks were partly
the result of banked-up orders
from the holiday break in deal-
ings. There was a strengthening
in bond prices for the same
reason, as well as from the filling
of the recent cash-loan.
Yet the approach of any
investor to the sharemarket at
present should be cautious and
selective. The Bulletin has
found no reason yet to amend
the advice that it has offered
since the beginning of the pre-
sent year. Though there are
signs of renewed inflation, the
first impact of inflation is likely
to be on profits, and there could
be a reintroduction of State
price-control if costs-inflation
extended to prices to any dis-
turbing extent.
Summing-up in an address to
shareholders at the annual
meeting of Capel Court Invest-
ment Co. the other day, chair-
man Staniforth Ricketson said:
Australia cannot afford to ignore
what is happening in parts or
the world. The unusually wide
fluctuations which have occurred in
the United Kingdom and in the
United States of America are cer-
tainly not without significance,
because they indicate the develop-
ment of a new era of uncertainty.
Here at home iff Australia we have
the same air of uncertainty, although
it has not as yet been reflected to
any marked degree in our security-
markets
Nevertheless, the warning signs are
there and, at the moment, the
unfavorable factors appear to out-
weigh those of an encouraging
nature. This is not to say that this
country is headed for a serious
economic recession, but it does imply
that, pending evidences of greater
stability and a definite improvement
in the general outlook, both the
business-community and the rank-
and-file of the people should be
engaged in consolidating their posi-
tion rather than embarking on new
commitments.
It is true that employment is at its
flood and that a further good season
is in prospect. It is equally true
that, at the moment, most depart-
ments of trade and industry are
flourishing and that high standards
of living are being maintained. At
the same time, it must be recognised
that the full impact oi increased
costs and prices implicit in the
marginal wage- and salary-increases
has not yet been felt, whilst it is
also too early to arrive at any accur-
ate assessment of the losses involved
in the widespread and disastrous
floods in New South Wales and later
in Queensland.
Thus, whilst there need be no con-
cern regarding the long-term out-
look, which appears to promise con-
siderable economic development,
stimulated by the continued
augmentation of population, the
short-term factors appear to imply
growing monetary stringency, checks
to economic production, and a
general dampening-down of the
abounding prosperity which Australia
has enjoyed in recent years.
There is a fair cushion in the
yields still obtainable from
many good second-line invest-
ment-stocks. And there is money
around to support any specula-
tive market development aris-
ing out of “take-over bids” and
the like. But buying, as a
general thing, should for the
present be done only by those
who are prepared to hold on
for a year or more.


asyw
//ke tt/
Tooth's
KB
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY lOOIH & CO. LIMITED
KB-187-ld
Capable Young Man
SEEKS EXECUTIVE POSITION IN
BRISBANE
Name: John R. Trumbull.
Address: 58 Eldernell Avenue, Hamilton, Brisbane. (M l 091.)
Age: 5 5 years. > '
Education: Bachelor of Science in Agriculture, Ohio State
Marketing' MaJ '° r BubjeCtS include Economics and
Marital Status: Married, with five sons.
History: Employed by the Borden Company, New York, prior
to enlisting. Arrived in Australia 1942 as Squadron
Commander U.S. Air Corps. Attained post of Chief of
Supply Division, Pacific Air Service Command, employ-
ing 1200 civilians.
Married an Australian girl and proceeded to carve a career
in this country. From 1 949 to 195 1 was employed by Brown
and Dureau, Ltd., Brisbane, to handle overseas exports.
Resigned to accept position as General Manager of Industrial
Transport Pty., Ltd., Brisbane, successfully operating an
inter-State transport fleet for four years. A proposed amalga-
mation, with its apparent restrictions of activity, prompted
resignation as from March 31, 1955.
With 13 years’ residence in this country, a thorough know-
ledge of Queensland, a will to work, a good record, healthy
and of presentable appearance, the advertiser seeks an
appointment with a progressive organisation interested in en-
gaging a loyal executive to serve them in the Queensland field.
FeutJi in the
Future
m
“More and more we need an emphasis on
Faith—faith in ourselves and in the boundless
opportunities that lie before us for building a better
world.”
That passage in a personal letter from a very
dear friend recurred to me for days after I had
received it.
Except for Americans in this and the latter
part of the last century, I suppose there are few
people who have had such a rich opportunity for
building their part of a better world than
Australians in our own time.
One tends naturally to measure this task by
material things—the soil, the water, the harvest,
the stock; the industries that spring from these and
are sustained by them in our economy.
But to my mind, the building of a better world
demands more than the use of material resources.
It calls for character.
L
Where do we get the strength to use the
material, if it be not from the standards we set
in the Church, in the home, in the school, in the
institutions of justice, in our ideals of social and
commercial morality?
These form the values; the spiritual currency.
Debase that currency, and you have weakness
that no material possession can outweigh; fortify
it, and you have strength that no temporal difficulty
will destroy. History has proved it, in the rise and
fall of empires.
So this, as I see it, is the challenge to
Australians seeking sincerely to contribute their
portion to the making of a better world: —
To nourish carefully the things that make for
character, particularly in the formative minds of
the young;
To face with all courage the problems that
seem large for a moment, then pass into their
perspective place.
And to go on with their building to a great
dimension, mastering the mountains and ruling the
rivers, and setting no frontier to their effort.
// //as^
7
Lendan airmail
From Herbert Holman
<6VI7HAT Manchester writes
today, London reads
tomorrow.” This paraphrase
of an old saying suddenly
acquired demonstrable truth
during the worst strike in
Fleet Street’s history. All
national morning and evening
newspapers belonging to the
Newspaper Proprietors’ Associa-
tion have been affected, leaving
Londoners always avid
readers of news —in unaccus-
tomed loneliness on their long
journeys to and from work.
Alone among the “nationals”
in not being a member of the
N.P.A., the “Manchester
Guardian” met its increased
responsibilities with easy assur-
ance. Trade-etiquette precluded
the issuing of extra London
editions, with the result, it is
said, that copies have been
exchanged privately for as much
as 2s. 6d. each.
The first Saturday of the
strike was a particularly crowded
one in sport. Here, the “Guar-
dian’s” prophetic gift was even
more remarkable than its cover-
age, for it correctly forecast the
first and second places in the
Grand National. This was no
mean achievement for, para-
doxically, the “Guardian”
officially frowns on racing
and normally prints neither
prices nor results.
Armed Reconnaissance
However serious the strike
may have been, the undertones
have been little short of
menacing. The trouble arose
because proprietors refused
to be intimidated by the
extortionate demands of
a mere 700 men, not printing-
workers, but maintenance
engineers and electricians be-
longing to the Amalgamated
Engineering and Electrical
Trades Unions.
The E.T.U., a small affair of
some 210,000 members, is en-
tirely under Communist direc-
tion. Its capacity for trouble-
making is notorious and
continuous. As party to national
agreements in 25 different in-
dustries and with representation
on 42 negotiating bodies it is
able to exert a power to cause
disruption, in varying degrees of
magnitude, with malignant
cleverness. And the methods of
conducting its own affairs in-
volve bullying inquisition
(including a concealed tape-
recorder) and a harsh and un-
compromising discipline of its
members.
The newspaper-strike has been
not a straightforward matter of
pay and conditions but a cynical
show of strength. There may
even have been deeper political
motives —to embarrass the
Government and to cause post-
ponement of the general election
until the autumn.
Taking Stock
The Economic Survey makes
no attempt, beyond some en-
couraging but vague sentiments,
either at forecasting the future or
at prescribing for our present ills.
It deals mainly with the pros-
perity of 1954, and brings
Britain’s economic position up-
to-date preparatory to the
Budget.
Granted the assumption of “a
continuation of present trends
and policies” (i.e., the return of
a Conservative Government) the
survey on the whole is optimistic.
This would imply that the
Government is satisfied with its
broad checks and balances, that
the rate of wage-increases (a
steady 5 per cent.) can be accom-
modated, that the deficit (the
first since 1951) in the balance
of payments can be righted, and
that political considerations will
not be allowed to inhibit the
establishment of “a proper
balance between home and ex-
port demand.” (There is a
further consideration, accepted,
no doubt, with a sigh of relief,
that other exporting countries
have similar inflationary troubles
to our own.)
The question that people are
asking is: will the Budget be
generous or austere? On the
one hand, the Conservatives are
not likely to want to fight the
election on an unpopular Budget.
And on the other, to be indulgent,
even with a large surplus, would
only aggravate our present
difficulty—the increased demand
for goods and services at home.
Mr. Butler must also take into
account the psychological factor
which, by encouraging individual
enterprise and promoting con-
fidence, has proved so stimu-
lating to business.
So long as those two insepar-
ables, mounting domestic
consumption and creeping infla-
tion, are with us, an economy
entirely free from controls and
periodical checks is out of the
question. Mr. Butler may be on
the eve of an election but he also
has to take into account the
longer view that, afterwards,
there may still be a Conservative
Chancellor of the Exchequer. He
cannot afford to be too indulgent.
Plantation Blues
London’s best Little Theatre,
the Arts, is thriving artistically
under its new management
(which, oddly enough, is steeped
in the shrewdest commercialism
of show business the ticket
“libraries”).
“South” is a play by a French-
man (Julien Green) about a
Dixiecrat’s sumptious home in
Souf C’r’lino on the eve of the
American Civil War. It is a
heterodox drama with a racing
pulse. All the participants are
at odds with one another, if not
with themselves. The perils of
the impending war subside
before the personal antipathies
and anything - but - healthy
emotional links. And all the
while, ominously symbolical, the
heat crackles outside.
To detail the conflicts would
amount to an inventory, with
subdivisions. The main issues
are the boss’s kindness and
sympathy towards his slaves;
his simpering 17 - year - old
daughter’s unrequited love; the
emotional and geographical dis-
comfort of his niece, an orphan
from Boston ; the impact upon
everybody of a handsome young
Pole who, incongruously enough,
wears the Federal uniform; and
the rising of the tensions beneath
a soft and altogether entrancing
gentility.
This play will not be seen in
a public theatre because of
a subsidiary theme which, no
more and no less, is the unnatural
affection of the Pole for the
young scion of a neighboring
plantation. Such a situation may
pass in a novel but it is too
much for dramatic credulity that
the men should be expected to
convey this in a face-to-face
“picture” preceding a curtain.
The conflicts surge and fester
all round. The two men quarrel,
fight a duel and one is killed. By
providing a shriek that bisects
the marrow, the author comes
out even with Sophocles, but he
goes one better than all the
Greeks by exhibiting the corpse
with a macabre flourish.
Because neither the writing nor
the acting is overdrawn the olav
is less terrifying than it might
sound. Indeed, the histrionic
fireworks are quite stimulating.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
I
m
n-
rA
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
G. B. Kater
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H, Andrews
Chief Trust Officert
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.89.18
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.
TJIGGEST in the business in Australia,
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
and its associates were responsible for
£34.3 million of the £160.4 million of
hire-purchase balances outstanding on
December 31, 1954. During the past two
years the amount of hire-purchase busi-
ness written in Australia has almost
doubled, and the I.A.C. has maintained
its position in the overall set-up.
At the 1953 balance-day it was the
Industrial Acceptance Corporation, with
its three small subsidiary finance cos. and
the rapidly growing Ajax Insurance Co.,
Ltd., and the smaller Surrey Insurance
Co., Ltd. During the past term a new
holding co., Industrial Acceptance Hold-
ings, Ltd., was formed, and it offered
five fully-paid ss. ords. for each two
I.A.C. ss. ords. (of which there were
8,000,000 issued) and pref. shareholders
(representing £500,000) were given the
right of taking one 6 p.c. £1 pref. in
exchange for each 5 p.c. £1 stock-unit
held, with the additional right to sub-
scribe for another 6 p.c. pref. As a result,
ord. capital of the Holdings co. has grown
to 19,514,383 ss. ords. and 965,850 6 p.c.
£1 prefs. When the holders of the
remaining £82,664 of pref. and ord. stock
in I.A.C. have converted, paid capital of
the holding co. will be £6 million in 20
million ss. ords. and a million £1 6 p.c.
prefs.
During the past year also Industrial
Acceptance Corporation took up 940,000
£1 ords. in the Ajax Insurance Co., Ltd.,
bringing that offshoot’s paid capital up to
£1 million. The business of this enter-
prise, which is largely interested in motor-
car insurance as an adjunct of the motor-
finance section of the group, has grown
rapidly over the last two years and has
added its handsome surpluses to reserves.
Although its other figures are now
grouped in consolidated accounts, the
directors report that in 1954 earned
insurance premiums totalled £2,116,000,
.compared with £1,273,000 in the preced-
ing term. When detailed figures were
available it was clear that the Ajax co.
was highly profitable both as an under-
writer and an investor.
In view of the consolidation of the
accounts it is difficult to compare previ-
ous figures ; but here is an overall picture
as at December 31 last in summarised
form:
Consolidated Balance-sheet, December 31, 1954.
Paid capital— |
Pref. .. £965,850 | Freeholds .. 115,720
Ord. .. 4,878,596 I Office equipment 97,044
I.A.C. shares 82,664 | Investments .. 122,970
Reserves .. 3,854,339 j H.-p. contracts 34,629,109
Sub.-subsid .. 605,000 | Cash, prepay-
H.p. income to | ments .. 477,926
mature .. 5,116,950 | Intangibles .. 2,929,030
Debentures,
etc. .. .18,064,200 l
Creditors, etc. 1,415,629 |
Unexpired in- |
surance risks 1,701,379 I
Staff fund .. 93,443 |
Tax provision 1,162,082 |
Dividends .. 431,667 |
| ■
£38,371,799 | £38,371,799
The intangibles item, £2,929,030, repre-
sents the excess of cost over par-value of
shares in subsidiary companies, and
arises out of the terms of the share-swap
last year when the Holdings co. was
formed. While the chief asset is the
£34.6 million of h.-p. contracts and
sundry debtors, chief liability is £lB
million of debentures and fixed deposits,
made up of debentures with a currency
of 12 months or under, £7.2 million;
over 12 months, £4.6 million; and
unsecured fixed deposits, £6.2 million.
Because further funds are needed to
finance business expansion, especially in
view of the restrictions on bank-credit,
debenture-holders are to be asked to
approve alterations to their trust-deed to
increase the debenture - limit when
necessary.
The fact that over half the h.-p.
advances are financed by cheap deben-
ture-money helps to explain the high rate
of earning-power in relation to share-
holders’ funds. The million or there-
abouts in 6 p.c. prefs. is also of assist-
ance. Last term, although the cost of
borrowed money tended to rise, the co.
had no difficulty in paying 16f p.c. p.a. on
the bonus-increased ord. capital, though
the total div.-charge rose nearly £300,000.
In the following table it is possible
only to make approximate comparisons
of 1954 income with that of the previous
years when it is remembered that in 1953
Ajax Insurance Co. showed a net profit
of £207,637, and that none of it was
included in the figures of Industrial
Acceptance Corp., whereas this year all
the profit of Ajax and the other subsi-
diaries is included in the grand total, but
there is no means of dissecting it:
Industrial Acceptance Corporation, Ltd.
t Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1947.. 87,224 7$ = 37,500 49,724 268,192
Special div., £135,611 .. .. 132,581
Sundry additions, £120,838 .. .. 253,419
Share premiums, £150,000 .. .. 403,419
To special tax res., £86,031 .. .317,888
1948. .215,598 12$ =125,000 90,598 407,986
Flotation exes, w/off, £10,921 .. 397,065
1949. .270.823 5 12$ =144,271 126,552 523,617
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 648,617
1950. .396,161 5 12$ = 165,625 230,536 879,153
Share premiums, £400,000 .. .. 1,279,153
1951. .481,450 5 12.9 = 218.750 262,700 1,541,853
To contingencies res., £57,490 .. 1,599,343
1952. .762,690 5 15 =250,000 612,690 2,112,033
Tax overprovided, £15,881 .. ..2,127,414
Added contingencies res., £ll5O ..2,128,564
1953 1,142,013 6 18$ = 350,000 792,013 2,920,577
Industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.*
Tax underprovided, £19,559 .. ..2,725,381
From contingency reserve, £200,000 2,925,381
Preliminary exp. written-off £56,812.. 2,868,569
1954 1,629,937 6 f 644,167 985,770 3,854,339
* Reserves subject to excess of cost over par value
of shares in subsidiary companies, £2,929,030.
t 10 p.c. prior to formation of holding co. and
8$ p.c. afterwards.
Consolidated net profit of £1,629,937 was
written after providing £15,895 for depre-
ciation and £881,142 for taxation, and
was equal to 26.7 p.c. on £6 million of
ord. capital, after allowing for last term’s
pref.-div. payments. Ord. divs. were the
equivalent of 10 p.c. on the old capital,
plus a later distribution of 8£ p.c. on the
new (£200,000 and £416,667 respectively).
Reserves benefited by £985,770, which
was £341,503 more than was distributed.
The final div. was at the rate of 16f p.C.
p.a. on the enlarged capital, and at least
that rate seems likely during the current
term. At the same time it appears that
the almost-geometrical expansion in h.-p.
activities over the past two years will not
continue over the next two, unless
inflation lends volume to operations.
Deducting excess of cost over par-value
of shares in subsidiaries, net tangible
assets, on book-values, amount to
ss. lid. per ss. ord. There appears to
be more strength than that in asset-
figures. The sharemarket pays 11s. 6d.
for the ords., obtaining a yield of 7.2 p.c.
on the basis of last year’s final div.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
Notwithstanding higher net in-
come and a one-point rise in the
dividend-rate, the scrip of 71-year-old W.
H. Paling and Co., Ltd., has eased from
around 19s. 3d. at the close of the com-
pany’s financial year on October 31 last
to a current price of 17s. 3d. At 8.1 p.c.
the yield is a little over a point longer
than was available this time last year.
The lengthening of the yield reflects the
cautious reappraisal being made of in-
vestment-prospects generally. As a music-
house and retailer of “big-ticket” con-
sumer-durables (refrigerators, radios and
washing- and sewing-machines) the com-
pany’s business lies in that sector of the
economy most susceptible to any fall in
the present level of prosperity.
After providing £6O less depreciation
(£5242), and an undisclosed amount for
taxation, the rise in earnings last year
carried consolidated net profit up £3690
to £57,308:
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 55,661 11.1 p.c. = 48,258 12,403 176,655
1950.. 77,437 11.1 ~ 48,672 28,765 205.420
To bad debts provision, £6757 .. 198,663
Revaluation assets, £170,653 .. .. 369,316
Reserves capitalised, £155,749 .. 213,667
1951.. 90,709 10 p.c. = 60,434 80,275 243,842
To bad debts provision, £lO,OOO .. 233,842
1952.. 43,814 6 p.c. = 36,338 7,476 241,318
W. H. Paling and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £28,833 .. 270,151
1953.. 63,618 6 p.c. = 43,606 10,012 280,163
Intangibles written off, £368 .. 279,800
Unexplained reduction, £123 .. 279,677
1954.. 57,308 7 p.c. = 50,873 6,435 286,112
The showing was 7.8 p.c. on capital ofl
£726,763, as against 7.3 p.c. in 1953.
Profit in that year, however, included 16
months’ trading for the Queensland sub-
sidiary, G. J. Grice. On an annual basis
the 1953 net was equal to £49,262, or
6.8 p.c. on capital.
The co.’s directors report that the in-
crease in trade was satisfactory, and,
while the reduction in sales-tax was a
welcome benefit to business, the com-
pany’s import-quota fell short of its needs.
New cuts introduced at the beginning of
this month will fall heaviest on imported
musical and household goods, reduced
331 P-c., although the effects are not
expected to be felt until towards the end
of 1955.
During the year the co. bought the free-
hold of its branch premises at Orange
(N.S.W.), and opened a new branch at
Tamworth. Palings has other branches at
Newcastle and Wollongong in New South
Wales, and, in Queensland, at Brisbane,
Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville,
Cairns and Mackay,
The £69,676 additional funds avail-
able during the year were employed in
making net additions of £21,011 to free-
holds (represented mainly by (he Orange
purchase) and £6863 to plant. Stocks
were £32,791 higher at £522,000, debtors
£7049 higher at £501,423, and £1962 was
added to cash and investments:
Parent
Only. Consolidated Figures.
1952. 1958. 1954.
Paid capital .. £726,768 £726,763 £726,763
Reserves .. .. 241,818 280,163 286,112
Overdraft .. .. 106,810 65,630 120,190
Tax provision .. 21,271 32,651 83,456
Creditors . . .. 149,250 227,993 228,725
Final div. .. 36,838 43,606 50,873
£1,281,750 £1,376,806 £1,446,119
Freeholds . . .. 309,950 356,168 377,169
Plant, etc. . . 28,733 31,433 38,296
Subsidiary interests 89,814
Stocks .. .. 482,137 489,209 522,000
Debtors .. .. 371,633 494,374 601,423
Cash, etc. .. 4,483 6,269 7,231
Intangibles .. ' 363
£1,281,750 £1,376,806 £1,446,119
The important role of hire-purchase in
facilitating sales is evident from the
analysis of debtors. Open accounts
represent £92,013, as against £444,860
outstanding under h.-p. agreements. The
two items together are subject to a pro-
vision of £35,450 for doubtful debts and
cost of collection.
At October 31 tangible-asset backing
for the company’s 726,763 £1 shares was
275. lid.
Raleigh Preserving Co., Ltd.
■pjIRM demand over the whole range of
-*• the company’s products, both in the
export and Australian markets last year,
lifted turnover of Raleigh Preserving Co.,
Ltd., to the record level of more than
£1,250,000. Sales abroad, which account
for the greater proportion of income,
were particularly satisfactory.
Net profit rose from £11,245 in 1953
(including £949 overprovision for tax) to
£34,663 last term. Depreciation was
£2740 higher at £19,014, and taxation,
£276 in 1953, last year was £20,565:
Raleigh Preserving and Subsidiary.
f Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
& £t £ £ £*
1950.. 22.433 1500 8 p.c. = 10,000 10,933 21,632
Goodwill written off, £1099 .. .. 20,533
Tax underprovided, £3967 .. .. 16,566
Preliminary exes., £97 .. • • 16,469
1951.. 25,493' 1500 8 p.c. = 14,400 9,593 26,062
Tax underprovided, £1964 .. .. 24,098
1952. .22,213 1500 4 p.c. = 9,900 10,913 35,011
Profit sale assets, £Bl4 .. •. • • 35,825
1953.. 10,296 1500 3 p.c. = 8,100 696 36,521
Tax overprovided, £949 .. .. 37,470
Profit sale assets, £132 .. •• 37,602
1954.. 84.531 1500 6 p.c. = 16,200 16,831 54,433
After paying the pref. charges profit was
equal to 12.2 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 3.6 p.c. in 1953, 8.4 p.c. 1952,
13.3 p.c. 1951, and 16.7 p.c. in 1950.
The ordinary dividend, raised to 6 p.c.,
was double the 1953 distribution, and
well covered by earnings.
The chairman reports that high turn-
over on narrow profit-margins enabled
the co. to make a reasonable return on
capital under the present competitive con-
ditions of trading.
Raleigh’s plant at Pakenham (Vic.)
canned a record pea-crop, and in some
vegetable lines production wasn’t enough
to meet the improved demand. Follow-
ing the success of the first year’s produc-
tion of canned pears, plant-capacity has
been increased to more than double last
season’s pack. And further good results
have been achieved with the line of
strained foods for children, introduced
in 1953. Exceptional weather conditions
affected tomato-crops in 1954 and early
1955, but late crops this season are
expected to be better.
Sales and production of the package-
manufacturing subsidiary, Raleigh Con-
tainers Pty., Ltd., are reported to have
been very satisfactory, and the range of
products is being extended to meet the
requirements of outside customers.
Additional funds of £93,733 employed
during the year were provided from the
accumulated surplus (up £17,912), taxa-
tion provision (up £6603), and trade credi-
tors (up £19,723), and a contraction of
£49,495 in debtors to £21,661. The co.
spent £9956 more on freeholds and
buildings than it wrote off, £6382 on plant
and machinery (including additions to
fruit-processing equipment and vehicles),
carried £48,734 more stocks, and added
£lBBl to deposits and cash-in-transit:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £30,000 £30,000 £BO,OOO
Ord 270,000 270,000 270,000
Reserves .. .. 35,011 36,521 64,433
Overdraft .. .. 114,854 82,003 55,223
Tax provision.. .. 41,903 17,750 24,353
Creditors .. .. 92,864 48,062 67,786
Final divs 500 8,600 8,600
£685,132 £492,936 £610,394
Freeholds .. .. 144,189 144,558 154,514
Plant, etc 100,080 88,503 94,885
Stocks 316,970 185,976 234,710
Debtors 18,946 71,156 21,661
Cash, etc 4,946 2,742 4,623
Goodwill .... 1 1 1
£585,132 £492,936 £510,394
Freeholds and plant appear in the books
at June, 1950, valuation, additions at cost,
less depreciation. Stocks at £234,710 are
valued “at cost or less,” and represent
45.9 p.c. of assets. Debtors at £21,661
are equal to 4.2 p.c. of assets.
The co. is now concentrating on ex-
panding sales locally to achieve a sound
balance between the Australian and export
market, and the directors expect another
good year in 1955. Investors may wish
for an improvement before the next
close of accounts in the debtors-to-stock
ratio apparent in the 1954 accounts.
At December 31, net tangible asset-
cover for the co.’s 30,000 £1 “A” 5 p.c.
cumulative preference shares was
£ll 16s. 4d. a share; net cover for the
1,080,000 ss. ord. stock-units was 6s. At
the present market quotation of about 4s.
the ords. yield 7.5 p.c.


GOLD MINING-MALAYA
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Raub
Australian G-old Mining Co. Limited for
the position of GENERAL MANAGER
of the Company’s Mine at Raub, Pahang,
Malaya. Applicants should possess a
university Mining Degree or Diploma
from a recognised School of Mines, and a
sound practical experience in the mining
and treatment of gold-bearing ores.
Applicants should have also had a sound
administrative experience. Salary £4,000
Stg. per annum and, in addition, the
Company pays a Cost of Living allow-
ance and provides free furnished accom-
modation. An entertaining allowance will
also be given. Fares and reasonable
travelling expenses of the successful appli-
cant and wife will be paid to the Mine.
Term of initial engagement three years,
with six months’ leave and return fares
to Port of embarkation on completion.
Rates of Income Tax in Malaya are com-
paratively low. Applications should be
lodged as early as possible, with original
references and particulars of age, marital
state and experience accompanied by
Medical Certificate regarding health—and
should be addressed to The Secretaries,
CLARKE & SON, Box 277 D, G.P.0., Bris-
bane, Queensland, Australia.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
DIAMOND
.JUBILEE
A
CO
cn
CJI
oo
60 YEARS!
OF ”
LIFE ASSURANCE
SERVICE
B
METROPOLITAN LIF
ASSURANCE Cm
SZcs <*«• IN Q*IA(4O !•»»
SPEG/AUS/NG IN OF L/FE AND
ACC/DENT INSURANCE -
Hie Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. ’Phone BW 8061.
nI//
I
r^r>
r=sB
•&
t£S>
■*»
<3
d^"j
«■ W. 25?
s>-
<&
<£>2*
iSaQi
-0
s&frf
z:
\-r
'%
k
;vv
aT
VV>
=7
<2
cgXO
*6
'iSpVy
[<’ v r v JJ/'v
I
j i /’"^
«S 7 is^
I
)
•Cs>
■0
4?
y^f^Fl)
&
*CS
v_V2
»
;> \
to
AviV
3P
,v^
<s>
* A*
L*7
■x&
<^Uh
IP?;,
COOW
00V
t
OUTSTANDING FEATURES
from the
68th Annual Report
cf
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
WP* Bonus Rates substantially increased
Payments to Policyholders and Dependants, £5,336,801
New Policies assuring £58,278,627
Assets protecting Policyholders exceed £111,094,404
The
M.L.C.
(incorporated in N.S.W)
Till: MUTUAL LIFE anil CITIZENS'
Assurance Co. Limited
General
er:
A. F. DEER
MLS4/1 1.4
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
Wapet Summary
Summarising recent develop-
ments at Exmouth Gulf, W.A.
Petroleum reports that the
Rough Range No. 1 well having
been drilled to its maximum
depth of 14,602 ft. (at which it is
the deepest well ever drilled in
Australasia), it was, at the begin-
ning of March, made ready for
a programme of testing and re-
examination of all oil- and gas-
showings encountered in the
drilling of the well. To this end
7in. casing had been run and
cemented to a depth of 10,700 ft.
The first formation-test was
made when the casing was per-
forated between 10,565 ft. and
10,585 ft. Mechanically the test
was successful, but only salt-
water was recovered, after a
slight gas - blow had been
detected.
The next test was run between
10,537 ft. and 10,547 ft. Again
salt-water was recovered, with
some slight gas-indications, and
after examination of the results,
Wapet technicians concluded
that these zones were of no
further interest.
After other tests in the
10,000 ft. -10,109 ft. and 9905 ft-
. zones had revealed
nothing of significance, a very
thorough testing was begun of
the zone between 9770 ft. and
9808 ft. When drilling operations
were in progress last June an oil-
showing was observed in the
drilling-mud stream when the
well was at 9789 ft. However,
the later formation - tests re-
covered only salt-water. Testing
of high levels is continuing, and
production from the oil-horizon
is contemplated later on.
Rough Range No. 8, the
second of a series of wells
seeking geological information
on the southern end of Rough
Range, was spudded-in late in
February, and at the beginning
of March the lOfin. surface-
casing had been run and
cemented to 480 ft.
During the first week of
March, this well gained 2680 ft,
to be drilling ahead in black
shale at 3160 ft However, after
drilling a further 729 ft. during
the following week, the well was
found to be running low on
structure, and, after formation-
testing and the running of an
electric log, the hole was plugged
and abandoned.
The mobile T-32 rig which
drilled Rough Range No. 8 :
well will take over at the Rough
Range No. 1 site to complete
testing operations at the
shallower depths, particularly
-Jf3, when the recent oil-
boom began - . .
The focus of interest m
Exmouth Gulf drilling shifts
now to the top of the rugged
Cape Range structure, where a
deep exploratory well, Cape
Range No. 2, will be spudded-
in as soon as equipment can be
assembled at the difficult site,
This is expected about the first
week in May.
Situated on top of a 1000 ft-
range, the Cape Range No. 2
location is about two miles south
of the No. 1 well drilled in
Shothole Canyon. The No. 2
well will be drilled with the big
National 130 rig which drilled
Rough Range No. 1. This rig
will be shifted to Cape Range
as soon as it has completed deep-
testing of Rough Range No. 1.
At Saltmarsh the Warroora
No i weU dri lled steadily ahead
throuehout March At the
, . 8 . - ,
begm ” n * [?? the i™”* 'J e deplh ,
was 2866 ft. Wr* subsequent
Weekly gams of 549 ft., 376 ft. and
402 ft., it was drilling ahead in a
~ , ,
sandstone at 4510 ft. towards
the end of March. By April 12,
the depth was 5076 ft., still in
sandstone. An electric-log and
dipmeter survey are to be
made.
The beginning of March found
the Grant Range No. 1 well
drilling ahead in silty sandstone
at 7049 ft., after the successful
clearing of drill-pipe which had
stuck at 6785 ft. A week later
211 ft. had been gained, and the
formation being penetrated was
still silty sandstone. A little
later a routine core was cut
between 7293 ft. and 7302 ft. and
recovered hard, porous sand-
stone. A formation-test of this
zone recovered only fresh water,
with no shows of oil. During the
following week, a further
formation - test between 7994 ft.
and 8028 ft. recovered slightly
salty water. Following a gain
of 232 ft. for the week, the well
was then drilling ahead in hard
sandstone at 8120 ft. On April
11 the hole was at 8536 ft. in
fossiliferous shale and hard,
fine sandstone.


Women’s Letter s
MELBOURNE
The premiere of “La Traviata” at Her
Majesty’s was a night of triumph for
Gabriella Tucci, who sang the role of
Violetta. In the first act, the young
soprano wore a hooped frock of white
Chantilly lace, the dropped shoulder-line
finished with a deep frill of the lace ; the
full skirt was of many tiers. For the
second act an apple-green organdie
crinoline gown was worn over seven petti-
coats. The skirt was in tiers, each scal-
loped, and edged with narrow lace and
lines of pink-and-green velvet; her
flower-trimmed straw hat was tied with
black-velvet ribbons. In the scene in
Flora’s house, she wore a wonderful
crinoline gown of rich black velvet, the
skirt-hem bordered in a silver-embroidered
flower-design, and above this a flounce of
jet-embroidered tulle was sewn diagon-
ally across the skirt. A matching frill
of embroidered tulle finished the strapless-
bodice and fell gracefully across the
upper arm. Glittering jewellery and a
large black ostrich-feather fan completed
the ensemble.
There were lovely gowns also in the
audience. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs,
Frank Selleck, chose an embroidered gown
of black silk-taffeta worn with a mink
stole. Mrs. Gordon Coulter’s royal-blue
satin gown was richly beaded. Mrs. Alfred
Fowler’s aqua-blue satins were also
beaded. A series of silver-embroidered
organza petals made the tunic Betty
Inwood wore with an accordion-pleated
cream-organza skirt.
Mrs. Gordon Steege chose a graceful
gown of white chiffon, featuring wide
panels of powder-blue-and-navy chiffon.
Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon’s white silk-
jersey gown was pleated on skirt and
bodice. Lady Collins chose gunmetal
chiffons. Mrs. E. L. G. Cresswell’s
gown was made from a gold-embroidered
royal-blue sari. Mrs. Ferdy Vigano’s
short full frock was of green floral-
organza and green velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
A 13 oa trace Eve dance with much
gaiety in it was held at the University’s
Union House by the Melbourne Grammar
Boats and Oars Fund committee, with
some 400 present. The entrance-hall was
decorated with colored-lights, autumn-'
foliage and shrubbery; large cardboard
copies of racing-eights were suspended
from the ceiling and at midnight
these were upturned to release hun-
dreds of paper-streamers. Black-and-
white sketches of school-life adorned the
walls.
Rodney Disney Davidson, president of
the committee, received the official guests:
Wing-Commander W. Anderson, secre-
tary of the Old Melburnians’ Associa-
tion ; Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Edmunds (she
wearing beige crepe-romaine); and Mrs.
Charles F. Davidson (whose gown of
black lace over brown taffeta had the
lace pattern outlined with jet sequins).
Among the pretty frocks noticed:
Patricia Christian’s short white bouffant
tulle with white Swiss-embroidery fash-
ioning the wide shoulder-straps ; Esme
Clark's white tulle over blue taffeta, the
bodice trimmed with large moonlight
pearls; Noel Davidson’s pale-blue-and-
white organdie frock highlighted with a
wide cerise-satin sash ; Aldra Dungan’s
pale-blue tulle made over pink, with
appliques of white lace on the strapless
bodice; Janet Fairlie’s jonquil-yellow
short chiffon frock with its dark-grey
velvet sash; Judith Smith’s pink-and-
white frosted-organza; Gillian Collins’s
combination of accordion-pleated soft-
beige skirt and gold-embroidered wool
sweater.
☆ ☆ ☆
Animal motifs loomed large in the
decor at the dinner-dance at Giro’s in aid
of the Raveloe Auxiliary of the Animal
Welfare League Lort Smith Hospital.
President of the auxiliary, Mrs.. David
Warford Mein, whose gown was of
emerald-green organza, received the
guests with her husband.
Among those who danced were Win-
some Dane, wearing a pretty watermelon-
pink-and-gold-patterned organza; Joyce
Donoghue, in gold-satin skirt and pearl-
embroidered strapless-bodice; Anthea
Sanders, whose pale - grey - and - pink
organza frock was made over salmon-
pink taffeta; Mrs. John Casson, wearing
pink organza patterned in a black-lace
design ; Mrs. John Warlow, whose strik-
ing full-skirted gown was of white faille
striped in brilliant colors ; and Mrs. Tom
Hudson, in a gown of black tulle em-
broidered in an allover lace design.
☆ ☆ ☆
Highlighting the opening of the
University’s Centenary Appeal, Vice-
Chanceilor Professor G. W. Paton and
Mrs. Paton entertained at a late-
afternoon- party in their residence in the
University grounds. Helping them were
members of the Citizens’ Appeal Com-
mittee. Members of the Women’s
Committee present were Lady Grimwade,
Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer, Mrs. J. P.
Major, Mrs. D. Hallenstein, Mrs. A. K.
Hunt and Mrs. E. J. G. Wilson. Mrs.
H. A. Standish and Mrs. E. W. Tipping,
who will be in charge of publicity, were
also present, as were Sir Archie
Michaelis, Mr. H. D. Giddy, Mr. G. J.
Coles, Mr. E. W. Doyle and Brigadier R.
Irving (he is in charge of the appeal).
Gabriella Tucci will, as may be seen
from this photo., adorn every principal
soprano-role she takes with the Italian
Opera Co., now playing to big houses at
Her Majesty’s. Gabriella, who is 25, is
making the tour a honeymoon one—she
married in Italy just prior to departure.
This Italian beauty, who will be heard as
Violetta in “La Traviata,” Liu in
“Turandot,” Michaela in “Carmen” and
Mimi in “La Boheme,” is one of the most
popular singers at the Rome Opera
House and has sung opposite Gigli.
Printed cottons and silks had a late
airing at the M.R.C.’s Easter meeting
at Flemington, and picture-hats and
close-fitting caps were popular. Wife
of the club’s chairman, Mrs. R. V. Gove,
in emerald-green linen shirt-frock and
veiled matching cloche, hostessed a
luncheon-party, her guests being Lady
Burston, Mrs. W. P. Mein, Mrs. A. J.
Moir, Mrs. A. C. Shortt, Mrs. J. E.
Hewitt, Mrs. Paul Grage, Mrs. G. H.
Davey, Mrs. G. A. Watkins and Mrs. G.
Alderton.
Lady McCauley looked attractive in a
frock of lime-and-black printed-silk and
a white hat banded with pale-pink-and-
white-striped silk. Lady Hyde wore a
printed silk frock and black hat. Bunches
of cerise-and-black cherries patterned
the cool white piqu6-frock Mrs. Bill
Gluth wore with a shiny black-straw
curvette. Mrs. P. Walsh’s white sheer
was coin-spotted in black; her large
black hat was of lace-straw.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a pleasantly informal morning-tea
party in the Lounge of the Nurses’ Home,
Prince Henry Hospital, Mrs. Robin
Byrne, daughter of the Governor and
Lady Brooks, launched the Loveliest
Mother Quest, proceeds of which will
go towards the hospital’s building-fund.
Mrs. Byrne, who wore a fitted coat of
rich wine-red velvet topped with a cur-
vette of white flowers, was met on arrival
by Mr. Maurice Nathan, president of
the Building Appeal committee, and
Mrs. E. B. Coles. Mrs. Coles wore an
attractive jacket-suit of azure-blue silk-
shantung patterned in tiny white flowers,
and capped by small white hat. Mrs.
John Buckland, who accompanied Mrs.
Byrne from Government House, wore
a trim black tailored suit and small white
hat finished with black veiling.
SYDNEY
The week, traditionally one of the
busiest in Sydney’s social year, produced
the usual abundance of dances, weddings
and parties for 1955, and those who
wished “to be in everything” didn’t have
a moment’s rest.
One of the most colorful events was
the Red Cross Ball at the Trocadero,
which brought out some of the most
beautiful dresses seen since the Royal
tour last year. The president, Mrs. A. L.
Walters, with her husband, Air-Vice-
Marshal Walters, welcomed the
Governor, Sir John Northcott, who was
accompanied by his son-in-law and
daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Nash.
Mrs. Walters’s dress was an English-
model sheath-gown of pale-gold and rose
brocade. Mrs. Nash wore white Chan-
tilly lace over tulle. The table-decora-
tions were a feature of the ball.
Dramatic and imaginative, they included
huge silver swans, glass champagne-
bubbles miraculously dancing in mid-
air, cardboard cut-outs of dapper French-
men, and (on the table of the Swiss
community which won a prize) koalas
and other Australian emblems mingled
with emblems of Swiss life.
Lady McCauley, who with Air-Vice-
Marshal McCauley flew over from Mel-
bourne for the ball, wore a lovely dress
of grey organza appliqudd with grey lace.
Mrs. Ken Pointing’s dress was mushroom-
pink satin with a deep cuff of bronze
sequins. Mrs. C. M. Guiney, who
organised the decoration of the tables,
wore a slim gown of navy. Mrs. Gordon
Johnston’s white sheath-dress was intri-
cately embroidered all over. Mrs. Persia
Porter wore black, Mrs. Alec Morgan a
romantic gown of white satin-striped
organza. Mrs. Tom Bateman’s dress was
cream lace re-embroidered in gold, Mrs.
R. Lay wore white organdie embroidered
with black with an emerald-satin bow.
Mme. Agabayani entertained in her party
Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, Mrs. Sharkey
Simpson, and the Mayor of Kempsey,
Alderman Angus McNeil, and Mrs.
McNeil.
Among the most beautiful weddings of
the week was that of Jillian Nivison.
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. S.
Nivison, of Mirani, Walcha, to Mr.
Herbert Oppenheimer, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Ernest Oppenheimer, of Capetown,
South Africa. It was an all-white wed-
ding, in which the bride wore classically-
cut brocade, with a pearl coronet to hold
her veil. Her attendants were Mrs. John
Lavender ( Quirindi ), Mrs. Evan Barnet
(Barren Junction), Rosemary Allen
( Cooma ) and Philippa Cookson ( Inverell ).
The marriage took place at St. Stephen’s
Church, Macquarie-street, and the recep-
tion was held at the Royal Sydney Golf
Club, Rose Bay. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
Another Easter bride was Suzanne
Snelling, younger daughter of Mrs. Joyce
Snelling (Neutral Bay) and the late Cap-
tain R. L. Snelling; her marriage to Mr.
Ken Kelly, of Boorowa, was celebrated
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral. The bride
was attended by her sister Mrs. Armand
George, and_ by Mary Nelson, Bess Kelly
and Annette Lane.
☆ ☆ ☆
On Sunday Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. Walters entertained about 200
friends at a really delightful luncheon
at the R.A.A.F. headquarters at Lap-
stone Hill. While sipping their cocktails
on the terrace the guests enjoyed the
view over the plains (one of the most
beautiful in Australia) and admired,
among other things, the goldfish-ponds,
the inhabitants of which all seem to have
a name, including one Pinocchio, who
took a bow when introduced.
Mrs. Walters wore a white sharkskin
suit with a peacock-feather in her white
pillbox hat. She was helped in enter-
taining by her daughter Robin, whose
engagement was recently announced to
Dr. Carl Halden, who is Swedish, and
whom she met in London six years ago.
Members of the diplomatic and Consu-
lar corps were in the majority among
the guests, who also included leading
citizens from public life and the pro-
fessions.
☆ ☆ ☆
Important Easter dances included the
annual Matrons’ Ball at the Royal Sydney
Golf Club, and the Country Matrons’
Ball at the Hotel Australia, both held on
the one night.
At the Matron’s Ball the 26 hostesses
were Mrs. Norman Allen, Mrs. E. A.
Coghlan, Mrs. C. H. Copper, Mrs. Ash-
leigh Davy, Mrs. G. F. de Salis, Mrs. C.
H. D. Harper, Mrs. Geoffrey Kiss, Mrs.
Rex Linsley, Mrs. A. S. Nivison, Mrs. P.
J. Osborne, Mrs. P. J. Parker, Mrs. John
Playfair, Mrs. Allen Potter, Mrs. E. R.
Raine, Mrs. Clive Reid, Mrs. Clive Robin-
son, Mrs. G. Gordon Russell, Mrs. T. L.
F. Rutledge, Mrs. Harold Simpson, Mrs.
R. C. Smith, Mrs. T. R. Street, Mrs
Leonard Teece, Mrs. Francis Thompson,
Mrs. Kenneth Winchcombe, Mrs. J. Z.
Windeyer and Lady Williams.
At the Country Matrons’ Ball the
hostesses were Mrs. James Ashton (Man-
durama), Mrs. Robert Ashton (Cargo),
Mrs. William Bishop (Scone), Mrs. Frank
Bragg (Aberdeen), Mrs. Franke Crane
(Jerry’s Plains), Mrs. Mick Fairfax
'(Merriwa), Mrs. Robert Mackay (Dun-
gog), Mrs. Alex McLeod (Cassilis), Mrs.
Douglas Munro (Merriwa), Mrs. Robert
Simson (Quirindi), Mrs. Henry White
(Coolah) and Mrs. Peter White (Mudgee).
☆ ☆ ☆
The only Sydney notable missing from
the Crofts’ reception at Elizabeth Bay
in honor of the Canadian Minister for
Commerce and Deputy P.M., Mr. C. D.
Howe, appeared to be Mr. Croft himself.
“Croftie” was laid low with a wog, and
that was particularly unfortunate, in
view of similar tribulations he has had
to suffer lately. It really takes something
to keep him away from a party given by
the diplomatic or Consular corps, and he
was missed at Friday night’s bright
assembly. Canadian High Commissioner
Irwin and Mrs. Irwin came from
Canberra for the occasion.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Musica Viva Society has resumed its
activities, and its first concert of the new
series was given at the Conservatorium
on April 18, with a repeat the following
night. The artists performing—Robert
Pikler (viola), Joyce Hutchinson (piano)
and Gabor Reeves (clarinet) —were guests-
of-honor at a party at the home of Mrs.
C. Selby (Warrawee) on Sunday, April
17. Assisting Mrs. Selby were Mrs. Hope
Gibson (recently elected to the Council
of the Musica Viva), Mrs. Richard Gold-
ner (whose husband is the founder of the
society), Mrs. R. L. Ernst and Mrs.
Charles Berg.
☆ ☆ ☆
A good word for television comes
from Australian writer Margaret Trist,
at present travelling round the Continent
with her husband. From London she
writes: “I have become a most devoted
fan of television, much to my own sur-
prise. Have had the pleasure of watching
good plays in a comfortable chair by a
warm fire through this coldest of English
winters. The 8.8. C. is doing a fine job,
I think. There is a newspaper strike at
at the moment, but we have met all the
leading editors per TV, and they tell us
at night what we should have read in the
papers.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Heather Menzies, daughter of the
Prime Minister, has chosen four brides-
maids to attend her when she marries
Peter Henderson at St. Andrew’s Church,
Canberra, in a couple of month’s
time. They are Joan Wardrop (Kew,
Vic.), Marion McPherson (South Yarra,
Vic.), Ruth Farren Price (Canterbury,
Vic.) and Robin Campbell (Woden,
Queanbeyan, N.S.W.), daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. D. Campbell, at whose home
Miss Menzies first met her fiance in 1951.
☆ ☆ *
Happiest news of the week was the
announcement of a vaccine for polio-
myelitis having been found. Most sober-
ing was the report that 45 people were
killed and 268 injured in road-accidents
in Australia during the Easter holidays.


Investments'"
VAtOj*-
special Smff
■t
TWffitS.WMGS
5 YEAR GUARAMTEE
©
in nickel \
chTomeco^j
#7to'-
15-jewelled lever pocket wotch; most
accurate timekeeper. Open face,
screw back and bezel, Arabic or rail-
way figures, heavy glass. This wotch
will serve you for a lifetime. In nickel
chrome cose £7/10/0
ONLY
£5
POCKET ALARM CLOCK. Set the'
alarm for whatever time you wish to
wake, 1 • Open back to stand up.
Fits snugly into pocket, useful for re-
mindincfyou of appointments. Chrome,
block or white dial. Luminous hands
and figures. Only ... £5/0/0
STOP
WATCH
f 22
STOP WATCH 1/1 Ofh split second
times. Fully calibrated. By world
famous maker. Bargain special: £22
I m
ENGAGEMENT RINGS. Newest Con-
tinental fashion. Unbeatable value.
Clean, brilliant single stone diamond.
■ goia, rmgree ciaw-set. Assorted
shoulders. Yellow Gold £26/0/0
White Gold ... £27/0/0
Popular coronet claw-set in 18-ct.
gold with really beautiful stone, as-
sorted shoulders.
Yellow Gold .... „. £42/10/0
White Gold £44/0/0
Write us for all types of
watches, rings and
jewellery
710 George St., Sydney.
AU prices include registered post, bur
not C.O.D. charges.
Cut our this advt., mark the items you
want, attach p.n., m. 0., or cheque, or
order C.O.D. and post NOW.
NAME
APDRESS Z,
What do you mean
by ‘Scotch 9 ?
ivy m
rj
ML
L ff
BEIXS
lOO* SCOTCH WHISKIJJ
OIITIUSD AND
’ i IN SCOTLAND .
°'STILLERST«n,SCOT^
CSTABttSMCO
Mooucr of
There are many very good
Scotch Whiskies. But when
a connoisseur thinks of
‘Scotch’ he thinks of Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Bell’s
are an old firm of independ-
ent distillers. Independent
to go on producing whisky
possessed of all the skill and
knowledge of generations.
Try some yourself. Savour
the smooth, elusive flavour
of a whisky carefully blend-
ed, well-matured. If you’re
a connoisseur Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky will delight
you.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sms Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
Established 1825
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Grand Opera, Melbourne
“Aida” once more opened
the door, or banged it open, on
another grand-opera season at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, and
the priests, priestesses, captains,
soldiers, functionaries and gods,
and a small handful of the
Egyptian population marched in
as usual and the trumpets blew
and the chorus roared until the
hall of Pharaoh’s palace
trembled.
The best exemplar of the
music was Melbourne’s old
friend Dora Minarchi, who, as
Pharaoh’s v daughter, has to
stand arourid fuming while her
potential boy-friend General
Radames casts sheep’s-eyes at
her slave-girl. Her voice Was
big and brassy enough to cope
with the loudest demands of
Verdian passion, but was also
capable of expressing the softer
emotions.
Elizabetta Barbato also placed
a big voice at the service of
Aida, plus voluptuous low tones
and a sensuous grace of move-
ment, but not so her martial
lover, who never once succeeded
in conveying that he was any-
thing other than Signor Umberto
Borso, the celebrated Italian
tenor trained in an accepted
school for actors. There was no
touch of Nature in him. The
person who had most of this
was Giulio Mastrangelo, as the
Ethiopian king Amonasro, and
one of the sweetest singers was
Australian Cavell Armstrong,
priestess. High-priest Ramphis
was taken solemn care of by
Salvatore Catania.
The final burial-scene, in which
Aida and Radames sing them-
selves plaintively into asphyxia-
tion while Amneris stands above
them unaware of Aida’s presence
and the priests and priestesses
join in a funeral oration, was a
musical, if not a realistic,
triumph. How conductor
Ottavio Ziino controlled it so
well is beyond present com-
mentator’s comprehension.
❖ ♦>
“La Boheme”
Puccini has a lot to answer
for. It was really “La Boheme”
which started the modern move-
ment. Now every young artist
feels obliged to wear a scarlet
beret and magenta trousers,
starve in a garret and be
tyrannised over by a Mimi.
Still, there is nothing false in
Puccini’s opera —it is what
people are like —and the Italo-
Australian company at Her
Majesty’s played it with con-
viction, especially Rina Mala-
trasi, who played Mimi the last
time she was in Australia.
Kenneth Neate, the ex-Sydney
policeman, ministered passion-
ately to her sickness and his
voice positively soared through
Puccini’s music. Augusto
Romani’s magnificent bass gave
the ideas of the philosopher
Colline a dignity and distinction
they didn’t deserve, and Ferdi-
nando li Donne sang and
painted, and sang better than he
painted.
The final scene, where Puccini’s
melodious music trembles to a
close on the dying lips of Mimi
and the frantic tongue of
Rodolfo, was as pathetic as any
done in the same theatre since
the last return of Melba.
♦l*
Robert Kolben
This young pianist of fine
promise (he goes abroad to study
with Bela Siki), tackled at his
farewell concert at Sydney Con.
a giant work—the last and
greatest of Beethoven’s 32
sonatas —Opus 111 in C Minor.
Backing-up a technique which
is already notable, Kolben
brings to his playing a feeling
for big works and a surprisingly
mature style. True, there were
defections in phrasing and an
imperfect embracing of the full
spirit of the summation of
human suffering inherent in the
incomparable arietta of the
sonata, but by and large the
performance had much merit.
Bach’s Toccata in D Minor
had polish and precision, and the
gradations of tune were handled
skilfully. Not quite so happily
caught were the delicacies of
Debussy impression in
“Pagodes” and “Soiree dans
Grenade.”
Strange bedfellows in the
latter half were two pieces by
Raymond Hanson clangish
and of no great invention and
two of Chopin’s most engaging
short-long works: the splendid
Ballade No. 4 and the Scherzo
No. 3 —in both of which
muscularity and poetry were
effectively blended.
Matthew Passion
If Good Friday were not
ushered in by the Royal .Mel-
bourne Philharmonics singing
Bach’s St. Matthew Passion it
would be as if a Canberra
Parliamentary session opened
without the Lord’s Prayer.
The important thing is, was
the ritual done well? In the case
of the Matthew Passion it was
done extremely well. Having
done it annually for at least
100 years the choir has had some
practice and it has a standard.
Joseph Post was the conductor
on this occasion, and he suc-
seeded in making his choristers
surpass all previous standards—
or at least those within present
commentator’s memory.
Robert Payne aired his bari-
tone with great dramatic power
and Glenda Raymond her fine
soprano with nicety and sweet-
ness. Florence Taylor brushed
in the dark tones with her con-
tralto, and Max Worthley, his
tenor heard almost continuously
throughout the evening, was
near enough to perfect in the
narrator role.
❖ <i* &
“The Prisoner”
This drama, put on by Sydney
Genesians, is set in a Communist
State. When the curtain rises
the Cardinal of the play is
waiting in his gorgeous robes to
be tortured into a “confession” ;
but since he scorns physical
pain he is not afraid.
His interrogator turns out to
be more likeable than he’d
expected. Also more dangerous,
being skilled in the science of
probing minds. The Cardinal
still isn’t afraid. The torture-
process is made more interesting
—if somewhat hampered—by the
mutual liking that springs up
between the two. Then, as a
result of this mental affinity, the
Cardinal makes a discovery
which at last frightens him: the
interrogator is sincere. He really
believes that for the good of
mankind Communism must
prosper and the Church be
destroyed.
“Then,” cries the Cardinal,
“God give me the strength to
resist you.”
What follows is seldom either
mawkish or morbid. It is more
than the Cardinal can bear to
face the fact that he has been
motivated by vanity. Unfor-
tunately for the interrogator,
he finds too late that forcing
the Cardinal to face it is more
than he himself can bear. A
man may have done right for
the wrong reason, but he is still
a fine man.
David Butler effectively
showed the Cardinal’s wit,
wisdom and failings. If he was
short on magnificence, he. has
the excuse that this particular
Cardinal was born in a fish-
shop.
Whatever cardinals may do, it
is certain that interrogators never
behave as the play calls on this
one to do. Bruce Stewart had
the task of making it seem cred-
ible. He takes the laurels for the
way he tackled it.
❖ ♦> ♦>
Sylvia Fisher
Sylvia Fisher concluded her
Melbourne Town Hall season
with a recital of the songs of
Brahms, Schumann, Mozart,
Duparc and Faure and of some
old Italian folk-songs which left
the present commentator con-
fidently of the opinion that she
is not only the best singer pro-
duced in the vicinity of the Yarra
for a very long time but in the
world-class. The unusual intel-
ligence of her interpretations
seems to make each song a new
experience for the listener.
Artbursts
Madfach Prizes
The most surprising object at
the Contemporary Society’s ex-
hibition at David Jones’,
Sydney, is “The Prophet” in old
grey wood by Mark Henry. It
doesn’t look very much like a
prophet—perhaps because one
is not accustomed to meet them
in wood —but with its strange
grey elongated head and long
white wooden beard it does look
more like one of the old gnomes
at home than any other reprenta-
tion of the species one has seen
for years.
The show celebrates the
inauguration of the Madach
Prizes, worth £4O each, which
have been donated chiefly by the
Hungarian community in Sydney
in honor of the poet Imre
Madach (1823-1861), who wrote
an epical kind of verse-play
called “The Tragedy of Man.”
Two of the three prizes went
to Eric Smith for paintings
entitled “Adam and Lucifer in
the Ice Age” and “Descent from
the Cross,” and the other to an
abstract “Model for Wall
Design,” which looks like the
framework of a kite, by Margel
Hinder.
The exhibits, with considerable
energy, run through the con-
ventional paces of contemporary
art and in general, though there
are some bright bits of decora-
tion, are slapdash or facile.
Keith Harrison’s “Never Never,”
looking like mechanised stags’
heads on a draughtsboard, seems
to have more work in it than
most of them; Mary Ann
Telfer’s “In the Garden of Eden”
is a pleasant, if vague, adaptation
from Cezanne; and—though it
is not enough to have learned
from Cezanne and Rouault that
blue and mauve sit pleasantly
together—Eric Smith makes an
attractive use of color.
*
Homer and Corot
At the Victorian Artists’, Len
French is showing more of his
abstractions, this time based on
the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer,
and one critic described them
as heroic.
If he meant that they were
heroic in size, then they are
certainly heroic, and Corot’s
“Bent Tree” is most unheroic
since you could put a couple of
dozen Corots inside the largest
of Mr. French’s pictures; but
unfortunately there is more
aesthetic quality in a square-inch
or so of Corot than in the whole
acreage of Mr. French’s pic-
tures.
It is a pity, because Mr.
French has talent, and if he had
as much passion for fulfilling
Nature as he seems to have for
fulfilling the fashion, there is no
end to what he might do.
*l* *t* &
Lurcat
Jean Lurcat, the celebrated
French designer, a £2OOO speci-
men of whose tapestry is in the
National Gallery in Melbourne,
is at the Peter Bray Gallery in
Bourke-street in the shape of
four ceramic plaques and in
company with a dozen other
French potters.
Their pottery is made in an
old wine-cellar at Perpignan in
the south of France.
Lurcat makes bold black
shapes on delicate backgrounds
which have a certain richness,
and there is ft warm quality
about his glazes which one
doesn’t see in the commercial
potters. The others, self-con-
scious primitives, are less
distinguished.
Talkies
“Dial M For Murder” (Syd-
ney Mayfair): While there is
less action than explanatory
dialogue in this suspense-
thriller, director Alfred Hitch-
cock, wrings sufficient terror out
of what action there is and
makes the camera work for him
with great subtlety. All the
threads are neatly gathered up
at the denouement, and the plot
—except for doubt as to a
woman who is being strangled
haying the strength to plunge a
pair of scissors fatally into the
back of the vigorous would-be
assassin, who is bending her
backwards—is ironbound and
watertight.
♦2*
“Edward and Caroline” (Syd-
ney Paris): The story, boiled-
down, is that a young pianist
and his wife have a barney and
a reconciliation. But the
embellishments to this snappy
French film are so good, and the
comments on the shallowness of
the social-climbing set of a
patronising uncle and cousin are
so pungent, that the whole thing
spins-out to sparkling entertain-
ment.


Lazy Walk about
by PETER BLADEN
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
Here, on the last lap of his
free-and-easy “walkabout” from
Perth to Adelaide, Peter Bladen
is heading for the Barossa
Valley, the Onkaparinga, the old-
German and other settlements,
the vineyards, the wineries, odd
sanctuaries, and the beautiful
hill-country going down to the
City of Churches.
NURIOOTPA (continued)
THE Nuriootpa Vigilance
Committee was formed in
1911. By 1943 outsiders
were realising that
Nuriootpa was striving to
develop some kind of com-
munity-centre. Ministers of
Parliament held conferences
there, support was forthcoming
for a programme of enterprising
ventures, and the town was
heralded as a beacon that could
light the way for the rest «of the
nation.
Schools, kindergartens and
churches, halls, ovals and
rotundas, clinics and craft-
centres were being built, and a
library, and a swimming-pool,
dramatic and musical societies
were formed and lecture-courses
organised. The hospital, and a
community-hotel with a beer-
garden, and an open-air theatre
were also on the list.
The aim was not merely to
erect new buildings, but “to
reaffirm family life and the
importance of the individual,”
and by making life in a small
community attractive, both by
the provision of amenities and
entertainments and the estab-
lishment of new industries, to
attract the young people to
remain there, and arrest the drift
to the cities, with their industrial
unrest and lack of regard or
opportunity for the ordinary
man.
“Mixed up in it, no doubt,
there was the longing that our
country villages should not be
for ever just long, monotonous
roadways—streaks of bitumen
between rows of old galvanised-
iron verandas and wooden tene-
ments, where youth longs for
the day when he can pack his kit
and head for the mirage of the
big cities.” A famous professor
wrote: “Just imagine a
thousand Nuriootpas dotted
round Australia.”
Nuriootpa has been most for-
tunate. One of its citizens, a Mr.
Coulthard, perhaps a descendant
of William Coulthard, the
pioneer pastoralist who died of
thirst near Pernatty Lagoon in
1858, has liberally supported the
various projects, subsidising the
community efforts over a number
of years on a basis of 10s. or £1
for every £1 raised. Many
centres anxious to follow
Nuriootpa’s lead would fail to
find such a liberal benefactor.
But I kept wondering
Whether all the committees and
societies had stifled something
which is very necessary in any
true community-centre. Every-
one seemed too busy, too
wrapped up in the scheme, to
spare much time on strangers.
With friends I visited a winery,
one of the showplaces of the
Barossa.
We drove along the highway,
to the turn-off marked by tall
palms, through pretty Marananga
and past the Gnadenfrei church,
to a beautiful valley where the
buildings of the winery are set
attractively, surrounded by many
acres of vines.
On a hilltop overlooking the
valley we saw the founder’s
family mausoleum, a building
reminiscent of a Greek temple,
and followed an avenue of palms
to the picturesque buildings, the
little village and the presses,
distilleries, cellars and stores.
The buildings are beautifully
laid out, with lawns and gardens,
and pines, a meandering stream,
the century-old chimney, and
even turreted vats.
Three-thousand tons of grapes
are put through the crushers each
vintage, and wine is produced
in millions of gallons. Every-
thing is clean and efficient. In the
giant vats we saw wine in the
making, like ruby marble flecked
with white.
Our visit to the second winery
was a memorable one. We went
to Yalumba. The main building
of blue marble, with a fine
clock-tower, is as beautiful as
an ancient castle.
The manager introduced us to
a tester from the laboratory who
spent most of the morning show-
ing us through and explaining
the whole process. We saw the
“lily-ponds,” where the wastage
is evaporated, and the “cold-
rooms,” where the acid is pre-
cipitated—so cold that we could
feel our own acid precipitating.
“Wine, like man, is living,”
our guide explained, “and
different varieties mature at
different ages.”
Slowly the romance of a great
industry unfolded before us. We
could picture the pioneer, Samuel
Smith, planting out his first vine-
yard by moonlight in 1849. The
property was set in beautiful
country. He and his wife called
it their “little paradise.”
The early years were a
struggle. Samuel Smith joined
the gold-rushes, making sufficient
money to invest in more land.
Sixteen years later the winery
was producing 60 hogsheads of
wine. Today the name is a
household word throughout Aus-
tralia and even overseas. Some
of the family’s racehorses have
been well-known, bearing names
associated with the wine
industry: Galway Pipe, Cellar-
man, Vintage Port and Vintage
Song.
In the cellars we saw the
wooden casks where the dry
wines mature, some with glass
fronts to show the process of
fermentation, and. the Centenary
casks and others put down on
special occasions, casks with
ornate carvings, scrolls and
badges, stars and a sickle, the
lion of strength and clusters of
grapes.
We had heard a lot about
Galway Pipe, a wine not easily
obtainable because of the
number of years it takes to
mature. Its label alone is attrac-
tive: an imitation parchment
bearing an etching of the fine old
building. When our tour con-
cluded in the laboratory and the
guide asked what wine we would
like to sample, our thoughts were
all the same, but we lamely men-
tioned lesser varieties, not daring
to hope for perfection.
Nevertheless our thoughts
must have been apparent, and a
bottle of Galway Pipe was pro-
duced. For days we talked of
that wonderful rich taste, and the
magical grape flavor which
lingered after each sip.
BAROSSA VALLEY
IVT URIOOTPA is the jumping-
' off place from which many
tourists explore the Barossa
Valley, Nain (where a New Aus-
tralian artist has converted an
old Lutheran Church into a
studio), Tanunda and Bethany,
Angaston and other settlements
through the hills.
The Barossa Valley was early
called a Land of Promise, the
Australian Canaan. Its settle-
ment owed more to George Fife
Angas than to most other men.
His passion for religious freedom
and his admiration for Teutonic
industry prompted him to take
up the cause of Lutherans per-
secuted in Prussia in the 1830’s,
and he chartered vessels to bring
many of these folk to Australia.
On his behalf Charles Flax-
man purchased seven special
surveys, each of 4000 acres, in
1839, near the present site of
Angaston, much to the financial
embarrassment of Angas, though
the property was later to become
the foundation of the family’s
colonial wealth.
John Howard Angas arrived in
1843 to supervise his father’s
interests, and in 1851 George
Fife Angas himself came to the
colony. Menge, a German
geologist and mineralogist, had
written glowing reports m 1840,
on “New Silesia”:
I can give you the assurance—
first —that all the land on both sides
of the Barossa Range may be brought
under irrigation and kept producing
crops all the year round. Second—
that New Silesia will become the
first mining-country in all Australia.
He found Flaxman Valley
abounding in opals, onyx,
chalcedony, jasper, cornelian and
catseye, with traces of asbestos,
marble, iron and copper, and
even a few grains of gold. He
concluded:
I should like to see the valleys
filled with corn and the hills with
vineyards and browsing cattle.
The Barossa, extending from
the Gulf of St. Vincent to the
River Murray, and Dry Creek
to Wild Horse and Barabba, has
fulfilled most of Menge’s expec-
tations. The Roseworthy Agri-
cultural College and Parafield
State Wheat Experiment Station
are in the electorate. Within a
12-mile radius of Nuriootpa
there are 36 Lutheran congrega-
attending a total of 35
different churches.
Menge’s Camp is now known
as Bethany. My friends drove
me there, on the road beyond
Tanunda. The name Bethany
was changed from the German
Bethanien, of Biblical origin,
meaning, according to various
authorities, a house of song,
affliction, obedience or grace,
or the more generally accepted
“Place of palms.” Bethany was
first settled by members of
Pastor Fritzsche’s flock from
Lobethal in 1841. The pioneers
worked on the principle of the
commune, each cultivating his
own small plot of ground, while
the cattle grazed on a large
common on the hillside. A
ranger in picturesque dress, blow-
ing a horn, would bring in the
cattle at night to be milked, while
at sunset the church-bell would
signal the close of the working-
day, a custom still in practice as
late as 1911.
In the hills are springs and a
waterfall. Once there was a
watermill, but floods have swept
it away. And somewhere near
at hand stood Steinan (“the stone
meadow”), a little lost settlement
of which no records remain.
I visited Pastor Roehrs and
his wife, an old German couple,
and chatted over afternoon-tea
in front of a cosy fire. One
would scarcely imagine that
from such a retired and quaint
old settlement, which has been
cared for by only three succeed-
ing pastors within a century, the
party was dispatched, in 1875,
which was to found the famous
Hermannsburg Mission Station
in Central Australia.
Many of the old Barossa
settlements were given German
names, most of which were
included in the list of “enemy
place-names” changed by Act of
Parliament in 1917. Just as
Klemzig (Kavel’s Silesian home)
and Hahndorf (from the Danish
Captain Hahn) were renamed
Ambleside and Gaza, so
Lobethal, Schoenborn (“lovely
little river”) and Carlsruhe
(“Charlie’s Rest”) also underwent
changes.
Stonefield was originally
Steinfelt, and Parrot Hill was
Gnadenberg ; the North Rhine
River is now the Marne, and
the South Rhine the Somme.
Kaiserstuhl (“the emperor’s
chair”), with which one authority
stated Johann Menge “be-
smirched the map,” com-
memorating a hill near the
Rhine, is now known as Mt.
Kitchener.
It was even suggested that
Tanunda (the native name signi-
fying “abundance of wild fowl
in a creek”) should be altered,
when it was mistakenly believed
that the name was German
Some of the former names,
Klemzig, Hahndorf and
Lobethal, have since been
restored; the others are remem-
bered in the hearts of the
pioneers’ descendants.
Some of the old German
customs are still upheld. It is
not unusual for brides to wear
their wedding-dresses until mid-
night, and some of the New Aus-
tralian workmen are reviving the
custom of hanging a wreath
when the roofing-timbers of a
new house are in place, as a sign
that drinks all round are to be
shouted by the contractor.
My friends drove me through
Angaston to Truro (the old
English “three roads,” the name
of a cathedral-town in Cornwall),
a settlement in undulating wheat-
lands. It was once the home of
Dr. Armgaard Karl Graves, a
late spy of the German Govern-
ment, and the writer of such
books as Secrets of the German
War Office.
Tanunda is situated in a
beautiful valley, and the view
across the North Para towards
distant rumpled hills is a revela-
tion. The fine old buildings of
the Chateau Tanunda are on the
outskirts, and there are pine-
plantations and vines, and at the
station a hedge surmounted by
the shapes of kangaroos and
sitting ducks. The side-streets
are narrow, with scarcely any
footpaths, adding to the old-
world beauty, as well as tq the
language of drivers.
Two of the Lutheran churches
have entrances in the main
street: Tabor, with its orna-
mental trees and the spire topped
by a golden orb in which it is
said the early records of the
church were placed; and
Langmeil, approached down an
avenue of firs leading through a


garden-cemetery, where August
Kavel and many of the pioneers
lie buried.
The Langmeil-road (‘‘long
mile”) preserves the original
name, and the townsfolk still
point out the open square known
as Ziegenmarkt (“the goat-
market”). One of the finest
buildings in the toyvn is the
Lutheran Rest Home, built as a
home for old folk, in thanksgiv-
ing for the protection of Aus-
tralia during the war.
An interesting monument com-
memorates Ephrahim Henry
Coombe, M.P., who was born at
Gawler in 1858 and died in
1917. One of the inscriptions
records the changing political
fortunes in which he was
involved: “We crowned him in
1901, and all that is evil in man
crucified him in 1917, but truth
prevailed, and he died as he
lived, an honorable man.”
Tanunda seemed a friendly
place. Several inhabitants prac-
tically “broke their necks” (as
the saying goes) to help me —
among them the editor of the
local paper, when the ladder
slipped while he was searching
for some of the early files.
From Tanunda I cycled to
Angaston, out of sight in the
hills until the last bridge was
crossed. The road led through
Vine Vale, where the vineyards
are laid out in perfect rows, the
geometrical patterns changing at
every glance, and by the cement-
works and the tall white chimney
visible as far afield as Bagot’s
Well, and near to the marble-
quarries.
All roads to Angaston wind
through the hills. It is a pretty
town. The hostel with its
wooden slats lends it an Eliza-
bethan air. A winged memorial
stands in the gardens, and green
lanes lead to multitudinous
bridges over the little creek.
In the early years Nuriootpa
was built in two sections, one
known as Angas Park. Later,
although George Fife Angas
wrote to Governor Gawler with
the request that “the foolish plan
adopted at the Barpssa Range
by Menge of applying the name
‘Angas’ to the parks and valleys
of that district may be set aside,
and some title more appropriate
adopted,” German Pass was
renamed Angas Town, and
became the present - day
Angaston.
It is busy now, with streets of
new houses springing up. It has
come a long way since the days
when William Doddridge, the
blacksmith, in the absence of a
bridge, was known to cross
the river in flood by means of
a tub.
The first band, named the
Sand Scrub Band, was formed
in 1856, performing for many
years at ceremonies throughout
the valley, including the annual
celebrations of Mr. Angas’s
birthday, and on a more
sorrowful occasion in 1879 at
their beloved supporter’s funeral.
The band went to Tanunda in
1892 in a springcart for the open-
ing of the railway, which had
long been awaited. After the
years of agitation, meetings and
polls, Parliamentary Acts and
tours of inspection, during which
toasts were drunk to the success
of “the Angaston railway via
Lyndoch” (covertly echoed by
some riding different hobby-
horses as “the railway via Rose-
worthy”), the great day of
celebration dawned.
The official party had thought-
fully sent up a case of biscuits
and sparkling wines, but when it
was opened, the case was found
to contain half a hundredweight
of soap.
Some evidence of the
wrangling and bungling which
accompanied the building of the
railway can still be gauged from
the location of the various
railway-stations. In most cases
the stations are inconveniently
situated at Nuriootpa, for
example, on the far outskirts of
the town.
Angaston’s famous sons
included Sir Richard Butler,
known as “The Dismal Knight of
Barossa,” one of the State’s out-
standing Premier-Treasurers; a
son of his was also Premier
and Treasurer. In 1914 the
town Institute pioneered the first
community-owned picture-show
in Australia. And the vineyards
have brought the township fame,
though its proudest memorials
have come from the marble
quarries.
Angaston marble has been
used throughout the country in
memorials commemorating local
heroes, and also in public-
buildings in all the capital cities.
The Western Australian Houses
of Parliament, the Adelaide War
Memorial, and even the magni-
ficent stairway at Australia
House in London bear testimony
to the beauty of Angaston
marble. It has an even grain and
hardness, and the quarries seem
to hold inexhaustible supplies of
both blue and pink crystalline
marble.
One of my visits at Angaston
was to the home of Jack
McLeod, who runs a bicycle-
shop, but is better known to the
world as the Quiet Stockman in
We of the Never-Never. The
Quiet Stockman, after discover-
ing the new world that could be
entered through books, has found
yet another, overcoming his
earlier shyness towards women,
and for the last 40 years has
known the peace and happiness
of life in Angaston, with a wife
like The Little Missus herself to
care for him.
On another occasion I walked
with one of my friends two miles
to Lindsay Park. George Fife
Angas lived near by at Collin-
grove, but Lindsay Park was
also a family home. A long
driveway skirted by paddocks
where herds of deer still roam
leads to the home, surrounded
by thousands of acres of sheeps
pastures. We saw the old pines,
and visited the family vault, once
set in a lovely garden, a large
square surmounted by a fine
statue, with steps leading down
to the tombs below. George Fife
Angas, his son John Howard
Angas and other members of the
family lie buried there.
At the house we inquired for
Sir Keith, but he couldn’t be
found. A puppy without a tail
was playing in the courtyard.
We also visited the stables, and
failed to see either Sir Keith or
his celebrated horses, but below
the wide balconies of the house,
wandering through trellised
vines and a maze of hedges, we
were charmed to meet Lady
Angas.
We saw Pan crouching on the
lawns, the sundial proclaiming:
“Ah, never doth time travel faster
than when his way lies among
flowers,” and the wishing-well,
courts and garden-plots, and the
tree-encircled swimming-pool,
where the water cascades from a
fish’s mouth.
One ledge of the pool is
inscribed: “Cleanliness is next
to godliness,” and the other:
“It is colder than you think.”
On the gateways of the drive
there are elephants rampant.
On the way back from Lindsay
Park we passed red flowering-
gums, bright with soft, spiked
blossoms as large as golf-balls,
and returned to a wonderful
dinner. It seemed quite an honor
that it was prepared for us by a
former maidservant of Lindsay
Park.
In the morning we walked to
the .North Terrace Cemetery,
across a small bridge behind a
butcher-shop, and down a green
lane shrouded in fog, for the
Terrace is merely a grassy track,
and few visitors know that the
old cemetery exists.
A few years ago an old gentle-
man, chasing a rooster, died in
the cemetery. He was found with
his hands still clutching the
struggling bird.
I said good-bye to Angaston
on a Sunday. My stay had been
very pleasant. It is good to meet
people who lead simple lives and
are happy, people who work
honestly and are proud of their
homes, however unpretentious,
whose pleasures are holidays
planned by the river, and visits
from friends for. “a
glass and a chat” at the
weekend, and the fire-
side at night, and the
wireless, and a pup that
wants to be spoiled.
Beyond the turn-off
to Nuriootp*a, St. John’s
Lutheran Cemetery was
carpeted with purple
flowers. The day was
sunny and beautiful.
There were kooka-
burras and twittering
birds. Cars and motor-
bikes from the city sped
northwards, their drivers
taking advantage of
the weather. The road
wound among green
hills and through the
patterned valley, and all
the world seemed mar-
vellously contented.
ANGASTON TO
LOBETHAL
ROWLAND’S FLAT was a
small settlement with decent
homes and glass-summerhouses,
gardens and Gramp’s Winery.
Some, ladies were walking along
the street, carrying a huge cake
with blue icing.
Altona was one of those
places which I didn’t know I
had seen until checking up on the
map. There was a turn-off to
Trial Hill. After a few more
hills and corners, Lyndoch came
into sight. An old church back
from the road was proclaimed
by a freshly painted sign, slung
from a post, as quaint as that of
an old inn, giving the history of
the little parish church.
The pub also was freshly
painted. On a fence near
Lyndoch were the words: “The
sun will rise again,” illustrated
with several “rising - suns,”
reminding me of the man in
Angaston who “built a home for
the Kaiser” during World War
I, and the burning of a church
there when the Second War
began.
Swastikas were painted on the
fence near Lyndoch during the
war. Most German
families have given
their allegiance to
their new homeland
for generations, but
there will always be
the exceptions who
refuse to be assimi-
lated, prejudicing the
nation against not
only themselves but
also their fellow-
migrants.
Late in the after-
noon I came to Wil-
liamstown, a small
place hidden by en-
circling hills. There
was a memorial to a
former resident
“killed in battle against the
Boers.” Williamstown was for-
merly Victoria Creek, and was
renamed after his son William
by Thomas Adams, who traded
the land for a mob of horses.
The old hotel was closed. The
storekeeper said that the publican
was at golf, so I sat on a solid
log seat on the veranda, and after
enjoying the sunset, slowly began
to freeze. When the publican
failed to return I decided that the
police-station would be a good
place to spend the night, but I
searched in vain for any sign of
the policeman.
Then I remembered the
church. There was only one
church with a minister resident in
Williamstown, so I decided to
seek his assistance.
The minister was young and
sympathetic, and invited me to
the service. During the
announcements he made an
impassioned plea on my behalf,
and I sat on a bench at the back,
turning to ice by degrees, but
nobody looked at me with
encouraging smiles. I Wanted to
crawl away and hide behind the
nearest icicle. By the time the
service had concluded, I was
shaking all over ajid even too
numb to speak. Then, rescue
came.
One of the families took me
home for the night to their farm
in Cockatoo Valley and thawed
me out. Their kindness more
than atoned for the coldness of
Williamstown. My hostess pre-
pared an enormous supper, and
I suddenly recollected that I
hadn’t eaten since midday. The
kitchen was cosy and warm, and
when I retired to bed there was
even a hot-water bottle beneath
the blankets. I couldn’t have
been rescued by more hospitable
people.
In the morning a new world of
beauty unfolded about me,
orchards and timbered hills, and
near at hand the calm waters
and winding shores of the
Barossa reservoir, and the
famous Whispering Walk
A semicircular wall 100 ft. in
height and 140yds. across, the
Whispering Wall was built 50
years ago, completing a reservoir
with a capacity of a thousand-
million gallons. My new friends
live within cooee of the reservoir,
but on land too high for them
to use its waters. I was told that
a whisper could be heard from
one end of the wall to the other,
but of course I wouldn’t believe
it.
My host walked with me to
the wall, and stood on the bank
at one side, while I walked
across to the far end. We
whispered at each other. I could
have sworn that he was standing
at my elbow, but when I turned,
there he was, almost out of sight
across the deep green gully.
I looked in vain for a cunning
arrangement of wires and
amplifiers to explain the mystery.
When I ran back along the top
of the wall, he said that my foot*
steps sounded like a company of
marching men.
We had “lunch” at nine-
o’clock, before my departure,
our second meal for the day, and
I was taken by truck as far as
the turn-off to the new South
Para reservoir. This, to hold ten-
thousand-million gallons, will
reach out like an octopus, con-
suming over 13 properties in the
surrounding valleys, which have
been taken over by the
Government.
One of these was the Pewsey
Vale estate founded by Gilbert
in the early days of the colony.
The fine old homestead has been
dismantled, and the site of its
former glories and even the
family vault will be inundated by
the trapped floodwaters.
In search of the home of “the
Birdman,” from the Water
Supply Camp I followed a rough
and winding track down a steep
hillside to the creek. These hills
are pockmarked with shafts sunk
by old goldminers, and a few
fossickers still pan for specks and
an occasional small nugget in
Victoria Creek after the winter
floods. Another steep climb and
several miles of winding track,
through typical bushland,
brought me to the pine-planta-
tions, and at length, turning into
a gully by an old farmhouse, by
green pastures and orchards I
came to the sanctuary.
There were several notices on
the gate. One proclaimed:
“R. F. Bedchambers—Humbug
Scrub”; another, “Not Sub-
sidised,” and, underneath, in
smaller letters: “Taxed Instead.”
My arrival was heralded by a
great commotion on the near-by
pond, and swans began to honk.
Until 1845 the settlers knew
the spot simply as The Scrub.
Paddy Gavan and his wife Mary
went there to squat, and when, in
reply to the queries of store-
keepers about her lonely home,
she said, “I call it a humbug!”
the name Humbug Scrub was
generally accepted.
I had heard of “the Birdman,”
a lover of wild-life, and a poet.
When I called at the little
cottage, the lady said she didn’t
know where he was, but Robin,
a serious young chap of seven or
eight, showed me around. There
were a few parrots in cages, and
a magpie and a crow, one small
Rottnest Island wallaby, just a
few miles further from his birth-
place than I was from mine, and
there were mallee-hens, and
brush - turkeys with huge
mounded nests.
Some of the young kangaroos
were friendly enough to let us
approach and even fondle them.
Emus making noises in their
throats like drums came up close
to peer at us through their net-
ting fences. Kangaroo Island
wallabies sat on their tails in the
sun.
Further away, through several
gates, we came to a beautiful
green valley, some acres of
pasture by a pond and a small
dam, where there were many
euros.
Robin liked watching the
clouds grow, and listening to the
trees talking, and I watched and
listened with him.
Returning to the Water Supply
Camp, I reached the highway,
cycling by a fresh green valley
with tall gums and a meandering
stream backed by the dark slopes
of the Kersbrook Pine
Plantation.
Kersbrook itself was the most
scattered settlement I have
visited. At the oval, nothing
else could be seen, except the
hills ; then a school came into
sight and several farmhouses,
and some distance on, around a
corner, a surprisingly attractive
store. Stores in dairying districts
rarely sell milk, and my thirst
had to be slaked with lemonade.
Later I enjoyed some lunch
beneath a pine-tree, thinking
what a scattered place was
Kersbrook. Then, a few more
turns in the road brought me to
the rest of it, another store and
the post-office, and the cold-store
for fruit.
Chain-of-Ponds was also a
scattered hamlet, and at Ingle-
wood an empty frame in the
hotel bar bears the title: “Ingle-
wood on a busy day.”
Within reach of Chain-of-
Ponds, there are many settle-
ments in the hills with such
attractive names as Mount
Pleasanf, Hope Valley, Upper
and Lower Hermitage, Golden
Grove, Birdwood, Mt. Torrens,
Gumeracha and Break-Neck
Hill. My road led through
Cudlee Creek to Lobethal.
It rained soon after my depar-
ture and I took the wrong road,
but it wasn’t far to Cudlee Creek.
Some say the name was
originally Chudleigh Creek, but
it is reputedly a native word
meaning “dingo, or any dog,”
many dingoes having made the
night hideous with their howls in
earlier times.
An old elevated stone store, the
cold-store and a cluster of homes
backed by steep hills were
heralded by a large sign.
“Welcome to Cudlee Creek.”
There were picturesque old stone
bridges, and the road wound
towards Kelly’s Hill. Kelly was
an early settler, who had felt so
homesick that he spent some of
{Continued on next page)


his time planting out furze
hedges. The present settlers
spend a great deal of their time
trying to get rid of them.
Delicate pink roses, black-
berries and the furze grew wild at
the roadside, while here and there
hail was heaped in the gutters
like clustered diamonds. Resting
for a while in the sun, I watched
a wagtail playing leapfrog with
a cow.
I was singing to myself, as I
cycled on to Lobethal. My song
wasn’t the first to have been
inspired by this beautiful
countryside. Lobethal was the
birthplace of Madame Clara
Serena (nee Kleinschmidt), a
world-famous singer.
Down a side-street in the town
stands the old Lutheran Church.
Schoolchildren play in the
cemetery among fallen head-
stones, and an iron-railinged
grave bears the inscription:
Hier Ruhet in Herrn
nebst fainilie
GOTTHARD DANIEL. FRITZSCHE
Geb. 20 June 1797: Gest. 36 Oct. 1863
A memorial-stone adds that
he was the pioneer pastor of the
Evangelical Lutheran Church at
Lobethal from 1842 to 1863, and
. e founder in 1845 of the first
Lutheran College and Seminary
in the Southern Hemisphere.
The college is still standing, a
small one-roomed hut with
whitewashed pug-walls and slat-
roof. Some of the students there
are said to have slept up in the
rafters. The building has been
kept as a memorial, protected by
railings and a corrugated-iron
canopy. Most of the original
mixture of clay and straw is still
in good shape.
A move was afoot to demolish
the near-by church so that it
could be enlarged, which would
be a shame, considering its
history and unusual design. It
was built by the congregation,
following a pattern typical of
many Silesian churches.
There is a loft for the choir
and the organ, and behind the
altar, framed by projecting arms,
steps lead up to the pulpit, which
is suspended above the altar and
surmounted by a canopy.
It must be a strain on the con-
gregation, looking up, and on
the muscles of the speaker’s
throat, while he is looking down.
The font, nicely shaped and
painted to resemble blue and
white porcelain, was carved from
a single block of wood.
Pastor Fritzsche was in charge
of a company of Lutherans who
decided to leave Germany in
1841 to escape State persecution,
in search of a land where they
could worship in freedom.
George Fife Angas, obtaining
loans from friends, assisted them
financially, and the party, con-
sisting of “274 souls,” embarked
on the Danish ship Skjold.
Fifty-two died from a
mysterious disease during the
voyage. The remainder arrived
in Adelaide towards the end of
the year, wading ashore, and a
Thanksgiving Service was held.
They scattered to settlements
which had been established ai
K 1 emz i g, Hahndorf and
Bethanien, but later some of
them, seeking a place of their
own, and guided by a shepherd,
founded this settlement on the
banks of the Onkaparinga River.
Pastor Fritzsche, reminding his
congregation of the deliverance
from persecution, quoted from
Luther’s translation of the Bible:
“And on the fourth day they
assembled themselves in the
Valley of Lobethal for there they
blessed the Lord: therefore the
name of the same place was
called the Valley of Lobethal
unto this day.”
The name meant ‘The Valley
of Praise,” and was a perpetual
memorial to the fact that their
new homeland had given
merciful refuge to the little band
of pioneers. But when the
“enemy place-names” were
changed during the First World
War the name was changed to
Tweedvale, on the recommenda-
tion of a mill-manager from the
Valley of the Tweed in Scotland.
Lobethal was one of the names
later to be restored, though a
few of the stores in the township
still display the word Tweedvale
in their signs.
The efforts of a Russian
fanatic called Krumnow (a name
to contemplate) and an English
surveyor to defraud the settlers
in their early struggles to secure
land-grants failed to daunt them.
Few could afford houses at first,
and many lived in dugouts and
hollow trees, or rough shelters of
mud and bark, but they were
happy and industrious. The
womenfolk used to make the 15
miles’ journey to the Adelaide
markets on foot, carrying in
baskets of butter and eggs and
vegetables to sell.
Many fine craftsmen were
among the pioneers, and a
foundry was opened, and also a
cooperage for the manufacture
of casks and churns. Polo-balls
and -mallets were made later,
and a factory making cricket-
bats from the local willows has
been in existence for many years,
though the demand has now de-
creased to such an extent that
the industry is barely surviving.
A brewery, two flourmills and
a tannery were also established.
In 1869 a Mr. Kramm, a cloth-
maker from overseas, installed
two hand-looms in a mud hut at
Hahndorf. When the Lobethal
brewery closed down three years
later it was suggested that he
should transfer the looms to the
brewery buildings. Other equip-
ment was installed, though for
some time the wool was washed
in the creek and teased by hand.
Burring was done by hand at
evening parties, and the wool was
oiled on the old malt-floor of
the brewery. Early in the century
the company expanded, under
the name of the Onkaparinga
Woollen Company. Nowadays
the old brewery buildings are
surrounded by additions cover-
ing in all five acres of land.
Onkaparinga, the name of the
river discovered in 1831 by
Captain Barker while searching
for the outlet of the waters of
Lake Alexandrina, was first
recorded by him as “Ponkepur-
ringa.” Colonel Light renamed
it Field’s River in 1836, but
Governor Gawler, whose wish it
was to preserve the native names,
resorted to the original.
Noel Webb recorded in 1922
the story told by an old woman
at Pt. Pearce, the sole survivor
of the Adelaide tribe. In early
times there were deposits of
ochre along the shores at
Aldinga. Natives from the
Willunga hills would cross the
Murray in search of ochre to
decorate their bodies for
corroborees, and there were
frequent clashes with the Aldinga
natives, who would hide their
women in the ravines of the
river before joining battle. The
locality came to be known as
“Ngangki - parri - unga” (“the
place of the Woman’s River”),
handed down as Onkaparinga.
Others record its meaning as
“Mother River: plentiful,” and
there are some, whose claims
seem to be supported by the river
itself, who say that the name
means “muddy river.”
Onkaparinga is a name now
known throughout Australia as
the trade-mark of high-class rugs
and other woollen goods.
I photographed the tree in the
gardens near the mills office, a
great Mt. Atlas cedar, from the
Atlas Mountains of Algeria.
LOBETHAL TO
ADELAIDE
miles of winding road
brought me to Lenswood, a
little town in a deep valley. Past
the Cold Store Co-operative
Society, I glided down to the
scattered houses, the little
post-office and the garage,
and began the long walk
round the next hillside,
listening to trucks labor-
ing on the steep grades,
the whispering creeks, and
the whirr and buzz of a
circular-saw.
Pines crested the hilltop.
The Forest School, Lens-
wood, is set on the summit
in pleasant surroundings.
Birds trilled and piped,
while children near the
open windows sat dreaming of
the sun-filled hills outside. I was
followed by little bursts of joy,
as they tumbled out for playtime.
Downhill, by tall young pines,
I came to a valley of trees, with
wide views extending before me
to distant hillslopes patterned
with rows of pines and cultivated
paddocks. Cottages were dotted
here and there and smoke-drifts
lazed above the dark foliage. It
was a scene I could have watched
for hours.
I had been looking forward to
meeting Mr. Bishop. His home
is situated just off the main road
in a garden of trees, with glorious
views between the encircling hills.
The house is called Tetratheca, a
name meaning “four-cells,” refer-
ring not to the building, but to
the purple flowering-heather
which it commemorates.
Although he didn’t know me
“from a bar of soap,” Mr.
Bishop at once made arrange-
ments for me to stay to lunch,
and took me on a walk around
the hills. Each spring he is host
to parties of tourists who visit
the hills to celebrate the annual
cherry Festival, when the cherry
orchards are white with blossom;
, his chief love is the coni f er .
grandfather orieinallv
His 8 . y
selected t^J)ro^ ty ’
°f l7s acr^ s ’ n-S S
ab ° u | nnfXt tw
could be spreadthe
roads were cur oui oy piiota
XJ e i, ana avenues oi gum
otner conuers oui.
We followed the spring walk
of the holiday-makers, beautifu
even m winter, along an avenue
of various varieties ot gum,The
Tasmanian bluegum, the Last
Coast spotted-gum, and many
others, straight and slender,
miraculously tall since they had
been planted only 13 years
before, and by rows of soaring
pines.
The Radiata-pine grows in
these hills more rapidly than any-
where in the world, and there are
even Sequoias, the great
American redwoods, up to 7ft.
round at shoulder - height,
although not planted-out until
1940. The redwood takes 2000
years to reach full maturity, and
the trees seem to be doing their
best to make up for lost time.
Sequoias are the oldest living
things known, and I would have
thought that they would be
coarse and tough, but the bark
is soft and the slender-spined
leaves are most delicately
fashioned. Mr. Bishop calls his
pine-plantation the Valley of the
Little Giants.
Even a fallen tree in the pine-
forest could become a thing of
beauty, the sunlight and shadow-
ing trunks transforming it with
an effect of aboriginal carvings.
Conifers will grow on soil that
is suitable for little else, but never
have I seen them in such beauty
and profusion. They have a
greater range than all other
species, in color variation, age
and size, from the giant Sequoias
to miniature rockery-plants.
Mr. Bishop has over a hundred
varieties of spruce, including the
steel-spiked Blue Spruce, and
the Silver Leaf, Lucadendrum,
the emblem of South Africa. I
marvelled at the Japanese Cedar,
bronze friezes where the sun had
spilled into golden cypresses, the
soft purple fronds of the Crypto-
meria, and Retinospra, with
fronds as fine as crochet-work, in
the spring as brightly burnished
as a new penny. But my heart
was captured by the Ginkgo, the
Maiden Hair tree, the only
deciduous tree which is classed
as a conifer.
The Ginkgo, or Chinese “silver
apricot,” in some of its varieties
known as the Caroliua-poplar
and the Tree-of-Heaven, is a
fossil tree. Its native habitats are
unknown, but it was nursed
through the ages in Asiatic
monastery-gardens, and is now
used throughout the world as an
ornamental tree. It has broad
fan-shaped leaves, like large
golden butterflies. Most of the
branches were bare, and the
ground was carpeted with the
golden fans.
One of Mr. Bishop’s neighbors
had a garden of Western Aus-
tralian wildflowers and native
plants, world-famous, and almost
as beautiful as the celebrated
gardens at Kew. The Governor’s
summer residence on Marble
Hill and the misty top of Mt.
Lofty are also visible from his
lovely “neck-of-the-woods.” He
was busy making a lake, with a
clay wa p banking up a per-
manent creek, and said that the
lake would be his monument,
In a country where generations
&f men haye toiled to deplete
forestS; the trees which he
has nourished will themselves be
a fittin § memorial of his work,
Leaving the garden of trees,
the green needles and soft purple
f rondSj the silver and gold, I
was SQ overcome that I left my
camem be hi n d, and my host had
tQ cbase a f ter me j n b j s car
....
My first view of Adelaide was
framed by steep hills. Within
sight of the city, the hills seemed
anxious to offer a last flood of
memories of the countryside
through which I had travelled.
There were smoke-wreaths
from scattered farmhouses. Men
on steep hillsides were pruning
fruit-trees, and children were
walking home from school along
green lanes. A kookaburra was
laughing, and crickets chirped,
and voices echoed clearly across
the valleys. Sheep grazed on the
slopes where the shadows were
already lengthening.
Most people who enter
Adelaide arrive by sea or air, or
by train from the heights of
Mount Lofty, and some may
travel along the Bogaduck High-
way, but anyone who has fol-
lowed the road from Norton’s
Summit will remember the curve
at Pretty Corner, where the
whole panorama of Adelaide is
slowly unfolded.
The sun was low and molten
on the sea ; the inlets were silver-
grey ; tree-fringed water-pools
glimmered here and there; misty
green miles were scattered with
homes and patterned streets, and
the houses clustered together
more and more, towards the
smoke haze and the blocks of
city buildings.
Far over, other suburbs were
unfolded. Car - windscreens
flashed in the sun. There were
ovals, and churches, factories
and the thousands and thousands
of homes.
After the panorama, I plunged
again into cool green gullies,
winding down and down, with
now and then a glimpse of the
city, and at last came the out-
skirts of the suburbs, the first
convent, and a factory, tram-
lines and suburban streets and
stores.
Lobethal was only 19 miles
behind, and Adelaide 21 tram-
stops ahead. Newsboys raised
weird voices. I found my eyes
still seeking out the unusual, the
native names on street-signs, and
after four months of travelling
through quiet country and small
townships, my heart almost stood
still at the sight of countless
people rushing on to the road-
way apparently intent on being
run over, and the herds of
vehicles j.ust as eager to oblige
them.
The five - o’clock traffic
engulfed me, but I finally
managed to find a room in which
to spend the night, in a private-
hotel where I once stayed with
“Boss” as a lad. For 13s. I had
a room with a key, and two
lights, hot and cold water, and
a built-in bottle-opener, a waste-
paper-basket and ft telephone,
and a huge contraption wfticn
was a combination cocktail-
cabinet and wardrobe with
shelves, hooks drawers, nooks
and doors, and even a key that
worked.
....
Qn a beautifu i Sunday in
August I joined the stream of
traffic climbing the hill road to
Windy Point, a few miles out of
Adela y ide>
At the summit the visitors
gather to gaze at the colored
tableaux revealed by the Camera
Obscura which mirrors the roads
below and the spreading suburbs
and even the city streets, like a
ana even y
(Continued on page 3V


Rib
6oocb
Mixer
I
WITH
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
Brandy Crusta (For the Cocktail Hour)
Moisten rim of glass with lemon juice and dip in
castor sugar ; line inside of glass with peel of \
fresh lemon thinly cut in spiral fashion. Place
tablespoon of fine cracked ice in mixing glass, add:
1 teaspoon Maraschino
3 teaspoons Curacao (white or orange)
A dash of Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy
Stir well and pour into the prepared glass (4 ozs.)
and add £ slice orange.
L-o-n-g Brandy (Serve in 6-7 oz. glass)
1 or 2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy,
cubes of ice, 1 oz. lime or lemon
cordial; fill with soda-water or
water —or 1 or 2 ozs. Chateau
Tanunda Brandy, cubes of ice;
fill with Dry Ginger Ale.
“First in Quality, First in Favour”
CHATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distinction
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY. AGENTS
* Write tor free Brochure with selected recipes by famous Bartender.
AUUNUM
BRAN
an angle on anglina
By
Stepheu Kelen
“T ■ HE tuba - root certainly
/ keeps a hold on our
L j imagination.
“Just think of it!” says
Blue Corrigan, who is crazier
about fishing than ever. “You
just put the roots in water, rub
it, and fish come to the surface,
stupefied, so you can grab ’em.
Just like that. Great, eh?”
The boys are making all kinds
of plans regarding the tuba-root,
and the possibilities of using it
on a grand scale.
“Yes, but how are we going to
get them?” Sapper Lawrence
asks.
“That’s simple! You find
Jemilah, the leader of the
Malayan fisherwomen, offer her
tobacco, a n d we’ll get all the
tuba-roots in the world.”
“Well,” says Johnny Tunder,
“wouldn’t it be better to go and
buy the fish straight from the
women?”
“Where’s your sporting
spirit?” Bluey demands.
“Right-oh,” says Johnny,
somewhat alarmed. “I was just
thinking ... In the country we
look at things in a practical way,
that’s all.”
“And you’re from the country,
Johnny!” I retort, disappointed.
“I always thought an outback
man tackled everything the hard
way. Now would you buy, say,
mackerel, if you were able to
catch them on your own?”
“0.K.,” says Johnny. “Don’t
get sore. I’ll play fair.”
CO we are off to see Jemilah,
and take Private Carpenter,
our linguist, with us, who agrees
reluctantly for a fee of a bottle
of beer, to which we consent
with heavy hearts. A sporting
spirit, no matter what the
sacrifice, is the order of the day.
“Great sport, fishing,” remarks
Carpy on our way to Jemilah.
“You mind your own busi-
ness ! We’re giving you the
bottle, and you just say what we
want you to say in the Malay
lingo,” I retort.
“That’s all you blokes can do:
go crook on me, instead of listen-
ing to some good, solid reason-
ing. Great sportsmen you are!
Instead of giving the fish an even
break, you poison and surprise
them. Do you think that’s fair?”
“What else can we do?” I ask
him; then quickly add: “Don’t
tell me! ” For as sure as Carpy
proposes anything, it eventually
turns out to be a menace.
“Well,” says Carpy, “deep-sea
fishing would be a more sporting
proposition.”
Bluey Corrigan intervenes.
“How’re we goin’ deep-sea
fishin’? No bait for it. Or is
there? And no boat either.”
“What about deep-sea fishing?
I’ll bite and bite again,” I say
full of suspicion, curious never-
theless.
“Very simple. Let’s build our
own boat.”
“And the bait?”
“Get the tuba-roots from
Jemilah, catch the small fish,
and with them we’ll catch the big-
’uns. Savvy?”
We offer all the tobacco in
our possession; Jemilah, the
fisherwoman, is willing to give
all the tuba-roots in the world,
and we return to camp, because
it’s no good wasting so many
roots before the boat is built.
In every spare moment the
carpenters work on the best fish-
ing-smack which ever sailed the
ocean.
The boat is being made at
Tulalah Beach, and excitement
grows, for Whackho, Some
Fish is to be launched with the
Sunday tide. To me she appears
like a galleon, but I keep this
opinion strictly to myself, not
wishing to suffer bodily harm, or
to be excluded from the coming,
exciting adventure.
SATURDAY night before the
launching Bluey Corrigan
comes up to me and says:
“Want to come? I’m entrusted
with the roots, to catch the bait
for the big fishing - trip
tomorrow.”
“All right.”
So Bluey loads me with two
baskets and some empty cases
from the Q.M.-store.
“Everyone has to do his
share,” he explains with a wide
grin. “I’ll carry the tuba-roots
meself. Must look after ’em.”
There’s not much use begin-
ning an argument, so we are off
to the inlet. I notice Bluey carry-
ing some Malayan torches.
“That’s to see the fish,” he says.
“And leave everythin’ to me. It’ll
be bonzer.”
We arrive at the inlet, and
Bluey gives me the torch to light.
“I thought you knew how to
light a Malay torch!” I tease
him.
“Ain’t got the time. Must be
gettin’ on with these roots.”
With such difficulty I manage
to light two of the torches, and
do they burn! “If only they
could see us back in Aussie,
Bluey breaking those roots, and
me standing with these two
torches, like Superman ...” I
just can’t help thinking that.
Meanwhile Bluey is breaking
the roots, one after another. But
no fish comes to the surface.
“Stand the torches among the
rocks. No, the other way,
knucklehead! ”
Finally, after suffering much
abuse, the torches are placed,
and flaming in the soft Pacific
night.
“Give us a hand,” says Bluey.
A few minutes after we get
going, fish are everywhere, jump-
ing in Bluey’s shirt, all around
us, creating enough confusion to
go haywire and start a special
war against the Nips.
“Gee, ” says Bluey, awestruck.
“How’d that be? All them fish.
But I reckoned on this.”
He produces two mosquito-
nets, in which he piles the haul,
and we return triumphantly to
camp, where an excited mob is
waiting. Even the dice school
breaks up, the players eager to
see the wealth of fish.
Johnnie Tunder, the incor-
rigible, blurts :
“I can’t figure you jokers out.
Here’s enough fish for weeks.
Why take the trouble to go fish-
ing? .. . All right, I’m sorry,”
he quickly retracts, seeing all eyes
focusing on him.
So everything is ready, and we
wait for sunrise to start our
great industry ; fishing with the
best bait ever laid in the south-
west Pacific.
A CROWD of a few hundred
are on the beach just before
sunrise to witness the launching,
and to signify the importance
we use health-salts, which sizzles
just as effectively. The ceremony
of breaking the bottle is Snowy
Sugar Simpson’s job, with his
milky skin and clad in a sarong.
Enthusiasm knows no bounds
when Whackho, Some Fish sails
towards the wide, blue ocean,
and to signify the importance
of the moment they throw Snowy
after the boat.
Whackho, Some Fish makes
better progress than Snowy, who
in any case makes for the shore,
while we out to reach
unknown horizons.
Six of us are sitting in the
smack: Cobber Carpenter, who
claims to be an expert with
sails, Johnnie Tunder, Bluey
Corrigan, and another three
fishing experts with the necessary
fishing-tackle.
“Ahoy Captain Carpenter!” I
pall out, happy to be in this
adventure.
“Heave-ho! Hoist the sails,
Mr. Christian!” Carpy com-
mands his boatswain. “We’re
sailing for the deep!”
However, as ill-luck would
have it, we are becalmed between
the island and the mainland, but
Bluey Corrigan the optimist is
not daunted.
“What of it?” he says. “Let’s
get fishing right now.”
“But the rich schools are
further up, don’t you know?”
says George, the fishing expert.
“There are two things to do.
Sit and wait here, or attempt to
catch some fish,” is the opinion
of those who know very little
about the matter.
The experts reluctantly throw
out their lines, and for a while
there’s no sign of a fish, breeze
or anything.
Then Bluey calls out: “Watch.
There’s somethin’ movin’.”
George is instantly alert.
“Hold on, George. Pretty big
bite, I’d say,” the other'expert
calls to him.
It is a “pretty big bite,” all
right. The spool runs out in no
time, becomes strained, and
Whackho, Some Fish starts to
travel wherever the fish takes
her, with an abundance of mirth
and confusion among the crew.
Johnnie Tunder, looking
around the seemingly endless
waters, remarks: “I dunno, but
I guess I never felt lonelier
before.”
Now a slight breeze rises, but
it blows in the same direction as
the fish. With the double force
of sails and fish-power, the
smack moves towards the direc-
tion where the school of fish is
supposed to be. Everyone is
satisfied.
“My oath, the boys’ll have
something to listen to when we
get back!” I start to form my
yarn, with certain wild adven-
tures and dangers added.
“Yeah,” says pessimistic
Johnnie Tunder. “If we get
back!”
At any rate for the time being
we are sailing in the right direc-
tion, and human nature is such
that nobody is interested in any-
thing save this simple fact. The
shores of the island quickly sink
behind the horizon, and now
there’s nothing but open sea.
The sun is high, and out come
the rations, which Cooky the
cook scrounged. Like the rest of
us, he has the great and foolish
hope of a triumphant return with
a fish as large as Neptune makes
them. We have the fish all right,
but it has the advantage.
T FEEL rather uneasy. The fish
1 is very hostile now, throwing
itself wide of the water, menac-
ing Whackho, Some Fish.
“What if it turns and attacks
the boat?” I voice my opinion.
But the experts say this is not
likely to happen. The fish clearly
wants to rid itself of the smack,
and since it has not much of a
brain, instead of attacking it tries
to gain distance, which is
ridiculous.
“Don’t worry! That fish’ll
tire itself out. It’s bleeding.
We’ll get it sooner or later,” from
George.
“Or later!” echoes Johnnie
Tunder, who is slowly getting
our goat. Some of us contem-
plate throwing him overboard,
and so arrange a swimming com-
petition between him and the fish,
but naturally we haven’t the
heart to do that, even to the
bloke who tries to make our
seafaring experience a misery.
“We must be making four
knots at least!” Captain Carpy
exclaims with pride. “The sea’s
smooth; we’re lucky.”
“My oath, we are!” I reflect
silently.
We are certainly travelling at
a solid speed, and early in the
afternoon the question as to how
we shall get back is very much
on the crew’s mind, but no one
dares to say a single word about
this.
“Where’s that blasted school
of fish?” I venture the question.
“Keep your shirt on, it must
be round there . . . somewhere,”
says George soothingly.
By now everybody is openly
disturbed.
“There ain’t no fishin’ territory
round here! ” Even Bluey
Corrigan the optimist holds this
view.
But George sticks to his guns.
“Supposing there isn’t? We’ve
got the fish. That’s what we
came out for, didn’t we?”
“Sure.”
Suddenly the wind rises, which
makes Captain Carpy more than
excited. He shouts orders to his
stooges, not touching a rope him-
self. Whackho, Some Fish with
full sails takes the opposite
course to the fish; the result is
that George, with fishing-tackle
and Major Coleman’s armchair,
which he specially smuggled for
this occasion, are all in the water.
Fearing that the fish in its anger
might take George with it, we
hurriedly lift it out.
The fish takes the tackle and
chair, so I can already picture the
(Continued on page 34)
GEYSER
Here, where the earth is hottest about some old wrong,
They’ve set it behind a fence. Its hot steaming song
Bubbles up in blue cauldrons of spray and fire,
And all about it, rising higher and higher
In this volcanic Spring, a golden bright
Chatter of lupins, curved flames that set alight
The hills with fires drawn up from those below.
The geysers set in fields of chalk like snow,
Mutter solemnly in boiling undertones,
Their wrongs. The acres give out groans
Of sulphurous fury. Deep blue pools that boil
And bubble fiercely while the stone earth toils
To make a freshness on the rage-worn ways,
Shut in a paddock, the geyser spends its days.
Its subterranean shallow heart boils up
In stony goblets, lava drinking-cups.
The Maoris fence it in with little baths
And set through it small rotund dusty paths
And tread to it through fern and bushy ways
And watch with tattooed faces while it plays.
But there’s an old road with red wooden gods
On either side, that leads out to the woods . . .
Old churches there, brushed with red hematite, kokowhai,
On tall red stilts; hot blue pools below that cry
Out yellow words of sulphur, white words
More sonorous than the throats of birds,
Of pumice and some ecstatic clay
That haunts and crumbles swift; and far away
Yet not far from the road, huge deep, warm pools
Smoking and smouldering and earth that cools
Never, and white wood lying baked there.
White manuka in flower, heat-sweet, and never
Seen before against the hot pools’ profile ever.
Dominant, hidden, steaming, bubbling, grumbling,
Deep in black mud and vaguely rumbling
In treacherous earth, white, yellow, brown,
Or scarlet hematite, on which the heat's looked down
For years. An acre of rich white crumbling clay,
Dark quarries of fire from which one keeps away.
Every dark bush that rises has an altar high
Of smoke and steam near pahs of oily red kokowhai
In blue-pooled pumice and white gullies
Where sulphur-gold and cavern-clay-mud sullies
Dreams. Old red painted bits of wood
Lie by the roadside, like old keels of good ,
Greek boats, lost long ago. And the high gods stare
Backward at Whaka and their own rage there.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLET.


■
Good news!
Here is good news for you —and for all men who
enjoy comfort in their clothes. Stamina has produced
for you an “All-Purpose” Coat. This attractive coat
can be correctly worn for casual wear, for business,
to your favourite sport or for an evening at the
pictures. The cut is all any man can desire —the
workmanship up to Stamina’s exacting standard —the
cloth, that wonder wear-resisting worsted, “Crusader,”
the cloth that is guaranteed never to fade or shrink.
These coats are easily Australia’s outstanding value.
Secure yours before they are all snapped up,
ASK FOR
Stamina
j Sports loafs
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL CRUSADER CLOTH
5C4.113
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
pPSUdM/7$
m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. La wry,
Manager.
Between
Ourselves
-Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of novel, Green Sea,
which has a Russian princess as its
heroine. —6034.
Name of author of and words of
a poem called “The Artificer, which
contains the stanza:
God took the crimson of the West
That glorifies the sky.
The deep red of a robin’s breast,
A russet butterfly.
—6035.
Patient, Brisbane hospital, wants
to buy an electric invalid-chair,
battery-driven.—6o36.
To get in touch with the secre-
taries of any gliding or sailplane
dubs in Sydney.—6o37.
Words of verse called “The Skite,”
containing the stanza: —
We were all in a bunch having our lunch,
At the station one hot summer day,
When a stranger appeared with a long
flowing beard
And a habit of plenty to say.
—6038.
Information Sought
Recipe for a good and simple
flour-paste for paperhanging ?
Assemble 21b. flour, lqrt. cold
water, loz. Dowdered alum, 4 fluid
ounces hot water and i gallon boiling
water. Work the flour into a batter
with the cold water gradually,
smoothing out lumps until a fine
paste is attained. Dissolve the alum
in the hot water, then combine all
with the boiling water. Continue
boiling the paste until it is semi-
transparent. Make small quantities
often, as it does not keep well without
the addition of a liberal quantity of
oil-of-cloves or other preservative.
* * * *
A rare New Zealand bird was dis-
covered a year or so ago, which was
thought to be extinct. Can you tell
me its name?
The bird in question was a takahe,
scientifically Notornis, a species
related to the swamp-hens and moor-
hens of Australia, and in size rather
larger than an average domestic
fowl; colors are various shades of
dark-blue. Originally named from
fossil bones found in 1848 in New
Zealand’s North Island, the takahe
was represented in museums by only
one or two specimens up to 1898,
and then vanished from view: but
in 1948 a party led by Dr. G. B.
Orbell, of invercargill, rediscovered
the species in wild country of
western Otago. So important was
this discovery that the New Zealand
Government immediately proclaimed
an area of 435,000 acres to b'e a
sanctuary for the bird. Since then
Notornis has been photographed and
filmed and its breeding habits have
been studied.
* * * *
How did the garden-plant Strelitzia
came by its name, and how grown ?
Discovered in South Africa and
taken to England about 1773, it was
called after the queen of the reigning
monarch, George III; she was
Charlotte, Princess of Mecklenburg-
Strelitz. A common name of the
plant is Bird-of-Paradise Flower,
from the irregular, brightly-colored
petals and sepals, usually orange and
blue. It grows in a clump in any
ordinary good loamy soil, well
drained, and needs moderate water-
ing, and is about 3ft. high. Sunshine
is necessary for flowering. A member
of the same family as bananas.
* * * *
Details of the 15-year Meat Agree-
ment with Britain ?
In October, 1951, in London, the
representatives of the U.K. and
Australian Governments signed a
15-year Meat Agreement which covers
the period from July 1, 1952, to
Sept. 30, 1967. The classes of meat
included in the agreement are chilled
and frozen beef, frozen veal, frozen
mutton and lamb, etc. The main
objectives of the agreement are to
promote the production of meat in
Australia, enabling increased exports
to be made to the U.K., and provid-
ing a satisfactory market there for
Australian meat. Provision was
made for certain quantities of meat
to be sold in other markets (quanti-
ties permitted to be sold to other
countries were recently increased).
Pig-meats were also included in the
agreement on a two-year arrangement
ending on Sept. 30, 1954 (when,
incidentally, bulk-buying by the U.K.
Government ended and trader-to-
trader operations were resumed).
Brief Answers
H.G.: Write Cement and Concrete
Association of Australia, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney H.8.M.: Write
Max Dupain, 49 Clarence-street,
Sydney C. McT.: Edward E l gar
by Diana McVeagh, published by
J. M. Dent and Sons, London
W.F.C.: Rosella, the popular name
of a parrakeet ( Platycercus eximius ),
is not an aboriginal name but a
corruption of Rosehill, an outer Syd-
ney suburb, where the bird was first
observed... .H.L.G.: “The Austra-
lian Museum Magazine” is a quart-
erly. Annual subscription is Bs. 6d.
posted... .H.H.: “Kamil” means
“no,” but it is not certain whether
“roi” means “people of” or “country
of.” There was a big series of
tribes in south-east Queensland and
northern New South Wales whose
name meant “no.” The Kamilaroi
tribe occupied the northern tableland
of New South Wales, extending
across the border into southern
Queensland, and southward into the
upper Hunter Valley W.J.C.:
Write Kindergarten Union of N.S.W.,
58 Pitt-street, Sydney; and Sydney
Day Nursery and Nursery Schools
Association, 39 Park-street, Sydney.
. ...J.McL.: “The Free Spirit” is
a monthly published by the Australian
Committee for Cultural Freedom,
and is obtainable from H. R. Krygier,
328 Edgecliff-road, Woo 11 ah r a
(N.5.W.)....F.C.: The badge is the
Silver War Badge, worn on the right
lapel of civilian jackets, and consists
of the Imperial Cipher, pierced with
a circle, the circle bearing the words
“For King and Empire—Services
Rendered.” The badge was approved
by King George V during the 1914-18
War for issue to ex-members of the
British Empire Forces under certain
conditions. In Australia the badge
was awarded to members of the
A.1.F., or Naval and Military
Expeditionary Forces, who, after six
months’ service, left the forces as a
result of wounds or sickness arising
from military service, and were then
permanently unfit for further active
service E.W.F.: Write Honorary-
secretary, Bread and Cheese Club
(Melbourne), 10 Watkins - street,
North Fitzroy ‘(Vic.) R.S.: F.
Howard Collins, Authors and
Printers’ Dictionary; F. G. and H. W.
Fowler, The King’s English; H. W.
Fowler, Modern English Usage; W.
Whitten and F. Whitaker, Good and
Bad English; G. V. Carey, Mind the
Stop; R. Skelton, Modern English
Punctuation; G. H. Vallins, Good
English; Eric Partridge, You Have a
Point There... .J.G.: The poem
“Boko” was written by “Curlew,”
the pen-name of Julian Stuart, an
old-time Bulletin contributor. It
appears in the Bulletin Reciter.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.A.L.: Gould see the cat jumping
out of the bag long before you
released it W.J.E.: Vendetta be-
tween O’Reilly and McPherson is
hard to swallow 1.C.: Your
humor lacks sauce and piquancy
J.G.W.: Not buying “Raffle Tickets.”
M.C.: It is much too amateurish
and sentimental for this journal
G.A.P.: As fond as we are of dogs
we haven’t a bone for every dog
that trots up The Bulletin stairs.
J.M.: Were it not for other
evidence, we would have said that
it was the first effort of a teenager.
C.O.G.: Those small-town pranks
don’t ring true... .M.P.: “The
Clock” calls for a lot of mending
before it will even tick 8.P.:
Give the bushrangers a rest and try
something modern E. 8.: “The
Pigeon” flew out of the window
8.M.M.: There is very little meat
on the bone 8.R.8.: While not
entirely original it is a fanciful idea,
but you failed to get the best out of
it E.M.D.: There is a striking
sameness about these old reprobates
that call upon us at least four or
five times every week R.D.: Just
an everyday bush race-meeting yarn
with the usual pair of spielers and
the same old “ring-in” E. 8.:
Outside the bounds of possibility
D.M. and A.C.P.: The comparison
has been made too often to be fresh;
also the succession of coincidences
rules it out N.L.S.: “Guest
Speaker” calls for a satirical
approach, not the sentimental line
you took R.G.C.: Our acquain-
tance with gunmen is exceedingly
slight, but we feel that that specimen
does not run true to form C.M.:
We sent Wingarra on a long walk-
about from which, we hope, he will
never return... .S.J.C.: Try one of
the returned soldiers’ magazines....
J.W.: By its dog-eared appearance,
and other tell-tale marks, it appears
to have done the rounds of a dozen
newspaper offices. Our opinion con-
firms that of our contemporaries
Z.V.W.: Not a very bright example
of the trickster-tricked class of yarn.
A.H.: Make that not-easy-to-
follow and shadowy sketch into a
straightforward and understandable
yarn... .A.H.W.: Stone the crows,
that’s stretching it a bit too far! ....
A.R.8.: Cookery-book story has all
the ingredients that should please a
women’s paper... .N.H.8.: Expanded
and with the children brought more
into the foreground it might stand
a chance... .E.L.H.S.: Many a
time when we have been down to
our last bob we have wished for
such a miracle to happen, but it
never did....A.M.R., T.J., A.J.L.
and R.W.: All your respective efforts
missed out. Also, it would make us
happier if future submissions were
typed.. ..A.V.H.: “A Collar Stud’
is an inconsequential trifle V.R.:
It has no merit D.J.H.: What
happened to the story you started
out to tell? ... .D.F.: “The Master
Still Sleeps”—peacefully in the
basket T.F.: It was a new experi-
ence to receive from a Greek living
in Ceylon a story about America s
Wild West, but, still, we were not
tempted... .L.W.: Put it aside and
tackle it again later. It has possibili-
ties K.McA.: It did not take
long to checkmate “The Black
Knight” R.V.McC.: You have
let your imagination run riot.


An Original in Civvy-street
Anzac Doctor
By CECIL MANN
JUST over these past few
months they have torn
down his old two-story
town - address, brick by
brick. They have prised off the
half-dozen black stone steps that
led up from the Phillip-street
pavement; dug out the founda-
tions and 20ft. or so of the
sandstone they stood on ; carted
the lot away to wherever it is
that old Sydney buildings go to
when they die.
Their picks and drills have
rung out the old, and now
already they have flung up the
new—or at any rate a huge
structure of scaffolding and the
riveted and bolted steel frame-
work, to the tune of six or seven
stories.
They are still hard at it, going
even higher, with cranes up there
big enough to have lifted the
old place bodily and flung it
whole over Sydney’s shoulder to
where the Doctor —'Dr. Piero
Fiaschi —had his other address —
like the town one, as individual
as himself—out in Yarranabbe-
road, up along past the top end
of Beach-road, above the white
boats and yachts nesting in the
horseshoe of Rushcutter Bay.
The new place going up in
Phillip-street is being built for
Counsels Chambers, Limited. If
it lives up to what that seems to
imply, it will one day house,
by the size of it, hundreds and
hundreds of the wigged pro-
fession—a thought in itself to
strike terror into the hearts of
most of us. But one thing can
be set down as certain: even
should the lot of them be learned
counsel, and remarkable beings
as learned counsel frequently are,
no single one of them —perhaps
no two or three of them together
—will have a better claim to the
title of “a character” than this
same Old Digger doctor who
held the fort there before
them.
He died seven years ago:
June, 1948. There was a big
gathering in old St. James’s
Church, just a short stone’s-throw
along Phillip-street, across King-
street. Hereabouts is old country.
Right opposite the old address
still stands what used to be a
St. James’s Church building:
two stories and high gabled
attic, of odd sizes of sandstone,
bolted crossed bars of iron
holding the sandstone below the
gable, rough - hewn Gothic
windows; the architectural
grandeur of a barn.
The Pioneers’ Club used to
inhabit the old church-building
before shifting to the larger
spaces of Paris House. Today
the ground-floor hallway is
designated, with a certain apt-
ness, Soldiers’ Passes Section.
St. James’s itself is just now
having a face - lift; the
deteriorating sandstone base and
pillars cut back and gleaming
with the whiteness they would
have had in the 1830’s. There,
in June, 1948, the Doctor’s
fellow-medico Dr. F. A. Maguire
made the oration over the
coffin draped in the Union-Jack.
He spoke of Dr. Piero Fiaschi
as “a character,” explaining that
he used the term in an old
sense: meaning one who was a
man of character and at the
same time “a character” as a
personality.
In The Bulletin “One of a
troop of friends” filled in some
of the background of the one he
was close enough to, in age and
m friendship, to speak of as
Piero. He wrote that Piero had
been an hon. surgeon at Sydney
Hospital; that for 65 years
Fiaschi had been “a name
honored at that institution”:
“Dr. Thomas Henry Fiaschi,
a great Sydney surgeon of other
days, a soldier and vigneron
withal, went off to the South
African war with his son Carlo,
returning with the D.S.O. and a
mention in dispatches ‘for
services at Paardeberg,’ where
Cronje’s commandos were
rounded up. Carlo, a splendid
fellow, died young, but by the
time the First World War came
there was another doctor-son
ready for service: Piero, who
had graduated in medicine at
Columbia University (U.S.A.)
and in dentistry at the New York
College.
“So off to that war went the
old doctor (62) and Piero (37). At
first in the Light Horse, ‘in
charge of 100 animals,’
the son soon wearied of
being a glorified vet. and
abandoned the role, his final
report on his steeds being ‘Lost
three ; gained one.’ An Army
surgeon on Gallipoli, he saw the
campaign through. His father
was near him, doing hospital
work on Lemnos.”
Piero (the old friend noted)
“had a genius for friendship,
and his friends were in all walks
of life.”
“Among them,” he wrote,
“were W. M. Hughes and Dr.
Bradfieid ; Harry Chauvel, Glas-
gow, Rosenthal, Manchester,
Maguire, a host of other A.I.F.
generals, senior and junior
officers, non-coms and privates—
with whom he walked in every
Anzac Day procession, even to
the last, when he was in failing
health.”
That could perhaps be lightly
questioned in one particular—
that the Doctor on those
occasions “walked.” The present
writer once watched him go by,
from the lazier possie of a palm-
bole to lean against up near
Macquarie-street. The Doctor
marched. He marched in his
habitual wear, described thus by
his old friend:
“There were few better-known
figures in the Sydney streets than
Piero Fiaschi, his tall form, clad
in a suit of sober black sur-
mounted by a boxer hat, out-
lined against the sky.”
He marched with his head
jutted forward, the way he
carried it, like the head of a
woodchopper’s axe, and as sharp
and keen. His head was a
question-mark, wanting to know.
His appearance and his garb
conformed to what someone has
said a personality should have:
“a distinctive air, a separate
costume, a particular cloth,
something positive and singular
about him.”
In the Anzac march he may
have been out of step: he was
individual enough to be always
out of step; even out of step
with the world. He was
punctilious to the point of
nicety in some things, and as
unconventional as they come in
others. The writer of the
obituary monograph in The
Bulletin said of him:
“With his keen, animated face,
he would have been a perfect
subject for a painting of an
ageing Digger.”
He may have been even more
typical than that. Diggers of
that vintage who are still present
often turn out, when you know
them, to be a blend of those
same paradoxical characteristics :
the surprising punctilious and
the legendary unconventional.
Positive and singular as he
certainly was, in appearance as
well as in behavior, the Doctor
often struck the present writer
as very typical Old Digger in
quite a number of traits and acts
under one or other of those
pleads. Anyone who ever knew
him—as a great many certainly
did—could recall odd examples
of that blending in him.
One illustration I can myself
recall goes back to the 1930’5,
when I knew him best, and when
he himself was probably in his
best form. He had dragooned
me into coming along to an
elaborately distinguished shivoo
at the Hotel Australia. It was
camouflaged dragooning, step by
step. Just how distinguished the
company was came out when we
got there. He threw out C. E. W.
Bean as a special bait. I had
seen Bean once on Gallip., and
again once in France, and once
I heard him lecture. It would
be good to at least meet him.
The fact that it would be a
full-dress performance was not
broken till the eleventh-hour;
but I was togged accordingly
when the Doctor stopped his
Ansaldo at 24 Beach-road and
inspected me under the lamp-
light. He found me wanting.
Improperly dressed.
“H’h, where are your ribbons,
eh?”
Something like that. There
was a good deal of “Eh?”
always in his conversation. He
wanted you to tell him some-
thing, or, more often, to confirm
something he had said. This
was what he now wanted.
“Where are your ribbons, eh?”
was an accusation. Decorations,
he persisted, must be worn.
Well, there weren’t any
ribbons; not the service ones.
I had tried once to get the three
of them, and the medals, by
writing to the powers that be.
The powers that be had replied
that the three service medals, the
Gallipoli Star and the other two,
had been posted to me at Mur-
willumbah (N.S.W.). I let it go
at that. Somebody had collected
them, or they had gone astray.
I still haven’t got them.
I did have one other medal and
ribbon outside the three. “It’ll
do,” I said.
No, it wouldn’t do. “Come
on, hop in,” said the Doctor.
The Ansaldo took us back up
to Yarranabbe-road. The Doctor
leapt out and went down the
stairs. I could hear him shouting
down there, and then he came
bounding up again.
“Here,” he ordered, still on
parade, “wear these.”
He thrust on me a spare set
of his own. The one on the end
was a military 0.8. E. That was
where my own small share of
the punctilious came in. Also,
though, a brainwave.
Back down to Beach-road. My
own bit of ribbon sewn round
the 0.8. E. And thus, in due
course, 1 made an appearance
and bows in most distinguished
company at the Hotel Australia,
wearing the 0.8. E., though
covered. •
That was the Doctor:
punctilious about the full-dress,
to the point of the ribbons ; un-
conventional as to whose ribbons,
“Huh, eh, what does it matter?”
in a pitch of voice that might
have cut leaves off the Rush-
cutter Park figtrees and disturbed
the seagulls camping out on the
boats. But that was a matter of
my wearing his ribbons: had
this story been the other way
round it would have been exactly
the same story, only with the
characters changed over.
At all events, we duly met
C. E. W. Bean at the Australia,
and had a few words with him ;
and then there was an avalanche
Familiar —Forty Years Since
of Ambassadors and other Big
Brass with all the insignia of their
orders and honors thick upon
them. In that company one
might have even got away with
wearing a K.C.M.G.
To the big names listed by
The Bulletin writer as among
the Doctor’s circle of friends
could be added the fellow-
medico who is now Sir Herbert
Schlink, head of the Prince
Alfred, and with whom and the
Doctor I had an evening’s pow-
wow in an old city club—-or,
at any rate, enjoyed their
widely-ranging powwow.
Of the others named the only
one I myself met with him was
Billy Hughes. They were in
Hunter - street, outside some
function that was about to
happen. I recalled to the Little
Digger the day he stood on the
steps of the battered Town Hall
at Bray, in France, and addressed
us at some length—as he had a
right to do, he having arranged
for us the six-months’ Anzac
(Continued on page 27)
Leave on which we were then
in the first stage of setting out,
and on which the Doctor, too,
came back to Australia.
I did not recall to Billy the
things we said he was, waiting
there on the cobbles in Bray for
him to turn up, an hour or so
late. He was, as everyone knows,
a little deaf, and it mightn’t have
done to have shouted out things
like that in Hunter - street, Syd-
ney, though maybe it has heard
almost as good.
The Bulletin writer on the
Doctor listed also among his
friends “writers, publishers, poli-
ticians (both sides), aldermen,
businessmen, Sudan Contingen-
ters and countless others of many
nationalities and callings.” These
“many nationalities and callings”
would include one specially re-
membered lot in particular—pro-
fessional fishermen who cast their
nets near the Heads and in other
waters about Sydney.
The Doctor was their Medical
Benefits long before we had such
a boon: he doctored many of
them free, and all of them well
enough to make them feel there-
after indebted to him. Which
was why the best of the catch —
John Dory himself, with the
black coin on his side—was
always fresh - caught out at
Yarranabbe-road, and at the
Phillip-street address, and at 24
Beach-road, too.
And yet—perhaps because I
may have forgotten, but more
likely because this is Dr. Piero
Fiaschi we are talking about —
the only fish (barring prawns
and oysters) that I can recall
having eaten out at Yarranabbe-
road came out of a tin.
It did have, on the table down-
stairs, a flanking of shellfish,
but the special of the night was
tuna. Australian tuna. Caught
and tinned down the N.S.W.
South Coast. It rested (as it
were, in the spotlight) on a deep
bed of salad brimming a large
brass bowl.
I once saw the same gleaming
bowl brimming over with king-
prawns, and helped to empty it,
with perhaps the gods helping
themselves to a few before the
night was out. But on that
particular night the bowl was
Tuna’s throne.
Tuna became it well: and
there beside Tuna, chanting
Tuna’s praises, singing Tuna’s
saga of the sea, as if this was
to be an initiation ceremony,
and each of us to be henceforth
bolder and stronger for having
eaten a little of Tuna —there
beside the throne was one who
knew Tuna personally, and knew
all the other great and little ones
of these waters with him: no
other than T. C. Roughley him-
self; yet one more who could


BORN 1820— STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland t
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.156.12A
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BET HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARKEKE
I No Pads —
! No Springs
The JfBO-BAKREBB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all -who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3m), 243 Elizabeth St.. Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
Carioca has probably had his
last race. He won nearly £37,000
in stakes in a flashing career,
and it’s good to see him retire
without becoming one of that
saddest of spectacles —an old
and failing champion being
flogged uselessly round the
course.
Prince Cortauld, with the
A.J.C. Queen Elizabeth Stakes,
has now won £43,190. Winning
five of his last six races, he is the
highest stake-winner now racing
in Australia. Prince Cortauld’s
aggregate was bumped up
quickly by four big autumn
wins—Caulfield Futurity Stakes,
V.R.C. Queen Elizabeth Stakes,
A.J.C. Autumn Stakes and
A.J.C. Queen Elizabeth Stakes.
The Prince was a warm favorite
on Saturday and gave Sellwood
an easy ride. His total earnings
are £9O above those of one-
time N.Z. crack Gloaming, who
started in 67 races for 57 wins
and nine seconds. At his only
other start he was left at the
post. Had prizemoney in
Gloaming’s time been like it is
now he would have gone close to
record figures. He and Beau-
ford drew more than 90,000 to
Randwick in one of their clashes.
Prince Cortauld has not had
many starts for a four-year-old.
His 36 races have yielded 21
firsts, six seconds and a third.
Sun King (imp.), sire of Prince
Cortauld, is a Hyperion stallion,
and the dam is Capricious, a
daughter of Night Raid (imp.)—
whose best son was Phar Lap—
and Egotism, by Demosthenes
(imp.).
In the Sydney Cup this page’s
choice, Finito, was no match
for the lighter-weighted Talis-
man. Beaupa was third. Talis-
man’s time (3.291) was the
slowest for many years on the
holding track. Talisman is a
Midstream (imp.) horse from
Pennywise by Veilmond.
Tranquil Lass, trained by B.
Hasler, who trains the Sydney
Cup winner, Talisman, is a
promising staying filly. She won
two races at the Randwick car-
nival and is talked about for the
Derbies. In both Randwick
wins the filly showed stamina,
as she finished strongly from the
home-turn on each occasion.
Tranquil Lass is a daughter of
New Zealander Howe, who in
1948 won the Moonee Valley
Cup, was second to Red Fury in
the Caulfield Cup, then started
7-to-4 favorite for the Melbourne
Cup and just missed a place with
9.5. Dam of the filly is Tran-
quil Queen, a mare by Sir Cale-
dore (imp.) from Exaggeration
(imp.) by Politan.
Ex-bookie Jack Shaw led in
Illinois after the Woollahra
Novice mile at Randwick. It
was the gelding’s first win and
Shaw’s first Randwick win for
about six years: Illinois, now a
three-year-old, cost 1250gns. as
a yearling, and is by Stockade
(imp.) from Legato (a half-sister
to Advocate) by Midstream
(imp.) from Symphony by
Eastern Monarch (imp.).
Sir Pilot, whose last win was
the 11-furlongs Newcastle Cup
in September, had not appeared
until Saturday last since finish-
ing second to Half Past in Tat-
tersall’s 12-furlong Cup in mid-
October. He had been working
along nicely at Randwick, but
he looked on the big side when
he went to the starting-gate for
the Rous Handicap, and in the
betting-ring there wasn’t a
shilling for him. He started at
100 to 1, was ridden by a little-
known apprentice, A. Wynn,
was last into the straight, then
finished fast to gain third money
in a field of eight.
N. Sellwood took the riding
honors at the A.J.C. autumn
carnival with six wins, followed
by W. Cook and A. Ward, each
with four. Ward is hanging on
well to his position as leading
jockey for the season with 51
firsts, followed by Cook with 46.
The only other jockey with any
chance of beating that pair, and
that looks difficult, is Sellwood
(35).
• • • •
Foreign Exchange went out at
10’s in the Dangar Highweight
at Randwick and won by a short
half-head. This smart sprinter
is one of D. Lewis’s Randwick
team, and it was his first win
since returning to Sydney. N.
Best, who rode the winner, has
gone back to Brisbane. He didn’t
do too well in Sydney.
Count Borgia, winner of the
Second Caulfield Maiden Two-
year-old, is a smart-looking colt
by Neapolitan (imp.) from Wind
Robe by Windbag. The
youngster is related to winners
of minor events in Tasmania
and Victoria, and has started
only three times for a third and
a win
There was movement up at
Winton (C.Q.) last Thursday
night, when not only any “colt
from old Regret” but the whole
boiling of horses entered for the
“ Why’d y' have t' job him on the nose so hard? It made
him savage .”
two-day meeting on Friday and
Saturday took to the scrub.
Somebody had left a stabling-
yard gate open. The club post-
poned the opening day while
“all the cracks from miles
around had gathered” to comb
the bush —on horseback, in cars
and even an aeroplane. By
Friday night 35 of the 40 prads
had been rounded-up enough
to hold the first day’s pro-
gramme on the second day.
It had to come. A New Aussie,
Milorad Popovic, has led in his
first winner as a racing-trainer.
His winner was Power’s Lady,
a sister to Goodwood Handicap
winner Power’s Hope, and she
took a Maiden Handicap at
Murray Bridge (S.A.) at B’s,
much to the joy of a bunch of
New Aussies who’d backed her
out of sentiment. Popovic left
the racing game in Yugoslavia,
after riding more than 100
winners, including three
Hungarian Derbies, landed in
South Aus. last year on a
Saturday, went to the races, and
was working in a stable on the
Monday. He rode in a hurdle-
race, but Australian food was
too much; his weight shot up;
so he applied for a trainer’s-
licence and got it.
* * *
The last of a long string of
trotting Derby “form-guides”
was decided at Harold Park
(Sydney) on Friday night.
Although the youngsters have
skipped around the flood-lit
arena often enough, picking the
Derby winner is a tough job.
Bannalagh lived up to long-
sustained whispers with a nice
win in the first division. But he
is a barrier risk, and has yet to
prove his ability over 12 fur-
longs. Finishing strongly into
fourth place from the 12yds.,
Sky Charter ran a solid trial.
In the second division Frisco
Sky (who broke the Melbourne
Derby record in a heat recently)
hung on long enough to down
First Variety by a neck. Pro-
vided he doesn’t break hope-
lessly at the mark and then suffer
a check in running, as he did on
Friday, First Variety could win
the Derby. This bold-striding
son of Attack is among the best
three-year-olds to have graced
Australian circuits. Of inter-
state invaders, brilliant Vic-
torian filly Explicit and Wes-
tralian speedster Marine Dealer
should offer the locals blistering
opposition.
Proving her Lord Mayor’s
Cup victory no fluke, Kissing
Cup raced away with the fast-
class handicap. This is the type
of mare that has old-timers
scratching their heads trying to
recall her equal.
No fewer than four well-
supported horses lost all chance
at the start on Friday night.
They were First Variety,
Blanche’s Best, Match Point and
Dali Scott. Trotting is most sus-
ceptible to such mishaps—gal-
loping from the mark, broken
coupling-strap, locked wheels, a
blown tyre, etc. In America
flying-starts have been the style
for years, but they have not had
handicaps, which is a feature of
our sport. There seems, there-
fore, to be an opening for the
bright young inventor who can
think up a device (something
that runs along the rails perhaps)
that will allow the sport both
flying-starts and handicaps—and
so a big elimination of risk.
In the country two-year-old
championship, Delvyn Ringer,
who could pass for a seasoned
sire returning from stud, scared
away ten of the 13 acceptors.
In a dazzling exhibition of trot-
ting he showed the reason for
the frenzied scratchings. A
bright future seems inevitable
for this fellow. His pace-makers,
First Kiss and Joe Raid, have
both had big names at different
parts of the season, and still
belong to the top group.
+ - +
More than 150,000 turned up
at the six V.F.L. opening
matches last Saturday. Foot-
scray, premiers, met Colling-
wood Magpies, who began
chirpily enough, but were soon
in very low feather, as the
youthful Bulldogs in the last
two quarters chewed them over
properly to make it 15.14-6.12.
Old rivals Essendon and Rich-
mond had an even battle, the
Dons, with straighter boots on,
running away with it in the last
quarter, 13.16-9.23. In the other
games Geelong coasted in
against the young and inex-
perienced South, 15.14-9.12;
Carlton, in good fettle, booted
the highest tally of the day to
down North, 19.2-10.5; Mel-
bourne exactly doubled St.
Kilda’s score, 17.16-8.11; and
lowly Fitzroy improved on last
year’s showing, when it won its
first match in the 10th round, by
outclassing Hawthorn, 13.15-
7.16.
* * •
High scoring is the rule on
the easy-paced wickets of the
West Indies ; it’s been the case
in West Indies’ two recent series,
against India and England. The
runs are coming freely in this
series, but, with one or two
exceptions among the locals,
mostly from the Australian bats-
men. Which perhaps indicates
that Australia’s batsmen and
bowlers can’t be quite as ineffec-
tual as some would have us
believe.
“Bosey”: Walcott (126 and
110) and Weekes (139 and 87
not-out) in the second Test
nearly completed the double of
two batsmen in the same side
making two centuries each in
the one game. It’s only been
done three times altogether in
first-class cricket, and never in
a Test. Cowdrey (110 and 103)
and Hutton (102 and 87) nearly
did it in the first M.C.C.-N.S.W,
match last season.
• • *
Under an overcast sky on the
Nepean, in a great race, Sydney
Grammar won its first G.P.S.
Head of the River for 15 years.
There was little between the first
four eights at the finish; St.
Joseph’s was second and Shore
third. In another neck-and-
neck race, on the Barwon, Gee-
long College won the Vic. Head
of the River, with Wesley, which
had been expected to win, and
Scotch dead-heating for second,
a third of a length behind.
* * *
Contributions to this page are
welcome, but no notice what-
ever will be taken of unsigned
pars.
$ * •
On Easter Monday, at Bendigo,
Victorian Geoff Warren set new
Australian time for 5000 metres
(14min. 23.25ec.). He took
6.4 sec. Off Dave Stephens’s time.
Runner-up to Warren was —hi,
ho, everybody! —another Jack
Davey.
« * *
Australian and British Empire
welterweight champion George
Barnes (10.7) held Italo Scorti-
chini (10.11) to a draw at White
City (Sydney). A big majority
of the 8000 customers thought
Barnes won —not only on points,
but because Scortichini landed
many foul kidney-punches and
should have been disqualified.
A return bout would draw a big
crowds although expert ring-
siders say the promoter, Art
Mawson, should not also be
referee, as either job is hard
enough for any man. The three
judges—Les Pearson, Frank
Hyde and Charles Moses —seem
to have, among them, decided
that Barnes just won it, though
the ref. made it a draw. The
debate was still on when this was
printed, and Art Mawson has
called a meeting of boxing-
writers and radiomen for today
(Wednesday). At this, he says,
he’ll present evidence to support
his decision.
DOGGEREL
“There are no crazy dogs. It s
people who are crazy,” says a dog
psychologist.
You’re weak upstairs; mad as
March hares;
Your wits are dull or hazy •
We may be mutts, but you are
nuts,
Or altogether crazy-
We may delight to bark and bite
When other dogs attack us,
But when we race, what time
we chase
A rabbit-skin stuck on a tin,
You Simple Simons back us!
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.


.. ♦
• :>:• ' • ;
8 x ffl
ill
% V •.J* , / J f
wo big factors in Holden popula
- ,«{'fS
t \./\ i
m
'MJLi
Durability and consistent economy
of operation are two big factors in
the popularity of Holden Utility.
Writing from Stanmore via Woodford,
Queensland, Mr. A. A. Miller, a timber
contractor says: “ My Holden Utility...has
given me over 30,000 miles of trouble-free
motoring. I cover some very rough country,
but at no time has my Holden let me down".
Mr. H. G. Millard, Paint Supplies Co.,
Grote Street, Adelaide, says his utility
. . has now covered 26,000 miles entailing
a great deal of stops. Petrol consumption
has consistently been over 30 m.p.g. . .
Only Holden Utility combines this economy
with six cylinder power, 21 h.p. perform-
ance, a low list price, high resale value, and
nation-wide availability of low-cost factory
guaranteed parts and service. In view of
the very heavy demand for Holden Utility
we would suggest you place your order as
soon as possible.
HOLDEN SALES LEADERSHIP
Official sales figures for 1954 show that
14,511 Holden Utilities were registered
during the year, compared with 4,355 regis-
trations of the next most popular model.
To speed up delivery and meet the ever
increasing demand for Holden, GMH is
now proceeding with a further £7i million
expansion programme.
HOLDEN*
AUSTRALIA’S OWN UTILITY
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN
PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE
£865
PLUS TAX
•registered trade mark
* Convenient GMAC hire purchase arrangements are available.
* There are two Air Chief car radios specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
be added to the listing in the
Doctor’s genius for friendship.
Probably I haven’t myself set
eyes on T.C.R. since, yet I fancy
I’d know him if I saw him to-
morrow, because of his picturing
that night of all the teeming
millions of fish going past us
right then out there in the sea —
no; swimming through us in the
room ; in one door and out the
other; down the stairs and out
the windows. It would be an
ungrateful memory that could
forget anyone half as enthusi-
astic and knowledgeable about
fish.
Certainly he and the Doctor
between them made it a memor-
able night, dedicated to the con-
secrating (and consuming) of
noble, life - giving, enthroned
Tuna; and oysters and other
things, also life-giving. (Not,
it should perhaps be said, that
the Doctor was other than
epicurean: a little, and good,
went a long way with him.)
Possibly Mr. Roughley had
himself sent Tuna along: if so,
it would have been in the spirit
of one of the Doctor’s own
strongest traits—that of giving
freely unto others. The other
accompaniments would no doubt
have been there at the Doctor’s
orders, as the right prescription
for a ceremonial occasion in the
Fellowship of Fish.
His medical prescriptions were
just as good, though not always
orthodox, and all the more
pleasant for it. For the lady of
the house at 24 Beach-road, who
had the childish complaint of
whooping - cough, he brought
his prescription along with him,
made up and all ready. A bottle
of claret . . . “And sit out there
in the sun and drink it.”
Sunshine and claret . . .
The address in Beach-road was
on his way home, and if there
was a light showing, up to mid-
night or later, the Ansaldo would
stop outside and he would come
in, more often than not bringing
something with him: another
John Dory or parcel of king-
prawns, or some bunches of
grapes or a bag of other fruit
which somebody in the country,
remembering, had sent him.
The Ansaldo* was as memor-
able as himself. It would be an
indignity and a libel to call it
old. It was a vintage piece,
which one of his men lovingly
kept spotless, so that the plating
on it shone like silver and an
amount of brasswork about it
glowed red in the. sun.
Usually the hood was down
and the back seat covered with
his bags and an assortment of
other things as unpredictable as
himself. It would be nothing
surprising to see a hand-saw and
a stethoscope lying there
together.
Always, night and day, he wore
his black garb and the bowler
hat. He wore both when putting
on a good lunch for you, to an
explosive accompaniment of
sulphur comment on the way of
the world and international
affairs, in the basement in Phillip-
street; or you might see him up
a peach-tree using the hand-saw
pruning out at Yarranabbe-road,
still dressed like that, including
the bowler.
And then there was one day
which could be circled on the
calendar as belonging to him-
self alone: a Sunday, about
two-o’clock, when the Ansaldo
pulled up outside, gleaming and
glowing as usual, but stripped
for action. The hood taken
right off and left at home;
nothing in the back at all. And
the Doctor, bowler-hatted and
dressed as usual, at the door;
with an urgent invitation to
come up to the Hawkesbury
with him. After melons. A load
of melons.
A perfect day . . . come as
you are . . . do you a ton of
good. Something like that. I
went as the Doctor prescribed
and as the sunny day invited,
as I was: sports-shirt and
trousers, shoes, felt-hat.
Along round the park, past
the Stadium, up over King’s
Cross, down to Phillip-street.
The Doctor went up the stone
steps, inside; came out carry-
ing an Army-dixie, shining
silver as no Army-dixie ever
shone before. With straps he
fastened it on to the running-
board.
“Fish,” he said.
In ice ... I might have
guessed it.
He climbed back in, drove a
dozen yards along, hugging the
pavement, stopped, cupped his
hand, and shouted up into the
tunnel leading through to the
garage under the building
there:
“Kennedy! KENNEDY!”
Down the tunnel, in overalls,
came (presumably) Kennedy, at
the double.
“Yes, Doctor?”
“Take this thing off!” ordered
the Doctor.
“The windscreen?”
“Yes, that’s right, Kennedy.
Off with it.”
No trouble to Kennedy. Off
it came. And off we went, out
nor’-west through the city, to
the highroad to the Hawkesbury,
as good as naked to everything
that blew and flew.
The effect was speed. Cars
passed The effect was still
speed. Ansaldo seemed to be
hitting at least ninety. Two
sharp faces being cut a bit
sharper by the wind. Cars still
passed us.
“Look at them!” shouted the
Doctor, above the shriek of
our private hurricane. “They
don’t want to get anywhere.
They don’t even know where
they’re going.”
He did something to Ansaldo,
and Ansaldo leapt and bolted.
We passed cars. We swept
past more cars. The ones in
them could bawl at each other,
“Look at them! ” But then,
we knew where we were going.
Up through Windsor. To the
Hawkesbury. For melons. A
carload of melons.
Ansaldo swerved off and
stopped by the roadside. The
Doctor got out, went to the
post-and-rail fence, shouted to
the bit of a sawmill a hundred
yards down the hill:
“Hey, there! ”
The framework of a fair sort
of boat being built rested in its
cradle at the mill. A figure
came out from behind it;
shouted back:
“Yes, Doctor?”
The Doctor held up fingers.
“Two tons.”
The chap down below waved
message - received. Turning
back, the Doctor had an after-
thought. He shouted again:
“Ironbark! ”
“Good.”
It was going to be cosy at
Yarranabbe-road when the
winter came . . .
In Windsor, Ansaldo stopped
again: outside an official-
looking building; the Court
House or some such place. The
Doctor went in through some-
where. A good while later he
reappeared, at the side. With
him, an official; with a key.
We went inside, and there, on
the wall, hung the explanation—
a portrait believed to be Gover-
nor Macquarie. Malcolm Ellis
later told me it was not Mac-
quarie, and all about it. In its
presence we stood a while; for
my part, thinking of melons. I
hadn’t then read Malcolm on
Macquarie; the book was still
in the writing. But perhaps, in
the circumstances, Malcolm
himself might have had a
thought for melons.
Altogether, we were there
quite a time. When we got
going again the day wasn’t
looking quite so sunny as it had
been. The cause lay ahead of
us, as we went out along a
straight, long stretch of road: a
huge piling and massing of
clouds, heaping up high and
black on the hills.
The Doctor kept on. So did
the clouds ; towards us ; higher
and higher. We, as it were,
raced naked on.
Away ahead along the road
you could see what looked
mighty like a wall of rain. We
went to meet it; it came to meet
us. Not even a windscreen for
armor.
A lone car came towards us.
It emerged out of the grey wall
—and it had its lights on!
It passed us, fleeing like a
very wet bat out of hell.
This was too much, even for
the Doctor. We would go
back.
I asked, “But what about the
melons?” It seemed a pity, but
it wasn’t; the melons weren’t
out that way at all. We’d just
been going out there to have
a look at “the old place”—
possibly where the vineyard
was ; perhaps where the Doctor
himself had been born.
And then, as we fled, the rain
hit us. The lightning split
between us. The thunder shook
us. As grand a storm as anyone
could wish to be in out of. The
Doctor’s bowler-hat crouched
down on the wheel. Rain
whipping us along. Ansaldo’s
lights on.
In the midst of it, Ansaldo
stopped at the roadside. The
Doctor got out; undid the lid of
the Army-dixie on the running-
board ; took two big silver-
bream from their bed of ice ;
marched to the house just off
the road and just visible in the
downpour ; belted at the door ;
handed the fish inside; hurried
back again.
As Ansaldo went along it
came out that an old patient of
the Doctor’s lived there.
Evidently the Doctor had pre-
scribed fish for his Sunday-
evening meal. They might well
have thought he had just caught
the bream outside their front
gate.
Ansaldo forged ahead of the
rain, or else the rain lightened-
off. In another half-hour or so
it stopped. So, also, Ansaldo —
at a whole big barnful of
melons.
While they loaded, the Doctor
diagnosed a case of acute
hunger for ripe clingstone nec-
tarines ; to be eaten red and ripe
from the tree.
They packed the back seat
as high as it could hold: big,
long, dark-green melons; with
a couple extra on the front
seat, and still more on the floor
in front, perhaps for balance.
And so towards home with
our carload. The Doctor wet
to the skin. Not only the
Doctor. And it hadn’t done
with us yet; not by hogsheads
of it. We couldn’t have gone
more than a mile or two when
it started again; lighter, but
set-in. And cold. It stayed
with us. We might as well have
been in the altogether.
Ansaldo stopped suddenly at
a small house by the roadside.
The day had gone, and it was
now dark ; wetter ; colder. The
Doctor got out, took with him
one of the melons jammed on
the front seat between us, put
it down on the doormat, belted
the door, and waved to them
when they opened the door as
he was getting back into
Ansaldo ...
Well, yes, that was like the
Doctor. But it wasn’t within a
carload of melons of how like
the Doctor the Doctor could be.
If that seems to need clarify-
ing, the answer is that that
house was merely the prelimin-
ary. It was the first of a whole
string of similar-looking houses
between there and home. At
each of them Ansaldo stopped
in the rain, and at each of them
the Doctor got out and took in
a dripping-wet melon. He
wasn’t let get as quickly away
from most of them.
Ansaldo’s load got lighter and
lighter. The melons went one
by one. There were still six or
seven left in the back when
Ansaldo called in at the
Children’s Home somewhere out
in the Fivedock darkness. This
might have been getting round
for ten-o’clock at night. We
piled the six or seven dripping
melons against the door.
Apparently they would find
them there and have a good idea
who left them. What better
place to leave a wet, shining
stack of melons?
Anyway, by that time, we
ourselves felt more like some-
thing hot. We got it at Beach-
road . . .
And that, precisely, was the
Doctor; though perhaps a brief
postscript can be added. A
picture of him passed on by one
who knew him in the late bitter-
weather days on Gallipoli;
huddled up at a bit of a fire
under a groundsheet-roof at the
front of his swallow’s-hole possie
in the cliffside, himself cooking
gruel for his dysentery-sick
Diggers.
THE HOUSE RISES
They have taken their briefs,
Their griefs and their faces.
It’s the end of the day.
In the garden a snail
Deliberately munches a leaf.
They have gone in the rain
With their talk in high places,
Their cares and despairs
And their confident phrases,
Their wish to explain—
And the delicate thief
In his back street of slime
Waves an antenna wand,
Gropes with a horn.
Is it good to eat? Eat.
Is it good to eat? Who?
They have gone like the wind
With their grief and distinctions,
Gone like a leaf
Or the voice of the news,
Like death on the air
With a rustle of paper;
And in the garden
The blind beast chews.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OP*
OSUIXIVAV . /
t PTUTD. jV
r »s o»«5j~
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“Tire Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
YALTA ECHOES
As the following sampling
indicates, British press criticism
of the U.S. State Department’s
publication of its version of the
Yalta talks between Churchill,
Roosevelt and Stalin was directed
more at the fact and the timing of
publication than at anything the
documents revealed.
“Manchester Guardian” com-
mented : “Yalta has already been
described, with a good deal of
documentation, in Stettinius’s
book, in Byrnes’s book, in
the Sherwood - Hopkins book,
and in Sir Winston’s memoirs,
to say nothing of one
or two other sources. The
present documents, issued in the
way they have been, will only
encourage the partisan fighting
that has so disastrous an effect
on American foreign policy.”
• * *
Further comment:
London “Sunday Times”:
“Why has Washington done this
unwise thing? For domestic
party - political reasons. A
number of Republican Senators
had long fancied that, if only
the book of Yalta could be
opened, the vials of the American
voter’s wrath would be poured
out at the next election on the
Democratic party. They kept
pressing for publication, till at
last the papers were circulated
to Congressional leaders. When
a set came into newspaper hands,
file Administration seemed left
with no alternative but to
publish.”
* * *
London “Spectator” : The
unanswerable objection to the
[U.S.] State Department’s publi-
cation of the Yalta papers has
already been put by Sir Winston
Churchill: it imposes on ali
future conferences the intolerable
restraint implied in the
knowledge that the most casual
remarks made in the most secret
councils may be published in an
unagreed version at any time
which suits the convenience of
a political party in one of the
participating countries. There
is absolutely no defence for
adding in this way to the diffi-
culties of conducting diplomacy
in a democracy. It is irrelevant
to argue that everything con-
tained in these papers is already
accessible in other places. Indeed,
that argument merely serves to
expose the fallacy and insincerity
of the view that the cause of
historical scholarship will benefit
from these revelations.”
* * •
London “Economist ” : “If the
private meetings of statesmen are
suddenly to be thrown open to
the blinding glare of the public
gaze, are there no means by which
everyone can at least be enabled
to see the same thing? Now that
the American State Department
has published its own version of
what was said at Yalta, much of
it in the form of unauthenticated
notes made by individuals, the
Foreign Office is considering
publishing a British version.
And no doubt the Russians are
thinking up some special gloss
of their own.”
“Manchester Guardian ” ;
“Those who come worst out of
the documents are the Americans.
Roosevelt shared the common
American belief that all questions
can be settled by a get-together.
He thought he could manage
Stalin better than Churchill;
hence his odd behavior both at
Tehran and Yalta. He was sure
he could twist Chiang round his
little finger. It was the Americans
and the Russians who were un-
realistic about the treatment of
Germany. Worse still, it was the
starry-eyed Americans who were
so trustful of the Russians that
they botched the terms of Allied
military occupation, let the
Russians come to the heart of
Germany and left no proper
road open to Berlin. (In all this
Eisenhower must bear his share
of blame.) If Yalta proves any-
thing it is that American diplo-
macy was then emotional rather
than realistic.”
• • • •'
The same : “The best words on
Yalta were the Prime Minister’s:
‘lt is easy, after the Germans are
beaten, to condemn those who
did their best to hearten the
Russian military effort and to
keep in harmonious contact
with our Great Ally, who had
suffered so frightfully. What
would have happened if we had
quarrelled with Russia while the
Germans still had three or four
hundred divisions on the fighting-
front? Our hopeful assumptions
were soon to be falsified. Still,
they were the only ones possible
at the time.’ ”
* * ♦
London “Daily Express ”;
“Here is Roosevelt, at an inter-
national conference, going
behind Churchill’s back to
propose to Stalin that Britain’s
possession and creation, the
colony of Hong Kong, should be
given to China. And that
Britain should be excluded from
any part in the administration of
Korea.
“For good measure, his
Secretary of State Stettinius
wished to convert Britain’s
colonies into ‘trusteeships.’
“The record of such dark and
devious doings is the shattering
of an idol. The idol of the great-
hearted friend whose statue
stands in Grosvenor-square.
“But disillusionment and
resentment are not in themselves
an adequate comment on these
wretched disclosures. There is,
on two counts, a pilace for
gratitude as well.
“In spite of everything, Roose-
velt is still the friend who
extended lease-lend to Britain
in a dark hour. He was woefully
misled by bad advisers and self-
deception when he tried to buy
Russia’s friendship at Britain’s
expense. But immense measures
of practical aid to Britain have
to be weighed against that act
of folly.
“Gratitude springs too from
the thought: How far has
American yolicy developed in
realism and knowledge since the
starry-eyed, double-dealing days
at Yalta?”
* * *
Paris “L’A urore” : “Ten years
have gone by since Yalta. The
British and the Americans, whose
troops fought in France and in
the French Union, have every-
where departed. None of our
territories has been annexed.
Our freedom, our national in-
dependence, have never been
threatened.
“Let us examine what has
happened beyond the Iron
Curtain. All the countries
which were within the zone of
influence of the Soviet Union
do not count for anything more
New York “Herald Tribune”
COMRADE KHRUSHCHEV PUTS ONE IN THE
SUGGESTION-BOX
than satellites of Moscow. It is
against this risk of slavery that
we must rally around the
Atlantic policy.
“The words [at Yalta], devoid
of humanity, of Roosevelt and
Churchill do not modify the
international situation. The
place of France remains in the
midst of the Western Powers
united by the Paris accords and
the Atlantic pact.”
* * •
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“He [Churchill] emerges per-
sonally from the account with
undiminished dignity and fire.
Perhaps if he and the rest of
Britain were less concerned over
the form of the publication, they
might realise that their own
stature has not suffered; that
they were represented ably at
Yalta by able men who, if they
were not always able to shape
events to their liking, showed
a keen perception of the dangers
ahead and strove to avert them.”
Scandinavian Unity
Commenting on a Stockholm
report of a plan for a joint
market for Sweden, Norway
and Denmark to level-out the
internal economies of those
nations and to increase the
whole area’s competitive
capacity in world trade, Balti-
more (U.S.A.) “Sun” describes
it as “but another step in a
process that has been going on,
with occasional setbacks, since
shortly after World War II”:
“The process really began to
gather steam (if ‘steam’ is the
right word for so modest and
careful a thing) in 1953, when
the Nordic Council held its first
meeting, with Iceland also a
member. Since that time, in less
than two years, passports have
been abolished within the region,
citizens of any member-country
are able to work in any other
without special permission, and
a good start has been made
toward a union of all the tele-
phone, telegraph and postal
services.
“Other plans now afoot
include reciprocal patent-rights,
an academy to study the
common problems of the nations
concerned, identical examina-
tions and accreditations in the
sciences and the co-ordination
of health and legal regulations.
Indeed, it is now proposed that
a citizen of any of the countries
be allowed to work, to receive
free medical and hospital care
and perhaps even to vote as a
resident of another country.
“Privately, too, co-operation
grows. Joint travelling exhibits
of industries and crafts furnish
one example, Scandinavian Air
Lines another.
“It may be that Scandinavia,
in its quiet and persistent way,
will in the end turn out to have
led the way toward a united
Europe.”
Soviet Farming
As summed-up by “U.S. News
and World Report,” a problem
which baffles the Soviet is that
the U.S., with only one in seven
Americans on the farm, produces
plenty not only for 164 million
Americans but for millions else-
where as well; the Soviet, on the
other hand, with one of every
two citizens on farms, “can't
even produce a decent diet for
its 200 million people”:
“To make matters worse,
Soviet meat-output is going
down—while the population is up
60 million compared with 1928,
livestock numbers are now six-
million lower.
“It’s not the way Marx, Lenin
and Stalin said things would
work out.
“Khrushchev’s difficulty is that
he’s trapped in a dilemma built
into the Soviet system. Control
of peasants —half the population
—is essential both to get food,
for the cities and to prevent
revolutions. But controlled
peasants refuse to produce ; they
want their own land, private
profits, consumer - goods and
freedom. Yet, if Khrushchev
relaxes controls and sets peasants
free to produce, neither Khrush-
chev nor the Communists may
remain in control for very long.
“Khrushchev’s solution is to
keep as firm a rein on the
peasants as he dares, launch
ambitious projects, such as a
Russian corn-belt, and hope that
Soviet Russia can catch up on
lowa (U.S.A.) one of these
days.
“The outlook? Food will
remain short; turmoil in the
Kremlin will continue.”
"Atlas”
In a survey of Britain’s
guided-missile programme given
on these pages a fortnight ago,
it was mentioned that one of the
problems facing the designers
of intercontinental-missiles was
the fact that the trajectory of
such passed far above the earth’s
atmosphere; as the missiles
turn earthwards and plunge back
into the atmosphere the heat
generated by friction is sufficient
to “melt diamonds.”
According to Stewart Alsop
in New York “Herald Tribune”
it now looks as if a solution will
be found by “a sort of fiery
strip-tease, in which all parts
of the ‘bird’ are progressively
burned-up except for the firing-
mechanism and the bomb itself.”
“U.S. News and World
Report” also gives some space
to America’s proposed inter-
continental-missile —“Atlas,” it’s
called —in a survey of Uncle
Sam’s arsenal of guided-missiles.
This arsenal includes.:
Nike: A surface-to-air-missile
which seeks-out enemy aircraft
by radar long before the aircraft
can reach their target-city.
Launching - sites are being
installed around major U.S.
cities, and the missiles are in
“quantity production.”
Terrier: An anti-aircraft-
missile for launching by ships
at sea. Has been tested, is
being installed on two Navy
cruisers, and is being adapted
for use on land by the Marines.
Bomarc: An interceptor-
missile with much longer ranges
than Nike or Terrier, this is
designed for defending big
areas from air-attack. Under
development by the Air Force
and not yet as far advanced as
the smaller missiles.
Corporal: A surface-to-
surface-missile which can
deliver atomic warheads against
a tactical target beyond the
range of artillery. Highly
accurate electronic guidance;
already in the hands of the
troops.
Regulus: For use by subs, or
cruisers against distant shore-
targets or ships at sea. Folding


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE HENRY LAWSON late
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales and Melbourne in the State of
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
JORIE AUDREY JUNE LAWSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3578 of
1953 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
ana upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 17th day of June 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
_ SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ADA RAE DAVENPORT late of Nar-
emburn.—TAKE NOTICE that KEITH
EDWARD DAVENPORT haa filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1070 of 1955 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street, Sydney by the 17th
day of June 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE, Soli-
citors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY JOSEPH OHITHAM late of
Erskmeville.—TAKE NOTICE that
HAZEL RUBY ELIZABETH CHITHAM
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 990
o£ !955 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office, Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th day of June
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN
® MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
_ SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY REGINALD HEMME for-
merly of Balmain and Mortdale.—TAKE
NOTICE that LILLIAN EILEEN MAY
HEMME has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4183 of 1954 on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 17th of June 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER AND
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
_ SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
S\fTTw RE ? q R I CK A^™ u R MAURICE
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARJORIE SUSAN SMITH has filed a
Petition No. 1129 of 1955 for Divorce
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
24th June 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from F W
REILLY, Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street!
Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
a GIANTof a chain saw
..in a OIHE-MAN package
When you receive your Mobilco in its fitted timber
case with fuel tin, oil measure, high quality tool kit
and guarantee card, it's a good enough sight and it
spells quality all the way through . . . But it is not
until you take this mighty little monster and press
the chain deep into a hardwood log that you realise
what a good machine you have got. There is light
►weight here and full genuine five horsepower
performance . . . enough to keep a man going day
after day, year after year, turning timber into
profit at a minimum of toil and sweat.
Write for all the details now. They
will be posted to you right away.
Mobilco
ONE-MAN
CHAIN SAW
■p
v*
/
Ik
w
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away and without
obligation all details of the Mobilco
chain saw.
Name
Address
You can get your Mobilco on terms.
A reasonable deposit and monthly
payments well within your reach will
start earning money and saving effort
for you right away. There's the
coupon at the left. Fill it in and post
it for full details on the Mobilco.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES .... BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - ... - . . ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
wings; guided automatically ;
designed to be fired from a
moving base.
Matador: Another surface-to-
surface job. A medium-range
pilotless-bomber launched by
booster-charge and flown by
jet-motor. Developed by the
Air Force and now in opera-
tional use, it is designed to have
an atomic warhead.
Sparrow: An air-to-air-
missile for use by naval and
Marine aircraft against high-
speed enemy planes. Now in
production under Navy contract,
Sparrow can be aimed and fired
automatically and travels at
supersonic speeds.
Falcon: One of the latest for
use by land-based jets against
enemy planes; approaching
operational use; extremely high
speeds and electronic aiming-
device.
And after all those, of course,
comes the inter-continental-
missile—a long-range missile
with an H-bomb warhead
capable of flying non-stop to
Russia from the U.S. It is
“within sight,” according to the
“U.S. News and World Report”
survey.
Two varieties of these long-
range missiles are being
developed, both with a theoreti-
cal range of 5000 miles. One, a
ballistic type, will be fired
through the atmosphere like an
artillery shell; the other will
resemble an extra-fast, pilotless
jet-plane. The ballistic type,
which will be powered by big
rockets, will exceed 8100 miles
an hour, or 12 to 13 times the
speed of sound; the jet-
propelled type will fly at about
1500 to 2000 miles an hour.
The designers of these long-
range missiles are aiming at an
accuracy to within two-tenths of
1 per cent. For a missile
travelling 5000 miles, that means
hitting within 10 miles of the
centre of the target; for a
missile travelling 2000 miles, it
means striking within two miles
of the centre.
Guidance-data will be fed into
the missiles before take-off.
Each missile will then, in theory,
travel on a predetermined course
—in a set direction, for a set
distance —then explode. There
will be no radar beam to “ride”
or electronic guidance from the
ground.
The slower, jet-propelled type
of missile will be able to check
its course from time to time by
the stars and “correct” for any
error in direction. The faster,
ballistic-type missile cannot do
this. It is fired high into space,
where there are no means of
control, because the control-
surfaces have no air to push
against.
At the moment there is no
anti-aircraft-missile or any other
type of weapon in existence able
to knock-down anything travel-
ling at the speed of these inter-
continental-missiles. It is not
theoretically impossible to
counter them, but how and when
it will become practically
possible are almost unanswer-
able questions.
Australian Import-
restrictions
In British press comment on
Australia’s import-restrictions it
is hard to find a word of sym-
pathy for the circumstances
which made them necessary ; the
tone, rather, is strongly critical:
London “Spectator ” ; “The
damage which the fresh restric-
tions on imports into Australia
will do to the British export-
trade is not the most serious
aspect of the Australian Govern-
ment’s regrettable decision. It
is true that export managers in
the motor-car, textile and house-
hold-goods industries will now
have to wade through the new
regulations, and then work out
ways of selling some of their
goods to other markets wherever
this is possible. This will be
troublesome, but Australia has
been too ‘easy’ a market for
many months, and wise business-
men have seen the new restric-
tions coming.
“What is really disturbing is
that the Australians are
apparently quite unable to con-
trol their economy. Over the
past five years it has lurched
from one unhealthy boom to the
next, and unless there is a radi-
cal change in economic policy
(even the will to try seems lack-
ing), further orgies of spending
will be followed by the familiar
round of import-cuts.
“Whereas other countries have
had a large measure of success
in fighting inflation, Australia
seems to have taken special care
that inflation shall be a per-
manent feature of her economic
life. The trade-unions are strong
enough to ensure that wages
chase, or even lead, prices, so
that prices in Australia are out
of line with those in other coun-
tries. This is made easier be-
cause the States and the central
Government have far more
development-projects on hand
than can be undertaken by the
existing labor-force.
“Add to all this a strong pro-
tectionist lobby of businessmen
who welcome import-restriction
because it is the one way in
which they can continue to sell
in their own market, and a cen-
tral bank which refuses to
initiate a tighter monetary
regime, and the whole picture
adds up to inflation for ever.”
* * m
“Manchester Guardian “ The
blow is all the sharper because
Australia is the biggest single
market for Lancashire textiles.
Last year it took about £3O mil-
lion-worth of cotton and syn-
thetic yarn and piece-goods so
that the [latest] one-third cut is
likely to cost the industry up to
£lO million in export orders.
“Australia is also the principal
export-market for the British
motor-car industry—l2l,ooo cars
and commercial vehicles were
sent there last year. The total
effect, a spokesman for the
Society of Motor Manufacturers
and Traders said, could be a
reduction of 15,000 in the num-
ber of motor-vehicles shipped in
the next 12 months.”
* * *
Bradford “Wool Record* :
“Inevitably carpet - manufac-
turers and -workers alike have
been casting their minds back to
London “Daily Mirror”
NO WINNER IN THIS RACE
the events of 1952, when Aus-
tralian restrictions caused unem-
ployment in Kidderminster.
First reactions to the news from
Canberra were, however, that it
should not lead to a recurrence
of 1952 conditions. It will, of
course, create a difficult prob-
lem for the carpet-trade.
“One leading manufacturer
said ‘The new quota-restrictions
will not be so disastrous as last
time because there are many
other markets. New Zealand,
South Africa and Canada are
good markets, and the U.S. is
opening up again.*
“It is interesting to note that
last year the value of Australian
imports of British carpets was
almost exactly half that of this
country’s [Britain’s] entire over-
seas business in carpets.”
* * *
The same: “One of the less-
satisfactory features of the posi-
tion is that these quotas, im-
posed as a result of national
financial difficulties, represent a
substantial degree of additional
protection for the Australian
wool-textile industry, which
already has the benefit of pro-
tective duties. When the quotas
were lately modified Australian
wool-textile manufacturers at
once demanded higher duties on
imports, and their application is
scheduled to be heard by the
Australian Tariff Commission in
the near future.
“While there will be general
sympathy with Australia in her
financial difficulties, it seems less
than fair that the wool-textile
exports of the United Kingdom
—which last season bought more
than one-third of Australia’s
entire wool exports—should be
subjected to this treatment. If,
as we are told, the Australian
economy is chiefly supported by
her wool exports, she would
seem to be doing herself a
doubtful service by this treat-
ment of her best customer.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The vital
point is to maintain the total
volume of world trade. In other
words, when one country’s bal-
ance of trade suffers, it is better
for others to buy more from
that country than for the coun-
try to cut down its foreign pur-
chases. The principle is well
understood. It should be applied
in this instance if it is at all
practicable.”
Various Voices
Mr. Nehru: “Trying to bring
out things by viiolence only
means that a smaller number of
people are trying to impose their
will on a larger number of
people by violent methods, hav-
ing failed to change their will
by peaceful methods. That is
not democracy.”
Walter Lippmann (in New
York “Herald Tribune ”): “Fifty
years ago intervention in
weak States was a recog-
nised practice. It was often
criticised, but it was not out-
lawed. In this century interven-
tion is very nearly, if not
entirely, outlawed in principle
by the Charter of the United
Nations and by the Inter-
American pacts. It is, more-
over, effectively outlawed in
Asia by the massive popular
opposition to any kind of
Western military intervention in
the Asian world.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Back the Land
Of those who work and pay taxes in
Australia approximately one in four is a
public servant: Governments may come
and go, but he goes on for ever, increasing
in power and wealth. He puts no capital
into business, cannot be sacked; his
work-effort amounts to 37 hours weekly
for about 46 weeks of each year, and
his pay is automatically adjusted to the
cost of living. The national income which
provides these conditions is earned by the
capital and labor of the woolgrower, the
wheatfarmer and dairyfarmer, the pig-
breeder, the cattle-man, the canegrower.
So great is our dependence on export-
income that the current drop of 12£ per
cent, in wool-prices has put the nation’s
hire-purchase debts up by 12 per cent,
for the first half of 1954-55. A break-up
of lure-purchase figures shows that at
least 75 per cent, of debts contracted were
for the purchase of motor-vehicles, trac-
tors and other farm and factory equip-
ment.
While the numbers of those actually
doing the work for Australia on the land
are not increasing, their technical
advisers and regulation-interpreters in
Government departments continue to
increase. Britain, on the other hand, gets
by with the same number of public
servants —600,000 plus—to serve five
times our population.
Economically all this is serious enough,
but the fact that the public servant here
has for some time been in a position to
outvote the farmer should give us pause,
particularly when one recalls that the only
sustained and effectual opposition to
Communism in the Soviet has come from
the land-workers. There are signs that
already in Communist China collectivisa-
tion of farms is not producing the food
wanted to woo a famine-nurtured popu-
lation to the totalitarian idea. A man
works best when he has a stake in the
country, as when he cultivates his own
land.
But the public service has everything
to gain by further Socialisation, and can
vote out of office any Government which
dares to prune the bureaucratic army. In
the long view the democratic idea could
be saved by a governing body prepared
to tell the unpalatable truth at the risk
of election loss. The test is worth
“She’s still reading ‘ Ivanhoe '!”
making, particularly when unemployment
has reached an all-time low. It was the
failure to tell the truth regarding this
country’s capacity to sustain wholesale
Socialisation that lost the Federal election
for Labor in 1954. — John Hogarth
(Vic.).
_ . _ _
retrol-tax Money
During the 1949 Federal-election cam-
paign Country-party leader Fadden
undertook to launch a £250-million rural-
development scheme, interest and sink-
ing-fund dues to be met from surplus
petrol-tax revenue which the then
Treasurer (Chifley) was not passing to the
States under the Federal Aid Roads
agreement. Fadden’s plan was to estab-
lish a National Development Fund from
which the Commonwealth would make
grants direct to local councils.
The councils were to be permitted to
use the grants to seal roads, provide
water-supplies, sewerage-systems, elec-
tricity and other amenities, with the
object of stopping the drift of popula-
tion to the capital cities. It was a
splendid scheme which promised to
stimulate country development on a scale
previously only dreamed about.
But when Sir Arthur came to imple-
ment his plan he found there were no
loopholes in the Constitution to enable
him to by-pass State Governments and
pay the money direct to local-authorities.
So the States and the Snowy Mountains
Authority have been getting the money
in loans. In the case of the Sydney
Government, most of it has been used
to expand the big industrial areas, thus
actually reversing the original intention
of the National Development Fund. —
K Me. (N.S.W.).
Sharks and the Road Toll
Suggested “organised killing” of sharks
would be unlikely to result in safer
swimming. There’s nothing to show that
netting-operations ever prevented or
reduced shark-fatalities.
Many potential man-eaters would
escape even the most ambitious netting-
operations, and one uncaught shark is
enough for a shark-attack. Since sharks
scour such a wide area of ocean, there
would be a constant inflow to replace
those captured.
Authorities believe only one shark in
many thousands will attack, and the
number of fatalities is extremely small
when compared with the millions who
use Australia’s beaches each year. The
chance of being attacked, provided only
“normal” risks are taken, is negligible.
Anyone who ventures outside an
enclosed pool must accept the possibility
—remote but actual —of being attacked.
The danger increases the further you get
from the shore and the crowds.
There are two schools of thought on
whether a swim in the open is worth
the risk. Some say “All sharks have to
be regarded as dangerous, and all water
must be treated as though sharks are
there.” Surfers have a different
philosophy. “Surfing’s terrific sport,”
they say. “It’s worth the risk.”
Reducing the risk on the open surf-
beaches is a problem present methods
have done little to solve. Bounties paid
for the capture of sharks would need to
be high to make it worth the attention of
professional fishermen with the neces-
sary capital-equipment. Expenses for
netting-operations would, and have, run
into many thousands of pounds a year.
In spite of such expenditure, results are
uncertain and sharks continue to appear
on beaches. Nothing. short of totally
enclosed pools offers perfect safety,
The whole question of shark-attacks is
out of perspective. Paradoxically, the
danger is exaggerated by the rarity of
fatalities. “Shark Bites Man” is front-
page news; “Car Kills Man” is just an
inside paragraph.
Shark-attacks provoke a horrified
response in the thousands who use the
beaches each weekend. But if a car kills
a man the millions of road-users do not
feel a similar horror ; familiarity has bred
indifference.
Compared with an average of three
“I just Want to remind you, lad, that this is a ten-o'clock-closing house.”
shark-attacks a year, thousands are killed
and maimed on Australian roads. More
than 200 have died on N. S. Wales roads
alone so far this year. Is it sensible to
spend thousands of pounds a year on a
doubtful danger, possibly buying no more
than the illusion of safety, when people
are being needlessly slaughtered in the
streets? If money is to be spent on
public-safety, there is no question in
what direction it should go.
As for the swimmer, he should be
warned of the dangers and left to choose
for himself. — Spearmaniac (Vic.).
One Woman One Job
When I was married, shortly before
World War 11, the proportion of married
women working in offices, factories and
other places was so low that, although
we had barely more than the basic wage
(then about £4), it never entered the head
of either of us that my wife should keep
her office job. We went without many
things now regarded as everyday neces-
sities, and accepted this state of affairs
cheerfully, for the old-fashioned idea then
prevailed that looking after a home, pre-
paring for a family and, in due course,
rearing children constituted a full-time
occupation for any woman.
The outlook is quite different nowa-
days. I have known female members of
my office-staff to keep on working after
their marriage almost until the birth of
their first child, and to return shortly
afterwards to office duties. How they
can keep working, run their homes and
give proper attention to the needs of
husband and children is beyond me. In
some cases the reason for continuing
work is not financial necessity as we
knew it years ago, but to dress and
furnish expensively, buy refrigerators and
washing-machines and generally raise the
material standard of living of the house-
hold.
The trade-unions have a slogan: “One
man, one job.” It has its abuses, but the
basic idea is right: no man can do
justice to more ihan one job at a time.
Extension of the principle to the weaker
sex would, in my opinion, check the
scramble for goods and services in which
the ordinary domesticated housewife is
shoved aside by her job-seeking sister,
promote greater contentment and true
happiness in the home, and prevent many
a “business couple’s” marriage from
ending on the rocks of divorce. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
U.S. Information
It is a pity the United States is so often
represented in the minds of foreigners by
its poorest qualities. The U.S. appears
unable either to arrange export of its
best features or to stop export of its
worst.
So-called “comic-books” which origin-
ate in the U.S. can be, and are, bought by
the thousand at practically any bookstall,
yet, though the U.S. produces some of
the. finest technical books in the world.
these are practically unobtainable even
in big city-bookshops.
When protests have been made about
the flood of U.S. comics, Governments
have said the flood could not be
stopped because tear-sheets of the originals
were coming into the country in private
mail.
If that can be done to overcome
Customs trouble and dollar shortages,
cannot the same thing be done with tech-
nical books —import one copy only and
have it set-up, printed and published here?
Or is the potential market too small for
that?
That is the Australian angle to it.
What about the U.S. angle? Can’t U.S.
authorities do something to counteract
the flood of films which too frequently
portray the worst side of American life,
the radio-programmes which show the
U.S. as a land of slush and drivel, and
the popular songs which, too often, are
not worth the wax they are recorded
upon? . .
It was a pity the Eisenhower Adminis-
tration, in a rush of economy, practically
closed-down the U.S. Information
Centres in most Australian cities. These
could have been the nucleus of something
really worth while in the way of passing
on real United States culture to the
people of Australia.
Their methods of going about things
were somewhat inept—they were rather
too fond of flooding newspapers with
pictures of uninteresting Babbitts who had
been appointed to some Government
position or another in some unknown
American country-town, and of chuming-
out interminably long speeches by poli-
ticians.
But instead of wiping the whole set-up
at once, the U.S. Government should
have taken some notice of the advice and
constructive criticism offered by journa-
lists and others. It could have made the
information-centres really centres of in-
formation and not of propaganda.
One well-turned-out article a week on
some aspect of United States life would
have had much more chance of accept-
ance as a filler by country newspapers
than the thick bundle of propaganda that
was issued each week until the new
Administration cut the whole service
out.
For less than the amount of money
previously wasted in these centres the
U.S. Government could arrange for good
plays instead of musicals, good books
instead of comics, and good radio-pro-
grammes instead of slush, to be available
to the Australian people.—R. H. (Q.).
Underpaid Nurses '
The most disheartening aspect of a
nurse’s job is its poor financial reward
compared with that of unskilled female
labor. To become a qualified nursing-
sister entails long hours of study, exams,
to pass, and an intelligent interest in the
practical side.
There is also broken shiftwork, extra
hours on duty when short-staffed, and
other things. Yet nurses see youngsters
of 14 working as domestics in the same
institutions, drawing around a tenner a
week to carry food-trays and wait on
table —work they’d have to do at home for
Mum for nothing. No years of study re-
quired here, no high 1.Q.; nothing but
a union ticket.
Until the trained nurse is paid
at least the equivalent of the woman
employed in the hospital kitchen
the dearth of nursing personnel will
continue. —Ouo Vadis (O.).


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 In the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, aa a Proprietary
Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2.000.000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
577,045 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each
.. £1,205,500
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each
• •
300,000
HELD IN RESERVE
£1,505,500
494,500
J,505,500
494,500 Shares of £1 each
2,000,000 £2,000^000
300,000 NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/- EACH, PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
CAPITAL REQUIRED TO OPERATE VALUABLE "CATERPILLAR" ★ AND OTHER FRANCHISES IN RICH
DEVELOPMENTAL TERRITORIES.
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to secure the greatest possible returns
EX. the efficiency of the operation of the valuable franchises held by the Company and its Subsidiary—
PEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY. LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria, U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., ,> CaterpiMar ,,
Tractors and Earth Moving Equipment for : STATE of QUEENSLAND, NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA,
n»eE inn * . NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA, SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS.
off Jol,n Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for the whole of Australia.
ON
TRACKS
1904*1954
"CATERPILLAR'S"
WORLD STATUS!
• Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on
tracks is "Caterpillar."
• In Australia, too, "Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by
far the highest user preference, as every year more
"Caterpillars" are sold than any similar type.
Caterpillar is a registered Trade Mark.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Net Profit
£11,790
£48,779
£58,870
£111,398
Ordinary
Dividends
9-2%
39.0%
12.5%
12.5%
Year ended 31st August, 1951 ~
Year ended 31st August, 1952 ..
Year ended 31st August, 1953 ..
Year ended 31st August, 1954
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS' REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of valuable franchises
augurs well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased;
working capital.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of New Ordinary Shares are proposed
to be applied as working capital for the Company and its
Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form
accompanying the Prospectus, dated 28th February, 1955, and
must be lodged direct with the Company’s Office. Copies of
the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained
upon application to the Company's Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Diesels Limited will be given
absolute priority of allotment of shares applied for not later
than the 31st March, 1955. Any shares not then applied for
by such shareholders will be dealt with as the Directors may
determine. The Directors reserve the right to close the issue
at any time without notice, whether the issue be then fully
subscribed or otherwise. In the event of applications being
received for more than 300,000 New Ordinary Shares, the
Directors reserve the right to allot additional shares ranking
pari passu in all respects with the New Ordinary Shares offered
by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such additional shares if
allotted will be for the purpose of providing further working
capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors,
must be raised by the issue of shares offered for subscription
by this Prospectus is £20,000, being required solely as working
capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 77 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W., Chairman and
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General Manager
LESLIE EUGENE BRANDON, 61 Seventh Avenue, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Qld , Managr.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennaftt Hills, N.S.W., Merchant.
ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE COLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
JOHN DUDLEY LOBB, Lum Road, Wheeler’s Hill, Victoria, Architect.
£O?ERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN PEARSON, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Manager. v
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO!, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin Place. Svdnev
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES FCIS 7
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, NSW
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s Registered Office.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been fully complied with l
ts published for information only and is not to he regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe The
Prospectus, of which this is an advertisement, is dated 28th February, 1955™ and copied thereof KaZhepn lua
respectively‘With the Registrar-General in New South Wales (who takes no responsibility as to its contents)
in’vMtoria omvan es m Sollth Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania and the RegiitrZ-General
printed* coiy Tthl'p'rZZts one ° 1 *** toTm * 01 plications referred to in and endorsed upon a
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M., ON 30th JUNE 1955
CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED
PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY
WITHIN THE TIME STATED. COMPANT
NOTE: The
minimum subscription
having been received
the Directors have pro-
ceeded to allotment.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address-
The Old Homes
Estate-agents are encroaching on much
of Australia’s early heritage and some-
thing should be done to preserve from
them our few links with the past.
In Sydney and Melbourne I have
seen the two extremes—in Sydney a
determined effort to preserve its link
with the early days, and in Melbourne
the wrecker taking from the city a
mansion which could well have lasted
another two centuries.
Sydney should be proud of its Hunter’s
Hill and the well-preserved old-
world homes there with tall, majestic
columns and spacious, shrub-fringed
gardens. Here, in two or three
square miles, is the Sydney of
yesteryear, not basking in a past
glory, but well preserved by people
proud of their tradition and trying to
hold on to it.
A friend of mine in Sydney bought
an old home in a poor state of preserva-
tion, but structurally sound. It needed
months of work, but his wife and he
have taken the painting on as a hobby,
and what was once almost a derelict
from the outside (and in) is being
restored to its mid-19th-century glamor.
From what I gathered there are many
more like this couple who have invested
their savings in what many said would
be white-elephants. By hard work,
sound planning and a love for tasteful
decorations they are restoring them to
lovely old homes.
One of these homes was too large for
any family. It was a real mansion in
its day, with tall doric columns, a wide
veranda with a view of the Harbor, and
lawns almost down to the water’s edge.
It was threatened with destruction
because some local body wished to
build a road through the grounds.
Then a small company of young
people bought it and spent their hard-
earned money restoring its lost glory.
Today they let it for social functions,
and there are few places in Sydney to
equal it.
Melbourne, however, with its Hunter’s
Hill equivalent in Toorak, is pulling
down all its old homes. No one seems
to want them; no one seems to care
what happens with them; all that’s
wanted is the land they occupy. Latest
to fall under the wrecker’s pick is
Werndew, the vast Victorian mansion of
the Collier family, another monument
to the heydey of Toorak and the early
life of Victoria.
Six months ago I bid successfully for
a set of whisky-decanters in this old
home, and spent the rest of the day
wandering around the lovely old place,
looking through its windows over Mel-
bourne, admiring its fine architecture
and trying to recapture its life. I, like
many others that day, hoped that some-
thing would be done to keep the old
mansion. But no—the cry for real-
estate won hands-down. No institution
or organisation wanted it, and it is now
being rapidly demolished and the blocks
are already selling for more than £lOO
per foot.
This mansion had one misfortune; it
retained until the end a sizeable piece of
its original parkland bordered by streets
like Irving-road and Woorigoleen-road—
names that mean something in the
Melbourne social world.
Britain has tried to solve a similar
problem with a National Trust.
N.S. Wales, too, through its small trust,
is endeavoring to hold on to many of
these old homes. Unless other States
follow this lead much of our old heritage
will be lost.— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
B.A. and M.A.
Bulletin paragraphs sometimes give
the impression that there is a difference
in quality between the degrees of B.A.
and M.A. granted by Oxford and Cam-
bridge. To become an M.A. at these
universities, a person who is a B.A. does
not have to pass any further examination,
write any thesis, or be otherwise tested
in any way whatsoever. It is, put
crudely, purely a cash transaction.
To write that Thomas Snooks gradu-
ated B.A. in 1940 and qualified for his
M.A. in 1943 simply means that Snooks
paid-up. His B.A. may have been a
good honors-degree or it may have been
a purely nominal pass-degree: he is
entitled to his M.A, in either case, after
two years have elapsed.
This is true only of Oxford and Cam-
bridge ; it is not true of London Univer-
sity or of the “red-brick” universities
generally. In the four Scottish univer-
sities, with down-to-earth realism, there
are no B.A. degrees at all; you qualify
in arts by obtaining the M.A. at the end
of your normal course.
So far as Oxford and Cambridge are
concerned one writes: “Thomas Snooks
graduated in arts at Oxford (or Cam-
bridge) in 1940.” No need to say
whether he is a B.A. or M.A. The poor
chap may have been too stony-broke
ever to have purchased the latter degree ;
it cannot be obtained any other way and
is certainly not a higher qualifica-
tion. — Meme Chose (S.A.).


c
&
The
AG A is the
Regd. Triad* Mark
ONLY Cooker that
gives you all THIS
• • •
there simply isn’t space to tell
you the full story of Aga . . .
and the remarkable difference it
will make for you in comfort,
ease and tranquillity of living.
We can mention it’s a coke-
burning cooker with a difference,
a luxury difference that makes it
the finest cooker in the world.
L*
-K The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
">s#
niaf
*un
7’f'sh
Z°rk.
Bulk
*9 I,
*st
vel
We can lightly touch
upon such facts as:
• AGA can cook by itself . . . nnwatched, unaided!
• Burns day and night . . . ready for instant use, always!
• Requires only 10 minutes attention in every 24 hours!
• Gives all the hot water you could reasonably want . . . for both
kitchen and bathroom!
AGA is more economical ... its fuel consumption, thermo-
statically controlled, is guaranteed never to exceed a definite,
and very modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor how
long you cook!
POST TO-DAV FOR ft FREE LEAFLET
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for AGA
Cooker and Bendix Home Washer
N. S. WAIVES: 51-57 Goulburn St., Sydney
VICTORIA: 432 Bourke St., Melbourne
QXAND: Cnr. Margaret & Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: 113 Grenfell St., Adelaide
T’MANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Utd., Hobart
West Anst. Agents: Malloch Bros. Utd., Perth
Sole AGA Agents for W.A.
XF2
Learn ALL the facts
about ASA, including
the details of other
outstanding models.
NAME
ADDRESS
Advertisement.
Having considerable plant with
enough Horsepower to trans-
form good country into produc-
tive land quickly, the Writer
would be interested to contact
and negotiate with Landholders
desirous of improving their hold-
ings with large earthmoving and
other equipment, is prepared to
purchase land and finance al
operations to mutual satisfaction.
At present in South Australia
but interested in any area in the
Southern half of Australia where
rainfall is reasonably ample an
sure, or other waters below the
the surface are readily available
to irrigate large areas.
The idea is something large
enough to justify yoking up at
least a 1000 horsepower or, m
other words, to absorb fifteen or
thirty thousand man-hours a
year. With that effort much
grass can be grown —much stock
can be fed to not only Aus-
tralia’s advantage.
Write to —
EARTH IS GOOD
C/o “BULLETIN"
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
CATTLE-TICK
IT is pleasing to see the interest
of Bulletin readers in the
tick-problem—in my opinion the
most important problem of the
cattle-industry—even if some of
them don’t agree with me.
But I’m surprised that experi-
enced cattlemen here in Queens-
land should still maintain that
we have not had a problem with
arsenical resistance of ticks,
which has been proved scientifi-
cally by the Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Stock
and C.5.1.R.0. (working
together). I was told by one of
the scientists that these ticks
cannot be detected by the eye.
I should like to point out that
conditions for the ticks on
holdings in the Cape York
Peninsula are entirely different
from those on coastal areas
from Ingham to Rockhampton.
In the peninsula they run on an
average five to six beasts to the
square mile, whereas on proper-
ties around Rockhampton they
run one beast to about 20 acres,
so you see that the chances of
cattle picking up ticks are much
greater on these smaller areas.
On smaller properties cattle
hang around permanent water-
places, such as troughs, dams,
etc., and these areas become a
real breeding-ground for ticks.
On larger holdings cattle roam
from one waterhole to another
as these dry-up, and so don’t
pick up ticks as often as cattle
on small holdings.
For the record, this is the
life-cycle of the cattle-tick as
we know it here in Central
Queensland: From the egg
comes a six-legged larva, which
can live up to eight months
without attaching to an animal.
Seven days after attachment an
eight-legged nymph develops,
which changes to a young adult
in another seven days, making
an average life-cycle on the
beast of 21 days. A heavily-
infested beast may carry 20,000
ticks, and if not dipped could
breed 60 million larvse.
The coating of D.D.T. which
is left on cattle after dipping
is, I think, a big factor in killing
the number of seed-ticks in £
paddock. Mustering is less of
a problem, as there is a larger
period between dippings.
In coastal areas where the
humidity is high, ticks breed
much more quickly and survive
longer than in areas where,
though the temperature may be
very high, the humidity is low.
Ticks are creeping into clean
country, such as the Belyando
basin, now, simply for the
reason that since 1953 the
seasons have been good and very
favorable for breeding ticks.
The cattleman on a smaller hold-
ing—say, 20,000 acres —is in an
unfortunate position: he can’t
rotate his paddocks, as he must
breed, wean and fatten. If he
could spell some of his
paddocks, he could lighten the
tick-burden considerably.
This tick-problem is much
more serious in Queensland
than people think. I was
amazed at one of my critics
saying that cattlemen around
Rockhampton have a “dipping-
complex.” Some cattlemen,
such as Dick Wilson (Calliope),
Henry Besch (Bajool) and
Richie Pierce (Rockhampton),
will tell you that constant
dipping and the use of D.D.T.
preparations in their dips have
kept them in business since 1946.
These men have maintained a
high standard of husbandry, and
are an asset to the cattle-
industry.
J. F. DOTLE.
Legumes
“Roll ’Em”: Several speakers
at the Wheat Convention at
Horsham (Vic.) said that the
modem use of legumes had
revolutionised wheatgrowing as
superphosphate did early in the
century: a strong analogy.
Farmers and scientists pointed
out that sub.-clover and barrel-
medic were not only providing
feed for stock while the wheat-
lands were out of cultivation but
were also doing a great job in
restoring soil - fertility and
-structure, as well as raising the
much-discussed protein-content
of wheat. Several claimed that
the legumes were controlling
weeds such as skeleton-weed,
wild-turnip and wild-heliotrope.
Most people know something
about sub.-clover in improved-
pasture throughout Australia,
and its part in ley-farming,
which was developed at Ruther-
glen Research Station (Vic.),
and is now being practised
successfully in the higher-rainfall
areas.
But barrel-medic (M. tribu-
loides) is a comparative new-
comer to the wheat areas. Its
big advantage is its ability to
grow well in lower-rainfall con-
ditions than even, to prosper,
Dwalganup sub.-clover needs.
Barrel-medic also seeds well
under conditions in which sub.-
clover flowers are often killed
by the heat before they set seed.
Barrel-medic —or “clover” as
it is sometimes misnamed —was
first recorded in south-west Vic-
toria in 1907. It became estab-
lished in several places, but did
“Stop urgin'. If y're thirsty I'll git y' a drink o' water."
not attract much attention until
1938, when a South Australian
firm harvested it and distributed
it through the Mallee.
It did well there, even in the
indifferent war-time seasons, and
was sown at the Mallee Research
Station, Walpeup (Vic.), where
progressive farmers saw it, liked
it, and sowed it.
In the post-war era of good
seasons and high wheat-prices,
barrel-medic has spread right
through the Mallee from War-
racknabeal to the Murray. Some
farmers have thousands of acres
of it and, as they said at Hors-
ham, think it is the best thing
since super, came to Victoria.
Super and “barrel” do very well
together.
Not surprising, then, that
barrel-medic was a constituent
of all winning entries in the Vic.
Department of Agriculture’s first
pasture-contest for the wheatbelt
last year.
Spraying Risks?
“Warrakoo”: The recent re-
port of the death of a Queens-
land youngster following an
eight-hour session spraying pine-
apples with P.C.P. (pentachloro-
phenate) emulsion worried pine-
cockies, and my hardware-dealer
told me there’d been an upward
trend ip sales of respirators.
Locally known as “sneeze-
powder,” P.C.P. is perhaps the
greatest advance in weed-control
ever made available to growers
of pineapples. More than one
of my neighbors holds that it
would be impossible to absorb a
fatal dose—irritation would be
so intense that spraying would
cease before there was any
danger. A check on the report
showed that the lad had died
from a virus infection following
the use of the spray.
That’s different. I’ve noticed
that after a day’s spraying I’ve
had a “plumber’s cough,” but
have always shaken it off.
Now I’m wondering. The
common cold, the various forms
of ’flu, the myriad fevers desig-
nated in the North by the collec-
tive phrase “Got the wog” are
all virus infections.
It could be that lungs which
are healthy enough to shake off
the irritation caused by an occa-
sional sniff of P.C.P. during the
day’s toil can be weakened
enough to let one of the virus
infections get a hold.
My respirator cost 255., it’s
damned uncomfortable, it makes
my face sweat and the elastic
cuts my ears after a while —but
I’m wearing it.
Beat the Cricket
“Bosey”: Crickets —“singing
insects” —can do a lot of
damage to pastures at this time
of year: fortunately, the mature
insects prefer bran to pasture,
and bran can be used to carry
baits.
The Victorian Department of
Agriculture recommends a bait
comprising 4oz. of 50 per cent.
B.H.C. or lOoz. of 20 per cent.
8.H.C., mixed with 301 b. of
bran. This is enough to spread
on an acre.
Pollard-baits may be effective
against small, young crickets
which cannot eat bran. A suit-
able mixture (per acre) is 4oz.
of 50 per cent. B.H.C. or lOoz.
of 20 per cent. B.H.C. mixed
with 201 b. of pollard.
The “Dairyfarmers’ Digest”
reports that brewers’-grains
mixed with B.H.C. have given
good results. Cricket infesta-
tions often take the form of
migratory populations, in which
newcomers replace the insects
killed by the baits.- In such
cases, two dressings, each half
of the above rates, may be
more effective than a single
application.
If bran-baits are moistened
just enough to settle the dust in
them, they will go through a
drill or manure-spreader very
well.
Hormones and Wool
“Jubilee”: At the Animal
Production Society Conference
at Lincoln Agricultural College
(N.Z.) Mr. Hart, of the college
staff, demonstrated how he had
increased wool-production by 15
per cent., in one treatment, by
means of a cheap and easy-to-
get hormone.
Nothing very difficult about


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
hyceia
DISSOLVENATOR
Oiv.M you the advantages of sewerage m
Matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
Hie treated sterile sewerage to
absorbed into tbe soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years .
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
•DISTRIBUTORS:'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wick-
The Valley, Brisbane.
' ICTOKIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Build-
up „ KinB William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. p. Mc-
S? eni p'erth Ltd " 441 Murra y
TA / ?L geia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
*" d *“*"■
The "FARMERS' BOY"
does a MAN’S job
about the plaee
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
ROTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
the grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and for demonstrations:
N.S.TV.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney BIT 1 fin
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE. LTD., 90-92 WilliamSt? Melbourne'.
Q land: BUZACOTTS (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane FA 2631
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for al! stock food*, Xri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
.Os
.CM
\StO
BOW®
*DkL''@o£'Q£+
' STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Aty particulars gladly tappliad—
Writ, ta DAVIS GELATINBt ©AO. Dm Bit
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Bo> .405*. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Boi 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 7SBK. BRISBANE
• S.P.O 80. SBB. BERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
RL't
I
as
INCREASE YOUR
CARRYING CAPACITY
BY WEED CONTROL WITH
‘METHOXONE’- liquid MCPA se,ec«ve
weed killer, particularly suited for control
of weeds such as Variegated Thistle in
pastures where clovers are important.
‘AMOXONE’ —concentrated liquid amine
2, 4-D, containing wetting and water-
softening agents. Controls many pasture
weeds, such as Skeleton Weed and Saffron
Thistle.
‘CHLOROXOKE’- 2, 4-D powder which
dissolves readily in water and is recom-
mended for economical weed control.
‘ESTONE’*BO concentrated ester 2,
4-D miscible oil. Very effective for control
of hard-to-kill weeds, such as Galvanised,
Noogoora and Bathurst Burrs; Khaki,
Skeleton and Cape Tulip weeds.
★ Trade Marks of ICIANZ Ltd.
Available from your usual Supplier
A DEPENDABLE PLANT
ricr
5AG.24X.4616
PROTECTION PRODUCT
administration, either, it seems—
the average man-on-the-land
could plant the hormone, in
pellet form, under the skin with-
out much trouble.
Mr. Hart had noted the vary-
ing effects on wool-growth of
light and darkness. Sheep kept
under certain changing condi-
tions of light and darkness pro-
duced more wool than those
kept in natural light. His inves-
tigations led him to the conclu-
sion that the pituitary gland was
the governing factor, and from
this the rest followed.
In four months an implanted
pellet stimulated wool-growth
by 45 per cent. —equivalent to
15 per cent, over the year.
It will occur to many practi-
cal men that such glandular
interference may have harmfuj
side-effects. It’s always possible,
of course, but so far nothing of
the kind has been noted. In any
case, Mr. Hart’s further experi-
ments should be worth watching.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/4/'55)
The estimates of the season are conforming to the
Single cycle, and this should give general rains, above
average, throughout the whole of N.S.W. during May, with
particularly heavy falls on the coast; Sydney should have a
very wet month.
Further flooding expected along the coast and on
portion of the north-west slopes and plains, where heavy
rains are likely. However, this will depend to a large extent
on the rate of fall.
Queensland should also have more rain: heavy rains in
Southern Queensland, extending over the Darling Downs
and Maranoa.
General rains should occur in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia, although winter rains may be below normal in the
latter State.
LENNOX WALKER.
1080
“C.A.A.”: Victorian experts
warn against the careless hand-
ling of 1080 poison (now being
used in that State to clean up
the rabbit residue). Less
poisonous than strychnine or
phosphorus, 1080 is more
dangerous.
Danger springs from its solu-
bility in water and the fact that
it is odorless and tasteless.
A deep furrow is essential to
allow all uneaten baits to be
covered with soil away from
stock. There is a risk of
secondary poisoning domestic
animals eating poisoned rabbits.
For success, free feeding is
necessary thrice before poison
is applied. Prepared baits
should be transported in buckets
Or other watertight containers,
any vessel used being kept
expressly for this purpose.
Mix bait and wash utensils
on a special site, with the top
three or four inches of soil
removed from an area 6ft.
square. Refill the excavation
after unused baits have been
tipped in. The site should be
near a plentiful water-supply.
Saving Tobacco-seed
“Sundowner”: Select plants
which conform to the character-
istic type of the variety and are
free from disease. The leaf is
the most valuable part of the
plant: keep this in mind when
selecting the parent plant.
Leaves should be evenly
spaced on the stalk, of good
texture and possess plenty of
width. Give long, narrow plants
a miss. The midrib should not
be too large, and the main veins
leading off the midrib should be
even and widely spaced, with an
outward-pointing habit rather
than an upward.
After making the selection,
cover the seed-head with a
light muslin bag before the
buds open, to prevent cross-
pollination. Remove buds
which have flowered before the
remainder are bagged. Remove
the bags weekly, and dust the
seed-head with a 50-50 mixture
of pollard and lead-arsenate
powder to prevent damage from
grubs.
If seed is being saved from a
crop which is very uniform in
general type and free from
strangers, bagging of the seed-
head is not essential. But plants
selected for seed-saving should
be properly identified.
Asian Plant
“T.K.”: A U.S. report on the
guar, a plant from Pakistan
and India, indicates that it has
a wide range of agricultural and
industrial uses.
Scientists of the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture and
researchers for private com-
panies have been studying the
guar, a soil-building summer-
legume, for years. It will grow
in hot and comparatively dry
climates.
A large U.S. milling and
manufacturing company was
early in the field with a pro-
gramme of research that led to
building a processing-plant at
Kenedy, Texas, in 1952. Initial
growing in the area indicated
that the guar would not only
grow on formerly unused land
but would enrich it.
In the spring of 1952 some
100,0001 b. of seed-beans were
planted. However, the season
was so dry—in normally dry
country—that many farmers
didn’t get their seed back,
although it was apparent that
the bean was helping the soil.
The processing-plant was almost
completely idle.
But, since other crops had
also suffered from the 1952
drought, farmers repeated guar-
plantings in 1953. The weather
was almost as unfavorable that
year, but results with the bean
were not a complete failure—
-1,000,0001b. was harvested.
The company (General Mills)
then imported more of the beans
from Pakistan. The 1954 plant-
ing was delayed until rain
could moisten the dry seed-
beds. The results, considering
the unfavorable weather, were
so good that both General
Mills and the farmers felt that
the guar-bean’s future as a
domestic crop was assured.
Cattle like the guar, although
the bean often has to be mixed
with other feed until they get
used to it. Weight-gains in
cattle and other livestock have
been good.
In human food, guar is
useful to prevent the separation
of water from other ingredients
in frozen dessert-mixes, cheese-
spreads and such.
Crosscuts
“C.A.A.”: A shipment of
lambs to the U.K. from Kyby-
bolite Research Centre (south-
east South Australia) have been
reported as the finest seen from
any part of Australia since the
season began. The lambs, by
Southdown rams from Border
Leicester ewes, were so near per-
fect they could not be faulted.
Most of the carcasses were in
the desirable weight-range of
291 b. to 361 b.
• * S*
Estimated wool - production
for Queensland, 12 months
ended June 30, 1954
174,414,0001 b. This is 6.9 per
cent, higher than for previous
year, but lower than the five
flush seasons 1939 to 1943
(around 200 million lb. each).
Average prices haven’t varied
greatly over the last three
seasons at the Brisbane wool-
sales: 84.01 d., 88.85 d. and
86.51 d. per lb. respectively.
These followed the boom-
average of 141.74 d. in 1950-51.
Over half the Queensland
clip came from South Queens-
land, nearly a third from Central
Queensland, and nearly a tenth
from North Queensland.
• • •
Ewen Waterman, Australian
member of the International
Wool Secretariat, thinks that
U.S. will buy more wool this
year; small imports in 1954
have left the mill-stocks low.
He’s in New York attending a
wool-meeting.
* • • •
Australian Wool Bureau
reports that it is “within the
bounds of possibility” to
increase Australia’s sheep-
numbers from the present figure
of 127 million to 200 million “in
the foreseeable future.”
*9 * *
Glen Innes (New England,
N.S.W.) wants abattoirs. A local
body, the “Glen Innes Abattoirs
Promotion Committee,” was set
up early this year, and has made
representations to the Minister
for Agriculture.
* * *
Tomorrow (Thursday) a
public meeting at Dubbo
(N.S.W.) will “give vent to the
now-widespread demand that
the State Government should
immediately resume work on
Burrendong dam, on the Mac-
quarie” (“Western Stock and
Station Journal” report). The
meeting has the backing of
the Farmers and Settlers’
Association.
T. J. McDougall, F.S.A.
general-secretary, on Burren-
dong, and its potentialities for
flood-mitigation as well as
water - conservation: “The
original design of the dam pro-
vided for water-conservation
only, but early in 1952 the
plans were amended to increase
the eventual capacity to 964,000
acre-feet. This was sufficient
to allow 314,000 acre-feet for
flood-mitigation.”
* * * ’
Same: The reason why the
Government suspended work in
November, 1952 was stated to
be ‘no funds available.’ This
was after £2\ million had been
spent on the project However
what about the city railway and
other metropolitan works?
Funds were available to continue
them.”


living photograph in color and
movement, with swaying leaves
and speeding cars, and lovers
strolling hand-in-hand.
Some of the visitors, for a
silver coin, stand with their hair
wind-blown, and look at the
views through powerful glasses,
the suburban streets and the city
squares clustering towards the
haze of factory stacks, and the
far green miles beyond, the
sweep of the hills to the plain,
and the sparkling seas.
I saw the backyards with
blossoms already springing, and
the billowing lines of weekend
washing, and even in the streets
of the city people moving about,
as people move on their day of
rest, a few with tennis-racquets
and cameras, but most in an
aimless manner.
How many of them, I
wondered, these ant-sized beings,
were, aware of the romance of the
city about them! “Tandar-
yungah” (“the place of the red
kangaroos”), Adelaide, the city
founded by a company, was
named by white men after the
consort of King William IV, who
died in 1849, a meticulous
woman who even left directions
for her funeral:
I die in all humility... .1 request
not to be dissected nor embalmed,
and desire to give as little trouble
as possible. I shall die at peace
with the world.
The city named in her honor,
a city of churches and beautiful
public-buildings, has likewise
been laid-out according to a
most meticulous design, and lies
at peace with the world.
[the end]
court of inquiry concerning
Major" Coleman’s favorite arm-
chair. How and why did it dis-
appear from his tent? And who
did it?
Meanwhile Captain Carpy is
“An' after all the trouble I Went to making that necklace she didn't even
get a mention.”
issuing very confusing orders,
and in turn he blames our
incapability of carrying out any
type of navigation.
Then the mast collapses.
“I give up!” Bluey Corrigan
says, completely losing heart.
“Let’s turn back...”
“How?” comes the inquiry
from the least expected source.
Private Carpenter decides to
resign his command of Whackho,
Some Fish.
“Meet the great Sea-wolf!” I
taunt ex-captain Carpy, who
simply turns his back and faces
the endless sea, and the hopeless
task of returning.
“T OOK, look!” he suddenly
■*-' cries out. “There!”
A few craft are floating in the
distance. Small craft, they must
be, so-called DUWCKS, known
to the public as landing-barges.
Perhaps sub.-chasers?
“Ahoy, Mr. Christian, the
Allied Fleet’s in sight!” Carpy
resumes command.
As we approach the barges,
the familiar sound of explosions,
and that slight vibration under
sea, which shakes Whackho,
Some Fish is the moment’s
sensation.
“The war’s over; there can’t
be any enemy action,” Johnnie
Tunder shakily declares.
“You ought to know the Nips
better than that!” I remark, but
this by no means raises the
decreasing morale. Whackho,
Some Fish is not a craft which
could play a prominent part in
any type of warfare, no matter
how insignificant.
“We’d better lie low and wait
for results,” Captain Carpenter
gives the order. And this suits
us admirably.
The sound of explosions
becomes louder as our smack
drifts towards the DUWCKs,
and there’s a sigh of relief which
almost blows Whackho, Some
Fish out of the water.
DUWCKs are floating around
us, and the activity is not warfare,
but fishing—real fishing on a
grand scale. We all feel out of
place, seeing these Water Trans-
port blokes tackling the problem.
These expert fishers, unlike
George, ‘ are tossing hand-
grenades in the water, and after
the explosion natives wearing
welding glasses are jumping over-
board to retrieve the fish.
“Ahoy S ” Captain Carpenter
calls ,to the nearest.
“What’s cookin’?”
“We thought we’d try fishin’,”
remarks Bluey Corrigan.
“Well, there’s plenty here.
You may have some of our
catch.”
After this friendly offer we
relate our troubles, mentioning
the problem of returning to
camp.
“Don’t let that worry you,”
says the skipper. “We’ll tow you
in.”
A rope is fastened to our
smack, and with a steady speed
we are towed islandwards. The
blokes aboard the craft promised
us some fish, so after all the day
will be saved.
Suddenly George cries out:
“We’re sinking! ”
And before we are able to say
anything, Whackho, Some Fish
is so deep in water that the crew
has to be rescued.
Soaking wet, a grim-looking
mob —that’s what we are.
“It’ll be much better to
volunteer for Japan than stand
all the wisecracks we’re gonner
get,” proposes Johnnie Tunder,
dreading the moment when we
must give a true account of our
experiences.
In great despair we try to find
a solution, but naught occurs
which might save the situation.
THE boys are all waiting on the
beach when the DUWCK
drops us and leaves after a
cheerful farewell. There we
stand, facing the mob.
“Where’s Whackho, Some
Fish, where is she?” asks Slim
Douglas the carpenter, who put
his heart into the job. “Where
is she?” he demands. And there’s
that same question on every-
body’s face.
“You’ve no idea,” Captain
Carpy begins, after a few
minutes’ ominous silence.
“Whackho, Some Fish was lost in
enemy action. We struck some
Japs trying to escape in boats,
and those transport blokes
saved us. But .. . well,
Doug, I’m sorry we lost
Whackho. The old girl went
down fighting, in a grand way.”
The boys are puzzled, and
opinion is extremely divided as
to whether Carpy spoke the truth
or just put another of his tales
over.
“We’ll soon find out!” Slim
vows.
Next morning Captain
Barnaby takes the parade.
“After I dismiss this parade,
members of that fishing expedi-
tion stand fast.”
There’s great excitement
among the rank-and-file, some of
them clearly thinking that indeed
we fought the Nips, and there
will be some citation, or, perhaps,
a medal.
Slim looks very apologetic,
but of course we are not feeling
too well, knowing the inside
story, and expecting nothing
good to come of Carpy’s neck :
saving tale.
“Well,” Captain Barnaby
begins. “I must congratulate
you chaps on the wonderful job
you did capturing those Jap with
no weapons at your disposal.
As a reward a greater and more
serious task is laid before you.
We are sending a detachment to
the mainland, to bring back
several Japs from Dyak country.
A jungle job, not without peril.
I’m taking volunteers only. No
doubt all of you are willing?”
“TTrELL, wouldn’t it!" I say,
bitter and angry, while
sweating on that jungle trail in
Dyak territory. “Why can’t we
keep our blooming eyes open,
and think before acting!”
“And why can’t I keep my big
mouth shut?” Carpy abuses
himself, and this time I reaUy
think he means it
FEMININE LOGIC
Agapanthus had just
dunked the chops in the
deep-fryer when the phone rang.
“Now just listen to that! ’
she exclaimed indignantly. “Why
must people wait till you’re just
about to sit down to your dinner
to ring? They haven’t any con-
sideration, some of them.”
I glanced at the clock. “But
you’ve often rung people at
quarter-past-seven,” I observed.
“I’ve heard you say they should
have had the washing-up done
by then if they were weren’t
muddlers.”
“Tonight’s different —I was
home late,” she defended.
“Yes,” I countered with
masculine logic, “but how can
your prospective conversa-
tionalist be expected to know
that? She—l presume it’s a
she —would assume that we’d at
least have finished eating by now,
if we weren’t muddlers. But
they’ll be hanging up if you
don’t answer it—it’s sure to be
for you.”
“It could be for you,” she
put in.
“My dear,” I said mildly,
“just as I make about ten per
cent, of the calls in this house-
hold, I take approximately the
same percentage of incoming
ones.”
Agapanthus, who invariably
subjects the envelope containing
a telegram to a minute
examination from every possible
angle in the strongest light in an
effort to solve the question of
the sender’s identity before
being driven in the end to open
it and find out, now turned her
special brand of speculation on
to who the telephonist might
be.
“Now I wonder who it could
be?” she ruminated while the
phone continued its maddening
importunities. “It could be
Doris —she sometimes rings of a
Thursday night. Oh, but I
remember—she’s going to the
doctor’s tonight. I haven’t heard
from Mavis for a week or so —
she usually waits till after dinner
to ring while her family are
doing the washing-up; I hope
you’ve noted that. Or it might
be”
The phone stopped.
“There!” exclaimed Agapan-
thus. “Now she’s hung-up.,
“That’s you, keeping me
talking. And it might have been
an important message. Someone
we know could have died. You
know Aunt Millie has a weak
heart —she could go any minute.”
“Your Aunt Millie has had a
bad heart for nearly twenty
years,” I. said philosophically,
“and I confidently expect that
she’ll enjoy it for the next
twenty.”
“Don’t be so callous!” she
said. “I think”
The phone began ringing
again. This time Agapanthus
was into the hall and had
pounced on the receiver with a
speed that would have made a
mongoose lunging after a cobra
appear lethargic.
“Hullo oh, it’s you, Bar-
bara! How are you? Were
you trying to get us a minute
ago? No ... must be something
wrong with the line. It’s always
going funny. We’ve had people
say they’ve been trying ever so
many times to get us and they
can hear our phone ringing, but
we’ve never heard a thing. I
think they must get the lines
crossed or something. If the
truth’s known we probably are
booked with lots of calls we
never make. I know I never
make that many calls, yet our
phone-bill’s terrific. The lord of
the manor is always threatening
to have it cut off . . .
“Oh, no, Barb, we finished it
ages ago. We were just sitting
yarning. Oh, yes? . . . where
at? David Sleet’s? How much
are they going for? Only sixty-
nine-and-eleven! Did you say
three-way stretch and a built-in
bra? Oh, they must be seconds
or something at that price . . .
M’m . . • yes, they might be a
genuine buy. Anyway they’re
worth looking at. I could do
with a new pair. The ones I’m
wearing now haven’t any more
uplift in them than a sermon
preached by a bookie’s clerk . .
“Yes, I was going in to town.
I’ve a couple of lay-byes there
. . . they should come out . . .
/ said they should come out.
Can’t you hear? I said those
chops should come out or they’ll
be fried-up to nothing.”
I poked my head in the hall.
Agapanthus had one hand over
the mouth of the instrument.
“The chops!” she hissed. “I
want you to take them out.
Didn’t you hear me?”
“Now how could I tell whether
it was the chops or the lay-
byes you were referring to?” I
protested.
“Hullo, hullo—oh, are you
there, Barb? I thought we must
have been cut off or something.
Oh, yes, about those founda-
tions? Well, I suppose we’d
better get there pretty early or
they’ll all go. You know what
some of these women are like —
mention a bargain and they rush
the place as if they’re
demented”
“How long have the spuds
been on?” I whispered urgently.
“They must be about boiled dry.”
“Well, turn the gas off . . .
No, Barb that wasn’t for you. I
asked his lordship to turn off
the gas, just something for
breakfast. No, that’s all right,
Barb, I’ll have tons of time to
fix it afterwards ...
“Oh, yes . . . well, I’d start
casting-off now if I were you, so
long as you’ve allowed for a
good-sized armhole. It should
look very nice in a flecked
mustard. Oh, you’re making it
for Arthur. One that shade
would have gone well with that
green skirt of yours”
“Psst! ” I interrupted again.
“Aren’t we ever going to get
any tea tonight?”
“What’s that, Barb? Oh, no,
it’s only Sam. He wanted to
know where the spare tea was.
The caddy’s empty and I think
he’s making a cuppa. I was
just telling him it was in the
cupboard next to the self-raising
flour . . .
“All right, then Barb, I won’t
keep you any longer. I’ll see
you on the five-past-nine, second-
last carriage. Right-oh. By-
bye.”
“I’ll say we had it ages ago-
the last one seems seons ago by
my stomach’s calculations,” I
remarked dryly as Agap an thus
returned to the kitchen.
“That’s all you think about!”
she said heartlessly.
“Why on earth couldn’t you
have told the woman in the first
place that we hadn’t had dinner
yet?” I asked.
“Don’t be so silly!” said
Agapanthus. “If I’d said that
she’d naturally have thought 1
was just saying it as an excuse
for not wanting to have a long
conversation with her. That
would make any woman wild.”
Wouldn’t it?
BO.
WHERE IS MY LOVE?
Where is my love? She lies
Alone beneath the willow.
I pass with casual eyes
Each Sunday morning.
Why is she weeping there?
Because I left her.
I thought it a little thing,
Hardly worth a tear.
Because I knew she cared,
I did not bother
To turn aside and so
She cares for another.
Where is my love? They lie
Beneath the tree together.
I pass and seek her eye
Each Sunday, mourning.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from country or inter-State
invited.
BERKELOUW
THE KINGSWAY,
ROSEVILLE, NAW. JYII3I
THE WIT AND WISDOM OF
WINSTON CHURCHILL
by Geoffrey Will an s and Charles Roetter.
Here we see Churchill plunging into the unre-
hearsed fray of Question-time in the Commons,
giving no quarter and asking none. We have
a ringside seat as we watch his set-piece
battles with opponents of the calibre of
Aneurin Bevan and Emanuel Shinwell. Some
of the best examples of his wit of earlier
years are recorded, but the main emphasis
of the book is upon his last years as Prime
Minister.
10/9 (post 7d.)
WINSTON SPENCER
CHURCHILL—A Tribute
Edited by Sir James Marchant.
This tribute to Sir Winston Churchill on his
eightieth birthday is the work of some of
the greatest of his contemporaries and col-
leagues. Each has contributed his personal
impressions of one particular aspect of
Churchill, and they form a composite portrait
of the man who stands so high above every
other statesman of the twentieth century.
15/6 (post 9d.)
You’ll find all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlercagrh Street, Sydney
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Available at all booksellers
Bulls of Parral by MARGUERITE STEEN
Her magnificent new novel that surpasses even “The
Sun is My Undoing.”
Not since Scarlett O’Hara has there been a heroine
so memorable in a story so colourful. (Tver 500 pp, 18s. 9d.
COLLINS
PUBLISHERS
b ath tangle
GEORGETTE HEYER
A new intriguing and amusing Regency romance
At all booksellers - - - 12/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON* :: MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
and was entirely critical of Jewry in al
its aspects, particularly such as had
been subjected to Western influences.
At the impressionable age of 22, there-
fore, he was ripe to absorb and to be
absorbed by any new philosophy.
Although he himself will never believe
it, it must have been just chance that
this philosophy happened to be Islam,
with which he made first physical con-
tact in Jerusalem in 1922.
This impact of Islam on one who
was already an incurable idealist with
regard to the half-known has produced
a remarkable exposition of the Koranic
philosophy so free from special plead-
ing that it can be placed well to the
forefront of similar works. Moreover,
it has brought forth a book which, in
earlier times and under more primitive
conditions, would have been accepted
as directly inspired. Even its faults,
including those arising from an area of
study limited both by geography and
religion, enhance the author’s sincerity
and his unqualified assurance.
Asad’s wanderings were compassed
by the Muslim world, limited by North
Africa to the west and Afghanistan
to the east and allowed him only a
very superficial glance at Turkey. For
that reason his judgment on Turks in
particular and, in fact, on most of the
peoples outside Arabia proper and
Persia, must be discounted as in-
dividual. Anyone who has lived in
Anatolia, for example, knows that its
peasantry possess the ideal spirit of
Islam to an extent unknown among
the fanatical Wahhabit.es ; and it is
surely an historical fact that Kemal
Ataturk’s renunciation of the Caliphate
was an act of unselfishness unpara-
lelled in modern Islam.
The author’s idealisation of all
things Arabic extends even to camels
and red-light districts. Two quotations
will serve to illustrate this:—
After a few more steps I could
see it all—a great circle of crouch-
ing camels with heaps of pack-
saddles and bags here and there
... ..The animal smell was sweet
and heavy like wine.
But in the evening when I was
returning home, the quarter was
more wide-awake than any other,
humming with the tender accords
of Arabian lutes and drums and
the laughter of women. When
you walked under the shine of the
many electric lamps and colored
lanterns, at every step a soft arm
would wind itself around your
neck ; the arm might be brown
or white —but it always jingled
with silver chains and bangles
and always smelled of musk,
frankincense and warm animal
skin. You had to be very deter-
mined to keep yourself free of all
these laughing embraces and from
the calls of “ya habibi” (“O
darling”) and “saadatak” (“thy
happiness”). You had to thread
your way between shimmering
limbs that were most luscious
and fair to look upon and intoxi-
cated you with their suggestive
convolutions... .And again and
again you heard the soft, rippling
voices of pleasure—the animal
pleasure of these girls (for they
undoubtedly were enjoying them-
selves).... and their laughter
seemed to run with little cat-like
steps over the cobbled pavement,
rising, ebbing down, and then
growing up again from other
lips ...
In a slightly different category is the
analysis of Arab music, “this acoustic
phenomenon which trembled in a
restrained intoxication”; and deeper
still is the analysis of the Arab soul: —
.'. . the idea that abstract purity,
or freedom from sin, can have no
moral meaning so long as it is
based on a mere absence of urges
and desires: for is not the re-
current necessity of choosing
between right and wrong the
ipremise of all morality?
How all this fits in with the habit
of the modern Arab of passing on to
the Deity—by the unceasing use of
“Insha Allah” (“If God wills”)—not
merely the credit for all benefits but
also the entire responsibility for all
misfortunes and personal short-
comings and sins, is difficult to
appreciate.
At times, surprisingly, the author
can be critical; as when describing
Wahhabism. And his gentle criticism
of Ibn Saud might easily have denied
Arabia to him had that monarch
lived.
As the author’s experience of the
Arab world mellows, it is more and
more obvious that his early idealism
is becoming undermined to some
extent: —
I had no illusions as to the
present state of affairs in the
Muslim world. The four years I
had spent in those countries had
shown me that while Islam is still
alive, perceptible in the world-view
of its adherents and in their silent
admission of its ethical premises,
they themselves were like people
paralysed, unable to translate their
beliefs into fruitful action. But
what concerned me more than the
failure of present-day Muslims to
implement the scheme of Islam
were the potentialities of that
scheme itself.
Throughout, an overwhelming bias
towards everything Arabic and a
tremendous phobia towards all matters
British or Zionist pervade the book,
but, in spite of that, the reading of it
is mostly sheer joy and the volume
deserves an easily accessible place on
the library-shelves of anyone interested
in the pre-1930 character of that part
of the Islamic world which has . now
been engulfed, and destroyed, by the
easy wealth of prolific oil-production.
L. O.
Reviewed Briefly
The Running of the Bulls:
Homer Casteel (Faber). In the “art-
book” class as far as production is
concerned, this is virtually a complete
introduction to the sport, art, ritual or
whatever-it-is of bullfighting. Both his-
torically and in reference to present-
day procedures it is fascinating. The
author describes the origin and breed-
ing of fighting-bull stock, the evolution
of costumes and rituals, and the whole
business of training animals and men
(and audiences). The main manoeuvres
in the ring are shown by diagrams,
and those whose interest in the subject
is purely literary will find a new
understanding of certain parts of
Hemingway, Roy Campbell and some
of the Spanish-American novelists
from this work. The present reader
turned from it to some of Goya’s
illustrations with renewed interest.
* * * *
Brother Devil: Edward Holstius
(Heinemann). The first-person narra-
tor of this novel is a famous novelist
who went to school with a man who
was even at an early age an unmiti-
gated cad, and who did not improve
throughout his life, although he seemed
to have fooled a number of good
judges into thinking him a perfect
gent. Then the novelist meets the
cad’s lovely wife during a trans-
Atlantic crossing. Cad has been badly
injured in the war and lives on only
to annoy. Novelist and wife have a
frightfully discreet affair and hang on
to their virtue and loyalties longer than
one would have believed possible. The
setting is mainly Hollywood, where the
novelist is supervising the scripting of
one of his books for a film. The final
“tragedy” occurs in London. The book
is redeemed from being as silly as it
sounds by good, solid writing and
well-thought-out construction.
* # * *
Rose’s Last Summer: Margaret
Millar (Museum Press). An ageing,
alcoholic, impoverished ex-film-star
leaves her boardinghouse to take up a
mysterious job, and is found dead in
the garden of a suburban home. The
home-owners, inheritors of a doll-
factory, seem to have nothing to do
with the case; then the first of the film-
star’s five husbands turns up to demand
news of their 30-year-old daughter,
who has disappeared; and gradually it
appears that she has been housekeeper
in the doll-founders’ domicile. The
people are better-characterised than is
usual, but the story-telling lacks
verve; and the plot, although ingenious,
depends on a doubtful identification.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 326
Across
I—Secretly1—Secretly arrested for improve-
ments to a car’s running. (8)
s—l would follow a way up, silly.
(6)
9—Europa orphaned a mid-
Victorian city. (5)
10— Auxiliary verbs conduct them-
selves satisfactorily. (6)
11— Kiss confuses the supporters of
a sportsman who likes travelling
downhill. (4)
12— Victorian town shows there is
nothing inside a crossword-
maker, (3)
14— Surpass fish about ninety. (5)
15— Den is almost hideous. (4-3)
17— Go back with the French, and
give the come-hither. (4)
18 — Governments look after these in
the direction of Victoria, for
example. (10)
20— Sexton’s state councillor is skin
conditions of sun-bathers. (10)
21— Dozes in reverse when cross. (4)
23 — Prefix which signifies the second
deer out in it. (7)
24 — A great poet makes a big hit. (5)
25 Baby drink. (3)
27 —Millinery aspiration has old-
fashioned form. (4)
29 —Plant crescent to take part in a
play by you and me. (6)
30 — To happen once more about a
disreputable dog. (5)
31 — No Royal Marines are set
against an invader from the
Continent. (6)
32 — Time user also uses this ex-
professor who makes Madame
Gide and Queen Elizabeth
accompany it to Columbia. (8)
Down
1— -Space upset an invader of Spain.
(4)
2 Science of morals. (6)
3 Nick’s skin might be expected to
display this irritating habit of
nervous fingers. (6, 6)
4 Girl to prosecute the Eugene
who wrote “The Mysteries of
Paris.” (3)
5 He leaves shoes as a call for
help. (3)
6 Make a note of this cheat. (4, 4)
7 Newspaper matter on Shak-
spearian shots. (6, 7)
8— Taking the place of pint-guides
in another form. (10)
10—Shoe drone with a Briton or
Breton backing anyone in a
hurry. (6-7)
13—Winged stimulant. (4-2-3-3)
16 —Warn Rhodes (anagram). (5-5)
19 —An additional number, a big
hit,, and another addition to the
cricket team’s score. (3, 5)
22 —Term is knocked about by a
knocker-about. (6)
26 —If American waiters don’t get
these, they are likely to do the
reverse. (4)
28— Broods about her. (3)
29 — Stage personality might take it
as a hint. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 325


*
I
M
BATTERIES
si
1?.....,-.':;*
■il&S
ftStr
' - >i ii
Mtfctv
Sv-Jr-t
i-‘ •": ; : &! ‘stf. '‘**-*3
s
.'''.■:••
WsS:
y*:i
mm^rn
£
: ; :i -:
r**-> .--Trt.iiif t v' r v*.*;lt4 r r. ?^
...-• a:-’--.
• ’
jri* t
-
!«5l
!i-«w
.
Mi
'M
SR3
SB
;:■:•••!'
K
S i
. . i lS&lS.
/iiiiiiis®
m' '' 1 ’ !' i & , ~
F ;ii & -
>:
H
8
WR
3>4n#
•.••Al-ijW'd
■ fas
«
IMS
bH
:*mi
iiririSji
i
M
*■ *-.*!: ”i- -V-
-.'“tsj Kp UjZ '
.•.•-•:!■. ■ 1
ii« .m i ii
' -, 1 . I .’ft 1 V~I ' *
I ' J
<iom
i |i
1 j I 8
AS USED BY N.S.W. /
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
