

/
p
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
PRIVILEGE AND PARLIAMENT -pages?
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3934
Wednesday, July 6, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE LONDON GRIFFIN WHERE
EVEN A MONARCH MUST PAUSE
AN ancient and historic London monu-
ment is commemorated by the winged
griffin which stands at the eastern end
of the Strand and at the beginning of
Fleet Street. The site marks the western
extremity of The City; as early as the
12th century a “bar” or barrier was
established there for halting traffic while
toll was collected.
The original “bar” was a wooden struc-
ture which was destroyed in the Great
Fire of 1666. Sixteen years later it was
rebuilt in stone by Sir Christopher Wren.
This elaborate archway was adorned
with statues of James I, his queen, Anne
of Denmark; Charles I and Charles 11.
In Stuart and Georgian times the archway
was surmounted by iron spikes on which
the heads of traitors and felons were
impaled.
By 1878 traffic had become so con-
gested in the narrow Strand that it was
decided to widen the street and remove
Temple Bar, which had become a serious
obstacle. It was, accordingly, dismantled
and the materials were acquired by Sir
Henry Meux, the wealthy brewer, who
re-erected the old Temple Bar in 1888
as an entrance to Theobald’s Park, his
estate in Hertfordshire.
Although the Bar has gone from the
City, some of its functions still survive,
for it is here that the Sovereign, when
visiting the City on State occasions,
observes the ancient custom of obtaining
permission from the Lord Mayor “to
pass Temple Bar.” The civic sword is
surrendered to the monarch, who touches
it and restores it to the Lord Mayor, thus
signifying the Crown’s confidence in the
City.
The bronze griffin which now stands on
this historic site was carried out by
Charles Birch and cost £lO,OOO. The
creature has the head and forefront of
an eagle and the hindquarters of a lion ;
in classical mythology it represented the
guardian of treasure. It stands thirty feet
high, and on the pedestal are statues of
Queen Victoria and the Prince of Wales
(afterwards King Edward VII). Below
are two bronze reliefs with about one
hundred figures, showing the Queen riding
to the City in the first year of her reign
(1837) and again in 1872 when she passed
through Temple Bar to attend a thanks-
giving service in St. Paul’s Cathedral.
No. 253: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT'S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Head these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/1).”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College ]
300 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation. your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
my name
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1355) VGE.
BOOKHUNTER. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
will find the book you want—fiction,
sport, history, science, textbooks, classics or
ecclesiastics. Write BOOKHUNTER now.
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red Page.
"WALTZING MATILDA"
First, we have a band at the
Warrnambool Races in April, 1894,
playing the old Scottish tune of “Thou
Bonnie Woods o’ Craigielea,” to be
heard by Miss Christina Maepherson,
of Armadale, Melbourne. The words
of “Craigielea” are about as unlike
those of “Waltzing Matilda” as is
possible to imagine—
The broom, the brier, the birken
bush
Bloom bonnie o’er thy flowery lea ;
And a’ the sweets that ane can wish
Frae Nature’s hand are strew’d on
thee—
but Mr. May says the music will fit.
Next we have Miss Maepherson,
early in 1895, arriving at the family
property at Dagworth, Queensland: —
At Winton they doubtless met the
Rileys, who were also of Victorian
origin, and the three Macphersons
went on to Dagworth, taking Sara
Riley and A. B. Paterson with them.
A. B. Paterson had been making a
trip from station to station in the
West on a series of visits, and
happened to be in Winton staying
with the Rileys at this time.
At Dagworth Paterson hears Miss
Maepherson playing the “Craigielea'’
tune, which she had remembered from
the races, on an autoharp, whatever
that may be. Then from Robert Mae-
pherson he hears the story of a swag-
man, surprised by the troopers when
killing a sheep, drowning himself in
the Combo waterhole, which is a billa-
bong of the Diamantina on the
boundary between Dagworth and the
iieighboring station of Kynuna—the
troopers are said to have been on the
property not to harass more-or-less
innocent swagmen, but in pursuit of a
murderer who had killed his blackboy
with a stirrup-iron.
Next, Paterson hears from Jack
Carter, a jackeroo at Dagworth. the
expression “Waltzing Matilda.” which
Mr. May says was new to him. Jack
Carter was asked at dinner what he
had seen during the day while out on
the run and replied, “Oh, nothing
much; there were a couple of men
waltzing Matilda down in a billabong.”
Finally, Paterson goes with Robert
and Christina Maepherson to the
near-by property of Oondooroo, where
R. C. Ramsay was managing for Ram-
say Brothers; and there, having
watched the experiments in bushfire-
control which they came to see. he
meets Herbert Ramsay, who, later to
become a baronet, was even then a
baritone; and
Here it was, in their leisure
moments during the day and in the
evenings, the poet, the musician and
the singer shaped the song. R. C.
Ramsay and Robert Maepherson
decided they would be in the picture
and they entered into the spirit of
the song. They dressed Herbert
Ramsay up as a swaggie, complete
with Alberts, tucker-shute, billy,
Matilda, pipe and all the equipment a
genuine swaggie would have, and,
so dressed, Herbert Ramsay sang
the song for the first time at Oon-
dooroo in April, 1895, to Christina
Macpherson’s accompaniment.
The song was apparently printed for
the first time in “The Australasian
Students’ Song Book” in 1911, with
the music stated to be “arranged by
Marie Cowan”—a complication which
Mr. May discusses at some length.
At times it is necessary, unfor-
tunately, to treat Mr. May’s narrative
with caution. One has seldom seen in
any paragraph of criticism or history
so many inaccuracies as there are in
this extract from page 129: —
H. F. Archibald of The Bulletin
was a big influence, and was the
prototype of the English Henley.
The influence of Kipling was evident.
A. G. Stephens was another influ-
ence in founding new metres. A. B.
Paterson, the greatest of the
balladists. was an offshoot of these
influences, but was not a good crafts-
man. Sentiment was strong in this
school of ballad-writing with its
leaders, Paterson, Lawson, Tom
Collins, with others not so pledged
to the form —Brady, Daley, Quinn,
Souter, McRae.
“H. F.” Archibald was J. F. Archi-
bald; “prototype” is used incorrectly;
A. G. Stephens is hardly to be
described, particularly in relation to
the bush-ballad, as “an influence in
founding new metres”; Paterson was
an excellent craftsman; Tom Collins,
though he did write a few odd pieces
of ballad-like verse, was not a
“leader” of the balladists; Brady,
though chiefly remembered for his sea-
ballads, must surely be classified with
Paterson rather than with Daley,
Quinn or McCrae; and “McRae” is,
uf course, McCrae.
However, this paragraph is an excur-
sion into criticism and general literary
history, and there is no reason to doubt
that Mr. May is substantially, if a little
confusedly, accurate in the central
story of his book, how Paterson came
to write “Waltzing Matilda.” In fact
he has gone to a great deal of trouble
to get first-hand information from
people who witnessed the events at
Dagwood and elsewhere; and his book,
with its additional researches into the
“identity” of “The Man from Snowy
River” and “Clancy” and its notes on
place-names and personalities in many
of the Paterson ballads, is a most
valuable contribution to Australiana.
Sydney May’s The Story of “Waltz-
ing Matilda” (W. R. Smith and Pater-
son Pty., Ltd.. Brisbane) is the second
edition, expanded, of the book he first
published in 1944. It is an account of
how “Banjo” Paterson came to write
that most popular of all Australian
songs; quite a complicated trail to
follow.
Footnote on a Bushfire
William Gosse Hay, whose The
Escape of Sir William Heans was
lately reviewed on the Red Page, was
the son of Alexander Hay. M.L.C., and
his second wife, nee Gosse, the
daughter of Dr. William Gosse, of
Adelaide. William Christie Gosse (the
explorer, who made a gallant attempt
to travel overland to Western Aus-
tralia in 1873, charted much of the
western Mac Donnell Ranges and also
named Ayers Rock) was her brother.
Alexander Hay died at his Victor
Harbor home in 1898. In 1899 his
widow published in London “Foot-
prints a Memoir of the Late
Alexander Hay.” and in 1905 Methuen
published her “After-glow Memories.”
William Gosse Hay’s first book,
“Stifled Laughter,” was published in
1901—no-one would attempt to com-
pare the work of mother and son, but
it is obvious that there was a common
literary bond.
In 1910 W. G. Hay’s mother and
sister sailed for England on the ill-
fated Waratah, via South Africa.
This ship was lost without trace
between Durban and Cape Town, and
is still one of the unsolved mysteries of
the sea —an episode as tragic and
mysterious as the events in Hay’s great
novel.
Hay himself died, as was mentioned
in “The Bulletin” review, from his
exertions in fighting a bushfire. This
fire occurred on Friday. December 29,
1944. Smoke was observed the previ-
ous day in the Hindmarsh Valley area,
but reports late that day stated that all
danger was past. Friday 29th was a
day of terrific heat, with a north-
westerly gale of about 40 miles an hour.
By 10 a.m. calls had gone out for help
and every available man was rushed to
the scene.
By this time the fire had swept on to
Waterport. I joined a truckload of
firefighters, and was allotted to assist
the waterworks superintendent. Hun-
dreds of fighters were soon on the scene,
and with their aid, and assisted partly
by the direction of the wind, the fire
was stayed from Victor Harbor, but
quickly spread in the direction of Port
Elliot. Fire-officers and the superin-
tendent did their utmost, patrolling the
district and rendering help wherever
possible, but the whole countryside
was a raging inferno, and human aid
was of small avail.
The fire swept on and soon Port
Elliot was seriously menaced, but good
work by the fighters managed to save
the town and divert the fire to the
north and south outskirts. On it swept,
and only the sea stayed its course.
Middleton, to the north, was saved by
a more direct wind, now blowing from
that direction. Several homes in both
Waterport and Port Elliot were com-
pletely destroyed, and the camping-
ground right on the sea-front was
engulfed in chaos, and several tents
were burnt out.
The press of the day estimated the
damage between £25,000 and £30,000.
Stock, fencing, feed, haystacks, out-
houses, gardens and everything in the
path of the fire was burnt, and hun-
dreds of acres were left in blackened
ruins. The amazing thing is that so
many homes were saved.
“Nangawooka” (said to be a native
name for “the place of springs,'’ but
probably a contraction of the Narrin-
yeri word Nga-u-wande. literally “my
home place”), where Hay was then
living, is on the main road to Victor
Harbor, and a branch-road to Port
Elliot forms a corner.
The house lies about a quarter of a
mile back from the road, and is
surrounded with a park-like area of
original gumtrees, the house proper
being enclosed within an extensive
garden. It is a stately home of two-
stories, with about 14 rooms, and was
designed by Mr. H. E. Fuller, the well-
known Adelaide architect.
Hay’s collapse was brought about
by his efforts, on that terrific day, to
save his house. As members of a com-
mittee assessing damage, the Rev. D. L.
Benton and I, within a few days of the
fire, called at “Nangawooka.” We
approached the house through
blackened fields and the burnt-out
garden, the whole a scene of desola-
tion and silence, and there we learned
that Hay lay ill. He lingered on until
March 21, 1945.
“Nangawooka,” though in other
hands, still stands in its beautiful
grounds. Sheep nibble the succulent
grasses, and outwardly little is changed.
H. L. Sheard.
Elsa Maxwell
Elsa Maxwell, the gold-plated lady’s
companion, explains in I Married the
World (Heinemann) her rise from plain
daughter of a poor San Francisco
insurance-agent and theatrical critic to
“the most fabulous society hostess of
all time.”
There is no doubt about her
credentials. Not only did she put the
Duchess of Windsor away from her,
like a scarf of which she was fond but
had worn too frequently, until the
Duke persuaded her to a reunion, but
she met Roosevelt as he heard over
the telephone of his first triumph, and
Churchill when he was hiding from
the press in America. At that intimate
dinner-table Churchill told her what
he was withholding from the press, the
true story of the Hess flight to England.
On the death of her father she fled
with a decrepit stock-company and
then turned up practically destitute in
New York, where she put her talent
for playing the piano by ear at the
service of a nickelodeon 12 hours a
day. She composed songs and had
them published, was taken-up by a
singer, Dorothy Toye, whom she
joined in London via cattle-boat and
accompanied on a tour to Africa. On
her way back she took up with a
beautiful young rich girl who was also
an opera-singer. They shared a London
flat, and this put her on the way t*
indulging her true genius for meeting
and entertaining people.
During World War I, back in New
York, she seems to have become a kind
of right-hand-woman for the then-
dictator of American society, the
august Mrs. Belmont; and her organis-
ing ability came in handy for big war-
time appeals and stunts, of which the
most startling was the kidnapping of
the visiting General Joffre so that he
might be exhibited in a box at the
Metropolitan Opera, where the audi-
ence had paid up to 5000 dollars a box
to see him.
Back in post-war Paris she and the
dress-designer Molyneux ran an exclu-
sive cabaret as prestige-publicity for
his business and his “chic.” She it was.
says Miss Maxwell, who made Patou’s
fortune by persuading him to lengthen
the hem-line (she says Dior “came a
cropper at the 1953 showings by
shortening his skirts,” by the way).
She acted as a kind of social architect
on the reconstruction of the Carnival
of Venice; and did it so well that in
1926 she was engaged for a 10,000-
dollar retainer to put Monte Carlo on
the map
It is a notable characteristic of such
women that the excitement and glamor
of the occasions they construct is more
to them than any payment for their
work, and so it is easy to believe Miss
Maxwell’s remark that she has spent all
the money she has earned upon either
a new party or a charity she is organis-
ing, that she asks no better recompense
for her favors than that the receiver
shall present her with credit, at some
caravanserai to hold a party (which
may cost 40,000 dollars), and that she
never accepts fees for arranging parties.
On party-giving she is very sound,
explaining how the unfortunate,
inhibited rich ask nothing better than
to be dragged out of themselves to sit
on the floor and blow a feather off a
sheet held between them —though, of
course, her parties like “come-with-all-
y our-jewels” and “come-dressed-as-
when - you - received - the - invitation”
were more grand and voluptuous,
while others required sets that
would deck-out a Hollywood film,
redesigning of complete homes and
courtyards and murals by the most
costly of fashionable artists.
It was at her and Molyneux's
cabaret, says Miss Maxwell, that
Josephine Baker made her debut; her
parties put Edgar Bergen and Charlie
McCarthy on the way to fame. Early
convinced that sex had nothing for
her, she admits that if it had she would
find it hard to decide between Prince
Aly Khan and Cole Porter. There is
a story of her championing of Noel
Coward when he was poor and not
well known against an Italian aristo-
crat, which provides good-enough
reason for Coward’s continuing friend-
ship, but she is a little sour about
Barbara Hutton, saying that this well-
known lady and Greta Garbo and Joan
Crawford make the mistake of wanting
to dominate husbands. What wife does
not? No; the mistake here is that such
ladies have enough money to be able to
do so.
The Corruption of a Poet: Kenneth
Hopkins (James Barrie). Long, long
ago when the present reviewer hap-
pened to be down in Dorset to meet
John Cowper Powys and Sylvia
Townsend Warner there was also in
the neighborhood a lean, cadaverous
»young poet who was a protege of
Powys, a giant with a great generosity
for the young; and here is Mr. Hopkins,
after 20 years of knoCking-about
London, working for laundries and
book-shops, publishing pamphlets of
verse, having Edmund Blunden to
dinner, nearly always broke and
unsuccessful, but, in retrospect at any
rate, immensely enjoying himself, now
very much plumper in his portrait on
the dust-jacket, announcing that he is
“corrupted”—presumably because he
has got himself into Fleet-street. Well,
there are worse places; and at least he
has turned it all into an entertaining
autobiography.


t
in
topcoats
of
distinctive cut,
finish and style.
Many years of experience in fine tailoring stand behind these topcoats;
they’re English in detail, finish and in the quality of materials used.
Illustrated:
“Sporco” wool gaberdine top coats, English tailored. Single-breasted, fly-
front, raglan sleeves. Art. silk lined. Fawn, grey, navy. 34in.-44in., £ll/19/6.
English wool gaberdine top coats, double-breasted style, with. art. silk lining.
In fawn, grey and navy. Sizes, 34in. to 44in. Priced at £l2/19/6 each.
Wool gaberdine coats, tailored in England. Single-breasted style, with inset
sleeves and art. silk lining. Colours of fawn and grey. Priced at £l7/17/-.
Double-breasted wool gaberdine trench coat is English tailored. Fully art.
silk lined. In fawn and grey. Sizes 34in. to 44in. Priced at £lB/18/- each.
English single-breasted wool gaberdine top coats in raglan style, with fly front.
All-wool lining. Fawn and grey. Sizes 34in. to 44in. Priced at £22/10/- each.
RUTH tN ADVERTViINC“
m
l
A®
mm
as
\
s.
■
:
; i 1
:• .y'X
ftj
ff. .{■-.
m»m
HI EH
> ■
m
1
;
m
m
m
HI
■I
mm
mm
:S.
V, H
sill
lilll
■
■
:i;
;
■■
■■i
W :
■ I
i:
H
I :
■
■
■
H
I
lll S
■
■
Mi
H
mm
■ \
m
m
m.
V
I
m
■ H
■
m
m-mmm
f m
a
if;,.
ass
■bisks ®t
m
m
11
■
. ■
mm
.
Scotch wool scarf, made by Hunter
and Donaldson. Plain or checked. 16/6
Kynoch wool scarves by Keith of
Scotland. Tartan and plain weaves. 24/6 ea.
Morley’s tan leather gloves, fieecydined
palm, fur wrist. 8-10. 41/6 pr.
WEAR,
GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. T.O.P.S. FOR SERVICE: 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday , July 6, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3934
The National Australian Newspaper
i
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;,
‘Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
MALAYAN SELF-GOVERNMENT
WHETHER we like it or not, what goes on in
Malaya will be of increasing importance to Austra-
lia in the next few years, and as the Common-
wealth has already been accused of trying to
bolster-up colonialism by sending troops to assist
in fighting Communist terrorists, it is time to con-
sider the Constitutional changes now happening in
that part of the world.
Dr. Evatt, having through his Hobart half-
conference foisted on the Australian Labor party
a Malayan policy hardly distinguishable from that
advocated in the Communist “Tribune,” has been
addressing meetings attacking the decision to
dispatch troops and proclaiming that “Labor”
believes in self-government for Malaya. Most of
his audiences are probably quite ignorant of
the fact that the Federal Government has also
announced its adherence to the principle of
Malayan self-government and that the British
Government has already set the peninsula on the
path towards autonomy. There is still a long way
to go, but the pattern has been decided and the
main political parties in Malaya accept the genuine-
ness of British intentions, just as they accept the
necessity for military help against the Communist
terrorists who, in the name of nationalism, would
make Malaya another province of the modern
Chinese empire.
In discussing British policy in Malaya there
is no need to pretend that it is directed entirely by
an altruistic regard Tor the freedom and welfare
of the native people. Primarily the British went
into Malaya, as to most other parts of the colonial
empire, for purposes of trade. But it is muddled
thinking to suggest that because of this continuing
economic interest any form of British control or
assistance is oppressive colonialism. And to
pretend to believe that the terrorists are patriots
fighting for the freedom of their country is utter
and conscienceless deceit.
The States forming the Federation of Malaya
stretch down, the peninsula from Thailand to the
southern tip, but don’t include Singapore. They
have a predominantly raw-material economy, with
rubber and tin as the mainstays. In 1953 the
population of the Federation—nine native States
and two British settlements, Penang and Malacca—
was 5,700,000, composed of 2,800,000 Malayans,
2,160,000 Chinese, 650,000 Indians and Pakistanis,
and 90,000 others. The difficulties in devising a
plan which would give fairplay and satisfaction to
these diverse elements were considerable, particu-
larly as more than a million of the non-Malaysian
residents were bom outside the Federation.
The present Government of the Federation
consists of an Executive Council of 20, presided
over by the High Commissioner, and a Legislative
Council presided over by a Speaker and consisting
of 75 Councillors—so of them unofficial, but all
nominated. The unofficial members represent the
various economic, commercial, professional and
cultural interests. The official representatives
include the presidents of the Councils in the various
States and settlements. Eleven are members of
the Federal Government, each responsible for
certain departments. Only three of these depart-
ments —Defence, Works and Economic Affairs—
were controlled by Europeans at the end of 1954.
After the elections this month a new Legisla-
tive Council will take the place of the old wholly-
nominated one. It will be composed of 52 elected,
43 nominated and three ex-officio members. The
nominated members will include 11 State repre-
sentatives, as at present; six chosen by the Rubber
Producers’ Council; four by the Malayan Trade
Union Council; two each by the Malayan and
Chinese Chambers of Commerce, the Chamber of
Mines and the All Malaya Chinese Mining Asso-
ciation; one by the Indian Chamber of Commerce;
one to represent Malayan commercial interests;
two to represent agricultural interests; three to
represent racial minorities (Ceylonese, Eurasians
and aboriginal natives). There will also be seven
reserve nominations intended “to give a voice to
any major element which does not secure adequate
representation . either through nomination or
election.”
A majority—though only a slight majority—•
of the Council will be elected members. When a
minority group sent a delegation to London last
year seeking a greater proportion of elected
members, it pleaded that under the proposed
system no party would be able to win enough seats
to work properly as a Government, as it would be
impossible to count on support from nominated
members. Colonial-Secretary Lyttelton replied
that the victorious party, in becoming the Govern-
ment, would automatically command the support
of the three ex-officio members and that it was
reasonable to assume that it could count on the
support of a proportion of the nominated members.
That seems sound enough; the nominated mem-
bers will represent a diversity of interests, and it
is most unlikely that they will form a solid bloc.
It is not pretended that the election will give
Malaya a free Government in the sense that the
N. S. Wales Government or the Commonwealth
Government is free. But it is a distinct step in, that
direction, and it follows the way which has tradi-
tionally led other British communities to self-
government. This was the course followed in the
Australian colonies. The first N. S. Wales Legisla-
tive Council was established in 1824. It was a
nominated body consisting of six officials, plus
John Macarthur. Two other non-official members
were added shortly afterwards, and by 1829 the
numbers of official and non-official members were
equal—seven each —with Governor Darling as
president.
Proceedings of the Council were conducted
in camera until 1838; from that year onward the
press and public were admitted, and speeches were
published in the newspapers. A further step
forward was taken in 1843, when the Legislative
Council became largely an elected body. It was
enlarged to 36 members —24 elected and 12
nominated —half the nominees being official and
half non-official. This Council became involved
in controversy with the Executive, but the set-up
remained unchanged until the granting of respon-
sible government in 1856, when an elected
Assembly was added to establish a two-Chamber
Parliament.
The general pattern thus is; Arbitrary rule by
a Governor responsible to the Colonial Office; a
nominated Legislative Council, first almost entirely
composed of Government officials; a leavening of
non-official nominees; a majority of non-official
nominees; a partly-elective, partly-nominated
Council; a fully-elective Assembly, with or without
a fully-elective Council.
Throughout the British Commonwealth today
this system can be seen in all of its various stages.
Since 1947 Ceylon has achieved Dominion status;
the Central African Federation (the two Rhodesias
and Nyasaland) is not far short of it; the Gold
Coast, Jamaica and Barbados have reached a stage
of self-government similar to that of the Austra-
lian colonies/ before Federation —British Guiana
was in the same category, but its Constitution was
suspended in 1953 “to prevent Communist subver-
sion and a dangerous crisis in public order and
economic affairs.”
Singapore recently held its first election for a
Legislative Assembly with an elected majority;
many colonies have Legislative Councils with
elected majorities, and most of the remainder
have nominated Councils with non-official majori-
ties. Where elections are held, adult suffrage is
becoming general, and this represents a great
advance on the position in the Australian colonies
at a similar stage of development.
Malaya fits well into this pattern. At the
coming elections all citizens over 21, of whatever
racial community, will be eligible to vote. Candi-
dates for election must be able to speak, read and
write English or Malay, but there is no such restric-
tion on the electors. To doubt that the new
Council is the forerunner of an elected Assembly
and eventual self-government is to ignore past
history and current trends.
Hudson Fysh and the Air
THE retirement from executive management of
Qantas —he retains the chairmanship—of Sir
Wilmot Hudson Fysh marks the end of the first
and most important generation of Australian
commercial flying.
The history of Fysh is almost a history of
Australian aviation and of world flying, which is
the more remarkable since in the year of his
retirement he is only 60. He and P. J. McGuinness,
his companion in the first venture of the kind in the
Commonwealth, were both men originally
associated with the land industries, both Light
Horsemen before they joined the select band which
formed the First Squadron of the Australian Flying
Corps in the Middle East, along with Ross Smith,
Williams, Macnamara and a dozen more whose
names are now part of Australian history.
Apart from military pioneering in the air,
Australian flying really began with the journey of
Ross and Keith Smith from London in 1919, and
Qantas arose directly out of that feat. Fysh and
McGuinness laid down the Australian bases of the
quartet in the Vickers-Vimy, driving overland to
the Northern Territory in an old Ford. They
later joined with the late Sir Fergus McMaster, a
Queensland pastoralist, and Alexander Kennedy,
a north-western Queensland pioneer, with the
objective of building an air-service which could be
exploited primarily for joy-riding and taxi-riding*
until experience had been gained, whereafter it was
proposed to link the western railheads of Queens-
land, with ultimate extensions to the southern
capitals, to Daly Waters and Darwin. The begin-
ning was in 1920, when their machine made its
first two landings at Charleville on a claypan.
They carried their first aerial mail over the 266-mile
gap between Charleville and Longreach in 1922,
when they also carried Kennedy as the first paying
passenger—between Longreach and Cloncurry—
in an Armstrong-Whitworth aircraft with a 160 h.p.
engine.
Qantas even then was a world leader in that
it had the first effective commercial service,
though it needed backing to maintain an overdraft
at the bank limited to four figures.
It is still a world leader in aviation in every
sense of the word, and can claim pride of place
as the pioneering institution of long-distance
flying—a pride which is all the greater since it
achieved its priorities in a country which, at its
inception, was almost bare of heavy industries and
precision-engineering know-how, save for that
acquired in war. Today its stable of heavy-duty
machines is the greatest in the East Pacific area,
its traffic compares with that of the biggbst
concerns of greater countries, its record of safety
is unequalled anywhere on earth, and its reach is
world-wide and comprehensive both as to capacity,
regularity of timetables and ability to handle any
traffic which comes its way.
It has led in this way under Fysh’s guidance
from the beginning. There have been no real
checks. It made the first air-linkage of inland
towns, the first Australian air-linkage on a com-
mercial basis with the outside world, established
the first services across the Indian Ocean direct to
Ceylon and to Africa, tied-up New Guinea and
Japan and the Asiatic Far Eastern coasts with Aus-
tralia, and has been throughout a jump ahead of
most others in introducing new machines, new
methods and new safety techniques. It is an indica-
tion of the conservative precaution with which it
has advanced that in over 30 years the number of its
accidents which might by any stretch of imagina-
tion be called serious could be counted on half the
fingers of a hand. The effects of the steadily-
observed security techniques have been felt through-
out Australian and world aviation by reason of the
fact that so many leading pilots in the formative
period of commercial flying had their training with
Qantas or under Qantas-trained men.
Apart from the fact that Qantas has grown,
since Fysh and his associates founded it, to such
an extent that it became at the end of World War II
impossible for any authority less than a national
Government to achieve the financing and expansion
of its facilities, it has been inevitable that the com-
pany should become a semi-Governmental public
utility, since the experience of the last world war
made clear the duality of military and civilian
aviation as part of the defence system. It would
not be too much to say that when this country came
to defend itself against the sudden threat of
Japanese aggression only 20 years after the
company was founded its defence could not have
been effectively implemented save for Qantas. It
is also true that what had been established in the
years of peace before 1939 was consolidated in the
years of war, during which, in competition, it
established the safety and solidity of its methods
and business structure on a permanent basis. It
not merely established flying as a mode of trans-
port but it made flying a commonplace in Austra-
lian life; in fact, taught the average Australian to
fly as a normal mode of progression.
What effects the advent of flying as a mode of
transport has had on Australian development it
remains for history to assess. Flying has annihi-
lated distance in a manner inconceivable to the
last generation. It has brought Darwin, once a
sea-voyage of weeks and a land-journey of months,
within overnight reach. It has brought the sick of
the whole continent, including its remotest wilder-
nesses, within immediate access to the best that
medicine can make available. It has removed
the loneliness of the interior and Australian isola-
tion and brought us as close to the world’s great
capitals as were the inhabitants of Asia Minor in
1920.
Fysh' retires with the work which he pioneered
virtually completed, but far from having reached
its final development on the edge of the era of
helicopter-flying and increase of size in aircraft,
which will undoubtedly bring new revolutions.
With the increasing cost of labor, the growing
industrial dissension among the trades which serve
the waterside and shipping, and increasing
dilapidation and incompetence in the management
of State railways and congestion of road-traffic in
industrial centres, the air as an avenue of transport
becomes more important both to commerce and
defence every day.
And with every day the Commonwealth’s debt
to pioneers like Hudson Fysh becomes greater.


ftm
RAPE
DETAILS
IN
COURTJ
EVENING!
POSTj
murder!
child’s
GRISLY
FIND
I fim 1
1 F,RE \
i DEATH '
I! PICTURES
Evening \ \
| SPLEEN \ \
|\\ TEEN AGE \\
i\\ SEX \\
i\\ oRG\ES \\
■IVpESCRNBtD
EVENIRaif
1 - splt fs
1 D ' vot 2ffi
i\\ SCAIWAM
DEATH IN THE AFTERNOON


PLAIN ENGLISH
How Green Was Our
Green-belt?
“Jindivick” : Sydneysiders have just been
presented with a startling by-product of
“town-planning” not envisaged in the
original planning-room. Many people
aren’t happy about the matter, but care
should be taken that blame is cast in
the right places.
The Cumberland Plan has shown that
it can be a speculator’s dream-come-
true. Much profit can be made by the
shrewd land-buyer able to foresee the
future. Much more can be made by the
fellow with the right “connections.”
It has long been obvious that profit
was to be made by buying “green-belt”
country and holding it until it was
released for use. To do him justice, it
must be noted that during the past 12
months the chairman of the County
Council has warned, in press-statements
and by newspaper-advertising, that the
zoning proposals were subject to revi-
sion, and that persons suddenly presented
with offers to buy their “green-belt”
holdings should make inquiries about the
future of the area before accepting offers.
Sydney has been startled by huge
profits said to have been made out of
recent sales of land from which adverse
zoning restrictions have been lifted —
profits made not by the unfortunate
owners when the restrictions were applied,
but by speculators who somehow were
able to gamble correctly on the course of
future events.
The immediate danger is that the right
to buy and sell any land and make a
profit may come under fire. Individuals
should not be attacked simply because
they have done just that.
However, all property-owners whose
lands have been affected by the Cumber-
land Plan are entitled to know if privi-
leged people have been able to secure
information to which they themselves
have not had access.
Experience has shown that not all
people read the newspapers, let alone
the “Government Gazette” —so that the
mere making of statements and publishing
of advertisements of the kind put out by
the chairman of the County Council is
not enough protection.
The County Council, whose scheming
has done so much harm to so many
people, should be charged with the
responsibility—by amendment of the
Local Government Act, if necessary—
of serving notice, upon each affected
owner, of particulars of the zoning of his
land, and further notice when it is the
intention of the council to vary such
zoning.
From the point of view of the land-
owners in the Sutherland Shire who
received £lOOO or so for land that was
shortly afterwards sold for £30,000 or
more, the picture regarding their claim
for compensation for injurious affection
must now be clearer.
Provided they-have already lodged a
claim within the specified period, it
appears proper for them (or him) to
submit an amended claim seeking the in
globo value of the land as revealed by
the prices paid at the auction of the
subdivision following the lifting of the
“green-belt” restrictions. Rejection by
the council of such a claim would amount
to a monstrous injustice and would call
for the strongest action of the combined
efforts of property-owners.
Inquiry Mystery
A feature of public life in eastern Aus-
tralia is the growing indiscipline, and
particularly a disregard for the proper
administration of the law.
New South Wales has had scandal
after public scandal in the past couple of
years, but whenever one is broached the
efforts of those intent on smothering it
are usually more successful than appears
reasonable.
In Bankstown (N.S.W.) the local
council was suspended some time ago.
The town has since had one of its local
newspaper-offices bombed and burnt
down, and is the centre of some of the
most startling rumors and allegations
that have ever affected government, even
in Sydney, where corruption is implied
against somebody almost every day.
Governments appear to be reluctant to
be involved. Mr. Cahill will do nothing
despite the offer of Mr. Morgan, M.P.,
to lay his charges before Cabinet
The Federal Government shows little
more disposition to inquire than the State
Government. Mr. Menzies says that he
would consider appointing a royal com-
mission only if somebody would make
specific charges, if credible witnesses were
prepared to give first-hand evidence to
support the charges, if the people charged
were identifiable, and the allegations
related to Federal administration. He
declared, if the press-report was correct,
that he was “not going to waste five
minutes investigating vague stories that
might, for all he knew, relate to muni-
cipal or some other local affairs,” and
that he “did not have a clue on what
Mr. Morgan had said before the Parlia-
mentary Privileges Committee; that the
evidence was neither before himself nor
Parliament; that he had not asked for a
report on the evidence before the Com-
mittee of Privileges”—-“nor would I read
it if someone offered to give it to me.”
He was reported to have added: —•-
If tlie House of Representatives ordered
the evidence to be tabled, then it becomes
public property, and could be pub-
lished. .. .And then no doubt —if what one
hears in rumor is right—there wiU be a
great schemozzle over that.... pages full
of names. And somebody will get up
and ask if the Commonwealth wiU appoint
a royal commission. Well, it may turn
out that it has got no more to do with
the Commonwealth than the man-in-the-
moon.
Much of this is reasonable, though the
tone seems testy. Mr. Morgan, who is
allegedly the author of serious allega-
tions before the Privileges Committee,
agrees that the Prime Minister’s basic
offer is reasonable.
But why won’t the Government look
at the report of the Privileges Com-
mittee? Why will it not determine what
is in the accusations made on oath and
from that deduce whether the matter
requires Federal investigation? Why
must the matter wait another two months
till Parliament meets? And also why
must names necessarily be bandied
about?
Parliament has just as much power to
issue reports without mentioning names
in detail until they are mentioned before
an inquiry as it had in the case of the
Petrov Commission.
AH round, this appears to be a very
unpopular investigation with all parties.
But some of the names which have been
the subject of rumor and gossip are of
those who have been in high places. The
names of one member of the judiciary and
a person who held a position even more
exalted are bandied about Sydney. They
certainly should be given an opportunity
to clear themselves as soon as possible.
Mr. Monk Advises Asia
Neither in Australia nor in Asia is much
jpenefit likely to accrue to the cause of
industrial peace as a result of A.C.T.U.
president Albert Monk’s address to an
audience of Colombo Plan students at
Melbourne University. He told these
young people from the countries to the
north of Australia that as their lands
developed industrially they must not,
“allow the shackles to be put on the
workers’ organisations which have been
applied in this country by the Federal
Arbitration Court.” He further cau-
tioned them not to give up the right to
strike —“the only fundamental method
left of protecting workers’ condtions.”
This surely gives the Colombo Plan
students an entirely false concept of the
Federal arbitration-system, to which
until recently the Australian “Labor”
movement and the A.C.T.U. have always
given lip-service. If Mr. Monk had con-
fined his criticism to the argument that our
arbitration-system has become over-
legalised he would merely have been
repeating what many critics,' on
both sides of politics, have con-
tended for some time. That, and
his suggestions for giving more
emphasis to the conciliation element in
settling industrial disputes, would have
given his audience some useful and con-
structive ideas. But, instead, following
the line taken by many union-
leaders, he implied that the court was
biased against the unions. Remarks such
as “The court is attempting to put a
stranglehold on us by fining us,” and “The
court’s, action is designed to cripple the
effective economic power of workers’
organisations,” strike at the very founda-
tion of the arbitration-system.
When, in the early post-war years, the
decisions of the court were going in
favor of the trade-union movement, Mr.
Monk and his colleagues found little to
complain of in the arbitration-system.
They accepted the 40-hour week, the con-
tinuation of war-time loadings and the
basic-wage increase as wise judgments.
Dr. Evatt’s creation of conciliation com-
missioners, designed to “streamline” arbi-
tration, was hailed as a master-stroke.
But when some of the commissioners
gave judgments unsatisfactory to the
A.CT.U., and the court itself, feeling
concern for the economic stability of the
country, suspended quarterly adjustments
and steadied-down the granting of mar-
ginal increases, the attitude of the “Labor”
movement changed. As evidenced by
Mr. Monk, it now regards the court as
trying to “cripple” and “strangle” it.
Colombo Plan students come to Aus-
tralia to learn. Apparently the lesson
Mr. Monk seeks to instil into them is
that when you appoint judges or umpires
you should make sure that their verdicts
will always go in your favor. If this
precept is disseminated throughout the
East as the foundation principle of social
justice then the countries of Asia are in
for a great awakening.
Transport "Regulators"'
The Premiers obviously had a great old
chinwag among themselves about road-
transport while at the Loan Council
meeting, and ever since inquiring re-
porters have been trying to pin them
down to some plain statement of policy.
As far as can be gathered “nobody
ain’t saying nuffink to nobody” until the
Transport Advisory Council meets in
Brisbane on July 26. Brisbane is a very
nice place to hold a conference in July,
and as this T.A.C. comprises the Com-
monwealth and State Ministers for Trans-
port, anything “advisory” that comes out
will come from the official mind. On
past performances this mind is not so
much concerned with transport as with
protecting State railways and State
revenues.
Meantime the Australian Hauliers’
Federation, which presumably speaks
for private road-hauliers, has re-
peated its offer to pay equitable
road-taxes, “realising that Governments
must maintain roads” and must tax road-
users to pay for it. But hauliers want
an end to the foolish efforts of the States
to by-pass the Privy Council decision
which led to all this, and an end to the
absurd discriminatory taxes and restric-
tions which still apply to intra-State
road-haulage. The A.H.F. also repeats
an appeal to the Governments to accept
the hauliers’ offer to confer and co-
operate.
It seems both offers are to be ignored.
Premier Playford thinks he’s found a way
to tax inter-State vehicles, Canberra
thinks it is possible to “impose heavy
taxation” on road-transport without in-
fringing Section 92, Premier Cahill’s
advisers are “examining” something or
other, and sundry other politicians want
conferences. They’re great on con-
ferences.
The bitter humor of it all, for the tax-
payer, is that the same Governments
which talk airily about co-ordinating and
regulating private transport are losing
millions on their own transport services
(Sydney, £3i million on trams and buses,
£2 million on railways ; Melbourne, £3f
million on railways), whereas the people
they want to co-ordinate and regulate are
showing profits.
Docked!
Last year Henley Royal Regatta on the
Thames had a high old time when a bunch
of Russian oarsmen arrived and cleaned-
up everything in front of them, from the
rowing championship to the Dover-sole,
roast-beef and mild-and-bitter in the
favored pubs which dot the river about
there.
This year’s Henley was held last week,
but nearly without Russian competitors.
They’d come, ready to sweep everything
before them and prove to the world that
the Soviet sportsman is supreme. But the
London dockers were on strike, and there
was nobody to unload the racing-shells
from the Russian ship, Strelna.
A lot of people, the Russian oarsmen
included, seemed to think the British
strikers should help their comrades from
the Workers’ Paradise. The strikers had
other ideas. When, at a meeting, one of
their leaders said, “There’s a letter from
the Soviet Embassy about these rowing-
boats ; will I read it?” they roared, “No! ”
Plainly puzzled because no secret-
police rounded the strikers up and sent
them to forced-labor camps after shoot-
ing their leaders, the Soviet oarsmen main-
tained a heavy silence. Then, on the
opening-day of the regatta, their manager,
chief-coach and interpreter issued the fol-
lowing statement:
We, the Soviet oarsmen, having discussed
the situation which is the result of the fact
that the secretariat of Henley Royal
Regatta has failed in getting our boats off
the ship, have decided to withdraw from
all events and not to participate in the
Henley Royal Regatta.
Just after this it was reported that the
strikers had agreed to unload the boats.
But the Russians couldn’t be found. The
whole 22 had left Henley in a huff.
They reappeared next day, having
borrowed a boat from Oxford, and beat
a Cambridge crew in an eight-oar heat
Meantime their own boat had been
unloaded. Their manager beamed at
reporters and said, “We are delighted to
be back at your wonderful Royal Regatta
again.” The Henley “secretariat’s”
opinion, if any, wasn’t recorded.
All of which proves that in the grand
arena of sport the freedom-loving
peoples of the world know the truth of
Lenin’s dictum: “The proletariat is dia-
leclic” —or something like that.
What Ss National Service?
“Actin”: Even if our National Service
trainees were engaged in training of the
highest technical complexity and import-
ance it would surely be a great advan-
tage to themselves and the country if
they were switched in times of national
emergency to helping their unfortunate
fellows in disasters comparable with
those of war. In such circumstances
the demands for improvisations, for
individual decision and action, and at
times for self-survival are surely those
which will best equip our future defence
forces for a role which they may have
to fill at any time.
If the defence chiefs have these things
in mind they should persuade the Prime
Minister to reconsider a statement which
he made in reply to a Parliamentary ques-
tion. The questioner made a suggestion
which perhaps, on the face of it, called
for refusal. He suggested that military
personnel and equipment, including
National Service trainees, might be used
to restore the Hunter Valley centres,
devastated by floods, to their once-
prosperous state.
Mr. Menzies said that such a proposal
could be considered only if there were a
specific request from State authorities,
and reminded the House that personnel
from the three services had been used
extensively in aid and rescue-work when
the floods were at their height. “The
Commonwealth Government does not,
and I hope never will, begrudge this form
of assistance,” he said. But then the
Prime Minister added that most of the
servicemen concerned were National
Service trainees, and this must also be
the case in any future emergencies. He
added that their participation in relief-
work was so extensive as to have serious
repercussions on the fulfilment of essen-
tial training exercises. In addition, in
common with industry, the manning
position in the services was such that it
was difficult to meet the commitments
already allocated to the services by the
Government.
It would be illuminating to have a
comparison between tasks proposed in
the devastated areas and the “essential
training exercises” which the Army chiefs
have told the Prime Minister were being
neglected. The initiative and the con-
structive ingenuity which would be
required might far outweigh in value,
individually and collectively, any text-
book manoeuvring. No one wants trainees
to be put to pick-and-shovel work in
place of other workers in the restoration
of flood damage or any other form of
civilian activity. But surely they could
be given a role in national emergencies
which would be at once a vindication of
their title and an invaluable supplement
to their training.
"Government*' in Indonesia
The position in Indonesia is one of im-
portance to Australia, and the present
outlook is not reassuring. It is clear that
the Government, which is in office by
grace of the trade-unions and the Left, is
facing at last a serious challenge, from
the Army and the Moslem elements of
the country, which must culminate soon
—perhaps before the general elections.
To say that the Government governs
Indonesia is a fiction. It has a Moscow-
trained Minister for Defence in Iwa
Kusumasumantri. It has an Army whose
leaders refuse to recognise his appoint-
ment of a Chief of the General Staff. The
acting-holder of the office, supported by
seven divisional commanders, has refused
to yield up the office to a Left-wing
colonel who was promoted overnight to
the rank of general.
This position is symptomatic of condi-
tions in general in Indonesia which form
an index to the dangers of allowing the
Indonesian Government to take over
Western New Guinea.
A report on Macassar received from a
reliable observer pictures what seems to
be the normal looseness with which the
Government holds the reins. Macassar
has a population of about 200,000 people
and is the capital of the Celebes, which
holds about 2,000,000. Since the Indo-
nesians assumed power Macassar’s Euro-
pean population has fallen from 5000 to
(i Continued on next page)


500, and the Chinese control most of the
business. Government rule runs —
allegedly—in Macassar itself. Outside the
guerrillas, reported to be about 30,000,
well-armed and well-clothed and equipped
with motor transport, control the
countryside right into the suburbs of the
capital.
The city is “controlled” by two types of
police—one khaki-clad section, revolver-
armed, doing traffic and other routine
duty. The other force is the local SS,
whose troops wear jungle uniform and
steel-helmets and carry tommy-guns and
rifles. These patrol the town at strategic
points in jeeps and lorries.
The working-day begins at 7.30 a.m.,
and at night everything is closed-down
because the streets are so dangerous that
all inhabitants prefer to go home before
dark. Foreigners and seamen are warned
not to go about singly and not to wear
jewellery or wrist-watches or carry
cameras when ashore. There is a daily air-
service to Djakarta from an aerodrome
only 15 kilometres out of town, but travel
to the ’drome from town is only possible
in armed convoy which is provided by
the Army daily. In the Chinese section of
the city, where most of the business is
done, the shops are heavily shuttered.
Armed robbery is so much rife that there
are hold-ups of even the SS police and the
Army pay-vehicles, and a regular busi-
ness is done in the hiring-out of firearms
to robbers. Highway-robbery at gunpoint
is not uncommon in shopping-areas.
Seizure of crops by the guerrillas
has left the towns with the need to import
rice from outside. And the guerrillas also
do a lucrative business in kidnapping
when anybody who is likely to be able to
pay a ransom comes within their reach.
About a year ago, needing a doctor, they
kidnapped one in Macassar, and every
now and then send in a report of his
health and a suggestive requisition for
medical necessities.
Despite all this, Macassar is a very
busy port, with good loading-facilities,
fork-lifts, mobile cranes and electric
loaders and conveniences which the
wharfies of Australia will not allow to be
used. Seven or eight ships can be berthed
at once, and despite the division of gov-
ernment, copra, rattan, etc., are shipped
in bulk from outlying districts. It is
reported that labor does not, however,
“seem to be very efficient, one gang
loading 15 tons an hour compared with
31 tons an hour in the Philippines.” The
currency, while officially at an exchange-
rate of 24 rupiahs per £A, is, on the black-
market, about 70 rupiahs to the £A, and
civilised goods are dear —soap (Palmolive
or similar brand) 16s. Bd.; 12oz. tin
corned-beef, 17s. 9d. Butter and im-
ported cigarettes are practically unpro-
curable.
The fate of the country seems to depend
on whether the Moslems can establish
control at the elections in Indonesia and
whether afterwards they can suppress the
element which is willing to tie in with
Moscow at the earliest opportunity.
One of those delegations from U.N.O.
which can always afford to be so critical
of Australia’s failure to establish full
control of the hinterlands of New Guinea
should have an enjoyable visit to the out-
lying parts of Indonesia —provided it
takes along plenty of tommy-guns and
ammunition.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Sydney “green-belt” has caused
some red faces and blue language in the
Sutherland area.
0 0
Hijackers are reported to be plundering
inter-State transports on the Hume High-
way. The hauliers should be able to
cope with that trouble all right. After
all, they have been molested by Govern-
ment hijackers for years, and are still
going strong.
0 0
Playford told the Adelaide Parliament
that his State’s share of Commonwealth
tax-reimbursements (about £700,000) was
“gravely insufficient,” and would make
the State’s financial position very diffi-
cult for the next 12 months. It’ll be the
day when any Premier admits that his
State’s financial position isn’t very diffi-
cult for any 12 months.
0 o
The South Australian Premier’s chief
complaint is that the Commonwealth
Government is “grabbing for itself the
whole of the income-tax field and dis-
regarding the financial position of the
smaller States.” S.A.’s
deficit for the year just closed has wiped
out accumulated surpluses of recent
years. Like the other Premiers, Playford
has his remedy if he cares to use it—
produce a workable plan for the return
of taxing-powers to the States.
a 0
Reported that the “Doc.” wants more
people to join the “Labor” party, which
will “soon shoot ahead to the place it
should occupy in public life,” and Cahill
wants old troubles forgotten in the party.
A little naive, one might think, looking
at the doleful prospects of some Federal
and State members when the new N.S.W.
executive takes office. But as Shakspeare
(or Marlowe?) remarked, “the miserable
have no other medicine but only hope.”
0 0
Albert Monk complains of the
A.C.T.U. that “we can’t blow our noses
without the Arbitration Court fining us
for taking action.” How would Albert
know? As permanent peripatetic emis-
sary to 1.L.0. and other conferences, he’s
seldom in Australia long enough to blow
his nose. As to the A.C.T.U.’s collective
nose, there are strong doubts whether it
has one.
0 o
Seeking to write-down the apparent
swing to the L.C.P. at the Victorian
elections, “Labor” men have been quot-
ing figures published in Melbourne
“Argus” to show that it was not nearly
so great as appeared from the change in
the relative strength of the parties in
Parliament. The method adopted was
to add together the votes for the Cain
party and the Coleman-Barry party and
to argue that had there been only one
“Labor” party this would have been its
score. Unfortunately for the followers
of Evatt, this is extremely doubtful. In
those seats where the C.-B. preferences
were distributed they went over-
whelmingly to the L.C.P. men. The most
recent example was in the Bendigo
Province in the Legislative Council elec-
tion. J. D. Brosnan polled 8297 primary
votes ; of these 7219 preferences went to
the L.C.P. and 1078 to Cain “Labor.”
0 0
Having seen an American construction-
company build the big Eildon dam in
Victoria ahead of schedule and then
switch to another dam and get well ahead
with that, Victorian Premier Bolte is
dabbling with the notion of getting U.S.
construction-companies to take on road-
building. This must be nipped in the bud,
or before we know where we are we’ll
find the country full of finished jobs.
0 0
Joshua’s Anti-Communist Labor party
may get a new recruit in Senator Cole,
who has been suspended by the Tas-
manian A.L.P. executive pending the
hearing of charges against him for boy-
cotting the Hobart conference. He
would be the only party-member in the
Senate. In Victoria the position is
reversed. The Coleman-Barry party has
five members in the Legislative Council
but only one, F. R. Scully, in the
Assembly.
o o
When Mallam, M.L.A., said the N.S.W.
railways should offer private road-
hauliers a “pick-a-back” service by con-
structing flat-top rail-trucks to carry
heavy road-freighters “S. M. Herald”
called it an “eminently sensible state-
ment.” So it seems —until one works out
how long it would take a flat-top rail-
truck to travel from Sydney to Melbourne
and compares that with the time a road-
freighter would take on its own wheels.
o o
Expatriate Croweaters in Brisbane
spluttered over their breakfast-tables
when the “Courier-Mail” told them in a
headline that “Whites in S.A. must be
humble.” On closer perusal they found
that South Africa, not South Oss, was
the subject of the warning, and all was
well.
© 0
Seeking reassurances on steel-supplies
from Australia, N.Z. Minister for Indus-
tries D. J. Eyre has had talks in
UNEXPLODED BOMB
Canberra with National Development
Minister Spooner, who told him there
was a “good prospect” of N.Z. getting
as much this year as last. Mr. Eyre was
told that there was ample pig-iron, billets,
plate, water- and gas-piping, and nail-
wire, but still a scarcity of merchant-
steel, sheet of different kinds, seamless
piping and bright-steel. And there’s still
no prospect of exports of fencing-wire,
wire-netting or fence-posts ; production
doesn’t meet Australia’s own needs.
0 0
A new bridge over Iron Cove, an
arm of Sydney Harbor, is ready for use.
It took nine years to build. The old
bridge, built about 1885, when there
were no concrete-mixers, motor-trucks,
automatic riveters and other modern
devices, was completed in 18 months!
\
* ©
After a Horsham (Vic.) magistrate had
said the cure for car-stealing was a “few
strokes of the cat,” Rylah, new Chief
Secretary in Victoria, said the Govern-
ment wouldn’t be in that, but hinted at
a new law deleting the “illegal use”
clauses which make car-hoisting a minor
offence. About time, too.
0 0
“Melb’n”: Offers to accommodate
Olympic visitors are coming forward
very slowly; some householders are
scared stiff that if they were to take a
roomer and he liked the place so much
that he couldn’t bear to tear himself
away they mightn’t be able to evict him.
Having been the victim of a somewhat
similar occurrence, I don’t blame them.
The landlord-and-tenant position in
Victoria is in an even worse muddle
than it was when I had my experience.
0 •
Three weeks ago Sydney barbers were
given a rise of £1 3s. a week and the
price of haircuts went up sixpence. On
appeal the wage-increase has been
reduced to 12s. Will haircuts drop three-
pence? Well, organiser Scully of the
Hairdressers’ union thinks no. In fact,
he doesn’t think the master-hairdressers
will take any notice of the reduced award
because “they know the hairdresser is
worth considerably more than the award
grants him.” Very nice for the barbers.
If the bloke who owns the shop likes to
pay the chap who wields the clippers
something above the award-rate that’s
his business. But he has no case for
making himself a good fellow at the
expense of the public.
0 0
One of the staff of the Indonesian
Embassy told a Kyogle audience that in
light of “the surging nationalism in
Asia today” the Dutch policy of keeping
Western New Guinea under “colonial
bondage” was creating a dangerous and
explosive position. He regretted that
Australians could not agree with
Indonesia on the future of the area.
Unbiased observers have so far failed
to detect any signs of “surging national-
ism” in West New Guinea, and at the
present stage of development of the
natives a change of sovereignty would
merely mean putting them in “colonial
bondage” to the Indonesians instead of
the Dutch.
0 0
While Indonesia keeps plugging its
claims to West New Guinea, India’s dele-
gates to U.N.O. have again attacked Aus-
tralian administration of the other half
of the island. Australian delegate
Forsyth replied to the latest outburst,
which was supported by Russia, Haiti
and Salvador, with:
I know of no case where a territory of
comparable size and a population of com-
parable characteristics have been brought
within the framework of civilised society
with as little loss of ’ life, almost without
bloodshed.
He also quoted General Cariappa, Indian
High Commissioner in Australia, who,
after a visit to New Guinea last year,
spoke of “remarkable achievements” and
described the country as thriving and the
natives as happy and well-fed.
0 0
“Wusslean”: First-section travel has
cost Melbourne’s tram addicts fourpence
for some time now (B. 29 / 6/’55),
although not so long ago city-section
tickets cost, in blocks of eight, each.
I suppose we Melbourners can comfort
ourselves with the reflection that in one
respect, at least, we are keeping pace
with Sydney.
• •
It was mentioned in the course of a
Senate committee’s inquiry into A.C.T.
development that the mints in Melbourne
and Perth are eventually to be closed
down and a new mint opened in Can-
berra. Apparently not content with tak-
ing all our dough, they’re now planning
to make it, too.
Talking of mints, our new trey-bits
have restored to her Majesty the title of
Defender of the Faith taken away from
her on the last minting of two-bobs
because “there wasn’t enough room for
the inscription.”
• - •
’Twas here said some time ago that
Britain was building up a color problem
with the entry of West Indians and
Africans into England. Now a head-
master has barred a five-year-old black
boy from a Northumberland school
because other parents threatened to with-
draw their children. When a “Tyneside
African Council” at Gosforth expressed
“abhorrence” of the action, a Russian
broadcast said it discredited the sincerity
of the “British-way-of-life” claim, and
the affair was featured in the world’s
press.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
TIJE know that R.N. can stand for the
Senior Service of the Old Dart only.
When the Sovereign’s naval forces
expanded into colonial detachments the
significant “A” (Australian), or “C”
(Canadian) and so on was inserted
amongst the H.M.S. to denote origin of
recruitment, etc. But now we have our
Australian Queen. I beg to submit for
consideration that H.M.A.S. should now
be H.A.M.S. . . . Well? —“Norque.”
❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: We are pretty friendly
with the Italians building the house next
door, but my wife was taken aback when
one of them called to ask for a fiver.
But these poor fellows, however well they
may have been educated in Italy (and this
one did three years’ Latin), have to pick
up their English, and their accents, from
their Australian workmates as they go
along; and all he really wanted, it trans-
pired, was a “favor”—could his truck
come down our path?
❖ *%* ❖
“Narumee”: To Melbourne’s sub-
Antarctic winter the new trend in films
and blurb brings little cheer. I scanned
recent ads. in vain for some warmingly
“passionate,” “stupendous,” “magnifi-
cent,” or “super-colossal” epic of desert
or jungle ; the accent was all on cold
blood, chilled spines, and frozen marrow
—as if we didn’t have enough of all those
,in draught-impelling trains and ante-
-1 diluvian trams and at shelterless bus-stops.
As for the screen-play described as “A
picture with a pistol in its hand, and a
wry grin on its lips,” I can only surmise
that it is making a last stand against fear-
ful odds —whether the weather or not,
only the box-office knows.
*l* ♦> ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: After four Sydney book-
makers defeated four clergymen on the
City Bowling Club’s green they invited
the Revs, to attend the races. In view
of the odds favoring their further defeat,
wouldn’t it be ecclesiastic justice for the
reverend gentlemen to persuade the bag-
men to sit out sermons by each of them
in turn —based on appropriate texts, of
course—to get square?
❖ ❖ *
“Narumee”: Have the dailies, dewy-
eyed about the Hoad-Staley wedding, for-
gotten that the L.T.A.A. refused Mervyn
Rose permission to take his wife on tour?
And that Rose is paying his own
expenses in Europe?
* * »x«
“Maitri”: Not all hairdressers are pre-
occupied with the gee-gees. One I pat-
ronised used to beguile the clippings with
laments about his own thinning locks.
“You can’t hold down a job in this game
once you’re bald,” he complained lugubri-
ously. “All you can expect is to be taken
on as an undertaker’s assistant.” Another
was something of a philosopher. “Do
the best you can with it,” I requested as
I sank in the seat of torture and sur-
rendered to his ministrations what passed
for my hirsute adornment. The character
cast a slow, appraising glance over the
wrecks of time, then commented, “When
we’re young we can depend on our looks.
When we get on a bit, all that’s left is
personality.”
* * *
“Eureka”: A young housewife in a
row of half-a-dozen cottages on a new
estate in an outer-Sydney suburb lost
her back-door key, so she asked her next-
door neighbor if she had any keys that
might fit. It was then discovered that one
back-door key would open all the doors
in the row —one of the benefits of
standardisation.
$ »:« $
“El Arem”: Sir-Edmund Hillary made
one mistake on Everest: he took half-a-
carton of honey on the last assault.
Fellow bee-herds couldn’t miss this boost
for their product, and they’ve been on his
wheel ever since. Only recently, on his
way to South Africa, he was given a jar
of their honey by Westralian bee-farmers.
Not being the stuff to carry in a suit-
case he asked them to keep it until his
return. But bee-keepers have the per-
sistence of their flocks. When he sat
down to breakfast guess what the climbing
knight found in front of him!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kerba”: There is one bubbler (B.
8/6/’55) in Sydney that is beyond all
hygienic question, its water cooler than
"Which of you ladies parked the Cadillac in the lane ?”
any drink to be had in milk-bar or pub—
the refrigerated drinking-fountain in the
vestibule of Water and Sewerage Board’s
palatial building. One day I waited there
for a drink while a New Australian filled
a thermos-flask. “Ah,” he said, “that
people do not drink it because it costs
nothing!” Costs nothing, he says —and
me there to pay thirteen-smackers for
water-rates.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: Some Oxford University
students recently set out, black patches
over eyes, cutlasses and whatnot, to com-
memorate on the Thames what was re-
ported as “Captain Kidd’s tenth centen-
ary.” That would date the old, bold
pirate before the Norman Conquest;
whereas, in fact, he operated in the last
few years of the 17th century and was
hanged in London in 1701. As he was
born " c. 1645” there seems to be no
cause anyway for a “commemoration”
this year. Apropos of that commemora-
tive plank-walking and keelhauling, the
cruise down the Thames fizzled out, for
two reasons;—today’s Captain Kidd
hadn’t been able to hire a boat, and he
also “feared they’d be out of pocket after
the voyage.” Two reasons surely which
would never have stopped the Old
Master.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Kenosul”: Only lately a brick house
with tiled roof on the opposite side of
the road to us took 14 months to build.
In 1910 the foundation-stone was laid
at Canterbury (Sydney) of the first Com-
monwealth Bank war-service home. It
took exactly 38 days 11 hours to com-
plete ; it was a brick house and had a
tiled roof.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.A.L.”: How long is it since
“Nakhoda” (B. 15/6/’55) visited Adel-
aide? It’s about 30 years since Light’s
statue was shifted from King William-
street to a balustrade-surrounded garden
on Montefiore Hill, a mile away. The
spot is known as “Light’s Vision.” There
the bronze statue’s pointing arm indicates
the city, across the Torrens. The spot is
seldom without a group of tourists, admir-
ing the view. The idea of shifting the
statue originated with Alderman Rees, of
Adelaide City Council. He met opposi-
tion, but nobody criticises the idea now.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“The Rumpus”: Totalisators must reap
a rich harvest on lost or unclaimed
winning tickets. It’s no good going to
them with a dozen reliable witnesses and
a sworn affidavit —they won’t budge an
inch, except to admit the amount is still
outstanding in their accounts. Yet if
you’re caught cashing a ticket you’ve
picked up, you’re liable to be charged
with theft.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Tidak Makan”: I don’t think A.B.C.
announcers can ever win (B. 8/6/’55).
Speaking of the recent heavy rains on the
Nullarbor Plain the A.B.C. news-reader
pronounced quagmire as “kwoggmire” in-
stead of “kwagmire.” I admit I can’t
convince anyone that the word should be
pronounced that way unless I produce a
dictionary on the spot. I first heard the
correct pronunciation about a year ago,
listening to the news on a Sydney com-
mercial station. It was only when I went
to a dictionary to verify the announcer’s
ignorance that I found he was right.
After “medicine” and “economics” it
must be the word most often mispro-
nounced in the English tongue.
❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Cleaning-out an old shed
where his father stored disused signs
painted about 40 years ago, a young sign-
writer uncovered one advertising “21
meal-tickets for 10s. 6d.,” each ticket
entitling you to a good breakfast, dinner
or lunch, the latter being three-course,
with plenty of bread, cheese and honey
on the table. A sign from an Oxford-
street (Sydney) dentist’s lamp read:
“Painless extractions, Is.” A hairdresser’s
sign offered a haircut for 6d. and a shave
for 3d. Six postcard photographs finished
in half-an-hour for 2s. 6d.; 25 visiting-
cards bearing your name and address for
Is. Bananas, 24 for 3d.; oranges, 24 for
6d.; potatoes, 141 b. for 6d. were some
of the signs done for a greengrocer.
“Trousers pressed while-you-wait for
15.,” “Boots half-soled and heeled,
3s. 6d.,” “Suit to measure, 755., with
extra pair of trousers free” were just a
few of the old signs that went into the
file. I was beginning to sigh for those
good 014 days myself, until I picked up
another sign reading: “Men wanted —•
good, strong workers —10s. a day.”
❖ ❖ *
“Ceg”: Bung has just moved into his
new pub, where the Sunday trade was so
good, it being generally understood that
the premises were just a shade over 20
miles from the big city. That distance, of
course, is the limit imposed by the Vic-
torian Licensing Act for bona-fide travel-
lers, and we all know how exhausting a
20-mile drive in a modem car can be.
It was at this stage that the Country Roads
Board decided that the mile-posts
removed during the war should be
repainted and put back in place. Before
doing so they remeasured the distances,
with the awful result that the pub now has
right outside its front door a large white
post with “19” emblazoned on it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: Marching girls (B. 15/6/’55)
are busy forming teams in Victoria, too.
During the Ballarat Begonia Festival, an
item of particular interest was the appear-
ance of the Geelong R.S.L. Marching
Girls at a Highland Day gathering. The
Victorian Southern Command’s band
accompanied the girls’ display, which was
so faultless as to receive tremendous
applause. The girls’ tunics of green and
white and the scarlet tunics of the band
made an unforgettable sight. A move
is afoot to form similar girls’ marching-
teams in Ballarat and other Victorian
centres.
• 8 •• 5 i
“K.A.”: Nothing new in marching-
displays by women. In ’42 I was among
those brought back from Darwin to do
the six-weeks’-wonder course which kept
the R.A.A.F. top-heavy in ground-corn,
rank and top-brass in chairborne units.
With us were 40 WAAAFicers-to-be, and
under a leather-lunged drill-sergeantess
they certainly toted their tootsies. But
did their terpsichorean skill in right-
turning-left-turning-about-turning impress
us battle-scared warriors? It did not.
We preferred our ballet on the other side
of the footlights and regimentally or com-
pletely undressed. The more cynical even
voiced the opinion that they would have
been better employed cleaning aircraft
than glamorising war.
COLD COMFORT
At the polocrosse ball at Glen Innes,
An affair that is gilt and embossed,
The women in all their new pinnies
Were feeling it might be a frost;
Though glances grow bolder and bolder,
And there’s kerosene-stoves in the hall,
A girl can’t mistake a cold-shoulder
During the ball.
There’s warmth in the thought that a lover
dotes,
And more, that your ball-gown looks
nice,
But sweet little Alice-blue overcoats
Are better than being on ice ;
I won’t say the women were frigid,
There’s no need to think that at all —
Who wants to be carried out rigid
After the ball ?
Well, the women, rugged-up like race-
horses,
Defied etiquette’s autocrats;
Their escorts took similar courses
And danced in their scarves and their
hats;
A visitor murmured, “What’s cooking ?
Those hats on the men l I’m appalled.’’
Another said, “Fashion is looking
After the bald.’’
Could scandal be more reprehensible ?
Could even nude-parties be worse ?
Are women becoming more sensible ?
Will orgies be held in reverse ?
Well, those who think dances debasing
Will agree with those still in their thrall
That it’s warmer on polo-fields, chasing
After the ball.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AT the Empire Day celebrations the
headmaster was putting the Tas-
manian country-school through its paces
for the admiration of parents and friends:
Australian Federation, social-welfare . . .
“Tell me some of the things the Govern-
ment does for us ...” A point he wanted
them to bring out, old-age pensions, failed
to turn up, so he began to fish for it,
pointing to a group of hefty girls lolling
about the back: “You look as though
you’ll be needing it before long.” The
frowns of concentration cleared in the
boys’ section ; hands went up; fingers
snapped, and two boys called together:
“Child-endowment! ” —“O’Johnno.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“L.R.M.”: “Sundry Shows” (B.
8/6/’55) calls “II Trovatore” “a clotted
mass of unintelligible absurdities and
frantic nonsense.” This explains my
friend Michele’s mistake when, coming
from the flicks, he said, “Many times I
"Any volunteers to take a letter?"
see this opera in Italy on the stage, but
never do I understand it so good as now.”
He thought he’d seen “II Trovatore” ;
the posters said it had been “Faust.”
“Doric”: Now that “super”-petrol is
on the market, we don’t hear so much
about “additives.” However, the end is
not yet in sight. An English paper is
now advertising “platinum-processed
petrol,” which, I assume, will eventually
rain upon these shores. The ad. states that
it is produced by the liquid being passed
through a catalyst impregnated with pure
platinum”—whatever that may mean.
* * ❖
“Tidak Makan”: “Villefair” (B.
15/6/’55) omitted from his account ot
the first railway-journey from Sydney to
Parramatta an important precedent estab-
lished by the N.S.W.G.R. The official
train, scheduled to start at 11 a.m. on the
great day, left 20 minutes late. This
precedent is invoked at least once a week
on the same line today. On the opening-
day—September 26, 1855 —the official
train was not the first train to make the
journey—one had covered the route two
hours earlier. “Villefair” states that the
first engine still has the maker’s name-
plate, “George Stephenson and Co.” The
first four engines came from Robert
Stephenson and Company, of Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
“Archaen”: The names of many New
Australians (B. 8/6/’55) are a link with
the aftermath of the Thirty Years’ War,
1618-48. The Peace of Westphalia
found towns and villages in Central
Europe with hosts of orphans on their
hands. Many of them, only a few years
old, had been found hiding under hedges
or in forests, living like wild animals.
The local elders gave them names taken
at random from parish-registers. When
these gave out, the Bumbles, with heavy
Teutonic humor, made up surnames, some
relating to the state of the poor mites
when found —Skinnyribs, Brokenfoot,
etc. —others, such as Sausage and Biscuit,
originating from something the child hap-
pened to be eating when brought before
the council. If a New Australian name
means Dirtyhead or Brokentooth in Eng-
lish, it is probably because more than
300 years ago he or she had an ancestor
on the male side who was orphaned dur-
ing some of the most savage orgies of
murder, loot and rape the world has ever
seen.
* ❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: “Please reply in the English
language” (“Doric,” B. 15/6/’55) must
have been in the mind of a New Aus-
tralian arguing with a countryman in
Melbourne. After a violent set-to in
their own lingo, and seemingly at a loss
for something conclusive to clinch the
argument, one of them suddenly broke
out in English with “Ah, pull your head
in!” He won.
* ❖ ❖
“Ranji”: The Victorian Housing Com-
mission’s plant at Holmesglen (Vic.)
is claimed to be the only one
of its type in the world. The quarter-
mile-long factory turns out five prefab,
concrete homes per day. The completed
walls are carted on huge trailers and
assembled at the site. Thus thousands of
people are provided with homes. Recently
the V.H.C. felt the need for additional
office-space. Plans were drawn-up and
the building begun—by a private con-
tractor !
* ❖
“Pook’s Hill”: A bandaged and bat-
tered-looking. individual in a wheel-chair
was being propelled at breakneck speed
through Adelaide’s evening picture-crowds
by several impetuous young men in white
surgical caps and gowns. People scattered
to right and left, quite unsuspecting, until
they saw a particularly ugly “nurse”
bringing up the rear with a bed-pan.
Explanation —medical students were
putting on a stunt to advertise the current
"He insists that I'm hiding something from him.”
screening of “Doctor in the House” at
the newly-opened Sturt Theatre. Sir
Launcelot Spratt himself —“old Blood-
and-Thunder” —was to be seen strutting
along Rundle-street. The inevitable
operation followed, performed in front
of the theatre. Everyone appeared to
enjoy the exhibition, particularly the
students, who Were made guests of the
management and given free seats in any
part of the house.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Howie Wing”: Can’t see anything
new or startling in this Mohawk haircut —
I’ve had one for years. Except that, for
the sake of originality, I’ve reversed it,
having the hairy portion where the young-
sters have the hairless, and vice-versa.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Burna”: Everything sodden on May
28 after 36 hours of rain, then light winds
and clear skies, and the over-saturated
air cooled and condensed out the surplus
to give Sydney a good taste of smog.
Billions of hygroscopic particles, many
supplied by the exhaust of motor-
vehicles, formed the nuclei for visible
water-vapor. But on Parramatta-road
the air was kept in motion by vehicles and
was quite good compared with the opaque
film of the side-streets. Rather interest-
ing, for one idea for aerodrome fog-
dispersion is the installation of huge
electric-fans. One day air-pollution
students may consider another idea —that
all motor-exhausts be directed up instead
of down. The discharged microscopic
solid-matter might be less irritating to
humans, and the heat given out could
possibly assist in forming a low-tempera-
ture inversion, under which fogs do not
usually form.
❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: The visitors camping at the
Australian-American memorial in the
A.C.T. (“Hewi,” B. 15/6/’55) reminded
me of the surprise of the Melbournite
showing a friend over the Shrine here to
come across a workman heating a bar
of metal in the Eternal Flame.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: New Zealand high-school
boys are becoming taller and are said
to be better-built than boys of former
years. A check at Hutt Valley High
School shows that one lad in every 18,
among 600 boys at the school, is 6ft. or
more in height. Tallest is a 16-year-old,
6ft. 3in. high. A check at Scots’ College
(Wellington) finds an almost equal lot
of tall boys.
❖
“Villefair”: Apparently the average
young blood would no more think of
riding a motorbike without a nameplate
than of trying to ride it silently. Gener-
ally the nomenclature honors either the
current girl-friend or the machine itself:
“Joan,” “Betty,” “Whizzer,” “Black
Beauty.” One nameplate I saw recently
was bigger than most; it had to be to
fit the legend in—four words of it, in
Italian. But for the most-lacking in fore-
thought I nominate the monicker flaunted
by a super-souped thing of ehrome and
dazzle: “The Wild One.” Such a name
could only have been derived from the
film so-named, the principal character in
which was a lout who led a mob of lar-
rikins on motorbikes. Seems to me that,
should an accident occur, even a blameless
rider of the machine bearing that mon-
icker would have an uphill struggle with
the Beak.
“Jock”: The heart of the Empire is
sound, but some of its inhabitants aren’t
as knowledgeable as they might be. Have
just finished reading a London-published
novel, This Man Is Mine, by English
authoress Faith Baldwin. Four times in
two pages is Sydney referred to as
“Sidney.”
❖ ❖ ♦
“C.T.”: Let me sound a note of warn-
ing lest any young Australian, New or
otherwise, be stimulated into carolling,
be it never so harmoniously, singly or in
groups, whilst strolling through the
streets of an evening. A party of young
Europeans in the (apparently) very pro-
vincial N. S. Wales city I inhabit, think-
ing no doubt to shorten the miles and
soften the pavements on the way home
one evening, struck up a song as natur-
ally and spontaneously as they’d been
accustomed to do at home. In short order
a carload of highly-suspicious cops
pickedhip the party, who found it diffi-
cult indeed to convince the Law that they
weren’t full of hops, and were simply
singing because they felt happy. If they
had been full, and at home, they could
have roared to their hearts’ content and
kept the whole street awake till dawn
without the Peelers interfering, but rais-
ing their voices, cold-sober and in a
deserted street lined by close-shut ware-
houses, brought instant intervention.
♦>
“Keima”: “The situation is normalis-
ing,” said the Argentinian General
Lucero after the recent disturbances.
Thus is another ugly “bureaucratic” word
created. It will be no time now before
“normalise” becomes standard bureau-
cratese in most parts of the world. It
is already standard in one quarter ; in
press-reports the Russians have long been
demanding “normalisation” of relations
with the West—alas, that their Norm and
our Norm don’t speak the same language!
* ❖ ❖
“Bo”: The medical profession is fond
of blaming the pace of modern life for
the high incidence of blood-pressure. But
is this so? My own theory is that that
condition can be induced far more
quickly in the paterfamilias relaxing in
the bosom of his family than in the
executive who has a forest of phones on
his desk. The real causers of it are the
manufacturers who pack their commodi-
ties, especially food. For instance, the
Norwegian sardines invariably come in a
tin made of a steel which is as resistant
as possible to the key that goes with it,
the key being cunningly designed so that
before it is half opened your right
forefinger and thumb are crippled.
Another thing guaranteed to step-up the
b.-p. to around the 200-mark is the plastic
covering put around some foodstuffs,
which is defiant of the strongest muscles
and which often takes several minutes
with a magnifying-glass to detect its weak
spot —i.e., where it is joined. But it is
the idiot of a manufacturer whose pro-
duct is bottled, and who selects a speci-
ally soft cork which he hammers down
as far as it can go, who is the real
friend of the sons of dEsculapius. Trying
to get that out with a corkscrew is civili-
sation’s most effective stroke-inducer.
“THE LORD HELPS THOSE”—
“A spokesman for a Sydney store said
women were showing greatly increased interest
in seeking knowledge of the means of doing
odd-jobs around the house. His organisation
would foster this by providing wider facilities
for wives to master self-help.”
Stuffed shirts there’ll be who will resent
This further instance of intrusion
Into man’s sphere by dames who’re bent
On doing his work. But their inclusion
I must approve, being broad of mind.
Progress’s wheels I’d not be spragging.
Man’s noblest duty is to find
More work to do for womenkind
Who have an energy unflagging.
My wife undoubtedly would take
A dim view if I were to pitch in
With flour and eggs and bake a cake —
No man is welcome in a kitchen.
Yet should my work-bench she invade,
To be a sort of Vulcan-Venus,
I’d meet her with no wild tirade.
My tolerance never is mislaid —
That’s just the difference between us.
Though to my self-esteem a blow,
I’d let her try her hand at cupboards;
And, so she’d have an open go,
(How fatal to advise !) make pub’ards.
The martyr’s role I’d thus embrace —
It’s part and parcel of my make-up.
I’d even suffer loss of face
While she is wielding bit and brace —
Till to. my ease she was a wake-up.
A Self-Help Week for Women — it’s
The next step in the store’s campaign-
ing,
When wives who’re handy with their
mitts
Some fresh ideas could be obtaining.
It’s something to be heralded,
This most desirous of objectives.
Yet, if by “self-help” they’re misled
The store might find it merited
A larger number of detectives.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Keep in
good
SPIR' TS
o%lci nd&
•WAR sTR
ength
Pl* £ -nITA I
b *ANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
A couple of old hands have changed-
over in Qantas —ye olde flying Fysh hand-
ing the managing-directorship to Cedric
Turner. Sir Hudson had, of course,
something to do with the founding of the
firm, and has been managing-director for
the past 32 years. Turner, accountant by
training, signed-up 21 years back, since
when the staff of 30 has swelled to 5000.
General-manager in 1951, he was con-
cerned with re-equipping the co.’s main
fleet with 14 Super-Constellations (10
delivered), and expanding its network to
take in the Australia-South Africa ser-
vice and the Pacific service to the U.S.
and Canada. Fysh remains chairman of
the board.
• •
R. E. Drennan, one of Canada’s ace
fighter-pilots, landed in Brisbane the other
day, assistant-manager of McKay,
Massey Harris, the farm-machinery firm.
His bag was 12 aircraft, shot down while
flying with the R.C.A.F. in England.
GEORGE NELSON, for long in Bris-
bane local-government, ending-up as City
Treasurer; now manages the Brisbane
Permanent Building and Banking Co.,
looks after the coffers of the Methodist
Church, and has just been appointed
president of Brisbane Rotary.
With the second name of Mozart
(cello-playing brother owns to Verdi),
young Joseph Post was posted, as it were,
for a musical career. At any rate, at 19
he was Professor of Piano and Oboe at
Sydney Con. A sort of Jiminy Cricket of
the Rostrum whose nipping alertness is a
pointer to the powerhouse of musical
energy held in his slight frame, he now
becomes musical-director of the Austra-
lian Elizabethan Theatre Trust. One
wonders how Joseph’s favorite exclama-
tion of approval and exhortation will go
down with the Elizabethans. It’s
“Whacko! ”
* •
With the secretaryship of the Aus-
tralian Gas Light Co., Frank Benning
takes on another —hon. sec. of the
N.S.W. Royal Blind Society. An M.A.
of Sydney University, a science-research
scholar with two University medals in
psychology, he presides over the Institute
of Industrial Psychology, and chairs the
University Standing Committee of Con-
vocation. Other out-of-gaslight experience
has included a lively period with the
R.A.A.F., squadron-leader, at the time
when Darwin took it, then struck back
with Spitfires. Later he was with a U.S.
Bomb Group, which did its unloading
over Jap-held islands north of Australia.
He’ll team with Mr. Justice Maxwell,
president, and J. K. Manning, Q.C., trea-
surer, in bringing a little light into the
lives of the blind.
Sighted in Fremantle, wearing close-
clipped moustache and miniature beard
of the type that used to be called an
“imperial,” Captain Karl Schubert, 59-
year-old Hamburg-Amerika Line skipper
went to sea when 15 and last visited Aus-
tralia as a 17-year-old seaman in the
grain-ship Olga in 1913. This time, as
master of the trader Hoechst, he will load
Westralia’s biggest industrial export —a
47-ton alkylation reactor for the Altona
(Vic.) oil-refinery. His present ship, a
recent addition to the Hamburg-Amerika
fleet, is the fifth of that line to enter Aus-
tralian ports since the end of the late
war. Captain Schubert served in the
German Navy in both World Wars, and
had five ships sunk under him.
• •
“Uramao”: A New Zealand self-made
man who attained eminence in the medical
world, Sir Sydney Smith has been
appointed Rector of Edinburgh Univer-
sity. A native of Roxburgh, Otago, he
started in a chemist’s shop in the town
and worked in other small-town chemist-
shops till he got a job as dispenser in
Wellington Hospital. He studied by night,
and ended-up at Edinburgh University,
where he went through his medical
courses with distinction. After serving
in the Kaiser’s war he returned to New
Zealand and became medical health
officer at Wellington. From 1918 to 1928
he was in Cairo, principal medico-legal
expert to the Egyptian Government, and
Professor of Forensic Medicine in the
University of Egypt. The murder of Sir
Lee Stack, Governor-General of the
Sudan and Sirdar of the Egyptian Army,
by terrorists in 1924, brought Sir Sydney
wide recognition. His evidence sheeted-
home the terrorists’ guilt, and the case
has become a classic in medico-legal
crime-detection. Shortly after the trial
he was appointed Regius Professor of
Forensic Medicine at Edinburgh Univer-
sity, and since 1953 has been Emeritus
Professor of the subject. Editing the last
two editions of Taylor’s Principles of
Medical Jurisprudence and authoring a
textbook on forensic medicine clinched
his authority on these subjects.
e •
Switching-off after 52 years with tele-
graphy (with and without wires), W. G.
Chapman, of the Overseas Telecommuni-
cation Commission’s Perth office. Start-
ing off on a telegraph-messenger’s bike in
Hobart, he became a telegraphist in 1912,
next year went to the then newly-created
wireless-station in Hobart, and served in
almost every State capital till he linked
up with-A.W.A. in 1922. In Perth, he
had a big hand in the establishment of
the city’s oldest commercial broadcasting-
station and in connection with the Wes-
tralian police wireless-service.
« •
Two new Melbourne Queen’s Counsel
are Charles A. Sweeney and Alan H.
Mann. Sweeney got his name into the
papers when he flew to London for the
widely-publicised Kyneton “Whose
baby?” case a few years ago. He was
captain of Newman College football-team
at Melbourne University, was serving as
a lieutenant in cruiser Australia when she
was attacked by a flock of kamikazes in
the late war, and has specialised in appeal-
cases for the V.R.C. committee. Mann,
a nephew of former Chief Justice Sir
Frederick Mann, also graduated from
Melbourne Uni., and was a navigator with
the Australian No. 10 Squadron, Coastal
Command, where he gained M.B.E.
• •
“H.A.L.”: Dr. Charles Fenner, gone
on in Adelaide at 71, will be remembered
for his work on the Australite type of
meteorite —the little space-visitors found
across the southern half of Australia.
When Fenner began to study them, some
30 years ago, many overseas scientists
refused to regard them as meteorites,
although similar objects had been found
on the island of Biliton, in Indo-China
and in Moldavia. Fenner began to write
scientific papers on the subject, and that
attitude changed. Meanwhile he collected
Australites, and the South Australian
Museum eventually acquired 18,000
specimens, the largest collection in the
world. Then the University of New
Mexico (U.S.A.) began to specialise in
meteorites; a few years ago William
Cassidy, one of their experts, came here
on a Fulbright grant to work in collabo-
ration with Fenner. As a result, Cassidy
was able to produce an entirely new
theory regarding the origin of meteoric
matter which fits all the known facts.
Before he died, Fenner had the satisfac-
tion of knowing that his basic research-
work on Australites had been a definite
contribution to science.
• «
“Strutter”: Not every day a locally-
produced Westralian lands back on his
native strand a millionaire —it happened
when William Atkinson homed to Perth
for a look-see from Cape Town, after
55 years in Africa. Born at Northam, he
tried farming, gave that away for digging
round Kalgoorlie, and, ungolden, left in
1900 for the Boer War with the Imperial
Bushmen. When the campaign wound-up,
he decided to stay over there; became an
agent for the T-model Ford, and took six
months to make his first sale. This was
to the Free State’s Attorney-General.
Business looked up ; Atkinson contracted
to sell nine Fords a month. Now he has
18 operating companies in the Cape, Free
State and Transvaal, with assets of £4\
million. At 82 he still eats what he
fancies, plays bowls, travels the world,
and presides over the African-Australian
Club.
• •
This is Frederick George Dillon
(“Rick,” generally), chairman of directors
of Dillon Implements, Ltd., in New Zea-
land, and a director of the Australian
company representing New Zealand Pas-
ture Implements in Melbourne. A
Bulletin “Man on the Land” writer, he
was on a farm at 16. He began his com-
mercial career selling bat-guano from
Fiji in Auckland. For long interested
in pasture-improvement (and a forceful
speaker on the subject), he began experi-
ments with a harrow some time back, and
for 18 months field-tested the implement.
Now his concern handles 50 per cent, of
the pasture-harrow trade in N.Z.—as well
as producing buck-rakes for silage,
electric-fencing and suchlike. Just
returned from 2000 miles of lecturing in
HARROWER
South Australia (earlier through Gipps-
land, Westralia and N.S.W.), he’s been
retained in Sydney by the Keyline organi-
sation to lecture, and act in an advisory
capacity with the farmer in the field. Had
a look at the bomb-exposed subsoil of
Guadalcanal in War 11, attached to a
fighter-control unit of the N.Z. Air Force.
If young William Robert Ray hadn’t
stuck out for his desire to become a
clergyman, against parental leanings
towards metallurgy, Pulteney Grammar
School in Adelaide might not exist today.
As it is, he’s now the Rev. W. R. Ray,
headmaster of Pulteney, which he took
over in 1947, revived and transformed
into a school now recognised as a leader
in both scholarship and sport. Educated
at St. Peter’s College and Adelaide
’Varsity, he was ordained in 1936,
became curate of St. Peter’s, Glenelg,
then did a spot of missioning. During
HEADMASTER
his headmastership of Pulteney he’s en-
larged the enrolment from 100 to 700,
and has initiated building-additions
worth £45,000. In his spare time he
chaplains the Walkerville Boys’ Home,
gardens, and is a good pianist.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Samuel Rutter, who had had 50
years in insurance, starting with Atlas in Mel-
bourne and Perth, 14 years with Northern
Assurance in Adelaide, and for the rest with
Federal Mutual, Melbourne manager for five
years, g.-m. in Sydney for 10. He had two
terms chairing the Fire and Accident Under-
writers’ Association.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 92, Richard
Thomas le Fleming, descendant of a family that
goes back to the Norman Conquest and to
Charlemagne. Sir Andrew le Fleming was a
horsebreaker in Oamaru (N.Z.) for years, and
his widow was an archaeologist of note. The
original Le Fleming, who staked-out a portion
of England after the Norman landing, was
knight Michael le Fleming. The present title-
holder is Sir Frank Thomas le Fleming, a
Taranaki farmer.
In Sydney, at 71, Lachlan Martin McKillop,
for years in the vanguard of Queensland’s fight
against cancer, and first chairman of the State’s
Cancer Trust. He had demonstrated in
anatomy and lectured on malignant diseases at
Queensland University, was an A.A.M.C.
surgeon of War I, and for six years in the
’thirties presided over the old U.A.P. He was
a Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine,
London.
In Sydney, at 64, Wing-Commander H. H.
Kilby, who came to Australia in 1919 to estab-
lish the first School of Aeronautics at Point
Cook (Vic.). He had served as a captain of
Lancers in War I, was on the personal-staff
of Edward, Prince of Wales, during his Aus-
tralian tour, and A.D.C. to Governor-General
Monro-Ferguson. In War II he commanded
the R.A.A.F. Training School at Victor
Harbor (S.A.). N,
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 28, in an accident,
Colin Macdonald Todd, who was a member of
Hillary’s Himalayan expedition of 1951, and
who climbed the mountainous regions in the
Barun Glacier and, accompanied by a Christ-
church explorer, Geoffrey Harrow, scaled for
the first time Baruntse. In New Zealand he
conquered most of the high peaks. He was
assistant-lecturer in biochemistry at Otago
Medical School.
In Sydney, Archibald John Collins, president
of the 8.M.A., and with D.S.O. and M.C.
added to a notable list of medical degrees. He
practised with the First A.I.F. in France, and
was a surgeon-commander in the Navy in his
next war. A governing pillar of Sydney’s Royal
Prince Alfred for many, many years, he was
knighted six months ago.
At 73, in Hobart, Lieut .-Colonel A. A. Evans,
who had served in the South African war,
had returned and had competed in a Warrnam-
bool-to-Melbourne cycling-race before he was
21. He sailed with the first lot in War I, was
commissioned in the field with the artillery,
and got back with D.S.O. and M.C. An
accountant by later training, he had a term as
Mayor of Launceston, and for six years was
an M.L.C. He enlisted again for War 11. Two
sons also saw service.


'/jay! i'j&ym&zz i
Go you se&\ T o 8E
/m we my / "
NOT FULLY APPRECIATED


ABORIGINALITIES
THE NATURALIST
Two worlds are his, one of his own kind,
Shackled by moral law, shaped to an end,
Bound by a thousand threads to kin and friend,
Breathing the crystal atmosphere of mind;
The other opaque and fraught with mystery,
Unfettered, bowing to no alien will,
Now fierce, now kind, but freely flowing still,
World of the shrew, the beetle and the bee;
Of ape and squirrel, whale, and serpents dire,
Of swallow, thrush, peewit and albatross,
Of lavish fife, and thoughtless happiness
Shot through with glowing veins of hot desire;
Along those twilit aisles he’ll peep and prowl
By hidden founts of action and emotion,
Of mother-love and self-impelled devotion;
He plumbs the lizard’s lust, the dung-fly’s soul;
With the blind mole he burrows in the soil,
The adder is his brother, and he shares
The dances of the lapwings and the hares,
The tiny emmet’s unremitting toil;
He joins the caterpillar in his trance,
With the pale moth floats to the midnight sky,
Or with the black and scarlet butterfly
Wafts to his wedding on the wings of chance;
Into the insect heart he plunges deep,
The larval feast, the chrysalid’s long sleep,
And wonders how the bustling bees contrive
The discipline and harmony of the hive;
Each life, however small, however lowly,
For him is fraught with deep significance,
The very spider’s silk, the plover’s dance,
And every nursling spark of life is holy.
N.z. Arnold Wall.
* * * .*
THEY get things done at Bulahdelah
(N.S.W.).
For 15 years the small township had
been wanting a school. Last year State
funds were allocated and tenders called
and let; but for some reason or other the
successful tenderer could not get on with
the job. Twice this happened.
The local Parents and Citizens’ Asso-
ciation thought: Why not build the school
ourselves? With tradesmen among them,
they slapped in a tender, which the Works
Department accepted.
That was two or three months ago.
Today the school, which includes a
science-laboratory, is half-built, and the
“contractors” expect to have it finished
by the end of August. Most of the work
is being done by weekend working-bees,
and much material has been given.
And not only will Bulahdelah soon have
its school, but the local P. and C. will
finish-up with a healthy credit-balance
from profits on the project!
Kune.
* * * ♦
“S.”: It seems a little too much to
credit the lyrebird with a wholly aesthetic
motive for not imitating the crow, the
fan-tailed cuckoo and the swamp-phea-
sant ; for he does do kookaburras and
train-whistles, and part of his art seems
to consist, anyhow, in transmuting these
raucous noises into his own more melodi-
ous version. He could probably do a very
musical crow if he wanted to; and if he
doesn’t, maybe it’s because imitating the
crow would bring genuine crows to him,
with consequent peril for his lady’s eggs
or young. Though how that theory would
account for his not doing cuckoos and
swamp-pheasants I know not.
“Salmon Gums”: A young native stock-
man was injured when his horse fell and
rolled on him while he was mustering on
a station near Wittenoom Gorge, W.A.’s
asbestos-mining town. He caught the
horse, mounted somehow, and rode 2\
miles to the homestead, where he was
treated by a doctor from the Gorge before
being put on an aircraft for Perth. All
that took more than 48 hours, and the lad
didn’t complain. He’s doing all right now,
and he’ll probably ride again ; but I’ll bet
in years to come old-timers will still be
arguing about how a man could catch his
horse, mount, and ride 2\ miles with a
fractured pelvis and thigh and internal
injuries.
* * * *
“C.A.A.”: Victorian magistrates have
different ideas of the value of native
birds. At Geelong a New Australian was
fined £5 plus ss. for each of a number
of wattle-birds shot in the You Yangs.
On Phillip Island the Beak went to £lO
and 15s. each for muttonbirds shot on
the rookeries. Fines are apparently no
deterrent to slaughter of native birds, but
confiscation of guns might be.
* * * *
“Endean”: A missionary-
anthropologist, Rev. Father E. A.
Worms, in Perth after 25 years
spent amongst natives in the
north, tells of discovering carv-
ings on granite rocks up there
depicting women —which is un-
usual, since figures in native
carvings are generally taken to
represent deities, or tribal heroes,
and the natives now attribute
supernatural powers only to men.
He also found, dotted over a spini-
fex plain, pyramids with big carvings on
their faces, which ties-up with the dis-
covery that Grey made near the head-
waters of the Prince Regent River in the
Kimberleys: cave-paintings of figures with
haloes and robes, and others with heads
resembling the hawk-headed dieties of
ancient Egypt. That country hasn’t a
monopoly of pyramids or bird-gods—
pyramids, in particular, have been found
in a number of places, notably central
America —and so far there’s been nothing
to associate our abos. with Egyptian
culture. In fact, there may be nothing to
connect them with the artists responsible
for the paintings and carvings ; but these
definitely link Australia with some form
of high civilisation. Obviously there’s
room for more research along these lines.
*** * *
“B’herd”: At first glance I thought the
emu may have been apprenticed to young
Steve, the backyard mechanic. At the
very least he could have been a fetcher
and carrier of tools in the half-acre pad-
dock that was Steve’s workshop. But
the boss swore something terrible when
the bird was mentioned. “That cow!” he
said. “A man’s lyin’ on his back, half-
blind from the grit under some bomb,
wrestlin’ a piston into place when what
d’you see but a beady eye fixed on y’
through number-three cylinder-head! Or
y’re fixin’ the points an’ he pokes his
scone over your shoulder to see what
you’re up to. Most inquisitive blasted
cow of a thing I ever had workin’
with me!”
“If you DO marry him, Milly, you're not coming HERE to live!"
“Saaedi”: While, honeyeaters aren’t
migratory—even in the restricted mean-
ing of the term applied to that con-
tinental movement, practised by several
of our birds, from south to north in
search of warmth, and back again to
breed —many species are nomadic.
Usually these wanderers move in small
flocks, stay a while in an area, and then
move on, without disrupting the economy
of resident birds. Recently, however, a
vast nomadic horde of yellow-faced
honeyeaters suddenly descended on
“May be vandalism —or, on the other hand, it may be borers .”
my N.S.W. Central Coast district, heavy
timber and heath-lands alike echoing to
their call of “Chickup, chickup!” Resi-
dent honey eaters resented the intrusion
and fought fiercely for the blossoms, but
were thrust aside by the invading host.
When the nomads have plundered the
place of its food they must depart, but
it looks like a lean winter for Spinebill,
Yellow-wings & Co.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Add to “Joanna’s” account
of the übiquity of eucafypts (B. 15/6/’55)
two other unlikely regions where they
thrive. When Menelik, Emperor of
Ethiopia, built his new capital of Addis
Ababa (the New Flower) in 1896—he
had just given the Italians a belting at
Adowa —he ordered every citizen to plant
at least 10 of the eucalyptus-saplings
which had somehow come into his hands.
Today, 8000 ft. above the sea in the heart
of Africa, hundreds of thousands of our
gums soften the starkness of the straggling
city which covers about the same area as
Paris. One of Menelik’s laws sounds
pretty good to me: anyone caught
destroying a tree was to be summarily
punished. The other place is the tiny
isle of Tresco in the Scillies, only 36
miles from the Cornish Land’s End. It
was formerly a barren, treeless waste, but
inspired hands planted and tended flowers,
shrubs and trees, so that now it rivals any
botanic garden you care to name. On
Tresco I gazed at giant roses, semi-tropical
vines and even banyan-trees, then —I
could almost hear the warble of magpies
and the chuckle of kookaburras —nos-
talgia swept over me when I happened on
a " group of flourishing Australian
eucalypts,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Some badly mutilated
whales washed up on a south Westralian
beach had probably been mixed-up in a
fight with toothed-whales. These fellows,
equipped with long rows of big teeth, up
to Sin. long, will tackle, and beat, almost
anything else in the sea. One of this type
—the killer-whale, or grampus—is so
savage that individuals have even
attempted to smash an icefloe to attack
Antarctic explorers temporarily marooned.
Some small kinds of whales are so terri-
fied of it that they’ll throw themselves
on shore to escape a pack.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Many old sandstock-
bricks had those heart, club, etc., frogs
(indents) stamped in them (B. 15/6/’55).
One theory is that the brick-moulders
had a certain quota to turn out daily
and, with four men working, each one’s
output was indisputable. Theory states
that bricks should be laid frog-upwards,
thus assuring that it is filled with mortar ;
the fastest bricklayers, however, lay ’em
frog-down because the mortar presses up
into the frog and saves a lot of tapping
the brick down with the trowel. Textures
(fancy bricks made from terra-cotta
clay) don’t have frogs, but some are made
with holes going right through to form
a “key” for the mortar. The manager of
a yard producing only machine-pressed
(common- and face-bricks) told me: “As
far as we’re concerned the frog is merely
an engineering convenience. When the
press can stamp down right into the brick
all the corners are packed tight; the frog
is formed automatically, otherwise we
would have dispensed with it long ago.”
Manufacturers of some cement-bricks,
however, give theirs a very pronounced
frog—the material thus saved makes
another brick in every 12.
* * * *
“Kelms”: News has drifted across the
rabbitproof-fence of some natives being
fined for cutting wood from mangrove-
trees, and men who know mangrove
swamps reckon the natives should have
got a V.C. instead. There’s something
particularly offensive about mangrove-
mud, and it isn’t only the putrid odor.
There’s a vicious type of wog in it which
causes a skin-disease known as mangrove-
poisoning. Throw in the few million
sandflies you’ll always find there, and a
man’s got to have a pretty good reason
for going into those swamps. The old
pearlers had two reasons. When they
couldn’t get snakewood they used red-
mangrove for burning on the luggers be-
cause it didn’t give much smoke, and
that’s important when you’re pumping air
down to a diver; another type, the very
light cork-mangrove, was given a coat
of paint and used for anchor-buoys. The
mangrove has another use —it’s an object-
lesson on surmounting obstacles. The
trees grow in tidal-waters where seeds
wouldn’t have a chance to germinate ; so,
instead of dropping into the mud, they
germinate while they’re still on the tree
and draw sustenance from the parent
till they’re about two or three feet long.
Then they drop off, and anchor them-
selves. As nearly as a plant can be, the
mangrove is viviparous, and it’s so
described by some botanists.
* * * *
IT isn’t only “when black clouds pile
up, and lightning plays” that the
currawongs assemble and give it lip (B.
8/6/’55). Here on the N.S.W. southern
tablelands you can tell from under the
blankets just how heavy the frost is ; the
whiter the ground, the wilder the chorus.
The vernacular name is a good one —•
we should find more of that kind for more
birds —but his being called currawong
doesn’t mean that that’s his only call;
the chorus gives you “currawonk,”
“currawak,” “currawee,” “currawah,” and
many other variations, as well as lots of
flutelike notes, rising to a resounding
“we-e-e-e-oo,” uttered in a way that
leaves you wondering if that fellow was
aiding the chorus or just poking mullock
at the rest.
Ours is a quiet rural corner, but the
other day a couple of distant acquain-
tances from the mighty metropolis called
and stayed the night, and in the morning
the currawongs gave such a recital that
the visitors had to get up for breakfast.
“How can you sleep with that row going
on?” they asked.
WIPPGONG.


“MODESTY”
I bought her at a noisy horse-sale, where,
Hinting no guile or sly duplicity,
They swore to me no better buy could be;
A neat and pretty little dappled mare,
With gentle eye and quietness of air;
And, aptly at the time it seemed to me,
1 innocently named her Modesty,
And sealed a sorry bargain then and there.
For, sad to say, whenever I would try
To ride her, I’d be promptly pitched sky-high:
So when another horse-sale came along,
Seeking to right this very grievous wrong,
With bold and candid air for all to see,
I parted with my little Modesty.
N.S.W. HUI TE RANGIORA.
* * * *
CAN vouch for bees having an acute
sense of time. On the veranda of our
C.Q. homestead there always hung two
large waterbags. Upon these bees
swarmed throughout the daylight hours —
except for their “lunch break” at noon,
when they would suddenly vanish for
about an hour. So invariable were these
breaks that we arranged our own mid-
day meal to coincide, and thus have the
veranda to ourselves. —“Robert Stook.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Uiere should
be nothing surprising about emus swim-
ming (B. 15/6/’55). They’re amphibians.
I’ve seen them take two-mile-wide West
Darling lakes in their stride, and along
the mid-Murray mobs of up to 60, with
only their heads sticking above water
like periscopes, swim the 10-chain-wide
river daily to eat the Victorian wheat-
crops. One cocky I know at Bannerton
nearly sets the grass alight with language
directing his kids on ponies to chase the
flightless intruders back across the stream.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Administrator Don
Cleland reckons Bougainville can become
one of the richest areas of the N.G.-Papua
Territory. After a recent visit he said the
splendid work by companies and indi-
vidual owners in rehabilitation of war-
damaged properties has brought copra-
production to 13,000 tons a year, worth
about £1 million. This is being supple-
mented by cocoa-planting, opening-up of
new land, and building of roads.
Cleland was impressed by the progressive
planning of the 250 Europeans, improve-
ment in the health of the natives and
development of cash crops.
* * * *
“Bass”: In the 1890’s the W.A. Gov-
ernment, alarmed at the rumors of a
rabbit-invasion from the east, sent an
expedition across the Nullarbor to report
on the rodents’ advance. As a result,
surveyor Canning was commissioned to
survey and build the longest fence in the
world—a rabbit-proof job across the
State from south to north. It was a good
fence, well patrolled, and it should have
kept the bunnies out, but a lot got
through, and some were helped across,
both by travellers who left the gates open,
and by prospective trappers who thought
to make future jobs for themselves. It’s
always been assumed that all the rabbits
in the State sprang from those invaders ;
but I’ve just been reading the diary of an
early pioneer. Written in 1841, only 12
years after the founding of the colony, it
recounts how the writer stayed overnight
at the Bussells (founders of Busselton),
where “I got plenty of good feed. They
have a large dairy and all the comforts it
affords—butter, cheese, puddings, etc. —
beef, and rabbit-pie, which I have never
tasted here.” If the Bussells had rabbit-
pie they had live rabbits, and if they were
breeding rabbits they would almost cer-
tainly have lost some, because they
weren’t regarded as a danger then and
only ordinary precautions would have
been taken; and some of the escaped
rabbits would have lived and bred. Now
I’m wondering if that long fence was
built to keep out an enemy who was
already entrenched inside it.
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: Turning their horseshoes
back-to-front (B. 15/6/’55) was a ruse
used by the bushrangers Searle and Ballan,
after they held-up and murdered Ulick
Burke, manager of the Smythesdale (Vic.)
Bank of Australasia, in 1867. It failed
to trick the police, who quickly tracked
them down. Searle turned Queen’s
evidence, but both he and Ballan were
hanged in Ballarat jail.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: With radio-carbon dating
we at last have a reliable method of fix-
ing the approximate age of former sites
of human habitation. One of the latest
examples has been furnished by Dr. Alex
Spoehr, of the Bishop Museum, Hawaii.
Material found on an ancient Polynesian-
type settlement at Saipan has given a
radio-carbon dating of 1375 8.C., with
a margin of error of 200 years either
way. This shows that Polynesian colonists
moved into the Pacific area at least 3000
years ago. Another finding concerns the
very ancient aboriginal campsite near
Menindee (N.S.W.). Discovered by Tin-
dale and Birdsell, it contains Tasmanian-
type stone-implements mixed with the
bones of extinct creatures such as the
diprotodon, giant kangaroo and giant
emu. A preliminary radio-carbon dating
gives these relics an age of 10,000 years
at least.
• * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Birds do mistake
shining roofs for water (B. 15/6/’55). On
frosty, moonlight nights at Braemar,
Harold Alston’s manor in three acres of
shrub-garden at Diamond Creek, near
Melbourne, the swans and ducks return-
ing to roost on the Yan Yean reservoir
have crash-landed on the roof and dis-
turbed the inhabitants’ sleep for decades.
The extraordinary thing is that not one
bird has ever been maimed.
* * * *
"WHAT FOR YOU WANTUM?"
TJACK in the 1920’s I had a job
with a Broken Hill wholesale-grocers
and station-suppliers firm which entailed,
among other things, the hiring and
payment of Afghan camel-team owners
who, at that time, were still to a certain
extent withstanding the invasion of the
motor-lorry into the business of carrying
rations, fodder, troughing, woolpacks,
fencing-wire and general station-supplies
to the sheep- and cattle-stations in the
back-country of the Western Darling
Division of N.S.W. and to the south-
western corner of Queensland.
Sultan Aziz, a diminutive, wizened and
whiskered elderly gentleman, whose
turban alone disclosed his presence when
he stood behind the high office-counter,
and who always used his cupped,
clenched hands as a cigarette-holder
when he smoked my cigarettes, had
loaded his pack-team and had left for
Durham Downs station on the Cooper.
About 14 days later an incoming coach-
driver called and told me that Sultan was
camped near Milparinka, and couldn’t go
any further till the firm sent him a
working-man to replace one who had
cleared-out after a row over the lack of
chlorodyne in the team’s tuckerbox.
I hurriedly drove to the camel-camp in
North Broken Hill to get a replacement;
“Remember when We used to shoe great big Clydesdales , Joe?”
but the month of the annual Fast of
Ramadan had started, and during
the Fast all believers; within reasonable
reach of the Mohammedan Mosque, or
coming within reach during its course,
must remain and attend Mosque cere-
monies until Ramadan has passed.
There were colorful characters at the
camel-camp, both team-owners and
working-men. Old Abdul Suttah, who
years later took his wife and four
Australian-born children to his home-
land and lost all but his eldest son in a
smallpox epidemic in Peshawar City.
Poujen, always bedecked with gold rings,
gold watch and sovereign-case and heavy
gold watchchain from which opal orna-
ments dangled in profusion.
Nassar Khan, 6ft. Bin. high in his
socks, if he ever wore socks. Umballah
Shah, one of the minority who preferred
a wagon-team to the packs. Faizulla, the
sole survivor in Broken Hill of them all,
and still a familiar figure as he drives
around in his sulky hauled by an exceed-
ingly slow pony. Young Abdul Suttah,
who, over the years, gave free camel-
rides to hundreds of young lady school-
teachers, so that they could post to
parents and friends a photo, of them-
selves mounted on a camel, the nose-
line of which would be held by young
Abdul.
There were many others: Khan Zader,
that jovial soul recently given honorable
mention by Donald McLean in his book
No Man Is An Island; old Adjib Khan,
who prided himself on having been a
water-carrier in the British Army in
India, and who in 1939, at the age of 70,
again offered his services, confident still
in his ability to carry a goatskin filled
with water; Mahomet Ameen, subse-
quently poisoned; Jumna Khan, the
debonair and handsome; Soorky
Mahomet, Hadji Ameer, Shirdell,
Shamrose, and many others.
Not a man of them would leave
Broken Hill until the Fast had ended. I
was forced to return to the office with
Sultan’s plight—or rather with Durham
Downs’ plight —still on my mind.
Then, late the same day, Mahomet
Ameen stalked into the office. He held
the flap of his turban in front of his
mouth, in the manner of all the Faithful
when speaking to a non-believer during
the daylight hours of the Fast. He was
accompanied by a stranger, a young man
in conventional European clothes who
stood silent while Mahomet addressed
me:
“You still wantum the working-man?”
“Yes, Mahomet, I still wantum the
working-man.”
“How much you payum?”
“Sultan payum eight-pounds a month
and givum tucker.”
The two men then held a long discus-
sion in a language of their own, and just
when I was sure they would come to
blows, Mahomet turned to me and said:
“This man he go.”
I fixed it all with Mahomet Ameen,
while the stranger stood silently by,
except for an occasional word with his
sponsor. I was told his name, and gave
Mahomet Ameen an order on the coach-
office to convey one Sophie Mahomet
from Broken Hill to Milparinka.
I considered the whole matter finished,
when the stranger again spoke to his
sponsor, who turned to me, and, after
some hesitation:
“He wantum ten-pound advance.”
Advances to Afghans against unearned
wages were frowned upon for various
good reasons, and, somewhat taken back,
I turned to the new man and barked:
“What for you wantum ten-pounds?”
“Well, sir,” he said, “I haven’t a
serviceable kit at all or the appropriate
apparel to undertake the type of employ-
ment you have been generous enough to
offer me. I will have to purchase
working-clothes of fairly tough texture
and heavier footwear than at present I
possess. I shall require a kitbag of
military type to hold my possessions, and
I presume I shall have to provide my
own blankets and ground-sheet. I feel
under the circumstances, the sum
for ’ which j have asked will be , ittle
h f the purposes wUch i have
° , „
' q me p advanced
the ,en-pounds there and then,
~. f _
. Y°u have had the advantage of a
fairly good education, I said,
Ye *> he replied, I was for un
enough to gain entrance to thejUmver-
«ty at Bombay and there to obtain my
degree as a Bachelor of Arts,
In further conversation he told
me that he was an Indian, and I asked
how it was that he could talk with
Mah t Am an Mghw ,
„„ , ’ «« t . A
“Well,” he said, my new friend, who
appears to me to be a Durant, the race
roost numerous in Afghanistan, un er-
stands Pushtu quite well. It is probably
1™ mother-tongue. In addition to having
®° me acquaintance with a number o
the other Indo-European languages of
which Pushtu is one, I have my mother-
tongue Hindustani, and my studies have
given me a wide knowledge of the
ancient dead language Sanskrit. Just as
g?” En shsh language and other
Western languages have many common
Greek and Latin origins, so the ancient
s krh , jnks to some extent the Pushtu
and Hindustani and as a conseqU ence
f d f previously-mentioned
acquaintance with Pushtu, l ira able to
ma k e m yself understood, although not
w ithout difficulty, to the Afghan
g en tl e man”
j asked wh he was j Australia .
.. Havi university
,„ J , o , d £ ..j co y nsidered my
knowledge would be greatly increased by
While he spoke, telling me of his diffi-
culty in getting a job better than common
cameleer, my own abrupt words, “What
for you wantum ten-pounds?” continued
to ring in my ears. They still do.
SEMAJ NAMADDIF.


till*
ate
MALT
K
HOPS
0
0
H
ir
* % «wti
v*A^?2
\sjv&CO
. Nsf>, At
now
available
at all
hotels
The Stout
that does
you a
power
of good!
C 5.179.16
brewed and bottled by tooth a CO. LIMITED
in ihe
L
Sight of the American shore coming up on
the skyline was an experience I had known before.
But somehow the sense of Australia’s historic
link with the American continent seemed closer
this time, as the aircraft went in and circled San
Francisco.
The association—one sees it so clearly now in
the perspective of the years—goes back nearly two
centuries; for it was the loss of the American
colonies to the British Crown that sent the explorers
out to find and possess eastern Australia in the
name of King George the Third.
In the 18 years between that proclamation and
the arrival of the First Fleet at Sydney Cove, the
American States had declared their independence.
Had it not been for the colonial urgencies of
the time, Australia might not have become a British
possession when it did; indeed, it might have gone
into other national hands altogether.
So do the seeming separations work out as
unions, when Time gets to work on them.
Today, Australia and the United States —along
with Britain, Canada and the rest of the family-
are partners in the great English-speaking union
that has become the bulwark of the world’s
freedom.
It is a perfectly natural alliance. They sprang
initially from the same stock, are joined in a
common language, and share the seme ideals.
Perhaps the clearest demonstration, on our
own part, of that instinctive sharing was when
Australia drew upon the United States Constitution
for the framing of its Federal Charter at the turn
of this century.
These are homing thoughts as I stand again
on American soil, in a climate of Faith and action.
They sharpen my vision of Australia in the
future—retaining its British associations, borrowing
much in method from America, and mixing the best
from both.
It should be a rich blend.
ee'ittx,
r
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Sharemarkets Strong
The financial year 1955-56 has
opened with a strong share-
market, which is still stimulated
by take-over speculation and by
fixed-unit-trust buying. But
though many front-line stocks
may not now be bought with-
out accepting a yield of less than
4 p.c., other good-quality issues
still show over p.c.
Buying is selective, except in
the “take-over” section. There
all the signs of exuberant specu-
lation are apparent. Stocks
needed by some fixed-trusts in
order to fill their investment
portfolios also appear at times
to be bought without full regard
to cost.
But selection is apparent in
most other categories. With diffi-
culties becoming obvious in the
refrigerator trade, support for
President has weakened, and
others in the same type of busi-
ness- have not the sharemarket
backing that was obvious a year
ago. Shares in woollen-textile
cos. are mostly down, and longer
yields are offering from hosiery
concerns. Engineering enterprises
like Gibson, Battle, Ltd., and
Thirlwell and McKenzie, Ltd.,
where there is uncertainty about
the div., are both at a heavy
discount. And Burlington Mills
and F. W. Hughes, interested in
textiles, have recently slumped.
Addressing shareholders in
National Reliance Investment
Co., Staniforth Ricketson in
Melbourne commented on the
paradox of strong and active
sharemarkets side-by-side with
factors which, in other times,
would have prompted caution
and a decline in share-values.
Mr. Ricketson was of the
opinion that, though the long-
term prospect seemed to be
assured, the immediate future
suggested difficult times. The
July-December trading period
“No! No! Dis is nod a stick-up—I god a
code id da head!”
should provide a test for com-
pany results under the altered
economic conditions.
As The Bulletin has pointed
out now for over six months,
there has been a fundamental
change in the Australian econ-
omic outlook, with wool prices
down about 12 \ p.c., wheat
prices much lower, dairy pro-
ducts in a difficult plight, and
costs again tending to rise. Even
in the pastoral areas, properties
which changed hands at in-
creasing prices until a year ago
are now hanging fire at reduced
figures.
It is certainly a time to pick
investments selectively, not to
rely on market “tone,” which is
still deceptively appealing to
some speculators.
Cement Bonus-issues
Kandos Cement, Ltd., and
Australian Cement, Ltd., which
own equal interests in Australian
Portland Cement Pty., Ltd., are
revaluing their holdings in the
subsidiary and making bonus-
issues to their shareholding
public.
The Kandos (N.S.W.) and
Geelong (Vic.) plants of the
operating co. are in the books
at low valuations, notwithstand-
ing large post-war additions
(especially at Geelong), and the
recapitalisation does not appear
to be overdoing anything.
Kandos will write-up its 16s.
shares to 205., and will then
make a bonus-issue of one 20s.
share for every two 20s. shares
held. The writing-up will involve
£187,184, and the new issue
£467,960 —a total bonus of
£655,144. Paid capital will be-
come £1,403,880, compared with
the present £748,736.
Australian Cement, Ltd., will
issue one bonus 20s. share for
each two 20s. shares now held.
The amount involved will be
£473,883, and paid capital will
become £1,421,649, against
£947,776 at present.
A result of the capital re-
arrangement will be that Kandos
and Australian Cement will have
an almost equal equity, per
pound of their own capital, in
the operating co. Previously
Kandos, by reason of its smaller
capital (but equal holding in the
operating co.), had a greater
equity than the Victorian
control-arm.
The cement - industry has
caught up with demand in all
States except Victoria, where
Australian Portland Cement
Pty. is in a strong position.
Kandos expects to pay 10 p.c.
on its enlarged capital.
Burlington Mills
Burlington Mills (Australia),
Ltd., now controlled by Brad-
ford Cotton Mills, will show a
“substantial loss” for 1954-55,
the directors state. The floods in
the Maitland (N.S.W.) Valley
and excessive imports of rayon
textiles have combined to hit
earning-power severely. Results
have lately improved, the board
says. Bradford Cotton owns
over 53 p.c. of Burlington ord.
shares, of which there are a
million issued. For scrip held
by the public support has
dropped to around 16s. a share.
Burlington has not had a very
bright career. Following im-
provement in plant and quality
of production, a 6 p.c. div. was
paid for the two years to June
30, 1954. No ord. interim has
been declared during the current
term. The co. has the benefit of
half-a-million of cheap (4| p.c.)
pref. capital.
The Division of Industrial
Development, Canberra, has
recently reported that the
immediate prospect before the
rayon - piecegoods industry
appears to be much brighter
than it was at the end of 1954,
chiefly because of import-
restrictions which should give
the Australian industry a larger
share of the market. Some
manufacturers believe that out-
put will be back to the good
levels of January-March, 1954,
within a few months. Others
are not so sanguine, their doubts
being based on the large quanti-
ties of imported stocks which
have to be cleared.
Testing at Rough Range
L. Owen: There can be no
doubt that the testing of the
oil-impregnated lense of sand,
penetrated in Rough Range No.
1 well and in its offset 30ft. to
the east, is being carried out
with thoroughness and with
meticulous care, in spite of the
fact that the responsible officials
do not anticipate commercial
production. It has, in fact, been
officially intimated that the
expected yield from the tests
does not justify the cost of
erecting tanks ; the oil is being
burnt as it reaches the surface
in order to reduce the fire
hazard.
On May 27 an open-hole drill-
stem test between 3603 ft. and
3610 ft. brought clean oil to the
surface 12 minutes after the
formation-testing tools had been
opened ; the measured flow over


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3i ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
™!II n S.O ? oosjoßf
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
INSURANCE
•for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDSEXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
orb
%€AVY
TO
UTILITY
mm
u s *%
A iu^R!
i^wyiywyw
MW!I!PI^.M.».».»>»V9
’m
.
f
Makes an ideal storage shed or workshop
roomy enough to accommodate a car
or tractor. Easily assembled by any handy
man! Basic unit includes . . .
• Predrilled support angles and bolts.
0 Wall and roof sheets of curved design
eliminating need for framework.
0 Back wall sheets and flashing.
SPECIFICATION: Length, 20 feet. Width, 10 feet.
Minimum Head Room, 6ft. 6ins.
Maximum Head Room, 8 feet.
EXTRAS AVAILABLE
ALL PRICES EX
NEWCASTLE WORKS
Front wall (to taKe
double doors), £l3.
Double Doors
(8' x 6'6" opening),
£ll/10/-.
Barge boards, £3/10/'.
Side Door
(5'2" x I'9" openinel.
Window frame
without glass (approx.
3' X 2'). £3/15/-.
Write for further information and Agents' Names to • —
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., CAPITAL CITIES
15T
a four-hour period was at the
rate of approximately 60 barrels
of oil an hour, and the manage-
ment was careful to point out
that this represented an initial
flush-production rate, not likely
to be maintained.
Late on June 8, following gun-
perforation of the Tin. casing
between 3603 ft. and 3618 ft., oil
flowed to the surface through
2|in. tubing at the rate of 75
barrels an hour (measured oyer
half an hour), bringing up with
it 16 per cent, of water. It
should be noted that the depths
given above were measured
from the T 32 derrick-floor and
are 2ft. less than those measured
from the National 150 derrick-
floor. The upper surface of the
oil-lense would now appear to
be almost level.
The vertical extent of the oil-
impregnation struck in Rough
Range No. 1 well was given as
17ft., while that in the 1a offset
appears to be 15ft., or slightly
less, although the difference
may be the result of the adjust-
ment of the oil-water interface
through draining-off of oil
during the tests of Nos. 1 and
1a bores. This suggests that the
volume of this particular oil-
lense is even smaller than
anticipated.
Tested through a |in. choke,
well No. 1a flowed at the rate
of approximately \l\ barrels of
oil and three-quarters of a barrel
of water an hour over a four-
hour test. With a \m. choke the
rate increased to barrels of
oil and 12| barrels of water an
hour. A further test is to be
made with a fin. choke before
putting the well on a continuous-
flow trial.
For the 24 hours to 7 a.m. on
June 18, a yield of 465 barrels of
fluid was obtained.; reduced to
hourly rates, this equals an
average flow of 16.4 barrels of
oil, together with an amount of
water constituting 15 p.c. of the
total fluid. For the 24 hours to 7
a.m. on June 20, the correspond-
ing figures were 443 barrels of
fluid, representing an average
hourly flow of 15.9 barrels of
oil and 14 p.c. water. This pro-
duction is disappointing, particu-
larly as the 24-hour (Sunday)
break between the two tests
neither increased the yield of
oil nor appreciably reduced the
percentage of water in the total
fluid.
During further tests from June
21 to 25, also through a iin.
choke, the average percentage
of water rose to 16. The oil-
yield is not stated, but it would
not be far below 16 barrels an
hour. For the 24 hours ended 7
a.m. on June 27, 1108 barrels
of fluid were produced through a
£in. choke in a 20-hour test, the
flow consisting of 20 p.c. water
and about 45 barrels of oil an
hour.
Theoretically, the flow through
the £in. choke should have been
four ..times that through the
•|in. choke, or, usin'g the June
20 figure, 1769 barrels» of
fluid. The percentage of water
should not have risen appreci-
ably, as it did. Bottom-hole
pressures were recorded with
various sizes of choke; it is a
pity that these interesting and
instructive data were not given
in Wapet’s report.
Meagre as the published data
are, the figures available indi-
cate that the Rough Range No. 1
oil “pool” consists of a small
lenticular reservoir under
hydraulic (as distinct from gas-
or formation-pressure) control.
A likely path by which this
water has reached the Permian
surface is up the fault-zone,
which I have stipulated in
previous comments as respon-
sible for the original oil-seep and
for the Rough Range “fossil”
impregnation.
Even if the series of tests on
the present location prove —as is
highly probable—that the Rough
Range “discovery” oil-lense is of
no commercial value, a hopeful
aspect is that lenticular impreg-
nations, derived from the migra-
tion of petroleum up a fault-
zone, sometimes occur en
chapelet (that is, in the form of
a necklace) along a long, narrow
band. The working-out of the
procedure necessary to develop
sizeable production from such
a band is essentially a job for
a geologist experienced in the
elucidation of what I may call
the micro-characteristics of out-
crop and core and their applica-
tion to oil-finding.
F. W. Hughes
Because of lower wool prices
and the competitive state of the
textile industry, F. W. Hughes
Industries. Ltd., has reduced its
interim to the rate of 4 p.c. p.a.,
from 6 p.c. p.a.
The textile interests are
Alexandria Spinning Mills
(which weaves cloth as well as
spinning yarn) and Brookvale
Weaving Mills; this section of
the F. W. Hughes organisation
has probably been hit worst of
all.
The main operating co. of the
group is F. W. Hughes Pty.,
Ltd., a fellmongering and wool-
scouring concern at Botany
(Sydney), which also deals in
the produce of the co.’s pastoral
properties. These properties ex-
tend from southern N.S.W.
through the Condobolin area
to Walgett.
Another subsidiary, Colonial
Meat Co., carries on fellmonger-
ing, woolscouring, wholesale-
butchering and meat-canning in
Melbourne, largely for the ex-
port trade. The Colonial Whole-
sale Meat Co. carries on meat-
canning and wholesale butcher-
ing at Homebush (Sydney). Both
meat-processing cos. produce a
wide range of canned meats, and
in the wholesale-butchery section
they conduct a distribution ser-
vice to retail butchers in Mel-
bourne and Sydney metropolitan
areas and also export lamb and
mutton carcasses.
When the holding co. was
floated in 1951 there was about
14s. of net assets (on old written-
down book-values) for each of
the 4,150,000 £1 ords. issued.
The textile section, which was
written-up considerably, has
been a drag from the beginning,
The £1 shares have never been
above par since the flotation,
They f e fl from 16s. 6d. to
14s 6d after the d i v .-cut,
steadying around 15s. 6d.
Finn
p o fl oW ; ne the offer Dv David
Following tne oner oy jjaviu
Jones, Ltd., of 1£ D.J. shares
and 355. in cash for each £1
Finney Isles (Brisbane) share,
the directors of Finney’s have
withdrawn their proposed bonus-
issue and 20 p.c.-div. proposal,
The usual 124 p.c. div. is being
paid for the year. The offer
made by David Jones is subject
to acceptance by holders of at
j east 76 pc 0 f Finney Isles’s
cap]ta j by j u j y 20.
Anticipating acceptance by the
requ j red proportion, the share-
market is paying over £5 10s.
for Finney’s shares. David
Jones’s ords. are steady round
61s. 6d.
Kelvinator
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd.,
Adelaide, has decided to con-
solidate the co.’s activities in
two areas instead of the present
four, the co.’s chairman said at
the annual meeting last week.
A reduction in costs was
expected to follow. Mr. Slade
added that 1954-55 had seen the
end of the period in which
demand for refrigerators ex-
ceeded the supply. Now that
Australian manufacturers were
capable of meeting the market’s
needs, some temporary diffi-
culties were seen in the trade,
but this would probably react to
the benefit of efficient producers.
Hastings Diesels
The public has been allotted
794,500 £1 shares in Hastings
Diesels, Ltd., following the offer
of 300,000 ords. at par. The issue
was heavily oversubscribed.
Paid capital will now be £2
million, which is the present
authorised capital. Its wholly-
owned subsidiaries are Hastings
Deering (Queensland) Pty., Ltd.,
Hastings Deering (New Guinea)
Pty., Ltd., and Hastings Deering
(N.T.) Pty., Ltd. The principal
franchises are Caterpillar
tractors and earthmoving equip-
ment for Queensland, N.T., New
Guinea and Papua and S.-W.
Pacific islands; John Deere
agricultural machinery for the
same area; and Lima cranes,
shovels and draglines for the
whole of Australia. On a smaller
capital the holding co. showed
a profit of £111,398 for the
financial year to August 31,
1954, and paid a 12} p.c.
dividend.
Best Balance-sheet
The Institute of Management
has selected the balance-sheet of
Imperial Chemical Industries of
Australia and New Zealand,
Ltd., as being the best-presented
company annual report in 1954.
The selection committee was
headed by E. S. Owens, R. Keith
Yorston and K. W. Steel. Win-
ners of special awards were In-
dustrial Engineering, Ltd., Jant-
zen (Aust.), Ltd., Leroy Manu-
facturing Co., Ltd., National
Radiators, Ltd., President Con-
solidated, Ltd., and Tutt Bryant,
Ltd.
The competition conducted by
the institute has had a noticeable
effect on the form of presenta-
tion of the accounts of many
public companies throughout
Australia, and it is keenly con-
tested each year.


5 SpiTp
3 b;^S*?s
5 ii
rtr, :''-s
sJLJLiir.r
Lirs
r r r
.Hi
111 I
33-39 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
Offices at
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000.000.
your Executor these qualifications?
The Executor and Trustee of your Will must have
certain qualifications if he is to administer your Estate
in the best interests of your dependents.
(1). He m ust have wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and other problems. (2) He must
be of absolute probity. (3) He must be accessible at
all reasonable times and (4) He must never grow too
old for sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a private
person but you CAN find them in Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company, ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment A Senior Officer will gladly supply the
information you desire.
'DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chaimym;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd*.
WELL - ENTRENCHED, financially
TV and otherwise, G.M. and Co. is
second-biggest of Australia’s large wool-
broking and pastoral-finance houses. It
also does a sizeable merchandising, and
stock-and-station and other agency busi-
ness, and is a run-owner on its own
account as well. The co.’s fortunes are
therefore largely those of the wool trade,
which fluctuate with the relative levels of
seasons, prices and costs.
Because of the numerous cross-currents
at work, the board has always followed
a cautious policy in respect of profits
claimed and their distribution. Since 1950
the div. has been kept at a moderate 7
p.c., sweetened with varying rates of
bonus-additions according to changes in
disclosed net earnings and the outlook:
1952. 1953. 1954. 1955.
Div. .. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Bonus .. 3 ” 3 ” 6 ” 3 ”
Total .. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 12 p.c. 10 p.c.
Over the last six years distributions
averaging 11.5 p.c. have been made
from declared net earnings averaging 18.5
p.c. For the preceding six years the ratios
were 6.8 p.c. and 8.3 p.c. respectively.
For these and other reasons the market
looks upon the scrip as a sound holding
proposition, and prices the f.-p. £1 shares
at 38s. 6d. (41s. a year ago) to return 5.2
p.c. on the basis of last term’s 10 p.c. dis-
tribution. The book-value of net tangible
cover is 375. 1 Id., and many of the assets
are known to be worth more than the
figures at which they appear.
After allowing £323,794 (down £71,190)
for depreciation and £591,226 (down
£50,792) for land, income and pay-roll
taxes, there was a slip of £89,962 in last
term’s net earnings:
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar,, ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill written off, £18,450 1
1951 718,164 —l5 p.c. = 480,000 1 2,180,497
Special grant staff fund, £30,000 J
Surplus tax provision, £219,617 .. 2,400,114
Goodwill written off, £19,786
1952 457,094 10 p.c. = 820,000 2,497,422
Special grant staff fund, £20,000
Goodwill written off, £3OOO
1953 609,061 10 p.c. = 320,000 ■ 2,763,483
Special grant staff fund, £20,000)
Share premiums, £200,000 .. .. 2,963,483
Tax overprovided, £141,195 .. ..3,104,678
Interest arrears recovered, £24,784 .. 3,129,462
Goodwill written off, £34,661
1954 764,259 1$ p.c. = 456,000 3,377,060
Special grant staff fund, £26,000
Goodwill written off, £25,752
1955 674,297 10 p.c. = 400,000 3,599,605
Special grant staff fund, £26,000.
The £674,297 of profit claimed was 16.8
p.c. on capital as against 20.1, 19, 14.2
and 22.8 p.c. back to 1951. The 2 p.c.
snipped off the distribution was thus more
a measure of prudence than necessity.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
8.8 p.c. The £25,752 written off goodwill
was in respect of two businesses taken
over—Dal. Adams and Co. (Melbourne)
and T. J. Griffin and Co. (Toowoomba).
Too much importance need not be
attached to the slip in the profit figure.
It was largely the result of a contraction
in the quantity of wool put under the
hammer (472,208 bales, down 56,238
bales), due to delayed shipments following
industrial disputes on the waterfront here
and in Britain. The co.’s actual wool
receipts for the year (463,000 bales) in-
creased by 10,000 bales. It has thus
started the current term with a heavier
carry-over (66,275 bales, up 35,461 bales).
There was also a drop of 11.5 p.c. in the
Australian average price per bale (£90.5,
down £ll 155.) for the 11 months to
May 31 last. The Australian wool cheque
for this period was £324.3 million (down
£36.3 million).
Merchandise and livestock turnover
increased, but land sales were lower, and
so were returns from the co.’s own pro-
perties, in the west of N. S. Wales, some
of which have been resumed, without
any capital loss.
The co. is well-equipped to meet sea-
sonal and other short-term demands of
clients for financial accommodation, as
the following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:
D , 1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital £3,200,090 £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Reserves .. 2,763,483 3,377,060 3,599,605
Deposits .. 57.911 7
Creditors .. 6,825,191 j 8,516,161 9,301,134
Tax provision 998,829 1,096,769 1,160,397
Final divs... 224,000 342,000 280,000
£14,069,414 £17,331,990 £18,341,136
Freeholds, etc. 2,241,965 2,349,657 2,589,388
Plant .. 492,227 630,518 694,599
f£° Cks ™ - • 871,697 755,059 728,232
Shares, Fen-
wick and
' °°- • • 73,536 73,536 73,536
Shares, other
cos. 64,281 65,298 65,318
Advances, etc. 7,583,541 7,404,322 9,880,897
Cash, bonds,
\ etc. .. 2,742,267 6,053,600 4,309,166
£14,069,414 £17,331,990 £18,341,136
The year’s net addition of £239,731 to
freeholds, etc., mainly reflects extension
of the big wool-store at West Footscray
(Vic.) and modernisation of the Sydney
office. To help meet further similar expen-
diture, a long-term loan of £1,000,000
has been raised from the A.M.P. since
the close of accounts. The growth of
£2,476,575 in advances, etc., was due
partly to the wool carry-over, partly to
increased livestock business, and partly
to a stronger demand for funds for im-
provements to properties.
The chairman sees room for a new
lending agency to help finance improve-
ments to pastoral and other holdings. He
puts it this way:
We do not want to be placed in the posi-
tion of being unable to accept seasonable
short-term business because too much of
our money has been lent for developments
which are not immediately productive. We
feel, therefore, that money for improvement
work should be obtainable by landowners
on a medium- to long-term basis from
agencies created for this purpose.
He further pointed out that, unlike cor-
porate traders, most primary producers
are unable to raise funds on the open
market, and that the assistance being
given in this direction by the Common-
wealth Bank and some of the State
Savings banks is not sufficient to meet
legitimate demand.
As for the current term, the immediate
seasonal outlook is bright, and demand
for the staple remains firm, but competi-
tion from synthetics makes the price-
trend uncertain ; much therefore depends
upon the extent to which the uptrend of
costs can be curbed.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
■pROM a score of factories scattered
A throughout the Commonwealth, this
big, integrated organisation—largest and
most successful of its kind in the country
—supplies the building and construction
trades with terra-cotta roofing-tiles,
asbestos-cement (durabestos) sheets, archi-
tectural facings, shop-fronts and a
variety of pressed-steel fittings, etc. Over
the last five years the extraordinary pro-
gress of the undertaking has exceeded the
management’s anticipations and surprised
the market, which has recently revised its
estimate of the co.’s prospects, and
lengthened its bid for the ord. shares.
During this period Australia’s popula-
tion, hastened by a vigorous programme
of immigration, increased by over a mil-
lion—it passed the 9,000,000-mark at the
end of 1954. Because of this and other
things, including inflation of the currency,
demand for the co.’s products ran ahead
of its expanding production, which was
hastened and cheapened by erection of
new factories and extension and moderni-
sation of old ones. Three years ago, the
declared intention was to stabilise the
div. at 10 p.c., and finance capital com-
mitments out of surplus earnings and a
long-term loan from the A.M.P. (£548,800
at February 28 last).
However, as shortages of labor,
materials, transport, electric-power, etc.,
eased, production further benefited, and
demand kept pace, thanks to commence-
ment of long-delayed commercial-build-
ing. Moreover, net earnings gathered so
much momentum that the distribution
was lifted to 15 p.c. ( 2\ p.c. of it called
bonus) for the two years to the close of
last accounts. And since then £273,816 of
bonus-scrip has been handed out, one for
two, and charged against a reserve of
like amount created by writing-up the
book-value of freeholds, which are still
worth a lot more than the figure at which
they appear.
The gift has lifted paid capital to
£981,449, of which £160,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 7 p.c. So the pref. divs.
and 15 p.c. to the ords. on that lot would
call for £133,417, or little more than half
of last term’s profit. The price of the f.-p.
£1 ords. went up from 495. 6d. a year
ago to a peak of 765. cum rights to the
bonus share-issue, fell back to 535. ex
rights at the end of May, 1955, and then
strengthened steadily, reaching 645. last
week. The return at 645. is 4.7 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div. basis. The three lots of
7 p.c. prefs. are each priced at 235. to
yield 6.1 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is prefs. £44 15s. 4d. first,
£43 15s. 4d. seconds, £2l 7s. Bd. thirds,
and ords. 395. Bd.
Since 1950 net earnings have increased
over 2\ times:
, Dividends ~
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb..Profit.* 7 p.c. , —Ordinary serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
’50.. 98,652 11,200 10 p.c.= 46,213 41,239 284,761
To staff partners, £13,600 .. .. 271,161
Share premiums, £4B .. .. .. 271,209
’51..127,567 11,200 10 p.c.= 54,763 61,594 332,803
To staff partners, £19,900 .. .. 312,903
’52..147,963 11,200 10 p.c.= 54,764 81,999 394,902
To staff partners, £22,650 .. .. 372,252
’53-162,306 11,200 10 p.c.= 54,764 96,342 468,594
To staff partners, £25,500 .. .. 443,094
From inner reserves and profit sale
assets, £81,684 524,778
’54-212,227 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,144 118,883 643,661
Asset revaluation reserve, £273,816 .. 917,477
’55.-258,919 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,145 165,574 1,083,051
Reserves capitalised, £273,816 .. 809,235
* After payment divs. on staff partnership certificates,
t After deducting goodwill (£73,888).
Including £50,000 transferred to contin-
gencies reserve, last term’s profit stepped
up by £46,692, reaching a record
£258,919. That was enough to pay the
pref. divs. and show 45.2 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood at the close of accounts,
compared with 36.7, 27.6, 24.9 and 21.2
p.c. back to 1951. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was a healthy 14.4 p.c.; so the
pref.- and debenture-moneys are making a
handy contribution to the pool for the
ords.
There is nothing to worry about in the
financial structure:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Ord. • .. .. 547,633 547,633 547,633
Reserves . . .. 443,094 fi43,661 1,083,051
Mortgages.. .. 500,000 560,000 548,800
Creditors, etc.* .. 1,198,275 1,128,532 1,261,407
Staff funds .. 175,300 173,050
£3,024,302 £3,212,876 £3,600,891
Freeholds.. .. 435,586 448,510 779,675
Plant, etc. .. 704,559 674,838 675,413
Stocks . . .. 1,297,392 1,356,793 1,497,066
Book debts . . 391,079 423,871 423,775
Cash, investments,
etc 195,686 308,864 224,962
£3,024,302 £3,212,876 £3,600,891
* Including tax provision and final divs., etc.
Of the year’s net addition of £331,165 in
freeholds, £273,816 was in respect of the
writing-up already mentioned. The
growth in the creditors item (up
£132,875), which now includes staff funds,
was more apparent than real. Stocks (up
£140,273) appear at “not exceeding cost,
less provision.” The more-or-less liquid
surplus was £336,596 (up £108,650).
Consolidated Zinc Corp., Ltd.
"DIGGER output and sales of mine,
smelter and other products at
stronger prices, together with lower unit
costs, a sharp increase in profit, lift in
the div. and encouraging outlook all
combined to drive up the price of the
co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. from 435. 6d. a year
ago to 625. last week. The immediate
return at 625. is 4.4 p.c. on last term’s
nominal 18i p.c. distribution, which is
equal to 13.5 p.c. in Australian currency
after allowing for U.K. income tax
(Bs. 6d. in the £) and for exchange at the
current rate. On a nominal 25 p.c. dis-
tribution, equal to 14.37 net stg., or 17.97
p.c. Australian, the return would be 5.8
p.c. On issued capital as it now stands,
the pref. div. and a nominal 25 p.c. to
the ords. was covered by last term’s
declared profit with approximately
£519,000 to spare.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests and setting aside £942,673 (up
£105,205) for depreciation and £2,229,409
(up £1,185,610) for taxation, combined
net earnings of the group shot up by
£990,356 (71 p.c.) last year, reaching
£2,383,378:
Consolidated Zinc and Subsidiaries.
(after eliminating outside interests.)
(All amounts in sterling.)
, Dividends*
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 4’j p.c. 20 p.c. serves. serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
’51.. 2,404,708 105,760 687,535 1,611,413 5,895,512
Provision written back, £180,334 .. 6,075,846
Surplus on acquisition, £20,705 .. 6,096,551
Tax overprovided, £73,958 .. 6,170,509
Unexplained addition, £2619 .. 6,173,128
15 p.c.
’52.. 1,671,160 105,760 532,021 1,033,369 7,206,497
Tax overprovided, £440,977 .. . . 7,647,474
Profit sale investments, £72,424 .. 7,719,898
Unexplained addition, £1025 .. 7,720,923
’53.. 1,393,022 110,796 540,206 742,020 8,462,943
Tax overprovided, £84,281 . . .. 8,547,224
Prom other provisions, £57,209 . . 8,604,433
Profit sale assets, £37,747 . . .. 8,642,180
18£ p.c.
’54.. 2,383,378 110,796 852,597 1,419,985 10,062,165
* Rate is declared rate, but amount is shown less
English income tax. f Excludes specific provisions,
£1,698,010, 31/12/’54.
The pref. div. called for £110,796, and the
balance of the year’s profit was 34.7 p.c.
on the £6,547,947 of ord. capital actually
employed, compared with 19.5, 23.9, 35.1
and 20.1 p.c. back to 1950. The gross
rate of dividend was lifted from 15 p.c.
to 18| p.c., sweetened with a final 2s. 6d.
a share (gross) on 2,182,649 new £1 ords.
issued at par less than a fortnight before
the books were ruled off.
A year ago the chairman said “a com-
bined lead-zinc price in the U.K. of
approximately £175 should prove satis-
factory both to our mines and smelters,
and at the same time encourage increased
usage of our metals.” Average London
spot-prices per ton for lead and zinc have
moved in this way:
Year
Dec.3l, Lead. Zinc.
1952 .. £SI49 15 0 £SI49 4 0
1953 . . 90 3 0 75 3 0
1954 .. 96 4 0 78 5 0
1955.
Five mths.
May .. 103 17 4 88 9 1
June 27 102 15 0 91 5 0
The combined lead-zinc figure for 1954
was thus £5174.5 (up £59.6). For the five
months to end May last the figure was
£5202.3, which, together with other
things, augurs well for the current year’s
showing, notwithstanding the trend of
costs.
How long prices for the two metals will
remain around their current levels is
difficult to say at the moment. The
strengthening of the figures since the end
of 1954 has been due more to American
stockpiling—as a measure of relief to the
U.S. mining industry—than to the
strength of commercial demand. The
U.S. Administration recently announced
that stockpiling operations would con-
tinue for a further (unstated) period. The
market expects that withdrawal of this
prop would bring prices down.
Principal Australian members of the
group are Zinc Corp. (lead-zinc mining
at the Barrier), which did particularly
well last year; Sulphide Corp. (produc-
tion of sulphuric acid, superphosphate
and cement at Cockle Creek), yet to make
its major contribution to the pool:


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. 8U13445.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JI. E. M ANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
COX BROS.
IN FIVE
STATES
ECONOMIC
STORES
PERTH
SNOWS
SYDNEY
FOY’S
MELBOURNE
COLAC
ADELAIDE
DEPARTMENTAL STORE RETAILERS OF CLOTHING, TEXTILES, FURNITURE
AND FOOD
COX BROTHERS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1915 of the State of Victoria on 24th January/ 1928)
HEAD OFFICES 75 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £2.000,000
REGISTERED
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
1
*
o
2
CURRENCY .. 9-10 YEARS
ISSUE OPENS.. 12th JULY 195 5
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS OBTAINABLE FROM:
MEMBERS OF ALL STOCK EXCHANGES
AII Branches of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
and
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEBENTURE STOCKHOLDERS
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne 31 Hunter Street, Sydney
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY; This is nof a Prospectus or an advertisement of a Prospectus and
does not constitute an invitation to the public to subscribe for the Debenture Stock mentioned herein.
B.H. Corp. (which owns a 50
p.c. interest in B.H. Associated
Smelters at Port Pirie and a 32
p.c. interest in New B.H. Con-
solidated at the Barrier); Con-
solidated Zinc Pty. (which owns
half-a-dozen offshoots interested
in treatment of beach-sands,
electric-power production, saw-
milling and uranium); and
Frome-Broken Hill Pty., in which
Vacuum Oil and D’Arcy Ex-
ploration also hold a one-third
interest (now engaged in the
search for oil in Australia). The
interest in uranium is through
Territory Enterprises Pty.,
responsible to the Common-
wealth Government for manage-
ment and operation of the
uranium-mining project at Rum
Jungle (N.T.).
The English subsidiary is Im-
perial Smelting Corp., operating
zinc smelters, roasters and sul-
phuric-acid plants, etc., at Avon-
mouth, Swansea, Seaton Carew
and Newport, and which also
owns a string of subsidiary and
associated cos. in the U.K.
Capital expenditure last term
amounted to £1,049,116, and,
when the books closed, further
capital commitments totalling
£1,281,000 had been planned. It
was to meet these and provide for
further outlay up to the end of
1956 that the new share-issue
already referred to was made.
At December 31 last £1,317,060
of the new money had been
received, leaving £865,589 to
come:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
£stg. £stg.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. £4,476,626 £4,476,626
Ord. .. 6,547,947 7,866,007
Reserves .. 8,462,943 10,062,165
Specific provi-
sions .. 1,669,104 1,698,010
Outside in-
terests . . 2,098,921 2,091,595
Debentures . . 1,126,154 1,449,231
Sundry credi-
tors, etc. . . 2,359,729 3,195,542
Tax provisions 2,608,761 3,110,897
Pinal divs. .. 595,604 907,995
£29,945,789 £34,857,068
Mine property 1 4,224,372 4,224,372
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. . 9,084,313 9,095,673
Trade invest-
ments .. 3,930,629 3,960,432
Stocks .. .. 6,666,815 6,539,621
Book debts .. 3,550,573 3,236,044
Cash, etc. .. 2,489,087 7,800,926
£29,945,789 £34,857,068
As more profitable work is found
for some of the large holdings of
cash, etc. (up £5,311,839), net
earnings should benefit, subject,
of course, to what happens to
metal prices and costs.
NAUC
Atlas Corp., the big Ameri-
can investment trust which has
extensive uranium interests in
the U.S., has decided to exercise
its option under the agreement
of April 19 last with NAUC.
Among other things, this means
that the American co. is satisfied
that the Australian co.’s Sleis-
beck-South Alligator River area
(N.T.), covering some 700 square
miles, holds good prospects of
becoming a large and profitable
producer of uranium ore, and
that it will put up a lot of money
to help further test, develop
and bring the property to the
production stage.
Atlas will take for cash, pay-
ing in dollars, 2,250,000 new ss.
shares (£562,000) in NAUC, thus
giving it a 50 p.c. capital in-
terest, without control —it will
appoint a minority of the
directors and have a minority of
the total voting-power, but will
provide experienced technical
assistance, and obtain for the co.
certain kinds of equipment not
available in Australia. NAUC,
which recently issued 900,000
new ss. shares locally, will thus
have an issued capital of
£1,125,000, and £787,500 of
fresh funds to finance the work
ahead.
The agreement between the
two cos. also envisages erection
of a treatment-plant on the area,
financing of which is “to be left
to the NAUC board to decide at
the appropriate time.” In its
last annual report the Atomic
Energy Commission said that to
explore and develop a deposit
of commercial-grade ore to the
production stage, and erect a
treatment-plant (unstated cap-
acity), would cost roughly be-
tween £3 million and £5 million.
So shareholders might be asked
for more later on.
Not enough is yet known
about the average grade and ex-
tent of the deposits, or about
operating costs, to form any
reliable idea of what profits
might be earned. Over the last
month the market lengthened its
bid for NAUC’s f.-p. ss. shares
from 1 Is. 7d. to 12s. 9d.
Mining Corp. (Aust.)
Mining Corporation (Aust.),
N.L., has left the stocks in Mel-
bourne with a nominal Capital of
£1,000,000 in ss. shares and
high hopes. Of the shares 400,000
are offered, payable 2s. each
application and allotment, and
the balance as required. The
vendor, Metals Exploration,
N.L., takes 40,000 fully-paids
for rights, etc., plus not more
than £20,000 cash for work and
expenditure to date, including
some plant. The issue has been
underwritten at 2d. a share
(£3333) by Melbourne broker
Eric R. Jeffery, who is also
shareholder in the vendor co.
Mining Corp. will thus kick
off with an issued capital of
’£110,000? of which purchases of
leases, rights, plant, etc., will call
for approximately £31,000 (in-
cluding the f.-p. shares issued to
the vendor) and preliminary exes,
(including brokerage) £5OOO,
leaving immediate working capi-
tal of £14,000, with a further
£60,000 at call.
It is a prospecting and
development concern, which will
take over from the vendor,
which is another prospecting co.
(the directorates of both cos. are
interlocked) three sets of differ-
ent mineral leases in North
Queensland, and, “if and when
the areas are proved,” will form
separate cos. to equip and work
the deposits. These are (1)
cobalt at Mt. Cobalt, (2) copper-
lead-zinc in an area on the line
of lode alongside the big deposit
now being worked by Mt. Isa
Mines, and (3) a “promising”
uranium find about 18 miles
south of Cloncurry.
On the basis of a report by
E. O. Rayner for the Aerial,
Geological and Geophysical
Survey of Northern Australia, it
is figured that there are 21,000
tons of cobalt-ore, averaging at
least 3 p.c., above the 112 ft.
level in the old Mt. Cobalt mine.
This deposit, which is expected
to live down to 1500 ft., or more,
and provide 160 tons of 3 p.c.
cobalt-ore per foot, is to be test-
drilled.
At Mt. Isa the picture is that
of a possible repetition of Mt.
Isa mine deposit at a depth of
1500 ft. or thereabouts. After a
“careful geological investigation
of the whole area” the intention
is “to join with other mining
interests in a test-drilling cam-
paign.” This would be the
richest prize of the three offer-
ing, if hopes are realised.
The uranium leases, covering
two lodes, were pegged by the
vendor in November, 1954. A
grab-sample from the centre of
the main outcrop assayed 0.59
p.c. uranium-oxide. The argu-
ment is that the outcrops on this
field have been leached, suggest-
ing that a good run of average
values might be expected as the
sulphide zone is approached.
The intention is to test the lode
by shaftsinking on the main
outcrop.
Mineral Exploration, N.L., is
also entitled to one-third of the
purchase consideration (in cash,
shares or otherwise) received by
Mining Corp. (Aust.) from any
co. formed to develop or work
any of the three abovementioned
areas, as well as to 10 p.c. of
each future new share-issue by
Mining Corp. (Aust.) —and the
said 10 p.c. is to be handed out
in fully-paid scrip.
On the board are F. M. Wilt-
shire, H. J. C. Conolly, G. L.
Ditchburne, J. W. Illingworth,
E. R. Jeffery and T. M. Owen.
Shareholders in Great Western
Consolidated, one of the Western
Mining Corp. group, operating
on the Yilgarn field (W.A.)
(B. 16/2/’55), will be cheered
by the news that the first drill-
hole into the northern series of
the Copperhead mine at No. 14
level has disclosed of ore
averaging 9.7dwt. per ton, and
that the cores of two drills in
the footwall of No. 4 level at
Frazer’s mine averaged 11.5dwt.
over 13in. and 67.1dwt. over
70in. respectively. The co.’s
f.-p. 10s. shares, which dropped
to 3s. lid. in 1954, recently sold
at ss. 6d.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
To celebrate the 88th anniversary of
the confederation of the Canadian
provinces, Canada’s Commercial-Secre-
tary, Mr. Roy Blake, and Mrs. Blake
gave a reception at Ciro’s. Mrs. Blake’s
gown of heavy grey silk-faille was pat-
terned with large pink roses. Noted
among the guests were Mrs. D. D.
Webster (in white taffeta patterned with
gold stars), Mrs. John Lennon (black lace
over blue taffeta), Sir John Latham, Sir
Albert and Lady Coates, Sir John and
Lady McCauley,* Sir Clifden and Lady
Eager (she in black frock, ermine jacket
and a lime-green velour-cloche), French
Consul M. Le Bas de Plurnetot and his
wife, Swiss Consul M. Paul-Emile Cattin
and Madame Cattin, Chinese Consul W.
Liu, Sir Sydney and Lady Rowell, Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins and Lady
Collins, the Len Doolings and Mr. and
Mrs. W. Dunstan.
☆ ☆ ☆
Americans celebrated July 4 with a
ball at the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda.
Called Koshare (the American-Indian
name for merrymakers), the theme for
the decorations was vivid and unusual.
At one end of the ballroom the official
tables were set in an Indian village.
Skins of South American animals covered
the floor, and each table had a different-
colored tablecloth and arrangements of
leaves, red berries, maize and orange-
gourds, tiny hand-made beaded moccasins
filled with flowers, and tiny paper-
tepees.
A sky-blue backdrop was flanked by
huge figures of Indian chiefs. At each
side of the tables, set on wild grasses, were
life-size decorated tepees. There were
also two roof-high totem-poles painted
in bright colors, and on tables were
cleverly cut-out chiefs’ heads adorned
with feathers.
The official party was received by the
president of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Royal Children’s
Hospital, Mrs. R. Van Zytveld, and by
her husband. Her gown of sea-green
nylon-tulle had a beaded design on the
full skirt. Mrs. Gerald Warner (wife of
the U.S. Consul-General) wore a r gown
of white nylon-tulle with an apron-skirt
of Chantilly lace. Lady Murdoch
(president of the hospital) chose a full-
skirted gown of pale-green faille with
gold embroideries on skirt and bodice.
Mrs. Alister Mackinnon, president of the
hospital-auxiliaries, wore pastel-pink
satins. Mrs. W. W. Killough wore white
tulle, Mrs. Charles McKay (ticket-
secretary) beaded black tulle.
☆ ☆ ☆
In the “battle of the hemline” the short
theatre-frock seems to be ahead on
points, judging from its popularity at the
opening night of “Swan Lake,” with
which the Borovanskys began their ballet-
season at Her Majesty’s. Notable ones
were the ice-blue quilted satin, full-skirted,
worn by Mrs. L. R. Buxton; Lady
Collins’s, of charcoal-grey velvet, featur-
ing a fully-flared skirt; Mrs. Frank Tait’s,
of silver-beaded black silk-tissue; and
Mrs. Gordon Steege’s, in gold-and-silver-
striped Indian gauze.
Mrs. Eccles McKay was accompanied
by her daughters Diana and June, both
in full-length strapless white gowns. Mrs.
Keith Fairlie’s lovely full-length gown
was of white Chantilly lace, the pattern
outlined with tiny rhinestones. Mrs.
Dorothy Gitsham’s navy French-organza
frock had a pearl-encrusted bodice, Mrs.
Robert Haisman’s black faille frock a
jewelled bodice and halter-neckline. Bal-
lerina Edna Busse’s satins were orchid-
pink.
■u ☆ ☆
Miss May Clapp, who has died in
Melbourne, was, like her brother the late
Harold Clapp, an unusual Australian. At
a time when careers for women were not
looked on favorably she established
with her sister June (the late Mrs. Hector
Macdonald) and a Miss Ethel Greene a
dressmaking-establishment called Sorelle,
but always referred to as “The Rooms”
(afterwards Miss Greene relinquished her
interest). The venture was a tremendous
success. The sisters, gifted with good
taste and hard-working, became the
premier ladies’-dressmakers in Australia,
and their clothes were renowned through-
out the Empire. But Miss Clapp’s success
in business was only one facet of her life.
Her family-home in Domain-road was a
centre of art and culture, and invitations
to her parties were much sought-after.
Her last years were spent at her charac-
terful country home, Cob Cottage, at
Frankston.
☆ ☆ ☆
On Saturday, July 16, the Italian Parade
will have its premiere in the Myer Mural
Hall, all proceeds going to the Edinburgh
Club of Prince Henry’s Hospital. The
entrance-foyer will be decked out as an
Italian patio, with shrubs, floral-arrange-
ments and murals depicting well-known
Italian beauty-spots. The stage-decor will
be the exterior of the Piazza di Spagna
in Rome, where in summer models
parade. The color-scheme will be green,
white and gold, and in the annexe will
be shown rare Italian pieces. Tickets for
the gala-night have all been sold, but
those for the parades at 3 p.m. and 7.50
p.m. from Monday, July 18, to Thursday,
28th, may be obtained at the Myer Em-
porium inquiry-desk.
☆ ☆ ☆
Linen for classic straight separates has
been chosen by Maurice Dowd for next
season. For swirling flares, gathered
H-lines, tiny shorts and suntops he has
chosen poplin, either plain or in printed
designs. Hibiscus-red, honey-brown,
yellowed-green, sea-blue, navy-and-white
stripes, black-and-white stripes and black
are the colors for most separates. Fairy
Floss is the name given to a pale-sugar-
pink cotton ; the skirt features wide box-
pleats cut on a large flare and set-in
unpressed at the waistline. The top has
a simple scooped-out neckline and repeats
the pink of the skirt. One outfit of yelloW-
and-black striped poplin has a suntop
with a roll-neckline, with the stripes run-
ning vertically into the basque of the
skirt, made without a waistband; at the
hipline is a wide band stiffened to stand
up, and forming the H-line silhouette.
A full-gathered skirt has the stripes
running slightly off the horizontal to give
a swirl effect.
Jean Carter, who for six years was
chie.f-of-staff of a Melbourne daily and
has freelanced for various other papers,
has been appointed chief press-officer in
the Press and Information Bureau at the
Myer Emporium. Just after the war she
hitch-hiked around Australia, covering
25,000 miles. In her spare time Jean is
doing the interior-decorating of her new
Auburn home.
Mrs. John Morgan, the Furniture and
Allied Trades’ candidate in the Prince
Henry’s Hospital Loveliest Mother Quest,
was guest-of-honor at a dinner-dance
given by her committee. Mrs. R. L.
Johnson, president of the Women’s
Group, wore a short, bouffant frock of
white satin patterned with clusters of
pink roses. Mrs. Roy Anderson’s frock
was of black pure-silk chiffon and Chan-
tilly lace. Mrs. Graham Nathan (her
husband heads the men’s committee)
chose a short sheath-frock of white
guipure lace and a white Arctic-fox cape-
stole. Mrs. J. A. Anderson’s junior-blue
satin full-skirted frock had pearl
embroideries on the bodice. Mrs. W. J.
Tilley wore black lace over champagne-
tinted satin, Mrs. Bruce Anderson pale-
blue French faille with the side-drape
finished with large pink roses.
SYDNEY
The shortest day is past, and there are
a few tight-fisted bunches of violets for
sale round town. The retailers seem to
have made up their minds that winter is
just about over. Woolly goods are being
“thrown out” (though not literally, for
even the promise of spring does not go
to retailers’ heads to that extent) and
shop-windows are decked with cotton
summer-dresses and Hawaiian sports-
shirts. Still, as there has been a bitter
sou’-wester blowing, and shivering citi-
zens may be seen carrying kerosene-
heaters into offices, and those hardy and
pungent brown marigolds are the florists’
chief stock-in-trade, it seems likely that
winter will be with us for quite a little
while yet.
☆ ☆ ☆
The dancing-season is in full swing.
Ex-students’ Unions (Trinity Grammar’s
dance at the Empress during the week),
college formals (St. John’s College dance
last Friday), clubs and associations (the
Palm Beach Winter Ball at Prince’s
among them) keep alive the social life,
and many of the biggest dances are to
come off soon.
Ann Livingston, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Hector Livingston, of Point Piper
and Terling Park, Moree, has announced
her engagement to John Lewis, son of
Mr. and Mrs. Allen Lewis, of Bellevue
Hill. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Notes on forthcoming dances include
the news that the International Ball at
the Trocadero on August 4 is to follow
the Melbourne custom (a very sound one,
it seems to this Letter) of starting at
8 p.m. and serving dinner at 8.30. There
will be a floor-show during the dinner
and the International Pageant later in
the evening. The ball will finish at 1 a.m.
This is quite an experiment in Sydney’s
social life, but it is likely to have many
imitators next season.
☆ ☆ ☆
A keen Younger Set is working hard
for the English Speaking Union’s Ball at
Prince’s on August 5, when delegates to
the E.S.U.’s National Conference, to be
held in Sydney at that date, will be
attending. It is expected that the new
Consul-General for America, Mr. Donald
Kennedy, will also be present. The
Younger Set committee, headed by Colin
Webster, includes Lilian Herz, Barbara
McKenzie, Brian Hunt and Robin
Hardwick.
☆ ☆ ☆
A promising Younger Set has also been
formed to work for the Elizabethan Ball
in aid of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
President Lawrence Howe has on his
committee two representatives each from
16 musical societies, so that well over
1000 young people are interested. The
committee was formed last week at the
Wollstonecraft home of Mrs. D. Ball,
who is its patroness.
☆ ☆ ☆
Three girls of distinctive talents and
personalities won the State finals in the
A.B.C.’s Vocal and Concerto competi-
tion on Thursday. Romola Constantino,
winner in the concerto section, is 24, and
at the concert, in her cocoa-colored
velvet dress, she looked like a girl from
the Renaissance. Romola toured with
the Arts Council in N.S.W. recently and
has appeared at a Prom, concert. Her
plans are to study in Italy soon.
Violinist Carmel Kaine, who was honor-
ably mentioned in this section, looked
very youthful and devoted in a lemon-
colored organdie dress with puff-sleeves.
Gwenda Holloway, winner in the
vocal section, wore flame-colored organza
and seemed to have all the self-posses-
sion that experience in opera gives (she
appeared in the Conservatorium opera
school’s recent production of “La Forza
del Destino”).
☆ ☆ ☆
From London come the names of those
N.S.W. girls who will be presented to
the Queen at Buckingham Palace on
July 14, and, as many will be known to
readers, they are included here. They
are Elizabeth Anderson (Springfield,
Young), Cherrie Beaumont (Randwick),
Millicent Bryant (Wahroonga), Helen
Campbell (Yass), Virginia Colling (Bal-
moral), Jennifer and Rosemary Cullen
(Bringelly), Diana and Dimity George
(Double Bay), Diana and Penelope Horn
(Darling Point), Susan Dowling Powell
(Queanbeyan), Margaret Ralston (Double
Bay), Georgina Macfarlane Scott (Darl-
ing Point), Elizabeth Fordyce Wheeler
(Warrawee), Patricia Horsley (Tumb-
long), Gillian Kirkpatrick (Wollongong),
Janette Boyd-Law (Lismore), Margaret
McDonald (Canberra), Mary Jane Moore
(Bellevue Hill), Rosemarie and Margaret
Newell (Wollstonecraft), and Robin
Potter (Pymble). They will be presented
by Lady White, wife of Australia’s High
Commissioner in the U.K.
☆ ☆ ☆
Doubtless Sydney papers are well-
intentioned in the pathetic stories they
feature nearly every day of destitution,
delinquency, poverty and neglect, but no
thoughtful person can fail to see that
such publicity must have a bad effect
upon those involved, especially upon the
children. Certainly those most qualified
to comment, the skilled welfare-workers,
deplore such publicity, for they are in a
position to see the final results upon
individuals and households, and they
know what harm can be done.
At the annual meeting of the Family
Welfare Bureau the chairman, Mrs. C. J.
Pope, made a comment to this effect
and quoted an instance of children
learning from a newspaper article that
their father had once been in jail. This
sort of thing is more likely to encourage
delinquency than to deduce it, for, as the
director of the Family Welfare Bureau,
Miss May Pillinger, said in her annual
report, “The way to reduce delinquency,
divorce and emotional illness is to make
it possible for parents to give their
children a happy, affectionate home-life,
so that they may grow up to be healthy
adults.”
This is the aim of the bureau, which
offers help and advice to all who need
it, and is of particular value to civilians
who are not eligible for help from
ex-Service organisations. Warm-hearted
people who wish to lighten the burdens
of the less fortunate would be wiser to
support such a bureau than to rush
impulsively to the aid of individual,
spectacular cases merely because the
limelight is upon them, but which, ulti-
mately, may not benefit at all. The
bureau is at 58 Martin-place and is
certainly worthy of interest and support.
►Jt gt g«
The Royal Australian Army Nursing
Corps held its 53rd birthday-party at the
Feminist Club during the week, and there
was much liveliness in the singing of
songs, reminiscences and general conver-
sation among the 120 members present.
A pale-blue cake with 53 little red candles
was cut by Miss Constance Fall, prin-
cipal matron of the R.A.A.N.C. in
N.S.W. Most of the members present
were veterans of World War 11, but
there were several, including Miss Sophie
Durham, patroness of the R.S.L. Sisters’
Sub-branch, who had seen service in the
First World War. Organised by the 2/6th
A.G.H., Concord, this year’s party had
as its hostesses Sister Pat Brown, Mrs.
Keith Bain and Mrs. Ross Dunn.
☆ ☆ ☆
Scientists have agreed, after some
international research, that bees “have
an uncanny ability to tell the time,
especially when it is time to eat.”
Passing over the fact that the newly
born baby next door seems to have this
uncanny ability also, one wonders
whether this information will remain as
a contribution to pure science, or will
some practical use be made of it? May
we, perhaps, in the future be able to dis-
pense with alarm-clocks, dinner-bells and
Frere Jacques, using instead groups of
trained bees which will buzz around
telling us when we are hungry and
harassing us until we get up out of bed
in self-defence? The second function
would be necessary only in winter, as
in summer mosquitoes already haye the
matter well in ? hand.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO RICHARD JOHN COADY late of
No. 140 Pacific Highway North Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that LOIS MARGARET
COADY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1093 of 1955 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Twentieth day
of September 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHN H. YELDHAM & SPAIN,
Solicitors, of No. 137 Pacific Highway,
North Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO ARTHUR LAWRENCE COOPER
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife BARBARA MARY COOPER
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of de-
sertion by you for a continuous period of
three years or more or alternatively on
the ground of separation of the parties
for a continuous period of not less than
five years there being no reasonable
likelihood of cohabitation being resumed
IF you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within FORTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and make
orders, against you in your absence.
DATED this 21st day of June, 1955. —
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED
CURRAN, ESQ., of 37-38 Padbury Build-
ings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
CHILDREN
BY CHOICE, NOT CHANCE
The humanitarian scientists, Dr. Knaus, and Dr. Ogino, have
discovered a means of determining with certainty the exact time
of fertility and sterility in the individual woman. A safe, natural
method allowing one to dispense with chemicals and appliances
and which is also not objected to by any religious or health bodies.
NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
It is simple, easy to follow and makes Family Planning absolutely
reliable. It enables people to whom children have been denied for
years to calculate accurately the woman’s fertile times ana thus
know when conception may be fostered. On the other hand, it
encourages and enables young couples to marry early and to settle
down first. Then they can fix the date for conception and birth
of their first child and later, according to circumstances.
ELIMINATION OF RISK
Thousands of clipical tests have proved it.
CHURCH SANCTIONS NATURAL METHOD
Medical authorities highly recommend it. Dr. Alexandre’s
“MARITAL ADJUSTMENT COURSE” gives complete natural guid-
ance for the happy and successful regulation of the marital
relationship in all its aspects. It ™ n tains the WOMAN S CYCLE
CALCULATOR,” invented by DR. _E. ALEXAND RE, D.be., wflicn
gives guaranteed reliably a woman s fertile and sterile days.
Price of FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR £3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. 8.N.7, Box 3584, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
■DON’T DELAY—MAIL AT THE EARLIEST!
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc., Dept. 8.N.7, Box 3584, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. (12 Alan St., Nth. Sydney. Phone XY6789.)
r- 1 Please send further information re both. I enclose addressed,
stamped envelope.
r~i Please send under plain, sealed cover the FULL COURSE OF
U INSTRUCTIONS and the WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCULATOR.
I enclose £3.
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS (State) ~
B.N. C/7/’55
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Musk
“Turandot”
At Her Majesty’s, Melbourne,
they must be kicking the stage
cat for their lack of prescience
in making “Turandot” the tail-
end of the opera procession
instead of the head.
There were more would-be
opera-goers outside the theatre
than inside at the last evening-
performance, word having got
around that it was a spectacle
of Oriental magnificence which
made “Aida” look like a panto-
mime by the Gunn’s Gully
dramatic club.
Further, there was the singing,
rich, deep and lovely, of
Kenneth Neate as the lovelorn
prince who has to give the
answers to three riddles or lose
his head, and there was the
declamatory rage of Conchita
Flores as she asked the ques-
tions and his joy when he gave
the right answers —no local
broadcasting-station has ever
presented a quiz-session like it.
Whether the prince was over-
joyed at having the possession
of the lovely princess or his
own head was not vouchsafed —
probably it was the latter, as the
Prince of Persia had just previ-
ously lost his in a blood-curdling
scene in which six executioners
danced an amazing ballet all
over the Imperial Palace of
Peking, while Ping, Pang and
Pong, in the persons of Poli,
Kevin Foote and Zagonara,
maintained a humorous com-
mentary on the proceedings.
There was no touch of reality
in it as there is in “Butterfly.”
It was a producer’s dream of
Oriental savagery and splendor,
like the dream Coleridge had
which resulted in his celebrated
poem. There are no anachron-
isms possible in dreams, since
time and place have been
eliminated, so the robes-mistress
gave herself a fair go in the
costuming, as did the scene-
smiths in the architecture. The
result was gorgeously kaleido-
scopic, especially in the last two
acts.
The clanging choruses deserve
special mention, as does Tucci
for her delicious singing (as the
slave-girl) of some of the most
moving music Puccini ever
wrote.
In the “Puccini” film at
the Melbourne Australia the
conductor is directing the first
performance when he sud-
denly lays down his baton,
turns to the audience and
says “At this point the com-
poser died,” and then picks up
his baton and goes on. Puccini
did die at that point, worn-out
by his struggle with the Muse,
and Alfano carried on. Alfano
did a good job, but the J.C.W.
management would be paying a
graceful tribute to Puccini if it
revived the practice. It would
also provide a moment more
dramatic than anything in the
opera.
* *
Borovansky Ballet
Just as the opera had to start
with the traditional “Aida,” so
the 1955 Borovansky Ballet at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, had
to start with “Swan Lake, and,
amidst intense excitement, the
curtain rose on the enchanted
lake and the castle misty in the
moonlight, all very well done by
J. Alan Kenyon.
Then Royes Fernandez, the
young American dancer, strode
on with that peculiar gait appro-
priate to fairy princes, and the
Queen of the Swans (Peggy
Sager) sailed on very swanlike,
followed by the leading swans,
little swans and swans in general,
and everything was forgotten in
the perfection of their move-
ments. Next, the huntsmen
turned-up with their crossbows,
and there was a dramatic
moment when the prince, mis-
taking them for New Australians
after the local fauna, placed the
swan-maidens under the protec-
tion of the Fisheries and Games
Act, not for any utilitarian or
scientific reason, but because,
like the harmonious thrush and
the kookaburra, their limbs were
far too shapely to go into a pot.
At this point, Tschaikowsky
rose to the occasion with a
melody so lovely that the pro-
ceedings ceased to be of this
world. Then came in a chatter-
ing motif, to which the swan-
maidens responded with little
jerky movements which were dis-
tinctly earthy.
The corps de ballet is much
improved, and, considering what
they do and look like, and what
politicians do and look like, they
should be getting £lOOO a week
and the politicians 10s. 6d.
“Los Tres Diabolos,” the new
ballet by Paul Grinwis, was of
a different order. It was a
choreographer trying to be funny
about the Devil, who is dis-
covered soaking his corns in a
bucket, and about three lesser
devils, who go out into the
world and have various adven-
tures. Grace was imported into
the proceedings by Kathleen
Gorham, a most accomplished
and natural dancer, who can
make pertness look pert and
comedy look comic.
“Graduation Ball” made a
smart reappearance.
“The Shrike”
This, put on by the Genesians,
Sydney, is good, but grim, enter-
tainment. So far as anyone can
have commonsense reasons for
attempting suicide, its central
figure, Jim Downs, has them.
It is just after he has taken 156
tablets of phenobarbital that
the play opens, and his recovery
in hospital is very much attended
by his sugar-coated shrew of a
wife.
The author, Joseph Kramm,
has said the last word on the
wife’s character in the title —
the shrike is a bird with the
endearing habit of impaling its
food alive on a thorn-bush until
needed.
Before his attempted suicide,
Jim Downs had been separated,
from his wife. When she finds
he still has no intention of
returning to her, she cooks-up
enough lies to cast doubt on his
sanity. His choice is between life
with her or life in the asylum.
Maiva Drummond plays this
role with such zest that present
reviewer felt that, for his part,
he’d take the asylum any day.
Don Crosby made an excellent
job of the unhappy Jim Downs,
but Mark Kelly turned Dr. Bell-
man into an ogre. Though a
very good ogre, he made it
harder to believe in what is,
after all, a fairly unlikely play
to start off with. If this was
director Shan Benson’s fault, he
made up for it with good work
elsewhere. _
G. P.
* *
A.B.C. Vocal and Concerto
Competition
In the New South Wales State
finals, held in Sydney, six in-
strumentalists and two singers
faced the adjudicators.
As an epilogue to the con-
cert, and to give the judges time
to correlate their opinions, the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Goossens played
Chabrier’s “Espana,” and it
couldn’t have needed more than
a couple of bars of that sparkling
French treatment of Spanish
rhythms for them to decide that
Gwenda Holloway was winner
in the vocal section. Her only
opponent was Russell Cooper,
whose bass had insufficient
carrying-power.
In the instrumental section it
was fishhooks and headache-
powders all the way for the
judges. The technical standard
attained by the four pianists and
the two violinists was remarkably
high, and Rornola Constantino’s
winning effort in the first move-
ment of Beethoven’s “Emperor”
Concerto was very close to good
professional playing — exact,
crisp, stylish and limpid.
Twenty-year-old Carmel
Kaine, highly commended,
played the second and third
movements of Beethoven’s
Violin Concerto, a performance
marked by good attack, clean,
easy bowing and a nice tone in
the fiddle’s high reaches. The
tone on the G-string during the
slow movement just lacked the
breadth and depth to ease-out
her keyboard rival for first place.
Another young violinist, Mary
Nemet, also played most attrac-
tively the opening movement of
the same work, so that the com-
plete concerto was performed.
The other three pianists—
Melvyn Bennett, Ruth Richard-
son and Micaela Virgona —
played movements from con-
certos by Prokofieff, Delius and
Britten, respectively. Here again
the performances had plenty of
merit, but contestants who select
contemporary works must turn
in superlative delineations to
have a chance against those
playing concertos of classical or
romantic flavor in which scope
for phrasing and other phases
of pianism, so important in judg-
ing, is generally so much wider.
In the Queensland finals at
Brisbane Barbara Hoad took the
instrumental prize with a fresh
and attractive performance of
Weber’s lively little First Clarinet
Concerto. This was a pleasant
change from the usual small
group of well-worn concertos
locally heard, and the artistry
displayed by Miss Hoad should
give her rivals in the Common-
wealth finals something to think
about.
In the vocal section, Margaret
Baker had no difficulty in let-
ting her coloratura voice out-
shine the tinny set of bells owned
by the Queensland Orchestra.
Otherwise, Rudolf Pekarek and
his players accompanied sym-
pathetically, and in the final
piece, Khatchaturian’s Piano
Concerto, they combined with
John Davidson to give a brilliant
finish to the competition-
evening.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
G. K. Townshend
In these days, \$hen half the
exhibitions around town seem
to ignore honest technical
ability—or try to conceal the
lack of it—it is pleasantly
reassuring to walk in on a show
like G. K. Townshend’s exhibi-
tion of watercolors at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney,
and see the walls hung with
irrefutable evidence of the
artist’s mastery of his medium.
There they are, painting after
painting—sunny, pastoral, lyri-
cal, dramatic—each saying what
it has to say with such calm,
certain skill that there is a kind
of twofold artistry about it: an
artistry of vision a,s well as of
execution. Those qualities, of
course, are the normal essentials
of painting; they merit com-
ment here because of their
admirable combination, and be-
cause so many contemporary
painters try to make do with
only one of them.
Not that there aren’t ripples—
signs of struggle—in the Town-
shend show. There is a shadowy
torment in the darkness and
depth of paintings like “Sacred
Ground” and “Trees, Albion
Park,” as though the artist were
trying to force his medium into
the realms of oil. They have a
dark, half-stated drama about
them, but that is all; although,
in a similar mood, “Yachts in
the Bay” has a remarkable
depth and richness in its
shadows and half-lights.
The dark turmoil of those
paintings is one extreme; the
other lies in such light and
facile paintings as “Fisherman’s
Jetty,” “The Green Boat” and
“The Moorings” — pleasant
records of pleasant places.
The really excellent work lies
between those two extremes: in
the drama of light and the
dark harmonies of color in
“Approaching Storm”; the
lyrical notes and the charm of
vanishing roads in “Country
Road, Gloucester” and “Moun-
tain Road”; the lovely clear
washes and the sunlight and
shadow of “At Gloucester,”
“Farmlands, Gloucester” and
“Farm, Kiama”; the superb skill
that catches the atmosphere of
storm in “Foreshore”; the
dramatic contrasts of grey
shadows and light in “The Out-
post”; and the windswept trees
and house on the “Windswept
Hill” . . . One might range
almost right through the cata-
logue, in fact, and come up with
something excellent nearly every
time.
❖ ❖ ❖
Judy Cassab
The flowerpieces, landscapes
and portraits by Judy Cassab at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries are
large, coarse, painty and violent,
as if the artist had flung herself
at her canvas with a mattock.
Frankly, this commentator would
prefer to see some evidence that
a paint-brush had been used.
Some make bright and weighty
decorations; a few, such as
“Kitchen,” where the rough,
shantylike subject suits the rough
style and where the color is
harmonised to a glow of orange,
suggest that the painter’s energy,
if it is disciplined and refined,
may bring results later on.
In her flower- and bird-
paintings at the Athenaeum Gal-
lery, Melbourne, Eugenie La
Gerche makes an abstraction
from their environment of her
subjects and, on a flat white
background, paints every petal
and feather with all the metieu-
lousness of the early Flemish
painters. There is nothing to
object to in that—the Persian
carpet-makers, the Japanese pot-
tery-painters and the Indian
tapestry-weavers did it. Unfor-
tunately, except in a few rather
delicate and graceful pictures of
twiggy branches with humming-
birds clinging to them, Miss La
Gerche’s line is stiff and
academic, as though she has too
much technique, or the wrong
sort, at her disposal.
Talkies
“The Weak and the Wicked”
(Sydney Palace): An English
prison for women is the setting
for this drama, which has several
subsidiary stories radiating from
that of the central character, a
girl who, an inveterate gambler,
gets 12 months for fraud. The
scenes “inside” carry convic-
tion, and there are, to leaven
the grimness, some touches of
humor, done in the best
English manner.
“Many Rivers to Cross” (Syd-
ney St. James): The producer of
this M.-G.-M. period-piece of
frontier-life in the Kentucky
forests has mixed dramatic action
with large slabs of comedy on
the dependable old theme of the
irresistible female bent on mar-
riage meeting the immovable
male. The result is not such an
indigestible dish of celluloid
salmagundi as might be imag-
ined. This is due mainly to the
solid anti-amatory work of
Robert Taylor and the charm of
Eleanor Parker.


ask me no questions
by E.O. Schlunke
‘ 4 1 SHOULD like to make a
I wager with you,” said the
| professor of applied
psychology, who always
felt that he could impress his
secretary sufficiently to make the
risking of his money unlikely,
“that Australian wives are just
the same as American wives ; or
at least the same as the behavior-
of-the-human-female reports say
they are.”
“Well, why don't we,” the
secretary suggested eagerly,
“make an investigation of our
own —pick out a few hundred
married women at random from
an electoral roll and send them
a questionnaire?”
“It could be done,” the pro-
fessor agreed, “if you are pre-
pared to do all the routine work
involved.”
“Oh, certainly,” said the young
man, who had an idea that the
information so gathered might
be useful to him. “There is one
thing, though ; how are we going
to know whether the answers we
get are truthful or not?”
“That would depend largely
on the psychological insight of
the man who draws up the ques-
tionnaire and writes the accom-
panying letter. You can safely
leave that part of it to me.”
“Yes, sir ; I can see that would
take care of the majority, but
don’t you think there would
still be a few who would deliber-
ately try to deceive us, just out
of natural, feminine perversity?”
“For every one,” said the pro-
fessor, “who added an affair,
there’d be another who would
subtract one, so the average
result would be the truth. There
is a profound truth, I assure you,
in averages.”
TN a country town the post-
man’s whistle makes every
housewife immediately drop her
ironing or dish-washing and
hurry out to the front-gate. It
is the only time of the day when,
metaphorically, a handkerchief
may be dropped for her, or a
brick dropped on her.
Doris Sylvester lost no time;
but accomplished little perks to
her appearance on the way out,
conscious that for a few minutes
she would be making a flitting
public appearance along with the
other women of the street. All
would be putting on a show of
receiving important letters;
notices of their husbands’ pro-
motion, say, or invitations to
the town’s most exclusive social
affairs, or even news of un-
expected legacies or a major
prize in the lottery.
There were enough in Doris’s
box for her to loiter a while and
publicly leaf through them. On
the second time through (the
housewifely way of making it
appear that she had twice as
many letters as in fact the post-
man had delivered) she realised
that there was one for her.
Because it was contained in a
large businesslike envelope, such
as her husband was always likely
to receive during his forays with
“the Department,” she had very
nearly put it aside with his. Now
her eye was held by the unusual
initialling: Mrs. D. M. Sylves-
ter ; Doris, May; not F. J.
from her husband’s names.
It was, as she saw immedi-
ately, one of those tedious forms
to be filled-in ; which, however
simple and straightforward they
appeared, always contrived to
trap her by having two almost
identical questions, to which, as
her husband was ever ready to
point out, she invariably applied
the wrong answers through not
reading the whole form first.
She considered putting it aside
for him, to avoid these petty
humiliations, then, moved by an
impulse to defeat him, began to
read it carefully. A moment
later she gave a startled cry;
then with an air of extreme
guilt she tried to hide it among
the other letters and hurried
inside.
TN her bedroom with the door
shut and the blind drawn, she
verified the suspicion that some-
one had had the audacity to pick
on her as a subject for an
inquiry about women’s morals.
For, buried with a certain
amount of cunning, among a lot
of more-or-less unobjectionable
questions about her marriage,
was the vital one, about which
the questionnaire pretended to
be impersonally scientific, by
calling it her “extra-marital
relations.”
Her first reaction was one of
acute embarrassment, and even
shame. She tried desperately to
think of an occasion during her
normally respectable married
life when she might have acted
in such a manner, at a dance,
say, as to give a wholly wrong
impression to an unknowing be-
holder with a prurient mind ; or
when she had talked too care-
lessly, retelling racy anecdotes,
for instance. But presently,
having read the accompanying
circular, which bore the address
of a university faculty and was
reassuringly arid and sterile in
tone, she was convinced that the
investigator was making a scien-
tific, if deplorably distasteful,
research, and that the thing had
not come from some low charac-
ter of her acquaintance who was
trying to find out how profitable
an approach might be.
Her next impulse was to burn
the letter immediately and so
make an end of the matter, but
before she could accomplish
this, another fit of uneasiness
assailed her. Supposing now
that her husband should find out
in his all-too-sly and crafty man-
ner that she had received the
circular, would not her destroy-
ing it suggest to him that she had
done it because of guilt rather
than innocence? She decided
then to tell him about it as soon
as he came home, then to fill-in
the details of her married life
in all its blamelessness, and so
disappoint the still somewhat-
suspect person who had sent it.
Thus she would score off him ;
it would, in fact, be rather a
joke. The anticipation of it
entertained her for the rest of
the day. Various mirth-provok-
ing opening gambits kept occur-
ring to her, such as, “Do you
know, Frank, that there are cer-
tain men tremendously interested
in my morals?” She weighed the
merits of half a dozen of them,
on and off, all day.
T>UT when Frank came, the
children were home, too, and
naturally the behavior of the
human female could not be dis-
cussed in their presence. All
through tea, and afterwards
when the children were doing
their homework for other
teachers, and it had to be done
perfectly or Frank would know
the reason why—Frank acted
with an intolerance and impati-
ence which made Doris’s antici-
pations of a gay and lively scene
over the letter appear to be more
and more unrealistic. At last
when the children had been sent
to bed it transpired that Frank
had something on his mind too ;
one of his quarrels with
authority.
An overgrown lout of a boy
had been intolerably rude to him
and Frank had given him a
crack over the head with a ruler.
Then the boy had had the nerve
to complain to the head. The
head, in the subsequent three-
cornered interview, instead of
assuring the boy that he had
thoroughly deserved the rap and
a caning as well, had ruled that
the matter could only be set
right by the boy apologising to
Frank, and he apologising to the
boy. Frank had refused out-
right to apologise, and the head
had transferred the boy to an-
other class until such time as
he, Frank, should do what was
required of him.
“Now,” said Frank in a truly-
outraged and over-excited man-
ner, “I’m going to write a
scorching letter to the inspector
and if he doesn’t put that up-
jumped head in his place I’ll
find some other way of doing
it.”
Doris gave a woebegone cry,
because this kind of conflict
meant all sorts of stress and
strain to her as well as Frank,
the unpleasantest complications
would develop in their relations
with the other teachers and their
wives. For a moment she buried
all thought of the questionnaire ;
but her disappointment made her
speak with more asperity than
usual.
“Why not just let the boy
stay in the other class? If he
is the lout you say he is, you
should be glad to be rid of him.
I say, forget about it all, go to
bed and have a good rest.”
But instead of accepting her
good advice Frank poured all
the anger and exasperation of
his trying day upon her. “I
won’t forget about it; and I will
write to the inspector. 'You go
to bed yourself, because you’ll
only disturb me.”
“All right,” said Doris', in a
voice that made all the children
pull their blankets over their
ears in dismay. “I will go to
bed.”
And she went. She was only
too well accustomed to going
alone, while Frank stayed up,
pouring all his vitality into furi-
ous correspondence.
DORIS was so angry that she
couldn’t sleep, and as she
lay awake pondering, as she
usually did when they had one
of their quarrels, on the mis-
fortune of being married to a
man like Frank, she began to
harbor romantically bold visions
of getting ah adequate revenge
on him; imagining that she
had taken it into her own hands
to resolve the quarrel and had
done it in so masterly a manner
that he’d had to acknowledge
her superiority.
She thought of herself going
to see the head. Dressing to
look her best, with careful atten-
tion to all details because he was
a boldly-handsome man and
undoubtedly had an eye for
women. While pondering, she
caught herself beginning to doze.
She made an effort to remain
awake because her anger against
her husband demanded a more-
or-less sleepless night.
Then she must have lost her
grip on her consciousness again,
because she came up with a
start from a scene half-imagined
and half-dreamt, of herself and
the head, he taking hold of her
bare arms above the elbows with
excitingly strong hands and put-
ting his meticulously-groomed,
dark and fascinating head
close to hers and saying, “I’ll
fix it all up for you, if you’ll
just have an extra-marital rela-
tion with me.”
The worst of it was that in the
dream she had not recoiled from
him, outraged and angry. She
was profoundly shocked with
herself and decided to dismiss
all thoughts of the situation
from her mind and compose her-
self for decent slumber.
Next morning Doris, with an
odd and unfamiliar feeling of
guilt at the back of her mind,
pleaded with Frank again, to
let the matter rest. But he, in
a pitiably nerve-racked state,
exploded at her.
“A lot of help you are to a
man. Taking sides against him.
You’ve never been any use to me
in a crisis ; you’d have me going
through life licking the boots of
every headmaster I’ve served
with.”
Then he slammed out of the
house bearing a long cartridge-
envelope bulging with his
grievances.
“No use to me” went rico-
cheting madly round in Doris’s
brain, soon to be joined by a
train of other projectile-like
phrases of her own: “Made his
home for him,” “Reared his chil-
dren,” “Lived within his salary,”
“Stood his bad tempers.” The
velocity and the friction were so
maddening that she ran to her
bedroom, where, without taking
deliberate thought about it, she
got out the questionnaire and a
pen, and in the invitingly large
space reserved for the extra-
marital relations she wrote:
With the headmaster of his
school when my husband was
driving me mad with his stupid
quarrels.
THE crazy ricocheting ceased.
She felt surprisingly calm
and relaxed; she felt almost
reconciled to Frank; she un-
thinkingly revived the idea of
laughing over the questionnaire
with him until she realised that,
the questionnaire had suddenly
become a dangerously incrimin-
ating document to be disposed
of at the first opportunity. She
considered again the advisability
of destroying it, but immediately
the projectiles began to race
madly round her brain again:
“Mended his socks,” “Cooked
thousands of meals for him . .
So without any real reluctance
she acknowledged that it would
have to be posted, true or false ;
just or unjust, safe or dangerous.
That night she smartened her-
self and met her husband at the
door with a smile; but he was
bowed down with his grievance
and lurched past her unaware
and unappreciative.
“I didn’t post the letter,” he
said.
“Oh, I’m so glad,” said Doris,
careful not to let any triumph
show in her voice. “Now we
can be happy again.”
She put her arms round him
fondly; she felt magnanimously
forgiving towards him, as though
she had offended more than he,
and could afford to be generous.
But Frank was as unresponsive
as an empty suit suspended on
a coat-hanger.
“I didn’t post it because I saw
the inspector. I told him all that
was in it, and a lot more.”
He paused and looked at her
with eyes so aggrieved and in-
jured that she could guess the
result of the interview.
“Now I’m going right over his
head to the director. I’ll write
another letter tonight, about the
head and about the inspector,
too.”
Doris was so upset she did not
attempt to argue with him. At
tea he was unbearably bad-
tempered and unjust with the
children, and afterwards so un-
endurable that she sent them off
early and went to bed herself.
She knew the inspector well, a
keen and ambitious fellow, with
an adroit way of evading any
kind of situation that might be
likely to embroil him with his
departmental superiors. She
could imagine how nimbly he
would extricate himself from
her husband’s clutches and she
could imagine just how infuriat-
ing and how humiliating it
would be to Frank.
She found herself milling over
the much more difficult problem
of how she might be able to
straighten out things with the
inspector. Then suddenly he was
in the room with her, being
astonishingly agreeable and sym-
pathetic. Quite naturally she
was asking for his powerful in-
tervention on Frank’s behalf,
and he was promising it while
he kissed her hand, and fawned
upon her, because of the irresis-
tible attraction that was drawing
him closer and closer to her. Her
conscience, or her youthful
training, or her lifelong prin-
ciples, jerked her awake before
any more could happen.
Next morning Doris made an
earnest attempt at a reconcilia-
tion with Frank. They had
hardly ever continued hostile
for more than twenty-four hours
before. Two of his feverish
letters were usually enough to
contain all his spleen ; and this
morning, she thought, viewing
the fat envelope he had ready
for the director, could well be
the end of this. She patted him
sympathetically, and refrained
from saying a word about his
quarrel, meanwhile acting as
contritely and humbly as if she
had been the original cause of
all his trouble.
Previously, these tactics ap-
plied at the right stage had
never failed to win him over to
a generous reconciliation; but
now he began to rage with an
absurdly juvenile rancor against
the inspector, as if the man had
done him the greatest profes-
sional and personal injury pos-
sible. Doris was so upset that


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
69 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
I
MORE THAN
t* ■
#
0
WITH
///
in Independent Tests
carried out by
university engineers
Esso
EXTRA
\W X
MOTOR OIL
GET IT TODAY FROM..
Your
ATLANTIC
Retailer
as soon as Frank had left the
house she got out the question-
naire and, feeling that she was
only doing justice to the inspector
and herself, she put him in the
space below the headmaster.
FRANK looked brighter that
night, but his brightness
came from a new and crazier
idea for his revenge.
“I should have thought of it
sooner,” he said. “The Rotary
Club. They’re always talking
about service-before-self, and
community-service, and voca-
tional - service, and getting-
behind-good-causes.”
“But,” Doris objected, want-
ing to get in early and discourage
him before he involved himself
again, “both the head and the
inspector are members of the
Rotary Club.”
“Yes,” her husband exclaimed
with his irritating omniscience.
“That’s just where I get them in
a cleft stick. To make the teach-
ing staff happy, contented and
smooth-working is both a com-
munity service and a vocational
service for them. All I need to
do is inform the Rotary presi-
dent of the situation. Then if
the aims and objects of his dub
mean anything at all to him, he'll
be bound to put heavy pressure
on both these deadheads and
make them do the right thing
by me.”
“I still don’t see how anyone
outside the department can make
the inspector or the head do
something they don’t want to
do,” Doris said stubbornly.
Her husband eyed her. “If
they don’t they’ll be expelled
from the club, and that would
be a disgrace they’ll do anything
to avoid.”
“Who is the Rotary president?”
Doris asked, new apprehensions
stirring in her.
“Oh, you know him ; that big
solicitor fellow, Fulton, who
fixed up the trouble we had
about the rent. He’s a decent sort
of chap and just the one to im-
press the head and the inspector
with his courtroom-manner. I
can see him telling them what
they ought to do ; and then go-
ing straight to do it.”
“Fulton was sympathetic
enough,” Frank told Doris the
next evening ; “their club is hav-
ing a meeting tonight and he’s
going to take it up with the in-
spector and the head.”
He paused, looking glumly
thoughtful. “The trouble is I
could see it sticking out a mile
—that to Fulton and the Rotary
Club, the head and the inspector
represent education. They’re
taken as the authorities on the
matter and what they say goes.
Still, I. told Fulton enough about
them to make him see What sort
of people they are, and how
tough he’ll need to get with
them. Anyhow, we’ll see to-
morrow if he’s done any good
with them.”
JUST how impressive Fulton
could be with his dominating
courtroom-manner Doris dis-
covered that night; and it was
so much more gratifying to be
able to bend a man like him to
her wishes than headmasters and
school-inspectors that she only
just contrived to wake herself
up in time. But from Frank's
report next day, it seemed ap-
parent that Fulton hadn’t been
very effective with Frank’s
enemies.
The next night Frank came
home looking passionately angry.
It transpired that he had decided
to enlist the help of the Parents
and Citizens in his cause, with-
out realising how desperately
neutral the people who keep
shops are obliged to be, in the
interests of trade. The president
had been lavishly sympathetic,
but so unhelpful when it came
to positive action that he had
annoyed Frank more than any
of the others.
“Damnable, sitting-on-the-
fence coward,” Frank called
him.
Doris knew the P. & C. presi-
dent well, since she often bought
her groceries at his shop. He
was a pleasant jolly gentleman,
full of bonhomie; not the sort
of man she would ever have
thought of asking to intervene
on “her husband’s behalf; just
a small, if ambitious, business-
man to whom she was polite but
vaguely patronising. She went to
bed disgusted with Frank and
his quarrels and completely un-
interested in tonight’s letter. This
was to be addressed to the Min-
ister for Education himself, and
was now going to be doubly
difficult because it would be
without the supporting affidavit
Frank had expected from the
P. & C. president.
After the tensions of the even-
ing, all Doris wanted was relax-
ing and restoring sleep, yet as
soon as she started to doze, there
was the P. & C. grocer smiling at
her even more unctuously than
when he displayed his richest
sides of bacon for her choice;
and, along with the bonhomie
and the commercialised desire-
to-please, was a look that was
both seif-congratulatory and
anticipatory.
Doris reacted with a violent
leap from her bed. Automatic-
ally, and feeling that.it was being
done more in self-defence than
for any other reason, she got
out her list and added the P. & C.
man below the headmaster, the
inspector and the solicitor.
~|VrEXT morning she felt
ashamed of herself. As if
she had been wanton and had
demeaned herself.
“You’ll really have to stop
this, Frank,” she told her hus-
band in a sensible wife-to-man
manner. “It is doing something
dreadful to my nerves.”
‘‘Your nerves!” her husband
exclaimed at her, still looking
raw and ragged. “What about
mine ? Don’t you ever think of
anyone but yourself?”
Then he went on wildly about
his letter to the Minister and
about a new plan to enlist the
support of the secretary of the
local branch of the Labor party,
who would undoubtedly pull
twice as much weight with the
Minister as the grocer could,
anyway.
This secretary Doris knew by
sight, because he was a familiar
figure at all his party’s election-
rallies, which had been taking
place in the street regularly dur-
ing the past weeks. He was a
violently class-conscious head-
mechanic from the railway
repair-workshops. He probably
washed himself quite as fre-
quently as any teacher, but
always had the stain of railway-
engines ingrained in his hands
and in the creases of his face ; a
lean, fanatic-eyed man with the
rabid look of one ridden by
political injustices.
That night Frank looked just
a little less inflamed. Doris had
a moment’s compassion for him
because she suspected that he
had been unwell for a long time,
though characteristically he
would never agree to see a
doctor.
“The A.L.P. secretary said
he’d write a letter for me,” he
said. “But he wants a quid-pro-
quo. He wants me to canvass for
votes each afternoon after
school, and you to hand out
how-to-vote cards in front of
the polling-booth on election
day.”
Doris recoiled at the sugges-
tion with her eyes fixed on him,
near to contempt.
“You can canvass if you like.
But don’t expect me to make a
fool of myself trying to tell
people which way to vote. Right
in front of the school, too, with
half the teachers there as return-
ing-officers and poll-clerks.”
Again she went to bed in a
rage. She took the precaution
before settling down of making
a firm resolution to banish
Frank’s problem from her mind ;
nevertheless, as soon as she ap-
proached the borders of sleep
there was the mechanic. He still
had his politically-engrossed ex-
pression on his face as if she,
after all, was relatively unim-
portant, but what made his
intentions startlingly apparent
was the obvious fact that he had
scrubbed himself meticulously,
as for a special occasion, so that
only the smallest traces of
railway-engines remained on his
skin.
THE local State member of
Parliament, the moving-
spirit of the progress association,
a minister of religion and several
other leading public men of the
town had to listen to Frankie’s
appeals, before the space in
Doris’s form was entirely filled.
Then she sealed it deliberately in
an envelope and posted it,
cherishing a hope that by this
decisive step she would exorcise
the evil spirit which seemed to
have taken possession of her.
By now Frank looked so
much a wreck that she was not
surprised when he told her that
the head had advised him to take
an afternoon off to go to see a
doctor.
“It looks as if he’s weakening,”
he told Doris, in his unflagging,
self-deceiving way.
Then, when it looked as if
Frank would have to abandon
all expectation of help from
influential persons, they received
an invitation to a social event
which normally they would have
been more than proud to accept;
the annual dinner, given to hand-
picked, prominent citizens and
their wives, by members of the
Rotary Club.
“I suppose Fulton sent it,”
Frank said in his ferretingly sus-
picious way, “so that he could
show us what other good deeds
his Rotarians are doing, even if
he couldn’t do anything for us.”
“We can’t go,” Doris said.
“All the people you appealed to
and who turned you down will
be there.”
Frank thought it over fiercely
and got his stubbornly-aggressive
look on his face.
“I won’t let that intimidate
me. I’m going, and if you
don’t come I’ll go alone.”
Doris decided that it would be
wiser for her to go along with
Frank. She tried to slip him
into the hall when the affair was
half over, unnoticed. But Fulton,
at the door welcoming guests,
made a big fuss about her and
Frank, as if they were doing the
Rotary Club a great honor in
coming.
The inspector and the head, as
high Rotary officials, shook
hands with them too, holding
on to Doris’s hand with a
warmth and for a duration which
suddenly struck her as alarm-
ingly significant. Before they
got to their places at the table
a number of the gentlemen who
had figured in Frank’s dilemma
had come rushing over to them,
and clasped her hands with a
fervency which could hardly be
explained as no mere than the
famous Rotary good-fellow-
ship.
Even after she’d got into her
seat she hardly dared look up,
for each time she did she would
find the eyes of one or another
of the men from her list resting
upon her ; and Frank, who had
been so full of confidence before
the event, presently lost his
defiance and crouched over his
plate making an unconvincing
pretence of eating.
FOR a couple of hours they
listened to a glorifica-
tion of high business and social
ideals: Service-before-self, in
short. Rotarians, come especi-
ally for the occasion from
50 or even 100 miles away,
spoke about the wonderful
things they had done in their
towns. Scholarships provided
for indigent students; tents
bought for Girl Guides ; tennis-
courts paved for hospital nurses.
Tough-looking, shrewd and
capable business- or professional
men who looked as if they had
forgotten what it felt like to get
the worst of any kind of trans-
action, becoming unashamedly
sentimental about helping lame
dogs over stiles, putting the
down-and-out on their feet, and
giving those set-back a leg-up.
And all the visiting speakers, by
some sort of concord, making
heavily humorous passes at the
local club, because for the last
year it had raised the least money
for deserving charities, and com-
mitted fewer praiseworthy deeds,
until Fulton and his fellows
ceased to laugh, and assumed the
unhappy look of dedicated men
who have a heavy leeway of
good works to make up.
(Continued on page 31)


a eloud like amlergris
by
Ray mathew
WALTER was my best
friend and he is cer-
tainly, the cleverest
person I have ever
known. Not that his cleverness
made us friends ; cleverness is
a rather unfriendly thing, as
I’ve since found. And it wasn’t
his literary talent, either, if
you’re trying to write you’re
sympathetic towards others in
the same boat, but you don’t
necessarily become friends ; and
Walter and I became friends.
If it was because of any one
quality it was the fact that
Walter was—is —l suppose, the
most amusing person I know.
Not witty, not funny, but able
always to cheer me up. He had
the gift of saying the most
intelligent things at the very
moment when they were absurd.
Just after the war, for
instance, when we were sharing
a room and pretending to create
masterpieces, Walter with his
novel and I with verse ; when
we were very poor, living on the
three-pounds a week I got for
a couple of days in a shoe-
store, there were times when
the pretence of being a genius
became more than I could bear.
With Walter, of course, there
was no pretence and he never
despaired.
I remember a night in October
when the rain banged on our
half-attic like a shower of
reproaches and made me
thoroughly sick of it all. The
room looked dirty, sordid. The
beds were unmade. There were
shoes scattered about, some
bottles —empty, of course. It
was all empty.
“It’s all empty,” I said. “It’s
all nothing.”
And I bit, rather savagely,
for effect, at my toast and baked
beans. We tended to live on
baked beans.
Walter took no notice of my
despairing outburst. He went
on reading the tablecloth —last
week’s Positions Vacant —with
a kind of incredulous interest
that would normally have
amused me, but just then I hated
him for it. I was thinking about
the food we ought to have been
eating, the lovely pricey French
wines we ought to have been
drinking, the girls we ought to
have been impressing. I lifted
my toast and took another
mouthful. I bit savagely again
—annoyance this time—and
spilt the beans on my only white
shirt. I started to scrape off the
red mess.
Walter looked up. I glared
something of murder at him.
“Poetry,” said Walter, “is
largely a matter of economics.”
This struck me as funny. I
laughed till I cried, till Walter
joined in. We laughed till we
cried. Poetry, we agreed was
largely a matter of economics.
When we stopped laughing
everything seemed all right: the
shoes on the floor, the bottles,
the unmade beds. It was all all
right; the situation was bear-
able for a little while longer
and Walter’s pronouncement
became one of our catch-phrases.
We had several like it: logic,
we used to say, is purely a
matter of linguistics; we live,
we used to roar, in a materialistic
age.
One would have only to
begin these phrases to set the
other laughing. It was that sort
of friendship. We cheered one
another up. We shared hysteria.
Apparently, we hardly knew one
another at all. At any rate, I
didn’t know Walter.
T SHOULD have, of course. I’d
A seen some of his writing. It
should have told me something.
It was clean, clear and blood-
curdling.
“I am not,” Walter used to
say, “trying to write a novel. I
am not trying to do anything.
I have, in fact, achieved a
nightmare.”
I thought he was joking, read
the piece and still thought so.
We didn’t have much in
common as far as our work
went. I didn’t really believe
anything except poetry existed
—or painting, possibly.
Certainly not prose.
“If you’re writing prose,” I
said, “you ought to be making
money.”
Walter smiled. I think now
that the smile was sinister.
“As you know,” he said,
“poetry is largely a matter
of . . .”
And we started to laugh.
We rarely showed one another
what we had written ; but some-
times, if I had had something
really important rejected, some-
thing that I knew here and
there was good, I would thrust
the returned copy into Walter’s
hand and order him to read it.
One day when I did this he
actually read the poem through
—I don’t believe he usually did
—and began to criticise it. His
criticism seemed ridiculous. I
was younger then, and almost
all criticism seemed ridiculous.
It’s only nowadays, of course,
that I know it is.
“Ambergris,” said Walter
when he finished reading. “Why
ambergris? ”
“Why?” I said.
“Yes. Why ambergris?”
“Ambergris,” I repeated.
Rather dully, I imagine.
“Yes,” said Walter. “Why
ambergris? Indeed, why the
phrase, ‘a cloud like ambergris’?”
I gazed at him. What an
idiot!
“Why not?” I asked.
“Well,” said Walter, “what
color is ambergris? What
shape? And hasn’t it a sort of
smell? Do you know—do you
actually know what ambergris
is like? Do you actually
know?”
I explained carefully that
ambergris was not the thing;
that the cloud was something
ordinary from which wonders
could be made.
“Like ambergris,” I said, “it
changes. It becomes rich. But
it’s just a cloud. Just humble
ambergris.”
“You see,” I said.
“Oh, yes, I see,” said Walter.
“But do you know ? Do you
actually know what ambergris
is like?”
This became, after I’d left
that particular poem behind me,
another of our catch-phrases.
Do you actually know? . . .
I used it on Walter, quite
seriously, not very long after.
He announced that he was tired.
“Sleep,” I suggested.
Walter looked at me pity-
ingly it was obvious I was
being materialistic. “I am
filled,” said Walter, “with the
tiredness of poverty, and there
is no sleep deep enough to
freshen that.”
I stopped typing—l was doing
reviewing at the time and we ate
spaghetti as well as baked beans
and looked at him.
tt “You may well look,” he said.
“I’m not unmindful that I have
created an impression of indif-
ference to my surroundings,
even to my food.”
JLTE shuddered as he glanced at
an empty tin near the type-
writer. “However,” he went on,
“I have in some measure found
this mode of life a jest distaste-
ful. lam tired. We must have
money.”
I looked at the pile of gooey
novels I was reviewing. I
thought about my Fridays and
Saturdays in the shoe-store. I
looked at the tin near the
typewriter.
“Yes,” I said.
“There are ways,” said Walter,
“of making money.”
“Really,” I said with some-
thing like bitterness.
“Ways,” continued Walter,
“that are not noticeably dis-
honest, as the world ranks
honesty. You, for instance,
might write a poem longer than
‘Paradise Lost.’ ”
“Really!” I said.
“I,” said Walter, “might write
an ordinary novel.”
I looked at him.
“It only sounds impossible,”
he assured me. “While you
have been selflessly burning
yourself out at your shoe-shop,
I too have been thinking of the
firm —us. I have read these
books that you review so
brilliantly.”
I looked at them. They were
very ordinary novels.
“I could do better than those,”
he said, “and still be quite
ordinary.”
I was incredulous. I was
rather shocked. I tried to joke.
“But do you actually
know ?” I began.
“Yes,” he said rather tiredly.
“I have already composed such
a work. I make, as you know,
very few plans, perform very
few definite actions. And Ido
nothing at all unless I actually
know.”
XTE was speaking quite truth-
fully, as it turned out. His
novel was accepted and pub-
lished. Unfortunately he had
made it such an ordinary
ordinary-novel that it made
something less than an ordinary
amount. By the time it
appeared in print, however, we
had parted company.
I had a regular office job,
neat hours and prompt pay. I
had had some verse published.
I was fairly respectable.
Walter, too, had changed. He
was more dedicated than ever.
I saw him fairly frequently. We
drank together, went to much
the same parties, talked. He
was talking, vaguely, not defin-
itely, of another “ordinary
book,” a detective yarn or a
sadistic thriller.
“As far as I can tell,” said
Walter, “it’s crime that pays.”
I went to see him. He was
still living in a room with tins
and bottles. I had graduated
to suburban board-and-lodgings
and was feeling the need for
comfort.
“I want to go away,” I said.
“If I had any sense I’d go back
to the bush. There’s nothing
here. It’s little-Europe. People,
that’s all it is. An antbed! I
want space, space and time.
Quiet.”
“It seems to me quite true,”
said Walter, “that poetry is—
largely, that’s to say—a matter
of economics. You should
make a wealthy marriage.”
“Are you serious?”
“Few subjects are entirely
serious. Comfort is one of
them. A wealthy marriage
could be very comfortable.”
“But do you actually know?”
I said. I was still fool enough
to think Walter was funny.
“I intend to know. As a
matter of fact, I am going to
marry Marjorie Helton. It will
be in the papers.”
It certainly would be. I knew
the girl; a uni. student who’d
never grow up, with money, and
family, and background. We’d
met her at the kind of parties
where the social grease-spots
met the literary drips.
“Does she know?” I said, and
sort of laughed.
“Oh, I’ll tell her,” said
Walter. “I will let her know.”
He did, apparently. While I
was away in the bush—shoe-
store again and a town full of
people, little-Sydney—the two
were married. It was in the
papers; one had a picture. It
said underneath it that the happy
couple would live with the
bride’s mother in her home at
Vaucluse.
He wrote me a couple of dry
letters describing his felicity—
“as I call her”—and telling me
the number of silver spoons in
the house. He asked me to
make his mother-in-law’s place
my home whenever I happened
to be in Sydney.
'THEN his crime-novel came
out.
Walter wrote to me about it.
“It will not make money. One
has to have a willing public if
one is to make money in this
field. The casual reader is
addicted to lending-libraries and
they, of course, buy only one
copy of a book that has no
waiting public. Besides, the
book is no good, not even of its
type. I didn’t actually know
what I was doing. Too much
ambergris. My next, though,
may bring me a fortune.”
But two years went by and
there was no next. I returned
to Sydney. I took a real job
and began to worry about it.
Then I became ill. Walter
and Marjorie, his “felicity,” as
he still called her, came to see
me. They looked at my room.
I was back with bottles and
tins.
“This is not good enough,”
said Walter; “not nearly good
enough.”
“Not nearly good enough,”
said Marjorie.
So I went to Vaucluse, to
Marjorie’s mother’s place—to
Walter’s place, that is. It was
very pleasant, roomy, comfort-
able, and with good views. I
enjoyed being there. As I got
better I found that Walter was
as amusing as ever, that
Marjorie, in small closes at any
rate, was not too irritatingly cul-
tured, and that her mother
owned the house in every sense
of the word.
She was ill, for one thing.
She had a heart and everyone
knew it. And she counted the
silver whenever it was washed-
up. She talked incessantly,
infuriatingly, about her mother’s
people, but when she was out-
of-temper she sat in a sort of
shouting silence that could be
felt all over the house.
And she was very mean with
money.
“Marjorie,” said Walter, “is
quite a dear; irritatingly tidy,
but quite a dear. Her mother,
on the other hand, is largely a
matter of economics.”
And we laughed.
ATARJORIE’S mother died.
IVJL \y e were a ii surprised, even
the doctor. Her heart, it
seemed, had really been there.
I was surprised, too, at the
way Marjorie took it. She wept,
of course ; she had tears enough,
but as soon as she’d had a good
go she’d wipe her eyes and rush
round doing housework, arrang-
ing furniture, and that sort of
thing. She gave up talking her
sort of cultivated English jitter
and began behaving rather like
a woman,
Walter remarked on the
change. He said that he hoped
she wouldn’t become house-
proud and disturb his little ways,
now that they were free and had
money.
“It’s obvious,” I said to him,
“that this illness of mine was
some sort of a breakdown. I
can’t have a job, lead a vigorous
social life, and write, too.
Something will have to go.
I’m giving up the job.”
“You could stay here,” said
Walter: “Never go back to
reviewing! We have a com-
fortable income now. I
wouldn’t be surprised if we
became quite wealthy. I would
like, in any case, to be a patron
of the arts. I would, I confess,
quite like to do something for
Australian poetry; you would
be very welcome to stay here.”
I murmured a polite refusal,
but I couldn’t help thinking that
it sounded all right. I could
pay them back eventually.
“Money,” Walter was saying,
“can buy anything. Even pub-
lishers, I should think. My real
novel will come out, and my
next ordinary-novel, too. It
should make quite a lot of
money. It’s very good. I feel
sure it’s very good.”
“Do you actually knowV ’ I
said.
“Do you know,” said Walter,
looking straight into my eyes,
“that a cushion, an ordinary
bedroom-pillow, held over the
face of someone either very
young or very old will kill them
in a manner that is indistinguish-
able from natural suffocation,
or some sort of heart-attack?”
“No,” I started to say. Then
I stopped.
“On that definite fact,” said
Walter, “stands my next.”
And he smiled at me. I have
never been so frightened in my
life.
After I left their house and
settled into another job and
thought about going back to the
bush and/or writing my novel,
I tended, partly by design, to see
less of Walter. We met occa-
sionally and, had a drink. We
talked about Walter’s real novel,
which had been printed pri-
vately and apparently read the
same way. After his thriller,
The Crimson Pillow, appeared
we talked vaguely about it. As
vaguely as I could manage.
“I knew,” said Walter, “that
real ambergris would be
successful.”
“Logic,” I said inanely, “is
purely a matter of linguistics.”
“Marjorie,” said Walter,, “is
rather ill. A most distressing
complaint. Interesting, though.
I’m studying the symptoms. I’ll
use them, I suppose, in my next.
One has to be accurate. I see
no reason why one should lower
standards even in an ordinary-
novel, do you? And I must say
it’s a relief to have the dear girl
locked in one room. She was
always arranging and re-
arranging things. She was
getting, in fact, rather like her
mother.”
He sounded apologetic, and
looked rather sad, so I didn’t say
anything at the time.
T wrote to him, though, after
A Marjorie died. It was a little
poem in couplets. I put it in a
black-edged envelope and posted
it without a stamp: I thought
that was a very good touch. I
can’t remember any of the lines
now and I was too excited about
it even to type a copy, but I
remember there was a particu-
larly blistering couplet rhyming
“ambergris cloud” with “some-
thing shroud.”
There was no answer to this.
I pride myself that no answer
was possible. But I did get a
letter from Walter a few weeks
afterwards. It was very warm
and friendly.
“I have found,” he wrote, “an
excellent cook. So do come and
have the kind of food that your
talent deserves. You are prob-
ably starving again and in need
of a meal, and I would like to
do something for Australian
poetry . . . .”
I didn’t go, of course. Walter
and I exchange letters now;
that’s all.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BAKREBB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
baekeee distribution CO.
(Dept. 3q), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
(3JW sworn dux
SANDERS
Correspondence. » t
r-
statements, etc.. Died in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month—or
any other period.
Price* and fur-
ther information
topon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. .. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1878.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £ 1/16/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
heelers and holders
by Douglas
Waugh.
got to be able
\ / to catch a buck-
\/ wallaby on a green colt
£ in whipstick brigalow
before you’re any good with
cattle,” said old Ted Carter, as
he leaned against the rail of the
yard.
The old stockman, still as an
owl, gazed at the milling mob
of scrubbers in the yard ahead
of him. He spoke without
turning his head, a stuck cigar-
ette bobbing on his lip. Behind
him a young Englishman gazed
at the heavy grey-moleskin
trousers, the blue-drill scrub-
jumper, the shapeless felt-hat.
“I think I’ll be all right,” he
said to the older man. “They
hadn’t a more experienced man
to send.”
“What’ve you been doing?”
“I’ve been doing the milking
and the killing, and a bit of work
around the house ...”
“Oh, you’re the cowboy, are
you?” The older man threw
away his butt. “Don’t know
what they send you with me
for —what use you’ll be with
the cattle.”
The newchum protested: “A
man’s got to start!”
Ted Carter turned to look at
him. He saw a fair-haired
youth on a restless cob that
reefed endlessly at the bit.
“What’s up with your horse?
You can’t expect him to stand
if you kick him up behind—
and then pull him back in
front! What do you expect
him to do?”
Lennon, the English lad, felt
like riding away, back to the
station-house; but he apolo-
gised : “I thought he might
settle if I punished him a bit. ’
Carter’s eye fell upon a sorry-
looking blue-grey cattle-bitch
that slunk behind the cob a few
paces away, tail and nose touch-
ing the ground.
“What’s that followin’ you?”
“That’s Fanny. I bought her ;
I bought her for £l.”
Ted Carter roared with
laughter. “Bought her? That
flea-bag? Old Erikson was
tryin’ to give her away for three
weeks —with no takers. He
must have put the price up!”
He turned back to the rail.
“Anyway, I don’t want her
with the cattle; she might put
some beast out of the mob.
We’re only going ten miles
along the stock-route all
fenced ; but I don’t like dogs on
the road. They worry the cattle.
These are mostly scrubbers, and
touchy.”
The boy looked downcast:
“Shell be no trouble, I assure
you, Mr. Carter,” he said.
“She’ll keep behind.
only got to speak to her.”
“Well,” said Carter, “keep
her away from the stock. I
can’t see' you looking after a
dog as well as a horse.” He
coiled his stockwhip round his
right arm. “We’d better scratch
gravel, if you’re coming. Go
into the yard quietly and ease
’em out.”
He mounted and rode at a
walk to a spot east of the yard,
and let his whip uncoil; his
mare stood still as a rock, and
he sat like an old owl on her.
The leading bullocks came
stalking out of the yard, heads
up, hooves breaking into a
tentative trot. One crack of
Carter’s whip sent them wheel-
ing through a gate on to the
fenced stock-route.
LENNON, the boy, brought
up the rear, Fanny trailing
at a sickly and respectful
twenty paces.
“We’ve got no worries,” said
Carter to the boy. “The route’s
fenced all the way, and well
be there some time after mid-
day.” He glanced at Fanny, the
blue-bitch, as he closed the
gate: “That sorry-looking slut!”
The boy frowned: “I don’t
think there’s any need for dis-
respect. The man I bought her
from said she was a ‘heeler.’ ”
Carter cut a lagging beast
with the horsehair-cracker on
the end of his whip. “There’s no
call to ride round the cattle from
beast to beast like that. They’ll
go,” he said to the boy, “and
you’ll wear yourself poor, to
say nothin’of your horse. You
make me savage! Why don’t
you lengthen your stirrups a
bit, sittin’ there like a moll at a
christenin’?”
The boy reddened. “That’s
quite uncalled for.” He con-
trolled himself. “I was about
to ask you, Mr. Carter, what is
meant by a ‘heeler’?”
Carter brought his whip round
and down to earth with a crack
that stirred the lagging tailers
into a brief trot. He frowned
for a while, and looked round
doubtfully at Fanny.
“Well, son,” he said at last,
“there are different kinds of
cattle-dogs—or different kinds of
dogs used for working cattle.
A ‘heeler’ is a dog like that blue
bitch’s said to be. When a beast
needs a little hurry-up, or when
it turns out of the mob, a heeler
will snap on its heel and get it
moving. They’re used some-
times for driving or yarding
cattle. But there’re some dogs
bred for different use in the
scrub. They’re bred for hold-
ing bad cattle. If a beast turns
too savage or too tough some
people’ll put a dog on him —to
pull him down. That’s called a
holder.”
The English lad blinked.
“You mean a dog can hold a
bullock?”
“A good holder,” said Carter,
“can hold any beast. I’ve seen
different dogs grab in different
places—some by the brisket,
some by the flank. I knew a
dog once’d always grab a
troublesome cow by the udder,
till one day a black-poll slipped
and fell on him and crushed
him.”
The boy gasped. “That seems
severe treatment for one’s cattle.
In England”
Carter frowned. “I’ve never
put a dog like that on a beast
myself; but there are odd
times . . He stared vacantly
at the dust: “I shot a scrub-
bull once that was bushed
away on his own and too heavy
to throw, and not much sale-use,
anyway.” He frowned darkly
at the boy. “Why d’you ride
round all over the place like a
mad gin?” „
“I was getting the cattle up,
said the boy, his face flushing.
They pushed the mob along
without more words, Carter
rocklike and sullen; Lennon
torn between a need to learn
about the job at hand and a
desire not to lose self-respect.
Fanny trailed the two horses,
repressed, dejected, apologetic
and the hours passed, broken
only by the snap of Carter s
whip, the lowing of the cattle,
and the trill of finch-hungry
butcherbirds.
AT midday Carter got off his
horse in the shade of a box-
tree. “Well eat,” he said.
“The Duckponds—t h e water-
hole —is just ahead. The
cattle’ll be right. There’s just
about a mile to go to the yards.
Did you bring some grub?”
He raked a few leaves and
sticks together and lit a tiny
fire to boil quartpots for tea.
Lennon pulled some corned-
beef and bread from his saddle-
bag.
“You don’t light much of a
fire,” said the boy. He pulled
up some more broken wood into
a pile. Carter scowled and
kicked it away. “If you light
a big fire you can’t get near
it,” he said, and fell into sullen
silence.
The smell of the corned-beef
became too much for Fanny,
who approached gently, step by
step, tail faintly wagging, ears
back. The boy tossed her a
small bit of meat. Carter
swung round and hit her with
the mess of brown sodden tea-
leaves from the bottom of his
quartpot.
“Get to blue blazes out of the
camp!” he yelled in anger.
“Y’ mangy mongrel of a
starvin’ lousebound daughter of
a bitch!”
Fanny slunk away dejectedly.
“That,” said the English lad,
“was certainly not called for! ”
Carter fumed: “So I have to
wait till you call before I
speak?” He swung on to his
mare. “Bring up the tail! I’ll
check the lead.” He rode away
at a canter.
Lennon mounted his cob, and
began to push the cattle along
from the waterhole, which
swung half-way across the
stock-route; he wished at this
stage he had a whip, though
whether he could use it he was
not sure. How was he to keep
the cattle moving without riding
round them? Carter expected
a lot. Some of the beasts still
drank on the far side of the
hole, fetlock-deep in mud. The
urge entered Lennon to try his
dog just once. He sent Fanny
in, and the cattle swung out of
the mud and off at a trot up the
stock-route.
“Come behind!” shouted the
boy to the lean cattle-bitch ; but
Fanny pressed on behind the
cattle and gave an extra nip at
the heel of a large strawberry
bullock. The beast panicked
and crashed a cypress post of
the stock-route fence. Fanny,
thrilled by the chase, went after
the beast over the wire, and
heeled again savagely. “Come
behind!” called the boy, dis-
mounting. He pressed the
broken post of the fence to the
ground, led his cob over, and
mounted. “Come behind!” he
shouted.
The little blue cattle-bitch
heeled the bullock again. The
great scrubber turned at the
sharp bite —and Fanny was not
quick enough out of the way.
The nearside hind hoof trod on
her, cracking her ribs like twigs,
and the beast made off for the
thick timber. The English lad
rode up and gazed at the dying
bitch. He swung his cob off in
pursuit of the scrub-bullock.
66T THINK,” said Carter, as
•*- he yarded the mob of
cattle alone half-an-hour later,
“that my able assistant’s got
himself killed. I’m one bullock
short and one assistant short.’
The old man at the yard
scratched the grey stubble on
his face. “Good offsiders is
hard to keep,” he nodded, dis-
missing the theme. And then:
“If it’s only one beast y’ might
have trouble t’ drive him. Y’ can
take Rocks, if y’ like.”
Carter looked at the - huge
white bull-terrier chained to the
rail. “Not good to work anyone
else’s dog,” he said thoughtfully.
“He’ll work,” grunted the old
man, “he’ll work f’ you. He’ll
’old any beast, that dog, won’t
you, Rocks?” he said, untying
the greenhide collar. “Go on,
Rocks,” he said, “follow ’im
out! ”
Carter set off at a canter
down the road, indifferent
whether the dog came or not,
and the big white holder went
with him. They crossed the
fence at the broken post, and
rode on to the body of Fanny,
the blue cattle-bitch. Rocks
gave a low untidy growl.
They set off for the timber at
a fast trot, Rocks in the lead,
on the scent of the fresh tracks.
Carter picked up the hoof-
tracks on a sandway, and broke
his mare into a canter. They
came to an open patch near a
creek, and Carter reined his
mount in on the edge of the
clearing. He called Rocks in.
Man and mare and dog could
see a still drama ahead.
AT one edge of the clear patch
stood the scrub-bullock,
stock-still, head high; at the
other sat the English lad on his
reefing cob, facing the bullock
at about fifty yards.
Neither boy nor beast seemed
to know what to do; but there
were signs of much action
before. Young Lennon’s left
leg oozed blood from a nasty
gore - mark, his trouser - leg
saturated red. The cob reefed
its restless excitement. The boy
watched the beast and the beast
watched the boy.
Carter rode his mare into the
clearing at a slow walk. A single
beast that stands, that won’t
gallop, is a fierce thing to tackle.
You can’t throw a beast that
won’t run. He looked at the
boy’s leg and at the white face
from which the blood had
drained.
“What’s up with you,” he
asked, “sittin’ there like a shag
on a rock?”
The boy blazed. “I was
chasing him,” he said hotly,
“and he lost his breath.”
“His wind, y’mean?” said
Carter.
“I apologise,” went on the
English lad, “if I’ve done the
wrong thing. But I see no need
to speak offensively about my
seat in the saddle!”
Carter grinned. “That’s all
right, son,” he said. “I admire
courage.” He looked at the
boy’s bloody leg. “It seems,”
he said, “that that beast needs
softening-up a bit before he’ll
drive!” He called to the pant-
ing white bull-terrier: “Go on,
Rocks, hold him!”
THE holder leaped out into the
long grass, the white head
and shoulders bobbing now and
again above the seed-tops as
Rocks took a look at his quarry;
and as the dog came near the
bullock turned to make for the
scrub. There was no time!
Rocks leaped for the strawberry
face, and fastened great canine
teeth on to the nose and top lip.
A bellow of frantic despair filled
the bushland.
Rocks found himself swung
up and down by the strength of
the great strawberry neck,
crashed from side to side, falling
with tail perilously close to the
bullock’s side-swung horns ; but
each time the four paws landed
firmly on earth and the teeth
sank a little deeper into the
beast’s flesh.
The battle swung between
growl and bellow, the bullock
walking no more than a few
paces back. Blood, red blood,
and froth from the beast’s
mouth began to stain Rock’s
neck and shoulders. The dog’s
teeth sank deeper, and the beast
bellowed in pain. The swing of
the great withers lessened, and
the great horned head began to
fall.
Rocks got his paws firmly on
the ground his vice-grip
dragging on the bullock’s nose.
Slowly down came the bullock
to his knees.
“I think he might drive now,”
said Carter. “I’ve never done
that to a beast before ; but I
didn’t like him killin’ the little
blue bitch.”


CHATEAU TANUNDA
No. 5
r#' ! \ '!;
WX- %
0
The First Cold Escort Arrives in Sydney, 1854.*
GOLD FEVER
In the 1850’s, when the gold fever in Australia
was at its height, this country produced nearly
half the world’s gold output. (To-day, we hold
fifth place, after South Africa, Canada, Russia
and the United States). Although most of this
gold came from a myriad of cradles, dishes and
improvised crushers, many tremendous nuggets
were unearthed.
The first of these nuggets was found in July, 1861, by
an aboriginal shepherd at the Turon River, New South
Wales. It weighed 1,272 oz. and was worth £6,000.
Between 1853 and 1871, twelve nuggets each weighing
more than 1,000 oz. were found in Victoria. One of the
most famous of these was the "Welcome Nugget ” found
at Bakery Hill, Ballarat, in 1858 : It weighed 2,217 oz.
and was worth £9,325. Also discovered at Ballarat (in
1869) was the “ Welcome Stranger," which weighed
2,284 oz. and was valued at £9,534. It was exposed by
the wheel of a passing baker’s cart and was found by
Richard Oates.
The largest single gold deposit found in Australia —it
was a mass of gold in a reef rather than a true nugget—
was located by a German migrant, Bernard Holterman,
and his Polish partner, Beyers, at Hill End, N.S.W. in
1872. It was a slab of gold, standing 7 ft. high. This
slab broke in two; the weight of the larger portion
was 7,560 oz., valued at £12,000.
Many small mines proved to be enormously rich. An
easy day’s ivork in one hole at Ballarat yielded £l,BOO.
But for every one of these success stories there were
countless failures. Even after spending every penny
they owned and toiling for long and weary years,
thousands of gold-seekers reaped only a harvest of
disappointment.
* Print courtesy of the Mitchell Library.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
offie (&ian£^crf£Z)£6tMictu>9i-
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838
_ GFS
Glamor Bird - 2
Stealing the Lyrebird’s Secrets
By ALEC H. CHISHOLM
IT is surely remarkable that
lyrebirds, although strong in
voice and as large as
pheasants, have successfully
played hide-and-seek with the
human inhabitants of the Sydney
region for more than a century
and a half.
Even at the present day nests
of Menura superba are in use
each winter within a short dis-
tance (not to say “easy” distance)
of various suburbs and certain
busy roads, and yet, aside from
a small group of naturalists,
scarcely any of the city’s two-
million people have ever seen
one of the sturdy structures, and
very few indeed have witnessed
the wonderful display of the
male bird.
Here is one of the most
notable of all the birds of the
world. An inhabitant of thickly-
wooded and rugged places, it
was probably more-or-less com-
mon in the gullies of northern
Sydney when settlement began,
and to this day it continues to
frequent the uncleared ravines
of that area. Why, then (bearing
in mind its considerable size and
powerful voice), has the bird
remained unknown to the public
except by repute?
The answer to this question
does not relate merely to the
fact that the average modern
citizen, particularly the motor-
ing variety, is singularly un-
observant. Residents of early
Sydney had (perhaps) time to
stand and stare, and yet the
lyrebird evaded them quite
competently'— more so than did
many smaller birds.
Obviously, the explanation
rests mainly in the elusiveness
of the lyrebird and in the un-
commonly “tough” nature of its
Sydney habitat.
Today, with the extension of
roads and settlements, and be-
cause men have learned to cut
and blast space for buildings in
the sides and crests of cliffs, the
ancient Hawkesbury sandstone is
relatively subdued; but in the
beginning these gnarled old hills
and gullies, as viewed by eyes
accustomed to the orderly
landscape of Britain, were dis-
tinctly uninviting. Did they not,
in fact, cause Australia’s first
doctor to protest, in 1790, that
he was in “a country and place
so forbidding and hateful as
only to merit execration and
curses”?
That explains, no doubt, why
10 years of settlement had
passed before the “New South
Wales bird of paradise” (so
called) was discovered. Possibly
it also explains, to some extent,
why almost 70 more years went
by before the nest and egg were
revealed to science from any-
where in the Sydney region.
The astonishing thing, in this
regard, is that an egg of the
“bird of paradise” was sent to
Sir Joseph Banks, by Governor
Hunter, as early as 1798, but was
never made known only
recently, after a lapse of 155
years, was that action of Hun-
ter’s revealed, the medium being
one of his manuscript-letters in
the Mitchell Library.
What Banks did with the
precious egg remains a puzzle.
He should, of course, have given
it to a specialist or written some-
thing about it himself. Had he
done so a torrent of argument
would have been checked at its
source. Moreover, a lot of aches
and pains would have been
spared various zoologists, both
English and French, who sought
throughout New South Wales
during many years, but without
success, for knowledge of the
lyrebird’s domestic secrets.
When all is said, however, it
remains distinctly remarkable
that almost a century of settle-
ment went by before a nest was
made known from the Sydney
district. In spite of the rugged
nature of the area, various resi-
dents of early days must have
wandered from time to time
.about the flower-decked ridges
immediately north of the har-
bor, and any one of those
roamers, given a trifle of luck,
might well have stumbled upon
one of the bulky bird-homes.
Doubtless it was merely by
happy chance that the first
recorded discovery of the nest
and egg was made, in Gippsland
in 1844, by the track-blazer G.
H. Haydon.
In any event, Haydon’s name
merits a place of honor in lyre-
bird records. He gave in a book
published in 1846, Five Years in
Australia Felix, a faithful
description of the large domed
nest and the dark-colored egg,
and to that he added informative
notes (the first from Victoria) on
the wonderful mimicry of the
male lyrebird. And yet his ob-
servations were overlooked by
his contemporaries and have been
consistently neglected ever since.
With the coming of the
1850’s the family affairs of lyre-
birds received a wide airing on
an “official” basis. Not only
was an egg of the subtropical
Albert lyrebird (taken in the
Richmond River district of New
South Wales) hailed with joy
in England in 1853, and not
only was an egg of the southern
bird placed on view at a Mel-
bourne exhibition in 1854, but
a chick actually was born in that
period, under scientific auspices,
in the heart of Melbourne.
This last development had its
origin in the fact that Dr. Lud-
wig Becker, a German naturalist
and artist living in Melbourne
(he died a few years later as a
member of the tragic Burke and
Wills party), had appointed him-
self to be a kind of international
publicity-manager for the lyre-
bird.
In that capacity the enterpris-
ing Becker did a little bartering
with a native named Simon, son
of one of the Yarra-Yarra
chiefs who “sold” a large area
of land to John Batman; he
gave the aboriginal a “photo-
graphic portrait” of a group of
natives in exchange for a bullan-
bullan’s egg. Having to carry
the egg several miles, Simon
tucked it into the warm folds
of his possum-skin cloak, with
the result that soon after the
deal was made the shell split
asunder and a naked baby lyre-
bird tumbled into Becker’s hand.
In that quaint manner ap-
propriate to the general fantasy
of lyrebird history was an
example of Menura superba,
junior, first made known to
white men.
Besides sending lyrebird data
and drawings to England and
Europe, Becker wrote on the
subject in the journal of a local
scientific society of the day,
the Philosophical Institute of
Victoria, and there he was sup-
ported by rich information from
J. W. Beilby, a dweller in the
Latrobe River country.
This bushman, in addition to
reporting on the astonishing
mimicry of the male bird, sup-
plied details regarding several
Lyrebird Junior, five weeks old.
nests he had found in the winter
of 1856, and, with a touch of
artistry, he described the egg
as being “like smooth unpolished
black marble, with greyish veins
between the rounded black
clouding.”
Salute to Beilby! He has, it
is true, been lost to notice for
almost a century, but because
his records were the first of their
kind, founded on personal ex-
perience, to appear in any scien-
tific journal because, indeed,
he revealed basic facts in the
story of the earth —it was inevit-
able that his name would be in
time, as it now is, rescued from
oblivion.
Possibly a similar acknow-
ledgment should be made in the
case of a man named Braisher.
Who or what he was is not
known nor likely to be known,
but his name has come down the
years in connection with the
first published report on the
nesting of the superb lyrebird
in New South Wales.
What happened was that in
1867 the idea occurred to Ed-
ward P. Ramsay, a young Syd-
ney naturalist who was later to
be director of the Australian
Museum, that it was high time
something was learned of the
domestic life of the lyrebird in
its “home” region, and so he
commissioned a number of
men to look for nests in the
wild country south-west of Syd-
ney. Braisher was the most suc-
cessful of those seekers; he
brought in several nests (in itself
no light undertaking), together
with three living chicks and
several eggs, and in addition he
supplied Ramsay with data
regarding the birds’ nesting-
habits.
The Ramsay-Braisher notes
were published by the Zoological
Society of London early in
1868. They remain the only in-
formative observations on the
nesting of the southern lyrebird
obtained in New South Wales
at any time during the 19th
century.
Oddly enough, although the
decorative birds may be sup-
posed to be less common on the
fringes of Sydney now than they
were in early days, it is only in
recent decades that nests have
been found near the city with
any frequency; and that de-
velopment is due, not merely to
the fact that the gullies are rather
more accessible than they once
were, but to the pertinacity of
latter-day naturalists, plus their
knowledge of how to go about
the business of nest-finding.
Once you have found the nest
of any kind of bird you know
when and where to look for
others of the same kind, and in
the case of the lyrebird certain
definite pointers are available.
The basic “trick of the trade”
with nest-seekers is similar to
that of detectives; they look for
prints. Thus in May of each
year, when the tang of late
autumn is in the air, Sydney bird-
men clamber into certain sub-
urban ravines and examine the
soft earth; and when they find
numerous scratchings—soil and
debris scattered by the strong
feet of lyrebirds—they proceed
to comb the crevices of rock-
walls, the bases of large trees,
and any other spot that is apt
to harbor a nest.
Occasionally, as the searches
extend into winter, a strolling
female lyrebird may be en-
countered, and in such a case
the watchers always peer at her
plain but robust tail. Here again
“detection” is being practised.
As Braisher learned in 1867,
when a female lyrebird is brood-
ing she usually keeps her tail
curled to one side in the nest-
chamber, and thus within a week
or two the feathers become
noticeably bent. Accordingly,
when an experienced searcher
sees a bird with her tail askew,
he knows that a nest is some-
where near, and by observing
the degree of the bend he is
able to estimate how long brood-
ing has progressed.
As the lyrebirds’ breeding-
season advances the nest-seekers
adopt a fresh technique: they
begin then to walk beside small
creeks in gorges and peer into
each pool. Odd as it may seem,
various well-hidden nests have
been found by pool-gazing.
The explanation, simply, is
that when the baby lyrebird dis-
charges a dropping (which has
a gelatinous-like covering), the
mother-bird takes it in her beak,
skims or jumps down to the
stream below, and drops it into
the water. Ancestral lyrebirds
developed this practice, no doubt,
mainly to avoid betraying
the nest to predatory creatures.
It was not to be anticipated
that in time to come a two-
legged creature would walk be-
side the streams, see the drop-
pings, and then examine the
ridges near by until the nest was
found.
Sometimes a search is suc-
cessful ; sometimes it isn’t. Dis-
covery of four or five nests near
Sydney in one season, a feat
that is occasionally achieved,
implies that the lyrebirding lads
have clambered and climbed
throughout many rough gullies.
If the work is hard, the nest-
seekers are at least fortunate in
the matter of weather. They may
slip and slide in the dampness
of winter, but the task of comb-
ing such areas would be a good
deal more arduous in warm con-
ditions.
Thus, although lyrebirdmen
are aware* that the winter-time
nesting of their subjects has a
strictly practical basis (being in-
fluenced by food-supplies, and
not by the idea of obliging in-
terested humans), they are suit-
ably grateful that matters are as
they are; and that not only
because of the weather, but be-
cause few other birds breed dur-
ing winter and so there is op-
portunity to concentrate on the
lyrebirds.
In most of the Sydney in-
stances the nests are in such
picturesque situations that they
win admiration on that account,
particularly on the part of
visitors from abroad.
When Sir Philip Game was
Governor of New South Wales
he and Lady Game paid cadis


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 18U6 m Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
upon at least three nesting lyre-
birds, and in each case they con-
sidered that the stiff scramble
had been well worth while. The
rugged beauty of the scenery im-
pressed them, but eyen more
memorable, perhaps, was the
grace and gentle dignity of the
pheasant-like bird that posed on
moss-covered ledges or sprang
from rock to rock.
More recently, the Duke and
Duchess of Gloucester learned
something of the rigors of lyre-
birding, for in the winter of
1945 they clambered down to
a lyrebird’s nest in a ravine hard
by the northern Sydney suburb
of Lindfield. One of their chief
impressions, it seemed, was
astonishment that a nest had
ever been found in such a situ-
ation. Certainly the spot was
wild; and certainly, too, the
climb would have daunted any
woman other than one with sure
feet and a sound spirit.
But, in fact, that nest-site was
more-or-less familiar to the bird-
men who served as guides for
the occasion, it being an
example of the lyrebird’s prac-
tice of occasionally brushing-up
an old nest (if the base remains
sound) in the following year or
even after an interval of a year.
Yet another distinctive habit
of the bird is the building of
what are known variously as
“nest-platforms,” “cradle-nests'’
and “skeleton-nests.” That is
to say, she sometimes constructs
the rudiments of a nest, leaves it
in favor of a different site, and
proceeds to build upon the plat-
form in the following year or
perhaps two years later. This odd
practice appears to be simply a
matter of reserving a site —in
case of emergency.
Facts and figures assembled in
recent years, in three States,
reveal that the nesting-habits of
lyrebirds in various parts of their
thousand-mile range agree gen-
erally but differ slightly, accord-
ing to locality, in the matter of
breeding-dates and nest-sites.
The earliest recorded egg-date
near Sydney is May 26, whereas
that of Victoria is June 10. In
New South Wales the main egg-
laying months are June (25 per
cent.) and July (50 per cent.);
in Victoria they are July (50 per
cent.) and August (37 per cent.).
Chicks leave the nests, generally,
from mid-July to mid-September,
but instances have been known
of fledglings being “in residence”
as late as October.
Nest-sites in Victoria are for
the most part at the bases of
large trees or on stumps ; in the
Sydney region they are mainly
crevices or ledges in sandstone
cliffs, and in the Granite Belt of
northern N.S.W. and south-
eastern Queensland the struc-
tures are usually balanced, some-
times precariously, on the rather
smooth ledges of huge boulders.
In three instances nests have
been found in holes in the earth:
one at the entrance to the bur-
row of a wombat in north-east-
ern N.S.W.; one in an old mine-
shaft in the Canberra district,
and one in a hillside cavity in
Victoria.
Here are a few general
figures relating to the breeding-
activities:
Nest-building . . 4 weeks
Nest neglected . 10 days
Egg neglected . 7 days
Incubation period 6 weeks
Chick in nest . . 6 weeks
All of those times are average
and approximate. Variations oc-
cur according to circumstances.
Thus, in the case of a female
eager to set up a home, nest-
building may be completed
within a week or so, but with
a more leisurely-minded lady
the process may take twice to
four times that long.
Naturally, incubation periods
are governed by situations. In
one favorable area (where food
was readily available and the
egg received close attention),
hatching took place within little
more than five weeks, but in a
site on Mount Buffalo (where
both the earth and the nest were
frequently covered with snow),
incubation occupied as long as
two months.
The nature of a situation may
also govern the period spent by
a chick in the nest, and that
not only through food-supplies
but because of the height of the
nest from the ground. Lyrebirds
in certain areas, possibly having
been harried by foxes or dogs,
have developed a tendency to
build aloft in the forks of large
trees, and in such positions the
chick must necessarily be well-
fledged in order to be able to
skim safely to the earth.
In one instance a nest in Sher-
brooke Forest was about 80ft.
from the ground. In another
case, in north-eastern New South
Wales, an Albert lyrebird built
on top of a clump of “rock-lilies”
(king orchids) growing on a
large rock, and the situation was
such that the enterprising bird
could reach it only by .leaping
from bough to bough of a
neighboring tree.
Variations are considerable
also in the length of time in
which the nest is neglected im-
mediately after being built and
that in which the egg is allowed
to lie cold. As for the cause of
these long absences from the egg
during daytime, possibly they are
prompted by the need (on the
One of their nests in Sydney's outskirts.
part of the female) to build up
reserves of energy against the
long period of brooding.
Certainly the breeding-season
makes heavy demands on the
lady lyrebird. It entails at least
four months of solitary labor,
fc?r in that period her decorative
mate is wholly engrossed in song
and display.
Acting on the principle that
an artist of high talent should
not be bothered with domestic
duties, his lordship disdains to
carry even the smallest stick
or fragment of food to the nest;
and, of course, brooding is
practically impossible in his case
because of the great tail it
could not be manceuvred into
the nest-chamber in orthodox
fashion, and, as Beilby remarked
in the 1850’s, if it were allowed
to protrude it would “frustrate
the design of concealment.”
The question arises: Does the
average male lyrebird really
know the whereabouts of his
own ne§t, or, rather, his mate’s
nest? If so, he contrives to hide
that knowledge quite effectively,
for there are very few records
of his presence near a nest —even
fewer than there are of visits
by females to display-mounds.
Whatever the origin of the
birds’ unusual domestic arrange-
ments, their one-sided nature
does not cause the female to
scamp her nest-building. Maybe
it enables her to do a better job
than she would if her mate tried
to assist.
Having selected a site that
gives her scope to spring clear,
she makes a firm foundation of
mossy earth, interlaces sticks in
skilful fashion to form the body
of the structure, and then con-
structs a fern- and moss-crowned
chamber that is comfortable for
herself and roomy enough to
allow the growing chick to stand
erect and stretch his legs. In all
cases lining is provided by the
bird with feathers plucked from
her own flanks, the supply some-
times being so copious as to
screen the egg.
Considered in relation to its
size and the material used, the
completed nest is a distinct credit
to its builder.
If the task of building in a
normal spot entails considerable
labor, imagine how much more
arduous it is in a lofty situation.
There the bird has to spring
repeatedly from branch to
branch, or from cliff to cliff,
while carrying sticks of various
sizes. And, of course, the jour-
neys have, to be repeated many
times a day, during many weeks,
when the chick appears as a
sightless and naked fragment,
when he becomes an animated
golliwog, and when he grows
into a lusty fledgling.
It is well for the lyrebird, in
such circumstances at any rate,
that she does not have more than
one chick at a time. What a
task would be hers (since the
chick spends six weeks in the
nest) if there had been any sub-
stance to the old belief that she
produced “twelve to sixteen”
eggs each year!
When the nest is in a lofty
situation the bird uses her wings
beyond the normal; sometimes
she has to make a flying leap
directly upward over a distance
of 12ft. or more. Actions of
the kind are most frequent in
rocky areas, such as the cliffs of
Sydney, and in such settings the
bird becomes a striking figure.
Aside from their part in fly-
ing jumps, the wings are used
mainly (in conjunction with the
tail) when their owner is skim-
ming or gliding down slopes ;
but in emergency the bird is
quite capable of orthodox flight,
either upward or on a level
course, for a short distance.
The sub-tropical Albert lyre-
birds appear to be, in general,
rather better fliers than their
southern relatives, a fact that
may be governed by the much
less weighty tail.
Fortunately, nesting lyrebirds
have few natural hazards. The
habit of breeding in winter frees
them from the danger of bush-
fires (a grave menace to most
ground-nesters), and, with the
possible exception of certain
reptiles, of marsupial cats, and
of a parasitic fly that attacks
the chicks, they have no serious
enemies among the native fauna.
On one occasion we carried
a mounted specimen of an eagle
down a gully near Sydney and
placed it near a lyrebird’s nest,
but —much to the amusement
of a visiting Englishman—the
mother-bird treated the “menace”
with complete disdain. A mere
bird-of-prey obviously meant
nothing in her secluded life.
Nevertheless, the lady is
always on the alert maternally.
A hearty scream from the grow-
ing chick, if it has no effect on
the male parent, brings the
mother-bird to the nest at once,
and, with her crown-feathers
raised and large eyes glowing,
she is ready to offer defence
against any intruder.
Normally the most gentle of
birds, manifesting at once a
proud aloofness and a cautious
tolerance if not too rudely dis-
turbed, she is apt to become
resentful if aroused. It is on
record that a nest-visiting
naturalist in Victoria was very
surprised, and also afraid for
his eyes, when a female lyrebird
flew up and trailed her long
claws through his hair.
The chick, on his part, realises
the effectiveness of his piercing
shriek, and is apt to produce it
at the slightest provocation.
Murmured notes from the
mother are sufficient to reveal
her identity, but any other
sound at the nest-entrance is
regarded as hostile and treated
accordingly. Place your hand,
however lightly, on the front of
a lyrebird’s nest containing a
half-grown chick, and you are
likely to receive a sharp shock
as an ear-splitting shriek shatters
the peace of the area.
The effect of the scream is not
limited to humanity. Once, when
a couple of Sydney birdmen
were sitting quietly near a nest
awaiting a chance to photo-
graph the mother-bird, a small
honeyeater alighted on the
chamber-entrance, apparently
with the idea of stealing some
soft material; but, immediately,
the young lyrebird sounded his
alarm-note fairly in the honey-
bird’s ear, upon which the aston-
ished visitor almost tumbled
backward in her haste to vacate
the scene.
That episode gave the watch-
ing men an idea. They tied a
long piece of string to a stick
placed in a strategic position
and caused the nest to be struck
at each pull. The trick may have
been a trifle unfair, but it
worked; each time the stick
struck the nest the chick
screamed heartily, and each time
his alarm sounded the mother-
bird reappeared and ran into the
view of the cameras.
Actually, in most instances of
nest-photography (and they
have been many in recent years)
a female with a chick in her care
soon becomes reconciled to mild
intrusions, and is not upset even
when, as is the case in dark spots,
flashlights are used.
Once, by way of variety, a
mother-bird turned the tables on
a photographic caller. Having
set up his camera at a cliffside
nest, the visitor climbed on to
the rock to remove an obstruc-
tion, upon which the chick
screamed and the mother ran to
the scene. And as she did so
her foot struck the string at-
tached to the shutter-release of
the camera, the result being that
she distinguished herself by
photographing the photographer.
Obviously, the lusty scream
is the juvenile lyrebird’s chief
line of defence. Combined with
his habit of pressing himself
upward and backward in the
nest-chamber (so becoming
almost invisible), it is a pro-
tective device that has been
developed because, in contrast
with most birds that breed on
or near the ground, the period
of nest-occupation in this case is
lengthy.
The nestling is from two to
three weeks old when his voice
“breaks” —when the weak piping
of babyhood gives place to the
whistling shriek and in the
same period “cuddling” is
abandoned; the mother-bird
then resumes her summertime
practice of spending the night in
a tree.
As growth advances the husky
young lyrebird needs consider-
able supplies of food. In this
period, therefore, feeding-visits
are frequent, and it is not un-
usual to see the mother ap-
proaching the nest with both her
beak and cheek-pouches
crammed with worms and other
products of the damp earth.
So tended, lyrebird junior
sometimes manifests reluctance,
even when well-grown, to leave
his comfortable home. But his
mother soon adjusts that matter.
She starves him out simply
withholds food until he does
emerge.
Even after the nest has been
vacated the fledgling is fed from
time to time, during several
weeks, while he is learning to
fend for himself. Possibly the
male parent lends assistance in
this period. At any rate, when
a stray fledgling was placed with
a pair of adults in a Victorian
aviary the male actually excelled
his mate in feeding and fussing
over the waif. «
There is also some evidence to
indicate that in the post-nest
period the paternal lyrebird takes
over the chick’s general educa-
tion. At that stage, it would
appear, he meets his offspring
for the first time (presumably
being “introduced” by the
mother), and then makes himself
chiefly responsible for lessons in
flying and voice-production.
On the whole, therefore, the
indications are that parental in-
stinct is deep-seated in the lordly
lyrebird, and that in turn sug-
gests that he was once —a very
long time ago —quite domestic-
minded. The instinct became
suppressed, no doubt, through
the development of voice and
adornment, and it now revives
only when the passion for song
and display has abated.
But even today the details of
lyrebirds’ domestic affairs are
not all positively known. There
is doubt, for example, regard-
ing the question of polygamy.
This practice has been attrib-
uted to the male lyrebird, by
some few observers, partly be-
cause of his domestic slackness
and partly because of the free-
and-easy manner in which
several birds may associate, even
during the breeding-season. An-
other consideration is the fact
that on some few occasions two
eggs, possibly laid by different
birds, have been found in the
one nest.
In a general view, however,
the belief prevails that Menura
is probably monogamous and
possibly mates for life.
Be that as it may, the fact
is that lyrebird family-life, if
seemingly ill-balanced, is quite
harmonious. The maternal bird
has no complaints. She fol-
lows the lyrebird law. For her,
the female’s place is at the
home. She is, indeed, a devoted,
diligent, and resourceful mother.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
fire, marine and accident insurances
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BUBDON, Manager.
Phone: BW 8361. 128 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Doomben Cup in Brisbane
and the Grand National Steeple-
chase in Melbourne, both run
this Saturday, will be the
last important races of the
1954-55 season, which will end
July 31. The B.A.T.C. contest
has attracted a top-class field
for this time of the year and
includes a number of New
Zealanders. A Dominion-
owned galloper could lift the big
end of the Doomben Cup. They
are strongly fancied in betting,
and on latest performances and
track doings Surprise Ending
may win from Persian Link and
Livorno.
The Grand National ’Chase
Will be the feature at Fleming-
ton this Saturday. There are
some fine jumpers in the field,
and Japaddy may win from
Sohrab and Solar Bleu.
The Grand National Hurdle
was brilliantly won by By the
Way, which ran rivals off their
legs and had seven lengths to
spare at the finish of a slowly
run three miles in The
race-record, 5.28, was made by
Cheery Jack in 1940. His was
an outstanding performance, as
next-best is Belar’s 5.29| in
1933. Belar was a Poitrel horse,
as was Fulham, who won the
three-miler in 1935. Londregan
couldn’t hold By the Way in the
early part of the race, and had
to let him run to the lead much
earlier than he hoped. However,
he showed judgment by not
pulling the horse about.
Bred at St. Albans stud, Gee-
long (Vic.), two-year-old filly
Gay Wrapper was confidently
supported and cleverly won the
Flemington First Myross Han-
dicap, indicating she will not be
long in repeating the perform-
ance. Gay Wrapper, a 575gns.
yearling, probably is on the
credit side of the ledger so far
as connections are concerned.
She is trained by J. Besanko for
A. and N. Calvert and is from
a sister to Burberry, who won
this race at two years and later
was successful in the Toorak
Handicap, Oakleigh Plate and
the Cantala Stakes (1943). Gay
Wrapper is by Ottoman (imp.)
from Marocain (a winner of the
Wakeful Stakes at Flemington)
by Gay Lothario (imp.) from
Wrapper (imp.) by Apron. An
interesting winner in the pedi-
gree, Gold Maid, was an Irish
champion sprinter in her day,
and held the record, 58fsec.,
for five furlongs in that country.
Since her days 4sec. have been
clipped from that time. The
world’s record is 54fsec. and
Australia’s best 58|sec., shared
by New Slipper and All Love.
In his absence abroad horses
trained at Randwick by T. J.
Smith continue to win races.
Two more were listed last week-
end. Seacraft was a narrow
winner of the George’s River
Handicap at Warwick Farm, and
Apple Bay (16 to 1) led all the
way to win the Doomben Ten
Thousand, one of the richest
sprints in Australia. Stable-
apprentice F. Leman had the
mount on Apple Bay — the
youngster’s most important suc-
cess. Apple Bay, with Leman
up, had won at long odds at
Rosehill a week before the
Doomben. He cost 2000gns. as
a yearling and has won £10,549
in stakes. The gelding’s brother,
Apple Jack, won the V.R.C
Maribyrnong Plate three years
ago. Hot favorite for the Ten
Thousand, New Zealander
King’s Fair ran much below
previous form. Maybe he wasn’t
suited by the track. He could
make it interesting in the A.J.C.
Epsom Handicap if set for it.
This time last year Rising
Fast, after finishing in the ruck
in Doomben’s Ten Thousand,
ran a modest third to Euphrates
and Paper Strip in the Doomben
Cup, then went on to a series
of successes in Melbourne in
weight-for-age and handicap
events, including the Caulfield
and the Melbourne Cups. In a
few weeks of racing Rising Fast
won upwards of £30,000 in
stakes, and seven of his
eight wins were consecutive.
Euphrates was the third visiting
horse to win the Doomben Cup
in succession, the others being
French Echo and Tossing, both
trained in Sydney. In the past
10 years Brisbane owners have
experienced a lean time in this
ricji race.
Owner-breeder A. E. Cobcroft
has been patient with his
Brueghel (imp.)-Sly Vixen mare
Vixenel, who will be five years
old on August 1. Though placed
in a number of races, it was not
until Saturday at Warwick Farm
that she won her first race, the
Maiden Handicap. Vixenel
gives promise of staying, and as
she traces back to Trenton,
holder of the Australian 21-
miles’ record, established 70
years ago, she should run a
distance next season. Sly Vixen,
dam of Vixenel, is by Dark Fox
(imp.) from Gobrabilla by
Magpie (imp.).
Seacraft, stylish winner of
Warwick Farm George’s River
Handicap, is among a big batch
of racehorses to be auctioned
by William Inglis and Son this
Friday. More than 60 will come
under the hammer, among them
Earldom, Karen, Buzz Andrew,
Salvalanche, and Authentic.
Forty yearlings will also be sold,
including drafts from Kia-Ora
stud.
The Blazeaway stable was un-
lucky to strike Gallant Archer
on his best day at Warwick Farm.
Trainer of Blazeaway, S.
Wheeler, had been shown a win-
ning gallop by the horse two
days before the race. Jockey A.
Ward clinched an engagement
for Blazeaway immediately after
the gallop and the stable thought
Blazeaway was “over the line.”
He looked like winning when
he hit the front in the straight,
but Gallant Archer, who had
been a long last early, unwound
a paralysing run and ran the
mile and three in 2.15|sec.,
equalling his own Australian
record time for the distance,
made in Brisbane 12 months ago.
King Boonala, winner at his
last two starts, both at War-
wick Farm, and with lengths to
spare, is now regarded by con-
nections as a serious challenger
to the best of his age, and as a
three-year-old he might act up to
their expectations. Winter form
is not regarded as the best
pointer to the spring, but there
have been exceptions, one
notable instance being Phar Lap,
who won his first race in July.
King Boonala’s breeding-back-
ground is a mixture of speed
and stamina, and as he traces
back on the dam’s side to Grand
Flaneur, an unbeaten racehorse
and winner of the 1880 Mel-
bourne Cup, there seems no
reason why he should not prove
at least a moderate stayer. He
is another of the successful Star
Kingdoms and the latter was a
brilliant galloper in England,
winning several events. Sun-
dridge Lass, dam of King Boon-
ala, is by Mildura (a dual winner
of the Doncaster) from Belle
Treize by Promised Land (imp.).
Aurofodina, a smart middle-
distance performer of bygone
years, appears in the family lines.
He twice won the A.J.C. Spring
Stakes and was successful at 1|
mile at Caulfield.
9 ■* • •
Darby Munro has been
granted a training-licence and
will prepare his horses at Rand-
wick. He is likely to have as
patrons some owners for whom
he won races. However, Munro
was a splendid horseman, and
that means thorough understand-
ing of horses, without which no
trainer can make a do of it.
“P.0.M.C.”: Neville Percival,
who rode Mighty II in the
Doom ben Ten Thousand, is the
doyen of Australian jockeys,
winning the Melbourne Cup on
White Nose about 25 years ago,
after riding in Perth for years
before that. Percival has won
races in all States, including The
Speck, and although he rode
Mighty II at 41b. over, has
scaled around 7.5 during his
entire career.
“What's it to be, skipper—Australian Rules or
Marquis of Queensberry?”
Bred by D. S. Little, a Sydney
studman, and reared at Wood-
lands, Denman (N.S.W.), Win-
netou is a smart two-year-old
son of Newtown Wonder (imp.)
and Bravissima by Brazen
(imp.), and belongs to an old
Australian family which includes
Robinson Crusoe, an early
A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger
winner. Sylvanite and Norden-
feldt (dual Derby winners) and
Winalot (A.J.C. St. Leger and
Sydney Cup) also figure in
the pedigree. Winnetou cost
1250gns. as a yearling. At odds-
on he beat a modest field in a
Gosford (N.S.W.) Juvenile
Handicap.
• • •
For a modest 140gns. the
brown colt by Phaleron Bay
(imp.) from Mettle by Valiant
Chief was bought at Randwick
yearling sales last season. Racing
as Fire Spring, the now two-
year-old gelding won a Gosford
(N.S.W.) Second Maiden
Juvenile Handicap in promising
style. A product of Downfield
stud, Currabubula, the youngster
is from the family which pro-
duced such well-known per-
formers as Gasbag, Shining
Night, Star Stranger (Metropoli-
tan) and Lady Lucy (N.Z. Cup).
• • •' •;
July racing in Sydney will be
restricted to Canterbury (three
meetings) and Rosehill. The
latter’s July 30 fixture will con-
clude the season. The A.J.C. will
open the 1955-56 season with a
Bank Holiday fixture at Rand-
wick on August 1, and this year
there will be successive fixtures
at Warwick Farm on August 20
and 27.
** ' *
N.S.W. Trotting Club’s “ex-
perimental” mid-week meeting
at Menangle last Wednesday was
a success. Despite the off-season,
entries were big and a heavy
ballot was necessary reserves
being used for the first time.
Four-year-old Austral Sky lived
up to the promising form he has
been showing with a win in the
Trotters’ Handicap. With a host
of pacing sons of Sky Raider
around him, this fellow is going
to make his name in the square-
gait. Slow early, he usually finds
himself with the backmarkers
after the first lap, but after that
unwinds his pace.
Pacer Strathfield Jack was
written-up in a Westralian paper
as “one of Sydney’s best young
pacers.” Seven years old, he’d
at least be middle-aged by
pacers’ standards. The West-
erners must have taken his racing
career as their age-guide—mis-
leading in this case. A losing
tangle with barbed-wire delayed
his early preparation and for a
while he was given up as race-
material. He’s only now touch-
ing peak form, and his clashes
with recognised topnotchers in
the spring should be interesting.
• • • •
Victorian Trotting Club is
making a few sly improvements
prior to the opening of next
season. One is the change from
Saturday to Friday nights—first
go at the pay-envelope. Now
it is advertising for stewards
and cadet-stewards.
4 4*
Young Hoad got no further
than the Wimbledon quarter-
finals, where a comparatively
ancient American named Patty
wiped the court with him. After
which, Rosewall took the knock
from an unseeded Dane, Kurt
Neilsen, while American Trabert
downed Patty, leaving the
championship between the Dane
and the Yank. Trabert was
reported as “wanting Wimble-
don” before turning pro. He
got it.
The doubles turned out to be
an All-Australian affair after
Rosewall and Fraser beat Trabert
and Seixas; Hoad and Hart-
wig knocking out Rose and
Worthington. Hoad and Hart-
wig won the championship.
* * *
The second Rugby League
Test between Australia and
France in Brisbane exemplified
the old adage that a game isn’t
won till the final bell. In the first
half Australia put on three tries
to one, to lead 15-11 at half-
time ; and it looked the better
side. A quarter-hour from the
end it led 28-16, and the game
was seemingly in the bag. Then,
the Australians relaxing, the
Frenchmen began to throw the
ball about, and quickly crossed
for three tries, to hit the front
29-28, the final scores. Even
then, though, Australia might
have won: with a minute or
so to go Davies, with a magnifi-
cent kick from a long way out,
just missed a goal. The third
and deciding Test is in Sydney
on July 23,
The 11th round of the V.F.L.
noted Melbourne’s first defeat
and St. Kilda’s first victory. The
long - awaited Melbourne -
Collingwood clash drew 33,000
as the match of the day —and
it was. ’Wood won by three
points, 7.6-5.15, after a great
last-quarter effort in which it
kicked 3.2 to 1.4. Though
throughout the game Melbourne
dominated in the air and had
the advantage in the rucks, they
fell down badly in front of
goal, with forwards harassed
by solid defenders. It was spec-
tacular football, with beautiful
long-kicking and marking by
both sides. In the other games
Essendon, like Melbourne with
its kicking-boots off, beat Fitz-
roy, 8.20-5.12, Geelong, which
has as good a chance as any of
winning the premiership, crushed
Hawthorn, 16.13-7.8, and Foots-
cray, recovering top form, did
ditto to South Melbourne,
11.16-6.13. With the four
bottom teams battling it out,
Richmond spragged Carlton,
14.12-7.7, and, as afore-
mentioned, St. Kilda at last drew
blood, North’s, 10.8-8.12.
“Goalsneak”: Sandringham,
last year’s V.F.A. wooden-
spooners, took in the process
some terrific hidings (Preston
beat them 18.22-1.4, and
Moorabbin kicked 31 goals
against ’em in one game).
They’ve been doing better this
year. After losing the first four
or five games the Zebras won
six out of the next seven, and it
was being discussed whether
they might even make “the
four.” But Box Hill easily beat
them on Saturday. The V.F.A.
four are Port Melbourne,
Moorabbin, Preston and
Williamstown, and all look
certainties, the last-named pair
being 12 points in front of the
next three (Sandringham, Bruns-
wick and Box Hill).
“C.A.A.”: Beat this! Fifty
years old and still playing
Aussie Rules football for Norad-
juha in the Vic. Central-
Wimmera is Don Light. He’s
been playing for 33 years, in
500 matches, and has won three
best-and-fairest awards. A son
is in his seventh season with
Noradjuha.
* * *
The Austrian Rapid Soccer
team was far too rapid for the
N.S.W. round-ball exponents,
who were given an all-round
lesson in the game and a beating
by 7 to 1. The highlight was a
“miracle” goal, screw-kicked
over his head, by inside-forward
Mehsarosch.
* * *
The Pelaco golf tournament
will be held from October 19 to
22. Subject to the Victorian Golf
Association agreeing to adjust
the dates of pennant matches,
the committee of the Common-
wealth Golf Club has made
its course available for the
tournament.
* * He
“Arny”: Two Test personali-
ties may be missing when Aus-
tralia and England meet again.
Bill Johnston, whose Test career
has given him 160 wickets, had
a recurrence of knee-trouble in
the West Indies and it may retire
him from big cricket. Persistent
lumbago caused Len Hutton’s
withdrawal against the South
Africans, and he is nearing the
retiring age. He needed to lead
England in only one more Test
to equal the feat of Don Brad-
man, who captained Australia in
24 Tests. The record is held
by Bill Woodfull, Australia’s
leader in 25 Tests.
** • *
“Abie”: The late Tommy
Burns always maintained that a
boxer often contributed to his
own defeat, and described
various ways of doing it. Per-
haps some such knowledge
inspired the following statement
in a Sydney daily paper: “I
will wager £5OO neither Sinn,
Valignat or Empire champion
Peter Kennan will beat Valig-
nat,” McQuillan said. I’ll take
a bit of that —both ways on the
Valignat-Valignat bout.


A Contrast in Cases-
Privilege and Parliament
By M. H. ELLIS
■y HE issues in the Fitz-
/ patrick-Browne incident
f . go far deeper than the
mere question of whether
Parliament should have the
right to punish, or whether
the men concerned had a fair
trial, or whether they deserved
to be imprisoned.
On the actual question of
guilt or punishment the pair are
fortunate that they were dealing
with the Australian Parliament
instead of the British. And so
were some among their critics.
But though the founders of
the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion aimed and hoped to imitate
the virtues and adopt the powers
and dignity of the great proto-
type of Parliaments the realisa-
tion has fallen far short of the
ideal; this in spite of the fact
that a few idealists like the
present Prime Minister, Lord
Bruce, Sir John Latham, Mr.
Speaker Cameron and others
who succeeded Deakin and Bar-
ton and Griffith have tried hard
to reproduce the prototype.
There is no doubt about the
omnipotence and the majesty of
the British Houses of Parliament.
They have all the authority and
backing of a great nation which
is proud (if familiarly critical)
of them. They have the author-
ity to speak for the nation, un-
trammelled in crisis. They have
hundreds of years of trial and
error and precedent behind them.
Their legal powers to sit in
judgment in their own sphere
are unquestioned.
Indeed, historically they form
the supreme court of record, and
any judicial powers which they
do not hold are those of which
they have divested themselves
by the use of their own supreme
authority.
The Court of the House of
Lords is the highest and supreme
appeal-court in England. The
House of Commons sits in judg-
ment in matters affecting its own
privilege, and those who come
before its Bar are expected to
make obeisance to its members
as they are to a bench of judges.
Press, public and its own mem-
bers walk warily when dealing
with the House in matters in
which its privileges are inter-
fered with.
It is an interference with the
privilege of Parliament to ob-
struct a member going to take
part in a sitting—one member,
not long ago, even arraigned a
traffic-policeman who held up
his car as he rushed to a division.
It is a breach of privilege and
contempt to intimidate a mem-
ber from using his absolute and
thoroughly protected right to
speak his mind in Parliament
about any issue or individual
free of the trammels of the laws
of libel or slander. At the same
time, it should be added, the
Houses both adopt a vigilant
attitude to prevent the right of
freedom of speech in the Par-
liament being abused by its
members.
It is a contempt to attack the
character of members as it apl-
- to their Parliamentary duty,
though not to their behavior as
private citizens. It is a breach of
privilege for a member to reveal
information obtained in pur-
suance of his Parliamentary duty
—it has even been ruled by the
Privileges Committee that to
divulge to newspapers the pro-
ceedings of Parliamentary
caucus meetings within the pre-
cincts is a breach of privilege,
since caucus meetings have be-
come part of Parliamentary
machinery; though on this the
late clerk, Lord Campion, dis-
agrees, because, he says, caucus
meetings are often called at the
instance of outside juntas and
are attended by outside persons.
Even freedom of reporting is
technically merely a matter of
grace with the British Par-
liament, as with the Australian.
It can decide whether it will sit
in public and be reported or sit
in secret session, as it often does
in war-time, and nobody can
gainsay its choice. The cry “I
spy strangers” empties the
galleries.
Those long familiar with the
House of Commons see it in
three aspects.
They see it as the party House,
garrulous, informal, sometimes
ribald, feet all over the place,
members asleep or —sotto voce —
telling funny stories, quarrel-
some, divided by party ; in fact,
very human and disunited, but
always with paterfamilias —the
Speaker —in the background
ready to pull it up with a sudden
jerk and send offenders to bed.
It is not, however, a House as
marred by haggling and conten-
tiousness as the Australian
Federal House, because it has
certain fixed conventions of
courtesy and does not contain
the same larrikin element as sits
in Canberra —if one were to
write in England that the House
of Commons had a larrikin
element, the House would have
the support of the country if it
hauled him to the Bar.
+ +
Its committee system, too,
clears away a tremendous lot of
the asperities about the details
of bills, which is not done in
Australia. And there is, in any
case, more trust in the experts
of the House on both sides than
there is in Australia.
Still, in its normal manifesta-
tions the Commons is a very
human body, with all the feuds
and differences and grades of
ability and lack of it to be ex-
pected in an assembly of more
than 600 which embodies almost
every racial strain under the sun,
except the Chinese —indeed the
House of Lords, if it continues
on its hereditary basis, will have
Chinese blood in it in the next
generation. Norman Howards,
Churchills, Spencers, Dutch
Keppels, Scottish Kirkwoods,
and Zilliacuses, Shinwells and
Silvermans all agree to differ in
their own characteristic ways.
Then a crisis happens, and the
whole mass seems to be fused, as
hundreds of grim, determined
faces sit there row on row above
folded arms. The Speaker seems
to grow to three times his
natural size. The voice of the
Prime Minister at the table seems
to be the voice incarnate of the
whole assembly—and if it isn’t,
as in the case of Mr. Chamber-
lain, everybody joins heartily in
kicking him out rudely and find-
ing a voice that is. It is a
majestic spectacle, though not
more majestic than when the
House assumes its judicial role,
to protect its privilege of free
speech or to punish for con-
tempt: the House is very sensi-
tive about its character and
brooks no nonsense.
Twice during the past 25 years
or so it has dealt with members
who suggested that some of their
colleagues drank too much in
the precincts. I was present in
October, 1926, when one of
these was “admonished in his
place,” and if there is one thing
I do not want to have happen
to me it is to be admonished in
my place in the House of Com-
mons.
During the period of the
Labor Government after the
war it grimly expelled a member,
a journalist, Mr. Garry Allighan
(Labor), who alleged in a news-
paper article that members were
in the habit of taking retainers
and fees from newspapers to
divulge the proceedings of caucus
meetings, and that reporters
cultivated the Parliamentary
refreshment-bar for the good
things dropped out of merry
members’ mouths after dinner.
Up before the dignified Privi-
leges Committee went Mr. Alli-
ghan and half the editors of
London, most of these ready to
testify how much against public
policy it would be to buy caucus
or other Parliamentary secrets.
The whole of the evidence, as
always with British Parliament-
ary committee proceedings, was
scrupulously printed in the
official reports, the committee
having tabled it in its finding.
Then up to the grim and silent
Bar of the House came an editor
who had been convicted, to be
admonished; up to the Bar,
making his three obeisances and
kneeling, came the luckless Mr.
Allighan. Like a piece of detritus
which had blown against its
trouser-leg in the Palace Yard,
he was flicked off the M.P. body
politic, expelled from the House.
In Australia, of course, the
daily press would have protested.
He would have been put back,
probably, by an indignant con-
stituency. But, in England, when
the Commons speaks or sits in
judgment, the nation speaks and
sits in judgment.
If anyone had thus been sent
to jail there, no police would
have dared as the Canberra
police have done in the Fitz-
patrick-Browne case if the daily
press can be believed —to
advertise how tenderly the cap-
tive was being treated, how well
fed, how little they seemed to
agree with the punishment. And,
let it be said, some of the press
comments would probably have
had results.
Moreover, though the House
of Commons has not jailed any-
body for a long time, it is quite
wrong to believe that it wouldn’t
do so without the slightest
qualm. One reason why it
hasn’t is that it and its powers
are held in such awe and respect
that he would be a reckless man
who would play Fitzpatrick-
Browne in England.
Many the secretary of a
pressure-group in Australia,
many a sedulous organiser of
flights of minatory telegrams
and framer of resolutions indi-
cating what will happen to those
who vote or don’t vote for cer-
tain Parliamentary measures
would rue the day if he
attempted to transfer his opera-
tions to “Merrie England.”
There are, of course, good
reasons why the Houses keep
their powers in the United King-
dom and have public support.
The main one is the rooted
acceptance by the electorate of
the principle that Parliament is
the voice of the nation and not
of party; but even this would
not be enough. Its chief strength
is, apart from its omnipotence,
that it inspires confidence, no
matter who is in power or who
the culprit, by being scrupu-
lously consistent.
That is the marked difference
between the Australian Com-
monwealth and the British
Parliament. The former began
in the days of Deakin, Reid,
Watson, Barton, and the other
early great, to imitate the virtues
as well as the forms and
authorities of the British Par-
liament ; but when Labor be-
came a rabble the effort died,
and the hope that Parliament
would retrieve its reputation
when that great Constitutionalist
Dr. Evatt took the lead proved
vain.
In all its phases modern
Labor in Australia draws its
ideals of Parliamentary govem-
ment RritSS lt regards
thanl from Britainu It regaras
politics as somethi n g to l
regards the law as someth g
ac^ow le Deo ole hive
nat h J wause Labor
d b something to
has ’ o nly when it
be .. hnr book Y
su if? e h La bor is in power
w caoital punishment
m Engl , P P.
» Conserves are “
when . , , and must
power- , , . • a „ a ,- nst
run,
r D ° r p L f murder
is one pum isnmn - and
wb ® thpr wbpn t abor ; s j n The
n • d t be hanged
, • a i most automati-
Y H r a h or wins on
raUy reprieved if Labor wins on
tn ® s conscription were the
. ' h JJ. it wou ld cease
? ODerate even before Labor
A th ’ „ tatllte if there were
P b f Government which
W ar ds and Evatts in
p wgr
p And SQ through the whole
t D f legislation.
B T . . f . tb str0 ngest
.’ t aeainst the use here
bv g Parliame nt of the full powers
nrivile2es it inherited from
British 8 Parliament that it
exercises its judicial powers
{ t of J contempt an d
exactlv the same
P a f it and the State Houses
ope y rate statute i aws -_ accord ing
t P whether Labor is in power or
even accorS to
wh^ther it suit s the Liberal party
nnwer P
mp ne of the atest grounds
f J uneasiness about the Fitz-
is this un-
evenness G f the operation of
, p .
How k opeL es in regard to
charges of pressure and inUnuda-
Sing what has happened in
* L h +• Ilrimt ttip
two particular during the
Post-vm r g. E.ch involved
|er B to prevent his bringing out
in parliament something which
Parliament should know and
i into fai i ing to
exercise his right of Parliament-
ary f ree spe ech and doing what
he considered it his duty to do.
4. 4
- * *
That was the essence of the
char gc Upo „ which Messrs. Fitz-
patrick and Browne were un-
P risoned But consider and con .
» a s, that case with the back-
ground of the Blain case which
SVr°
Minister and D, Evatt Attorney.
Mr. A. M. Blain, then mem-
ber for the Northern Territory,
in 1947 determined in the public
interest to ask questions about
certain matters affecting Dr .
Evatt.
First, he desired to ask from
his place in ParUament whether
it was true that at a time when
alterations to dwellings were
a cost“ “J, d t heir
s and their
“ ’ e ' ld f a " ts t>^ g £ ,
cuted tor exceeding mis limn in
process of providing shacks to
house their families, Dr. Evatt
had made additions to a house
costing some hundreds of
P»” a ' Evatt; when the matter
was finally brought to debate
many months afterwards,
admitted that during his absence
m Ann enca al,:eretmns bad Ibeen
made because his wile (and pre
sumably the builder) did no
know about the regulations.
He said that afterwards a
retrospective permit had been
obtained for the work—on
what grounds was not stated.
But at first neither Dr. Evatt
nor the Government showed any
disposition to have the matter
brought up; neither did the
Labor Speaker.
Secondly, Mr. Blain desired to
ask about a letter —since pro-
duced and admitted to by Dal-
ziel before the Petrov Com-
mission—which had been signed
in 1941 by Dr. Evatt’s private-
secretary, Mr. Dalziel, as
honorary secretary of the
“Legion of Christian Youth,” in
which the virtues of Russia were
compared to the “lust for power,
self-interest, selfishness, the
bases of the present order” in
Australia, and which concluded:
It is to Russia that the people look
for a practical example of what can
be accomplished in a system differing
from ours. What better way could
the Government show its sincerity
than to implement social legislation
now, using Russian principles as a
basis?
Mr. Blain alleged that as soon
as he put forward these ques-
tions he found himself under
pressure. The Speaker—who
was also representative of the
A.L.P. in caucus, which he
frequented like an ordinary
party - member —r efu s e d to
accept the questions, and the
persons who had looked after
Blain’s affairs while he was
absent at the war alleged, and
declared themselves willing to
allege on oath before a proper
tribunal, instances of apparent
intimidation against him to
silence him in Parliament.
Blain was a returned p.-0.-w.
He had enlisted for the first war
at 19 years of age and had been
twice severely wounded, at
Messines and Mont St. Quentin,
and had been gassed. Neverthe-
less, at 47 years of age and in
Parliament, he had put his age
back to enlist in the ranks in
World War H.
He had taken part in the fight-
ing in Malaya, had been cap-
tured by the Japanese and sent
to Sandakan prison - camp.
There he had at once joined
energetically in the leadership
of a general plot for escape. The
plot had been detected. He had
narrowly escaped execution,
which had been the lot of some
of his brave fellow-conspirators,
and had received a jail-sentence
from the Japanese after brutal
beatings.
At the armistice he was dis-
covered in the Japanese jail of
Outram Road, Singapore, and
rescued, under 7st. in weight,
covered in lumps and sores from
two-year-old beatings, ruptured
and otherwise mutilated and
suffering from beriberi and other
consequences of malnutrition.
The writer of this article had
him for a guest for a fortnight-
some weeks after he had been
fed and medicated —and has
rarely, if ever, seen a 51-year-
old human frame, even among
p.-0.-w., so completely covered
in injuries and scars.
Yet now it began to be put
about —it was alleged
that if Blain continued to ask
questions about the Attorney-
General the Government in-
tended to defend its Minister
by revealing discreditable facts
about Blain’s war-service in
Malaya: that he had tried to
obtain preference over his com-
rades in being sent home
(provably untrue), that he had
parleyed with the Japanese to
obtain special treatment on the
ground that he was an M.P.
Blain continued to press his
inquiries. Then this happened,
after, according to Mr. McEwen,
the same charge had been flung
across the Chamber without the
victim hearing it:
On November 6, 1947 (Han-
sard, p. 1786), Mr. Mulcahy,
Labor member for Lang, was
referring to the hardships of a
certain returned-soldier settler.
Mr. Blain interjected: “Where
is the Digger now?”
Mr. Mulcahy: I hope he is in
Heaven.
Mr. Blain: The hon. member
ought to be ashamed of himself.
(i Continued on page 30)


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
f*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. AND SOVIET AIRPOWER
Commenting on the “silly
scare” caused in Washington “by
the Defence Department’s cryp-
tic announcement of ‘formation
flights’ over Moscow by Russia’s
new long-range jet-bomber, the
T-37,” “Manchester Guardian”
asks, “How many aircraft were
in the formation?”
“There is no evidence that
more than 10 were seen at
one time. Ten are no more
than Russia might normally
be expected to build as proto-
types for development and test-
ing purposes.
“The United States, after all,
orders between 20 and 30 of
each new type for initial
development, and the new British
policy is to order at least, a
dozen instead of only two or
three prototypes. (That was a
lesson of development delays
with the Hunter, Swift, Vulcan
and Victor).
“The appearance of 10 new
T-37 bombers over Moscow
ought not, therefore, to cause
any great surprise. The first of
them were seen there a year ago,
and it was assumed that Russia
would probably be unable to
build the substantial number
required for major operations
before 1957 or 1958.
“That appears, in fact, to have
been a vital factor in Sir Winston
Churchill’s calculation that we
had three or four years in which
to build our own defences.”
Two New York “Herald
Tribune” writers, Roscoe Drum-
mond and Ansel E. Talbert,
were not surprised by the ap-
pearance of ten T-37s over
Moscow.
Drummond points out that
“this disclosure of new advances
in Soviet aircraft does not at
all prove that we [the U.S.] have
fallen behind in total air-striking-
power. There will always be ups
and downs in the comparative
graph of weapons-competition.
But we will fall behind if we
continue to belittle and under-
estimate the Soviet capacity.”
Talbert, after crediting the
Soviet aircraft-industry with
doing an outstanding job in post-
war years with the aid of Ger-
man designers, engineers and
technicians, goes on to comment
that “General Nathan F. Twin-
ing, Air Force Chief of Staff, and
his deputy, General Thomas D.
White, a former Chief of Air
Intelligence, have been publicly
pointing out the menace of the
new Soviet heavy-bomber—
officially identified as Type 37
Bison’ for many months.
They hardly would have done
this if any body of real authority
was convinced that the Bison
was purely a prototype which
would not be put in series-
production. Their view is that
the nation [America] is meeting
the threat.”
In an editorial comment, too,
the “Herald Tribune” notes that
“It is a curious fact that just at
a time when the Soviet leaders
—London “Daily Express’
THE RED CARPET
virtually unlimited range, with
aerial refuelling.
“It is in two fields other than
numbers of aircraft, however,
that the United States is regarded
by the President as holding a
decisive lead.
“In terms of atomic and
hydrogen weapons, which under-
lie all present calculations related
to war, the United States is felt
to be on top. Weapons-stockpiles
are large, running high in the
thousands. New American
varieties offer powerful, special-
ised weapons, as well, with
capabilities known to be beyond
those of models tested by Russia
thus far.
“The bigger American lead,
though, is in terms, of bases, both
for defence and for attack. No
matter where they look, rulers
of the Communist empire find
themselves peering at American
and Allied bomber-bases within
easy jet-flying range. Whenever
they turn to the problem of
defence against those bases, the
Red rulers find their problem
complicated by the vast [Soviet]
are showing the greatest concern
over the flaws in their industrial
and agricultural system, the
United States has awakened to
a fuller realisation of Russian
advances in military technology.
“It is obvious that the Russians
can make a concentrated and
effective industrial effort in a
fairly large segment of their
economy for specific purposes.
That this is done at the expense
of other segments, and of the
welfare of the peoples of the
Soviet Union, is almost equally
obvious. The faults which
Khrushchev has charged against
Soviet agriculture, for example—
such as overcentralised control,
failure to adapt to different
regions and climates and lack of
incentives to labor —would not
necessarily impede a ‘crash’
scientific-industrial programme
for limited objectives.
“This would explain why
Russia can detonate nuclear
weapons and fly new heavy-
bombers in unexpected numbers
at the same time that the Soviet
Union is sending farmers to
study American methods and the
Russian press is complaining
about production problems in
much of its industry. It shows
that the U.S.S.R. derives indus-
trial strength as well as weak-
nesses from its authoritarian
rule.”
On a more detailed com-
parison of the air-strengths of
the U.S. and the Soviet, “U.S.
News and World Report” adds:
“On a late-model, plane-for-
plane basis, the picture now
being offered by the [U.S.] Air
Force suggests that Russia is on
a par, or approaching a par, with
the U.S. in long-range bombers
and has surpassed the U.S. in
fighters. General Thomas D.
White gives the Russians an
edge of ‘thousands’ of supersonic
jet-fighters, for a big lead in the
total number of new planes.
“In the field of medium jet-
bombers, the U.S. is well ahead.
It is this type of plane, the B-47,
which comprises the backbone
of the U.S. Strategic Air Com-
mand now. At least 1500 of the
U.S. model have been built, with
50 of the Russian model known
to be flying. Each version has
perimeter of 14,000 miles, wide-
open for air-attack.
“From its network of about
100 usable overseas bases, the
U.S. can strike back at Russia
from all directions, with no
chance that a Soviet surprise
attack would knock out all those
bases before retaliation could
occur.
“Russia, without overseas
bases, is strictly limited in what
she can do. Any bomber-attack
against the U.S. must cross the
Arctic, must approach the U.S.
from north-east or north-west.
In approaching America, Soviet
planes must cross Greenland,
Canada, Norway, Newfound-
land, Labrador, the Aleutians or
Alaska, all friendly to the U.S.
and apt to provide warning or
interception of attacking air-
fleets. U.S. defence-planners
report that anti-bomber meas-
ures for meeting such an attack,
moreover, can be concentrated
across only 1800 miles of the
Far North.
“The Russian base nearest the
U.S. is at the tip of Siberia, near
Bering Strait. It is about 2300
miles away from Seattle, 3500
miles from Chicago, and it is
the only base anywhere near
that close. The U.S. has that
base under constant surveillance
from its Air Force base at Fair-
banks, Alaska, less than 700
miles away.”
Comparing the latest U.S. and
Russian aircraft, “U.S. - News
and World Report” sets out the
following types:
Supersonic Jet-Fighters
U.S.: F-100 Sabre, able to fly
faster than sound and now get-
ting into production. Only one
squadron in operation as yet.
Soviet: MIG-17, already in
mass-production. “Thousands”
reported to be on hand, now
replacing standard MIG-15s.
Forthcoming Fighter Models—
U.S.: F-104, able to exceed 1000
m.p.h. and showing “outstanding
performance.” Only two built
so far, but expected for squad-
ron use in 1957. Soviet: A 1000-
m.p.h. jet-interceptor already in
production. About 50 sighted
in the air and some in squadron
use.
All-Weather Jet-Fighters
U.S.: F-94C, in limited service
now. About 400 built so far.
Able to intercept enemy bombers
at night or in bad weather.
Soviet: A better all-weather jet
is reported in production in
Russia and at least 30 have been
observed in flight.
Medium Jet-Bombers —U.S.:
B-47, in mass-production with
1500 in use now. It is the back-
bone of Strategic *Air Command,
comprising 80 per cent, of
bombers used. Unlimited range
with refuelling. Soviet: T-39
(Badger) now in limited service,
50 known to be flying. Also
capable of refuelling in the air.
Long-Range Jet-Bombers
U.S.: B-52 coming into produc-
tion. About 30 built now. The
first squadron of these inter-
continental jets now started.
Soviet: T-37 (Bison) also coming
into production. At least 10
known to be flying. Presumably
able to reach targets in the U.S.
Comparing the bases from
which American and Soviet
planes could operate, “U.S. News
and World Report” lists the
following:
Soviet: From the tip of
Siberia (2300 miles to aviation-
centre at Seattle); from Mur-
mansk (4000 miles to New
York); from central Arctic
bases (4800 miles to industrial-
centre of New York); from
Moscow (5100 miles to the U.S.
centre of government at
Washington).
The U.S.: From Greenland
(2000 miles to big air-bases in
Central Russia); from Britain
(1600 miles to the submarine-
bases of Murmansk); from
France (1200 miles to iron- and
steel-centre at Leningrad); from
French Morocco (2600 miles to
Moscow industrial area); from
Tripoli (1300 miles to the major
oil-centre near Rumania); from
Greece (600 miles to the
Ukraine’s iron - and-steel in-
dustry) ; from Turkey (1800
miles to the steel-centre around
Magnitogorsk); from Mediter-
ranean carriers (800 miles to the
oil-centre of Baku); from
Saudi Arabia (2000 miles to new
industry behind the Urals).
Approaches from the other
side are: From Alaska (700
miles to air-bases near the tip of
Siberia); from Pacific carriers
(500 miles to big naval-base on
Kamchatka); from Japan (2000
miles to the atomic-centre of
Irkutsk); from Guam (2200
miles to submarine-base at
Vladivostok); from Okinawa
(2200 miles to heavy-weapons
centre at Lake Baikal); from the
Philippines (3700 miles to the
transport-centre at Omsk).
Wages and Exports
In the light of constant warn-
ings that Australia is in danger
of pricing itself out of its ex-
port markets, a London “Finan-
cial Times” survey of the factors
affecting British and German
competition for overseas mar-
kets seems also pertinent to the
Australian scene.
“It is,” the “Financial Times”
comments, “often too readily
assumed in industrial disputes
that clear proof of an increase
in productivity provides com-
plete and irresistible justification
for a rise in wages.
“The truth is, of course, that a
rise in individual output per
man-hour creates no more than
a prima facie case in favor of
a higher wage-rate per hour.
The issue can only be decided
finally by reference to what is
happening to wages, productivity
and prices in competing in-
dustries abroad.
“It is obvious that if, for
example, these foreign industries
had increased their productivity
by twice as much as the British
industry and had cut their prices
in line with the fall in costs, there
could be no justification for a
rise in British wages—other than
a positive desire to lose export
business.
“The trouble is that a doctrine
which provides a theoretically
perfect yardstick for employers
and responsible trade-unions
rarely has sufficient factual sub-
stance behind it to be used at
all. That is why the comparisons
which have recently been worked
out by the Secretariat of the
Economic Commission for
Europe (E.C.E.) are of particular
interest at the moment.
“The figures show that, whereas
German productivity in industry
rose by over twice as much as
British during 1954, German real
hourly earnings rose by about
one-third less.”
A comparison taken over the
years, however, the “Financial
Times” adds, shows Britain in a
much more favorable light:
“Indeed, over the four years
from the end of 1950 to the end
of 1954, real earnings in Britain
rose considerably less than the
increase in industrial pro-
ductivity that occurred at the
same time. In Germany, pro-
ductivity, starting from an ex-
tremely depressed level, in-
creased much faster than in this
country [the U.K.] over the four
years. But then, so did wages.
Hourly earnings and output per
man-hour were both up by about
19 per cent, by the end of 1954.
“What is a little disturbing is
the possibility that Germany
may now have entered on a
phase in which her industrial
productivity increases consider-
ably faster than in the years of
post-war repair and reconstruc-
tion. There was some evidence
that this was beginning to
happen in 1954.
“There is certainly scope for
a further i;jse in German pro-
ductivity. Such evidence as is
available suggests that before the
war German productivity was
distinctly higher than British in
manufacturing industry, but
that since the war Britain has
caught up. Now, it would seem
that Germany is pushing ahead
again,
“In these circumstances,” the
“Financial Times” concludes,
“Britain clearly needs to retain
the maximum room for man-
oeuvre in industrial costs, if she
is to hold her own in export
markets against German com-
petition.
“The figures on earnings and
Are you a
delinquent parent?
“The main cause of juvenile
delinquency,” says Bishop
Fulton J. Sheen, “is delinquent
parents.” In July Reader’s
Digest, one of America’s
greatest spiritual leaders
shows why your child’s be-
haviour depends greatly on
the way you behave; names
three types of parents who
are a bad influence on their
children.
You’ll find a wealth of
stimulating articles in July
Reader’s Digest, including
“What you should know
about mental illness,” “How
to grow old and like it,”
plus a 20-page book conden-
sation of the thrilling Everest
epic “Tiger of the Snows.”
On sale now 1/6 at all
newsagents and bookstalls.


productivity suggest that over a
period of years after 1950 British
industry did have just this extra
freedom of manoeuvre in fixing
its prices. The additional output
per employee was greater than
the increase, in terms of real
purchasing power, in the wages
cost.
“But in 1954, this advantage
began to be lost. And in 1955,
which has already seen an in-
crease of 6 per cent, in wage-
rates, it has been disappearing
at breakneck speed.”
Students and
Communism
Commenting editorially on the
part played by students in the
Singapore riots, “Manchester
Guardian” notes that “in many
Asian countries students have a
political importance which they
cannot enjoy in Europe. In
China they played a peculiar
part in preparing the way for
the Communist victory; in
Burma during the last days of
British rule one of the night-
mares of the Government was
the prospect of having to deal
with violent demonstrations of
the very young, against whom
the Government was naturally
unwilling to use counter-
violence.
“With these examples in mind,
the Governments in Singapore
and Malaya must see with alarm
the rising excitement. Some of
the facts which have come to
light since the riots are addi-
tionally disturbing. The Chinese
middle schools seem to be
strangely organised. Some of
the ‘schoolboys’ attending them
are between 20 and 25 years
old.”
The same paper goes on to
prophesy that the Communists
will continue to use the students
for all they are worth, and that
“much more will be heard about
their expressions of opinion,
both in Singapore and the
Federation.”
Similar observations are made
by a Singapore correspondent of
“U.S. News and World Report,”
who comments that “in a matter
of minutes they [the students]
showed nervous British authori-
ties that the Communists, while
officially outlawed, are powerful
and dangerous in this usually
tranquil city of South-East Asia.
“They also demonstrated this:
“The Communists right now
are using Chinese students as
their chief weapon for trouble-
making in South-East Asia.
Juvenile goon-squads have effec-
tively terrorised the Chinese
community in Singapore, which
makes up about 80 per cent, of
the city’s population. They
appear to have browbeaten
conservative Chinese into sub-
mission, and there are times
when they seem to be running
the whole city.
“Chinese students —most of
them between 12 and 17 years—
have actually taken control of
the schools they attend. Teachers
and principals are either un-
willing or unable to enforce dis-
cipline in their class-rooms.
Those few faculty members who
have tried have been threatened
or beaten, or had acid thrown
in their faces.
“The students, in turn, appear
to be completely dominated by
Chinese Reds. Their leaders are
hard-core Communists many
of them 25 years of age or older
—who use harsh disciplinary
measures to ensure obedience to
their orders. They made an open
demonstration of their power
recently when the Government
refused to register a Communist-
front student-union. The Reds
promptly called strikes at seven
schools, and 9400 of the 10,000
students walked out.
“The young Chinese are in
the middle of every outbreak of
trouble in Singapore. Police say
they are responsible for much
of the disorder that has accom-
panied a current wave of strikes.
Actually, in labor troubles they
play a more active part than
the workers themselves. The
students picket, demonstrate and
provide other help for the
strikers. It is a common sight
in Singapore to see a convoy of
trucks loaded with singing,
cheering students en route to a
strike scene.
“Investigators are convinced
it was students, rather than
strikers, who were responsible
for beating to death an Ameri-
can correspondent during one
recent labor demonstration
which they converted into mass
rioting.
“The youngsters are as active
in politics as they are in other
fields. In Singapore’s first elec-
tion under" a new Constitution
last month students worked for
four candidates of the Left-wing
People’s Action Party. They
organised a door-to-door cam-
paign, and, on election-day, they
hauled voters to the polls. Three
of the four People’s Action
Party candidates were elected,
and the party boss got the
biggest vote of all the candi-
dates.”
Russia and Germany
Since it doesn’t appear —at
present, anyway—that Germany
will accept unarmed neutrality
in return for unification,
Moscow can be expected to do
some further shuffling of its
men on the European
chessboard.
London “Time and Tide”
sees evidence in the Soviet’s
invitation to Dr. Adenauer to
visit Moscow, that Russia’s
German policy “is taking defin-
ite direction”:
“What this direction is, we
can only conjecture. But the
realities of the situation, as seen
from the Kremlin, will give
direction to our conjectures.
The U.S.S.R. is realistic enough
to know that it cannot prevent
the rearmament of Germany.
It remains determined to detach
Germany from the Atlantic
Alliance, but it is aware that an
unarmed neutral Germany will
never be accepted in Bonn not
even by Dr. Ollenhauer [leader
of the opposition to Dr.
Adenauer]. It is therefore con-
sidering the possibility of an
armed neutral Germany.
“The price it might be willing
to pay is a high one —high above
all in German eyes. It might
surrender the German Demo-
cratic Republic on certain
terms: that German rearmament
be limited and controlled by the
Powers, including the Soviet
Union, and that the Union
retain its most valuable
economic assets (especially the
uranium-mines) which it holds
in the Democratic Republic.
“The Kremlin realises that the
Democratic Republic is a fail-
ure. The population, number-
ing 18 million, remains over-
whelmingly anti-Communist and
effectively eliminates any Com-
munist sympathies that might
arise in Western Germany. And,
although the Soviet Union
derives an advantage from its
economic assets in the Demo-
cratic Republic, it is compelled
to supply grain, butter and other
commodities from its own
resources to sustain the
Republic’s agriculture, which has
been ruined by Socialism and by
the flight of German farmers
and farm - laborers whole
tracts of arable soil are lying
waste.
“The Kremlin sees no chance
of neutralising Germany as long
as it impedes German reunion.
It is therefore compelled to re-
consider the status of the
German Democratic Republic,
which, from the Kremlin’s point
of view, grows more and more
unsatisfactory without any even
distant prospect of an
improvement.”
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co-, Ltd.
Annual Meeting of Stockholders Held in Melbourne on Friday, June 24, 1955
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Annual Meeting, Mr. C. Y. Syme, Chairman, said;
I would refer first to the loss we
sustained through the death in Ico-
ruary last of Sir Frank Clarke, who
had been a Director for over 42
years. Sir Frank’s capacity and
courage were everywhere recog-
nised, and we shall miss his ex-
perience and wise counsel.
Mr. Denis Sargood is with us tor
the first time, and I should like to
introduce him to those of you who
do not already know him. We con-
gratulate him on his recent election
as President of the Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce, and we are
very pleased he has accepted nomi-
nation to a seat on the board.
Balance Sheet
The book value of Premises again
shows a substantial increase. Pro-
gress is being made with the large
extensions to our W ool Store at
West Footscray ■ and in modernising
Sydney Office, and a contract has
recently been let for alterations to
our Melbourne Office. These two
Office buildings are very well situ-
ated and soundly built, but they
need considerable alteration to be
appropriate for our present needs.
This type of renovation is costly,
and it is doubtful if the amounts
being spent to meet our business re-
quirements will be reflected m a
corresponding increase m the market
value of the buildings. Conse-
quently, we have thought it prudent
to provide special depreciation under
this. heading. ,
We hope to complete the Wool
Store at West Footscray during the
coming season. This will provide
over 11 acres of floor space under
one roof, and will considerably re-
duce the wool handling problems or
our Victorian organisation. It will
complete for the present our major
store building programme, as we
will then be equipped with modern
and extensive stores at each of our
six Wool Selling Centres and, ex-
cept in one Centre, they will be ade-
quate for our existing turnover.
You will observe that Advances to
clients are considerably higher than
a year ago. This is largely but not
entirely due to the lag in wool sales
referred to in more detail in my re-
view of the Wool Market. In addi-
tion, our Stock business has been
buoyant since the recent breaks in
the season, and the servicing of this
business has required additional
funds. A further reason for this
increase in advances will be referred
t0 Because renovations of Office
buildings and transfer of our Wool
Stores But of the City of Melbourne
call for further fixed capital and
cannot be expected to add very
much to gross earnings, your
Directors decided to obtain a
ably long-term loan of £l,000,l>uu
against the security of certain of
our City properties. This has been
arranged with the A.M.P. Society
since the date of our Annual Balance
and will appear in our next year s
accounts.
Profit and Loss Account
Turnover of Live Stock continued
the increasing trend recorded in
recent years, sheep sold totalling
over 5,950,000, an increase of 250 000 ,
cattle 505,000, an increase of 30,000,
and pigs 150,000, an increase of 20,000.
Average values of sheep and cattle
have been well maintained. ine
value of land sold was down £600,000
at You’ 3 wm°°have observed from the
Directors’ Report that our receipts
of wool for the year, viz., 463,000
bales, were 10,000 bales more than
those of the Previous year
These receipts are the highest we
have ever recorded, but as the
forward at the end of our year viz.,
66,275 bales, was over 35,000 bales
higher than the number of bales
brought forward at April, ®ur
sales in the year under review and
of course, our profits for that period
have suffered. The lower prices
realised have also reduced our earn
The resumptions from our Western
Division Stations caused a marked
fall in our own Station wools as
compared with the 1953-54 year, and
sheep numbers were again reduced
following shearing, so that a furtnei
reduction in Station earnings must
be anticipated in the current season.
Although general expenses have
shown a very slight rise, the effect
on us of the recent Margins de-
cisions by the Arbitration Court,
the Government and other Authori-
ties, has not been reflected in our
figures, and these are now causing
considerable increases in costs.
Taxation is down in line with the
decrease in net profit. I reminded
you last year that we have to pay
income tax on more than what we
regard as our true net income, since
depreciation on our Wool Stores and
most other buildings is not aUowed
as a deduction. We are hopeful that
this anomaly will be corrected in
the next Budget in line with the
report of the Committee set up by
the Treasurer last year.
Wool Market
It is expected that slightly over
3,900,000 Bales of wool will be re-
ceived into Brokers’ Stores for the
season—this is approximately 100,000
bales more than last season, and a
little bigger than the previous
record clip of 1952-53.
The season opened m September
with prices showing a moderate de-
cline of about 10 per cent, on the
close of the previous season, and
sales proceeded normally until
November, when the English Dock
and Transport Strike, together with
a Waterfront dispute in Australia,
disturbed confidence and caused the
cancellation of all sales for a week
—gome 100,000 bales being held over
in' Sydney and Melbourne. _ Further
delays occurred in Sydney in March.
During November prices were, say,
12A per cent, below early September,
but with the settlement of the dis-
putes regained, in December, much
of the fall. The market continued
steady until March, when Merino
prices commenced to drift downward.
The United Kingdom continues to
be the most important buyer, and
her competition improved as the
season progressed. France was the
second largest buyer, with other
Continental countries —notably Italy,
Belgium and West Germany—also
helpful. Aided by better sterling
resources, Japan secured greater
quantities than the previous season,
and Australian mills gave very use-
ful support. „
Purchases by the United States of
America were disappointing, and
Russia remained completely out of
the market in this country, although
unquestionably she was of indirect
assistance through purchases in
Europe. There is some evidence
that the recent switch back of em-
phasis from consumer goods has
reduced her demands for raw texiles.
A feature of the market was the
consistent and increasing demand
for comeback and crossbred wool,
which has placed these types in a
relatively favorable position as
against Merino. This trend appears
to be due in part to the difficulties
of obtaining normal supplies of
these wools from The Argentine and
in part to a keen desire to avoid
raising prices of finished woollen
goods in spite of a definite upward
movement of manufacturing and dis-
tributing costs. w .
Transactions on the London wool
Futures Market have been consider-
ably greater during the current
season than for the previous one,
and this appears to be a significant
development in that it holds out
prospects of reducing the mam
present disadvantage of wool as
compared with synthetics, viz., its
greater liability to fluctuations in
price. Recently the costs of carry-
ing adequate stocks have been so
great that merchants and manufac-
turers have traded on as small re-
serves as possible, and the future
market presents possibilities of re-
ducing tne risks involved in such a
deterioration the British
Board of Trade has recently ap-
proved a programme for rotating the
wool stockpile held in that country.
Portion of the stockpile will be sold
at auction in the United Kingdom
and replaced by purchases in
various Commonwealth auctions.
Owing to the effects of the extra-
ordinary rains experienced in much
of Queensland and New South Wales,
shearing dates have been advanced
in some districts, and wool is tend-
ing to come into store earlier than
usual Unfortunately, much of it
is rain-affected and discolored.
Company’s Own Properties
Seasonal conditions have been
generally favorable on the company s
properties for the year under review.
Abnormal rains have occurred, and
toward the end of February flood-
ing on many properties was of
major proportions. Fortunately,
our losses of stock were relatively
light, and the damage to fencing,
buildings, etc., was less than might
have been expected.
Stock'are all in good order and
condition. Lambing results for the
past year were fair, and prospects
for the spring are bright. All stock
should winter well. Although fleece
rot ii not extensive, the wool has
been affected by the excessive wet
and is not as attractive as normally.
Resumptions from our Western
Division properties are practically
completed. As indicated in Two,
this has caused the loss, over Jnree
years, of country carrying about
75,000 sheep. . , ,, . ...
Myxomatosis has kept the rabbits
under control and is still active,
with the Tesult that very few rabbits
are to be found on any of our
properties. , , .
Blowflies have not been unduly
troublesome, in spite of the periods
of abnormally wet weather.
As a result of the excessive rains
and flooding of the country, Noo-
goora and Bathurst burr are
proving difficult to control on some
portions of our properties.
The Season
In QUEENSLAND, with the ex-
ception of a small area in the lower
south-eastern portion of the State,
the season for the past 12 months
has been very satisfactory. « eiier :
ally all districts wintered well and
give every indication of doing so
again this year. Many districts have
had trouble with floods. The lush
growth will represent a serious tire
danger later in the year.
The sheep areas of the State have
again experienced an abnormally
wet season, and in some districts
recent severe rains have caused
losses of off-shears sheep. Lambings
are in excess of average.
Internal parasites and blowflies
are prevalent, but, with proper care,
no serious losses should result. The
new insecticides have prevented fly
strike from reaching the serious
proportions of 1950. , , ,
Cattle tick have encroached into
areas which were previously believed
to be free, and have caused consider-
able concern there.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Seasonal
conditions at the beginning of the
year under review were poor, anu
concern was caused by a possibility
of drought conditions setting in.
However, timely rains afforded re-
lief, and the outlook as regards
pastures is today very promising.
The incidence of heavy general
rains in late February in the Hunter
Yalley, north-west and west, and
parts of the far west, and the result-
ant flooding of the country, caused
losses of stock and damage to fenc-
ing and buildings.
VICTORIA: The copious rains
that fell at the end of January last
resulted in a rapid growth of feed,
but as following rains were scanty,
a good deal of this quick-growing
feed disappeared. However, rains in
early May improved the position,
and falls since received should en-
sure a good winter.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The north-
ern pastoral areas are experiencing
very favorable conditions.
The position in the agricultural
areas has been less satisfactory, but
welcome rains have recently been
received and prospects are good.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
PASTORAL T Conditions generally
in the divisions of Kimberley, De
Grey, Port Hedland and Fortescue
are now very good—in some cases
the best for many years. Ashburton
and Gascoyne divisions continued
very dry, but recent heavy rains
have relieved the position there.
North-Eastern and Eastern Gold-
fields have had an excellent season.
The Murchison is very patchy,, con-
ditions varying from bad to fair.
AGRICULTURAL: These areas
experienced a very dry season ex-
cept in the south-west. Water was
a serious problem, particularly In
the Great Southern area. Abnormal
flood rains in February relieved the
position, and following rains over
the bulk of the eastern and southern
areas make" prospects excellent.
General
It is unfortunate that working
costs are showing definite increases
at a time when prices for primary
production are tending downwards.
As you know, wheat,, dairy produce,
fruit, etc., are proving difficult to
sell overseas and, while wool is still
in strong demand, prices realised
have varied as compared with last
year from par to 25% lower, accor-
ding to type. These trends are
working to reduce the profits of
primary industry, and with some
products margins have been squeezed
very fine- It is important that the
national effort should be directed to
discouraging any farther upward
movement in costs. At a time such
as the present, characterised try felt
employment, rising costs and falling
overseas income, it is vitally import-
ant that we should concentrate on
the industries showing the greatest
productivity in relation _ to the re-
sources used. In spite of the
moderate fall in prices, the wool
industry ranks high in this regard.
During the years of good prices
and generally satisfactory seasons
much work has been _ done to im-
prove properties, particularly those
in the higher-rainfall areas. The
work already done will improve the
efficiency of the industry for the
future, but there is very much more
that should be done, and the surplus
funds available to land owners out
of current income are reducing.
Plainly, the ideal is that the land
owner should improve his property
out of current savings, and Govern-
ment taxation policy has wisely
been directed to assist him to do
so. To the extent that his current
savings are insufficient, the only
alternatives in most cases are for
the work to be left undone or for
the necessary money to be bor-
rowed. Over the last two years
total advances by the major banks
to primary producers have in-
creased by 45% as compared with
an overall increase in advances of
25%. Our own experience in the
last 12 months is that total advances
to clients have risen quite sharply,
even after making allowance for the
greater amount of wool in hand. At
first sight it is disturbing that toe
primary producers of this country
should be increasing their liabilities
during a period when both prices
and seasons have, on the whole, been
satisfactory. However, if the extra
borrowings have been used for im-
provement work, it is not a matter
of serious concern, and in a great
many instances amongst our own
clients we know that this is the
case. At the same time we realise
that money advanced for improve-
ment work cannot be repaid quickly,
and we consider that the first call
on our resources is the provision of
finance for seasonal requirements.
We do not want to be placed in
the position of being unable to
accept seasonable short-term busi-
ness, because too much of our
money has been lent for develop-
fhents which are not immediately
productive. We feel, therefore,
that money for improvement work
should be obtainable by land owners
on a medium or long term basis
from agencies created for this pur-
pose In fact, the Commonwealth
Bank Mortgage Department and the
Savings Banks of some States, are
doing valuable work in this direc-
tion, but the funds available to
these institutions do not appear to
be adequate for the demands of the
farming and grazing community.
It must be remembered that,
oVing to the relatively small size
of most productive units of this
group, the industry cannot obtain
capital through the Stock Exchange
as Manufacturing and Trading
Organisations can, and needs some
source of money to assist, quick de-
velopment. , _
Rapidly increasing populations
and improving living standards
make long-term prospects for the
primary producer sound, and we
believe this is the position with
wool. The industry is expending
much money and thought on wool
sales promotion and on research,
and efficiency is being raised as
scientific discoveries affecting such
things as pastures, animal health,
pest control and breeding methods
are being applied more generally.
We are pleased to see some indi-
cation of a possible improvement in
demand in figures recently released
by the Commonwealth Economic
Committee. They estimate that
world consumption of wool for the
period January/March, 1955, rose by
about 3% over the figures for the
previous quarter, and was higher
than for any quarter since July/
September, 1953. Although falls m
consumption were recorded for most
Continental countries, they were
more than offset by substantial rises
in U.S.A., Canada and the United
Kingdom.
Staff
It is a pleasant duty to record the
thanks of the Board for the good
work that has been done by our
Staff. Due to seasonal and indus-
trial troubles, many of our officers
have met difficulties during the year,
and have surmounted them very
effectively.


Make Your
Money Earn
71
PER ANNUM
With a view to supplementing funds to
meet the ever-increasing demand for their
services as hire purchase financiers,
Alliance Acceptance Co« Limited are
accepting Term Deposits at the under-
mentioned rates per anntim for the periods
shown:
INTEREST RATE
7% per annum
6|% ii
6% ■■
3|% ..
3i% «
3i% ..
PERIOD-
-24 months
CONDITIONS OF ACCEPTANCE
1. Interest is payable quarterly from the date
of acceptance.
2. Minimum deposit is £lOO.
3. Applications should be made on the special
Application Form (see below) and should be
forwarded, together with cheque, to the
Secretary at the Registered Office of the
Company. Victorian subscribers may lodge
application direct with Victorian Branch
Office.
Don't miss this
opportunity to make a
TERM DEPOSIT
with
ALLIANCE
ACCEPTANCE
CO. LIMITED
(INC. IN N.S.W.)
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Subscribed Capital £750,000
Assets exceed £2,000,000
Application Forms may be obtained from
all Stockbrokers or direct from Alliance
Acceptance Co. Limited at either of the
following addresses:
SYDNEY: St. John House, 21 Macquarie Place. BU 6147
MELBOURNE: Brentwood House, 420 St. Kilda Road.
Telephone BM 1292
ALLIANCE ACCEPTANCE CO. LIMITED
Pleaso tend details of your Term Deposit Plan.
NAME
ADDRESS
Mr. Mulcahy: This man who went
away to fight for his country became
a member of Parliament; but, unlike
the hon. member for the Northern
Territory, he did not show his gold-
pass to the Japanese in order to get
special treatment.
Mr. Blain [who was somewhat
deaf as a result of Jap beatings]: 1
rise to a point of order. I should
like the hon. member to repeat the
statement that he just made. 1
believe it was offensive. I should
like to know what he said about the
Japs and myself.
The Speaker (Mr. Rosevear): It is
entirely a matter for the hon. member
whether he repeats it or not irrespec-
tive of whether it was offensive or not.
Mr. Mulcahy: The hon. member
for the Northern Territory need not
interrupt.
The Speaker: Order. The hon.
member for the Northern Territory
will remain silent.
Later Mr. Mulcahy told Mr.
Blain that “if the hon. member
comes back I shall have more
to say about him and the
Japanese,” and when Blain
reacted the Speaker exclaimed:
“I am very tolerant with the
honorable member” (i.e., Blain).
Next Blain attempted to exer-
cise his right to make a personal
explanation. The Speaker
announced that he had better
make it in the Banking Bill
debate, and when he persisted
in claiming his right Mr. E. J.
Ward prevented him under the
standing-orders by calling “No.”
When Blain began to speak on
the matter on the Banking Bill
a sort of running discussion
began between the Speaker and
Mr. Mulcahy which destroyed
the thread of his discussion, and
it was evident that it was not
intended to allow him to proceed
effectively. Other members who
tried to interfere to deal with
the libel were told to resume
their seats.
Eventually, backed by the
protests of soldiers’ organisa-
tions and public, Mr. McEwen
moved for a Committee of
Privileges to inquire into the
whole matter. Mr. McEwen
incorporated in his speech sworn
statements from officers and
others who had been in Sanda-
kan Camp, which made it clear
not only that the charge was
baseless and untrue but that the
circumstances made it impossible
that Blain could have done what
he was charged with.
It took three months to secure
the appointment of the Com-
mittee of Privileges. When it
was appointed Dr. Evatt him-
self, a person vitally concerned,
was chosen as chairman and the
rest of the members were Labor
members except two (Messrs.
Spender and Abbott). Two of
the Labor members were
persons who were supposed to
have received some sort of a
confession from Blain, and their
inclusion as judges made them
safe from being called as
witnesses.
An attempt to secure the
presence of three returned-
soldiers who were supposed to
have known something about
the matter as witnesses was
ruled-out by Dr. Evatt. Mr.
McEwen later alleged that one
witness was sent oversea on the
eve of sitting to a Government
position.
And it was not Mr. Mulcahy
who was tried for his baseless
charge —he had admitted in
Parliament while the Govern-
ment was resisting the appoint-
ment of the committee that “I
never charged anybody,” and
no skerrick of evidence was
produced to support his slander.
No attempt was made to pro-
duce any evidence. There was
no apology or expression of
regret.
When Mr. Menzies, in view
of this position, moved as an
amendment to Mr. McEwen’s
motion for the appointment of
the committee a resolution clear-
ing Blain, the Government
refused to accept it, although
Mr. McEwen was ready to
waive his motion.
It took several months before
the Opposition could force the
Government to table the report
clearing Blain. It was laid on
the table softly by Dr. Evatt at
10.50 p.m. one night after the
press had lost interest in the
day’s proceedings, and when the
House, taken by surprise, was
almost empty. In consequence
there was no motion that it be
printed, and so it was not
debated on a substantive motion.
As Mr. McEwen said later:
The investigation of the charges
was delayed by every means in the
Government’s power. The appoint-
ment of the Privileges Committee was
> delayed; the hearing of the evidence
by that body was delayed; and
finally the presentation of its report
was delayed.
Later Mr. Menzies moved that
Mulcahy should be censured,
that the Privileges Committee
“should have heard evidence in
public” and that
it failed to carry out the duties dele-
gated to it by the House in that it
wrongly limited the scope of its
investigation so as to exclude evidence
of intimidation against the honorable
member for the Northern lerritory
which tended to show that the allega-
tion of the honorable member for
Lang was part of a scheme of intimi-
dation against the said honorable
member.
The Government preferred to
remain under the imputation
rather than have the motion
debated. It deferred it until it
knew that Mr. Menzies would
be away in England. Before he
left he withdrew it, as he saw
that there was no chance of its
being discussed.
Mr. Blain then wrote a letter
to the Prime Minister laying a
series of charges against Dr.
Evatt, the Speaker and others,
and asking for inquiry by three
High Court judges. In order to
divest this letter of privilege,
and give those whom he charged
a chance to sue in the courts,
he circulated copies to the press
and private individuals.
Those concerned, however,
apparently thought fit to let the
matter lie, even when it was
debated in Parliament on a
motion of urgency by Mr.
Cameron.
The then Prime Minister, the
Speaker and others combined
to suggest that the writer
of the letter must be mentally
deranged, a charge refuted
in a public statement by
the Opposition—of which Mr.
Blain was not a member. In
any case, even if the charges
had come from a “deranged
member,” it might have been
expected that those concerned
would have taken drastic steps
to clear themselves of charges
so fully and circumstantially
stated.
But there the matter lay. All
that happened subsequently was
that a special resolution was
passed by the Federal A.L.P.
junta to oppose Blain in the
Northern Territory, into which
the Federal Executive had
never before obtruded its efforts.
A major onslaught was made
against him in 1949 and he was
beaten at the polls by the
A.L.P.’s candidate.
In the administration of its
privilege-laws the Federal Par-
liament obviously makes fish of
one and flesh of another accord-
ing to circumstances and per-
sonalities. The contrast between
the Fitzpatrick-Browne case and
the Blain case is strong argu-
ment for divesting Parliament
of its judicial power in the
matter and handing this power
to some other tribunal.
That would not be easy, see-
ing that Parliament, theoreti-
cally, as the voice of the nation,
should be the source of its own
privileges and discipline. But
perhaps it could be managed by
the inclusion in a reformed
Senate of judicial members, as
Law Lords are included for life
in the House of Lords.
At any rate, public opinion
can scarcely tolerate the con-
tinuance of the present system
—unless Parliament can elevate
itself to the level of the trust
and esteem in which the House
of Commons is held by—in the
first place—acting consistently.
maxie uses the
hand-ladle
By
E. Lewis Henry
THERE was dust and heat
and nose-and-eye-stinging
fumes from cores burning
in cast-moulds. Through
the skylight I could see the
scorching blue sky almost white-
hot. But how clean and fresh
and pure it looked after seeing
from one end of the foundry to
the other rusty iron-moulding
boxes with blue and grey mist
rising from them.
Men stood around at a
respectful distance from the
cupola-furnace as it belched
forth its stream of shimmering,
white-hot metal down the spout
and rolling with a dull, bubbly
sound into a teapot-ladle. Un-
like most ladles which allowed
the metal to be- poured from a
lip on the top rim, the teapot
held about one ton and had a
spout hard up against the length
or height of the body of the
ladle. Instead of flowing over
the lip as with other ladles, with
the possibility of carrying dirt
and slag into the mould, the
metal escaped from the bottom
of the teapot and through the
spout.
Hundredweight - ladies
were trudged by three men
—the ladle holding the molten
metal held steady in a ring in the
centre of a long shank ; two men
at the single end and one man
between the double-handled
shafts at the pouring end.
The hand-ladle, holding fifty-
six pounds, was carried by one
man in a shank with a ring (to
hold the ladle) at one end and a
small cross-bar at the other to
facilitate turning the ladle and
pouring the metal and casting
the mould. In his anxiety to
finish quickly, young Bluey
Blendon cast a job short. Two
or three voices yelled for metal.
Blast it! ’Spose I’ll do it, I
thought, grabbing a hand-ladle
angrily. One cannot stand by
and let a workmate’s job be
ruined for want of perhaps a
few ounces of metal. I splashed
metal down the runner-hole.
“Hey! Hey! Careful with
that metal,” someone said, and
another intoned, “Look out!
Here’s mad Maxie slinging
metal.”
The metal in the spray—
several holes which acted as a
passage for the metal, which was
poured into the basin of the
runner, enabling the metal to
shoot through the spray into
the mould —was blocked.
Too tired and consequently
impatient to walk around the
box to get at the riser at the far
end, I lunged across the box with
a mighty stride. The metal in
the ladle must have jumped over
its edge. I felt something like
a tennis-ball bounce on the
instep of my foot where the
leather lace was securely woven
and tied. I began pouring
instantly. I must get the metal
in before the casting solidified.
“There’s metal in his boot.
Grab the ladle . . .” Voices
struck up a discordant chorus.
Bluey gripped the ladle while I
was still pouring.
“Let it go! Let it go and get
your boot off,” he yelled, his
face so close to mine I could see
his day-long, gingery whiskers
glistening with sweat on his chin
IT was not until then I felt the
heat; gradually intensifying.
I needed no one to tell me what
would happen if the boot was
not removed quickly. I dropped
on damp sand and went to work
on the lace in a frenzy.
Having failed to feel the heat
immediately after the metal
struck the boot, I imagined it
had merely splashed off as often
happens. Actually, it had run
between the winding lace and
had burned through the tongue
before causing any sensation.
Now that the burning had
started, as boiling milk rises
quickly once it begins to bubble,
it rose in a crescendo. The knot
evaded my short fingernails.
Several men tried to assist,
but succeeded merely in getting
in each other’s way. All this
time the burning was increasing
and my groans and grunts were
becoming louder. Finally some-
one produced a knife.
I shall never forget the relief
of getting off that boot. All I
could do was lie back with a
sigh and smile. I was told later
I laughed. I don’t think 1 did.
There was no pain now. Just
a death-white spot about three
inches by two inches, around the
edges of which the thick woollen
sock was charcoaled and stuck.
A metal burn takes a long
while to heal. The heat pene-
trates deep into the surrounding
tissue, killing the flesh and
nerve-cells. The original burn
spreads sometimes to twice its
actual size.
At first there was the waiting
while the dead flesh rotted and
rose from between the tendons
of the toes and was cut
away. Then the wound was
a clean, open, pink-bubbly sore
without skin. The skin-graft did
not take long, and I returned to
work just six months after that
scorching Friday afternoon.
T WAS glad I was given a
tooth-wheel, which required
just under a hundredweight
to cast. The heavier ladle is
easier to use than the hand-
ladle. Not that I’d mind using
the hand-ladle, but you must be
careful.
“Say, Maxie,” called the fore-
man, “give Dick a hand to cast-
up, will you? Only wants a
couple of hand-ladles.”
“Ah ... I haven’t finished
casting my own, Jack.” I turned
and pointed to two rows of
boxes neatly rammed with black
sand.
“Right-oh, I’ll get someone
else.”
Another time I was “Helping
Joe Headley,” or “Got a few
cores to make.” By the end of
the week he woke up.
“No! Let Bluey feed that job.
You give Dick a hand. There’s
a spare hand-ladle.”
“Who’s feeding the fowls?”
asked someone when I left a
bright, speckled path behind me.
I scowled and no one took up
the joke.
After emptying one ladle I
leaned it against a stack of
unused steel boxes.
“Right-oh, Maxie. What’s
wrong with you?” yelled Jack.
The b had been watching
me, I thought, and picked up
the ladle, reluctantly.
As I continued to carry and
pour I spilled less. No one said
anything, but I knew everyone
was watching. With the last
mould cast, I emptied a drop
from the bottom of the ladle.
The cunning old devil, I
thought. But he got me out of
the groove.


Missing Friend!
PINCHAM, Oyril Archibald Neil.—
WOULD any person knowing whereabouts
of this gentleman please inform the
undersigned or ask him to communicate
with them for his financial advantage.
Was at one time Queensland, probably
served with 2nd A.LF. in New Guinea,
may be now back to Queensland but per-
haps in Sydney or on Snowy River pro-
ject.—CLAßKE & CUNNINGHAM, Soli-
citors, Coonabarabran, N.S.W.
EXCHANGE HOME
EARL WOOD PART PAYMENT
FOR DAIRY.
M. TAYLOR,
25 Hocking Avenue, Earlwood,
N.S.W.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOE situated In the
Country*
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ing's. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company . Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager
TRAVEL ROYAL—TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
All that's best
in air travel
i
Fly 8.0.A.C. and enjoy the finest air travel! Air travel backed by
36 years experience of the air routes of the world ... by
36 years knowledge of the art of caring for passengers ... by
36 years of efficiency, courtesy and service.
Choose from luxury first-class travel on Majestic Services
(Monarch Service across the Atlantic) or lower fare Coronet Tourist
Services. Consult your Travel Agent for free trip-planning advice.
Book from Sydney to Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand, Hong
Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India, Pakistan, Middle East, Africa, Europe,
Britain, U.S.A., Canada, Central and South America, Bermuda.
Information and reservations from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
AS3/AO
As soon as it was over, Doris
tried to get Frank out without
meeting anyone they would need
to talk to. But she was arrested
by a hand on her arm. It was
Fulton, holding her much more
familiarly than he would have
presumed to hitherto.
“Don’t go for a few minutes,”
he said. Then a look of consider-
able mystery came over his face.
“I’ll have something to tell you
soon. Some good news, I think.”
They watched him rather ap-
prehensively, going purposefully
from one group to another, col-
lecting a number of influential
men with Rotary badges on their
lapels. These he assembled into
a tight little circle, with the head,
the inspector and himself as its
centre. Then they had a tre-
mendous discussion; Fulton
becoming most emphatic. Now
and then Doris heard phrases
about “community-service” and
“vocational service” being flung
about: and sadder ejaculations
about “poor show.” One after
the other they appeared to be
swinging into agreement with
Fulton; the more so after each
of them, one after the other, had
turned round to look earnestly
at Doris and Frank standing dis-
consolate in the emptying hall.
Finally they were all pressing
round the head and the inspec-
tor, and presently a subdued
cheer went up.
Fulton came striding over to
Frank with outstretched hand.
“Congratulations,” he said
briefly.
Then he took Doris’s hand and
held it for all the time it took
him to explain.
“We couldn’t help noticing
how upset and worried you
looked, Mrs. Sylvester ; and as
I knew your husband had had
some troubles, I decided it was
time that the Rotary Club got
right behind a movement to give
you two a break. You have been
doing a good job for the town
for a long time.”
Frank brightened spectacu-
larly.
“You mean that you put pres-
sure on the head and the in-
spector to make them do the
right thing by me?”
Fulton smiled on both of them
beneficently. “Better than that,”
he assured them; “much better
than that. When Rotary gets
behind anything it does the job
properly. We’re not just patch-
ing up things here, but getting
you a really worth-while promo-
tion. We’re going to make you
head of a top-notch school. The
inspector and the head have
promised to put in such a strong
recommendation that you can
count on it as in the bag.”
IN the professorial office, the
learned gentleman decided
that a sufficient number of re-
plies had come forward to war-
rant a preliminary inspection
and tabulation.
“It is my experience,” he said
to his assistant, “that the trend
in any kind of plebiscite or poll
becomes apparent at a very early
stage in the counting, so that,
even though we have only ten
replies as yet, I should like to
make a wager with you that the
vital percentage will be sub-
stantially the same as when the
total is analysed.”
The assistant looked at him,
duly impressed. But, being young,
he was more interested in the
weakly human side of the ques-
tion than in the mathematical
aspects.
“You’re still willing to bet, are
you, that the average will be one
affair for every woman?”
“I am,” said the professor con-
fidently. “You go ahead and
open the replies.”
Presently the secretary said m
a polite but amused voice, “Your
theory is getting a decided
knock; I’ve read nine so far,
and every one of them has been
as chaste as a flower.”
“Go on; there’s still one to
go,” the professor said, rather
upset at the prospect of having
to think up a new theory to fit
his facts.
Then he was interrupted by a
mightily entertained whistle
from his assistant.
“My gosh, you’re right after
all. But it took a mighty hot
dame to save you. A school-
teacher’s wife, too; one you’d
expect to behave decently; but
she’s had ten of them; just
enough to bring the average up
to your expectations.”
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The “Bulletin
Reciter. —6098.
Words of poem “Lake Eliza,” by
Henry Lawson. —6099.
Information Sought
Details concerning Thomas Wool-
ner, the sculptor who modelled the
statue of Captain Cook in Hyde
Park, Sydney? Is there a biography
of him? „
He was born at Hadleigh, Suffolk,
in 1825, and died in London in 1892.
He came to Australia to try his luck
on the goldfields, and lived here
from October, 1852, to July, 1854.
During that period he modelled
medallion-portraits of Melbourne and
Sydney citizens, for which he charged
25 guineas each. After returning to
London he modelled the statue of
Captain Cook. He was one of the
original Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood,
and was elected A.R.A. in 1871 and
R.A. in 1874. He is represented in
the Melbourne and Sydney galleries,
the Mitchell Library, the Common-
wealth Collection, Canberra, and the
Historical Collection, Public Library,
Melbourne. See Thomas Woolner,
R.A., Sculptor and Poet, by Amy
Woolner.
* * * *
(7) How did Blacktown ( N.S.W '.)
get its name? (2) Some early his-
tory of the town?
(1) The NSW. Calendar of 1834
states, in connection with the “New
Richmond Road”: “Black Town; so
named because Government
endeavored some years ago to estab-
lish a village and induce the natives
to follow a more settled life. Black
Town is now deserted, and no vestige
of the inhabitations of the sable
settlers remains.” (2) In 1791
Governor Phillip settled 12 families
in the area. The first stone
house in the district, Veteran Hall,
a notable example of our earliest
colonial architecture, was the home
of Lieut. William Lawson, one of
the famous first three to cross, in
1813, the Blue Mountains. No white
settlement actually took place at
Blacktown till after 1860 —the coming
of the railway. Development was
fairly slow ; in 1914, for instance, it
did not even have a doctor or chemist.
In 1906 the name Blacktown was
chosen for the shire bounded by
Parramatta, St. Mary’s, Fairfield and
Windsor; its area is 110 sq. miles,
and includes Prospect Reservoir. The
population of the shire in 1954 was
36,500. Blacktown railway-station is
21 miles from Sydney; the official
opening of the electric line to Black-
town was on Feb. 26 this year.
* * * *
Is the crossing of dingos and other
dogs possible, and is the kelpie or
cattle-dog descended from the
dingo ?
Mr. E. Troughton, Curator of
Mammals at the Australian Museum,
Sydney, has supplied the following
answer: “Although a natural
antagonism renders the crossing of
dingoes and domestic-breeds less
frequent than is generally supposed,
there can be no question, scientific or
otherwise, that hybridisation of the
dingo with the more normal types of
domesticated dog can and does take
place. It is not correct, however, to
state that either the kelpie or cattle-
dog is descended from the dingo.
There is a detailed account of both
breeds in The Australian Encyclo-
pedia (volume 2, page 452) which
makes it clear that a dingo-strain was
not included in the kelpie for the
obvious reason that it would be
undesirable to introduce a heeling-
strain into the sheep-dog. The
article refers to the crossing of the
dingo with a dog known as the
‘black bob-tail’ of English-cur origin.
It then states that a squatter named
Hall, of Muswellbrook, in 1840 ‘did
a good job for Australia when he
imported a pair of blue-grey merles
—mottled, smooth-haired Scotch dogs
—which were said to be good at
working cattle.’ But although these
dogs were an improvement on other
cattle breeds, they had the old
collie-habit of barking and running
to the head. Therefore, Hall crossed
them with the dingo with a very
successful result. The progeny had
the dingo habit of crawling up and
biting, and became known as ‘Hall’s
heelers’ and then ‘blue heelers.’
Other crosses included the kangaroo-
dog, bull-terrier and collie, but all
proved severe biters and rather
uncontrollable.”
* * * *
Composition of Cabinet when Mr.
Menzies first became Prime Minister ?
The first Menzies Ministry (April
26, 1939, to Mar. 14, 1940) comprised:
Prime Minister and Treasurer, R. G.
Menzies; Attorney - General and
Industry, W. M. Hughes; Supply and
Development, R. G. Casey; Defence,
G. A. Street; External Affairs, Sir
Henry Gullett; Commerce, Senator
G. McLeay; Interior, Senator H. S.
Foil; P.M.G. and Repatriation,
E. J. Harrison; Trade and Customs,
G. Lawson; Health and Social Ser-
vices, Sir Frederick Stewart; Civil
Aviation and Assistant Defence
Minister, J. V. Fairbaim; External
Territories, J. A. Perkins; Assistant
Ministers, H. E. Holt, P. C. Spender,
and Senators Mcßride and Collett.
Brief Answers
S.M.G.: Write Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd.,
281 George-street, Sydney E.C.S.:
The “Old Bush Songs” appeared in
The Bulletin from March 9, 1955,
to May 18, 1955, in the following
order: “The Backblock Shearer,”
“With My Swag All on My Shoulder,”
“The Old Man Kangaroo,” “The
Eumerella Shore,” “Bold Jack
Donahoe,” “Jog Along Till Shear-
ing,” “Jim Jones at Botany Bay,”
“Another Fall of Rain,” “Frank
Gardiner,” “Travelling Down the
Castlereagh,” and “The Old Bark
Hut”... .G. 8.: Arthur Patchett
Martin (1851-1902) was the son of
George Martin, an Australian
pioneer-colonist. He edited “Mel-
bourne Review” from 1876 to 1882,
and spent his later life in England
in literary work. He was author of
Australia and the Empire, True
Stories from Australian History,
The Life and Letters of Robert
Lowe, Tennyson and the Isle of
Wight, The Beginnings of Australian
Literature, and other works, includ-
ing verse A.J.8.: Write Common-
wealth Scientific and Industrial Re-
search Organisation, 314 Albert-street,
East Melbourne R.C.S.: Add to
the boiling water before combining
it with the flour half-teaspoon
powdered alum; when the paste is
cooked, but while still hot from the
fire, stir in half-teaspoon of essence
of cloves; these quantities for half-a-
pint of paste. Keep the paste
covered well after it has cooled in
its container D.C.A.8.: A sub-
stantial job is given by 9in. brick-
walling built with mortar consisting
of six-parts of sand, one-part of
lime and one-part of Portland cement.
....M.Q.: The two “Old Jimbour
and the Darling Downs” articles by
G. H. Routley appeared in The
Bulletin on December 31, 1952, and
January 7, 1953 G.J.J.F.: The
only Australian penny of value is
the 1930 penny. They are worth
10s. each to coin-collectors if in good
condition. No other dates are rare,
and are only worth face-value....
1.5.: There are no well-known mem-
bers of the Society of Friends
(Quakers) in the legal profession in
Australia J.A.E.: “Amoral” is
pronounced with the first “a” as in
“chaotic” or as in “account”; the
accent is always on the second
syllable Joyce C.: A “bombora”
(or “bomboora”) is a dangerous reef
of rocks lying at the foot of a cliff.
F.S.C.: (1) Mined privately,
under licence from the Atomic
Energy Commission or from a State
Mines Department. (2) Reward has
been withdrawn. (3) Such companies
do not lease large areas, as you claim
—they obtain prospecting-rights over
such and such an area. They then
seek a lease over any part thereof
which appears likely to yield _ favor-
able results. (4) Very unlikely that
there could be such a mix-up. (5)
Would probably vary with the circum-
stances Musgrave : (1) The tin-hat
is still issued to training-units in the
Australian Army. (2) No information
available. (3) It certainly would be
commended, as The Bulletin has
more than once commended it in past
years. (4) No clear answer possible.
It is as yet by no means clear just
how such peoples can best help them-
selves; but The Bulletin certainly
believes in and advocates the raising
of their living-standards P.H.:
Ranks of the U.S. Air Force, in
ascending order, are second- and first-
lieutenant, captain, major, lieut.-
colonel, colonel, brigadier-, major-
and lieut.-general, general and
General of the Air Force.... La
Quinta: Unable to trace E.C.: (1)
Charles Bradlaugh (1833-91) was a
leading figure in the Rationalist
movement in England in the 19th
century. He was M.P. for Northamp-
ton in the House of Commons from
1880 till his death. (2) Clifford Bax,
the British poet and dramatist, wrote
“The Rose Without a Thorn” (pub-
lished 1932). (3) See a secondhand-
bookseller. (4) “Cenci” is pro-
nounced “Chen-che”; “flamenco” (a
Spanish gipsy “fla-meng-ko.”


The "FARMERS' BOY" *t* t a
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
. STEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
consisting of 22 x 4in. metal cleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
;?' ve „ r . rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
fidl g + roUn< , no !\ yet Ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’ BOY.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
„ lor demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
„ MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aust. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALIAN
DINGO
THE KING OF THE BUSH
by
J. S. BACON
A timely book by a man of considerable
experience in the trapping of this enemy
of the sheep industry.
Mr. Bacon held the Australian Double
Record for trapping the highest price
Dingo caught in the fastest time.
This book contains much valuable infor-
mation and items of interest to assist
Graziers in fighting the Dingo menace.
Price £l-0-0 postage paid
from,
J. S. BACON
37 Carlton Crescent, Bummer Hill,
Sydney. ’Phone UA 6188.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOX."
Get Rid of Mud
become available. By its quick
decomposition, organic-matter
also supplies readily-available
plant-foods. Fertilisers containing
major-, base-, minor- or trace-
elements are essential for correct-
ing an original or induced defi-
ciency of an element. With such
treatment there is no reason why
the soil should ever become
exhausted.
Both wind- and water-erosion
are best curbed by organic-
matter on the surface of the soil
(rather than buried), but in most
situations soil has to be disturbed
sooner or later to aerate it or
to destroy weed-growth.
A Maize Crop
“Y. Dent”: Downing and
Davis, of Bombowlee, near
Tumut (N.S.W.), have won an
R.A.S. championship with an
Emblem hybrid-maize crop esti-
mated to yield 130 bushels to
the acre. Second place went to
B. Mogg and Sons, of Lawson’s
Creek, Mudgee (Emblem h.),
and third to G. E. Veitch, C.
Morton and James Robinson,
of Kimo, Gundagai (Emblem
h.).
The winners grew their crop
on a heavy, dark, alluvial soil
which, prior to the maize-crop
in 1954 and broom-millet in
1953, had been under a long-
term pasture of paspalum and
white-clover. After harvesting
the 1954 maize-crop, Downing
and Davis mouldboard-ploughed
the land in August and early
November. In mid-November
cross-disking was done and a
fortnight later the land was
harrowed. It was then rolled
and the crop sown with a
double-dropper in 3ft. 3in. rows
in early December.
No fertiliser was used, and
apparently it is unnecessary on
the Tumut flats, where silt from
frequent floods keeps fertility at
a high level. One scuffling and
a hand-chipping led to almost
perfect control of weeds. The
season was a good one for late-
sown crops such as this.
Farm Accidents
“Ponto”: Gilbert A. Vasey,
senior lecturer in agricultural-
engineering at Melbourne Uni-
versity, says that many acci-
dents are caused by operators
trying to get machinery to do
jobs for which it is not designed,
such as tractors pulling bogged
implements to safety and trac-
tors being used to build wedge-
silage stacks. Then there is the
human tendency to remove
safety-devices in order to get
more out of the machine or
make it easier to use.
Vasey suggested that farm-
work had become much more
hazardous since the operator was
placed between the tractor-
engine and the implement being
pulled. Fewer accidents of a
similar kind happened when
horse-teams were driven from
behind the drawn implement. In
the interests of safety it would
“Milko”: Mud around a
dairyfarm makes work harder
and unattractive and scares off
hired labor. It contaminates the
milk with sediment (which
means rejection at the factory)
and makes life a misery. Cows
that have to walk through mud
to the milking-sheds must have
their legs and udders washed,
but even then it is impossible to
get clean milk.
Some farmers build convex
paths of concrete for the herd to
walk to and from the dairy.
These are cleaned-off periodi-
cally and help to keep things
clean. However, the lay-out of
many dairies precludes the build-
ing of such paths, as the cows
come in from different directions,
and the financial outlay involved
is beyond the owner’s means.
Drainage is the answer on
most farms. Begin by carefully
noting the worst patches after
heavy rain. Then pick out suit-
able tracks for drains, being sure
the cows won’t walk through
them. See how the drains go
after the next heavy rain, then
make the necessary alterations
or additions.
If possible put all gates on
high ground. Once satisfactory
pathways are made, hurdles will
keep the cows away from boggy
patches.
Don’t let the herd stand
around after milking; they’ll
churn-up the mud. Build the
manure-heap well away, so that
seepage from it will not keep the
vicinity moist.
Soil and Plant-food
“Casuarina”: The usual appli-
cation of fertiliser contains only
a very small quantity of plant-
food compared with the total
quantity of plant-food material
which exists in the soil. But the
plant-food of the fertiliser is
soluble or readily available,
whereas that of the soil is gener-
ally only slowly available. That
is largely the reason why fertiliser
increases the yields of crops,
pastures, etc.
Availability of plant-food in
the soil does not, however,
depend merely upon the presence
of the essential chemical ele-
ments.
Roots also require an abund-
ance of small air-spaces (or
pores) between the soil-particles
in order to breathe, and through
which they can travel and make
contact with as many soil-
particles (coated with moisture
containing a weak solution of
the essential plant-nutrients) as
possible.
The most important con-
stituent required to keep soil in
such good physical condition is
organic-matter, with which go
the necessary countless millions
of different bacteria, fungi,
moulds, etc., for its decomposi-
tion into more stable humus.
Not only does organic-matter
in the soil largely promote good
physical condition, but organic-
acids also play a large part in
helping insoluble-compounds to
be better if the tractor pushed
the implement instead of pulling
it.
Lime and Super.
“Hortus”: Dairyman Grif-
fiths, of the N.S.W. South Coast,
increased his milk-cheque by
more than £BOO (with five fewer
cows) by using lime-c Um-super.
on his clover. He said use of
super, alone was no good.
The availability of a manure
as a plant-food depends largely
upon its ready solubility. Super,
or mono-calcium-phosphate is
readily soluble in water. How-
ever, it is very improbable that
super, remains in the soil for any
length of time in that condition.
Carbonate of lime decomposes
it, converting it into bi-calcium
phosphate. This is insoluble in
water. But, by means of the acid-
juices secreted in the roots and
root-hairs, plants are able to dis-
solve this bi-calc.-phos. and are
thus able to avail themselves of
the fertiliser.
Evidently, that South Coast
dairyfarm-land was somewhat
deficient in lime. Super, is speci-
ally beneficial on soils of
medium nature, containing lime.
In sandy soils poor in lime,
“I don't like leavin' the gear. Some cow might thieve it.”
super, is really of very little
benefit. Super, is an acid manure,
and in the absence of lime to
neutralise it it may even prove
injurious.
Lime apart from super, is,
however, beneficial, if not neces-
sary, to the process of nitrifica-
tion. This latter is the peculiar
ferment action by which the
inert soil-nitrogen is converted
into nitrates, soluble in water.
If in healthy environment the
roots of leguminous or pod-bear-
ing plants develop small nodules,
and in these bacteria convert the
insoluble nitrites in the soil into
soluble nitrates.
Thus, being a leguminous
crop, clover would greatly bene-
fit by an addition of lime (in
autumn or winter).
So super, aids the root-growth
of plants, and lime, not being a
plant-food, helps the nitrogen-
fixing bacteria to produce more
food in the form of soluble
nitrates.
Sheep and Wheat
“Howie Wing”: With its 10-
million sheep fed increasingly
on sown pasture and conserved
fodder, the Westralian wheatbelt
has come a long way in a fairly
short time in mixed farming.
Thirty years ago a small flock
for rations was regarded as
something of a luxury, tending
to get in the way of farming
operations. Now the wool-cheque
is an important part of the
wheatgrower’s income; the
sheep and the clover on which
they feed are valuable soil-
improvers. The consequent
raising of the nitrogen level
should eventually yield harder
grain—which is what the wheat-
market needs.
Water is short. Better farm-
incomes of recent years have led
to fuller use of surface and
underground supplies, and tap-
ping of the Eastern Goldfields
pipeline has helped the central
area considerably. When com-
pleted, the pipe from the rainy
South-West to the Great South-
ern (delayed by diversion of
material to the Kwinana oil-
refinery) will allow bigger flocks
to be grazed in these dry districts.
Molasses for Stock
“Bill C.”: Queensland cane-
growers on the coast buy
molasses from the mills in
200 gal. lots and sprinkle it on
chaff (this chaff is usually made
from guinea- or Para-grass,
acclimatised in the area, and
fairly rich in protein).
Molasses, however, contains
no protein ; its food-value is in
vitamins, minerals, particularly
iron, and about 57 per cent, of
carbohydrates. It should be fed
in conjunction with protein
food, otherwise animals given
large amounts of molasses may
become fat and flabby.
Cattle grazing over well-
watered country, where all kinds
of plants grow, seldom fall vic-
tims to forage-poisoning if they
get some molasses daily. It is a
laxative, and also protects
against the poisonous acids
found in rank cowpeas and
similar plants.
Molasses is also a great safe-
guard against impaction when
cattle are on dry and coarse
feed in drought-times.
If too thick in cold weather
molasses (for sprinkling on dry
feed) may be diluted with a
little water, but should then be
used quickly.
Nothing New
“D.P.”: According to press
reports, Soviet biologists claim
that tomato-plants put into the
ground at a slant grow bigger
roots and give better yields.
What have the biologists been
doing all these years? Dad knew
and passed on this information
to us at least half a century ago,
and among Australian tomato-
growers the method of planting-
out at the slant is almost univer-
sal ; it’s done for good rooting
and consequent heavy yield.
Weevils in Wheat
“W.W.”: The best fumigant
for weevil-infected wheat is
commercial carbon - disulphide.
The more chemically-pure form
costs more and is less damaging.
Fumigation should not be
done in wet or damp weather,
and the grain itself must be dry.
Preferably the wheat should be
stored in a metal bin or concrete
silo. Do the job in the hottest
part of the day, when weevils
are most active and the vapor
most potent.
Allow lib. of carbon-dis. for
every 100 c.ft. of space in the
container and pour it in the
centre of the surface of the
wheat, then immediately close
the container as tightly as
possible. Evaporation is rapid,
and as the vapor is about 2\
times heavier than air it gradu-
ally sinks through the grain.
Carbon-vapor is explosive, so
keep it clear of naked lights,
matches, sparks, etc.
Cocksfoot
“C.A.A.”: While cocksfoot
may not be as productive as
perennial-rye or phalaris, it has
a place as a permanent pasture
on lighter soils of lower natural
fertility in cooler climates, with
a minimum annual rainfall of
25in. That means a large part
of southern Australia.
Its worth lies in its persistence,
leafiness and ability to withstand
relatively adverse soil- and
climate-conditions. It does par-
ticularly well on the granite soils
of the eastern slopes of the table-
lands. Its tendency to grow in
tussocks may be lessened by
careful grazing, and by growing
a legume with it.
Cocksfoot is well suited to
second-class country that is
seldom ploughed and compara-
tively lightly stocked. Under
close grazing it does not spread
very much, and does not stand
up to competition from strong,
mat-forming grasses.
Continually heavy stocking,
especially with sheep, ultimately
reduces the stafid. So that under
conditions when its establish-
ment is difficult cocksfoot does
best when it is grazed by cattle.
Because of the slow growth of
cocksfoot in early spring it is
soon overtopped by rye-grass in
a mixed pasture. But stock
should be turned on to cocks-
foot early, before seed-heads
form and the grass becomes
unpalatable. In a mixed pasture
cocksfoot shows to advantage
on the poorer types of soil
where, during dry spells, the pro-
duction from rye - grass is
negligible.
With its flush of spring
growth, cocksfoot helps make
good meadow-hay or silage.
Studies at different stages of
growth show that the protein-
content falls progressively from
24.8 to 15.9, 13 and 12.4 per
cent. The fibre-content rises
from 26.9 to 28.3, 31.8 and 35 at
the early pasture (6in. to 7in.),
late pasture (Bin. to 10in.), early
hay (lOin. to 12in.) and mature
hay (12in. or more).
As all grasses, perennials par-
ticularly, should be grown with
a legume, Korean lespedeza is
recommended as one of the best
to join with cocksfoot. It also
thrives on soils of moderate
fertility, and is well suited to the
tufted habit of cocksfoot.
Wherever there is a sufficiently
high level of fertility, or the soil
can be raised to such a level and
is otherwise suitable for lucerne
or white-clover, these legumes
will contribute much nitrogen
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


for the needs of cocksfoot.
Under our conditions, however,
sub.-clover and super, will build
the nitrogen and fertility of
second-class soils in regions
suited to cocksfoot, and then
the cocksfoot will thrive.
Peanuts and Bloat
“Jubilee”: Experiments for
bloat-control conducted by N.Z.
Dairy Research Institute showed
that a pasture which with ordin-
ary grazing would cause about
two-thirds of the cows to bloat
and with controlled grazing
(by electric-fence) about 16 per
cent., was harmless when
sprayed with peanut-oil.
Equally satisfactory results
were obtained with cream and
with emulsified tallow. The
tallow was the cheapest, and, as
the question of flavor in the
milk-products had to be con-
sidered, was the only one of all
oils used (including whale-oil,
linseed-oil and soya-bean-oil)
which did not cause an objection-
able flavor.
But tallow-emulsion is not
manufactured in large quanti-
ties, so peanut-oil is the shot.
Spraying not more than two
days ahead of grazing of pasture
is recommended. It is important
that the spread of oil be regu-
lated so that the sprayed part
can be all eaten off in the allotted
period of grazing.
And—most important—cows
must not be allowed on to un-
treated pasture aftei* being on
the treated or they’ll bloat at
once.
Cost? Insignificant when com-
pared to*the loss of a valuable
cow.
Winter Feeding
“Mackay”: A milking-herd
fed solely on green oats and
winter pasture is likely to pro-
duce milk low in butter-fat. Hay
fed in the grazing paddock keeps
the milk rich and provides good
roughage.
Milking-cows should first be
placed on the oat-crop when it’s
about 9in. high and allowed to
graze for only half-an-hour per
day. As the crop is eaten down,
grazing-time can be increased
to an hour. After that the pad-
dock can be closed to allow
the crop to make fresh growth
for grazing or hay.
For a Good Foal 4
“Breck”: A half-starved mare
cannot be expected to produce
a vigorous offspring. When food
is poor she suffers from general
weakness and so does her un-
born foal.
In addition to general grazing,
a mare needs ample feeds of
oats, chaff or bran during the last
four weeks before foaling.
Handled carefully, limited exer-
cise does her no harm, but rest
is needed in the last six weeks.
The healthy foal is on its feet
and has had its first suck half-
an-hour after birth. If the mare
is weak and makes no attempt
to clean the foal, rub a little
salt over its coat to encourage
her to get to work. If that fails,
dry him with a towel, and rub
him with hay to produce a
warming friction over the skin.
Mesquite
“Diamondem”: “Geep” (B.
18/5/’55) seems to know a good
deal about mesquite, but I feel
sure he is confusing the charac-
teristics of two distinct trees:
i.e., the mesquite of Mexico, and
more recently of Texas, U.S.A.
(to the sorrow of the landowners
there), and the algaroba, or
carob-bean.
The former is, I think, the
Acacia arabica and the latter the
Ceratonia siliqua, not an acacia
at all. Both grow well here in
north-west Queensland, the mes-
quite behaving much as it did
in Texas, when introduced as a
shade-tree (not a fodder-tree).
Around Winton and in the
channels of the Western River
adjacent to the town it has run
wild, and is a direct cause of
considerable flooding in the
town. Control is to be attempted,
as an experiment, by aerial-
spraying a trial-area with one of
the hormones —probably the one
being tried on brigalow, another
acacia, in the south. Meanwhile,
Winton Shire Council has de-
clared it a noxious weed. Even
the Winton goats won’t eat
either the young trees or the
seed-pods, which are hard and
dry, their shape closely follow-
ing the seeds they enclose, so
that they look something like
a tightly-strung string of big
beads. The flower is round and
fluffy like most acacias.
The algaroba is a different
proposition altogether. Very
few seedlings appear under the
parent trees each wet-season,
and I would think there was not
the least chance of it taking
charge like the mesquite. Both
trees are very thorny, thorns on
the mesquite growing up to 2£in.
long, the algaroba’s being much
shorter.
Algaroba flowers are some-
thing like a thin bottle-brush,
2in. or 2%in. long, the seed-pods
being 4in. to sin. long, creamy
yellow and very sweet and sticky.
They are relished by all stock,
but could never be seriously con-
sidered as drought-fodder. The
algaroba is a handsome, long-
lived tree well worth growing
near a homestead, or in groups
for shade in sheep-yards and so
on. But leave the mesquite
alone.
On the Dingo
“R.D.”: A veteran dogger,
J. S. Bacon, who for many years
had an outstanding record for
dingo kills, has written The Aus-
tralian Dingo.
Bacon writes with authority
on methods of hunting and
tracking-down the dingo. He
“ When I make good I'm going back to the Old Country
to marry the girl I love."
gives various forms of traps,
tells how to use them to best
advantage, as well as the best
poison-baits to use, and gives
instances of the cunning of
dingoes in resisting baits and
dodging traps. The dingo which
earned him the £72 10s. prize in
1916 was tempted by sheep-
owners with well-prepared baits,
using young lamb, sardines, fat,
liver and other attractive foods,
but when the dog came across
these he would stand off about
9ft., turn round, and scratch
dirt over them. Then he would
go down and kill live sheep.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: Professor G. L.
McClymont, of New England
(N.S.W.) University College,
says early cases of pregnancy-
toxaemia in ewes can be cured
if the ewes are removed from the
flock when they show the first
signs of abnormality (standing
by themselves away from the
flock or lagging behind when
driven), then drenched daily with
6 fl. oz. of glycerine. However,
treatment is useless unless the
sheep are carefully nursed and
given shade, shelter and the food
to which they are accustomed.
“C.A.A.”: Except in the very
coldest districts lettuce can be
grown all the year round in
south-eastern Australia. Ask the
seedsman for the particular
variety to suit sowing-time. Dress
the bed with a complete fertiliser
mixture before sowing, and side-
dress with nitrate of soda (loz.
per 2yds. of drill-row) or urea
(loz. per 4yds. of drill-row) at
regular intervals, usually about
every three weeks, to keep the
crop growing. Dust or spray
with D.D.T. every fortnight to
combat virus disease. A Bor-
deaux-mixture spray will heat
downy-mildew.
“Sundowner”: To offset
manganese-deficiency in poultry,
caused by mashes containing too
high a proportion of crushed
grains, add loz. of manganese
sulphate to each 1001 b. of mash,
if the bran- and pollard-content
is low. A convenient method is
to mix the manganese with lib.
of salt and use the salt in the
normal way as 1 per cent, of the
mash. Extra cost of the
manganese is only Id. per 1001 b.
of mash.
“Jake”: Makers of pressure-
lamps, kero.-fridges and other
appliances would assist em-
ployers of New Australians by
printing usage-instructions in
more than one language. Spent a
frustrating morning trying to
school a Sicilian cane-gang in
pressure-lamp-lighting technique.
The instruction-leaflet was use-
less to them, so were my efforts
to translate it into Italian.
“B.B.”: Potatoes for storing
should not be lifted until at
least a fortnight after the tops
have completely died down.
The skin should be so firm that
it cannot be rubbed off easily.
On the other hand, don’t delay
until the ground becomes too wet
to work; potatoes dug under
wet conditions don’t keep well.
Store in a dark, dry, sheltered
position with adequate ventila-
tion; to prevent sprouting, use
the growth-inhibitor, tuberite,
before the tubers emerge from
the dormant period.
“Rake”: Give animal- or
vegetable-matter ample time to
rot thoroughly before putting it
in seed-beds. The smell of the
rotting stuff attracts a small fly
which deposits eggs, the mag-
gots of which attack seedlings
before the first shoot reaches the
surface. Meatmeal and blood-
meal used as a fertiliser in a
damp bed sometimes provide a
breeding - ground for the
seedling-maggot.
Crosscuts
“C. Punch”: An Ayrshire cow
has set a new Queensland all-
breeds record in production for
a junior-two cow. Auchen Eden
Marea produced in her first lac-
tation 11,2891 b. of milk with 5.2
per cent, butterfat. She belongs
to J. N. Scott, Auchen Eden,
Camp Mountain (Q.), and is by
Auchen Eden Lord Tomboy
(champion at Brisbane Show in
1952) out of Auchen Eden
Marianne.
* * * *
“Billjim”: In efforts to control
the spread of skeleton-weed in
the Mallee the Victorian Lands
Department is making a 15 per
cent, allowance to all landholders
on the cost of 2, 4-D Ester, an
effective spray. The weed has
spread alarmingly in recent
years.
• • • •
“B.B.”: Experiments in Vic-
toria’s Otway Forest have indi-
cated that 2, 4-D Ester spray will
kill ragwort, a southern Euro-
pean pest troubling the 30-inch-
rainfall belt of the State. The
chemical is also being used in
trials against tutsan, a pernicious
low-flowering shrub. Both weeds
grow so quickly in cultivated
areas that they quickly smother
pasture-grasses.
* * * *
“C.S.”: A crop of oats run-
ning 121 bushels an acre was
grown by 22-year-old Brian
Keech, a Mudgee (N.S.W.)
Junior Farmer. Algerian, the
oats were grown on a good
lucerne-flat of deep, blackish
alluvial soil. Net return to
Keech for the six acres was
£236 10s., or £39 Bs. an acre.
As agricultural expert C.
Walkden-Brown said, the big
yield was because all conditions
must have been ideal, and it was
grown on particularly rich soil
such as is not frequently used
for cereal-grain crops. All the
same, such a crop would not
have been possible without
correct soil-preparation, sowing-
methods and harvesting-tech-
nique, as well as a good season.
Some time ago thousands of Sheep
and Cattle owners throughout
Australia were invited to record
their frank and unbiassed opinions
on various aspects of rubber rings
for castrating and tailing. A
summary of the replies has now
been published in the form of a
bulletin. It contains a wealth of
information on this vital subject
which will be found not only
interesting but also helpful
and instructive to graziers and
pastoralists. Copies of this bulletin
have been distributed to all wool
houses and veterinary and station
suppliers. If you are a sheep or
cattle owner and have not received
one of these bulletins a copy will
be gladly sent to you on applica-
tion to Elastrator (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
125 William Street, Melbourne.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
28/6/’55
Under the Single Cycle rainfall should be P 0 ®*" * n
N.S.W. during July, with some moderate falls on the coa .
There is the chance of a cyclonic disturbance developing
in the south-east corner of N.S.W. towards the close rfWy,
and moving up the South and Central coasts, bringing
southerly gales and rough seas. t , , r M _
Queensland should also experience a July of
rainfall, though reasonably good ram may fall on a sect
of the North Coast. . .
Good follow-on rains should continue in most of
Victoria, apart from the Mallee and North. , . .
Moderately good rain, may be expected m agricultural
Sooth Aurtralia; heavy talU in the eouth-we* of Wert
Australia.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Fixed Prices
I was never keen on price-control,
particularly the half-baked type practised
by the States after the Federal
ment vacated the field; but at least it
didn’t force prices up, as does the form
of “control” now enforced by some
manufacturers and trade-organisations.
Business-people who broke the State
laws were hailed before the court and
fined, and probably then felt free to
revert to the same practice until they
made-up the fine; but traders who now
dare to charge less than the price fixed
by wholesalers are, in many cases, given
only one warning that if they offend
again their supplies will be cut off per-
manently. There is no more effective
way of bringing a price-cutter to heel.
Broadly, price-cutting is as bad as
price-fixing, but the deliberate imposition
of higher profit-margins than the public
is prepared to pay doesn’t help anyone.
Many stores are now selling butter and
tea at less than the “fixed” prices, and I
can imagine the public outcry if suppliers
dared to cut them off as a penalty ; but
many other bread-and-butter lines are
offered at unreasonably high prices
simply because manufacturers or whole-
salers say they must not be sold for less.
I know of one store which did good
business in a line which sold elsewhere
at 45., but which this particular retailer
found he could handle profitably at
3s. 4d. His turnover was considerable,
but some rival soon reported him, and
he was told that no further orders would
be accepted until he undertook to sell at
the “fixed” price. Reluctantly he fell into
line the manufacturer concerned
handled many other lines which would
also have been withheld from him, and
probably other manufacturers would
have boycotted him, too.
How futile to talk of competition when
such practices are allowed to continue!
If manufacturers and trade-organisations
had been prepared to co-operate with the
Government in the days of scarcity by
refusing to supply retailers who charged
more than fixed prices there would have
been no need to employ an army of
inspectors to clutter the courts with
endless prosecutions of traders who
refused to stick to fixed prices.
Presumably manufacturers find that a
higher profit on a limited' turnover suits
them better than lower profits on
increased turnover. While they can adopt
that attitude the cry for “increased pro-
duction” will go unanswered— Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Cost of Food
One of the curiosities of our day is
that, while food-stores display more luxury
lines than ever before, there are as many
food-bargains advertised as there were
during the depression.
Savings on food are as important now
as they were during the ’thirties, but for
a different reason. Then people looked
for cheap food because they had little
money to spend on anything. Now they
have the money, but heavy hire-purchase
commitments leave less for the essentials.
That hasn’t affected our living-standards
—the average consumption of calories in
Australia is still one of the highest in the
world—but it has affected the price we
are prepared to pay for food items.
And, because of keen competition in
the grocery trade, cheaper food is avail-
able. You have only to look at the
amount of space used by department-
stores in advertising food-bargains to
realise how that competition has grown.
Another factor in this war between
the grocers is the growth of self-service
stores, both in city and suburbs. These
are popular because part of the wages
saved passed to customers in reduced
prices. These self-service shops are often
branches of chain-stores, which reduce
their costs further by mass-purchases and
intelligent anticipation.
Co-operative stores and producers’
markets have also entered the field and
keep their prices down by eliminating the
middleman as much as possible.
The upshot is that the local grocer is on
his way out. He is reduced to supplying
those items which the housekeeper needs
at the last minute. Self-service would
obvipusly save him nothing; bulk-
purchases are outside his pocket; and he
lacks the information necessary for anti-
cipation with profit. He is disappearing
from the suburban scene,
Eventually the food-markets will settle
down. Then the local grocer will be fol-
lowed by the less stable of the new
growths. There will be less opportunity
for speculative purchases than at present
and the narrowing margins of the price-
war will drive many more out of business.
Those who remain will be monopolists
able then to profit by their present busi-
ness risks. —L. R. M. H. (W.A.).
Please Take a Letter, Miss Jones
I can endorse “Narumee’s” remarks
(B. 15/6/’55) regarding the qualifications
needed by stenographers in the good old
days. She and I are probably of the same
vintage—l started with the minimum of
60 w.p.m. typing and 120 w.p.m. short-
hand in a legal office many years ago,
when a rise of 2s. 6d. was eagerly awaited.
“N.” mentions tea at 3d. a day. We
juniors were not allowed to take time
off for tea —the head-girl, at the marvel-
lous salary of £4 a week, was the only one
privileged for that. Our employer in-
sisted that 9 a.m. was the time to be
starting at the typewriter, and said that
if we wished to recount our doings of the
night before to fellow-workers we should
get in at 8.30 and get it over. And there
was no preparing to leave for home at
4.50,p.m.
I have lately taken a job on a staff of
about 30 girls and women and am amazed
(and quite satisfied, too) at the lax way
the office is run. Morning- and afternoon-
tea are provided free, and by the time
everyone has had tea, a talk and a ciga-
rette, each session occupies the best part
of 20 minutes. If anyone feels the need
for further relaxation with a cigarette—
well, perhaps that is the reason for cane-
,chairs in the annexe to the ladies’-room.
Every typewriter is covered by 4.55
p.m. and the office deserted. Every morn-
ing from 9.5 to 9.20 is given to smoking
and reports of the night before and the
"You re looking like your old self again!”
general doings of a staff off duty. After
many years of conscientious work the
habit was still with me to get things done
as quickly as possible, but as my co-
workers seemed to view me as somewhat
strange I gradually slowed-down.
I now have the best job ever. I leave
the office as fresh as a daisy, and remem-
ber the weary days of my youth. That
was the time of urgent letters dictated at
4.50 p.m. and off to the G.P.O. to post
them; or files, etc., mislaid by the boss,
to be found before anyone left.
Yes, I like my new job. And it has
only taken a few weeks for me not to bat
an eyelid when £l2 10s. is handed to me
each week. — When in Rome (N.S.W.).
Penang
In “Australians in Malaya” (B.
22/ 6/’55) it was said that the “old naval
port of Penang,” where the Australian
troops are to be stationed, is almost oppo-
“Watch what y’re liftin' , Murphy !”
site Khota Bharu, scene of the earliest
Japanese appearances in World War 11.
Penang is on the west coast of the Pen-
insula and Khota Bharu on the east coast
—over 150 miles away. Perhaps “oppo-
site” was meant to convey that the two
places are in nearly the same latitude—
that is correct.
Incidentally, Penang has never been a
naval port. It is a roadstead between the
island and the mainland, and has none
of the facilities—dry-docks, workshops,
wharves, etc.—which constitute a naval
port, such as Singapore.
Further, there is not sufficient depth of
water to accommodate anything larger
than a cruiser—battleships have to anchor
10 miles away, off Moka Head.— Orang
Puteh (N.S.W.).
Job-to-Job Tourists
This week, as in any other week,
dozens of young Australians will be
telling their bosses they’re quitting to “go
overseas.” They’ll all be reciting much
the same story—of how they’ve decided
to see the world, not as ordinary tourists
(“haven’t got the cash for that”) but as
itinerant workers, going from place to
place and job to job as they find them.
It’s been going on for some time, every
week a fresh batch of young men and
women leaving good jobs deliberately to
become job-seekers in other climes.
On their return to Australia some of
the successful ones have great stories to
tell about their travels. But what about
the failures?
Like, for instance, a 24-year-old
Sydney stenographer who, a couple of
months ago, set out on one of these work-
ing world-walkabouts—first stop Singa-
pore.
I’ve just received a letter from her
asking me: “Do you think you could
write an article warning Australians
about coming here for jobs?”
No need for me to write a thing. These
excerpts from her letter tell the whole
story:
“Unless you apply from Australia and
obtain a position before coming here it
is hopeless. In the first place, if you say
you are here looking for a job you are
sent packing immediately. The Aus-
tralian Commission advised me to get out
as quickly as possible, as they have had
instances of Australian girls coming here
looking for work, but even those who
round positions were not allowed to take
them, and were ordered to leave.
Others have come here, spent their
rare home looking for work and then
have had to be sent home by the com-
mission. Almost the first thing firms ask
is how long you have been in the colony
and ‘how did you get past the immigra-
tion people?’ Quite apart from the diffi-
culty with the Immigration Department,
which demands a salary in excess of 500
dollars (Malayan dollar is worth about
A2s. lid.) a month, there is the ever-
present threat of riots and the possi-
bility that Britain may have to move out
at any minute. Usual starting-wage is
450 dollars, and firms are loath to pay the
extra 50, as required by the authorities.
“If a firm wants a European secretary
they prefer to employ the wife or
daughter of a local resident, in which
case the firm is responsible for getting
the family out in a state of emergency.
With a girl on a two-year contract her
employer has the same responsibility.
Another factor is that Eurasian or
Chinese locals can be employed at
‘miniature salaries,’ and are fairly com-
petent. Also, wives of servicemen here
take jobs for ‘pin-money.’ _
“Living-expenses are unbelievably
high. I am staying at the Y.W.C.A. hostel
and am charged seven dollars a day for
bed and breakfast. Full board is nine to
10 dollars a day.
“The cash with which I arrived has
entirely disappeared.”
With the steady exodus from Australia
* of job-to-job “tourists,” this Sydney girl’s
experience would hardly be an isolated
case. The authorities must know of
plenty, and it would be timely to issue an
official warning. About Singapore, at all
events. — Frank Snow (N.S.W.).
Hats, Fur-felt
Felt-hat makers cannot feel pleased
with C.5.1.R.0. for having introduced
myxomatosis as a rabbit-killer into this
country.
There could be no more effective testi-
monial to the efficacy of the virus disease
than the SOS from the hat-makers to the
Government. A deputation representing
employers and the unions concerned in-
tends to ask the Department of Commerce
and Agriculture to take action to over-
come the shortage of rabbitskins in
Australia.
Since the introduction of myxo. the
number of skins on the market has
dropped sharply. In 1950, 5168 tons
of skins were sold in Australia; last year
the figure fell to 1500. Moreover, the
industry says, overseas buyers are out-
bidding local manufacturers for the skins
available.
What the department can do to help
the industry is not clear ; it certainly can’t
stop the continuing use of myxomatosis.
Here is an example of a scientific dis-
covery embarrassing one industry and
helping several. According to an official
estimate, the lessened depredations of the
rabbit as the result of myxo. were respon-
sible for the addition of £3O million to
the national wool-clip in 1952-53. The
gain to other forms of primary production
must also be considerable. — Bulls wool
(Vic.).


Public-service Salaries
Many will agree with “O’Rhyncus” in
all he says about the public service (B.
8/6/’55) except when he declares that
many “heads of departments do not
receive their due,”
Departmental heads are the main reason
tor so many officers falling short of earn-
ing their substantial salaries. After all,
someone must be responsible.
There may be some excuse for “moral
decadence” in lower ranks. Thousands of
them are young men who have never
known a time other than that of rackets,
Dlackmarkets and curious social pro-
blems. Many thousands, young and old,
are of only average mentality, with all
that that implies. But departmental heads
are, generally speaking, very senior men.
and the ethical standard of the public ser-
vice is no credit to them.
Perhaps the seniority -principle is at
fault. Once safely on a rung of the pro-
motion-ladder there is no danger of falling
off, and senior men tend to become com-
placent as retirement approaches. As
superannuation is influenced by the last
position occupied, they take no risks of
offending either above or below, and
many become merely rubber-stamps, the
results of inept administration only be
coming evident when they retire.
In recent years the businessman-cum-
public servant has become quite common.
With limited sense of responsibility to the
public, and despite regulations, many
officers have lucrative interests ranging
from farming to stockbroking, and the
more remote they are the morb readily
can they use public time, money and even
facilities. Inside their glass houses they
cannot stone any subordinates who dis-
play similar acumen.
The amount of work which public ser-
vants create for each other would astonish
the taxpayer. If the P.M.G.’s Department
were relieved of the correspondence
between different sections it would just
about solve its own Staff-shortages;
The dyed-in-the-wool public servant
has a scapegoat in all problems—-hot
enough money or not enough staff. This
attitude alone is largely responsible for
the tremendous numerical growth, and,
although new ideas and functions are
created almost daily, deadwood and waste
are pruned but rarely. The net result is
an ever-increasing expenditure without
commensurate return.
The Federal service has created an
Organisation and Methods Branch. Dedi-
cated to improvement and economy, it
will probably finish-up like so many other
branches—a highly salaried section to
which officers may aspire and even reach
on seniority alone.
There is one partial solution that might
be tried. Appointment to the highest
administrative positions should be at a
certain salary and for a certain period-
say, five years. At the end of that time
the job should be reviewed and the retir-
ing officer could either be returned
to his previous position or reappointed.
That should ensure that officers retiring
from the service did not leave behind the
confusion which sometimes takes years
to clean-up.— Cobros (Vic.).
The Higher They Go—
An insignificant fraction of Britain’s
population has tied-up the country —and
got away with it —for the sole reason
that the strikers could not have their own
way. In Australia we suffer similarly and
for similar reasons with monotonous
regularity. People whose lives are being
hindered and disorganised month after
month may be forgiven if they ponder
on the benefits of democracy—we might
as well have autocracy governing us and
be done with it. It could hardly be worse
than conditions now existing.
There is no end in sight to our indus-
trial troubles. Can there ever be any end?
The theory that public ownership of
everything by Socialisation would dis-
solve all problems of capital versus labor
by eliminating capitalism is fading. It is
clear from our own labor-troubles that
Government-control of any industry
gives no guarantee of peace. Governments
have no power to prevent strikes, and
financial deficits are met by higher taxa-
tion. As far as the general public is con-
cerned it matters nothing at all whether
the strike is against capital or Govern-
ment —the people take the knocks either
way.
Both the demand for more pay and
the demand for less work lead inevitably
on to higher costs and prices, which in
turn lead to still more demands. This
never-ending chase of wages and cost-of-
living can only end in disaster, for, just
as the man who has to work for his living
will never be satisfied—as is well illus-
trated by the present urge to reach the
"Sadly beautiful! I like it, but, unfortunately, I'm not the public."
maximums of luxury by the road of hire-
purchase—so the time must come when
the cost of our production will far out-
strip the ability of buyers overseas to
pay for it.
That time is approaching, and it is use-
less for politicians to protest and blame
other peoples for cutting prices and
endangering our standards of living. It is
our own fault, because we are getting
out of step with working-conditions else-
where. in the world, and the harder-
working competitor wins.— Shellback
(N.S.W.).
More Traps for Home-builders
To John Gilmore’s timely hints for
home-builders (B. 15/6 / ’55), the follow-
ing might be added:
Don’t rely solely on the agent’s or
owner’s word that a block of land is all
right. Check with the local municipal
authority’s officers, who will tell you
whether of not there are any drawbacks,
such as easements, drainage-problems,
and so forth. If a block is offered at. a
low figure in comparison with land in the
immediate vicinity, the owner probably
has a good reason for trying to get it off
his hands. Some lots which look dry
enough in summer can be swamps in wet
weather.
If roads are unmade and sewerage or
other services not available, check with
the appropriate authorities as to whether
or not they are scheduled for the near
future. A large number of optimists built
homes three years ago in an undeveloped
area in outer Melbourne; they are still
waiting for water, electricity and sewerage.
Vendors of the land naturally took a rosy
view of the prospects ol getting these
services, and the purchasers have paid
dearly for neglecting to check on them.
Choose your builder with great care ;
after all, you’re investing a lifetime's
sayings and you can’t afford to take any
chances. That may sound obvious advice,
but years of experience in the building-
industry has convinced me that many
people give less thought to this point than
they would to the selection of a car or a
suit of clothes. The master-builders’ asso-
ciations are pretty selective with their
membership and will supply the names
and addresses of builders in your area.
Any builder worth his salt will readily
show you some of the houses he is
building.
Finally, read every line of the contract
and specifications before you sign—and
don’t have those happy afterthoughts;
they cost a lot in extras. And if your
wife is the sort who changes her mind
every five minutes about what she wants,
send her off on a long holiday—it will
work out cheaper in the long run.—
D. J. G. (Vic.).
Seasonal Forecasting
Without depreciating the work of Mr.
Lennox Walker (B. l/6/’55), it is rather
early to make any invidious comparisons,
as he would probably be first to admit.
Many meteorologists have studied long-
range forecasting and achieved some
success, not infrequently the system fail-
ing just when the student was convinced
he was getting somewhere.
If cyclical-weather can be established,
then each year should improve possi-
bilities of accuracy. Surface observations,
together with radioed aircraft- and ship-
reports, radio-sonde soundings, pilot-
balloon and radar-winds, knowledge of
upper-air physics and climatological
records all combine to produce detailed
and accurate synoptic charts against
which those of even 20 years ago are
very crude efforts.
The basis of all long-range forecasting
must be analogy—a period of certain
conditions, when reproduced, will give
similar results. The “extended-period”
forecasts becoming part of everyday
functions of weather-services, particu-
larly in Europe and the U.S., are mainly
derived from “analogues.”
One duty of* the Commonwealth
Meteorological Service (no connection
with State or Commonwealth observa-
tories) is to forecast possible catastrophes,
such as storms, cyclones, floods, etc. For
this, hour-to-hour scrutiny of weather-
changes is necessary, and the service must
endeavor to pinpoint time, place and
duration. The work of Mr. Walker does
not escape the attention of Government
meteorologists, but their different objec-
tives must not be confused. — Burna
(N.S.W.).
Aero Clubs
Since the war, Australians have become
more air-minded than any other nation
in the world, and aero-clubs have been
established in every State..
Most clubs in N. S. Wales are affiliated
with the Royal Newcastle Club, which
acts as governing authority over the
entire State in conjunction with the
Department of Civil Aviation —each aero-
club must obey the department’s general
regulations. New clubs are being formed
in different parts of the State every few
months. Clubs were lately formed at
Narrabri and Dubbo; they now hire
instructional planes from Tamworth and
other larger clubs, but all available funds
are being assigned for buying their own
aircraft.
These clubs—a revolutionary scheme
for young men and women in Australia
—welcome anyone interested in learning
to fly. All joining them can be sure of
first-rate training ; they will learn to fly
on Tiger Moths, still the best training-
craft designed, other than the new
Chipmunk.
Although some clubs were active earlier,
the whole system of club-flying for both
men and women has really come into
prominence since the end of the war.
Clubs aim at providing continuity of
instruction, and their activities have
always been regarded by the Department
of Civil Aviation with respect, for their
thoroughness in training and the ability
of their students who have obtained the
private-pilot’s licence.
The aeroplane is the only answer to
Australia’s future transport- and mail-
problems. In time of bushfires, floods,
war, or when a small child or hiker is
lost, the light-aircraft owner can be of
the greatest assistance.
Air-registration boards in England and
civil-aviation authorities in America and
France have recently relaxed regulations
affecting the small man with an interest
in flying. Most people believe that one
has to be a millionaire or lottery-winner
to own an aeroplane, but in those coun-
tries it is now possible for the individual
to build and fly simple light craft without
being humbugged around with outmoded
regulations and red-tape. With such a
commonsense lead, it is to be hoped that
the Australian D.C.A. will follow suit.
Although a few aero-clubs have experi-
enced fatalities in recent accidents, not
one of these was caused by failure of
machines or inability of pilots.
State Governments should take note
of the expenditure entailed by aero-clubs
all over Australia. Student-pilots claim
they have to pay heavy fees before obtain-
ing licences and, as they are likely to be
called upon immediately in emergencies,
it seems reasonable that the Governments
should kick-in towards their training.—
R.A.W. (N.S.W?).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 337
Across
I—Serviceman who gives a Scot a
drug. (10)
s—Bill’s5 —Bill’s legislation upon becoming
this location of the Federal
Parliament. (3)
B—How the well-informed magazine
reader places an order which is
good for Yours Truly. (5, 3,2)
10— That is in the middle of a
Russian city. (4)
11— Wink if a gallery man is named
after Nicholas. (7)
13 — A speed contest in the Essen
infidel. (7)
14— More like a road-binding product
who lingers behind? (7)
15— Bridge to be constructed with
caution. (7)
17 — Killer as a matter of course. (3)
18— Downs contradicted and
blubbered for the state of the hair
in many a sophisticated coiffure.
(7)
19— Expert direction bumped off. (7)
20 — Canadian province sending back
no thanks to Brazil’s show-city.
(7)
22—No jeweller esteems such a step
in hiding gum. (5)
23 Back an hour after the Arabic
river appears. (4)
24 — Sent lots of stationery through
the water-mains of castles in
Spain. (4-6)
26 Fish for Christopher. (3)
27 XXXXX pattern suggest 12-
down with the pip. (5-5)
Down
1 — It's sweet of Menzies, Casey, etc.
(7, 7)
2 Truant precursor of a screw? (3)
3 Tasmanian tiger puts your
current in line. (9)
4 Avesta’s evil spirit sends a girl
after the district attorney. (5)
6 -Feature a cold like furs. (11)
7 Levelling off the medico-sibilants
for formal wear. (7, 7)
9 —He thinks too well of a bowling
critic? (9)
12— A hundred to the hour is the
supreme pronoun boy. (11)
13— A poet’s son breaks this rock.
(9)
16 —Frank king and the middle note
greeting long-playing Harrison of
Canberra. (9)
21—A gelatine of 17-across. (5)
less led commotion, (j)
Solution to Crossword No. 336


WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA-
wvmmv.
m
mi
vru
&3S&BK
mm
wm.
w&.
s*&s&-SMi
SSS
mvwW'V
VJS/SS'V.r >u
*V*v/;;vv,\«
W£
f tim
mm
5 W.35959
it*
mi
m
h
mm
. ■
1
v m
k. J
///
■
, w W
V U!
<£ rtfS£?V-V **;.•;• •>**/,
m>x
ir
4V
cm*
af
MB
iii?
mm
fffi
iSS
Tgi
Pa
m
w
W
!/*i&
s<«
i
SVvV
rkshhi
i
i*v.V;’-
Umil
SK
Mint ■;;
SKf/j!
T X
How
AUSTRALIA is one of the great food-producing
countries of the world. But good crops and
pastures don’t grow without the help of such special aids
as super-phosphate, which many farmers now buy in
paper bags. Not the ordinary kind of paper bag—but
outsize bags made of many thicknesses of strong, brown
paper. These multi-wall bags for “Super” are made
in Australia from Australian brown paper. Most of the
special paper for them is produced by A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. and sold to other
manufacturers who make the finished bags.
A.P.M. produce 160 kinds of paper and 140 kinds of
paperboard*. These are made by others into a great
variety of finished products that make work easier, or
reduce costs, or make life more pleasant in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard, fibreboard and other
heavyweight papers. Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W. and Petrie, Qld. (under construction)
