

e
SOLERO
The Bulletin
HELICOPTERS COME OF AGE PAGE 28
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3933
Wednesday, June 29, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 252: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppeli.
THE BARD'S BIRTHPLACE, SHRINE FOR SHAKESPEAREANS
STRATFORD-UPON-AVON is a typical English country town which has
grown to international fame without losing its fundamental character,
and over it all broods the spirit of the man who dipped his pen in magic
and climbed to the very summit of human achievement. As all the world
knows, this delightful Warwickshire town begins and ends with William
Shakespeare, who was born there in 1564.
The house in which this event took place stands in Henley Street. It- is
a picturesque stone-and-timber building of unpretentious size, and, at
opposite ends, it once served as a butcher’s shop and an inn. It has been
restored so that it now appears, as far as can be judged, more or less as it
did in Shakespeare’s lifetime. The house came into the possession of the
family at the time of the poet’s father, John Shakespeare, and it remained
in the family until comparatively recent times. It is now held by the
Shakespeare Trustees.
The room in which Shakespeare was born is an upstairs room over-.
looking the street. The actual day of his birth is not known, but he was
baptised on the 26th April, 1564, and as it was customary in those days to
be baptised within two or three days of birth, the 23rd April has generally
been taken as his birthday.
On the death of his father the house in Henley Street became
Shakespeare’s property; it was the only portion of his father’s estate that
had not been seized by creditors. His mother continued to live in the house
until her death in 1608, after which it was occupied by Shakespeare’s sister,
Mrs. Hart.
In the eight rooms of the house are to be seen about four-hundred objects
associated with the life, times and works of the poet, including a unique
collection of books, manuscripts and pictures. There, also, can be seen the
desk from the grammar school at which he is believed to have worked, and
specimens of all the coins mentioned in the plays; also a sword and ring
thought to have belonged to Shakespeare. In the garden are grown all the
trees, plants and flowers mentioned in Shakespeare’s plays and poems.


You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you—any book from any-
where. ... Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
The Red Page
"HERE'S LUCK" AND LOWER
Twelve printings after its first publi-
cation in 1930, Lennie Lowers Heres
Luck now conies in a new edition
(Angus and Robertson) with drawings
by his most frequent collaborator,
“Wep,” whose humor ran parallel
with Lennie’s (sometimes he would do
a drawing for the “Women’s Weekly”
articles and Lennie would write it up),
and whose flattening technique has
formed a modern Sydney school of
black-and-white comic art. Lennie’s
genius formed only an ulcer: if he has
no followers it is because no one could
keep up with him.
In his best times, as “Telegraph”
columnist. Lower was the clotted cream
of the morning porridge. Brian Penton
used to say that all they wanted from
Lennie was three good sentences a
week; and his humor did have that
buckshot character; a lot of comic
writing, and the one pellet that hit the
mark with the finality of great wit. The
one about the racing tipsters, for
example, who always had a certainty
for him on Friday and were always
around on Monday morning to borrow
two-bob; or the seven toy rubber rats
in seven traps that represented “the
seven ages of man” in George Finey’s
surrealist exhibition: “Only two of
them squeaked,” Lennie commented;
“must have been Communists.” There
are as good things in this early work,
the novel; e.g., on page 2: —
I have no yearning to have Stanley
descend to the familiarity of listen-
ing to the heart-throbs of the vulgar,
and punching people in the ribs and
asking if it hurts. Neither do I wish
to stand on one leg with my mouth
open and say ninety-nine, as I would
undoubtedly be compelled to do if
he were training for the medical pro-
fession. His mother would see to
that. Furthermore, judging by the
number of divorce cases that doctors
become entangled in it would seem
that the only way some of them can
keep their names untarnished is by
the application of a little metal-
polish to their brass plate . . .
Anyone could write the comic lead-
up; it can almost be bought prefabri-
cated for use in any kind of comic
book; but the final sentence is another
matter. And yet, although the novel
is liberally peppered with such bril-
liance, its excellence is of another kind
altogether, and one that Lower never
again attempted: an excellence of
characterisation and situation; inven-
tion and (let us not forget) insight sus-
tained at the peak and on the razor-
edge of the outrageous: father and son,
abandoned by wife and mother, going
out together to meet the girls, cheer-
fully blackmailing each other; the fine
stroke-of-theatre where the Gudgeons,
fearing retaliatory racecourse-toughs,
get Estelle to answer the phone as
“Mrs. Gudgeon,” and it turns out to
be the real Mrs. Gudgeon who is
calling; the simultaneous arrival, by
the staircase, of Mrs. Gudgeon and the
private detectives, and by the window
of the maurauding toughs while
Gudgeon senior and junior, hiding in
the wardrobe, threaten each other in
turn, as one enemy or the other seems
more dangerous, with disclosure if
money is not passed over. And over
it all there is the monumental nature
of this Gudgeon jag. which seems to
roll up the whole of Sydney—-eateries,
pubs, races, gambling-dives, taxi-
drivers, postmen, milkmen, depart-
ment-stores, Uncle George from the
bush—and make it burn in the bonfire
of the terrace-house on which it all
centres. It was this monumental
quality, no doubt, which pleased the
Americans who had had time to look
the city over during the recent war.
This novel, they said, was it.
Wild as it is, it is well controlled.
Kenneth Mackenzie told me Lower
wrote it in the ’Loo (I think he said
he had leave-of-absence) talking to the
characters in what is now Mr. James
Carruthers’s pub by day and writing at
night, living then a much more staid
fife than the success of this novel gave
him to five up to. Adam McCay told
me how Lower gave him the script in
the old “Smith’s Weekly” offices,
“shyly,” and said he thought he hadn t
done badly, or words to that effect,
Gradually his writing-life required him
to be brilliant every day of the week
and once extra in a women’s-maga-
zine article, and of course this, added
to the difficulty of doing anything as
good again, was sufficient reason for
his never writing another novel,
Urged on by well-wishers, he tried,
but the work got bogged. One Friday
afternoon in the late ’thirties I was
celebrating the end of the week with
my then-editor, Godfrey Blunden, in
the upstairs bar of the Tudor. Lennie
had been in hospital with his ulcer, and
the first column he had been able to
write, in hospital, chiacking the nurses,
had appeared that morning. Godfrey
and I were talking about it and Lennie
, ~ t
w £en the door Opefied and Lefim,
wh ! te as a Lif If w nAt!
an^j 0r upcftatpri hut Hrpw the beer
maid , • ’ itpf t 1
and eW ?n
y accomplice in his refapse left
ttan there On the Monday there was
a wonderfu s y.
Godfrey, who was always a great
encourager, began talking to him about
the necessity for writing another novel,
and then they were in a taxi* driving
round and round Farmers block while
Lenme explained that Brian Penton
had also been encouraging, and had
offered to read what had been written
anc | S lve bim some advice. The work
had been set-up as . Lower wrote it,
and Lennie had given Penton the
galley-proofs to read. These, it seemed,
had been so mixed that Penton, unable
to B et them into any sequence, had
thrown them on the fire and advised
Lower to start again,
Well. Godfrey argued, as the taxi
ticked up the mileage, why not get more
galley-proofs? Wouldn’t Angus and
Robertson still have the metal? Lennie
not interested. But finally, by some
. , c J
Subterfuge, Godfrey managed to SWUIg
the taxi off its orbit and have it stopped
outside Angus and Robertson’s. Then
he persuaded the reluctant Lennie
inside. _
“Mr. Lower’s new novel, Godfrey
said to the proper authority; “would
you still have the type you set up?
“We would never destroy anything
of Mr, Lower’s,” said the proper
authority. , . ,
Godfrey turned to Lennie in triumpn.
Lennie seized his arm urgently.
“Anyway, let’s get out of here,
Lennie said. .■ T
And then Godfrey fixed it for Lennie
to convalesce at Norman Lindsay s
home at Springwood.
Ronald McCuaig.
FOSSIL MAN
The fossil man in a layer of rock
Cries to the man above with a spade,
“Man alive, I hear you knock
Over and over my sealing grave,
Do you seek a spring in this stony
ground?
“I strain and strain but the stone lies cold,
Cold and heavy over my breast;
Though I was strong I am aeons old,
Now my hands are friable dust,
These are coals that were my eyes.’
Light as a spray of skeleton leaves
Fossil man lies under the rock,
He hears the sounds that the earth re-
ceives
And groans and sighs with a wisp or
breath,
“I am that spring'of life you seek.
“Roll away this prisoning stone,
Let me up to the light of day,
Surely flesh will clothe the bone
Where bone has powdered into dust,
And blood run through this chart of veins.
“Cleave through rock and cut through
clay,
Dig, man, dig, and set me free,
I feel the coming warmth of day:
The dark plutonic masses part,
The quartz splits into crystal light.
Man above to his neighbor nods-—
"Seems we’re in for an early spring,
I thought today as I turned the sods
That when I listened I almost heard
The stir of life beneath the ground.”
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Handy Andes
Travellers mostly seem to go to South
America for the pleasure of being
cooked on the Amazon, so it is a
pleasant change for once to meet two
Dutchmen and a Frenchman who went
there to freeze on the mountains:
which experience C. C. Egeler and T.
de Booy describe in The Untrodden
Andes (Faber).
It is also a change, for a reviewer
who obviously doesn’t know as much
about the mountaineering world as he
should, to learn that Dutchmen, out of
that flat sea-plain where one little
mound outside Amsterdam is treasured
as if it were a hill of diamond, have
ever been climbers of mountains; but,
accompanied and led by Lionel Terray,
who climbed Annapurna with the
French, Egeler and De Booy apparently
did some really notable work in Peru.
First they climbed an unnamed peak
in the Cordillera Blanca of 18,400 ft. —
“Descending first, I was about halfway
down when an anxious moment
occurred. My foot slipped and I had to
put my full weight on the axe. It went
right through the cornice! There sud-
denly gaped a hole through which the
glacier hundreds of feet below could
be seen.” Then, coping with some
exceedingly steep country “From
where Terray stood we had to climb
some 300 ft. up ice pitched at an angle
of about 65 degrees”—they climbed the
Nevada Pongos of 18,737 ft. and
finally, on their second attempt,
mastered the 21,000 ft. Huantsan, which
was their chief objective.
The authors say that the Andes offer
the advantage over the Himalayas that
they are readily accessible from the
coast; and add, in a brief survey of
mountaineering history and prospects
in the region:—
Although an imposing number of
the highest peaks in the Cordillera
Blanca have now been subdued, there
still remain hosts of wonderful
possibilities for the mountaineer.
There still are numbers of summits
towering to over 20,000 feet, and as
yet unchallenged. Among these last
strongholds to repel the onslaught
of mountain climbers towers the
terrifying Chacraraju, which, rearing
up to 19,684 feet, is a fantastically
steep ice-giant and rightly regarded
as the stillest problem in the whole
range. Some expedition or other
will assuredly, in the not distant
future, mark this down as an objec-
tive.
Written in a lightly humorous style,
upon which Edmund Hillary approv-
ingly comments in his brief introduc-
tion, the book gives as clear and vivid
an account of the adventure as you
could wish for; and, with De Booy
falling 300 ft. down an ice-cliff (to land
shaken but unbroken in the soft snow
of the glacier below) and the party
benighted on Huantsan and having to
bivouac in a blizzard, there is an ample
ration of mountaineering drama. It
is illustrated with excellent photo-
graphs.
Half-caste Aborigines
It is curious how literary movements
seem to arise, without external
prompting, out of some stirring of the
national consciousness; one writer
here, another there, without discussion
or imitation, simultaneously writing on
the one theme: and there can be no
doubt that a theme on which Australia
is going to have novels at the moment
is the problem of the aborigine or the
half-caste.
Kenneth Mackenzie was writing such
a novel when he died; Gavin Casey is
reported to be working on one; and
first in the field—though of course the
theme is not new —is a surprisingly
good novel, The Mirage (Australasian
Book Society), from an
writer, F. B. Vickers, who called on
“The Bulletin” to talk about it a few
weeks ago, and said he was an English-
man who had been knocking-about the
outback in Westralia for some years.
“The Mirage” just misses excellence
in its kind —one has to accept that a
half-caste novel, however relieved with
the attractions of character or land-
scape, will be grim, sordid and
sociological.— through sentimentality:
an evasion, for sociological purposes,
of facts the novelist has himself set
down.
Mr. Vickers, it should at once be
made clear, does not seem sentimental
or unduly propagandist, except in a
few unimportant passages, in his
general picture of the life of the
present-day aborigines and the trials
of the half-caste who tries to escape
from the tribal waterhole on the cattle-
station and the squalid camps on the
outskirts of country towns to a toler-
able place in white society. On the
contrary he gives every impression of
knowing what he writes about; and
anybody who has seen the shanty-towns
where the detribalised natives live,
whether far outback or surprisingly
close to civilisation in the country
towns, must admit the essential truth
of his picture, and will doubtless have
shared with him the feeling that some-
thing must be done: if not for the
derelicts whom Mr. Vickers himself
portrays as hopeless, for any of the
natives, half-caste or full-blooded, who
are capable of appreciating anything
better. Just what can be done has, of
course, been the problem for 150 years,
and there may be no easy solution; but
the extraordinary advance which New
Zealand has made in its treatment of
the Maoris over the last 20 years could
surely, to an appreciable extent, be
followed here. . <
It is in the portrait of his hero, a
half-caste named Freddie, that Mr.
Vickers falls short. Here is, essentially,
the portrait of a dangerous man;
violent, a murderer. Quite early in the
book, when first he has been forced to
leave his birthplace on the Westralian
cattle-station after his white father has
got himself killed by a horse, Freddie
tries to strangle a farmer who has
treated him with contempt and then,
“to teach him a lesson,” cracked him
on the jaw;—
Then Freddie sprang at him. He
didn’t attempt to fight Mason, he
had no intention of fighting him.
What he wanted to do was kill! He
grabbed Mason by the neck and
threw him to the ground. He wasn’t
weak now, he was strong with the
desire to kill this man who looked
upon him as something less than
human.
And at the end of the novel, in keeping
with this dangerous character, Freddie
does commit murder: using a carving-
knife on a white man, formerly his
mate in various jobs about the country-
side, who has debauched His half-caste
wife, Nona —a scene of wine, lust,
revenge and bloodshed in the cottage
where the couple have made their futile
attempt to live decently:—
“You -——!” Dick cried as her
fingers tore at his face. And he
lifted his right hand; and smashed
the full bottle of wine down on
Nona’s head, and as she fell he hit
her with the other. Then he ran
for the door. As he did Freddie
grabbed at the carving-knife and
jumped up . . .
Mr. Vickers has here, if he gave full
weight to it, a theme like that of
Richard Wright in his American negro
novel, “Native Son”: a dark man
driven to violence by the oppression
of the whites; but whether or not that
viewpoint probes deep enough for the
motivation of a murderer, he gives no
consistent and convincing picture, be-
tween those two violent outbreaks, of
Freddie as a dangerous character. On
the contrary, the half-caste is a bundle
of the finer feelings—tenderness for his
wife, love for their baby, aspirations
towards a higher standard of life
with not a hint of the violent passions
that, to make the portrait plausible,
should be boiling within him. He is,
o Continued on page 35)


ystematise your office
tvith these time-saving devices
' t
m
ilfiltill
Your office can be an easier place
to work in if you take advantage of
the time and labour-saving devices
Anthony Horderns’ can offer you.
For the man who does his office work
at home, the doctor, the dentist, the
writer and all those with small businesses, Anthony Horderns’
large range of equipment will meet all your requirements.
At left: English “Milner” Filing Cabinet made from
smooth grey finished steel. 52 ins. high, 18|- ins.
wide and ins. deep. Foolscap size. £3B/10/'
Below: “Presto” Rotary Duplicator is ideal
for Offices, Stores, Churches, Clubs, etc.
Made in Holland. Priced at only £3B each.
:
m
m
T
m
m
m
m
m
IH
1. Wooden four-drawer Utility Cab-
inet made with smooth oak, cedar or
walnut finish. 155 x 11 x 11 Jins. 59/6
5. Sterling Pencil Sharpener is fully
guaranteed. Twin cutters and replace-
ment parts available. Price 60/- ea.
9. Bright plastic Memorandum Pads
available in various colours. Priced
at 5/11 each. Refills are 1A each.
2. Handy indexed Book for quick,
easy reference. Made in England.
Sise 8 x 6£ins. Priced at 7/11 each.
6. Correspondence Rack is a very use-
ful stationery holder for any office.
Quarto si?e, 20/6 ea.; Foolscap, 25/6.
10. Metal Waste Paper Bin with green
or grey finish. 12ins. high x llins. in
diameter. Priced at only 9/6 each.
3. New model touch control Teledex
in black and walnut colours, 25A ea.
Red, green, blue and Ivory, 27/6 ea.
7. Attractive Passport Case made from
smooth calf skin. Available in colours
of black or blue. Priced at 23A ea.
11. Large Desk Blotter in red, blue
black or brown leather corners.
Gold blocked. 18in. x lliins. 21A.
4. Vanguard Stapler is sturdily con*
structed and simple to use. Staples
are priced at 2/9 pkt.; machine, 32/6.
8. Office file Perforator is adjustable.
Standard punching. Well made and
easily operated. Priced at 14/6 each.
12. Private Account Books, Ledger,
Journal and Double Cash, 9in. x 6in.
162 pages. Good quality paper. 14/6.
Dept., Ground Floor. Mail and ’Phone Orders. 80951. Box 2712, G.P.O.
r t in. h


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Jane 29, J9SS
Vol. 76—No. 3933
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia lor the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 252lit
* Phone , BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia :~ 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE FRUITS OF U.N.O.
THE memorial sitting of the United Nations
Assembly at San Francisco, celebrating the tenth
anniversary of the formation of that body, lacks
the spirit of the original meeting. It has a morning-
after air. It didn’t even attract some of the leading
figures who were so prominent as U.N.O.’s mid-
wives. Those who are there are ten years older
and wiser and more subdued, and more-or-less
triumphant according to what they have gained
from their membership. Many of the most vocal
reformers of 1945-46 have become silent, having
learnt the great truth that influence goes with
power, and that it is not possible for a stable of
South American and minor African and Asian
nations to rule the world by majority-voting.
Ten years ago nobody knew anything about
the rosy infant which had just been bom. It still
was believed that it would grow up as a single
personality, dictating its will by the united power
of the united great nations of the West—who were
then supposed to embrace Russia—combined with
highly civilised China as represented by Chiang
Kai-shek and his overlords and guided by the new,
clear-eyed diplomacy of middle-western America
and Chifley-Evatt Australia. It was only months
later when Comrade Gousev of Russia began pound-
ing the table and demanding that Mr. Trygve Lie,
Foreign Minister of a little country under Russia’s
shadow, should be first president and then, when
he was defeated by M. Spaak, first secretary-general,
that it was realised that what seemed to be one
healthy child was really Siamese-twins.
And it took but a few months to discover that
not only did the United Nations consist of attached
twins, but that they were twins with divergent
personalities—with several personalities each,
according to who happened to be abstaining from
voting at what moment.
There have been times in the history of the
councils of U.N.O. when participants in its pro-
ceedings have not been quite sure what they have
been doing—such moments as that in which M.
Manuilsky, one of Russia’s satellite agents from
the Ukraine, voted enthusiastically both for and
against a motion of his own. And there have been
many, many moments of disillusionment. The
supreme one was that when the first “Niet” dropped
into the silence from the Russian table on the
Syrian-Lebanese question—what U.N.O.’s disillu-
sioned secretary-general Lie described after his
retirement as “the chilly forewarning of the ‘cold
war’ to come—the [Russian] clumsiness, the rigidity
of position, the refusal to participate, even in non-
essentials, in the give-and-take and the hammering-
out of acceptable compromises that are the very
lifeblood of politics and diplomacy among the
Western democracies.”
Since then there have been nearly sixty Russian
vetoes, most of them producing the same result as
was produced in the vote on the Syrian-Lebanese
resolution when the single Russian veto defeated
seven affirmative votes.
This set the pattern of Russian action through-
out the history of the United Nations, as the first
speech of the bloodstained Vyshinsky, now with
his millions of murdered victims, set the tone of
debates when he attacked the Greek Government
as “Fascist scum” and shouted that the fact that
they were kept in office as the tools of British
military power constituted “a grave danger to the
maintenance of peace and security.” From then
onwards the whole history of the United Nations
through its first five years, until the United States
tired of joining in the game, seemed to deal with
the promotion of an exulting policy aimed to
weaken and dismember the British Commonwealth
and strip the so-called colonial peoples of protective
occupiers or suzerains so as to open their frontiers
to Communist penetration.
India was freed, to be divided in accordance
with the ideals of U.N.O.’s founders. At the end
of ten years its leader is hobnobbing with
Bolshevism, and has become a liability to the West.
The Burmese were similarly abandoned to a reign
of disorder and depression which has not yet ended.
Israel and some other entities along the Eastern
Mediterranean littoral became nations and have
been sore and dangerous spots in the world ever
since.
China was snatched from what, at the time
U.N.O. was formed, were—and still are—considered
by U.N.O. its rightful owners, by Russian agents
armed with equipment won by the blood of
Americans, Australians and British and stolen by
Russia from her allies. Communism, with their
aid, was placed on the throne—outside U.N.O. —
in Peking. Indo-China was ravaged. Malaya was
torn with banditry, and still is, in Communist opera-
tions which have cost thousands of lives. Persia
lives in fear. Indonesia, “rescued” from the orderly
rule of the Dutch, was “freed,” and, like British
Asia, robbed of a rich and regular inflow of
European capital and the fruits of European tech-
nical genius. It was reduced to standards approach-
ing barbarism under a Government which keeps
itself in office only by force and which is always
only one short jump ahead of economic crisis.
Because of its territorial demands it menaces Pacific
Ocean peace.
The generous territorial gains which Russia
made as the result of a few hours’ fighting—if there
was even that—when Moscow declared war after
Japan had collapsed, are being used to menace and
dominate Japan and threaten the United States and
its Pacific communication-routes. Africa has been
disjointed and dismembered. Europe has been,
during the whole period of U.N.O.’s existence, in
a constant struggle to fend-off aggressive Com-
munism.
It seems trivial after that catalogue of changes
during the era of U.N.0., with its expensive drain
on Treasuries, to mention Korea and the lives and
money it has cost or the fact that the outcome of
Russia’s intervention there has been that the
peninsula is divided, the northern half a Sino-
Russian province. It would be impolite, probably,
at this celebratory juncture, to dwell on the futility
of U.N.O. as displayed in the Korean affair, the
manner in which most of its members slunk out of
their responsibilities or went brazenly over to the
side of aggression.
Probably most leading delegates at San
Francisco feel with Mr. Harold Macmillan, the
British spokesman, that the experiment has at least
proved that “U.N.O. as it stands today probably
represents the highest common factor of agreement
that is possible among nations” —a dismal admis-
sion in the light of the facts.
There seems to be only one fact to rejoice at
on the tenth anniversary of the foundation of
U.N.O. That is, that it sees the parlor-Pink
Socialism inspired by Moscow, which gave birth to
the strange concern, on its way out. The day of
the Manuilskys, the Evatts, the Roosevelts and the
Attlees and Crippses is over in the West. Their
simple theories of “self-determination,” “indivisible
peace” and suchlike have been put away in the
attic of history. The world has come round to the
belief that security can only be founded on the
solid strength arrayed by people of goodwill who
are ready to talk straight and wamingly to
aggressors and back their talking with the power
of free enterprise and individual liberty.
Homes, Owned and Rented
LAST week’s Loan Council meeting followed the
same pattern as those of previous years as far as
the wrangling over loans for public works was
concerned, but when the question of money for
housing came up there was a new note, and one
which will probably alter the whole trend of
Government home-building in Australia. The
Prime Minister suggested that when the Com-
monwealth-States Housing Agreement expires next
year a new plan should provide for 20 per cent,
of the States’ housing-money allocations to be
made available to building-societies and other
home-building organisations. Premiers Cahill and
Gair opposed the suggestion, but the other States’
leaders are apparently in favor of it.
The Commonwealth ’and States Housing
Agreement dates back to 1945. It was a creation
of the “Labor” Governments then ruling the roost
in Canberra and in five of the States. It was then
that Mr. Dedman, Minister for Post-war Recon-
struction, made his famous remark: “The Com-
monwealth Government is concerned to provide
adequate and good housing for the workers; it is not
concerned with making the workers into little
capitalists.” Elaborating this, he added that past
Governments had devoted too much of their atten-
tion to “programmes deliberately designed to place
the workers in a position in which they would have
a vested interest in the continuation of capitalism.”
Mr. Dedman later denied having made the state-
ment, and his colleagues have been denying it at
intervals ever since—the most recent denial being
made by Mr. Ward last month—but the record is
in “Hansard” for all to see.
That “Labor” was then out of step with public
opinion is shown by the 1947 census figures in the
“nature-of-occupancy” schedule. Of 1,600,000
private homes in the Commonwealth at that date,
nearly 800,000 were owned by their occupants; a
further 140,000 were being bought by instalments.
Apparently a large portion of the Australian people
had a distinct desire to become little capitalists.
The corresponding figures for the 1954 census have
not yet been published, but the large numbers of
would-be home-owners on the waiting-lists of the
building-societies, insurance companies, savings-
banks and other institutions which advance money
for home-building indicate that the desire is no
less keen today. A recent Gallup-poll surveying
the attitude of people towards home-ownership
confirmed this.
Last month, when Federal Parliament was
debating a bill to amend the Housing Agreement
to enable houses built under it to be sold on terms,
“Labor” members spoke as if the Government was
tardily introducing something which they had been
advocating for years, conveniently forgetting that
it was a principle they had refused to accept when
framing the original Act. The Socialist dream has
worn a little thin in the last decade, but in 1945
the “planners” were in full control; Mr. Dedman’s
very choice of words —“housing” for the “workers,”
not homes for the people—was typical bureaucratic
jargon. The “Labor” party at that time agreed
substantially with Mr. Dedman, partly because it
was hell-bent for Socialism and partly through a
fear that a wide extension of home-ownership
would mean a lessened “Labor” vote.
Today’s change of attitude similarly reflects
the waning popularity of Socialism and a lessened
fear of the electoral consequences of home-
ownership. After all, if men can own hotels,
picture-theatres, racehorses, farms and sheep-
properties and still be trusty “Labor” M.P.s it
must also be possible for a man to own his home
and still vote “Labor.”
For some years State “Labor” Governments
have been learning that the role of landlord is not
entirely a bed of thornless roses, particularly when
you have been relying on the votes of tenants to
keep you in office. At the Premiers’ Conference in
August, 1953 —most of the Premiers were away
at the Coronation, but their deputies had presum-
ably been briefed by them before their departure—
this was made very plain.
Mr. Duggan, of Queensland, remarked that a
wider spread of home-ownership would make for
“a better citizenry generally” and would also
“promote greater industrial harmony.” That was
sound commonsense, but it was a long way removed
from the Socialism of 1945. Mr. Duggan also said:
If we continue to be landlords, tenants will
become increasingly critical of us.. ..1 believe
that if we perpetuate the system of building houses
for rental there will be a general depreciation of
the standard of maintenance of houses. People
who rent houses are not inclined to do as much
repair- and maintenance-work as are people who
are financially interested in their homes.
Deputy-Premier Heffron of N. S. Wales, com-
menting on anomalies in the variation of rents of
old and new houses, said:—
If we sold the houses, we should not be
worried with that problem. Once you agreed to
the States selling the houses to the tenants, that
particular worry would end.
Representatives of other States expressed
agreement with the principle that the Housing
Agreement should be amended to provide for
instalment sales. The recent amending legislation
is a sequel.
The experience of the N. S. Wales Housing
Commission bears out Mr. Duggan’s remarks on
the cost of keeping rented houses in repair. In 1953
the cost of maintenance of N. S. Wales Housing
Commission properties was £364,000, including
£177,000 for painting; in 1954 the respective figures
were £290,000 and £102,000. The drop was more
apparent than real because
During the year some difficulty was experi-
enced in securing suitable contractors for this type
of work and the full painting programme could
not be carried out. The overall result was a
decrease in the expenditure on this item of
£74,820.
Thousands of homeowners also find it difficult
to secure suitable contractors for this type of work.
They find it even more difficult to find the money
to meet the high labor costs involved. The overall
result is that they do their own painting—a high
executive in the paint industry recently said that
the major proportion of paint sold nowadays is
bought by “amateurs.”
There is no justification for State and Federal
Governments to continue permanently in the land-
lord-business on a big scale. The various Housing
Commissions have served a useful purpose in help-
ing to overtake the backlog of home-construction
caused by the war. But even with the handicaps
imposed by priorities and restrictions on finance,
it is still a fact that the bulk of homes erected in
Australia since the war have been built by private
enterprise. The time has come for a tapering-off of
Government housing activity, and the Federal Gov-
ernment’s plan seems an excellent way of doing
this. It would still leave plenty of scope for
Government-building of rental homes, though, of
course, all homes built would be available for
purchase by the tenants on extended terms. At
the same time it would make more money available
for approved societies to lend to those wishing to
build their own homes.


GETTING THE BIRD DOWN
“San Francisco? Geneva? No—better give me a round-the-world season-ticket.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Prestige and Privilege
The. Full High Court, with every judge
present, made short work of the attempt
to secure the release of Raymond Fitz-
patrick and Frank Browne, imprisoned
by the Federal House of Representatives
for breach of privilege in having
attempted to intimidate a member. The
court has held unanimously, in effect, that
under Section 49 of the Constitution the
Commonwealth Parliament and its
Houses have all the powers and privileges
of the British Parliament.
It is difficult to believe that, having its
privileges established, Parliament will
give them up. At the same time the out-
cry about the Browne-Fitzpatrick case
should stir both Parliament and the Gov-
ernment to reviewing the many influences
which have been gradually whittling away
the prestige of both Houses.
Governments themselves in the past
couple of decades have been as much to
blame as anybody. During the reign
of “Labor,” from 1941 to 1949, caucus
was more important than Parliament, and
the A.L.P. Federal Executive more im-
portant than the caucus. Caucus put
into shape the orders of the Executive, and
the Government and its Whips saw them
carried out in Parliament. It often hap-
pened that members of the Houses were
ordered to vote in a certain way by a
caucus majority which consisted of mem-
bers of another House. And this under
threat of expulsion from the party if they
failed.
While the House of Commons, irrespec-
tive of what party is in power, operates
within the strictest ambit of the law relat-
ing to offices-of-profit under the Crown,
these laws are disregarded entirely in the
Federal Parliament if it happens to suit
the whole of the members to disregard
them. There are a dozen matters which
the Speaker has brought to notice in the
past few years in this respect which both
the Government and the Houses, not to
mention the daily press, are not worried
about in the slightest. Yet on the face
of them they are transgressions of Parlia-
mentary law which could never occur in
respect of the British Parliament.
There is, moreover, a lack of decorum
in Canberra which is a disgrace to Parlia-
ment and which, especially since broad-
casting has become the vogue, does Parlia -
ment’s reputation little good. It is not
merely the outrageously abusive and
larrikin language in which attacks on
opponents are made, but the strategic
whispering which is carried on at the
table to distract listeners on important
occasions.
This discourtesy and slander has long
given the better class of Parliamentarians
concern, and they have often deprecated
it, but Speakers who take stern measures
to suppress it get little help or sympathy.
It is usually a party question pure and
simple—the “Labor” party and its leader
even objected to mild measures being
taken against one of their ruling junta
who, last session, referred to a colleague
as “just a low, yellow cur ... a sancti-
monious humbug” adjuring him to “get
on your right side, you rat.”
Another reason why Parliament is
going downhill as an institution lies in
the fact that all Governments now con-
sider it their instrument. The initiative
of the private member has been reduced
to such an extent that the only part he is
normally allowed to take in proceedings
is to speak in favor of his party’s view
and vote accordingly. When somebody
like Mr. Wentworth takes the initiative
into his hands in opposition to this Gov-
ernment it is a sensation. Parliament in
its early days in the Commonwealth was,
as Mr. Hughes once pointed out, “a de-
liberative body whose decisions were
arrived at after questions had been thor-
oughly debated every question was
considered on its merits.” Now it is little
better than a rubber-stamp.
Frank Green, retiring Clerk of the
House of Representatives, went a long
way towards summing up the whole posi-
tion in an article in the “S. M. Herald”
in which he said that the dangers chal-
lenging the Parliamentary institution are
“the tyranny of the Cabinet, the bureau-
cracy and the growing rigidity of the
party system when an outside body
succeeds in dictating to the Parliamentary
body Parliamentary government ceases
to exist.”
As he showed —despite the protests of
the present Speaker, repeated time after
time —Parliament House, until a few
years ago exclusively devoted to the use
of Parliament, which jealously guarded
its privacy, is now a roving-ground for
every kind of person who cares to invade
it, and Parliament itself meets only as the
kernel of a large mass of departmental
offices, and is, as Mr. Green says, “noth-
ing more than a, large Government
secretariat.”
The whole matter needs a searching
inquiry at the highest level; for it is
perfectly true, as Mr. Green says, that
while Parliament claims the same privi-
leges as the most august Parliamentary
body in the world, and the rights which
go with the dignity of the highest courts
in the land, it has been “humiliated” and
is no longer master of its own house, and
“the process of effective Parliamentary
government has diminished here further
than in any other democracy.”
Loans and Taxes
Mr. Cahill was unintentionally humor-
ous in Canberra last week when he pro-
tested with some heat that the Common-
wealth’s intention to cut the loan pro-
grammes of the States was known before
it was put to the Loan Council. For as
long as Mr. Cahill has been attending
Loan Council meetings he has made a
practice of presenting a “programme”
many, many millions higher than he has
any expectation of getting accepted. And
year after year he has seen it cut down
to size, has loudly prophesied ruin and
unemployment, but has managed some-
how to struggle through the year on his
reduced allocation, to bob up again at
the following year’s meeting with another
inflated “schedule” which his office-boy
could tell him has not the slightest chance
of fulfilment.
The N. S. Wales Premier is not alone
in this habit of overbidding his hand ;
he is merely the outstanding exponent of
the art, and he is now so used to the role
that he would probably feel uncomfort-
able asking for a sum whicli he knew
would be granted. The same thing applies
in lesser degree to the other Premiers, and
probably none of them was grievously
dismayed when the loan-programme for
1955-56, thrown on to the Loan Council
table inscribed £258 million, bounced on
to the floor and came back labelled
£l93£ million. As this was £l3f- million
more than the current year’s total and
threatened to strain to the utmost the
capacity of the loan-market, the Premiers
wisely accepted it instead of making a
futile gesture of independence by voting
a fictitious figure as on some past
occasions.
Optimism also marked the Premiers’
claims for tax-reimbursements —£178
million, compared with £l5O million for
the current year —and pessimism was the
keynote of their comments on the Com-
monwealth’s final word on the subject—
£ls7 million. Premiers gloomily forecast
big deficits, but the Prime Minister replied
that “prophecies of imminent disaster and
bankruptcy fall a little dully on ears that
have heard them regularly for five years.”
The Commonwealth’s figure was £l6
million more than the States were entitled
to under the reimbursement formula, and
as long as the Commonwealth has the
responsibility of raising the taxes it can’t
be blamed for refusing to keep on increas-
ing supplementary grants year after year.
If the Premiers really want a bigger say
on the amount of spending-money they
are to receive their only course is to press
for a return of taxing-powers.
Plenty Talk—-No Roads
The Premiers and the Prime Minister had
a talk about the nation’s roads at their
annual Loan Council palaver in
Canberra. The Premiers said this and the
Prime Minister said that, and when all
was said the nation had a lot more words
in its pigeonholes and not one more
pot-hole filled.
This sort of thing has been going on
for a long time. It is plain that all the
Governments propose to do is talk —and
pass the buck. The stock answer of the
States is, “We can’t get the money”; the
stock answer of the Commonwealth is,
“You’re not using the money you’ve got.”
However right either party is, the fact is
that little is being done about roads.
A person once prominent seems to have
vanished from the Australian scene —the
private road-contractor. Time was, and
not so long ago, when every large country
centre had one. He had a depot to house
his equipment, a core of permanent
hands, added casuals when the need
arose and contracted to build —and did
build —roads.
Who builds and repairs them now?
Government and local - government
employees, all on day-labor, all indifferent
as to time taken or cost involved. One
result of this is a staggering number of
part-finished road jobs, because political
and other considerations cause gangs to
be shifted all over the place, and in the
end few jobs ever reach completion.
It seems idle to expect the Govern-
ments to do anything more than talk. It
seems that the time has come, though
the idea will be strongly opposed by an
entrenched bureaucracy, to call the
private road-contractor back into busi-
ness, and in a big way. Even to the for-
mation of public road-construction
companies and adoption of the toll-road
system which provides poverty-stricken
Italy with four- and six-lane highways on
which the touring Australian, coming
from a country which runs ten times
more motor-vehicles than Italy on a
population basis, drives as in a dream.
Whatever the method adopted it must
be divorced from the stunted outlook of
the States, all <sf whom are allergic to
roads because of their bankrupt railways,
and all of whom regard the motor-owner,
both commercial and private, as some-
body to be taxed to the limit simply
because he is a motor-owner. An atti-
tude from which the Commonwealth is by
no means free.
Australia has developed its modern
motor industry and its people have
become motor-minded in spite of Gov-
ernment antipathy (often outright
opposition); it is evident that it can
expect little from its Governments in
road-development. They are simply not
capable of it.
Filling the Spaces
“In the ACT”: For something like a
century Australians congregated in the
south-east and extreme south-west of
the continent have talked apprehensively
about the attraction of the empty spaces
in northern Australia to the hungry and
overcrowded Asian nations near by, but
have done little to encourage actual
settlement in the area. The time seems
ripe for a clear look at the problem, and
an assessment of the danger, if there is
one.
In fact Federal Cabinet has committed
itself to a partial review, as a result of
the approach by the West Australian
Parliament, on a non-party basis, for a
£4O-million development scheme for the
underdeveloped north-west, including the
Kimberleys. The plan envisages irriga-
tion and road-works, shipping subsidies
and more tax-concessions, establishment
of industries and a housing scheme. It
is reported that Cabinet will make a
piecemeal report on each item, but it is
to be hoped that it will also make an
overall assessment of the general situa-
tion in the north, including the defence
and other needs arising from the new
situation created by the uranium and oil
discoveries.
It is becoming fashionable for some
observers to assert that our empty spaces
in themselves have no attraction for
Asians. It is declared that productivity
is increasing in Asia, that large tracts not
previously cultivated are now being used,
and that in some areas the rate of popu-
lation-increase is slowing down as a
result of better (but still low) living-
standards. These factors, it is claimed,
make the Asian need for living-room less
urgent.
There is no doubt that food-
production is rising in most countries, and
that the yield per acre or hectare is
increasing as knowledge of better farm-
ing spreads. A lot of Asian regions have
recently become self-supporting in food
in spite of larger populations, and are
making efforts to open up virgin-land
areas. Indonesia has many such areas,
but some are in swampy or mountainous
terrain, and substantial technical equip-
ment and funds are needed to make them
suitable for settlers from the grossly
overcrowded portions of Java.
Other factors are said to be the
reluctance of Asians to leave their own
country (the Chinese have never hesi-
tated to go anywhere for profit), and
spreading knowledge of the inhospitable
nature of the Australian desert areas.
All these arguments may be comfort-
ing for those anxious to decry the need
for either our armed defences or our
protective immigration policy, but they
ignore the facts of modern international
life. If anyone has designs on this
country, either now or 20 years hence,
the attraction will not be the vast square-
miles of low-rainfall country in the out-
back, but the more lush areas of the
continent, its industrial plants and its
resources of valuable raw materials.
These are the things which have to be
defended, and some of them are now in
the north.
It may be that the Asians are too busy
about their own affairs at the moment
to bother about us, but that doesn’t
mean that we don’t enter into the calcu-
lations of nations which take little
account of time. Our answer must be
the fullest and quickest development of
which we are capable, coupled with a
defence plan adaptable in its strategy
and flexible enough to cope with possible
new weapons and tactics of aggression.
If the edge of any attack can be turned
before it reaches the Australian main-
land, so much the better. In the mean-
time we have the task of improving our
relationships with Asian countries, and
of assisting those countries to resist the
subversion which constantly seeks to
undermine them to the danger of us all.
■ -o-
Lawlessness Wins
Two vicious strikes in Sydney during the
week emphasise how farcical is the
present industrial system.
The first affected the G.P.O. Some-
body in the Sydney parcels-sorting office
saw somebody else with a stop-
watch. It happened that he was merely
timing operations for costing purposes ;
but unionists have become very jealous
and shamefaced about any observation
of their rate of work. So a “regulation’
strike was immediately declared by the
Postal Workers’ Union. It was ordered
that every regulation made within the
last century or so should be brought into
force irrespective of whether it was
obsolete or no with a view to punishing
the department and the public, and giving
the Government a salutary warning not
to try to find out how slowly postal
officers worked.
Mr. Lynch, secretary to the union,
exulted after the first day or so that on
June 21 only 300 parcels went out of the
Central Parcels Office at Railway-square
instead of the normal 10,000, and that
17,000 altogether were held up, largely
due to the insistence by the men on obey-
ing a never-observed regulation that all
parcels should be initialled by an officer
at the office of posting. Altogether 2200
mail-sorters were involved. In the end,
before a settlement was arrived at, 25,000
letters had been carried over at the
G.P.O. and thousands of parcels delayed.
The second case was that of 1000 fire-
men at 54 Sydney stations who decided,
after a meeting in the Communist-
controlled Waterside Workers’ offices, to
go on strike because the Industrial Com-
mission wouldn’t immediately consider
their objection to an arrangement arising
out of an award delivered by the commis-
sion in March. The men were not on the
breadline. All that was involved was a
difference as to what overtime could or
should be paid pending the full manning
of the stations to meet the new award in
March next, plus a demand for increased
margins and an undertaking that the
month’s holiday which firemen now
enjoy in the year would not be cut to
three weeks in process of readjustments.
Nevertheless, the men walked out,
saying in effect: “Give in or let the city
burn if it likes.” Their action was so
arbitrary that even Mr. Gus Kelly, the
Minister who deals with their affairs in
the Cahill Government, didn’t feel able
to justify it.
The startling factor in both these cases
seems to be that the light of authority
now burns so feebly that no consequences
ensue to the culprits from such acts of
wicked industrial intimidation. When it
comes to an issue between a lawless union
and a lawful Government the lawless
union normally seems to be paramount
It is no wonder government is falling into
contempt in Australia. It hasn’t,
generally speaking, got the backbone of a
dandelion.
The "Talk-not-shoot" Line
As the Four Power Conference at Geneva
draws nearer it becomes plainer that the
world situation is growing more rather
than less complicated.
In essence, Russia appears to be out
to create as much confusion as possible,
as well as lack of confidence, in the
Western Governments which are to be
represented. Every effort is being made
to create the illusion that Moscow is
desperately anxious to achieve peace
ready to go to any length to save the poor
democratic peoples from the hydrogen-
bomb.
At the same time there are strings tied
to everything, or conditions which bar
realisation. Molotov showed himself at
San Francisco, as usual, eager to liquidate
atom-bomb-building, but equally eager to
avoid inspection to ensure it. And the
whole question of peace in Europe is
tied up in Moscow’s view with “with-
drawal of foreign bases,” leaving
Western Europe wide open to Russian
attack.
The announcement that Australian
troops were going to Malaya, combined
with the imminence of the Malayan
Federal elections, at once brought a soft-
sounding offer by the Malayan bandits
to send emissaries to Kuala Lumpur, if
(i Continued on next page )


guaranteed safe conduct, to discuss peace.
The missive came from “The Malayan
Racial Liberation Army Supreme Com-
mand Headquarters” in southern Siam ;
but in Malaya the Government knows
the realities of the two-headed line;
its spokesman, Sir Geoffrey Bourne, said
that he was sure that the Communists
were under great pressure to end the war,
as the “talk-not-shoot” policy was the
Communist line of the moment, but that
if the terrorists want to end the war they
could do it by surrender.
Combined with its other operations, the
Kremlin’s latest “soft” move has been
for the capture of stooges who do its
work in the West for it on the principle
of divide and conquer. Here it is
succeeding very well—except in Yugo-
slavia. It has enrolled the Indians as
emissaries, so that Mr. Menon, the
Indian delegate, has spoken up virtuously
of his assurance that Peking genuinely
wants peace. The strong effort which
has been made to link India and China
and to make Russia the source of
technical know-how and economic help
as a preliminary to peaceful conquest is
obviously succeeding to some degree.
Nehru seems to be treating Khrushchev
in good faith, and Bulganin, the Russian
Premier, will visit India within the next
few weeks. In Australia Moscow does
not need to gain a stooge. Dr. Evatt’s
policy must suit it very well.
But while the Kremlin has been
refeasing Austrians as a token of good-
will following the peace with that
country, these wretched and broken cap-
tives are bringing out horrible tales of
mass-murder and slave-camps that make
the blood run cold. They have named
numbers who have come too near the
Russians and who have been kidnapped
---women as well as men. And, side by
side with these stories, came the wanton
shooting-up of a United States aircraft
by two trigger-happy Russian fighters so
far outside Russian territorial waters off
Alaska that if any shooting had been
justified it would have been on the
American side. For once the Russians
have expressed regret and offered to pay
half the damage, but it is conjectural
whether they would have done this had
the Neptune disappeared into the Arctic
waters without trace, as they no doubt
intended.
It. would seem that they are only
regretful because they have been caught
in the act.
POLITICAL POINTS
Would it be correct to describe those
who are urging Parliament to be
prorogued as proroguers?
• •
It is now nearly three years since
Menzies virtually challenged the States
to take back their taxing-powers, but
nothing seems to have been done about
it. At the 1952 Premiers’ Conference
the P.M. said his Government was
“abundantly and promptly willing” to
discuss the question, adding that he felt
it would be a good thing from all points
of view to know that “so far as is possible
the people who spend money also raise
the money, and that every State is in
direct relationship with its own tax-
payers.” Three years later the matter
still rests there.
At the latest Premiers’ Conference the
newest Premier, Mr. Bolte, put in a plea
for return of taxing-powers, claiming that
Victoria had long been at a disadvantage
under the uniform-tax system. Queens-
land’s Mr. Gair also urged a change.
Such pleas have been heard before at the
conference-table, but they seem to be
forgotten as soon as the Premiers go
home.
• •
Melbourne’s tram-fares may be
increased to 4d. for the first section. The
place is getting more like Sydney every
day.
• •
Continuing his campaign of misrepre-
sentation, Dr. Evatt told a Newcastle
meeting that Australia should not send
troops to “interfere in the internal
politics of Malaya.” He didn’t tell the
meeting that the two biggest political
parties in Malaya had expressed approval
of Australia’s decision to send troops
and that the only party to agree with his
viewpoint was a minority group which is
contesting only four seats at next month’s
elections.
• «
Ignoring these elections, which will
advance Malaya another step on the road
to self-government, Evatt said:
Malaya is entitled to self-government.
The Labor party has promised to support
self-government by all nations.
Self-government for Malaya is the
stated policy of the Australian Govern-
ment and of the British Government. The
difference is not, as Evatt pretends,
between for and against, but between
now or later. Is Evatt’s “Labor” party
prepared to give New Guinea immediate
self-government?
• •
Granny “Herald” thinks if she shouts
loud enough everyone will think every-
one disapproves of Bob over the jailings.
• •
The new Bolte Government in Vic-
toria is accused of intending to hold a
10 p.m. hotel-hours referendum early next
year. One reason given is that extended
hours would then be in time “to cater
for overseas visitors to the Olympics.”
The “Drys” are certain to seize on this,
on the grounds that athletes don’t drink,
anyhow, and that Melbourne doesn’t want
its streets full of blotto foreigners during
the Olympic carnival. In any case, “cater-
ing for overseas visitors” is a poor excuse.
What’s wrong with catering for Victorian
citizens?
• •
There’s to be a new-State convention
at Mareeba in North Queensland on
August 6 and 7. The movement is the
outcome of dissatisfaction with longd-
istance government from Brisbane, and
its sponsors claim that as a result of
official neglect of North and Central
Queensland those areas now hold 624
fewer people than in 1933 and that the
actual population on the land in C.Q. has
fallen by 17,000 in the past 22 years. The
Brisbane Government may not be
alarmed at the agitation, but at any rate
Gair is making a trip to North Queens-
land in July. In the meantime Innisfail
is staking a claim as capital of the
proposed new State.
• ®
The 132 ft. building-limit seems to be
on the way out. A 20-story building is
projected for Sydney on a site near the
city end of the Harbor Bridge; its
erection is made possible, says the report,
“by a loophole in the regulations.” In
Melbourne a building of similar size has
been approved by the traffic-and-regula-
tions committee of the City Council.
Location, East Melbourne ; owners, 1.C.1.
• •
Tasmania’s “Labor” Government com-
pleted 21 years of continuous office last
Wednesday. In that time there have been
four Premiers. A. G. Ogilvie held the
post from 1934 to 1939 and was followed,
for a few months only, by E. Dwyer-
Gray, after whom came R. Cosgrove,
who has been in office ever since, with
the exception of the period December,
1947, to February, 1948, when he stood
down for E. Brooker while a royal com-
mission investigated allegations against
his administration. “Labor’s” long reign
in Tasmania is not, as some papers
reported, an Australian record. In
Queensland the party has been in power
for over 23 years and has been out of
office only three years—l929-32—since it
formed its first Cabinet in 1915.
• •
Observations made by F. M. Osborne,
M.H.R. for Evans (N.S.W.), on his return
from Singapore and Malaya, which he
visited while taking part, as a Naval
Reserve officer in an Australian destroyer,
in the combined Commonwealth naval
and air exercises in the waters north of
Australia.
After leaving the ship in Singapore,
Osborne spent 10 days in Singapore and
Malaya investigating political conditions:
la Kuala Lumpur I had discussions with a
number of local political leaders and with
administrative officials and senior Army officers.
I am quite satisfied that the assistance of Aus-
tralian troops in the action against the terrorists
will be warmly welcomed.
The first election in the Federation will take
place next month, The largest political party,
the Malayan Chinese Alliance, accepts in its
election-manifesto the principle of military help
from outside, and the assistant-secretary-
general of the other leading party, Negara, told
me himself that his party welcomes our
assistance in dealing with the emergency.
Asian politicians are inclined to be reticent
in a matter like this for fear of being accused
by their Left-wing opponents of showing a
colonial attitude. For this reason the dear
approval expressed by Malayan party leaders
for the sending of Australian troops to Malaya
is the more convincing.
Only one party has expressly criticised our
decision, and that party is so small that it is
contesting only four out of more than 50 seats.
It is completely false to suggest that the
terrorist movement is an expression of Malayan
nationalism. One of the political leaders to
whom I spoke, a man well known for his anti-
European bias, told me that of the terrorists in
the jungle less than 5 per cent, had joined for
nationalist sentiments. The rest of them are
pure Communists.
• •
A team described as “a panel of four
gourmets” (three British and one French)
has published The Travellers’ Friend and
Gastronomic Guide, the result of years
of “searching for places where one can
wine and dine well and in comfort.”
They’ve found 400 in the British Isles,
and have marked them on a map as Blue
Points. Our tourist authorities should
bring the panel out here for a tour of
Australian country hotels. They mightn’t
find many Blue Points, but they’d get
plenty of blue ducks.
• •
As part of his case for a bigger share
of tax - reimbursements, Cahill com-
plained that his Budget was “beginning
to feel the effect of ‘dear money’—
borrowing at 4 \ per cent.” This was only
a few hours after he had tried to get
from the Loan Council £22 million more
of the ‘dear money’ than was ultimately
allocated to his State. And if he had
had his way over the last few years his
interest-bill at the present time would be
something to really make him shudder.
• •
Premier Cahill has rejected the plea
of Morgan, M.H.R., for a Common-
wealth-State royal commission to in-
quire into alleged “gangsterism” in
Bankstown (N.S.W.). Cahill says a “com-
plete inquiry” was made by the police
and their evidence will be given at a
coronial inquiry into the “Torch” fire
on July 11. Morgan says it is “a sad
situation.” But under Cahill isn’t all
administration in N.S.W. a “sad
situation”?
• •
Cahill’S appointees to the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council don’t seem particu-
larly loyal either to their Government’s
laws or to its courts. O’Dea, M.L.C., is
secretary of the Shop Assistants’ Union,
which is conducting a little war against
the Industrial Commission over Saturday
shopping-hours in Lithgow. J. D. Kenny,
M.L.C., assistant-secretary of the Sydney
Trades and Labor Council, is siding with
the striking Sydney firemen against the
verdict of the Industrial Commission, the
action of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners and the policy of the Cahill Gov-
ernment. In packing the Council with
trade-union officials the Cahills forgot
that there might be occasions when union-
loyalty clashed with loyalty to the State.
Such occasions are becoming more and
more frequent.
• •
At the end of May there were only
2794 persons receiving unemployment-
relief, 1053 of them in N. S. Wales. At
the same date the Commonwealth
Employment Service had 59,663 vacancies
on its books.
This latter figure makes rather ridicu-
lous the outcry of Cahill at the Loan
Council, where he complained that
failure to get approval for his full pro-
gramme of works would make unemploy-
ment “inevitable.”
• •
Diesels are effecting a minor revolu-
tion in the Commonwealth Railways. The
annual savings of the 11 diesels now on
the Trans, run average two-thirds of their
original cost, and the engines have com-
pleted more than 3,000,000 miles in
service. On the Alice Springs run
similar savings are expected. Diesel
rail-cars are to be placed on the North
Australia railway ; the first will be driven
into Darwin before the end of the year
by Mrs. Hasluck, wife of the Territories
Minister.
• •
In N. S. Wales secondary schools
social studies” have largely replaced his-
tory and geography in the curriculum.
The attitude of the History Teachers’
Association towards this was put very
neatly by H. D. Nicholson to the com-
mittee which is inquiring into secondary
education:
Social study, if it is taught properly, tries
to do something that history can do better.
It is apt to begin with ideas unknown to the
child, such as the theory of local-government.
We know that the wanderings of Odysseus are
much nearer to the heart of a boy of 12 —if he
is taught with vigor—than the work of the
municipal garbage-collector, or the affairs of
the various councils.
• •
Strange that the Sydney daily press,
commercial and private motorists, shop-
keepers, police and pretty well every-
body else want fruit-barrows abolished
from the city’s main streets, yet the City
Council insists on their staying.
• •
“In the ACT”: Meetings of the Premiers in
Canberra provide some odd sidelights. The
gatherings themselves, in the Reps. Chamber,
are fairly informal, with the Prime Minister,
the Treasurer, the Treasury adviser and the
“Hansard” reporter sitting at the head of the
centre table, and the Premiers and their offsiders
ranged around it, Smoking is permitted, and
cigars seem to be appreciated by all parties.
On the green-leather benches, usually sacred
to members, sit the offsiders to the offsiders,
and the press, also smoking, and seemingly
enjoying the chance of occupying seats that
they gaze down on for most of the year. Along
the lobbies the offices vacated by their usual
occupiers during the Parliamentary recess are
allotted to the State delegations—sometimes
with amusing effect. On this occasion, for
instance, Mr. Gair and his -men from Queens-
land were given the use of the offices marked
“Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist).”
The refreshments after every session, when
politicians, officials and journalists all mix to
give and receive information, are served in the
Liberal-party room next to the Prime Minister’s
suite. This year a good time was had by all
in spite of the chilly weather outside, and even
when one or two Premiers tried to introduce a
little heat into the proceedings their efforts
must have sounded phony even to themselves.
No one watching would have doubted that
there’s enough money in kitty for all the men
and materials likely to be available for public
works in the next financial year.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
TT seems, from a city view of them, that
members of the enviable pastoral
fraternity have something besides turned-
down hats and big cars with which to dis-
tinguish themselves: at the Sydney ram-
sales I was struck by the large number
who sported close-cropped stubble —or
should I say close-clipped staple?—on
their upper lips. Do they, I wonder, com-
pare their respective growths, tenderly
parting the staple, and commenting on
the length, color and density per square
inch? And what is the psychology behind
it? Perhaps it is that, prevented by moral
codes from producing as many progeny,
and unable to grow anything as valuable
as wool, they prove to the rams that they
can at least grow something.—“Jindril.”
♦+♦ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Case-hardened critics
notwithstanding, Australia is quietly
entering world class in artistic postage-
“I'd like to see some invisible hair-nets, please.”
stamps ; technically and assthetically the
design and perfect balance of the 3£d.
and 2s. Cobb and Co. commemorative to
be issued on July 6 equals anything
minted anywhere, even by the recognised
producer of gems, Switzerland.
* ♦> ♦>
“Clem”: Perhaps it’s not such a dis-
grace to be called an idiot, after all. The
word is derived from the name given by
the ancient Greeks to any of their men
of genius or near-genius who did not place
their talents at the service of the people,
but who lived for themselves instead.
Nowadays, of course, in these commercial
times, the word would be used in the
opposite sense —they’d be called idiots if
they did not live for themselves.
❖ ❖
“Nakhoda”: Naked to the waist and
bearing great burdens of fruit, pyramids
of pots, baskets, temple-offerings and
sometimes a single bottle of tomato-sauce
on their topknots, Balinese women used
to stride in long files to the market every
morning, and a fine spectacle they pre-
sented, with their bare breasts, their mag-
nificent gait and their laughing faces. To
this sight the wife of the new Dutch con-
troleur objected and an unofficial order
went forth that in future the breasts were
to be covered. So the Balinese women
coiled a little curtain round their heads.
When they saw a white person approach-
ing down came the little curtain, to be
tossed aside as soon as the white person
had passed behind them. The Dutch have
gone, but the Republicans, I hear, have
just shipped 10,(XX) cotton blouses to the
island. I wonder what will be done about
the ancient custom of both sexes bathing
naked every evening in public pools which
are filled by rivers from the mountains
pouring through the mouths of dragons.
In the matter of morals republics always
look furthest backwards, so neck-to-knees
will no doubt be the regulation.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bursar”: Three of Victoria’s great
public schools, all nearing their centenary,
are appealing for more than a million
pounds for restoration- and maintenance-
work. Scotch, largest of the State’s major
schools, wants £500,000, Geelong Gram-
mar £300,000 and Melbourne Grammar
£250,000. “Dear ,” the appeal should
run, “I hope you are well. Will you please
send me a postal-note for £lOO,OOO. I
am very well, and will now close. Your
affectionate school ”
“P.W.R.”: Bailey, our new fourth-
officer, had (or so he said) been at one
time a member of Fred Kamo’s troupe of
comedians. To relieve the tedium of a
long stay in port, he got up amateur
theatricals. The long fine of cabins in the
port alleyway was supposed to represent
a train about to leave a station. In a
cabin at one end of the alleyway the third-
officer posed as the engine-driver; at the
other end, the second-officer, armed with
flag and whistle, was supposed to be the
guard, while Bailey as a porter played
lead. The engine-driver leaned out of his
cab, awaiting the signal to start; the
guard, flag in hand and whistle to his
lips, kept his eye on the porter, who,
after taking a careful look up and down
the platform, turned to the guard and
raised his hand. Then, as the train got
under way, the porter rushed backwards,
slamming the doors in a most realistic
manner. One evening as the “train” was
moving off and the porter was doing his
stuff, the saloon-door on the opposite side
of the alleyway opened and a pompous-
looking elderly gentleman stepped out.
Without a moment’s hesitation Bailey
grabbed him, pushed him into the toilet,
and slammed the door. Looking around
for applause, he was astonished to see
train-crew and spectators alike bolting in
all directions. When Bailey joined the
ship our commander was on leave, and
so they had never met —until now.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Swelpme”: But would New Austra-
lian surnames, if translated into English,
sound any more ridiculous than some of
our everyday English names (B. 8/6/’55)?
“Well, if you don't eat your missionary you cant have any ballet-dancer."
Why should the quoted “Lazytree” sound
laughable when no merriment is caused
by names seen in any directory, such as
Twelvetrees, Treeagle, Greentrees, and so
on? And why would anybody mock at
“Black Mountain”? Nobody sees any-
thing ridiculously funny in Greenfield,
Whitehouse, Blackmeadow, etc. As a
counter to the translated “Lefthand” we
have Longshanks, Thicknees, Crook-
shanks and Armstrong, not forgetting
Proudfoot. I have never heard that the
bearers of those names rush to change
them by deed-poll.
■*£♦
“Tom”: At a Rugby match between
two Sydney high-schools, Hurlstone and
Canterbury, Canterbury High bar-
rackers encouraged their side with the cry
“Up the ’Burys.” This being raised at a
critical moment in the game, the Hurl-
stone followers promptly countered with
“Stone the berries, Hurlstone!” They
forgot that their own school’s name laid
them open to a neater riposte. “Bury the
stones! ” came the counter-cry.
♦!+ *l* ♦>
“Moorapi”: A drinker in a Wellington
(N.Z.) pub looked down to find himself
securely locked in a ball-and-chain out-
fit used to fetter convicts in the good old
days, and saw a man he assumed to be the
culprit sneaking through the doorway.
He picked up the ball and gave chase,
but the suspect disappeared quickly in
the crowded street. At the police-station
a puzzled sergeant prised open the lock
and added the historic hardware to the
city’s curios.
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.C.W.”: Extracted from June 6
“S. M. Herald’s” serial, set in war-time
Germany:
He walked along the avenue of birch-
trees to the pond. Amid dirt and water-
weeds crouched the pipe-laying faun.
It seems plain that at this stage of war
against the Russians the Germans were
really short of manpower, and were using
all their well-known ingenuity. For what
it is worth, the tip is passed on to gas
companies, water boards, and any others
interested in “pipe-laying.”
♦♦+ »j> *!♦
“Fitz”: The Fitzpatrick-Browne affair
must have reminded a few old-timers
that more than 50 years ago the Victorian
Legislative Assembly called to the Bar
of that House a Rev. A. R. Edgar, a
crusading Melbourne Methodist minister
who was always in the middle of a fight.
At one of his “Pleasant Sunday After-
noon” services at Wesley Church, Mel-
bourne, the reverend gent, made some
severe remarks about members of Parlia-
ment, describing them as “profligates and
liars.” Summoned to the Bar of the
House, he hastened to explain that his
remarks were used in a “general” sense
and did not specially refer to the Vic-
torian Parliament. In a satirical poem,
“The Dignity of Parliament,” by Davison
Symmons, published in Melbourne
“Argus,” the author described the antics
of the offended politicians and imagined
the disgust of the attendant constable at
the parson’s escape from even such a
mild punishment as admonition.
Bulletin never thought highly of The
shining light of Melbourne Methodism,
as it called Edgar, and once went so far
as to refer to him as a “vainglorious
shepherd” and “an unconscious humbug.”
* *X* ❖
“Lara”: I read somewhere that Anna
Russell started out on her successful
comedy-line because her audiences rocked
with laughter when she gave serious
recitals. Audiences are unpredictable.
A well-known singer, one of con-
siderable artistic attainments, had
the audience with him all the way until
he embarked on “Lord Rendall.” His
listeners decided it must be a comic and
nearly died laughing. The more tragedy
the singer tried to put into the song, the
louder laughed the crowd; the redder he
became with fury and embarrassment, the
greater grew the uproar. When he had
completed what he swears was the worst
ten minutes of his life, he was recalled
again and again, but nothing would per-
suade him to give a repetition. His first
act on reaching the artists’ room was to
tear the copy into four pieces. Since then
“Lord Rendall” has ceased to be a part
of his repertoire.
»*+
“El Arem”: Called on a New
Aussie, who advertised a house to let.
She wasn’t pleased to see me. “Fourteen
mens here kommen this morning,” she
complained. “Well,” I said, “what did
you expect? You advertised it, didn’t
you?” “Ja!” she wailed; “but we will
not to rent this house. We will a house
to rent for mine sister.” I left, thankful
I don’t have to learn a language where
“to rent” may mean “to occupy at a
rent” or “to let or hire at a rent.”
* ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: James Richardson, Mel-
bourne hotel-proprietor, bequeathed £5O
to anyone who had worked for him for
five years or more and £lOO to anyone
who had worked for 10 years or more.
The Victorian Supreme Court ruled that
nobody had worked personally for Rich-
ardson for years even before he made his
will, as he had conducted his activities
through a private company, and rejected
the claims of 63 company employees to
legacies totalling £5300. In his decision,
Mr. Justice Gavan Duffy pointed out that
if the will had been home-made by
Richardson it might have been rewritten
from the Bench to cover the company-
employees, who were clearly intended to
get the money; but this was precluded
because the will had been drafted by a
solicitor. Not having much to bequeath,
it’s hardly worth my while worrying
whether I should engage a lawyer to draw
up a will which will mean what it says
and nothing more, or have a crack myself
at drafting the thing, which the court will
rewrite if necessary to say what it means;
but it’s a point worth pondering when
your legal adviser reminds you that it’s
time you brought your will up-to-date.
THE NEW HOUSE
There’s a new house come to our street
That cannot be ignored;
It’s Continental . . . indiscreet . . .
Or else it’s been abroad;
Its roof is flat and — well — it’s low !
And worn upon the bevel;
Its rooms —between us two, you know —
Aren’t strictly on the level.
Its bare foundation s plain to all —
I let that matter pass —
But really ! Hardly any wall
Excepting yards of glass!—
If the setting sun should be
Right behind the lot
When you’re passing, you can see
Everything it’s got!
Emoh Ruo shrinks into
Its shell of brick-veneer,
And the two-storied Crescent View
Permits itself a sneer;
"Floozy-type !” Mon Repos grunts
To The Hermitage,
Heaving both its double-fronts—
Beside itself with rage.
There’s out-and-out hostilities;
There’s talk of an injunction
For functional designing is
No aldermanic function :
What storms of groans and cusses
The civic pride arouses
When the cry’s ‘‘Designing hussies!”
Or the charge, “Designing houses!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


HrHE new Cooma-Sydney diesel express
slices hours from the hitherto all-
night trip. No chance of a snooze on the
way, though. Through loudspeakers the
train roars its own praises, tells Ist-
classers they can adjust their seat-backs
—presumably to the chagrin of 2nd-
classers, who can’t- —and keeps exhorting
everybody not to forget luggage. The
fuss breeds an unworthy suspicion: is
this the State’s only efficient train? —
“Metralia.”
❖ ❖
“Airs-crew”: “F.A.M.” (B. 8/6/’55)
erred in including Neville Duke as an
Australian writer among the library
books at Greenslopes Hospital, in Bris-
bane. Duke’s Test Pilot is an exhilarating
book by a pioneer sound-barrier crasher.
"I Wrote all the symptoms down , Doctor, in case I forgot any."
But the Kentish town of Tonbridge would
have fair claim to his upbringing. An
Australian whose essays on aeronautics
should be on the shelves is P. G. Taylor.
His Frigate Bird and Pacific Flight cap-
ture the feeling of aircrew, and are tech-
nically exact.
* ❖ *
“Cauboy”: Touching the outspoken-
ness of Melba (B. 15/6/’55). The diva
was at a charity-concert in Melbourne
which bored everybody to extinction, but
which everybody had to look pleased
about because it was for such a good
cause. The whole room sighed with
relief when the show was over, but
approving adjectives were thick in the
air when the voice of the only person in
the room who was wholly interested in
music barked: “Worst concert I’ve
ever listened to.”
♦> ❖
“Old Mac”: The obituary notice of
Sir Leslie Boyce (B. 8/6/’55) stated that he
was a Liveryman of the Worshipful Com-
pany of Loriners and Carpenters—i.e., a
freeman of the city of London,
entitled to wear the livery or
uniform of the honorable
“union” of harness-makers and
carriage-builders. In Birming-
ham the loriners or lorimers
made only the metal parts of
harness —bits, buckles, spurs,
etc. The word “carpenter”
(from the Latin carpentum, a
carriage), like “loriner,” came
to England with the Normans
and gradually displaced the
English “wright” as a general
term for workers in wood,
though “wright” still persists in
the specific terms “shipwright”
and “wheelwright” and in the
surnames Cartwright, Ark-
wright, Wainwright, etc., as
does “loriner” in the alternative
Lorimer. Prominent persons to.
whom the Freedom of the City
of London is granted are
attached to one of these old
Worshipful Companies—Fish-
mongers, Cordwainers, Vint-
ners, etc. —without having any
other connection with those
trades or crafts.
* ❖
“D.J.F.”: I nearly hit the hospital roof
when from a bed of fever I heard from a
well-wisher that another doctor’s opinion
of my case was to be sought. Yes, I was
to be thoroughly “diagonised.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: I see that the office of beer-
conner has been revived in London. In
the days of Henry I the beer-conners
went round testing the beer at every
brewery. The way they did this was to
pour a potful on the alehouse bench and
then sit on it in their leather breeches. If
the beer was of the right consistency the
breeches stuck to the bench: if they
didn’t the brewer or innkeeper was a dis-
honest fellow and was compelled to drink
as much of the beer as he could hold and
the remainder was poured over his villain-
ous body. This is a ritual which might
well be applied in Melbourne at the
present moment, the Health Commission
having alleged that many of the pies
and sausages, of which the citizens con-
sume tens of thousands weekly, were
being manufactured in an atmosphere of
filth —moths, weevils, rats, cockroaches,
rusty receptacles and insanitary conditions
of all sorts.
❖ ❖
“Zorok”: A British farmer wants to
sell a 34-acre plot with a unique appur-
tenance —bathroom attached! It’s tiled,
with all mod. cons. With this close asso-
ciatioo of soil and removal of soilure, of
scrub and scrubbing, there’ll no doubt be
a shower of applicants. That is, unless
the owner, hoping to clean-up, asks
heavy key-money—as is done in King’s
Cross and other such lush pastures.
❖ *
“Narumee”: Carefree, carolling Tyro-
leans (B. 25/5/’55) can have a sternly
practical side. My friend and I, staying
at a hotel near Innsbruck, had been to
a dance at the local Rathaus; the merry-
making was prolonged, and included much
hurling of flowers, yodelling, and roman-
tic toasting of the “English maidens”—
us—so that we returned to find the hotel
in bolted and shuttered darkness. In
r e Ration for the proprietor and
nis trau were of the most gemutlich, we
knocked and rang. Eventually the door,
still on its chain, was opened a crack,
and the cheerful, grinning face of the
proprietor’s son appeared. Our relief was
quickly soured when he refused point-
blank to admit us until we had oiled
tus palm with the requisite number of
mflationary mark-notes. Yes, he had been
“My eyesight has deteriorated a lot lately."
at the dance, foremost among the flower-
throwers and serenaders—so gallant and
charming, we had thought!
❖ *X* »>
“Piper”: An A.B.C. news-reader some
years ago uttered the astonishing state-
ment that a train was snow-bound near
“Adda-min-ar£y,” with the drawling
emphasis on the fourth syllable. Shortly
afterwards the commission’s committee on
accepted pronunciations of local place-
names was set up.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lao-dah”: Sir Thomas White is an
old friend of mine and I admire him very
much. I reviewed his book Guests of the
Unspeakable when it first came out, and*
I thought it the best prisoner-of-war
escape-story I had ever read. But when
he says, as he did in opening an exhibition
of Australian books in London, that Aus-
tralia could not claim to have produced a
Shakspeare, a Rembrandt or a Beethoven,
I am inclined to ask, how does he know?
Shakspeare was regarded by a few indi-
viduals as no slouch of a playwright
during his lifetime, but England didn’t
know that it had produced its greatest
man till a long time later. Holland didn’t
bother to claim that it had produced
Rembrandt until 150 years after his death,
and it was an Englishman, Sir Joshua
Reynolds, who woke it up to his im-
portance. Anyhow, countries don’t pro-
duce geniuses—they produce themselves.
Judea didn’t produce Jesus, nor Athens
Socrates. All they did was to give the
one the Cross and the other the hemlock.
❖ ♦> ❖
‘Roger Mike”: For two days I won-
dered why the mailman hadn’t taken my
contribution for The Bulletin, left in
the mail-box. By the third day he was get-
ting a bit hostile until I looked at the
address again. Then I slunk off home,
hoping nobody else had seen it. It’s im-
portant to put the self-addressed envelope
inside.
❖ ❖ <♦
“P.0.M.C.”: Surry Hills (Sydney) kids
may have started a bonfire in Kippax-
street on Cracker-night without burning
the galvanised-iron fences (B. 8/6/’55),
but youngsters in near-by Common-
wealth-street actually roasted the crown
off the macadam road before narks of
firemen butted in and put it out.
♦> ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Wusslean”: A novel exhibit in a Mel-
bourne city court the other day was a
pencil, the lower part of which was
transparent and contained a model of a
female leg with three red garters sus-
pended in oil. The trick was to jiggle the
pencil about so that the “garters” (small
rings) slipped on to the limb in the
appropriate position ; an interesting little
device, and it helped to clear a Victorian
motorist from a charge of having driven
under the influence of liquor. Picked-up
for alleged erratic driving, the motorist
didn’t cope too well with “British Consti-
tution” and “West Register-street” when
tested for sobriety at the city watch-
house; he then produced the pen and
challenged the police to “ring the lady’s
leg.” They did so ; the motorist had a
go himself, and managed to get two of the
“garters” in position, but not the thifd.
Apparently his effort was considered rea-
sonably satisfactory ; case dismissed, and
Melbourne motorists are asking where the
“leg-in-pencil” device can be bought.
♦> $
“El Arem”: It could have been the
guttural quality of the sea-captain’s curs-
ing (B. 25/5/’55) that made his speech
seem familiar to the Arabs. Some Dutch
friends report that they understand Eng-
lish as spoken by the Scots better because
of the throaty noises that are common
to both. As Arabic also emphasises these
sounds, they may have helped.
“Hortus”: Living on a highway has its
drawbacks, j was aroused about mid-
night to find on the veranda a motorist
requesting some sort of light, with which
to look for one of his wheels. He had
asked a garage, some 14 miles away, to
change his wheels; evidently the boy
had forgotten to tighten the nuts. We
both went up and down the road, but
could find no trace of the missing wheel.
“Anyhow,” the man said, “it won’t be
much use if we do find it. All the nuts
will be missing, and I shall have to stay
here till morning.” We had another look,
and I was lucky to find it in the bush.
We lifted it up, and, to our astonishment,
five of the nuts lay in a heap on the
ground. I said, “You’ll be able to make
Sydney with one nut missing.” We soon
had the car jacked-up and the wheel
fixed. Just before he left, he said,
handing me a half-note, “We ought
to take a ticket in the lottery after that.”
We did, with the usual luck.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pawang”: Doctors are a busy tribe,
and that is probably why they sometimes
make hasty diagnoses. A patient called
on a Collins-street (Melbourne) physician
with what he imagined was a stomach-
ulcer. The doctor examined him and said
he was certainly out of condition and
something was poisoning his system. “It
is possibly septic teeth, so you’d better see
a dentist,” he concluded. “And what’ll
he do?” asked the patient. “He will pro-
bably take them out,” replied the doctor.
“That’s all right,” said the patient. “I’ll
take them out myself.” He took them
out and put them on the doctor’s desk.
❖ ❖ ❖
“In the ACT”: At a furniture-exhibi-
tion in London the theme of a testing-
demonstration was “maximum misuse.”
On the stand of the Standards Institute
some specially-built machines simulated
the treatment which a 16st. man (or
woman) can give armchairs and dining-
chairs, including sitting down heavily,
tilting the chair sideways, and pushing it
back with the feet pressing against the
fireplace. Another machine overloaded
wardrobes, and placed half a dozen suit-
cases on top. A lot of the furniture passed
these and other tests, but the report didn’t
say if any attempt had been made to
imitate “removalists.” Any furniture
which could survive handling by some of
these gentry would get my money.
THE PERFECT JOB
“There is probably less discontent among
oyster-farmers than among any other raisers
of food.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
Just observe the apiarist
As he violently reacts
to his herd lost in a mist,
And to stings that he extracts.
See his choler swiftly rise
As without success he tries
To discipline his big Ligurian mob;
Or, with other swarms about,
When he’s forced to sort ’em out —
He’ll swear then that he’d sell out for
a bob.
Those who farm the bounding main
For crustaceans fathoms down
Always seem to show a strain;
Ever present is a frown.
Though emoluments are large
(.Note the prices fish-shops charge) !
They’re gloomy and they’re glum. And
here’s the point —
At the big blue swimming-crab
Too impatiently they grab ;
They gaze, then, at a mangled finger-
joint.
But the blokes who bivalves breed —
They’ve serenity of mind.
Always to their hand a feed
Of a very luscious kind,
Why should they become chagrined?
Once the oysterlets are weaned
All they’ve to do is dream and watch
’em grow,
Worm or drench them once or twice,
Perhaps, see that they don’t get lice,
And that the tides that feed them come
and go.
Oh, the oyster-cocky’s life
Is a happy, happy one,
Marred by neither care nor strife,
Days are ever halcyon.
Oysters in their serried rows,
All together, bucks and does,
They never fume when due to get the
sack;
Always very thoroughly laved.
They’re polite and well-behaved,
When spoken to they never answer
back !
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Reached the zenith of British astro-
nomy, Richard van der Riet Woolley,
appointed Astronomer Royal of England.
Born in England, educated there and at
Cape Town, he was chief-assistant to the
Astronomer Royal at Greenwich between
1933-37, John Couch Adams astronomer
at Cambridge for the next two years, and
from then till 1950 (when he took the
Chair of Astronomy in Canberra) was
director of the Commonwealth Solar
Observatory at Mt. Stromlo. In the
middle of War II he took charge of the
brain-children of Australian inventors,
director of the Army Inventions Board.
No, he doesn’t sport a beard, and isn’t
bald. He’s 49, son of an R.N. rear-admiral.
9 •
“Lower Tops’l”: Sir Hubert Wilkins,
Polar explorer. Old Digger (M.C. and
Bar), naturalist, anthropologist and
heaven knows what, has now had
another honor conferred on him —an
honorary Doctor of Science degree by the
University of Alaska. Six other univer-
sities had earlier offered him honorary
degrees, but he refused all except Alaska’s,
He’s watched that institution grow and
has lectured there for 30 years, so he
feels “some deep association with it.”
Since he left his birthplace, Mt. Bryan
(S.A.), early this century, there have been
few more worthy advertisers of Australia
than this noted Polarite. For years he’s
been with the U.S. Army—h.q., quarter-
master, research- and development-
command —lecturing from Greenland to
Arizona, on such subjects as Antarctica,
Polar aviation, and Australia and her
problems. At 66 he’s as active as ever
in that line.
9 9
Attached hereto, F. R. Harris, who’s
returned to Adelaide (the home-town) as
Adelaide Steamship’s secretary. Previously
DOWN TO ADELAIDE
he’d headed the Sydney office of the com-
pany. Born at Gawler (S.A.) 63 years
back, son of a solicitor, he joined Adelaide
Steam as a basket-emptier, and has since
served managerially in three capital cities.
In War I he was a sarge of the 113th
Battery, and for years has gunned hard
for Legacy. He takes over in Adelaide
from Tom Waddy, recently retired.
9 9
Passed on in England, Sir Charles James
Martin, after a lifetime devoted to
research, teaching and student-encourage-
ment in a wide range of subjects, covering
especially pathology and nutrition.
Educated in his native London and in
Germany, he came to Australia in 1891,
first to demonstrate in physiology at
Sydney University and later to occupy the
Chair of Physiology at Melbourne Uni.
from 1901 to 1903. Except for war ser-
vice, during which he organised the patho-
logical laboratory for the Gallipoli cam-
paign and served in Palestine and France,
he directed the Lister Institute of Preven-
tive Medicine continuously from 1903 to
1930, when a C.5.1.R.0. invitation
brought him to Adelaide University to
take temporary control of the Institute of
Animal Nutrition and act as Professor of
Biochemistry and General Physiology.
After three years he returned to England
and continued his researches in a bus-
man’s retirement. In 1952 the Common-
wealth Government acknowledged his
work by'founding two research-fellow-
ships in his name to enable medical
students to study overseas. He was 89.
Penned while lunching in Sydney with
friends of World War II Army Education
days, Professor Fred Alexander was in
charge of the service in Westralia during
most of the stoush. He went to it from
the Chair of History and Adult Educa-
tion at the University of Western Aus-
tralia, returning there at the cease-fire.
When war began, R. G. Casey, then
BACK TO PERTH
Minister in Washington, seconded Alex-
ander (who was in the U.S. on a Carnegie
grant) on to his staff for a while, personal
assistant, but the prof, was back home by
the time the Japs were heading south.
Writer, talker and broadcaster on inter-
national affairs, one of whose weekly
stints is a column called “The World and
Us” for a Perth paper, Alexander has
been in Sydney chasing material for a
book on adult-education in Australia.
Victorian-born and -educated, he was
pleased to discover that, contrary to
accepted belief, the adult-education idea
was not imported ready-made from
Britain. The visit by English authorities
thought to have begun the local activity
stimulated it, he agrees; but much solid
groundwork had been done before the
Britishers turned up to help. Alexander
has produced four books, and has written
a chapter of the Cambridge History of the
British Empire.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Miss Agnes Catnach, one
of the U.K’s most distinguished educa-
tionists, is due in Australia in July at the
invitation of the Headmistresses’ Associ-
ation of Australia and the British Council.
Former headmistress herself (Putney C.C.
school for girls), former chairman of the
Joint Committee of Secondary School
Associations, she’s a member of the
secondary schools’ examinations council
and the matric. boards of several univer-
sities. In Australia shell have a look
at Australian leaving-certificate arrange-
ments and uni. entrance qualifications in
all States. As a former member of the
General Nursing Council she will also
study our nursing-training.
9 9
Retired from the director-generalship
of Army Medical Services, Major-
General Frank Kingsley Norris was a
stretcher-bearer on Gallipoli before he
qualified in medicine. He was with the
first contingent to sail Europewards in
War 11, and served in the Western Desert
and Syria, then in Borneo and New
Guinea. Between wars he specialised in
private practice in children’s ailments. A
brilliant organiser, he lived and worked
through a significant Army change. In
the old days more men were put out of
action through ill-health than by wounds ;
in Korea there were very few Austra-
lian lives lost through sickness. In 1952
Norris was appointed an honorary
physician to the Queen, and in 1953 was
made a C.B.E.
9 9
“Macnell”: “Old ships” is the
naval term to indicate that men have
served before in the same ship, and two
men now in destroyer Tobruk, operating
in large-scale exercises round Malaya,
can certainly claim the term. Commis-
sioned Gunner William Devine and Chief
Petty Officer Douglas Geddes, both Vic-
torians, are operating in the area where,
14 years ago, they saw Prince of Wales
and Repulse battered under with shoals
of torpedoes from Jap aircraft. They
helped haul aboard some of the 225 sur-
vivors destroyer Vampire picked up.
The following year Vampire caught hers
—bombed while screening carrier Hermes
in the Bay of Bengal. Devine and Geddes
were picked up after nine hours in the
water. Devine (squadron-gunner of the
10th Destroyer Squadron) was commis-
sioned from the lower-deck; he answers
all and any questions on the complicated
gunnery-control of the squadron. Geddes
is coxswain of Tobruk, the senior man on
the lower-deck, chief of the ship’s police,
the link between wardroom and mess-
deck. In action, or on approaching or
leaving land, he takes the wheel, and stays
there till the business is finished. Devine
(always, naturally, “Tilly”) has had 21
years in, Geddes 17.
• •
Unanimously re-elected president of
U.L.V.A. in Westralia, Syd. M. Johnston
commences his 15th consecutive year in
the job. Brother of former Senator Bertie
Johnston, S.M. rode with the 10th Light
Horse, and has been president of the
regimental association.
e •
New Assistant Marine Superintendent
with the Shaw Savill and Albion Co. in
Melbourne, Captain J. L. Carroll has had
long acquaintance with Australian
waters. He joined the co. as a cadet in
1932 and worked through the Hobson’s
Bay, lonic and other ships to Maimoa, the
vessel the German raider Penguin sank
off Fremantle early in War 11. Repatri-
ated from a German p.-0.-w. camp on
exchange in 1943, Carroll rejoined his old
co. and sailed in the Dominion Monarch.
In 1952 he got his first command, skipper
of Mahana. Captain C. L. Carroll,
D. 5.0., commander of Delphic, is a
brother.
9 9
For two years T.A.A. manager in
Victoria, L. L. McKenzie was recently
appointed administrative assistant to
general-manager John Ryland. Owning,
as well as D.F.C. won in War 11, a
Bachelorship of Agricultural Science,
Ryland was a commercial pilot himself,
and before crossing the tarmac to T.A.A.
was manager of Ansett’s airline-division.
McKenzie now shifts north, manager of
T.A.A. in Queensland.
9 ©
This quizzical phiz belongs to Eric
Shaw, put on paper the day he took-off
for Manila, Djakarta, Hong Kong, Bang-
kok, Rangoon and Singapore. For the
past 10 years director of Red Cross blood-
transfusion in Queensland, Shaw has
been asked by the External Affairs
Department to survey all aspects of blood-
transfusion services where he’s headed
for, and advise on the training of tech-
nicians under the Colombo Plan. A
Queensland University man. he started
off in Trade and Customs in Brisbane,
shifted to the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories, cadet biochemist, then
took medicine. In War II he was in
Morotai and Borneo, pathologist. In
Queensland they have a smoothly-work-
ing emergency service organised for
floods, disastrous fires and such: tied-in
are the police, Flying Doctor Service,
R.A.A.F., Army, P.M.G., “ham”-opera-
tors, light-aircraft owners and drug-sup-
pliers. Shaw is in charge of the medical
co-ordination. When Mt. Lamington, in
New Guinea, blew up, Shaw had his
UP TO MALAYA
serum there in double-quick time, and of
67 cases of severe burns, only three died.
He’s just back from a month in New
Guinea, lecturing at Moresby, Samarai,
Rabaul, Kavieng and Manus. Often he
lectured to an enthusiastically demanding
audience for five hours straight, after an
hour’s sleep.
Settling in Perth after 20 years’
absence, A. E. Galbraith, city-engineer
between 1930-35. A much-travelled Eng-
lishman, he came to Perth from Zanzibar
and during his term as city-engineer
began the reconstruction of the city’s
road-system. New Zealand then called ;
while there, he engineered the Harewood
airport.
o •
“F.S.”: Daryl Lindsay’s 13-year
sojourn as director of the National Gal-
lery in Melbourne ends this year. His
successor, Eric Westbrook, who comes
from the Auckland Gallery (N.Z.), where
he is director, is an art-appreciator, not
an artist. One-time art-manager for the
British Council and the Arts Council of
Great Britain, he has arranged exhibitions
in various parts of Europe and is highly
thought of in British art-circles.
• •
“C. 8.”: The hearing of an application
for a writ of habeas corpus for the release
of Browne and Fitzpatrick from imprison-
ment at Canberra brought seven judges
to the Bench of the High Court in Mel-
bourne and one of Melbourne’s most
colorful lawyers, P. D. Phillips, Q.C., on
to his feet on behalf of Fitzpatrick.
Phillips was the centre of controversy
when he was chairman of the Transport
Regulation Board from 1934 to 1937, and
more controversy flooded around him
when he was a member of the Common-
wealth Liquid Fuel Control Board.
Educated at Melbourne University;
hobbies, politics and detective-stories.
C. D. ROWE, new South Australian
Attorney-General and Minister of
Industry and Employment.
Into the Silence:
In a Meteor crash near Williamtown
(N.S.W.), at 25, Flying-Officer Eric Haywood,
of Sydney. A 1953 graduate from Point Cook,
Haywood went to Korea shortly after convert-
ing to jet-flying, flew against Communists with
the Double Seven Squadron, and had just been
selected to go south with the Australian
Antarctic Expedition. His brother Michael is
at Duntroon; his father, Major Mick Haywood,
recently retired after 25 years an artilleryman
in the regular Army, was at Bardia, Tobruk,
Derna and Benghazi, and won M.C. and the
U.S. Silver Star at Buna.
At Pinjarra, at 96, Dave Nannup, notable
aborigine of the Murray River (W.A.) district.
Born at B'usselton, he worked for the Bussell
family and saw Grace Bussell (the Grace
Darling of Westralia) rescue 40 people from the
shipwrecked Georgette, near Cape Naturaliste,
on December 1, 1876. After the turn of the
century, he worked for years in the Moora-
Geraldton district, but returned to Pinjarra in
1925 to live for the rest of his life on the native
reservation.
In Sydney, in his office, William Mcllrath,
who joined his brothers, Martin and Hugh, in a
small grocery-shop before the turn of the
century and at the end was chairman of direc-
tors of a chain running through N.S.W., and
totalling some 60 shops. A Belfast man who
landed in Sydney in 1890, he was a ready bene-
factor ; he had recently given £50,000 to
C.5.1.R.0. for animal-husbandry research.
Many other scientilic and charitable organisa-
tions benefited from his philanthropy; in par-
ticular, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, of which
he was a board-member for years. He also ran
the Windsor Hereford stud at Delungra, near
Inverell (N.S.W.). Seventy-nine.
In Wellington (N.Z.), Mrs. S. C. Hancock,
the first nurse to train at the Melbourne
Hospital. As Nurse Smith, she qualified in
1891, made rapid progress, nursing for Lord
Lister (with Semmelweiss, the founder of
aseptic surgery) at Guy’s Hospital in London,
and later becoming matron of Ramsgate
College. In 1898 she became head of the
consumptive-wing of a big hospital in Germany.
She returned to Melbourne as sister-in-charge
of the District Nursing Society.
At 64, in Sydney, Julian North. He was at
the Landing, at the evacuation, and with the
Stokes-mortars of the Third Brigade in France,
winning D.C.M. at Bullecourt, sergeant.
Widely known and liked among the eighteen-
footer men racing on Sydney Harbor.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 79, George Robert
Ritchie, general-manager of the National
Mortgage and Agency Co. when he retired in
1951. Among his many company affiliations
he had been chairman of directors of the Union
Steamship Co., the National Insurance Co.,
and a director of Whitcombe and Tombs.
Netherlands Vice-Consul in Dunedin for years.


Oewa . pLDKRy
PtM-l)P GIRU ©EuoNiGA THI'S fg'UUA .
IN SEARCH OF JEDDA


ABORIGINALITIES
TN that engaging way they have of con-
fusing the student by upsetting long-
established traditions, scientific systema-
tists have recently removed the lizard
previously known as Trachydosausus
rugosus from that genus, and made him
a full brother to the blue-tongue with the
title Tiliqua rugosus. And that will
scientifically pinpoint him until some other
B.A. or B.Sc. gets cranky. But to you and
me he is either the two-headed lizard,
sleepy lizard, stumpy-tail, bog-eye (or
boggi), shingle-back, or pine-cone lizard.
He must be about the most multi-named
animal in scales. Any more aliases?
—“A.H.”
“It's all right —I got his number."
“Wippegong”: Along the windward
side of our bush golf-course runs an old
cypress hedge, with straggling branches
that sweep the ground, break the wind,
and obliterate balls. Was following my
pill into the murk when a
wheezy, scolding note stopped
me at the edge of the fairway.
There he perched, Bluey the
bowerbird, disturbed at his
decorating and resenting it in
every hop, posture and curse.
Whose possie was it, anyway?
Couldn’t I see it had a low
branch for a backdrop, a carpet
of dry needles, soft, mottled
sunlight—the only ideal spot
for a bower in the whole hedge,
and I had to go and slam a ball
into it, and an offensive white
ball at that! I removed the
objectionable color; blue tail-
feathers from crimson rosellas
patterned the porch as intended,
and Bluey’s frenzy subsided.
Pity language is invisible ; some
of the scraps that float around
that hole, if collected and crys-
tallised, could make that bower
radiant.
* * *
“The Bunyip”: Add a really
•weighty opinion to those advo-
cating whisky as a foot-restorer
(B. 8/6/’55). Warwick. Arm-
strong—lBst. when captain of the
Australian XI —in his book
The Art of Cricket suggested damping
the soles of the socks with The Best
before tackling a hard day in the field.
But W.W.A. was a distiller’s agent, and
could probably spare it.
* * # *
“Old-timer”: Was walking into
Murrayville (Vic.) one hot Saturday when
Jim and Fred, brothers, picked me up in
their car. Shortly afterwards Jim slowed
the car and showed me, marvelling, a
plover sitting on eggs within a foot of
the track. When we got to town they
told me to watch for them about 9 p.m.
and get a lift home. I didn’t have to
watch; their presence in town was
obvious. It started when each got a
skinful and went and wrote in punches
and blood another chapter of their feud
with a brother-in-law; he had them
pinched, and then bailed them out. After
which they had some more booze and
started a riot in the pub-yard. About
dark I found Jim sleeping it off in some
stables, while Fred and some cronies
held wassail among the wheat-stacks.
Then Jim, a bit shaky, found me, we
found Fred and poured him into the car,
and Jim drove out of town in the ultra-
careful style of the partly-drunk. About a
mile out Fred stirred and called, “Hey!”
Jim shoved on the brake and looked back
at him. “What’s wrong?” Fred pulled
himself up on the back of the seat,
glared blankly and wildly at us, mumbled,
“Mind that flamin’ plover!” and col-
lapsed again. We were right at the spot.
* * * *
“Motuku”: If “Jackstay” (B. 8/6/’55)
had “carried the attack further” he
would have found that the snapping
sounds he attributed to the fiddler-crabs
of the mud-flats were made by another
crustacean, the pistol- or snapping-prawn
(Crangon strenuus), which was studied,
filmed and disk-recorded by some of the
Asdic boys during World War 11. Its
snapping mechanism is described in detail
in the late W. J. Dakin’s Australian
Seashores. Both these “crusties” inhabit
the estuarine mud-flats. Another quaint
signaller of these flats is the semaphore-
crab C Helcecius cordiformis), which holds
“Oh, you THOUGHT, did you? Well, I’m the thinker here!”
its two large, light-purple claws aloft
while it raises and lowers its body several
times. So far there’s no agreement on
why it performs this ritual.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Pipe “Macnell”! A Quiz
Kid received a pat for answering the ques-
tion “What is tiie truck on a ship?” with
‘The pulley which pulls the flag to the
masthead.” An ex-matlow from World
War I, who was listening with us,
promptly ejaculated: “Rot! It’s the junc-
tion of the mast to the deck.” I recalled
a poem of my schooldays in which
Little Hal the captain’s son, with gallant
hardihood,
Climbed shroud and spar and then upon
the maintruck rose and stood.
Reaching now for the dictionary, I
found: “Truck: a small wooden cap at
the summit of a flagstaff or masthead.”
The matlow remained adamant. Going
to work next day I asked a sailor wearing
a peaked-cap and double-breaster. “I
wouldn’t have a clue,” he told me frankly.
At work, a former merchant-navy man
supported the Quiz Kid. I asked a truck-
driver, ex-R.A.N. He didn’t know, but
opined that, as “from stem to stern,
truck to keelson” implied the whole ship
—every square inch of her —it could be
assumed that the truck was at the mast-
head. And now, with me as the go-
between, the ex-merchant seaman has
laid £lO to the ex-rating’s fiddly as to
the position of the controversial object.
So, “Macnell,” over to you.
* * * *
“H.J.H.”: “H.A.L.” (B. 8/6/’55)
speaks of Lake Eyre as having flooded
“for the first time in living memory.”
Wrong. In 1892 a double-flood came
down Cooper’s Creek, and the Lutheran
mission-station of Killalpaninna was
completely surrounded by water. The
mission-buildings were on a sandhill. I
was there the following year, and one
coifld still go by boat from there to Lake
Ngallangallani, about three miles west
of the mission-station.
* * * *
“Sundowner”: Short-legged, long-
lugged pooches such as the spaniel and the
dachshund may now be saved further
embarrassment, plus the danger of chew-
ing their own ears while feeding. Coming
on the market is a plastic bowl, outside
the high sides of which their listening
apparatus will automatically fall.
* * * *
“Mackville”: The wrecking of a
trawler on the coast of N.S.W. at almost
the identical spot on which the overseas
vessel Malabar was wrecked recalls that,
some six months after the first wreck, I
was at Kurrajong (N.S.W.) with a chap
who was keenly interested in bird-life. He
took me to a property and pointed out
flocks of birds similar in build to York-
shire canaries, but slightly broader; they
were black or dark-brown in body-color,
with wings conspicuously marked in
gold. African golden-winged weavers, he
declared they were. “They’d bring £lO
a pair in the birdshops,” he went on, “but
the owner of this property has the right
idea. He has made it a bird-sanctuary
and prosecutes any bird-trappers that try
to catch them. And the birds seem to
know where they're safe.” Those birds,
he claimed, were part of the Malabar’s
Sydney-bound cargo, and had been
released from the doomed vessel by a
humane crew-member. Kurrajong is
about 40 miles as the weaver flies from
the coast.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Under our knots we
were pushing into N.S.W. on the wrong
side of Bogan Gate. Work, hand-outs
and free drinks were as plentiful as hen’s-
teeth. Half-way to Tottenham we en-
countered a man who said, “What’s the
grass like back that way?” Thrice in the
next two days, as the land got barer and
barer, we got the same query. Between
Dandaloo and Trangie a big car pulled
up. “Good-day, you men.” “G’day,”
from us. “Come far?” from him.
“Trundle,” from Mat. “H’m. What’s the
grass like back there?” Mat wiped his
face. “Well,” he said, slowly, “me an’
the mate might be a couple o’ goats
trampin’ through this flamin’ country,
but we ain’t got down to eatin’ the grass
yet. We been livin’ high, on bark!”
* * * *
"P DUCATED birds in the East aren’t
■*-' limited to the performing Yamagara
of Japan (B. 23/3/’55). The Son of
Allah who sought to extract baksheesh
from us at Agra had as accomplices three
buntings—like brown and gold finches —
which earned him a decent crust.
The leading-lady or leading-cockerel
of the troupe began by locating a
leaf which the boss hid first in various
parts of his clothing, then on members
of the small audience; when he finally
crumpled and destroyed it, the precocious
fowl gave us all a combing, then flew
to the right vine and picked another leaf.
Act II was threading beads. A threaded
needle was placed beside a dozen or so
glass beads ; the bird took the needle near
the middle, poked the point through the
bead, dropped it, took the point in its
beak and drew the needle through, sliding
the bead on to the knotted thread. This
was repeated quicker than it takes to tell,
and applause brought a second demon-
stration, with much smaller needle and
beads.
Then came the star turn. Abdul took
10 little numbered cards and placed them
face-down on the mat. With the bird held
gently behind him he asked one of the
ladies to select a card and display its
number ; this done, the feathered trick-
ster hopped about overturning each card
until the right one was found, then flew
back to drop it in the waiting hand.
It was worth the few rupees for a
second chance to spot the secret. Every
time the bunting began a trick it started
from the hand on which it was perched;
and during the performance the hand
remained still, just off the ground. In
the card-trick, when the correct card was
reached the hand was gently lowered to
the ground, and the bird immediately
perched on it, and was fed.
BILLY T.
MUTTONBIRD CAPE
A hill had tumbled down into the sea
And there remained, a clumsy crouching shape
Of toppling towers, tussocks, sand and scree.
They called it Muttonbird Cape.
They said the hill was honeycombed with
burrows
And how a certain day would mark a black
Uncountable multitude of feathered arrows,
The petrels, coming back.
The Antarctic petrels, darkening the long
furrows
Of ocean. Whatever storm clouds go and come
Up from the sea-fogs and the icy narrows,
November calls them home
To nest, and every dawn into the blue
They went, heaven only knows how far to
roam
Foraging for their offspring all day through
And, with the dark, came home.
“Oh, see the birds!” my mother called, one
warm
November noon. We watched them long and
late,
Seeming to take across the lonely farm
A short-cut to Bass Strait.
All afternoon we watched those endless birds,
A darkling rope that slid across the sky.
Until the sleepy thrush forgot the words
Of his last serenade, and said goodbye . . .
But that was long, so long ago. What follows?
Though still the samphire hides the tumbled
rock,
Today there are no sea-chicks in the hollows
Nor any homing flock.
A giant albatross, wide-winged as some order
Of seraphs might be, looks in and slants away.
And in and out the rookery’s sandy border
The alien rabbits play.
The high tides thunder or the low tides laugh,
The seal still shoots the surf with agile ease.
The wind still twists its curious autograph
About the cowering trees.
But the flocks that knew the day, the very hour
For high home-coming, dark against the sun,
Unchecked by storms, unvexed by the
ice-shower —
Where have the petrels gone?
Doubtless to some more inaccessible acres,
Some wind-washed, sea-encircled hermitage;
While the old headland, high above the breakers
And broken with old age,
Still offers day a dour salutation,
The eyeless brows, the toothless caverns’ gape,
While men who never saw a bird-migration
Still call it Muttonbird Cape.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


WE have a pet wallaby which ever
since it abandoned Mum’s pouch
three years ago has subsisted almost
entirely on food in which meat predomi-
nates. One favorite dish is meat-stew
with a lacing of cooked veges, but almost
any type of meat-dish is relished —steak-
and-onions, roast-beef and baked-potatoes
excellent. Fish-and-chips she accepts
gladly, too, but so far her absolute
favorite is garlic sausage. And does she
love a “cuppa”!—“Scribo.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Can’t agree that
blokes get lost in the bush by following
the sun (B. 1/6/’55), nor that the experi-
enced bushman keeps a straight course
because he consciously ignores the sun.
I’ve known good bushmen who could
travel all day through country they knew
without apparently bothering about direc-
tion at all; in strange country they’d still
travel in a straight line. Their methods
were simple: they’d line-up distant
objects and keep them in sight as far as
possible; they’d watch the sun, they’d
use compasses. At night they’d have the
stars —and that’s where “Mingari’s”
theory really breaks down, because a lost
wanderer moves in a circle at night, too ;
even a good bushman will deviate in
strange country if he fails to watch his
step.
“Endean”: Old Don Munday, one of
the best bushmen I’ve ever known, spent
a lifetime travelling over the outback.
He knew the country east of Coolgardie
better than most, prospected all through
there in the early days, and ran sheep
out on the Mistake River in the War-
“Take a rest, Miss Bowline."
burton Ranges. In strange territory he
always took all necessary safeguards
against getting lost. He reckoned a man
who wasn’t on his guard would always
pass a big object on the same side —the
—and that would eventually send him
in a circle. I’ve tried it and found he
was right, and I have my own theory
about it. In practically everybody one
eye is stronger than the other, and in
approaching any large object, from a tree
to a rise, the traveller moves to the side
from which he can view it best. That’s
probably an instinct left over from the
days when our ancestors looked for an
enemy behind every cover.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Those emus that waded
through deep water a few yards from a
shallow crossing (B. 25/5/’55) were
simply living up to the tradition of the
tribe —that is, when there’s a damfool
way of doing a thing, do it that way.
Reported to have the smallest brain in
proportion to their size of any living
thing, the big dimwits have never to my
knowledge done anything to refute the
charge. Pursued along a fence, they’ll
charge it repeatedly, bashing themselves
and filling the air with feathers, rather
than make for the open country. In one
case a party of them found their custo-
mary drinking-place occupied by a mus-
tenng-camp. The idea of going to
another dam a few miles away never
occurred to them. They just walked in
circles round the watering-place, day and
night, for about three days, then lay down
and died. If the bird’s continued existence
is proof of the survival of the fittest, the
now-extinct types that failed to make the
grade must have had something really
colossal in the way of minus-mentality.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: An article unknown to
the modem child is the pig’s bladder.
But when I was a kid in Little Irishtown,
Ballarat, a pig-killing was eagerly
awaited. Blown-up, such a bladder, as
big as a football, might be kicked around
comfortably by bare feet. Implement for
inflation was a goose-quill, cut off so as
to form a tube. But we didn’t always get
the bladder —it had a more utilitarian
function. Washed out, it might be filled
with melted lard: half a dozen such
receptacles often adorned the butcher’s
shop, giving it an aspect of opulence.
Sometimes the flesher, of an artistic turn,
might paint human features on one—-
hence the old descriptive phrase “A face
like a bladder-of-lard.” Before the tin
container came into general use putty and
white-lead were imported in pigs’
bladders.
* * * *
“Bass”: The musk-ducks are back on
the swamp, and already I’ve heard the
ridiculous old yarn that they walk back
to their nesting-sites each year because
they can’t fly. They can, but they don’t
from choice, because they’re wizards both
on and under the water, and where an-
other bird would seek safety in flight
they dive. They can stay under for well
over a minute, and can usually gain the
shelter of rushes in one or two dives.
That’s better than they’d do by flying—
their flight is slow and looks like hard
work for their little wings. But even at
flying they manage better than they do
walking. I’ve seen one drake pursued by
another take to land —curiously enough,
they never dive in such a case—and
neither of them could run more than a
few feet without flopping on his breast.
Either their legs give way or they’re built
too far astern for walking. A flight of
more than a few miles might be a long,
hard effort for a musk-duck, but I’d say
100yds. would be about its walking limit.
♦ jje
Saaedi : Pied head, yellow breast and
olive back comprise the color-pattern of
the bark-tit. A black crest added to an
already ample dome gives the little bird
an overloaded look. But appearances are
deceptive—the bark-tit must rank as one
of our smartest avian acrobats. Fre-
quently he forages for food amongst the
long streamers of thin bark that hang in
straggling disarray from the branches of
certain gums. Usually he starts from the
“Yours only ten-gallon hat —mine plurry twenty."
top and works down, but sometimes he
will fly on to the end of a streamer, where
he will hang swinging like a brightly-
colored clock-pendulum. Momentum les-
sened, he moves upwards, his short strong
beak probing the sun-curled bark for in-
sects. The way he does it makes the pre-
carious perch look like an avian rocking-
chair. A hearty appetite for codlin-moths
makes the bark-tit a handy bird round
apple-orchards, and though I have seen
him nibbling at native berries I don’t
think he exacts any fee for services ren-
dered amongst cultivated fruit.
* * * Sf
“Kelms”: External Affairs Minister
Casey said recently that Nature didn’t
distribute much iron-ore in Australia.
Well, W.A.’s got some fair deposits, and
of good-grade ore. The islands in Yampi
Sound hold an estimated 100 million tons
of 67 per cent, ore above high-water
mark, with probably 10 times that much
below, and there shouldn’t be much diffi-
culty in mining the stuff. That compares
with the famous Kiruna outcrop in
Sweden, where reserves are estimated at
1000 million tons. There’s another
75 million tons just as good at Koolyar
nobbing, north-east of Southern Cross
(it’s supplying the Wundowie charcoal-
iron works not far from Perth); and
there’s probably just as much in the Weld
Ranges north-east of Cue. One patch up
there goes nearly 70 per cent. —one of
the richest deposits in the world. A peak
only about 30 miles from Mullewa, a rail-
way-junction out from Geraldton, is rich
and big, and there are dozens of small
rich deposits and hundreds of big, lower-
grade ones. Don’t know if the total
amount of iron-ore in W.A. above, say,
25 per cent, has ever been computed, but
the known deposits of very high-grade
ore total over 200,000,000 tons above
ground. Take it that there’s 10 times as
much below, and 50 times as much of
lower grades, and you get an impressive
figure. Besides that, there must be vast
quantities that haven’t been considered
yet, but will be when the good stuff
runs out. I’ve seen rock-outcrops in the
wheatbelt where you could beat the native
rock into shape with a hammer, and I
don’t think that area has been taken into
account as a source of iron.
* * * «
“Sebak”: For about 20 minutes the
tailer were on; then they departed, leav-
ing 31 of their brethren in our boat.
It was then we noticed the gashes in the
side of the last fish caught; they appeared
to have been inflicted several days before,
and the wounds gave the impression of
having been caused by large teeth which
slashed along the victim’s body but failed
to penetrate deeply. Just over half the
catch were marked in a similar manner.
Could 19 tailer, engulfed in the mouth
of, say, a shark, shoot out just as the
jaws were closing, and thus escape with
teeth-lacerations? Perhaps an old fisher-
man was right in declaring that when big
fish attack a school they snap quickly and
lightly with the object of wounding as
many as possible in the shortest time,
knowing they can return and clean-up
the injured later. The tailer had ob#
ously not been wounded seriously enough
to impede their escape. What is the
explanation?
C.A.L.”: The grandstander’s
speciality was leaning out of the saddle
while galloping and picking up a hat or
other objects from the ground. One day,
putting on a turn for the station women,
he had a small bucket with the handle
standing upright as one of his props.
From a 100yds. distance he brought his
horse to a gallop, and when level with
the bucket leaned over to pick it up,
grasping the handle firmly. Then the act
took a comedy twist. Pulled clean out
of the saddle and over the horse’s rump,
he sprawled on his back in the dust.
Wishing to deflate his ego, and give the
ladies something really worth while to
look at, the station-hands had ganged
together and driven a 6in. nail through
the bottom of the bucket into the iron-
hard clay.
KIOLOA
Where the coastal gums are bent
Over every camper’s tent,
And the grass is green and sweet
Cushions for the traveller’s feet;
Where the weeping bottlebrushes
Green and scarlet, singing thrushes,
Orioles and warblers too
Join to bid good-day to you,
Kioloa seems to say
“Welcome here for holiday.”
White the sand and blue the sea;
In the headland’s rosemary
Rabbits scatter as you go;
From the gums the mistletoe
Drops its red and gold beneath
Where wild primrose lays its wreath;
Spotted gums that stand apart,
Palettes for deft Nature’s art —
Kioloa says to you
“I am proof what she can do.”
Evening, and the campfires’ smoke
From the tents of leisured folk
Drifts away to sundown glow
Just as in the long ago
Smoke from other fires was spent
In an unknown continent.
Kioloa says to you
“This the peace that once they knew;
It is yours if you will stay
For a lifetime holiday.”
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
WARRIGAL'S FAMILY-TREE
THE dingo is held to be the purest-bred
dog in the world and the probable
ancestor of all domestic dogs. That’s
the yellow one, considered typical of the
breed. It’s also accepted that Warrigal
came to Australia with some of the first
humans, probably when a land-bridge
was almost complete between this con-
tinent and Asia.
So far so good. But there were several
distinct waves of immigration from Asia,
and there may have been as many dis-
tinct types of dog introduced, the yellow
dingo being the first. Evidence? Out
beyond the Warburton Ranges (W.A.),
where Warrigal has one of his principal
breeding-grounds, there are (besides the
common yellow) three distinct types of
wild-dog, all apparently pure strains.
There’s a brindle, a large dog with
heavy jaws, high forequarters, and a high
degree of intelligence; it lives in lime-
stone blowholes and has the habit of enter-
ing its lair surreptitiously and scratching
back dirt and debris over the entrance.
The natives prize this dog as a hunter,
claiming it’s the best killer and sticks to
a scent.
There’s a white dog, much the same
build as a kelpie; and there’s a black
which seems to be the same general type.
I’ve seen white, black and yellow in
different places from Bremmer Bay on
the Westralian south coast to the Ninety-
Mile beach in the north, but I’ve never
seen the brindle away from the Warburton
area.
I’d always attributed the colors to the
influence of domestic dogs until I read
Grey’s journal of his Kimberley explora-
tions. He said he saw a dog there which
he considered was a different type from
the usual dingo. It had a prominent black-
ish tinge and its muzzle was longer,
blacker and thinner than the others; but
the significant fact is that he saw this type
only in the company of natives, never
running wild. Some of his party who’d
recently been to Timor said it was almost
exactly the same as the dogs on that
island.
Grey was the first European, apart
from possible castaways, to enter that
territory, and he was a skilled and
educated observer. There’d been no pos-
sibility of domestic dogs having been
introduced. I suggest that the unusual
type he saw arrived as the companion of
the ancestors of our present aborigines
at a time when the dingo was already well
established.
One further point. The Warburton
Ranges natives call the yellow and the
black types “warragoo,” which is re-
markably similar to “warrigal,” the com-
mon native word for wild-dog. The
brindle and the white are “marru” and
“billbaroo” respectively. Why the
difference?
SALMON GUMS.


The MOBILCO 'Junior'
GRAIN AUGER
It's pretty handy you know, to carry a little grain auger to
a bin . . . push one end into the grain and defiver it into
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per hour.
This miniature auger, with full sized performance, can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, V 2 h.p. electric motor, or,
if you are a bit more energetic and money conscious than
the average, by a small crank handle.
If you're using a shovel and a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw-dust and other small grained bulk material, you're
going to be sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is SVz inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
price, £ 24/8 /-, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle and ready for use. Send
an order now for quick delivery and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immediately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONES: YX 1244-5
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC.
WU 1081 (9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
Have you tried
« ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke —and to offer
-these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
m
>5
AS FULL OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street,
London, W.l.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Year of Change
'T'HE 1954-55 financial year
ends tomorrow. It has been
a period of almost general
monetary prosperity, but with
ever-present reminders of funda-
mental weaknesses in the
economy. These weaknesses
mostly reveal themselves in high
costs of production and trans-
port and in inefficient Govern-
ment services in some States,
chiefly N.S.W. Some forms of
taxation, too, are very high.
The effect of the frozen basic
wage it brought leaping
wage-costs to a temporarily level
plateau—has been disturbed by
increased wage-margins for skill.
The disturbance has not yet been
very great, but it may snowball
in its incidence. And these in-
creased costs have come at a
time when most export industries
are finding the going harder.
Wheat is now comparatively
difficult to sell profitably, wool
prices are down about 10 p.c.
compared with last year’s aver-
age, and the dairying indus.try
is having a hard time. The mar-
gin of income over costs in the
land industries has shrunk in
almost every type of production.
The smaller export income
and higher local costs have
shown up clearly in the adverse
trade-balance. There has been
a rush to import at a time when
overseas funds have not been
available to pay for increased
purchases. As a result, severe
restriction on the entry of some
types of overseas goods has had
to be imposed. Repercussions,
some of them anomalous, are
now being felt among importing
houses.
Most Australian factories have
had a busy year. Exceptions have
been in textiles and refrigerators,
with some slackness also in the
machine-tool industry. Competi-
tion generally is increasing.
Cement is now in almost full
supply throughout Australia.
There is not now a lag in de-
livery in many types of goods,
though in the motor-car industry
supplies of popular makes may
still be a year behind demand.
On the other hand, used cars are
tending to be oversupplied, and
prices are falling.
The past year has been one in
which the normal ebb-and-flow
of economic conditions has
been more evident than at any
time in the last 16 years.
Investors, for example, have had
to take note of particular factors
as well as general circumstances.
Each industry has had to pay
regard to particular conditions in
its own line of business, as well
as of conditions which are still
general throughout Australia —
shortage of skilled labor, scarcity
of steel and some other products,
and rising wage-costs and
interest-rates. Credit-restriction,
too, has been fairly general. But
supply-and-demand differs from
industry to industry, and over-
seas competition is a variable
factor. It should diminish, in
many cases, as a result of
import-restriction.
Hire-purchase has been an
outstanding feature of the past
year. It has assisted greatly in
maintaining the sale of motor-
cars and household electrical
appliances, as well as furniture.
It has produced fat dividends for
shareholders in hire-finance
companies. And it has had an
effect in raising the general level
of interest-rates.
But homebuilding has slack-
ened a little during 1954-55.
Credit-restrictions have been an
influence here. The building in-
dustry as a whole has been kept
busy by the increasing number
of commercial structures going
up, with the possibility of some
defence demands before very
long.
The sharemarket has remained
remarkably firm during the past
year. It has been stimulated to
a large extent by the “take-over”
bids of companies which feel the
urge to expand and believe the
most economical way of doing it
is to buy-out an established busi-
"I'm afraid we let your work pile-up while you Were
away on holidays."
ness owning a freehold in a
desirable locality. Take-overs
have occurred chiefly in the retail
trade which is still very
buoyant—but are by no means
confined to it.
Though the majority of
balance-sheets in respect of the
year just closed should please
shareholders, there will be ex-
ceptions based on factors here
outlined, and during the coming
year trading experiences may be
more varied' still. What has
already happened in the refrig-
erator business may bear study
as a guide to other industries.
Davis Gelatine
The £1 shares of Davis Gela-
tine Consolidated have advanced
to 255. 6d. in their opening week
in the unlisted section of Sydney
Stock Exchange. The co. has a
paid capital of £1,500,000, on
the basis of which it earned just
under 20 p.c. during 1953-54.
“After making reasonable
reserves, it is anticipated that
dividends at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
will be possible, portion of which
will be exempt from taxation
until the fund of £184,000 has
been exhausted,” the directors
said in the prospectus covering
the issue of 300,000 shares to
the public about two months
ago.
On the basis of old book-
values, less depreciation, the
shares had a net tangible backing
of 225. lid. each when the co.
converted from a proprietary.
Present-day value of the assets
greatly exceeds the book-value.
At the time of the public issue
the board said that in the past
the organisation had been
developed through the share-
holders allowing the profits to
accumulate year by year and
receiving a comparatively small
dividend. It was now felt that
with the high cost of building,
the purchase and erection of
new plant and the increased
working capital required, further
expansion should be financed as
a public co. The proceeds of the
new issue are to be used to
finance the immediate expansion
contemplated.
There are manufacturing
branches of the organisation in
New Zealand and South Africa,
and selling subsidiaries in
Canada and Britain. Wherever it
manufactures, the co. has the
field pretty well to itself.
Minster, Ltd.
Westminster Carpets, Ltd.,
wholly-owned subsidiary of Min-
ster, Ltd., is to duplicate its
plant, finance being found out of
reserved profits and other
sources. No additional capital
will be required. The co. is un-
able to meet the demand for its
rubber-based carpet, which is
used widely in the motor trade.
Domestic requirements have
been in short supply ever since
the co. began operations. The
carpet has surface something
like haircord, is extremely hard-
wearing, and can be laid without
underfelt. It has no pattern, but
can be made in mixed and
pastel colors. The carpet is pro-
duced with a minimum of labor.
With the new plant in operation
(about July, 1956), output
should be well in excess of a
million yards a year.
The co. has a modem factory
at Dandenong, near Melbourne.
It has other sidelines, and the
public co. operates on a paid
capital of £541,250. Profits have
been almost double the amount
the 15 p.c. div. has called for,
and on an increased output,
without an increase in capital,
profit-earning should strengthen
still further.
The 10s. shares in Minster,
Ltd., have moved to 295. lately,
compared with a lowest price of
245. 6d. earlier this year. At
295. the yield is 5.2 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis.
Oil Search in Papua
From L. Owen: Prospecting
for oil in Papua has been a long
and difficult task, ever since the
small beginnings in the early
years of the present century. But
one Australian company, Oil
Search, Ltd., still goes on with
the good work, and is asking its
shareholders to contribute the
funds necessary for maintaining
its present interest of 10 p.c. in
the actively operating group in
which it is a partner.
The group (Australasian
Petroleum Pty., Ltd., and Island
Exploration, Ltd., controlled by
D’Arcy Exploration Co., Ltd.,
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty., Ltd., and
Oil Search, Ltd.) has decided to
extend its drilling programme in
Papua into 1957, thus involving
expenditure of between £4£
million and £5 million, in addi-
tion to something like £l2 mil-
lion already spent since the work
was started in 1938.
Although commercial results
have not yet been achieved, ex-
ploration by the group has been
carried out so systematically and
foresightedly that each new loca-
tion becomes less and less of a
wildcat.
Its first step in the elucidation
of Papuan oil-geology was the
differentiation of the area held
by the drilling co. into two main
provinces—the Aure Trough, in
which the Tertiary beds consist
predominantly of shales (includ-
ing great thicknesses of the
notorious tuffaceous mudstone —
commonly called “Papuan heav-
ing shale” —and some sandstones
and siltstones) and the Western
Papuan Basin, where the column
(Continued on next page )


ROBERT
HUTCHINSON
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales on October 4, 1933)
58 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
FLOUR MILLERS MERCHANTS
PROVENDOR MILLERS
Advise the Public that they are operating
and modem mills to capacity and almost
ON THE LOCAL MARKET.
their large
exclusively
NOW ISSUING
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
7% 10 YEARS
6% S YEARS
MONEYS ON DEPOSIT
5% DEMAND
BANKERS:
Bank of New South Wales, 368 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOLICITORS:
Blake & Riggall, 120 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Neither the requirements of the Companies Act 1936 nor those
of the Companies Act 1938 have been fully complied with in this
Abridged Prospectus.
Applications for Notes will be considered only if made upon
one of the Forms of Application which accompany printed copies of
the full Prospectus. Forms of Offer of Money on Deposit also
accompany the full Prospectus.
A copy of the full Prospectus has been filed for registration with
the Registrar-General of the State of New South Wales, who takes no
responsibility for its contents. A certified copy has been filed with the
Registrar-General in the State of Victoria.
DIRECTORS:
ROBERT RAYMOND GRAHAM HUTCHINSON, “Oak Park,” Marie
Street, Glenroy, Victoria, Chairman and Managing Director.
ALFRED JAMES BISHOP, 38 Gellibrand Street, Williamstown,
Victoria, Company Director.
BIRNEY CAMPBELL DICK, 25 Lindsay Avenue, Murrumbeena
Victoria, Manager.
THOMAS GEORGE RIGBY, 10 Roosevelt Court, Brighton Beach
Victoria, Manager.
THOMAS WESTON, “Cliveden Mansions,” 192 Wellington Parade,
East Melbourne, Manager.
GARRY JAMES HUTCHINSON, 5 Hewitt Court, Strathmore
Victoria, Manager.
STATUTORY INFORMATION.
There is no minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors
must be raised by the issue offered for subscription by the Prospectus
Bank accommodation has already provided funds towards the acquisi-
tion of materials, plant and machinery for the reorganisation and expansion
of the Company’s Stock and Poultry Food business. Some of the new
moneys may be applied in reduction of overdraft and in payment to
members of recognised Stock Exchanges of the handling fee mentioned
in the full Prospectus. It is expected that Bank accommodation will
provide further funds from time to time for the foregoing purposes and
for working capital, but otherwise no amounts are to be provided for
these purposes save out of the proceeds of the issue.
Applications and requests may be lodged through any Member of a
recognised Stock Exchange in Australia and Copies of the full Prosveotus
lt V M° b lT med fr ° m the Melhourne °fl ice °f the Company, 58 Queen
jFcui/i in th e
FmIui+c
m
■M
The last six words entered in Captain Cook’s
journal before he was struck down by natives at
Hawaii in 1779 were “ the extent of the Pacific
Ocean.”
They were probably the last words he ever
wrote.
Thoughts of them came to me as I stood before
the memorial at Kauai where Captain Cook first
landed in Hawaii in 1778, and come again as I gaze
across the blue expanse from the passenger aircraft
that carries me above the Pacific.
For this is the greatest of oceans. Its waters
wash on to Alaskan shores, circle islands of
equatorial warmth and freeze into Antarctic ice.
The whole western length of the two Americas
bound it on one side, the Orient and Australia
border it on the other.
Here in this ocean below me were welded the
history and geography of an expanding Christian
civilisation.
Came the Spaniards and Portuguese from the
west to round Cape Horn, working on the scientific
conclusion that the world was spherical.
Came the Dutch, east from their Indies to feel
into the ocean’s fringes and to turn again.
It remained for the gallant Yorkshireman in
the “Endeavour” to press on from Tahiti in 1770
to give us our Australian part in it, in a new
continent.
Over this ocean in 1928 my old flying partner,
Sir Charles Kingsford Smith, headed the first
trans-Pacific flight, opening up mankind’s way as
surely as did the voyagers of old . . .
My ’plane speeds on through night and day;
across the extensive; melting its distance.
And I think of all the men who made this
bridging possible. Some of them were centuries
apart in time. The craft that bore them were so
diverse in type as to challenge comparison.
In this they were one: They all had the stamp
of Courage. Their triumphs were sometimes masked
in tragedy. But their names will live as long as
this ocean rolls from shore to shore.
7
is largely composed of lime-
stones.
As a result of the geological
and drilling data gathered over
the years, it was decided, very
wisely, to abandon the Aure
Trough, in spite of the fact that
it included abundant surface
manifestations of oil and gas—
more enticing, of course, to the
layman than to the experienced
petroleum-geologist. For the last
two years the group’s efforts
have thus been concentrated on
the Western Papuan Basin.
The first really promising in-
dication of brighter oil-prospects
was the striking of a consider-
able flow of salt-water at Wana,
thus proving the existence of
beds sufficiently porous and
permeable to allow of commer-
cial production of oil if, and
where, it occurred. This was fol-
lowed by a substantial flow of
wet gas in the next location,
Omati No. 1 well. Unfortunately,
the great depth (13,742 ft.), and
the unstable nature of the strata
at that horizon, prevented this
well from being brought into
production, although, by extra-
ordinarily skilful drilling, it was
deepened to 14,352 ft. The
experience thus gained in No. 1
well has allowed Omati No. 2
to enjoy almost trouble-free pro-
gress, the depth at the end of
May being 10,246 ft. With
reasonable freedom from un-
avoidable mishaps, this well
should strike the gas-bearing
stratum of Omati No. 1 well
before the end of the year.
The new programme includes
the completion of the currently-
drilling Aramia Well (now below
3000 ft.), a test-hole on the Kuru
structure (scheduled to spud-in
in October), one on the Barikewa
structure (early 1956) and one in
the Morehead area (also early
1956). Geological and geo-
physical surveys, with air-
photography, will be carried out
over 4000 sq. miles.
A candid summary of the
situation is contained in a letter
to the chairman of Oil Search,
Ltd., from the managing-director
of D’Arcy Exploration in Lon-
don ; the final paragraph is well
worth repeating and noting by
oil companies generally, particu-
larly some of those operating on
the mainland, who might use
it as a model.
Although the results of test-drUl-
ing have hitherto been commer-
cially unproductive, much valuable
information has been gained and, by
the process of elimination, the de-
limitation of the best prospective
areas is now being progressively
advanced.
It should perhaps be mentioned
that the large sums already in-
vested in this project, together with
those further amounts now regarded
as necessary to its continuation, wiU
require a discovery on a substantial
scale to assure a return on capital
commensurate with the speculative
nature of the undertaking. Despite
this, we believe that the prospects
justify a programme of operations
on the scale we have indicated above
notwithstanding the risks always
inherent in the search for petroleum
in hitherto-unproved areas.
Oil Search’s share is three for
10 at par.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
F if Wdl
land 3 toT its
has just topped two million ;
labor force is about 800,000. The
two figures sharpen the import-
ance of national trading figures,
Maoriland’s overseas trans-
actions for the year ended April
30 show total spending of
£313 million (New Zealand
money). The extent to which im-
porters have tapped the ware-
houses of the world under the
National Government’s import
policy is shown by private im-
ports of £234 million, an increase
of over £55 million during the
year. There are probably more
luxury goods on shop-shelves
than ever before, and people are
buying them, even if hire-pur-
chase is being largely resorted to.
The accounts surely indicate the
high standard of living in Maori-
land, where there’s no unemploy-
ment, and there’s wealth waiting
to be tapped.
There s another side to the
technicolored picture. There is
a deficiency in the accounts of
£43.5 million as compared with
an opening surplus of nearly £2B
million —a difference of over £7O
million. Main reason was a
drop in receipts for butter and
cheese of £2B million, compen-
sated by only small increases in
meat and wool exports, and a
startling rise of £55 million for
private imports. The drop in
exports followed the changeover
from bulk-purchase agreements
to free-marketing. Previously,
exports were paid for when they
were shipped ; now the money
comes when they’re sold on the
British market.
Maorilafid was paid £2l mil-
lion-odd for cheese in the year
ended April, 1954; in the latest
period under £9 million. Butter
exports dropped £16.5 million.
Because of the lag in payments,
a large part of the cash has still
to come in, which makes the
deficit really not so bad.
But the large private imports
show that N.Z. importers have
spent anticipated export income,
and suggest why banks have been
clamping-down on overdraft-
limits. It is unfortunate that im-
ports should have reached such
a level when the dairy industry
had boldly scrapped the bulk-
purchasing agreement and
returned to free competition on
the British market. The decision
probably will cost the dairy in-
dustry £7 million of its reserve
funds, but it will be worth it if
a secure place can be grasped on
a competitive market.
N.Z.’s farming industry is
highly developed on a co-opera-
tive basis and has virile leader-
ship able to cope realistically
with the strains of the change-
over to free-marketing. The big-
gest problem it faces moss-
covered complaint—is spiralling
costs. Unique techniques are
being used to help overcome the
cost-structure. On the heels of
aerial topdressing has come
aerial-dropping of fencing
materials over rough country.
Posts, wire, battens, are specially
tied, and pilots are developing
the know-how.
While emphasis is being placed
on the improvement of lush
first-class lands and the opening-
up of hill-country, it is ironical
that rich farmlands are slowly
being filched from production by
growing cities and towns. A
subdivision of farmland 40 miles
from Wellington brought £2OOO
an acre for housing sections.
Latest villain in the act is the
Government, which plans to take
nearly 4000 acres of highly pro-
ductive land to cope with Auck-
land’s urban growth. This is not
the first time the State housing
authorities have done this. The
Labor Government built
hundreds of houses on market-
gardening, small-farming land in
the fertile Hutt Valley, near
Wellington, and there’s been the
same outlook ever since. Strange,
indeed, that farming, base of
N.Z.’s economy, should have its
land slowly taken from it.
Money Wanted
As expected, the Government
has decided to help local-govern-
ment bodies. It offered a million
through the State Advances Cor-
poration to local authorities to
help them meet immediate com-
mitments. Auckland promptly
asked for the lot, and later an
electric-power board asked for
two-thirds of it. There are a lot
of municipalities which will be
disappointed.
Overseas Loans
A conversion loan has been
launched on the London market,
and it is almost certain that fur-
ther overseas loans will be
sought. Treasury told the
Monetary Commission that
Maoriland was in a position to
support a series of moderate
overseas loans and that rapid
capital development justified the
borrowing. It’s a pointer from
ever-cautious Treasury.
Weekend Trading
Under Maoriland trading-
hours, shops close at 9 p.m. on
Friday night and don’t open on
Saturday or Sunday unless they
are licensed dairies or shops
selling things for consumption
on the premises. At least, that’s
the rough legal position. For
years, however, it has been pos-
sible to buy almost anything in
the way of groceries, fruit, vege-
tables, tobacco, and meat small-
goods from scores of shops in
any city. Labor Minister Sullivan
has a bill to legalise many such
sales which is now being con-
sidered by a Parliamentary com-
mittee.
Labor-party members see in
the move an attack .on the
40-hour week, despite assurances
to the contrary.


Cope Yorll
\
QUEENSLAND
\
* \
NEW SOUTH wales
TORI A
VICTORIA
roruana
"From Cape York to Portland"—
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.,
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams. _ ..
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning. K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Prank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
QUEENSLAND BOARD: _ . ~
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D.SO., V.D. (Chairman),
J W Fletcher, O-B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Byrne Hart; Cecil Brenan,
A. E. Axon, M.E., M.I.E. (Aust.); W. Hamilton Hart.
Manager: C. E. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Speneeley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleviße.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1880 _
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
AMONG the bull points sustaining the
popularity of G. and G.’s shares are
robust earnings, strong reserves, visible
and otherwise, sound finances, and the
co.’s firm hold in the main fields in which
it operates throughout Australia and New
Zealand. It is a large importer of books,
periodicals, newsprint and other papers,
and printers’ requisites, and does a con-
siderable turnover in the wholesale news-
agency and advertising business as well.
The management has followed a care-
ful and progressive policy ever since the
old G. and G. businesses were taken over
35 years ago. Partly because of this some
rich harvests have been gleaned over the
last decade, when turnover bounded along
in the wake of inflation and an expand-
ing market for local and imported publi-
cations. And, so long as full-employment,
creeping inflation and a vigorous policy
of immigration remain with us, growth of
the business seems likely to continue,
though at a less accelerated rate than of
recent years.
Since 1943 declared profits have
rocketed from £79,968 to £310,661, and
the div. advanced from 13 p.c. to 25 p.c.
in 1954, and then eased to a nominal
18| p.c. last term. Paid capital was steady
at £500,000 for the 30 years to 1950, when
£150,000 of bonus-scrip was handed out,
followed last term by a further gift share-
issue of £325,000, and then a cash offer
which brought in £324,549, thus lifting
the total on the register to £1,399,549, of
which £lOO,OOO carries a fixed cumulative
8 p.c. Of the £1,299,549 of ord. capital,
£475,000 is bonus-scrip, which makes last
term’s 181 p.c. div. worth 28.8 p.c. on old
holdings.
Turnover in all sections strengthened,
and so did gross earnings (£1,647,995, up
£101,269). Including £22,806 (up £2074)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion, exes. (£1,337,334) made off with
£89,853 of the gain, leaving the net
result £11,416 stronger at £310,661:
Year f Dividends—— N
Ended Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1950 ..152,449 8000 20 100,000 44,449 593,969
Rev’uation land & buildings, £125,241 719,210
Capitalised, £150,000 .. .. 569,210
1951 ..172,185 8000 20 130,000 34,185 603,395
1952 ..227,795 8000 20 130,000 89,795 693,190
1953 ..182,579 8000 22J 146,250 28,329 721,519
From stock reserve, £275,000 .. 996,519
From bad debts reserve, £43,000 .. 1,039,519
From tax reserve, £56,263 .. .. 1,095,782
Revaluation reserve, £325,000 .. 1,420,782
1954 ..299,245 8000 25 162,500 128,745 1,549,527
From provisions, £10,883 .. .. 1,560,410
Reserves capitalised, £325,000 .. 1,235,410
1955 . .310,661 8000 18J 238,244 64,417 1,299,827
The £310,661 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 23.2 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 44.8, 29.3, 35.7, 29.2
and 28.7 p.c. back to 1950. And the posi-
tion was better than the parent co.’s own
accounts disclosed, in Australian cur-
rency, combined net earnings of parent
and its N.Z. and other subsidiaries was
£368,803 (up £34,913).
As for the current term, trade remains
buoyant, but operating exes, promise
to become more troublesome, owing to a
recent lift in overseas freight-charges and
the uptrend of local wage-rates and other
handling costs. Also new import-
restrictions will retard the growth
of sales of paper and other com-
modities the co. gets from over-
seas. Still, the 18| p.c. distribution
appears to be in no immediate danger,
and, with greater economy and efficiency
of operation in view, new premises are
being erected in Brisbane and Perth, and
“suitable buildings” have been bought in
Melbourne and Hobart.
The big holding of cash, etc. (up
£320,830), doesn’t suggest that share-
holders are likely to be asked for more
at an early date:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £1,399,549
Reserves .. 721,519 1,549,527 1,299,827
Creditors .. 636,616 664,911 832,848
Tax reserve .. 447,836 144,925 284,979
Final divs. . . 85,250 101,500 123,125
£2,641,221 £3,210,863 £3,940,328
Freeholds .. 340,441 658,251 703,448
Plant, etc. . . 46,542 61,429 77,692
Shares subsid. ~ 336,785 336,785 336.785
Stock . . ~ 434,345 800,759 914,768
Book debts .. 937,979 1,113,374 1,352,540
Cash, etc. .. 545,129 234,265 655,095
£2,641,221 £8,210,863 £3,940,328
The year’s net addition to premises and
plant was £61,460. The growth in stocks
(up £114,009), book-debts (up £233,166)
and the creditors item is the result of
bigger trading. The stocks and debtors’
figures appear less unstated provisions for
contingencies; part of these provisions
(£275,000 and £43,000 respectively) were
brought from hiding and put in the
window during the 1954 term.
Prepared to wait for further benefits,
the market prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at
18s. lOd. to return 4.3 p.c. on an 18£ p.c.
div. basis. At 7s. 3d. (last reported sale)
the prefs. yield 5.5 p.c. Net tangible
cover (parent’s accounts only) is 9s. Bd.
per share —both classes of scrip rank
equally for capital.
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
SINCE the f.-p. £1 shares in this old-
and soundly-established organisation
—foundations of the business were laid by
James Hardie as far back as 1888 —were
listed on ’Change at the end of 1951, their
popularity as an investment has steadily
increased, though the price has fluctu-
ated in harmony with market, economic
and other trends. The figure fell from
455. in December, 1951, to a low of 375.
in 1952, due more to psychological reac-
tion than to the actual effects of the then
balance-of-payments crisis, etc., upon the
building trade. In 1953 the figure reached
505., advanced to 595. in 1954, and stood
at 61s. last week. The immediate return
at 61s. is 4.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is
565. Bd.
Meanwhile the cautious board had
lowered the div. from 10 p.c. in 1951 to
8 p.c. for the two following years, not
because insufficient was earned to main-
tain the higher rate, but as a measure of
prudence. As the outlook brightened the
div. was lifted to 12i p.c. in 1954, and
to 15 p.c. last term, when £114,917 of
bonus-scrip was handed out, one for ten,
thus making the 15 p.c. worth 16.5 p.c.
on capital as it stood before the gift.
And over the last four years more of
the declared profit has been ploughed
back into the business than was dis-
tributed, while net earnings have stepped
along in fine fashion:
Parent Co.
Mar. To Re- Re-
-31. Profit. , Dividends. serves. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1950. .104,028 10 p.c. = 76,551 27,477 430,372
Added reserves, £3248 .. • • 433,620
1951. .364,605 10 p.c. = 76,551 288,054 721,674
Consolidated Figures.
Added reserves, £3334 .. .. 1,910,253
Reserves capitalised, £382,714 .. 1,527,539
1952. .200,403 8 p.c. = 91,929 108,474 1,636,013
Added reserves, £3451 .. .. 1,639,464
1953. .293,835 8 p.c. = 92,000 201,835 1,841,299
Reserves appear on acquisitions of
assets, £6913 .. .. .. .. 1,848,212
Added reserves, £78,572 . . . ■ 1,926,784
1954. .301,777 12* p.c. =143,750 158,027 2,084,811
Reserves capitalised, £114,917.. .. 1,969,894
Unexplained addition, £100,046 . . 2,069,940
1955. .438,249 15 p.c. =189,750 248,499 2,318,439
■(Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at 31/3/’55.
It was bigger turnover (amount not
stated) that put the spring of £136,472
into last term’s profit, which doesn’t
appear to be overstated at £438,249. It
was written after making liberal allow-
ances of £373,165 (up £18,765) for depre-
ciation and £441,002 (up £116,957) for
taxation, as well as sending £36,860 (up
£9690) to the staff fund. The £438,249
was 34.6 p.c. on capital compared with
26.5, 25.5, and 17.4 p.c. back to 1952.
With reserves heaped £1,053,439 higher
than paid capital, the two combined
need turn in only 5.3 p.c. to cover 15 p.c.
on capital alone, whereas last term s profit
was 12.2 p.c. on shareholders’ funds, it all
enhances the reputation of the scrip as
a holding proposition.
The group consists of parent holding
and two main operating subsidiaries, one
in Australia and the other in New Zea-
land. A third and smaller offshoot,
Asbestos Mines Pty. (N.S.W.), supplies
some of the raw material to the co.’s
half-dozen factories in the Common-
wealth. The principal lines turned out
are asbestos-cement - flat and corrugated
sheets, guttering, down- and flue-pipes,
high-pressure water-pipes, brake-lining
and terra-cotta roofing-tiles, etc. A
jointly-owned concern, in which Wunder-
lich, Ltd., is the other partner, makes
asbestos-sheets, etc., in South Australia.
The next table helps to explain part of
the growth in turnover and earnings:
NEW HOUSES COMPLETED IN AUSTRALIA.
(Fibro Cement)
Year £ Year £
June 80, No. MM. June 30, No. Mill.
1949.. 14,504 17.2 1952.. 19,926 34.9
1950.. 14,848 19.7 1953.. 20,637 39.7
1951.. 17,842 26.1 1954.. 21,541 44.6
The figures exclude asbestos-cement
products used in connection with other
types of houses, factories, shops, flats,
etc. And the number of new buildings
commenced and/or under construction at
September 30 last suggests further
strengthening of demand for the co.’s
factory outputs. But increased wage and
other costs are likely to retard the growth
in net earnings.
The financial position further strength-
ened, the year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£1,323,486) being
£418,328:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,150,000 £1,150,000 £1,266,000
Reserves . . . . 1,841,300 2,084,811 2,318,439
Mortgage .. .. 300,000 300,000 300,000
Overdraft . . .. 571,776 145,180
Creditors, etc. .. 660,487 1,040,587 1,201,067
Tax provision .. 709,188 614,496 774,627
Final dividend .. 46,000 86,250 94,876
£5,268,751 £5,276,144 £6,099,188
Freeholds, plant,
etc 2,298,324 2,231,209 2,161,504
Shares .. ~ 173.433 158,933 231,119
Stocks .. .. 1,889,865 1,736,023 2,468,674
Debtors .. .. 741,846 868,160 998,139
Cash, bonds .. 66,835 183,370 151,303
Goodwill .. .. 98,448 98,449 98,449
£5,268,751 £5,276,144 £6,099,188
To carry an extra £722,651 of stocks (in
at the lower of cost or market-value)
and £129,979 more book-debts, the co.
went to its bankers for £145,180 and
to sundry creditors, etc., for a further
£160,131.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
A FTER advancing modestly from 525.
a year ago to 535. at the end of May,
1955, the price of the f.-p. £1 ords. in this
stoutly-ribbed Fiji merchant and plan-
tation-owner shot up to 58s. last week,
following publication of the accounts
and chairman’s announcement of benefits
to come.
As the “Wild Cat” has from time to
time pointed out, he emphasised that there
was now a “very large” hidden reserve in
properties, that the book-value of invest-
ments in subsidiaries, or branches, was
far below their actual worth, and that the
value of stocks was also understated by
a large amount, accumulated over the last
20 years against the chances of a slump
“which has not occurred and does not look
like occurring.” He then added that:
Unless conditions change, it will be
necessary at some time to' consider either
the issue of bonus-shares (a matter not
altogether free of income-tax problems), or
an increase in the rate of ordinary dividend.
The directors propose that this issue should
be deferred, at any rate until much greater
progress has been made in the building
programme and possibly until the
prospects of future trading can be fore-
cast with more confidence than can be
done today.
Because the issue of bonus-scrip would
have a sting in its tail, the board prefers
to wait-and-see, for the reasons stated.
The building programme contemplates
expenditure of some £1,250,000 over the
next few years —£250,000 of it in respect
of a new modern hotel at Suva, and the
balance in replacement of existing and
erection of new trading-premises for the
parent and its offshoots.
A substantial lift in the dividend-rate
offers an immediate, and more flexible,
way out. But, in these days when capital
is under fire from the left, a high nominal-
rate of dividend is apt to be misunder-
stood. What is not generally realised is
that shareholders are entitled to a fair
return on their money, whether that
money be called share-capital or reserves
—undistributed profits used in the business
for capital purposes. The true economic
measure of earnings, and of the dividend
on equity capital, is therefore the rate in
relation to shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined), not to capital
alone. The importance of the rates in
relation to share-capital is that they are
one of the measuring-rods used by the
market in assessing the value, or price,
of the shares.
Over the last half-dozen years declared
profits, dividends, etc., have moved in this
way:
f— Dividends \
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar.. Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£* £* £* £* £*
1950.. 639 13,162 10 p.c.= 52,040 50,447 944,777
Capital profit, £9150 .. .. 953,927
1951.. 437 13,152 10 p.c.= 62,040 61,245 1,015,172
Capital loss, £4OS .. •- ..1,014,764
1952.. 309 13,152 10 p.c.=* 52,040 52,117 1,066,881
Capital profit, £16,548 .. ..1,083,429
1953.. 133.185 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,041 67,992 1,151,421
Capital profit, £13,553 .. ..1,164,974
1954.. 137.175 18,152 llip.C= 68,546 65,477 1,230,451
Capital profit, £26,801 .. .. 1,257,252
1955.. 152.185 13,152 12ip.c.=66,050 73,983 1,331,235
* Fijian currency.
The board could have shown more profit
last term if it had wanted to. The
£152,185 (up £15,010) shown in the table
includes £27,560 dropped into the insur-
ance reserve, and was written after allow-
ing £119,042 (up £50,217) for deprecia-
tion, £178,403 (up £38,829), or 10s. lOd.
in the £, for taxation, sending £16,753
(up £335) to the staff fund, and making
an unstated provision for doubtful debts
in connection with expanded credit-trad-
ing. The depreciation figure indudes a
special amount of £40,881 used to write-
off the cost of work done under the
original plan (now scrapped) for the new
hotel already mentioned. Tenders under
the revised £250,000-plan are to be called
for next month.
The £152,185 of profit was a moderate
7.3 p.c. on shareholders’ funds. But after
paying the pref. div., enough remained to
show 26.7 p.c. on the £520,407 of ord.
capital as against 23.8, 23, 20, 21.7, and
19.7 p.c, back to 1950. The div. was
jacked up from lli p.c. to 12i p.c.
At 58s. the immediate return on a 12|
p.c. div. is 4.8 p.c. —12| p.c. Fiji is equal
to 13.9 p.c. in Australian currency at the
current rate of exchange. A moderate
one-for-two gift scrip-issue would raise
the return (same div. basis) to 7.2 p.c.,
and the pref. div. and 12i p.c. to the
ords. would then call for £100,701, or
£51 ; 484 less than last term’s profit.
A very strong financial position
and continued growth of the under-
taking are features of balance-sheet
figures:—
1953. 1954. ' 1955.
Paid capital— (Fijian) (Fijian) (Fijian)
Pref £219,206 £219,206 £219,206
Ord 520,407 520,407 520,407
Reserves .. .. 1,151,418 1,230,448 1,331,231
Creditors, etc. .. 169,273 166,598 191,401
Suspense* .. .. 207,542 225,462 253,530
Final divs. .. 26,020 32,525 32,525
£2,293,866 £2,394,646 £2,548,305
Land, buildings, ,
plant, etc. .. 278,001 274,240 187,984
Plantations . . 42,921 45,756 52,920
Capital value
branches . . 136,296 163,093 220,668
Stocks, etc. .. 697,751 626,719 785,870
Book debts, etc. .. 253,970 366,166 497,103
Investments and
cash .. .. 884,927 918,672 803,760
£2,193,866 £2,394,646 £2,548,305
* Provision for income tax, exchange, etc.
As already indicated, assets are worth


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Gollins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
jij ‘ jgf.
fill
"If; 11 It ft! a;
U
111 f:
! 11111111
'wl
:: m
Si inußkiffiw>
vsmSMr^
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONXY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 15/- per day
Double Rooms—
From 27/- per day
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE,”
Telephone No. 80522
(16 lines).
Missing Friend
PINCHAM, Cyril Archibald Neil.—
WOULD any person knowing whereabouts
of this gentleman please inform the
undersigned or ask him to communicate
with them for his financial advantage.
Was at one time Queensland, probably
served with 2nd A.I.F. in New Guinea,
may be now back to Queensland but per-
haps in Sydney or on Snowy River pro-
ject.—CLAßKE & CUNNINGHAM, Soli-
citors, Coonabarabran, N.S.W.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly 7
OSULLHAA
i moD. „ .
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
‘' -
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
m in
/' ' $ V '
till
..; ::.vyv;
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON \{ PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to :
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C l.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
more than their book-value. To
meet the year’s net additions of
£159,151 to stocks, £130,937 to
book-debts and £57,575 to
capital value of branches, etc.,
the co. drew upon the big hold-
ing of cash, etc., for £114,912
and increased the moderate out-
side debt by only £24,803.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
THE investor who bought
Foy’s f.-p. £1 ords. at 365. 6d.
two years ago has nothing to
complain about. Meanwhile,
the div. has been lifted from
10 p.c. to 15 p.c., and the shares,
on “take-over” talk, went above
705., last week, later reacting to
645. The yield at 645. is 4.7 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis, but both
price and yield at the moment are
the product of “take-over” specu-
lation. At 21s. 9d. the 6 p.c. £1
prefs.—there are 272,902 of them
in a paid capital of £813,269 —
yield 5.5 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £5 9s. sd. prefs. and 455. 2d.
ords.; and assets are known to
be worth a lot more than their
book-value.
During the year, and more
recently, there were rumors that
Melbourne interests might make
an offer for the business, but the
board makes no mention of any
such approach in its report.
The pattern of events of the
last three years is not likely to
be repeated in detail. Certainly
imports are running ahead of
exports again, and bank-credit
has tightened— except to meet
normal fluctuations in seasonal
demands. But the position is
less acute than it was in 1952.
Traders’ stocks have been built
up, there has been little, if any,
overbuying by importers, and
the recently increased import-
restrictions are comparatively
not severe, thanks to timely Gov-
ernment action. The basic fac-
tors of full to overfull employ-
ment, shortages of skilled labor,
pressure of population-growth
on resources, and sustained
internal spending are now being
augmented by marginal-wage
increases.
All these things tend to
strengthen consumption expen-
diture. So, although the Gov-
ernment might take action de-
signed to damp-down this expen-
diture and encourage savings for
capital purposes, the immediate
outlook for the big department-
stores remains bright so far as
turnover is concerned. For the
first quarter of its current term
the co.’s sales were ahead of the
corresponding period of the
previous year. On the other
hand competition is getting
keener and promises to keep
margins fine, and the uptrend of
operating costs will bite deeper
into takings.
Last term Foy’s gross earn-
ings (£1,257,491) increased by
£136,053 ; that was after allow-
ing £26,521 (up £2905) for de-
preciation. Including something
for taxation and £15,000 (same
as previous year) sent to the staff
fund, exes. (£1,093,624) were
£105,353 heavier, leaving the net
gain at £30,700:
f Dividends
Pref. Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
1950.. 128.354 10,374 13} = 74,301 414,483
Profit sale assets, £505 .. 414,989
1951.. 152.212 16,374 15 =81,056 469,771
1952.. 135.957 16,374 12} = 67,546 521,808
1953.. 193 16,374 10 = 54,037 562,590
Profit sale assets, £7OO .. 563,290
1954.. 16,374 12} = 67,646 612,537
Unexplained addition, £875 .. 613,412
1955.. 163.867 16,374 15 =81,054 679,851
After paying the pref. div., the
balance of the year’s profit was
27.5 p.c., on ord. capital com-
pared with 21.6, 17.5, 22.1, 25.1
and 20.7 p.c. back to 1950. So
nothing had to be strained when
the div. was raised from 12£ p.c.
to 15 p.c., making the average
distribution over the last decade
13 p.c.
The financial structure is
strong and well-balanced:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. 272,902 272,902 272,902
Ord. .. 540,367 540,367 540,367
Reserves .. 562,590 612,538 679,852
Overdraft . 139,495 192,122
Sundry
creditors* 356,793 310,775 281,282
Tax reserve 235,864 146,142 192,835
Final divs. 35,206 48,715 55,468
2,003,722 2,070,934 2,214,828
Property;. 767,482 814,172 822,043
Plant, etc. 80,000 80,000 88,959
Stocks .. 847,427 975,607 1,082,739
Book debts 219,293 190,548 202,779
Cash, etc. 89,520 10,707 18,308
. 2,003,722 2,070,934 2,214,828
* Includes internal provisions, etc.
Stocks (up £107,232) are in at
the lower of cost or market
price, less an unspecified provi-
sion to cushion any unexpected
bump. The year’s net addition
to working capital, or more-or-
less liquid surplus (£582,119),
was £50,484.
With an eye to the future, the
co. bought a property in Church-
street, Parramatta, a year or so
ago. . The trend of population in
the metropolitan area is toward
a steadily expanding suburban
perimeter, and the cost and time
involved in travelling to and
from the city, and car-parking
difficulties, are driving suburban
housewives to do more of their
shopping locally.
Commonwealth Mining Inv.
Commonwealth Mining In-
vestments (Aust.), Ltd., is a
clean float; all the shares offered
are to be issued for cash, and
there is no payment to the ven-
dors or promoters in either
shares or money. The co.
was registered at Sydney on
May 25, 1955, with a nominal
capital of £5,000,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 2,000,000,
including 3002 taken by the
directors as qualifying shares,
are offered—not more than 5 p.c.
of them in the U.K. and the
balance in Australia —payable
2s. 6d. on application, and in
three calls of 2s. 6d. each about
October 31, 1955, January 31,
1956, and April 28, 1956.
The co. will thus kick-off with
an issued capital of £1,000,000,
of which preliminary exes,
(including brokerage, £41,600)
are expected to take approxi-
mately £47,000, leaving £953,000
to put at work as the directors
may decide. The issue has been
jointly underwritten at sd. a
share by Charles A. Ord and
Minnett (Sydney) and Wallace
H. Smith and Co. (Melbourne).
It is a mining-investment and
-finance co., whose pattern of
operations will be similar to the
big mining-finance houses of
London and New York —which
have been largely responsible for
the success of mining activity on
the South African Rand —and to
Western Mining Corp. in Aus-
tralia. Here there is an expand-
ing field for the operations of
this class of co., owing to the
growing demand for a wider
range of metals for industrial
and strategic uses, hastened by
pressure of population-growth
upon resources and by new dis-
coveries in metallurgy.
By supplying capital for the
development of approved pro-
jects by direct investment, and by
sub.-underwriting, and by invest-
ment in selected mining stocks,
the co. aims to provide share-
holders with a reasonable return
on their money, with the possi-
bility of occasional icing on the
cake, and to hasten the volume
of mineral-production in Aus-
tralia. For the investor the risks
inherent in mining will be thus
reduced by a spread of interests
and by expert selection, while
many prospectors and others will
welcome the co.’s entry into the
field.
The co. has an able and well-
balanced board, which means 1
much in this class of under-
taking. Directors are J. Krutt-
schnitt, K. A. Cameron, A. H. P.
Moline, N. E. Nilsen, A. H.
Dickins and E. W. Street.
Northern Hercules, N.L.
Present indications are that
the co. will begin gold-produc-
tion about three months hence.
Meanwhile mine developments
will be watched with interest
and results of early crushings
anxiously awaited.
Floated in Melbourne in May,
1954, the co. took over from
Northern M/ines Development
the old Hercules goldmine, some
34 miles north-east of Pine Creek
(N.T.). Since the 1890’s the show
has been worked intermittently
at shallow depth for good
returns; but treatment diffi-
culties stood in the way of fur-
ther development. To overcome
this trouble Kalgoorlie School of
Mines recently suggested fine-
grinding, flotation, roasting of
the concentrate and cyanidation.
The co. has adopted the sugges-
tion, and much will depend upon
the results.
The headframe, powerhouse,
workshop and some huts have
been erected, and part of the first
section of the plant has arrived.
There are four known oreshoots,
estimated to contain 62,300 tons
ore, averaging 37.2dwt. Recov-
erable grade has been put at
30.8dwt., and costs at about £8
per ton, thus leaving a
profit of £1,000,000 with gold
at £l5 12s. 6d. a fine ounce.
Preliminary prospecting suggests
that pay-ore in the upper levels
will exceed original estimates,
and good values are expected to
continue further down.
The co. has an issued capital
of £600,000 in 10s. shares, which
have been called to 9s. each, and
are now fetching around 9s. in
the market.
A new atomic fuel, thorium,
promises to be a keen competi-
tor with uranium as the atomic
age develops. Its importance
lies in the fact that, like uranium,
it can be used as raw material
in a breeder-reactor. When
packed around a core of
uranium, or plutonium, in a
nuclear-reactor, it will breed
more fissile fuel than is used
up. Indeed, it is the parent
fuel from which new uranium
233 is to be manufactured in
the Dounreay (U.K.) experi-
mental fast-breeder power-
station. Thorium is found
mainly in monazite sands, from
which it is separated by a sul-
phuric acid-alkali process. Fur-
ther treatments then convert the
thorium-phosphate into thorium-
oxalate, and thence to the
finished metal. The point for
the investor is the possible effect
of thorium upon the long-term
price of uranium, the former
being the more abundant of the
two.
* * * •
The strengthening of both
demand and prices for rutile and
zircon have brightened the out-
look for shareholders in Zircon
Rutile, Ltd., which is treating
beach-sands at Byron Bay
(N.S.W.), and has been for the
last 20 years. For the 12 months
to June 30, 1954, the co.
recorded a loss of £7324, and no
div. was paid. For the current
term an interim 1% p.c. was sent
out on March 31 last, and a
final distribution at the same rate
or better is expected. Moreover,
recent developments have im-
proved the long-term outlook for
titanium and zirconium. Over
the last 18 months the price of
the co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares has
advanced from 10s. 9d. to 17s.
in the market.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
It has been rather a serious week, and
in some ways a sad one. From the
panorama of life in Sydney there passed
away a vigorous and forceful personality,
Mrs. Millicent Preston Stanley Vaughan,
who was N.S.W.’s first woman M.L.A.,
having been elected member for Eastern
Suburbs in 1925. Honorary life-president
of the Feminist Club, a dauntless worker
for women’s rights, she was once presi-
dent of 14 women’s clubs at the same
time. Also, she was famous for her
campaign of “Horses’ Rights for
Women!” which secured a Chair of
Obstetrics at Sydney University (where a
“Chair of Horse Obstetrics” had already
been- established), and was a dynamic
platform-speaker unequalled for force-
fulness. Her husband, former S.A.
Premier Crawford Vaughan, predeceased
her in 1947. She was about 65 when she
died.
* ☆ ☆
The opening night of “The Duenna” at
the Phillip-street Theatre introduced a
note of champagne-like gaiety to the
week. The ingredients of the play are
the precise 18th-century wit of Richard
Brinsley Sheridan, frothy melodies by
Julian Slade, polished production by
Lionel Harris (he is the producer also
for the Richardson-Casson company
shortly to be seen in Sydney), the
exquisite (and probably most expen-
sive) dressing by Peter Hurst (who
designed Katharine Hepburn’s pinafore-
dress in “The Taming of the Shrew), and
excellent acting, especially by Owen
Weingott, Ruth Cracknell, Moira Red-
mond and Gordon Chater, and a general
lightheartedness—all of which make up
a souffle of a production very delectable
on a winter evening.
Noticed at the opening: Alathea
Siddons, who has been away from Aus-
tralia for six years and intends to take
up acting here again soon; the Misses
Evelyn and Beatrice Tildesley (probably
two of Sydney’s most knowledgeable and
experienced playgoers); Sheila Help-
mann, her hair cut in a fringe; Margot
Lee (also with fringe; it will soon be
easier to count those without a fringe
than those with one); Max Oldaker,
again looking larger than life, Madame
Marianne Mathy, Mr. Hector Tinkler;
Dr. and Mrs. Guiney (she with a yard-
long box of chocolates brought back
from Melbourne).
☆ ☆ ☆
Another bright night was the annual
“Formal” at Sancta Sophia College, where
the undergraduates’ preference for polkas,
can-cans, Charlestons and other lively
dances from the past could not but ensure
a gay atmosphere. Senior student Caro-
line Nihill, in an H-line dress of black
faille banded at the hipline with sugar-
pink moire-taffeta, welcomed guests and
presented the college’s 16 “freshers” to
Mrs. S. H. Roberts,, wife of the Univer-
sity’s Vice-Chancellor, and to the College
Council. The freshers, by the way,
included two girls whose mothers had
formerly been students at the College:
Janet Miller, daughter of the Eric Millers,
and Marilyn Jones, daughter of the
Douglas Joneses. Helping to entertain
official guests, who included Miss Agnes
Scobie, Professor and Mrs. C. R. Mcßae,
Professor and Mrs. Ashworth, and Pro-
fessor and Mrs. le Fevre, were Jan*
Payten (wearing pale-green brocade) and
Pat Keighery (in pale-blue tulle and white
guipure lace).
V- V V
United Nations had its 10th birthday
on Sunday, and with it came a realisa-
tion that its long-range programme to
raise living-standards throughout the
world is perhaps our best safeguard for
peace, since it will eventually abolish
the basic causes ©f war—ignorance,
poverty, injustice.
Some idea, for instance, of the work
that is being done on behalf of women
was given when Sydney’s Mrs. Jean
Daly recently returned from the 9th
session of the U.N. Commission on the
Status of Women. Recommendations
were made which when implemented will
ensure that no woman need give up her
own nationality on marrying an alien, or
be forced to acquire his nationality
against her will. Another seeks to secure
the right of a woman to a domicile
independent of her husband’s, and yet
another that mothers should have equal
rights with fathers over their children.
In many countries at present authority
belongs solely to the father, who in some
instances receives custody of the children
as a matter of right, even though he may
be the guilty person in a divorce.
It is an interesting point that the
Infants’ Guardianship Bill, which gives
Australian mothers this right, was largely
the result of vigorous campaigning by the
late Mrs. Preston Stanley Vaughan.
Mrs. Garnet Halloran, whose husband,
Dr. Garnet Halloran, was recently elected
president of the Royal Empire Society,
is a well-known figure in Sydney social
circles and a prominent member of the
Royal Empire Society’s Ladies Auxiliary.
It will be remembered perhaps that Mrs.
Halloran was the first widow to train at
the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, and it
was there she met Dr. Halloran, who
has been honorary consulting-surgeon
there for some years. Mrs. Halloran has
travelled widely abroad, having nursed at
the American Hospital in Paris and at
the War Memorial Hospital in Hong
Kong. She also spent a year in the U.S.
visiting the family plantations in Virginia.
Since her marriage Mrs. Halloran has
devoted herself to her husband’s interests,
which include the Spastic Centre at
Mosman and the Institution for Deaf,
Dumb and Blind Children. Her photo is
by Dayne.
It is said that invitations have already
been sent out by schoolboys and school-
girls to dances at Christmas-time so as
to “be in first” and make sure that the
most eligible guests are secured. No
wonder there has been a protest from
headmasters about these end-of-school-
year parties, which are multiplying so
fast that soon anyone over 17 years of
age won’t be able to get a toehold on
the social roundabout at Christmas.
* ☆ ☆
Younger Set members of the Black and
White Ball committee will play in the
production of Ric Throssell’s “Devil
Wear Black,” to be produced by Miss
Doris Fitton, 0.8. E., and Mrs. Hans
Tronser in September in aid of the ball.
It was originally intended to put on “The
Lights Were Amber,” but Charles Mac-
arthur Hardy, the author who produced
it in England, did not think it suitable
for Australia, so Miss Fitton suggested
this other light comedy by an Australian.
There is a mannequin-parade in the
play, which, by the way, is to be on for
one night at the Theatre Royal, so we
may hope to see several of Sydney’s
young lovelies in quite a glamorous
setting.
☆ ☆ ☆
The report that the Duchess of Argyll
disapproves of any photos or portraits of
the Queen in anything but the full
splendor of diamonds and formal dress
has started people arguing about the
propriety of those more “homely” photo-
graphs which show her (as the Duchess
said) “looking like any housewife setting
out on a shopping expedition.” The
general opinion seems to be that it is just
this aspect of the Queen’s life and per-
sonality that makes her so beloved by
her subjects, especially by women, who
feel they have so much in common with
her, and so are proportionately proud
when they see photographs of her look-
ing so dazzlingly beautiful in formal
dress.
MELBOURNE
One of the most attractive features of
the Carnival Fantasy night at Chevron
for Red Cross funds was the hat-parade.
Each mannequin sat in a white wrought-
iron sedan-chair which was drawn by a
“chair-boy” in Elizabethan costume.
The hats were by Anne Austin, and
among them were Dior’s horseshoe-line
shown in a narrow band of plush, which
grips the head like an Alice-band. From
the front-face view it is the perfect horse-
shoe. Genevieve was the name given to
a new sailor-hat with flat, pouchy crown
and wide, straight brim. It is reminiscent
of the motoring hats of get-out-and-get-
under days, but to it Claude St. Cyr has
added up-to-date trimming of mink.
A dainty little fiat of black antelope
with a forward tilt was banded with
white ermine, and an oyster satin tip-
forward pillbox featured a band of
natural mink. Very attractive was a
wide-brimmed scoop with an all-over
covering of pink and red hand-painted
carnation-petals. The cocktail-hats were
trimmed with jewels, mink or ermine, and
some with just one flower.
Guests arriving at the function had their
cars opened by a wigged and uniformed
footman, and blackamoors, with plumed
headdresses, pulled aside the silken
curtains of the Elizabethan canopy which
deeorated the entrance. The Governor
and Lady Brooks were received by
Colonel Allan Spowers, chairman of the
organising committee, Dame Mary Daly,
Stanley Korman (who made Chevron
available for the night’s fun) and Mrs.
Korman. Also in the official party was
the Minister for Housing (Mr. Petty),
who represented the Premier.
Lady Brooks chose a gown of mist-
blue taffeta with beading on the fitted
bodice and with a large bow finishing
the back of the full skirt. Dame Mary’s
choice was a short black crepe-romaine
frock. Mrs. Korman’s lovely frock was
of deep-green French-brocade shot with
black, and with a swirl of black nylon-
tulle frothing out from the knees.
Pretty girls, all dressed in Elizabethan
costumes, among them Marilyn Cottrell,
Clarissa Starey, Ann Swallow and
Joanne Brown, sold lucky envelopes.
Mrs. John Carrodus, just back from a
trip overseas, wore a short bouffant frock
of black-and-red-printed tie-silk.
Aviva, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Michael Sanders, of Middle Brighton,
was born in Tel Aviv (hence her attrac-
five name), but came here when she was
only three. Educated at Firbank, she
studied the piano at the University Con-
servatorium. On July 6 she will marry
Leon, elder son of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Korman, at the Toorak-road Synagogue.
Attractive and vivacious, Aviva is doing
all the interior-decorating of her new flat
in Queen's-road. John Warlow photo.
Noted at the first night of “Lucia di
Lammermoor” (in which tenor Danilo
Vega’s big aria and the Sextet had to be
repeated): Dame Mabel Brookes’s
formal gown of cream guipure lace ; Mrs.
Frank Tail’s powder-blue velvets ; Lady
McConnan’s pale-pink chiffons which
had opalescent beading at the neckline ;
Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon’s short, halter-
necklined frock of white lace ; and Lady
Clarke’s honey-toned self-spotted satin
gown.
☆ ☆ ☆
No. 9 Darling-street was gay with
bowls of poinsettias, gladioli and foliage
for the dance which Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Lynch gave for 200 guests in honor of
this Letter, and for which deep thanks
is herewith tendered. Mrs. Lynch chose
a gown of midnight-blue tulle with a very
full skirt and strapless bodice. The
guest-of-honor' wore a short frock of
deep-brown pure-silk chiffon cut on the
H-line and with the skirt featuring the
new harem-hemline ; over it she wore a
full coat of copper-toned satin. The
Lord Mayor (Cr. F. P. Selleck) and Lady
Mayoress were present (he proposed the
health of the guest-of-honor); so were
Immigration Minister Harold Holt and
his wife (she wearing an attractive H-
line frock of mist-blue taffeta), and Air-
Marshal Sir John McCauley and Lady
McCauley (her full-skirted gown was of
grey lace). Legislative Councillors A. G.
Warner and C. Gawith were with their
wives; so were Councillors Bernard
Evans and P. L. Coleman.
A lovely gown of white guipure lace
was worn by Mrs. Claudia Creswick.
Mrs. Gordon Pope covered her white
satin frock with a coat of coral-pink
satin. From Government House came
lan and Anne Spraggett, Captain
Michael Reyne and Lieutenant John
Larkins. Also there were the W. K.
Burnsides, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Haisman
and Mr. E. Haisman.
☆ ☆ ☆
The marriage of Jocelyn Meriel Travis
and George Albert Lyttleton Mace was
celebrated by Archdeacon R. H. B.
Williams at Christ Church, South Yarra.
The bride, who is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Travis, of The
Basin, wore a gown of off-white faille
with a round scalloped neckline and long
sleeves. The full skirt fell straight at the
front and extended at the back into a
train. Her full-length white tulle veil
was held with a coronet of orange-
blossom, and she carried a bouquet of
white hyacinths and gardenias. In
attendance was the bride’s sister-in-law,
Mrs. Michael Travis, who wore a full-
length gown of palest-pink nylon-velvet
made with a swathed bodice with wide
V-neckline at back and front. The bride-
groom is the only son of Mr. and Mrs.
G. L. Mace, of Pymble (N.S.W.).
Reception was held at the home of the
bride’s uncle and aunt, Major-General
and Mrs. S. F. Legge, of Toorak. The
many inter-State guests included (from
N.S.W.) Mr. and Mrs. G. L. Mace, Mr.
and Mrs. Don Campbell, and Mr. and
Mrs. Scott Garland and their daughters
Jennifer and Sue. Tasmanian guests
included Mrs. C. Gatehouse and her two
daughters, Mrs. J. Stops and Mrs. J.
Taylor.
☆ ☆ ☆
Plans for the Navy League Ball to be
held at the Royale on July 8 were com-
pleted at the final meeting of the com-
mittee, of which Mrs. Arthur Laver is
president. The Governor and Lady
Brooks will be present at the ball, decora-
tions for which include a working-model
lighthouse in the foyer and models of
ships’ wheels for each table. Ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. Charles Alsop
(WU1473), Mrs. Humphrey Becher
(BM1143) and Mrs. Ronald Nettlefold
(8J2724).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Mother Rectress and the Sisters of
Charity, St. Vincent Hospital, entertained
wives of the medical-staff and the office-
bearers of many auxiliaries. Mrs. L. R.
Buxton, who is chairman of all the
auxiliary committees and who received
the C.B.E. in the recent birthday honors,
was guest-of-honor. She wore a slim
black suit highlighted with a white-
ermine shawl-collar and a tiny black-
velvet cap. Among those at the party
were two of Mrs. Buxton’s daughters,
Mrs. Ross Batten and Mrs. John TeagUe,
her sister-in-law, Mrs. Ray Buxton, and
Mrs. Charles Osborne, Mrs. John Hay-
don, Mrs. M. Chamberlin, Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, Mrs. Nichqlas O’Donoghue, Mrs.
John Plant, Mrs. Harry Furnell and Mrs.
Derek Rumbold.
☆ ☆ ☆
Pianist Winifred Atwell made a per-
sonal appearance at the “Night and Day”
mannequin-parade staged in the Ormond
Hall in aid of Prince Henry’s Hospital
Edinburgh Club, and there was a fenc-
ing-display by pupils of Miss Cynthia
Letts. Gowns by Charlotte, of Fifth-
avenue, and sportswear by Lana Styles
were paraded by Diana Masters, head of
a school for mannequins, and several of
her pupils. Present were Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, the Hon. Simon
Warrender (president of the Edinburgh
Club), the matron of the hospital (Miss
A. Morgan) and the senior Sister (Miss
N. Robertson). Other functions to be
held by the Edinburgh Club in aid of
Prince Henry’s will be the Italian fashion-
parade at Myer’s on July 16 and an Anna
Russell recital at the Town Hall on
July 17a


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divoece.
TO LESLIE RONALD SCOTT late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that RUBY MAY
SCOTT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 480 of 1955 on the grounds of your
adultery with one AILEEN MacDONALD
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 18th
day of August 1955 and - obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & COM-
PANY, of 160 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Frederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
Kino George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. the
Oueen of the
Netherlands
»v •• »■•"£**
||!|i!;i IirtMUJHtBW 4
ii:MsS:l* Cb«* *•**
m
CHERRY
Of OINMA*'
Btiif
coptuHisi:
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 OenmorKk
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
OMf*
•ft*.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —SWIFT & HORNDALE LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Carmen”
In a public square in Seville
and in Andalusian sunshine
(which, for reasons best known
to J.C.W. electricians, throws no
shadows) “Carmen” opens at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne. The
same light falls on Dora
Minarchi, the gipsy wanton, as
falls on Gabriella Tucci, the
gentle village maiden; on
Umberto Borso, as Sergeant
Don Jose; on dragoons,
smugglers and cigarette-girls;
and on Escamillo, the bull-
fighter.
None of this adds Mo the
general reality of the proceed-
ings, any more than does
Escamillo, who, in the person
of Mastrangelo, looks as if he
has eaten more bulls than he
has killed.
One wonders why they do it.
Nor is Carmen as provocative
as she might be. As Bizet made
her, she is a hot north wind who
blows her lovers into madness,
without satisfying any of them.
Miss Minarchi is not sufficient
explanation for their frenzy.
The same unreality pursues
them to Lilia Pastia’s tavem and
to a wild spot in the mountains,
where their behavior is such as
to make any spot wild. By the
time they arrive at the entrance
to the bullring, Seville, every-
body’s nerves are worn to a
frazzle but none more so than
poor Don Jose’s.
While he is killing bulls Esca-
millo can forget Carmen, and
this puts him up in Carmen’s
estimation; but, having sacri-
ficed his military career for her,
Jose can’t forget her. All his
passionate appeals do is to bore
her, and, as a final means of
making her feel something, he
runs a sword through her. This
act is done so well that the rest
can be forgiven.
Bizet’s opera has an intelli-
gible libretto, which is a vast
improvement on “II Trovatore,”
but the artists of the Italian com-
pany play and sing the latter bet-
ter than they do the former. Evi-
dently Spanish fire and sparkle
is different from Italian ditto.
Mastrangelo’s toreador is not as
blatantly heroic as a great bull-
fighter should be, and is so un-
nimble in his movements that a
bull would have to be blind to
miss him. Umberto Borso, how-
ever, builds Don Jose’s frantic
passion to a grand finale and
sings his famous aria, “II fior
che tu m’avevi dato” very nicely.
The singing star of the even-
ing is Gabriella Tucci as the
pathetic Micaela. The choruses
of soldiers and cigarette-factory
employees add little.
♦I«
Monique Haas
With Gallic good sense Mme
Haas decides what music she
plays best and plays it. Result?
First-rate entrees far better
than a second-rate dinner.
At Sydney Town Hall, in
Bach’s A Minor English Suite,
she soon showed that she feels
no need to be for ever tinkering
with her sturdy rhythms, nor
need to fiddle about “interpret-
ing” each minute phrase. We got
music in meaningful stanzas, not
a senseless string of too-elegant
vowels: in fact, just as the com-
poser intended. No surprise that
she next hoed into the best per-
formance of Mendelssohn’s
“Variations Serieuses” this critic
has struck.
With the antimacassars off,
these variations didn’t sound at
all like the Mr. Mendelssohn so
esteemed by Queen Victoria.
Liszt’s “Au Bord d’une
Source” was legato and liquid.
Missing from its centre was that
dry rattle of notes, so beloved
of some pianists, which sounds
like a Derby-day for typists.
Instead, a flashing-and a rippling
seen through plumes of mist.
The fashion for grafting
Poulenc’s “Pastourelle” onto his
“Toccata” wasn’t Pbulenc’s idea
at all; the second he wrote years
before the first. Pianist Horowitz
first joined ’em up, and, for
once using a bit too much pedal,
Mme Haas played them that
way, too.
Last came Ravel’s pastiche, the
six pieces called “Le Tombeau
de Couperin.” In the one called
“Forlane” even the shortest
repeats were skipped. (This
critic mentions it purely to show
he noticed.) Mme Haas tackled
the bravura parts with more
abandon than she usually allows
her sophisticated fingers the
more effective after a night of
playing which loftily shunned
both Teutonic thunder-and-gore
and sentimental keyboard
snivels.
A battery of radiators encirc-
ling the pianist suggested the
magic flames with which Wag-
ner corraled-up Briinnhilde.
*l* £4 iji
“The Force of Destiny”
All the principals are sched-
uled to end as cadavers in Verdi’s
opera of love, hate and long-
deferred r-r-revenge, but Mina
Shelley, who produced it for the
Sydney Con. Opera School,
was compelled, through absence
of a handy cliff from which
Don Alvaro could finally cast
himself in despair, to commute
his sentence to life in a monas-
tery, there to brood over the
tough spin he’d had.
As well as this and other
restrictions on decor imposed by
an inadequate stage, the five acts
were telescoped into four in the
interests of time-saving.
The gloom-packed tale of
horrors is made more than
tolerable by Verdi’s beautiful
score. Its concerted numbers are
among some of the best he
wrote; the duet for tenor and
baritone in the third act, “Swear
In This Hour,” is one of the
finest in the whole range of
opera.
Singing was up to very good
standard; acting passable and
in a couple of cases excellent —
notably Gwenda Holloway’s
vivacious gipsy, Preziosilla,
whose two numbers bring brief
light into the general gloom, and
Russell Smith’s portrayal of the
friar Melitone. The choruses,
especially those of the monks,
carried good feeling and were
accurate in attack, and Con-
stable’s decor had imagination
and ingeniously made the most
of a restricted area.
Conrad Berensen, the revenge-
mad Don Carlo, raised a power-
ful and resonant baritone of
splendid quality in his many
declamatory passages, and Alan
Ferris, as Don Alvaro, sang with
force and some emotion.
Russell Cooper’s Abbot had
dignity, and he used his clear
bass with nice restraint.
Nita Maugham, the Leonora
of the piece, has a soprano
which seems able to compass
about three octaves without
signs ©f strain anywhere, and
she used it with fine judgment,
nowhere better than in the diffi-
cult and lovely aria “Holy
Mother, Have Mercy,” against
the background of the monks’
off-stage singing of the “Venite.”
The singing of all the principals
was marked by unusually clear
enunciation.
Eugene Goossens deserved the
gratitude of the singers by keep-
ing the orchestra damped-down
during their numbers, and of the
audience for a generally good
night’s work and outstanding
playing in the Overture and in
the long introduction to the
second act.
♦> *Z*
Julius Katchen
Julius Katchen, the American
pianist who started an argument
with the Melbourne Town Hall
piano last week, has all the
technical facility of an Infantino,
and also some of the emotional
tricks, cleverly enough trans-
lated in terms of the keyboard
instead of the vocal organ.
Listeners were startled when
he brought into a performance
of Beethoven’s C Minor Sonata,
Op. 111, a note of pathos by the
simple means of holding his
hands off the keys for a split-
second, as if he feared to touch
them. The same device was
employed to bring the anguish
of suspense into the Brahms
Third Piano Sonata. Whether
those musical shellbacks, Brahms
and Beethoven, would have
approved of these innovations is
another question.
There was less to be alarmed
at in his playing of Dame Myra
Hess’s arrangement of Bach’s
“Jesu Joy of Man’s Desiring.”
It was as traditional as could
be, and very lovely.
❖ ❖ ❖
“King Lear”
Twelfth Night Theatre’s gal-
lant production of “King Lear”
on the small stage of Brisbane’s
Albert Hall was played to audi-
ences swelled by schoolboys,
who helped contribute to an
Elizabethan atmosphere on both
sides of the footlights.
Rhoda Felgate assembled her
cast on a model Elizabethan
stage and clad them in the cos-
tume of the period. The lack of
the usual paraphernalia used to
obtain realism allowed the actors
to move with considerable ease
through the changing scenes of
the play. This smoothness of
production , was occasionally
overdone, for there is something
essentially stupid about Lear in
the early scenes and the action
might well have kept time to
his lumbering brain rather than
to the peppery swiftness of his
tongue.
James Buchanan’s Lear was
very old indeed, though at times
his rapidity of speech and action
belied his grey locks. Even the
nervous shudder he adopted
could not repair this. Yet his
was an impressive Lear, active
if not wholly majestic, and one
who struck real pathos in the
great Heath Scene. He was aided
here by Hugh Cur now, who im-
personated Edgar’s pretended
madness with a skill that verged
on eerieness.
Marjorie Mant and Gwen
Wheeler were suitably tart as the
wicked sisters, but their jealous
intrigues with Edmund seemed
unimportant because Rodney
Gibson’s Edmund had little of
the villain about him. Instead,
he was a swaggering adventurer
who might have just stepped
off the Golden Hind.
Jacklyn Kelleher was a rather
sad Cordelia, almost as though
she could foresee the end of the
play at the beginning. She was
sternly proud in the face of her
father’s tantrums, and showed
clearly that Cordelia was very
much a “chip off the old block.”
—D. J. M.
♦+. ♦♦♦
“The Winslow Boy”
Ever since “French Without
Tears,” Terence Rattigan has
been tossing-off box-office suc-
cesses, and “The Winslow Boy”
is probably as good an example
as any of his strength and his
weakness.
The points of strength are all
pretty obvious themes, situ-
ations, humor and crises are
presented to the audience in just
the right proportions. And, of
course, Mr. Rattigan always
looks as though he is about to
discuss an important issue—
one which moves people deeply.
In “The Winslow Boy” it is
the tyranny of a big Government
department. Here he gives the
facts, presents the issues and
shows us how his characters feel
about these issues. Then, just as
he has prepared us for a revela-
tion, or seems about to go
deeper, Mr. Rattigan takes
fright, stops short, and fobs us
off with some joke, a sentimental
poultice or a verbal puzzle. In
this play, for instance, instead
of telling us who our oppressors
are and why they behave in that
way, he tries to bluff us into
thinking about the difference
between “right” and “justice.”
Still, Canberra Repertory
made the most of the chances —
and they are very'good ones —
that Rattigan gives to producer
and players. When one tired of
Mr. Rattigan’s tricks one could
sit back and admire the dresses.
And the acting reached the usual
high standard. It would be diffi-
cult to choose between John
Garran, Norman Phillips and
Christopher Power.
Garran took us back to a
period when a man was really
master in his own home, when
some people had enough of this
world’s goods to stand on prin-
ciple, and when servants made it
possible for a retired bank-
official to live in grace and ease.
Norman Phillips was just as
good as Sir Robert, the icy,
domineering barrister, always a
“lifeman” in conversation. One
felt that he could teach even
Stephen Potter a thing or two
about one-upmanship on the
telephone.
Christopher Power was like-
wise excellent in the smaller part
of Desmond Currie, the ex-
county cricketer with a hopeless
passion for Winslow’s daughter.
And Malcolm Harrison’s per-
formance as Ronnie Winslow
came-off, despite a rather un-
promising and stiff first five or
ten minutes.
One felt that such talent
deserved something more than
just good box-office dialogue—
even if it is not the done thing
to raise big issues in Canberra.
M.C.
-j* ♦♦♦
Melbourne Tiv.
Highlight of the current Tivoli
bill in Melbourne is Winifred
Atwell, the attractive negress
whose chief claim to the title of
Queen of the Keyboard is a
positively regal ability to tyran-
nise over the eardrums of her
hearers with the shrill, staccato
notes of the piano.
She brings these out at the
same superlative speed that Can-
field Smith, ventriloquist, brings
to his philosophical dialogues
with his puppet, Snodgrass.
The rest of the programme is
divided into more-or-less equal
parts by Eddie Vitch, a clever
pantomimist; Joe Church, who
exploits a cracked brand of
English comedianship; Romaine
and Claire, a pair of Broad-
way crooners; and Dorothy
Neal and Paul Newton,
whose bodies are wonderful to
behold and whose act is full
of Art, Grace and Beauty, with
capital A, capital G and
capital B.
Artbursts
Mixed Show
There is a variety of styles in
the joint show of Charles Black-
man, Clifton Pugh, Eric Smith
and Margaret Bembina at the
Peter Bray Gallery in Mel-
bourne.
Smith continues to turn out
his studies of religious subjects
in the Rouault manner, and, in
this case, obligingly provides a
portrait of his inspirer. It
seems to be a direct transcrip-
tion of his subject, but not very
revealing.
Blackman is even more con-
spicuously childlike in his “Girl
in a Garden,” “Hill Farmer”
and “Armful of Flowers.” His
farmer has the same imbecilic
look on his face as his white-
faced children.
In her “Italian Country Scene”
and “Angel,” Miss Bembina
seems to be borrowing several
styles at once, but in “The Red
Umbrella” she has made a
pleasant pattern out of a simple
object.
Pugh’s cats and gamecocks
are the only exhibits which
appear to have some reference
to Nature.
Talkies
“Bedevilled” (Sydney St.
James): A young paragon,
bound from Gahd’s Own
Country to a French seminary
and the priesthood, impulsively
does the Don Quixote act in
Paris with a Good-Bad Woman
who is fleeing the vengeance of
the wealthy, unscrupulous
brother of the man she has just
bumped-off. The doings are
not without excitement before,
his hectic adventure over, the
paragon makes placidly for the
cloisters. Steve Forrest depends
more on his looks than on
histrionics for his effects, but
Anne Baxter turns in a good job
of work as the woman.


The ROYAL MAIL
GOES NORTH
by H. wilson
HEAD down, like a
charging buffalo,
the Royal Mail
bus was hurtling
along the bitumen high-
way which led north from
Alice Springs to Darwin.
Three days was fair
enough to cover the nine-
hundred-odd miles, agreed
her Majesty’s Government
and Big Joe Hewitt, the
mail-contractor. So three
days it was, come high
heat of summer or the
drenching deluges of the
“Wet.” Prospectors and
station-folk alike could set their
watches by the Royal Mail.
“No records, mind you,” Big
Joe would reassure his pas-
sengers, and cross his enormous
forearms across a chest which
did them no shame. “But I
like to keep to skedule.”
His pronunciation of this
word was a legacy from the war
years, when Ajmericans had
helped to build this road. It
was known to impress dilatory
passengers more than the softer-
sounding “schedule.” A skedule
could not be trifled with. A
schedule might be. A skedule
spoke of a relentless, shining
efficiency. No dawdlings in
bed, when a seven-o’clock break-
fast was the rule; no quarrel-
ling for the last pint of tepid
water from the kerosene-tin
showers; no gossiping over
morning- or afternoon-tea in the?
little bough-shelters at the
stopping-places.
“Fifteen - minutes,” Big Joe
would announce as they pulled-
up. And at fifteen-minutes
sharp the horn of the Royal
Mail would sound peremptorily.
Five-minutes later its double
tyres would scrunch the gravel
on the edge of the road, and
woe betide any who dallied.
They were forced to scamper
ludicrously along beside the
slowly-moving leviathan, under
a barrage of hostile or derisive
stares from the more docile
passengers. They became
known as “some people,” and a
brand was upon their brows.
“Some people,” it appeared, did
not mind how they inconveni-
enced their fellows or claimed
extra privileges, or thought the
Royal Mail was a luxury tourist-
coach ; or, worst crime of all,
threatened the sacred skedule by
their selfishness.
Big Joe looked into his rear-
vision mirror, his eyes squinting
a little and a delta of lines
crinkling out from the corners.
It was not unnatural perhaps
that Mrs. Healley, wife of a
V.1.P., should head the list of
these unwelcome travellers.
She had not wanted to travel on
the Royal Mail, but the planes
had been booked out. And the
reluctance had been mutual.
So there she was, sitting up
straight, all begoggled and
hooded like a space-ship
passenger, her frosted face
registering her displeasure as
the Woodley youngsters charged
past her down the aisle. Icicle
wasn’t a bad name for her, Big
Joe decided privately, glancing
at his watch. Jove, nearly due
at the Attack Creek turn-off,
where he dropped -the kids,
home for their first-term
holidays.
Yes, there it was, near the old
Army - sign, which warned
against too much speed on this
straight stretch. “Steady!
Rubber grows on trees —tem-
porarily Tojo’s.”
And there was the truck
waiting, drawn-up in the shade
of a cork-tree. Mum and Dad
and little sister in the front,
trying to preserve a dignified
restraint in their joy at this
homecoming. On the back were
a full-blood stockman and his
three small children, all spot-
lessly attired in bright blue
denim, and all waving and
shrieking with delight.
So he gave three triumphant
hoots on the big horn and
slowed down. Young Tom
Woodley, hanging on the step,
spun out before the vehicle
lumbered to a stop, and the
gesticulating little group flowed
over him. Angela followed
more sedately, long black-
stockinged legs and neat uniform
looking a little prim in this vast
sea of plains. Then her mother
detached herself from young
Tom and with a little whoop the
girl dropped her battered school-
case and her dignity, and ran
towards her. Big Joe followed
more leisurely, with the bag of
mail. Greetings all round, a
little road-gossip, and the big
bus moved off.
The shabby station-truck
started-up its engine in challenge.
The happy group on the back
shouted, laughed, cracked toy
stockwhips. Some of the. pas-
sengers waved back, losing for
the moment that feeling of
superiority which long-distance
travellers feel for short-distance
ones, in a kind of wistful envy.
AS he pressed the accelerator,
Big Joe turned to his mirror
again. Yes, he thought so.
Grandma was having another
attempt to unload her family-
history, this time on the Icicle.
He knew her technique: the
little family-brochure, open in
the middle to show two
uniformed soldiers, one sporting
a walrus- and one a toothbrush-
moustache.
“Me husband and me son,”
the old lady would be saying
in the firm voice of one confi-
dent that her private affairs are
of absorbing interest to
strangers. “One in the last war,
one in this . . .” And, if the
listener did not thaw, she would
add lugubriously: “Dead —both
of ’em.”
Big Joe studied her sym-
pathetically. Poor old soul.
Game, too. Travelling alone the
three-thousand miles from Mel-
bourne to see her remaining son
at Darwin, and not too sure of
her welcome from a new
daughter-in-law. And doing it
the hard way. The only com-
plaint she had made was a fear
expressed without fail at every
stop, lest her hat-box be crushed
in the pile of luggage.
“It’s me new hat, with the
pink rose,” she would apologise.
“I want to look nice when I
arrive ... for my daughter-in-
law.”
Yes, it was hard to be old and
lonely . . . and afraid. He saw
with a mixed relief that she had
turned to the two women just
in front. Well, she’d find a
more receptive audience there,
but in return would have to
listen to another and very differ-
ent family-saga. He knew that
mother and daughter, both on
the domestic-staff at the Alice
Springs Hospital, were going
north to similar positions at
Katherine.
“I was quite happy at the
Alice,” the mother had confided
in him already. “It’s Emmie,
y’see. Another undesirable
suitor . . .”
He had nodded reassuringly.
He knew all about Emmie.
Most men on the Road did.
The mother had a hopeless
task, he decided. But she was
game all right.
Most of ’em were game. Take
that middle-aged couple with the
six strapping kids, all under
fifteen. At least five of ’em were
strapping. The middle one, a
scraggy little girl of eight, was
weak-eyed and muling like the
kitten in the litter one inevit-
ably drowns. This one had been
spared somehow. Pity. The
father was a little fellow. Had
his home and business blown
sky-high by the Japs and they
Were all going back to start life
over again. No more cities for
l h em -
Or young Mrs. Percer, with
the white-faced new baby and
the little boy of two, going to
rejoin her husband at Pine
Creek. Devil of a trip for two
small kiddies just out of
hospital.
Quite different from those two
young limbs of Satan whose
mother was taking them to join
their father in the Air Force at
Darwin. It would be the
happiest moment of her life
when she could turn them over
to him. Still, no harm in them.
Just full of the joy of living;
and a boy wouldn’t be a boy if
he didn’t have a bit of the devil
in him. He looked back into
his mirror with a fatherly toler-
ance. Then stiffened. The
younger boy, aged five, was
bouncing up and down on the
seat as he’d been doing for the
last two hours without a break.
The seven-year-old was quietly
and methodically unpicking the
upholstery with a penknife he
had smuggled in.
Big Joe’s terrible voice
bellowed into the loudspeaker:
“If those two boys don’t stop
ruining the seats, I’ll stop the
bus and chuck ’em out.”
There was a long moment’s
petrified silence. The five-year-
old bouncer seemed suspended
j n t h e air, before he sank slowly
down into his seat, skewered by
dozens of pairs of accusing
e yes. He burrowed further and
further down until only a wild
tuft D f hair was visible. The
seven-year-old destroyer merely
paused in his work and looked
up With an angelic smile of
innocence, sure that such a
threat could not apply to him.
Through the gap in his front
teeth his pink tongue poked
questioningly. But his tormented
mother, roused from her midday
torpor, woke to sudden fury,
snatched the knife from him and
threw it out the window.
Big Joe laughed silently.
Wonder what the young devil
will be up to next? The diver-
sion had given the passengers a
topic of common interest.
They straightened-up from their
hunched positions, grinned or
frowned at the child as became
their varying dispositions, began
swapping stories of their own
kids or their own childhood.
A LL but the young girl sitting
alone on one of the two
seats near the front. Bit of a
mystery girl, he thought, frown-
ing, for he didn’t like mysteries
on his bus. Getting off at
Hayes Creek. He watched her
covertly amid the mild upheaval
caused by his announcement.
He had noticed her when she
first got on, because she wore
her dark hair braided round her
head, not cut short like the rest.
About twenty-three or -four, he
judged. Pale city-face, slightly
spotted now with a heat-rash
and big dark eyes which, once
when he caught them in his rear-
vision mirror, were clouded
with something which looked
mighty like fear. Probably
worked in some city office, he
mused. Went to work each day
on an electric-train, nibbled
celery-and-cheese sandwiches at
lunch-time, saw a new movie
each Friday night with the
current boy-friend. What was
she doing up here then, getting
off at Hayes Creek, which
wandered through the outer-
most reaches of the Never-
Never?
He had looked at her left
hand as she had taken off her
blue cotton gloves soon after
the bus had started, when the
hot inland air had begun to
force its way into the bus like
a belated passenger. But there
was no ring. What then?
Governess to some outback
station? Well, it was none of
his business. Only there were
no stations he knew of around
Hayes Creek. Only a lot of
brand-new banana-plantations,
far from the stage of develop-
ment when they could con-
template such luxuries as
governesses.
She was sitting staring out
the window, but he guessed she
was not seeing much. She was
too occupied with her own
thoughts. And she was scared,
too. Almost to the point of
panic.
Then it was lunch-time, and
he stopped with relief at the
isolated shack and store. Here
lunch was to be had in a
bough-shed, allegedly for cool-
ness, but in effect only giving
an advance-signal to myriads of
flies, which now rushed from
their ambush and set upon the
distracted passengers.
Mrs. Healley eyed the limp
spinach-leaf, slice of tomato
and a piece of meat which
might have come from the work-
hardened shoulder of ox, sheep,
goat or even buffalo, with almost
equal distaste.
“This is simply disgraceful,”
she protested, pushing back her
plate. “Not even natives should
be expected to eat such stuff ...”
She rose and left the table in
a huff. Two or three others
followed suit, going surrep-
titiously to their bags for biscuits
THE DRESSER
Dig deep into your mind and find me out,
Surely you will remember me again?
My fashionable swirling capelets and the rout
Of wild wet colors running in the rain.
The Chelsea rain; but surely you remember . . .
You used to stand at the wide front window then
And peer across the street in cold December.
Oh, no, you won’t recall. You loathed it when,
The long grey rain of Chelsea fell and fell.
Sometimes you saw me walking down the street,
My grey silk umbrella tilted round,
So that raindrops gathered, urgent, plangent, sweet,
And slowly rolled and fell upon the ground . . •
And to your baffled mind arose a dream:
A jungle green as light and deep as heat.
You saw the drip-tip leaves before you steam
And velvet tan lianas, brown as wheat,
Moving like rain, like brown rain falling slow
Across the welldrawn monkey-ladder vines.
And through it all you saw a white boat show
A cloud of sail; a soft star made a sign.
And you no more were part of Chelsea streets,
But just a thought that ran away and cried
Into the sea, for vines and flowers and heat
And tan lianas, swinging far and wide.
But yet, you see, because of days of rain,
And deeply because of that heavy round of silk
You called my parasol, you’re back again,
Staring once more at Chelsea and its ilk.
And yet you’ll find, as then, of course, you knew.
There was more poetry swirling in my dress . . .
More restful was my hat of ocean blue,
More peace within its flowers than wilderness.
And only someone passing in the rain,
A lady strolling slowly through a shower,
A skirt more like a restless silken stain
Of grey dust floating lightly on a flower.
Only a parasol that slowly toiled
Across a fair fastidious shoulder’s round,
And laces that some long-lost hand had boiled
And ironed and cast upon this blossomy ground.
And that was all. No need to toss and wish
To fly to boats and swing across the seas,
No need to lose your soul nor paint a dish
Embroidered with the tints of poetry.
Nothing was needed in that day of rain
But patience and an eye for sorrow’s glance.
You should have sat and borne well with your pain
Or gone out then to dine and wine and dance.
But yet you would . . . you would go out and board
A tall white ship and whip the waves to speed
Your shape across the sea, when, dear my lord,
You might as well have sat you down to read.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


or fruit. The rest ate on
stolidly, some even asking for
a return of the glutinous yellow
substance lightheartedly mas-
querading under the title of
“Orange Delight.”
Big Joe blew his horn a second
more promptly than usual. No
use giving them time to get
together and grouse, he thought.
Get ’em going and they’ll forget
about the lunch.
Ah, two more passengers.
And one well under the weather.
Not the kind he cared to take.
For a moment he was tempted
to tell them to hitch-hike a lift
on the next truck. They were
only going as far as Katherine.
Then he looked more closely at
the moderately sober one.
Thought he remembered the
face. Yes. Slag Slater himself.
If he’d recognised him before
he’d taken the money he
wouldn’t have let him on.
Didn’t want any trouble and
once that mother set eyes on
him . . i
The two men lumbered down
the aisle and lurched into the
back-seats, one on each side.
Big Joe noted that Slag arranged
his companion comfortably in
the corner, propped him up
with a suitcase, and left him
muttering away to himself in
the comer like a radio someone
had forgotten to turn off.
Then he turned his attention to
the passengers.
“Don’t you look, Emmie,”
hissed her mother, taking her
arm firmly. “It’s that dreadful
man . . . drunk as a”
“Don’t tell me what to do,”
returned her daughter promptly.
“I’m over twenty-one and I guess
it’s a free country, isn’t it?”
“Emmie, don’t you dare go
. . The worried mother
wavered between command and
entreaty. “I tell you he’s no
good, Emmie. No good.”
“Emmie!” The Slag settled
himself comfortably in the
empty back-seat and patted the
place beside him invitingly.
“Emmie.”
With a final wrench which
sent her mother spinning back
against the window, Emmie got
up and went to him. Big Joe
could see her cuddling close
against Slag’s arm as it lay
negligently along the back of
the seat. He put another fruit-
drop in his mouth. From the
mirror he could see the mother
was sobbing, hunched-up under
her bleached, old - fashioned
country hat. Grandma was
consoling her gently.
"DIG JOE shrugged at himself
** in the mirror. Well, only
two hours to Flinders Waters
and he was right on skedule.
Just then, with a report like a
field-gun, the back tyre blew-
out. That means quarter of an
hour at least. He cursed softly
as he climbed down from his
cabin, after making a brief
explanation through the loud-
speaker. But what with the heat
and a recalcitrant tyre, it turned
out to be just over half an hour.
Well, he told himself, easy to
make that up. Blokes at the
telegraph-station will chiack me
for running late. But I can
take it. We’ll be at Katherine
as usual. Cut out afternoon-tea
if necessary.
But the outcry was too much.
No, they must stop for after-
noon tea. How do you expect
us to continue to endure this
heat and dust without a cup of
tea? Besides, Mrs. Percer’s
baby looks very crook. Let it
cool off for half an hour inside
the station’s creeper - shaded
veranda. Sponge it down, give
the mite a fresh lease of life.
Then the Bouncer strayed off
and could not be found. An-
other ten minutes of yelling and
shouting. Big Joe’s lips set
grimly. An hour behind now. If
that kid were his, he’d skin the
hide off him, the young devil.
Ah, there he was. Clinging
grimly to some rusty parts of
a jeep which he had found
derelict in the scrub by the side
of the road.
him take them with him,”
he ordered the flustered mother.
“Better destroying that old junk
than my upholstery.”
On their way again at last.
Big Joe was crouching a little
now over the immense wheel,
like a jockey riding his steed up
the straight. No stops now until
Katherine, come high wind and
water. But, yes, there was one
stop. The girl for Hayes Creek.
He glanced back at her. She
was sitting upright now, a faint
color in her cheeks that was
not due to the heat. Her hair
was freshly done and she was
wearing a fresh yellow blouse
the color of evening sunlight.
Why, she looked almost pretty,
now. He considered her young
face judicially and, as he did sp,
there was an apologetic knock
on his cabin.
“Sorry to interrupt you,” the
father of the six children apolo-
gised, “but the girl getting off
at Hayes Creek”
“What about her?” snapped
Big Joe, not glancing up.
“She’s getting married tonight.
Told my missus at the last stop.
People were dead against it, so
she’s come up on her own. We
thought we’d take up a collection
—give her a bit of a presentation
when you stop at Hayes Creek.
It won’t take more than a
minute or two,” he added in a
placatory voice.
“I’m an hour late now,” Big
Joe warned him. “It had better
be a pretty quick presentation.”
“Oh, it will be,” the man
“And one more question, Dad. Whence does the Wool
go when you get a hole in your sock ?"
assured him, taking the note
which Big Joe passed him. “Oh,
thank-you ... we thought only
a token . . .”
“Anyone starting life at
Hayes Creek needs more than
a small token.” Big Joe bit off
the words and crouched lower
over his steering-wheel. “Life’s
pretty tough out there. It’s still
Never-Never country.”
“Her husband-to-be is meet-
ing her at the turn-off,” the man
continued, steadying himself
against the swaying motion of
the bus. “The Inland Mission
clergyman is due there tonight.”
Big Joe made no comment,
concentrating on a difficult bend.
The man still lingered. “She
hasn’t seen him for over three
years; he went on ahead to
build up the banana-plantation.”
“Beats me why city girls come
up north,” Big Joe growled.
“They don’t realise what they’re
letting themselves in for.”
“He’s meeting her at the turn-
off.” The man slipped the note
in the hat he was carrying in his
hand and made his way back
into the bus.
IVTOW that the news was out,
1 ' the whole bus was humming
with excitement. Dark looks
were cast at the Icicle, who had
been inclined to protest when
the hat went round, but who,
nevertheless, had contributed
handsomely. Grandma was ex-
plaining to anyone who would
listen that she must get up to
the luggage-van for her hat-box.
The pink rose on her hat was
brand new. A bride must have
a flower, even an artificial one.
The drunk had stopped his
interminable crooning and
turned out his pockets, the Slag
and Emmie, too, had stopped
their very different crooning and
Slag had given generously of
Emmie’s last week’s pay. Mrs.
Percer shushed her puling infant
and stared compassionately at
the girl. Hope she’ll have better
luck than I had, she reflected
without bitterness. Wouldn’t be
so bad if Ted didn’t drink and
climate didn’t get the kids down.
. . . She can have that new tin
of talc powder they gave me at
the hospital. . . Ted only sent
me the bare fare back.
The Bouncer and the Destroyer
heightened the atmosphere of
growing excitement by counting
the mile-posts.
“Only 418 more miles to Dar-
win, Mum? How many to Pine
Creek?”
“Hayes Creek, not Pine Creek,
darling. . .’’
“But why isn’t it Pine Creek,
Mum?”
“Because the plantation is at
Hayes Creek.”
“But why, Mum, why?”
“Count the posts, darling.
Look, there’s 417. Only seven
more to Hayes Creek.”
Only six more. Two more.
One more.
Everyone was peering out his
nearest window. The drunk was
pushed aside by someone who
had only an aisle seat, and un-
ceremoniously knelt upon.
“Bet you I see him first. . .”
The bride sat stiff and embar-
rassed on her front-seat, a
shabby-genteel suitcase gripped
in both hands, a piece of pale
blue ribbon trailing from it,
forgotten in her haste.
The bus began to slow down.
There’s the turn-off. Hayes
Creek turn-off. Can’t see any-
thing but a signpost. And no
one there.
In a silence which was almost
accusing, Big Joe climbed stiffly
down from his cabin. He cast
a swift look around. No one.
Surely the fellow had enough
decency to be on time to meet a
bride who’d come three-thous-
and miles? Well, he’d wait ten
minutes for them to make the
presentation. Not a second
longer. Even so, he’d be an
hour late at Katherine. Might
make up a quarter. But no
more. Hilly country was begin-
ning and there were a few skele-
tons of Army trucks lying at the
bottom of ravines to remind one
not to take the bends too
quickly.
Eager hands to help her down
and take the suitcase and the
lumpish paper parcel from her
quivering hands. Little jokes to
make it easier for the bride when
the bridegroom tarries.
“He’s takin’ extra time doin’
himself up . . . Special occasion,
y’now. .
“Bet he’s grown a beard —
most fellers do in these parts.”
“Is he dark or fair? Or maybe
red . . . Those red beards always
get the girls in. .
Then a little silence. Every-
body tried not to scan the silent
countryside. Away to the left
where the Hayes Creek track
ran, the country rose gently,
first into foothills in which were
discernible the fresh green
squares of plantations, and
then into the towering bulk
of a black mountain watching
guard over them.
Big Joe spoke.
“The folk on this trip want to
make a little expression of their
good-wishes to you,” he told
the girl, who was making valiant
efforts to appear unconcerned.
“We only found out about the
wedding at the last stop; it
didn’t give us much time to drop
into the nearest store.”
There was a friendly rustle of
laughter as the passengers
crowded nearer and the girl
blushed red and white by turns,
completely taken by surprise.
While Mr. Mellows made his
brief speech, one of his older
daughters ran to the side of
the road and gathered a little
bunch of wild cotton-flowers.
The girl kept her eyes on the
ground until he was finished, and
the hand she put out to take the
little purse was trembling a
little.
“I can’t thank you enough”—
she faced them all bravely—“l
thought I’d have no one of my
own folk here on my wedding
day ; and now I have over forty.”
There was a little silence. “Please
don’t wait,” she went on
quickly ; “I know .you're run-
ning late now.” The appeal was
addressed to Big Joe. “Tim will
be here any minute now. And
thank you all, so very much.”
“A few minutes more won’t
matter,” Big Joe was surprised
to find himself saying casually
as though he had a few hours up
his sleeve. “I don’t fancy leaving
a bit of a girl here by herself.
It’s seven miles back to the
settlement at Hayes Creek, and
when night comes on up here,
it comes pretty sudden.”
“Oh, please don’t wait any
longer.” The girl’s voice quivered
with tears now. “Probably the
jeep has broken down. Tim’s
always joking about it.”
“While we’re waitin’, let’s
drink the bride’s health.” The
Slag’s companion, in a newly
found sobriety, stood swaying
on the step, miraculously holding
three bottles of lukewarm beer.
“Get out some glasses, some-
one.”
Enough glasses and plastic
cups and tops of thermos-flasks
were found to go around, and
everyone had a mouthful to
drink to the bride. More
speeches were made, more jokes
handed round. Ten minutes
passed. Another ten.
“Please go now,” urged the
girl, in a sort of anguish. “You’ve
all been so very kind. I know
how tired you are. And the
schedule. . .”
“Well, we’d better be making
a move,” admitted Big Joe
reluctantly. “Sure this was the
turn-off where he was to meet
you?”
“If this is the Hayes Creek
turn-off, yes. Besides, I knew it
by that funny ant-hill shaped
like a torpedo.”
Silently the passengers filed
back into the bus, each making
his individual goodbye. When
they were all settled, they looked
back out the windows. The girl
had moved back under the shade
of a cork-tree, and was stand-
ing stiffly waving to them. The
little red plastic purse she was
holding in her hand made a
splotch of bright color in the
grey-green landscape.
T>IG JOE looked steadily into
the rear-vision mirror above
his head. All at once it seemed
to him as though forty-one pairs
of eyes were directed into that
tiny four-by-three piece of
mercury-backed glass. Implor-
ing, pleading, threatening. The
accusing silence seeped through
to his cabin, as though the loud-
speaker system were reversed.
The eyes of the Bouncer seemed
especially accusing.
Quietly he slipped the truck
into reverse gear. He noted with
grim amusement the ripple of
relief which washed over the
tired, dusty passengers. Grandma
sat back with an audible sigh of
relief, wiping her eyes. The six
children nearly whooped with
delight and craned out the
windows. Emmie gave an
audible sniffle. Even the Icicle
relaxed. Slowly the great vehicle
reversed until it was level with
the girl.
“Better hop on,” Big Joe
called down to her. “I’ll run
you along to the settlement.”
“Oh no, thank you so much.”
The girl was scarlet with embar-
rassment, but behind the tears
in her eyes, which had only been
waiting solace of solitude to fall,
the driver thought he detected
relief, too.
“Hop in,” he repeated gruffly.
“But your schedule . . .?” The
girl’s voice was a shamed
apology.
“Can go to the devil! ” It was
Big Joe’s ultimate gesture.
TOUT scarcely had she got her
foot on the step when a
shout came ringing through the
timber, followed by a tall young
man dressed in Army shorts,
boots, hat and nothing else. She
paused, looking back over her
shoulder, and a loveliness came
to life in her face. The shabby
case slid from her hand, slithered
over the gravel and came to
rest in the little gutter by the
roadside.
After a few seconds, the
young man lifted his head.
“Thanks,” he said curtly to
Big Joe, lifting one hand. His
glance scuttered along the rows
of friendly faces lining the bus
like so many headlamps.
“Thanks,” he said again.
In silence they picked up the
suitcase, its blue ribbon still
trailing. He slung a stick
through the handle and the girl
took one end. The young man
clutched the bulky brown-paper
parcel under his other arm.
Farewells showered down on
them like confetti. Goodbye.
Good-luck. Goodbye.
They set off walking down the
bush track towards the knobby
black mountain with the minute
cleared squares of banana-
plantations huddled round its
feet. In silence the passengers
watched them, until the tiny
figures were lost in the green
waves of cork-trees.
Big Joe glanced in his rear-
vision mirror and started-up his
engine.


O'Sulliuan
the man
by Peter
Ward
mm y' HE new starter stood in
f the shed doorway and
L v studied the group of men
sitting on old chairs,
packing-cases and one upturned
four-gallon oil-drum. Conversa-
tion had ceased when he reached
the doorway.
“Bloke named Jim O’Sullivan
here?”
“Yair,” replied a thin-faced
man dressed in fawn sports-
clothes, wearing a brown hat.
He was sitting on the oil-drum.
He stepped into the shed.
“Mr. Curtis told me to report to
yoy. My name’s Lawson —Bill
Lawson.”
“That’s right. Better get
changed.” That was all. Then
he resumed the conversation
about the previous Saturday’s
racing.
“Pick out a nail for yourself,
mate,” one of the men told him,
pointing to a wall covered with
hanging clothes.
Bill put his sugarbag contain-
ing his work-clothes on the floor
and commenced to change. A
buzzer sounded outside some-
where and the men stood up and
filed out of the shed.
When Bill got outside into the
yard O’Sullivan was standing in
the doorway of his closet-like
office with his hands on his hips.
He seemed smaller to Bill now
than he had before. Small and
wiry and getting old, with not a
trace of humor in his face or
eyes.
He said, “Harry, Jack. Get
a mattock. George and —
what’s your name again?”
“Bill.”
“Bill, get a pick and a long-
handled shovel.”
George went into a shed next
to the office for the tools.
“Better get a cleaving-hammer,
too,” added O’Sullivan.
The men threw their gear on
to the back of the truck and
climbed aboard.
Harry and Jack were dropped-
off in a lane and the truck
moved on again.
“What do they have to do?”
asked Bill.
“Not too much. O’Sullivan
doesn’t worry about those two.
They drink with him . . . Oh,
they’ve got to clear-up the lane.
Grub-out the weeds.”
Bill pondered over this. Then,
“What sort of a ganger is he,
anyway?”
“Gets on your back when he
wants something done in a
hurry. But he’s not too bad.
I’ve worked for worse.”
The truck stopped outside a
large two-storied house in a
well-kept street.
“Bring your tools down here,”
said O’Sullivan, and walked
down the driveway.
TN the backyard O’Sullivan
stood looking down at an
exposed stormwater-pipe.
The district had experienced
one of the most fierce and
destructive storms in living
memory the previous day.
Apparently the pressure of
water had burst this pipe and
gouged-out the earth around the
break, leaving a hole ten feet in
diameter. The hole was half-
filled with large stones, origin-
ally dumped there for filling.
The water had swept on, knock-
ing down the dividing-fence,
which ran a few feet parallel to
the pipe and cleaving an
escape-route through a neigh-
bor’s property into the street
below.
George and Bill waited to be
told what to do. They were
looking at those rocks. It would
not be easy getting those out.
“Do you want anything,
Jim?” asked Phil, the driver.
“We’ll want some cement,”
replied O’Sullivan without look-
ing up. “Call back in about an
hour Should have it cleared by
then.”
"Bit of a mess, eh, Jim?”
said George.
“Yair. Clear those rocks
awav down to the bottom of the
pipe.”
The men stepped into the hole
and began heaving the boulders
on to the lawn.
“Careful where you throw
them. The council’s up for
enough as it is.”
They strained and lifted and
shovelled the stones and loose
earth from around the concrete
pipe. The sweat formed on their
bodies and dripped to the
ground in tiny rivulets.
The pipe had burst where the
deck joined the sides. The
break was about three feet long,
but they could not see if the
deck had collapsed across.
“Dig under the bottom there
a bit, George,” said O’Sullivan,
leaning against the fence.
“Might be able to see what we’re
doing.”
Phil came into the yard and
looked at the job. “Want any-
thing, Jim?”
“Hold on a minute, Phil.
Not sure what we’ll want yet.”
George stepped out of the
hole. “That do you, Jim?”
O’Sullivan got down on his
hands and knees and studied the
break. “Must be a block there
somewhere,” he muttered. “Give
me that hammer.”
Bill walked over with the
hammer. He watched while
O’Sullivan broke in the roof of
the pipe with sure, sharp blows.
He made a hole big enough for
his head to fit through. The
sunlight streamed into the open-
ing revealing the jagged, broken
deck of the pipe, a pool of
water underneath.
fVSULLIVAN took off his
hat and put it carefully on
a boulder. Bill was surprised
to see his hair was white. He
looked down the pipe for about
a minute then took the hammer
again and made the hole bigger.
He picked up a stone and threw
it down the pipe, listening to the
hollow echo which ended
abruptly. He threw a few more
down, then stood up.
He wiped his forehead on his
sleeve. “There’s a block down
there. Don’t know how far it
is. “Make that hole big enough
to get into, George.”
O’Sullivan filled his pipe while
George smashed at the concrete.
He widened the hole about two
feet, then stepped back.
O’Sullivan looked down the
pipe again. He stood up and
said absently, “The block seems
to be about twenty-feet along.
The deck seems to be broken
further along, too.” All the
while he was looking at Bill and
George.
George was a big man, and an
old man. He could not do it.
O’Sullivan said to the truck-
driver, “Go back to the yard,
Phil, and get my old clothes and
my boots.”
Bill was afraid even before he
said it, but he knew he had to
say it: “I’ll go down, Jim.”
O’Sullivan looked at him with
a faint smile on his lips. “All
right. You’ll probably find a
tree-branch or a piece of wood
jammed across the pipe. The
other muck has piled-up behind
it. Just bring the main obstruc-
tion back with you. The next
rain will wash the other stuff
away.”
“I see,” nodded Bill. He
took off his singlet and emptied
his pockets because a thin stream
of water was running down the
pipe.
TTE put his legs behind him
into the pipe so that he
could move forward on his
stomach. He looked around at
the men watching him, then put
his head under the roof and
wriggled forward a few inches.
The eighteen - inch pipe
seemed barely wide enough for
him to move in. He rested the
weight of his body on his out-
stretched elbows and pushed
himself along on his stomach
with his toes.
The rough, eroded concrete
cut and scraped against the
exposed parts of his body like
sandpaper with every movement
he made. The pipe was filled
with the sounds of his tortuous,
snail-like progress and his quick,
heavy breathing. The air was
hot and stuffy, and choked him
with every breath he took.
He had no idea how far he
hid come or how far he had to
go, for all he could see ahead
of him was blackness —an infin-
ite, overwhelming blackness
which shrouded him in fear. A
wave of nausea overcame him,
and he lay down with his arms
outstretched and his cheek rest-
ing in the trickle of water.
He had to go on. He had
come this far . . . But how far
was that? And how far ahead
was the block? How far would
he have to come back? Suppose
he could not get back? He
might get stuck or not be able
to crawl backwards. He would
suffocate. He was sure he would
now.
In heedless panic he pushed
himsSlf back up the pipe and
suddenly he was conscious of
cool, sweet air and he could see
his hands dimly. Slowly now, as
his fear left him, he pushed
himself further back until his
head was bathed in sunlight.
He realised he had only gone
forward about six feet.
He looked around and saw
O’Sullivan looking down at him.
“It’s no good, Jim. I can’t do
it. Thought I was getting
stuck.”
“All right, get out,” said
O’Sullivan as if he had expected
it, anyway.
“Phil, go back to the yard
and get my clothes. And bring
back two bags of cement, three
of metal and two of sand. Take
Bill with you.”
Bill was thankful to be away
from O’Sullivan for a while.
There is no excuse for cowardice.
There never has been —ever. To
hide his embarrassment he did
more than his share of the work
back at the yard, but the sense
of shame was still there when
they got back to the job.
The three men carried the
material from the truck while
O’Sullivan changed into his old
clothes and rubber boots.
“Will you be wanting any-
thing more before lunch, Jim?”
asked Phil.
“No, we should be right now.”
“Right-oh. Harry and Jack
should have a load for me by
now,” said Phil, and walked
back to his truck.
O’Sullivan sat on the pipe
with his legs in the opening.
“Now, let’s see where this block
is,” he said, pushing his legs
back and lowering his body into
the pipe. He quickly worked his
body along until he was out of
sight and they could hear the
diminishing, muffled sounds of
his progress. Soon that became
barely audible.
Bill said casually, “It’s pretty
rough down there. You’ve
hardly got room to move.”
George grunted. “They’re all
pretty rough. Jim should be
used to them by now.”
'THEY had been sitting on the
lawn near the heap of stones
and earth for a few minutes
when they heard it —the faint,
unmistakable sound of running
water.
They jumped over to the
opening and looked in horror
at the rapidly-increasing volume
of water rushing down the pipe
towards the blockage, with
O’Sullivan somewhere in
between.
Judging from the muffled
shouts coming up the pipe
O’Sullivan was in trouble.
“Hell, he’ll be drowned!”
Before he had time to think of
anything else Bill was in the pipe
and the water was plucking and
swirling about his legs.
“Put a bag of sand behind me
to stop that water,” he told
George urgently before he put
his head in, then he was in a
frightening, confined world of
water and blackness, of dull,
magnified sound echoing from
the rough concrete. There was
no time to be afraid now. His
whole being was concentrated in
moving his body forward
towards O’Sullivan.
“Jim! ” There was a dull
response from further ahead,
but he had no idea how far
ahead.
The water was up to his neck
now. He did not know if the
flow had stopped. The air was
becoming unbearably hot. The
muscles in his neck were
throbbing with pain from hold-
ing his head high out of the
water. He took a deep breath
and lowered his head into the
water. The blood flowed and
eased the pain.
Very near now, he heard
movement in the water and
labored breathing. He reached
out and his hand found a rubber
boot.
“Jim! Are you all right?”
“My foot. My foot’s caught.”
“Hang on.”
The deck of the pipe had a
jagged split across it a few
inches wide and O’Sullivan’s
boot was jammed hard in the
Bill wrenched O’Sullivan’s
boot free and came up gasping
for air. “Right now?”
There was silence for a
moment.
“Hold on,” said O’Sullivan.
“Is that water still running?”
They listened.
“I don’t think so,” said Bill.
“I told George to block the
pipe with the bags of sand.”
“That block can’t be far
ahead. Come this far. Better
clear it.” O’Sullivan said it as
if it had taken him all his
strength to get it out.
Bill heard him moving
through the water and in a little
while there was a “woosh” and
the water flowed past him in a
torrent.
“0.K.,” said O’Sullivan, “let’s
get out of here, Bill.”
■pVERY inch of the journey
back was slow and painful.
Then there was light and two
hands gripped Bill’s legs and
pulled him out of the pipe.
“How’s Jim?” asked George.
“Hell, he’s all right,” grinned
Bill.
They pulled O’Sullivan out
and sat down and he held up a
piece of bent conduit.
“That caused all the trouble,”
he told them wearily. “It was
jammed across the pipe.”
George grinned. “Almost
retired that time, Jim.”
“Yair,” he agreed dryly. He
looked at the saturated bag of
sand in the pipe and the trickle
of water forcing its way out
over the top.
“Yair,” he said again. “Have
to go down after lunch and
cement that crack where my
boot was caught.”
He stood up. “In the mean-
time, I want a few words with
that Water-and-Sewerage rabbit
who flooded us out. He picked
a fine time to clear his pipes.
Where’s my hat?”
He strode up the driveway,
his boots squelching and the
clothes clinging to his body.
“He’s in the right mood to
have a few words with any-
body,” commented George.
“They university chaps, Tummas, d ’ git purty near as
much as a Broken 'III miner."
THE SHIP RILEY
When the ship Riley
Lay that green evening
In a salt pond,
In a pearled pool,
I heard the sailor sing
Each note like a shell
Falling, following the other.
The wind from the water
Brought the sharp smell
Of the northern timber
Stacked on her decks.
She lay right over
Sideways to the wind.
She leaned on the wind.
That was the ship Riley
Where the hapny sailor,
The shoregoing sailor,
Combed his hair and sang.
Below her the fishes,
Between the swaying seaweed,
The pale fishes swam.
Laughing, the children
On the dark
In the green evening
Called to each other,
Who would call a ship
The Riley, the Riley,
After old Riley?
Simple she lay
And leaned on the wind
Like a ship from a story,
The first ship of all
Carved from a tree,
Still on the pool,
The salt pond of the sea.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.


tuatyptnoywy^
53H1013
t
A
A
.
% !
mm
|§L|b *
IS
LOOK VUIMj
KEEP D /lU
FEEL WO/IM
That is what a “Stamina” overcoat will do for you. It revels in
the rain; gives you snug, fireside warmth on the worst winter’s
night; makes you want to wear it because it looks so smart.
“Stamina” pre-tailored overcoats are made from double-warp
Pure Wool Crusader Cloth, winter-proofed, water-proofed, to
give perfect protection and years of service.
“Stamina” overcoats come in three styles Raglan, Box
Chester, and Double Breasted Polo and in popular tones of
fawn and grey.
ASK FOR
Stamina
m
# f f|
>'s
.%V .iy
iW w!sWS» .•
//".. V W *
%
RAINCOATS
82U3
Inspeclor
by
F.L. comls
TODAY we have a multi-
plicity of inspectors, and
I risk unpopularity when
I say that I think this
is all to the good. But in the
1880-1890’s if you said inspector
everyone knew you meant in-
spector-of-schools ; and for 300
miles north of Paka Puki and
100 miles south of it everyone
knew you meant H. W.
Bardell, B.A.
A wonderful man. To think
of the ground he covered, nearly
all of it on horseback, with his
paraphernalia of tests and
schedules and report-forms flap-
ping in leather saddle-bags on
each side of him! I know
head-teachers who would have
given a tenner out of their
meagre screws for a preview of
those tests ; and when one, blue,
in vile small print with five sums
on it, was planked down in front
of me, it brought my heart into
my mouth.
I suppose my imagination was
more excited by Tsars and
Eastern despots, but they did not
make the awful impression on
me that H. W. Bardell, 8.A.,
did. He was visible, or, as we
say nowadays, concrete. He
once came behind me as I
shivered and bent over my copy-
book. He was power incarnate,
mighty to praise or to damn. I
could tell that from the cring-
ing, ingratiating mien of the
people all powerful in the world
of school, if H. W. Bardell
bandied a jest with them or
made an incisive comment. Even
the head-teacher, also at times a
terrible man, bent like a reed in
this inspector’s presence.
A raging energy possessed
H. W. Bardell. As he whirled
from classroom to classroom his
coat-tails flapped. His teeth
flashed as he put emphasis into
his expression of his often
devastating opinions. A pope of
education—he was at least that.
It was strange to hear his
origins discussed. His father had
been a counter-jumper in Kid-
derminster. Only a scholarship
won in fierce competition with
thousands of other lads ridden
to a standstill by the great gos-
pel of getting-on and eager to
climb out of their class had
enabled him to go to a training-
college in Sheffield. There his
consuming zeal had mastered
every subject.
He was a veritable Loki when
it came to devouring knowledge.
He gobbled down its content and
he masticated its forms as Loki
did the trough that contained his
tremendous meal. And he had a
resounding confidence in what
he knew, a dangerous thing in
more ignorant men, but a
perilous one in him; for few
human beings are fit to exercise
omnipotence with a conscious-
ness of omniscience.
In those days the annual report
on the school was printed in the
local papers. Class by class the
ruthless H. W. Bardell had sized
us all up. What an ordeal for
pedagogues ; for even the most
popular of them —and there were
quite a few who were congenial
company in bar-parlors on
Thursdays were firmly per-
suaded to go elsewhere when
their failures, as they not seldom
did, exceeded twenty-five per
cent.
TT is not safe even now to
A qualify one’s admiration of
ceaseless toil by a hint that there
are other things in life. More-
over, I admit tliat if you are in
authority you need this daylight-
to-dark passion for keeping the
official treadmill revolving, for,
if you lack it, your job is liable
to get you down. Still, I cannot
forbear the comment as regards
men in authority that they may
be mistaken in much that they
do and that then their mistakes
are apt to give rise to a bill for
costs on the highest scale.
H. W. Bardell had no doubts
or qualms. He spent himself to
the uttermost, and he utterly
believed in himself. The gospel
as preached to English Board
Schools —he was the St. Paul of
it in a newly founded colony—
and his zeal allowed neither rest
nor peace to others or to self.
He had need of all his go.
Year by year he personally
passed or failed some three-
thousand youngsters. I believe
that he marked everything him-
self, but, though his initials and
his V.F. or V.S. were scrawled
on my copy-book and drawing-
book, I may be mistaken in this.
Penrod and his chums played a
game, a priestly one, called,
“Going-to-heaven-going-to-hell.”
The diligent little swots among
us felt that a similar gulf yawned
between the Passed and the
Failed of H. W. Bardell.
Besides inspecting in this
stupendously-infallible manner,
this inspector had to advise his
board and not infrequently to
crack down on it. What a coad-
jutor he would have been to the
Lady of the Lamp, and what
grotesque and pitiable objects
would have been a group of
invalid redcoats whom in his
peremptory, impetuous manner
he had fitted out with night-
shirts! “Theirs not to reason
why”—well, well, they would
have been fortunate to have
learned at least that at Balaclava.
■OUT H. W. Bardell’s zeal
foamed over into a host of
other matters besides education.
I pass by, for the moment, his
faculty for taking a hand —say,
rather, a commanding lead—in
all sorts of movements go-
ing on in his home town,
because I wish to con-
centrate on his achievements as
a savant. I know of no branch
of science that he had not
sampled ; and he was rated an
expert geologist. His most recent
studies reached the schools in
the form of blasting, tearing
enthusiasms, and lucky the head-
teacher who could sidetrack
him into descanting on them
when he ought to have been
hearing Std. 6 recite in a pas-
sionless monotone “Tubal Cain”
or “Curfew Shall Not Ring
Tonight.”
As a savant he was ready with
an explanation of anything that
cropped up in the vicinity, from
a supposed discovery of moa
bones to the unearthing of a
Moriori skull (that famous
Moriori skull which, deposited
in a stratum of papa ten feet
deep, showed New Zealand to
have been inhabited eight-
thousand years ago—till cavillers
almost proved it to be all that
was left of a drunken swaggie
caught, maybe in the ’fifties, in
a landslide).
On problems connected with
physics, chemistry and physi-
ology he was ever ready to make
a prompt and bold attack.
“How does the juice get into the
eggeup used to hold up the
crust of the very apple-pie we
(the headmaster and I) are at this
very moment eating?” The
headmaster did not know, and
you do not know, and I have
forgotten; but H. W. Bardell
knew.
Paka Puki was, in the eighties,
coquetting with the idea of lights
for the main street. The inspector
wished on to the borough some
sort of patent plant for generat-
ing a highly efficient and cheap
kind of water-gas. The plant (as
scrap) has outlived him. It is still
to be seen where it was thrown
out behind the fire-station.
On drainage and artesian-
bores our inspector came out
strong because geology was his
special subject, one on which
he would not be gainsaid. He
had ascertained during a summer
vacation that our whole district
was a volcanic crater which had
been filled up with detritus and
was now slowly rising again.
Therefore as soon as a discus-
sion on water-races and bores
began, he took charge and
demonstrated the lie of the strata
with pudding-plates, pipe-spills
and anything else handy.
He warned against boring a
certain drea; such a terrific
gusher would come up. Heck
Billings a year later found it no
easy matter on this area to fill
a barrel from a hand-pump. The
inspector advised the acclimatisa-
tion of possums in the ranges
but had, I think, ceased to advo-
cate rabbits. He demonstrated to
the licensee of the Cri. what was
wrong with the hot-water system
—certainly a rotten one—of that
hostelry.
117 E were all in a way strangely
pleased to hear that H. W.
Bardell had met his Waterloo.
He had called on the lsleses to
improve for self and company
what might otherwise have been
an idle evening. Geo. Hopkins,
the freethinker, who was sweet
on Doris Isles, also called in.
George, in addition to being
unable to believe in a personal
god, utterly lacked respect for
any man, even for a savant who
came close to being Yahweh
incarnate.
The date was 1899, and a
chance remark about Boers being
Calvinists arose out of H. W.
Bardell’s demonstration of the
massed-column strategy needed
to storm Boer laagers. (“But you
must have artillery as well.”)
Calvinism resulted in our being
treated to a spot of theology.
Thereupon George said that the
39 Articles were more Arminian
than they were Calvinistic. H. W.
Bardell proved that, as they
advocated Free Grace and In-
fant Baptism, they were Calvin-
istic though perhaps Calvinism
a little corrupted.
George came back at him with
references to the “Book of
Sports” and Archbishop Laud’s
free-for-all and profane secular
Sabbath. George had an unfair
advantage, for religion was his
only subject, one which en-
grossed him as it does most free-
thinkers, whereas H. W. Bardell
was the master of two dozen.
Here was an opportunity for
Wm. Isles’s Britannica (eighth
edition) to be brought to bear to
the quiet pride of its possessor.
When consulted, the Britannica
rambled on and on and hedged
about Calvinism and Arminian-
ism, etc., as encyclopaedias have
a way of doing; but even so, it
was plain that George had
decidedly the best of it.
Both disputants grew over-
eager and vociferous, and Wm.
Isles (in spite of the Britannica
having proved its worth) became
flurried and uncomfortable as
he always did during a verbal
set-to. Bridgeman Isles, on the
other hand, whom the inspector
had a dozen years before failed
in Std. 5, poured oil on the raging
flames_ of the controversy. The
(Continued on page 34)


FOR GENUINE ART COLLECTORS
A choice from a lifetime collection of
RARE ENGRAVINGS AND ETCHINGS
A set of 60 engravings by J. W. M. Turner (£5000). 1500 individual
copies from £l to £lOO.
Write MAX ENKHARDT, 28 Windsor Ave., McKinnon, S.E. 14, Vic.
(All enquiries will be faithfully acknowledged.)
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... . months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £8 Foreign .... £B/10/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
G E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
GUARD
Ca&ti
PROTECTA ,
st(l ftegUt&iLnff
TILL
Suitable for every type of buslnesr
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. S* r » n fy.
pleasing lo appears nee. Send for full details
and literature te
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd*
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents— .
MELBOURNE .. Norman Broa. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Son* Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Viking, by
Egerton Marshall.—6o96.
To buy copy of A Short History
of the New South Wales Forces. —
6094. r
Copies of articles about Ezra
Pound or reviews of books by the
same poet that have appeared in
Australian periodicals.—6o93.
v; . .. .. , .... , ,
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Wyuna, a Victorian
aboriginal place-name?—6o9s.
(?) Is a husband liable for all debts
contracted by his wife? (2) Will a
public-notice in newspapers disclaim-
ing any responsibility free him from
liability ?
(1) Not for all debts. Where hus-
band and wife are living together the
husband is liable for necessaries
supplied to his wife unless she
receives an allowance for such neces-
saries. What are necessaries depends
upon the circumstances of the parties.
In every case the question of liability
rests largely on whether the husband’s
conduct is such as would justify other
persons in believing that his wife
acts with his authority. The broad
rule is that, except where the wife
acts as the agent of her husband, or
the person with whom she contracts
has reasonable grounds for believing
that she does so, the husband is not
liable for her contracts. (2) This may
be of assistance, but is not of itself
a full release.
* * * *
Recipe for making and cooking a
damper in a campfire?
Make up a fire of small sticks and
let it burn out to a rich, glowing
mass. Place in a basin some flour,
self-raising or plain, the latter having
baking-powder added in the propor-
tions stated on the tin; add also
a good pinch of salt. Mix well
together with a dry knife, then mix
to a light dough with warm water.
Toss it up with a dash of flour to
facilitate dry handling, and, without
working or kneading it, place it in
the fire in a scooped-out hollow, then
draw the embers over it. Let cook
for 20 to 30 minutes, or longer
according to the size of the damper;
try with a clean twig or thin knife,
which should come out clean if
cooked. If any dough adheres to
the knife, the cooking is not finished.
Take out of the ashes, flick the loaf
clean with a tea-towel, then wrap in
the towel for a few minutes to steam;
should be eaten hot. A little ash is
beneficial rather than harmful. To
make a rich damper, use this liquid
for mixing the dough: Place in the
bottom of a cup or basin a lump of
butter or good dripping, pour on
enough boiling water to melt it, then
cool by adding cold water or milk
to the required amount of liquid and
use at once. This is better than
rubbing the fat into the flour.
* * * *
How to grow lilies-of-the-valley ?
What special soil is needed? Is there
any sale for them to Sydney florists ?
Lily-of-the-valley crowns should be
Elanted in late autumn in prepared
eds of sandy loam well enriched with
rotted manure and leaf-mould. Set
the crowns 6in. apart, barely covering
them with soil; a month later cover
them with leaves as protection against
frost. In spring clean the covering
away and give the crowns liberal
helpings of weak liquid-manure.
Lilies-of-the-valley require a semi-
shaded position, and thrive well in a
bush-house or conservatory. Divide
the crowns every year, otherwise the
roots become matted and the bulbs
will not flower. There should be a
ready market for the blooms, which
are used extensively in bouquets, etc.
* * * *
CO How can I become an articled-
clerk in N.S.W. ? (2) Is there a fee
to be paid upon becoming articled?
(5) What remuneration is paid an
articled-clerk ? (4) For how many
years is he articled ? (5) What
examinations must be passed?
(1) To become an articled-clerk a
person must be 17 years of age, have
attained matriculation-standard educa-
tion, and produce suitable certificates
as to character. He must obtain a
certificate from the secretary, Solici-
tors’ Admission Board, that he has
complied with these requirements and
be approved by the Prothonotary. (2)
A filing-fee of £7 7s. is payable on
articles of clerkship when executed.
(3) There is no fixed rate of remunera-
tion for an articled-clerk. The
amount of remuneration is fixed by
agreement between the master solici-
tor and the clerk. (4) Three years if
person is a graduate; otherwise five
years. (5) The examinations pre-
scribed by the University Law School
and section 7 of the Solicitors’
Admission Board Examinations or
the examinations prescribed by the
Solicitors’ Admission Board.
* * * *
Some particulars of the new
F.N. .30 rifle which will be adopted
by the Australian Army in place of
the Lee-Enfield .303 now in use ?
The new F.N. .30 rifle, which is
self-loading, fires as a single-shot or
can be used as an automatic weapon.
It uses a high-velocity bullet, which
meets the requirements of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The
velocity of the ammunition is 12 per
cent, greater than that of the .303.
The rifle fires as an automatic at a
rate of more than 650 rounds a
minute. It weighs 9.21 b. compared
with the .303’s B.Blb. Ammunition
weighs 5.111 b. per 100 rounds com-
pared with 5.531 b. for the .303. The
barrel is 21in. long, 4in. shorter
than the .303. The only tool needed
to dismantle it is a round of ammuni-
tion. Simple to operate and strip,
the new rifle has a 20-round magazine
and 60 aimed-shots a minute can be
fired. It has a pistol-grip and
telescopic-sight. It has been adopted
as standard by Nato members. It
was used effectively by Belgian
troops in Korea. A demonstration
in England showed that the F.N. .30
could penetrate a British helmet at
a range of 1000 metres. After
having been placed in a sand-mixer
for five minutes it was still able to
fire two magazines effectively. It
was designed so that there is a
minimum of recoil, as required in
rapid firing.
* * * *
How can a youth learn to become
a commercial photographer in Syd-
ney? Must he serve an apprentice-
ship, and what is the commencing
wage ? Is there any technical-
college course of instruction he can
take ?
There are no technical-college
courses in Sydney that teach the
requirements needed by a professional
photographer. The Professional
Photographers’ Association of
N. S. Wales has constantly pressed
for such training facilities, and is
arranging a deputation at the present
time to the Minister for Education
to restate the need in this regard.
Proficiency is generally obtained with
a recognised professional photo-
grapher, though avenues are not
readily available, largely because of
the delay before an inexperienced
person is of any actual value to his
employer. There is not an appren-
ticeship operating in N.S.W. so far
as photography is concerned. The
commencing wage at 16 years of
age and under is £5 ss. 3d. per week,
with graduations to £l3 13s. at 21
years of age and over.
* * * *
(i) What qualifications must a girl
of 17 have to be admitted to the
examinations of the Library Associa-
tion of Australia ? (2) How can she
become a librarian with the N.S.W.
Public Library or a N.S.W. shire or
municipal library ? (3) Is there any
training in librarianship available in
Sydney ? (4) If so, cost and duration
of course? (5) Commencing salary
for junior librarians?
(1) and (2) The minimum require-
ment for admission to examina-
tions of the Library Association of
Australia, which are recognised
throughout Australia, is qualification
for admission as a matriculated
student to a recognised university.
Both the Public Library of N.S.W.
and the various shire and municipal
libraries will recruit juniors without
library qualifications. (3) Courses of
training in librarianship are con-
ducted by the Public Library of
N.S.W. (4) For juniors, one term,
minimum fees £5, but varies according
to whether day- or evening-course.
(5) In Public Library of N.S.W.,
£415 (females), £432 (males) under
18, £473 and £530 at 18. No standard
salary-scale for other libraries.
* * * *
Particulars concerning Tom Petrie,
author of “Tom Petrie’s
Reminiscences” ?
He was bom in Edinburgh in 1831,
and brought when three months old
to New South Wales by his father,
Andrew Petrie, civil-engineer and
builder of a large portion of early
Brisbane. From early childhood
Petrie fraternised with the aborigines
and learned to speak their languages;
ultimately he became well known to
thousands of wild blacks, and was
granted privileges extended to no
other man outside the tribes. He
frequently prevented conflict between
whites and blacks, and did valuable
work in opening up tracks through
the Queensland ranges. He was the
only white man (except a few escaped
convicts) allowed to be present at the
feast of the bon-yi (bunya-nut). As
a boy of 14 he “went bush” with the
blacks for a fortnight. In his later
years he related his experiences with
the aborigines, and a wealth of
information concerning their customs,
to his daughter Constance, who com-
piled from this material Tom Petrie’s
Reminiscences. Petrie died in 1910.
* * * *
Difference between “should” and
“would” ?
The distinctions are the same as
between “shall” and “will.” “Shall”
and “should” in the first-person
express simple futurity; “will” and
“would” do so for second- and third-
person. “Shall” and “should” used
in second- and third-person have a
special force from the fact that the
speaker predicts or promises another’s
actions, and hence are expressive of
some authority or compulsion on the
speaker’s part; as, he shall go, thou
shall not kill. Similarly “will” and
“would,” in the first-person, are
used to express determination or
will; as, I will go (meaning “I am
determined to go”). On “should”
and “would” Webster quotes Froude
—“[Caesar said] he should order the
advance on the next evening, and it
would then be seen whether sense of
duty or cowardice was the stronger.
If others declined he should go
forward alone with the legion, which
he knew would follow him.”
“Should” can also express hesitation
or supposition (“If it should rain,
don’t go”) and moral obligation or
duty (“You really should try to do
better”).
Brief Answers
S.H.N.: To prevent the signatures
on the cricket-bat from fading, give
the bat a coat of transparent lacquer.
D.B.: The best version in Eng-
lish of Rostand’s “Cyrano de
Bergerac” is the stage-adaptation by
Gladys Thomas and Mary F. Guille-
mard C.M.: They will grow from
slips of almost any size from any
part of the tree. Plant in June,
July or August in a moist position.
S.S.: A good waterproof-
dressing for fishing-lines is made of
boiled linseed-oil 2 parts, gold-size
1 part. There are ready-made pre-
parations on the market G.A.:
(1) Eight-thousand ens an hour is
usually considered a satisfactory out-
put for a linotype-operator. (2) a
topnotcher could do 10,000 to 12,000
depending on the class of matter
being set J.L.F.: (1) Pumice-stone
is a light, porous rock formed under
the influence of intense subterranean
heat. The pores or spaces in its
sponge-like formation were originally
filled with gas. Pumice-stone is
thrown to the surface during volcanic
eruptions. (2) No. The effect is
solely due to its abrasive qualities.
Removal of discolorations is accom-
plished by rubbing away a thin
layer of skin... .P.M.: The American
novelist David Graham Phillips was
shot on January 23, 1911,. by a
mentally-deranged man, Fitzhugh
Coyle Goldsborough RG.: Mar-
garet Rawlings played Elizabeth in
“The Barretts of Wimpole Street at
the Sydney Criterion in April, 1932.
She also appeared as Lu in The
Good Fairy” and She in “Happy and
Glorious”... .H.N.: The coat-of-
arms of the City of Newcastle
(N.S.W.) was designed by Captain
John Bingle (1776-1862), an early
N.S.W. settler, and later prominently
identified with the commercial- and
shipping-life of the port W.H.A.:
On July 1, 1909, the Commonwealth
Government took over the adminis-
tration of old-age pensions. Prior to
that date old-age pensions were paid
in N. S. Wales, Queensland and
Victoria under the respective State
Governments L.S.: Whiting is
quite unsuitable. Use slaked lime-
and-water; if this washes-out too
quickly add a cup or two of boiled
ground-rice, thinned-out with hot
water, to a cream. Stir briskly into
the mixture and use before it sets.
FJ.L.: R. Percival, on Durham
Sands racecourse (England) in 1884,
threw a cricket-ball 140yds. 2ft.
King Billy (an Australian aborigine)
at Clermont (Q.) in the 1872-73
season threw 140yds. 9in D.D.:
Bulli (N.S.W.) means two. So called
from the two mountains, Kembla and
Keira, there H.A.K.: The line
“Love took up the glass of Time
and turned it in his glowing hands”
is from Tennyson’s “Locksley Hall.”
....F.D.: No. Invalid and old-age
pensions are payable only to resi-
dents of the Commonwealth
W.J.: The islands between Thursday
Island and the 138th meridian of
east longitude in the Gulf of Carpen-
taria are controlled by the Queens-
land Government. Inquiries should
be directed to the Lands Department,
Brisbane. The islands west from
the 138th meridian to Melville
Island are controlled by the N.T.
Administration. Inquiries to the
Department of the Interior, Canberra,
A.C.T.....5.H.: The mark is a
trade-mark, not a date, and refers to
a claim that the Coalport factory was
established at this early date. But
the town was not then known as
Coalport. It was Coalbrookdale, and
the name Coalport has only been
used since 1816. The bowl has no
special value and no claim to anti-
quity... .E.A.: “Overland,” Box 98a,
G.P.0., Melbourne 8.K.: From
United States Information Service
Library, 46 Margaret-street, Sydney.
H.P.: Write I. Berkelouw,
Riverview, The Kingsway, Roseville
(N.S.W.) A.A.: (1) As far as we
can ascertain he worked for various
advertising-studios while he was in
Sydney. We have no knowledge
whether he is still alive or not. (2)
The figures mean the 32nd print of a
limited edition of 35. (3) There is no
art-magazine like “Art in Australia”
being published now C.F.: Write
W. R. Smith and Paterson Pty., Ltd.,
Kemp-place, Valley, Brisbane
S.K.E.: (1) The number of cars regis-
tered in N.S.W. was: 1911, 3975;
1921, 28,665; 1929, 170,039; 1939,
213,331; 1941, 200,014; 1945,
182,972; 1946, 188,191; 1950,
269,250; 1951, 308,332; 1952,
364,982. (2) Road-accidents in the
County of Cumberland caused the
following deaths and injuries: 1911,
5 killed, 130 injured; 1921, 36, 792;
1927, 157, 4443; 1939, 275, 5759;
1941, 258, 5286; 1946, 261, 5223;
1950, 288, 6375; 1951, 321, 6944. (3)
All States use uniform signals.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.V.S.: You’ve crammed more
unlikely coincidences into four and a
half pages than we should have
thought possible... :
I was on my annual holiday
When first I set eyes on you,
’Twas in the Spring at Rose Bay
I fell. What else could I do?
Well, falling into the Harbor might
have been safer J.S.: ”1 left home
—in spite of my wife’s tears and
pleadings and of my little daughter’s
wide, questioning eyes.” Very heart-
less of you N.W.A.: Charming
little romance about Mavis, the boss’s
son and his crimson roadster can’t
be recorded here J.C.McK.: Wife
runs away with lover and dies when
he deserts her. Twenty years later
husband and lover meet on the edge
of a precipice. That’s as far as we
got S.E.: That “gripping tale of
the lives and loves of the outback
guardians of the law” caused “never
a stir” as it fell into the w.p.b
H.C.G.: Walter the Wallaby belongs
to a children’s comic-paper
5.8.5.: Don’t like these secret agents
who, “with information of national
importance,” forget the job to help
a red-headed girl P.P.: Unmoved
by story of grandmother’s fall from
aeroplane J.F.D.: You rhyme
well enough, but your reflections are
woefully commonplace .... E.A.8.:
That blue kelpie has been chased-off
the premises too often —and, please,
get a new ribbon for that typewriter.
....A.H.: Poem “To the Cat That
Sits in the Sun Outside a Pitt-street
Wine-saloon” feelingly declined....
J_o.: r« .« have ransacked, a
y i: as “He has passed the
Such a fine as He has passed tne
foal crisis trom the awlul grasp of
L.M.: We resisted “The insidious
lure of the phantom peace that red
and yellow poppies give”... .R.M.J.:
Old codger who Jiad his wooden leg
run over by a tram has been here
ambteg bad*» ’the taUSSdocfc
... .j.C.: Space for four lines:-
W hen I consider how my life is spent
in drinking plonk with elbow all bent,
iFl’S*** **
....N.W.: Nothing doing with “the
supernatural,” ‘‘the occult,” or call it
w hat you will A.8.H.: Your
“Ode to the Mighty Ocean” might
Have you ever been enraptured
B >' th ? rolling, ever-restless sea,
Tossing turning and heaving ever
From Bombay to oir cular Quay?
. ...W.Y.: Not interested in tfie
views of Governor Phillip’s ghost on
the state of the Phillip-street, Sydney,
tramlines E.S.: Nothing much
beyond rhymed truisms.. ..H.S.F.:
It has a pleasant tinkle, but we can’t
quite decide whether it is a warning
f * irtation Qr an " * QC " ura g^
ment to matrimony... .L. 8.: “The
Old Swagman” has outstayed what
welcome he ever had in these pages.
F.E.S.: North Queenskuul may
be “Nature’s Masterpiece, ’’ but pen-
pictures of “laughing rivulets gurgling
Through glens ’twkt tressy banks”
and “arboreal monarchs raising their
arms on fiigh in prayer” fell flat
at 252 Geor|e-s “eet^RP.: Ifiat’s
one way of disposing of an unwanted
W ?
crocodile - infested nver F.W.:
Don’t doubt it came from the heart,
but we can’t print it... .P.T.G.:
Lonely girl whose long-anticipated
holiday is a flop until she meets the
nice squatter. N 0!... .H.C.J.: No
swagman of our acquaintance ever
soliloquised in that style... .M.T.:
And some there are who complain
that our patriotic bards lack
originality:-
,„ o++ i . . ~
Her waving wattle is her gold regalia,
Her beauty is her own sweet guile,
But the greatest asset of fair Australia
I» the happy sunshine of her smile.
r-a . v ,
pV CF ’L Y ° ur Pen-picture of
?° y Ba l at S r Unset *u , a
F““ F”
ment repeated six times in 16 fees
Hopelessly SnsSbleHnd
of ChiS ‘.‘.“h”?“SS
“uch taken with the teenage female
h °P ldter who says to the shop-
detectjve ’ „ CBt out your hver,
you A mang y cur I’H
see you gniled in Hell before I’ll give
T° U P y l 1 ? arn ? -;- 1 - A - : „ A bit
- Visit-of-the-Queen verse,
it 11 * 1 d You must admit
tb at worse yarns than this have been
? r / nt l ? d - , m our columns....
her u e s My Wandering
Wife?” On her way home
TE S - : Full marks for handwriting,
nothing more -


Lyretailed Genius: Menura Superba
Busbland’s Glamor Bird
By ALEC H. CHISHOLM
Two years ago Alec Chisholm, naturalist and author, wrote
in “The Bulletin” two articles dealing with the discovery of
Australia’s remarkable lyrebird. Now he contributes two fur-
ther articles discussing, firstly, the display and song of the
male bird and, secondly, the habits ,of the female and the
manner in which nests are found and studied.
ONE of the world’s most
distinctive winter sports,
and one that can be prac-
tised only in Australia,
is the novelty that has become
known as Iyrebirding.
Although purely aesthetic in
character —there is no scope for
a gun this recreation often
makes severe demands on its
followers. It entails at times
much scrambling over rough
country. It may also entail fre-
quent “freezing,” varied by
progress on hands and knees.
Possibly these trials add zest to
the enterprise. At any rate, the
pursuit is warmly favored by a
modest number of Australians,
and doubtless its popularity
would be considerably greater if
more people knew how to go
about it.
The region involved is the
Great Divide and its outliers
(near the coast in some parts
and up to about 1()0 miles in
others) from immediately east
of Melbourne to immediately
south and south-west of Bris-
bane ; also, to a much lesser
extent, portions of Tasmania,
where in all 11 males and 11
females were introduced between
1934 and 1949.
In a general view Iyrebirding
may be said to have two phases.
It consists, on the one hand,
of seeking the large nests (built
on the ground or rocks or in
cliffs or trees) and studying the
play of domestic life. More
popularly, it consists of listening
to brilliant bush-concerts and of
Lyrebird display in Sherbrooke Forest.
— Photo, R. T. Littlejohns.
watching Menura, bird of the
mighty tail, displaying his
decorative plumes and pirouet-
ting upon his “dancing”-mound.
This lyretailed artist of the
east-coast bush is the world’s
chief “glamor bird.” No other
creature, in any country, pos-
sesses such a remarkable com-
bination of vocal ability and
display-artistry, and the appeal
of both sounds and sight, in
practically every instance, is
strengthened by a majestic
setting.
The first public tribute to the
gifted bird was paid, as early
as 1802, by the historian David
Collins, pioneer Sydney official
and later viceroy in Tasmania.
His informant, no doubt, was
Governor Hunter, who, on his
part, had got the material from
John Wilson, the ex-convict who
had lived for several years with
aborigines and who was the first
white-man to reveal the existence
of the “native pheasant.”
Collins’s statements regarding
the bird’s talents as a display-
artist and vocal mimic rather
staggered English zoologists,
especially those who supposed
the “pheasant” to be a relative
of the common fowl. Some of
them, taking the easy way out,
refused to accept the report.
As late as 1839, in fact, one
experienced ornithologist hinted
broadly that some early resident
of Australia had indulged in a
trifle of leg-pulling on the sub-
ject, and he supported his
charge with the remark that the
Collins claims were “not cor-
roborated by subsequent
observers.”
Actually, informative evidence
concerning the extraordinary
ability of the bird had been
given in 1827, the witness being
Peter Cunningham, author of
Two Years in New South Wales,
a gossipy work published in
London. Using the term “moun-
tain pheasant” (for “lyrebird”
had not then become current),
Cunningham remarked that the
bird was not only a songster
but “an exquisite mocking-bird
besides.” Then he proceeded:
He perches himself in the middle
of some thick brushes, and, picking
up carefully all the grass, scratches
and raises a square bed of soft
mould for himself, like a small hot-
bed, on which he squats and amuses
his leisure time by imitating the notes
of all the birds, and the calls of all
the quadrupeds of the forest, from
the howl of the native dog to the
discordant clack of the black native.
Although Cunningham was a
naval man (a surgeon on convict-
ships), he had seen a good deal
of New South Wales, and there-
fore. his comments on the
“mountain pheasant” probably
were based on personal experi-
ence. As for their general accu-
racy, there need be no doubt that
the admiring Englishman heard
mimicry of many bird-voices,
but whether his other remarks
should be accepted is a different
matter.
It is difficult to believe that
he heard imitations of “all the
quadrupeds of the forest.” It is
more difficult to accept his plac-
ing of “the black native” on the
roll of quadrupeds! Also, it is
not easy to believe that the voices
of natives —“discordant clack”
or otherwise—were imitated by
wild birds.
Nevertheless, those notes of
the 1820’s deserve attention and
a measure of respect. They may
be regarded, indeed, as being
mildly historic, for they are the
only report of the kind, born
of a writer’s personal knowledge,
to be published during the first
40 years of white-men’s acquain-
tance with the lyrebird.
In the late 1820’s, too, the man
who afterwards wrote Settlers
and Convicts (“Alexander Har-
ris”) listened often, in his timber-
getting days, to what he termed
“the mocking-bird,” and he
recorded that one mimic
“imitated the shrill grating of
our files in sharpening the saw
so exactly that we often could
not believe but that some other
pair had come and set in close
to us.”
Somewhat surprisingly, the
Sydney-dwelling naturalist Dr.
George Bennett, who in a book
of 1834 made reference to “the
wood-pheasant or lyrebird of
the colonists,” had nothing to
say then about the bird’s vocal
ability. In 1839-40, however,
the English birdman John Gould
rambled about New South
Wales, and what he wrote, after
listening to lyrebirds in the
Liverpool Range, definitely
resolved the matter.
Sceptics could scout the
secondhand statements of David
Collins, and they could overlook
the evidence of Peter Cunning-
ham, but they could neither dis-
believe nor ignore assertions by
the eminent John Gould.
During the 1840’s, too, a
wandering French naturalist
named Jules Verreaux spied
upon “lyretails” in various parts
of New South Wales, and upon
returning to his home country
he published (1-849) a detailed
account of what he had seen and
heard.
Verreaux knew that France
had been interested in the sub-
ject ever since 1803, when large
colored drawings of Menura
were published in Paris. He also
knew that a fellow-countryman,
Rene P. Lesson, had much
admired the lyretailed bird from
specimens examined on the Blue
Mountains of New South Wales
in 1824. His own experience
had been much closer than that
of Lesson, and so he gave
numerous general notes on the
bird’s habits, described faithfully
the manner in which the great
tail is expanded and quivered,
and added a warm tribute to the
skill of the mocker in imitating
the voices of cockatoos, pigeons
and many smaller birds.
Clearly, that Frenchman knew
his “lyretails.” If he lacked
knowledge of the bird’s nesting-
habits, and if he was inclined at
times to indulge in flights of
imagination, his article neverthe-
less was admirable in most re-
spects, and today it merits recog-
nition, however belated, as the
most informative general dis-
cussion of its subject to emerge
from New South Wales during
the whole of the 19th century.
In point of fact, with the ex-
ception of the observations by
Gould, the Englishman, and
Verreaux, the Frenchman, not
one worth-while note on the ac-
complishments of the superb
lyrebird—its song and display—
was recorded from New South
Wales during at least. 60 years.
Activities then (from 1840 to
1900) were mainly concentrated
in Victoria.
Following the founding of
Melbourne, at least four wan-
derers in the colony’s upland
country, east and north-east of
the “village,” 'gathered enlighten-
ing material regarding the lyre-
bird’s vocal powers. All those
pioneers made reports in print,
but, because their mediums were
books or journals having only
limited appeal, their writings
have since fallen into obscurity.
Daniel Bunce (later an ex-
plorer with Leichhardt) listened
to lyrebirds in the Dandenong
Ranges as early as 1839. He did
not write his impressions until
the 1850’s, but over the years he
recalled clearly the “wondrous
fidelity” with which the gifted
creatures imitated various birds,
and also the skilled manner in
which they rendered “the chuckle
of the flying squirrel” and the
calls of other mammals.
All three of the other early
listeners —G. H. Haydon, J. W.
Beilby and F. J. Williams —are
in agreement with Bunce. Be-
tween them they record having
heard lyrebirds imitating, in
quick succession, not only the
calls of cockatoos and parrots,
pigeons, crows and kookaburras,
but also various nocturnal voices.
Beilby goes further. Writing
under date 1858, he says: “I
have heard one imitate the howl
of a wild dog, and others the
sharpening of a saw, hammering,
and other sounds made by car-
penters, a few days after they
had the opportunity of hearing
such sounds for the first time.”
Those observations are as
illuminating now as they were
when first recorded. They reveal
in particular the astonishing
versatility of the lyrebird: its
mastery of a wide range of calls
heard by day, its command also
of voices of the night, and its
ability to acquire, on quite brief
acquaintance, a considerable
number of “foreign” sounds.
The various references by the
pioneers to mimicry of nocturnal
voices suggest that these were
imitated more freely by lyre-
birds of old than they are today.
Records of recent years have
included a number of calls
acquired by lyrebirds when they
should have been asleep—among
them the guttural “laughter” of
possums, the gurgling shriek of
the big possum-glider, and the
“mopoke” call of the boobook
owl —but in general reports of
the kind are rare.
In some instances nocturnal
calls are now less readily avail-
able. The dingo, for example,
has become rare in lyrebird
country and imitations of its cry
have not been reported for many
years, yet almost every one of
the pioneer listeners to lyrebird
concerts emphasised the bird’s
skill in mimicking “the howl
of the wild dog.”
Additional to all this, it was
learned in the same early period
that the remarkable vocal flexi-
bility of the superb lyrebird was
shared by its subtropical relative,
the smaller and less-decorative
Prince Albert lyrebird. Two resi-
dents of north-eastern New
South Wales, writing to John
Gould in the 1850’s, paid tribute
to their lyrebird’s own “exceed-
ingly beautiful and varied calls,”
and went on to refer to its aston-
ishing mimicry of other birds
and of a wide variety of “arti-
ficial” sounds as well.
It was also in the 19th century
that the ljrrebird became credited
with ability (in certain circum-
stances) to “talk.” This achieve-
ment, as recorded in a scientific
journal, was ascribed to “Jack,”
a male lyrebird that was taken
as a fledgling, in 1885, near
Drouin in Gippsland, and lived
upon a farm for 20 years.
According to report, Jack
imitated all the noises of the
farm, ranging from the rattling
of drays to the cackling of fowls,
and added to them the sounds
of violin, piano and cornet.
Furthermore, he adopted the
teamsters’ orders to horses (such
as “Gee-up, Bess!”), and also
their warnings to himself (“Look
out, Jack!”), and when a mem-
ber of the household remarked,
“Poor Jack!” he usually offered
the correction (as taught him
by the teamsters), “Not poor
Jack, fat Jack! ”
There is no reason to doubt
that story, for, of course, many
birds possessing less vocal flexi-
bility than the lyrebird have been
taught to use fragments of
human speech. Nevertheless,
neither of the two most notable
“household” lyrebirds of recent
years, “James” of Victoria and
“Joe” of New South Wales, has
rivalled “Jack’s” enterprise by
“talking” ; nor have any of the
birds held in zoos been credited
with mimicry other than (in one
or two instances) admirable
renderings of “natural” sounds.
“James” was a free-ranging
bird who, during several years,
until his disappesance in 1943,
made frequent visits to the bush
(Continued on page 27)


SPORTING NOTIONS
New Zealand-owned horses
have won most of Australia’s
notable races, but one race they
have yet to lift is Doomben’s
Ten Thousand, highlight of this
Saturday’s meeting of Brisbane
Amateur Turf Club. However,
the Enzedders have a strong
hand. King’s Fair, on the
strength of his first-up win at
Ascot (Brisbane), looks the
winner with his modest weight
of 8.5. Queenslander Grand
Topic seems most likely to
trouble him. It’s a good field,
and at this stage they could
finish King’s Fair, Grand Topic,
The Orb.
In winning Brisbane Tatter-
sail’s Cup, New Zealander Mil-
waukee II revealed his best form
since coming to Australia and is
now popular for the Doomben
Cup (July 9). He carried 7.9 at
Eagle Farm and drops 51b. in
the Cup, but was liable to a
penalty. Milwaukee II at three
years twice defeated Rising
Fast.
Two interesting New Zea-
landers made their first Aus-
tralian appearance at Rosehill
and both ran a place. They were
Pharaoh’s Castle, second to
Devil’s Wind in the main event,
and Iridium, third in the Welter.
They are trained by G. S. Wal-
ton and both started at 20 to 1.
E. Doon was in the saddle.
Each runner came home
strongly, especially Iridium, who
was last but two in the early
stages and still 12th at the half-
mile. Pharaoh’s Castle has raced
over varying distances in New
Zealand, with last win at 7fur.
at Hawke’s Bay late in April.
Iridium had failed to gain a
place in three races before
coming to Sydney. Arena, dam
of Pharaoh’s Castle, won six-
teen races and her progeny have
earned upwards of £22,000 in
stakes. Arena also is granddam
of Iridium, a three-year-old colt
by Balloch (imp.) from Lady
Nahleen by Broiefort (imp.).
Lady Nahleen is a half-sister to
Castlebrae, a New Zealand win-
ner of about £9OOO in stakes.
Lady Nahleen won eight races,
mostly sprints.
’Twas sad to watch old
Carioca go down at Rosehill in
the Flying Handicap. He was
backed from 10’s to equal
second-favoritism at 6’s. Asked
to hump 9.12 over the heavy
track, the old fellow simply
couldn’t do it. At his best
Carioca would easily have
beaten a field of last Saturday’s
class. In his 20 wins and 14
places he earned upwards of
£35,000, and if that hasn’t earned
him a pensioned old age there’s
something wrong somewhere.
From August 1 patrons of
S.T.C. meetings at Rosehill and
Canterbury will have to pay a
little more to view the racing.
Members’ fees will be increased
by two-guineas for men and a
guinea for women. The public
will be charged an extra 2s. to
the paddock, ladies another Is.
In the St. Leger all persons will
pay an extra 6d. New admis-
to the paddock will be:
men 145., women 7s. It is
unlikely the A.J.C. will alter
admission prices. Rosehill
attendance last Saturday, 23,000,
was about average for this time
of the year.
Time was when grey horses
rarely were seen in an after-
noon’s racing. Now they are to
be seen at practically every
meeting, and in the past year
or so have had their share of suc-
cess. Snow Dust won at War-
wick Farm, and at Rosehill the
only four greys to compete all
figured in the prizemoney. Per-
mel won the Two-year-old Han-
dicap, while Pharaoh’s Castle,
Alahvii and Magic Carpet II all
ran second. Permel started
favorite, Magic Carpet II was
second-favorite, but Pharaoh's
Castle and Alahvii started at
long odds. Permel, a 325gns.
yearling, is by Persia, a grey son
of Nizami (imp.) and sire of
Alahvii, while his dam, Mel-
covent, was got by Melfort (imp.)
from Covenant by Law Maker
(imp.). Permel belongs to the
Blandford family. The latter
was a noted English sire.
Devil’s Wind won his first race
since transferring to the stables
of Randwick trainer J. W. Cook,
when, with a featherweight 6.11,
he left opponents at the Leger
and went on alone in the Rose-
hill Handicap. Evidently he
appreciated the light weight, and
he also indicated a partiality to
soft going. Devil’s Wind had
thrown together a series of dis-
appointing displays, but he was
solidly supported for the
suburban event and was capably
handled by a midget horseman,
L. Bridge, who probably is one
of Australia’s lightest jockeys.
Bridge showed skill and initia-
tive at Rosehill, though the stipes
had a few words to say to him
for going through an opening
where there wasn’t much room.
The G.N. hurdle, run over
three miles, comes up at Flem-
ington this Saturday. Jumping
form at recent Victorian and
South Australian meetings has
been marred by heavy tracks,
but the form of the Queens-
lander, Bar Sinister, is impres-
sive. A six-year-old, in his first
Melbourne season he’s had 11
starts for five wins (four over
hurdles) and four places. He’s
in with 10.2, carried 10.4 last
Saturday to win the Federal
Hurdle easily, jumps well and
will stay. The race-record, 5.28,
stands to the credit of Cheery
Jack, a Sydney hurdler, who
did it in 1940, ridden by
L. Meenan. To emphasise the
merit of Cheery Jack’s perform-
ance Australia’s record time for
three miles on the flat is 5.225,
made by Trafalgar in 1911.
There are no three-mile flat races
now. By the Way and Kadana
can’t be ignored for Saturday’s
race; the former won last year.
• • • •
Talento, winner at his two
Victorian starts, latest at
Moonee Valley, has a back-
ground which should interest
pedigree students. Bought at
the New Zealand sales as a
yearling in January of last year,
Talento is a brown two-year-
old colt —he won the Piccaninny
Handicap at the Valley—by
Robin Goodfellow (imp.) from
Haughty Toti by Robespierre
(imp.) from Toti dal Monte by
Gay Lad (imp.). He is a half-
brother to Gigli, winner of
Canterbury Champagne Stakes
and Wellington Wellesley Stakes.
Gigli also dead-heated in the
Wellington Guineas. Haughty
Toti is dam of several winners,
while Toti del Monte threw four
winners. She was a half-sister
to Autopay, who had 23 wins,
among them the A.J.C. Epsom
Handicap, and also to Sopra,
dam of Reonui, whose 15 suc-
cesses included the A.J.C.
Coogee Handicap and the
Villiers Stakes.
Temporarily barred from
racing on Sydney tracks because
of bleeding, Liquid Fire was
taken to Melbourne at the height
of his form and big money went
with him. He failed at Caulfield
and again at Moonee Valley on
Saturday last (after a spectacular
stable move). Perhaps the fire
has died down.
Mortdina, a winner at country
meetings in Victoria, is dam of
Golden Surprise, who -opened
his winning account in a Kembla
(N.S.W.) Maiden Two-year-old
Handicap. The colt is from a
half-sister to Hammer Head, a
winner of the A.J.C. Challenge
Stakes. Mortdina is by Wallace
Mortlake from Adina by Don
Reynaldo (imp.). Golden Hackle,
sire of Golden Surprise, won
races in England from six fur-
longs to l\ mile. His half-
brother, Newtown Wonder
(imp.), has sired many good
horses.
When Mufti was racing she
was one of Melbourne’s best,
and among her wins were the
V.R.C. Oaks, Caulfield’s St.
Kilda Cup and the A.J.C.
Dangar Handicap. Mufti figures
in the family-lines of another
Kembla Maiden winner, French
Andrew, who cleared out with
the sprint to win by eight
lengths. He is a four-year-old
gelding by St. Andrew from
Cherie Christine by Double
Remove (imp.) from Magleta by
Magpie (imp.).
Rosebery trainer J. Mackinnon
had a nice filly at the Newcastle
meeting. His two-year-old Lady
Bataan improved on prior per-
formances to win the 7fur. New-
castle Juvenile Handicap. She
was an outsider but had two
lengths to spare at the finish
over the favorite, Phal Prince.
Lady Bataan is a daughter of
Macarthur and Mycene by
Double Remove (imp.) from
Goorama by Parkwood.
Values! In Sydney recently
a Merino stud-ram was
“That's what happens when you're too old to chase
lubras or go hunting."
auctioned for a record 6000gns.
In April last a yearling sold at
the Randwick auction realised
6500gn5., which went close to
the record-price, 6750gn5., which
was given for Dominant, an
almost complete race-failure. It
remains to be seen whether the
Star Kingdom yearling colt
proves his worth on the race-
track. High-priced Turf duds
have included Nargoon
(6500gn5.), Avant Courier
(5500gn5.) and Gilt Edge
(5000gns.). Buyer of the Merino
seems assured of success. Horse-
buying is always a risk and
sometimes profitable. The
Hydrogens, the Shannons, the
Bernboroughs, the Phar Laps—
they keep the gleam in the
buyers’ eyes.
* * *
A successful season of import-
ant two- and three-year-old races
was concluded in the just-ended
trotting season. More frequent
races and weightier prizemoney
are proposed for the youngsters
next season. This year the
N.S.W.T.C. doubled its Derby
and Sapling Stakes money, and,
if American figures are any
criterion, stakes —and the sport—
are in for a big lift.
In 1944 the U.S. had 1948
registered horses racing for
2,634,977.58 dollars. In 1954
the figures were 4885 horses and
18,832,740.79 dollars. There the
richest awards go to the square-
gaiter (trotter), whereas our
trotters play second-fiddle to the
pacers (hoppled horses). In 1953
Newport Dream won the cele-
brated Hambletonian for three-
year-old trotters and received
106,830 dollars. The year before
Helicopter hovered around for
117,117.98-dollars’ worth.
Sydney trotting trainers who
have been using the inside ash-
track at Canterbury will soon
become independent. Given
notice to quit by the S.T.C., they
were in a quandary as to their
future training-site. After many
setbacks trainer W. Picken has
obtained a piece of land on the
banks of Cook’s River at Croy-
don Park where some of
the leading Harold Park per-
formers can now train. It also
provides another outlet for the
ever-growing sport —bowls. Two
greens are planned for inside the
training-track. This way old
drivers will be given a subtle
reminder that it’s time to climb
down from the spider. And
since they’ll get a chance to stay
close to their old love, it won’t
come so hard.
» • • •
“Westralian”: The toppling
of six horses in a field of ten
during the Port Phillip hurdle at
Caulfield (B. 12/6/’55) was spec-
tacular, but at Gloucester Park
(West Australia) during the run-
ning of the Dardanup trotting
handicap only one horse (the
winner, Flying Stretta) escaped
trouble when a crash brought
down 10 horses and their
drivers. Only four finished the
course. None of the drivers or
horses was seriously injured.
+ +
There were easy wins and no
particular surprises in the 10th
round of the V.F.L., played in
heavy conditions last Saturday.
Melbourne, still unbeaten, de-
voured Fitzroy (10.11-5.9), Col-
lingwood, finishing two points
short of the century, mangled
Richmond (14.14-6.12), Foot-
scray spragged Carlton (11.15-
6.7) and Hawthorn hamstrung
St. Kilda (12.9-6.7). In more
even games, Geelong, with two
shots less at goal, beat Essendon
(10.5-7.10), and, playing hard,
vigorous football, South finished
two goals in front of North
(10.10-8.10).
* * *
“Jock”: Gordon R.U. club’s
tough forward “Snow” Naugh-
ton has set a club record by play-
ing in 127 first-class matches.
The previous record was 125
held by lan (Bomber) Miles.
“Jock”: Cyril Burke, the
Waratah (Newcastle) Union half-
back, a nippy 10-stoner known
as “the evergreen,” has played in
152 first-grade club and rep.
matches, including 21 Tests.
Apart from four visits to N.Z.,
Burke has played in Britain,
France, Canada, the U.S. and
South Africa, has “repped” for
Australia six times and is the
most travelled Union player in
Australia. He’s tipped to go to
N.Z. next August with the Aus-
tralian team.
* * *
“Treb Yats”: Duncan Thomp-
son, one of Rugby League’s
greatest half-backs, is to retire.
Back in the ’2o’s Thompson went
to Toowoomba (Q.) and opened
a sports store. Since then, he
has played in inter-State and
international matches, and skip-
pered the famous Toowoomba
team which beat England in
1924, and included such cele-
brated players as Gorman,
Spencer, Steinohrt, Bennett,
Armbruster and Dempsey. That
team beat all-comers, including
England, N.Z., Balmain (Sydney
premiers), Northern N.S.W.,
Brisbane, Ipswich and Combined
Queensland. In recent years
Thompson had coached Aus-
tralia. Earlier this season he
intended to retire, but carried on
and saw Toowoomba wallop the
touring French by 35-6.
* * *
Jack Dunleavy (Sydney), who
ought to know, believes he has
another Jack Haines in Billy
Todd, and as Haines was about
the cleverest middleweight
champion Australia ever had,
that’s saying something. Todd
(10.5|) proved to be brimful of
fight when he fought Ed Francis
at Leichhardt Stadium,
and Francis was helplessly
beaten in round three when
referee Burns intervened to
award Todd a t.k.o. win. Francis
hails from South Africa, and
won so many fights in Queens-
land that he is regarded as State
welterweight champion there.
Todd took charge from the first
bell, however, and hit Francis
with almost every blow in the
book. Another fine fistic pros-
pect was seen in a four-round
preliminary, when Tommy Ryan
(8.7) scored a second-round
t.k.o. over Jim Destra (8.10).
* * *
“Mid-on”: Two Sheffield
Shield cricketers were opposing
full-backs in a South Sydney
junior Rugby League game at
Redfern last Sunday. Ray
Flockton (Fernleighs) cricketed
for N.S.W. a couple of years
back, and Alan Cripps (Coogee),
as an opening-bat, represented
W.A. in 1953-54. Cripps is con-
sidered to be one of the best
goal-kickers in Rugby League.
* * *
“Moorapi”: West Indies giant
batsman Clyde Walcott’s 827 in
10 innings in the series just
finished is the greatest effort
since Bradman’s 974, Ham-
mond’s 905 and Neil Harvey’s
834. Previous record by a W.I.
batsman in one season was held
by Everton Weekes, 779 in India.
Walcott now achieves a world
record in having hit 1525 runs
in 10 successive Tests (against
England and Australia).
“C.A.A.”: A new record has
come the way of Keith Miller.
He is the only Australian to have
played first-class cricket in six
Test countries —Australia, Eng-
land, South Africa, India, New
Zealand and the West Indies.
* * »
“Kay”: There are two Eddie
Smiths among the cyclists, both
Victorians, no relation. The pro-
fessional is one of Australia’s
best roadmen, winner of the
1954 Sydney-Melbourne race as
well as a dozen or so other big
road-races last season. Last week
he won a 66-mile open scratch-
race at Essendon. A day or so
before, his 18-year-old name-
sake won the amateur Wyn John-
son Memorial 60-mile handicap
at his first start in a senior
open-handicap event.
* * *
“Burr Imul”: At a baseball
game in Louisville, Virginia, a
severe rain-squall threatened the
show. Even minor league is big
money over there, so a chartered
helicopter was ordered to hover
above the diamond and centri-
fuge some of the rain from the
field. When the storm had passed
the “flying palm-tree” descended
and, with the draught from its
rotors, accelerated the drying of
the ground. Total time-off
period, 15min. The noise of the
aircraft’s engine, added to the
usual atmospherics, made the
broadcast description hard to
hear ; still, that sort of thing at
a cricket-match might provide
better entertainment than Charles
Fortune’s seagulls.


home of Mrs. E. Wilkinson, of
Ferny Creek, some 20 miles east
of Melbourne ; he was a mature,
handsome and very competent
singer and display-artist, and in
his time attracted large numbers
of visitors, from many countries,
so that, perhaps inevitably, he
became the subject of various
extravagant statements.
“Joe” was another fine speci-
men which Jack Coyle, of Spring-
wood, N.S.W., reared from
a fledgling and eventually mated
with a second reared bird, “Zoe,”
the result being that in 1936 they
produced “Pat,” the only lyre-
bird ever born in captivity ; but,
unfortunately, all three died
through accidents.
As for reports of imitations of
the human voice by lyrebirds in
the wild, it is perhaps possible
that a mocker has occasionally
echoed a bushman’s cooee, but
sundry other claims of the kind,
including the old-time oddity
alleging imitations of “the dis-
cordant clack of the black
native,” must be taken with
what an early critic termed
“many grains of allowance.”
Further to this provocative
side-issue, what is to be said
of the tale, solemnly supplied
from Gippsland, that a lyrebird
eavesdropped on a severe vocal
dispute between two bushmen,
listened appreciatively, and later
reproduced portion of the argu-
ment, not forgetting the ad-
jectives? And what of the yarn
that a lyrebird on Monaro,
having once had an old Scottish
hatter for neighbor, gained
unusual distinction by adding to
his repertoire several choice
fragments of bagpipe melody?
Tales of that type (and the
supply is copious) suggest dis-
tinct possibilities for the
strengthening of Australia’s
folklore. Indeed, what with one
thing and another —including the
impact of a London estate-agent
who won a museum in a lottery,
plus a highly fantastic story of
old involving Margaret Catchy
pole and an English parson—the
lyrebird, has been a subject of
romance throughout the entire
period of its recorded history,
and that not only in its own
country but in Britain and on
the Continent.
Such a development, it seems
to me, was and is both natural
and anomalous —natural, on the
one hand, because of the fantasy
of the bird’s appearance and
behavior, and anomalous, on
the other hand, because neither
its appearance nor accomplish-
ments need the slightest degree of
embellishment.
Anyway, let the good work go
on! Let the romancers develop
their folklore (provided they
make their tales worthy of the
subject), but at the same time,
let it be appreciated that even
now, after all these years of
acquaintance, additional genuine
knowledge awaits discovery, and
various problems remain to be
solved, in relation to Australia’s
most distinguished bird.
Modem listeners gnd watchers,
while building on the early
foundations, have revealed
numbers of new and pretty facts.
More than that, naturalists of
the present century have saved
the birds from possible extinc-
tion. There is today consider-
able public and official respect
for lyrebirds, and this has been
brought about by writings and
photographs, by gramophone-
records and broadcasting, and,
not least, through the medium
of motion-pictures.
No longer are the birds shot
for the sake of their beautiful
tails, which at one time were
taken in many hundreds and
either hawked throughout Syd-
ney or sold for a few pence in
the markets of London and
Europe. No longer are nests
sought merely in order to steal
the dark-colored egg.
It is curious to note that the
various splendid achievements in
photographing male lyrebirds
(as well as the broadcasting and
motion-picture enterprises) have
been accomplished near Mel-
bourne, and the most attractive
studies of nests and their owners
have been made near Sydney.
The explanation, simply, is that
terrain in the one area is more
orderly than in the other.
The basis of 20th-century ob-
servations in Victoria, if not in
Australia generally, was estab-
lished by A. E. (later Sir Albert)
Kitson, who looked and listened
to admirable purpose when do-
ing geological survey-work on the
coalfields area of South Gipps-
land in 1900. He published,
too (as early as 1905), engaging
photographs of the bird and the
nest.
What Kitson wrote on the sub-
ject was endorsed and amplified
by many observers in later
decades, and particularly those
who functioned in or near Sher-
brooke Forest, 25 miles east of
Melbourne. This area is now,
and has been for some years,
the world’s chief centre for the
watching of male lyrebirds.
An unfenced but reserved
portion of the Dandenong
Range, heavily clothed with lofty
mountain-ash and many smaller
trees, Sherbrooke Forest is easy
of access, comfortably inter-
sected with tracks, and well-
endowed with lyrebirds; and,
because these factors have
prompted frequent visits by
ramblers, the birds of the area
have shaken off, gradually but
surely, much of their natural
shyness.
All lyrebirds, it would seem,
are essentially good-natured—
amiable to each other and to their
smaller neighbors—but only in
Sherbrooke has their tolerance
extended, on a general scale,
towards humanity. So well are
several of them known that they
have become something in the
nature of personalities. Thus
there are, or have been, indi-
viduals such as ‘Timothy” (a
really old master, known for
more than 20 years), “Jock,”
“Silvertail,” “Broadcaster” and
“Wanderer.”
During the past quarter-
century the lyrebirds of Sher-
brooke have provided rich
material for both study and
entertainment. Here many Aus-
tralians and many visitors from
various countries have had their
first experience of the brilliant
voice and the magnificent dis-
plays ; here the first broadcast
and the first sound-recordings
were made; and here, or in
the immediate vicinity, material
was gained for most of the
numerous small books devoted
to the lyrebird.
(Continued on page 34)
The Cinema Organ's Peculiarities
Works of the Wurlitzer
By M. A. JACKSON
The writer of this article, M. A. Jackson, 8.A., B.Sc., D.A.C.,
A.A.C.1., A.T.C.L., is lecturer in chemistry at Melbourne
Technical College. He here expertly details the extraordinary
inventive ingenuity and remarkable range of musical effects in
the cinema organ, generally known as the Wurlitzer, describing
how it differs from the church and concert instruments dealt
with in an earlier article by Adrian Wintle.
MUCH that is inaccurate
has been published about
the cinema organ. Quite
wrongly, it is compared
with the orthodox organ. It has
no use for the sublime dignity
and solemnity of that instru-
ment. But it has its own qualities
as an artistic musical instrument
—the beauty of its touch, the
possibilities of charm in phras-
ing and in the reasonable use
of piquant tone-coloring.
The cinema organ at its best
is an immensely clever machine
with a wonderful tone and
mechanism, devised in a highly
specialised manner for purposes
of entertainment.
It is virtually an orchestra
under the control of a single
performer, who must accord-
ingly be able to produce rhythmic
music, play with speed and con-
tinuously vary the tone-color.
To achieve this a very light
touch and exceedingly rapid
action are required—made pos-
sible only by the electro-
pneumatic or all-electric action.
In operating any organ the
performer is moving certain
mechanisms to release air under
pressure so that it may enter the
desired pipes: improvements are
all designed toward minimising
the effort required to operate
this releasing mechanism and to
removing all delay. With electric
action, in which every control
is merely a contact-switch, touch
is as light as a feather —far
lighter than Ihe pianoforte, in
which energy is required to
make the tu.mmer strike the
wire.
Responsiveness, too, is an
absolute joy. The acid-test here
lies in increasing the frequency
of repetition. When this is tried
in the case of tubular-pneumatic
action the sound quickly be-
comes continuous, owing to the
delay in operation: with electric
action the repetition may be
faster even than is possible to
a human finger.
There are also two other im-
portant advantages: the con-
trols (console) can be placed at
any desired distance from the
organ itself, and there is no need
for them to be in a fixed posi-
tion. The movable console is
now a customary sight in the
theatre.
These inventions, and others
to be mentioned, are the product
of the brain of the late Robert
Hope-Jones, at the time em-
ployed by the Rudolph Wurlitzer
Co., of America. The cinema
organ as we know it to-day was
evolved after considerable
research ; the name of the firm
has passed into common speech.
Its first products appeared in
England in 1925, their prime
function being to provide
adequate accompaniment to the
silent films.
The pipes, of course, are the
essence of any organ, although
in the theatre they are concealed
from view. The quality of tone
they produce depends on type
(flue or reed), material (wood
or metal), shape, scale (diameter
in relation to length) and pres-
sure of wind.
These variables, together with
minor adaptations, enable any
instrumental tone to be faith-
fully imitated.
The pipes of the cinema organ
are most skilfully made of the
finest materials and speak on a
pressure of about 16 inches of
water. The metal used is an
alloy consisting of approxi-
mately 50 per cent, each of tin
and lead.
Whereas the orthodox organ
is based on the full, round and
sombre tone of the diapason (a
plain, moderate-scale flue-pipe),
the foundation tone of the
cinema organ lies in its imita-
tion strings and tibia clausa. The
string is an exceedingly small-
scale flue (the Bft. pipe may be
only liin. in diameter) often
made of pure tin. It is used in
conjunction with a twin stop
(the celeste) whose correspond-
ing pipes are just out of tune
in imitation of the orchestral
string-ensemble, each performer
of which bows a note which
varies in pitch from that of his
neighbor by an infinitesimal
amount.
The tibia clausa is really a
large-scale flute-pipe producing
a glorious tone which is round
and full and yet at the same time
sweet. It blends well and adds
richness to the full organ. There
is a much greater proportion of
reed tone than in the case of
the orthodox organ. Commonly
encountered are the tuba horn,
tuba mirabilis, clarinet, orchestral
oboe, vox humana, saxophone,
kinura and trumpet (whose
resonators are of brass). The
last three have a rather keen,
penetrating tone which enables
one to produce an “ultra-snappy”
effect.
Besides the pipes there are
several tonal and non-tonal
effects which both offer rhythm
and provide further variety of
tone. The former have a separate
tuned note for each note of the
keyboard (manual), and may or
may not reiterate while the key
is depressed. Of such a kind are
the xylophone, glockenspiel,
sleigh-bells, cathedral chimes,
marimba, chrysoglott and piano.
The xylophone and marimba
are made of rosewood bars
specially shaped, while the
various bell types consist of bars,
tubes or resonators made of
various alloys.
The tones are mostly produced
by hammer action. The non-
tonal effects are essentially the
percussion instruments of the
orchestra, and, being coupled to
every note, sound when any key
is depressed. Worthy of mention
are the snare and bass drums,
tympani, cymbals, wood and
sand blocks, triangle, tom-tom,
tambourine and castanets. All
these instruments are invariably
of the highest : quality workman-
ship.
The quality of tone of any
musical instrument depends on
the relative distribution and
strength of the harmonics —
sounds of higher pitch produced
by frequencies of vibration, the
technical details of which are
familiar to students. In order to
enrich organ tone in this manner
requires extra pipes at the ap-
propriate pitches. In the ortho-
dox organ, separate ranks of
pipes are required. This is
obviously expensive.
In the cinema organ the “unit”
system is employed, which con-
sists in extending the original
rank of 61 pipes (no organ has a
manual range exceeding five
octaves) at each end and “tap-
ping off” at requisite levels of
pitch. Each of these ranges is
controlled through a stop-key;
and so from an extended rank of
only 97 pipes five stops can be
made available. Thus a small
instrument of 10 extended ranks
may have up to 40 stops, and
when one realises that these can
be combined any number at a
time, there becomes possible an
infinite variety of subtle and
unique tone-color.
Tie arrangements at the con-
rpi
sole are most fascinating. The
Pnma 7m rPOSe f ylnSm ? re
ma . nu . als , tha ” 0ne . 15 l ,° P er ™‘ a
me lody to be played with an
accom P animent of contrasting
tone-color. Immense variety is
ob,ainable b y PMng.*>>°
with a single stop (this is well
exemplified by Quentin Mac-
lean). The manuals also facilitate
ra P id changes by saving stop-
changing and the use of elec-
trical action permits every stop
to b e made available from each
manual. The consequence of this
is the appearance of a gorgeous
array of stop-keys, arranged in
semi-elliptical formation above
the manuals for utmost con-
venience. A color-scheme is used
as an added help, but as the
organist cannot halt to alter his
combinations, certain buttons
(pistons) are provided, which
when pressed by the thumb
change the stops instantaneously.
The manuals are equipped
with a second touch-device
whereby an augmentation of
tone can be obtained by exerting
a heavier pressure with the
finger after the first touch, to
overcome a stronger spring and
make an extra contact. This per-
mits the playing of a solo (or
possibly a counter-melody) and
accompaniment with one hand
on the same manual. The pedals,
of course, supply the bass notes,
since the organ does not allow
notes to be sustained when once
the key is released.
The entire organ is housed in
an almost soundproof chamber.
Sometimes two are used, when
they are usually placed one on
each side of the theatre. Cre-
scendo is obtained by means of
balanced “swelfi’-pedals which,
when operated, cause the shut-
ters which form the front of the
chambers to open one at a time.
This mechanism is so perfect
and so rapid that by accurate
timing the organist can achieve
amazing results in the way of
accentation.
In spite of all the devices so
far mentioned, there is one other,
the lack of which would nullify
the efforts of the cleverest cinema
organist.
The musical tones of any
organ, produced as they are by
mechanical means, are in con-
sequence perfectly steady and do
not fall off in intensity with
passage of time nor indicate the
personal touch which is the
criterion of ability in the case
of other instruments. This per-
sonal influence manifests itself
in a vibrato and living pulsation
which no artificial device can
copy: the best approach that can
be made is by the use of the
tremulant, a device which, by
interrupting the steadiness of the
wind-supply, gives a waviness to
the tone.
If the cinema organ is played
without tremulants the result is
a dull, unpleasant, dead effect.
By the aid of the tremulant Jesse
Crawford introduced a glissando
akin to the portamento of the
violin, in which when a
chromatic scale is played rapidly
each note sounds as if run into
the next, the separate sounds
not being distinguishable.
From the foregoing descrip-
tion it will readily be realised
that to play a cinema organ
really well —that is, to utilise the
infinite possibilities available,
and to create an interesting per-
formance devoid of all semblance
of monotony—requires a clever
and skilful musician.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HELICOPTERS COME OF AGE
CJYDNEY people have had their
imaginations stirred by the
proposal of a Melbourne com-
pany to run 10-passenger heli-
copters between Sydney, Manly,
Cronulla, Palm Beach, Gosford,
Wollongong and Mascot aero-
drome. The Mayor of Manly is
particularly interested in the
proposal.
The following comments on
the helicopter, from a “United
Nations Review” article by
Frank Entwistle, Chief of the
Flight Branch of U.N.’s Inter-
national Civil Aviation Organisa-
tion, are of special interest in
view of these and other possible
Australian helicopter-services.
“The concept of aircraft using
rotary wings goes back many
years, and, in fact, predates con-
siderably that of the now con-
ventional fixed-wing designs.
Helicopter development proper
may be said to have started as
long ago as 1784, when Launay
and Bienvenu, in Paris, demon-
strated a model consisting of
two contra-rotating systems on
a common axis.
“Many helicopters were built
during file 19th century, but it
was not until 1907, when a rela-
tively light engine became avail-
able, that success was achieved
by Professor Richet and Louis
Breguet in the production of a
helicopter that was able to lift
itself, although it was not
capable of forward movement
under its own control. Present-
day development may be said to
date from 1924, when Juan La
Cierva’s autogyro, the fore-
runner of the modern helicopter,
made its first flight in Spain.
Recent Developments
“The helicopter movement has
received its greatest impetus in
the last 10 years. During this
period there has been consider-
able activity on both sides of the
Atlantic, resulting in the pro-
duction of many types of heli-
copter, some of which are suit-
able for transport operations,
and in the acquisition of a wealth
of design and operating-
experience. At the present time
there are more than 50 types of
helicopter in production or at
the design-stage.
“In the United States
numerous companies are en-
gaged in a wide range of rotor-
craft-design activities, most of
them devoting their attention
primarily to research- and de-
velopment-work. Five firms are
actively engaged in production.
Of these, the Bell Aircraft Cor-
poration in 1953 produced its
one-thousandth Model 47, which
is available in both military and
civil versions. In the same year
the Piasecki Helicopter Corpora-
tion produced the YH-16 Trans-
porter, a 40-passenger twin-
engine tandem, while the YH-21
Work Horse, a 20-passenger
military model, set new world
speed- and altitude-records for
helicopters (146.7 m.p.h. and
22,289 ft.). The Sikorsky Aircraft
Division of the United Aircraft
Corporation has followed its
well-known S-51 model with the
larger 10-seat S-55.
“In Britain five firms are now
actively engaged in the heli-
copter-development field. The
Bristol Aeroplane Company pro-
duced the Bristol 171, a single-
engine four- to five-seat heli-
copter. This was followed by
the twin-engine Bristol 173 10-
to 15-seater, which is now flying.
The company is now develop-
ing the Bristol 181, which is
designed to carry about 45
passengers.
“The Westland Aircraft Com-
pany had some experience of
rotary-wing aircraft in the
1930’5, when they manufactured
a two-seat autogyro in conjunc-
tion with the French engineer
Lefere, and, later, a five-seat
autogyro under licence from the
Cierva Company.
“That firm has since manu-
factured a British version of the
S-51 and, more recently, a
British version of the S-55 under
licence from the Sikorsky
Division of United Aircraft.
Westland’s has the distinction of
having operated experimentally
the first scheduled passenger-
service when, in 1950, they car-
ried passengers regularly from
London to Birmingham through-
out the period of the British
Industries Fair, using Westland
S-51’s.
Transport Services
“During the last five years a
further stage in the helicopter-
programme has been reached.
Side by side with the research-
and development-work, which is
—New York “Herald Tribune"
ALREADY A CALLER
being continued on an even more
intensive scale than formerly,
operators both in the United
States and Europe are now seek-
ing to acquire experience through
the operation of scheduled heli-
copter transport-services, pri-
marily for the carriage of cargo
and mail, although some
passenger-services are also oper-
ating.
“In the United States, Los
Angeles Airways has been oper-
ating throughout this period,
carrying cargo and mail between
the airport and the post-office
and cities in the greater Los
Angeles area. Operating with
11 Sikorsky S-51’s, this company
has, in a three-year period,
covered 1,500,000 miles carrying
15,000,0001 b. of cargo and mail
and completing 96 per cent, of
its scheduled flights.
“In three years the Chicago
Helicopter Air Service, operat-
ing with six Bell 47-D’s, has
flown over a million revenue-
miles without accident, also com-
pleting 96 per cent, of its
scheduled flights. This company
serves 33 cities and towns in the
Chicago vicinity.
“In the New York area New
York Airways have been oper-
ating regularly since October,
1952, with Sikorsky S-55’s carry-
ing cargo and mail between
Idlewild, Newark and La
Guardia airports and suburban
points. On July 9, 1953, New
York Airways inaugurated a
scheduled helicopter passenger-
service between the three air-
ports, passengers being carried
on the basis of space available.
“In 1947, British European
Airways formed a Helicopter
Unit with the object of assessing
the operational future of the
helicopter in Britain, its technical
and commercial problems, and
its limitations. The policy of the
Helicopter Unit has been to
initiate and undertake opera-
tions that would demonstrate the
capabilities and potentialities of
the helicopter, enlarge its opera-
tional experience and steadily
build up the standards and tech-
nique of operation in as many
aspects as possible.
“The equipment consisted of
three Sikorsky S-sl’s and two
Bell 47’s. The first operation was
a dummy mail-service in Dorset
for a period of seven weeks early
in 1948, during which a regu-
larity of 96 per cent, was main-
tained. This was followed by a
day mail-service based on Peter-
borough and linking nine towns
in East Anglia with the main
railroad-system. This operation
was carried through successfully
during the summer of 1948 for
a period of four months, with
a regularity of 98.4 per cent.
“Hitherto, all helicopter-
operations, both in Europe and
the United States, had been
restricted to daylight-contact
flying, although in the United
States helicopter certificates of
airworthiness had been extended
to cover night-flight under visual-
contact conditions. Between
October, 1949, and April, 1950,
British European Airways Unit
instituted a night-mail between
Peterborough and Norwich. This
was the first occasion on which
certification was granted for
helicopters to operate for hire
and remuneration under night
blind-flying conditions.
Passenger Services
“Attention was next directed
to passenger-operations, and in
June, 1950, a regular-schedule
passenger-helicopter was inaugu-
rated with a twice-daily return-
service between Liverpool and
Cardiff. This service was con-
tinued till March, 1951. A regu-
larity of 96.5 per cent, was main-
tained during the first four
months, although in the winter
the regularity suffered because
of the necessary operating
limitations.
“Following the Liverpool-
Cardiff experiment, an experi-
mental service was started in
June, 1951, between Birmingham
and London, with the object of
gaining experience of operating
into a metropolitan control-zone
with high fixed-wing aircraft-
traffic density. The schedule con-
sisted of three return-flights
daily, reduced to one return-
flight daily throughout the fol-
lowing winter.
“One feature of this operation
was the establishment of a speci-
ally designed heliport on the
edge of the heavily built-up area
of Birmingham. A second fea-
ture was that, although the
operation was carried over a
route with an excellent train-
service, the passenger-traffic
proved to be higher than on the
Liverpool-Cardilf route. The
British European Airways pro-
gramme is being continued ; it is
understood that the company has
recently taken delivery of one
of the Bristol 173’s.
In Europe
“But developments in Europe
were not confined to Britain. In
1950 the Sabena Company in
Belgium commenced a helicopter
airmail-service, under a five-year
contract with the Belgian Post
Office, from Brussels airport to
Brussels heliport located in the
heart of the city, thence to
Liege, Hasselt, TurnhoUt, Heren-
thals and Antwerp and back to
Rriiccplo
“In September, 1953, a new
advance was made when Sabena
inaugurated the world’s first
international helicopter
passenger-service. The passenger-
routes operated run to Liege and
Antwerp (Anvers) in Belgium, to
Lille in Northern France, to
Rotterdam and Maastricht in the
Netherlands and to Cologne and
Bonn in Germany. It is interest-
ing to note that the helicopter-
service to Cologne has replaced
the fixed-wing schedules.
“The international service is
operated with Sikorsky S-55’s.
All the heliports have been pro-
vided by the municipalities and
are situated within the cities
served. The time required to load
and off-load passengers is of
the order of three minutes. An
idea of the saving of time over
rail and normal airline schedules
is obtained from the Brussels-
Cologne run, which requires 1
hour 40min. by helicopter, 5
hours 20min. by train and 2
hours 40min. by scheduled air-
line, including taxi times be-
tween airport and city centre.
Advantages
“It would appear that the
main instrument for public-
transport operations for some
years to come will be the heli-
copter as it is known today [as
distinct from more advanced
experimental aircraft], particu-
larly on account of its special
flying characteristics. The heli-
copter has no stalling-speed in
the usual sense, and can slow-
down to hovering-flight at will
at a rate of deceleration com-
parable to that of an automobile.
Helicopters can ascend and
descend at almost any angle; at
a given forward speed, the body-
attitude changes little with flight-
path and is much the same
whether the aircraft is climbing
or sinking or flying level. The
helicopter pilot can, therefore,
adjust his speed and heading so
as to ensure safe flying in traffic-
density and visibility normally
considered unsafe for conven-
tional fixed-wing aircraft.
“The helicopter will not
operate in serious competition
with the airplane except, per-
haps, on the shorter routes
between cities. Rather will it
compete with surface transport,
particularly the autobus. The
maximum range will probably
be in the neighborhood of 250-
300 miles and the operating-
speed about 150 knots. The
main advantage will lie in the
ability of the helicopter to
operate right into the heart of
the city. Three main types of
operation are envisaged:
“1. Transport from a city
centre to the air-terminal, which
would replace the present
limousine or autobus services.
“2. Inter - city transport -
services for distances up to 250-
300 iqiles, which might, in some
cases, replace existing fixed-
wing services.
“3. Feeder-services from out-
lying areas to air-terminals.
Future Prospects
“With a new instrument of
this kind it is easy to give rein
to the imagination and foresee
many new developments. One
of the main problems associated
with the development of com-
mercial aviation has been the
siting of airports in relation to
the cities which they serve. The
general objective has been to
select a site as close as possible
to the city-centre in order to
cut-down the time required in
transit between the city and the
airport, and, at the same time,
to secure adequate approaches
from the main directions in
which aircraft take-off and
approach to land.
“These objectives have not
always been approached in prac-
tice. An airport lying close to
the city is normally subject to
worse weather conditions, due
to fog and smoke, than a site
at some miles distance. In
recent years the increased density
of air-traffic and consequent
concentration of large numbers
of aircraft at international air-
ports have created new problems
for the air-traffic services con-
cerned. The coming of the heli-
copter might easily lead to a
dispersal of the airports serving
a busy city and simplify the
operating and air-traffic-control
procedures without appreciable
loss of time.
“Again, it may not be going
too far in the realm of prophecy
to visualise the time when the
number of private helicopter-
owners greatly exceeds that of
private airplane pilots. Given
adequate heliport facilities in
the centre of a city, this might
well lead to a dispersal of the
population, just as, years ago,
the advent of - public surface-
transport and the automobile
enabled people whose business
lay in or near the city-centre to
move their residences to the
suburbs. This, however, is look-
ing far into the future.
Some Problems
“Returning to more immediate
prospects, the introduction of
the helicopter into public-trans-
port operations will raise many
new operating problems. In
view of the special characteristics
of this type of aircraft, however,
the problems involved should
not be as numerous or as com-
plex as those which attended the
development of air-route and
traffic - patterns for airplane -
operation.
“One of the more urgent prob-
lems relates to the selection of
suitable sites for heliports in the
centres of large cities, decision
on the relative advantages of
ground- and rooftop-sites, and
the strength of the latter
required to meet the impact-
load. Rooftop heliports are
already in being ; the post-office
in Chicago, for example, main-
tains a heliport on the roof of
the post-office building, which
has been stressed to meet the
operations of the scheduled mail-
airline.
“Other aspects of heliport
development are the physical
characteristics, the clearing and
marking of obstructions and the
provision of visual ground-aids,
including approach - aids for
operations in low visibility. The
meteorological conditions pre-
vailing at the site, particularly
the degree of turbulence likely
to be generated by surrounding
buildings and the incidence of
industrial smoke, also form an
important consideration.
“It does not seem likely that
air-traffic control will form a
complicated problem, except,
possibly, in the vicinity of the
main airports, where it will be
necessary to integrate the heli-
copter traffic into the general
air-traffic pattern. The en route
control-problem may be solved
by reserving a certain portion of
the airspace, for example, below
a level of 3000 ft., for helicopter-
operations.
“The foregoing are but a few
of the problems that will have
to be solved before the helicop-
ter can take its place in regular
air-transport operations. They
are already being tackled with
energy in the countries where
experimental services are being
operated, and there is little doubt
that satisfactory solutions to
most of the main problems will
be found in due course.
Economic Aspects
“There is, however, an over-
riding problem that will have to
be solved before helicopter-
operations on any considerable
scale become practicable, and
that is the question of economy


of operation. Abundant evi-
dence has been produced to
show that present-day helicop-
ters could not be operated eco-
nomically in the competitive
carriage of passengers and cargo.
The helicopter is essentially a
short-haul aircraft, and it is
recognised that short-haul opera-
tions can be carried out less
economically than long-distance
services.
“One problem that will have
to be faced is the utilisation fac-
tor, which, in the present experi-
mental services, is relatively low.
It is believed, however, that a
high utilisation factor will be
found practicable in the future
by adopting a progressive type
of maintenance to which the
helicopter would appear to be
amenable. Economics, however,
is a complicated matter, and it
would be beyond the scope and
purpose of this article to attempt
to discuss in any detail
the economics of helicopter-
operation.”
Shifts in Europe
Russian moves in Europe to
establish a belt of neutral coun-
tries as buffer between East and
West have as their eventual aim,
of course, the weaning of the
West German Republic away
from the West. And, as “U.S.
News and World Report”
comments, “Soviet strategy is
already set”:
“Austria, a tiny country of
barely seven-million people, is
presented to Germans, French-
men and Italians as a model of
how happy they, too, could be
if they were only neutral. U.S.
is billed as the only country
which really thinks the peace-
loving Soviet Union might try
war.
“A ‘neutral bloc’ of countries
stretching from Scandinavia on
the Arctic to Yugoslavia on the
Adriatic is designed by Com-
munists to attract Europeans.
The Soviet leaders would like to
see West Germany in the heart
of this ‘neutral bloc.’ In return
for West German neutrality,
Moscow hints, the Kremlin
might even be willing to permit
Communist East Germany to
join West Germany.
“Right now, this Communist
picture of how to end the cold
war in a cease-fire, an armistice,
has little support from Western
European leaders. What worries
them, however—and U.S. offi-
cials, too —is the question of how
long it will be before such Com-
munist peace - talk builds-up
neutralist sentiment among
Western Europeans.
“A real ‘relaxation of tensions’
could lead more Europeans to
decide that they no longer
needed the protection of U.S.
bases in Europe, that these bases
themselves might become a
source of tension. ‘lf the Euro-
peans ask us to leave,’ said one
U.S. official, ‘then we’ll just have
to leave. They are not satellites.’
“To build-up this kind of
neutralist sentiment in Europe,
U.S. officials say, Soviet Russia
appears willing to pay a price.
The Austrian peace-treaty was a
part of that price. Soviet offer
to talk with the rebel Communist
Tito is another. Small conces-
sions by Soviet Russia, after
years of no real concessions at
all, are magnified. *
“Actually, such concessions
are viewed by some Western
leaders as gains for Russia. In
a military sense, for example,
Soviet troops go back only 30
miles on the Danube plain to
quit Austria. Western troops
pull back some 200 miles out of
strong positions in the Austrian
Alps.
“U.S. strategy, to a great
extent, is dependent upon Euro-
pean allies. If France and Italy
show a willingness to stand firm
within Nato, then the U.S.
expects the Western Alliance to
exact real concessions from the
Soviet Union, perhaps to make
real progress toward a two-way
‘relaxation of tensions.’
“U.S. leaders are out to take
full advantage of the Commun-
ist weaknesses. If Moscow
f
proposes a ‘neutral bloc’ in Cen-
tral Europe, the U.S. intends to
ask if Soviet Russia is prepared
to permit its Eastern European
satellite s—Poland, Czecho-
slovakia, Hungary, Rumania and
Bulgaria—to be ‘neutralised.’
“For the present, in any case,
the U.S. is planning only to
‘wait and see,’ to listen to Soviet
proposals on Germany, on a
‘neutral bloc,’ on disarmament
and on a ‘relaxation of tensions.’
“For the future, the U.S.
intends to try to hold its allies
together, to consolidate the vic-
tories gained in cold war, to
press at weak points in the Soviet
empire. President Eisenhower,
his advisers say, sees a chance
for peace—even for developing
trade with Russia —but only a
chance, and only after a new
phase of the cold war of
negotiation.”
Also commenting on “the new
Soviet policy, which began with
the surprising turnabout on
Austria,” “New York Times”
(Sunday edition) notes editori-
ally that “it has been further
demonstrated by the dramatic
events in Belgrade”:
“The Austrian turnabout led
to the Austrian independence
treaty, but also to an Austrian
neutrality which splits the
Western military front between
Italy and Germany. The events
in Belgrade began with a
spectacular Soviet kowtow
before Marshal Tito, but ended
in what can only be regarded as
a draw, which does not break,
but also does not exactly
strengthen, the ties between the
West and Yugoslavia, the
Adriatic anchor of the Western
front.”
“Moreover, Austria and
Yugoslavia are merely pawns in
a far larger Soviet game in
which the big prize is Germany,
the key to Europe. There can
be little doubt that at the Big-
Four conference, or even before
it, the Soviets will come forth
with some similar offer or
gesture regarding Germany.
They make no secret of their
ambition to break Germany out
of the Western front, even after
the Paris pacts, and either draw
her into some Soviet paper
‘security system’ or neutralise
her like Austria, and make her
part of a neutral buffer-belt
stretching from Yugoslavia to
Sweden and Finland.”
At present, it would seem,
“neutralism” holds little attrac-
tion for the Germans themselves.
As “New York Times” points
out, the West German Parlia-
ment has “endorsed Chancellor
Adenauer’s categorical refusal to
—Rochester ( U.S.A .) “Times-Union”
HMMM!
neutralise Germany as the price'
of unification”:
“Neutralisation, whether
armed or unarmed, he
[Adenauer] warned, would mean
the end of the Western Euro-
pean Union, of the North Atlan-
tic alliance and of any kind of
European unification. It would
mean the removal of the United
States from Europe and would
leave only weak and divided
States. The whole Continent
would then be an easy prey to
Communist conquest, with any
neutral-belt a battlefield in case
of war. It is significant that
even the [German] Socialists
disclaim neutrality.”
The Socialist disclaimer was
expressed by Erich Ollenhauer,
the Social Democratic leader
and Adenauer’s principal
opponent. He said: “There
would be no peace or quiet if
an attempt were made to isolate
or neutralise this part of
Europe.”
Elaborating on that comment,
New York “Herald Tribune”
adds that “such statements
express a basic fact: a united
Germany would be too big,
too vital, to be forced into
neutrality”:
“Even West Germany could
—London "Dally Mirror "
SITTING PRETTY
not have been kept much longer
in a secondary status, as the
West plainly recognised in grant-
ing full sovereignty and member-
ship in Nato to the Bonn
Government.
“In the case of Austria, Russia
was satisfied with an expression
of intent by the Austrian Gov-
ernment respecting neutrality;
no controls were placed on
Austrian armament. Austria
will be permitted to defend its
own neutrality, like Switzerland,
because, like Switzerland, such
defences pose no real threat to
anyone. But a unified Germany,
internally secure against Com-
munism and armed for its own
security, would not be trusted by
Russia, which has swallowed too
much 'German territory—to say
nothing of what has been given
Poland —to believe in German
friendship.”
On which line of thought the
“Herald Tribune’s” able foreign-
affairs commentator, Walter
Lippmann, declares that “there
is no serious person who
believes that the strongest nation
on the European continent can
be ruled now by a coalition of
foreign Powers divided among
themselves by a cold war.”
The real question about
German neutrality, Lippmann
adds, “is not what the Allies
might impose on the Germans,
but what the Germans may
insist upon for themselves.”
Further, Lippmann notes, “the
practical issue is not whether
Germany will negotiate with
Moscow, but when it will negoti-
ate and under what circum-
stances” —whether it will negoti-
ate now, when Russia might be
able to demand a stiffer price
for German unification, or
whether it will negotiate in two
or three years’ time, when, with
its own Army and the support
of the Allies, it would be in a
much better bargaining position
to talk terms with the Soviet.”
The answer to those questions,
Lippmann concludes, depends
on Dr. Adenauer’s ability to
persuade his people to be
patient “and to gamble on this
longer future”:
“It is, we must remember,
within the power of the Kremlin
to offer terms which no German
Government can refuse.”
Moscow and Tito
The fact that the top Soviet
leaders made the pilgrimage to
Belgrade to see Marshal Tito —
plus the fact that Khrushchev
practically fell over himself in
what amounted to an abject
apology for previous bad rela-
tions between Russia and Yugo-
slavia —made it obvious enough
that the Russians hadn’t come
for peanuts.
Further, as William Forrest
suggests in London “News
Chronicle,” it seems hardly
likely that the Russians would
have risked such a performance
unless they were pretty sure of
success. In fact, Forrest com-
ments, “Before they went to Bel-
grade, the Russians were satis-
fied that what they had set out
to gain by this startling move
was already in the bag”:
“And what might that be?
Well, what in fact have they, if
not yet quite achieved, at any
rate gone well on the way to
achieving? Surely nothing less
than the end of the Balkan
Alliance.”
Turkey, Greece and Yugo-
slavia are, Forrest continues, the
partners of the Balkan Alliance,
but only Turkey and Greece are
members of Nato, and they like
to think that Yugoslavia is
linked through them to that
organisation:
“As Premier Menderes of
Turkey put it during his Belgrade
visit last month: ‘The fact that
Greece and Turkey are in Nato
and Yugoslavia, Greece and
Turkey in the Balkan Alliance
creates a brotherly link between
the two organisations.’
“Tito didn’t like that state-
ment at all. He kept it out of
his own controlled press. And
he took the first chance that
came his way to correct Men-
deres, by declaring that Yugo-
slavia, despite her Balkan ties
with Greece and Turkey, would
not commit herself to any mili-
tary bloc, East or West.”
The independent Paris
“L’Aurore” is with Forrest all
the way. “Let us not forget,”
it comments, “that Khrushchev
and Bulganin, both highly im-
portant personalities, have made
the trip, and that very probably
a previous agreement had been
reached. The rest is nothing but
a show.
“First, let us not have any
illusions: Even if Tito feels he
must show himself as ‘icy’ for
the benefit of spectators, he
nevertheless receives the Rus-
sians with great pomp in his
country.
“After years of schism this
means to a certain extent a re-
entry of Yugoslavia into the
Russian political sector.
“The rapprochement with
Tito is another manoeuvre,
directed against the Balkan pact
between Belgrade, Athens and
Ankara.
“From Vienna to Belgrade the
game against Western defence
continues. Let us not look else-
where for an explanation of
what is going on between Tito
and the Russians.”
Soviet Policy on Japan
Japan, too, is on the Soviet’s
list of possible neutrals, and, in
London “Time and Tide’s” view,
“just as all Moscow’s policy in
Europe is subsidiary to its
German policy, so all its tactics
in the Far East are governed by
its long-term interest in Japan”:
“Russia is ready to pay a high
price for Japan’s neutrality, in
view of the fact that Japan’s
re-emergence as a great indust-
rial nation in Asia presents a
grave danger on Russia’s eastern
flank, particularly if Japan is
aligned with the West.
“Premier Hatoyama has
stated categorically that his
Government is not contemplat-
ing a policy of neutrality ‘at
present’ and that he has no
intention of withdrawing from
Japan’s security-agreement with
the United States. If Russia’s
concessions materialise, opinion
in Japan may force Mr. Hato-
yama to change his policy.
“Moscow has been quick to
seize and develop a policy of
neutralism both in Europe and
Asia. This policy has a benevo-
lent appearance and does not
force uncommitted nations to
take sides in the cold war.
Nevertheless it is a policy that
suits the Communist book, for
it offers a better opportunity for
conquest from within than the
armed vigilance of the Nato and
Seat© nations.”
Commenting editorially on
the same subject, London “Daily
Telegraph” notes that, although
Premier Hatoyama “showed an
almost abandoned willingness”
during the February elections to
pander to the desire of many
Japanese “to weaken their links
with the United States, if only
to escape the burden of rearma-
ment and the danger of being
involved in a war over For-
mosa,” his tone has since
changed markedly:
“Japan is still dependent on
American aid, and Mr. Dulles
has made it abundantly clear
that the United States expects
Japan to honor her side of the
bargain.
“There is, however, a wide
area of negotiable subjects
which would not touch the
United States on the raw, and
about which Russia might see
fit to make concessions [to
Japan] without imposing impos-
sible conditions.
“What perhaps the Japanese
want more than anything else
is the greater commercial possi-
bilities that would follow the
restoration of normal relations
with the Communist bloc.
Neither the United States nor
Britain has shown itself able to
give full scope for Japanese
exports, and the Russian empire
represents a temptingly large
potential market.
“But when all the possible
advantages which Japan may
hope to win have been con-
sidered, one hard fact remains:
Japanese security still depends
on American friendship and
will continue to do so for many
years.”
Various Voices
U.S. Assistant Defence Secre-
tary H. Struve Hensel: “Isola-
tionism as a security guide-line
is as obsolete as the ox-cart
and sailing-vessel. We have no
freedom of choice as to whether
we want to be international in
our plans and programmes. Our
allies need us [the U.S.] and we
need our allies. The reasons for
our standing together are
grounded in mutual self-
interest.”
Britain's Chancellor of the
Exchequer, R. A. Butler: “The
only thing I have not been able
to do is reduce the price of beer,
and that I would like to do be-
fore I die because I would like
to think it would be on my tomb-
stone.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Glass-house for Sale
A while back I thought to start an
orchid-collection on the cheap by im-
porting a tenner’s-worth from India. The
long and involved paper-work required
before permission can be obtained to
import and to send money overseas was
safely accomplished, and the N. S. Wales
Department of Agriculture assured me
that there was no restriction against im-
porting orchids. Away went the order,
complete with money-order and copies of
import-licence.
Next news was a curt little note from
the Customs Department wanting to
know if there was any reason why the
plants should not be burned as prohibited
imports. A registered airmailed letter
brought a belated reply from the depart-
ment a month later—they were sorry, but
owing to a new regulation the import-
licence was not worth a tinker’s curse.
Followed some more urgent represen-
tations from me and the usual monthly
delays by the department until, four
months after the plants’ arrival, Customs
relented and released the plants to a
registered grower who could grow them
under the department’s supervision until
such time as they were deemed to be
disease-free.
Just to make sure, though, the depart-
ment delayed release of the plants for
another month, by which time they were
either dead or so near to it that the grower
advised their destruction without further
expense. Customs, of course, had taken
no action to keep the plants alive during
the protracted correspondence.
Anyone want to buy a half-built glass-
house? — Mar Lone (N.S.W.).
School Fees and Taxation
The Federal Income Tax Act allows
£75 a year as the maximum deduction
from income for taxation purposes in
respect of the education of a taxpayer’s
child.
The latest account, just received from
my son’s school, is a strong argument for
raising the limit. The tuition-fee is
nominally £3O for the term, but to that
has been added a surcharge of 22\ per
cent., bringing the total, with sundry
charges, books, etc., to £45. On that
basis school-fees for the year will be
approximately £135, provided there is no
further rise—and with salaries increasing
all round a rise is extremely likely. Add
another £l5 for fares and sundries, and
the annual total for each child is £l50 —
just double the existing allowance.
These fees are similar to those charged
at other Melbourne public schools, so
many parents must be wondering why the
taxation-allowance has not been increased
to keep pace with rising costs. After all,
a parent who spends a fair proportion of
his income on educating his children
saves the State that much expense and
should be entitled to some consideration.
The present allowable deduction is
patently inadequate. It should be the
subject of annual review, particularly
while teachers’ salaries and other costs
are continually on the move. — Doynest
(Vic.).
“On the Line”
Because of the shortage of navvies, the
permanent-way on Queensland railways
is probably not being maintained as it
should be.
This shortage is not surprising, since
working-conditions are most unattractive.
A navvy (fettler) receives one of the
lowest adult wages in the railways. His
living-quarters, provided along the line,
are usually wooden, dogbox-type rooms ;
a back-landing perhaps ; maybe a lean-to.
He pays rent for this.
Water is his own affair —he can pay
for it delivered at roadside by the depart-
ment. He does his own cooking, and
fresh foodstuffs, bread, meat, etc., are his
private headache. These are carried free
if he buys at the nearest market-town
whether the stuff is suitable or not;
otherwise full freight is due. It is his
responsibility to arrange fuel and lighting.
A fettler is on call any hour of the day
or night in any weather for breakdowns
or other emergencies. Railway phones in
camps are connected to the station office ;
if the office is closed so is the phone.
Fettlers have responsible duties and their
work is of an important public nature.
Lives depend on their conscientiousness.
Yet there is so little inducement to become
a navvy that gangs are consistently under
full strength, though they’re still expected
to maintain the allotted section of line
on which inspectors report regularly.
If they need refrigeration or ice they
find it as best they can ; often they’re
without both. No recreational facilities
whatever are made available. The married
man cannot afford to send his children to
boarding-school; they learn by cories-
pondence —no school playmates for them ;
no swimming-pools, talkies or ice-cream.
For the mother it’s a drab existence—a
dearth of social life, no washing-machines
or other labor-saving devices, and trips
to town only when a doctor or dentist is
needed.
In these circumstances is it any wonder
that navvying is one of the last jobs a
worker seeks? It’s freely admitted that
the work is far more onerous than a
shearer’s, yet fettlers receive only a frac-
tion of a shearer’s pay and they work
and live under conditions far more irk-
some. Until there’s a vast improvement
in the Queensland navvies’ lot, “jobs on
the line” will continue to go begging
Quo Vadis (Q.).
Gonzalo Pizarro
May I add to that mention (B.
15/6/’55) of Gonzalo Pizarro, leader of
the 16th-century Spanish expedition
whom Francisco de Orellana, first white-
man to sail the inland Amazon, was
“forced” to abandon in the heart of
South America? He was the youngest
brother of Francisco, the Pizarro of
history, conqueror of the Incas, but in
his own right occupies a small niche, too.
It is generally believed that Orellana
deliberately betrayed Gonzalo, though
there were certainly extenuating circum-
stances in his favor. Still, treachery
played a big part in the careers of many
of the Conquistadores, the Spaniards who
conquered and settled Peru and Chile ;
great wealth and riches, power, even life
itself, were usually at stake. (Yet at the
same time the Conquistadores were
capable of great constancy and loyalty,
particularly to the Crown.)
Perfidy and treachery were implicit in
Francisco Pizarro’s life; they were main
weapons in his overthrow of the Incan
empire, one of the most remarkable
episodes in recorded history. With a
force of less than 200 men he conquered
(1532) an empire which could put up to
200,000 men in the field and was reason-
ably powerful by any standards of the
time. He was helped by the ignorance,
trust and simplicity of the Incas and by
the fact that the country had just been
through a disastrous civil war, and by
his utter unscrupulousness (he had the
Inca Atahualpa basely murdered on a
trumped-up charge, in one of the darkest
chapters in Spanish colonial history).
But perfidy brought about Pizarro’s
own downfall. His chief-lieutenant in the
Conquest was one Diego de Almagro,
with whom he fell-out and, after some
internecine warfare, had treacherously
"I've never seen Ernie so nervous at the controls."
arrested and executed (1538). As a result,
some of Almagro’s supporters in turn
assassinated Pizarro in his palace (June,
1541).
Gonzalo Pizarro, who was some 30
years younger than Francisco (he was
born in or about 1505), was one of four
brothers who accompanied Francisco on
the Conquest. He was on the trip of
exploration (which lasted two years and
on which the Spaniards who remained
with Gonzalo suffered incredible hard-
ships, only one-third of those who started
out, and they in a terrible condition,
returning) when his brother was
murdered. On this journey Gonzalo—
who, like Francisco, was of good build,
with soldierly bearing, but of a more
frank and generous nature —displayed
great courage and qualities of leadership.
He inspired and sustained his men.
But it is not for this that Gonzalo is
remembered. About this time, for a
reason not altogether clear, it became the
policy of the Spanish Court to “plague”
“This is the third time you’ve been late because you've become a father.
Don’t let it happen again!”
the remaining Old Guard of the Con-
quest. New regulations were enforced
which virtually despoiled all who had
taken part in the Pizarro-Almagro feud-
ing—in practice just about every original
Conquistadore. It was natural for all,
of both factions, to turn for guidance to
Gonzalo, bearer of the honored name of
Pizarro and the only member of the
family still in the land.
Gonzalo, then Governor of Quito,
quickly raised an army of his own, and,
with popular support and, be it noted,
under the Royal standard, marched
against and eventually defeated and
killed the viceroy, Blasco Nunez de Vela
(January, 1546). Now the regulations
were revoked, and Gonzalo’s object
ostensibly achieved. But, spurred on by
ambition, he installed himself as Gover-
nor and sought Royal confirmation of
his position. (Actually, he had con-
sidered himself Governor as from
October, 1544, even while the viceroy was
still alive. Some had urged him to de-
clare himself king, but, fundamentally
loyal, he was disinclined to do so; had
he done so his fate would probably have
been the same.)
But, having murdered a viceroy, he
was in fact a rebel, and was so regarded
by the Court. The Court accordingly
dispatched to Peru to dislodge Gonzalo
one Pedro de la Gasca, who claimed
descent from Cesar’s murderer Casca.
Gasca was not soldier but cleric, and
arrived on the outskirts of Peru with
no troops, no pomp, hardly a servant,
He thus figuratively disarmed Gonzalo’s
captains and gradually, with patience and
persistence, won them right over ; some,
it must be said, had as little compunction
leaving the Pizarro as they had earlier
left Vela for him.
The final battle was a bloodless “no
contest.” Gonzalo’s army, with only a
few of his chief-lieutenants remaining
loyal to him, fell to pieces with defections
right and left as it was actually lined-up
in battle-order outside Cuzco. Gonzalo
had no choice but to surrender, and was
beheaded as a traitor (March, 1548). His
weakness at the end was that he was
fighting for no one and nothing but
himself.
On first learning of Gasca’s modest
arrival Gonzalo had been scornful. What
he failed to see was the moral power the
priest possessed: a power which,
possessed by one side —granted almost
equal arms —generally confers victory to
that side. — Kros (S.A.).
Blood-tests for Alcohol?
As I pointed out previously to
“M.F.D.” (B. 8/6A’55), it takes from an
hour-and-a-half to two hours for alcohol
to be absorbed fully into the bloodstream.
The time will vary according to health,
size and a full or empty stomach, but, for
a normal person of about list, to 12st.
and in good health, it is roughly an hour-
and-a-half before the effect of alcohol is
felt to the full extent.
Hence it is quite possible (and it often
happens) that a man will have three or
four quick schooners and leave his pub
or club apparently quite sober, except for
the smell of the liquor ; yet an hour-and-
a-half later he will be decidedly 4 under
the influence.” And, if charged, he will
call evidence that when he left the pub
or club he was quite sober and had not
had any more liquor.
As to that .05 per cent, mentioned by
“M.F.D.,” it is the equivalent of three
middies, and anybody who doubts the
effect of that amount of beer should try
the following simple test:
Take a full pack of ordinary playing-
cards and, before having a drink, sort
them into the four suits, timing the test
with a stop-watch. Then have three
middies and in half-an-hour repeat the
test. After another half-hour, try it
again. The second effort will take some
seconds longer than the first and the
third still longer. The reflexes have been
slowed by the alcohol, and that is where
the danger arises in driving after drinking
—the driver is sober, but his reactions
have been retarded and his driving has
become dangerous should an emergency
arise.
At 30 m.p.h. a car is travelling 45tt.
per second. It takes a fraction of a
second to apply the brakes of a car a
very fast, sober mover will do it in hall
a second and good normal time is three-
quarters of a second. In half-a-second
(at 30 m.p.h.) a car will travel 22ft.
before the brakes are on ; in three-quarters
of a second, 33ft. And then the brakes
have to take effect by bringing the car
to a stop. At 30 m.p.h. that takes
approximately 47ft. in a four-wheel-brake
sedan of average size.
This means that a sober, fast-moving
driver will take about 69-80 ft. to stop
his car from the moment of perceiving
danger. If the driver’s reflexes have been
slowed by alcohol by only half-a-second
it will take a further 22ft. and so on.
I know that hundreds of drivers will
say they can stop their cars in a few
feet, but they just don’t know then
onions.— Macropus (N.S.W.).


Management and Efficiency
The majority of managers favor
“Shellback’s” defence and ignore “Mag-
noon’s” insight (B. 15/6/’55).
What critics mean when attacking
management is that there is obvious room
for improvement. Industrial strife or
not, management is generally a weak
link. Modern thinking is ignored and
overseas techniques are evaded if pos-
sible, while mediocrity prevails at all
levels almost everywhere in Australia.
If the essential outlook of 10,000 Aus-
tralians of responsibility were to be
distilled into a pliilosophy, it would be
“Don’t rock the boat.”
Management is all. It is fully respons-
ible for quality and marketing. Yet our
companies turn out products of indiffer-
ent finish. Service everywhere is bad.
Courteous and efficient individuals are
remembered as gems shining from a
depressing mullock of stupidity, laziness
and “couldn’t-care-less” indifference. The
cost of all this to the customer is a
staggering amount of lost time and
money. Management’s ignorance of the
full consequences of bad administration
can largely lead in a circle to raising
production-costs and putting an enter-
prise out of business. So can its ignorance
of changing human-relations, methods
and marketing-factors.
Anyone who cares can test manage-
ment-outlook by mere observation.
As an example, I have a new radio of
good brand. It must be returned to the
factory under warranty because, of a
serious fault. Doing this costs me money,
time and convenience. A brand-new
vacuum-cleaner of good make showed
faults in the hose-assembly and in the
design. The manufacturer should hear
my wife’s song of hate every time the
hose comes apart.
Most motorists have experienced bad
service in the best garages, combined
with thumping charges for work that has
been skimped or even dodged. /
Some months ago a feature-page of
photographs appeared in a daily showing
the use of horses and drays to shift
bagged sugar from ship to stacks at the
wharf. Such naive acceptance of costly
and inefficient handling is almost beyond
comment. Yet if the cost of the finished
products were questioned the manage-
ment could possibly show that the com-
pany received only a very small margin,
and that, therefore, the selling-price was
very reasonable. This complacent atti-
tude is to be found generally throughout
our industries.
Official and semi-Government bodies
are not exactly splitting the atom in these
matters, either.
What more pathetic indictment of
management is seen than the fatuous
repairing of holes along Sydney’s tram-
tracks? With incidental music of rup-
tured shock-absorbers, ruined wheel-rims
and abused tyres filling the air, three
men, with a truck of gravel and bitu-
men, obstruct the fretful traffic through
all the peak-hours, trying to fill the multi-
tudinous potholes which develop before
and recur behind. They are, of course,
armed with useless equipment and
materials supplied by men whose job
should always have been to give the
problem honest thought and solve it.
Generally, “Magnoon” touches the
heart of the matter when he observes
that improvement will occur when it pays
the individual to heed the need for it.
Obviously, there is as yet no real incen-
tive to management to reduce costs and
improve efficiency in our industries. —
Buster (N.S.W.).
Farmer Co-operatives
There is some truth in what “Bung-
Ho” says about co-operatives (B. 1/6/’55)
—and much that is misleading.
For a start, the State (Queensland) has
many cocky-directed co-operatives, large
and small, which have not gone bung.
Dairying and sugar, our main primary
industries after wool, are almost entirely
co-operative. Many of the factories have
been running efficiently for 40 years or
more.
“Bung-Ho” certainly gives one reason
(not the only one) why some have failed;
but what could we expect from his board
of businessmen? For a start, their indi-
vidual shareholdings would be limited by
law to £5OO at the most (in nearly all
cases £3OO or less), dividends to 6 per cent,
or less, and the shares could not be sold
or offered on any stock-exchange. Thus
they would not appeal to a wealthy busi-
nessman either as an investment or a
speculation. Seldom indeed can co-opera-
tive shares be sold for even face-value.
The “dry” shareholders mentioned by
“Bung-Ho” almost certainly took their
shares in a spirit of giving a bit of help
to what seemed to be a worthy enterprise.
If one of them did get on the board (and
any businessman with direct farming in-
terests is eligible, though few bother about
it) he could expect 12 to 50 guineas a year
in fees, perhaps 200 if he reached the
chair. Obviously to such a mr.n it could
never be more than a hobby—something
to occupy any time he could spare from
business and golf. The only way he could
make it anything more would be by turn-
ing it into a proprietary company, which
would be dead against the farmers’ in-
terests. So the Act wisely vests control
in the producers, who can be expected to
take good care of it, because it is their
livelihood.
In any case, would a board of business-
men be a guarantee against failure?
Many a spectacularly successful business-
man has finished with an equally spec-
tacular crash. — Magnoon (Q.).
\
The Public Service
The Bulletin has pointed out again
the multiplying numbers, doubtful utility
and shattering cost of upkeep of our
public servants (18/5/’55).
True enough, and when leader-writers
draw our attention to it we stand
astounded at this mushrooming edifice
in our midst —we bleat, we grow anxious
and we blame Mr. Menzies. We count
the heads of our servants and shudder.
Who is responsible for this dragon’s-
brood? Why doesn’t somebody do some-
thing about it? Well, who is responsible
for these teeming servants of the public?
Echo answers, the public! “Let’s make
lots of little regulations,” sang the ironic
“OT Johns turr'ble cross, Cap'n; reckons he oughta get skill-margin .”
A. P. Herbert. “Let’s make laws and
jobs for our relations.”
The public and its newspapers love
regulations. “There should be a law
about it,” explodes the aggrieved public.
“Failure to regulate this traffic is an
indelible blot on the Government’s
record,” says the temperate press. Regu-
lations —we’re all in favor, so long as
it’s somebody else who’s being regulated.
At the very moment The Bulletin
was expressing concern at the swarming
retinue of departments, bureaux and
authorities, Sydney “Sun” was (and still
is) conducting a peculiar but apparently
serious campaign for a Boxing Board,
or Fisticuff Control, or something of the
sort. With an entourage, it need not be
said, of public servants.
These drives to establish more nests of
red-tapery should be nipped in the bud.
Such thoughtless campaigns cry out for
control. Why can’t the Government have
them regulated by a board or a com-
mission? — Abie (N.S.W.).
A Horse-and-buggy Law
Authorities just outside Melbourne
have protested against the anachronism
in Victorian liquor laws which permit
the sale of liquor on Sundays to “bona
fide” travellers who have journeyed 20
miles.
The legislation, which dates from the
horse-and-buggy days when refreshment
was necessary after a 20-mile-drive, has
long been out of date and has lent itself
to abuse. For many years certain hotels,
conveniently situated just outside the 20-
mile radius from the G.P.0., have made a
feature of Sunday trade. Some enter-
prising publicans have lately sought in-
creased business' by hiring musicians and
other entertainers to provide a continu
ous performance so that the weary
travellers may receive both mental and
physical refreshment.
All this has increased the traffic-con-
gestion in the vicinity of the hotels,
thereby adding to the hazards of driving
—already bad enough at weekends —and
has thrown more work on to an over-
worked police-force.
It is time a rational approach was
made to the "bona-fide"- traveller laws in
Victoria —and in all States. If 20 miles
was a reasonable limit in the days of
horse-drawn travel, at least 70 miles
should be the limit today. And the law
should be strictly enforced. A few police-
raids now and again on the hotels con-
cerned—relatively few —should stop
abuses of the "bona fide” privilege and
help reduce the weekend accident-toll. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
“Americanisation”
The term “Americanisation” means a
lot more than the “dignity of the indi-
vidual and the sanctity of his beliefs,” or
“worker-consumers counter-pointed with
mass-production” (B. 4/5/’55). Like all
abstract words, including “freedom” and
“democracy,” the term has a differ-
ent meaning in every country that
uses it. Russia argues that its people both
live in a democracy and enjoy freedom.
Western countries make the same claims
about themselves, and it is clear that the
terms have nothing more in common than
the letters that spell them.
“Americanisation” can stand for the
classical freedoms, McCarthyism, the
cult of the free man, the ironing-board for
individualism, the saving of the world,
the degrading and distorting, through mass
media, of moral values and life itself —
all of those things and more —as well as
highly l organised private industry catering
largely for a home-market.
There is truth in all of those points of
view, but none alone paints the whole
picture.
America has much to offer the world
apart from protection. We can learn from
its production-techniques and other good
aspects, as well as from its mistakes. But
organising society into a vast machine
which consumes nearly all that it produces
has drawbacks. The enormous social
problems of industrialised nations are
most marked in America.
America is paying a heavy penalty in
mass juvenile delinquency, drug-addiction
unsurpassed in gravity and extent, and
in crimes of violence and mounting
insanity.
In New York between 80 and 100
juvenile gangs are currently waging a
war that has already resulted in several
deaths. Among the catalogue of violent
crimes in a film shortly to be released in
Australia —“the Blackboard Jungle”—
boys beat-up two schoolmasters, attempt
to assault criminally a schoolmistress,
and a drunk student tries to cut his
teacher’s heart out. The film contains, it
is said, an essential, though concentrated,
form of truth about New York schools.
And as for insanity, it has grown so
great it is now equal to the nation’s worst
epidemic, according to Dr. Leo Barte-
meier, chairman of the American Mental
Association’s mental-health council.
Some students can see evidence of simi-
lar trends in Australia, and if that is
“Americanisation” we certainly don’t
want it.
A process of selective “Americanisa-
tion,” embracing only that country’s good
features, is desirable. But increased pro-
duction and raising the standard of living
should not be regarded as the sole aim of
society. Returns should be tempered with
consideration of the mental and moral
health of the people who are to enjoy
them.
As industry here follows the American
pattern and becomes organised on a
larger and still larger scale, we should be
careful to take measures to avoid the
tremendous social problems which such
a process involves.
Finally, with regard to things cultural,
much that is admirable in America ceases
to be so if it is transplanted to Australian
soil. No matter how good such things
may be, they must be rejected if they are
incompatible with the ideals and essential
character of Australia. — Crunch (Vic.).
The Cumberland Scheme
“Jindivick” (B. 8/6/’55) gives a clear
picture of the position of property-owners
in and around Sydney whose land is in
the control of the Cumberland County
Council; but I must correct the suggestion
that the Cumberland Scheme Justice
Association has demanded that the
scheme be dropped.
It has never been the policy of this
association to seek abandonment of the
scheme, but rather to aid in its just imple-
mentation in a practicable form.
The Cumberland Council has proved
incapable of doing its job. It has taken
vacant land at a fraction of its worth and
has used every opportunity to deprive
people of claims to compensation for
damage caused, and has paid none. It is
dismembering its own scheme piecemeal
by indiscriminate releases and building-
approvals. It has full power to pay com-
pensation, and has thousands of prece-
dents in England, where compensation
is being paid. It has not stood-up to the
N. S. Wales Government and demanded
cash to meet claims, but, instead, is driv-
ing thousands of people to court to pro-
tect their rights.
This method is to be pursued by pro-
motion of a series of unnecessary “test”-
cases.
The Cumberland Scheme Justice Asso-
ciation has demanded that the Cumber-
land Council be suspended and a royal
commission set up to inquire into the
conduct of the council and practicability
of the scheme. It has also asked that an
interim administrator be appointed, with
power to make immediate compensation
payments in cases of hardship.
The N. S. Wales Premier gave his
assurance in 1953 that express-way pro-
perties would be resumed at full market-
value. The fact is that the Department of
Main Roads had no power to pay more
than the market-value as depressed by
the scheme. The Cumberland Council
itself has said that these properties have
already lost up to 50 per cent, of their
value.—S. C. W. Weaver.
[Hon. General Secretary, Cumberland
Scheme Justice Association, Sydney].
Hire-purchase
The real danger in hire-purchase lies
not in the buying of a radiogram or car
or quick-freeze on terms from established
retailers. That, as far as the householder
is concerned, is “a calculated risk.” It
has to be talked over by both Mum and
Dad, and, in nearly every case, Dad has
to sign the agreement.
The real danger lies in the number of
items offered at the door, while Dad is
away, by direct salesmen selling nearly
everything under the sun on t.-p.—some-
times with interest, sometimes without.
There are thousands of women who can-
not say “No” to the argument that it
is “just a very small deposit” and “just
five- or ten-shillings each week.” How
easy it sounds! And it is very attractive,
for clothing for the kids, or something
for the house —small things about which
Dad won’t ask any questions.
It is easy, too. And so is the next offer
that comes along: “Just [another] five-
or ten-shillings a week, Madam —you
won’t miss it.” And once again the lady
buys.
When that occurs half a dozen times,
however (and it does very often), it is not
ss. or 10s. a week, but £2 or £3 that
has to be found each payday before the
rent is paid or the tucker bought—or
before the instalment on the frig, or
piano which Dad insists must be met.
Wages are thus fully mortgaged before
they are received and there is only one
way out —more goods at so much a week
to maintain appearances so that Dad
won’t know.
There is another point, too, about all
this. When statistics about hire-purchase
are compiled, these items never appear,
because the trading is often done by
small men who don’t make returns to any
authority or trade-rassociation. Hence the
volume of hire-purchase is really much
higher than statistics indicate and it is
the trading not so shown which consti-
tutes the real danger.
Possibly it’s not a threat to the national
economy or anything as serious as that,
but it is a very real danger to the family
finances, particularly if Dad gets hurt or
sick for a few weeks, or if his overtime
cuts out unexpectedly.— Salesman Sam
(N.S.W.).


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach- I
me n t illus-
trated is the
World-famous
“FARMERS ’
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you :
N.S.W.s Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-, 9u
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Missing Friends
ESTATE of _ ALEXANDER MacALPINE.
late of Auckland, New Zealand, Labourer,
deceased.—TO DONALD MacALPINE and
DUGALD MacALPINE, sons of JOHN
MacALPINE and MARY MacALPINE,
nee BLUE, or their issue and all persona
claiming by, through or under them.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to submit your claim to
share in the estate of the abovenamed
ALEXANDER MacALPINE, deceased, so
as to be received by the undersigned on
or before the 31st October, 1956 ; other-
wise the said estate will be distributed
disregarding your claim. —THE SOLI-
CITOR, Public Trust Office, Wellington,
New Zealand.
Divorce Notice
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY OE
AUSTRALIA— In the Supreme Court.
No. 38 of 1955.
BETWEEN IDA MARY PEARL
WALLACE Plaintiff and ROY WALLACE
Defendant. TO ROY WALLACE.—NOTICE
is hereby given to ROY WALLACE whose
last known address was at “Conemarra”
Connondale in the State of Queensland
that IDA MARY PEARL WALLACE of
Darwin has issued a Writ in the Supreme
Court of the Northern Territory of Aus-
tralia in an action in which IDA MARY
PEARL WALLACE claims an order for
Divorce from her husband on the grounds
of habitual cruelty and desertion for
three years and upwards and in such
action his wife intends to ask for an
order for custody of the children and for
maintenance and if ROY WALLACE de-
sires to be heard in opposition of the
claim for any such order he must file an
appearance in the office of the Master of
the Supreme Court of the Northern Terri-
tory of Australia at Darwin on or before
the 15th day of August 1955 otherwise
orders may be made against him in his
absence. —DATED this 16th day of June,
1955.—J0HN W. LYONS, Smith Street,
Darwin, Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Gerrard Automatic Ring Fastener Gun
Gerrard Galvanised Ring Fasteners are 11/- per 1000
and not 11/- per 100 as stated in advertisement in the
Wool issue of “The Bulletin” on June 1.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOX."
Grass Is Cheaper
“Jubilee”: N.Z. dairyfarmers
got some scientific facts from
Agricultural Adviser Du Faur,
who told a conference at Massey
Agricultural College (Palmer-
ston North) that as a general
rule it was cheaper to grow
winter-fodder than store it. His
conclusions were based on actual
farm-accounts.
To save enough hay and
silage so much land had to be
shut-up that the grazing
potential of the rest of the farm
was limited in the early months
of the season. The cost of grow-
ing grass on a 2001b.-butterfat-
per-acre farm averaged £l7 per
acre. Basing costs on production
of starch-equivalent of dry
matter the accepted inter-
national feeding-unit—a pasture
producing 2251 b. of butterfat per
acre would contain dry-matter
equivalent to 65521 b. of starch
per acre. This would equal, on
the £l7-per-acre basis, ss. sd.
for 1001 b. of starch.
All items of expenditure in
the growth of crops, including
loss of income on land out of
grass, are allowed for, and the
following table depicts the cost
of producing 1001 b. of starch:
Real
Cost. Wastage. Cost.
Grass .. ss. sd. 15 p.c. 6s. 3d.
Chou
moellier . 4s. Bd. 20 p.c. ss. 7d.
Turnips .. 10s. lOd. 10p.c. 11s. lid.
Silage . .. 12s. 6d. 30 p.c. 16s. 3d.
Hay .. .. 14s. sd. 30 p.c. 18s. Bd.
Other research-workers put
Du Faur’s 30 per cent", for wast-
age at 40 per cent. To grow
chou moellier for summer feed
would cost only 3s. 6d. The
winter carrying-capacity is more
economically raised by crop-
ping, as against making hay and
ensilage. Thirty bales of hay
at ss. equals £7 10s. By grazing,
the same area produced £l4 ss.
There will be many critics of
Du Faur’s theory, for it will take
some years of practical demon-
stration to test it to convince all
farmers. Risks due to climatic
conditions may favor One
method of obtaining economic
results more than the other, but
it seems that Du Faur has made
out a good case.
Of course, in a very prolific
season, when it is hard to keep
grass down, and stock to keep it
down can be had only at high
prices, surplus grass could well
be turned into hay as a reserve
for a future bad season.
Oafs as Winter Feed
“Eba”: Graze oats while they
are leafy and before they
become stemmy. Continuous
feeding-off results in fbuling and
trampling of the crop, so the'
plants take longer to recover
for another grazing.
Stock heavily—say 10 to 20
sheep an acre —for ten days,
then give the crop a rest. Sub-
divide with an electric-fence or
movable netting into small plots.
When grass begins to grow in
spring take the stock off and
let the oats recover for hay or
grain. If the grain-yield is light
don’t strip, but run carryover
lambs or the breeding-flock on
the area, where the good
summer feed from the grain and
straw will be worth more than a
few bags of grain.
When sheep are grazing green
oats watch them for milk-fever
(hypocalcaemia). If sheep look
“proppy” or go down and wave
their legs about, inject under the
skin immediately with a solution
of calcium borogluconate.
Branding Cattle
“Vega”: The best age for
branding is from eight to 12
months. If calves are branded
very early the brand grows with
the skin to an unsightly size ;
if they are left till much older
they become more difficult to
handle. When it is necessary to
brand fully-grown animals the
job should be done in a crush.
For young cattle the only
satisfactory method is to throw
them, for however securely they
may be restrained standing, they
can still flinch and spoil the
the brand. When properly
thrown they are entirely helpless.
To throw the beast is a one-
man job. He grips only by the
head. Assume the brand is to be
applied to the near side. If it is
required on the off side, then
simply read right for left and
vice versa.
Grasp the left ear or horn
with the left hand and grip the
nose with the right hand. Then
twist the head over, bringing left
hand down and right hand, grip-
ping the nose, up and swinging
the animal to the left as you
do it. Down it flops on its right
side.
Having thrown your beast you
will lose control unless you work
fast —and I mean fast. Remem-
ber that once you get your right
hand on its nose, the hand must
stay there till the job is finished
and the animal ready to release
—to remove your hand at any
stage is fatal.
The moment the animal
strikes the ground you are down
on its neck with your left knee,
grab the topmost foreleg—in this
case the left with your left
hand, and bend the leg at the
knee, holding the foreleg securely
back against the animal’s
shoulder. Keep its nose up with
your right hand, and there you
have it, secure and helpless.
Once you have that grip, even on
full-grown cattle, you have
complete control, though full-
grown animals are usually too
strong for most men to give the
initial toss.
To hold the beast for brand-
ing, your assistant sits on the
ground right behind it, his legs
together and straight out
towards it, then grasps its upper
hind-leg and pulls it back hard
towards him, while both his feet
are pushed hard against the
under leg, above the hock.
The animal now cannot move
while the third man brands (ear-
marks, or castrates). For brand-
ing, the fire must be right, and
no fire is right until it has burnt
for at least an hour, producing
lots of hot coals against a solid
back-log.
Raise the handles of the
brands a little from the ground
to keep them cool enough to
hold, though after constant use
1 find it necessary to use a piece
of bag to grip them. The busi-
ness-end of the brand must be
hot, but not red-hot. Apply it
firmly, but not hard, for to
2 sec.; if the heat is right, a per-
feet brand will result. If the hair
round the brand bursts into
flame the brand is too hot, and
if more than two seconds are
required it is too cool. Do not
brand deeply, as it causes un-
necessary suffering and damages
the hide.
When the job is finished the
man at the rear is up first, then
the one at the head. The grip
round the nose is the very last
thing to be released. Usually one
man handles the brands and the
others take turn about throwing
and holding.
Setting a Saddle
“P. O’Day”: An old saddler’s
advice: “The hollow of the
arch of the saddle should never
press upon the middle line of
the back, and the girth should
never be fastened with the skin
folded under it.
“Where the skin is chafed
“Have you met my old man ?”
slightly, where superficial in-
juries have been caused through
the newchum not understanding
how to saddle a horse, iodine
should be painted on the neddy’s
skin when the break is first
noticed. This and a day or so’s
rest will often complete healing.”
Further treatment for sores
that may save a visit to the vet.:
Clip the hair from their edges
and frequently cauterise to
encourage healing of the new,
healthy surface. To cauterise,
rub over lightly with a crystal
of bluestone. Don’t overdo the
use of bluestone. When the
wounds are healthy dress with
equal parts of boracic-acid and
starch.
In East Riverina
“W.W.S.”: Typical of highly-
improved farms in eastern
Riverina (N.S.W.) is that of J. R.
Walker and Sons, near Tum-
barumba. On 700 acres, 900
breeding-ewes, 600 dry sheep
and 40 cattle are run. The stock
will increase when recently-sown
pastures develop. Last summer
about 5000 bales of hay were cut
and £2OOO-worth of sub.-clover
seed was harvested. The Walkers
are building sheds to store 7000
bales of hay as a fodder-reserve
and have constructed wedge-
shaped silage-stacks with a
buck-rake fitted to the front of
a tractor.
Phalaris has proved itself the
best foundation of sown pastures
and has eliminated ihe diseases
associated with a dominance of
sub.-clover in the sheep’s diet.
Rye-grasses alone don’t stand up
to hot, dry summers.
Conventional methods, such
as disking or scarifying the
stands and then using sheep'-
skin rollers, were used to harvest
the mid-season clovers. Talla-
rook, however, was found to set
most of its seed on top of the
ground, so this was mown, raked
and baled. Each bale threshed-
out £3-worth of seed.
As a contrast with New Eng-
land experience, where improve-
ment of pastures has led to a
remarkable decrease in worm-
and disease-troubles, the east
Riverina man grazing about two
sheep to the acre lives “with
a drench ing-gun in one hand and
a pair of footrot-secateurs in the
other.” Merinos have been
replaced with crossbreds because
of endless trouble with footrot
and also because they do not
thrive when concentrated in
small paddocks.
Getting Mixed
“Hortus”: Don’t add lime to
a manure containing sulphate-
of-ammonia or blood-and-bone
manures, reason being the result-
ant loss of nitrogen. If you
have limed the land, don’t use
manures until about three weeks
afterwards.
You can mix with safety the
following at any time: Lime
and nitrate-of-soda ; super, and
sulph.-am. ; super, and potash-
salts; super, and nitrate-of-
soda; sulph.-am. and potash-
salts ; farmyard manures and
sulph.-am. or nitrate-of-soda.
These must only be mixed
immediately before use: Lime
and potash-salts; Thomas-
phosphate and potash-salts.
With sprays the work is made
much lighter if some are mixed
together to do a double job.
White-oil can be mixed safely
with lead-arsenate, Bordeaux-
mixture, washing - soda and
nicotine-sulph. or black-leaf 40 ;
white-oil and Bordeaux to pre-
vent fungus diseases and scale-
insects. Add arsenate-of-lead
if chewing pests are to be eradi-
cated. To soften the hard
covering of scale-insects, mix
white-oil and washing-soda. To
get rid of aphis, red-spider and
thrip, combine white-oil with
nicotine-sulph.
Nicotine and Bordeaux is a
successful combination for
fungus diseases such as peach
curly-leaf, black-spot, mildew,
and chewing insects such as
caterpillars, codlin-moth, weevils
and snails.
"Planned Expansion"
“Net Titre”: In 1950 a royal
commission wandered through
sugar-towns along the Queens-
land coast. Its function? To
help plan the expansion due to
take place in the sugar-industry
over the next 10 years. Since
1950 the Central Cane Board—
also, it is surmised, with some
“master-plan” in mind has
issued hundreds of new assign-
ments (i.e., the right to grow
sugarcane on certain acreages,
under certain conditions).
The result of this “planned
expansion,” even though some
portions of Queensland’s new
sugar-lands are not yet cleared
and under cultivation, is evident
in a press-statement issued by the
Director of Sugar Experiment
Stations (N. J. King) concerning
the 1955-season crop-estimate:
The amount of sugarcane estimated
to be available for harvest is 9,230,000
tons from 369,600 acres, and it is
calculated that this would contain the
equivalent of 1,254,000 tons of 94
net titre sugar. It is probable, how-
ever, that sugar-manufacture will be
restricted to the aggregate peak-
quantity of 1,170,900 tons, and, if so,
there would be over 600,000 tons of
cane left unharvested.
Except in southern Queens-
land, where unharvested cane
may be stood over until the
following season, cane uncut will
have to be ploughed back into
the ground. Besides the initial
loss of such procedure, cane-
growers will suffer in many
instances from the loss of
ratoons and a disruption of
normal fallowing sequence.
Generally speaking, Queens-
land canegrowers are not
anxious to take part in any
further “planned expansions.”
Pig-branding
“L. White”: The N.S.W.
Swine-Branding Act will come
into operation from June 30, this
year.
It provides that no person
shall sell or forward or deliver
any pig to an abattoir or
slaughterhouse unless within
seven days beforehand the pig
has been branded in the pre-
scribed position with the regis-
tered brand of the owner.
Obtain application-forms for
allotment and registration of a
brand from the Department of
Agriculture, Sydney.
Dehorning and Speying
“A.C.Y.F.”: Donald Walker,
of Meander Rise, Carrick, Tas-
mania, spending six months in
the United States under the
International Farm Youth Ex-
change programme, saw 850
yearling Herefords dehorned in
eight hours on a ranch near
Alcova, 50 miles west of Casper
(Wyoming).
“The yearlings were run
through a race and into the
crush, which held them firmly,”
he said, in a letter to the Aus-
tralian Council of Young
Farmers. “Their heads were
then held down by a rope oyer
the nose and an electric-
dehorner was used to shear off
the horns.” The same crush was


Of vital interest to all
Australian land men!
is the first issue of
Official monthly
organ of the newly
formed Keyline
Foundation.
26
Per Copy
at all
Newsagents &
Bookstalls
mti
Mr. P. A. Yeomans’ book, “The Keyline
Plan,” has won high praise from leading
agriculturalists both here and overseas and
all sections of the Australian press.
/comes "Keyline" a
# monthly journal
devoted to the interests and
furtherance of the Keyline
Plan in Australia.
SIR STANTON HICKS, Professor of
Human Physiology and Pharmacology at
the Adelaide University, speaking recently
to a large gathering of land men following
an inspection of the Keyline Plan in opera-
tion, said: "The Keyline Plan is the Key
to Australia's rural renascence
“The Keyline Plan,” perfected by Mr. P.
A. Yeomans after many years of experi-
ment, is a complete guide for agricultural
land development in Australia.
‘j&Bsrr
pton moV. b ®
KeY' ,n ® r or passed on
I SjUfiSMMi
SUBSCRIPTION ORDER
1 YEAR. 30/- 2 YEARS, 60/- 3 YEARS. 90/-
To Newsagent
OR TO KEYLINE PUBLISHING PTY. LTD.,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please enter my subscription for "Keyline"
commencing with
lssue for years.
NAME (Block Letters)
ADDRESS
(STATE)
I enclose cheque/money order/postal note for.
used to vaccinate the breeding-
heifers against brucellosis.
Walker helped with the spey-
ing of 445 heifers, an operation
which took 440 minutes. Pens
in the pasture in which the
heifers were running consisted
of a main holding-yard and a
small, wedge-shaped catching-
pen with a gate leading into the
pasture from the narrow end of
the yard.
“The heifers were roped by
the near hind-leg from a horse
and dragged out on to the pas-
ture. Two men then rolled each
heifer on to its near-side by
pulling the rope and the heifer’s
tail simultaneously. One man
then held the hind-legs and one
the fore-legs.”
That method sometimes failed,
and the heifers were then “bull-
dogged” down.
The left flank was shorn and
washed with a disinfectant and
the heifer branded to show that
it had been speyed. A veterinary-
officer made a l£in. cut in the
left flank, penetrating only the
hide and the flesh, while the
stomach-lining was pierced with
the finger. Only two fingers
were inserted into the heifer’s
stomach to remove the organs.
Sulphur-powder was put into
the wound and the cut sewn-up
with one stitch. An antiseptic
solution was painted around the
cut and the heifer was then
released.
An N.Z. Practice
“Farmer Bill”: Oversowing
lucerne - stands with short-
rotation rye-grass has given
Rotorua (N.Z.) farmers tre-
mendous yields of palatable and
nutritious green - material for
silage.
Tests covered four to five
years and were made in poor
soils. The crops mix well. In
winter the rye-grass protects the
crowns of the lucerne in its
dormant period, forestalls frost-
ing and keeps weeds in control.
In summer the lucerne provides
the rye-grass with shade and
large amounts of nitrogen neces-
sary for its development.
Evaporation of soil-moisture is
reduced.
Rotorua farmers usually take
the last lucerne-cut of the
season in late March or early
April. Choosing a dry-weather
period that will ensure the
killing-off of a heavy percentage
of weeds, they harrow the stand
from two or three different
directions. The area is then
oversown with 121 b. to 151 b. of
short-rotation rye-grass mixed
with 3cwt. of super., or its
equivalent, per acre. When
there’s a potash-deficiency, from
icwt. to lcwt. of muriate-of-
potash is added to the super.
The paddock is then closed.
In the first weeks of the
following November a heavy cut
of the rye-grass, plus some
lucerne, is available for silage.
Five or six weeks later the
second cut, about half rye-grass
and half lucerne, is ready. The
third cut, made in February,
consists of about 90 per cent,
lucerne and 10 per cent, rye-
grass. The fourth cut is almost
entirely lucerne.
C. R. Taylor, of N.Z. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, says that,
while some farmers have used
initial sowings of 201 b. of rye-
grass, smaller quantities—say,
51b. to 101 b., depending on the
fertility of the soil and the
extent to which the rye-grass
survives the first year —have
been sown in succeeding years.
Where approximately 50 per
cent, of the rye-grass remains
vigorous, it is unnecessary to
oversow every autumn.
A New Orchard
“Billjim”: When planning an
orchard, says S.A. Department
of Agriculture, site for good
shelter from wind and as great
a depth of fertile soil as possible.
Seek a frost-free situation.
Slopes which provide good air-
currents are ideal.
Here is a variety of fruits for
a variety of conditions:
Apple, pear, plum, cherry,
quince, walnut, lemon and per-
simmon for 30-35 in. areas (good
soil-drainage essential).
Apple, pear, plum, peach per-
simmon, apricot, nectarine,
quince, fig, walnut, citrus, olive,
almond for 25-30 in. areas (well-
drained, frost-free situations
only).
Apple, pear, plum, quince,
apricot, peach, nectarine, grape-
vine, citrus, persimmon, olive,
almond, mulberry, fig for the
20-25 in. areas (some supple-
mentary watering needed).
Apricot, almond, olive, grape-
vine, mulberry, peach, nectarine
for the 15-20 in. areas (supple-
mentary watering needed).
Fig, olive, almond, grapevine,
mulberry and apricot for below
15in. (supplementary watering
needed for first three years.
Wet spots receiving roof-
drainage are not good for
almond, apricot or peach; they
are better suited for quince and
plum. Citrus need more shelter
than any other trees, and need
full sunlight and a good water-
supply in summer.
Deciduous trees should be
planted in autumn, evergreens in
spring. Interfere with the roots
as little as possible, for the trees
come from the nursery packed
full of food-material ready for
use in root-growth.
Dig a hole just big enough to
take the roots. Stone-fruits and
almonds will do better planted
on a mound in heavy soil. Don’t
us manures in the hole, but a
handful of bonedust or blood-
manure will be helpful to the
tree later in the season.
Footrot
“B-gar”: As soon as sheep
show lameness the paddocks
should be mustered and all
sheep passed through the yards.
Then draft-off all lame sheep
and isolate them.
Run the apparently healthy
sheep through the foot-bath be-
fore returning them to the pad-
docks. As footrot is highly con-
tagious, place these sheep in
fresh paddocks.
Run the affected sheep
through the foot-bath and keep
them in hand until the feet have
been examined. Mild cases can
be placed in the isolation-
paddock for further inspection
and treatment, but bad cases
must be given hand-treatment.
In bad cases cut away the
diseased horn from the hoof.
Open and dry pus-pockets. All
dirt and maggots must be
removed and the wounds dressed
with a mixture of Stockholm-
tar five-parts, powdered blue-
stone one-part, or any other
good dressing.
Dress the bad cases every
second day. Once improvement
is manifest the foot-bath can be
substituted for hand-dressing.
Keep continuously at the sheep
until the disease is cleared-up.
A reliable solution for use in
the foot-bath is a per cent,
solution of bluestone in water
or 41b. of formalin to every
20gal. of water. Before putting
the sheep through the foot-bath
they should be run through
clean water to clear away any
dirt and permit solution to reach
affected parts.
Overdoing It
“Beroo”: A few years ago
canefarmers in the Mackay dis-
trict (N.Q.) suffered heavy losses
in the variety Q. 28 due to
ratoon-stunting disease and de-
cided to have nothing more to
do with that cane. Develop-
ment of the very fine cane Q. 50
by the Sugar Bureau provided
them with an ideal substitute.
However, it was adopted to
excess; in most mill-areas it
was planted so extensively that
it yielded well over 80 per cent,
of the crop last year.
It’s unwise to depend over-
much on one thing, and farmers
are warned now that Q. 50,
although such a desirable cane
in many ways—good growth,
heavy yields, tolerance of a
wide range of conditions and
high sugar-test are some —is not
good enough for a single crop.
Q. 50 is susceptible to red-rot,
and so is always likely to lose
its c.c.s. towards the end of the
harvest. It is advisable not to
have more than, say, 60-70 per
cent, of the area under Q. 50.
As for other varieties, if it is
good alluvial or deep hillside
soil, one can plant P.O.J. 2878
or Q. 45, but on most Mackay
soils, particularly the clay-
bottomed type which covers so
much of the district, go back to
Q. 28. Stocks free from ratoon-
stunting disease are now avail-
able, and the Cane Pest and
Disease Control Board or Ex-
periment Station knows where
clean plants are available.
Kikuyu-grass
“Mundi”: Kikuyu is at its best
as a sand-binder and preventer
of erosion along channels,
creeks, rivers and dam-banks in
dry country. It has a longer
growing-period than paspalum
and produces a greater bulk of'
feed.
Kikuyu stands up to grazing
by pigs, poultry and horses
better than any other pasture-
grass. Planted around tree-
guards it will protect the
surroundings from being
trampled to dust by stock.
So long as it is kept short
kikuyu is useful in sheep-yards.
It grows fast enough to choke
bracken and other weeds, but
if kept under control by graz-
ing it will allow clovers to grow
through it to form a balanced
pasture. But keep it out of the
garden—especially if you live in
moist coastal parts.
Trees for Queensland
“W.C.Q.”: Before spending
money on tree-planting, know
the trees that will grow well in
your particular locality.
Some of the best trees for
Queensland beach and coastal
areas are banyan fig, Moreton
Bay fig, terminalia, cotton-tree,
coastal-sheoak and sand-cypress.
Cape chestnut, bauhinia (both
local and introduced kinds)
camphor - laurel, weeping - fig,
cypresses, sheoaks, eucalypts
and jacarandas are satisfactory
growers in coastal and near-
coastal areas.
Inland areas are suitable for
pepper, bottle, kurrajong, white
cedar, pines of various types,
and gums.
Carob - bean, honey - locust,
Chinese celtis, bauhinia (native
species), kurrajong, several types
of pine, poplars and cypresses
are good trees for planting on
the Downs and in other
cool highland areas of S.Q.
Trees suited to temperate
climates may be planted in
winter, but trees that belong to
tropical or near-tropical regions
should not be set out before
September or October.
Farm Hints
“Gilpan”: To stop sheep in a
race from backing, place a piece
of 3in. by 2in. timber across
the race-floor with each end
against the side of the race.
Sheep do not lift their feet very
high when they shuffle back-
wards ; they stop reversing when
their hocks hit the timber.
“Demos”: Queens of Italian
bees vary in color. Some are
light - yellow, others darker,
while still others have brown
and yellow bands. However, the
worker-progeny all have three
yellow or orange bands across
the abdomen. These three-
banded Italians are gentle and
cause little trouble if properly
handled. Their resistance to
foulbrood and the wax-moth
grub makes them popular.
“C.A.A.”: An invasion of
cockchafer beetles in South
Australian pastures was
treated with lib. of D.D.T. per
acre through a boom spray.
Another treatment was 4oz. of
lindane per acre applied with the
super, in autumn top-dressing.
Both were effective.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(19/6/’55)
During July heavy rains should fall in the agricultural
areas of Western Australia, with reasonably good rains in
South Australia and Victoria. Apart from moderate falls
on portion of the coast, N.S.W. should get only light rain.
However, considerable variation is possible in N.S.W.
owing to a wide dissimilarity in the cycles, as the Main
cycle indicates very heavy falls along the coast. This cycle
has not been very influential to date, but will bear watching.
LENNOX WALKER.


last we heard of the two was
both of them nearly shouting as
they made their contentious way
to the Cri., where H. W. Bardell,
8.A., had put up and Geo.
Hopkins boarded.
A week later, with fiendish
pertinacity, George wrote H. W.
Bardell at his headquarters a
letter quoting pages from
a theological work in his posses-
sion. It was not replied-to, but
on another visit to the Isleses
two months later the inspector
said that, though famed for his
Liberalism, which he would
adhere to until the last sods
were rattling on his coffin, he
could not help thinking it
unfortunate that there should be
such a man as George Hopkins
seeking to undermine ancient
foundations in a young colony.
Unless he changed, he (G. Hop-
kins) would spell danger to any-
one connected with him.
This did not scare Doris Isles,
who married George a year later.
Perhaps she had too much
feminine good-sense to take any
notice of what any man merely
thought, or perhaps she changed
George. Probably the latter,
for he turned out a first-rate
husband and good provider.
HW. Bardell, 8.A., retired
fifteen years later and at once
tore into the local politics of his
home town. He almost became
mayor, but a heated controversy
with the borough-engineer over
a proposed septic system of
drainage stirred up ignorant
opposition to him, and people
who had found him overpower-
ing, without ever bothering to
find out what he was driving at,
joined his political foes to defeat
him.
After that he became the
savant pure and simple. It was
curious, as their opinions now
ventured from behind cover, to
find what the teachers in his dis-
trict really thought of him; but
in his presence they still abased
themselves. The habits of a life-
time are not so easily got rid of.
Geo. Hopkins wished that he,
H. W. Bardell, 8.A., would
again have a go at theology. A
local heresy-hunt in the Presby-
terian Church gave promise that
something might be doing in
that line, but H. W. Bardell did
not emerge into the open. Per-
haps he was lying low, or per-
haps he just despised George, or
perhaps he was satisfied with
adding to his laurels as the
Dominion’s expert on moa
bones, volcanoes, acclimatisa-
tion, etc., etc. Whatever the
reason, his silence was hard on
a freethinker with the best
theological library in the
province.
In truth, the lyrebirds of Sher-
brooke Forest have exercised
an uplifting influence on quite a
lot of people. And, as an odd
fact, the educative process has
included introductions to a con-
siderable range of bird-calls.
That is to say, the accomplished
mimics have introduced some
listeners to various voices of the
forest that they would probably
never have heard* from the
original owners.
It is well established, of
course, that lyrebirds are at their
best from April to August. Some-
times melody and display may
be practised briefly at other
periods (notably when, in late
summer, there is pride in the
possession of a new tail), but,
essentially, Lyrebird Time is the
depth of winter. Only then are
the mounds kept in good order.
Only then may the male birds
be seen in full and consistent
display.
Each of the mounds is simply
a small clearing (perhaps 3ft. in
diameter) in soft earth, and each
has a central elevation of a few
inches—though, to be sure, a
“Believe-it-or-not” author re-
cently declared that the little
platform sometimes rises to “a
height of 30ft. from the ground”!
Because the site chosen is
usually among bracken or other
tough undergrowth, the builder
often has to use his strong feet
both vigorously and adroitly in
the clearing process; yet, such
is the importance attached to the
an individual bird
may possess as many as 20
within his particular territory.
All of the mounds are used by
the revelling male, usually with-
out benefit of audience, as stages
for display and song. If, as some
bushmen have claimed, they also
serve as “traps” for insects, that
development is merely casual.
When the male is upon the
mound he never for more than
a moment holds his tail in the
shape from which the name
“lyrebird” wsts derived. In any
circumstances it is a rare event
to see the tail in that position,
and then the occurrence is merely
fleeting.
The display as a whole is
created by a remarkable expan-
sion and quivering of the varied
feathers. The two large and
colorful lyrate plumes are ex-
tended laterally, the two slender
“feelers” rise at an angle, and
the 12 central filamentary
feathers, being expanded and
reversed in order to reveal the
silvery under-surface, cascade
over the performer’s back in
shimmering splendor and some-
times obscure his whole body.
An enthralling sight, it is the
more impressive because of the
artist’s complete control of his
plumes the transformation
from a plain brown bird to a
thing of beauty is accomplished
very quickly, and when power is
“shut off” the transformation
in reverse is equally speedy and
smooth.
During the height of display
the bird frequently “dances,” or,
at any rate, pirouettes and jumps
in time to the melody of his
powerful voice. With his gauzy
plumes billowing and quivering,
he suggests then a highly spec-
tacular figure in a ballet.
This particular aspect of the
performance, one recalls, fascin-
ated the Japanese Minister to
Australia, Tatsuo Kawaii, when
in the winter of 1939 he visited
Sherbrooke Forest. So com-
pelling was the sight that, on
each occasion the bird called and
jumped, his Excellency involun-
tarily extended both arms and
imitated the jumps.
It may also be recalled that the
same lyrebird, a year or two
later, afforded similar entertain-
ment for officers of the United
States Army!
Given favorable conditions,
and in particular calm and misty
weather in mid-winter (or even
when light rain is falling) each
troubadour may take the stage
as many as six times in a day,
and each performance may last
up to almost half an hour. Dur-
ing breezy weather, when the
bird is compelled to listen more
carefully to hear sounds other
than wind, concerts are much
less frequent, and then are
usually rendered from trees.
Possibly the resounding nature
of the maestro’s “natural” notes
—they can be heard over at least
a quarter-mile—is due to his
domestic slackness. The basic
purpose of his lusty singing, no
doubt, is to impress both his
mate and rival males, but in the
domestic case he has to do this
by remote-control, partly be-
cause the mother-bird is usually
too busy to attend concerts, and
partly because he himself scorns
household duties.
With lyrebirds in all districts
the song on the mound consists
broadly of certain powerful
proclamations, a number of
clicking and gurgling notes,
and a perfect fantasia of bor-
rowed calls. In every area, and
in almost every instance, the
favorite subjects of imitations
are the voices of the grey thrush,
the whipbird, the golden-whistler,
the currawong, the kookaburra
and the crimson-parrot.
A striking side-issue is the fact
that the mocker not only imitates
the hearty “laughter” of kooka-
burras in chorus, and not only
imitates the gay chatter of an
entire flock of crimson-parrots,
but actually renders vocally the
noise made by the parrots’ wings
in flight.
Naturally, the songs of all lyre-
birds vary according to stimulus.
Individuals living in a well-popu-
lated area, and therefore ani-
mated by a spirit of rivalry, or
at least force of example, sing
more strongly and more persist-
ently than those that are in some
degree isolated. And, of course,
the most varied repertoires in the
group are possessed by birds in-
habiting spots which, more than
others, are “full of noises,
sounds, and sweet airs,”
The nature of individual bor-
rowings, too, is necessarily gov-
erned by locality. For example,
whereas all lyrebirds are able to
“laugh” (because all hear the
cackling of kookaburras), only
the northern birds are able to
“cry” (because they alone hear
the extraordinary wails of cat-
birds). Southern lyrebirds, in
turn, use certain borrowed calls,
including those of introduced
birds, that are unknown to their
subtropical relatives.
In all performances the calls
imitated are distinctly varied.
Like the lover in the Shaks-
pearian song, this feathered artist
can “sing both high and low.”
His borrowings range from the
screeching of cockatoos and the
shouting of currawongs to the
lisping and chanting of birds no
larger than his own head. Yet
all the notes are produced with
perfect ease —with a warm yet
serene vitality—and are used in
smooth succession and blended
harmoniously.
This kind of achievement (the
skill of the mimic in blending a
wide variety of notes) astonished
Albert Kitson in 1900. He de-
scribed it as being “nothing short
of marvellous.”
No less impressive, perhaps,
is the lyrebird’s ability to pick-
up a borrowed call when another
bird is part of the way through
it. One singer in Sherbrooke
Forest used to make a practice
of joining in when a neighbor
was rendering the call of a
thrush, so that the two mimics
finished the imitation as a duet.
In another instance a revelling
male interrupted himself in order
to mingle imitated notes of
crimson-rosellas with those of a
flock of the parrots flying over-
head.
Clearly, the lyrebird’s vocalism
is something more than auto-
matic. He may not actually
“think” about sounds, but he
appreciates them, uses them with
taste and keeps them under
control.
In short, this extraordinary
creature is a Shakspeare among
birds —Fancy’s child of the
forest. Like his human equiva-
lent,. he not only produces a
variety of native wood-notes
peculiar to himself, but by the
the exercise of potent art he
adapts all desirable expressions
of others to his own rich pur-
pose. And, of course, his
ancestors exercised the same
technique long before Shakspeare
was born.
Not the least interesting of
modern records in relation to
lyrebirds’ songs are those that
concern the “lady” in the case.
Earlier, it had been the fashion
to dismiss the voice of the hen
lyrebird as insignificant. This
impression was dispelled by
Kitson. He declared, and his
evidence has since been abund-
antly supported, that although
the modest female lacks the
resonance of her lord, she is
in fact a highly competent mimic.
“ There — didn't I warn you about buying him a cowboy
outfit?”
One hen-bird of Kitson’s
acquaintance rendered the voices
of at least 10 of her forest
neighbors,. and, because there
was no declamation in the
mimicry, each imitation was
really more faithful than are
some of those rendered by the
strong-voiced male.
In later years a female lyre-
bird living in Sherbrooke Forest
was so competent a vocalist that
she became known as “the sing-
ing-hen.” Another fine example,
quartered in Sydney’s National
Park, was apt to imitate imme-
diately, yet qpite casually, the
calls of currawongs flying over-
head.
Additional records for hen
lyrebirds include one of a gully-
dwelling bird near Sydney that
imitated the cackle of neighbor-
ing fowls, and one of a bird in
Gippsland that reproduced the
yelping of a fox and the barking
of a terrier.
Apparently, however, the
average lady lyrebird does not
take her vocal art seriously, for
she tosses off mimicry only when
in the mood and usually in a
most casual manner. “This,” she
seems to say, “is merely an in-
dication of what I could do if
I really tried, or, at any rate, if
I had some relief from the
lengthy task of building the nest,
brooding the egg, and feeding the
chick.”
In the same casual fashion, by
the way, females of the species
sometimes spread their modest
tails and indulge in a mild
measure of display.
Mimicry aside, hen lyrebirds
possess quite worthy repertoires
of “normal” notes. It is on
record that when a “mothers’
meeting” occurs, as occasionally
is the case, the conversation is
almost as brisk as that produced
by the birds’ opposite-numbers
in human circles.
Maternal lyrebirds use, too,
various croodling and apparently
endearing expressions to the
nestling calls that contrast
sharply with the ear-shattering
screech of a robust chick.
Additional records of recent
years have included the discov-
ery that lyrebirds, although
creatures of daytime, are not
only sensitive to voices of the
night but sometimes indulge in
nocturnes on their own account.
Imagine the result if this prac-
tice became constant! Much of
the charm of the nightingale’s
melody derives from the fact
that it is rendered mainly in
darkness, when most other birds
are silent; and if the lyrebird
adopted the same principle —
if the majestic voice, so much
more powerful and more varied
than that of the nightingale,
arose frequently in the stillness
of a dark forest the effect
would be almost overpowering.
Recent reports have included,
too, some queer consequences of
the birds’ mimicry. One
example relates to the interrup-
tion of timber-men’s activities
because a lyrebird imitated the
mill whistle. In another odd case
an enterprising bird threw a
group of survey-workers into
confusion through imitating (at
the wrong time) the code of
shrill signals issued by the fore-
man.
For the rest, latter-day im-
pressions concerning the vocal-
ism of lyrebirds have been largely
matters of analysis. One interest-
ing conclusion is that mimetic
notes may be passed on from
generation to generation. An-
other is that an apprentice
mocker develops his skill quite
early—much sooner than he does
the fine feathers of his tail, which
appear to require a growth-
period of seven or eight years.
Other results of faithful listen-
ing have included assessments
of the repertoires of individual
birds. It has been found that an
accomplished lyrebird, one that
really knows his business, may
render in a single concert as
many as 40 different calls, com-
prising his own notes and one
or more phrases from each of
perhaps 15 of his neighbors.
* * * •
Is knowledge of lyrebird cul-
ture now fairly complete? Per-
haps so. Nevertheless, there is
at least one particular problem
outstanding. The question is:
How and why did the birds
develop their extraordinary
talents?
This problem is shrouded in
mists of the centuries. It might
be approached with some assur-
ance if anything definite was
known concerning the group's
ancestry its origins and rela-
tionships. Lacking such know-
ledge, we can only suppose that
lyrebirds were once relatively
small and,plain, and that they
grew in size and developed a
majestic tail, over thousands of
years, through the influence of
natural selection.
But, even if that be granted,
how is vocal mimicry to be ex-
plained? What useful purpose,
if any, does it serve?
Contrary to some early beliefs,
mimicry is not intended to de-
ceive, nor does it deceive, the
birds that are mimicked (imagine
the mix-up that would occur if
it did!), and certainly it has
little if any value in relation to
the mocker’s own kind: that is,
in proclaiming his ownership of
a particular area.
It is true, no doubt, that lyre-
birds generally recognise another
lyrebird’s voice, even in a medley
of mimicry—witness the cases in
which one bird joined in
another’s imitations of the grey
thrush and the whipbird but
most of the calls imitated are
much less robust, and therefore
have much less “proclamation”
value, than the mocker’s own
resonant notes.
Nor can the practice be at all
helpful to the hen bird. Her par-
ticular business, as nest-
custodian, is to remain obscure.
She has no “right” to lift up
her voice in borrowed calls, or
indeed in hearty sounds of any
kind, and the fact that she often
does so seems to suggest that,
because of her innate “musical
appreciation,” • she can scarcely
help herself in the matter.
On the whole, then, the truth
appears to be that mimicry has
no real utility at all, but is
simply a happy exercise
prompted by talent, temperament
and environment the by-
product of a bird which, having
learned to maintain guard with
hearing rather than vision, has
become particularly sensitive to
sounds of all kinds.
In short, this lyre-tailed
genius of Australia indulges in
mimicry purely as a hobby. His
natural notes doubtless are used,
in the courting-season at least,
largely on a practical basis, but
his imitations are simply vocal
ornaments, playthings of an artist
who glories in his own power.
{Alec Chisholm’s second article,
“Stealing the Lyrebird’s Secrets,”
will appear in next week's
Bulletin.)


GOOD BOOKS FOR EVERYONE'S POCKETS
THE DA3I BUSTERS, by Paul Brick-
hill—an illustrated Pan volume.
3/6 (post 5d.)
ENEMY COAST AHEAD, by Guy
Gibson, V.C.—an illustrated Pan
volume. 3/6 (post 5<T.)
BOMMEI, by Desmond Young—fon-
tana edition. 3/6 (post 5d.)
BOMBER PIEOT, by Group-Captain
Eeonard Cheshire illustrated Arrow
edition. 3/9 (post 5d.)
Penguins—
ONE OF OCR SUBMARINES, by
Edward Young. 4/- (post 7d.)
THE BROOK KERITH, by George
Moore. 4/- (post 7d.)
LUCINDA BRAYFORD, by Martin
Boyd. 5/6 (post 7d.)
NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR, by George
Orwell. 3/3 (post 5d.)
and all the books you want at
- . •
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagrh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.i.
Now Available From All Booksellers
Ngaio Marsh
A new Ngaio Marsh is to-day as exciting an event as a new
Agatha Christie. Here is a winner!
SCALES OF JUSTICE
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
in fact, hardly a created character at
all, but a blank, a lay-figure, a peg for
Mr. Vickers to hang his sociology on.
Which has happened in many a novel
before “The Mirage.”
But “The Mirage,” for all that, is far
from being blank, characterless or
merely propagandist as a novel.
Some of the white characters in it
like Freddie’s stockman-father at the
cattle-station, at any rate in his firs
fuddled and snarling entrance, do seem
the caricatures of propaganda; others
like the doctor who befriends Freddie
and Nona, restore the balance; but i
is not on any of these people that Mr
Vickers is relying for the strength of his
novel.
Its strength lies in two things: the
vivid portrait of Nona, and the richness
with which Mr. Vickers paints the life
of the aborigines, both on the far, hoi;
cattle-stations and in the camps anc.
shanty-towns where the cheap wine
flows and the singing and fighting in
the night make the forlorn corroborees
of a lost people.
With Nona, because she does not
have to be, like Fred, a sociological lay-
figure, Mr. Vickers has obviously felt
at ease to create a living personality.
If one cannot quite believe that she has
really tried to live “respectably” with
Fred in the cottage in the country town
with which their struggles on the track
are eventually rewarded, she is cer-
tainly most charmingly alive in the
store when, flush with money, hope-
lessly absurd in her arrogance and at
once comic and pathetic in her
ignorance, she buys a white satin ball-
dress in which to trudge the roads; or
when, loaded with stolen finery, she
first runs away with Fred from the
station where the mistress has
“tormented” her: — ;
“Look!” She slipped the silk cord
that was the handle of the bag over
her wrist and held her arms high for
Freddie to see. “Don’t it sparkle?
It sort of laughs, don’t it? It’s the
prettiest thing that ever was.” She
put the bag to her cheek and smiled
ecstatically.
“Did she give it to you?”
Nona started like a wild thing and
clutched the bag to her. She glared
at him. “No her didn’t! I pinched
it an’ you ain’t gonna take it offa
me! Her tormented me with this.
Her showed it -to me an’ her wouldn’t
let me touch it! An’ it went into
me dreams with me. When I was
asleep it was there laughin’ at me an’
makin’ me mouth water so’s I
thought I’d do sommat bad. So now
I’ve pinched it. An’ I’m gonna keep
it. You nor nobody else ain’t gonna
have it!”
Would Nona really talk like that?
Perhaps; perhaps not. It doesn’t
matter. The dialogue is rhythmical and
vital; the woman is alive. That is what
the sociological novel must do if it is
to be readable; and one is very glad,
since it looks as if we shall have to
read novels of this kind about the
aborigines until somehow their condi-
tions are improved, that Mr. Vickers
has done it, on the whole, so well.
Portrait of New Zealand
The most interesting chapter of
David Hall’s Portrait of New Zealand
(Reed) is that entitled “The People” in
which there are case-histories of New
Zealanders’ successes in business,
journalism and farming:—
A—— is a farmer. But he has not
always been one. For nine years he
sold furniture and carpets. Then
some strange quirk of temperament
directed him into taking a job, a poor
one, on a back-country sheep-station
—one of those leasehold properties
with an immense acreage of moun-
tain and shingle, which in' practice
reduces itself to the much smaller
area of tussocky flats beside two 15-
mile-long rivers. After years as a
rouseabout-
A to sum up, became manager
of the property, then bought it.
In these paragraphs we meet the
people alive. For. the rest, Mr. Hall’s
book is too much in the nature of a
general survey to allow him much
opportunity for such vital details; but,
covering history, the Maoris, social-
services, sport, literature, trade, plants,
birds and animals, etc., it makes a
useful introduction to the Dominion for
newcomers or overseas readers, and,
for his temperate analysis of politics
and the social scene, will doubtless be
read with interest by New Zealanders
themselves.
In the curious literary warfare which
seems to persist between Auckland and
Christchurch—a rivalry like that which
has been known to occur between Syd-
ney and Melbourne—Mr. Hall believes
that “on the whole they [the Christ-
church writers] have worn better than
their Auckland contemporaries”: a
point-of-view which he is the better
able to maintain by not mentioning the
short-stories of Gloria Rawlinson and
Roderick Finlay son, the novels of Eve
Langley and the poetry of Robin Hyde.
Arnold Wall, who has had the misfor-
tune to live in both cities, is also
omitted—presumably as altogether
unclassifiable—and the N.Z. Players
Co. (of Wellington) is not mentioned in
a review of the theatre.
Mrs. Milton
Robert Graves . recently deplored
Richard Aldington’s attempt to debunk
T. E. Lawrence, but, as was noted on
this page when the book first
appeared, he does a bit of debunking
himself in Wife to Mr. Milton, now
added to the Penguins.
He describes the. Puritan poet’s
first marriage through the eyes of his
16-year-old bride, Mary Powell, and in
the process reconstructs life as it was
lived in an old manorhouse outside
Oxford and in London during the
turbulent period when Oliver Crom-
well was struggling for power and
Milton had made himself his mouth-
piece.
Mary has a romantic affection for
her first love, the son of a gentleman
in the neighborhood, and she marries
the obscure private schoolteacher who
was later to become one of England’s
greatest poets for purely prudential
reasons. The marriage was not a
success.
If we are to believe Mrs. Milton,
Mr. Milton was a monster. He wooec
her like an Old Testament patriarch
and when she was bearing his firs
child, which he hoped would be a boy
he forced a Spartan discipline on her
which nearly killed her. When the
child turned out to be a girl, and
deformed, he lost all interest in her
She went to her family at Oxford, anc
the Civil War broke out, which kept her
away for three years. After she re-
joined Milton they had four children
but he never relaxed his harsh treat-
ment of her. She never shows the
slightest interest in his poetry or feels
any sympathy for his struggle for whal
he regarded as liberty in England, and
she obviously thinks his scholarship,
which impressed all Europe, im-
mensely comic. She is quite untouched
by the blindness which was produced
by his devotion to the Puritan cause.
She died at 26, and, although Mr.
Graves’s sympathies are all with her
and against Milton, it is obvious that
she would never have been remem-
bered if she hadn’t been Mrs. Milton.
Although he is obviously trying his
hardest to do the reverse, Mr. Graves
paints a picture of a quite ordinary
young woman and an extraordinary
man.—F. S.
Lyrics from Adelaide
With more certainty than in his
“Lyrics from Pushkin,” where he had to
face the almost-insuperable difficulties
of translation from the Russian, R. H.
Morrison reveals in Lyric Images (Mary
Martin; Adelaide) a talent aptly de-
scribed by his title: he can make lyric
images; that is, small, clear, musical
poems each with its moment of illumi-
nation:—
We do not go through life: life goes
through us;
We are like seaweed anchored in the
ocean
And take our form because the cur-
rent thus
Sustains us with its never-ending
motion.
Life goes through us, itself remain-
ing whole,
Flowing towards a coastline still un-
charted ;
And when the tide withdraws its
fringe of soul
Only the wrack conceives itself as
parted.
There is much about pianos in the
little book, and one imagines that Mr.
Morrison is responsive to Chopin.
There are also verses on such Aus-
tralian themes as “The Wedge-tailed
Eagle” and (not so successfully in the
looser rhythm) “The Swan.” The
general effect is slight but thoughtful
and attractive.
Sex, Literature and Censorship:
D. H. Lawrence (Heinemann). Bernard
SJiaw thought that “ ‘Lady Chatterley’
should be on the shelves of every
college for budding girls. If I had a
marriageable daughter I shouldn’t let
her engage herself until she had read
that book.” The newspaper “John
Bull,” edited by Horatio Bottomley
of all people, thundered that “Women
in Love” was a “Loathsome Study of
Sex Depravity —Misleading Youth to
Unspeakable Disaster.” The two view-
points, between which the law blunders
its way along, are probably irreconcil-
able; but here at least is Lawrence
presenting the case for himself and the
freedom of literature with rare spirit—
the book consisting of his essays
reprinted from miscellaneous sources,
with forewords by Hariy T. Moore
and Harold Rubinstein. Apart from
its value in controversy it is worth
reading to renew acquaintance with the
unquenchable vitality of Lawrence’s
prose —how beautifully he could
describe a cow!—and to be reminded
of what an innocent and earnest-
minded little pastoral “Lady
Chatterley’s Lover” was, after all.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 336
Across
I—A great Australian can follow
a disreputable dog. (6)
3 —Fleece which almost completes a
harborside suburb' of Sydney. (8)
9—The collection or the congrega-
tion? (6, 9)
11—When to pay crooning Doris and
film-acting Laraine among the
pioneers? (8, 4)
15 — Florida’s neighbor beast in its
infancy article. (4)
16 — Tea bark related to coppers
couple. (3, 2,1, 4)
20 —There’s one in a nut, and the
Italian employs marine creatures.
(10)
22 —List free from fat. (4)
24—Silly professional charge drove
a current of air against it,
Edward. (6-6)
29 —Nip off the pitch might be
expected in sticky performances
of this interest of Neville Cardus.
(6, 9)
31 — An aid to the exercising idiot.
(4-4)
32 — Reverend crime behind the piano
with a good round child. (6)
Down
I—Business1 —Business firm’s island in the
Indian Ocean. (5j
2 —Our different pink in contradicted
handyman. (10)
4 Expelled, but it’s nothing to you
and Edward. (5)
5 He, of course, led the more
sheltered side in the American
Civil War. (3)
6 Islands bearing lan Beith's mono-
gram bird. (4)
7 Embrace a layer and study a
Queensland town. (9)
8— The Irish against a lubra. (4)
10 —Phone communication makes the
middle note everything. (4)
12 — A little boy with the deranged
ego. (3)
13 — Time you stand over a Moabite
city. (4)
14 — Phar Lap's jockey provides a
Crew of workmen for standards
of plainness. (10)
15 — Verified study on a tree faculty
for future doctors. (9)
17 — State horseshoe in a New Guinea
town. (3)
18 — Metal may be extracted from this
Scandinavian money. (3)
19 — Coppers wrath is dreadful. (4)
21 —Spanish for the rising sun. (3)
23 —In the place of a bad habit. (4)
25 — Infant over 50? There is
obviously some confusion. (5)
26 — Efforts drop for newts. (4)
27 — Dean- gives both the keynote and
the currency of 29-across. (5)
28—Ancestor two times a mother. (4)
30—A large crowd. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 335


Ith ntb* par* h a PAIT ADVKBTIgKMXMT
ftopwwft iww«Mt fcy Mom T-VTRTtnt T.TM11M
M
&
XV
July
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1955
k I
—
«
:
.
Industry. Science and the Grazier are working together to improve still further the world
superiority of Australian Wool. These efforts will do much to counteract the dangers of
high costs and foreign competition from synthetic fibres.
This season a record 3,900,000-bale
clip is predicted, and prospects for
a steady demand, with stronger
Continental and U.S. buying, are
good. But in the years ahead we
will have to battle for markets, and
every effort to cut costs and improve
quality and efficiency must pay off.
The photograph at right shows one
of the wool fibre-testing devices
which scientists are using to help
the grazier. More than 30 large
N.S.W. studs have already started
utilizing this new service operated
by the Sydney University of Tech-
nology, co-operating with the
C.S.I.R.O. The tests made enable
graziers and studmasters to deter-
mine which sheep to cull to improve
their flocks.
Scientists claim that the new tests
enable the rate of increase in out-
put of wool, through correct culling,
to be doubled, compared with
ordinary “hit or miss’” methods.
The new flock-testing method is
another example of how science and
industry are helping the wool
industry, and in that way. the whole
Australian economy.
This emphasises the debt Australia
owes the grazier for the measure of
“prosperity” we now enjoy. Due to
his efforts, and those of the industries
allied with him, we are still able
to compete favorably with other
nations on the international market.
Many factors have contributed to
the success in beating costs so far
achieved, especially the more scien-
tific utilisation of pasture, improved
shearing machinery and control of
pests.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., is proud to have
been associated with the drive to
give the grazier the benefits of
modem technical developments in
manufacturing. Their latest success
is a new all-purpose portable shear-
ing plant, the “Shearline” one-stand
Shearing and Crutching Plant.
Already new owners have been
loud in their praises of the plant,
for it has exceeded expectations as
the complete answer to the need for
a really portable all-purpose plant
which gives “shed-gear” perform-
ance and be at home in the shed,
yard or paddock. Shearline can be
used from its own steel stand, a
44-gallon drum or from the back
of a truck.
The small property will use it for
all shearing work, and the larger one
for paddock crutching. The “Shear-
line” plant incorporates many revo-
lutionary features found in no other
similar machine.
(Photo Courtesy “Land" Newspaper .)
One of the University of
Technology’s devices for Flock
Testing, which measures the
diameter of the wool fibre.
m
Special “Shearline”
Steel Stand, avail-
able as optional
extra.
“Shearline” 1-stand Plant
Moffat - Virtue introduces a
New Way for Graziers to Save
TIME, LABOUR and MONEY!
Capitalizing on years of sound experience in the practical and manu-
facturing sides of shearing, Moffat-Virtue Ltd., have produced this
new Shearline portable plant, with the compactness, accessibility, and
sound design that mean the easy, full-speed shearing previously
possible only with Overhead Gear.
That’s why the new “Shearline”
is a real investment . . . it
means continued savings in
time and labour, plus easy
year-round protection for your
sheep against Fly Strike. The
plant turns a previously difficult
and time-wasting job into a
routine operation, for it allows
you to go to the sheep and
carry out shearing and crutching
“on-the-spot.”
Only “Shearline” gives you per-
formance. convenience, versa-
tility, dependability and
economy, as well as Moffat-
Virtue quality and precision
manufacture . . . PLUS this
outstanding feature: you can
add an extra shearing stand to
the plant should the need arise.
Full particulars may be
obtained from all State Distri-
butors listed below. Every
property, large or small, needs
this new plant, so it will pay
you to get full information
now.
These Features Mean
Shed - gear
Performance
PLUS
"On-the-spot"
Convenience
1. Exclusive, with plenty of
overhang, means full free-
dom of movement for
shearer.
2. May be used as effectively
from the back of a truck
as from the special Steel
Stand (optional extra).
3. Solid Steel Channel-Iron
Base.
4. Ample power with famous
“Villiers” 1.3 h.p. Totally
Enclosed Petrol Engine ...
Easy Starting . . . Auto-
matic Lubrication.
5. Full - size finely-balanced
Min. Grinder in conveni-
ent, accessible position
which cannot impede the
shearer.
6. Adjustable Tension Vee-
Belt Drive, for efficiency
and constant revolutions
at all times.
7. Totally Enclosed Ball-
Bearing Head Gear grease-
packed and dust-proof for
longer life.
8. “Shed Gear” efficiency
with balanced Friction
Drive.
9. Simple, positive in-and-
out of gear with famous
M.V. Ratchet Control.
10. Full Ball-Bearing Cone
takes load evenly because
of superior totally enclosed
design.
11. Supplied with famous
M.V. “Full - Floating”
Down Tube with built-in
Shock - Absorber Spring,
gives positive action and
longer life.
12. The new “MARK 5”
“TRIMMER” Handpiece.
Built solely by Moffat-
Virtue Ltd., and embody-
ing entirely new principles
of shearing handpiece de-
sign, including: Force-
Feed Lubrication, Free-
Floating Back-joint, Cool
Rimning, Longer Life and
Precision - Built Quality
throughout.
N.S.W.; Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited*
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
