

$
ma
e
SWEET OR DRY
&
The Bulletin
DENIS WARNER WRITES ON S.-E. ASIA
“The Bulletin,Vol. 76 —No 3959
Wednesday, December 28, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE IMPERIAL INSTITUTE
SURVEYS THE
EMPIRE'S ECONOMY
THE great tower of the Imperial Institute is
a dominating feature in South Kensington,
London. It rises 280 feet above the road which
bears its name and along which it has a frontage
of six-hundred feet. This imposing building,
with its domed turrets and richly-decorated
gables, designed by Thomas Collcutt, was built
in 1887-93 as the national memorial of Queen
Victoria’s Jubilee.
The principal object of the Institute is to
promote the development and utilisation of the
natural resources of the Commonwealth and
Empire. To this end it incorporates scientific
and research departments, a library, a technical
information - bureau, etc., and exhibition-
galleries. These galleries, which are open to the
public, are visited by over 600,000 people each
year, who go there to see various aspects of life
in other countries,of the Commonwealth.
The varied and comprehensive collections are
arranged according to countries Australia,
New Zealand, Canada, the East and West Indies,
India, Ceylon and Malaya, the Sudan, Uganda,
Nigeria and Rhodesia. Every Dominion, Pro-
tectorate and Crown Colony from Hong Kong
to the Falkland Islands and Tristan da Cunha
are vividly illustrated with photographs and
dioramas. Ceylon shows how tea and. rubber
are produced; Malaya, the biggest tin producer
in the world, shows a dredge eating away the
bottom of a lake; Tanganyika shows the
making of sisal fibre; Zanzibar, its clove
plantation; West Africa, its cocoa, tin, man-
ganese and gold and Natal, its sugar estates.
One of the most striking dioramas depicts
Sydney Harbour, the greatest natural haven in
the world, with its single-span briclge. Among
the many Australian exhibits is a shining display
of gold nuggets, the two largest of which are
valued at £lO,OOO each. New Zealand shows
its hot springs, farms and mountain sports, and
also the processes involved in converting a
rabbit skin to a felt hat.
Londoners are shown how their daily papers
originate in the forests of Newfoundland, and
the other provinces of Canada show their
logging, wheat-growing, fur-trading and mining
industries. In one scene, Sir Walter Raleigh is
shown discovering Lake Trinidad in the West
Indies, which now yields a thousand tons of
pitch a week for paving London’s streets. These
are but a few of the many and varied exhibits
at the Imperial Institute.
No. 278: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


nOOKHUNSGER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you —fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
SONGS OF THE KELLYS
One of the most pleasing results of
the recent researches into Australian
balladry and folklore upon which a
;• umber of collectors have simul-
..tneously been engaged in Melbourne,
Canberra, Tasmania and Sydney has
bceh the discovery of a set of songs
avering practically the complete ad-
entures and career of Ned Kelly, a
:quence distantly comparable to the
nore polished and amusing Robin
■food cycle in English balladry; and
in Six Authentic Songs From the Kelly
Country (Bush Music Club) these are
set out, with music, in the form in
which they were collected by John
Meredith of “Speewaa” and the Aus-
tralian Folklore Society.
First in the booklet is “The Bold
K y G g,” still lurk-
ing prudently in its initials, which pur-
ports to be a song actually sung by
the outlaws, though there is no evidence
on that point, and more likely it was
composed by some anonymous admirer.
“Farewell to Greta,” a sentimental duet
purporting to be sung by Ned and his
sister Kate, contains, with the bush
song-writer’s inimitable gift of bathos,
the memorable quatrain:—
You know the country well, Ned,
So take your comrades there,
And profit by your knowledge of
The wombat and the bear.
“Kelly Was Their Captain,” a song
“collected from Bill Shawcross, Lith-
gow,” opens with the traditional “Come
all you wild colonial boys,” which one
expert has declared to be the hallmark
of all genuine bush-songs, briefly
recounts the whole history of the gang,
and is remarkable for its tender picture
of the fearful bush-shanty where
Kelly, when not in jail, spent his boy-
hood:—
They burnt his mother’s vine-clad
hut, which caused his heart to
yearn,
And angered his companions, Dan,
Steve Hart and brave Joe
Byrne.
The peculiar word “vitr’ous” in this
song—“ When Ned amongst them
recognised his old and vitr’ous foe”—
should probably be “vicious.” “Virtu-
ous,” though it would make a pleasing
touch of irony, seems hardly likely, and
“vitreous” is altogether improbable.
“The Kellys, Byrne and Hart,” an
exceedingly long composition on the
model of “The Wearin' o’ the Green,”
a ditty which has much to answer for
in early Australian song-writing, gives
elaborate details of the raids on Euroa
and Jerilderie. “Stringybark Creek” is
the dramatic story of the murder of the
three constables, Kennedy, Scanlon and
Lonergan, with a concluding line so
abysmally and enchantingly Australian
that it deserves to rank with Goodge’s
“The Great Australian Adjective”:—
But brave Kelly muttered sadly as
he loaded up his gun:
“Oh what a pity that the
tried to run! ”
Last in the collection is “Ye Sops
of Australia,” which, with its attendant
music, was first published in “The
Bulletin.” Obviously a parody by some
literary addict of bushranging on
Collins’s lament for the drowned mari-
time heroes of England, it contains a
striking picture of Kate as “an Amazon
queen” and brings Ned to Glenrowan
and the fate that, as the song-writer
very justly observes, “grieved him full
sore”:—
Nqw he arose captured, and stripped
off his mail,
Well-guarded by troopers and taken
to jail.
Addicted [sic] for murder, it grieved
him full sore.
His friends and relations his fate
may deplore.
It seems a little odd that the songs
mould solemnly have been published
“in commemoration of the death of
Ned Kelly, 75th anniversary,” and the
■ oreword smacks somewhat of partisan-
ship; but this, of course, does not de-
tract from the interest of the songs
themselves, either as literary curiosities
or as possible material for singers.
Trees
Maybe after a long while one could
set about reading Mary Quick’s Green
Crowns, “An Account of the Native
Trees on the Hills Around Robertson,
N.5.W.,” which she has set and printed
herself on a platen press, but so far
one has not progressed from looking
at it to reading it.
The type is so handsomely set and
placed on the page, the use of green
for some of the cuts and for side-
titles is so well judged, the inking of
the black engravings so rich, that one
can only turn it over and over,
admiring it, remarking more and more
proprieties; how fitting, for instance,
that a book on Australian trees should
be produced by the Juniper Press and
at Burradoo (N.S.W.), that the engrav-
ings should be on Turkish boxwood
and Australian white beech, that the
papers should be of Tasmanian wood-
pulp ... all that one can regret is that
Mrs. Quick did not use the wooden
type that was good enough for
Caxton.
Here the amateur carpenter may
meet the woods, fully clothed, as it
were, and in their right minds, that
he is used to seeing only in timber-
merchants’ racks naked and ashamed
of their ruling high prices; coach woods,
for instance,
billowing bronzy-pink against the
summer sky, lavish, cushioned, rosy
with the bracts that redden round
their wealth of tiny cream flowers—
and sure enough, there is a careful
engraving of the coachwood-flower and
-leaf on the next page, and the news
that coachwood—-one had thought it
a trade-name used to excuse furniture
for not being maple—was “one of the
only two Australian timbers that would
meet war-time specifications for air-
craft construction.”
Then there is poor old sassafras;
and lillipilli, which has at last found
a use in the core of plywood; and news
of the extraordinary back-room work
our trees are doing:—
.... and then back we come to the
old grey peppermints, broad and
narrow-leaved. Straggly and poor
in growth, even they are not to be
despised, for here in this district
grow trees that will yield up to forty-
five pounds’ weight of foliage, with
piperitone, phellandrene and com-
ponents of soaps and toothpastes and
perfumes besides: a healthily anti-
septic community of tree 5.......
It is obviously beautifully written,
but if one were to go on reading one
would only want to quote from it. And
then everyone would want to buy it,
and there are only 500 copies, with
“specials” numbered 1 to 150.
POEM
Flowers, iced in death
And bitter green of birds,
Circle the little breath
The final words . . .
That cold lips lean upon
Sadly, like lovers left
Alone . . . their lovers gone
And they bereft
By the chill undertone
Of silence, as it lies
Wreathed with birds and stone
On sound that dies.
N.S.W.
JOAN MAS.
Wrecks
Anyone who wants to feel really
morbid might consult Wrecks in Tas-
manian Waters, by Harry O’May
(Oldham, Beddome and Meredith);
the year-by-year list, from 1797 to
1951, with supplementary lists for
King Island and Macquarie Island, is
forbidding enough, but to unfold the
map at the end, and see the names of
dead ships clustered thick around Tas-
mania’s main ports like dead flies
round a poison-trap is to realise what
a ghastly place the bottom of the sea
must be.
Captain O’May is no dry^as-dust
historian or cemetery-supervisor. From
newspaper and law-court accounts he
pieces together as much as he can of
each wreck; how, for instance, mothers
and children walked miles through
rough bush after the wreck of the
Mary, 364 tons, off a Flinders Island
reef in 1845; how 134 convicts were
drowned when the George 111 went
down in 1835 in D’Entrecasteaux
Channel, and how evidence was given
of their being shot-at to keep them
below hatches; how a pilot ran the
Hope ashore in Storm Bay in 1827,
and how “prospectors” visited the
scene to dig up the treasure (the Hobart
Garrison’s pay) the Hope was supposed
to have been carrying; how, in 1845,
the Straits Constable had the job of
burying in four large graves, one hold-
ing 200, the bodies swept on to the
beach at King Island from the
Cataraqui, of whose 423 people only
nine were saved; etc.
At the back there are close to 50
plate-pictures of the deceased ships,
barques, steamships, schooners,
yachts, many of them from photographs
of the actual wrecks, and the whole
is completed with an index of the
upwards of 500 wrecks listed and
described.
H.M.S. Ulysses
Characterisation sharp, crisply visual-
ised; dialogue clearly characteristic;
situations vividly, at times brilliantly,
described; theme—overworked British
cruiser against the cruel sea and the
like-minded German planes and Ü-
boats—sustained, action-jammed, com-
petently handled . . .
A pity, then, that H.M.S. Ulysses,
this first novel by Alistair Mac Lean
(Collins), is technically absurd.
Ulysses has returned to base, an
incipient mutiny quashed by Marines.
Vice-Admiral Starr, Assistant Director
of Naval Operations—a very senior
officer indeed —assembles the guilty
ship’s senior officers and speaks, thus:
“After (Murmansk again) gentle-
men, the Med. But first —convoy
FR77 to Murmansk, come hell or
high water!” His voice broke on
the last word and lifted into
stridency, the anger burring through
the thin veneer of suavity.
And, finally, the Vice-Admiral
again:—
“You make a great mistake, gentle-
men, in pointing pistols at the head
of the Admiralty. We have long
memories in Whitehall.”
On which sinister note the A.D.N.O.
departs Ulysses.
Actually, of course, the A.D.N.O.
would have been meticulous in keep-
ing anything which could be construed
as censure from his voice and atti-
tude—the ultimate crime of mutiny
would have swung well-tried machinery
into action. Instead, with the same
crew Ulysses shoots off on her most
important convoy.
There is H.M.S. Ulysses—completely
competent professionalism in writing,
effect-destroying amateurishness in
naval technicality. The cruiser’s cap-
tain, Vallery, as seen by his senior
officer, the Admiral in charge of the
escort-squadron: —
Vallery [at sea, on the bridge]
broke off in a fresh paroxysm of
coughing, and the Admiral looked
away: he hoped the distress wasn’t
showing in his face.... .that Vallery
should be coughing his heart out,
visibly dying on his feet....
A situation, of course, quite incon-
ceivable. No four-ringed captain—the
epitome of integrity, responsibility to
the 600-odd men he commanded—
would have allowed his complaint to
degenerate to such a stage: even less
would his Admiral have tolerated a
man “visibly dying on his feet” on
the bridge in command of the escort’s
flagship.
Not that these two of many incidents
can be excused on the grounds of
avoidance of technicalities for civilian
consumption—the book is based on
them; the inhumanity of the brass-hats
at Whitehall and the ship’s company’s
adoration of their dying, and still-
fighting, captain.
Author Mac Lean was a torpedoman
during the war, joining at 18. leaving
at 23. He acknowledges help from
his brother, a captain, in the technical
preparation of the book. But his
brother is in the Merchant Navy. Had
Mac Lean gone instead to a senior
naval officer his excellently-written
novel could have refuted the belief
that “The Cruel Sea” was the end-all
of books about the War II Navy.
Macnell.
FLASH OF MEMORY
How real was that world, that air,
Those rough, stark benches,
Walls so bleak and bare,
Those ink and pinewood stenches,
The bustle and the undulating humming,
The edged and pointed steel commands,
The impish trebles and the tyros strum-
ming
The frenzied friendships and the term-
long hates,
The grim, forbidding gates,
The flying fists, the random blows,
The rainbow eye and the ensanguined
nose,
The sullen crawling hours in fusty halls,
The dull autumnal thumps of punted balls,
Guy Fawkes, the jesting squib, the mam-
moth blaze,
The paradisal dawn of holidays.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
Literary Desperadoes
There is plenty of violence in the
latest batch of Penguins—enough to
satisfy Senator McCarthy. It appears
that the Crime Club, launched by
Collins 25 years ago on the wave of
new-found public enthusiasm for the
detective-story, is celebrating its silver-
jubilbe, and to do it honor Penguin
Books have reprinted ten of the best
Crime Club novels, some of them by
that Old Master Agatha Christie, most
of them under the most alarming titles,
and all of them decorated with the
somewhat inappropriate symbol of
that gentle bird the penguin. To add
to the excitement there are four books
by Ernest Hemingway, the literary
tough man who was awarded the Nobel
Prize for his mastery of the art of
modem narration, as instanced in his
most recent novel, “The Old Man of
the Sea.”
It mustn't be thought that the
authors of these sanguinary epistles
aren’t thoroughly respectable, law-
abiding people. One is the daughter of
a parson and married another who
writes books on theology and
philosophy and is an Oxford Fellow.
In fact, having a clergyman for a
parent seems to be almost a necessity
for a really ferocious murder-fiction
writer. The author of the one with
the most belligerent title is the son of
Quaker parents, has a passion for
crocuses and lilies and was once a
soda-water dispenser.
The same can probably be said for
their readers. I doubt if the Crime
Club’s publications have as large a
circulation among people who are
already - leading violent lives under-
neath the social surface as among that
large section of the population whose
wildest adventure is to be booked for
illegal parking. D. H. Lawrence told
the story of how he was travelling down
from Scotland in the same compart-
ment as Bertrand Russell. He was
looking forward to an exciting discus-
sion on all the social, moral and philo-
sophical problems in which they were
both ostensibly interested. To his
amazement “Bertie,” the greatest
logician and philosopher of his day,
buried his nose in a detective-story and
never lifted it until they reached
London.
The Crime Club authors show a fine
catholicity of taste in their choice of
murders. They will wipe olf a boy at
a preparatory school or an instructress
in a girls’ academy of fencing with the
same detachment as they will a police-
man or an aged archseologist in
Mespot. They then proceed to follow
the scent of the guilty party with all
the impersonality of bloodhounds and
with an equal absence of humanity c-r
awareness of human feelings.
Hemingway, of course, is in a more
exalted class than these bloodthirsty
gentlemen and ladies. Although there
is more blood-letting to the square yard
in his books than to the acre in the
(' Continued, on page 35)


Be sure to book early
What a riot of fun the children have at Anthony Horderns’ every
Saturday morning! No less than thirty birthdays are celebrated each
week, and between five and six hundred children and their senior escorts
enjoy the fun in one huge Birthday Party. The fun starts at 9.45 a.m.,
when the children all gather in our Concert Hall. There they enjoy a
full hour’s entertainment and community singing, conducted by 2GB artists.
At 10.45, they all troop down to our Dining Room for their Birthday
Parties. It’s a wonderful idea for parents! All you do is book a table
for your party, any number, and Anthony Horderns’ do the rest. Small
cakes, soft drinks, sandwiches are all supplied; tables decorated and music
provided —and not one moment of work or worry for you. And any
child having a birthday may have a free birthday call over the air by
2GB on the Saturday nearest their birthday. Ring the Second Floor
Restaurant for all party enquiries. But be sure you book early, because
this popular party is
Australia’s big
party!
t birthday
...
4
m
mm
m
me
rvt,v _
MB
mmm
V
Daily Delivery
For over 132 years it has been the
policy of Anthony Hordern and
Sons Ltd., to maintain a standard of
service to the public that is second'
to-none. Now we are proud to
announce yet another streamlined,
efficient service, geared to meet the
demands of our valued customers.
We now make free daily deliveries
in no less than 325 inner suburbs
of Sydney, within approximately
14 miles of the store. Every day
your favourite store passes your
door! If you live within this area,
let us help you to easier, more
convenient shopping. Ring 80941,
ask for T.0.P.5., and place your
order. We will deliver your goods
within twenty-four hours.
'''•' / •' A
T.O.P.S.
T.0.P.5., our Telephone Orders
and Personal Shopping Service, is
the easy, modern way to shop.
T.O.P.S. is a wonderful boon for
those customers who find it in-
convenient to come into town. If
you want to place orders with
several departments, you once had
to endure the bother of being
transferred from one department to
another, with consequent delay. That
irritation is entirely eliminated now.
All you do is dial 80951 and ask
for T.0.P.5., who will take orders
for all departments. To save you
time, they will take your inquiry and
ring you back. If you desire per-
sonal selection of any merchandise, a
Personal Shopper from T.O.P.S.
will gladly go around the store and
do your shopping for you. T.O.P.S.
is open daily from 8.30 a.m.
Clothing Hospital
Here is one of the most appreci-
ated services. Our famous Clothing
Hospital does repairs, invisible
mending, alterations, re-fitting, re-
lining, etc., for both, men’s and
women’s clothing. Moderate
charges. Also, we have a service
where we recondition leather coats
and jackets. Grd. Fir., George St.
Repairs
Anthony Horderns’ are famous for
all classes of repair work. Lawn-
mowers, watches, furniture, blinds,
umbrellas, everything electrical,
stockings, etc., to mention just a few.
Commencing Thurs. sth
HALF-YEARLY CLEARANCES
Starting from Thursday, sth January, every department in our huge store will be packed with wonderful
reductions on quality merchandise. Come "Window Shopping" at night when the city’s cool and uncrowded,
and choose from our windows the bargains you want to save on, in comfort. Then, come in early and have
breakfast with us at 8.30 a.m. when the Store opens, and do your bargain shopping in the coolest part of
the day, from 8.30 a.m. until noon.
'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 28, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3959
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE YEAR OF THE SMEAR
IF Australia followed the custom practised in some
Eastern countries of giving each year a name —
the Year of the Goat, the Year of the Fire, the
Year of the Cadi’s Indiscretion and so on—there is
little doubt what title would be bestowed on the
one just closing. It would be the Year of the
Smear. Not that smears were unknown before 1955,
nor that they will cease with its ending. The year
was bom smeared —a heritage from its predecessors
—and the smears will no doubt spill over into
1956.
Chief smearer, or the man chiefly smeared —
according to the position in time and space of the
observer —was Dr. Evatt. Without going back
too far in history to recapitulate earlier smudges,
the big outbreak of smears may be said to have
erupted as a result of the Petrov commission, which,
according to Dr. Evatt, was a conspiracy to smear
him, “and, through me, the great Australian Labor
Party which I have the honor to lead.”
Regarding himself thus bespattered, Evatt
apparently decided that the best way to remove
the smear from himself was to distribute it
generously among others. He thereupon proceeded
to smear Prime Minister Menzies, the chiefs of the
Security Service and the three judges who sat on
the commission, in a series of unsupported charges
which, in the words of the commissioners, included
“blackmail, forgery, uttering, fabrication, fraud and
conspiracy.”
When some members of his party criticised in
caucus his conduct at the commission he extended
the smear to include them. His most vocal critics
happened to be Victorian members. They also
happened to be Catholics. There is nothing unusual
about a “Labor’** M.P. being a Catholic. Irish
names predominate in most “Labor” Cabinets, and
only a few years ago a prominent Hibernian
member of the N. S. Wales Ministry on a visit to
Eire was quoted in the local press as proclaiming
proudly that ten members of that Ministry were
of Irish descent.
Evatt had never in the past been known to
doubt that his Catholic colleagues were staunch
“Labor” men. His discovery that they were not
apparently coincided with their criticism of his
Petrov-commission antics. On went the smear!
The Victorian members, said the Doc., were
obviously acting in the interests of an outside body.
This was soon made more specific and extended to
include the Victorian executive, the industrial-
groups, Catholic Action and Mr. Santamaria. In
the closing months of 1954 the smears flew thick
and fast, and if Omar Khayyam had chanced to
look-in on a “Labor” Christmas-party a year ago
he might very well have asked, “Who is the smearer,
pray, and who the smeared?”
It was in this besmirched atmosphere that 1955
was ushered-in. Australian party-politics in the
ordinary sense of the term were more-or-less at a
standstill while the rival “Labor” factions came
to death-grips, with Melbourne and Hobart as the
main battlegrounds. Move One was the summon-
ing by the A.L.P. Federal Executive of a special
conference of the Victorian A.L.P. The purpose
of this was to elect a new Victorian executive to
Replace the old one now declared bogus by the
Evatt majority on the Federal executive. The
resignation from the “old” executive of Premier
Cain and some of his Ministers took the smear-
campaign into the Victorian Parliament, and when
the Hobart Conference opened in March two
Victorian delegations, each claiming to be the only
genuine one, sought admission. When the dele-
gates representing the “old” executive were
excluded 17 delegates (five from Queensland, six
from N. S. Wales, four from Westralia and two
from Tasmania) walked out, after which Dr. Evatt
addressed the rump 19, which thereupon adopted
a policy of “No troops for Malaya” and decided
to give the N. S. Wales executive “the works.”
In Melbourne J. M. Mullens, M.P., announced
that he no longer regarded Evatt as his leader.
Evatt replied by describing Mullens as “a willing
tool of the outside movement which is attempting
to convert the Labor party into an adjunct of the
Menzies Government.” Mullens came back with
“I take it as a certificate of good-citizenship to be
attacked by Dr. Evatt and his Communist friends.
Hearty recriminations continued on all sides during
April, and the “new” Victorian executive announced
wholesale expulsions of members inside and outside
Parliament.
In Canberra this meant the formation of the
Joshua-Keon Anti-Communist “Labor” Party and
the transference of the
you-smearer-you-smeared-me accusations from the
caucus-room to the floor of the House. In Mel-
bourne it meant the rise of the Barry-Coleman
Anti-Communist “Labor” Party and to a similar
high level of intellectual riposting. It led, too, to
the Cain Government’s defeat on(y 17 months after
being elected with a record majority, and to an
election which left “Labor” with fewer than one-
third of the Assembly seats. Before the smearing
started Cain held 37 seats, the L.C.P. 11, Country
party 12 and the Hollway Liberals four. There was
also one Independent “Labor” member. After
the split the Cain party was reduced to 25, and the
election cut it down to 20, leaving it to draw what
comfort it could from the knowledge that 11 of
the 12 Barry “Labor” members had also lost their
seats. The smears and counter-smears had reduced
“Labor’s” numbers from 37 to 21. .Three weeks
later the story was more-or-less repeated at a
Legislative Council poll.
As a result of the Victorian disaster every
effort was made to avoid a repetition of the split in
N. S. Wales and Queensland, although the Premiers
of those two States were both accused of the crime
of existing on Grouper support, and Gair had been
one of the delegates who walked out of the Hobart
conference.
In both States discretion became the better part
of smearing, and “Labor” politicians who before
the Victorian election might have been prepared to
consider themselves mortally smeared if a member
of the opposite faction so much as gave them a
dirty look suddenly learned how to take lashings
of red or green paint and still remain unsmeared.
State elections were looming-up and preselections
were in danger. The conference that was to have
put the N. S. Wales executive in its place was
strangely transformed into a “unity” conference—
a kind of oil-and-water unity which left the anti-
Evatt faction still in control but apparently prepared
to act pro-Evatt for election-campaign purposes.
In Queensland underground rumblings reached
the surface once or twice, but there was no erup-
tion. For a while only relatively minor smears were
in public view—allegations of graft in Sutherland,
Bankstown and Blacktown municipal circles; of
bribery of a Queensland M.L.A.; the various types
of smear associated with the Browne-Fitzpatrick
Privilege case in Canberra. Then, with the Petrov
Report debate and the Molotov letter, it was all
on again, and in the brief Federal election campaign,
with Anti-Communist “Labor” candidates in the
field in four States, Dr. Evatt stumped the country
from one end to the other, paintbrush in hand and
complaining that he was more smeared against than
smearing.
The result, of course, is history, though its
cause is open to more than one interpretation. In
the Doc.’s view the worst campaign of smearing
in political history robbed his party of victory and
himself of the Prime Ministership. In his opponents’
view the people reacted strongly to Evatt’s smear-
ing of Menzies, the royal-commissioners, the
Security Service and all who crossed his path.
Old and New Years, being strictly impartial
as regards mortal events, cannot be expected to
pass opinions on such matters, but with Dr. Evatt
still in Parliament and the Anti-Communist “Labor”
party not quite out of it, no one could blame 1955
for greeting 1956 with the wisecrack “Snappy New
Smear.”
The World and Us: 1955
THE exciting year of 1955 is almost over. It has
been a year in which a lot of war-tom
countries have made great strides towards normality.
Western defence has been consolidated to a point
at which there is a greater feeling of security in
the “capitalist” zones. If the phase in the East
is not so pleasant to contemplate and the drive of
the Communist bloc to suck India, Burma and
Indonesia and Malaya behind the Iron Curtain and
to separate the Arab countries from the West seems
to be having some success, the position at least has
its compensations.
British administrators (retired) who know their
India and Burma have a pretty fair idea of what
is in store for the U.S.S.R. if it decides to replace
Britain as the great colonial Power of the world.
Moreover, the loosening of controls of foreign
contacts by the Russian authorities, even though
it may be designed as a ruse, tells its own story
of the instability of the regime. The fact that
Russia is beginning to look for export-markets
while its living-standards are still near those of a
poor Asiatic State, short of consumer-goods of the
most everyday necessity, indicates the economic
stresses which the great, unwieldy aggregations of
the Communist bloc are suffering.
With the growth of a new intelligentsia which
the Kremlin has had to create to carry-out its
defence programmes and develop the heavy industry
and mechanised agriculture, without which its
people cannot live 'even on a low standard, it has
involuntarily created also a younger thinking
generation which is much like that of the unanchored
young university generation of British-speaking
countries —one to whom distant fields are greenest.
It has been evident that discontent in
the U.S.S.R. has been intensified by the opening of
Russian borders to let delegations out and selected
travellers in. Bolsheviks of the type of Khrushchev
and Bulganin, utterly ignorant, in their conceit, of
the outside world, seem to have believed that to
give some of their people a glimpse of Western
capitalism and the despised United States would
have been to disillusion them and bring home to
them the glories of the Communist system. Also,
they seem to have thought in their ignorance that
the vista of wonders achieved in the past decade by
the application of the Stakhanovite-whip would
render Western visitors to the Soviet Union dumb
with astonishment.
In neither case has the effect been what was
expected. The awe and astonishment have been
generated on the wrong side, and the Kremlin junta
is faced with the problem of handling a difficult
and fluid position among its technocrats when the
Congress of the Communist Party of Soviet Russia
meets next February with only the briefest interval
between it and the last one.
It is obviously to be a disciplinary Congress,
designed to put the finger on dissident elements, to
secure authority for sterner measures. The indi-
cators are already out in the desultory shootings
of “traitors” in Georgia, the arrest of a Chinese
archbishop who allegedly is the centre of a spider-
like “spy-ring” in Shanghai, and the execution of
an ex-Foreign-Minister of North Korea, who, while
making war on them, appears to have been the toy
of the wicked Americans for years without anybody
finding it out. These incidents will be before the
Congress as part of the panic machinery. The
ripples from the preparations reach as far as Aus-
tralia, where there is an upsurge of Communist
activity obviously unusually well financed and
well supplied with expensive propaganda-material
from overseas.
By and large, however, the world is beginning
to settle-down economically, and has reason to count
its blessings. The dislocations caused by the rapid
disappearance of shortages in everything except
labor in many great countries might in other
circumstances have had the most sudden and
devastating consequences. But if there is one
thing for which this generation has to be thankful
it is that its Governments, through the lessons leamt
in 1929-33 and during the war and afterwards,
when they had a devastated Europe and Japan to
practise on, are economically experienced and
acutely conscious of atmospheres. It is a pity that
wage-earners are not equally conscious of economic
realities. Under almost wanton trade-union leader-
ship in some countries, they are our weakness.
The last election-campaign showed in more
marked degree what had been gradually evident in
other recent ones —that Australians are becoming
less politically conscious and more economically
conscious, irrespective of whether their views and
aspirations as voting-blocs are right or wrong.
There is still a hypochondriac minority which calls
itself a Labor party and which prays for disaster
to wreck the Menzies-Fadden Government.
The unions themselves are teetering on the edge
of a new era in which they must choose between
the old and dying concept of the Communist class-
war and the new Americanised one of the union
which is a vast bargaining and co-operative invest-
ment concern, concerned not with war against the
employer so much as with the direct benefits and
protection in time of stress of the use of accumu-
lative funds.
The need for the old type of union and the old
type of class-war party-politics is dying. And
one of the greatest feats which the Menzies Govern-
ment has achieved during 1955 has been to initiate,
as a preliminary to handling the problems of the
difficult economic year or two ahead, a policy of co-
operation with the community, of consultation with
finance and commerce, with the unions and with the
press and voices of public opinion.
If it can continue that policy and enlarge it to
its limit it will be able to feel that 1955 has been a
historic year. It will not be possible to make the
work of consultation fully effective until there is an
Opposition which is not wedded to savage all-out
determination to wreok every Government till it has
permanent office. The situation calls for State
Governments which do not place parish-pump
politics before national welfare and big unions which
are not headed by men whose hearts are in Moscow
and who are working for chaos and revolution in
the interests of Communism.
The sooner the community realises that these
factors precondition continued and stable pros-
perity, and a working-together of Government and
people on a basis of confidence, the better.


THE BIG JOB FOR 1956
“Here, son, take this broom and make a clean political sweep of New South Wales for the good of all Australia.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Plain Speaking
The Bulganin-Khrushchev mission arrived
in Stalingrad on December 15 after a
highly successful campaign in South-
East Asia.
Its two members had avoided awkward
press-conferences, left a trail of gifts and
bribes—hospitals, industrial aid, promises
of good things to come —behind it. It
had declared Kashmir Indian, and an-
nounced its aid to the Afghans to recover
the North-West Provinces from the Paki-
stanis, the forthright people who insist
on being their own masters and on refus-
ing to even touch the hem of the Iron
Curtain.
They left India smiled-on by a slightly
nervous Nehru and to the noise of an
anti-British outbreak, obviously Com-
munist-organised and encouraged in
Jordan and adjacent countries. There
is plenty of evidence that they are making
the affair of Cyprus a major effort, as
witness the extreme measure taken by
sthe British of banning the Communist
party in the island, along with its fellow-
traveller bodies.
The cynical boldness and disregard
for ordinary international courtesies with
which the Bulganin expedition was
carried through, the insulting rudenesses
which were deliberately aimed at the
British and Americans without provoca-
tion, were no doubt prompted by a feel-
ing that, with a sick President, the United
States might not be in a position to
retaliate. But there was no doubt about
the answer either in London or in
Washington.
Mr. Macmillan, then the British Foreign
Secretary, in a 8.8. C. broadcast almost
immediately after the arrival of the two
noisy travellers in Moscow, made a
forthright attack on Russian policy,
which, he said, was “aimed to get con-
trol of the Middle East, or, at least,
throw it into turmoil.” He said that
the speeches made during the Indian tour
were an obvious attempt to restart the
cold war in Asia, and he accused Moscow
of “preaching a creed of hatred and
enmity between peoples of different races
and religions.” He said that when it
suited the Kremlin the Russians posed
as Europeans and sought to tempt what
were called “progressive” elements in
Western countries to go Communist; but,
equally when it suited them, they posed
as Asians and anti-imperialists and ariti-
colonials, despite the fact that by con-
quests and annexations they had “become
one of the greatest of colonial Powers
and not in a good sense, either.”
Under the surface there is consider-
able fear and hostility directed against
Russia in India, but the position is much
more difficult in Malaya, whose Mr.
Marshall is in London demanding a self-
government which the British can’t grant
without handing the place over to an
Administration which would be either
bought or terrorised into submission in
short order by the Communists backed
directly by China.
The withdrawal of British and Aus-
tralian troops, who are going on active
service in a few days on the Malayan
mainland, would bring the peninsula
within reach of being a Chinese colony
and threaten the security of the flank of
India, of Indonesia and of the Pacific
Dominions. It is something in which
Australia should have a strong word to
say if there should be signs of develop-
ments which threaten to leave the
Malayan area insecurely held against the
Red tide.
Plain ignorance
“In the ACT”: Even the full and de-
pressing tally of informal Senate votes
does not tell the whole story. Tens of
thousands of voters cast votes which were
legally valid because they had a number
in every square, but which were obviously
the result of voting straight across the
paper, mostly through profound ignor-
ance of who the candidates were and of
the correct manner of expressing
preferences.
The fantastically high vote for the
Communists in N.S.W. was perhaps the
most outstanding illustration of this brand
of childishness. Can’t primary schools
begin to instruct children in the principles
of preferential voting, and make them
accustomed from a tender age to selecting
persons or objects through this means?
They might be asked to vote first on
whether they preferred a chocolate or a
dose of medicine, and those who failed
to make themselves clear on the subject
would receive a lesson that they’d
remember all their lives.
It has been suggested that a large pro-
portion of the informals came from the
ranks of the post-war migrants. Few
of those from Europe have as yet quali-
fied for citizenship and a vote, but British
migrants, of course, are eligible on
arrival, and a great many of the last half-
million to arrive voted on December 10.
Coming from a country which still
clings to the “first-past-the-post” idea,
and which allows papers to be marked
with X, it is possible that they were among
those whose votes were wasted.
If this is so, it is time the immigration
authorities or the State education depart-
ments undertook a campaign to explain
in simple terms how valid votes can be
cast. At the same time the Government
must consider as soon as possible the
placing of party labels on ballot-papers.
The ordinary voter, suddenly confronted
with sixteen or more names, many v of
which he doesn’t recognise, can be
excused for bewilderment and frustration.
He should have made himself familiar
with them, of course, but he usually
hasn’t, and he is justified in asking for
help.
All parties should be agreed on the
stigma which is cast on the country by
the great volume of informal voting, and
on the need for remedies. The sooner
action is taken the better, because State
polls are coming up, and their results are
important, too.
Changing Horses
The main shock in Sir Anthony Eden’s
Cabinet reshuffle lies in the removal of
Mr. Butler from the Chancellorship of
the Exchequer to undertake duties which
have little significance, since the leader
of the House of Commons is only a seat-
holder for the Prime Minister, who him-
self leads on all major occasions. Mr.
Butler has shown originality and initia-
tive in his Exchequer job, to which he
has devoted much enthusiasm and con-
scientious study.
His replacement by Mr. Harold Mac-
millan has an almost equally astonishing
significance. Mr. Macmillan is removed
from the Foreign Secretaryship at a
moment of tricky dealing with Russia,
when he and the Foreign Office are in
the middle of conflict in which they have
been firm and outspoken to the point of
bluntness. It comes directly following an
announcement that the Prime Minister
and Mr. Macmillan would visit Washing-
ton and Ottawa in January to discuss the
world position. It sounds, and will be
interpreted, as a return to the traditional
Eden policy of carrying on relationships
with foreign Powers by a method of
weak-kneed busy bodying.
Furthermore, there is not much in his
record to recommend Mr. Macmillan as
a Chancellor. He is a doctrinaire econo-
mist without practical experience of
finance and completely without the
standing of Mr. Butler.
As for Mr. Lloyd, the new Foreign
Secretary, he is a Q.C., an able debater
who was president of the Cambridge
University Union. He had a splendid
record on the staff during the war, but his
bent has been rather in the direction of
scientific and industrial research, and he
brings neither reputation in diplomacy
nor special experience to the new job.
On the whole, the reorganisation looks
very much as if it were designed to re-
move the last vestige of the bulldog
Churchillian look from the faces of the
senior departments and to give the holders
of the major offices a uniform air of
belonging to the Tailwaggers’ League.
Barge-in Theatres
Drive-in theatres, like jukeboxes and
Davy Crockett coonskin-caps, are among
the more recent American contributions
to civilisation. Like the other items, they
are not everyone’s meat, but a reason-
able case can be made out for their
right to existence. In New South Wales
a considerable number of persons and
organisations made out what they con-
sidered to be good cases for their right
to satisfy this “long-felt want” in various
localities. Many of them found it was
not so easy to satisfy the various authori-
ties which interest themselves in such
projects. Municipalities, police, town-
planning authorities and others had to
be consulted ; fire-hazards, traffic-hazards
and other hazards had to be considered.
One such hazard was encountered by a
man who proposed to build a drive-in
theatre near Wollongong. His plans in-
volved reclaiming a swamp area known
as Fairy Meadow and spending £130,000
to convert it into a theatre by night and
a childfen’s playground by day.
The Greater Wollongong Council
granted him permission to use the site
and they approved his plans. The pro-
prietor, Mr. A. Rosen, then began pre-
liminary work on the site, spending several
thousand pounds. Then the hazard
popped up—an edict by Minister for
Local Government Renshaw banning the
project. The Minister’s explanation was
that police officials in Sydney considered
the theatre would constitute a traffic-
hazard ; also that the Local Government
Department’s town-planner had reported
adversely on the project.
Demanding a fuller explanation for the
ban, .Opposition-leader Morton said the
action “reeked with suspicion.” He
wanted to know who requested Ren-
shaw to cancel the licence; why were
Sydney police and the chief town-planner
assigned to report on the project after it
had been approved by the Wollongong
Council; when and by whom they were
assigned; how the Police Department
and the chief town-planner explain
reports to the council that the plan would
not create a traffic-hazard and would
accord with town-planning principles.
Mr. Renshaw has offered to hold “an
official inquiry,” date and nature not
disclosed.
Quite apart from the implications of
the “reeking with suspicion” comment,
the Minister’s action calls for an explana-
tion from the purely local-government
viewpoint. Under the Cahills the autho-
rity and powers of local-governing bodies
have been systematically whittled away;
the desire and aim seem to be to centralise
all authority in the Minister.
Even making allowance for the vast
experience the Cahills have had with
their own drive-in theatre in Macquarie-
street, into which confidence-men and
jailbirds were apparently allowed to
drive-in at will, there seems to be no
legitimate reason why a council 50 miles
away from Sydney should not be permit-
ted to make its own decisions on a matter
such as this.
The Academics
The tendency of Labor parties every-
where to divorce themselves from trade-
union leadership has become apparent
in the past two years, nowhere more
than in Australia and the United
Kingdom.
Since the death of J. B. Chifley, Aus-
tralian Federal Labor has been led by
Dr. Evatt, whose connection with
unionism has always been theoretical and
whose claim to be a “toiler” in the
accepted meaning of the word at the
Trades Hall is about as substantial as
that of Senator “Fixer” Ashley and of
Senator Armstrong, who is a capitalist
among capitalists.
The election of Mr. Gaitskell to the
leadership of the British Labor party
shows the same pattern. He is a product
of one of the great public schools —
Winchester —made over to Socialism by
New College, Oxford, and that airy nest
of Leftists, the London School of
Economics, the stable from which
emerged Dr. Coombs, of the Common-
wealth Bank, and all the controls and
devices that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment acquired with him.
The trend is shown by the fact that at
49 Mr. Gaitskell defeated Mr. Herbert
Morrison (one of the most experienced
members of the Labor front-bench, ex-
Home Secretary, ex-chairman of the
London County Council) and Mr.
Aneurin Bevan by an overall majority
of 157 to 110. As somebody bitterly
remarked, he was elected largely by his
appeal to members of his own public-
school class in the party. He was a
reader —a research professo r —in
Economics at London University College
in his earlier days and later joined the
civil service. He was elected for a Leeds
constituency in 1945 and two years later
succeeded Mr. Emanuel Shinwell as
Minister for Fuel and Power. In 1950
he had the portfolio of Economic Affairs,
and he was a natural successor to that
other pundit, Sir Stafford Cripps, as
Chancellor of the Exchequer.
In France, where there is an election-
campaign in progress with voting on
January 2, the same tendencies are noted.
The leaders of the various brands of
Socialism are nearly all academics whose
experience of hard toil has mostly been
acquired visually. The Socialist leader,
M. Mollet, might, from the summaries of
his policy-speech available, be in grave
danger of action for breach of copyright
by Dr. Evatt.
It is obvious that everywhere Socialist
“Labor” parties have less and less Labor
ingredient and are becoming more and
more unstable and divided, there being
nothing much left for Socialists to fight
for except all-out Socialism, which
appeals as a cause only to long-haired
theorists. The old staple of workers is
beginning to drift out of the political
field.
"Workers"
Creeping workers cause creeping in-
flation. And automatic wage-adjustments
produce an escalator-economy which
ensures that inflation will inflict little
discomfort upon the worker himself. In
this immunity the worker holds, a unique
place in the social strata.
If, however, workers were to have a
tangible stake in the economy—some-
thing less evanescent than the weekly pay-
cheque—they would have an incentive
really to work at their work and reason
to dread inflation.
Of course, should inflation evolve so
far that it erupts in an economic ex-
plosion, the worker would suffer along
with everybody else; but, to the average
worker, talk of pricing ourselves out of
world-markets, and the rest of it, seems
remote. As for those who are, or think
they are, Communists, they are taught
that inflation is a commendable anti-capi-
talist weapon.
However, even Communists have been
known to renounce their doctrines when
a rich aunt or a lottery turns them into
capitalists. Certainly, today, a good
many workers are becoming capitalists in
that they either own or are buying their
homes. But home-ownership (unless one
has had the misfortune to let it) offers
little incentive in itself to resist inflation.
As the value of money falls, that of
houses goes up. Indeed, if the house is
being “paid-off,” inflation is a windfall:
it shrivels both the real cost of the pay-
ments and the ultimate cost of the house.
Workers who voluntarily save money
do, of course, exist in plenty; and along
with most other people resent seeing
their savings depleted by inflation. But
their numbers need to be increased. It
seems unpleasantly redundant to suggest
yet another Government control, but a
compulsory saving-scheme is by no means
so outlandish as it sounds and might help
stabilise the economy.
Capitalism for all, enforced by Socialist-
type legislation, is a Gilbertian political
paradox. But knowing that, willy-nilly,
they had monetary nest-eggs put by might
deter workers from pressing demands that
must depreciate the worth of the nest-
eggs.
The idea is, of course, not new and
has already had a large-scale tryout here.
War-time deferred-pay was just such a
measure; though it was then limited to
“the duration” ; a civilian scheme would
cover a man’s working-life.
Unfortunately, war-time deferred-pay
demonstrated a weakness some econo-
mists believe is inherent in compulsory-
saving plans. After the handout of post-
war nest-eggs, only a minority invested
them wisely. The majority went on a
spending splurge which, on that occasion
at least, gave the economy another in-
flationary kick.
However, if handouts of compulsory
savings were more gradual they should
not be so violently inflationary: men at
the end of their working lives have a
soberer approach to money. And it is
questionable whether real money backed
by real work is, in fact, inflationary.
Bernard Baruch, dean of U.S. financiers,
defines money as “stored labor.” It is
only when money ceases to represent
honest labor that the national bandwagon
heads for disaster.
Reds on the Snow
“Stromlo”: Scientists have caused the
world a lot of trouble since one of them
discovered how a bow could be used to
shoot an arrow at an enemy, and the
world’s current crop has kept up the
old tradition with nuclear explosions and
guided-missiles. Now the geophysicists
have started something with their Inter-
national Geophysical Year in 1957, which
has produced a race for the assets, known
and unknown, of the Antarctic continent.
As Australia claims about a third of
this area, and as Australia’s claims are
not admitted by several countries, includ-
ing the United States, we are most vitally
concerned. There are other aspects, in-
cluding the sequel to Mr. Casey’s polite
invitation to the Soviet to plant one of
its scientific bases in portion of our
Antarctic claim. The Russians, accepting
with a promptitude which suggested they
are anxious to forget Petrov, have set
out about a year in advance, and have
asked Australia for a land-base in Wes-
tern Australia from which t 6 service their
men in the Deep South. *
It has been hinted from official quar-
ters that this request will be granted, and
(Continued on next page )


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
there have been other guarded hints that
a close radar-watch will be kept on the
Russian planes to make sure that they
don’t wander accidentally off course in
the direction of Maralinga and Woomera.
But there has been no suggestion as yet
that before the Russians make free of
our favors they should publicly acknow-
ledge our sovereignty over that portion of
the Antarctic which we claim, a seg-
ment reaching to the Pole and about as
large as the Australian continent.
It is time also that the Australian Gov-
ernment said something about the reports
on the use of the Antarctic as a strategic
base commanding the oceans in the
Southern Hemisphere, which would be
the only sea-links between several con-
tinents if Suez and Panama were immo-
bilised. It is certainly desirable that we
should learn soon if uranium or other
strategically important minerals or oil-
deposits have been located, in addition
to the rich coal-seams known to exist
there. We should know what the pros-
pects are of international airlines via the
South Pole. But, first and foremost, we
should be told the full purpose of the
Russian visits, and of the safeguards pro-
posed to ensure that their programme is
restricted entirely to beneficial aspects of
scientific inquiry.
POLITICAL POINTS
As was said when Nancy Wake almost
beat the favorite in 1951: “Is there a
doctor in the House? Yes, but only
just!”
• •
With the count in Maranoa still
dragging on, the Federal score when
politicians, victorious and defeated, sat
down, like their constituents, to Christ-
mas - dinner was: Government, 74;
“Labor,” 47 —the identical figures for the
same time in 1949.
• •
The Doc.’s majority in Barton after
the distribution of Independent Trem-
bath’s preferences was 226, compared
with 4043 at the previous election and
243 in 1951. Liberal candidate Arthur’s
belief that he would have won had there
been no Independent in the field is not
supported by probability. Trembath is
bound to have pulled away from Evatt
some votes a Liberal man would not
have gained and a proportion of these
would go to Arthur on “seconds.”
Arthur ran the Doc. very close, but in
a straightout fight the margin might have
been bigger rather than smaller.
• •
Bendigo, at first written-off as a loss
by official “Labor,” was retained by P. J.
Clarey on the distribution of Anti-Com-
munist “Labor” preferences. Clarey
needed about 27 per cent, of the prefs. to
hold the seat; he received about 40 per
cent, and won by 1005 votes. In contrast,
former “Labor” M.L.A. Galvin, Chief
Secretary in the Cain Government, re-
ceived only 13 per cent, of the A.-C.L.
preferences at the State election last May
and lost the Bendigo seat by a narrow
margin.
• •
After the Bendigo seat had heen de-
cided in favor of Clarey it seemed that
Arthur Drakeford could count himself
safe in Maribyrnong. He needed only
19 per cent, of the A.-C.L. preferences
and Clarey had collected nearly 40 per
cent. It didn’t work out that way. A.-C.L.
voters in Maribyrnong stuck much more
closely to the ticket than the Bendi-
gonians, with the result that Liberal P.
Stokes squeezed home by 114 votes.
Drakeford had held Maribyrnong since
1934 and had been Minister for Air
under Curtin and Chifley. In normal
circumstances the seat would have been
his until he retired. He can blame the
party-split for his defeat. He probably
has his own ideas on whom to blame for
causing the split.
• •
Towards the end of the primary count
in Fawkner, W. M. Bourke (A.-C.L.) put
in a good run and eased the Evatt “Labor”
candidate P. G. Thompson out of second
place. As the official “Labor” card advo-
cated second preference for A.-C.L. can-
didates this seemed to put Bourke well in
the running to pass Peter Howson
(Liberal) and retain his seat. Final prim-
aries were: Howson 17,645; Bourke,
10,450 ; Thompson, 10,133. Bourke thus
needed 86 per cent, of Thompson’s prefs.
He got only 77 per cent, and lost by
1757 votes. Obviously a large number of
“Labor” supporters either ignored the
official instruction or didn’t believe it was
meant to be taken seriously.
o •
S. M. Keon, deputy-leader of the
A.-C.L. party, went under by 791 votes
to official “Labor” man J. F. Cairns in
Yarra, after the preferences of a Com-
munist and an Independent had been split
up. In Scullin, Peters (“Labor”) headed
Cremean (A.-C.L.) by 1328.
• •
Tasmania was the first State to com-
plete its Senate count, three seats going
to the Government and two to “Labor.”
Four Government Senators stood for re-
election, but proportional-representation
meant that one of them would have to
miss out. Senator Guy was the unlucky
one, Senators Henty, Wright and Ward-
law reaching the quota in that order.
Only one “Labor” Senator faced the
electors —N. E. McKenna. He was
returned, along with running-mate A. G.
Poke.
Fifth place was not decided until the
preferences of Independent W. G. Wedd
had been distributed. Wardlaw and the
Anti-Communist candidate V. D.
Morgan ran neck-and-neck, with Ward-
law winning by a narrow margin.
• •
The Hungarian athletes were brought
face-to-face with Melbourne’s traffic
problems when they found they could
run from the Town Hall to the Olympic
Sportsground in nine minutes and that a
trip by tram took them forty.
• •
Denationalisation of Britain’s steel-
industry, “grabbed” by the Attlee Gov-
ernment in 1951, is going ahead steadily.
The first sale of steelworks back to their
former owners was arranged in August,
1953, when 144,000 shares in the Temple-
borough Rolling Mills were sold at 1455.
a share (nationalisation take-over price,
1405.). Since then many steel concerns
with names known around the world have
been denashed. Latest on the list is the
Consett Iron Co., 10 million shares in
which were offered to the public and
snapped-up at 255. 6d.
SAME AGAIN!
Khrushchev in India: “The Soviet does
not want any part of the world dominated
by another.” That’s great news for
Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland,
Rumania . . . and many other countries.
• •
Premier Bolte, whose Government is
challenging the uniform-tax laws early
in the New Year, said just before Christ-
mas that he could assure Victorian tax-
payers that they would not have to pay
more if he won the appeal. He estimated
that his State would get an additional
£lO million a year without increasing the
present rate of tax.
• •
Bolte is expected to visit Britain and
America next year. Main objective: to
attract oversea capital to Victoria.
• - •
British M.P.s are reported to have
been shocked to hear that a 20-year-old
lass clad in a feather figleaf and a coating
of silver paint performed an “Oriental
shimmy-dance” at a postal workers’ party
in a Government building. Apparently
they haven’t heard of the old game
“postman’s knock.”
• •
Victorian Transport Minister Warner
gave a cheering New Year greeting to
railway-users. He said that most of Vic-
toria’s rail-carriages, -trucks and -tracks
were in a dangerous condition, that most
of the 19 major rail-mishaps and derail-
ments in the State in the past year had
been caused by faulty equipment, and
that it would take another 10 years to
make the railways safe and efficient. In
that case, any union-secretary who
brought off a 10 years’ strike of railway-
men would be a public benefactor.
• •
After more than half-a-century as an
Anglo-Egyptian condominium, the Sudan
is now to be an independent country.
Self-government was granted in 1952, and
the first Parliament was elected the fol-
lpwing year, both Britain and Egypt zgtQt-
ing that the Sudanese should have full
rights of self-determination. Strong
efforts were made from Cairo to persuade
the Sudan to agree to some form of
union with Egypt, but last week the
Parliament at Khartoum rejected the idea
and plumped for independence. Britain
and Egypt thereupon announced that
they would “recognise” the new regime.
1 • «
“Zorok”: I suggested to a school-
teacher that the all-round increase in
public-service salaries was highly infla-
tionary and would send the cost of goods
spiralling again. “How d’you make that
out?” he asked in puzzlement. “After
all, civil servants don’t produce any-
thing.”
• •
Two Ceylonese M.P.s charged with
disrespectful conduct and with creating
a disturbance in the House last April
were discharged by Mr. Justice Fernando,
of the Ceylon Supreme Court, on De-
cember 2. It had been claimed by the
Attorney-General that the two had been
guilty of breach of privilege, but the
judge held that, assuming there was an
intention on the part of the respondents
to be disrespectful, their conduct could
not be questioned in the Supreme Court,
as jurisdiction for taking cognisance of
such conduct was vested exclusively in
the House of Representatives.
• •
“Pravda,” critical of Russian music:
“We have many dull, colorless and in-
expressive works . ..” What about their
“Song of India”?
• •
“Mugga Way”: There was no gnash-
ing of Treasury teeth over the Chamber
of Commerce criticism that American
entertainers were taking large wads of
dollars out of the country. The official
reaction in Canberra was to point out
that while early this year a great num-
ber of these people had come here ready,
in some cases, to exploit what they re-
garded as our gullibility, there had been
a sudden falling-off when it was realised
that the bonanza had ended. Several
entrepreneurs are believed to have burnt
their fingers, and in any case little money
had actually left the country after the
visitors had paid their living-expenses
and taxes.
• •
“Diplo”: Increased External Affairs
activities, especially in Asia, have been
responsible for the decision to train an
extra batch of diplomatic cadets at Can-
berra in 1956. lliey will be admitted to
the department soon after Easter, and at
the same time the department will con-
sider whether to reduce the cadetship
period from two years to one.
• •
“In the ACT”: The Quakers are
taking an increasing interest in world
affairs, the latest demonstration being
an informal seminar in the University of
Ceylon which was attended by 30 officers
in the foreign services of Australia, India,
Pakistan, Burma, Thailand, Indonesia,
Japan, the United States, Britain, Canada,
France, Holland and West Germany. The
seminar, which had no official status and
no connection with any Government,
was under the auspices of the American
Friends’ Service Committee. Those
attending “were drawn from the middle
level of responsibility,” and the gather-
ing was described as the first of its kind
in Asia, although several have been held
in Switzerland. The Quakers claim that
such gatherings increase understanding
between men administering the foreign
policies of their respective countries.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Apparently the Gov-
ernment still has hopes that the 1.L.0.
will pull itself out of the morass (B.
9/11 /’55). No official reply has been
made to the strictures of the president of
the Victorian Employers’ Federation on
the subject; the is await-
ing the report of the independent com-
mittee of experts, set up by the governing
body of 1.L.0. early this year to investi-
gate the membership of 1.L.0. and the
extent of the freedom of employers’
and workers’ organisations from Gov-
ernment control. This committee, granted
about £200,000 for its expenses (presum-
ably for a trip to Russia), was due to
report this month.
• •
A Malayan lass who returned to Singa-
pore after studying in Australia for four
years told reporters that Australia was
grand, but she hadn’t been able to get
used to the food. She didn’t know what
she’d have done without the special food-
parcels sent to her from home. Looks
as if there’ll have to be a Colombo Plan
in reverse to keep Asian students from
starving in our land of plenty.
• •
“Patentee”: It was a tribute to the
efficient administration of Australian
patents and trade-marks that Australia
was asked by the Commonwealth-coun-
tries conference on the subject, which
has just ended in Canberra, to undertake
the duties of a Commonwealth secre-
tariat. The conference reached a great
measure of agreement on ways of reduc-
ing the differences in classification and
procedure, and the service to the public
should be improved if recommendations
are adopted. Renewal of trade-marks
without evidence of use in Australia may
be one change, and another will be adop-
tion of the international “34-class”
system of classifying trade-marks. Uni-
formity of indexing is another objective.
• •
“In the ACT”: Mention by Supply
Minister Beale of the fact that Australia
has not yet approved of the use at
Woomera of the new upper-atmosphere
research-rocket announced by Britain
(although refusal is unlikely) emphasises
that no announcement has been made
whether we ascertain the amount of
radioactivity drifting over our continent
after the Russians and Americans have
let off one of their atomic fire-crackers.
Air-samples are certainly taken after the
British-Australian experiments, and pre-
sumably some are taken here after the
other explosions, just as they are over
the U.S., Britain and Japan, and doubt-
less Russia. Why not tell us?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
ANOTHER traffic hazard! Miss Fitz
was, to express it mildly, elderly;
rather tottery, too, and so I was sur-
prised to see her alight from her self-
driven car in a busy part of the city. “So
you still drive yourself?” I asked. “Oh,
yes. My eyesight’s failing and my hear-
ing’s not very good, so it’s no longer safe
for me to walk from bus-stops or cross
streets.”—“Rexine.”
“Loma Doone”: In a crowded store I
overheard, “Wheredja get that stocking?
You put that back, at once, or we’ll all
be run-in; you mark my words, young
lady, if you don’t be’ave y’self I’ll tell
Father Christmas on y’! ” That was last
week—what avenging angel can poor
Mum invoke now?
♦l+
“Bo”: Strangely enough, prosperity has
made things tough for the festive-party-
thrower. With everyone owning refriger-
ators suburban iceworks are folding-up,
so that the old method of cooling-off the
beer by packing bottles in the ice-girt
washtub has had to be replaced. If the
party is any size the host now has to
farm-out the stingo among the fridge-
owning friends who will be his guests,/
and as these days transport-troubles are
at an all-time low with so many cars
available they, can bring the bottles
chilled. The drill is to cultivate friends
among your close-by neighbors. Also
honesty.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Kate”: Where are all the brass spit-
toons once to be found in every barber’s
saloon, railway-carriage and hotel?
Why don’t hotels still cater for their
customers by leaving cloves and coffee-
beans on their counters? I can’t say that
either question causes me any great con-
“But I did my training in New Guinea, Doctor."
cem, but they do an old chap living in
our neighborhood. When he touches on
either subject you know the world will
be “gone-to-the-dogs” before you can
escape.
“Nunk”: Anyway, Gran (Sydney) will
be more at home in the suburbs.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“W.P.T.”: “Mid-on” (B. 7/12/’55)
overlooks the fact that Joe Darling was
not a politician when he represented Aus-
tralia at cricket. His cricketing days were
well over before he became a Tasmanian
politician in 1921. It might be a good
idea to organise party teams, at least one
match between Government and Opposi-
tion being played once a year. Wheel-
chairs could be provided for some of the
Cabinet Ministers.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Uramao”: Juvenile delinquency is
still a live subject in New Zealand. The
question of boys under 12 delivering
papers in the early mornings and working
in racing-stables came up as possible
causes. One schoolmaster instanced a
pupil familiar with racing-stables, who
advised the master to put his shirt on a
double. To his regret the dominie failed
to act on the advice ; but on the Monday
following the race-meeting the boy an-
nounced that he had won £275 on that
double. He gave the master a pen-and-
pencil set and everyone in his class a
new fountain-pen. After school he took
all his class to a milk-bar and shouted,
all the recipients pledging friendship and
wishing him many happy returns of the
day.
❖ * ❖
“Naklab”: All in-law tabs are
courtesy-titles, but how far should we
carry this courtesy? Divorcees must set
a few posers: families of film-stars would
have a job knowing who’s in and who’s
out. But what happens in the case of
the death of, say, brother- or son-in-law?
Is his widow, out of courtesy, conven-
tion or whatever, still referred to as an
in-law? If so, modern Bluebeards would
have around them more in-laws than
outlaws. But what do the laws of
etiquette say?
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Arthur R”: “W.P.T.” and his Cauli-
flower Hotel (B. 23/11/’55) brings to
mind that at Malvern (Vic.) Hotelevision
has been licensed.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spinifex”: Like “N.L.” (B. 14/12/’55),
I’ve always pictured as an old man the
person who so beautifully inscribes the
word Eternity on Sydney’s footpaths.
Maybe he is an old man ; but all his com-
petitors are not. On Sunday evening,
about 8-o’clock, I sauntered down
Martin-place with a friend. On the foot-
path were freshly-chalked warnings of
doom and stern warnings to repent. The
inscriptions were in pairs, at about 50yd.
intervals, and it was obvious there were
two scribes on the job. At the G.P.O.
we overtook them. Near the kerb a
middle-sized, middle-aged woman in a
green jacket and a black skirt was furi-
ously scrawling warnings of the terror to
come, while over near the G.P.0.-steps
a more elongated lady in a beige coat
was setting out her views on purgatory,
and the chances of getting off light if you
came clean. When interested passers-by
paused to watch them they hastily
shouldered their chalks, moved off
smartly, and swung left around the G.P.0.,
comer. I’ll bet George-street copped it.
“Keem”: Add to “Narumee’s” list of
poor-quality canned-goods (B. 5/10/’55)
some canned “green”-peas, which, indi-
cates color-blindness on someone’s part,
as the peas are grey, not green. Also,
ready-made clothing cut smaller as prices
rise—SW should read SSW, particularly
in women’s underclothing. Ditto, some
men’s shirts, cut inches shorter; quarto
typing-paper, about half-an-inch nar-
rower; shoelaces so short it is almost
impossible to tie a bow; oatmeal put-up
in rough cardboard containers, cheap,
hairy stuff, without any inner protection,
Some breakfast-foods contain prickly
husks. Flavorings have half their old
flavor. Sauces that used to have a good
bite are feeble imitations of the genuine
thing—now, with prices doubled or more,
you have to use twice as much to taste
them.
* * *
“Blufire”: Ladies’ bloomers,, listed in
Government stores as “waste, cotton,”
have been issued to W.A. diesel-drivers
for cleaning controls—short pants hav-
ing gone out, of course, with steam-
engines
h '
❖ ❖
Doormat . Apart irom the -Mel*
where ‘the°
be staged during the Games in November,
on Lake Wendouree. This lake is handy,
right in the heart of the city. Ballarat’s
poster will incorporate its world-famous
begonias, Lake Wendouree, and the city
seal of goldminers with scales and nug-
gets over the lion jnd unicorn. World-
focus equal with Melbourne s will be on
Ballarat during the Games so the locals
are pouring in the shekels to see that it
rises to the occasion.
♦♦♦
, , _
“Wallboard : I see (B. 7/12/ 55) that
in their treatment of the new Kooyong
station the Victorian railway-chiefs have
come to light with green, yellow and
cherry-red, no less! Well, the N.S.W.
Education Department has let its head
go, too, by painting the interiors of new
schools in a variety of pastel-shades, but
very little attempt has been made to
relieve the drab exteriors. Reminds me
of when my old headmaster applied for
a new paint-job at our school and had
the effrontery to suggest that the boys’
toilet-block be painted duck-egg blue and
the girls’ pastel-pink. He even enclosed a
color-chart with his letter. His vivid
description of the condition of the build-
ings certainly got results, for the painting-
gang arrived in record time—approxi-
mafely three years—and painted both
structures a striking shade of khaki. My
boss was too far ahead of his time,
%
“0.W.W.”: A fond father of my
acquaintance received a rude shock when
he. mentioned the attention paid to his
16-year-old daughter by the 17-year-old
boy next-door. “I hope,” said Dad, “he
is not getting serious about you.” “Oh,
he’s not serious the daughter explained;
“he’s only sexy.”
* $
“324”: Invited to an important dinner,
the wife rushed out and got a new even-
ing-frock; then rang Aunty; would she
mind young Bill? She would, and added,
“You’d better have my white fox with
that dress; I’ll fetch it over,” and did
f - . Whenever Aunty comes it is her
habit to tell the boy a story. Between
comments about the frock, she began
* be bad-wo If one, while he kept fingering
the fur. Has the wolf got woolly hair
hke this?” “Oh, yes, yes—where was I?
—and so the wolf,” etc. Next day Bill
electrified the kindergarten. “Mummy
went out x last night with a wolf”
TaortUa-. “cviz* .
wa l
5“ ‘ ’ lg ® h,te w °' f ' . A " d n ° w ’
„ eVel l bod l ln town toows
1 went out Wlth a borrowed wolf.
1956
Leap-year brings a bigger minute;
Bigger ones will be born in it,
Bigger rogues and bigger fools
Catered-for by bigger schools;
Bigger murders, better rapes,
Heavier failings, more escapes,
Bigger international crises,
More to buy at higher prices,
Higher costs and higher wages, „
Swifter speeds and older ages,
Bigger fleets of cars and trams,
Bigger city traffic-jams,
Bigger plans to solve the problem,
Bigger union-moves to hobble ’em;
Bigger “Miss Australia” dames,
Bigger Melbourne fun and Games,
Bigger “Labor”-party splits
Into much, much bitterer bits . . .
Of all of which a bigger view
Soon will be vouchsafed to you
When the world of your derision
Comes to you by television,
Proving that the more we see
The sillier we seem to be.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
DRUNKS
Out in the clear light lying,
Sots on a sabbath day,
The early sun up spying
Upon their bold display:
There of a holy morning,
Far from the scene adorning,
Adown the cobbled lane,
Sprawled in their drunken sleeping,
Bad company keeping, some weeping .
Those empties there again.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


JUDGE HOLDEN’S castigation of a
Sydney youth as being “the cheekiest
and most lairily dressed little lout that
ever appeared in the dock” should surely
elevate that descriptive Australian word
“lair” and its offshoots to accepted Eng-
lish. Of no known etymology, the noun
first cropped-up in our slanguage around
about 1925 ; it promptly developed a “y”
and became an adjective, then an ise
which made it a verb ; and now the judge
has used it as an adverb. Rhyming-
slang added two more syllables to the
noun and made it “teddy-bear,” and our
natural tendency to abbreviate everything
knocked the last syllable off again. Thus
the “lair” of yesteryear became a
“Teddy.” Meanwhile, on the other side
of the world, juvenile delinquents were
adopting a form of dress which would
have branded them as lairs in Australia.
In their own country the attire earned for
the wearers the name of “Teddy-boys,
shortened to “Teddies.” And now, by
pure coincidence, a Teddy is a Teddy in
each country. —“B. A. Ker.”
+;+ ' * *l*
“Greenhill”: Believing the day of
striped-paint, bubbles for spirit-levels and
left-handed hammers to have passed be-
yond recall in these times of smart teen-
agers, I was surprised when, seeing the
boy of the factory up a ladder near a man
using an oxy-acetylene outfit, I asked,
“What’s he doing?” and was told, “He’s
catching sparks, and putting them in that
tin, so we’ll have a supply for our ciga-
rette-lighters ! ”
♦> ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Touching “Jasby’s”
theory that a driver’s not a driver until
he’s had an accident (B. 14/12/’55), I
held a licence for three years in the
1920’s without incurring a single black
mark. Three months ago, attempting to
renew it, I went so close to so many
accidents in so short a time (including
driving straight through a halt-sign) dur-
ing my test-drive that I terrified my
testing-officer into failing me. One month
later I passed both police and Govern-
ment tests without a blemish, and have
since driven Government vehicles of
differing make 100 miles a week in
metropolitan traffic carefully, capably and
confidently.
❖ ❖ **+
“Sebak”: Surely “Sub’s Due” wasn’t
working on a Sydney daily when the
editor insisted on all that accuracy iu
reporting (B. 7/12/’55)? The only way to
determine the age of anybody mentioned
in our two morning- and evening-papers
is to add ’em all together and divide by
four. I assisted at an accident in which
the ambulance-men could not free the
driver until they had folded back the hood
of the old tourer and removed the steer-
ing-wheel. The four dailies agreed on
one thing—it had been necessary to
hacksaw the top off the sedan. The num-
ber of times the car had turned over
ran from once to thrice. Actually, it had
never left its wheels. < A few years back
a morning-paper described how a baby
girl had fallen out of a first-floor window
and been miraculously saved by a quick-
thinking passer-by (a politician, if my
memory is correct); the other paper also
ran the story, but by the time the infant
had reached its savior’s arms it had be-
come a boy. Christine Jorgenson’s transi-
tion struck me as a tame, long-drawn-
out affair after that.
♦Jf ❖
“Zorok”: Couple of chaps I know on
night-work, each with a couple of chil-
dren around 7 to 12, are not so keen on
the school-holidays. Not that the kids
ever wake them up while they’re sleeping
it off next morning. No, they both reckon
it’s the wife who disturbs them, shouting
out “Johnny! Stop that row. You know
your father’s asleep!”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Many married women are
enabled to take jobs by handing-over the
kids to an accommodating mother or
mother-in-laW. But what if Ma or Ma-
in-law takes it into her head to get a
job? When an acquaintance of mine
was congratulated on his attractive-look-
ing typist-secretary, with the admonition,
“I wouldn’t let the wife see her, old
chap!” he retorted, “It’s quite safe—she’s
a grandmother! ” Which she is, it
appears, though in her middle-forties and
looking five or six years younger. I’ve
since heard of another grandmother hold-
ing a very responsible secretarial position,
rather to the annoyance of her married
daughter, with whom she lives, and who
would prefer her to stay home and mind
the youngsters while she goes back to
the office.
* ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: The Regional Electricity
Board’s third major station was commis-
sioned at Townsville (Q.) in July, 1953.
The site was established on reclaimed
Murder Island, South Townsville, and the
installation’s giant multiple-chimneys
belch great billowing oceans of the finest
soot. As the easterlies blow, the smog
wafts high over the seaport; over the
housewives’ bed-linen, the polished furni-
ture, the washing on the line. Gently it
settles on the gleaming new autos, parked
in the street; in a minute shower on bald
pates and perms alike. Progress has in-
deed come to the northern city.
* ❖ ❖
“Pillo”: A C.M.F. artillery unit out on
a bivouac snarled about having to sleep
on the ground—without mattresses, par-
ticularly as the officers on their one night
out took the most comfortable of arm-
chairs and couches with them. That’s
armchair-strategy in anybody’s language.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: Attending speech-night
at my old school, where my 15-year-old
son is being educated at something over
four times as much as my schooling cost,
"You'll have to excuse old Clark Gable, Miss—he has to come home
and feed the chooks.”
. by the evidence of
I was W
orderliness ana planning y y
school songs were bellowedlustily,rf at
times un une ? , . ■ trophy
bdjp --- trophy
, , nerson at friends or
ok *»'**”£■£«“'“£■“ g ° h
foes.Wt me tuncuon me
moved conducted the singing, every boy’s
s ’ hj L t0 n •
a»la,L was deified and Lely-noi
a cat-call The lengthy list of
organised activities in the headmaster’s
“Madam, I assure you your fears are groundless ."
report confirmed my impression that the
modern schoolboy’s life is so ordered as
to leave no time for undesirable activities.
Next day Mrs. Wusslean discovered in
young W.’s trouser-pocket a brier-pipe,
a cheap lighter and a leather pouch con-
taining 2oz. of pipe-tobacco.
“W.P.T.”: New Zealand car-drivers
are issued with a neat pasteboard folder
for a driving-licence, easy to fit into the
pocket and easy to keep clean and in
good order. Anything against Australian
traffic-authorities issuing a similar licence
instead of the clumsy paper one that falls
to pieces after a bit of handling?
* ❖ ❖
“Cliaman”: A girl I know tells me
that seated opposite her in the train was
a young man who spent a good deal of
the journey cleaning his nails, then ex-
tracted a match from a box and gave his
teeth a thorough doing, and, this done,
fished a comb from his pocket and did the
necessary to his hair. She thought he
reached the limit, though, when he
removed his glass-eye and proceeded to
polish it with his handkerchief.
♦> ❖
“C.P.G.”: An overseas report that
powdered soluble tea is becoming popular
was discounted by an old-established tea-
and coffee-merchant. He produced a
packet of tablets labelled “tea-tablets”
which were on sale about 30 years ago,
but which were never popular. Soluble
tea might beat the current high prices,
but, after all, it’s the ritual of tea-making
that makes the brew so popular.
❖ i*
“Q. Ree”: While I was working in the
Mount Isa area, Mr. Roland Blanchard,
the Mount Isa Mines’ chief geologist, and
world-authority on surface outcrops
of ore, conducted a party of geologists
over the leached outcrops around the
mine . Q ur chief invited me to go with
answer “Yes” for me
Mm
young diminutive, female—and snapped
young, justjfy my fig,
there I tried hard to remember what f
Lad reld of Ms work and asked many
thougb _ , fdt> foolish, ques .
tions, until it ended with his taking me
on the tour with the other just tagging
along behind. Climbing into the jeep to
return to our area, I felt that my com-
panion need not be sorry he took me,
and sat back waiting for his commenda-
tion. He berated me soundly, ending
with “Don’t you know it never, never
does to put a world-authority on the spot
with tricky questions?” and drove off in
silence.
❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Tourist-coach drivers give
curious origins to Medlow Bath, on the
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.). In the early
days, some say, a family named Medlow
had their bathtub on the roof of their
cottage, and when the railway went
through the family overlooked being
overlooked by passing trains. Well, the
place was originally Medlow. Mark Foy
established a hydro there on the lines
of. Matlock Bath in Derbyshire, and in-
duced the railways to change the name
to Medlow Bath. The baths did not
draw, so he developed the place as a
holiday-resort. He established an art-
gallery overlooking the Megalong Valley,
and at one time had Oriental boys in
colorful costumes as waiters. A farm in
the valley supplied the hotel with fresh
farm-products, the goods being brought
out by flying-fox.
WHY IS IT?
Why do the usherettes at flicks _
Reserve for me their favorite tricks
By placing me
Behind some big bod. overfedl
Who owns the champion outsize head
(I’m five-feet three).
This 1 would ask: Why must it be
That brilliant gems of repartee
You’ll hit upon
But not—of this you may be sure—
Until some minutes after your
Opponent’s gone.
To introduce a lifelong friend
At function that you both attend
Will be your aim ;
Yet this will grievously befall:
You find you simply can’t recall
His blasted name!
Why must the hat which looks so swell,
Distinctive, something to compel,
The girls to kill
(As worn by advertising model),
When parked by salesman on your noddle
Make you a dill ?
Why is it that the cow next door
Grows veges far superior
To mine, yet I
Feed, spray and fork with loving care,
And yet on naught but rain and air
Does he rely !
And when some play’s due on the air,
One I would listen to with care,
Oh, why, then, is it
Some boring boob I can’t abide
Will on that night and hour decide
To pay a visit ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
PICTURE-PUZZLES
THE doors of the recovery-ward swung
open, and the wardsmen pushed in a
trolly bearing an inert and stertorous
figure. As four of us heaved her on to the
bed, I could not help thinking how im-
personal constant theatre-work must be ,
every day, not people, just bodies.
I’d never seen this white-haired woman
before, as the more serious operation-
cases were always admitted to a different
ward for the pre-operative treatment, but
even with one eye and part of her face
bandaged I could see that it wouldn’t be
long before she’d be a real person, and
Irish into the bargain. As the days
passed she soon revealed herself as an
ideal patient; her co-operation endeared
her to all the staff, and she became “Gran”
to all of us —Gran O’Malley.
One morning as I finished doing her
treatment she said, “I feel lovely, now,
dear; you’ve been a good girl to me.
If ever you go to Sydney my son is at
the University pictures, and he’ll help
you.”
At that time Sydney seemed far away,
but I said “All right, Gran ; do they
have pictures at the University?” But
she drowsed off, my question unanswered.
Some years afterwards, Gran’s sur-
name (but not her personality) long since
forgotten, I was at the pictures and there
flashed on the screen the trade-mark of
the film to follow. I’d seen it dozens of
times before, but the impact was sudden
. . . Universal Pictures!
Still some years later again, I was
taken to a film-preview, beginning at
10 a.m. and lasting until 4 p.m., with lun-
cheon in the foyer between the films, and
was presented to my host, Mr. O’Malley,
whose Irish face stirred in my memory.
As Mr. O’Malley turned to greet another
guest, I said, “What’s the name of the
company presenting these films?” and
was told “Universal,”
So I went to Mr. O’Malley and said:
“You’ll pardon me, but did your mother
ever have the very painful neuralgia, and
was she operated on about 15 years ago,
for it?” Naturally he was somewhat
staggered, and when I explained all, he
shook me warmly by the hand said “Will
you not be for seeing her now, the dear
old body is still with us?” Then he
chuckled: “University pictures indeed!
She was so vague always as to our where-
abouts ! But she might have known that
I would never have enough money for the
University!”
SISTER ELLELL.


TAA
Txotu if itJUmt*
m
... the aristocrat of Australian skies
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPV23B
PERSONAL ITEMS
“Ek Dum” farewells a pioneer flyer:
Sir Keith Smith died quite suddenly after a
few days’ illness, and another page in history
was turned sadly over. He died almost exactly
36 years after the great flight in which he and
his brother Ross bridged the air-gap between
London and Australia with their two compan-
ions, in November and December, 1919.
South Australians, the Smith brothers were
strongly contrasting types. Ross, red-headed,
vital, restless and always on the go, was an
organiser to the backbone. It was the hardest
ot luck that he should die in a casual accident
only three years after his triumpn and in the
flower of his years, after having survived the
perils of the Middle East air-campaign and
the first epic cross-the-world flight in history.
Keith was a more stolid, careful type, an
excellent, steady administrator, a sound air-
officer and -instructor, with a splendid war
record, but cautious, good-humored and modest.
Once or twice in the days of their triumph,
when the newly-knighted pair had a spell in
Brisbane and could not move without being
mobbed, they used present writer’s room in
Parliament House in Brisbane as a hideout to
get a little rest. Ross’s method of resting was
to pace up and down. Keith merely stretched
out on the bed, sank at once to sleep, woke
in ten-minutes and methodically wrote letters.
When he died Keith had been Vickers’ general
representative in Australia since 1924; he had
figured on boards in which they were interested.
He had made many flights abroad, always as a
passenger, in every type of modern transport-
aircraft.
Only a fortnight before his death, as we
walked up the street together, he was eagerly
looking forward to seeing the latest American
products of the jet-age, b'ut was firm in his
opinion that the British would keep the lead
in the design of fast long-distance passenger-
craft which they established with the Comet.
* •
D. J. (Jim) Killen, who, over the post-
war years, has given Bulletin readers
his views on a variety of subjects, mostly
in “Other Fellow’s Mind,” now has the
opportunity of telling the Government
what should be done about this, that and
the other —he represents Moreton (Q.) on
the Menzies side of the House.
His Bulletin contributions reveal his
burning interest in large questions of
policy, and his thoroughness. If he
tackles a subject he goes right into it.
As an example of his methods, he is
considered by Queensland Libs, as an
authority on Communist theory—he has
read all those dreary books most students
mean to read some day, but meanwhile
get by with commentaries.
Thirty, married, with two children,
Killen left school early, went jackerooing
in western Queensland, went into
R.A.A.F. air-crew as soon as he turned
YOUNG M.P.
18. On discharge he took an honors
diploma in Sheep and Wool, completing
the three-year course in 18 months. Keen
to go on the land, he couldn’t see any
immediate prospects of getting a soldier-
settlers’ block, so joined a large steel-
fabricating company, and worked his
way from the floor of the factory to an
administrative position.
In 1947, when only 21, he conducted
a series of meetings and lectures on the
Canadian Royal Commission’s Report on
Communist Espionage under the general
.title “It can happen here.” Debated
against the Communist party in 1948 —
arising out of these debates Communist-
party leader G. Bums went to jail for
sedition.
In 1949, Killen launched the Queens-
land Young Liberals movement. He was
elected a vice-president of the Liberal
party (Queensland division) in 1953, and
is the youngest to hold such a senior post
in the Queensland organisation.
Councillor of the Royal Empire
Society; hon. sec. of the Queensland
branch of the World Council of Churches
Committee; plays tennis.
e •
New Zealand selections for Rhodes
Scholars are D. G. Simmers and C. G.
Beer, from Victoria University College
and Otago University respectively. Sim-
mers was outstanding at classics, Rugger
and cricket —he’ll study theology at
Oxford. Beer is strong on zoology and
track-athletics.
• •
Dr. Ronald M. Berndt, now in
America as a Carnegie travelling Fellow,
has been appointed lecturer in anthropo-
logy (first to fill this job) in the Westralian
University. A much-travelled, serious-
looking 39, he has lectured in his subject
at Sydney University, and held a Nuffield
Foundation travelling-fellowship, which
earlier this year took him to London,
where he gathered his Ph.D. in social
anthropology. His work in Australia has
included research into problems of
aboriginal welfare and education in
western N.S.W., South Australia and the
Northern Territory, and he has also made
two research-trips into the central high-
lands of New Guinea. The Westralian
appointment has been endowed by a
grant from the Carnegie Corporation, of
New York. His wife, Catherine H.
Berndt, is an honors graduate of Sydney
University, with a first in anthropology,
and a London Ph.D.
• •
“G.P.”: Giving up banking —he’s no
believer in idleness and will be otherwise
busy—C. W. (Clem) Harris, who, with
the New Year, completes A shade over
49 years with the Bank of New South
Wales, has had wide managerial experi-
ence in Victoria and N.S.W., par-
ticularly in country districts, and, like
many country bank-managers, conceals
a surprising knowledge of agriculture be-
hind an unassuming manner. Although,
no doubt, obliged to be professionally
hard-headed on occasion, he’s one of
the kindest men in banking or out of
it. He joined the ’Wales at Gundagai
(N.S.W.), his home-town, and first went
to Braidwood, same State, in a coach, as
a junior-clerk. For the last six years he’s
been manager at Braidwood. Went to the
Middle East in War I with the Light
Horse, was on Gallipoli, and was de-
mobbed with the rank of captain.
• •
“Uramao”: After 48 years of the Inky
Way—3o with the Christchurch (N.Z.)
“Press,” 18 of them as manager—R. V.
White has retired. Born in Belfast 75
years ago,_ he landed in N.Z. as a six-
year-old, was educated in Southland, and
took to journalism on the Southland
“Times.” Chopped and changed a bit in
Auckland and Wellington, on various
papers, and did a stretch with “Hansard”
before crossing to Sydney for a term on
the “Sun” in 1923. Back in N.Z. a
couple of years later, he was chief sub-
editor of the Christchurch “Press” up to
1937, when the secretary-managership
came his way.
J. V. Wilson, N.Z. Assistant-Secretary
of Internal Affairs, appointed as the
Dominion’s Minister in Paris—succeed-
ing Jean McKenzie from next March —
dates his diplomatic experience from
1921, when he went to the staff of the
International Labor Office at Geneva.
From the 1.L.0. he joined the secretariat
of the old League of Nations in 1923
and stayed there 17 years, stepping out to
become for the next four years Assistant-
Director of Research at the Royal Insti-
tute of International Affairs in London.
In 1944 N.Z. was setting up its External
Affairs Department, and Wilson came
back to head its political division and
help train its staff. Since then he’s helped
shape N.Z.’s policy with U.N. The new
Minister, a fluent French-speaker, knows
Europe apart from his Geneva and Lon-
don chapters : he served there with the
Canterbury Regiment in the Kaiser’s
war ; twice wounded.
• a
From the Philippines:
Reynaldo Guevara Marquez, the 24-year-old
Colombo Plan student whose work on the
Pilliga Scrub (N.S.W.) country has caused
such a stir in agricultural circles, did two years
of Agricultural Science at Los Banos College
of Agriculture before coming to Sydney Uni-
versity on a Unesco scholarship. He took his
Bachelor’s degree in Agriculture in 1953, and
is proceeding towards a Master’s degree, under
the Colombo Plan.
A student at St. John’s (University) College,
he plays a lot of basketball, captained Sydney
University team for two years, played in the
Australian Universities, team against New
Zealand, and was in the N.S.W. team in 1953 ;
YOUNG SCIENTIST
also plays golf and is a keen dancer. So there
is a lighter side to his activities.
Modest, with considerable and natural charm
of manner, when he warms up on his subject
he has a knack of passing on enthusiasm —
eyes kindling, and supple fingers grabbing a
pencil to illustrate on a piece of copy-paper
how the experimental plots were laid out, how
Anderson’s method of testing for trace-
elements works, and a soil-profile—he is
anxious to counteract any “alone-I-did-it”
emphasis which may have been given to his
work by recent publicity.
As he points out, pioneer work on the estab-
lishment of leguminous pasture by inoculation,
in association with lime and super., was done
by Pittman (now an officer of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture), followed by
important work by Breakwell on poor, acid soils
around Lismore, on the N.S.W. North Coast.
Regarding his own work, he thinks full credit
should be given to Professor J. M. Vincent,
head of the microbiology section of Sydney
University’s Department of Agriculture, who
first recommended pilot-experiments, and who
supervised the later experiments, made possible
by the Narrabri Agricultural Bureau providing
money and other assistance, Sydney University
providing the technical services. Local farmers
C. R. McWilliams, of Greylands, Turrawan,
and D. and R. Richards, of Wattle View,
Narrabri, also contributed largely to the
success of the project.
Still, these important facts remain: the
young student from the Philippines conducted
investigations and field-trials himself —there
was not a team of scientists working on the
project in the field; the project, which is still
continuing, so far has been spectacularly suc-
cessful; and, as a result, about two-million
acres of hitherto very poor land will very
probably be brought into useful production.
Reginald Walter Seedsman (herewith),
appointed Elder, Smith’s g.-m. for South
Australia, describes himself as a
“plodder.” Those who know him say
that commonsense and determination are
the qualities which have given him his
OLD DIGGER
high possie in the company which now
sells more of the Australian clip than
any other wool-broker. He joined the
firm when he left Melbourne Grammar,
acquired a reputation as a solid, dogged,
half-back flanker with South Melbourne
League, and was later in France com-
missioned with the old 58th Battalion.
After work for his firm in various parts
of Australia he was transferred to head-
office in Adelaide in 1932 as assistant to
the secretary ; secretary in 1938, assistant
general-manager in 1952. He likes to
hear, how his old team is faring, and keeps
in touch by watching his three sons play
in Adelaide Amateur League.
• •
Sydney Rugby Union followers will
remember Kenneth Harold (“Kelly”)
McMahon, Manly’s fullback of a few
seasons ago; he dropped in on The
Bulletin the other day and talk ranged
from mining to juvenile delinquency. A
product of Coolah on the Coolaburra-
gundy River (N.S.W.), Scots, and
Sydney University (B.Sc.), he specialised
in geology, worked for two years in the
Wittenoom Gorge (W.A.) as a surveyor
with the Australian Blue Asbestos mine,
and then worked for the Pioneer Gold
Mining Co. at Pioneer, in British
Columbia —a quick change from Austra-
lian midsummer heat to Canadian
winter. Linked up then with American
Smelting and Refining Co. and spent a
year in the U.S.A. in the States of
Washington, Idaho and Arizona, work-
ing in seven different mines and making
underground inspections of 45 other
mines. He’s off to W.A. soon to man-
age a group of small mines in the Mt.
Magnet, Geraldton and Southern Cross
areas. Interest in juvenile delinquency
provoked by what he saw in some U.S.
towns. He’s rising 29.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Hobart, at 86, Huntley James Clarke,
0.8. E. Surveyor of many railway-routes in
the Speck, and of the Mt. Margaret hydro-
power scheme, he retired in 1945 from the
post of superintendent of railways and supplies
for the Mt. Lyell Co. Was Master Warden
of the Strahan Marine Board until a few
months ago.
In Hawera (N.Z.), at 99, Herbert James
Henry Brown, an old-timer who punched his
way to fame more than half-a-century ago; he
beat Pedlar Palmer, and in the U.S. outpointed
Kid McCoy. When War I broke out, Birown,
giving his age as 39 (though verging on the
sixties), enlisted in the N.Z.E.F., was wounded
at Armentieres, and for a while was guard over
Von Luckner.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 79, Derrick
Warner William Westenra, horse-breeder and
-owner and raiser of Southdown and Corrie-
dale sheep; in his younger days a football and
cricket topnotcher and rifle-shot. Member of
the Christchurch Hunt Club, president for 20
years, and master until 1927.




ABORIGINALITIES
“MY vife,” said old Anders, “is very
YY-B-ploogmatic, never get oxited, never
get set-up, yust ploog along quiet-like all
in a day’s vork.
“You know vere de dirt road come
t’rough de reserve? Yen de night is cold
de cows come off de vet grass to sleep in
de varm dust.
“My vife is driving home from town
in de little trap vit Astrid, de tame pony
ve get from Otto Norge. A small cow-
heifer, about rising two, is sleeping on
de road, but my vife does not pull-up,
she yust drive on, and Astrid get her
before-legs over before de small cow
vake-up and start to stand-up and set-
up everyt’ing—pony, trap, vife, all over in
de dirt.
“De pony lie quiet and not’ing broke,
not’ing hurt, only de big bruce vere my
vife sit down hard on de empty box of
eggs.
“Good luck old Dinny Costigan vas
riding home, not too dronk, and he give
my vife some hands to upset de trap
and pony, and she get home all right.
“Ven I tell her, ‘Vy you not pull-up?’
she say, ‘But I t’ink she vill get-up,’ and
I tell her, ‘Veil, you t’ink right dat time,’
and she say ‘Oh, veil, all good dat finish
good, only my bottom. Good t’ing it did
not come going to town ven de box of
eggs vas full. You better tell de council
to make Act of Parliament about cows in
de road ... or a fence.’ ”
Fuagh ha Ballagh.
* * * *
“Static”: An interesting point was
noted at the Australian blade-shearing
championship held at the Ballarat Show.
It was that a blade-shearer opens and
closes his hand an average of 410 times
while shearing a sheep. So that, taking
around 100 a day, the mitt of the old-
time wool-barber took, and stood-up to,
quite a bashing.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: I suspect most birds sleep
very lightly, but still it’s amazing how
many - not nocturnal disturb the
night with their clamor. Water-fowl,
cuckoos, plovers and, of course, willie-
wagtails are among the restless crew.
Most of these, however, fall silent before
midnight, and are heard no more till
maybe an hour or two before dawn.
Sacred-kingfishers, nesting in this N.S.W.
coastal area, provide a curious excep-
tion. Immediately this bird arrives—
after spending winter in the north—it
proclaims its presence with a series of
midnight recitals. It is no nightingale,
but, lacking competition, its shrill, mono-
tonous trilling carries amazingly. Maybe
it has chosen this highly original method
of advertising its need of a mate. Once
established as parents and citizens, my
sacreds, though very noisy during the day,
are only occasional disturbers of the
night’s peace.
“Cay”: A bunch of old-
timers were sitting on the
veranda of the little country-
town pub discussing, among
other things, a legendary fighter
of the district. All except one
were unanimous that Jim Mar-
low had been unbeatable. “Aw,
he wasn’t really so hot,” said
John Collins. “Me and two or
three others gave him a hell of
a hiding one night!”
* * *
“Simon the Saddler”: In the
’nineties there were in country
towns only a few trades to
which boys might be appren-
ticed, among them coachbuild-
ing and saddlery. The wise said
“there will always be carts and
horses,” and these trades
attracted apprentices. When
the motor-car arrived the coach-
builders and blacksmiths trans-
ferred to other fields, but for
the saddlers the writing was on
the wall. Many fine tradesmen
ended in State institutions.
There used to be 260 in the
union : today there are about 50.
mahy of whom are engaged on racing-
gear. Some maintain one-man shops in
country towns, mostly on repairs. In a
big city like Newcastle there is not now
a single saddler’s shop; and six horse-
collarmakers can do the work for the
entire State.
«
* * * *
“J. 8.”: When the Governor-General’s
lady arrived at Birdsville on a flying-
visit of inspection of A.I.M. hospitals
the tiny town was packed. Just after her
plane took off for Alice Springs old
Tommy, a full-blood abo., turned-up at
the back door of the hospital with a
sugarbag for some party “leftovers.”
“That feller gone, Missus?” he inquired
“It’s hard t' get th ’ stuff now — the ’ Gover'ment commandeers it
for atomic projects
shyly. “Who do you mean, Tommy?” I
asked, not sure which of the visitors he
was referring to. Tommy struggled for
speech. “Aw, you know, Missus. That
feller—that feller Queen Slim!”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: For 10 minutes we’d
been pocketed behind the fast-moving,
bulldozer-laden truck, spread across
almost the width of the narrow bitumin-
ised Queensland highway. High stands
of sugarcane grew near by and blady-
grass edged up close in varying densities.
A car passed us, nosed about behind the
truck for a few seconds, then shot around
the side in flying mud and spray, and was
gone. Another followed. “It’s easy,” our
timid minds thought. “Let’s go.” But a
big, new sedan beat us to it. Accelerating,
the driver veered-out parallel to the truck ;
but instantly sighted a 2ft.-thick guide-
post almost hidden by a high patch of
blady-grass. When the car angled-in fran-
tically back on to the road the front of
the truck smashed it side-on into the
post. As we helped the injured in the
wreckage we wondered if the one-“out”
throw in three was the average when a
motorist takes a risk. It could very easily
have been us.
“This shot of sulphathiazine should cure him.”
“Bo”: Reports to Queensland’s De-
partment of Agriculture and Stock indi-
cate a steady increase in the State’s koala-
bear population—a benefit flowing from
nearly 30-years’ enforcement of total
protection for them. There has been
gradually built-up, too, through publicity,
strong public support for this ; if a popu-
larity-poll were to be held to determine
which of our native animals was held in
the greatest affection the lovable little
bears would undoubtedly top the list.
A. and S. Minister H. H. Collins has,
however, had occasion recently to warn
that people finding koalas must not try
to raise them in captivity—which, in any
case, is illegal—but should return them
promptly to the bush, their chances of
survival being much greater in their
natural habitat, where there is available
a choice of the gumtips on which their
lives depend.
* * * *
“Heck the Hoop”: There has been
quite some trouble in racing-circles lately :
dopes, batteries, careless riding . . . Even
the Melbourne Cup had its rough-riding
argument. Perhaps if all racing-clubs
stated their rules and regulations as ex-
plicitly as the Wiluna (W.A.) Sports Club
there wouldn’t be half the bother. Says
Rule 6: “ it will be unlawful for any
owner ( b ) to allow jockey to carry bat-
tery of less than 5000 volts; (c) to allow
the jockey to use spurs, darning-needles,
spears or whips made of bar bed-wire.’’
Rule 7: “The committee reserve the
right to vary this programme to suit
themselves, and will not take into con-
sideration the public, the Government
or the Taxation Commissioner.” Mokes
engaged: Mr. ’s Bouncer,
by Cheque out of Yalgoo; Mrs. ’s
Stormy Weather, by Ship out of Bight;
Mr. ’s Flat Out, by Steam
Train out of Wiluna; ’s Spring
Bonnet, by Frequent Dips out of Petty
Cash. Rule 4 may be significant: “For
the purposes of this Gymkhana, a horse
is a body of meat with a leg on each
corner, a tail at one end, has two ears,
two eyes and a mouth at the other end.”
* * * #
ACCORDING to Crosbie Morrison,
the numbat (or banded-anteater) is
on the way out, fast, and is only found
now around Kojonup in sou’-Westralia.
I’m not challenging such an authority,
but W.A. naturalists have noticed over
the last few years that some of the small
marsupials are becoming more numerous
in the sou’-west of the State.
The numbat normally inhabits the wan-
doo and white-gum areas inland from
the jarrah country, probably because it
feeds almost entirely on termites, which
love wandoo.
Gilbert, sent by Gould in 1839 to col-
lect specimens in W.A., found the numbat
so plentiful in some districts that there
was scarcely an anthill that hadn’t been
torn open. Thereafter the numbers de-
creased as the natural haunts were
cleared and farmed, and domestic-cats
gone wild accelerated the process. Then
foxes came and the little bloke became
so scarce that even keen observers failed
to find him —until about 1950, when
reports started to come in.
Now the numbat is known to exist in
several districts, and another tiny mar-
supial which had become rare, the brush-
tailed phascogale (or wambenger), is dis-
turbing poultry in the lower sou’-west.
Even the possums and the brush-wallaby
seem to be staging a comeback, and the
quokka, well known on Rottnest Island,
is being seen on the mainland again.
It would seem that these animals, hav-
ing barely survived the foreign invasion,
have succeeded in adapting their mode of
life to meet the danger. They must have
put up a similar gallant fight 20,000 years
or so ago when they were threatened by
the introduction of the dingo ; but at that
time there was no one to see how Nature
helps those of her children who refuse to
be daunted.
Kelms.
CITY STATUES, 1 A.M.
Sometimes at night
when the trams and buses have ceased rolling
and the taxis are clustered about the pie-stalls
and the moon of the city clock
is silenced so that citizens may sleep,
and the only open doors
belong to the post-office, the police-station,
and the all-night eating-places,
then
the explorers climb down from their pedestals
and clump about the silent streets.
But it is no longer the settlement they knew
over a century ago in my grandmother’s time.
There are no tiersmen lying drunk in the
gutters;
books, instead of soldiers, sleep in the old
barracks;
in place of campfires of Ka-uma tribesmen
sodium-vapor lamps burn along the riverbank;
the wattle-and-daub huts have long ago
crumbled
and the framed canvas tents have rotted;
there is no smell of bullocks any more,
there is only one hitching-post left,
and, in place of lofty eucalypts they knew,
chimneys and churches rise towering up
among the suburbs they have never seen.
Sometimes they stop and gaze up at the tall
buildings,
and glimpse perhaps a watchman’s torch
passing dark windows,
but usually they scramble up on to their
pedestals again .
as if they feared the echo of their marble
footsteps
shattering the shadows of the empty streets.
. . . Then each explorer’s face resumes the
frozen stare
of one who knows that in an empty continent
only he can find his lonely unmapped way
from anywhere to anywhere.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
MOPOKE
Dark night, cloudy night, a hint of rain
falling:
still trees, silent bush, a lone mopoke calling,
ghost-voiced—voice of the bush slowly
enthralling
the mind muffled in the leaves of sleep, sharply
recalling
to the tall-grassed dense-bushed thick-treed land
familiar as the back of the hand
grown strange now, the vague mysterious forest
of a child,
compelling and wild,
that will take hirti resistless, heedless of
choosing,
to run blindly through labyrinths, seeking,
world-losing.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


WHEN we pulled-up at the bakery in
the little Queensland country town
the shop was closed. Nevertheless, busi-
ness courtesy still prevailed. On the
dilapidated wooden door was chalked:
“No truck, no flour, NO B
BREAD!”—“Quo Vadis.”
* * * *
“Harry L”: Was camped away from
the station delving bore-drains, with a
jackeroo for offsider. Sent him back to
the camp one afternoon to cook a leg of
mutton. “Put a pint of water with it,” I
told him; “then if the fire is too hot the
meat won’t bum.” Arriving back at the
samp I took the lid off the camp-oven.
Alongside the charred mutton was a tin
with a pint of water in it!
* * * *
“Geep”: The W.A. Department of
Agriculture has published a partly-
italicised list of animals and birds
gazetted as vermin. Culprits printed in
italics are “not established in W.A.”
Camels are mentioned, but not in
italics. Which means they are established.
Any Sandgroper suffered pillage by
camel?
* * * *
“Bass”: Regarding a bird’s ability to
change the color of its eggs to suit the
surroundings (B. 23/11/’55), the stubble-
quail, which lines its nest with grass, has
yellow eggs with brown spots ; the Aus-
tralian pipit, or groundlark, which also
makes a grass-nest, lays greyish-white
eggs with small, slightly darker spots.
The eggs of both these birds match their
surroundings—dry grass, which is much
the same color anywhere, so the eggs
don’t have to vary. The stone-curlew, on
the other hand, lays its eggs on the bare
ground, and the ground-color varies with
the nature of the ground on which the
eggs are laid. I’ve seen these eggs varying
from almost green, when they were laid
on grass, to practically red, when they
were on sandstone.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Midday, and the haver-
sack a little heavy on my back as I
pushed through the bush. Paused a
moment to rest, and a kookaburra, her
breast black with charcoal—probably a
result of shopping for a nest-site in fire-
burnt hollows —landed on a tree above
my head. She eyed my haversack specu-
latively, and when I moved off she
watched me for a while, then took the
air in leisurely pursuit. For the next 10
minutes I zigzagged about the bush, and
every time I stopped the kooka with the
black breast was perched above me.
Finally I took the hint, unslung the
haversack and produced the sandwiches.
By this time she was perched in matey
fashion on a low stump by my right hand.
We had our lunch, she wiped the butter
off her beak on the stump, gave a low
gurgle, and flew off. All in order, I
suppose; but the manner in which that
kooka grasped the situation at first-sight
struck me as uncanny.
* * * *
“Lorna Doone”: Visiting a drought-
stricken outback some years ago I was
impressed by the fact that even the
smallest children were water-conscious
in a way unknown to city youngsters, and
all hands had to pipe-down at the broad-
cast of the weather-forecast, read on most
days by a young lady of pleasing voice.
Standing on the veranda, feeling that I
must crack if it didn’t rain soon, I said
to the four-year-old young hopeful, “I
wonder if there is rain in those clouds
over there?” “It’s no good looking for
rain, Lorn,” quoth he; “the lady didn’t
say!”
“R.S.M.-P.”: I was fishing one windy
night on Collaroy (N.S.W.) beach with
the late Mr. Justice Bonney. The judge
was casting with a rod; I was using a
beer-bottle. I remained on the spot,
whilst the judge kept moving along the
beach and was soon lost in the distance.
Making a cast against a strong wind,
my line got twisted around my thumb
and the baited trace went flying solus out
to sea. Later his Honor returned empty-
handed. He made a final cast, and soon
was hauling in a fish. He had hooked
my trace, at the end of which was a 3ft.
6in. shark. Had it been a snapper, I
would have claimed the fish subject to
compensation for salvage.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Mohair from llamas (B.
7/12/’55)? Maybe . . . seeing that the
mills produce what they call alpaca and
vicuna from sheep’s wool and cotton, and
imitation mohair from the long wool of
some breeds of sheep. But llama-wool was
originally known to the trade as “llama,”
and “mohair” is correctly used only for
the long, silky hair of the Angora goat.
Of the llama family, the vicuna produced
the best wool, very soft and silky; but,
unlike the llama and alpaca, the vicuna
could not be tamed, and the wool could
be obtained only from animals killed by
hunters —hence its scarcity and high
price.
• it.*
“Wulworra”: My salaams to “Rexine”
(B. 7/12/’55) for his tale of how one of
the llamas of the Darling Downs, in 1857,
thoroughly “hosed” the crack shearer
Jack Howe when he set about shearing
it —Jack Howe was two years old in 1857.
Incidentally, if alpacas (the usual term
for the llamas brought to Australia) were
introduced to Queensland in ’57 I can’t
find apy record on the point. They were
introduced to South Australia in that
year, and to New South Wales a year
later, but the man who brought them,
Charles Ledger, does not appear to have
extended his activities to the Darling
Downs.
¥ » * *
CHAFFCUTTING DAY
T>EFORE the advent of modern farm-
machines when we did the job with
the tools at hand, one day each month
or so was set aside for cutting and bagging
chaff. This was nearly always a Satur-
day, so that we who were attending
school could help in the important
income-earning process.
“Simply RESCUE them, Robinson !”
First warning of chaffcutting-day came
when Father asked me to buy “a flat
file and a hank of twine” on the way
home from school; we knew that the
following Saturday the job would be
on. The file was to sharpen the blades
of the chaffcutter; the twine to sew the
bags.
The chaffcutter was a very old Bentall,
with three blades and a hungry mouth
that could swallow hay faster than any
man could feed it. There was a number,
1728, stamped on the large wheel carry-
ing the blades, and while it actually indi-
cated the part-number, we pointed it
out, to those who would believe, as a
symbol of the chaffcutter’s great age.
The power-plant consisted of a huge
twin-cylinder portable steam-engine,
portable no longer, since it was irrevoc-
ably settled on heavy bed-logs. Along-
“Sandflies are bad up here.”
side the engine, taking the place of the
original but now worn-out boiler, stood
a vertical watertube boiler about 10ft.
high, which was fired by wood. An over-
head steam-pipe connected this to the
engine, and the whole outfit was to us,
while we were very young, a thing of
wonder and admiration.
The fire, set in the boiler the day
before, was lighted before dawn on chaff-
cutting-day. It took a couple of hours
to raise steam. We had an early break-
fast ; then the hay was forked from the
stack in the barn into a large heap just
behind the chaffcutter.
There was a special method of doing
this, and no departure was permitted.
The heap of hay was begun from the
rear, and each successive forkful was
placed ahead of this, finishing at the chaff-
cutter-mouth. This made it easier for
Dad to pick up each armful of hay with-
out having to drag it out from under the
stack.
Then there was the oiling of the chaff-
cutter and the getting-ready of bags, till
at last the needle of the steam-gauge
began to creep slowly upwards. The heavy
belt was put on, the drain-cocks of the
cylinders opened, and Dad turned the
steam-valve a little. A gentle stream of
water and steam issued, after a few
minutes growing into a steady roar as
the cylinders slowly warmed. Then at
last the cranks began to revolve, as the
crossheads, with their slide-blocks, slid
silently back and forth in their guide-
bars, and the drain-cocks spat out alter-
nately their chuff, chuff, chuff, enveloping
the engine in a cloud of exhaust.
The engine came gently to life with a
never-to-be-forgotten smell of steam and
neatsfoot-oil —there was no mineral
lubricant those days.
Dad officiated at the chaffcutter, pull-
ing back the gear-lever which set the
toothed rollers turning, and feeding
lucerne- and oaten-hay into its hungry
maw. The chaff fell to the swish of keen
blades cutting through the hay, and we
raked it into the bags.
There was a square hole in the floor
about 6ft. in front of the cutter, covered
by two hinged doors which lifted up-
wards, and in the centre of these, cut
half out of each, was a circular hole for
the bags. An iron ring with four pro-
truding spikes fitted snugly over the hole
and supported the bag hanging below it
in a hole in the ground.
Our scraper was a piece of pine-board
about 2ft. long, fitted with a 5ft. spotted-
gum handle; with this we raked the
chaff from under the cutter, across the
floor, down the hole and into the bag. A
little at first; then one of us, usually our
oldest brother, who suffered from hay-
fever and hated the dusty job, got into
the bag and began tramping the chaff.
Waist-deep in the bag, it was tramp,
tramp with blucher-boots, “Hard round
the inside of the bag, now!” at the same
time pulling in more chaff, while he
slowly rose as the bag filled till his feet
were at floor-level. Then we scraped the
surplus chaff aside, and two of us, feet
well apart clear of the doors, took hold
of the iron ring and dragged the bag out
of the hole. The doors lifted with the
bag, then dropped back into position, we
took off the iron ring, on with another
bag, into the hole again; and so it went
on.
An occasional bag was weighed on the
platform-scales and anything less than
the required weight drew caustic com-
ments from Dad, spurring us to better
efforts.
There was never a big fire in the boiler,
and we started chaffing when the needle
of the steam-gauge stood at 501b. per
square-inch. As the heap of hay behind
the cutter diminished, and the number
of filled bags steadily grew, the steam-
pressure fell till the cry of “More steam,
boy!” from Dad sent me tearing outside
to the engine-shed to open the throttle a
bit more, till at last pressure was down
to zero.
We stopped then, and, while pressure
rose again, put down more hay from the
stack, sharpened the cutter-blades and
cleaned the floor, whereupon the process
began again.
After a few hours a large plate of hot
scones and a jug of tea appeared, Aunt
putting the tea on the steam-chest of the
engine to keep hot till we finished the cut.
Then we had “smoke-oh” for 10 minutes,
Dad taking his pipe and tobacco from
a box on the wall and having a few
draws. There was a strict rule that
matches or a lighted pipe must never be
taken into the bam.
Plying a nimble thread, Aunt sewed
the bags twice as fast as we could fill
them. The job concluded about one-
o’clock, with perhaps 150 bags of chaff
cut, and a weary, dusty crew called it a
day.
Later on, after lunch, the highlight for
me came when I was allowed to keep a
small fire going and run the engine
slowly to pump water into the boiler.
When I was old enough I sat for the
necessary examination and gained my
third-class enginedriver’s certificate.
The old engine and boiler were faith-
ful and reliable servants, the quiet
power of the steam keeping its steady
pressure behind the pistons, with none of
the noise and vibration of an internal-
combustion engine. However, the plant
had eventually to give way to modem
methods, despite our sentimental affec-
tion for it. From our place it went to a
steam-laundry. Perhaps it is still loyally
chuffing away in some out-of-the-way
corner.
W. E. Mulholland.
VERANDAS
rSeSa wam
faS liS and white by dnvmg ra.n;
and heard the south-bound plane
roar over burning roots.
Then there comes back to me
ephemeral light haze, a grey
that settles at the end of gasping days
round rugged boles of trees, and often screens
fencing or roadway running endlessly.
Who that has seen my hills once wni forget
glaciers of light come down their old scarreu
drinDine into vsllcys rose nnd sold
whfle choirboy magpies in pied surplices chant
vespers that twist one’s happy heart to *ears,
almost as though they knew
the loving comfort spelled by shadow-bars
alternating with the golden thrown upon
remembered walls in the warm Queensland
bush?
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
ft
□
WELL
LININGS
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughlng, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE BX 4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE,
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE. TAMWORTH.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—•
NAME ...
ADDRESS
t>
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... U Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques!
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Back to Taws
npHE year ends with emphasis
on tight money, and with
share-prices back to the
level of January, 1955. The
£3O-million cash loan offered by
the Loan Council was under-
subscribed by the public to the
extent of £9 million, and the
£129.5-million conversion loan
had brought conversions of
£ll3 million, with £3 million
still to be either converted or
redeemed.
It seems, on the surface, that
4\ p.c. interest for long-term
gilt-edged lending is not attrac-
tive. That is undoubtedly part
of the story. The other part of
it is, How much money is avail-
able for fixed-interest invest-
ment, anyway?
Two months ago a Sydney
Water Board loan offering 4\
p.c. was heavily undersub-
scribed, and 600 employees
were retrenched through lack of
finance to carry on. The board
now plans to launch a £900,000
cash-and-conversion loan on
January 3, offering 4\ p.c. for
either five-year or ten-year
terms. The chairman, J. W.
Goodsell, is stressing the point
that the board’s projects are
more important than television.
(Not that television stocks are
too bright at the moment,
either.)
Public works are essential, and
water-reticulation proj e c t s
deserve a high priority. But
something that will become in-
creasingly obvious as money
gets tighter is that employees of
the Water Board, and any other
Government or semi-govern-
ment instrumentality, will be
required to do more work for
each pound spent. The fact that
money is today so short for all
sorts of capital enterprises is
very largely the result of in-
adequate productivity in private
as well as public enterprises.
There has been an excess of
consumption and speculation in
Australia, not enough produc-
tion, saving and investment.
P 1 ann e d construction-pro-
grammes are not being matched
by planned production and
savings. Therefore, regardless
of what interest is offered for
loan-money, there is a limited
amount of real savings avail-
able, and it simply boils down
to one authority outbidding the
other for the limited supply
available.
The Loan Council has not
entered into the auction, but it
has had only partial success with
its borrowing operations. When
this happens, there is always a
tendency to inflation through
short-term borrowings from the
central bank, though this is
partly offset by the fact that all
Commonwealth Government
works are paid for out of
revenue.
After a year bubbling with
investment speculation, the
sharemarket, as a whole, has
settled down at the level at
which it opened. On the one
hand there have been the
spectacular take-over bids which
have sent prices for some
retailer-stocks soaring. On the
other, there have been severe
casualties among some manu-
facturers, notably in the electri-
cal and textile trades. (Presi-
dent incurred a loss of £283,166
for 1954-55.)
There was sharp disappoint-
ment over the award, towards
the year-end, of £2,440,000
made by Mr. Justice Sugerman
to shareholders in the Electric
Light and Power Supply Cor-
poration, equal to 475. a share,
and payable in 3£ p.c. deben-
tures. The shares crashed from
a peak of 655. to 41s.
The sharemarket tide is now
running against prices, and only
those stocks of clear merit are
making any headway. But
where merit is clear, there is no
doubt that investors are becom-
ing increasingly appreciative.
Shaw River Alluvials, N.L.
ANGRY shareholders for a
time objected to passing the
accounts of Shaw River
Alluvials, N.L., at the annual
meeting in Sydney on December
20; some contended that to do
so would be expressing approval
of the directors’ actions during
the year. But after the meeting
had dragged on for an hour the
accounts were approved, and
shareholders went home lament-
ing or fuming. Their 4s. 3d.-
paid shares sold at sd. that day.
Not for a long time has Aus-
tralia seen a metal-mining
proposition in which such a
large amount of money was
“done” in cold blood so quickly
and smartly. But the crux of the
story is the same as in so many
other mining propositions—the
metal just was not there in the
quantities predicted in the pros-
pectus.
The property was at Shaw
River, on the Pilbara goldfield
(W.A.). The prospectus said
that the property had been
worked by the Johnston family
and L. F. Risdon since 1949 for
an average recovery of 4.31 b.
metallic tin per cubic yard. That
much at least was factual. It
“Q.C.s, bah! If there were any good lawyers you and
I Wouldn't be here."
was on the “confident expecta-
tions” as to the future that the
co. flopped so heavily.
“Assuming a treatment-rate of
1000 yards per day,” said the
prospectus, “the probable life
of the property is estimated at
10 years on the actual areas
being acquired. It is confidently
expected that this life will be
considerably extended by sub-
sequently acquiring areas both
adjacent and near by.”
A long report was made on
the “Shaw River tin-deposits”
by J. T. Eddy, a mining-
surveyor. He spoke of 3,476,240
yards of dirt and of dish-values
going 51b. of tin-concentrate a
yard. He also mentioned that
“Johnston claims to have proven
a yardage of tin-bearing ore
sufficient to yield £2i-million-
worth of tin at 41b. to the cubic
yard. I can see no reason to
doubt this statement.”
C. W. Morris, reporting on
behalf of Australasian Civil
Engineering Pty., made it clear
in his report that he had not
visited the property personally
nor assessed the tin-oxide con-
tent of the property. His
appraisal was based on informa-
tion provided to his firm and
on a knowledge of exploiting
similar areas.
Presumably using the figures
of mining - surveyor Eddy,
Morris gave his qualified opinion
to the effect that, on “reported”
values of 51b. a yard, 80 p.c.
recovery, there would be a prob-
able gross profit of £154,800 a
year with tin concentrates at
£530 a ton. He specifically men-
tioned that certain estimates
were made on the assumption
that “the area has been properly
prospected and tested, and that
the reserves and tin-oxide con-
tent are correct.” With such
qualifications, the use of his
report in the prospectus was
clearly up to the directors.
The prospectus was issued on
August 6, 1954. The public
came in with its ears back, and
the issue of a million ss. shares
(underwritten by C. H. Smith and
Co., Sydney sharebrokers) was
heavily oversubscribed —£48,817
was handed back to applicants
who, in the long-run, turned out
to be luckier than those who
got their allotments.
The vendors, Mobile Mineral
Extractions Pty., Ltd., Sydney,
extracted £50,000 in shares and
£32,000 in cash.
The co. started-off with a
subscribed capital of £300,000 in
1,200,000 shares. Within three
months it was buying another
property —“the Rhodes areas,”
in the same district for
£llO,OOO, cash. This acquisition
was reported to be “equally as
rich as the Shaw River areas,”
and, worked in conjunction with
the original property, operations
were tipped by the chairman to
yield an overall profit “estimated
at approximately £300,000 per
annum.”
In order to finance the new
deal shareholders were offered
600,000 new ss. shares, which
were subscribed.
Altogether, 1,800,000 ss. shares
were issued, including 200,000
vendors’ f.-p.s. Forfeitures at
June 30 amounted to 228,125
shares.
The original vendors’ con-
sideration included £20,000 for
plant. The replacement-cost Of
the Rhodes plant was estimated
at £78,750, but at what figure it
was taken into the deal isn’t
clear. Nor is the amount spent
on new plant ascertainable. The
directors say that “testing of the
company’s areas began and a
start also made to undertake the
installation of the major treat-
ment-plant contemplated.” Plans
were also drawn up for a No. 2
treatment-plant.
The rains came to Marble Bar
—unprecedented rains, the chair-
man says. They seriously
hampered testing along the
river and creeks. To June 30,
1955, 18 tons of concentrate was
produced. Operating loss, estab-
lishment costs and prospecting
ran to £56,897. “An amount of
£82,560 was spent on plant,
equipment, buildings, etc., com-
prising treatment-plant including
power-plant, £38,442, building
and housing, £29,566, and motor-
vehicles, workshop and sundry
equipment, £14,552.” Presum-
ably take-over cost of original
plant is included.
Mine properties at June- 30
stood in the books at £159,998.
Since that date testing of the
areas has been completed by the
co.’s own staff, under the direc-
tion of Mining and Prospecting
Services, Ltd.
“The results of the testing
have been most disappointing and
have led to the abandonment
of the areas as unprofitable for
a company operation.” That, in
a nutshell, is the chairman’s sad
story of £160,000 paid for the
leases alone. Any ore that was
found in payable grade was
patchy, and thick overburden
made operations uneconomic
anyway. The Rhodes areas, too,
showed “very poor results.”
As to plant, “arrangements
have now been made for the
contractor to take over the earth-
moving plant and equipment and
consumable stores, payments to
be made in full in three months,
and for the hire of the treatment-
plant and camp-facilities at £lOO
a week.”
The directors paid themselves
£2083 directors’ fees during the
year to June 30. At that date
“current assets” amounted to
£43,919, being mostly £38,800
owing by Eric Newham (Wallera-
wang) Pty., Ltd., in respect of
earthmoving equipment sold.
Intangible assets, mostly broker-
age and other Rotation exes.,
totalled £15,888. (Creditors were
owed £23,520.
On the board are H. Morrissey
(chairman), F. X. Bernet, H. E.
Munn, F. G. Burns, and Dr.
M. D. Garretty.
Cape Range No. 2
TDROM L. Owen: The drilling
-*• of Wapet’s Cape Range No.
2 well has been suspended at
15,047 ft. This constitutes a
deep - hole record for the
Southern Hemisphere which it
has filched from the same com-
pany’s Rough Range No. 1 bore.
The latter well reached 14,605 ft.
before it was stopped.
These figures indicate unsur-
passed efficiency on the part of
Wapet’s drilling-crews. Every-
one concerned is to be congratu-
lated, as the feat required team-
work of a very high order. This
is particularly so when such
epic well-sinking is performed
thousands of miles away from
the specialist help which even
the major oil-companies call in
to deal with problems in less-
remote areas. Both Rough Range
1 and Cape Range 2 deserved a
better end than to be abandoned
as dry holes—a fate unfor-
tunately common in the oil
game.
Only about 150 oilwells in
U.S.A. have bettered 15,000 ft.
The world’s deepest bore was
completed at the beginning of
this year in the Paloma field, 25
miles south-west of Bakers-
field, California, and it was


PETROLEUM LIMETED
mmm
tut»
a
mi
mm
«
ghlights of
Chairman's Add
In his Address to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held in Sydney on
Friday, 16th December, 1955, the Chairman (Mr. L. J. Thompson) reported!
§€lies Increased to £15,000,000, being 22% above the previous
year.
Profits ® Net profit after provisions, amounted to £585,948, an
increase over the previous year of £100,031.
Dacmvas » . Totalled £2,812,541, which gives more than 100% cover
for the Ordinary Capital of £2,744,850.
Dividends • • * . * Continue at the rate of 12£%.
Bonus Issue .
The cost of the bonus distribution paid out of Share
Premium Reserve was £745,244, against which option
conversions yielded £440,756, leaving a net reduction
in this reserve of £304,488.
Capital
After the bonus distribution and the conversion of
options by note holders, the total capital, including
£1,000,000 Preference Shares, increased to £4,729,632.
Share issue The new share issue of 4,972,842 stock units closes on
17th December. This issue has been underwritten by
Messrs. J. B. Were & Son. When this issue is com-
pleted, the Company’s issued capital will be £5,972,842.
Oil Search
Drilling in Western Australia has continued throughout
the year. Even more vigorous work is envisaged during
1956, for which West Australian Petroleum Pty. Ltd.
(W.A.P.E.T.) has budgeted to spend £3,000,000.
Ampol’s interest in this venture is through Ampol
Exploration Limited, in which latter Company Ampol
holds a total of over 8,000,000 shares plus royalty
rights.
London Listing
Arrangements are in hand to bring about the listing
of Ampol shares on the London Stock Exchange in
1956.
Melbourne Office In order t 0 P rovide additional accommodation for our
increased staff in Melbourne, a seven-storey building
is being erected at the corner of Crattan and
Elizabeth Streets.
AMPOL IS AUSTRALIAN OVVJNED AND PROUD OF IT
JD.4.56
abandoned as a dry hole at the
astounding depth of 21,482 ft. It
cost the equivalent of over £1
million in Australian currency
and it suffered its share of
trouble.
The Californian well was
sited with the object of testing
oil-sands in the Eocene, antici-
pated at around 20,500 ft., but,
when it was stopped at 21,482 ft.,
it was still in beds of Lower
Miocene age. After a difficult
fishing job, tests were made on
five sections between 14,050 ft.
and 17,135 ft., and on three sec-
tions between 11,520 ft. and
13,260 ft. without any indica-
tions of the possibility of com-
mercial production. Some idea
of the hazards involved is
obtained when it is realised that
the earth-temperature in the
well below 20,000 ft. was over
330 degrees Fahrenheit and that
a special oil-base drilling fluid
had to be employed below the
depth of 11,000 ft.
Will TV Oust Broadcasting ?
I}ROM “M.F.D.”: Broadcasters
* in Australia are confident
that television will never seriously
challenge their medium; but a
recent survey published in the
United States suggests they may
be in for a rude shock. During
the last six years TV in America
has advanced from the lowest of
all advertising media to third
place, and is outranked now only
by newspapers and direct mail
in size of revenue.
TV is also pushing the broad-
casting-networks severely in the
entertainment field.
The audience for a leading
programme of evening network
radio has dropped, since 1950,
from 8.6 million to little more
than 3 million. Radio-network
advertising has also fallen stead-
ily during the past six years and
is now a third below the 1948
level. By contrast TV-network
advertising revenue in 1954 was
15 times that of 1949.
In Britain, however, the
8.8. C. is more than holding its
own against the Independent
Television Authority which
began operations less than three
months ago. The London “Daily
Express” said recently that com-
mercial TV is “struggling” and
that promoters who are believed
to have already invested £3
million in it are losing £5OOO
a day from Monday to
Friday. If the present trend
continues they will be “down”
about one-and-a-quarter million
at the end of the first
year. Morning commercial pro-
grammes in Britain are reported
to have “flopped,” and advertis-
ing-rates have been cut from
£325 a minute to £95 a minute.
Promoters of both national
and commercial television, due
to begin in Australia late in
1956, look like being in for their
share of worry, too.
J. and A. Brown Collieries
The N. S. Wales coalmining
industry was affected during
1954-55 by slackened demand,
especially for inferior coal;
the opening of the Kwinana
refinery (W.A.) has brought oil-
fuel as a stronger competitor into
the Australian market.
So far as J. and A. Brown and
Abermain Seaham Collieries,
Ltd., is concerned, the board
reports that “the number of
days worked at the collieries was
less than in the previous year,
with a consequential lower out-
put.”
After making provision of
£lOO,OOO for depreciation (down
£58,000) and £450,000 (un-
changed) for tax-free capital ex-
penditure, J. and A. Brown’s net
profit was shown, at £155,185
(down £1160). The 8 p.c. divi-
dend called for £152,001.
The board says, as in the pre-
ceding two years, that “income-
tax has not been provided for
in full out of the year’s profits,
but the balance standing to the
credit of Provision for Taxation
Account is sufficient to cover all
known liabilities.”
Whether this cautionary note
is merely to cover contingencies
in respect of tax-free appropri-
ations for capital expenditure
(aggregating £1,500,000 during
the past four years) isn’t clear;
but it is mentioned that of the
£450,000 so appropriated for
1953-54, only £374,553 was used
for the purpose. (Under the
conditions laid down in 1952,
unexpended balances had to be
brought into the following year
as assessable income.)
The basic margin of profit in
the industry allowed by the
Joint Coal Board is 6s. a ton,
but dividends of over 10 p.c.
p.a. may not be paid without
consent of the board. J. and A.
Brown has taken full advantage
of the tax-free capital-expendi-
ture provisions, and has shown
barely enough remaining profit to
pay 8 p.c. over the past four years.
It has improved its working
assets greatly over the last few
years, but since 1952 there has
been a drop in book-values from
£1,582,184 to £1,468,917, even
though a new collier was added
to the fleet towards the end of
1954. An interesting item in the
accounts is “sundry debtors,
deposits and cash in hand,
£1,263,998.” This is in addition
to “Government stock and
shares in companies at cost,
£539,090.”
Paid capital is £1,900,007, and
reserves £835,097. If the co.
stopped its tax-free appropri-
ations for capital expenditure
and left them (after tax) in
p. and 1. account, last year’s profit
might have been higher by an
amount equal to 15 p.c. on
capital.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management,”
' BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond - J. R. FavieU
F. B. Fleming G. B. Kater
Manager: JV. L. Shatc
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officer:
P. H. Andreses M. A. Foulcher
Aermaneut Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.ioo.ia
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
'T'HE market is always prepared to pay
A a high price, and to wait for its
benefits, when security of capital arid
income are more or less assured and
also combined with good equity pros-
pects. So despite a contraction of
£113,847 in last term’s declared profit,
and an anaemic export-market for jams,
the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares fetch 51s. on
’Change as against 525. a year ago and
495. 12 months before that. The
return at 525. is 3.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. A return of
5.9 p.c. would call for a 15 p.c. distribu-
tion —a year ago the chairman said it
was unlikely that shareholders would be
asked to put up more capital for some
time. Net tangible cover is 645. Id. in
assets which are conservatively valued in
the books.
Factors helping to sustain the price of
the scrip axe the market’s confidence in
the management, born of the group’s long
and pleasing record as a profit-earner and
dividend-payer, the size of the reserves,
now heaped more than twice as high
as paid capital, a strong financial struc-
ture, in which the holding of cash, etc.,
alone was equal to 10s. 2d. per share
at October 31 last, and the spread of the
business.
The parent, or holding co., controls a
chain of 21 factories, mostly in the jam-
making and fruit-preserving business, and
is interested in a number of auxiliary
concerns, scattered throughout Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa. Share-
holders have never failed to receive a
div., the average being 10.8 p.c. (sweet-
ened with £455,492 of bonus-scrip) for
the 20 years to 1929, followed by an
average 7.5 p.c. for the next half-dozen
slump years, and then a wink over 10
p.c. for the 20 years to the close of last
accounts.
The resilience of net earnings during
the two years to the close of accounts in
1954 was due primarily to the fact that
the growth in export of canned fruits
more than offset the shrinkage in the
export of jams. Last term Australian
export figures for jams continued to de-
cline, and those for canned-fruits showed
only modest improvement. At the same
time the uptrend of the co.’s main manu-
facturing costs —sugar, fruit, tinplate,
wages and freight—worsened its competi-
tive position in overseas markets. So,
after setting aside £193,137 (up £6356) for
depreciation, something for taxation and
tossing £80,887 net from somewhere into
reserves, there was a slip of £113,847 in
declared net earnings from all sources:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
& £ £ £
1961.. 438,895 10 p.c. = 180,000 258,895 2,941,015
Unexplained reductions, £1243 .. 2,939,772
1952.. 342,977 10 p.c. = 180,000 162,977 8,102,749
Unexplained additions, £14,495 .. 3,117,244
1953.. 549,430 10 p.c. = 203,625 345,805 3,463,049
Unexplained reduction, £6385 .. 3,456,664
Add contingencies reserve, £169,200 3,625,864
1954.. 746,860 10 p.c. = 211,500 585,360 4,161,224
Unexplained additions, £80,887 .. 4,242,111
1955.. 633,013 10 p.c. = 211,500 421,513 4,663,624
* After deducting intangibles (now £50,935).
But the 1954 profit was written after
£169,200 of that term’s earnings had
been added to the reserve for contin-
gencies. Taking this item and last term’s
unexplained addition into the reckoning,
the slip in the year’s net earnings was
£202,160.
The profits claimed increased by
£53,051 from Australian but decreased by
£166,898 from ex-Australian sources:
Profit— 1952. 1953. 1954. 1955.
Australian .. £156,981 £264,700 £385,416 £438,467
Ex-Australian 185,996 284,730 361,444 194,546
Total .. £342,977 £549,430 £746,860 £633,013
The Australian profit was equal to 20.7
p.c. (up 2.5 p.c.) on capital and the ex-
Australian 9.2 p.c. (down 7.9 p.c.), mak-
ing 29.9 p.c. from all sources, compared
with 35.3, 26.9, 19, 24.3 and 29.1 p.c. back
to 1950. So the 10 p.c. div. was three
times covered by the year’s reduced net
earnings. And shareholders have the
chairman’s comforting assurance “that we
have many activities apart from manu-
facturing, and from these a satisfactory
income is likely to be maintained.” Also,
owing to prior additions to reserves and
the conservative basis on which stocks
are valued, declared net earnings have
not been overstated.
The already comfortable financial posi-
tion was further strengthened:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £2,115,000 £2,115,000 £1,115,000
Reserves .. . . 3,513,984 4,212,159 4,714,559
Outside interests.. 87,862 102,226 124 r 751
Suspense account.. 109,118 89,144
Creditors, etc. .. 875,891 875,878 929,322
Tax reserve .. 865,748 1,137,014 888,070
Pinal divs. .. 158,625 158,625 158,625
£7,726,228 £8,690,046
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,518,079 1,558,474 1,671,904
Plant, etc. .. 1,144,507 1,159,421 1,204,836
Stocks .. .. 2,379,652 2,404,200 2,884,713
Debtors .. .. 1,755,086 1,680,566 1,994,029
Shares .. .. 273,341 335,923 390,711
Cash, etc 604,628 1,500,527 1,078,799
Suspense account.. -—■ 154,400
Intangibles .. 50,935 50,935 50,935
£7,726,228 £8,690,046 £8,930,327
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus, or working capital
(£4,030,635), was £370,080. Principal
movements in individual items > were net
additions of £158,845 to the book-value
of fixed assets and £313,462 to book-
debts, which were accompanied by con-
tractions of £248,944 net in the tax reserve
and £421,728 in cash, etc.
As for the current term, it is doubtful
whether much, if any, further improve-
ment in net earnings on Australian
account need be looked for, but there
might be some revival in the ex-Austra-
lian figure. The co.’s African factories
operate on much lower sugar- and wage-
costs than prevail in Australia.
Evans, Deakin & Co. (Qld.)
HPHE f.-p. £1 ords. in this 32-year-old
general - engineering, structural - steel
and shipbuilding co. enjoy a wide
dividend cover, strong asset backing,
finances are comfortable and the business
—built-up by Colonel “Dan” Evans
(chairman until his death about three
years ago) and A. J. Deakin (now chair-
man and managing-director)—is stepping
along in fine style. At 625. (61s. 6d. a
year ago) they return 5.7 p.c. on a VI \
p.c. div. basis. For the first £1 7£ p.c.
participating prefs. buyers offer 28s. to
yield 7.1 p.c. on a maximum 10 p.c.
distribution. There has been no sale
of the second 5 per cents, for some time.
Excluding the depreciation reserve
(£197,729), net tangible cover is
£29 2s. lOd. firsts, £lB 15s. 2d. seconds
and 85s. lid. ords.
Expansion of the business has been
financed largely out of surplus earnings.
Since 1939 £785,323 net has been added
to reserves (£817,677), £242,738 (which
included £142,500 of bonus-scrip) to paid
capital (£346,893), and £469,273 to the
outside debt, etc. (£543,236). A run of
7j p.c. ord. divs. for the eight years to
1944 was followed by two lots of 10 p.c.,
two of 12£ p.c., one of 15 p.c., another of
17£ p.c., then four of 15 p.c. and 17|
p.c. last term. And the distributions,
partly tax-free, were sweetened with
bonus scrip-issues in 1950 (£85,500) and
1953 (£57,000).
Of recent years there has been a
healthy all-round growth of the under-
taking, which falls into four main
divisions general-engineering (South
Brisbane), structural-steel (Rocklea), ship-
building (Kangaroo Point) and specialty-
engineering lines handled on an agency
basis. Also a 25 p.c. interest is held in
Commonwealth Engineering (Brisbane),
formed in 1951 to look after construction
and repair of railway rolling-stock. Out-
put, turnover and net earnings have
advanced by annual steps during each of
the last 10 years. And during the last
few of them production has been
retarded by shortages of steel (some of
which has had to be imported) and
skilled labor.
Last term the shipyards completed and
delivered a 7000-ton bulk-carrier, and
work on the first of four 10,000-ton
carriers is well advanced. The fabricated-
steel works were kept busy with deliveries
of materials (expected to be completed
during the first quarter of 1956) for the
Burdekin Bridge and for industrial
structures. The general-engineering shop
completed several major contracts, and
further large orders have been received.
And sales of agency - lines again
increased
After allowing £42,359 (up £13,260) for
depreciation and £182,000 (up £32,000)
for taxation, etc., net earnings were
£22,903 stronger at a record £138,374:
, Dividends N Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1950 ... 63,532 10 & 6 17J 22,788 306,004
• Unexplained additions, £7376 .. 313,380
Prom inner reserves, £85,500.. 398,880
Reserves capitalised, £85,500 .. 313,380
1951 . . 69,180 10 & 5 16 34,450 348,110
Unexplained additions, £24,651.. 372,661
1952 . . 80,699 10 & 5 15 34,450 418,910
Unexplained additions, £36,893 .. 455,803
1953 . . 97,254 10 & 5 15 40,950 512,107
Unexplained additions, £61,161 .. 573,268
1954 .. 115,473 10 & 5 15 44,200 644,541
Unexplained additions, £85,702.. 730,243
1955 .. 138,374 10 & 6 17i 50,940 817,677
* Excludes depreciation reserve, now £197,729.
The £138,374 was enough to pay the
pref. divs. (£7600) and show a juicy
52.9 p.c. on ord. and employee capital
combined, compared with 44.2, 36.9, 40.8
and 33.9 p.c. back to 1951. And that
leaves out of the reckoning an unex-
plained addition of £85,702 to reserves.
So the lift in the div. from 15 p.c. to
p.c. was a comfortable matter. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and free
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
11.8 p.c. The lushness of the ord. ratios
thus owes much to the size of the
reserves.
Expansion and further strengthening
of the financial position are the features
of balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. . . 244,378 245,586 246,893
Reserves .. .. 612,107 644,541 817,617
Depreciation re-
serve .. .. 181,588 188,862 197,729
Overdraft .. .. 35,919
Creditors, etc.* .. 442,670 400,631 543,236
Pinal divs. .. 25,800 25,800 26,400
£1,542,462 £1,605,420 £1,931,875
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 581,417 698,157 717,595
Shares .. .. 41,857 66,982 82,432
Stocks .. .. 572,292 540,088 587,620
Debtors . . . . 306,104 247,562 376,417
Cash, bonds, etc. 40,792 152,631 167,811
£1,542,362 £1,605,420 £1,931,875
* Includes tax provision.
The year’s net addition of £119,438 to
premises and plant mainly reflects
purchase of land at Geebung, adjoining
the North Coast railway, where a new
workshop to handle light-fabrication and
welded-construction jobs is being erected.
Stocks increased by £47,532 and book-
debts by £128,855, while £140,605 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. The more-or-less liquid
surplus (£562,212) increased by £48,362,
despite the outlay on fixed assets.
Bruck Mills (Australia), Ltd.
T\ESPITE the excellent performance of
this nine-year-old rayon-weaving,
-dyeing and -finishing co., technical and
psychological factors have produced
wide fluctuations in the price of its f.-p.
£1 ords. over the last few years. The
figure advanced from a low of 15s. lid.
in 1952 to a peak of 365. 6d. in 1954,
and has since eased by irregular steps
to the current level of 265. 3d. The
return at 265. 3d. is 9.5 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis, or 6.1 p.c. should the distri-
bution drop to 8 p.c. The 5 p.c. prefs.
(£250,000 of them in a paid capital of
£1,445,500) at 15s. yield 6.6 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £7 6s. prefs. and 265. 9d.
ords.
Since the mill at Wangaratta (Vic.) got
into commercial production in 1948,
declared net earnings advanced without
falter until last term, when the slip was
£17,719. Also the ord. div. climbed
from a maiden 3 p.c. in 1949 to \2\ p.c.
for the last two years, with comfortable
margins. And a deficit of £119,170 on
capital account in 1948 had been trans-
formed into reserves of £403,587 at June
30 last, after deducting intangibles (now
£115,955). Here are the details year by
year:—
Year, , Dividend N To Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.*
30, 5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 16.340. Nil Nil 16,340 119,170
1949.. 60,950 12,500 3 p.c. = 16,416 32,034 87,136
1950.. 70,187 12,500 H „ „ 27,190 30,497 56,639
Reduction intangibles, £19,555 .. 37,084
1951.. 84,953 12,500 6 p.c. = 41,361 31,092 5,992
Reserves.*
1952.111,062 12,500 7$ „ „ 61,584 36,978 30,986
1953.187.303 12,500 11J „ ~112,181 62,622 93,608
Tax overprovided, £75,000 .. .. 168,608
1954.237,023 12,500 12ip.c.=136,910 87,613 256,221
Prom inner reserves, £90,000 .. 346,221
1955.219.304 12,500 12jp.c.=149,438 57,366 403,587
* After deducting intangibles, now £115,955.
Last term the slip in gross trading profit
(£489,797) was £217,962, of which £200,243
was offset by sayings in administrative
exes., etc. (£52,582, down £71,275), and
in allowances for depreciation (£87,685,
down £23,484) and taxation (£130,226,
down £105,484). In 1954 administrative
exes, included provision for bad and
doubtful debts, etc., the allowance for
taxation of approximately 10s. in the £
was generous and the profit claimed con-
servative.
Last term’s £219,304 of profit was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
17.2 p.c. on ord. capital as against 20.5,
17.4, 12, 10.5 and 9.5 p.c. back to 1950.
That leaves out of the figuring an addi-
tion to general reserves of £90,000, being
provisions made in previous years against
bad debts, etc., and now considered in
excess of requirements. So maintenance
of the 12i p.c. div. caused no embarrass-
ment and might be taken as an expression
of the board’s confidence in the co.’s
ability to win satisfactory results, though
the outlook for rayon-textile producers is
a mixed one. Considering the experience
of some others in the industry the co.’s
performance was an encouraging one.
Last term production declined and there
was severe price-competition following
heavy imports from West Germany,
Italy and the U.K. The price of imported
yarns eased, and labor costs increased,
owing to the rises in margins for skill,
but the effects upon unit costs in finished
products were not marked. A more vexa-
tious problem arises from loss of skilled
workers during periods of slack produc-
tion and the need to train “green” labor
when demand and output revive.
The current term began with the in-
dustry generally working at about two-
thirds capacity. However, sales and pro-
duction have picked up since, and are
expected to further strengthen, thanks to
import-restrictions, which take time to
make themselves fully felt. Meanwhile,
costs continue on the up-grade, and more
competition can be expected from local
producers—Tootal, Broadhurst, Lee and
Co. (Tas.) is due to enter the field of
rayon woven-products in 1956. Much
will depend upon developments in con-
nection with our overseas trade-balance,
and its concomitant, tight-money, which
means financial stringency. All that can
be said definitely at the moment is that
Bruck is well-equipped, technically and


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. La wry,
Manager.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
If Illness
or Accident
.strike
iVOUf
. . . Earning capacity suddenly
stops. But you still receive a
regular income from a Metro-
politan Table 31 Policy. If limb
or sight is lost, Rehabilitation
payments tide you over the re-
adjustment period.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.™
1895
DIAMOND JUBILt
1955
THE METROPOLITAN
Cnr. Huntsr ond Bliah Sli*. Sydney
Faith la the
Future
\
Christmas exalts the world again with its
renewal of Faith and Hope, and the Charity that
wells from the goodwill of men to one another.
It is a time of spiritual refreshment, and I
believe there is in its Message an answer to all
the questings of mankind.
If we tend to be proud it recalls to us the
tremendous power of humility. If at times we
doubt ourselves it reminds us of the strength latent
in the hand of a new-born Child.
When people say that materialism is prevailing
we can point them to the spectacle of hundreds of
millions pausing in their lives to adore a Babe born
in poverty; One possessing none of the worlds
goods, and yet possessing everything.
And when men talk of flouting the rule of
law we can recall to them the truth that obedience
to civil authority was at the very foundation of
Christianity —that Bethlehem was the birthplace of
Christ because Joseph and Mary were dutiful of
the decree of Caesar Augustus and went up from
Nazareth to be enrolled in the census of their time
as members of the House of David.
These are a few of the thoughts that come
in on me along my Christmas way, and I share
them with you because I believe that, according to
our various lights, the festival message finds a
comforting response in the hearts of all.
Christmas is also a time of thanksgiving, not
only for the Faith that resides in us but also for
the God-given opportunity of living fully and
worshipping freely in a wonderful land.
What better wish can I extend, then, than
that Australia will continue to prosper in a happy
world; and that in the prospering, you may always
carry into your homes, your work, and everything
you undertake, the true spirit of Christmas.
//fas*
financially, to win whatever
profits are to be had from the
year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surp 1 us
(£934,984) was_ £79,141, due to
the disclosure of inner reserves,
which also accounted for £90,(300
of the £107,761 by which
debtors’ balance increased:
P f re r m ~ .. sKbo £360.000
lit :: .. r,195,500 1,195,500
Creditors 255’,585 218,502
Tax provision ..
Final divs. .. 75,297
£2,433,358 £2,444,513
Freehold property 30,555 WO-372
Leaseholds .. 1 04 ,987
Plant .. 635,337 617,643
Shares 75,000 75,000
. 793,596 631,790
Debtors .. .. 444.488 552,249
Cash, etc. .. 233,440 230,416
Intangibles .. 115,955 115,900
£2,433,358 £2,444,513
Stocks, in at cost or under, were
reduced by £161,806, while
£36,883 was snipped off the
amount coming to sundry
creditors, and £85,918 more was
spent on fixed assets than was
written off. The shareholding is
a half-interest (John Vicars and
Co. is the other partner) in Bulli
Spinners Pty., a new staple-fibre
spinning concern which is already
earning a small profit.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
nrHE rapid and profitable
post-war growth of this
manufacturing, importing and
distributing organisation reflects
the enterprise of the manage-
ment and, for the most part,
expanding markets for the lines
turned out and/or handled.
These cover a wide field in
which competition is becoming
steadily keener, with narrowing
gross margins. The emphasis
is therefore upon turnover, and
production and distribution
costs. To these ends organisa-
tion and methods are being con-
stantly overhauled, distributing-
outlets are being expanded in
both size and number, and the
production of TV-receivers is
scheduled to begin about mid-
-1956, and of new refrigeration
units —to be turned out under
licence from the Pressed Steel
Co., U.K. —about the end of
1957. The market for both these
new lines promises to be highly
competitive.
Manufacture, centred chiefly
in Melbourne, now includes
bicycles (the line on which the
business grew up), radios, wash-
ing-machines, vacuum-cleaners,
batteries, etc. On the distribut-
ing side the co. holds some valu-
able local and overseas agencies
covering a wide range of com-
ponents for the motor, refrigera-
tion, wireless and other house-
hold-electrical-goods trades. To
date the agencies and wholesale-
distributing sections have been
the best contributors to profits,
which are very sensitive to
marked changes in the economic
climate, as the almost 50 p.c.
contraction in net earnings
during the two years to mid-
-1953 illustrates—the slip was
due partly to a decline in turn-
over and partly to a fall in
raw-material prices, with con-
sequent narrowing of gross
margins.
The ord. div. climbed from
10 p.c. in 1943 to 15 p.c. in 1950,
and has remained steady since,
with wide margins. There has
been no writing-up of the book-
value of assets, or issue of
bonus-scrip. Since 1945 expan-
sion has been financed largely
by additions to the outside debt
(up £2,479,930) and to reserves
(up £1,114,762) and partly by
introduction of fresh share-
capital (up £942,500). The last
£425,000 of capital, which
carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.,
was gathered during the 12
months to June 30, 1955. It
lifted paid capital to £1,262,500
in 74,800 8 p.c. and 475,200 6
p.c. prefs., all of #£l each, and
2,850,000 ord.; arid employee ss.
shares.
Last term turnover increased
by £1,121,000, reaching a record
£7,748,000. After allowing for
depreciation (£72,950, up £7446)
and taxation (£139,100, up
£43,700), the net result was
£47,965 stronger at £225,464:
4. G. Healing and Subsidiahies.
r ———Dividends 1
j Pref. \ Ord. Re-
Jne.,Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 15 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
’51..273,968 5984 3012 58,125 961,763
To staff fund, £15,411 . . 946,352
Proceeds sale assets, £12,946 959,298
Unexplained reductions, £5946 953,352
’52..208,758 5984 3012 58,125 1,094,989
To staff fund, £12,501 .. 1,082,488
Intangibles appear, £8325.. 1,074,163
Profit sale assets, £4296 .. 1,078,459
Unexpl’d additions, £6346.. 1,084,405
’58..139,471 5984 3012 106,875 1,108,405
To staff fund, £13,019 .. 1,095,386
Profit sale assets, £9528 .. 1,104,914
Unexpl’d additions, £23,618. 1,128,527
’54 .177,499 5984 3012 106,875 1,190,155
To staff fund, £17,755 .. 1,172,400
Profit sale assets, £3268 .. 1,175,668
Share-issue exp. w/off, £3618. 1,172,050
Unexplained addition, £4946. 1,176,996
’55..225,464 6984 16,762 106,875 1,272,839
To staff fund, £18,866 . . 1,253,973
* After deducting intangibles, now £l.
After paying the pref. divs., the
balance of the year’s profit was
28.4 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 23.6, 18.3, 51.5, 68.3 and
43.7 p.c. back to 1950. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 8.9 p.c. Obviously
the reserves, the pref. capital and
a lot of the outside debt, too,
are making handy contributions
to the pool for the ords.
The growth in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,360,953) was
£377,727, due partly to introduc-
tion of the fresh share-capital
already referred to:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £837,500 £1,262,500
Reserves .. 1,172,401 1,253,974
Mortgages, etc. .. 628,968 489,735
Overdraft .. .. 1,199,889 1,332,801
Sundry creditors.. 671,621 908,380
Tax provision .. 147,840 187,401
Provident fund .. 16,921
Final div. .. 111,373 121,623
£4,685,408 £5,576,842
Freeholds and lease-
hold .. -• 707,955 774,160
Plant etc. • * 318,681 881,360
Stocks .. •• 2,239,722 2,719,826
Book debts .. 1,408,400 1,689,183
Investments and
cash .. .. 10,649 12,312
Intangibles . • 1
£4,685,408 £5,576,842
The net addition of £128,884 to
fixed assets reflects extensions
to trading and factory premises
and purchase of a property at
Townsville, where a new branch
is to be opened. Stocks (up
£480,104) and book-debts (up
£280,783) are the most vulner-
able points in the co.’s armor.
The former appear at lower of
cost or replacement-value, and
the latter less provision for bad
debts. Together the two items
exceeded shareholders’ funds by
£1,892,536, which means that the
co. is necessarily a heavy
borrower. When ‘ the books
closed there was 21s. Bd. belong-
ing to the bank, mortgagees and
sundry creditors, etc., at risk in
the business for every £ of share-
holders’ funds. Since the close
of accounts £300,000 of p.c.
note-money has been gathered to
help finance hire-purchase sales.
At 14s. (16s. 6d. a year ago)
the f.-p. ss. ords. return 5.3 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. It would
take a 20 p.c. distribution, or
other benefits, to lift the return
to 7 p.c. The £1 6 p.c. prefs.
at 18s. yield 6.6 p.c. The 8 per
cents, seldom appear on ’Change.
Net tangible cover is 91s. lid.
prefs. (both classes rank equally
for capital) and 14s. Bd. ords.
Sungei Bidor Tin
Just before the books closed
at June 30 last those on the co.’s
register received a two-for-one
issue of bonus-scrip, which lifted
paid capital to £360,000 in 10s.
shares, since split into ss. units.
The gift (£240,000) came from
a reserve of £241,000, created
by writing-up the book-value of
the dredge, and was free of
Australian and Malayan income
tax—it might also mean big
savings to shareholders when,
at some future date, the co.
decides to return its share capi-
tal, or part of it.
During the year the big all-
electric dredge, operating some
15 miles from Kampar (F.M.S.),
handled approximately the same
yardage of slightly lower-grade
dirt at higher cost for less tin-
ore and gold, as the following
table shows:
Treated, Div.,
c.y. t.o* Gold.f Proflt.s 225 p.c.
Jne., ’OOO. Tons. Oz. £ &
’52 .3103 534.6 599.3 180,820 270,000
200 p.c.
’53 .3387 560.8 648.2 160,989 240,000
100 p.c.
’54..3599 622.4 1354.8 140,234 120,000
33& p.c.
’55..3597 511.2 1037.1 101,568 120,000
* Assay approx. 75 p.c. metallic tin.
t Smelted gold, t After deducting taxa-
tion and provision for depreciation, etc.
In terms of metallic tin, output
was 386 tons (down 83 tons).
The average price realised was
£722 (up £55) per ton, but all-
in costs (excluding tax-provision)
were £383.7 (up £B3) per ton,
due to rises in prices for
materials. Hence the slip of
£38,666 in net earnings
(£101,568), which were 28.3 p.c.
on capital as it now stands. The
rate of div. was lowered from
100 p.c. to 331 p.c., but the
amourit involved was unchanged.
Since the close of accounts a
6d. div. (£36,100) has been paid.
Some mining leases which
expired during the year were
renewed for a period of 10
years, and the co. has asked the
Government to change the titles
to its Banopdane property from
agricultural to mining. All
told, dredgeable ore reserves are
estimated at 31,000,000 c.y., or
approximately nine years’ work
for the dredge under normal
conditions.
Finances are snug. When the
books closed current assets
totalled £238,240, of which
£51,110 was stores, and current
liabilities amounted to £51,110.
The London spot-price of tin
per ton averaged £5721.5 for the
year to June 30 last. The figure
steadily strengthened from
£5724.2 for June to £5778.2 for
November, rose to £5804.5 on
December 13 and eased to
£SB32 on December 20, which
augurs well for the showing at
next balance-date. The rise was
due largely to pressure of
American buying on both com-
mercial and Government
account. The long-term outlook
for the metal will depend upon
the consumption trend.
The market prices the co.’s f.-p.
ss. shares at 9s. each, thus valu-
ing the undertaking at £649,800,
of which £187,130 was repre-
sented by surplus liquids at June
30 last. So the investor who
looks for his money back, plus
10 p.c. p.a., counts on divs.
averaging about 32 p.c. over the
next 10 years.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
If what scientists say is true —that no
sound is ever lost, but sweeps out on
waves through all eternity—it might be
well to snatch back the chatter of 1955
for a moment and see how it will look
on its long, long journey.
☆ ☆ ☆
In January we moaned about the heat.
It was 104 degrees in Sydney, and in
Victoria and South Australia there were
disastrous bushfires. When the rains came
later we welcomed the end of the drought,
but we didn’t know that rain was to be
one of our main worries in the year then
ahead of us.
☆ ☆ ☆
We speculated about who had watered
the pitch during the third Test and chat-
tered about the lifting of price-controls,
thinking, in our childish error, that every-
thing would get cheaper. We still knew at
that time who was who in the A.L.P.
troubles, but later these became so in-
volved that only the politically-minded
could tell who were the “rebels” and who
they were rebelling against.
☆☆ ☆ .
We wondered whether the “H”-line
would catch-on, and while we were won-
dering the “A”-line superseded it.
Sydney women during the year lagged
so far behind international fashion that
they missed-out one or two trends and
will probably catch-up next year quite
easily (like a runner who comes past the
post with the others because he’s left out
a lap or two).
☆ ☆ ☆
However, we made progress with the
Italian type of fashion for sun-wear, and
chattered a good deal about ear-rings,
Audrey Hepburn haircuts, tapered trou-
sers, tote-bags, straw shoes and leopard-
jackets. The young girls wore stiffened
petticoats and up-to-the-knee full
skirts, a habit which caused overseas
fashion-wise people to chatter wildly
about them, but they looked gay and
probably were the cause of a certain
number of wolf-whistles creeping into
those ever-circling sound-waves.
☆ ☆ ☆
We talked about painting—the sort that
artists put on canvas, and the sort that
nearly all of us put on walls and ceilings.
The Contemporary Art Society talked
about the Art Gallery trustees’ lack of
vision in awarding the Archibald Prize
to Ivor Hele for his portrait of Mr.
Menzies and made their own award (less
valuable monetarily) to Michael Kmit
for his portrait of himself. Then the
trustees talked about them.
☆ ☆ #
At the beginning of the year we talked
about how old-fashioned it was to have
all the walls of one room painted the
same color, and at the end of the year
we talked about how old-fashioned it
was to have them all different colors.
Everybody painted, by the way, and the
city looks much sprucer in consequence.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flower-arrangements came in for
much comment. Bunches of flowers were
rather scoffed at. One praised the
“jungle in the dining-room” effect, and
had snake-plants, castor-oil-trees and
(this is true!) aspidistras instead.
* ☆ ☆
There was an unusual amount of talk
about whether certain people should
resign, Mr. Churchill, “Doc.” Evatt, the
headmaster of Knox College, Mrs.
Lorenz, the secretary of the R.S.P.C.A.,
the Fire-Chief, to mention only a few.
Some of them did resign. Others held
tight.
☆ ☆ ☆
The cost of things was a fruitful sub-
ject of conversation. In February the
price of tea fell in London and everyone
(except the trade) said that now tea would
be cheaper. But the trade said “Not a
hope in life —it will be dearer, if any-
thing.” And they proved right. The
Government lifted the subsidy and the
overseas market recovered (or something
of the sort), and it was explained that
we had missed the benefit of the fall and
so we had to pay more.
At one stage housewives could not talk
of anything but the cost of vegetables
peas and beans 4s. a pound, cauliflowers
7s. each. Now that vegetables are quite
reasonable in their demands, the price of
poultry comes in for comment. Turkeys
for Christmas 9s. a pound, and so on.
However, nylon stockings went down a
shilling or so, but nobody seemed to
bother remarking upon this.
☆ ☆ ☆
Men’s hair-cuts went up Is. 3d., and
later on Mr. Landa kindly cut them down
by thrippence. He also cut the price of
toothpaste, but it was noted that shortly
afterwards hospital-fees went up 50 per
cent. This caused comments ranging
from the sarcastic to the inflammatory.
Anne Cameron, of Narrabri, who
recently received her diploma from the
Kindergarten Training College, will leave
in February to take up the interesting job
of director of the Kindergarten at Alice
Springs, which is run by the Department
of the Interior. Photo by Norton-
Trevaire.
Nobody was more in the conversation
than Princess Margaret, from the time
she went to the Bahamas; and there was
chatter, chatter, chatter about her low-
cut evening-dress, through all the rumors
of a possible engagement to Group-Cap-
tain Townsend, past her 25th birthday,
when she looked so beautiful in her birth-
day-portrait, on to the hullabulloo when
the Group-Captain visited London and
Fleet-street “never slept a wink”; the
dignified announcement which put an
end to the speculation ; and, with only a
little lull, to the criticism of her race-
costume, which echoed earlier comments
about “ghastly hats,” etc. It is a wonder
the Princess has survived.
V ■ V
Opera came in for a great deal of
comment. The National Opera Com-
pany started off bravely and well with
“Fledermaus,” and continued through
the heat of summer with some excellent
shows. Then Warwick Braithwaite, the
conductor, resigned, and there seemed to
be a general disintegration, with much
talk ensuing about who would pay the
debts and whether the Nat. Opera Com-
pany would survive. Well, it did, and
will tour country centres with “Madame
Butterfly” early next year.
Later on, the Taits brought out the
Italian Opera Company, which did very
well, but didn’t quite stay the course,
because, so gossip said, of jealousy
between the Australian and the Italian
singers.
V q. V
Katharine Hepburn and Robert Help-
mann, with the Old Vic Company, were
good topics of conversation. Remember
the time Katie wore a dress to the Lord
Mayor’s reception? Then the Richard-
sons (Sir Ralph and his wife, Meriel
Forbes), with Dame Sybil Thorndike and
Sir Lewis Casson, helped to make up the
glamor of the opening of the Elizabethan
Theatre at Newtown. Googie Withers
and John McCallum, appearing at the
Royal for nearly a year, were both talked
about and talking. Indeed, it would be
hard to think how various functions
would have got themselves opened dur-
ing the year without the speechmaking.
of Googie and Dame Sybil.
☆ ☆ ☆
A great deal of talking-time was spent
by practically the whole population dis-
cussing whether it would be more foolish
to wash the car in a mink coat or a pink
coat, and similar problems. The answer
in this instance was “pink” ; so, of course,
there was more talk then of how unfair
the Telewords and the Findawords, etc.,
were. The bald iggles had their little
day, too, but were not so remunerative.
# v &
There was all that talk about the
“Torch” fire at Bankstown, talk about
the trial by Parliament of Messrs. Browne
and Fitzpatrick. Talk about Hephzibah
Menuhin saying it was a common thing
for Australian men to beat their wives ;
talk of the Compulsory Unionism Bill
(and what has happened to it?), and of
the Obscenity Bill; talk of how the
judges and the top officials all got rises
in pay ; talk of strikes, and the choosing
of the site for an Opera House at Benne-
long Point (and of how to spell Bene-
long); talk of the Auster that got away,
and how it was the Naval Air Arm that
shot it down ; talk of Australia winning
the Davis Cup and losing the Ashes, and
of Lewis Hoad marrying Jennifer Staley ;
talk of Darby Munro retiring; and
thoughts, of course, on the deaths of
Madge Elliott and Mrs. Preston Stanley
Vaughan.
MELBOURNE
This has been the gayest Christmas,
and a staggering amount of money has
been spent in gifts. In city and suburbs
fairy-lights festoon the trees. Gaily
lighted Christmas-trees were seen in the
gardens of both St. Paul’s Cathedral and
the Collins-street Independent Church.
At George’s in Collins-street models of
white-robed choir-boys holding hymn-
books move across the facade at the first-
floor-levels and at night real choir-boys
stand beside them and sing Christmas-
carols. A Myer’s window, arranged by
Fred Asmussen, depicts a scene from the
Court of King Lion, with various animals
as courtiers, all richly clad in velvet and
satin—an entrancing attraction for the
children.
Mrs. Royden Honeyman, leader of a
group of members of the Australian-
American Association which is raising
funds for their new rooms, has organised
a buffet-luncheon at the Brighton home
of Mr. and Mrs. Gray Staley for Janu-
ary 22. Mrs. Honeyman is also an ener-
getic member of the Ladies’ Entertain-
ment Group which works for the White
Ensign Club, and is busy planning a huge
card-party dated for March 8 to help
club funds. She can be contacted at
BY 2304 by those who would like to
attend these functions.
There was a big, fashionably dressed
audience for the premiere of “Medea,”
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s first
production in Melbourne, with Judith
Anderson in the title-role.
In the audience were Sir Lewis Casson
and his wife Dame Sybil Thorndike,
whom many remembered for her notable
performance in the same role in 1932.
They were accompanied by their son
John, his wife and children.
Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of the Premier,
wore a gown of burgundy Chantilly-lace
and tulle. A striking ensemble was
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s Ming-blue satin
frock and matching theatre-coat.
Mrs. Frank Tait was attractive in a short,
full frock of black ribbed poult, the tin?
cap-sleeves lined with a frill of orchid-
pink chiffon that matched the trail of
roses cascading down the skirt. Large
pink roses were clustered on the strap-
less cinnamon-brown chiffon frock worn
by. Lillian Wightman. Mrs. Geoffrey
Fairbairn wore a full-skirted frock of
white organza patterned with large black
flowers.
Mrs. Len Buxton’s H-line frock was
of white faille patterned in a blurred
design of blue and mauve flowers. A
white Arctic-fox stole was worn by
Mrs. Kitty Davidson with her short
bouffant white frock. Lady Murdoch
chose midnight-blue chiffons, Mrs. Brooks
Jackson a bouffant frock of flame
organdie. Lady Knox wore pink-and-
silver lame. A short champagne-tinted
guipure-lace frock was Mrs. Dorothy
Gitsham’s choice.
* # V
There were over 100 guests at the
buffet-dinner party given by members of
the English Speaking Union at their South
Yarra clubrooms. Christmas-lilies in a
large gilt urn were artistically lighted;
there were colored baubles, a scarlet
candle and Christmas-lilies on each table;
and, before dinner was served, choirboys
from Christ Church, South Yarra, sang
Christmas-carols. Guests were received
by the president, Sir Owen Dixon, and
Lady Dixon. Among those at the party
were Mr. and Mrs. E. Dietrich, Dr.
Deborah Buffer Murphy, Mrs. Alan
Downie, Dr. F. W. Wood, Pamela
Middleton, Joy Robertson and Bob
Lawson.
* ☆ *
Colored fairy-lights decorated the
patio of Dorothy Gitsham’s Toorak
home when she gave a party for about
100 friends. The hostess wore an off-
the-shoulder frock of black poult with
the bouffant skirt finishing in a harem-
hemline. Mrs. Constance Day wore
white poult patterned in red-centred
white daisies; her daughter Deanna
chose a red-and-white-checked gingham
featuring an overskirt of white organdie.
Mrs. John Newton’s cotton frock was
in vivid flower-tonings ; Mrs. W. Moore
chose a sheath-frock of white guipure-
lace. Mrs. Gordon Pope’s sheath-frock
was of white lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although the Red Cross Young
Twenties Group has not long been in
action its first function was a huge suc-
cess—a Christmas-party for children at
the Dorchester. Santa Claus was at the
door to greet the youngsters and hand
each a present. There were gay party-
hats, entertainment by a magician and
a juggler, slides and pony rides in the
gardens, prizes in the lucky-dip and gifts
in the fish-pond. All members of the
group, whose president is Mrs. Bruce
Matear, are in their, twenties, and from
now on will be working hard to raise a
large sum for the Red Cross March
Appeal.
☆ ☆ *
Mrs. Isobel Green, sister of the Prime
Minister, has been for over 17 years secre-
tary and manager to the trustees of the
Exhibition Building, and she was guest-
of-honor at a late-aftemoon party at the
Hotel Australia given by the Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures, the first time
it has so honored a woman. Mr. A. N.
Curphey, the Chamber of Manufactures’
general-manager, received the guests and
proposed the toast to the guest-of-honor.
Mr. K. G. Luke, chairman of the Exhibi-
tion Building trustees, seconded the
toast. Mrs. Green, who wore a charm-
ing delphinium-blue crepe-romaine frock
and picture-hat in paler blue, was accom-
panied by her daughter, Mrs. Ron
McGregor. A beautifully bound de luxe
edition of Somerset Maugham’s Cakes
and Ale was presented to Mrs. Green
with a gorgeous mauve orchid.
#
A brilliantly illuminated Christmas-
tree was a feature of the decorations used
by the Consul for the Republic of China,
Mr. Liu, and his wife, when many friends
were entertained at a pre-Christmas party.
Many greeting-cards were placed over the
mantels in the reception-rooms and on
the walls. Mrs. Liu wore one of her
lovely national costumes, and their son
Alec assisted his parents in entertaining.
Among the guests were Mr. Kent Hughes,
Canadian Trade Secretary Roy Blake and
Mrs. Blake, Consul for France M. Le Bas
de Plumetot and his wife, Austrian Con-
sul F. Berger and Mrs. Berger, Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Menzies, Mr. and Mrs. A. T.
Smithers (he is secretary to the Victorian
Treasury), Mr. and Mrs. L. Dooling,
and the Queensland Government repre-
sentative, Mrs. T. J. Ryan.


Missing Friends
WOULD DORIS WINEPRED WHITE,
nee MARTIN, formerly of Cunderdin,
Western Australia, but now of parts un-
known, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, please communicate with MESSRS.
JONES & KENNEDY, of 213 Nicholson
Street, Footscray, W.ll, Victoria 5V
WILL any person knowing the present
whereabouts of EDGAR LACEY, formerly
of MacArthur, Vic., Shire Employee,
please communicate with M. M. GORMAN,
Solicitor, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne?
Tel. MU 4564.
Between
Ourselves
m*.
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO UNO SIIBOLD formerly of “Edin-
glassie” near Muswellbrook in. the State
of New South Wales Tailor.—TAKE
NOTICE that LIEU SIIBOLD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3906 of 1955
on the grounds of habitual drunkenness
and habitually leaving the Petitioner
without means of support during three
years and upwards and is asking for exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under Sec-
tion 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899-1954 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry of the Supreme Court Sydney on
or before the Tenth day of February
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
herein free of charge from MESSRS.
PIGOTT STINSON & CO., Solicitors, 2 b
Castlereagh Street, Sydney; or MESSRS.
DOUST & CURTIS, Solicitors, of Muswell-
brook.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERIC ALFRED HAY late of 357
Enmore Road Marrickville. —T AK E
NOTICE that MABEL LINDA HAY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4150 of
1955 on the grounds of habitual drunken-
ness and cruelty for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the First March 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition -without charge
from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15
Bligh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WASIL KOSCHENOW late of
Marulan. —TAKE NOTICE that LUDMILA
KOSCHENOW has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1447 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by Ist March ,190 6
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from N. A. A. PRIMROSE, Soli-
citor, of 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
_J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LAURI KENNETH WEST late of 37
Fraser Avenue Pagewood.—TAKE NOTICE
that EILEEN LOUISA WEST has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3789 of 1900
on the grounds of habitual drunkenness
and failure to support If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance m
the Divorce Registry King Street Sydney
by the 27th January 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petitibn without charge
from MESSRS. W. CHAS. MOSELEY,'
LINCOLN SMITH & CO., Solicitors, of
51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMA LORRAINE MASON late of
4 Smith Street Wollongong.—TAKE
NOTICE that IVAN GEORGE PHILLIP
MASON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3279 of 1955 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 29th February
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. F. RICHARDSON
& CO., Solicitors, of 333 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce. .
TO HENRY NOEL BISBY late of Glen
Davis. —TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
BISBY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4290 of 1955 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 29tli February
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. F. RICHARDSON
& CO., Solicitors, of 333 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS EDWARD MULLENGER
late of 27 Rushall Crescent Clifton Hill.
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN MYRTLE
MULLENGER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3549 of 1955 under Victorian
Law on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and frequent convictions for
crime and leaving the Petitioner without
means of support If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce " Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 16th of February 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from L. B. FEENEY, MILLETT
& CO., Solicitors, of 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Sydney Stage—l9ss
The two things which one
remembers most readily about
the Sydney stage for last year
were the disappointment of the
Old Vic company headed by
Katharine Hepburn and Robert
Helpmann, and the opening of
. the Elizabethan Theatre at
Newtown.
The Old Vie opened with “The
Merchant of Venice” with Help-
mann making an ornate and
ctuel Shylock and Miss Hep-
burn a nasal, twittering Portia.
The performance was beauti-
fully mounted, and Helpmann
contributed some impressive
moments, but Miss Hepburn’s
contributions were so devastat-
ing that, at the time, one could
only hope that the remaining
two plays of the season, “The
Taming of the Shrew” and
“Measure for Measure,” would
be much better. As it happened
they weren’t. Although Help-
mann figured fairly impressively
in both, it was very difficult to
see what Miss Hepburn was
about as the Shrew, and her
Isabella tied as poorly with the
facts as her Portia.
The productions themselves
were almost too beautiful —
verging on the precious, in fact,
and, therefore, losing much of
the essential Shakspearian
virility. By the end of the
season one was wondering how
long Shakspeare could survive
an effeminate stage —or the kind
of sanctimonious approach
accorded “Measure for
Measure.”
Some thoughts which the Old
Vic company raised, at this
distance, about the state of the
English stage were magnificently
dispelled, however, by the first
company to take the refurbished
boards of the Elizabethan
Theatre.
These visitors were headed by
Ralph Richardson, Meriel
Forbes, Sybil Thorndyke and
Lewis Casson, and they were
remarkable people to watch.
The two Rattigan lightweights
put on —“The Sleeping Prince”
and “Separate Tables” —were
possibly a little underweight for
the amount of talent assembled,
but at least they accorded the
whole cast some admirable
opportunities to strut their stuff,
which they did —very finely in-
deed. Richardson, in particular,
never misses a trick, and the
present commentator would
place him among the best and
most versatile actors on the
English or U.S. stage today.
Some people were inclined to
dismiss the acting of this com-
pany as “all business,” Possibly
it was, but it was also that kind
of detailed and highly-polished
business which too few actors
are ever able to achieve. It
might also be noted that the
brisk, forthright approach of
Richardson and company was
one of the very things which
the old Vic crowd, with all their
airy pretentiousness, lacked and
needed most.
Next in items of interest for
the year was Judith Anderson’s
“Medea,” also at the Eliza-
bethan.
The curious thing about this
performance was that there were
no halfway opinions about it —
it was either completely damned
or praised to the skies, and, at
the time, the present commenta-
tor came to the conclusion that,
as the whole performance de-
pended almost entirely on the
passions and emotions of Miss-
Anderson, it only needed some
fluctuation in her feelings for
the evening to make or mar the
piece completely either way.
As The Bulletin’s Mel-
bourne critic notes on this page,
Miss Anderson’s opening per-
formance in that city was most
impressive.
Googie Withers and John Mc-
Callum made another outstand-
ing visiting company. They
played “Simon and Laura” at
the Royal for a good run, and
have just finished a successful
season with Rattigan’s “The
Deep Blue Sea” at the same
theatre before moving on to
Brisbane.
There is a deceptive simplicity
about these two players—they
assume their histrionic responsi-
bilities so lightly and skilfully
that it is easy not to notice just
what a remarkably efficient
team they are. Fittingly enough,
Miss Withers is given most of
the cake, and, therefore, has
been getting most of the atten-
tion, but Mr. McCallum is
worth watching, particularly for
the very art with which he makes
you almost overlook him.
After those, it’s a case of
“other good plays.” The Royal
had a pleasant Gallic piece in
“My Three Angels”—a comedy
of three convict-philosophers—
and “The Little Hut,” which
opened at the Elizabethan to-
wards the end of the year, also
had a Gallic flavor in its arrange-
ment of the old triangle with
three castaways on a Pacific
island.
Musicals were not outstand-
ing for the year, with the excep-
tion of the Phillip - street
Theatre’s production of “The
Duenna” —an exquisitely-pro-
duced miniature which stood up
to several inspections. “Paint
Your Wagon,” at the Empire,
was large and spectacular, and
“Rose Marie on Ice” at the same
theatre was also pleasant enough
on the same counts.
In vaudeville one noted the
return of the Palladium to films
and the sustained excellence of
the Tiv. shows, especially
Winifred Atwell, “Colored
Rhapsody” and the current pro-
gramme, “Jokers on the Loose,”
with the Wiere Brothers —three
very versatile and engaging
comedians.
Around the repertory, the In-
dependent was really the only
contender in the field, although
the Genesians figured well with
“The Prisoner” and “The Cock-
tail Party.” The Independent
touched its peak for the year
with a striking stage-version of
Arthur Koestler’s “Darkness at
Noon” with uncommonly power-
ful performances from Kevin
Brennan and Marcel Wattel.
Brennan figured very well
again as a waggish wicked fairy
in May Hollinworth’s produc-
tion for the Independent of
Ustinov’s “The Loves of Four
Colonels,” in which Diana
Perryman also distinguished her-
self (it would be interesting to
see her take a fly at “Medea”).
Brennan, Wattel and Owen
Weingott (“The Duenna”) were
the three actors of whom one
saw too little during the year.
❖
“Medea” in Melbourne
Miss Judith Anderson was
last seen by the present com-
mentator 20-odd years ago in
Melbourne in Michael Arlen’s
“Green Hat”; when she turned-
up the other evening at the
Comedy in better-fashioned
headgear, she was so remark-
able and so living that it was
as if a miracle was being enacted
—or a piece of Medean witch-
craft.
The profundity of Euripides’
thought compared with the
shallowness of Michael Arlen’s
was, of course, partly respons-
ible for the transformation;
also the rich, racy adaptation of
Robinson Jeffers. But a lot of
it must have been due to Miss
Anderson’s passion.
Miss Anderson must have had
considerable passion to have
worked herself up through all
the trumpery roles she has
enacted in her 37 years of
struggle with the theatre until
she reached the top of the tree
on Broadway in 1947 in
“Medea.” It is evidently this
passion and understanding that
she brings to Medea, whose pas-
sion takes the way of murder.
Her cries and groans sound real,
because they come from the
heart, not the head. They come
from the head with most actors.
Euripides’ play came from
both his heart and his head.
The Greeks understood a lot
about it. They had a god for
every feeling—Venus for one,
Hymen for another, Bacchus for
another, the Muses for others
—and all these gods were in per-
petual conflict. What Hymen
loved, Venus despised and hated;
what Jupiter liked, Juno dis-
approved of; and the Myths
describe the tricks they played
on one another. Though she
admired Jason for his courage,
Medea wanted a nice, quiet
suburban life, with a wage-plug
for a husband, though if she had
got it, it would have merely
bored her.
Better death, thinks Jason;
so he gets another wife, which
pleases Venus, but displeases
Hymen, and Hymen is still in-
side him making him feel guilty
towards the wife and children
he has (deserted. Moreover,
he has forgotten his high en-
deavor, which is displeasing to
the Muses, so he has such a
crowd of gods and goddesses
warring inside him and pushing
him in this and that direction
that Jason the hero becomes
Jason the ineffectual. This is
the real tragedy of the play—
not the collapse of Medea into
jealousy and nagging.
It is the passionate under-
standing of Medea’s feelings
which makes Miss Anderson’s
performance so different, and
her spirit was communicated to
her fellow-actors of the Aus-
tralian Drama Co., none of
whom struck a really false note
throughout the evening.
M. G. S.
$ *
“Messiahs”
Among the crop of “Messiahs”
which spring up in Sydney during
the latter half of December the
performances by the Royal Phil-
harmonic Society and the Hurl-
stone Choral Society stood out.
That by the Philharmonics,
whose orchestra was slightly
smaller than the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra which aided and
abetted the Hurlstone people,
was a sterling all-round affair,
the choruses well balanced, with
plenty of weight in the climactic
phases and responding with tight
discipline to conductor Darrell
Bailey’s adjurations, and achiev-
ing no little exultation in the
great “Hallelujah” Chorus. -*
Ereach Riley bucked conven-
tion by dropping the poetical
ultimate syllable from such
words as “pardoned” and
“accomplished,” but otherwise
stuck strictly to the book, and
sang really well. Nita Maughan
was a very accomplished
soprano, Heather Begg’s con-
tralto was richly sonorous and
William Diamon was the bass.
In the performance by the
Hurlstone Choir, conductor
Albert Keats managed to obtain
fine light and shade in most of
the big choruses, and in no phase
did the choral work fall below
the high standard which this
choir has steadily built-up.
Marjorie Conley, the soprano,
sang with the purity of tone and
artistry which one has come to
expect of her. Florence Taylor,
as dependable a contralto as Aus-
tralia possesses, was in particu-
larly fine voice. Ronald Dowd
gave a solid account of the tenor-
part, and Robert Payne’s bass
was strong and resonant.
Handel’s “Messiah” made its
traditional appearance under its
customary Sir Bernard Heinze
at Melbourne Town Hall, and
the Royal Philharmonics were
in their usual places under the
great organ, at which Lance
Hardy sat as usual.
Strangely, they * did not sing
as well as they have on past
occasions. Not that chorus and
orchestra were not superb in
places, but they seemed to be
taking Handel’s genius for
granted, and there was a lack
of feeling behind their perform-
ance. The soloists, in fact,
snatched the laurels.
Sydney’s Florence Taylor was
altogether splendid —her “He
was despised” was suffused with
beauty; her contralto was
never better. Ronald Dowd
has vastly improved since he
first came before the public in
the National Theatre opera and
Robert Payne was good—for the
hundredth time he sang “Why
Do the Nations?” and this was
his best performance. Glenda
Raymond continued to slide on-
to the note a trifle, but her
soprano was as pleasant to
listen to as ever.
It was a packed house —more
of Melbourne wanted to get in
than could be accommodated.
♦> ♦> 4 t 4
“Miss Harding Regrets”—
Produced by its author-com-
poser, John Sullivan, for the
St. Augustine (Sydney) Parish
Players, this new musical-
comedy has an amusing central
theme. To wean his “com-
mercial-suffragette” fiancee from
the business-life she is deter-
mined to follow—the setting is
the earlier years of this century
—a young man decides to open
in commercial opposition tp her
and beat her both as a couturier
and milliner.
The music is pleasantly listen-
able, with one or two good tunes,
but the dialogue needs tighten-
ing, and the writing for the
comedians could be considerably
improved.
The production ran smoothly
despite stage inadequacies and
a tight budget. In the romantic
lead Jenny Laws was natural
and charming, with an excellent
speaking-voice and a very light-
weight soprano. Bill Doughty,
as her fianc6, was manly enough,
if a little stiff in deportment;
his singing-voice needs a more
forward delivery. Heather
Campbell’s was a well-judged
performance as the girl’s mother,
and John Sullivan handled the
role of the young man’s
romantically-minded father with
aplomb. Theo Flatau and Chris
Pratten could have been more
relaxed and spontaneous as
comedy-makers, even though the
material given them was slight.
Sullivan has ideas and tunes
in his head. With more natural
dialogue and snappier lyrics he
could do better.
Talkies
“A Kid for Two Farthings”
(Sydney Embassy): Carol Reed
(producer and director) keeps
this comedy-fantasy moving
at high speed, develops his
characters skilfully and uses the
camera to admirable effect. He
also demonstrates his insight into
the child-mind with a beauti-
fully-drawn portrait of a small
boy who, in his world of fan-
tasy, thinks the one-horned kid-
goat he acquires is a unicorn and
co-opts its magic powers for the
benefit of various adult friends
who are in trouble.
“Davy Crockett” (Sydney
Paris): Another Disney outdoor-
adventure opus, the hero this
time being America’s trapper-
scout, whose indestructibility
from tomahawk, arrow, knife,
bullet and even cannon-shot adds
up to ecstatic entertainment for
the kids. Fess Parker is the
despair of the Cherokee Injuns
and various white baddies, and
Buddy Ibsen his equally-tough
offsider.


Where Qenevieve
By
T. L. DUIGAN
<i I . \ HAT’S that badge on
\A / your coat ? it’s a
YY caterpillar, isn’t it?”
“Yeah, that’s my
caterpillar. Sally must’ve dug
it up somewhere.”
“I didn’t know you’d ever
had to get out. How’d it
happen?”
“Lack of Glycol it was due
to. Lack of Glycol in a Spit.-
eight.”
“Well, go on, there’s more to
it than that. Two more, thanks,
Mrs. Jones.”
“Yes, I s’pose there is. I can’t
remember much now, only the
lovely feeling after I was out
before the ’chute opened, and
then wondering if I was going
to drift into the drink, or if I
could edge-up into wind on to
the beach. I was a bit shifty
about trying to sideslip the
thing—l thought I might
collapse it. I s’pose we’d been
told what to do at some stage of
the game, but I’m afraid I never
took it in at the time, what with
wine, women, sing-sings, aero-
planes and so on.
“We were flying a standing-
patrol at the time, three of us
at about twenty-five-thousand;
must’ve been the end of ’forty-
three or early in ’forty-four.
There wasn’t much doing; it
was more a case of getting some
hours in, though the Beaus
always liked to have us on top
when they were getting off or
coming in.
“Anyhow, this bloody line
bust, and I was something like
fifteen-miles from the strip. The
cylinder-head temperature went
straight off the clock, so I
shoved her into idle cutoff and
headed back. I could see I’d
just about make the south end
of the island, and that I didn’t
have Noah’s hope of getting
down on the strip.
“Well, that’s the way it worked
out. I was at about a thousand-
feet when we came in over the
tail of the island, and into-wind
there was nothing much but
coconut-trees, so I decided not
to be in it. I remembered
everything, unhooked the r.t.
and oxygen, slid back the
canopy, picked up a bit of speed,
trimmed her nose heavy, then
rolled her on her back and up
she went and left me sitting on
air.
“I didn’t quite make the beach,
landed in five-feet of water, and
got in a bit of a tangle with the
harness, not having released it
in the air, like it says in the
book, for those about to lob in
the soda-water. Well, of course,
I’d been giving a running-
description of all this from the
word go, not having much else
to do except stretch the glide,
and the other two lads fixed
where I came down, so after a
while along came the crash-boat
and picked me up.
“Another couple, thanks, Mrs.
Jones.”
“Well, that was a nice digni-
fied Way to get a caterpillar. I
s’pose quite a few single-
engined jokers did a jump or
two like that.”
“No, not many. There
weren’t that many engine-
failures, and as a rule with about
a ton of Merlin or Allison in
front of you, it paid to stay with
it. Still, over the sea or the
jungle, where the kite was a
write-off, anyhow, you paid your
money and you took your
choice. I was always a bit keen
to Jiave a jump, I s’pose.”
“Anyhow, where was all this?
You didn’t say. It sounds a bit
early for Noemfoor or Morotai.”
“Didn’t I? Well, now, this
was that fighter-strip they built
to keep Rabaul bottled-up.
The Hawks used it first; then
we came up with the Spits. Had
a native name—can’t think of
it offhand, though I can see the
place clearly enough; I seem to
have a pretty fair picture of
every strip I’ve ever landed on;
from about three-hundred feet,
turning in off the cross-wind leg
—I s’pose that’s where you really
start to concentrate. This one
was coral, about four-thousand
feet, I think, running north-
west-south-east, up the north
end of the island. Pretty
swampy most of the ground to
the south. There was an old
826 over on its back where we
used to turn in landing to the
north-west. Nobody knew how
it got there; I didn’t think they
were used in the Pacific.”
“Well, I think I can tell you.
What was the name of the
island?”
“Oh! Didn’t I say? This
was in the Trobriands; the
Yanks took them and Woodlark
at the same time.”
“Yeah, I thought so . . . The
Trobriands, eh? That’s where
Genevieve lives.”
TT was after dark when they got
back to Moresby, and as
they came in losing height over
Fairfax harbor, they could see,
over the black hump of Tatana,
the crash-boat putting out the
last of the flares on the flare-
path. Before dawn that morn-
ing they had taken-off from a
flare-path in the same place, and
flown straight out to sea, keep-
ing low over the black water, so
that when dawn came they were
out of sight of New Guinea.
It was over two months since
Lae and Salamaua had gone.
The long-awaited “Tomorrow-
hawks” had come and fought
until they were down to one air-
craft, and this had flown back to
the mainland two days ago.
The Zeros now controlled. the
harbor and the roads about the
town; only revetments and
plentiful Bofors and Oerlikon
enabled strike-aircraft to refuel
on the Seven Mile, and the Cats,
like true felines, came and went
by night. Their crews kept them
in the air eighteen and twenty
hours a day, and when they
came in, fuel-barges and bomb-
scows, and sometimes a spare
crew, were alongside as soon as
they secured to their buoys.
The Japanese fleet that was to
fight the Battle of the Coral Sea
was largely assembled in Rabaul
harbor, and more units were
joining it from the north; and
in the Coral Sea, between
Queensland and New Guinea,
manoeuvred the great secret
American fleet, its presence
known only to the highest com-
mand in Australia, and some of
the air-crews. Already Japanese
seaplane-tenders were installing
float-fighters at Deboyne Island,
a hundred-miles or so east of
Samarai. In four days the battle
would start.
24-21 had had a day away
from the war. First up to Yule
Island with some medical-stores
for the mission—alighting and
getting off again at first light,
before the first fighter-sweeps
were likely, then straight out to
sea again and down to Vailala
River to pick up some of the
Oil Search team with dengue or
malaria, or both. The river had
been full of logs, and they had
hit something pretty hard as the
aircraft fell off the step, and the
pick had got well stuck on the
bottom, taking an hour’s taxiing
to break it out. However, it had
been a day of rest, and they
expected to be out on business
the next day, since there were
more boats than spare crews.
As the crew came ashore on
the staging by the reclamation-
area, the adjutant came forward
out of the night and drew the
captain aside. “You’ll have to
get off again about four, Jack,”
he said. “Would you like to
come up and get the grif. now?”
“Might as well, then I can get
a bit of sleep. I’ll have sdme kai
first, though. Be round in half-
an-hour, Bill.”
“That’ll suit us,” said the
adjutant. “We haven’t got the
whole story yet. Might have it
by then. It’s a rescue; one of
the B26’s. They went up to
Rabaul today, and three of them
didn’t get back.”
The crew were waiting in the
back of the truck; the captain
got in with the driver, and they
crept-off up the road. At
Konedobu the n.c.o.s got out;
they were all sergeants or
corporals, except the captain and
the second-pilot. The engineer
came round to the captain’s
window.
“What’s the drill for to-
morrow, Jack?” he asked.
“Didn’t I say? Sorry, Sam,
I was thinking of something.
Take-off at four. One of the
Yanks has gone in the drink ;
the adj. didn’t say where. Not
too bloody close to Rabaul, I
hope. We might go on to
Tulagi; better bring a tooth-
brush. Tell Jim to get some
extra first-aid stuff from the
hospital; plenty of morphia and
bandages. Remember those
jokers we picked up that Wilson
was with, looked like a razor-
gang job? Though they didn’t
bleed much, being in the sea, I
s’pose. ’Night, Sam.”
“ ’Night, Jack.”
The truck whispered off into
the warm night, the acrid smell
of unfamiliar woodsmoke from
Hanuabada hung in perceptible
layers in the still, sweet air, and
the great stars blazed down;
Antares, Rigel, Aldebaran,
“Beteljuice” . . . The tired men
shouldered their gear and
straggled off to their huts.
A SLOW, cold dawn was
creeping up the eastern sky
next morning, as the green-and-
black flying-boat came shoulder-
ing-up through a layer of strato-
cumulus that was thinning-out
to the east; appearing and
vanishing a few times, then sail-
ing clear. To the north, the
black spine of New Guinea, Mt.
Suckling, Mt. Obrec, and, away
to the west, Mt. Victoria, rose
up out of the grey cloud-plain,
still untouched by morning,
blue-black against the luminous
night-sky.
The captain was alone in the
cockpit, slumped in his seat in a
stupor of fatigue, a grey blanket
over his head and hugged tight
around him. Everyone else in
the boat except the engineer,
and maybe the w.a.g., was
asleep, some in the bunks, and
the others on the floor. They
had been flying almost without
a break for the last three weeks
now; long-range reconnaissance-
aircraft in the south-west Pacific
were down to four or five Cats
that shuttled between Moresby,
Tulagi and Vila, never staying
on the water in daylight except
at Vila, and then only for urgent
inspections.
Now, each day when they got
in the air, it would seem that
they had been doing this every
day of their lives; the green
seas with the fifteen-knot south-
easter behind them were their
familiar home-paddocks, and the
enormous unnoticed roar of the
engines was the wind in the
sugar-gums or the city street.
They cooked and ate in the
air, mostly fried chops or
sausages or eggs—meals that
sated most appetites for twelve-
hours or so ; drank tea when
anyone was free to make it,
shaved sometimes generally
before landing at Vila, which
still had its French civil-
population—and for the rest ate
chocolate, smoked, manned their
guns, wireless, engineer’s panel,
or a.s.v., and swept the endless
ocean for the carrier-fleet they
hoped someone else would find
first.
Every three-minutes as though
cranked by clockwork, Jack
would lift his head off his arms,
blink his eyes open and look at
the compass between his feet,
then lean heavily over the
twitching control - yoke, and
wind the rudder-knob on the
automatic-pilot half-a-turn to
the right, then flop forward, his
arms on the wheel, his head in
its grey blanket on his arms.
As the light grew he became
aware of it and pulled the
blanket back, and sat up. At
the same time the engineer’s
head came through the bulk-
head-door ; he sidled his power-
ful frame through and stood
upright on the catwalk between
the high-pilots’ seats, his head
level with the captain’s waist,
and stared ahead into the
breaking day.
“Cuppa char for you, Jack,”
he said, reaching back on to
the navigator’s - table. “I’ve
woke up the troops. D’ you
want anyone out the front?”
“No, I don’t think so, not till
we get around the corner.”
Sam heaved himself up into
the right-hand seat, slid it
forward until his feet were firm
on the rudder, set his d.g. and
reached up and disengaged
George. He wound back the
elevator-trim a bit, and then
settled down competently on
height, course and speed. He
grinned at the captain. “Got
to get the appetite up ; Jim’s got
?° m e bullamacow cooking.
What’s the score for today,
Jack was silent for some time.
He juggled the pitch-controls
and the long beat of the un-
synchronised engines that had
been making the second-pilot’s
window rattle every twenty-
seconds pulled slowly into a
steady roar. “Well, it’s hard to
say,” he said. “We’re after Joe
Stanton; but they don’t know
for sure where he’s gone in.
“It’s like this. Two flights of
B26’s went up to Rabaul yester-
day, and Joe was Gestapoing
with the leader; they split-up
making their attack, and about
twenty Zeros took to them. Two
of them were shot down near
Kokopo on their way out, but
Moresby got a message in plain
language from Joe’s kite later
on, ‘Landing where Genevieve
lives.’ ”
He paused and his stomach
contracted, and images chased
through his mind; the blinding
sun, the purple sea, green
shallows and white surf, the
jungle and the great grey ships;
the streaking bombers and the
mustard-colored Zeros with red
wing-tips tumbling down the sky
like autumn-leaves.
“Well, nobody knows where
Genevieve lives. However,
they’ll be chasing up any Guinea
Airways jokers they can think
of, and they’ll let us know. Eric
Benton and Alan Boiser are the
best bets, but they were both
over at Wau last night. Any-
how, we’ll go round by Samarai
on the off-chance; though if
they could’ve got that far they
would have sent a proper report
—still, they’re Yanks, they might
do anything. Then if we don’t
get anything from Moresby,
we’ll have a look round Wood-
lark and the Trobriands.
Myself, I think it’s more likely
they’ll be somewhere on New
Britain, Jacquinot Bay or along
the coast towards Gasmata.”
Sam digested this while he
earnestly pursued his heading
on the directional-gyro. “I
wonder what sort of a lass this
Genevieve was? Genevieve
who? There’s nothing on Kiri-
wina ; just a bit of a mission.”
“Well, what about Sister
Genevieve, that’d sound all
right?” Jack said.
“They’re Methos, I think;
anyhow, that isn’t quite the sort
of girl I had in mind.”
“Only one sort you’ve got in
mind. You fifteen degrees off-
course to starboard.”
He climbed stiffly down off
his seat, taking his grey blanket
with him. “I’ll get a course for
Samarai. , I’ll surge young
Willie out of his lascivious
dreams, too, while I’m at it.”
He ducked through the bulk-
head-door, then poked his head
back again and said, “Better get
down under this cloud, Jack ;
there might be something to see.
Come down to two-thousand.
Think you can do it without
spinning in? Better put George
in, eh?”
Sam grinned. “Don’t give me
the screamers, I checked Scotty
Allen out on these things.”
TTHE captain disappeared into
the nav.-compartment. It
was about the size and shape of
a twelve-foot-long section of a
small submarine. The stamped
dural-frames and extruded
stringers, and the inside of the
unlined hull were olive-green,
with shiny patches around the
centres of human activity;
behind the w.a.g.’s chair, in
various places on the set where
he put his feet up ;' along the
edging of the navigator’s-table
where his stomach rubbed. The
whole of one side of the com-
partment from floor to ceiling
was taken up with w.t.-trans-
mitter-and-receiver, and a.s.v.-
components, and the other with
the nav.-table —as big as a fair-
sized dining-table, with a
respectable bookcase full of
astro-tables mounted over one
end, and the Jesus-box, the first
airborne-radar in the Pacific,
over the other.
A row of zinc-chromate


splashes on the whale-back
above the w.a.g.’s chair
marked patches over bullet-
holes. The corresponding row
of holes in the bulkhead had not
been patched, but the jagged
edges had been knocked back
more-or-less flat with a hammer.
The holes in the intervening
w.a.g. were receiving a com-
pound of both treatments in the
Moresby hospital.
For some reason the original
Cat crews had been formed
without navigators, and although
they had been appearing for
some time in ones and twos in
the squadron, Jack still did his
own, and the second-pilot
dropped the bombs. Apart
from asking occasionally for
ETA’s for target or home, the
rest of the crew took no interest
in the mechanics of keeping the
boat to its appointed track over
anything up to three-thousand
miles of sea. If the captain was
killed, the second-pilot or the
engineer could probably pick rp
enough from his log to get them
home.
The long months of heaving
through the weather, sometimes
all night, sometimes all day, and
many times the best part of
both, and the overwhelming
incessant noise inside the thin
hull, had gradually worn the
crew down to the point where
they performed their duties
automatically. The strong-
medicine of shooting and being
shot at left them without excite-
ment or wonder to spare for the
magic compound of land, sea
and air that they inhabited.
Dawns and sunsets, waterspouts
and whales, great cauliflower
cumulus - clouds shimmering
with electricity on black nights,
props spinning in disks of flame
as they belted through midnight
storms; the wonders of the
heights and deeps, the secrets of
their element were lost to them
in the breathless tedium of their
job.
The captain turned up the
light over the chart-table, and
cleared everybody else’s junk off
the chart. The pencilled track
east from Moresby was in the
centre of a highway of erasures
that ran down to Samarai, then
fanned out, some for Kavieng,
others for Rabaul, Buka, Kahili,
Gizo, Tulagi. He looked at the
clock over the desk, added five-
minutes to the time it showed,
and did a sum on his c.s.c.
involving the time elapsed, the
wind-speed and direction, and
their airspeed. He scaled-off the
answer on the chart, and joined
the point to Samarai. When he
had worked out the course to
steer, and entered-up the log, he
stuck his head through the
bulkhead-door, and swung the
compass grid-ring. “Turn at a
quarter-to, Sam,” he said.
When he turned back to the
nav.-compartment the second-
pilot, Alf, was there, with a
plate of steak and chips. Alf
came from Chillagoe; he was
short, nuggety and genial. He
had a pug’s flat face, broken
nose and slit mouth, and looked
like a good middleweight, which
he was. Before the war he had
toured outback Queensland in
his own railway - carriage,
hooking-on to trains as they
fitted his itinerary, as an inspec-
tor of weights and measures.
“Nothing from Moresby yet,”
he said, as he climbed through
the bulkhead - door. “My
money’s on Kiriwina; it’s right
on their track, and that’s where
we found Wilson.”
TTALF-AN-HOUR later they
came sailing up to Samarai,
that lovely island with a lovely
name, at a thousand-feet, in the
blue haze of early morning. The
water was almost glassy, carry-
ing a full reflection of the trees
that ran right to its edge, and
clear and deep to the east, so
that its surface was opalescent
with purple and indigo from its
depths. As they came to the
island, they could see five great
sharks hanging poised in the
transparency, all pointing
exactly towards the entrance to
Milne Bay.
There was nowhere to put a
826 down on Samarai; still they
might have ditched and some of
them got ashore. The Catalina
made a slow left-hand circuit
round the island. Nothing
stirred. The brightly-painted
dolls’-houses, the green lawns,
the white coral-paths were all
so obviously a picture in a
nursery-book, that the searchers
had no real belief in the incon-
gruous images of broken men
that they looked for.
All civilians had left Samarai
after the first Jap raids on
Rabaul. A 24-21 had passed
over it a month later one night
on their way from Vila to
Moresby, when the Army were
burning all stores there before
leaving. It had been a still,
black night; they had been able
to see the great pillar of flame,
elongated by its reflection,
before they got level with
Misima, and they had covered
the intervening seventy-miles
slowly, in awe at the sight, with
all guns manned and ready to
slip back into the night, wonder-
ing what disaster they were
going to see.
When they had made a full
circle, they headed away to the
north-east to pass east of
Normanby Island, opening up
the entrance to Milne Bay as
they went.
Milne Bay was only a name
to them; they mostly called it
“ I've spent all my life on it. Now I'm scared to test it."
Fall River or sometimes Gili
Gili. After ten-minutes they
were up towards East Cape, on
the north side of the bay. The
captain and the second-pilot
were steadily quartering the sea
and sky ahead of them. Their
heads were moving very slowly
from straight ahead to about
forty-five degrees off on either
bow, then returning to straight-
ahead, or a few degrees past, as
each tried to make a sighting in
the other’s sector, then resuming
their patrol. Their air of
solemn comedy was heightened
by the fact that they were work-
ing in unison, both heads mov-
ing in the same direction at the
same time, so that one was
looking away while the other
trespassed.
They had been doing this for
months now; they had seen
aircraft, ships, warships, life-
boats, rafts, a sub., countless
false-alarms; all at very great
distances when they were only
minute visual aberrations in the
general monotony. Their lives
depended on their eyes, but this
had no meaning for them, their
lives depended on a lot of things
that were attended to indiffer-
ently or not at all; they were
in some sort of competition in a
mild way, enough to keep them
keen for half-an-hour or so, but
not for twelve hours of the
usual blinding day. Through a
great many restless hours and
days and weeks of searching,
they had gradually evolved the
hawk’s unwinking trance, so
that now they swept their
yisibility-path over the sea
without much immediate fatigue,
and with absolute efficiency.
Willie’s head stopped its slow
movement; he reached out his
left hand. “Glasses', Jack,” he
said.
The captain reached under his
seat and put the binoculars in
the outstretched hand; then he
pulled George out and swung
the aircraft off to port. Willie’s
head moved slowly to the right.
When he was looking through
his side window, he slid it back
and put up the glasses. After a
long look he motioned Jack to
swing the aircraft back.
“Could be a lugger,” he said.
“Want to have a look?”
“No ; we’ll run up to it and
have a proper squiz; how’re we
heading now?”
“That’ll do. It’ll come up on
your side. Never see any
luggers up here now; it looked
like a lugger, though.”
Jack put George back in charge,
and climbed down from his seat.
He stood looking ahead for a
moment, but could see nothing,
then he ducked into the nav.-
compartment. He made a note
in the log and then hunted
around for cigarettes. He
thought about the sighting. It
would be a lugger, if Willie was
prepared to make a guess. What
would a logger be doing here in
daylight at this stage of the
game? Well, it would be a
planter and his lares and
penates, from some outlying
island; a long way out in the
mulga, or they’d have got away
long before this. West of Manus
maybe, come the long way
round New Ireland.
He climbed back into his seat
and looked ahead. The boat
was clearly visible now, as a
white speck just clear of the
green black bulk of Normanby
Island, like a butterfly on a
gorilla’s nose. As they drew
slowly up to it, they could see
that it was not much larger than
a whaler, and that it was full of
men. It appeared to have
altered course, and by the time
the Cat was within a mile or so,
it was heading directly for the
island. As they came to it, how-
ever, it swung 45-degrees to
port back to its original course,
and they could see most of the
men —there must have been
thirty or so —waving.
“Well, they’re on our side,”
Willie said. “Didn’t know
what we were at first.”
The flying-boat had been
dropping-off height as they came
along, and now it was down to
three-hundred feet, doing a tight
left-hand turn, with Jack watch-
ing the boat closely as it hung
stationary in his open window,
wheeling slowly with the
wheeling horizon.
TTE closed the window. “Look
like Army, most of them.
They don’t look too bloody
good, either. We’d better have
a word with them. There’s
hardly any swell running.”
He warned the crew over the
intercom., then flicked on Auto
Rich and Floats Down on the
repeating-lights on the control-
yoke. The front gun came in,
and the gunner closed up the
turret and wound the cover over
the bomb-aimer’s window; the
trailing-aerial came up and the
aircraft jumped and shuddered
as the floats came out.
They turned-in at a hundred
feet, half-a-mile downwind of
the lifeboat. The swell was
more apparent now, but nothing
to worry about. They flicked
the tops of a couple of rollers,
then settled and switchbacked
rapidly up and down the next
four, and fell off the step in a
smother of foam a hundred
yards from the boat. They
taxied up to it and the flickering
propellers slowed, kicked and
stopped. The boat came to a
halt alongside, and reversed its
stern close ahead of the cockpit.
Its diesel slowed to a steady
thumping idle.
Jack slid back the hatch above
his head, and stood up on his
seat. “G’day,” he said. “What
are you jokers up to?”
A healthy-looking sunburned
man at the tiller, clean and
cleanshaven, where most of the
others were dirty and bearded,
wearing only a pair of faded
shorts, dead-meat-tags and a
slouch-hat, answered him.
“This’s the Gasmata ferry.
These bludgers are some chocos
that got out of Rabaul. We’ve
been running this service for the
last three weeks; just about
out of customers by now.
She’s all under control, but we
can’t muck around here ; there’s
a Betty comes past at 1100-hours
and we’ve got to be in Milney
by then.”
“0.K.,” said Jack. “Any-
thing we can do for you? Some
of your mates don’t look too
good. Got plenty of kai?”
“Appointments are palatial,”
said the other. “These blokes’ve
just gone soft hanging round
Jack Gilmore’s pub.”
“Moresby know all about
you, I s’pose?”
“Yeah, it was organised from
there.”
“Good-oh; you move your-
selves and we’ll shove along.”
The flying-boat crew had
mostly remained at their places
for a quick take-off; but the
two on watch on the main
plane, and the man with his
head through the nav.-compart-
ment-hatch looked down with-
out much interest or comprehen-
sion on these men who had
fought their way out of Rabaul,
and then for three months had
been hunted down the un-
inhabited spine of New Ireland,
remaining a force in being, able
to deal with any Japanese
patrols that might catch up to
them; until in the end they
were brought off with their rifles
in their hands.
And the soldiers looked with
apathy at the flying-boat. A
quarter-of-an-hour ago when,
in the distance, it had looked
like a Kawanisi, they had seen
their lives narrow down to the
five-minutes before it got up to
them and made its first strafing-
run; then it had become recog-
nisably a Cat, and the corporate
nightmare of floating trace, the
whack and thump of bullets,
the pink froth on the water, and
the sharks, sank out of sight in
their individual fantasies —
Women, beer, Mum and the kids
—that had been with them for
so long in their waking-dream.
The lifeboat backed-up into
wind and the Cat drifted clear.
The men came in off the wing,
the nav.-hatch slapped shut, and
only Jack and Willie remained
in view, standing on their seats,
in some sort of a hail-and-
farewell salute, perhaps . . .
Then the inertia-starter on the
port-motor whined-up for a
battery-start, and they slid into
their places. The two motors
started almost together, and
without wasting time Jack
headed the boat slightly down-
wind to stay on an individual
swell, and opened the throttles.
They took a long while to get
on the step, and then the floats
thumped home and they built-up
quickly to sixty-knots. Jack
dragged her off at that, and as
Willie brought back the revs,
and boost, turned back on to
course.
HTHE aircraft was at a
-*■ thousand feet, and the pilots
were at their horizon watching,
half-an-hour later, when Jim,
the second-engineer, stuck his
head through the bulkhead-door
with a note from the wireless-
operator. Jack read it and
handed it across to Willie, who
looked at it briefly and said,
“Kiriwina, eh! That’s what I
said all along. I wonder who
they got it from? What would
a girl like Genevieve be doing
in the Trobriands?”
Jack grinned. “What d’ you
mean; a gurrl like Genevieve?
She’s probably 99 not-out.
Planter’s wife, I s’pose.”
“Well, why didn’t he say,
‘Where George lives,’ or maybe
that wouldn’t be too good —
‘Where George Ramsbottom
lives,’ then.”
“George’d be too vague, the
other’d be too definite. No, Joe
got it right, all right. He didn’t
have all day to think about it,
either.”
“Seems to be turning out all
right; still, it was a bit of a
risk nobody’d know Genevieve.
She must’ve been famous for
something. When do we get
there, Jack?”
“Ten-twenty. Maybe a bit
sooner, the way the wind’s
getting up. Hope we don’t have
to land in the open. Have a
look at the drift, will you?”
The second-pilot climbed
forward into the bow-compart-
ment and crouched over the
bombsight.
At ten-past-ten they were
flying just below the base of the
small scattered cumulus that
filled the sky in every direction,
and the Trobriands were close
ahead of them; a large head of
island to the north, with a long,
thin tail stringing south towards
them, forming a protected
lagoon on its west side, full of
niggerheads and green shallows ;
and deep blue water, and white
caps and white surf on the east.
Further east was a green blob
that was called Kitava, and a
chain of little islands and atolls
ran off to the north - west
horizon.
As they approached,
dropping-off height as they
came, the country resolved itself
into brilliant green grassland,
and up towards where the tail
widened into the head, they
could see two straight parallel
black ruts, glinting with water,
starting with ill-defined beaten-
down grass, and deepening and
widening for three-hundred
yards, until they ended suddenly
at the pastel-green belly of a
826 on its back, with its main
wheels in the air, and all its
fuselage forward of the engines
(Continued on page 23)


From Their Own Records
EAST GIPPSLAND PIONEERS
By MARY H. WALKER
CROAJINGOLONG is that
part of East Gippsland
which lies between the
Snowy River and the New
South Wales border; the name
in the native tongue means
“Looking East,” a meaning that
grows apparent when travelling
along the 80-odd miles of Bonang
Highway, which rises from just
above sea-level at Orbost to
over 2000 ft. at Delegate, on the
Monaro Tableland.
The road climbs from deep
gorges and timbered valleys
through the dim light in the
jungle-scrub to the wide plains
and wider skies that sweep up
to Kosciusko. Because the yeast
of pioneering still works in
Croajingolong its settlers remain
remarkable for the same courage
and tenacity that distinguished
their grandparents.
Although most of the early
settlers came to Gippsland by
way of Croajingolong, it
remained apart from the new
province, isolated from it by the
Snowy River not the broad
and lethargic lower reaches of
the stream that ravages the
Orbost flats, but the Snowy
of legend, where, many miles
upstream, the dark and threaten-
ing torrent lurks among its
gorges. As well as being a
dangerous geographical barrier,
it created a line of demarcation,
a spiritual barrier across the very
lives of the settlers. To this day,
travelling to and from Croajingo-
long, despite the amenities of
roads and bridges, there is still
a sense of achievement, of dis-
tinction, when the Snowy is
crossed.
On his way to explore the
country that was to become
Gippsland, Angus McMillan be-
came the first known white-man
to cross the Snowy River near
the present site of MclCillop’s
Bridge. Later the Monaro track
followed this route and crossed
the river there at the old historic
Turnback Crossing—or McKel-
lar’s, as it was called, after Dun-
can McKellar, puntman there
for many years. For nearly 50
years this was the only means
of entry into Gippsland from
the east.
.. The only large centre in Croa-
jingolong is Orbost, halfway
between Canberra and Mel-
bourne, a town that has its roots
in old Orbost station, taken-up
about 1849 by John McLeod,
one of the six sons of Archibald
McLeod, a Gippsland pioneer.
The coming and occupation by
the McLeod family is an Odyssey
in itself. Orbost was named after
an old McLeod home in the
Isle of Skye.
/
+ -I-
In the late ’forties Gippsland
was much disturbed by a report
that a lost white-woman was
living among the blacks, and in
the search for her McLeod
discovered the Orbost cattle-
country.
The following extracts are
taken from an account written
by McLeod and given later to
A. W. Howitt, police-magistrate
in Gippsland:
“The Buchan blacks advised
me to look for the lost white-
woman among the tribe on the
Snowy River, so I went looking
for her, and the blackboy
with me was after a gin for him-
self. In looking for the woman
I found the Snowy River station.
“The country at the time
looked beautiful, covered with
grass and nice lightwood trees.
There were lots of emus and
we found plenty of blacks. We
came on some, camped on open
ground, for they had never been
disturbed there. We rushed up
on foot and caught an old man
and three boys—they were per-
plexed out of their lives and
the other two men and two gins
ran away from us.
“We thought it best after
making friends to clear out. We
found no trace of the white-
woman, or of whites, but only
two letters cut on a tree —‘W.G.’
We went back to Buchan and
shortly afterwards I went up to
the Snowy River and took
possession.
“At first the blacks seemed
friendly. Through old Bunjil-
Wooran and the boys I made
friends with the tribe. Bunjil-
Wooran and I changed names;
I called him Jacob, and he gave
me two children, a young gin
four years old and a boy of two.
They were a nuisance to him
because he could not feed them.
This old man brought in all the
tribe —70 men and 30 women
and about 16 children, the largest
muster of blacks I ever saw there.
The children were the most
miserable little wretches, with
bellies like yjashing-tubs and
legs like distorted frogs. I used
to laugh at them for hours.
“Thinking they had her
planted, I often made inquiries
about the white-woman ; I found
there had been one among them,
and that she and two men had
landed from a small boat on the
90-Mile Beach. One of the white-
men went mad and they killed
him to get rid of him, but I could
never hear what became of the
other one. The woman was
drowned with her two half-caste
children by the upsetting of a
boat in McLennan’s Straits.
They used to describe her as a
tall woman with long, very
' black hair reaching to her
waist—a great sign of beauty
with them.
“For a fortnight the blacks
were very quiet, bringing me
fish when I gave them beef or
potatoes in return, or any little
thing I could spare ; one night
all the blacks disappeared but
two or three of the old men, who
remained as spies. Several days
later I found these old fellows
had changed their camp to a
little mound near the river, and
soon I found a bullock’s head —
all that was left of a beast that
had been killed and carried away.
The old blacks blamed it onto
the Bidwell blacks.”
These were blacks from the
wilds of Croajingolong; and
now battle was joined with the
cattle-spearers.
“We went after them,” writes
McLeod. “I and Billy Simpson,
and a blackboy, all on foot
and armed with double-barrel
guns, and after a walk of five
miles we came up with the blacks,
but they were across the river,
and I knew them for the very
tribe that had been at our place.
They were sitting by the fire
With their spears stuck into the
ground, and were scraping and
dressing possum-skins.
“The blackboy and I knew
enough of their language for us
to understand one another. They
said the river was too high for
them to cross; they said there
were no bullocks.
“They were in high glee,
dancing and slapping their thighs
at us as a token of defiance.
They thought they were out of
reach, so I gave them a shot that
struck the mud and sent it all
over them. They ran into the
scrub frightened out of their
lives. After a time they came out
saying not to shoot them as they
did not spear the bullock. We
fired three rounds over their
heads and they dived into the
dense scrub and reeds.
“From this time they set to
work, and in one week of rainy
weather they killed /20 or 30
head. I had only two white-men
and a black and myself on the
station; one of these men was
laid up with rheumatism,
another was shepherding, and
the blackboy and I were doing
what we could to put up a hut.
All this time the blacks were
working away at the cattle, so
that when we rode out on Sunday
we found they had killed 20 of
our quietest cows. They only
took the tongues, kidneys and
tail and left the rest for the
crows—their friends, whom they
say brought them fire. They call
them ‘Naroot.’
“We were out for days, but
could never fall across them.
They could get over the river and
go through the high ferns like
wallabies. We had flying shots,
but never got any. Then we
found they had killed a lot of
cattle towards the lower end of
the run. I went down to see, as
I did not believe my blackboy.
“I rode down unarmed, as I
was on a young horse. About
two miles from the hut I saw a
native dog, and having no gun
I took off my stirrup-leather,
intending to kill him with the
iron. My horse took fright and
pitched me and the saddle on the
ground; instantly the scrub
between me and the river was
alive with blacks. I am sure the
whole tribe was there and the
yells made my flesh creep.
“I was. in the deuce of a
fright, but the blacks knew I
always carried a brace of pistols
in my belt, although for once
I was without them. I took out
my brass tinder-box, and holding
it like a pistol I made the best
of my way home.
+ +
“Although the blacks fol-
lowed me up in the scrub I never
saw one. I think the fright was
mutukl, and they were afraid to
show up because of my supposed
pistol. They were unable to use
their spears in the scrub. When
I got home we went out after
them, armed this time, but no
blacks showed up.”
There McLeod’s record ends
abruptly, but it is not the end
of the story. His daughter left
a further record, telling how,
some time later, disaster over-
took the station, when the hut-
keeper, Dempsey, was speared
and partly eaten by the blacks.
Dempsey’s remains are sup-
posed to be buried near the
present site of the Orbost butter-
factory. Soon afterwards Mc-
Leod abandoned the run. Later
the well-known W. J. T. Clarke,
of Melbourne, held it for some
time.
In the early ’sixties Edward
Baudinnet established the first
dairyfarm at Orbost. The fore-
runner of its present staple
industry, this first attempt was
not a success.
To the east of Orbost, between
it and the little mining-settlement
of Bonang, was only primeval
forest, roamed over v by the
Biduelli tribe, or the Bidwells,
described by A. W. Howitt in
his Native Tribes of South East
Australia as having the qualities
of a Cave of Adullam. Its
members were mostly escapees
from tribal justice, being drawn
from all the neighboring tribes.
Had these offenders stayed in
their own territory their lot
would certainly have been death.
Here among outlawed Biduelli
—sheltered, too, by the inaccessi-
bility of the country—they lived
outside the tribal laws which
restricted the lives of their
neighbors.
The last Gippsland wild black
to “come in”—i.e., to live in
semi-civilisation under white
patronage—was Tonghi Jimmy,
a Bidwell man. His name, which
has passed into legend, still crops
up in the recollections of East
Gippslanders. Hamilton Reed’s
father saw him as a little boy at
Combienbar with the tribe ; Jim
Collins remembers him on the
Bendoc diggings always ready
to carry a “turn” of water from
the river in return for his tucker
—a “turn” being two kerosene-
tins full, an old bush idiom
long sunk into disuse. Miss
Godber, of Orbost, recalls him
as a very old man always bear-
ing his beautifully made set of
native weapons and followed by
a pack of faithful dogs.
Near Bendoc Tonghi Jimmy
fell while possuming, he and his
quarry being both found dead
under a tree, watched over by
his bodyguard of nine assorted
dogs; these had to be shot by
the police before his body could
be approached.
“Lawson,” brought up by the
Lawson family of Craigie,
Harry “Whittakers,” of Tub-
butt, and Tonghi Jimmy’s
daughter Sarah, remembered for
her extreme ugliness, were Bid-
well blacks who have also sur-
vived in East Gippsland legend.
For want of a road to the
east, Orbost remained isolated
from New South Wales until
1869, when Hamilton Reed and
John Lock blazed a trail—a trail
that was to grow into the Bonang
Highway, which today offers not
only a cross-section of East
Gippsland scenery but a cross-
section of its history as well.
Croajingolong is a land of
timbered ranges, of valuable
forests and of lonely home-
steads with the road linking little
oases of settlement. Its present
economy varies from sawmills
to dairying where the sheltered
valleys invite it; from honey
to wattlebark and rabbits ; from
mining to cattle.
The Bonang Highway twists
round hillsides of stringybark,
swings past grey slopes bearing
stands of bluegum, climbs
boulder-strewn ridges crowned
with ironbark, dips to streams
that thread the whitegum flats,
and lingers in the rain-forest
where musk and lilly-pillies and
blanketwood are lashed together
with clematis and lawyer-vines
to form an impenetrable barrier.
Martin’s Creek was first called
Hell-Hole by an early explorer
when he had to climb the ridges
to bypass the jungle. Crimson-
rosellas flash past, bell-miners,
the bellbirds of Gippsland,
chime in the gullies, lyrebirds
and thrushes, firetails and blue-
wrens feed on the rich and rot-
ting scrub floors ; wallabies thud
past, and native-dogs howl at
dawn and dusk.
As so often happened in Aus-
tralia, the first scratchings of
civilisation came to Croajingo-
long through the search for
gold. Hamilton Reed, once of
Goongerah and now of Delegate
River, is one of the few pioneers
to have kept records of the
early days, and I am indebted to
him for his valuable help in
collecting much of the following
material.
In 1852 his father, Hamilton
Reed the elder, came to Bendoc
in search of gold. Bendoc is a
small settlement on the fringe
of Monaro, and there they
sluiced for gold in the Quim-
barra River. Next to Reed’s
claim was a band of Chinese,
who cut off the water-supply to
Reed’s race and then attacked
Reed and his party with shovels
and pick-handles. The seven
white-men soon had the Chinese
on the run, and no further
trouble came from them.
Then Reed had a visit from
Morgan the bushranger, who
came to ask the way to Bombala,
and, leaving his own weary
horses in the paddock, took
Reed’s horses instead. Later
Reed recovered his horses in
Bombala, where Morgan had
forcibly exchanged them for two
fresh ones.
Reed, his pioneering spirit a
little in advance of the rest,
decided there was less to be had
out of gold than out of hotel-
keeping, so he set to work to
build an inn. He engaged two
pit-sawyers, one working in the
pit in choking sawdust; the
other, the “top-notcher,” work-
ing above and guiding the saw.
When they stopped work at dark
Reed and a mate took over and
worked on till midnight.
So the timber was cut and
the inn built. Bendoc was a
busy place, with both quartz and
alluvial workings. Reed’s hotel
often housed 60 boarders. He
found his guests so hard to con-
trol that he asked for police pro-
tection, Constable Kennedy
being sent in response.
+ +
The mines had romantic and
hopeful names—the Bonanza,
which yielded £60,000; the
Morning Star; Comelove and
Homeward Bound; while at
Bonang were Marriott’s Reef,
the Rising Sun and others.
When the mines began to
peter-out Reed and John Lock
decided to take up a grazing-
lease of 60,000 acres at Goon-
gerah, a typical East Gippsland
valley. It is on the Goongerah
River, part of the headwaters of
the Brodribb, which rises on
Bonang Mountain and enters the
Snowy near its mouth at the
little town of Mario.
The present Bonang Highway
follows the river for miles,
clattering over rocks or taking
a leisurely course through water
meadows, being nearly lost at
times in its meander through
reeds and great clumps of purple
loosestrife. The flats are
cleared, beef-cattle are not so
much in evidence as they were
in early days, for Jersey herds
have partly taken their place,
while cream-stands mark the
entrances to the farms. A tiny
school and a store are part of
the pattern of present-day
Goongerah life, but behind the
cleared country are still the pre-
cipitous steeps of square-topped
Mount Ellery, the summit of
rocks rising above* its tonsured
timber-line.
Reed arranged with an
aborigine, Little Billy, to pilot
him into the valley; their route
lay over the big spur between
Bonang and Goongerah, the hill
being still known as Little Bill.
A crossing had to be found over
the Bonang River, then it took
four men six weeks to cut a
track in to Goongerah before
the run could be stocked. Reed
draws this picture of the Goon-
gerah his father pioneered:
“He stocked it with cattle
from the Bega district, and once
there they did wonderfully well.
At that time the hill country was
open forest with a good cover of
grass. Bracken-fern and scrub
were very dense about the river ;
kangaroos, which prefer more
open country, were not plentiful,
but native-bears, possums and
wallabies were numerous.
Dingoes were in droves, and
were bold enough to kill calves.
Once Lock came on eight attack-
ing a calf while the cow tried
unsuccessfully to drive them off.
Lock hunted them with his
stockwhip, but the calf was so
(Continued on page 34)


collapsed like a beaten-out
petrol-tin.
“Jeez!” said Willie. “Whatd
he put his wheels down for?
Why did he put them down?”
“Prob’ly had one dangling —
shot down. So he locked them
all down and hoped they’d tear
off. Nose-wheel collapsed first.
The pilots’ll be dead, I’m
afraid.”
They swung slowly around the
wreck. Nothing moved, but
there was a parachute spread-
out on one wing-root and trail-
ing on the ground. They turned
away and flew north up the west
side of the island, over the lagoon
and around its curve until they
came to a jetty, and a scatter of
huts. They made a tight circuit,
the floats thumped out, and the
flying-boat came hissing and
rumbling down on the wind-
streaked water.
A LAUGHING, running, feck-
less crowd of natives
appeared on the beach, and
three canoes came out.
Jack and Willie appeared
through their hatches, and Willie,
as the linguist, addressed the
meeting.
“Balus bilong Carbender ’e
bugger-up pinis one day.” He
pointed over the scattered palms
in the direction of the wreck.
“Man belong ’im, where ’e
stop? You look ’im, one boy,
you fella! White-man, where ’e
stop?”
The crowd laughed and
chattered, but the boys in the
canoes looked worried. One of
them, all fuzzy hair and rippling
black muscles, answered.
“Me no look ’im, Master. ’E
no stop along this fella.”
Then the whole crowd
applauded, and the children
came out of their mothers’
skirts and stared at the great
black balus belong soda-water.
Jack turned to Willie. “I
don’t suppose it proves anything,
but I don’t like the look of it
much. Joe would’ve come out
this side. The mission’s only a
bit further round. We’ll take a
run down this side again, and
then up the other.”
They got into the air inside
two-minutes, and went south
down the lagoon at 300-feet.
About four miles past the
wreck Willie said, “They won’t
be any further down,” and
Jack swung the boat across
the narrow neck of land to
the eastern shore where the
rollers, with the south-easter
behind them, were bursting on
the headlands.
When they were level with
the wreck, a trail of smoke
soared up to them off the beach,
a green Verey-light burst close
ahead, and they saw running
figures on the sand.
They went off on a long
downwind leg over the island,
and Jack felt the old pain in his
stomach start up. He warned
the crew for a rough-water
landing, and then turned-in, to
the long perspective of wind-
lanes reaching out towards the
south-eastern horizon. The boat
was still heavy with fuel, and
he decided against stalling it on.
The rollers were mostly white-
capped, and were heaping up
from the eddies off the shore.
They came down over the
men on the beach, and flicked
the first wave-top a quarter-of-
a-mile out to sea ; then the next
and the next. Then as the speed
dropped off, Jack let the boat
settle fairly on a crest, belting
the nose down as she hit, to kill
the bounce, then holding her up
in the trough, then down again
through the next top ; then he
let go everything, and she
bashed into a couple more, too
slow to bounce, so that the sea
came solid and green over the
cockpit, and foam covered
them, leaving only floats and
empennage visible from the
shore.
Then she was stationary,
heaving and settling, the props,
flickering and the white water
streaming from the engine-
cowls. The pilots undid their
belts and yawned and stretched
in their seats. Then Jack
poured the coal into the star-
board-motor ; the boat’s nose
came up, and she swung down-
wind in a trough. He caught
her with the port, and with both
engines at 1500-revs, they rode
the following comber in towards
the shore like a surfboat. As
they neared the beach they saw
natives with the airmen, and two
canoes putting out, apparently
quite able to deal with the sea
that was running. They
throttled back and swung into
wind, and the waves came
smashing over them again.
Jack experimented with the
starboard motor and, and got
the boat sitting diagonally to the
swells, with a lee on the port
blister, and the starboard float
taking some of the sting out of
the waves as they approached,
the aircraft sidling slowly
towards the approaching canoes.
The first, with two beaming
Yanks amidships, and two
beaming boongs propelling it,
reached them, manoeuvred at the
sheltered blister, where Willie,
Jim and Andy were waiting, and
eventually discharged its cargo.
The canoers were each given
a packet of cigarettes, and
promised the same for each
survivor delivered. One hung
out for “Fi’ bob; me no
smoke,” but quickly came to
terms after a burst from Willie.
The Yanks could not stop
smiling and laughing. They
shook hands all round. “Jeez,
were we glad to see you guys!”
one kept saying. “Then we
thought you was going away.
Then you came back. Jeez!”
The other said, “I’m Looten-
ant Schwartz ; I’m the co-pilot.
Cahptain Manson and yuah
Squadron - Commander Stanton
got killed in the crack-up. The
other boys are in pretty good
shape. The ship went over real
slow. Except Eric, that is. He’s
got one of those little point-three
bullets in him somewheres, but
he ain’t complaining.”
Another canoe arrived, and
two more Americans, including
Eric, were got safely on board.
Then after a long wait, with the
aircraft working and straining
and spray and green water
alternating over the blisters, the
last two arrived, and made the
tricky transhipment.
The Cat crew wasted no time.
The rescued men were organised
on to the bunks and told to
hang on, the rubber-boats were
put out in the blisters ready for
the worst, and Willie reported
all clear aft as he climbed into
his seat.
Jack said, “Joe was killed?”
“Yes, and their captain, too.”
“I was afraid Joe would be
in the second-dick’s seat . . .
Well, we’d better have a go at
this. . I’ll make it a cross-
winder ; we’d never get on the
step into it. Whack her
through the gate when we get to
fifty.”
TTE opened the starboard-
motor quickly up to 48-
inches, and the nose came
up in a shower of spume, and
the aircraft spun round
towards the north-east. He kept
the port back a bit until the
rudder had enough grip to hold
them out of wind, then pushed
the throttle wide, and they went
crashing through the confused
sea, the motors bellowing, the
solid water spouting over then,
and the props pouring back
writhing spirals of thick white
foam.
When they were on the step
all the flying-controls became
operative, and Jack worked the
heavy control-yoke like a head-
of-the-river stroke, belting the
nose through the crests, and
holding up in the troughs. At
45-knots, the aircraft was
losing as much speed through
the crests as it gained into the
troughs.
Jack yelled “0.K.,” the
motors howled up to 54-inches
of boost, and he let the boat
bounce into the air off the next
crest. She fell back with an
appalling crash, but the speed
had gone up to 55, and on the
next bounce he was able to hold
her off and crawl into the air. At
85, Willie brought the engines
back to climbing-revs and boost,
and the unendurable pressure of
noise that had been crushing
their brains hushed to a whisper.
Jack engaged the automatic-
pilot, and went to climb down
to enter-up the log, and found
he had gone at the knees. He
sat for a few moments relaxing
the tension in his legs, then bent
forward and reversed the grid-
ring on the compass between his
feet.
“That’ll do for a bit, Alf,” he
said; “I’ll get a course as soon
as I find me smokes.”
Jim came through to the front
gun. “The Yanks don’t reckon
y’re much of a pilot, Jack,” he
said. “They reckon that take-off
was rugged; yes, sir! Eric—
he’s the tail-gunner —give me his
forty-five.” He slapped the
leather holster at his waist.
Willie brought the flying-boat
back over the island in a slow
climbing-turn to port. Ahead of
them lay the lovely green
lagoon, the white beaches, the
red roofs of the mission, and
the feathery atolls reaching to
the horizon. Below lay the
upturned bomber, and the
unthinkably-distorted bodies of
the two dead men.
They climbed away without a
backward glance or a backward
thought. Willie wondered if
there were any more .45’s going,
and tried to think of a reason
for leaving the cockpit. Jack
composed a signal in his mind,
and considered whether they
should go home direct, and
regretfully decided against
arriving too early in the after-
noon. Then he thought about
the take-off: probably bent the
back-step a bit —it had been
about as rough as you could
expect to fly away from. He’d
go and have a look in a bit, and
have a word with the Yanks . . .
'T'WO-HUNDRED miles to
■*- the south-east a Japanese
seaplane-tender lay anchored in
the smooth water on the leeward
side of Deboyne Island,
Zeros on floats were drawn up
to the beach, and a fourth, with
steadying-lines in the hands of
two deck-parties, was hanging
from the tender’s jumbo-boom.
In four days’ time this Zero
would deliver one attack from
six-o’clock high, on A 24-21, and
shoot it down on fire into the
sea.
But Hal Benson and a relief-
crew would be flying it, and Jack
and Willie, Sam and Jim, and the
rest would go on to meet their
appointments at other times and
places: Jack in the freezing
waters off Norway, Willie in the
long swells outside Townsville
harbor, Jim in the mountains
above Kieta. Andy would have
a few minutes with the know-
ledge that he had been badly
hit, before he drowned off
Ambon, and the others would
mostly go off tidily in aircraft
that simply vanished —without
leaving cryptic signals to tease
the imaginations of the more
youthful of their would-be
rescuers.
SONG
NORFOLK IS.
Pattern of grass and sunlight, blue silk sky
And the ancient pinetrees pointing overhead,^
“I am the passionate voice of present things,
The insignificant bird on the palm-leaf said.
“I sing the immediate story of warmth and scent,
Though prudent bees are aware of future need
And underneath a thousand colored
The word of death lies soundless as a seed.
MERVAL CONNELLY.
T. & G. Mutual Life Society
SPLENDID PROGRESS
ASSETS NOW EXCEED £106,000,000
At the 79th Annual Meeting held on Wednesday, 21st December, at
the Society’s Head Office, the Chairman, Mr. A. R. Stewart, said:—
“Before submitting the Directors’ Report and
Accounts I wish to refer to the loss sustained
by the Society by the death, on the Bth Novem-
ber, of Mr. S. W. Coates, the Society’s
Managing Director. Mr. Coates served the
Society with great distinction and was highly
respected by all sections of the Staff. Members
of the Board have lost a valued colleague and
friend. The Board has appointed Mr. W. J.
Falconer, F.F.A., the Society’s Actuary, as
General Manager and Actuary and we offer
him our best wishes for success in his appoint-
ment.
New Business
The Directors’ Report and Accounts again
reveal healthy progress in all Departments.
104,434 policies were issued in the Life Depart-
ments assuring £45,690,684, over £3,000,000
more than during the previous year and a
record for the Society. In the Accident
Department 14,014 policies were issued and
Accident Benefits assuring £18,165,667 were
added to 32,058 life policies. The whole of the
New Business was written in Australia and New
Zealand.
The substantial amount of Group and
Superannuation business completed demon-
strated again the popularity of the Society in
this important field. The expert assistance
given in the formulation of plans and the
friendly help given after the schemes have been
established, are outstanding features of the
Society’s unexcelled service to employers in
every sphere of industry and commerce.
Income and Payments to Policyholders
The Income increased by nearly £1,500,000 to
£18,811,927, the largest ever recorded by the
Society. Approximately £15,000,000 came from
premiums and almost £4,000,000 from interest.
The amount paid to policyholders exceeded
£7,250,000, the greater part of which was in
respect of matured endowment policies.
I am pleased to report that there has been a
further reduction in the ratio of expenses to
income. The ratio of total expenses (including
all taxes and contributions to Staff Superannua-
tion) to total income has been reduced from
15.24% to 14.99% in the Ordinary Department
and from 30.91% to 29.70% in the Industrial
Department. Your Directors and Officers of
the Society are unremitting in their efforts to
improve still further the efficiency of the
methods used by the Society with the object of
conducting the business at the lowest expense
rate compatible with proper service to policy-
holders.
The premium income of the Accident Depart-
ment showed a healthy increase to £483,908.
The improved range of Accident contracts
introduced has set a new standard for Personal
Accident and Sickness Insurance and with the
addition of accident benefits to life policies
provide a service of great benefit to all
policyholders.
Assurance Funds
The Funds, which rose to a new high level
of over £100,000,000, provide the backing to
the large number of assurances in force and
are required to provide for the eventual pay-
ment of all claims under contracts issued by the
Society. The investment of the Funds requires
the constant attention of the Board to see that
the types of security are suitable and yield a
satisfactory rate of interest. The Society’s
Assets are distributed over a wide range of
investments and provide financial assistance to
Governments, Local Bodies, Companies and
individuals in both Australia and New Zealand.
The rate of interest earned on the mean
Assurance Funds showed an increase of 2/9d.
per cent, to £4/2/0 per cent, and as the yield
offering continues to rise a further improve-
ment can be expected when proceeds of matur-
ing securities and new funds become available
for investment.
Actuary’s Report
Using the same conservative bases of valua-
tion as last year the surplus amounted to
£2,383,765. £45,000 has been reserved for
actuarial contingencies and the Actuary recom-
mends that £2,262,866 be allocated as reversion-
ary bonuses and for the provision of certain
extra benefits. These allotments provide for
increases in the bonus scales in the Ordinary
Department and for the continuance of the
present scales in the Industrial Department. In
the Accident Department increases in benefits
under certain policies are recommended.
Progress through Service
It is evident from this review that the Society
is in a sound and progressive position. Having
regard to its strong financial state and to the
general prosperity throughout Australia and
New Zealand we can look forward confidently
to a continued expansion in the Society’s
business, The service that we offer to prospec-
tive policyholders is of undoubted benefit in
their plans for financial security. It also con-
tributes significantly to the well-being of the
public generally throughout Australia and New
Zealand as the Society invests the Funds for
the national good. I am confident that next
year we shall be able to review another satis-
factory year for the policyholders.
Staff
In this review we have been considering the
affairs of the Society as a whole and I should
like to pay a special tribute to the Society’s
Staffs who have been responsible in their
respective capacities for our operations. To
our Field and Indoor Staffs throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand I tender my thanks on
behalf of the Board for the loyal and valuable
service they have rendered in the interests of
the policyholders.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs. H. G. Brain and
D. I. Menzies, Q.C., anil retiring Auditors,
Messrs. J. M. F. Relph and W. M. Scott, were
re-elected.


Positions Vacant
SINGAPORE
POLYTECHNIC
Applications are invited for the
following posts: —
HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF ENGINEERING:
Qualifications: Engineering degree,
corporate membership of pro-
fessional engineering institution,
experience in industry and as head
of department or senior lecturer
in a technical college.
HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF COMMERCE:
Qualifications: Degree in com-
merce or economics, or equivalent
qualification, and experience in
commerce and as head of depart-
ment or senior lecturer in a
technical college.
HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF GENERAL EDUCATION:
Qualifications: Good degree, pre-
ferably in science, and senior
experience in institution of higher
education.
REGISTRAR:
Professional accounting or secre-
tarial qualifications and experience
of educational administration
required.
fhe Singapore Polytechnic is now
being established under an autono-
mous Board of Governors to meet
the Colony’s needs for higher techni-
cal and commercial education.
Salaries, including allowances:—
Head of Department of Engineer-
ing: M 525,500 (£A3,645 16s. Bd.)
p.a.
Heads of Department of Com-
merce and General Education:
M 524,000 (£A3,500) p.a.
Registrar: M 521,000 - M 524,000
(£A3,062 10s.-£A3,500) p.a. >
Appointments will be on agreement
for a tour of 3 years in the first
instance with possibility of renewal.
Provident scheme. Partly furnished
accommodation at moderate rental.
Free medical attention. Free passages
for persons appointed, wives arid
families on first appointment, leave
and retirement. Generous home leave
on full salary.
Further information may be obtained
from the Second Secretary, Office of
the United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner, Commonwealth Avenue, Can-
berra, to whom applications (6 copies)
giving details of education, qualifica-
tions and experience and naming 3
referees should be sent by 21st Janu-
ary, 1956.
KITCHINGS’
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
f
%
m
H
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of “The Bulletin
Reciter.” —6236.
Words of poem beginning:
The kookaburra lives at ease,
He has no work to do.
—6238.
Information Sought
Some information on the possibility
of sugar-beet production, particularly
in Victoria?
There is no regulation in Victoria
that would prohibit operation of a
mill for extracting sugar from beets.
Sugar-beets were grown and processed
in that State up to about 1944.
During the war the price which could
be paid for raw-beets was not com-
petitive with the price obtainable
under war-time contracts for other
products, and farmers became un-
interested in sugar-beet production.
Unfavorable price-relationships, allied
to the difficulty experienced in obtain-
ing peak labor-supplies needed to
handle the beet-arop, created a con-
dition in which the supply of beet
was not sufficient to warrant the
seasonal operation of the sugar-beet
factory, and it was eventually sold
for purposes other than sugar-
extraction. The important barrier,
therefore, to sugar-beet production
has been the economic factor.
* * * *
(1) Is N.Z. cricketer Bert Sutcliffe
related to former English Test-
cricketer Herbert Sutcliffe ? (2) Some
information on the New Zealander’s
cricket career ?
(1) No. (2) He holds the record
for the world’s highest score by a
left-hander in first-class cricket, 385
for Otago against Canterbury at
Christchurch in 1952. In his first
game against the M.C.C., in 1946-47,
he made 197 and 128 for Otago. On
N.Z.’s 1949 visit to England he made
more runs (2627) on a tour of Eng-
land than any other visiting cricketer
except Bradman (who made 2960 in
1930). Coming home from South
Africa in 1954, N.Z. played three
matches in Australia, and Sutcliffe
made a century in each (142 against
W.A., 149 against S.A. and 117
against Victoria). An innings of 80
not-out in the second Test against
South Africa in Johannesburg (1953-
54) included seven sixes and was
made after he had been knocked
unconscious by a ball from fast-
bowler Adcock; it was described by
South African critics as ‘'the greatest
80 ever made in Test-cricket.” He
went to India and Pakistan with the
N.Z. team this season, and in the
third Test against India he made 230
not-out.
§
* * * »
Cause and prevention of mosaic-
disease in tobacco-plants?
The disease is caused by a plant-
virus of world-wide distribution, the
virus being both infectious and con-
tagious. It is readily transmitted
from an affected tobacco-plant to a
healthy plant by minute quantities
of virus-infected sap, either on the
hands or through leaf-chewing insects
such as grasshoppers. Seed from
mosaic-plants does not carry the
virus. It is carried over from one
season to another on infected
tobacco-plants which have not been
destroyed or on live host-plants,
such as the tomato and various
solanaceous weeds, and tobacco-
debris in the soil. There is evidence
that the virus may be carried in
manufactured tobacco, and it is
therefore inadvisable to roll cigar-
ettes or handle cured tobacco while
working in the seed-bed. Much of
the serious loss from mosaic
originates in the seed-beds. Care
should be taken to ensure that the
seed-beds are not situated on old
tobacco-land, and that tobacco,
related plants and weed-growth in
the vicinity are destroyed before
sowing. Mosaic-infested plants, both
in the seed-bed and in the field,
should be removed and destroyed as
soon as possible. A replant should
not be set in exactly the position
that was occupied by the removed
plant.
Some information on the timber
known as the Messmate Stringybark?
The Messmate Struigybark
(Eucalyptus obliqua) is also known as
the Woolly-top or Broad-leaved
Messmate, Tasmanian Oak, Stringy-
bark, Obliqua and Brown-top
Stringybark; it is a pale-colored,
rather open-textured, fissile, usually
straight-grained wood. Strong and
fairly easily worked, the timber is
largely used in Tasmania for bridge-
and general building - purposes,
furniture- and cabinet-work, interior-
joinery and fittings, shingles, sleepers,
wood-paving, palings, cases, wine-
and rum-casks, wood-wool, paper-
pulp, etc. It is used locally, together
with E. delegatensis and E. regnans,
under the name of Tasmanian Oak,
and provided it is free from sapwood
is a useful timber. The sapwood is
very subject to attack by the powder-
post borer. Also, the timber needs
careful seasoning to avoid drying-
defects. It occurs as an immense
forest-tree, reaching up to 300 ft. in
height, in south-eastern Australia
and in Tasmania.
* * * *
What becomes of the latent heat
of vaporisation of the water evapor-
ated by the sun from the sea ?
The sun’s radiation warms the
earth and its atmosphere, and at
night some of this heat is radiated to
outer space. Over the cycle of a year
a balance is reached between these
two effects of inward and outward
radiation. Portion of the sun’s heat
is spent in evaporating moisture
from the sea. Temperature differ-
ences on the earth’s surface also
cause a movement of air along the
earth’s surface, from cold to warm
areas and aloft from warm to cold
areas. Much of the energy for this
circulation is derived from the latent
heat released when the water-vapor in
the air is precipitated or converted
back to water. The whole cycle is
one of balancing latent-heat energy
against kinetic energy of the con-
yective-cell or cyclone. The opera-
tion of these systems enables an
adjustment to the heat-balance at the
Poles and Equator to be made.
* * * *
(1) How to make sodawater? (2)
Some information on the seltzogene-
method ?
(1) Simple sodawater is made from
4i drachms of tartaric acid (dissolved
in a quart-bottle of rainwater) and
6 drachms of finely-crushed bicar-
bonate-of-soda (similarly dissolved).
Equal quantities from each bottle
are poured simultaneously into a large
glass, allowing for effervescence.
This recipe is just as good as that
made in the seltzogene, but not as
sparkling. (2) The seltzogene con-
sists of two globes connected by a
wide tube reaching nearly to the top
of the smaller or upper globe. A
narrow tube passes from the bottom
of the larger globe through the con-
necting wide tube to a spring-valve
communicating with the spout. The
tartaric-acid and bicarb, are mixed
dry and placed in the smaller globe,
and sufficient water is tilted from the
larger globe to fill about one-third of
the upper globe. Gas is produced
when the mixture is moistened; it
dissolves under its own pressure in
the water in the reservoir and, by
operation of the spring-valve, can be
withdrawn as in the ordinary siphon.
* * * *
Suggested varieties of gherkins,
time of gathering, and method of
pickling ?
Any seed described as gherkins
will do, as this is the term for the
pickling-cucumber, which is what they
really are. Two good varieties are
the West Indian gherkin and the
New Siberian. Any very small,
young common-cucumbers are suit-
able for pickling. They should be
gathered when quite tender and
large enough for your purpose: if a
steel knitting-needle will penetrate
the skin easily, they are not too old.
Place the gherkins in a china bowl
and cover with a brine made of lib.
salt to each gallon of water. Leave
for three days, strain, and pack into
glass-jars; pour over boiling spiced-
vinegar. Leave for 24 hours in a
warm place. Strain again and reboil
the vinegar; again pour it over the
gherkins in the jars. Repeat this
process until they are a good green
color, allowing 24 hours between
each boiling. The spiced-vinegar:
lqrt. vinegar, |oz. cinnamon, £oz.
cloves, ioz. mace, }oz. allspice, a few
peppercorns. Tie the spices in
muslin, add to cold vinegar in pan,
and bring to boiling-point with the
“Y” reckon anyone heard it?”
lid on. Remove spices and pour the
vinegar oyer the gherkins as above.
* * * *
What can be done to restore the
surface of a terrazzo-kitchen drain-
board badly pitted by constant
dampness ? ,
The cement in which the marble-
chips are embedded has been
destroyed by kitchen-acids and soaps,
and it is almost impossible to replace
it. A light topping of a mixture of
fine cement and lime could be
applied and wet-trowelled to a smooth
surface, but it would be unsatisfactory
for kitchen-work and would again
absorb destructive substances. A
stonemason might suggest resurfacing
by machine; but probably the best
repair is to cover it with one of the
new linoleums suitable for this pur-
pose, well stuck-down with the
special adhesive used in lino.-tiling.
Brief Answers
M.L.: Write Cement and Concrete
Association of Australia, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney... .A. 8.: The Parra-
matta National Park Trust gives the
following replies to your queries:
(1) Parramatta Park was provided by
Act of Parliament in 1854, and now
comes within the provisions of the
Public Parks Act, 1912, administered
by the N.S.W. Department of Lands.
(2) It is managed by a trust of nine,
appointed in accordance with the
abovementioned Act. (3) The park
is termed “Parramatta National
Park.” (4) and (5) No comment
PJF.: James Murdoch’s The Wooing
of Webster was published in London
in 1892 by Walter Scott. The Aus-
tralian edition was published in Mel-
bourne by Petherick. Murdoch was
sometime Professor of Oriental
Studies at Sydney University, and
was adviser to William Lane on
education at “New Australia,” Para-
guay H.G.C.: (1) Lake George
was discovered by Joseph Wild on
August 19, 1820. He was leader of
a small party set-up by Dr. Throsby.
(2) The lake was called “Wee-ree-
waa” by the natives, but when
Governor Macquarie and party visited
it on October 28, 1820, Macquarie
named it Lake George after the
reigning monarch R.K.W.: Write
Louis Johnson, Secretary, P.E.N.
(New Zealand Centre), P.O. Box
5121, Lambton Quay, Wellington
(N.Z.) 8.8. C.: (1) So far as can
be ascertained, no one named
Hadfield has carried out scientific
research into rainmaking. (2) It is
possible that he was one of the so-
called rainmakers who toured the
U.S.A. about the beginning of this
century. (3) First serious attempts to
produce rain by the application of
scientific principles were made about
1930. (4) Write “Wide World Maga-
zine,” Tower House, Southampton-
street, Strand, London, W.C.2, for
details... .L.H.H.: Write Imperial
Chemical Industries, 293 Queen-
street, Brisbane W.R.8.: Poem,
“An Apology to Her Majesty,” by
Peter Bladen, appeared in The
Bulletin of March 3, 1954 H.A. :
A reprint of Gilbert Mant’s Grim
Glory has been published by Curra-
wong Publishing Co., 3 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney A.D.8.R.: The
height of the branch above ground
will remain constant. No growth
occurs in the tree exfcept at the top-
most point (height-growth), and in the
cambium-layer of the bole
(diameter-growth). The branch could
increase in circumference and length,
but its height above ground would
not alter E.H. and 8.M.: The
poem is “The Stockman’s Tale”; it
is in Australian Bush Ballads, edited
by Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing F.C.W.: (1) Old-age and
invalid pensions—the first Common-
wealth Act assented to on June 10,
1908, became operative July 1, 1909;
it superseded various State Acts.
(Deakin Government.) (2) War
pensions—the Act, assented to on
Oct. 29, 1914, came into operation
Dec. 21, 1914. (Fisher Government.)
(3) Maternity allowance —Act assented
to Oct. 10, 1912. (Fisher Govern-
ment.) (4) Unemployment-relief—in
1930-31 special legislation relating to
the relief of unemployment was
enacted in practically all States
(subsequently amended in various
ways). (5) Workers’-compensation—
also a State matter, introduced at
various times in different States. (6)
Child-endowment —Act passed April
3, 1941. (Menzies Government.) (7)
Widows’ pensions—Act assented to
June 5, 1942. (Curtin Government.).
A.F.H.: Write Ralph Symonds,
Ralph Symonds, Ltd., Holland- and
Campbell-streets, Rosebery (N.S.W.).
....J.H.C.: Hershey Chocolate Cor-
poration, Hershey, Pennsylvania,
U.S.A P.F.: Tramways Institute,
Fort Macquarie, Circular Quay,
Sydney H.B. and J.M.: (1) Dr.
Evatt was appointed a Justice of the
High Court in 1930. He resigned
from the High Court in 1940 to con-
test the Federal elections (Sept.,
1940), winning the seat of Barton.
(2) Dr. Evatt has had no trade-union
background P.W.D.: Write G. C.
Renard, Antiquarian Bookseller,
Box 5295, G.P.0., Melbourne
H.W.S.: Write Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
....A.8.: (1) The initials are prob-
ably those of the Royal Northern
Yacht Club, formed on the Clyde
(Scotland) in 1824. (2) Unable to
confirm D.K.S.: The full par-
ticulars of the second Test-match in
Melbourne in 1897-98 can be found
in the 1899 Wisden or the Test-
match Records England v. Australia
compiled by James Rivers. Scores,
in brief: Australia 520 (McLeod 112,
Iredale 89, G. H. S. Trott 79, S. E.
Gregory 71) defeated England 315
(Ranjitsinghi 71; Trumble 4-54) and
150 (Noble 6-49, / Trumble 4-53) by
an innings and 55 runs S.K.E.:
(1) The Commonwealth adopted com-
pulsory-voting for both Senate and
House of Representatives at the
November, 1925, elections. (2)
Voting is not compulsory in either
British or U.S. elections. (3) and (4)
No information readily available for
a comparison of informal-voting
figures. It is reasonable to assume
that there would be an increase in
the numbers under compulsory-
voting.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to- the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.P.: “Farewell to the Ladies of
Bourke” too like an old ballad called
“Farewell to the Ladies of Brisbane.”
M.V.F.: Not seeking parodies of
C. J. Dennis... .8.L.P.: Returning
“Helen” J.P.: It was washed in
with the rain and is now drying-out
in the basket... .8.E.: The answer
is in the negative 8.J.: Try it
elsewhere A.1.K.: The market is
glutted with that type of wind-poem.
.... J.G.: Prepared to let it “soar
in that strange ecstasy” in other pages
than our own 8.P.L.: Back it
goes “across the desert where the
sandstorm whirls” 8.D.: We
hastened to decline masterpiece
beginning:—
There was once a man who went to bed
With his pyjamas on back to front.
The reason was he told his wife,
“They wear out too quick in the
rump.”
... .B.McM.: Aren’t you a trifle late
with “Royal Memories”?... .L.8.M.:
A variation of an old plot first used
by O. Henry C.McG.: Poem
about a young woman who wore only
a bra and briefs in a Melbourne
street reluctantly returned to across
the Queensland border K.S.:
Don’t tell us that that windmill is
still standing J. 8.: Much the
same as ten-thousand other summer
poems.... G.F.: ’Twill not “etch its
living image on our printed page.”
B.M.: Pleasant in a conventional
fashion, but nothing strikingly new
about it... .A.M.M.: We stumbled
over the opening lines: —
Who cares that the mercury’s going up
steadily,
That, o’er the parched garden, not a
breeze durst awake.
Naxos: We could not resist
“Prohistaminic”:—
Stinkwort merry,
Stinkwort gay,
Hayfever rampant
All thru the day
Joyously hawking
Hours melt away
Long live the stinkwort
Stinkwort ole.
M.W.: It finished-up at the
bottom of the p 011... .N.C.: “While
this is commonplace to you, I assure
you it is a momentous event in my
placid existence.” Let there be no
more such momentous events....
J.A.V.: It would appear that half of
the poets in Australia at the moment
are walking alone in the night....
P.C.P.: Well, here’s to Sydney:—
Buses, trams and caravans,
Taxis, pedestrians, traffic jams,
Crowds milling, the barrowman 1
City council doesn’t care a hang.
Brown bomber, policeman, detective, too,
They really know what to do
“Move on! Move on! What’s with you?”
Oh dear, I wish I knew -
How to get from here to there,
Up King-street and then Queen’s-square.
Tram, bus or taxi fast.
Hurrah] I’m here at last.
“How much, driver?” I ask polite.
“Six and six!” I pale with fright.
“That’s an expensive mile,”
I say, and try to smile.
Now have you ever seen the like?
What’s this, another strike?
Who is it this time?
Oh yes, of course. The maritime.


First of Two Articles
The Communist
Threat in Asia
1. With a Bunch of Flowers and a Bomb
By DENIS WARNER
NINE months ago an Aus-
tralian Communist named
Wilfred Burchett, one-
time London “Daily Ex-
press” correspondent in the
Pacific and later one of Peking’s
principal propagandists, was
paying for his lunch at the Afro-
Asian conference at Bandoeng
with titbits from the Chinese
and Vietminh larders.
Since Burchett travelled to the
conference from Hanoi in a
Vietminh plane and clearly
enjoyed not only a good deal of
liberty to mix with former
Western colleagues with firm
enough stomachs to tolerate his
presence but also the confidence
of the Chinese and Vietminh
delegations, what he had to say
did merit some attention.
And on this occasion he let
it be known that his masters
now viewed India and Indonesia
as the two key-countries, not
just in Asia but in all the world.
Tilings were going very nicely
in Indonesia, he said, and soon
more attention would be paid to
India. No, no, of course he
wasn’t talking about armed
revolution. This was “peace.”
And no sooner had the con-
ference concluded its delibera-
tions than Chou En-lai, the
Chinese Prime Minister, and Dr.
Ali Sastroamidjojo, who led the
most catastrophic Government
in Indonesia’s existence, linked
arms on reciprocal State-visits,
and Mr. Nehru was off to
Moscow.
Whatever doubts one might
have entertained about Burchett’s
information, it was clear enough
then that Asia was in the throes
of another Communist offensive.
And not for a single moment
since—despite the mild weather
at the “summit” and all the
relaxed sighs the West heaved
that the Cold War was finished
and done with —has this offen-
sive relaxed.
The flowers, the beaming
smiles, the guileless goodwill of
Comrades Khrushchev and Bul-
ganin, lately on the road
with their “peace” routine
through India, Burma and
Afghanistan, are the heavy
of the offensive, the
continuing rattle of the Bren-
gun in a Malayan ambush just
the reminder that tbe Com-
munists have more ways of
killing a cat than choking it
with icecream.
Sinister Backdrop
To the Westerner, it may seem
out of place that the backdrop
for this latest performance is the
sinister cloud of the hydrogen-
bomb in Siberia. To the Com-
munist, on the contrary, noth-
ing could be more proper.
“Political power grows out of
the barrel of the gun,” Mao Tse-
tung laid down in Problems of
War and Strategy. “Anything
can grow out of the barrel of the
gun.”
Communist “war” and Com-
munist “peace” are flowers of
the same stem and the same
barrel. One or the other, or even
both together, may be plucked
as circumstances dictate.
And a “peace”-offensive would
be just as futile without the gun
as a “war”-offensive.”
That the Communists are cor-
rect in this assumption seems to
be amply confirmed by events.
Eight years have not yet
passed since another group of
Soviet emissaries arrived m
India with the minutes of the
first meeting of the Cominform
and its blueprint for revolution
in “colonial and semi-colonial
Asia —India and Burma included
—in its briefcases.
In both countries the Com-
munists deliberately attempted,
on direct Soviet orders, to over-
throw the Governments that
have now been so lavishly play-
ing host to the tourists.
What Khrushchev and Bul-
ganin have been proving, in
effect, is that the Communists
have found a way to eat their
cake and have it too. It is easy
to forget the sins of the power-
ful ; woe betide the beggar who
turns thief. “Anything can grow
out of the barrel of the gun.”
The New Approach
It is in this capacity for flexi-
bility, to make “war” and
“peace” concurrently and on the
same people, to carry a bunch
of flowers in one hand and a
bomb in the other, that the
Soviet Union and Communist
China reveal themselves as so
much more dangerous to the
West than were the mailed-fist
dictators of the ’thirties.
The Communists certainly do
not reject war, limited war, as a
means to an end, but they feel
there are occasions when a bulge
under the armpit is more
effective than a smoking pistol.
Though they miscalculated in
Korea, and might well have
brought themselves to ultimate
disaster if the West had known
its own mind when Mao’s armies
lay broken in the wreckage of his
spring-offensive in 1951, the
blindly opportunistic adventures
of Hitler, Mussolini and Tojo
are alien to their strategy. If the
club fails, the carrot may
succeed.
Thus, from the original
Cominform view that all could
be won in Asia by the club,
there has evolved the more fluid
and profitable policy of suiting
the treatment to the donkey.
Formosa, Indo-China, the Philip-
pines, Siam, Malaya and Pakistan
remain on the lists for club-
treatment. India, Indonesia and
Burma, having largely thrown
off and forgiven the effects of the
club, are now being led to believe
that life henceforth is going to
be all pure carrot.
This new, two-front approach
in Asia has been developing since
the Korean spring-offensive of
1951. If that had succeeded, and
the Eighth Army had been
thrown into the sea, there would
then have been no need for an
alternative. But the Com-
munists, to their dismay, found
that the military approach, so
devastatingly effective against
the numerically and materially
superior Nationalist armies
during the Civil War, was not
sufficient to overwhelm a
modern, efficient Western Army.
This shock hastened the
modernisation of the Chinese
Red Army, the industrialisation
that China needs to free it from
the umbilical-cord of the Trans-
Siberian railway, and the political
and subversive approach to
revolution elsewhere in Asia.
Until this time, for instance,
the Vietminh in Indo-China had
been waging a war of attrition
against the French. Their
guerrilla forces were spread
throughout Vietnam, ambushing
and sabotaging. But the biggest
guerrilla groups were a hundred
or so strong, and a French bat-
talion, supplied from the air,
could move with impunity
throughout the countryside, con-
fident that it was capable of
defeating any enemy force that
attempted to bar its way. The
country was in chaos; but the
French were in no danger of
defeat.
The progressive introduction
of Mao’s politico - military
theories and the consolidation
of these theories into firm Com-
munist bases, a regular Com-
munist Army and a Communist
party that neglected no source
of civil aid changed the whole
nature of the war, and paved
the way for the utter defeat of
16 French Union battalions at
Dien Bien Phu early in 1954.
Prescription for Malaya
In Malaya, similarly, the Com-
munists under the youthful Chin
Peng were fighting a pointless
campaign of terror until late in
1951, when Peking stepped into
the scene and changed the whole
nature of this campaign.
A directive issued in October
of that year specifically ordered
the cessation of indiscriminate
terroristic attacks.
The Communist gangs were
told to behave like soldiers, to
avoid attacks on unarmed
civilians, and to subordinate the
prosecution of military opera-
tions to the conduct of an in-
tensive political and subversive
campaign.
Armed military activities were
banned in the cities and towns
and in designated parts of the
country where the Communist
civil organisation was weak and
the anti-Communist forces
strong.
The result, superficially, was
that the campaign in Malaya
within a year of the directive’s
circulation appeared to have all
but come to its end, and officials
who should have known better
were congratulating themselves
that they had stamped-out the
armed Communist insurrection.
For two years Singapore was
as quiet and as orderly as a
back-country Australian town.
The authorities got on yrith the
job of polishing-up public build-
ings and parks, and the tin- and
rubber-boom of 1951 helped
private and commercial under-
takings in their own window-
dressing. The city flourished,
and if there was a show-piece
of orderly colonial development
—any sort of development, in
fact—in Asia, this was it.
The real symbol of this period
of quiet, however, was the unob-
trusive construction of the Bank
of China Building, which
suddenly poked its white head
high above the headquarters of
the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Bank, as its comrade had done
in Hong Kong.
Through the schools and
trade-unions and political parties
and Chinese business associ-
ations other Com m u nis t
organisations cut their subter-
ranean channels without fuss,
and by early 1955, when the full
extent of penetration suddenly
became apparent, Singapore was
on its way to self-government
and no one could turn back the
clock.
DENIS WARNER has exceptional qualifica-
tions for writing on the issues he here surveys
and analyses, and will further deal with in a
subsequent article: the Communist threat
looming around Australia’s Near-North. After
serving in the Middle East with the Second
A.I.F., Ninth Division Cavalry Regiment in
Syria and First Australian Commando Platoon
at Alamein, he was from 1943 to 1945 a war-
correspondent in the Central Pacific, covered
the landings at Saipan, Guam and Peleliu, was
at sea with the American Fleet during the
Philippine Sea Battle, was subsequently blown-
up by a suicide-plane aboard British aircraft-
carrier Formidable, flew with the Americans on
the first Superfortress raid on Tokyo, and then,
after the war, was for two years chief corres-
pondent for Reuter-Australian Associated Press
in Japan and Korea. Moving to Singapore,
he became Far Eastern correspondent for the
London “Daily Telegraph” and the Melbourne
“Herald,” and for six years had a roving assign-
ment covering major events from Pakistan to
Korea, with five months in Korea during the
early phases of the war there, and a total of
close-on a year in Indo-China.
By Well-worn Routes
Take a look at the ethnological
map of South-East Asia, and
the mechanics of this phase of
the Communist campaign in Asia
will be much clearer. It records
today both the migratory and
ideological activities of the
Asian man.
Carried by the monsoons, the
Chinese, itinerant, hard-working,
thrifty and keen, set sail in junks
to Hainan and Formosa and
south to Indo-China, Siam and
Malaysia.
The Imperial Government in
Peking was against emigration,
but the weak and corrupt
Manchus were powerless to stop
the drift. China was over-
crowded and poor, the lands of
South-East Asia rich and unfex-
ploited.
Europeans arrived on the
China coast with the opium-trade
and found profit, also, in human
cargoes. The advent of steam
gave added impetus to the move-
ment, and the Chinese spread
much farther afield ; in 1803, for
instance, no fewer than 10,467
travelled as far south as Mel-
bourne from Hong Kong alone.
Most went as coolies, but by
their industry and intelligence
quickly acquired a share of the
wealth of the lands where they
settled, remitting much of it to
China in the form of monthly
allowances to families left
behind. Whole provinces in
southern China once depended
on their relations in South-East
Asia for their spending-money;
today, the civil population of
the much-disputed island of
Quemoy, off the Fukien coast, is
just over 50,000; but it is
remarkably prosperous from the
remittances of 70,000 Quemoyans
in South-East Asia.
Malaya is full of rags-to-
riches stories of these immi-
grants. A coolie named Loke
landed in Malaya in the early
mining-days. He worked for
five Malayan dollars (155.) a
month. But before he died his
lOUs were accepted as currency.
His son, Loke Wan Tho, a
South-East Asian film-magnate,
owns the biggest block of flats
in South-East Asia, some of the
biggest hotels, restaurants, tin-
mines, rubber-plantations all
on the basis of his coolie father’s
industry and financial wisdom.
Singapore is a Chinese city;
Bangkok, Djakarta, Kuala
Lumpur and Saigon are Chinese
in large part.
In countries where the people
they settled among were of
similar ethnic stock the Chinese
were partly assimilated; in
Malaya and Indonesia, where
religion is a formidable barrier,
they have remained distinct and
unassimilable.
The Vietnamese travelled less
than the Chinese, but with
similar advantage. They hugged
the coast of Indo-China, push-
ing out into the delta of the
Red and Mekong Rivers and
up-stream, as if by capillary
attraction, settling as minority
groups in Laos, Cambodia and
Siam.
Like the Chinese, they are
industrious, and their willingness
to force their way up-river is
the characteristic that has won
them economic privilege in
areas where they have had con-
tact with idler peoples.
The Thais, who came
originally from the south-
eastern slopes of the Himalayas,
were, unlike the Chinese and
Vietnamese, drifters, forced to
move by the virility and pres-
sure of others. They went down
the great rivers of South-East
Asia,' down the Red, the
Mekong, the Menam, the Sal-
ween and the Irrawaddy. This
movement is expressed today in
the Thai areas of southern
Yunnan, in the Thai Country of
Tongking, in the Shan (Thai)
States of Burma, in the Laotians,
(i Continued on page 27\


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED ILL RUM.
Tattersall’s Carrington Stakes
(six furlongs), first-leg of next
weekend’s Randwick double,
dates back more than 50 years
and generally is run in about
1.11, which time was recorded
last year by Gay Vista (8.8),
who beat Stirrup Cup (8.5) and
Triclinium (7.13).
Gay Vista has improved so
much in the meantime and per-
formed so brilliantly that he
was allotted 9.13 for next
Saturday’s Carrington. He is
Australia’s No. 1 sprinter. Best
Carrington performance was
Greenline’s success in 1931 with
10.5. Then an aged galloper,
Greenline had won the Carring-
ton three years earlier with
9.13, on each occasion ridden
by Jim Pike.
W. Cook, Gay Vista’s regular
rider, has won the Carrington
three times—Gay Vista (1954);
The Miller (1941); CaeSar
(1940). Several have had dual
success, including Arthur Hood,
W. H. McLachlan, P. J. Foly,
J. Pike, M. McCarten, S. David-
son, D. Munro and E. Doon.
Bill McLachlan, still a regular
visitor to Randwick races, won
his first Carrington on Sir
Richard 50 years ago and his
second on Athenic in 1913.
Race-record time, l.lOi, is
shared by Bernborough (1945)
and Pavilion (1930).
Tattersall’s Club Cup (1|
mile), main event on next Mon-
day’s holiday programme at
Randwick, has favored horses
weighted between Bst. and 7st.;
since 1901 only two of its
winners have carried more than
B.l2—Alured (9.4) in 1914, and
Panacre (9.1) in 1920. The Cup
was decided at two miles till
1910. Fastest time at the pre-
sent distance, 2.30, is credited
to Dewar (1942), ridden ,by
Jack Thompson, who also won
the race the following season on
Tidemark. N. McGrowdie and
W. Cook, with four wins each,
beat all others.
Owners and trainers already
are making plans for Easter,
1956, racing, which will be on
earlier than for several years.
The £5OOO A.J.C. Doncaster
Handicap (one mile) will be de-
cided on Saturday, March 31, and
the Sydney Cup (£13,000; two
miles) on Monday, April 2.
Nominations for this important
double, as well as those for the
Adrian Knox Stakes (£5000;
H mile), the A.J.C. St. Leger
(£3000) and the Champagne
Stakes (£2500) will close on
Tuesday, January 10.
Several top-ranking gallopers
already have resumed easy
training at Randwick in prepara-
tion for the big autumn events,
including New Zealand’s star
performer Somerset Fair, now
a member of T. J. Smith’s team.
Somerset Fair was a little disap-
pointing in the spring, though he
filled minor places and bril-
liantly won the Hill Stakes at
Rosehill from Kingster and
Prince Cortauld. Kingster and
the crack two-year-old Starover
have also completed their early
summer spell and are back at
Jack Green’s stables.
Hobart and Launceston Cups
are to be run early in the New
Year. The Tasmanian Racing
Club will distribute £5350, with
the £l5OO Hobart Cup (1£ mile)
as chief attraction; it’s run on
Wednesday, January 25. On the
first day, January 21, the Miller
Stakes is the main event, while
the Wilson Handicap will be
highlight of the final day,
January 28. Tasmanian Turf
Club will race on February 11,
15 and 18, with the Derby the
main race on the opening day,
followed by the £2lOO Queen’s
Cup as chief event on the second
day and the Launceston Cup
(£1200) on the third day. In
all, £6520 will be distributed.
Star Realm, of Frank Dalton’s
Randwick team, is again show-
ing his customary brilliance on
the training-track following an
early summer , spell. It is
intended to set him for Caul-
field’s Oakleigh Plate (5£
furlongs), to be run in February.
Star Realm has won five sprint
events in Sydney; he failed
when tried at a mile in the
Caulfield Guineas, though he
led clearly into the straight. He
is expected to compete in the
V.R.C. Lightning Stakes (5
furlongs) before tackling the
Oakleigh speedsters a fortnight
later. Gay Vista won the
Lightning Stakes at 7-to-4-on
last February.
Gallant Archer has run his
last race and will be retired to
the stud. A six-year-old son of
Delville Wood (imp.), he had
four seasons of racing for 18
wins at from 4\ furlongs to 11
furlongs: total stake-earnings,
£22,600. In June last year he
ran 11 furlongs in 2.15 i, an
Australian record.
• • • •
Alton Lodge Stud (N.Z.) has
made its usual strong contribu-
tion to the National yearling-
sales to be held at Trentham
on January 16 and 19. Its draft,
to be submitted on the final day,
includes the progeny of various
imported sires, among them
Gold Nib, Balloch, Mid-Day
Sun, Super and War Game. Last-
named is a son of Big Game,
while Super is a Nearco.
Cold Shower, a winner of the
A.J.C. All-Aged Stakes, con-
tinues to sire his share of winners,
latest being Spray Brook, a
three-year-old colt from Golden
Goddess, and good winner of a
Hawkesbury Maiden. The colt’s
dam is by Lo Zingaro (imp.)
from Barry Mine by Son o’
Mine (imp.). There’s a Sol
Green touch about those names.
Firecrag, a Perth winner in
smart company, as well as Mar-
tarma, a winner of the Great
Northern Derby in Auckland,
figure in Spray Brook’s blood-
lines.
French Deal, short-priced
favorite and easy winner of a
Hawkesbury Three - year - old
Maiden 4|-furlongs flutter, was
bred in New Zealand. She is
related to a number of Aus-
tralian winners, including Silver
Phantom. The filly is a
daughter of Faux Tirage (imp.)
and Fandangle by Tideacre
(imp.) from April Fool by Chief
Ruler (imp.). Fandangle is a
half-sister to Beaupartir (N.Z.
and Great Northern St. Legers) ;
but the most notable performer
figuring in the filly’s pedigree is
Rising Fast, whose perform-
ances need no describing. French
Deal has been lightly raced. She
followed the win with another
at Rosehill.
• • • #;
Shannon was auctioned in
Sydney in 1947 for 26,000gn5.
and shipped to America, where
he was sold for £A31,250. At
the conclusion of his racing-
career he was again sold, this
time for £A39,000, to a Ken-
tucky breeder. Bernborough
was sold to an American
breeder for £A29,062 and Beau
Pere also to an American owner
for £A31,367. Those prices
were little fish compared with
the world - record £570,000
realised for the crack American
performer Nashua, recently sold
to a thoroughbred-breeding
syndicate. Six years ago
Americans paid about $51,000
less than that figure for
the English sire Bois Roussel.
For a sire imported to Australia
record-price is £26,250 for
Landau, bought in England
last year. Nashua has already
won £A429,738. in stakes, and,
with further chances to improve
on that figure, could become the
world’s greatest winner.
An open-air movie-show at
Randwick racecourse was some-
thing novel for the A.J.C.’s track.
The big roll-up of trainers,
apprentices and jockeys, as well
as some members of the club
and committee, saw an excellent
programme, including “The
Rainbow Jacket,” an English
racing story with plenty of
humor in it.
Victorian jockey Garnet
Bougoure, who had been riding
in Singapore for more than two
years, has resettled in Melbourne.
This season he headed the Singa-
pore winning-list with 55 suc-
cesses. Runme Shaw, who has
raced horses on Sydney tracks, is
leading owner in Malaya, and
has a big team in work at Singa-
pore, which has one of the best
racecourses in the world. Aver-
age stakemoney there is £l2OO
a race. Bougoure won the
Singapore Cup on Pluck. Sir
Gregory, a former Sydney
“On my right, Battling George at ten-stone-eight—on my
left, Lofty Burns, also ten-stone-eight."
sprinter, has won a number of
races in the East in the best
company. When in Sydney he
could gallop fast but didn’t
possess much stamina. There is
room in Singapore for good-
class Australian horses.
In handing over the trophies
at the annuah prize-night of the
school for apprentices at Rand-
wick racecourse, A.J.C. chairman
A. G. Potter stressed the im-
portance of masters seeing that
apprentices were in regular
attendance. In some States
attendance is compulsory. This
year E. Lee, dux, won the
Perkins Cup and the Wootten
saddle. Runner-up R. Paine won
the Potter - Mackay saddle;
others to win prizes included
W. Pankhurst, L. Bridge, W.
Howlelt and W. Harris. Lee can
go to scale at 7.7.
* * *
Returning to the form that
had urged punters to wager
heavily on him almost every time
he had faced the starter, Blue
Gamble ran out a nice winner
in the main event on the recent
Harold Park card, a non-penalty
Free-for-All. Blue Gamble is
out of a mare named Navy Blue,
a daughter of Man o’ War from
Derryvale by Logan Pointer
(imp.) from Merivale by Galindo
(imp.). A flashy aged bay with
a show-horse blaze on his nose,
the Gamble horse is doing better
now that he’s not travelling so
far. Formerly, he was floated
from Nowra and back every
meeting; now he’s stabled in
Bankstown, and, apparently, all
the better for it.
+ +
Of the two Sheffield Shield
games played before Christmas,
N.S.W. had an easy innings win
over the weak S.A. side in
Adelaide, and W.A. narrowly
defeated Queensland on the first
innings in Perth. W.A., when
6-87 in its second dig, looked to
be heading for outright defeat,
till saved by a record W.A.
seventh-wicket partnership of
156 between Carmody and young
Barry Shepherd (103 not-out in
his first Shield game).
Colin McDonald’s 304 for
Melbourne University against
Adelaide’s was a record for those
games. Previous-best was Keith
Rigg’s 285 back in 1927. Rigg
was, like McDonald, a Vic-
torian and Australian opening-
bat, and an accomplished one;
but with openers of the calibre
of Ponsford and Woodfull, and,
later, Brown and Fingleton
about, his Test appearances were
limited.
Queensland and S.A. (and
now W.A.) have often had in
their Sheffield Shield sides
players originally from N.S.W.
or Victoria. Some, like Brad-
man in his move from N.S.W.
to S.A., had an opportunity in
business as the lure —a lure not
usually unconnected with the
benefit the star’s presence would
give to the adopted State’s
cricket. Most of the “exiles,”
however, have moved because
they have not quite made the
grade in their home-State or are
uncertain of holding a place
in that State’s XI.
Some well-known examples:
Grimmett got nowhere till he
settled in S.A., nor did the less-
competent Frank Ward, the
N.S.W. leg-spinner who was
picked from S.A. into the 1938
team to England. More in the
Bradman style, Bill Brown went
as coach to Queensland in the
mid-’thirties. Badcock, of Tas-
mania, would probably not have
got his chance in Tests had he
not gone to S.A. In a reverse
sort of move, Frank Sides, after
representing Queensland, after-
wards held a regular place in
the Victorian team.
Since the 1939-45 war there
has been a lot more of this
changing-around—for the differ-
ent reasons given. “Foreigners”
in this year’s Shield sides —S.A.,
Favell, Hole, Pinch and Roxby,
from N.S.W., and Wilson from
Melbourne (he was never picked
for Victoria); Queensland,
Lindwall and Flynn, from
N.S.W., and Mick Harvey,
brother of Neil, from Victoria •
W.A., skipper Carmody (N.S.W)
and Meuleman (Victoria). N. 8.,
N.S.W. captain Keith Miile*
hails from Victoria.
“Mid-on”: Never discussed as
a prospect for the team to Eng-
land, though he’s been as con-
sistent as some of the favored
ones, Queensland all-rounder Jim
Bratchford. A medium-pace
bowler who can use the new ball
when needed, he’s never gone
through a State side, but has
quite often picked-up good
wickets cheaply. He’s a handy
batsman, with a top score in
Shield cricket of 143, against
S.A. in 1952-53, the season he
first represented Queensland.
Some of the best Sheffield
Shield bowling efforts in one
innings, recalled by Miller’s 7-12
against S.A.: Ironmonger’s 7-13,
Vic. v. Q. (1932-33); Fleetwood-
Smith’s 7-17, Vic. v. Q.
(1936-37); C. J. Hill’s 7-18,
N.S.W. v. Q. (1932-33); Bill
O’Reilly’s 8-23, N.S.W. v. Q.
(1939-40); E. S. White’s 8-31,
N.S.W. v. S.A. (1935-36); J.
Travers’s 9-30, S.A. v. Vic.
(1900-01); McCormick’s 9-40,
Vic. v. S.A. (1936-37); O’Reilly’s
9-41, N.S.W. v. S.A. (1937-38),
and his 9-50, N.S.W. v. Vic.
(1933-34); and, not least, Tim
Wall’s 10-36, S.A. v. N.S.W.
(1932-33). The best two Sheffield
Shield bowling efforts since the
war, apart from Miller’s, are Bill
Johnston’s 8-52, Vic. v. Q.
(1952-53), and H. Gorringe’s
8-56, W.A. v. Q., the same year.
“Roscoe”: Keith Sheldrick,
of Carlton (Vic.) third eleven, can
bowl right- or left-hand. In a
recent game, after Sheldrick
had taken four wickets right-
hand, he changed to left-hand
and. straightway broke a part-
nership that had looked unbreak-
able. He could certainly be
classified as a c/iange-bowler.
“D.L.A.”: The 1955 - 56
cricket-season is the 28th in
which St. George (Sydney) has
Ernie Laidler behind the stumps.
He’s been first-grade keeper
since he was 16, and was an
opening bat. He has played in
St. George teams which included
such names as Donald Bradman,
Bill O’Reilly, Arthur Morris
and Ray Lindwall.
* * *
“Maros”: In 1937 the then
23-year-old Tom Stokes shot at
Bisley, though not as a repre-
sentative of Australia. However,
Sir Charles Merrett, the com-
mandant of that year’s Australian
team, predicted that Stokes
would one day represent Aus-
tralia there. The prediction will
be fulfilled next July, Stokes
being one of two Westralians in
next year’s team.
%* ♦ *
Merv Wood looks like repre-
senting in his fourth Olympic
Games next year—no mean feat,
particularly as the four Games
have been spaced over 20 years.
Wood rowed in the Australian
eight at the 1936 Olympics in
Berlin, won the single-sculls in
London in 1948 and was second
in Helsinki in 1952. In both the
1950 and 1954 Empire Games he
won the single-sculls, and, with
Murray Riley, the double-sculls.
In 1948, when he won the
Olympic title, he also won the
Henley Diamond sculls and suc-
cessfully defended the Philadel-
phia Gold Cup against the U.S.
champion John Kelly, junior.
* * *
At last cornering Bobby Sinn
(8.5|) for a defence of his
national bahtam-belt, Kevin
James (8.5|) ran out a clear
points-winner in their 15-rounder
at Sydney Stadium. Sinn lived
up to his reputation of being a
danger till the “death”: over the
concluding stages he threw
caution to the winds and fistfuls
of leather at his opponent in a
last desperate skirmish, but
James was still with him —and
actually outpunched the Banana-
lander in the last round. Long,
lean, south-pawed, James raked,
cut, stabbed and hooked at Sinn,
whose only answer was grit.


who are really Thais, and among
the Thais of Siam.
Today Moscow and Peking
are pushing Communism into
South-East Asia along these his-
torically-established ethnological
lines, through the Chinese com-
munities as immediate centres of
‘active subversion and revolu-
tion, through the Vietnamese,
and efficiently, if less spectacu-
larly, by way of the Thais.
Indo-China Tactics
This is only one aspect of the
Communist plan to capture
Asia. It lacks the spectacular
show that Bulganin and Khrush-
chev put on with performing
elephants in India and Burma ;
but it is nonetheless important
for that.
In the first 12 months follow-
ing the Geneva Agreement on
ceasefire in Indo-China the
Communist Pathetlao forces in
Laos expanded from about 2500
to about 6000. This figure in-
cludes 2000 Vietminh who
ignored the Geneva decision
that they should leave the
country, and, instead, led the
vigorous Communist recruiting-
campaign through the valleys
and hills of this beautiful land
and its 2,000,000 lazy and cheer-
ful inhabitants.
Despite this substantial in-
crease in the size of their forces,
the Pathetlao, numerically, are
still far from overtaking the
strength of the Royal Laotian
Army, which numbers 30,000
men and includes a battalion of
paratroops.
By delaying the nation-wide
elections called for under the
Geneva Agreement and holding
firmly to the two wild and
extremely sparsely - populated
northern provinces of Sam
Neua and Phong Saly, where all
the inhabitants put together do
not,number more than about
70,000, the Communists hope to
win a bloodless victory.
They are confident that after
Ho Chi-minh raises the Red
Flag in Saigon the Royal
Laotian Government will melt
like butter in the reflected glow.
Month after month, therefore,
discussions in the administrative
capital, Vientiane, between the
Pathetlao and the Royal Laotian
Government have bogged-down,
with the Pathetlao almost invari-
ably the culprits. They have
been actively aided by the
Polish members of the Inter-
national Supervisory Commis-
sion, while the Indians, as in
Vietnam, appear to be con-
cerned only with achieving a
settlement at all costs, and sniff
at the Canadians’ determination
to see justice done.
The State of Siam
South and east of Laos, and
distinguished from all its South-
East Asian neighbors by the
fact that, uniquely, it has never
been a European colony, is
Siam, a Buddhist kingdom of
about 18,000,000 people.
Three-million of the inhabit-
ants are Chinese, and another
6,000,000, living in the 15 north-
eastern provinces, traditionally
dislike Bangkok rule and look
with the utmost sympathy across
the Laotiah border to their kins-
men there.
To the Communists, Siam,
like South Vietnam, is not only
a gateway to further South-East
Asian successes: it is food. The
threat of flood and famine hangs
darkly over the life of all
China. Floods and droughts are
not just natural events but
national calamities that mean
each year the difference between
life and death for scores of
thousands.
And Siam, especially, has the
rice—millions of tons of it. The
rice-fields stretch for hundreds
of miles, a quilt of green and
silver through the rich alluvial
central plains, watered abund-
antly by the Menam River,
which swirls year-long with un-
diminished vigor to Bangkok
and the Gulf of Siam.
Land of saffron-robed monks,
a carefree, happy land where the
native fruits taste better than
they do anywhere else in Asia
and the women are exquisite
replicas of their graceful cousins
in Laos and through the Thai
mountains of Tongking and
South China.
Land, also, of superstitions,
of goblins and ogres. And if
the ogres are foreign and have
names like Mousey Tongue and
Hochey Min, what of it? There
have been foreign ogres before.
There were foreign ogres in
1914-18, and the war-memorial
in Bangkok is its own eloquent
testimony to the ease with which
they were removed ; for Siam,
though a belligerent, lost not one
man.
There were ogres again in
1941, but after 12 hours they
became allies, and Siam enriched
itself, however temporarily, with
a lavish slice of northern Malaya
and a bit of Indo-China. Even
if these new ogres are as bad as
the old, no doubt they can be
dealt with.
And, anyway, the astrologers
are there to concern themselves
with these things, which surely
“Numbers will be Worn at all times —even during sunbathing .”
are of no moment to the millions
who live and work among the
rice-fields and have ogres
enough of their own, all need-
ing to be propitiated at the
appropriate time and in the
appropriate way.
Tamol c v p
larget ror retting
In January, 1953, in keeping
with its policy of setting-up
autonomous regions for minor-
ity groups, the Peking Govern-
ment established the first Thai
Autonomous State in south-
western Yunnan.
Its territory embraced both
banks of the Mekong and had
common boimdary with the Thai
Country of Tongking. Its capi-
tal was a small village, Cheli.
Soon the Voice of Cheli was
on the air with propaganda
directed to the Thai peoples, and
a second Thai Autonomous
State made its appearance m
south-western Ymnan, thus
establishing links between the
Shans of Burma and the Thais of
China.
Western diplomatic opinion
varied considerably about the
importance of these new States:
the Siamese leaders in Bangkok
were never in doubt.
The collapse to the Com-
munists of the Thai Country of
Tongking after the battle for
Dien Bien Phu early last year,
the obvious success that attended
Vietminh efforts to win-over the
Thai peoples there and the
sudden appearance in Peking of
Pridi Phanomyong, former
Prime Minister of Siam, who
fled with the help of the British
naval-attache after a coup d’etat
in November, 1947, sent
shudders of alarm down the
back of the Siamese Govern-
ment.
Writing in the “People’s
Daily” in Peking immediately
after the signing of the Geneva
Agreement that brought the
Indo-China war to an end, Pridi
urged the people of Siam to
“wage a struggle against their
rulers American imperialism
and its puppets, the Government
of Thailand.” Only thus, he
said, could the obstacles standing
in the way of peace, indepen-
dence and self-determination be
removed.
Pridi went on: “The U.S.
imperialists and the reactionary
Thai Government are still lord-
ing it over Thailand, bent on
using it as a base for aggression
to menace peace and to create
international tension. They are
working with every effort to
organise a military alliance,
which is in effect intended for
aggression in South-East Asia.
Our Thai people are duty-bound
to defend this great victory [the
Geneva Agreement], to con-
tinue to extend this success, to
ease the strained relations
created by American imperial-
ism and its Thai puppets between
Thailand and countries in the
camp of peace and democracy,
and, in particular, between Thai-
land and the People’s Republic
of China and Thailand and the
three Indo-Chinese countries.”
This little bombshell, bursting
when ] he air wa s t*“ck with
peace-doves, was followed
rapidly by other developments.
Tiang Sirikhand, a dissident
leader from the north-eastern
provinces of Siam, who had been
reported killed by the Siamese
police two years earlier at Kan-
chanburi, suddenly reappeared
in Sam Neua and Phong Saly.
Ho Chi-minh’s personal repre-
sentative in South-East Asia, the
mysterious Nguyen van Long,
who probably was the double-
crossing Mr. Wright who led
the Malayan Communist party
during the war, transferred his
activities from Monghet m
north-eastern Burma to the same
area.
And, finally, in Hanoi the
Vietminh pushed plans to
remove yet another barrier
dividing the Thai people: on
May 9 of this year the formation
of another Thai Autonomous
State, this time in north-
western Tongking, was
announced. This new State
meets the Thai Autonomous
State of south-eastern Yunnan
in the north and has common
border with Laos in the south,
where again the people are of
Thai stock: Bangkok’s concern
is understandably acute.
Speaking to a press-conference
before the opening of the
Seato Council meeting in Febru-
ary last, the dapper little Siamese
Prime Minister, Pibul Songgram,
said that within the area of
South-East Asia his Government
had discovered that Red China
had concentrated troops not for
internal security but for external
aggression, in particular against
Thailand. The Communists had
established their southernmost
headquarters in the Thai
Autonomous State of south-
eastern Yunnan and were
organising with people who had
infiltrated there from Siam.
He named Pridi as the leader,
and said that 20,000 Free Thai
troops were in training at Cheli,
where a Communist military
academy had also been estab-
lished. Phong Saly and Sam
Neua he described as stepping-
stones towards Siam.
They are stepping-stones, in
fact, to the north-eastern pro-
vinces, where five-and-a-half-
million of the six-million inhabi-
tants are of Lao-Thai stock —
two-million fair-skinned, hand-
some and intelligent in the more
fertile areas along the Mekong;
the rest darker and rougher and
less intelligent in the poor
hinterland. Both sections speak
the Lao dialect.
For years these people have
grumbled in dissidence against
Bangkok control. There are no
roads worth the name in the
area, and the railway that crawls
north to little weatherboard
Udorn, the principal town in the
north-east, if not the worst in
the world, is at least the worst
I have ever travelled. The seats
are broken, the carriages dirty
beyond belief, and the only food
available is on sale at fly-
infested wayside stops.
i contented myself on the
journey with glutinous rice
poured into bamboo-sticks; but
even on this dismal diet I did
not escape an attack of
dysentery.
The teak-forests were all
f e ]j ec j i ong ago , an d, unlike the
r i ce -rich Menam bowl, food-
production is at the subsistence
levtl
Du - Second World
sirikhand led a
TTa1 ’ f , “ .
composite force of Annamites,
Thais and Laotians against the
Japanese. Estimates of the
number of people under his
direct influence vary from a
quarter -of - a - million to two-
million. They are not now in
any sense an “Army” ; but they
have always been taught by
Tiang Sirikhand to regard them-
selves racially as Laotians of
Laos. And today Tiang Sirik-
hand’s links in Laos are not with
the Royal Laotian Government,
but with Prince Souphanawong
and the Pathetlao, thence with
the Vietminh, Pridi and the Free
Thai Movement, and finally with
Peking.
Revolution Nucleus
As in Laos, there is also the
essential hard-core, already in-
doctrinated, Vietnamese minor-
ity in north-eastern Siam around
which the revolutionary move-
ment may be built.
Sixty-thousand to 70,000 Viet-
namese refugees, spread along
the right bank of the Mekong
River, have in places succeeded
in establishing their own small
Soviets. During the Indo-
China war their role was to
channel supplies from Bangkok
into Laos to provide refuge for
hard - pressed Communist
guerrillas. Almost to a man
they are pro-Vietminh and pro-
Communist.
A Vietnamese friend, who
once served with the Vietminh
before the Communists had
asserted full control of the
movement, visited the small
Mekong village of Beung Khan
in north-eastern Siam early this
year and found to his dismay
that he was expected to stay the
night in a house with some of
his former comrades who had
recently arrived from Hanoi.
The house was packed with
armed men, and he felt there
was little chance of living until
dawn. He escaped through the
toilet and fled from the village
by bicycle.
Repeated efforts have been
made to repatriate this Viet-
namese minority to Vietnam. At
the Bandoeng conference Viet-
minh Foreign Minister Pham
van Dong and Chou En-lai both
promised the Siamese Foreign
Minister, Prince Wan, that the
Vietnamese, who fled originally
from the French in Laos, would
be taken to North Vietnam ; but
the offer has since been conveni-
ently forgotten.
Since ( 1952, when the Siamese
GovernSment abrogated the 1932
Constitution, the control of the
country has been by the dictator-
ship of the police and the
Army. With considerable
American aid, the Army, Air
Force and police have been
greatly improved and expanded ;
Pridi-suspect, the Navy has been
badly neglected. The Army,
with a strength of about 80,000,
is based around 10 infantry
regiments, nine tank-companies
and a paratroop-battalion. The
Air Force has about 300 planes,
based around 125 Bearcats and
a few jet-fighters.
General Phao’s para-military
police-force consists of about
45,000 men, and is rated highly
by its American instructors.
Unhappily, corruption is not
unknown in Siam. As a rough
division, the police get the pro-
ceeds of the opium-racket, the
Army the cuts from the rice.
Soft - drink concessions are
shared among high dignitaries
of the Government, and during
the Indo-China war a blind-eye
was conveniently turned on
smuggling activities in the north-
east.
Unlike some of the politicians
who helped deepen Vietnam’s
grave, however, men like Phao
are tough, courageous, hard-
working, loyal to the country
and determined to resist Com-
munism. But in Siam the coup
d’etat has become what elections
are in Australia. In the past
the country ran to the simple
equation that arms + money =
power. Pridi lost after the war
by siphoning-off arms to the
rebels in Indo-China, Burma and
Indonesia. His chance of re-
establishing himself is by the
techniques and with the aid that
Peking can supply through the
Free Thai Movement.
It is improbable that overt
developments will be rapid.
We shall not see a Free Thai
Army marching southwards
across the Siamese frontier.
Under the Mao theory, the threat
of. force is often a sufficient
military instrument to win
political victories.
The Geneva Agreement, giv-
ing the Communists the oppor-
tunity to take all Vietnam, must
be executed to throw further
fear into South-East Asia and to
spur the decision that it is wise
{Continued on page 34)


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
/
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
I No Springs
The NEO-BABREttB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
B AItRE RE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3c) 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY Vf.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH .
C. Penfold Sc Co. Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros, Pty. Ltd.
. Vardon Price Ltd.
Docket Book Co. (Anst)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE SOVIET AND INDIA
by press comment,
British feelings were rather
injured by the remarkable wel-
come accorded Soviet Premier
Bulganin and Communist-party
chief Khrushchev on their good-
will visit to India, and further
wounded by some of the palp-
able anti-West propaganda put
out by the visitors. Resentment
ran so high in some editorial
columns, in fact, that it has been
suggested that the proposed visit
of the Russians should be can-
celled forthwith.
In one of the most forthright
criticisms John Connell com-
mented in London “Time and
Tide” that “the British Govern-
ment, regardless of which party
has been in power, has since
1947 exerted every humiliating
and dishonorable trick of
blandishment in the attempt to
keep the rulers of India on our
side.
“All the basic principles and
rules of membership of the
British Commonwealth have
been set aside in India’s favor.
Mr. Nehru disliked the word
‘British,’ so we hastily dropped
it from the title of the Com-
monwealth. Mr. Nehru disliked
the idea of the Crown, so India
became a Republic, tossing a
barely-civil acknowledgment to
the theory that the Queen is
the Head of the Commonwealth.
Mr. Nehru wanted economic
aid, so he got buckets of it,
under Point Four and uhder the
Colombo Plan.
“Mr. Nehru did not like the
thought of military arrange-
ments to protect our legitimate
mutual interests and strategic
needs in Asia, so India remained
ostentatiously ‘neutral,’ and
when other Commonwealth
nations sent combatant soldiers
to Korea, India sent an ambul-
ance-unit (very welcome, let me
add) and a U.N. observing-
officer, Lieutenant - Colonel
Nayar, a brave, brilliant and
lovable man who was killed in
action.
“So, of eight years of soft-
soap and appeasement we now
behold the result. In all the
newspaper- and radio-accounts
of the rapturous—if somewhat
carefully stage-managed—wel-
come given in Delhi Jo the
Kremlin bosses, the tones of
rueful surprise have been notice-
able. No party like this was
ever iaid-on for any British (or
any American) visitor.”
Other typical if somewhat
less stringent comment:
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
visit by the Russian statesmen
to India throws a good deal of
light on Russia’s future policy.
It has already stirred-up the
Middle East; it is exploring the
chances in India and in North
Asia. Perhaps Russia was sur-
prised in Egypt to find how
much commotion she could
cause by how little effort. It is
reasonable to suppose that she
has decided to accept the stale-
mate in the West, and, in the
comfortable assurance that
there will be no major war, to
try by political manoeuvre to
advance in Asia.”
The same: “The Western
world cannot be indifferent; an
Indian commentator has said
neatly that the present Russian
intention is to lift up the Iron
Curtain and put it round the
West, shutting it in.”
'* * *
“New York Times": “We
[the U.S.] may not be able to
outbid the Russians in material
terms. In the first place, we
have a bourgeois affection for
the truth and will not promise
what we cannot deliver. In the
second place, our commitments
are already far-extended. We
could not provide enough capi-
tal to industrialise India or any
other forge part of the Far East,
even though we judged it wise
to do so. Neither can Russia
provide the capital. She can,
however, provide the salesmen
—Uncle Nikolai and Cousin
Nikita or others —who will take
the orders for a possible but
not probable future delivery.
For what the Russian salesmen
axe really selling is nothing
immediately tangible but, in the
words of a once-familiar phrase,
pie in the sky by and by.”
The same : “What is baffling
in this is how persons of as
much intelligence as the Indians
can believe that a Communist
promise is better than an actual
performance on the part of the
free world. In less than five
years, for example, the United
States has provided in loans and
grants to India more than $450-
million, and has been glad to
do so. The Soviet Union has
promised—and may even build
—one steel-mill, on a loan-basis,
for less than a fifth of that sum,
and is to provide two oil-
technicians. Yet many Indians
are being led to believe that the
United ‘ States is niggardly and
the Soviet Union greatly
generous.”
* * *
London “Spectator ” ; “Western
errors of statesmanship set aside,
Russia’s tactical advantage in the
struggle for Asia consists in one
single fact: that there Com-
munism is capable iff generating
mass-support as yet unequalled
by the Western way of life.”
* * *
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” : “In one sense, the Bul-
ganin-Khrushchev visit has put
Prime Minister Nehru on a
spot, although it doesn’t seem
to be worrying anybody in his
Government.
“At home, Mr. Nehru is a
hard-fighting foe of Indian Com-
munists. He has repeatedly
taken the stump against Com-
munist candidates and generally
denounced local Reds for being
financed and controlled by
foreigners. At the same time,
he has often spoken words of
praise for both Russia and Com-
munist China. On many inter-
national questions he has sided
with the Communists.
“The result is that, despite Mr.
Nehru’s campaign against local
Communists, Russia’s popu-
larity has never been higher in
India. And the Bulganin-
Khrushchev visit is obviously
regarded by the local Reds as a
boost for their side.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Some
Indians may have noted that
while Mr. Khrushchev was prais-
ing Russo-Indian friendship, Mr.
Molotov in Berlin was praising
Russo-German friendship; and
that, while both the Russians
were speaking, cattle-trucks full
of German prisoners whose re-
lease had been promised were
being reversed back into Russia
because the Federal German
Government’s behavior did not
please Moscow’s eyes—so the
Soviet German puppet-Premier
admitted.”
Spain—Soviet
Attitude
The Soviet’s latest goodwill
overtures are not confined to
Asia—Franco’s Spain is also the
subject of a little gentle wooing,
which comes rather oddly, since
Russia was the main mover of
the U.N. boycott on Spain 10
years ago which excluded Spain
from American aid and left it
to battle alone until the recent
agreements with the U.S.
Again oddly, receipt of this
recent American aid did not
turn Moscow more sharply
against Franco —the Soviet had,
as London “Time and Tide”
comments, learnt the lesson of
the abortive boycott:
“At the beginning of the past
year 285 Spaniards, who had
fought in the Blue Division
under German command during
the invasion of Russia, were
released from Russian camps.
“Since then trade-relations
—New York “Herald Tribune ’
“HELLO! HELLO!"
have developed between Spain
and the satellite States, especially
Poland, Czechoslovakia and
Hungary, on terms exceedingly
favorable to Spain. (Hungary,
for example, which has excel-
lent wines of its own, imported
Spanish surplus wine to the
value of nearly 366-million gold
pesetas and exported nothing in
return.)
“Although no Communist
party is tolerated in Spain and
diplomatic relations between the
two countries do not exist, repre-
sentatives of the Soviet Union
were invited to the congress for
the standardisation of ball-
bearings in Madrid last spring.
When Spain was proposed for
membership of the United
Nations Economic and Social
Council the Soviet Union raised
no objections.
“ ‘Arriba,’ the organ of the
Falange, which is the only politi-
cal party allowed in Spain and
still sports a sort of diffuse
Fascism, is, of all Spanish news-
papers, the most friendly to the
Soviet Union and the most criti-
cal of the United States (its
chief grievance against the latter
is that American aid to Spain is
exceedingly small, as in fact it
is).
“Spain has high prestige in
the Moslem world. Spanish
Africa, with -a total population
of about one-million, enjoys
great tranquillity by compari-
son with French North Africa,
and is free from political and
social tension. The Arab policies
of Madrid and of Moscow do
not conflict with one another.
“But the biggest inducement
Moscow can offer is the return
of the gold, worth $4OO-million
—which was shipped to Russia
by the Spanish Republican Gov-
ernment during the Spanish
Civil War. It represented about
half the gold-reserve of the Bank
of Spain at the time. The ob-
ject of Muscovite policy in
Spain is, of course, ‘neutralism.’
The return of the Spanish gold
would hardly of itself achieve
this object, but it would be a
substantial contribution.”
Profit-sharing
Profit-sharing, still to some
extent a contentious subject in
these parts, is expected to pay-
off so handsomely in the U.S. in
1956 that, as “Wall Street
Journal” puts it, workers in
profit-splitting companies will
receive their “biggest earnings-
share ever.”
By the end of this year, the
paper adds, the number of U.S.
businesses which share their
profits with their employees is
expected to rise between 9000
and 10,000.
The number employed in
profit-sharing companies is be-
tween 1,000,000 and 1,500,000.
Pension and profit-sharing plans
paid by U.S. business amount
to about $2OOO-million annually.
Workers will share in larger
industrial profits this year aris-
ing from economic expansion
and larger consumer-income.
A sporting-goods manufac-
turer paid out more in the first
half of 1955 than in all 1954,
while a construction-equipment
manufacturer raised contribu-
tions by 57 per cent, in the fiscal
year ended September 30.
An early profit-sharer, Sears,
Roebuck and Company, between
1916 and 1954 contributed more
than $313-million to its profit-
sharing fund.
Some firms report that profit-
sharing has resulted in greater
efficiency and resulting gains.
“We share 30 per cent, of our
profits before taxes with all
employees,” a drilling - firm
executive says, “and we’ve made
substantially greater profits
since we have shared them than
before.”
Wheat Agreement
The Geneva discussions on
the International Wheat Agree-
ment finished inconclusively
with the suggestion that the old
agreement might serve as a
pattern for a new one—an indi-
cation, in London “Financial
Times’s” view, of “a lack of
new ideas” :
“This dearth of new ideas
must, on the face of it, lead to
the conclusion that the U.K. is
more likely to find when dis-
cussions are renewed next year
that the obstacles to her partici-
pation [in the I.W.A.] are
stronger than they were when
she decided to abstain from the
old one in 1953.
“At that time the main practi-
cal issue on which Britain broke
with the I.W-A. was the question
of price ; it has often been con-
tended, in fact, that the U.K.
left the I.W.A. over a mere
matter of five cents a bushel at
the maximum I.W.A. price
which, of course, wheat has
never since reached. But even
then there were other potential
reasons why the U.K.’s con-
tinued participation seemed un-
wise, and these have since grown
to be more important.
“The main one is that, in the
meantime, the grain-trade in the
U.K. has been freed and the
Government has stressed re-
peatedly its adherence to the
practice of free markets. It is
clear that any operation of a
wheat-pact similar to the present
one would be extremely difficult
for Britain to dovetail with free-
marketing except by the intro-
duction of some special
machinery which would itself
detract from completeness of
the market’s freedom.
“More important, however,
would be the effect of any agree-
ment on Britain’s export-trade,
especially since, ip the past, the
I.W.A. has been accompanied
by restrictions relating to resale.
Antwerp may be the centre of
a large entrepot grain-trade, but
Britain is the prime mover in a
world-wide network of trading
in grain which never actually
touches these shores.
“Since freedom was restored
to the market much of Britain’s
former grain-trading has been
recovered. The Government, it
is fair to assume, will have in
mind the necessity not to
jeopardise this trade by its de-
cision over the I.W.A. when this
is reached next year.
“The fact that no new think-
ing seems to have come out of
Geneva would seem logically to
lead towards Britain’s continued
abstention from any pact on the
old model.”
Terylene and Wool
Bradford “Wool Record”
comment on the growing uses of
1.C.1.’s terylene as a new fibre
for the woollen and worsted
industries:
“In the hearts of wool-
merchants, topmakers and not a
few spinners there are no stir-
rings of joy at the thought of
the terylene factory at Wilton,
in north Yorkshire, doubling its
output next year.
“Even then, of course, staple-
fibre production will be only a
small fraction of the huge
amount of material consumed in
a year by the wool-textile
industry. Early next year the
Wilton plant will have an annual
capacity of 10-million pounds of
terylene staple. If is certainly
a significant quantity, large
enough to leave no doubt of
1.C.1.’s strong faith in the future
of terylene as an apparel fibre.
But it amounts to less than 2
per cent, of the industry’s yearly
consumption of raw material,
which over the last five years
has averaged 610-million pounds.
Of this figure, consumption of
virgin wool accounted for about
450-million pounds on a clean
basis; the remainder was shoddy,
mungo, rayon and other fibres.
“The question is: will the
synthetic-fibre producers be con-
tent with a relatively small share
of the market for suitings and
coatings? A great prize awaits
the firm which can break wool’s


s
w
V
m
m
<TS
tU5^
vx<d
K
i
K4;>•.
For your next suit •
. . . you’ll find Crusader cloth is better. Your new suit
is going to cost you good money, so make sure you are
getting the best cloth. And Crusader is best the
result of over forty years experience in weaving fine,
woollen fabrics.
I’ve just been looking through Crusader’s new 1955-56
range, and you can take it from me, it’s the most attrac-
tive selection of modern suitings I’ve ever seen. In
fact, this range is as good as the world’s best.
You can always depend on Crusader, because the
Crusader Mills guarantee their cloth. They guarantee
that only pure Australian merino fleece wool is used
in the weaving. They guarantee that no synthetics or
substitutes of any kind are added. They guarantee that
Crusader cloth will give years
of hard wear. And they
guarantee it will never fade
or shrink.
What more do you want?
The smartest suit in town? If
you use Crusader, that is
what you’ll have. So ask
your tailor to show you the
new Crusader Pattern Book,
and you’ll see what I mean.
Special
Selection.
DOUBLE WARP
doubllweft
(frusaflet
SluXZ*ups
Crusader doth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 6.113
—London “Daily Mirror”
WHOSE PAWN?
virtual monopoly in this field,
and one large breach has already
been made in the case of
tropical suitings. Dr. Carlene
[of 1.C.1.] admitted that the Tery-
lene Council had entered the
domain of wool-clothing with
much circumspection. They
were conscious, he said, of the
industry’s resistance to synthetics
and had therefore decided, as the
opening gambit, to introduce
terylene into sports-trousers,
with the object of working their
way gradually into men’s suitings.
“For men’s slacks terylene
offers something new. In blends
of 55 per cent, terylene and, 45
per cent, wool these garments, it
is claimed, combine very good
crease-recovery with good shape
retention and smart appearance.
A large-scale promotion now in
progress will reach its peak in
1956 through the big tailoring
and ready-made clothing con-
cerns. Another field in which
terylene is making considerable
headway is that of pleated skirts.
Durable pleating has made a
strong appeal to women, who are
much less devoted than men to
the traditional fibres and always
willing to try out anything with
a semblance of novelty about it,
whether in design or substance.
“Since terylene staple was
introduced in the woollen- and
worsted-industry four years ago
there have been big improve-
ments in processing as knowledge
of its behavior increased. Per-
haps the biggest advance has
been in dyeing, for, in common
with other synthetics, terylene
calls for special treatment from
the dyers. As a result of col-
laboration between them and
1.G.1. there has been a ‘vast im-
provement’ in the range of
shades offered and in standards
of fastness.
“There must be no illusions
about the fibre. It will not help
to sell more wool or tops.”
Nato-Meto-Seafo
The five countries Britain,
Turkey, Pakistan, Irak and Iran
—which have agreed (at Bagdad)
to establish a Middle East
Treaty Organisation (Meto) to
fill the gap between Nato and
Seato have defined their purpose
as “to work in full partnership
and with united purpose for
peace and security in the Middle
East, to defend their territories
against aggression or subversion
and to promote the welfare and
prosperity of the peoples in that
region.”
Commenting, New York
“Herald Tribune” notes that “the
political, military and economic
structure of the new organisation
is in accord with these defensive
purposes. In fact, as the [U.S.]
State Department has pointed
out, the association is a natural
one and cannot be deemed hostile
or threatening.
“The success of the new
organisation,” the “H era 1 d
Tribune” adds, “will depend, in
considerable measure, on how it
meets the threat behind its back.
The northern tier of States in the
Middle East is in much better
shape, in Western eyes, than the
southern. What the West, and
the United States in particular,
cannot afford to forget is that
military pacts by themselves will
not provide a durable peace.
Diplomatic and economic meas-
ures must strongly supplement
them.”
Too Much Talk
Although U.N.O. usually
comes in for a kindly pat on
the head on the annual anniver-
saries of its founding, there is no
shortage of editorial critics who
profess to see it going the same
way as the League of Nations.
On one score particularly—the
long-winded futility of the
speeches in the Assembly in
New York—the critics have been
most voluble and the following
comment from London “Econo-
mist” suggests one way of doing
something about it:
“M on t h after month the
speakers [in the Assembly] drone
on ; the secretariat, completing
bulky reports on esoteric subjects
only to see them quietly pigeon-
holed, is promptly asked to pro-
duce more; committees, sub-
committees, expert committees,
and provisional committees
(usually self-perpetuating) are
formed and shot out into the
void like particles in a cloud-
chamber ; and nobody is moved
to ask the anguished question:
‘How long, O Lord, how long?’
They know the answer.
“Solemnly, sadly, orator after
orator laments the scant attention
that press and public pay to the
Assembly’s quaintly named ‘acti-
vities,’ the tendency to by-pass
it shown by Governments that
happen to want to get something
actually done, the derision with
which States both great and small
ignore its pleas for good
behavior, the bottomless pit of
oblivion into which its painfully
agreed and amended resolutions
sink each year. Few of these
salaried mourners, or of their
somnolent audiences, seem to
feel any duty to think out for
themselves why these things
should be so. Yet the explana-
tion can be given very briefly.
The quality in which the
Assembly is most fatally lacking
can, in fact, be put into one
word: brevity.
“Unless it can achieve brevity,
there is indeed no hope for it.
Well-wishers of the United
Nations can, and do, patiently
explain to the impatient and the
sceptical that U.N.O. cannot
exercise powers to maintain
peace that it has not been given.
They can explain that it cannot
function as a true clearing-house
for helpful suggestions when
one-half of the world’s peoples
are sealed-off from the other by
totalitarian controls. But they
cannot explain why, given these
obvious and strict limits to the
organisation’s effectiveness, the
annual rites should always be so
tedious, so costly, and so over-
whelmingly pointless.
“Surely something can be
done. In the unofficial British
journal, ‘United Nations News,’
there is advanced one of those
ideas that often have all the more
impact because they are cast in
an ironic form. There may be
better ideas for cutting the length
of Assemblies down to sane pro-
portions, restoring their dignity,
reducing their cost to the tax-
payer, saving mental wear and
tear on senior diplomats, and
penalising frivolous mischief-
making—but they have not yet
been put forward. Briefly, it is
argued that, since the Assembly
is above all a gigantic sounding-
board, the equivalent of a radio-
or television-network, those who
exploit it as such should buy their
time.
“There need be no outcry that
this would silence poorer nations
at the expense of richer ones.
On the contrary, it could be
arranged to ‘soak the rich’ as
effectively as income tax does in
Britain. For what is worth
saying can, in any U.N. debate,
be said in a few minutes; and
each delegation could be allowed
those first few minutes free of
charge—after which a steeply
rising scale of charges would
make marathon speakers add to
U.N.O.’s finances so generously
that more taciturn nations could
reduce their statutory contribu-
tions.
“Nor need it be feared that
some notoriously defaulting
Governments would never settle
their bills. The skilled engineers
who have equipped the Assembly
hall with microphones, head-
phones and simultaneous trans-
lation could easily ensure that
all these were cut off the instant
an orator’s cash-payment, pre-
viously inserted into a coin-box,
ran out —and perhaps they could
arrange that the speaker’s
podium descended into the nether
world like a cinema-organ key-
board at the same moment.
“Who would lose by the adop-
tion of some such foolproof,
fair-shares system? Assemblies
would be cut to a fraction of
their present length, to the
advantage of taxpayer and weary
statesman alike. The neediest
nation would still have its say
(and its vote), plus the satisfac-
tion of seeing any delegation
whose volubility exceeded its
sense of thrift paying through
the nose into the common funds.”
Various Voices
U.S. Atomic Energy Commis-
sion’s biology chief, Dr. Paul B.
Pearson : “It is quite within the
realm of possibility that the time
will come when man does not
have to depend on plants to pro-
duce edible energy in the form
of starches, sugars, fats and pro-
teins, and we may see this done
chemically on a commercial
scale.”
After-Geneva comment by
Anthony Nutting ( Britain's
Minister of State for Foreign
Affairs): “I do not profess any
great insight into the Russian
mind. But I remember at Berlin
Mr. Molotov saying that one of
the troubles of free elections was
that you didn’t know who was
going to win. Could it be that
he has now found out?”
Sir Winston Churchill: “It
will be an ill day when a Con-
servative Government shrinks
from doing right out of any con-
sideration of electoral popularity
or favor. Gallup-polls no doubt
have their proper place in our
modern life, but popularity or
unpopularity are poor guides to
conduct.”
Harold Wincott (editor of
Investors’ Chronicle”): “It is in
Germany’s power within our life-
time, if we [Great Britain] con-
tinue to play the fool, to see
the mark become a world-cur-
rency while sterling sinks to a
fifth-rate status. There’s no old-
age pension for nations.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Australian “Boy”
It has cost my company £16,000 to
prove that Australians continue to show
more-or-less contempt for books and
magazines produced in Australia, by
Australians, for Australians.
Moved by the nation-wide scream
about dirty horror-comics, my company
decided (a) that we were a prosperous
publishing-house, doing well, by workers
and shareholders ; ( b ) that because of (a)
we could render a service to the boys of
Australia by publishing a really worth-
while boys’-paper, a modernised version
of “8.0. P.” and “Chums” of other years ;
(c) that all profits made would be
ploughed-back into the publication to
“Come in out of the Wet!”
make it something really worth while;
(d) that we could succeed, without doubt,
backed as we would be, in a practical
way, by those hundreds of “screamers”
referred to above ; and (e) that we would
make this publication really Australian —
that we would not use any syndicated
matter whatsoever, and that all the stories,
etc., would be written specially for the
magazine by Australian writers and
artists.
I doubt if any Australian publication
was ever launched with such pious, non-
commercial fervor.
Thus the Australian “Boy” was
founded. For three years it struggled
along with varying fortunes. The only
certain feature of it was that we would
lose money on each succeeding issue. It
was just a question of how much.
Certainly many thousands of lads read
it. Many thousands of parents saw to it
that the magazine was in their homes.
But hundreds of thousands of kids con-
tinued to look through horror and sexy
“picture-books”—even with the approval
of parents who also read the publications
after Junior.
We suffered, too, from distribution
annoyances which should never have
occurred. But this being Australia, where
anything is near-enough, nothing could
be done about it.
The real point is that something must
be done about the training of our chil-
dren in regard to reading, So far as our
publication is concerned, it does not
matter, because we have wisely suspended
publication to concentrate on more pro-
fitable work. We are following in the
footsteps of two other excellent boys’-
papers, “Eagle” and “The Champion,”
which ceased publication in recent times.
The truth is that we are rearing a race
of “picture-book” readers. Grown boys
and adults continue to be content to look
at “picture-books” as they did when in
napkins. Maybe some of them still are
in napkins.
From where will support come for
Australian authors of the future? Are
we now rearing a race of people who will
not have the desire and the intelligence
to read the classics, or to read and give
support to the products of our own
writers of the future?
Parents’ neglect of duty and the intro-
duction of what is called “visual educa-
tion” are to blame. Every school should
make reading a compulsory subject—at
least half-an-hour every day given to
reading, even into the highest classes.
Summed-up, we are breeding a race
of illiterates. It is up to those who love
their country to fight for the proper
education of today’s children in regard
to good books and how to read them.
—E. J. Trait (Vic.).
Bond Insurance
In Queensland an applicant for an
auctioneer’s and commission-agent’s
licence is compelled by law to obtain
from the State Government Insurance
Office and supply to the licensing
authority a fidelity-bond for £2OOO. Be-
fore the 5.G.1.0. will issue the bond it
insists that the applicant sign an under-
taking indemnifying the office against all
risks and claims that may arise under
provisions of the bond.
Although the insurance-office carries
no risk or obligation each bondholder is
charged a premium of £5. What would
happen if a private insuranee-office tried
a similar method of collecting income on
the cheap?— Debillaro (Q.).
Trade
“Keima” asks (B. 23/11 /’55) “Where
is the trade?” So far as Australia is con-
cerned, most of it seems to be with
Britain nowadays, and for a good many
reasons it seems likely to stay here. The
U.S.A. may buy our gold, or some wool,
and we can supply a few items under
various plans to the Asian continent, but
that is not the kind of trade that will
keep great industries going, particularly
when they are hog-tied by high wages
for short hours of work.
Only dire emergency, or the fact that
we have something special to sell, will
move Asia to take from us any more than
it is forced to take in payment for
the few commodities it sends here.
The Bear is on his way through the
passes of the Himalayas. He has cheap
regimented labor and can sell his goods
at prices that would send our trading
organisations, boards, etc., into a blue
fit.
Certainly, as “Keima” says, “competi-
tion is getting a bit too competitive,” but
what can we do about it? It is a problem
that cannot be solved by a 40-hour-week
and all the hundred-and-one industrial
irritations that are steadily sapping the
national economy—every one of these
disruptions adds in some way to the costs
that are making it increasingly difficult
to sell our products.
The fact is, Australia has no real estab-
lished markets outside the United King-
dom, and today Britain is handicapped by
its own great problems—among them,
growing competition of a magnitude
never before experienced. The U.K. has
not the money to spare for overseas
expansion that it had in days gone by.
America, too, having lost the boat in
China—another land ready for tooling-
up—must look elsewhere, and Australia
is a land of promise for some of the great
U.S. monopolies. They are on the march
in many directions, direct and indirect,
with American capital, and, while extra
profits may be ploughed-in for the time
being, it is the American shareholder who
will pocket most of the dividends. In
this hard world, if you have money—and
America has lots of money—you can buy
anything anywhere.
Points we may have to consider are:
How far would any slackening of trade
with Britain fit in with our ideas? How
far would America take the place of
Britain as a market for our produce?
The answer is not a happy one, because
America can produce and sell (if neces-
sary) at prices that would send our pro-
ducers into bankruptcy.
Another thing: American labor is
fairly fond of hard work, and few
employers would be likely to put up for
long with our exacting trade-union con-
ditions. “Keima” says, in effect, that
competition is getting too hot. The only
answer to that problem is—get down to
it and compete. —A. J. H. (N.S.W.).
Hadrian
The Roman emperor Hadrian, hero of
Marguerite Yourcenar’s biographical
novel (B. 19/10/’55), was third of the
five “adoptive” emperors known to his-
tory as the Antonines—Nerva, Trajan,
Hadrian, Antoninus Pius and Marcus
Aurelius.
Nerva was an elderly Senator when
chosen Emperor in a.d. 96 on the
assassination of the tyrant Domitian. He
reigned less than two years—long enough,
however, to choose wisely his successor,
the soldier Trajan. Trajan in turn adopted
Hadrian, his cousin; Hadrian chose an-
other Senator, Antoninus the Good —“who
did nothing in particular and did it very
well,” to quote American historian
Weech—and the fifth Antonine was the
Stoic philosopher Marcus Aurelius, who
showed that a man of books can still be
a man of affairs and a man of action.
The Antonines thus ruled from 96 to
180, the year Marcus Aurelius died—
nearly 100 years. Gibbon calls this 100
years “the period in the whole of history
when the condition of the human race
was most happy and prosperous.” (Inci-
dentally, would or would not Gibbon
have to alter that appraisal if he were
writing today and not 200 years ago?)
Hadrian, like his kinsman Trajan, was
born in Spain, of Roman ancestry—in
a.d. 76. He succeeded to the purple on
Trajan’s death in 117 and reigned till his
death in 138.
A very capable administrator who in-
stituted many reforms, particularly in the
provinces, kept a watchful eye on bureau-
cratic and other corruption and vastly
improved Roman law, Hadrian was also
an inveterate traveller. In an age in
which travel wasn’t easy, he journeyed
all over his empire.
From 121 to 126 he was on his first
great journey, through Gaul and the
Germanic provinces to Britain, where he
had built the rampart stretching across
the island from the Tyne to the Solway.
He spent a year in Rome on his return
(during which he sandwiched-in a trip
to Africa), then left on his second long
journey, to Greece, Palestine and Egypt
(128-134).
Hadrian was fond of the society of
learned men, poets, philosophers, artists.
He was of no mean intellectual attain-
ments himself; in fact, in painting, sculp-
ture and music he considered himself the
equal of specialists. Master of both
Latin and Greek, he wrote both verse and
prose ; but not much of his work survives.
One poem extant is his dying address to
his soul, “Animula vagula, blandula.”
The character of Hadrian has been
summed-up as a mass of opposites—
“grave and gay, affable and dignified,
cruel and gentle, mean and generous,
eager for fame yet not vain, impulsive
and cautious, secretive and open. He
hated eminent qualities in others, but
gathered round him the most distinguished
men of the State ; at one time affectionate
towards his friends, at another he mis-
trusted and put them to death But with
all his faults he devoted himself so inde-
fatigably to the service of the State that
the period of his reign can be charac-
terised as a ‘golden age.’ ”—(Encyclo-
paedia Britannica .)
Under Trajan the Roman empire
attained its greatest extent. Hadrian, also
a soldier, was more cautious, and with-
drew from some of Trajan’s conquests.
So the decline of the empire, which was
to be more and more whittled away in the
several centuries from his time till the
end in 476, can in fact be dated from the
time of Hadrian, though Hadrian is ack-
nowledged to be one of the ablest of all
the emperors.— Kros (S.A.).
Darwin
Ronald Creasey’s view of Darwin (B.
26/10/’55) was probably a little too
idyllic, but, in correcting him, “Murran-
ji” (B. 7/12/’55) commits a few boners
himself.
In July, 1953, the town football-oval
was not three miles out of town ; its iron-
hard surface was immediately seawards
from the Hotel Darwin and only a stone-
throw or so from the post-office. The
main sports-attraction—Aussie Rules—-is
staged there.
True, there is a Rugby-field some miles
out, a Soccer-field quite a way down the
Stuart Highway, and cricket-pitches all
over the place. Apart from Rules, how-
ever, the townsfolk care most for basket-
ball, which is played close to the centre
of the town proper. They play the game
with a ferocity and cold science I’ve
never seen equalled, with the local
Chinese boys usually well on top.
I agree, however, that little has been
done to make young people’s life worth
living in Darwin, although those with
cars or motor-cycles can go to dozens
of places “down the road” for hunting,
fishing or swimming.
Without a “bomb” or a bike, and if
there are no lifts offering, life can be
dull—there’s Tom Harris’s picture-
theatre, there’s a decent library and
there’s Westralian or Victorian beer, but
not much else.
I can’t understand “Murran-ji” when
he says young women can’t
get beer in clubs and hotels. Clubs, I
know, are generally for men only, unless
you are either a wharfie’s wife (then you
have the Workers’ Club) or a bank-
manager’s wife (Darwin Club). Hotels,
though, cater for women,, and the old
“Vic” has a handy beer-garden. Bottled-
beer can be brought into the hostels,
which are not all like the men’s “Belsen”-
camp.
Why young men leave Darwin after
six months, or a year or so, is easily
understood. They don’t expect overmuch
comfort in a frontier-town, but they do
like girl-friends, and there just aren’t
enough to go around. Government de-
partments—Works, P.M.G., Customs,
Civil Aviation and the others —send
mostly single men to Darwin. Some
married-quarters are provided, but not
nearly enough. If a young official is
lucky enough to wed a local or imported
girl he’ll usually have to leave Darwin
if he wants something more than a
“Sidney Williams” hut to live in.
Although it makes services a problem
and is a hardship for anyone without
transport, I always found Darwin’s wide
scattering of “suburbs” an attraction.
Any close crowding of the many sub-
standard dwellings would create more
problems than it would solve. —B. M.
(Q.).


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSO]y^
OSUJUVAK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSER"
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : 1 PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar- i
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Korean Christmas
by John Gilmore
CHRISTMAS EVE, 1945,
and movement in bleak,
frozen Fusan after sun-
set, without the thin glib
credit of a day-sign, invited
instant fire from sentries.
The heavy, peak-prowed
rowing-boat slid noiselessly
under the dark tracery of the
steel bridge as the native oars-
man stilled at his single stern-
sweep, to whispers and a gesture
from the heavily-clad seamen
grouped before him—the ex-
patriate Russian, the Greek and
the Australian.
From above, the ring of the
soldier’s iron-tipped boots echoed
uncannily; the craft swept
quietly onwards on the flat tide-
waters, and there was no
challenge.
At 19 years, Pfc. B. Josh
Kahn, alone in the inky black-
ness and bitter cold, had been
five weeks with the U.S. Marine
Corps in Korea. For twenty-
three nights he had stood solitary
picket by the northern pylon of
the An-Sei railway-bridge and
he knew where the most shelter
was to be had.
The squeak of the oar of the
approaching boat had not drawn
him from the dark corner
formed by four wide girders.
The boatmen from Fusan had
ignored the curfew from the first
—there might have been fifty
clandestine fishing-parties within
a few hundred yards.
Kahn sensed the movement
below him, glanced to where his
carbine, the ugly barrel of which
could burn flesh with its cold-
ness, leaned against the parapet
by the field-telephone twenty
yards away, and thrust gloved
hands deeper into the pockets of
his greatcoat.
In the boat, the Russian ges-
tured with a huge fist, and the
diminutive Korean stood to his
task again, sending his little
craft winding on its way up the
lonely harbor. The three sea-
men relaxed, settling themselves
wordlessly on the bulging sacks
which lowered freeboard to a
few inches.
Under the flag of the U.S.
Merchant Service, their tramp-
steamer lay at the military wharf
four miles astern, while the cos-
mopolitan crew, casually
recruited from half-a-dozen
ports, snored in the cabins after
a forty-eight-hour voyage from
Yokohama which a China Sea
typhoon had prolonged to
seventeen days. The typhoon,
undaunted in its journey from
the heart of icy Asiatic Russia by
“How are they biting over your way ?”
the black-and-white-etched razor-
backed mountains of the Korean
peninsula, had several times all
but claimed them —the Yankee
bo’sun, the Armenian oiler, the
Greeks who had signed articles
after delivery from a prison near
Tokyo, the handful of Aus-
tralians from Sydney, the
Spaniard who had shipped in
Manila, the Liverpool-Irishmen,
the fireman and engineer from
Scotland, Taffy the Welshman
and the two Americans, Navy
men, whose responsibility
remained the tiny gun on the
poop, not yet unshipped.
In warehouses fringing the
wharf were piled stores and
equipment of the defeated Im-
perial Japanese Army, guarded
by disinterested Marines. Korean
peasants, incredibly poor after
forty years of Japanese
colonialism, every night
attempted plundering, singly or
in parties; usually they were
detected and often some were
shot.
In the mornings, the pickets
were guests for coffee in the
tramp-steamer’s mess-room.
“I>ETE, here, says last night,
he says, ‘Well, I’m gonna
go get me a godejam Gook.’ An’
you know what? He took his
car-bine, and he went out and
he did just that. Shot him a
god - dam Gook deader’n
mutton . . .”
The able-seamen, Ted Pol-
chovsky—exiled from Russia in
boyhood, a Stateless wanderer —
Dimitrios, whose cargo-ship had
sunk off Java under Japanese
shellfire, and the Australian,
Jim, had regarded the unshaven,
hollow - eyed youngster
curiously.
They had sometimes seen the
coolie bodies in the ragged,
padded clothing laid beyond the
wharf-gateway. Always on the
following night there would be
more stealing.
Everything was marketable in
Fusan; tinned food, bread,
flour, sugar, salt, chocolate,
sugar, even paint and rope and
twine and canvas, cast-off
clothing and worn blankets were
readily exchanged by the con-
querors for grimy bundles of
Korean yen.
The three friends watched, in-
terested, as crew-members
smuggled ashore their cartons
and packets and bundles.
“What you going to do with
that stuff?” Jim asked of the
bo’sun from Brooklyn, eyeing
a wad of notes being stuffed into
a faded blue denim shirt.
The man from Brooklyn was
smart.
“Lissen. Korean yen can’t
be changed into real money,
sure. But Korean yen in Japan
will swap one-for-one for Jap
yen.”
“Jap yen aren’t worth a
damn.”
“Ain’t he bright, now? Sure
they ain’t —but you can buy Jap
stuff, sell it back home. See?”
* Jim and Ted and Dimitrios
drank warmed, acrid sake from
tiny clay cups as they bargained
with Papa-San, the friendly,
balding merchant, around his
charcoal stove. His rush-
thatched store, set by the narrow,
unsewered cobbled street, con-
tained rice and barley in half-
emptied straw sacks; from
rafters hung dried vegetables,
strung on twisted fibres, brittle,
yellowed dried fish and small
carcasses of fowl.
Papa-San was benign and
talkative. He had no English,
they no Korean, but the lan-
guage they used was universal.
In the roadway outside, shep-
herded by armed Marines,
shuffled long lines of Japanese
colonists, with their boxes and
bundles and crates of hens, hand-
carts and barrows, on their
journey to the rusty unpainted
Nipponese transports and
deportation. Everywhere was
the sickly smell of Fusan, of
the East —oily yet bitter, rotting
vegetation and stale excreta,
unwashed flesh.
“I see Papa-San and us is
going to do business,” said Jim.
“He’s tellin’ us now he’s anti-
Jap, always was anti-Jap, always
will be.”
“Dey all say that,” said
Dimitrios caustically. “Dey all
hate the Jap—now.”
Facial forms were the only
differences between the Japanese
who filed humbly on and the
Koreans who had so little care
for their going. To the bored
American guards all were the
same, all part of the grey,
womanless, bizarre garrison-life.
The young Marines were
blatantly and indiscriminately
distasteful. This was a situation
undreamed-of in training-days—
there was nothing in their
syllabus to tell them if they
cared whether they were con-
querors or liberators.
A Gook was a Gook, a
shambling coolie from whom
you could catch smallpox if you
missed your vaccinations,
illiterate hovel-dwellers, the
slummy vanquished.
Jim and Ted
bribed the white-helmeted
guard with thirty large 100-yen
notes and loaded half-a-ton of
Imperial Japanese Army brown
sugar into the hired fishing-boat
from the wharf near the ship.
In the pale yellow light of
dawn they delivered their cargo
to Kim and Gravy-eyes, Papa-
San’s sons, who waited with
carriers at the appointed landing-
place, before walking back light-
heartedly through the awakening
town.
On the boarded walls by the
wharf-gates a brown hand had
scrawled in unaccustomed Eng-
lish: Jap Go America Go Give
We Free or Give We Atomic
Bom.
“You guys got passes?” The
sentry, mug of coffee in hahd,
leered as they passed through.
“Never mind . . Sure hate the
idea of the risks you guys fancy.
These Gook sluts’ll ruin you for
life.”
“Happy Christmas,” said Ted,
rubbing cold hands together.
Energetic and perpetually
short of breath, the fat, cigar-
smoking Marine officer who
had conned the tramp-steamer
in Fusan harbor had been
enthusiastic.
“Tell you. Place wide open.
There’s ar-petoonities here just
waiting. Wide open for ar-
petoonities. Back home in the
States, my business is coastwise
transport. The whole Gook
coast is wide open. Now me
and a syndicate back home’re
going to move into the steam-
ship-business out here. I’ve got
the O.K. on it right now, right
now, boy. Plenty Gook sea-
men ; boats here and back in
Japan, boats a bit smaller’n this
one —denars’ll buy anything
here. Now, my discharge’s about
due, but I’m taking it here. Right
here. Tell you, ar-petoonities of
a lifetime, here.”
It was as if, between the busi-
ness interests of certain officers,
viewing the country through
eyes sharpened in their trades,
and the glum unthinking disdain
of the soldier-conquerors, there
was an awkward void; some-
thing was lacking, purpose,
policy, perhaps a Gook plan.
TX/HEN the seamen returned
to his cluttered store on the
afternoon of Christmas Day,
Papa-San was worried. He
motioned them, with bowing and
sharp in-drawn hissing of breath,
to be seated on the sacks and
boxes around the brazier, and
busied himself pouring sake from
a bubbling kettle.
Kim joined him, bustling in
from the street, handing his
frowning father a bundle
wrapped in straw cloth. They
conferred lengthily and unintel-
ligibly.
“I think,” said Ted wisely, “the
old man’s short of what we’ve
come for.”
“Yen.”
“Yes, I gather he’s doing the
rounds of the neighborhood for
money.”
Papa-San was, for when
Gravy-Eyes entered, placing a
second bundle in his father’s
hands, the merchant’s face
wreathed in smiles.
“This,” Jim judged, “will set
Papa-San and the boys up for
life.”
The money changed hands,
uncounted. The twenty-five-
thousand yen, in large, ragged
notes of all denominations,
seemed an awesome amount.
Papa-San, Kim and Gravy-
Eyes insisted on being photo-
graphed with their benefactors,
escorting the foreigners with
smiling ceremony to a mud-
brick courtyard, where they
posed solemnly before a very
small Korean who fussed im-
portantly with an ancient camera
on a bamboo tripod. Papa-San
posed in the centre of-the group,
hissing his gratification.
Three weeks later Jason, one
of the regular Navy gunners,
deserted the tramp-steamer from
Yokohama. He was a forth-
right man, and inactivity since
the war ended had galled him;
furthermore, he was deeply in
love with an Australian girl in
Melbourne.
He rode to Manila, then to
Guam, on to Morotai, in U.S. Air
Force transports. From Morotai
to the Australian coast air-
traffic was heavy, and within five
days of leaving Japan he was
reunited with his girl.
He took with him over a
hundred Japanese cultured
pearls, entrusted to him by Ted,
Dimitrios and Jim, who antici-
pated difficulties with Customs
officials on eventual repatriation
to Sydney.
Jason never did make himself
known at the Australian address
they gave him. At times the
three discussed him and his pos-
sible whereabouts, quite without
rancor; as time passed their
speculations became more and
more academic.
They agreed, however, that a
forthright man like Jason would
probably do very well in a new
life of his own choosing.


If Australia is to maintain
her position as one of the
leading meat and wool pro-
ducing countries of the
world her sheep and cattle
men must come into line
with modern methods de-
signed to maintain lambs
and calves in good condition.
Referring to the Elastrator
rubber ring method of mark-
ing and tailing lambs and
marking calves, the manager
of a large station in Western
Australia wrote—“We con-
sider the method just what
was needed by all sheep
breeders. It will save the
industry tens of thousands
of lambs that were lost
through various causes under
the old tailing system.”
Milk
Production
Increased
Tri-Cal-Os is a most valuable mineral
supplement in stock feeding. Given to dairy
cows in the dry period means profitable
milking for four or five months longer.
Tri-Cal-Os is bone flour (containing 65 %
tricalcic phosphate), and is very easily
digested and assimilated.
OS
CM
**>o*
eoH*
!*•«*•*•
IST.
4
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALOC PHOSPHATE
A*y paHk»tan gladly uppHed—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE: G.PO Be. JSB3.
SYDNEY • G.PO. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Eo. 717 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Bet 7SBK. BRISBANE
• GA.O Box SBB. PERTH
FROM LEAPING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE ATOM AND AGRICULTURE
TN England dairy-cows are
being dosed with radioactive
isotopes in an attempt by vets,
to learn more of how milk forms
cream, to see whether fat-
content of milk can be arti-
ficially boosted. The cows are
taking tritium, a component of
the H-bomb.
The experiment is being done
at Reading University’s National
Institute for Research in Dairy-
ing, in Berkshire.
The tritium tags itself on to
die cows’ fat-producing mechan-
ism, and simple instruments
keep track of movements.
Similar work on goats is being
done at the centre.
Earlier experiments with food-
producing animals, using this
technique, have led scientists to
say that as a converter of plant-
food into meat and dairy-
produce, animal processes are
not very efficient, and could be
improved.
The application of nuclear-
physics has become very big
business overseas, and agricul-
turists in the U.K., U.S. and
Europe are among those using
nuclear knowledge in their work.
Harwell’s Dr. W. J. Whitehouse,
pioneer of radioactive isotopes,
was recently invited to lecture
on this subject at Sydney Uni-
versity : it seemed cheaper to
bring Dr. Whitehouse out here
than to send dozens of Aus-
tralians to England to learn
from him.
Only one local agricultural-
scientist attended his Sydney
classes.
Physicists, I understand, would
welcome a chance to demon-
strate to the man on the land
the possibilities of the outcome
of atomic research.
They claim a scientifically-
minded farmer or grazier, after
a little instruction, could invest
£5OO to £lOOO in isotopes and
other equipment and get back
his money very quickly in
improved practices.
As an example, a North
Carolina experiment in fertiliser-
effectiveness with tobacco: For
years there, superphosphate in
large doses had been regarded
as the basic top-dressing. By
mixing small amounts of radio-
active isotopes with the super,
and tracing its absorption with
geiger-counters it was shown the
plants used no super, at all. A
more effective fertiliser was
later used, and a large super,
bill eliminated.
In a similar English test it was
realised that wheat in certain
soils takes up superphosphate
for only two weeks after ger-
mination. Potatoes were shown
to use super, for the whole of
their growing-life.
Though this sort of test has
been simple and immediately
effective, and, in fact, is thought
to be the only definite way of
gathering this information, these
methods are almost unknown in
Australia.
Radioactivity used is quite
safe. While large amounts can
be risky, geiger-counters are
intensely sensitive, measuring
amounts many hundreds of times
below danger-level.
Certain substances in the
earth’s surface, notably uranium
and radium, are naturally radio-
active. Almost any others can
become so by treatment in the
laboratory in the relatively
simple and puny cyclotrons, or
in atomic plants in nuclear-
reactors —the familiar “piles.”
A “pile” might be the size
of a house, and, while com-
pletely quiet, would contain
enormous power and the
capacity to induce copious
amounts of radioactivity into
anything put into it.
Measured amounts are induced
by regulating time of exposure,
balanced with the capacity of
different materials to ahsorb and
hold radioactivity. Some hold
it for only a few minutes, others
for years.
A new medical principle now
regularly used in three Sydney
hospitals involves the use of
radioactive isotopes in diagnos-
ing and treating thyroid dis-
orders. This gland being the
one governing growth-factors,
veterinary-scientists could find
scope here in the finer breeding
of cattle: at least, in research.
Measurements are made with
geiger-counters after the patient
has drunk radioactive iodine.
Blood-troubles are similarly
investigated by administering
radioactive iron, then measuring
the rate of turnover of the iron
at certain stages. Amounts of
radioactivity used could be in-
creased 1000 times before be-
coming dangerous to the
patients.
During Dr. Whitehouse’s lec-
tures at Sydney recently the sole
agricultural-scientist was quickly
shown how to immediately
gauge a sheep’s blood-volume by
the use of radioactive isotopes,
for dietary tests on which he
was working. Water-absorption
of beans and other vegetables
was also demonstrated.
Overseas, companies place
commercial orders for radio-
active substances for countless
uses.
These include tracing leaks in
intricate refrigeration-piping or
in plumbing, checking the action
of lubricants in power-plants,
the efficiency of spark-plugs in
aero-engines, wear of moving
parts ; radioactive gas pinpoints
breaks in underground cables.
Australia offers fields for the
agricultural-engineer to which
no limits can be set, and lead-
ing universities began training
these men comparatively re-
cently. Here, again, there is
scope for nuclear-physics.
Apart from its value as a
tracer and in diagnosis, the atom
has more positive functions.
Deep-ray therapy for human
ills is one of these, and could
probably be extended to
veterinary science.
While all tissue can be killed
with exposure to radioactivity,
the flaccid tissues of malignant
growths are far more rapidly
destroyed than healthy ones.
The Curie treatment with
gamma-rays from radium has
been in part replaced by those
from cobalt-60, phosphorus-32
and iodine-131 or -198.
Certain of these are also being
used in experiments to destroy
the bacterial action which
causes food to decay.
If meat and other foods could
be treated in this way, and
given properties which dispensed
with refrigeration, the effects on
the whole marketing angle of
primary-production would be
enormous—a point made in an
earlier “M.0.L.” article by
Professor Messel.
Many elements take highly
desirable radioactive forms for
use on humans or animals, but
are ruled out by other properties
they have—arsenic is one which
would be widely employed if it
were not a poison.
Inert and harmless gold is
becoming very useful in radio-
active treatments, drunk in solu-
tion or injected into the body.
It has a very short and closely-
measurable radioactive life.
Gold is being used in this
manner in Sydney in an attempt
to improve cancer-therapy, a
treatment which has not been
used before anywhere in the
world. It is pioneering work in
this field, and scientists are
pleased with results to date.
Using a small piece of
material into which these new
properties had been induced, a
Sydney scientist recently made
a unit capable of taking on-the-
spot X-rays of bone fractures
and similar conditions.
The unit weighs about 101 b.
and costs about £9O, most of this
money going into the value of
the isotopes. It is extremely
simple and about the size of an
ordinary carpera.
Taking X-ray pictures in
places where a conventional
machine could not possibly get
are. an accepted function of the
atom. This year the technique
was demonstrated to engineers
on the Snowy by men from
Sydney University.
On snow- and ice-covered
slopes, the problem was to get
pictures of welds, to check this
work in sections of huge steel
water-pipes. A pellet of radio-
active iridium was placed inside
the pipe at the welds, with a strip
of suitably - protected film
wrapped outside the join. After
a measured time the film was
removed, showing perfect pic-
tures of the structure of the
welds.
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-
electric Scheme will involve the
building of 16 major power-
stations. Some scientists have
suggested that the Authority
should consider erecting an
atomic power-station to supple-
ment this network, the output
from which will be very var-
iable according to the seasons.
They said that the area had
other desirable features as a
site. Doubtless one of these
was its remoteness. When
something goes wrong in an
atomic power-plant (though this
has never happened, and the
chances are all against it) the
result could be another Bikini.
There is nothing very startling
now in building atomic power-
stations. At the recent con-
ference in Geneva competitive
quotes were given prospective
purchasers from Britain, the
U.S. and Russia. Spokesmen
had their order-books out and
pencils ready, as outback sales-
men might have for tractors,
dress-material or lucerne-hay.
In the muddy London
Thames, silting is now regularly
checked by use of radioactivity,
so that dredges can work exactly
where they are wanted.
This suggests Australian uses
in this field, and also in stream-
flow, run-off, drainage and
water-research generally. Radio-
active tracers are tools the
National Water Research Foun-
dation, recently formed in Syd-
ney, may find progressively use-
ful as its work goes ahead.
With current C.5.1.R.0. in-
vestigation of the formation
and artificial making of rain, the
isotopes could have a function in
gaining a clearer picture of what
happens inside cloud, and could
tell researchers where the myster-
ious substances they release into
the air get to.
Other overseas applications
have been in tracing insect move-
ment, which could possibly be
used here in the annual Queens-
land and N.S.W. fruit-fly plague
and the grasshopper war in
N.S.W. and Victoria.
Further experimental work in
other countries has included the
location of placenta in calving
cows and other animals giving
birth, tracing field pollen-spread
reckoning the egg-cells in the
bodies of hens, and tests of the
effectiveness of chemicals which
control in some degree evapora-
tion of farm water-supplies—
compounds such as the cetyl-
alcohol which is now being
used in this country to check
evaporation from earth-tanks
and dams.
The atom is also being em-
ployed on timber-research and
work on plant-diseases.
The job of bringing the atom
out of the laboratory and apply-
ing it to agriculture here is ob-
viously one for the agricultural-
scientists.
J. Hodge.
"Navua and NevaHan 11
My property and my methods
having become the subject of
controversy between Messrs.
P. A. Yeomans, K. G. Schoeffel,
and R. H. Webster, I feel it
necessary to make some com-
ment. I have been closely asso-
ciated with the land for 40 years
and take pride in my pastures
and production.
My pastures are not the work
of my predecessors on Navua,
and the cost of their establish-
ment has not been excessive. I
have striven to make them
palatable and balanced, as
economical as possible, varied
enough to assure continuity.
They are not maintained by con-
stant irrigation. I average 50
pumping-days a year at a cost of
£3 per day.
Navua is not in the County
of Cumberland, and I did not
dispose of any land for the
reasons put forth by Mr. Yeo-
mans. Sales of bush lands have
been made by me at an average
price of £25 per acre. These
areas are fertile enough to pro-
duce pastures and crops, with
or without irrigation. They
were inspected by Mr. Yeo-
mans and turned down, not being
regarded as suitable for his Key-
line system of farming.
Although Mr. Yeomans states
that my system of spreading
water was tried and rejected on
Nevallan, X doubt whether it
was used as I have used it. I
pump the water to the top of
slopes into a small, level channel
and at spaces of about 20ft. I
let the water through the ditch-
bank by means of pieces of
piping long enough to pierce the
bank. The ground is soaked,
gently yet thoroughly. On easier
slopes I use a seepage-system
from a series of shiall, short
contour-drains. Many experi-
enced and practical men on the
land have inspected and copied
my system, but Mr. Yeomans is
the first I have heard class it
as out-of-date.
The statement by Mr. Schoeffel


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illus- j
trated is the
“ FARMERS .
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State
Distributor jor free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
I!
■
m
mm-.
i
k
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supp y»
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-containd
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterue
solutfon. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free u us-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
- DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.5.W.),82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St., The Valley,
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne ,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
N.Z.: Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
N. Guinea : Global Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
(B. 30/11/’55) that I have no
good pastures that have been
developed on lands similar o
Nevallan is not correct. 1 have
added a substantial area of un-
improved land to Navua. I have
cleared the scrub off and have
developed pastures that are as
heavy-carrying, and as sweet, as
any in the district, and this with-
out irrigation.
As for my Friesians, Mr. Web-
ster could have been more com-
plimentary when he mentioned
one produced nearly a ton of
milk a month. I have cows pro-
ducing over a ton a month. One
under official test produced
24201 b. of milk in 30 days, over
six tons of milk in 150 days with
butterfat to 7 per cent., and
1301 b. of butterfat in 30 days.
This equals 1651 b. of commercial
butter in a month, or silb. per
day. No doubt Mr. Webster had
in mind that the proof of a
system’s efficiency is to be gauged
by its resultant production when
he suggested that the Keyline
instructors visit Navua before
facing the trial by practical
farmers.
If Mr. Schoeffel has five cows
doing better than the best on
Navua he is shaping well for
a man “not claiming to be very
efficient.”
I invite all Keyline followers
who wish to visit Navua to come
at any time, with or without
notice. We are all continually
learning something new. I visited
43 foreign countries and studied
their methods and I’ve spent a
lifetime close to the soil, and
I’m still learning.
C. K. Hill.
"Easy on
Molybdenum"
“Jubilee”: “N e e r i m”
(B. 23/11/’55) rather misses the
point of my par. (B. 9/11/’55).
N.Z. agricultural experts advised
us to use the well-tried prescrip-
tion of lime-super, to get a
healthy pasture of clover and, if
that failed, to try potash. What
they were trying to guard against
was the experimental use, as a
short-cut, of molybdenum.
Knowledge of molybdenum is
still in the experimental stage,
and its indiscriminate use by
other than scientists, who have
their checks by soil- and
herbage-analysis, and also by
veterinary checks, could have
harmful results.
“Neerim” draws on his own
experience in Victoria. There are
not many soils here in New Zea-
land as refractory as his “red hill”
five-acre paddock, and he was
safe enough in taking “kill-or-
cure” measures, as, apparently,
he had nothing to lose on that
particular soil, and he did gain
something. Men on better land
must admire his enterprise. But
the point remains that the
average farmer should try the
tested methods first as
“Neerim,” in fact, did —not
plump for the short-cut.
Green-manure Crops
“X.Y.”: Having pinned their
faith for years past to field-peas
and other green-manure crops as
improvers of soil-fertility and
builders of cereal-quality,
farmers in the Victorian wheat-
belt have had a shock: under
various tests, field-peas and the
like have failed to increase soil-
nitrogen or wheat-protein to any
significant extent.
H. L. Hare, senior agronomist,
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture, says that, while within
recent years new varieties of peas
and good weedicides have im-
proved the pea-crop’s prospects,
tests at Dookie Agricultural
College proved that a year under
peas was not equal to a year
under subterranean-clover for
restoring nitrogen to cropping-
land.
Again: in trials at a number
of centres, peas in the rotation
did not, to any extent, affect the
amount of protein in the sub-
sequent wheat-crop.
Apart from supplying nitrogen,
organic-matter or humus in the
soil is, of course, very important
for ease of working and for im-
proving the moisture-holding
capacity of the soil. The value
of some crops, including field-
peas, for improving the organic-
matter of the soil for the growth
of a cereal crop was also tested
at the State Research Farm,
Werribee. But whether they were
fed-off or ploughed-under, the
worth of green-manure crops in
these trials failed to come up to
expectations. There was no con-
siderable increase in soil-nitrogen
at the time of sowing the cereal
crop and there was no consider-
able improvement in grain-
quality.
Brigalow
“Kesem”: Is aerial spraying
as good a method of clearing
brigalow as the “push-down”
method by bulldozers? Many
landholders prefer the latter,
thinking it the most effective and
in the long run the cheapest.
A hundred years ago brigalow
had not such a toehold on parts
of Central Queensland as it has
today—both Gilbert’s diary and
Leichhardt’s journal prove that.
Some old hands believe that a
great-grandfather of a drought,
perhaps early in last century,
killed many spreading scrubs
and so checked the spread of
brigalow for many years.
Some years back serried ranks
of old stumps forests and
forests of them —could be seen
in the Dawson River country
(Q.), and in the Moonie River
district farther south a peculiarly
shaped brigalow scrub on
investigation proved to be
regrowth from partly-dead
stumps. The new branches grew
out at an odd angle, giving the
then mature scrub an unusual
appearance.
Dog-ticks
“Breck” : In the coastal dis-
tricts of N.S.W. tick-paralysis
is now causing the deaths of
scores of dogs a week.
Up till the end of April, par-
ticularly over humid periods,
the safest course is to feel the
dog over each day: then, if the
tick is missed one day, it is
usually picked-up the next.
Run the fingers right through
the hair to the skin, working in
the opposite direction to the nat-
ural set of the hair. Search the
whole body, but search with par-
ticular care around the. head,
neck, chest and inside the ears —
favorite attacking-places of the
pest. It also may be found be-
tween the toes and inside the
lips.
As a precaution, add a tick-
deterrent to the weekly wash, or
dust the dog’s coat regularly with
an anti-tick powder. These aids
not only stop the tick crawling
through the skin, but induce the
attacking ones to loosen their
hold.
Few dogs are ever 100 per
cent, immune to ticks. Gen-
eral condition of health, age,
and the poison-capacity of the
tick are all factors that affect
recovery from the illness.
Early symptoms of impending
tick-paralysis are restlessness,
coughing, vomiting of yellow
mucus, and stertorous breath-
ing. Dragging of the hind-legs
is a sure sign that the tick has
been in some days and the
poison is taking effect.
Of the two sexes, the female
tick is the more dangerous, de-
veloping within 48 to 72 hours
from a small brown speck to the
size of a small grey pea. When
she has attained this size the
dog is usually in a bad state
of paralysis.
Where a vet’s services are not
available, the best plan is to
stick to the treatment which you
know has saved other smitten
dogs.
The dog badly affected with
paralysis needs night-and-day
nursing. He should be placed
in a quiet room free of draughts,
and kept warm.
Do not let him lap-up water
or any other liquid. In his weak
state he may get it on to the
lungs, and may even develop
pneumonia.
The dog with tick-poisoning
does become very thirsty. To
relieve him, give him a small tea-
spoon of water hourly, dropping
it in slowly at the side of the
mouth. When the heart is weak,
give one-part brandy with three-
parts water at the rate of one
teaspoon an hour. Cut-out food
and milk; the stomach may be
paralysed and sour.
The dog recovering from tick-
paralysis should be kept
quiet and come back to normal
exercise gradually. Allowed to
run about too soon, heart-
trouble may develop. Do not
force him to eat.
Throughout the summer
months the health of coastal
dogs needs special attention.
The animal in good condition is
better able to stand up to tick-
attacks.
Topdressing
“Pinnacle”: Farmers who had
the foresight to order their super,
early have a good chance of
getting it home as backloading
to wheatcarting. Once on the
property, there’s no reason why
the fertiliser shouldn’t be spread
straight on to the pasture in-
stead of being stored until the
autumn.
Besides saving storage and
handling, early topdressing can
be done on hard ground, instead
of risking machinery being
bogged after an early autumn
“break.”
There’s some small danger of
“burning-off” young pasture
with summer topdressing, and
it shouldn’t be done on iron-
stone ground, where it can
become chemically unavailable to
plants before they get much
chance to use it. But, in general,
the advantages outweigh dis-
advantages.
Boxthorn
“Big Billy”: Simple way to
deal with boxthorn is to apply
salt to the main stems. Cut the
stems as near to ground-level
as possible, and put loz. salt
on the cut-surfaces of the butts
remaining in the ground. Burn
the top-growth when dry enough.
Arsenic - pentoxide - solution
(31b. of granulated arsenic-
pentoxide in sgals. water) is
still the most efficient killer for
smaller bushes and regrowth.
The solution leaves a toxic
residue, so keep stock away
from the treated areas. As
arsenic forms an acid in water,
care should also be taken by the
operator.
Pigeon-pea
“Bill C.”: Years ago the
C.5.1.R.0. experimented with
pigeon-pea in central Queens-
land and recommended it for
cultivation as an emergency
stock-food. The legume grows
up to 10ft. high in reasonable
soil with good moisture. Bushes
are attractive to cattle when the
seed-pods are appearing. It
will sprout after moderate graz-
ing and may become perennial
with plenty of rain. The peas
are greatly relished by poultry.
Another use for the shrub is
planted in rows, 3ft. between
bushes, as a windbreak for pig-
pens.
Farm Hints
“Nunga”: Pack eggs in cases
—the large end up. Packed this
way, eggs travel better, grade
higher. Pack eggs the morning
after you collect them. Give
them a chance to cool out.
“Sundowner”: Addition of
sulphaquinoxaline to drinking-
water will check losses from coc-
cidiosis in chickens. The drug
will cut losses in three days, but
precautions are necessary. Don’t
use in iron-vessels, and keep
strictly to the prescribed dose-
rate. Treatment should be inter-
mittent, dosing for three days,
allowing an interval of two days,
and dosing again for three days.
“Poddy”: Calves soon develop
a taste for meal-mixture, and
lose no time getting to it if some
is put in a trough after they’ve
cleaned-up their milk. Apart
from other advantages, this goes
a long way to prevent the calves
sucking each other —a bad habit,
hard to do anything about when
calves are commercially
orphaned. As with all feeding
of calves, remember sudden
changes are bad.
“C.P.”: Breeding-ducks need
some sort of a pond—more eggs
are fertile when they have one.
But keep them in a shed at
night; they usually lay at night
or in the early morning. Young
ducks for market shouldn’t be
given the freedom of the pond.
“Gee”: Hen-reared chicks
may look smaller to the eye than
artificially-reared ones, but they
are more tightly feathered, firmer
in the flesh, and more vigorous.
Unless you are going in for
poultry in a big way, the old-
fashioned setting is still the best
method.
“Brannix”: Ever notice that
a hen prefers a dark spot for
laying? Make use of this obser-
vation when planning nests —it
will mean more eggs and less
egg-eating.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/12/’55)
General heat-wave conditions should commence about
December 20, although Western Australia may be an excep-
tion. Apart from Victoria, where some showers are likely,
Christmas Day should prove to be fine and hot, but followed
by rains commencing about December 27.
Heavy rains and widespread flooding are likely in
Queensland during January, and rains should extend down
the coast, tablelands and into the central west of N.S.W.
These rains may also be associated with a cyclone which
may develop in south-east Queensland and move southward,
giving heavy falls and r'ough weather on the N.S.W. North
Coast.
Apart from good rains in East Gippsland and some
moderate falls in the central division, conditions are likely
to be poor in Victoria during January.
Good rains should occur in the pastoral areas 'of South
Australia and in the Kimberleys of Western Australia during
January; otherwise, rainfall light and below normal.
LENNOX WALKER.


badly mauled that he had to kill
it. After poisoning the carcass,
next day he picked up eight dead
dingoes.”
In the ’seventies stocking-up
with horses was not expensive,
for at Bombala, on Monaro,
they were being impounded in
large numbers, and good brood-
mares were to be bought from
Is. to 2s. 6d. per head, so Reed
and Lock took a number to
Goongerah for breeding pur-
poses. The Indian horse-trade
for Army remounts provided a
steady market, and many
stations made a lot of their
income from horses. At Goon-
gerah, Reed built good yards
for handling them. The type
needed for the Army were three-
quarter-bred horses; after the
muster the most suitable would
be picked out and sold at
Bendoc to Mr. Little, of Strat-
ford, a well-known Gippsland
auctioneer. From there they
would be travelled down across
the Snowy River.
Hamilton Reed was still in the
gold-bearing country, but his
interests were now centred on
the land, so that when gold was
discovered at Ellery Creek he
dreaded a big “rush,” such as
had meant disaster to the cattle-
industry in so many other fields.
His fears were ungrounded, and
Goongerah continued as a cattle-
run. The work to be done there
was of the traditional type so
familiar to East Gippslanders;
Reed’s time was occupied in
clearing land for cultivation,
fencing and building— not much
when you say it quickly.
Furniture, even ploughs and
chaffcutters, were “packed” in
from Bendoc, and oats were
grown for working-horses and
maize for pigs. The pigs were
butchered on the place, then the
home-cured bacon was carried
by packhorse to Delegate for
sale, a trip of 40 miles, the teams
bringing back flour and sugar
and other necessities.
“Clearing was a never-ending
job,” writes Reed. “The flats
that ran through the run along
the upper waters of the Brodribb
carried white-gums sft. through
at the butt, with logs of similar
size lying sodden and half-
sunken in the ground. Many lay
in trenches so deep that the
plough could actually pass over
them. Burning these logs was
very difficult, as they were still
half-green. Every year my
father set himself to clear a few
more acres, until gradually the
effects of his mighty work began
to tell, the forests receded and
the grasslands followed the cul-
tivation.”
Men needed to be tough and
hardy. Once Lock, mustering
alone at Goongerah, was charged
by a bull, which, by forcing the
horse against a tree, broke
Lock’s leg. Somehow he
managed to drag himself back
into the saddle, and rode alone
32 miles to Bendoc for help.
In 1878 Reed and Nicholson
blazed the trail from Goongerah
to Orbost, where selections were
being taken-up; Reed decided
to settle there and selected land
for that purpose. Later he
changed his plans and stayed at
Goongerah, for when he went to
build his house at Orbost the
Snowy was in high flood, and
he found that the site, previ-
ously considered the driest on
the block, and selected for his
house, was 7ft. under water.
In 1882 Mrs. Reed and the
family came to live permanently
at Goongerah, their goods being
“packed” in from Bendoc. Reed
was an artist when it came to
“packing”; it is reported that on
that historic move he transported
a four-poster bed across two
horses. The packhorses the
Reeds used were three-quarter-
bred stockhorses, and 1801 b. was
the limit packed on any one
horse.
Mrs. Reed camped until a
house was built. Building was a
heavy task, but Hamilton Reed
was used to difficulties. Besides
a homestead of five rooms.
stables and barns were erected,
all from round timber with
stringybark sides and roofs.
Goongerah life was isolated.
Mail was picked up once a week
at Bonang; wheat was grown
and threshed with a flail and
ground by hand in a steel mill
before the bread could be baked
in big camp-ovens. Later the
hand-power mill was replaced
by one turned by a waterwheel
from a race, power being thus
provided for two mills. It was
then only necessary to watch
and refill the hoppers as they
emptied. With fine sieves a good
flour was obtained.
Lock now terminated his
partnership and the firm became
Reed and Sons. The new firm
determined to use an easier
route to market for their cattle
than the long, roundabout one
by way of Bonang and Turnback
Crossing to Bairnsdale, so in
1887 Reed and Sons made his-
tory by travelling the first mob
of cattle to Orbost by way of
the blazed trail Reed and
Nicholson had pioneered nine
years before.
They set out with 130 four-
year-old bullocks, Shorthorn-
bred, bearing Reed’s “H.R.”
brand, and sold them by auction
in the Orbost station-yards for
£3 15s. per head. Even when
the stockyard-rails dropped be-
hind the mob Reed had no time
to fill his pipe and relax. The
buyers refused to take delivery
unless Reed put the cattle safely
over the Snowy. Eventually,
through the help of the Orbost
station-men and of John Cowell,
the head stockman, in particular,
the cattle were safely delivered
over the river.
Reed recalls 1880 as a very
dry year, resulting in consider-
able losses of cows and calves
on Goongerah.
Mining at Bonang was still
in its heyday, and with the open-
ing of the Orbost track travellers
were continually coming and
going, so Reed built more rooms
to accommodate them. In 1889
J. J. Pleydell brought the first
bullock-team to Orbost from
Bonang; from Delegate, Craw-
ford and Ross came packing in
their goods, the younger Ross
children being put in cases and
slung one on each side of a
packhorse.
The road, as roads have done
throughout history, proved to be
a civilising agent. The accent
was on Orbost, now assuming
importance as the chief centre
of this newly-opened territory.
Twice a week Edward Foley, of
Swan Reach, carried a pack-
horse mail to Delegate. Coote
and Herbert, with a string of
packhorses, brought gold out
from Bonang and “packed” in
stores —the beginning of over 70
years of trading, for Herbert’s
Snowy River Stores are today a
feature of Orbost business-life.
The pioneering work of
Hamilton Reed was bearing fruit
at last and the tide of settlement
was flowing towards Croajingo-
long. It was fitting that when
Hamilton Reed and his wife
died they should be buried at
Goongerah station, so long the
scene of their labors.
In 1903 rabbits found their
way to Goongerah and ate-out
the country, and the Reeds went
out of breeding cattle. For
years they handled only bought
cattle; at that time steers of
one-and-a-half to two years
could be bought for 30s. to 405.,
to be later sold as four-year-
olds for about £4 15s. per head.
In the ’twenties Hamilton Reed
the younger began breeding
cattle again, this time concen-
trating on Herefords.
Hamilton Reed is now an old
man, but his son is in charge
of Goongerah, so Reed hands
still carry on the work.
Except for some Government
money spent on culverts and
cuttings, the Bonang road
remained as little more than a
pack-track until the Country
Roads Board took it over about
1923. Then Hamilton Reed led
the surveyors into Bendoc,
Reed’s Gap being named after
him.
After Goongerah on the high-
way comes the little settlement
of Bonang. It was a focus of
importance in the early days, as
it was on the track from Monaro
to Gippsland. Bonang was lit,
then as now, by the romantic
and mysterious background of
the Snowy River, where a small
and select company of pioneers
had worked their way in
among the ranges. Early in the
1830’s the O’Rourkes were at
Suggan Buggan, and a few years
later the Hensleighs, of Bendoc,
had an out-station at Deddick,
while the Whittakers held Tub-
butt and the Simpsons were at
Cabinandra.
The gaping mouths of old
shafts, the crumbling channel of
an old water-race still testify to
Bonang’s mining-days; if further
evidence is needed it can be
found round the counter of
Ingram’s Store, especially if long
lean Fred Bryant is there; then
the tales have a strong and
pungent flavor of pioneering and
of gold.
Victoria and the East Gipps-
land forest end together at
Delegate River; Croajingolong
is behind the traveller; the
promise of its name—“ Looking
East”—is fulfilled, for there
stand revealed towards the sun-
rise the bare and tawny
shoulders of Monaro.
to co-operate with the Com-
munists before it is to late.
And when the time comes,
and Laos is firmly in the Com-
munist orbit, the establishment
of a “liberated” base-area in
north-eastern Siam and the dif-
fusion of Lao Thai with Siamese
Thai will become the starting-
point for the new revolution.
Tactics for Indonesia
To the Communists, Asja has
become a great jigsaw-puzzle,
with every piece different and
requiring individual attention.
But they have shaped and dyed
enough pieces already, and the
form and color of the whole are
already clearly apparent.
Tactics, essentially, suit cir-
cumstances. The bomb here, the
buss there. It depends entirely
on the people concerned and the
strength of their resistance to
Communist blandishments and
authoritarian control.
The Indonesians, for instance,
are the last people in the world
who should be infected by the
Communist virus. And when
the attempt was made to force
it on them by revolution, they
dealt with it summarily and well.
Now it is being administered in
the form of a sugar-coated pill,
and the, results are catastrophi-
cally successful. If it had not
been for a vigorously anti-Com-
munist Army, backed by an
unsubverted police-force that re-
sisted all attempts to make it the
instrument of the country’s Left-
wing politicians, Indonesia to-
day would be irretrievably lost.
Even after five years of inde-
pendence the Ali Sastroamidjojo
Government professed to see
more danger in colonialism than
in Communism; and under the
hypnotic spell of “peaceful co-
existence” forgot the bloody
Madiun uprising of 1948 and the
revolutionary plans of 1951,
when the Communists planned
to assassinate Vice-President
Hatta, Prime Minister Soeki-
man and all Cabinet Ministers.
Only three years after this
attempt, with the anti-Com-
munist Masjumi party in op-
position, the Ali Government
found the Communists welcome
allies in Parliament. And
professing to have only the
national interests at heart, the
Communists gave their support
to the Nationalist coalition
Government in exchange for a
free hand to expand their mem-
bership throughout the country.
They dropped their attacks
against “semi-colonial” Indo-
nesia and charges that President
Soekarno was a “traitor.” And,
like hens being fattened for the
table, Soekarno and Ali
scratched and clucked for
favors from Peking and Mos-
cow.
Late last year I spent an hour-
and-a-half arguing with Ali that
Communism was a greater
danger to Indonesia than colon-
ialism, or extreme Muslimism.
But always he returned to his
point that the Muslim Darul
Islam were burning and killing,
while the Communists were try-
ing to help the country to its
feet by restraining strikers, and
that therefore they were no
danger! And, of course, in Ali’s
eyes the Dutch were behind
every Darul Islam move.
I went from the Prime
Minister to Sunario, then
Foreign Minister, who spent a
further one-and-a-half-hours re-
peating the Prime Minister’s
arguments about the Dutch and
the Darul Islam.
When I was clearly uncon-
vinced he asked me to return on
the following day. This time
he had a new set of arguments:
the Indonesian revolution was
not merely a revolution to throw
out the Dutch; it was also an
economic and social revolution,
which had not ended. The
Communists had had their part
in overthrowing the Dutch, and
clearly, to be consistent, they
also had a part to play in pro-
ducing the ultimate Indonesian
economy and society.
At the same time Tillman
Durdin, of the “New York
Times,” and I submitted to D. N.
Aidit, Secretary-General of the
Indonesian Communist Party, a
series of questions relating to
his party’s strength and plans.
As the answers throw consider-
able light on the current Com-
munist approach in Indonesia,
some are worth repeating, even
at this late date:
Warner : What is the strength
of the Communist Party of
Indonesia? And how many
sympathisers do you count on?
Aidit : The Communist
Party of Indonesia now has
500,000 members and candidate-
members. Nothing precise is
known about the number of
sympathisers.
Warner : What are the objects
of the Communist Party of
Indonesia?
Aidit: The present objective
of the Communist Party of Indo-
nesia is the formation of a
People’s Government—that is, a
Government which is supported
by and defends the interests of
all classes and sections of the
Indonesian people. By people,
I mean the workers, peasants’
the petty bourgeoisie and the
national bourgeoisie, all of
whom objectively desire to be
freed from foreign imperialist
power in the economic and
political spheres.
Warner: Would participa-
tion in a National Cabinet be
contrary to the objects of the
Communist party?
Aidit : Participation in a
National Cabinet is not only not
contrary to the objectives of the
Communist party; it represents
a necessity.
Durdin : What sort of system
does the Communist party advo-
cate for Indonesia at this stage
of the country’s development?
Aidit : At the present stage of
economic development in Indo-
nesia—i.e., the stage of a semi-
feudal and semi - colonial
economy the Communist
Party of Indonesia is fighting
for a system which will sweep
away the survivals of feudalism
and colonialism in Indonesia.
We call this the People’s Demo-
cratic System.
Durdin: What proportion of
the votes do you expect the
Communist party to win in the
elections?
Aidit: The Communist party
is not fighting for more than
one-third of the seats, both in
the Constituent Assembly and in
Parliament. I think that with
one-third of the seats conditions
will be sufficient to ensure the
formation of a coalition Govern-
ment of the Communist party
with other democractic parties
and groups, in particular the
Nationalist and Islamic parties.
As the polling for the Parlia-
mentary seats last September so
clearly Tevealed, the Communist
party alone came close to achiev-
ing its objective. -It ranks only
fourth among the major parties,
but its development from a
splinter-group with fewer than
5000 members eight years ago to
a major force in the land is the
most disturbing example of
what <the Communists can
achieve when they set out,
peacefully, to capture the unre-
quited nationalistic feelings and
emotions of a basically anti-
communist people.
Present Dangerous Phase
It is worth looking at the map
and pondering for a moment on
Burchett’s remark that the Com-
munists now view Indonesia and
India as the two most important
countries in the world.
With Indo - China termite -
ridden, plans for Siam well
advanced, Malaya and Singa-
pore in the throes of a revolu-
tion that is now more political
than military, but nonetheless
dangerous for that, and Burma
clearly in no position to give
offence to her mighty Red
neighbor, where are the obvious
spots to administer the coup de
grace in Asia?
The fall of Indonesia could
well be expected to finish-off all
South-East Asia. India may still
be a long way from joining the
Communist camp, but those
smiles on the faces of Khrush-
chev and Bulganin not only
melted hearts but conferred
respectability on the Communist
bomb-throwers of yesteryear.
From now on, we may be sure,
the Indian Communists will not
lag behind their Indonesian
comrades in espousing every
national cause.
The Asian revolution is in a
new, and most dangerous,
phase.
{Denis Warner’s next article will
be Can Asia Be Saved from
Communism ?’•')


THE GREAT EPIC OF THE SEA
H.M.s. UL YSSES
:A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
PUBLISHED BY COLLINS. 15s. 6d.
Available from all Booksellers
CONTINENTAL COOKERY
IN AUSTRALIA
MARIA KOZSLXK DONOVAN
The charmingly illustrated volume on Continental cookery which
brings a wealth of recipes within the reach of the Australian
housewife.
At all booksellers - - - 21/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JAMES
MILSON by Roy H. Goddard.—
A vivid picture of the achievements of
the Milsons of Milson’s Point. The
stories of tire and flood, clashes with
bureaucrats, cattle musters and
regattas have a direct bearing on
the life of early Sydney. Illustrated.
50/- (post lid.)
COLONIAL BALLADS
by Hugh Anderson
This is the first comprehensive survey
of colonial ballads giving both words
and music. It is of interest to the
student of Australian history as well
as to the person who merely wishes
to be entertained. Illustrated.
29/6 (post 7d.)
i
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. : : 66-68
others, he does show a certain quality
of observation. “To Have and Have
Not” opens with a fusillade of
reaches its climax with another and
ends with the wife of Harry Morgan
shedding tears over the dead body of
her husband, or what is left of it, bits
of it having been sacrificed in succes-
sive displays of toughness.
For all his whistling bullets and
violent language, however, Heming-
way does build up the picture of a
sort of Richard the Third whom peace
daunts and who runs as naturally to
fighting as an artist does to painting,
though he is much more simple than
Richard and almost completely an
animal, as are all the Cubans, Conches,
Communists and capitalists who rave
and rant and pump bullets into one
another all over the Hemingway
canvas.
Harry is a fisherman who alternates
fishing with rum-running, gun-running
and man-running between Florida and
Cuba. He loves his wife, though not
so much his daughters, and she
worships him as a lover and a hero.
If his conditioned reflexes had been
different he would probably have be-
come a wage-plug and ended up by
boring her to extinction, but his
reflexes are all combative; there isn’t
an ounce of self-pity in him; so
married life for her is continuous
excitement. That Hemingway makes
his characters live much more than
the Crime Club people do theirs can’t
be denied: but they are so much
emotion and so little intellect that
eventually they bore us.
That may be Hemingway’s fault.
Dostoievsky and Henry Handel
Richardson never bore us and we can
read “Maurice Guest” again and again;
but I can’t imagine anybody wanting
to read “To Have and Have Not”
twice, not even a member of the Crime
Club.
M. G. Skipper.
Reviewed Briefly
Marjorie Momingstar: Herman
Wouk (Jonathan Cape). Like Herman
Wouk’s previous novel, “The Caine
Mutiny,” this book is sure to be a best-
seller. There is no memorable writ-
ing, but it is a memorable book —there
is scarcely a character in all its length
who does not exist in his or her own
right and speak his or her peculiarly-
individual dialogue. Marjorie Morn-
ingstar is a would-be actress (nee
Morgenstern); a New York middle-
class Jewess. Her world is not that
of the comic Brooklyn Jews who so
often appear in fiction, any more than
the family’s Irish friends are the sloppy-
comic Bowery Irish of the slick
novelists. These people are 1930-1950
human beings. Some of them are
pathetic, and many, like the wonderful
Morgenstern relatives gathered for
traditional Jewish feast-days, are richly
and wittily funny. Marjorie is a
college-educated girl, daughter of a
successful businessman; is beautiful,
intelligent and able, but lacks the real
genius that would surmount any
obstacle; she loves and respects her
family, and when she should be con-
solidating herself in her profession she
is working out her conflict between
inclination and upbringing on the one
hand and the demands of the fascinat-
ing songwriter Noel Airman (Saul
Ehrmann) on the other. There are
thousands of intelligent, ambitious girls
like Marjorie, and most of them end-up
happily and prosaically married like
she does; but what other work has
described their lives and problems, their
mistakes and solutions as well as this
one?
Desperate Carnival: A. J. Noel de
Gaulle (Shakespeare Head). This novel
by a senior Allied Intelligence-service
officer of the last war is a Dutch best-
seller, and, with its exciting story of
spying and underground activity—
obviously so authentic as to be almost
documentary—might well have become
a bestseller in English-speaking coun-
tries too. But the translation into Eng-
lish by a Dutchman is, frankly, the
worst translation that has ever come
this reader’s way, and the book is
almost unreadable and certainly quite
unenjoy able. Its central character, Jan
Eerbeck, comes a little to life by sheer
force, but he will never rank as a
modern Pimpernel for us, unless some-
one can be found to render his speech
and adventures into acceptable form.
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
LIFE IN HER HANDS : The Matron Walsh Story , told TO RUTH ALLEN. Si x 54. 160 pages.
15 pages of illustrations. Cloth binding. Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 5.0.6. 17/6.
THE PETROV STORY, by MICHAEL BIALOGUSKI. Story of Petrov defection. 8J x 54.
247 pages. 24 illustrations. Cloth binding. William Heinemann Ltd., Melbourne. 18/6.
NOT WITHOUT PREJUDICE, by EDWIN TYLOR BROWN. Essays on assorted subjects.
84 x 54. 214 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 15/6.
MURDER IS MY MISTRESS, by PETER CARTER BROWN. Fascinating new mystery
novel. 8 x 54. 216 pages. Cloth binding. Horwitz Publications Inc. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 13/6.
THE STORY OF THE CAMERA IN AUSTRALIA, by JACK CATO. 11 x 8. 200 pages.
76 pages of illustrations. Cloth binding. Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne, 5.C.6. £6/6/-.
THE MAGNIFICENT DEVILS, by LUCY HERNDON CROCKETT. Novel of the Marine
Corps. 8$ x ss. 296 pages. Cloth binding, Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. .16/-,
THE PIG INDUSTRY, by DR. W. DEUTSCH. A modern guide for pig raisers. 84 x SJ.
400 pages. 43 half tones, 39 tables, 9 graphs and figures. Cloth binding. Horwitz Publications
Inc. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 27/6.
CONTINENTAL COOKERY IN AUSTRALIA, by MARIA KOZSLIIi DONOVAN. Simplified
continental recipes. 8|- x 54. 173 -pages. 5 colour illustrations and numerous line drawings.
Cloth binding. William Heinemann Ltd., Melbourne. 21/-.
THE PRACTISING ARCHITECT, by ALEC S. EGGLESTON. A manual of professional
practice. 8»J x 54. 268 pages. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press, Melbourne. 37/6.
THE EMPRESS WU—the sixth-century Chinese Empress, by CHARLES PATRICK
FITZGERALD. 84 x 54. 264 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne. 27/6.
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JAMES MILSON, by ROY H. GODDARD. The story of a
Sydney pioneer. 10 x 74- 200 pages. 51 illustrations and maps. Cloth binding, Georgian
House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne, 5.C.6. 50/-.
RESTAURANT MANAGEMENT AND CATERING PRACTICE, by ERNEST
GOLDSTEEN. Covering the industry under local conditions. 84 x SJ. 328 pages. 18 half
tones, 29 diagrams, 7 tables. Clothbinding. Horwitz Publications Inc. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 36/-.
PORTRAIT WITH BACKGROUND, by ALEXANDRA HASLUCK. A Life of Georgiana
Molloy. 84 x 54- 296 pages. 25 half tone plates, 3 maps. Cloth binding. Oxford University
Press, Melbourne. 42/-.
CHINESE RECIPES FOR HOME COOKING, by YEP YUNG BEE. Easy instructions for
popular Chinese dishes. x 5. 144 pages. 7 half tones. Board and cloth binding.
Horwitz Publications Inc. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. Boards, 12/6; Cloth, 16/6.
WORDS AT WORK, by B. E. HOUGHTON. Secondary school text-book. 7 i x 64. 112
pages. Limp cloth binding. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 10/6.
THE GADDING VINE, by WALTER JAMES. More about wine, food, literature. 84 x s|.
119 pages. Decorations by Harold Freedman. Cloth binding. Georgian House Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, 5.C.6. 21/-.
INTRODUCING VICTORIA, edited by GEOFFREY LEEPER. Twenty-five studies of
Victoria and its resources. 8f x 54- 320 pages. 35 pages of half tones, 3 maps. Cloth
binding. Melbourne University Press, Melbourne. 30/-.
DESTINATION BARRIER REEF, by A. C. C. LOCK. Travels along the coast from
Townsville to Thursday Island. 8| x 54. 239 pages. 36 pages of illustrations. Cloth
binding. Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne, 5.C.6. 25/-.
I CAN JUMP PUDDLES, by ALAN MARSHALL. The story of his childhood. 84 x sj. 231
pages. Illustrated by Alison Forbes. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 18/9.
IRRIGATION AND CLOSER SETTLEMENT IN THE SHEPPARTON DISTRICT,
1836-1906, by COLIN SWINBURNE MARTIN, edited by .J. L. F. Woodburn. 8J x s|. 106
pages. One map. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press, Melbourne. 12/6.
TRACK OF THE YEARS, by YVONNE S. PALMER. The story of St. Arnaud. 8f x 6f.
118 pages. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press, Melbourne. 30/-.
GUIDE TO GOOD CHESS, by C. J. S. PURDY. Third revised and enlarged edition. From
first steps to fine points. 7J x 5; 96 pages. 73 diagrams. Board binding. Horwitz Publica-
tions Inc. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 9/6.
PAINTING FOR CHILDREN, by MARJORIE RENTOUL. A book for teachers and
parents. 10 x 74. 84 pages. 8 pages of plates. Decorated paper board binding. Georgian
House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne, 5.C.6. 17/6.
HOUSES, INTERIORS, AND PROJECTS, by HARRY SEIDLER, M.Arch. ( Harvard ),
A.R.A.I.A. 1954 Book of the Year Award Winner. 8f x 10. 176 pages. 300 line and half
tone illustrations. Art canvas binding.' Horwitz Publications Inc. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 84/-.
RURAL INDUSTRIES IN THE AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY, by lAN SHANNON. 84 x 54.
160 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 22/6.
The Australian Book Publishers' Association
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 362
Across
I—The wife of a black microbe
takes cackleberries for a comic
Australian. (6, 5)
7 —Nothing to do, having been
dismissed. (3)
9—Prince turning an Australian
coin. (5)
10— Maul a fellow haft. (9)
11— He specialises in crying fish.
(3)
12— Rugby Union’s muscular twitch
takes coppers about the steamer
in peasant costume. (6, 5)
13— Home to a Phoenician flat when
in need of air. (4)
15 —A humble dwelling was ahead in
irons. (8)
19— Such a tennis-player doesn’t
serve for a fence. (8)
20 — Night fliers are slow to change.
(4)
23 — Peaches see some fish’s name-
sakes of Wolfe and Franchot
don’t release rocks. (11)
24 — Mr. Swan is head of the corn
composition of clay and straw.
(3)
25 — Bringing to light the high-priest
of Shiloh when quoting. (9)
26 — A .four-legged laugher has a
laugh about Japanese money. (5)
27 — Pull the fiddlestring back. (3)
28 — Behaved like gadabouts to
embitter the terrible fellow,
Edward. (11)
Down
1— Current production depends on
this small Goossens victim of
some piping alternative. (9)
2 Smart and elegant characteristic
of the swells. (5)
3 Emily has a feature of the
standing timber board. (6)
4 I’m back with a moustache on
the South Australia wattle. (6)
5 There are plenty of disturbing
reports in it. (3-5)
6 Fish cut south fish for grape-
fruit. (8)
7 A chap who isn’t even a member
of a friendly society. (9)
8— Kickers in store. (5)
14 —Lying about to see the cloth
facing the interior of a garment.
(9)
16 — Curse lodging in the carriage’s
protection against mud. (9)
17 — The pen which urgently demands
songs of you. (4, 4)
18 — Unworn textile eft with
Shakspeare. (3,5)
21— Cosy firearms are sent up. (4)
22 — Article on maths, spoilt a
respiratory disorder. (6)
23 — Split hundred remaining. (5)
24 — Cabinet is bust. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 361


, <w>pitsr
C3l J|
««D |1 «
:■
:::•
T""^*
mk . <
< f -- '-5 J|P* ffe %|j
. 4X***XJ ».*•««•* v .... ;JL~..,LL.,. r Jj Xi „Ji /„
•■•■■■
' :-'■
w ;- : ;v---- -,•- . ■-. .
~w>« *. x-i , *»u«jij , igmi&iL*.
■ WW |§|f!f§g§ft ££ .L..J.2 f ~^l
- -X!W *»*»«***
*»**»*. „ „.*<sww*<& . *»imm. .
Head Office of The City Mutual Life
at 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
No
Shareholders
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO THE POLICYHOLDERS
To Men of Property
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being
sold to pay death duties? It can happen
to you. Death duties must be paid in
cash before your heirs can inherit. The
City Mutual Life has a policy to provide
this cash so that your assets go
unencumbered to your heirs.
For further information, write, ’phone or
call the nearest office of the Society.
The City Mutual belongs to the policyholders —over 132,000 Australians
who enjoy the protection and security of City Mutual policies. Assets of
the Society now exceed £28,000,000. The surplus for last year was a record
at £1,092,645. Bonuses to policyholders were substantially raised. Profits
are returned to policyholders, each year, in the form of bonuses.
SAVE INCOME TAX. Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could
be securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember, you can pay up to
£2OO yearly in premiums and deduct it from your income tax return. By this
means, a proportion of your investment in assurance is actually paid for you.
There is a type of City Mutual policy to suit every individual need.
Enquiries, forwarded to our Head Office in your State, will receive immediate
attention, without obligation.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. 1878
S3DIJJO CJV3H
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 2021.
9'land: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone: FA 2371.
W.A.: Citv Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Telephone: BF 1451.
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: MB 2561.
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 113 King William Street, Adelaide.
Telephone: LA 4831.
Tes.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Telephone: B 2504.
