

/
-m
sepp e^
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
THE CAR-STEALING RACKET — PAGE 27
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3956
Wednesday, December 7, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
ONE OF THE
SHAKESPEAREAN PROPERTIES,
THE BARN MUSEUM
'T'HE four buildings in the Shakespeare
•*- Country which are associated with
the great bard and his family are known
as the Shakespearean properties. They
are preserved and administered as a
national memorial to the poet by the
Trustees and Guardians of Shakespeare’s
Birthplace. The four properties consist
of Shakespeare’s birthplace in Henley
Street; New Place Museum where are
preserved the foundations of the house
where Shakespeare spent his retirement
and where he died in 1616 ; Anne Hath-
away’s Cottage at Shottery, which was
the early home of Shakespeare’s wife ;
and Mary Arden’s House, the home of
Shakespeare’s mother and the Arden
family.
The house of Mary Arden at Wilm-
cote is situated in the midst of the beauti-
ful Warwickshire countryside, three miles
from Stratford-Upon-Avon. It is a fine
example of half-timbered Tudor farm-
stead, complete with farm buildings,
barns and dovecote. The house, which
is furnished in period style, has some
magnificent oak beams, sloping floor-
boards and a huge kitchen with a turn-
pike on which sheep were roasted.
In the shade of chestnut trees near the
house is the L-shaped tithe barn, illus-
trated here. It now serves as a museum
for ancient Warwickshire agricultural
and domestic implements of the greatest
interest. Here can be seen a primitive
plough which the farmer and his wife
used to pull through the earth in days
gone by, and among the implements of
every sort, size and shape are eel and
salmon spears, hooks and slashers, one
of the earliest bicycles and the village
stocks in which malefactors were
punished. The large dovecote originally
housed some six hundred birds, which
provided food for the household during
the winter months:
In the days of Shakespeare the farm
was surrounded by the extensive Arden
forests, which concealed the red deer and
the vagabond ; where the elm, oak and
chestnut flourished unhindered. Then, as
now, the primrose, the violet, bluebell
and the wild dog-rose bloomed in season
in the hedgerows beside the leafy lanes
of Warwickshire.
No. 275: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


Learn
freelance
Journalise
at HOME
ill
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters: —
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me'over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence Colieqe
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS ;
(S.B. 2355) AGE.'.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
HARDBINDINGS, 2 Ronald Av., Greenwich,
N.S.W. Ready cut materials, instns., to
hardbind 16 Penguins, Pans, professionally.
32/6 N.S.W.; 35/- Interstate. No C.O.D.
Build a library the CHEAPEST way.
The Red Page
CONVICT ROMANCE
Dr. Colin Roderick’s historical novel
The Lady and the Lawyer (Angus and
Robertson) might briefly be described
as love among the convicts, or, more
briefly still, lags and legs; and, from
the opening chapter when with a cry
of “Gotcher! Caught in the act!”
Molly Sullivan has her dress torn open
from neck to waist by rude and heavy-
handed policemen, it is obvious that
Dr. Roderick is not going to spare us
—and why should he? —any of the
robustness with which affairs of the
heart were undoubtedly conducted in
those wild times . . . except that,
fortunately for those who do not like
life altogether in the raw, the novelist
draws a merciful veil of dots whenever
the worst occurs —which it does with
remarkable enthusiasm and in the
oddest circumstances, between one
hair’s-breadth escape and another.
The story, which is romanticised
from a basis in historical fact, though
some of the names have been changed,
chiefly concerns Mistress Jane New, the
wife of an ex-convict tavernkeeper in
Sydney’s notorious “The Rocks,” who
has herself been sent-out as a convict
to Tasmania for theft and, released to
follow her husband to Sydney, is never
quite sure, owing to some tangle of
the colonial laws, whether she is free
or not.
In the opening chapter Jane is
wrongfully accused of shoplifting; and
thereafter, pursued by a nasty police-
man named Skinner, spends her time
popping in and out of prison in Sydney
and the Female Factory at Parramatta
and, with a good many useful dots,
popping in and out of the arms of her
lover, who, named John Sterling, is a
lawyer and the son of a judge.
Essentially it is the story of a man *)f
good family brought to disaster by his
passion for a thief and a wanton.
Dr. Roderick, thus making what
must be called his maiden voyage into
the waters of historical fiction, is a
little uncertain in the handling of his
ship.
We have Jane New telling her lover
that she was innocent of the theft for
which she was transported, having
taken the blame for her mother; then
we have her mother denying this and
saying that Jane was guilty; and it is
never really made clear which story is
correct. Most likely, since Jane also
blandly deceives her lover, as a way
of buying her escape from Parramatta,
the mother is telling the truth; but Dr.
Roderick is reluctant to dwell upon
anything that will detract from the fair
name of his heroine: she is to be
simultaneously a thief and an innocent
victim of convict-day tyranny, simul-
taneously a lady of very loose morals
and the (practically) spotless heroine
of romance.
There is a similar failure to come to
grips with the character of John Sterl-
ing, who, though obviously sliding
downhill, has to remain the romantic
lover and the champion of damsels in
distress. Jemmy New, Jane’s husband,
is also strangely inconsistent when,
supposed not to care for his wife except
as a useful servant in his tavern, he
suddenly develops so intense an interest
in her that he must rush about Sydney
trying to shoot the informer who has
got her popped into Parramatta again.
And finally, there really is a great
deal too much of Jane’s escaping, and
hiding on farms, and dashing away
barefooted in the night, and hiding
again in sinister back-bedrooms in The
Rocks, and stealing away again, and
hiding on yet more farms, and gallop-
ing away from policemen, and hiding
again in her lover’s hay-loft (dot dot
dot), and slipping away again, and
hiding most improbably in William
Charles Wentworth’s home at Vau-
cluse—until at last the lady is shipped-
off to New Zealand. It would have
been much better to have simplified
all the escapes into one clear progres-
sion.
In places, too, one feels obliged,
surprisingly, to question the period-
details. Whether or not Mrs. Gordon,
majron of the Female Factory, was
really so illiterate as Dr. Roderick
portrays her, one cannot believe that
she said “wuz” quite so often; or that,
if she was indeed addicted to wuzzing,
this was the only evidence she gave of
speaking the language of her times:—
“Yes, sir . . . It wuz a quarter
after five, at the close of evening
worship. I saw Jane New among
the other women. They wuz goin’
ter their yards. At six o’clock they
wuz assembled fer their tea, when
Overseer Johnson learnt she wuz
not present. She wuz informed by
one of the prisoners that New wuz
in another mess.”
To misquote from “The Wizard of
Oz,” if ever there wuz a wiz of a
wuzzer a wiz of a wuzzer she wuz.
And again, though one hesitates to
debate with Dr. Roderick on so deli-
cate a matter, would it really have been
possible, having regard to the volumin-
ousness of the skirts of the period, for
Jane, when leaping over the wall at
Parramatta, to have “gathered up her
dress and tucked it into the top of her
drawers”? And wuz —beg pardon—
was that not, in any case, extremely
foolish of her, presuming the garment
was white, since Jane herself has just
observed how lucky she was, in that
thunderous midnight, to be wearing a
black dress in which to conceal her-
self? A lady in white drawers on top
of the wall at the Parramatta Female
Factory at midnight—well, it is an
entrancing spectacle.
A glance into the papers at the
Mitchell Library on which Dr.
Roderick’s novel is presumably based
makes this intriguing point even more
intriguing. For according to Mrs.
Gordon’s evidence at the inquiry into
Jane New’s escape—incidentally the
matron, who censored the correspond-
ence of the 500-600 inmates of the fac-
tory and kept the books of record, does
not “wuz” in the transcript—Jane
escaped in prison clothes. The skirt
in that case would not have been par-
ticularly voluminous, but the Govern-
ment issue of underclothing and toilet-
accessories for women, Comprising a
handkerchief, a shift, three yards of
flannel for petticoat, an ivory comb,
six needles and one blanket, makes no
mention at all of the interesting gar-
ment in question. Nor are drawers
mentioned in the list of Jane’s per-
sonal clothing, in which she arrived at
the factory—one gown, one petticoat,
one shift, one shawl, two handkerchiefs,
one pair black silk stockings, one ditto
stiff shoes, one cap, one black satin
bonnet, one pair tortoise-shell side-
combs, cash 3s. 4d. If the dress, then,
was tucked into what was not there
at all . . . really one must not pursue
this matter any further.
But the novel is fiction, not history.
And, indeed, all this, with Dr.
Roderick’s wealth of color from the
period—the toss-pottery in the taverns,
the scenes with Wentworth, Governor
Darling and John Sterling’s disapprov-
ing brothers, the fearful nights in jail
with the amorous Constable Skinner
(who in the end is happily, if not his-
torically, thrown over the cliffs into
the sea for his pains), the glimpses of
farming around Windsor, the im-
memorial riots of the ladies of Parra-
matta —makes extremely lively reading;
and if the tale is not so expert that one
would care to attribute it to James
Tucker, neither is it, like so many later
historical novels, whether light or
serious, overloaded with period-detail
at the expense of the narrative. Except
that there are more dots and less styl-
ism, the general effect is not unlike
that of the historical writings of
J. H. M. Abbott.
An American Poet
To have seen Wallace Stevens, who
died in August of this year, in an
anthology is to have wished to see
everything he has done; and now to
have seen the magnificent American-
printed Collected Poems of Wallace
Stevens (Faber) is to wish that he could
be boiled-down to a selection, which,
it seems, has already been done by
Fabers, in 1953.
That would be the book, especially
if it had an introduction by T. S. Eliot.
For without some kind of gloss, these
500 pages of abstractions are too
much; life is too short. Stevens drew
the attention of English anthologists
some years ago with things like “The
Emperor of Ice-Cream”:—
Take from the dresser of deal
Lacking the three glass knobs, that
sheet
On which she embroidered fantails
once
And spread it so as to cover her face.
If her horny feet pijptrude, they come
To show how cold she is, and dumb.
Let the lamp affix its beam.
The only emperor is the emperor of
ice-cream.
And the exquisite suite “Peter Quince
at the Clavier,” the story of Susanna
and the Elders:—
Upon the bank she stood
In the cool
Of spent emotions.
She felt, among the leaves,
The dew
Of old devotions.
She walked upon the grass
Still quavering.
The winds were like her maids,
On timid feet,
Fetching her woven scarves,
Yet wavering.
There was a fundamental solidity
about these things, even if it was in-
direct, a set of harmonics from chords
struck and not heard; a more-or-less
Chinese evocation of images. But in
the later poems, except here and there,
the chinoiserie becomes chin-waggery;
words mutter on and on in abstrac-
tions divorced from the rare rhythms
and colorful usages that gave some of
his earlier things a life of their own,
even if you didn’t completely compre-
hend them.
Occasionally Stevens’s wit cracks the
crust of this broad desert, as in “So-
and-So Reclining on Her Couch,” in
which he either poses a young woman
for her picture, or considers such a
picture, meditating on the relationship
of subject to artist:- —
The arrangement contains the desire
of
The artist. But one confides in
what has no -
Concealed creator. One walks
easily
The unpainted shore, accepts the
world
As anything but sculpture. Good-
bye
Mrs. Pappadopoulos, and thanks.
This thoughtful farewell to the model
who has helped him establish what-
ever he has established has the poetry
of immediacy, which in an idiomatic
phrase can round-off and embody his
attitude: the world is useful, it helps
establish philosophic truths. And, in-
deed, the greater part of these 500 pages
seems dedicated to this purpose, the
exact presentation of thought. The
result is a poetry of enigma, and the
present reviewer cheerfully leaves it to
others to decide whether, when study
makes it clear, the result justifies the
effort.
American critics certainly think so.
This book was prepared for Stevens’s
75th birthday last year and was
awarded the 1955 Pulitzer Prize for
poetry.
R. McC.
El Gran Capitan
In The Grand Captain (Longmans)
Gerald de Gaury introduces Gonzalo
Fernandez de Cordoba, 1453-1515, one
of the greatest of Spain’s generals, who,
for his resource, his brilliance ansl
almost uninterrupted progression of
victories, is ranked with the world’s
greatest leaders.
A page at the Spanish court, he may
have been Queen Isabella’s lover. He
came to the front in the fighting that
reduced the Moors in Granada, and in
1495 was chosen by Ferdinand and
Isabella to lead an expedition to sup-
port the King of Naples against the
French. After a victorious running-
campaign with knights and squires and
men-at-arms all over the Italian
countryside, he was asked by the Borgia
Pope, Alexander VI, to deal with a
French leader who had turned bandit,
taken Ostia and threatened Rome.
Retaking the town with his small but
efficient force, Gonzalo returned with
the renegade and was accorded a
Roman triumph. He said a few sharp
words to the Pope on the evil enter-
tainments of Rome and left for Sicily,
a domain of the Neapolitan kingdom,
where he restored order and then
returned to Spain.
In 1500 he was sent out again to
help the Venetians against the Turks,
who fought with immense bravery and
bows and arrows against his cannon at
Fort St. George; then, France and
Spain having divided Naples under
the Treaty of Granada, he went again
to Italy to see that the French, under
the Due de Nemours, didn’t take more
than their helping. Which meant that
the two armies played chess across
Italy waiting for someone to do some-
thing silly, with reliefs like a tourna-
ment, watched by 10,000 from the walls
of TranL, in which 11 French knights
fought 11 Spanish to a draw in more
than six hours, and a single combat
in which the French Chevalier Bayard
drove a rapier'through the throat of
a huge Spaniard named Alonzo, who
grappled with him and dragged him
to the ground, where Bayard finished
him off with a dagger through the
brain. There was also a kind of
Knights’ Union meeting at which a
standard sliding-scale of ransoms was
agreed upon. But eventually De
Nemours made the mistake of moving
out and Gonzalo destroyed his forces.
Made Viceroy of Naples after a
renewed campaign against the French,
Gonzalo was left, by the death of
Isabella, to the mercies of Ferdinand.
Maybe Ferdinand remembered the
stories about Gonzalo and Isabella; he
certainly could not shut his ears to
Europe’s praise of Gonzalo. Gonzalo
was growing dangerous. Ferdinand
rebuked him for having truck with
the disgraced Cesare Borgia; he made
a new treaty with France by which the
Neapolitan lands given to Gonzalo’s
captains were to be returned to their
French holders, and, with his new
queen, he visited Naples and set up a
commission to try to find something
wrong with Gonzalo’s accountancy.
Then Ferdinand put in a new Vice-
roy, took Gonzalo back to Spain and
let him dangle, proclaimed his nephew
Pedro a rebel for imprisoning a Gov-
ernment official, and, as part of Pedro’s
punishment, insisted on the razing of
his castle of Montilla, which happened
to be Gonzalo’s birthplace.
In 1512, when Gonzalo had been
acclaimed at home and abroad as the
leader of a new expedition into Italy,
Ferdinand had it disbanded at the last
minute. Gonzalo was maybe slow to
take a hint, but by this time he saw
there wasn’t going to be much for him
in Spain, so he decided to go and live
in Flanders. Ferdinand heard of this,
too, and sent for him either to come
to Valladolid or be brought. Sick with
a recurrent fever he had first caught
at Garigliano, Gonzalo had been moved
across gullies and rivers in flood in a
litter to Granada, and when the king’s
messengers reached the city in the
early days of December, 1515, he was
dead.


It’s Christmas ffifHffthe year ’round
e
our gift is a practical
aySuseable electric one.
vr
5
>^r
J
<s
13
r
r
o
Ult°‘
mr*
s
1. Pifco Infra-red lamp with large parabolic
reflector relieves pain. Sturdily constructed.
240 volt. Priced at only £B/19/6 each.
2. Unbreakable flashlight is guaranteed water'
proof. Ideal for fishermen, campers, etc.
2 cell with batteries, 28/6; 3 cell, 31/6.
3. Safe, insect'killing Toxit electric vapour'
iser. 240 v., with 1 dos. tablets, 29/10; 32, 50,
IJOv., 31/6; ex. tablets, 1/11 dos.; 5/6 3' doz.
4. Neglin Xmas tree or party lights. Contain'
ing 12 lamps, flex, plug, <£3/11/'. Noma set
—l2 lamps, flex, plug, £2/9/6. 240 volt only.
5. S.T.C. electric waffle iron. Large cooking
surface, heat-resisting handles, stainless steel
case. Flex, plug extra. 240 volts, £9/17/6.
6. Pifco vibrationary massager invigorates,
tones up, stimulates and promotes healthy
blood circulation. 240 v. A.C. only. £9/2/6.
7. Magic fixed type electric fans, 240 volt.
8", £6/6/-; and 10" (illustrated), £7/10/' ea.
BOX 2712, G.P.0.,
'PHONE: BO9SI
8. B.G.E. 240vA12" oscillating fan, £lB/19/6.
9. Morphy Richards automatic toaster cooks
two pieces at once. 6 settings from golden
to dark brown. 240 v. A.C. only. £ll/4/6 ea.
10. Stromberg Carlson floor circulating fan is
priced at £29/19/6. All above fans are 240 v.
A.C. Not illustrated: Limit 32v. fan, £2l/17/6
11. The new Westinghouse food crafter mixes,
mashes, whips, beats, stirs, blends or creams.
With thumb'tip beater ejector and mixing
dial in front. 240 volt, £25/10/'. Pitch
type juice crafter priced at £2/14/' extra.
12. The Sunbeam blender attachment will fit
all types of Sunbeam Mixmasters. This useful
attachment will blend, chop, shred, grind,
puree, granulate or crumb. Price, £7/10/'.
13. Vita'Min electric juice extractor. Ideal
for children, invalids, etc. Extracts the last
drop of juice from carrots, spinach, celery
or pineapple. 240 volt only. £33/10/'.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 7, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3956
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
HE COULDN'T CARE LESS
IT has been said of this Federal election-campaign
that it has no life in it; that there is indifference
everywhere about the policies put forward and
the issues argued. But the truth is that it is only
the kind of indifference that is exhibited when the
excitement of a trial is over, the verdict given, the
sentence pronounced and its execution awaited.
“Labor” is so fantastically divided that Dr.
Evatt, its titular leader, has been kept by his own
people out of North Queensland, where defence
is the main issue and the pressure of the Com-
munist bloc in East Asia is better known than in the
south. His supporters there know that his presence
would be fatal to them. They have, in effect,
declared a Brisbane Line in just about the same
place, Rockhampton, as the “Labor” Government
of 1942 established it before blaming it on the
Menzies-Fadden Government.
To his own electorate Dr. Evatt has ventured
as little as possible. His campaign has been cutely
managed there by urgers appealing chiefly for
the women’s vote on the ground that the local boy
must not be ousted while he is away gallantly fight-
ing on foreign fields to save comrades like Mr.
Haylen and Mr. Clyde Cameron, mot to mention
the rank-and-file of free Australia, from the brutal
war - mongering Menzies - Fadden Government’s
“police State.”
In Victoria three “Labor” candidates, one a
sitting member, have, issued cards proclaiming them-
selves the “Cain Labor candidates,” and three or
four others, less openly, are taking the same line.
These prefer to cling to the politically dead rather
than to his destroyer. In Adelaide, “Labor” adver-
tisements adjure voters to support not the Evatt
policy but the “Chifley policy”!
Dr. Evatt, when his campaign began, had what
he called a policy. It was really a long list of
bribes. More obligations were to be thrust on
producers, whether they were employers or
employees, to provide additional social-security
benefits. In many respects it was a moth-eaten
version of his 1954 programme, in which almost
everything, including fur-coats, would have been
promised to pensioners if they had asked for them.
Reckless promises mean nothing to Dr. Evatt;
millions mean nothing to him. He is like the
gambler who is throwing other people’s money into
the ring in a desperate attempt to win something
for himself.
He also promised a return to quarterly wage-
readjustments, though, with wool down in price
quite disturbingly, the industrial court in “Labor”
Queensland has reduced shearers’ wages. The
economic position demands more production and
lower costs if people in Australia are to keep their
jobs. Dr. Evatt wantonly offers them more inflation
disguised as wage-increases and “social security,”
and he couldn’t care less.
The rest of the'programme consisted of appeals
to envy and class-hatred involved in plans for an
excess-profits tax on'companies making more than
£25,000 a year. This clumsy and ill-considered
expedient took no thought for tfie capital on which
the sum would be earned. Whether it represented
.05 per cent, on capital or 500 per cent, on capital,
Dr. Evatt was for pouncing on the over-£25,000
“profiteer”—whom only a year ago he was propos-
ing to foster with special depreciation allowances
in a reformed Income-tax Act. But Mr. Menzies
having tom his silly proposal to shreds, it has since
played a much smaller part in his policy ensemble.
Lastly in his programme is his determination
to reduce the defence vote by £4O million—while
increasing wages and the cost of services all round;
also, to withdraw Australian troops from Malaya
and presumably also from Korea. The reduction
which he proposes would, as Mr. Menzies has
pointed out, result either in drastic reduction of
the defence forces themselves or in leaving them
completely without munitions and new equipment.
But this would be perfectly in line with the
policy of a leader who seems always to say tomorrow
what Moscow says today, and who preferred the
word of Molotov, head of the Soviet Union spy-
system whose network had been caught Red-handed
operating in this country, to the judicial findings
of three Australian judges, all of whom had enjoyed
the confidence of his own Administration while he
was in office as Federal Attorney-General and
still enjoys that of the people and their State Gov-
ernments, two of which are “Labor.” ' •
Late in the campaign another feature of his
defence programme has emerged —one that shows
the danger of placing him in any position in which
he can influence the country’s policy at all. In his
speech over a wide broadcasting network on
November 30 he supported trade with Communist
China and charged the Government with being
“afraid of world peace.” He said that “instead of
brandishing our atomic weapons.. . .the Russian
offer to stop atomic experiments should be taken
up at once,” particularly by Australia.
He does not appeal for support of the long-
subsisting Eisenhower plan to ban atomic weapons
under a proper system of inspection; or the Eden
plan for banning atomic weapons. Neither of these
plans, so promptly waved aside, but the offer of the
two cynical scoundrels who have just been
touring India glorying in the fact that their H-
bomb blast, which showered Japan and Europe
with radioactive material, was the biggest ever,
abusing India’s allies and blaming the West for
launching the German attack on Russia in World
War 11. In view of the fact that Germany and
Russia were locked in close alliance —“cemented
by blood,” to use Stalin’s phrase—after he had
shared-up the Baltic States and Poland with what
two years before he had been calling the “blood-
drunk Fascist beast of Berlin,” this is about as
cynical a lie as has ever been uttered even by an
Oriental propagandist.
One would have imagined that it would prove
too much even for Dr. Evatt, whose stomach is
cast-iron where Russia is concerned. And one
might have imagined that his championing of the
plans of these plotters of world revolution whose
weapons are now aimed directly and unwaveringly
at South-East Asia and Australia from close
quarters might have produced a burst of public
indignation. But perhaps the public is right not
to take notice at this stage. It has its chance to act
at the end of this week.
The Menzies policy is simply summarised. It
involves the enlistment of community co-operation
in whatever circumstances arise to maintain the
present unprecedented level of employment and to
defeat influences inimical to the continuance of
those levels. It involves the maintenance of the
secret-ballot at union elections —to which the Evatt
bloc have always been opposed—and about which a
herculean battle is going on between the forces of
Ernest Thornton and Laurence Short (of the
industrial-groups) within the framework of the elec-
tion campaign. It is a fight in which the Com-
munists are the aggressors seeking to restore
Moscow control of the key unions, particularly the
defence-industry and transport unions, and through
them of the Australian economy.
The Menzies policy involves maintenance of
defence, both internal and on the frontal outposts
along the line on which the Communist bloc is
threatening to break through in South-East Asia.
It involves the wiping-out in Parliament of those
elements who prefer co-operation with the enemy
to co-operation with the rest of the British Com-
monwealth and with the United States and other
non-totalitarian countries. It involves cleaning-out
the Red-ant nest which has taken possession of the
Opposition Benches in Parliament in the past few
years and replacing it with a Constitutional Opposi-
tion which is Australian in outlook and which
supports the British system of democracy.
There is every hope that the commonsense of
voters will see that the Government has efficient
backing in both Houses next Saturday. There should
be hope that the voting will see an end to the Evatt-
Ward-Clydecameron-Haylen era and clear the way
for the reconstitution of the “Labor” Opposition
as a Constitutional Australian body. In its present
form and under its present leadership it is a grim
menace to the safety and stability of the country, a
plaything of its enemies.
It Wasn't Easy
AN economic catchcry which can always be counted
on to win approval from the unthinking is that it
should be just as easy to raise vast sums of money
in times of peace as in times of war. At a political
meeting a candidate will thunder, “We raised
hundreds of millions while the war was on. It was
easy enough then. Yet they say it can’t be done
today. We say it must be done.” Loud cheers
from the audience, few of whom have any intention
of investing in possible Government loans, none of
whom would welcome an increase in taxes, and
none of whom realise that any other method of
raising money would inevitably affect their standard
of living.
One doesn’t have to go to political meetings
to hear the cry. A discussion in a workshop, a club
or a pub can produce it just as easily. Conversation
may turn to the cost of living, pensions, the means-
test, margins, or the failure of the Government to
do this or that. Then comes the cynical voice, “If
a war broke out tomorrow they’d get the money
easily enough.” Most of the circle agree —and in
a narrow sense, they’re right.
If a war broke out tomorrow “they” would get
the money; if they didn’t the war would soon be
over, and lost. But they (whoever they are) wouldn’t
get it easily. The money would be found all right,
but it would only be found through the majority of
the people (including those at the political meeting
or in the workshop, pub or club) forgoing some
of the things they now expect to enjoy; accepting
lower living-standards; going without most luxuries
and many things they thought necessities.
It is not easy to raise money for war. If it
were, why would it be necessary for financially-
weak nations to seek the economic aid of their
stronger allies? Why should foreign loans be
necessary? Why lend-lease? Britain didn’t find it
easy to finance her wars. The First World War
cost her the greater part of her foreign investments,
built up over many generations; the Second World
War took the rest. The hundreds of millions that
were “easily” raised by Australia during the war
were really not raised at all, at least, not in the
sense that the average person who uses the phrase
seems to understand it —of being taken out of some
secret hoard of idle money. It was transferred from
peace-time activity to war-time activity by the pro-
cess of transferring men and resources from produc-
tive work to the destructive task of waging war.
In the economic sense all that money was wasted;
although in the broader view it represents the price
paid for freedom, which i$ beyond price.
It is easy to realise that money spent on bullets,
shells, bombs and other ammunition was economic
waste, as was that spent on ships that were sunk,
planes, guns, tanks, trucks that were destroyed,
buildings that were blown to bits and all other
expendable items. But the vast sums that went to
pay, clothe and feed the armed forces between 1939
and 1945 also represented economic waste, since the
huge numbers of men and women involved were
taken away from productive work and put to tasks
which, no matter how necessary they may have been,
were completely unproductive.
That, however, is only the beginning of it. The
war wasn’t entirely a matter of pay-as-you-go. Far
from it. The business of paying for it has been
going on ever since. Last year war- and repatria-
tion-services (including interest on war-loans) cost
£l2O million. For the current year these charges
are estimated at £123 million, and the annual figure
will continue to mount for years to come. It takes
many years of peace to pay for a few years of war;
last year’s bill included about £2O million charge-
able against the First World War.
Nor does that end the tale of paying the cost
of the war for which money was raised so “easily.”
In addition to the obvious cost computable in figures
and shown in the national books, there is the
imponderable cost of the diversion of men and
materials from construction to destruction. This
must leave a gap in the economy, and although the
fact may be disguised for a while, it must ultimately
mean a reduced standard of living unless improved
technical efficiency or greater effort can redress
the balance. At the war’s end this aspect of its
cost was represented by the hundreds of thousands
of homes that had not been built, the plant and
machinery which had not been replaced, the rail-
ways and rolling-stock which had been worked to
capacity without thorough maintenance, the public-
works which had had to be postponed, the roads
which had fallen into disrepair, the young men who
had been trained for war but not for peace.
Finally the inflation which always follows a big
war is still, after ten years of peace, putting a levy
on everyone, but particularly on those with fixed
incomes, to pay for the cost of the war which set
the inflationary forces in motion.
If those who talk about the ease of raising
money for war were to cast their minds back a few
years they might recall a few of the conditions that
made possible the mobilisation of money. Under
the Government’s war-time powers we had con-
scription of manpower both for the services and
for industry; we had rationing of food, petrol and
clothing; restrictions on travel; price-control; rent-
control; control of capital-issues; regulations and
controls of other kinds which the Australian people
have shown plainly they will not tolerate in peace-
time. War, however bad it may be, is a temporary
condition, and the whole pattern of the war-time
economy hinges on this fact. In the emergency of
war the community will accept controls and restric-
tions just as it will accept danger and privation. But
it accepts them only as a means to an end—to
ensure that there will be a time when it can get on
with the job of living a normal life again.
When a bushfire breaks out men will work
the clock around to save the property of a complete
stranger, but they would not and could not put
forth the same effort, day in and day out, in order
to help him run his farm. That, in effect, is what
people are asking of the community when they
speak of raising money for the routine tasks of
peace as “easily” as it was raised for the emergency
of war. If anyone doubts this, let him substitute
for the word “money” the term “compulsory
mobilisation of manpower and resources” and
ponder a moment on the controls, restrictions and
regulations that that implies.


PEACE ON EARTH!


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Smeared" But Not Cleared
An extraordinary and somewhat pathetic
spectacle in the election campaign has
been Dr. Evatt’s continued exhibition of
his persecution-complex.
. At almost every meeting he complains
that he is being “smeared” by the Prime
Minister —“McCarthyism,” he says in an
outraged voice.
In plain fact, the Prime Minister has
scarcely mentioned Dr. Evatt except in
connection with his policy. He has left
that strange politician’s record to stand
on its own head in the memory of elec-
tors. So that his adversary’s charge is
empty, and, even if it were not, com-
plaint about smearing comes strangely
from Dr. Evatt.
It was Dr. Evatt who sme'ared the un-
fortunate so-called Australia First men
with the charge—uttered on the eve of the
opening of a royal commission when their
cases were to be investigated by a judge
—that “when the full facts are disclosed”
it would be found that “they were a
group the leaders of which were pre-
pared to stab Australia in the back during
the period of our greatest peril . . . un-
doubtedly a quisling, subversive, anti-
Australian and anti-British group.”
The findings of the inquiry, even
though the Crown did everything it could
to blacken the characters of the unfortu-
nate persons involved, showed the charges
of Dr. Evatt to be a groundless smear of
the basest order. Several of those in-
volved got compensation from the
Government, and should have received
more, as the result of their internment
following a campaign to that end by the
Communist party, whidh seemed to be
thoroughly informed about every move
made against their enemies. They were
able to publicise the names of some of
those interned even before the relatives
of the internees knew that they had been
arrested.
In the past few months, Dr. Evatt has
smeared the Security-service, the wit-
nesses before the Petrov commission, the
judges, the Prime Minister, the Catholic
church, Mr. Santamaria, the anti-Com-
munist Labor party, and the “capital-
monopolists.”
The exhibitions given by Dr. Evatt’s
admirers at Bondi and Hurstville last
week came strangely from the supporters
of a man who objects to smearing. The
boos and epithets which were hurled
at Menzies would have disgraced a brawl
in the slums of East Sydney. Every kind
of charge, from the old ones of giving pig-
iron to the Japanese to kill Australians,
shirking enlistment and warmongering,
was hurled at the speaker—the last a
repetition of Dr. Evatt’s smear that the
Government is afraid “peace will break
out.”
So far there has been no protest from
Dr. Evatt about these goings-on. He has
named all those for whom he has
allegedly championed British fair play
during a long career. The name of
Cardinal Mindszenty is among them, but
not that of Mr. Menzies. Indeed, he has
charged Mr. Menzies with smearing the
organised gang of 500 Communist hood-
lums who tried to prevent him from
exercising his right of free speech at
Hurstville. It appears that the P.M.
called these ardent supporters of Dr.
Evatt “yahoos”!
Speech—Half-bond,
Half-free
There is something very disturbing in
the news that the British House of Com-
mons, the home and fountainhead of
free speech, has approved a ban on radio-
or TV-discussion of certain political
topics. The prohibition means in effect
that for a fortnight before a matter is
to be debated in Parliament no one will
be allowed to express views upon it over
the air.
The rule was introduced by the Con-
servative Government, but voting was on
non-party lines, Opposition-leader Attlee
speaking in support of it. Mr. Attlee’s
reason for his approving the measure was
that “Parliament must be kept as the
great forum of democracy.... .If the
ban is not enforced, the 8.8. C. may come
to have views of its own and may become
an instrument of government.”
The Postmaster-General, Dr. Hill, ex-
plained that the rule
was designed to protect the public, when
Parliament is debating an important issue,
from having views on the issue thrust upon
them by a few people sometimes not
representative and sometimes not fully
informed.
This seems to be rather a strange
argument to be advanced by a man who
before his election to Parliament in 1950
was known as the Radio Doctor. Solici-
tous desire to protect the public from
hearing something which might mislead
it has no place in modern democratic
thinking. From the point of view of
expression of opinion broadcasting is
merely a twentieth-century extension of
the press. Where freedom of speech and
freedom of the press are proud boasts it
is inconceivable that a ban on radio-
talks can be approved for very long.
Open utterance, the printed word and
radio-discussion are three different facets
of the same freedom, that of expression
of thought.
When the Cahill Press Gag was enacted
a couple of years ago the entire British
press joined with Australian newspapers
in attacking it. But three years earlier
Cahill’s predecessor McGrrrrr imposed a
ban which bore a much closer resemb-
lance to the present British legislation—
it forbade any newspaper- or radio-
reference to politics within the 70 hours
preceding polling-day. The excuse given
was not dissimilar from that expressed
by Dr. Hill. The McGrrrrr said the idea
was to give electors a chance to think
things over calmly without being dis-
tracted by propaganda.
The first test of the ban was the Con-
cord by-election. The electors thought it
over so calmly that McGrrrrr’s party,
whose nominee had been defeated by
only 17 votes at the previous election,
found itself several hundred behind at
the end of the count. McGrrrrr mur-
mured that his legislation “may not have
been fully appreciated by the electors of
Concord,” but it is noteworthy that by
the time the general election came round
a few months later the ban had mysteri-
ously disappeared and has not been seen
since.
Our own Broadcasting Control Board
also cherishes schoolmasterly ideas on
what is good for the public at election-
time ; no mention may be made over the
air in the last 48 hours before the poll.
Compared with the British ban this is
perhaps mild, but in principle it is the
same thing, and it is a wonder the radio
interests have accepted it so meekly. If
the board has the right to curtail free-
dom of speech for two days, it or its
successors might later find it desirable
to ban it for two weeks, two months or
for good.
It is far easier to whittle away free-
dom than to crush it at one blow.
Telling the New Voters
“In the ACT”: When Calwell described
a meeting of more than 100 New Austra-
lians in Melbourne Trades Hall as “his-
toric” he probably meant “unique.”
The gathering, he asserted, consisted of
people of a dozen different nationalities
who were pledging loyalty and wishing
success to “Labor” in the campaign.
Polish, Jewish, Greek and Maltese mem-
bers of the “New Australian committee
of the A.L.P.” addressed the meeting in
their native tongues, and an Italian and
a Czech spoke in English. Calwell said
there were 27,000 New Australians on
the rolls at this election, and there would
be 250,000 at the next one —including,
presumably, those kissed some time ago
by A. A. Calwell.
The meeting was told by D. Lovegrove
that “Labor” was a “democratic Socialist”
party, pledged to establish a democratic
Socialist system (whatever that is) in
place of the “capitalist” system in Aus-
tralia.
It would be interesting to leam the true
reaction of all these newcomers from
Europe to this kind of windy nonsense.
Most migrants coming here are sufficiently
hard-headed and doing well enough to
appreciate the country’s prosperity under
the present Administration. They have
also been a lot closer to Communism and
warfare than Calwell and most of his
associates, including the Doc. (although
Evatt has met Molotov as well as enter-
ing into correspondence with his secre-
tary). In other words, most of the
migrants who have come here since the
war, and especially those who have quali-
fied for citizenship and a vote, are cap-
able of weighing fully and properly the
similarities between the policy of the
official “Labor” party and the Commun-
ists, and the malign danger of the
“Labor” retreat on the defence front.
It is a wonder that Evatt has not re-
garded'the recent proceedings at Geneva
and the explosion of the Russian H-bomb
as a Liberal-engineered conspiracy
against himself, and screeched maledic-
tions accordingly. Perhaps he’s saving
this for the final days of the campaign.
In the same week as the Melbourne
Trades Hall meeting the Prime Minister
expressed his pride in Australia’s
acceptance of an obligation to share in
the defence of Asia, while the Treasurer
declared that nine years ago Evatt had
pleaded for American and British atomic
secrets to be given to Russia. There is no
doubt that these statements have not
been overlooked by New Australians,
any more than have the findings of the
Petrov commission on Russian moves
to interfere in the lives here of migrants
who have fled from Russia, an inter-
ference which still continues, as letters
just received in Canberra by an Estonian
have proved.
These are the facts which will influence
the votes of New Australians, now and
for ever in the future, and not the Calwell-
Lovegrove line, whatever it is.
The Lesson of the Comet
The arrival of the De Havilland
Comet 111 jet-airliner in Australia marks
still another new epoch in the history of
communication in this country and in
its relationship with the world.
The Comet is the crystallisation of the
life-work of Geoffrey de Havilland, his
son and a devoted staff of experts —a
generation-and-a-half of hard work and
sacrifice of health and life for many.
Young Geoffrey de Havilland, who not
so many years ago brought to Australia
the first Dragon, a tiny aircraft by com-
parison with even obsolescent airliners of
today, lost his life in sound-barrier
experiments.
With the Comet I and II the United
Kingdom obtained a straight lead over
the rest of the world in jet-liner construc-
tion. And the loss of two libers with
their passengers led to experiments
which, so British in their thoroughness,
have probably saved a good many lives
in the aggregate, and advanced the jet
commercial age by years through solving
for others problems which could have
resulted in the shelving of jet passenger-
flying for a long time.
The tragedies of India and the Mediter-
ranean have given the United States the
benefit of a long handicap in the change-
over to large-scale civilian jet-flying, but
on the showing of the Comet on its
recent flights they will need everything
they have to stay in the air with the
British Comet and Viscount and other
U.K. types now on the way.
The Comet 111 flew from London with
an actual flying-time of 24 hours
23 minutes, an average of 472 m.p.h. It
did the journey in five stages, each stage
well within its 3000-mile range. It flew
from Singapore to Darwin in 4 hours
38 minutes, and could have done it in
under four hours. From Darwin to
Sydney the flight took 4 hours 15 minutes,
and this also it could have bettered.
Apart from anything else, the flight-
times re-emphasise the new relationship
of South-East Asia to Australia in
defence, and the aircraft’s performance
illustrates the reason why Australia is
taking over control of Cocos, which is
about 1400 miles from Australia in
direct line of the Rocket Range, and why
it is necessary to regard Malaya, New
Guinea and the Pacific islands off our
east coast —including, incidentally, New
Zealand—all as part of our outer ring
of defence-areas.
The development of increasingly swift
jet-flight as illustrated by the Canberras
and the Comets makes nonsense of the
“Labor” argument that Australian
defence should be confined inside Aus-
tralian shores. The further outside of
Australia our frontal defence-bases are,
the less chance there is of attack pene-
trating the Commonwealth.
Why He Booed Menzies
As everyone who has listened to a
broadcast of a Menzies election-meeting
knows, the most-favored interjection on
such occasions is “Wot about y’r policy?”
although no one who shouts it out seems
to want to hear the P.M.’s policy—or
anything else.
Dr. Evatt took Menzies to task for
having called an interjector at Rivoli
Hall, Hurstville, a yahoo “merely because
he asked for the Government’s policy.”
A Bulletin man who was at the Rivoli
Hall meeting cannot say whether the man
was a yahoo. He heard so many people
ask the policy question so many times
that he doesn’t know which one the Doc.
was referring to. Nor did he hear
Menzies say the questioner was a yahoo.
For that matter he scarcely heard him
say anything at all. He caught a few
words here and there; an occasional
sentence, but never a complete paragraph.
Not that the Prime Minister wasn’t
doing his best. To his radio-audience
he probably sounded as good as ever.
His colleagues on the platform and the
audience near the front of the hall cer-
tainly seemed to think so. But in the
rear part of the hall only those who could
lip-read got anything from his speech.
Rivoli Hall has a low ceiling, and although
the amplifiers did their best the acoustics
seemed to be designed for the require-
ment of the hecklers rather than the plat-
form-speakers.
Menzies supporters were easily in the
majority, and when the Prime Minister
arrived their cheers and clapping out-
noised the boos and catcalls of their
opponents. But this advantage was lost
as soon as he began to speak. It doesn’t
take a great deal of booing to drown a
speaker’s voice, but no amount of cheer-
ing can make it audible. Apart from boos,
catcalls, counting-out and other less iden-
tifiable noises the chief lines adopted
were “Pig-Iron Bob,” “W6t about the
Yanks?” “Who sent scrap-iron to
Japan?” “Wot about the basic wage?”
“Wot about margins?” “Wot about
General Motors?” “Wot about 8.H.P.?”
“Who ran out in 1940?” “Where’s y’r
mate, Petrov?” “Wot about Petrov’s
£5000?” “Vote Menzies OUT,” “Bris-
bane Line Bob,” “Wot about the boys
in Malaya?” “Wot about value in the
pound?” “Where’s Colonel Spry?” and
“Smearer Menzies.”
These were the main lines. It must not
be thought that they were all readily
identifiable. Mostly they were all being
shouted simultaneously, and it was only
by listening carefully the whole evening
that the Bulletin man was able to separ-
ate them. The task might have been
simpler if Menzies’s speech had been cut
off the amplifiers altogether. There were
other more individual notes such as those
of the gravel-voiced citizen a few rows
back who asked all the usual Wots about
Malaya, the Yanks, Petrov and General
Motors, but added one of his own, “Tell-
us-about-y’r-promise-to-the-boys - in - the-
Middle-East-in-1940.”
All these quips are no doubt quite
bright in their way. They must be; the
quippers seem to enjoy them so much.
But when they are thrown into the welkin
in a kind of competitive chorus, they lose
a little of their point. And after they
have been repeated 40 or 50 times they
seem almost dull. But they’re almost a
pleasure to listen to compared with the
boos! Those deep-throated, ear-splitting,
reverberating boos!
Reporter sat next to one of the
most accomplished booers wl.o ever
leaned forward in his seat and cupped his
hands to hoot. Reporter couldn’t make
up his mind whether the booer was a
yahoo or not. He hoped not. He’d never
met a yahoo, but had a suspicion it was
not very safe to try to reason with one.
But after a particularly raucous volley of
boos he decided that assault on any other
portion of his body would give a welcome
{Continued on next page)
The Perfect State
(For Henry Lawson, Poet of Democracy.)
Give us the brand-new future
Where every man spies on his mate,
Where our children grow up perfect
pimps
For the sake of the “Workers’ State”;
Where poeticoes stir-up the dead,
And politicoes stall the quick,
Where psychoanalysis drives men mad
And medicine makes them sick ....
When everyone is a “Comrade ” —
And pays his union-dues;
When the bosses are “revolutionaries”
And the police and lawyers, too ;
When the red-flag waves respectably
By the good red-white-and-blue;
Where our fathers are all “rebels ” —
Then I’m a rebel, too.
We hated the “bloated capitalist” once
And his “blackleg, scabbing rat,”
We fall for his smug successor now,
The Labor bureaucrat —
With his hammery-sickly emblem
That waved against the Tsars,
And that now flaps its foul device
For flabby commitsars.
I wonder what Henry Lawson
Or his mates ’way back of Bourke
Would think of the conscript unionists
now
Moaning their right to work —
Or what the Tolpuddle martyrs
Are thinking amongst the gods
Of the slogans now backed by
bureaucrats
They forged against fearful odds?
To hell with my fellow-members
Of this obscene monolith !
To hell with the goose-step yes-men
Of the Slowcialistic myth !
Where many are the rulers
And men who think are few,
Where every man’s a fuehrer —
Well, I’m a rebel, too!
N.S.W.
PHILISTINE.


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
respite to his eardrums, so he spoke to
the booer. The following is a summary
of the conversation. It was not conse-
cutive, but was strung over threequarters
of an hour, with bursts of booing and
other sound-effects interspersed:
Reporter: Do you have to boo?
Booer: It’s a free country, isn’t it?
800 ! 800 l
R.: Yes, but booing doesn’t make it any
freer.
B.: Well, they boo at our meetings.
R.: / don’t, and I’m the one that has to
listen to you here.
B.: You don’t have to stay. Boo!
Boo! 800 1 Wot about houses for the
boys in Malaya?
(Reporter gives up for a while. Din con-
tinues. Bloke behind whips in his boys-
in-the-Middle-East query. Menzies con-
tinues to talk unheard. Booer continues to
boo, then repeats his yell of “Wot about
houses for the boys in Malaya ?”)
R. (innocently): What do they want
houses in Malaya for?
B.: To live in, of course.
R.: But isn’t Dr. Evatt going to bring
them back?
B. (triumphantly): So you agree with me,
eh?
R.: On what?
B.: That the Doc.’s going to be next
Prime Minister.
R.: No, but if you think so you ought
to be consistent. What’s the good of
wasting money on houses if the Doc.’s
going to . . .
B.: Aw! Wot about houses for the boys
in Malaya?
R.: Well, anyway, that’s a better line
than just booing.
(Booer gives a few gentle boos just to
show he’s still got some left. Bloke behind '
has no difficulty in drowning them with a
couple of Petrovs, a Menzies-crawls-to-the-
Yanks and a Middle-East-in-1940.)
R.: You know, those boos are worth a
lot of votes to Menzies. They all go over
the air. He likes ’em.
B.: I know he does. Boo! 800 l
800 !
R.: Three more votes to Menzies.
B.: Well, what are you complaining
about? You ought to be glad.
R.: I didn’t come here to see Menzies
win or lose votes. I came here to listen
a to him.
(Quite a long lull in the conversation
here. No lull in the uproar. Booer looks
doubtfully at reporter once or twice and
then says confidentially):
B.: Look here. I’ve had my name down
for a War Service home for three years.
In that time the cost of a home has nearly
doubled and the limit they’ll lend won’t
be enough to pay for it if my turn comes.
And my wages haven’t gone up. D’ you
call that fair?
R.: I call it unfortunate. But do you
honestly think your position would be any
better under Evatt?
B.: It couldn’t be any v worse.
(Reporter’s turn to be silent. Reasoned
discussion on economics is impossible in
that din. Besides, you can’t argue politics
with a man who has a genuine personal
grouch, even if you do feel his complaint
is misdirected. Decides to let the booer
get away with his next few boos, if they
help him to let-off steam. Booer turns his
attention to the platform again and whips
in a few interjections. But he doesn’t boo
any more. Getting it off his chest has
apparently done him good. A few words
from Menzies penetrate the smog: “our
American allies . . .”)
B.: That’s one thing Ido agree with him
on. Best allies we ever had. I was with
’em in the war.
(Bloke behind roars “Menzies crawls to
the Yanks. Come on, Bob. Tell-us-wot-you-
promised - the - boys - in-the-Middle-East-in-
-1940. Yah! Petrov’s mate, Menzies.”)
R.: Your mate behind doesn’t agree with
you.
B.‘: Aw! He’s no mate of mine.
Commo by the sound of him.
The Bulletin man left the meeting con-
vinced that at least one interjector was
not really a yahoo, whatever else he
might be. As to the other hundred or so
whose voices shook Rivoli Hall, he’s ndt
so sure. He thinks the “Wot’s y’r
policy?” man may have been one. And
he’s sure the “Tell-us-wot-you-promised-
the-boys-in-the-Middle - East - in - 1940”
bloke was.
POLITICAL POINTS
Now we have a one-man-ship
dispute . . .
• •
Another “first” to Dr. Evatt. He’s the
first “Labor” leader whose infant grand-
child has posed for “Labor” election-
advertisements. Fine baby, too. A pity
the Doc, had to take up most of the
picture.
• •
In the old Parliament the Government
held 64 seats and the two “Labor” parties
57 (Evatt “Labor,” 50 ; Anti-Communist
“Labor,” 7). Redistribution makes an
adjustment of these figures necessary be-
fore any estimate of Saturday’s poll can
be made. Four electorates have been
abolished —Watson and Cook (N.S.W.),
Burke and Hoddle (Vic.). These were
all held by “Labor” in the last Parlia-
ment. In their place five new seats have
been created—Hughes (N.S.W.), Bruce
and Scullin (Vic.), Bonython (S.A.) and
Stirling (W.A.). On the 1951 figures all
these except Bruce would go to “Labor,”
leaving the Government one-up on the
reshuffle.
In addition to these changes, alterations
in the boundaries of other electorates
have affected party-strengths, chiefly in
Victoria. On the basis of 1951 voting
the redrawn Fawkner and Wannon seats
would be transferred from “Labor” to
Liberal holders ; so would Sturt (S.A.).
Against this, Corio would become a
“Labor” seat.
The net result of all this is that even
if there is no swing at all on Saturday
the Government will gain three seats and
“Labor” will lose two. But there seems
no doubt that there will be a swing to
the Government; the only question is
how great.
• •
A swing of 1 per cent, would give the
Government Corio (theoretically lost on
boundary-adjustment), Hume (N.S.W.)
and Swan (W.A.). Two per cent, would
bring in Eden-Monaro and St. George
(N.S.W.), Griffith (Q.), Bass (Tas.) and
Perth. Ballaarat would pass to the
Government if the swing reached 3 per
cent.; Parkes (N.S.W.), Leichhardt (Q.)
and Stirling (W.A.), 4 per cent.
With a week to go, Gallup-poll figures
were indicating a swing of the order of
3-4 per cent. Dr. Evatt’s seat, Barton,
is just outside this range (4.7 per cent.).
Phillip (N.S.W.) and Bendigo (Vic.) are
held by a similar margin.
In considering the foregoing it should
be remembered that a swing is never
uniform throughout all electorates.
Personalities and local issues count quite
a lot. At the last election, when the
trend was against the Government, it
needed only a 1 per cent, swing to
unseat Hubert Opperman in Corio ; 2 per
cent, would have lost the Government
Deakin (Vic.) and Capricornia (Q.). All
three seats were held ; yet Bass (Tas.) and
Griffith (Q.), which required a 4 per cent,
swing, were lost.
• •
In Victoria the struggle between the
two “Labor” factions will give the elec-
tion a more-than-usual interest. The
seven anti-Communist men have the odds
against them, judging by the results of
the last State election. Keon, fighting to
hold Yarra against Melbourne University-
lecturer J. F. Cairns (A.L.P.), probably
has the best chance of the seven of
retaining his seat. Preferences will de-
cide the issue there as well as in Joshua’s
seat, Ballaarat.
• •
It’ll be pistols for two and coffee for
one in the new seat, Scullin, where two
“Labor” sitting members are opposed.
Cremean (Anti - Communist “Labor”)
formerly held Hoddle (now abolished)
and Peters represented Burke (also
wiped-out). There’s a similar situation
in Melbourne, with the odds on Joshuaite
Mullens for the bullet and Calwell for
the coffee.
• •
W. M. Bourke’s chances in Fawkner
seem to have been blighted by distribu-
tion, swing and split; Bryson and
Andrews have the odds against them in
Wills and Darebin; elsewhere through-
out Victoria the Joshua-party vote is not
likely to put a man in, though it may, on
preferences, push an Evatt man out.
“S. M. Herald” headline: “U.K. rule in
Cypress ‘Doomed.’ ” Out on a limb?
• •
France either will or will not hold a
general election in January. No excuse is
offered for the vagueness of this state-
ment. When even the French leaders
themselves can’t make their mind up on
the subject they can’t expect anyone
else to. Premier Faure’s Government has
been trying for some weeks to get the
consent of the Chamber of Deputies to
an early election, and most of the deputies
apparently agree with him —in part. The
point on which they disagree is that he
wants the poll held under the existing
system of proportional-representation
which since the end of World War II
has been responsible for France chang-
ing its Government every seconder third
washing-day. Opponents say change the
'voting-system first, then have an election.
Defeated on his election plan last
Thursday Faure then decided to dissolve
the National Assembly and ask President
Coty to order an election within a month.
At this the five Radicals in his Cabinet
ROPE-TRICK
resigned and Faure was expelled from
the Radical party. Next move is up to
anyone who thinks up a good one.
• •
“In the ACT”: Senator Spooner has
complained that thoughtless people have
thrown away ten of thousands of votes on
the Communists because their candidates
have been first on the N.S.W. ballot-paper
in recent elections. Then why not print
the names of parties on the ballot-paper?
• •
“Stromlo”: Subtlety of timing didn’t
mark a statement issued in Canberra by
the Federal president of the Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union. The statement strongly
opposed the reintroduction of Federal
land tax (“stated as policy by a party-
leader”), and urged lower probate-duties.
It added that higher taxes would mean
loss of export production, and would
build-up a pool of unemployment.
• •
Evatt, reading Sydney “Daily Mirror’s”
election comments on himself and com-
paring them with those before the
previous election, might be justified in
muttering to himself: “Put not your trust
in press-barons, for in them there is no
salvation.”
• ' •
When the Doc. in his national broad-
cast said that a Government which re-
mained in power too long tended to be-
come a dictatorship, he was probably
thinking of Lord Acton’s remark about
the corrupting influence of power. He
was obviously forgetting that the last
“Labor” Government lasted two years
longer than the Menzies-Government has
so far run. Further, although he may
have remembered that the Liberal Gov-
ernment in South Australia has been in
office since 1933 he was overlooking the
fact that three State “Labor” Govern-
ments have had their hands on the Trea-
sury for many years —N. S. Wales since
1941, Tasmania since 1934 and Queens-
land since 1932. Or was he forgetting?
Cahill, Cosgrove and Gair can hardly be
numbered as Evatt-admirers nowadays.
• •
While aeroplanes droned overhead
and searchlights raked the heavens
Premier Bolte stepped on to the portico
of the Melbourne Town Hall and to the
notes of a brass-band switched on the
£ll,OOO Christmas - decorations which
spread themselves over fourteen blocks of
the city. These consist of a number of
trees of a species unknown to horticul-
tural science, each hung with a police-
man’s helmet, or if it isn’t a policeman’s
helmet, what is it? The person respon-
sible for this effort of the creative imagi-
nation shouldn’t be allowed to escape.
His services will be needed for the
Olympic Games celebrations.
• •
Which Asian country is to secure the
regional atomic research- and training-
centre which, it is suggested, the United
States may provide under the Colombo
Plan? Seven U.S. Congressmen who
visited Colombo last month told inter-
viewers that “if Ceylon could sweep out
successfully the rival claims of other S.-E.
Asian countries seeking the project, the
Battle Act was not likely to prove a
stumbling-block.” (This Act relates to
countries trading with the Communist
bloc, and the statement presumably re-
ferred to the deals between Ceylon and
Communist China on rice and rubber.)
The report, issued from the Canberra
office of the High Commissioner for
Ceylon, said that Ceylon was among the
countries being considered for the Ameri-
can offer.
• •
Complaining that redistribution had
heavily weighted the scales against
“Labor,” Eddie Ward told an East Sydney
audience that that did not mean the party
would fail. “We polled 54 per cent, of
the votes under Mr. Curtin in 1943, and
we can do it again.” Maybe—but not
this year.
Interesting to find Ward invoking the
name of his former leader. Eddie was
Curtin’s least favorite Minister.
• •
Maranoa (Q.) will provide a close con-
test on Saturday. There’s no “Labor”
candidates, but one-time member Russell
is again opposing sitting Country-party
member Brimblecombe. He can count
on most of the “Labor” votes, but for
that reason may not get so many on his
own account as he did last time.
• •
Two more nails were driven in Perdn’s
political coffin last week when the pro-
visional Government in Argentina ordered
the dissolution of the Peronista party and
issued a decree restoring to private
ownership the newspaper “La Prensa”
which was seized by Peron in 1951 and
handed over to his General Confedera-
tion of Labor. “La Prensa” was con-
sidered to be one of the great newspapers
of the world; its restitution has a sym-
bolic importance quite apart from that
of righting the wrong done to its pro-
prietors.
• •
Production of a documentary film in
color on major aspects of New Guinea
development should be of the utmost
value in letting Australians and the rest
of the world know the difficulties of the
area and the extent of the accomplish-
ment there. Filming will start early next
year, and may take nine months to
complete. In addition to the main film
there will be specialised shorts, all of
which will be shown overseas. Adminis-
trator Cleland stresses that they will
give a fully authentic picture of New
Guinea without dramatisation of the
more colorful aspects of conditions and
developments.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
THE little milliner kidnapped from
Sydney art-gallery and returned
safely is understood to be maintaining an
absolute silence about the happenings of
the weekend. Some of the Norman Lind-
say and Russell Flint girls are thought to
be wearing (it is all) a meditative look,
and indeed there would be a hot time
in the old town if those girls were
accorded (what is- our “Labor” Govern-
ment doing?) an annual holiday.—
—“Junket.”
* ♦> ❖
“Zorok”: Nothing lo do with one-
man buses . . . Fellow I know from the
Sydney suburb of Ermington (35min. by
train out to West Ryde, lOmin. in the
bus) always stands, going home from
work, all the way out in the train near
the door, though able to get a seat at
Wynyard—so that he can get off smartly
and make sure of a seat in the bus!
“Curate’s Egg”: The couple who de-
parted the bridal-suite at the pub to get
married recall a newly-commissioned
J.P. in a Queensland country-town. A
few hours after his elevation the new
magistrate was heard explaining in the
bar at the Shearers’ Arms that, in marry-
ing a couple from an outlying station, he
had discharged the first function of his
office. The bank-manager, a magistrate
of much longer standing, said that, as far
as he knew, marrying was not among
the defined functions of the ordinary
J.P., and was limited to certain special
magistrates. According to the story, the
new J.P. gulped his drink, raced up-
stairs, banged on the door of the bridal-
suite and yelled “Don’t!" The story also
goes that the new J.P. paid the couple’s
expenses by car to a town 70 miles away,
where the knot was properly tied by a
clergyman.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Doormat”: The new Kooyong rail-
way-station (Mr. Menzies’s home-station)
has been painted in soft green, warm
yellow, and dark 1 cherry-red. The Vic-
torian railway chiefs have gone all color-
conscious since British, railways chief
John Elliott went crook about the drab-
ness and dinginess of stations here. He
reckoned stations were the shop-windows
of the railway-service and should be as
bright and attractive as possible. So now
the browns, yellows and brick-reds we
see all over the State, have to go. It was
thought they best withstood the fine dust
and rust caused by trains, but maybe
it was merely that they always suggested
it.
“C.A.L.”: A Perth house-
holder whose phone-number is
similar to that of a near-by
picture-house often has to
answer calls for reserved seats,
and makes tedious explanations.
But when a couple of teenage
girl-voices wanted a couple of
seats in the lounge, he said it
would be a pleasure to provide
them. His wife was away, he
further volunteered, he had a
couple of bottles in the fridge,
they could listen to his collection of disks
on the radiogram, and if the evening was
chilly a nice fire would be burning in the
grate. The girls, probably to his horror,
called his bluff, and he had quite a lot to
do, explaining dutiful whispers to his
wife on her return.
$ ❖ *5
“Bo”: The word-nurseries which have
raised such delightful etymological
hybrids as Fruitologists, Lubritorium
and Beautician have now presented us
with a rare orchid: Destructionist. It is
thus that a Sydney outer-suburban firm
of car-wreckers describes its function.
What the gentlemen running the outfit
have apparently overlooked is that they
are incidentally proclaiming their ad-
herence to a strong metaphysical belief.
According to my Chambers’ a Destruc-
tionist refers to, as well as one who
destroys, a believer in the final destruc-
tion of the damned in the hereafter.
❖
“Sub’s Due”: Not only ages but
everything is what our editor insists upon,
“Oh, my dear, what a DREADFUL accident !"
in police-court reports particularly (B.
2/11/ ’55). Full name, age, address and
occupation of each person charged have
to be chased from the court-papers. The
old man says he learned his lesson the
hard way when the second of two Bill
Smiths, both living in the same house,
sued a local paper on which he, then a
young man, was working, for libel, fol-
lowing a report of a court-case. The
old man says: “There may be two Smiths
at one house; * there may be two Bill
Smiths there; there may be two Bill
Smiths aged 42 there, but if there are two
Bill Smiths, each aged 42, and each a
trimmer of . elephant’s toenails, then
that’s beyond the bounds of reasonable-
ness and no editor or proprietor could
grumble at a libel suit.”
♦!« *
“Mid-on”: No Australian politician-
cricketers (B. 30/11 /’55)? There was
Joe Darling, Australian Test-captain on
three tours of England at the turn of
“I can't do it! I'm a member of the R.S.P.C.A."
the century, Tasmanian M.L.C. from
1921 till his death in 1946. Today there’s
Sammy Loxton, former Test all-rounder
and still in the Victorian Shield team ;
he won Prahran for the Liberals in the
Victorian Assembly elections last May.
Prahran had been held for some years
by Labor, and Loxton won it after an
uphill battle reminiscent of his stout-
hearted efforts on the cricket-field.
“Zorok”: Arthur Morris, who recently
retired from first-class cricket, was once
approached to stand at an N.S.W. elec-
tion. He refused, mainly, he said, be-
cause of the hell “the Labor boys on the
Hill” would give him if he misfielded a
ball in front of them.
* *Z* *Z*
“Howie Wing”: Accidentally tuning
the wrong radio-programme, I was
momentarily staggered to hear that a
hostile spaceship had been seen heading
for Calista. To experienced space-travel-
lers Calista is probably a planet; to
earthbound Westralians it’s a suburb of
Kwinana.
* ♦> *!♦
“Metralia”: How d’you splendor a
thing? A current film winces beneath the
title “Love Is a Many Splendored Thing.”
Could be a quotation, of course, and one
appreciates that Hollywood couldn’t call
a drama “Love Is Splendid” —a little too
near “Love’s Great.” But what bad luck
the word gorgeous can’t be twisted to
engorged!
* ♦>
“Ham”: Tell “W.P.T.” (B. 23/11/’55)
that not three miles from the Cauliflower
Hotel in Botany there is the Native Rose
in Darlington. Also, King’s Cross has
the Waratah, and, though not a flower,
I think the Kauri at Glebe should qualify.
The most strangely-named pub I’ve seen
is the “Q.C.E.” in Chippendale (N.S.W.)
and no one, including the incumbent
Bung, seems to know what the initials
originally meant.
* * ❖
“Comber”: “Mrs. N.’s” education at
least enabled her to earn a crust for her
par. (B. 16/11 /’55). Probably she was not
so badly done by as she implies. Through
the agency of three daughters, I have 19
grandchildren, all at the age when they
require and demand copious feeding,
darning and mending, as in a lesser degree
their fathers do. Their mothers’ education
was similar to “Mrs. N.’s” uni. degrees
and Art. Cooking and household chores
were picked-up from their mother. Their
husbands are not noticeably preparing to
leave, to date. Any educated girl who
can’t learn the household arts from some-
one isn’t a very hard trier. Educate em
first; let ’em study sewing, flirting, cook-
ing, cocktailing or the kindred arts after
wards.
* * ❖
“G’pa’s Understudy”: An anonymous
Melbourne citizen has made available the
richest scholarship for Australian writers
—he hopes “for ever.” It will be known
as the “Stanford Scholarship,” and win-
ners will go to Stanford University, Cali-
fornia, for part of the two-year term in
U.S.A. Stanford University was founded
by the Stanford who made his money
constructing the Southern Pacific railway.
A brother, T. William, came to Australia
in 1860 with American agencies. He
brought the first kerosene-lamps to Vic-
toria, secured sole Australian agency
for Singer sewing-machines, became a
patron of Australian art, and eventually
offered his art collection to the Victorian
National Gallery, but a dispute led him
to send the lot to Stanford University,
where it has remained ever since—
allegedly in the basement. Recently that
uni. offered the Victorian National
Gallery some of the lesser paintings—
at a price. Stanford’s East Melbourne
home has gone. He is buried near Johnny
Fawkner in Melbourne general cemetery,
under an unpretentious headstone.
❖ ❖ ❖
“M.E.H.”: Surprised to see an old
paragraphist such as “0.W.W.” (B.
9/11/’55) falling for the story of the
chap at Whakatane (N.Z.) getting £l7OO
p.a. for cleaning conveniences, and the
job taking only two-and-a-half-hours
daily. The price was a contract one, and
from it came wages for two assistant-
covers” and the cost of running a ute.
* ♦> *z*
“Honest Frank”: The current school-
children’s rhyme at our place, “S.” (B.
16/11/’55), is:
You’re mad, you’re mad, you’re mad!
You’re like your dear old dad.
You live in a tent,
You pay no rent,
You’re mad, you’re mad, you’re mad!
Faintly familiar, but I can’t place it.
♦♦♦ *Z*
“Roni”: What is it about coins that
arouses scorn in the male breast? My
husband, when paying for anything, even
a sixpenny ice-cream, never tenders less
than a lOs.-note, and refuses, except in
the direst extremity, to carry small
change. This is unloaded on me, caus-
ing a lean to one side from the weight of
my handbag, or, if on holidays, is thrown
into a port, where it remains till we are
home again and I have the task of chang-
ing about £5-worth of pennies, three-
pences and sixpences into notes; then
the process begins all over again. Would
poverty cure him?.
CALENDAR-TIME
To bolster the declining year
And prove a new one’s been arranged
The new-year calendars appear
With all the dates and pictures
changed;
Then metaphoric iron bars
Are broken by the worldly view
The splendid airline calendars
Mentally transport us to.
In K.L.M.’s we only find
A set of pictures of the Dutch,
A kind of serial-Holland-blind —
But take the 8.0.A.C. touch:
Caracas, Chicago fountains,
Hong Kong harbor-twilight, struck us;
Skiing in Australian mountains,
Sailing in those Nile feluccas!
One’s unparalleled felicity
Might be rather more than less
If, as with all play-publicity,
There were tickets for the Press;
Here, it seems, there’s nothing doing;
Airlines are unfair and frugal;
Any tickets that are going
Seem to go to J. Macdougall.
Perhaps it’s better, after all,
If one’s not aided to abscond,
To turn the airlines to the wall
And hang some pharmaceutic blonde:
Though she has no ticket with her,
He who never words a femme
Never has to listen, either —
She’ll keep me happy where l am.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Oh, go on—I bet you say that to ALL the girls!”
TN its last issue, the magazine “A.M.”
gave the first instalment of what pro-
mised to be a real thriller. The villain
had banged the door of a small strong-
room on the beautiful woman inside be-
cause she opposed his courting her beau-
tiful daughter, who was to come into
lots of money ; he then arranged that no
one should visit the home containing the
strongroom for about a week, although
he knew that the woman inside could not
remain alive for more than a few hours.
It is more than three months now since
the villain banged the door, and maybe
it’s too late to save the lady, but I still
worry about her. —“Blanc.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pelm”: The chairman asked that
nominations for membership of our illus-
trious organisation be vouched-for. A
proposer told the meeting he had known
the candidate since schooldays, had
worked with him, and found him a fine
character, a man of his word, and then
rocked us, winding up his recommenda-
tion: he was also familiar, he said, with
the candidate’s wife.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Wulworra”: What is the authority of
J. Sydney (B. 16/11/’55) for proclaim-
ing that St. Matthew’s Church of Eng-
land at Windsor had its first service on
December 1, 1820, and that it was ahead
of St. Luke’s, Liverpool, by two days?
The foundation-stone of the Windsor
church was laid first (in 1817), but the
records indicate that services did not
begin there until December 18, 1822,
whereas the first service at Liverpool was
held in 1819. The delay in the Windsor
case was due in part to two successive
foundation-stones laid by Governor Mac-
quarie being removed by practical
economists who thought that the cash
beneath them would do more good if
put into circulation.
ijt
“Benbow”: Dentistry in Japan (“Fiv,”
B. 16/11 /’55) is not too bad, either. Back
in the ’thirties I had some heavy bridge-
work done in Kobe. My ship was sailing
at dawn, and the Japanese dentist worked
all night at me. About midnight he washed
my mouth out and sent out for some
supper, after which we resumed opera-
tions. Completed at 4 a.m. I sailed O.K.
at six.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Irving”: My Melbourne daily carries
pictures of London girls sporting
“donkey’s breakfasts” —straw-boaters —
which, according to the fashion-writers,
will be the feminine rage in Britain next
summer. When they were part of my
uniform the school itself sold the hats ;
they could be obtained at any time by
signing a chit for Bs. 6d. As they were
negotiable for 2s. 6d. each at several
pawnshops in the city, and as 2s. 6d. was
sizeable pocket-money in those days, I
had a short period of affluence abruptly
and painfully terminated when, after a
term in which he had been billed for one-
dozen hats, my father wrote inquiring
irately if he was being billed for the head-
gear of the progeny of divers other
branches of the clan Irving attending the
school at the time.
❖ ❖
“X.S.”: Three Pentridge prisoners—
one of them a murderer—have overnight
become Victoria’s champion debaters,
putting it over a team from the Constitu-
tional Club of Melbourne, all of them
lawyers. Subject of the debate, which
took place in Pentridge before an audi-
ence of prisoners who went mad with
delight when the decision was given in
favor of their fellow-State-lodgers, was
“That Intolerance Is More Dangerous
Than Ignorance.” _ The lawyers contended
that intolerance was a more potent factor
in arresting individual and social develop-
ment than ignorance, but the prisoners
blew them out by claiming that ignor-
ance is the basis of intolerance. And, to
confirm this judgment, those learned in
the law were able to go home, while those
not were constrained by State-intolerance
to remain behind.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Uramao”: A number of wahines
turned-up at a New Zealand church with
uncrowned noddles (B. 12/10/’55).
There was a battered old straw on the
head of one. She reverently entered the
church. Seating herself alongside a win-
dow, she tossed the hat through it, an-
other wahine catching and donning it
and passing the elder at the door. That
functionary was surprised when church
started to see some twenty wahines in an
ecstasy of devotion with only one covered
head among them.
“Wusslean”: A Melbourne couple
who had just moved into a house they
had bought were aroused from slumber
by movements on the iron roof. The
husband found a young-fellow lowering a
*sheet of galvanised-iron to his mate;
several sheets had already been loaded
on to a truck. The house-
holder ran to the truck and
removed the ignition-key;
the chap on the roof
jumped down, slightly in-
juring himself, and begged
the husband not to call the
police, pleading that he and
his mate had never been in
trouble before and had
thought the house unoccu-
pied. The householder re-
lented and let him go on
tefms; and the two iron-
men returned on the tick of
7.30 a.m., fixed the sheeting
to the owner’s satisfaction
and departed in peac,e.
*> ❖ *
“Blanc”: At the opening
of a big display of land-
scapes in one of Sydney’s
galleries a successful exhibi-
tor suggested a visit to Burra-
gorang Valley ; he mentioned
sparkling water, a pretty
bridge and glorious trees.
Next weekend he was there
to welcome eight of us and
suggested that we do three
glorious gum-trees and their
reflections in a delightful
pool. Seven of us made
more-or-less artistic repro-
ductions of trees, rocks, pool,
sky and reflections ; but the
finished product of the
eighth was less easy to
describe. In fact, a 14-year-
old boy said, “That’s not like
anything round here, Miss;
I’ve never seen anything like it any-
where.” “I paint what I feel, and what
I see with my inner eye,” she informed
him. “But,” queried the lad, “why come
seventy miles for that?”
❖❖ ■ ❖
“Poppa”: Sent to buy bicycle acces-
sories, I fell into the hands of a brilliant
young salesman, and as he wrapped up
the tyre I had been sent to get with the
rubberless new valve and other bits he
sold me, he lulled me with the story of a
man who had come in that morning to
buy more red valve-rubber. This man
already had sft. of red valve-rubber, and
wanted another foot or so —he was going
up the North Coast (N.S.W.) to fish for
whiting. When I think of the trouble we
used to go to up Taree way to get a few
yards of beach-worm from those expert
in catching them, I feel some sort of
protest should be made. Is it fair to
whiting? Is it fair to us who maintained
the tradition?
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“G’pa”: Warrandyte Bridge (B.
23/11/’55) was not only the oldest bridge
over the Yarra, but was the subject of
more paintings than any other. Every
artist considered it a must. Near it was
the home of Stella Southern Flynn, the
pioneer of the artists’ colony that grew
up there. One of the veterans of the
school, “Joe” Sweatman, still lives within
a stonethrow, and she still delights in
painting the Yarra there and its wattles.
The old bridge was the meeting-place for
New Year gatherings of locals and visi-
tors, who sang the New Year in with a
background of explosions of dynamite
in kerosene-tins set off by prospectors in
the surrbunding hills.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: Buying crackers from
an almost-denuded department, on Guy
Fawkes Eve, a woman next to me
pointed at two identical, ersatz- bronze
varses, vayses or vawses on the counter,
and said, “One has ‘fourpence-ha’penny’
on its ticket, and the other ‘one-and-
“ That's how they do it on the newsreels!”
six.’ I wonder what that means?” I
looked in the direction of her finger and
replied, “I think that they were supplied
to hold the rockets and large crackers that
have been sold-out, and that accounts
for the difference in price.” “Oh,” she
said, “I am relieved. I have two of those
varses on my mantelpiece at home;
wedding-presents thirty years ago, they
were, and I’d hate to think (hat they only
cost fourpence-ha’penny! ”
♦♦♦ ♦> +**
“Kelvin”: The Victorian police-radio,
D 24, has a large Melbourne audience
for directions to patrol-cars. The serious
business can be relieved by a direction
to proceed to a street where, according
to reports received by h.q., a gentleman
was sitting for some hours on top of the
roof of a cottage, repeated 20-minutes
later with a seriously-voiced suggestion,
“Perhaps he’s up there dodging flying-
saucers.” The station has. been heard
directing a prowl-car to where an allegedly
inebriated citizen was seated in a swiftly-
flowing gutter and cooling his fevered-
brow with continuous self-baptism. If
they take ,my tip and arrange a drunk-
for-drunk actuality of doings at Russell-
street on Christmas' Eve they should
achieve an all-time high in listener-
popularity.
■s* ■£*
“Burna”: A while back in these
columns, some remarks on an American
praying-doll were followed by a prophecy
of an American prayer-wheel. Now from
Cleveland (U.S.A.) comes news of the
“Dial-a-prayer” service, averaging over
8000 calls per weekend. At an average
cost of sixpence a call this is £20,000
annually in one city alone.
♦>
“Peter Piper”: In this month’s issue
of a newsletter circulated by a New
Guinea firm: “We have also just re-
ceived [So-and-so’s] Planes in all sizes
... ..which tools are well-renowned
throughout the Universe.” This, of
course, is the new “Space-Master” model.
DIAL-TRIAL
“Top competitive sport for women not only
hardens the body-muscles; the grim business of
determined striving, the constant tension and
fierce concentration are eventually reflected in
hardened face-muscles, too.” — Women’s journal.
Oh, Sue and Fay,
If sport you must
Take part in, play it gently.
Do not, I pray,
In cut-and-thrust
Glare too belligerently.
Madly to run, '
To leap the span
May seem, to you, a duty.
What of the one
You owe to Man ?
Don’t jeopardise your beauty !
Think of the fell
Result when you
Go flat-out in your races,
Trying to excel.
Could you but view
Your manly, fierce grimaces!
The jaw clamped tight,
The furrowed brow —
Now, how could you be knowing
That these things might
Upon your prow
Insidiously be growing?
Grandma abhorred
The thin tough dame
By big-sport bug tormented.
No muscles shored
Her generous frame;
With “stays” she was contented.
Nor did she get
A dial as hard
As languishes in chokey
From sport. You bet
Hers wasn’t marred —
She was content with croquet.
The lass who hits
Sport’s topmost rung,
And in full fame effulges —
She benefits /
In limb and lung;
With muscles now she bulges.
And yet it’s clear,
Despite her youth,
Her face reflects contention.
Be warned, my dear;
Recall this truth : x
Cure’s harder than prevention!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The pick
of The hunch
since
/B*7
Gtlamfo
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEM
Opining (at 92) that 16 years of chair-
ing the Veteran Motorists’ Association is
enough, Alphonso Tewksbury retires
from .that devoted and venerable band.
Founder of the association —its members
must have an accident-free record, held
a licence for more than 15 years without
a conviction, barring the inevitable
parking-fine —the G.O.M. has been com-
mercially connected with motor-transport
for years: a director of Yellow. Express
Carriers, and vice-chairman of Yellow
Cabs. When young his interests were
more static—at 24 a partner in the
Wagga (N.S.W.) brewery, later founder
of Temora brewing-house, and for three
successive terms mayor of the last-named
city. Took to stock as well—founding
Delavan Stock Farm, breeding high-class
trotters with much success. And —back
to his great love —he helped to found
Ampol. Alex Rigby now chairs the
veterans. He’s a director of Kell and
Rigby, builders of size.
• • *
“Watto”: Next March brings retire-
ment to knight Theodore Rigg, founda-
tion-member of Nelson (N.Z.) Cawthron
Institute and its director since 1933. The
young man from Yorkshire who gradu-
ated B.Sc. from Victoria University Col-
lege in 1910, and who took his Master
degree the next year with first-class
honors in Chemistry, has well repaid any
debt he owed Maoriland for a good
home. For 28 years a member of the
Council of Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, he’d been chairman 12 years when
he gave up the post in 1954. Rigg’s suc-
cessor will be Dr. David Miller, now
assistant-director and chief of the ento-
mological department. A Glaswegian
entitled to Ph.D., M.Sc., F.R.S.N.Z.,
F.R.E.S. after his name, quietly-spoken
and scholarly, Miller in his 65 years has
written a host of papers and mono-
graphs. Cawthron’s character shouldn’t
diminish in his care.
• •
A. Z. Baker —president of Rotary Inter-
national and now in Melbourne on a
goodwill tour through South-East Asian
countries—was not surprised at the city’s
traffic-tangle. There is a worse one in
his home-town, Cleveland (U.S.A.), with
a population, too, of 1} million. But
Clevelanders don’t have Melbourne’s
curse—trams are banned, and the city’s
transport relies on trains and buses. Cars
WORLD-ROTA RIAN
have been taken off the streets and
dumped in an immense parking-area a
mile outside the city ; buses run a shuttle-
service for motorists from there. Rail-
ways are either underground or overhead.
Cattle are Baker’s major interest. He is
president of the American Stockyards’
Association, which owns all the stock-
yards in the U.S. Hobby, polo.
A. L. McCallum took on firefighting
at Port Pirie (S.A.) in 1916. Also that
year he saddled-up with the 9th Light
Horse. Three overseas years, and he
was back riding the red monsters; now
he becomes Chief Officer of the State’s
fire-brigades.
• •
“Well”: H. J. Wilding,, Passenger Trans-
portation Section Inspector, N.S.W. Railways,
is a roving official with special authority who
goes into action whenever there is a major
dislocation. At other times he organises the
department’s one-day tours, popular excursions
to country centres.
Wilding himself is a one-day-tour enthusiast;
devotes every Sunday to personally managing
one of the tours. While most Sydneysiders are
in their beds on Sabbath mornings he’s busy
at Central checking the final details of dispatch
of an air-conditioned diesel-electric express.
Fifteen hours later he’s still on the job at
Central, shepherding the last of 300 passengers
which the express has carried on a 400-mile
journey to the country.
A one-day tour is the culmination of weeks
of careful planning. Except for a couple of
hurried snacks, Wilding is on the move from
start to finish. He sees that each passenger is
comfortably seated, checks the air-conditioning
and catering arrangements, and gives a
running-commentary over a public-address
system; he’s conversant with mileages from
Sydney, the altitudes of stations, the popula-
tions and industries of townships, the names of
small oreeks and distant peaks, varieties of
crops, species of trees, and some of the history
of the surrounding countryside.
Tall, burly, and apparently tireless, Wilding
was born in South Africa and came to Australia
as an infant. He began working for
N.S.W.G.R. as a junior porter at Narromine,
was a shunter, guard, and finally stationmaster
at Dunheved, Granville and Burwood.
• •
Reginald Newton, new general-mana-
ger-commercial of B.H.P. and Australian
Iron and\ Steel. Remains secretary of
both concerns.
m •
“D.R.”: T. J. (“Tiny Tim”) Donnelly,
39, 6ft., 14st. Country-party candidate
for Kennedy (Q.), Australia’s second-
largest electorate, has spared no energy
in his flying campaign to win the seat for
Menzies-Fadden on December 10. ItL.
17 days, in a. featherweight Auster air-
craft, he has flown more than 3000 miles
through some of Queensland’s roughest
country, visiting outback electors from
Longreach (Central Q.) to Camooweal
(8 miles from the N.T. border), to Morn-
ington Island in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Monaro-born and New Zealand-educated,
at present Longreach hotelkeeper and
chairman of the Longreach Shire Coun-
cil, Donnelly has been barber, coalminer,
theatre-projectionist, butcher, R.A.A.F.
navigator, insurance-agent, mechanic.
His flight, during which he has touched-
down at some of Australia’s remotest
sheep- and cattle-stations, has made him
the “big talk” over the outpost radios of
the State’s inland, many of whose resi-
dents had, until his air-arrival, never seen
a political candidate. He has spoken
under electric-light to Labor-hardened
miners at Mt. Isa and by lantern-light to
Gulf-tough stockmen at Burketown, with
alligators roaring from the near-by Albert
River. His main political point is a
regional development plan for Queens-
land’s West, whereby shires may join
forces, become autonomous, and borrow
money from Australian and overseas
loan-markets to start housing, water-
conservation and better-transport pro-
jects in what is, at the moment, called the
“land of wait.” Although a publican, he
was somewhat appalled to find that a
round of drinks in the West cost him
about 355.; out there in that territory
of dry rivers, hills, desert and he-men,
they quaff beer by the bottle!
• •
Passed on in Perth at 62, Harry
Butcher, Old Digger and leading West-
ralian pastoralist, who, with his brother
Bill, owned five sheep-stations with a
total area of more than two-million acres,
on which ran an average of 70,000 to
80,000 sheep. Harry also owned a 40-
acre banana-plantation near Carnarvon.
Of pioneering stock, born on his parents
dairying and fruit-growing property at
Armadale (W.A.), he struck out at 15
with another brother, Walter, when they
took up virgin land (5000 acres) near
Bruce Rock. This they cleared with
three horses, filling-in with contract-work
while waiting for crops to grow. After
service overseas with the old 51st Bat-
talion, Harry and Bill commenced a suc-
cessful career on pastoral leases in the
Lower Murchison under the soldier-
settlement scheme, in 1920. Two years
later they sold out and bought their
first station. In 1948 they began
a stock-transport business in the
back country, with a diesel primary
mover and two trailers, carrying from
700 to 800 sheep. Besides maintain-
ing an interest in football, Harry was
actively associated with pastoral develop-
ment and local-governing bodies in the
north-west, and an executive member of
the Pastoralists’ Association.
• •
Old Digger Herbert Michael (Gallip.,
France, Belgium) reckons (at 65) that 16
years of politics will do. Farmer and
grazier to start with, he’s been South
Australian Assembly man for Light since
1939 (with a short break), and has done
more than most for land-settlement —for
the past nine years chairman of the Par-
liamentary committee on the subject.
• •
Adelaidian Allan George (for some
reason, “Bill”) Gibbs, hereunder, will be
found at most concerts where good
music’s the fare, and in the forefront of
debate on business-management. He is
’CELLIST-MANA GER
president of the Adelaide division of the
Australian Institute of Management —his
choice of musical instruments, the ’cello,
is mate for his hefty build. Also per-
sonnel-manager of G.M.-Holden’s big
plant at Woodville, he worries about the
employment, welfare, safety and train-
ing of 6000 employees. Bachelor of En-
gineering from Adelaide Uni., studying
the outsize fiddle at the Elder Conserva-
torium at the same time, he had some
years of practical experience as a miner
in Weslralia before signing-on with
G.M.-H.; rose rapidly, and, with the
tooling-up of the Holden in 1948, secured
his present post.
• •
Rector of St. Mark’s Church of Eng-
land, Granville (Sydney), the Rev. C. L.
Oliver goes shortly to the wardenship
of St. Columb’s Theological College at
Wangaratta (Vic.). A Sydney University
man, one-time curate at Greenway’s St.
James’, King-street, Sydney; he chap-
lained for three years with the War II
R.A.A.F., and in 1945-47 was vocational-
guidance officer under the C.R.T.S. at
Sydney Technical College. Fellow of
Sydney University (St. Paul’s College),
member of the Anthropological Society
of N.S.W., and a foundation-member
of the Guild of Pastoral Psychology,
London, the new warden will be back
close again to his old King-street rector,
the Rev Canon E J. Davidson, now
Bishop of Gippsland.
* •
If Eric Mclllree, chief executive
director of the Avis Rent-a-Car system
which is in process of being launched on
Australian airports, has his way travellers
CAR-RENTER
between capital cities in Australia will
cease fighting truck traffic for use of the
Queen’s highways, and will step, instead,
into an airliner which will whisk them
to their destination, where they will step
into a brand-new Holden and drive off
the airport. After investigating the
scheme in the U.S., where cities are being
signed-up at the rate of two a day, he
expects that his nationally-operated fleet,
working-in with three major airlines and
100 country airports, will be employing
2250 cars by December, 1957. Mclllree
was born in N.S.W. of a country family
whose forebears exported Australian
horses to the Indian market. Educated
at Shore, he went into the motor-business
at 17, at 21 started his own business of
selling used cars, bought an interest in
one of Australia’s largest drive-y our self
car-companies, and ran a farm at Kanga-
roo Valley. After War II he bought 50
Avro-Anson aircraft, converted them for
civilian-transport usage, and led flights
of them to Europe—he had been flying
Tiger Moths at 20. His flying-bagman
expeditions were not without adventure —
he crashed once behind Vietnam Com-
munist lines in Indo-China, was arrested
by the British in Germany as a Russian
“spy” in 1947, crashed into the sea be-
tween Singapore and Borneo, and made a
forced landing in the harem-garden of
the Sultan of Trengannu. He has a
house at Mosman, Sydney, rents the Aga
Khan’s flat in Geneva, but is generally to
be found working in a caravan in his
car-park off Sydney’s William-street.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 88, Philip Myers, till
recently governing-director of J. Myers and Co.,
established by his father 76 years ago. A
brother of the late Chief Justice Sir Michael
Myers, Philip was one of two surviving
foundation-members of Wellington’s Commer-
cial Travellers’ Club, and prominent in
business, racing and Rotary.
In Perth, at 68, Stanley Harold Hubbard, Old
Digger, C.M.F. lieutenant-colonel and company-
director. After service with the 34th Battalion,
A.1.F., he soldiered on at home with the 11th
Battalion, C.M.F. Off parade, he was director
of the Metro Bus Co., which operates between
Perth and Fremantle.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 92, Tom L. Mills,
old-time newsman, president of the Austra-
lasian Provincial Press Association in 1912,
life-member of P.E.N., and voluminous con-
tributor to Australian and Dominion journals.
A Manxman, he landed in New Zealand in
1874, started as a printer on the Timaru
“Herald,” and ended-up as part-owner of the
Feilding “Star.”
In Melbourne, at 28, Bruce Harper, footballer
and cricketer. Full-forward, he played more
than 150 games, for Sandringham in the Vic-
torian Football ’Association. Last season, till
he broke a leg when playing against Box Hill,
he was the leading V.F.A. goalkicker— even
though Sandringham was one of the weakest
sides. He played pennant-cricket for Colling-
wood firsts, fast-medium bowler.


ROLLING HOME


ABORIGINALITIES
TWO LANDS
“How will you face the sun?”
Shrewdly they question me and I evade them
Because it is not simple to explain.
How feverishly glad I’ll be to turn
My face toward the sun of my own country.
Long I have known the rains,
The sulky mountains darker than black pearl,
Ice-fall tented over iron rock
And sea-mist coverts bleak down narrow
islands.
Long I have known the beauty like a sword,
Sharp, blue-bright along the wincing branches,
And watched the little creatures born in spring
Lie down and die in blizzard—
The crude, mysterious land of isles and
channels.
Within its heart the lava curls and burns
But kindles not the weather; and the sands
Cool swiftly after dusk, and even summer
Is tentative upon the ferny fringe.
5ea-stained mould, the spit of salt through
darkness,
Earthquake, storm and fury of volcano,
And mud that writhes in prehistoric travail . . .
Grey skies veil memory and freeze the thought.
And after this, how would you have me act?
After blindness, the illumination,
After coma, brilliance like a blessing.
I will not be afraid to vipw the sun,
And I have not forgotten what was loved:
The rose-red rock, the plain that spreads
forever,
The twisted trees triumphant over dust,
The azure mountain sacred in the haze,
The breathless sweetness on a yellow bough,
The snake and spider gemmed beyond belief,
Surf’s white blossom on the warm, bare breast,
Parrots blooming in a forest fresco,
Prints of strangers down a tawny mile,
Sea as mild as milk on coasts of amber,
Sleep of magic under flowering vine.
Oh, I have not forgotten
The loved and comforting, the boldly fair;
Blood or natal essences of soul
Bear the pure reflections in a tide,
I see my own enchantment through the mirror;
Eyes inward turn and subtle memory
Haunts with ritual the cell of brain. —
I have known two lands,
The flesh has suffered of a chill like death,
The heart has promised silently a kindling;
That most marvellous light—
Not sun alone, but inner fire of all
The spaciousness beneath a towering sky;
A flood of light that soaks into the rind
And solaces the marrow! What are words?
Wait for that moment when I lift my face
And dazzle it with gold.
n.z. Paula Hanger Birch.
* * * * *
A KITTEN, so young that its eyes were
barely opened, was abandoned in a
suburban smallgoods shop. The pro-
prietor took charge of it, looked after
it, and when it grew older it repaid by
keeping down the rats and mice. It
spent its days in a small room at the back:
there was no yard, and it viewed the
world (a dusty lane) through an iron-
barred window. At night it hunted ; at
weekends, when there was no food in the
place, it sat and slept in the shop-window.
So far as the proprietor knew, it had
never as much as set foot in the street.
“ What's this automation, Bill ?”
Years later the business was sold, and
when the shopkeeper left he carried Puss
home in a basket and released him on
the back lawn. At first Puss was terrified
by the strange scene and tried to get back
into the basket. Then he discovered the
grass and rolled and rolled on it in a
frenzy of delight; next, he explored the
garden-beds and dug and gambolled for
the rest of the day For the first time
in his life he’d made the acquaintance of
the finest thing in the world —the good
earth. —“Maitri.”
“Quo Vadis”: Every afternoon
Gammy, the one-legged wagtail, comes
for feed and water, and thanks me with
a sparkling act. He’s a classy tumbler,
this bloke, his tail fan-spread all the
while. He dives and spins in sensational
fashion, feather-light on sensitive wings,
scorning his disability. At rest, he lets his
body-weight down, and tail and extended
wings are used for balance. His one leg
has grown unusually large and strong.
His occasional nocturnal chatter of
“Sweet pretty creature” fits himself
exactly.
* * * *
“Papalangi”: One of our most striking
trees, the pandanus gets its name from
the Malay word pandan (remarkable),
and it is remarkable —for its great but-
tresses of aerial roots; the screwlike
arrangement of its long sword-leaves,
with smooth or thorny edges, clustered
like palm-crowns at the ends of its thick,
untapered, upturned branches (“cande-
labrum”-tree); its dense shade (“tent”-
tree); and the resemblance of its clusters
of hard, fibrous nuts to large pine-cones.
Until they are nearly mature these clus-
ters superficially resemble the breadfruit,
and to many Queenslanders it is known
by that name. When nearly ripe the nuts
change color from green to bright yellow,
orange and red, and when quite ripe
they fall separately to the ground. Along
the shore and on the banks of river,
lagoon and billabong there are over 50
species scattered around the Western
Pacific and Indian Oceans, and many of
them have leaves that are very suitable
and widely used for mat-, basket- and
hat-making. The flowers of one species,
Odoratissima, yield a highly-perfumed
volatile oil.
* * * *
“Sysyphus”: Jim camps by himself on
the creek-bank at weekends when he does
odd boat-building jobs. One Monday he
limped into work and explained that a
piece of timber had fallen on his instep.
“Half me trouble,” said Jim, “was I
couldn’t swear right out, for it was just
when church-service was cornin’ over
the radio.” James hasn’t been inside a
kirk since he was christened.
* * * *
“Rexine”: There are different tech-
niques for shearing sheep, Angora-rabbits
and half-bald men, but there is only one
animal that needs a nosebag for the
occasion. In 1857, Gil Davidson intro-
duced the first llamas to the Darling
Downs (Q.). One was lost on the journey
over Spicer’s Gap, but the rest arrived
safely and great hopes were entertained
for the mohair-industry when the num-
bers had increased sufficiently. Jack
Howe, the famous blade-shearer, was
engaged to shear them, and was warned of
their habit of spitting when annoyed. He
caught one of the gangling creatures, tied
it down and began to shear. At once a
flood of yellow saliva landed on Jack’s
fine black hair. Leaving the llama to be
dealt with by someone else, Jack rushed
off to the pump, but even after much
water and plenty of laundry-soap he still
smelt like a tomcat for two days. He
finished his job, however, tying a nose-
bag securely on each animal before start-
ing operations. Why haven’t the crea-
tures been tried again? The climate in
parts of Queensland should suit them.
Or is the price of mohair too low?
* * * *
“Curio”: The “old Greek” mentioned
by “Villefair” (B. 16/11/’55) is not the
only ancient writer to draw attention to
the liking of foxes for fruit. In the Bible
(Song of Solomon, Chap. 2, v. 15) there
is mention of “the foxes, the little foxes
that spoil the vineyards.” Apparently in
Palestine the fox is sometimes confused
with the jackal (the one Hebrew word is
“See you outside, Slug. Happy landing!”
used for both animals in the Old Testa-
ment, and it is only by a study of the
context that the correct animal can be
identified). Samson’s “foxes,” which he
used in his organised arson against the
Philistine cornfields, were more likely to
have been jackals. Both fox and jackal
do much damage in the vineyards, shar-
ing a taste for the grape.
* * * *
“Bass”: While “Jas.” is reflecting on
the survival of the galah despite man’s
persecution, and the virtual disappearance
of the grass-parrot, which man has never
seriously attempted to destroy (B.
19/9/’55), he might like to consider the
case of our marsupials. Outside of the
Australian region there are fewer than
half-a-dozen species of marsupial, and
they’re all carnivorous. Yet the countries
in which they now thrive once almost cer-
tainly carried big populations of vege-
tarian-marsupials, which became extinct
while the carnivores thrived. In the Aus-
tralian region there are hundreds of vege-
tarian-marsupial types, all thriving, while
practically all the carnivorous types have
become extinct, or nearly so. Certainly
the two main carnivores, the Tasmanian-
wolf and -devil, vanished from the main-
land centuries ago. Blame the dingo and
you may be right; but there are fiercer
carnivores in America, where the carni-
vorous-marsupials remain.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Of course “Edx” was joking
when he suggested that bastard-box and
bastard-mahogany were so named be-
cause the wood seemed profanely hard
to early colonists accustomed to chopping
European softwoods (B. 19/10/’55). The
attributive noun was almost certainly
added by experienced bushmen who
knew Australian timbers thoroughly and
had identified the trees as hybrids: the
word, after all, can also mean “not genu-
ine” or “spurious.” And hybrid trees
are not rare: in a stand of box or stringy-
bark one tree often stands out from the
others—neither a box nor a stringy, but
with the characteristics of both. It is
doubtful, too, whether newchums were
responsible for jarrah receiving its first
monicker of “West Australian mahog-
any”—every one I knew was scornful
about “calling this roobbishing stooff
mahogany.” More likely the name was
born in the mind of some timber-mer-
chant with a lot of jarrah to sell; just
as mountain-ash, stringybark and blue-
gum were all sold as Tasmanian oak when
there was a demand for that medium of
cheaper furniture.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Largest and loveliest of our
finches, the diamond-sparrow looks as if
he borrowed his plumage from various
members of the family. The “diamonds”
that bestrew both sides of his breast are
similar to those of the painted-finch ; his
brilliant red-and-black tail resembles
that of the red-browed finch; his blue
head is typical of four other clan-mem-
bers. Unlike most birds, diamond-
sparrows seem never entirely free from
nest-building preoccupations; even in
the depth of winter they’re prone to pick
up a feather and cart it round for a
while as if cogitating its use in home*
construction. In my experience the dia-
mond-sparrow usually builds its bulky
bottle-shaped nest in a low thorny bush,
but sometimes it goes to the other extreme
and chooses the huge edifice of a wedge-
tailed eagle, generally at the top of a
forest-giant, for a nesting-site. This seems
a piece of peerless effrontery, but maybe
the home is built in the mighty house-
holder’s absence. In any case, a meal so
small might not tempt the great eagle if
it was in residence, and in that event the
menace of lesser predators would be
negligible.
* * * *
“Moorapi”: A victim of the deadly
power of uranium has breathed his last
at Darwin (N.T.). Caught prowling
among the venerable tomes in the Crown
Law library, he copped a well-aimed lump
of uranium ore which had been used as
a book-end. The wielder of the modern
weapon was a Crown Law officer, the
sanctity of whose department even a
baby crocodile cannot invade with
immunity.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A couple of men
have gone to lonely Troughton Island to
operate Australia’s most modern radio-
beacon. The equipment, complete with a
165 ft. steel mast, has been installed on
the three-quarter-mile-long speck 10 miles
off Westralia’s Kimberley coast near Cape
Bougainville, at a cost to date of
£173,000. The beacon will have a range
of a few' hundred miles and can com-
municate with, and give correct bearings
to, ships within 250 miles. The area,
however, is in the middle of the cyclone
belt, and the six-months season just start-
ing will determine whether the installation
can stand up to a good nor’-west hurri-
cane. What has old Kimberley' residents
stumped is why the beacon was placed on
the island at all. Installing it was a big
job, and the servicing will be just as
hard, transport to and from the island
being confined to small boats and barges,
which must pick their way through con-
tinuous shoals. Ten miles south of the
beacon’s position there’s a site on the
mainland which seems ideal, and
which could accommodate a dozen such
installations. Moreover, it could be de-
fended in case of war. Since this is only
the first of possibly many such beacons
—one is mooted for Eclipse Island, off
Albany—there must be a reason for
establishing them on islands. I hope it’s a
good one.
* * * *
“Chink”: “Woman’s Letter” gets the
facts a bit mixed in saying that the wife
of the N. S. Wales Opposition-leader
descends from “Nicholas Coxen, Sur-
veyor-General and member for Darling
Downs in the first Queensland Parlia-
ment” (B. 16/11 / ’55). There was no
Nicholas Coxen in that Parliament, but
Charles Coxen represented Northern
Downs; in the second Parliament he
served as Chairman of Committees.
Leaving politics after a few years, he
became a Crown Lands Commissioner
(not Surveyor-General), and continued in
that job till his death in 1876. Charlie
Coxen was a brother-in-law of John
Gould the birdman, and was himself an
able student of various aspects of natural
history. Imagine a politician of today
writing well, as Coxen did, on ornitho-
logy, geology, marsupials and aborigines!
Also, he was the first (honorary) curator
of the Queensland Museum, and during
1855-60 he served on a standing jury to
try all civil cases in Brisbane. In his pre-
Queensland days C.C. was a pastoralist
in the Hunter Valley (N.S.W.), where he
distinguished himself by discovering the
play-culture of Australia’s remarkable
bower-birds.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/j—•
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
s
*
I
w
'.w
H
m
A *
m
•«I>
'SS-X
m
Prove Vauxhall value
in a single Test-drive!
This is the Utility to fill your business AND social needs ! Famous Vauxhall
6-cylinder Velox engine; a long, low, wide load compartment, on sturdy chassis
frame and heavy-duty springs ... there’s your working partner ! For social outings,
where could you find such brilliant styling as Vauxhall at anywhere near Vauxhall’s
price ? This smart, 3-passenger coupe Utility gives you the same luxury and comfort
as Vauxhall saloons. Also, you have Vauxhall “balanced-ride” suspension and new
flexible coupled steering. See the Vauxhall Utility at your local Dealer’s NOW 1
NEW STYLING : Vauxhall’s new front
end, and the new lower bonnet line
giving improved vision.
NEW COMFORT : There’s beauty as well
as comfort in Vauxhall’s big 3-passenger
seat and interior.
NEW LOAD SPACE : Vauxhall 10-cwt.
Coupe Utility’s load space now measures
80" long, plus tailgate.
NEW POWER : From the famous 6-
cylinder 23.44 h.p. 0.H.V., Velox over-
square engine. New, long-life piston
rings.
NEW RELIABILITY : In rugged trans-
mission and 8-inch diameter clutch.
NEW SAFETY : Electrical system con-
trol has “interrupter” unit to prevent
complete light failure.
ASK YOUR DEALER ABOUT THE G.M.A.C. CONFIDENTIAL HIRE PURCHASE
ARRANGEMENTS AND THE BUILT-FOR-VAUXHALL “AIR-CHIEF” CAR RADIO
Vauxhall Utility is priced at £950 plus Sales Tax.
THE NEW
VAUXHALL
3(11109
IM9 01
UTILITY
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTOR S-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
LTD.
• PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
VUS/24
APART from caged ones, I cannot
recall ever having seen birds in a
state of senile decay. So intense is com-
petition that a mere slackening off physi-
cal vigor is probably fatal under natural
conditions. Another thing, though I spend
most of my time in the bush I rarely see
a dead bird; yet every year they must
die in tens of thousands. Apparently the
deceased no sooner hit the ground than
they are devoured by scavengers of one
sort or another. A notable exception to
this rule seems to be the tawny-frog-
mouth. Whether this character’s crypti-
cal coloration causes him to escape obser-
vation, or whether his carcass is too tough
even for a goanna, I can’t say. But
he is certainly left lying around.—
“Woorarra.”
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Sex-change has hit the
poultry-yard. A South Perth hen which
had laid googs with commendable con-
sistency has forsaken this good habit and
developed a bass-baritone reveille-call.
* * * *
“Palaver”: Whenever he was about to
leave his central-western (N.S.W.) graz-
ing property for a week or two old Barney
would shoot a crow and weigh it. On his
return he’d shoot and weigh another, and
if it was heavier than the first one shot
he’d sack the cook. Reckoned it meant
the bab. had been wasting tucker while
he’d been away.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: Artistic bloomers (B^
16/11/’55)? A picture advertising a well-
known English toffee depicted an old
chap ploughing a field, with the ploughed
land all on his left-hand side instead of
on the right. Now, hold your horses!
“I prefer the perpendicular stripes—they make me look slimmer.”
I know hillside ploughs turn both ways ;
but this one was on level ground,
* * * *
“Papalangi”: A sperm-whale (B.
9/11 /’55) was real treasure-trove to the
Polynesians, who valued its ivory teeth
very highly. A single tooth suspended
from a cord necklace is the tambua of
the Fijians, a mark of high chiefly-rank
in the proud wearer and a fitting, loya
tribute to a queen. In some ot me
islands expert carvers produced several
long clawlike teeth (like those ot a mako-
shark) ’ from each big tooth to form a
fearsome necklace with sharp, curved
fangs pointing outwards and upwards.
In the Tongan Group the small volcanic
island Fonua Lei is Ivory Land; a fine-
textured creamy-white yam is ufi lei, but
the lei necklace of today is not the spiked
collar of the fierce warrior—it’s just an
ephemeral flowery festoon. Originally
intended as a “thing of affection,” a gift
to welcome the arriving and speed the
parting guest, it is now often modernised
and commercialised to speed the dollar-
parting of luxury-liner tourists.
* * * *
“M.P.A.”: Those who think the Aus-
tralian Merino has been bred solely from
the Spanish strain introduced by
Macarthur overlook the influence of the
German strains frequently introduced,
not only by the indomitable Mrs.
Forlonge and her sons to their Tasmanian
and Victorian stations but also, later, to
Queensland by early squatters. The first
Merino ram on the Darling Downs was
Camden Billy, of Spanish strain, from
Macarthur’s stud. His wool was fine,
but short, and Fred Bracken, a supreme
judge of wool and sheep, sought to
improve it by the introduction of the
Rambouillet strain with longer wool. He
selected 200 Merinos from Prince Ester-
hazy, in Silesia, and brought them to
Aberdeen station, where he was manager.
The greatest ram of early Queensland
history, however, was German Billy,
brought from Saxony by the Gammie
brothers. When they sold their station,
with stock, Billy was specially excluded
from the sale and was bought by the
owner of Talgai. Again, when Talgai
was sold, German Billy was too valuable
to be included with the rest of the stock,
but was bought by a neighboring station.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: What’s this about
bower-birds not being vocal mimics (B.
16/11/ ’55)? Actually, every one of the
seven kinds listed for Australia (those
of New Guinea are less known), and
their near-relative the tooth-billed catbird
as well, is a distinctly talented mocker.
The most familiar member of the group
along the east coast, the handsome satin
bower-bird, has been heard to mimic
cleverly in avianes as well as in the
wild, and the best-known' inland species,
the spotted bower-bird, has been credited
with some astonishing performances;
these range from imitations of other
bird-voices to reproductions of the
twanging made as emus scramble through
fences, the noise of motorbikes, and the
rolling of thunder. Because Spotty is not
a singer like the lyrebird, his specialities
are harsh sounds. But his catlike call,
usually supposed to be mimicry of stray
felines, is undoubtedly a natural note —a
casual, primitive expression that “comes
by nature” to various kinds of birds.
* * * *
“8.C.”: We tried several things, includ-
ing a saucer of milk, to lure a snake from
under the house. Then my sister-in-law
remembered her fiddle. After a few bars
of Mendelssohn’s “Spring Song” 72in. of
ecstatic malevolence appeared, to be dealt
with by the piece of fencing-wire kept
handy for such eventualities.
BY THE WALL
Where ragamuffin weeds grow,
The spider reaps,
Wandering thistles come and go,
The cat sleeps.
Lost blades of wheat in freedom rear
Their heads above the mess
Of wild disorder tumbling there
In idle carelessness —
Among the sunlight’s patches,
Where old tins he,
The rooster scratches,
The cow mopes by,
The bucket rests,
The sly hen nests,
And odd things come and settle.
And, after the toil
With the clay and the metal
And the sand and the soil
Of the ruts and the roads,
And the pull of the loads,
Leans with it all
The old wheel by the wall.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


JAMES HARDIE ASBESTOS LID.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
24th NOVEMBER, 1955
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Mr. A. Thyne Reid stated
in his address:
This Meeting has been called,
in accordance with the Notice
sent to all Shareholders, to
obtain your approval of the
conversion of all of the Com-
pany’s fully paid Ordinary
Shares into Stock Units, thus
abolishing the use of distinc-
tive numbers of shares which
has entailed so much clerical
work in the past. By convert-
ing the shares into Stock Units
you will, of course, lose none
of your present rights and
your Company will be follow-
ing the course already taken
by other important companies.
I want to take this opportunity
to mention to you some aspects
of your Company’s progress
during the past half of our
current year. As you know,
it has always been the policy
of your Directors to improve
the efficiency of productive
equipment. Recent months
have again demonstrated the
value of constant investigation
and research in enabling
further improvements to be
made both in our manufactur-
ing methods and product
quality. You will be pleased
to know that the demand for
the Company’s products has
further increased and that
plant capacity is being extended
to meet this. During the half
year, sales have reached an
all-time high level and this
should be another successful
year.
At the Directors’ Meeting this
afternoon, it is intended to
issue the 632,500 fully paid
£1 Bonus Shares, of which
you have received notice, and,
after converting these to £1
Stock Units, to declare an
Interim Dividend of 5% on
the 1,897,500 Stock Units, of
£1 each, payable on 12th
December, 1955, to Stock-
holders as registered on 24th
November, 1955.
ASBESTOS TARIFF WOULD HAVE INCREASED
COST £BBO,OOO A YEAR
In my address to the Meeting
of Shareholders held in June,
1954, I mentioned a matter
which we then felt might have
a serious effect on the earning
capacity of our Company. I
refer to the Tariff Board
inquiry held in June, 1954, on
an application for the creation
of a tariff barrier to force our
Company to use uneconomic
Australian asbestos fibre.
As an integral part of its pro-
posals to protect its crocidolite
(blue) asbestos fibre produc-
tion in West Australia, the
applicant company, the
Colonial Sugar Refining Com-
pany, through its subsidiary,
Australian Blue Asbestos Ltd.,
requested the imposition of a
tariff rate of 40% ad valorem
on all imports of asbestos
fibre, such duty to be remitted
if the manufacturers of
asbestos products use at least
15% of Australian crocidolite
(blue) asbestos in their total
fibre consumption, or such
greater percentage as may be
gazetted from time to time by
the Minister for Customs.
This means that the applicant’s
proposals involve the virtual
prohibition of imports until
local production is disposed
of.
Our Company has never used
blue asbestos, except experi-
mentally, because it is entirely
uneconomic to do so in the
wide range of products we
produce for the Australian
market.
The applicant company readily
admitted that this rate of no
less than 40% was intended
to provide a tariff barrier
which would make it un-
economical to manufacturers
to absorb the duty instead of
using Australian blue fibre.
A tariff barrier of 40% on
our asbestos fibre purchases
at 1955 level would have
increased our basic raw
material costs by more than
£BBO,OOO a year. )
The alternative to avoid this
by the purchase of 15% Aus-
tralian crocidolite in place of
other grades of asbestos norm-
ally purchased by us would
have increased our basic raw
material cost by just over
£270,000 a year.
Allowing for normal trade and
cash discounts, the total in-
crease to our customers neces-
sary to recover this
any profit margin) would
amount to just over £330,000
a year.
The Tariff Board has now
reported that protection of the
blue asbestos production by
the method sought by the
applicant would result in an
excessive cost burden on users
and consumers and, in addi-
tion, would be accompanied
by repugnant compulsory
conditions.
The Tariff Board considered
that no case had been estab-
lished to justify either the high
cost of assistance or the use
of compulsion, and recom-
mended that no assistance be
granted to the production of
asbestos fibre in Australia.
Our Company, through one of
its subsidiaries, Asbestos Mines
Pty. Ltd., operates the only
mine in Australia which pro-
duces, at an economical cost,
a grade of asbestos fibre
suitable for use in our pro-
ducts. It has always been the
policy of your Directors to
investigate all known occur-
rences of asbestos in Aus-
tralian and adjacent territories
with a view to producing our
own, or purchasing local
asbestos fibre, provided, of
course, that the cost was com-
petitive with that of imported
fibre. Though extensive surveys
have been and still are being
carried out, only one area
has so far been discovered
which warrants a mining
operation, and that on a small
scale. Therefore, the main part
of our asbestos fibre has to be
imported. It can only be of
satisfaction to us that the
Tariff Board fully realises the
problems of the industry.
L.D.D.
BRIARS
smoke cool and sweet
right from the start
L.D.D. pipes are London
made, they are richly
coloured to show the natural
grain. Light in weight, they
are made from finest old
briar. See the full range of
L.D.D. pipes and enquire
about membership in the
World Fellowship of Pipe-
smokers— price, 29/6.
Sold by all Leading Tobacconists
Australian Distributors
Box 502, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Coming Showdown
-vrATIONAL BANK’S chair-
man, H. D. Giddy, wound-
up his annual address to share-
holders with the remark: “There
is overwhelming evidence that we
have arrived at a position where
economic realities have caught
up with us and where artificial
measures will prove useless. In
truth, a somewhat greater effort
on all fronts within the Aus-
tralian economy for less in the
way of immediate reward is
the only way out.”
That pretty well expresses the
situation. It amounts to the
same thing as has been said in
The Bulletin many times: Aus-
tralia is suffering from a lack of
productivity of goods and ser-
vices, especially in relation to
rates of pay that are being
awarded for work done. In-
creased mechanical facilities are
often offset by a more lacka-
daisical manpower effort. We
have slipped behind other
countries in man-week output,
and high wages have imposed a
further strain on the productive
sections of the economy.
Mr. Giddy, in his address,
commented on the way, “in
years of apparent plenty and in
the midst of great development,”
our progress was subject to “fits
and starts,” and to restrictive
Government action on more than
one occasion. He thought that
political policies of “full employ-
ment at any and
accelerated immigration and
development had induced large
capital expenditures and brought
almost chronic instability, with
far more jobs offering than
people to fill them. Also, attempts
have been made to raise living-
standards rapidly regardless of
the effects on our economy of
happenings abroad. The main
fault of the Socialistic approach
to these objectives was the reli-
ance on arbitrary controls to
offset their obvious economic
reactions.
, There was seemingly a
political belief among Labor-
party men that “we could control
ourselves out of trouble.” “In-
efficiency and waste in a multi-
tude of Governmental activities,
and in a large area of private
business,” said Mr. Giddy,
“attracted no censure. In con-
sequence, Australia is now
saddled with a costs-structure
disturbingly high and completely
out of line with those of other
English-speaking countries.”
There had been a departure
from the simple, basic principle
of giving value only for value
given and living within one's
, means. And, in Mr. Giddy’s
opinion, the failure to expand
Australian export-capacity had
proved to be a cardinal error.
The National Bank is one of
a number of authorities lately to
draw attention to a situation
about which The Bulletin has
offered warnings for the
past 12 months. There
is likely to be a show-
down in the Australian economy
during 1956, and it won’t be
much use trying to avoid it by
political sidetracking. A great
deal of responsibility will have
to be shouldered by State
Governments, and the wanton
act of the Cahill Government in
N.S.W. in unpegging the basic
wage with full knowledge of our
already overhigh costs-structure
shows that that State is urgently
in need of more honest
administration and management.
N.Z. Forest Products
WITH an additional capital
” expenditure of about £2\
million over the next two years,
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
hopes to be in a position to ex-
ploit 75,000 to 80,000 acres of
its large forests in the Rotorua
district of Maoriland. In order
to make use of the other half of
the forests, an outlay of an addi-
tional £8 to £lO million will be
required.* Though complete
plans are not yet in hand for
the full-utilisation scheme, the
board feels that at last the plant-
ings of past years, disappointing
for so long, can be put to pro-
fitable use.
The first areas were, planted
about 30 years ago. Those who
put up the money have had
nothing on their ord. shares, and
only over the past four years
have they received anything on
the prefs. The plantings were
originally financed by “bonds,”
but there was later a consolida-
tion of titles and interests under
a share-issue scheme.
A first dividend on the
ordinary shares is hoped for after
1957. The board says that “there
is no doubt that the forest ven-
ture, which at one stage was not
very bright, has now changed
into a thriving, speedily-growing
and worth-while industry.”
The co. makes paper-pulp,
kraft-paper and board from its
Pinus insignis plantations. It
has a paid capital of £6,195,003
in 5,204,233 £1 ords. and 990,770
5 p.c. non-cum. £1 prefs. The
ords. are just over par on Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges. Most
of the scrip is held in the Com-
monwealth. Net profit last year
was £447,000, compared with
£303,000 in the preceding term.
For several years net earnings
have been ploughed-back to meet
capital expenditure.
The Ninth Attempt
■pROM L. Owen: Rough
Range No. 9 borehole,
located about two miles south
of the first well to be sunk on
that structure, was spudded-in,
with due ceremony and ecclesi-
astical blessing, on November 22.
It had reached 2020 ft. on
Nov. 30.
The site was chosen as a result
of interpretations of the latest
seismic data from Rough Range,
and it was frankly admitted that
the work was being carried out
as a partial check on the geo-
physical methods employed up
to the present. The sinking of
the bore, therefore, is primarily
an operation subsidiary to the
geophysical survey ; there is no
suggestion in the candid reports
issued by Wapet that any repeti-
tion of the combination of the
several geological factors which
gave rise to the oil-show in
Rough Range No. 1 well is
expected. The use of a T32-rig
for the work places out of court
any idea that a search for deep
oil is contemplated at this
point.
Exploration by seismograph
is, generally, the most expensive
“It musta been Santa Claus , Sarge.”
form of geophysical surveying,
and pattern-shooting—which is
now being adopted at Rough
Range—is the most expensive
type of seismic exploration.
Data from either method,
however, are liable to distortion,
and interpretations to error,
from subsidiary reflection-
surfaces and from strata with
varying reflection and
sound-velocity characteristics.
At a Wapet press-conference,
held in Sydney on November 16
of last year (B. 24/11/’55), it
was manifest that the existing
geological surface - maps, on
which the two senior geologists
chiefly concerned had to rely,
were inadequate. Both of these
experts possessed a long and
wide experience in oilfield
geology in other parts of the
world, but they differed funda-
mentally on the question of the
direction of the major anticlinal
axes underlying Rough Range,
one claiming that it ran north-
south and the other favoring a
north-east-south-west direction.
The latter was the then officially
accepted direction, but the loca-
tion of Rough Range No. 9 well
suggests a reversion to the north-
south conception.
Even accepting the published
maps, it is very unlikely that any
major anticlinal axis of regional
extent exists under Rough
Range. The data relevant to the
form of the base of the Birdrong
sandstone, as revealed by the
logs of wells 1 to 8, are capable
of as many solutions as there
were to the crossword-puzzles in
the recent Sunday-press competi-
tions. Had the cores taken been
accurately orientated, the
possible number of geologically-
sane interpretations could have
been reduced substantially, but
there is no published evidence of
core-orientation. In any case,
core-evidence would have to be
coupled with outcrop-studies.
Northern Hercules
WITH its new issue of 300,000
10s. shares placed, Northern
Hercules (N.T.) old shares are
back to 9s. 9d., and the ss. paids
at ss. 6d. (Apparently taxation
concessions on calls payable
make the contribs. the more
attractive proposition.) There is
now a total issue of 1,800,000
shares, and more ore needs to be
developed and proved before
market expectations can be said
to be fully justified. The ore
which the prospectus spoke of
was high-grade, but goldmining
in the Northern Territory has
problems of its own which
usually express themselves in
high costs. Transport and treat-
ment problems have to be over-
come at the Northern Hercules.
The mine is 34 miles north-east
of Pine Creek.
Motels
A CCOMMODATION AUS-
TRALIA, LTD., ha s
selected sites for its motels in
Canberra, Yass, Gundagai,
Albury, Glen Innes, Armidale,
Grafton, Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Melbourne, Dimboola and-Mt.
Gambier. The Canberra motel
is expected to be opened in
March, and that in Albury in
June. The directors have decided
to establish “motor hotels” in the
cities instead of the usual motels.
These will give hotel service,
while offering parking and ser-
vice-station facilities. Negoti-
ations are in progress for sites
in Sydney, Adelaide and other
major centres.
Apparently more capital will
be needed in order to carry out
present plans. A final call has
been made on present shares.
Motels, which are already
common in the U.S.A. and
Canada, have been set-up also
by private interests in Australia,
but the number is not yet great.
If properly managed and
financed they should have con-
siderable appeal.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build,
ingrs. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO PATRICK FRANCIS McDONNELL
late of Morpeth Railway Employee.—
TAKE NOTICE that EDNA DOROTHY
McDONNELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2262 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899-1954 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist of February 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. ALISTER JOHNSON &
McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle; or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors, of 2 York Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROUERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies In all Country Centres
Have you got
good taste?
Iv.V.V**'
!S?
40
ill
552
rfc
ffl
©
niiiiiiinai?frmm?iiifiif?iffif
• «
Wo mean ‘good taste’ in the
strict sense. When you
drink whisky, do you taste
it critically? It’s always
agreeable to be offered
Scotch Whisky. But it’s
memorable to be offered
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky
It brings to mind the burb-
ling of Scottish bums, and
the ripple of ripe barley
fields. If you can sense the
subtle artistry of Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky—truly you
are a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1826.
FURTHER PROGRESS AND PROSPERITY
At the ordinary general meeting of the proprietors of the Bank of
New South Wales held in Sydney on November 25, the President,
Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., said that
Australia and New Zealand had continued to enjoy good fortune
and widespread prosperity in the past year. In the decade since
the end of the war, the advance has been tremendous in the
* increase in population, the development and exploitation of
natural resources, and in the improvement in living standards.
Yet signs of difficulty evident a year ago had since emerged in the
drain on oversea currency reserves as a consequence of domestic
inflationary pressures.
Balance Sheet
The predominance of the
drain on oversea reserves in
the business situation was
naturally reflected in the lack
of any expansion in the total
of the Bank’s balance sheet.
The deposits item reached
a total of £456,000,000 on
balance day, but was then
only £1,900,000 higher than
the previous year.
Loans and advances in-
creased from £257,000,000
to £274,000,000, a rise of
6.5% . This growth in lending
in the face of a restrictive
policy, necessitated alike by
falling liquidity and by central
bank action, illustrates the
strength of demand arising
from the urge towards business
expansion.
Liquid and near liquid as-
sets fell by £17,000,000 to
£199,000,000.
The net profit for the year
was £1,694,000, a sum
£200,000 higher than last
year.
During the year the Bank
increased the number of its
branches by eighteen to a
total of 714 and agencies
numbered 210 on September
30.
'' " >
Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited
The Bank has registered a
wholly-owned subsidiary com-
pany to conduct savings bank
business in Australia with a
nominal capital of
£10,000,000 and a paid-up
capital of £1,000,000.
The step has been prompted
by the need to give more
service to the public and to
encourage a wider section of
the community to use our
Bank. It will provide compe-
tition to other savings institu-
tions—a healthy development
—and in several States it will
provide an alternative to the
present monopoly. At a time
when Australia’s development
requires huge investment, the
encouragement of saving will
help the Bank to continue to
play a significant part in the
country’s destiny.
Business Review
The fundamental impulse
towards economic develop-
men in Australia should pro-
vide a firm guarantee of the
basis of prosperity for many
years to come. But from time
to time it will be necessary to
review plans in the light of
available resources, for no
process in human affairs will
ever proceed at an even tempo
and stay in constant balance.
Such a phase has now been
reached, when over-exuber-
ance has had to be curbed in
order to prevent commit-
ments getting out of hand.
Business indicators within
Australia have demonstrated
generally satisfactory results
in the past year. Output in
most sections of industry was
high and on the whole steady,
and the volume of wholesale
and retail trade was well
maintained. Nevertheless, ac-
tivity has more recently shown
a tendency to fall slowly from
its earlier peaks, although
without any appearance of a
sudden slump. Internal prices
were firm, but have recently
tended to rise following wage
adjustments. The continued
inflow of migrants and capital
has helped to support the
growth of consumption and
investment, and no difficulty
has been experienced in ab-
sorbing labour in the larger
employment force. The
general picture is that of a
continuing expansion of the
economy, but at a somewhat
slower pace.
Yet the situation shows the
existence of creeping infla-
tion, which is apparent not
in the volume of money, nor
yet noticeably in prices, but
rather in the growth in wage
demands, in industrial dis-
quiet, and in the stimulation
of particular forms of con-
sumption and th,e heavy de-
mand for imports. Such in-
fluences present problems
difficult enough when export
income is rising; they are far
more serious when exports
are falling, and call for
resolute action to adjust de-
mand to available resources.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
/ (INCORPORATE® IN NBW SOUTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5547A
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
IN other days, before the level-
ling-up of the masses, the
status of the professional civil
servant was high and, in many
respects, superior to that of his
contemporary administrators in
the lay world. He was invariably
a graduate of one of the older
universities, holding a good
degree, skilled at competitive
examinations and of an assured
personality strong enough to
survive the exacting interroga-
tion of a selection-board.
After three years by the Isis
or the Cam to stimulate his
brain and mould his way of life
he would find his new sur-
roundings in Whitehall not so
dissimilar from the sheltered
dignity of academic life to
cause any heart-searchings. In-
tellectually and socially, he was
among his peers. Tradition
strengthened his line of conduct.
He was looked-up to.
Whereas in the business world
the word “executive” implied the
pinnacle of achievement, to him
it signified merely a subordinate
grade. He was adequately paid
by comparison with his friends
in other professions, enjoyed
absolute security and ample
leisure, if only because of his
eight weeks’ annual holiday
which, distinct from others, he
referred to as “leave.”
Often, since he valued intel-
lectual pursuits above material-
istic gain, he would pursue his
scholarship or, like Matthew
Arnold and Humbert Wolfe,
become better known for his
services to literature than for his
departmental minutes. But even
if he did not choose to strain
after promotion his pay was
almost sufficient for him to live
in the way he liked and to give
his children at least as good an
education as his own.
Then, at 60, he would have a
gratuity and a pension of about
half of his retiring salary (this,
since he was respected, had prob-
ably been generously increased
before the critical age of 57).
And how splendid it then was
for a man who had had no real
opportunity of saving money to
be entitled to a pension!
Tough at the Top
It is well-known that the higher
reaches of Jhe civil service are
no longer backwaters of tran-
quillity, either of work or mind.
For better or for worse, The
Service has expanded, employ-
ing nearly 750,000 men and
women. Of these, more than
2500 are in the administrative
class and about 1000 of the
rank of assistant-secrqtary and
above. Most are overworked and
underpaid.
Lacking capable adminis-
trators, industry casts a covetous
eye on them and sometimes
seduces them away, even when
past the ages of 40 or 50. The
rewards are handsome, extending
to generous expense-allowances
and “top-hat” pensions more
remunerative and more elastic
than the Government’s non-con-
tributory scheme. At the other
end of the scale, the civil service
is unable to attract recruits of the
required standard. This year,
474 candidates (compared with
650 previously) applied for 50
vacancies. Only 31 were suc-
cessful.
Moreover, the top men have
no representative organisation to
push their claims. By virtue of
their dignity and responsibility
they have had to exercise for-
bearance while the pay of their
subordinates has become ad-
justed to “the current remunera-
tion of outside staffs employed
on broadly comparable work.”
It is not, therefore, surprising
that the recent report of the
royal commission on salaries and
working conditions in the civil
service should have paid so
much regard both to “outside
practice” and to the need for
large increases for the top men.
The proposed increases in
maximum pay (assistant-
secretary, £2200 to £2600 ; under-
sec., £2600 to £3250 ; deputy-sec.,
£3250 to £4250 ; and permanent-
sec., £4500 to £6000). will not
please the lower grades and their
staff-associations and will cause
strange anomalies. (For instance,
a permanent-secretary will
receive more money than his
Minister.) Nor are they favor-
ably-timed, with the wage-clamor
at its height and the Chancellor
ostensibly striving to reduce
Government expenditure.
Yet responsible opinion is in
no doubt as to the urgency of
this reform. The commission, in
fact, goes further by suggesting
that the Prime Minister should
appoint a small committee to
kee]3 the remuneration of the
higher civil service under review.
Idyll on High
The creative touches that give
sparkle to a light comedy are
indefinable but precise. It is the
rarest of events in the theatre
for author, producer and actors
to coalesce into a unity of charm,
wit and fantasy.
William Douglas Home's
comedy, “The Reluctant Debu-
tante,” has a vein more poignant
than fantastical but is the nearest
thing we have at present to this
ideal. If slight, it is at least a
self-contained integration of the
author’s ideas which is entirely
devoid of external aids or gim-
micks.
This is hardly true of Ugo
Betti’s pretty story of girl-gets-
boy, “Summertime” (Apollo
Theatre). Mandolins and
accordions, reproduced in loud
volume, set an atmosphere of
Italianate gaiety. James Bailey’s
three sets are so breathtaking
in their romantic, mountain
loveliness as quite to steal the
show. Birds sing, chickens
squeak, cows moo (offstage but
in pantomimic protest at the
hero), the postman rides a con-
temporary bicycle and the picnic
party sets out in a 1900 motor-
car, with engine kicking and
radiator emitting steam.
With clever and imaginative
lighting as a final ally, the 24-
year-old producer, Peter Hall, is
well served. His pictures are as
entrancing as the atmosphere is
effervescent. But so extravagant
is the boosting that the play,
what there is of it, seems not
much more than a colorfully-
dressed charade. The characters
are from stock, having nothing of
the ripe individuality of
Anouilh’s. With the exception of
Michael Gwynn’s unrequited
family doctor, the supporting
players add little to them.
Yet, as in his other more
serious plays, Betti makes obser-
vations on life and character.
Here it is the arrogance of young
manhood who, while preening
himself as a gallant, is too
stupidly blind to notice that the
sweet girl next-door is wildly in
love with him, even when she
proposes in the third-person.
Dirk Bogarde’s Alberto,
though amazingly Latin in ap-
pearance, behaves like a partly-
finished public-schoolboy whose
self-opinionated immaturity has
a tiny core of charm. Geraldine
McEwan’s Francesca is rather
spiky, combining gaucherie with
maidenly singleness of purpose;
when, in the end, she gets her
man it seems more by luck (bad
luck, maybe) than by wiles. It
is a complete performance none-
theless, idiosyncratic and indi-
vidual —a refreshing change from
the earnest preciosity of so many
young actresses new to the West
End.
The final curtain misses the
underlying irony which surely is
that there’s no accounting for
a young girl’s discrimination
when in first love.
Bland Guignol
“Suspect” (Royal Court
Theatre) is a 20-year-old I-
never-dunnit, based on the Lizzie
Borden case:—
Lizzie Borden with her axe
Gave her mother forty whacks.
When she saw what she had done,
She gave her father forty-one.
The construction of the first two
acts is so stark that the bones
of the play, as well as the dread-
ful axe, are naked even to em-
barrassment. The humor is
trite, the characters inane and the
curtains grotesque. But the
denouement of the last act is
worth waiting for, if only be-
cause of the terrifying power of
Flora Robson’s cornered sus-
pect, who, thirty years before,
had been let off with a. “not
proven.” The skill of the cor-
porate acting makes considerable
amends for the creaking relent-
lessness of the play.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” be posted free to you.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAOHT; - SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER TOWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and TamworTh
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd. —the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. MCDONALD.
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. McFARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
excess and expand success are
the two broad aims of the Govern-
ment’s fiscal and monetary policy, which
is designed to prevent the economy from
drifting too far on to the zone of infla-
tion. The overall pattern of events is
familiar enough: a drop in export
income, overfull employment—unemploy-
ment has dropped below the level of
ordinary transition between jobs—at
high and still-rising wage-rates, with con-
sequent bottlenecks in materials and
labor-supplies, and with demand spilling
over into the export market. One result
has been a run-down of our overseas
balances (London funds), and therefore
shrinkage of part of the base of bank
credit; another is that costs (mainly
wage-rates) and prices are rising faster
than production, with an inevitable
threat to stability.
To fight the evils which such a threat
portends the two main economic weapons
being used are import-restrictions and
the credit-squeeze. It is not a sharp 24-
hour battle but more like a twelvemonth
engagement in which some ebb and flow
can be expected. Only now are signs
beginning to appear that we are likely
to gain some ground in the struggle. The
immediate objective is to curb excess
domestic demand for durables, non-
durables and luxury items. Apart from
voluntary regulation of the volume of
hire-purchase transactions —the success or
otherwise of which has yet to be seen —the
task has been placed almost exclusively on
the banking system by quantitative and
qualitative control of credit. While the
squeeze lasts chief test in lending policy
is likely to be “the national interest” —
pastoral, agricultural and essential home-
industries —luxury, inessential and most
personal borrowers will be lucky if they
get their names put in the hat at all. That
looks like being the position for some
months to come at any rate.
Going straight to the heart of the
problem, the National’s chairman, Mr.
H. D*. Giddy, sees the need for more
fundamental adjustments. “Greater effort
on all fronts, for less in the way of
immediate rewards, is the only way out
of Australia’s economic problems.....
artificial measures would prove useless,”
he says. Meanwhile, the banks attract
much undeserved criticism. They hate
the credit-squeeze, which tends to gum-up
banking business. At branch level they
work like beavers getting as many and
as big accounts as possible, subject, of
course, to the credit-worthiness of the
customer —no bank wants bad-debts.
To help maintain its position as one
of the three giants among the big-seven
private trading-banks, the National
gathered £4,371,916 of fresh share-
capital (£3,363,012) and share-premiums
(£1,008,904) in January last the
premiums make a 9 p.c. div. worth only
6.9 p.c. on the new capital alone.
Although most of the new money, and
more besides, went into low-interest-bear-
ing liquids, the board was able to write
net earnings £158,662 stronger at
£900,056:
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. 7 p.c. ten Off. serves. serves.
1950.. 594,634 470,822 100,000 23,812 5,299,063
1951.. 623,781 470,822 100,000 52,959 5,352,022
1952 . . 653,666 470,822 100,000 82,844 5,434,866
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 5,934,866
8 p.c.
1953.. 669,004 538,082 100,000 30,922 5,965,788
9 p.c.
1954.. 741,394 605,342 100,000 36,052 6,001,840
Share premiums, 1,008,904 .. .. 7,010,744
From inner reserves, £991,096 .. 8,001,840
Unexplained addition, £7135 .. 8,008,975
1955.. 900,056 762,640 137,416 8,146,391
The £991,096 of inner reserves disclosed
appears to be a book-adjustment con-
nected with the final winding-up of the
Queensland National Bank, which was
taken over in 1948. The unexplained
addition was in respect of the p. and 1.
balance brought forward. The £900,056
of profit was 10.6 p.c. on average capital
as against 11, 9.9, 9.7, 9.2 and 8.8 p.c.
back to 1950. The div. was kept at 9 p.c.,
and looks like remaining there for the
current term at any rate. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) at September 30 the profit was a
moderate 4.9 p.c.
The effects of the credit-squeeze, intro-
duction of fresh capital, etc., and dis-
closure of inner reserves are further
reflected in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital £6,726,025 £6,726,025 £10,089,037
Reserves .. 5,965,788 6,001,840 8,146,391
Notes .. 47,484 47,479 47,478
Deposits,
etc. .. 227,587,114 240,127,512 246,333,823
Due other
banks .. 97,299 189,779 238,909
Final divs. 269,041 336,301 454,006
£240,692,751 £253,428,936 £265,309,644
Liquids .. 70,719,013 51,937,115 63,902,069
Special a/c 45,637,000 47,737,000 40,637,000
Loans, ad-
vances . . 118,525,559 146,215,004 152,406,242
Premises .. 3,651,000 4,029,036 4,686,703
Other assets 2,160,179 3,510,781 3,677,630
£240,692,751 £253,428,936 £265,309,644
The apparent growth in deposits, etc., was
£6,206,311 ; actually it was nearly a
million pounds greater, because of the
disclosure of inner reserves already
referred to. The growth in liquids (up
£11,964,954) was almost wholly in
respect of Government securities
(£24,316,518, up £11,915,096), and was
assisted by the release of £7,100,000 from
the special account with the Common-
wealth Bank. The addition to advances
amounts to little more than the interest-
charge involved. The addition to premises
(up £657,667) reflects territorial expan-
sion and improvements to existing build-
ings. Other assets (up £166,849) include
a 40 p.c. holding, or thereabouts, in
Custom Credit Corp. (paid capital
£3,000,000), which paid a 15 p.c. div. for
the year to June 30 last. The bank also
acts as agent for the co., and has thus
become associated with consumer-instal-
ment credit without prejudicing its
capacity to provide ordinary overdraft
accommodation.
At 335. 6d. the f.-p. £1 shares return
5.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis, the £1 shares paid to 12s. 6d.
each return 5.5 p.c. Including uncalled
capital, net tangible cover is 325. 9d. a
share.
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
T>IGGEST cotton-spinning, -weaving,
-dyeing and -finishing organisation in
Australia, the well-handled Bradford
group—it operates 14 separate mill-units,
of which seven are in N. S. Wales and a
like number in Victoria —came through
the difficult 12 months to June last with
a very creditable showing. Overseas
competition, floods, scarcity of skilled
labor and steady but not large increase
in power, transport and other overhead
were the chief troubles.
Although the Rutherford mills suffered
no direct damage from the big floods in
the Maitland area, output, sales and de-
liveries were interrupted. Also, owing to
the switching of import-licences from one
commodity to another, and the limited
application of increased duties on cotton-
duck, overseas competition remained
keen and margins fine until the close
of accounts. For a while much of the
trade in denims was lost to the U.K.,.
Japan and West Germany. Also the two
first-mentioned countries, together with
Italy and India, supplied the local market
with a lot of unproofed canvas and duck,
and drills, dungarees and jeans. And
the trade in cotton tyre-cord has been
largely replaced by rayon tyre-cord, an
event foreseen by the management and
partly offset by increased production of
cotton-yarn.
However, what the co. missed on the
swings it picked up on the roundabouts.
Demand for cotton-yarn was strong, and
sales of proofed industrial fabrics and
of other lines began to pick up toward
the close of accounts. So, with the aid
of a small rise in selling-prices to help
cover the increased costs of raw cotton,
group turnover for the year (amount not
stated) showed a slight increase. But
margins were finer, and there was a con-
traction of £28,162 in net earnings. That
was after allowing £277,345 (down
£72,302) for depreciation and £278,635
(up £13,145) for taxation:
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends —— N To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves, f
£, £,£>£>
1951.. 424 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 186,144 182,280 1,341,206
Share premiums, £300,631 .. .. 1,M1,837
Removal exes., etc., £38,268 . . 1,603,569
1952.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 248,144 127,782 1,731,351
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ..1,726,351
1953.. 364 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 266,535 98,829 1,825,180
* To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ..1,820,180
Add reserves adjustment, £Bll6 .. 1,828,296
1954.. 6 p.c. 12$p.c. 354,818 142,916 1,971,212
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,961,212
1955.. 469.572 6 p.c. 12$p.c. 368,503 101,069 2,062,281
To staff fund, £5OOO 2,057,281
* Excluding outside interests, t After deducting in-
tangibles (£2863), and excluding depreciation re-
serve (now £2,033,788).
Still, the £469,572 of profit was enough
to pay the pref. divs. (£9186) and show
16 p.c. on ord. capital as against 17.6,
13.8, 15.3, 14.6 and 10.8 p.c. back to
1950. So there was no difficulty in main-
taining the div. —steady at 10 p.c. for the
14 years to 1953 —at 12| p.c. In addition
to the £2,057,281 of free reserves (after
deducting £2863 of intangibles), there
was £2,033,788 earmarked for deprecia-
tion, equal to over 43 p.c. of the book-
value of plant, etc., at June 30 last, most
of which is modern equipment installed
since the war.
The year’s net addition to plant was
£336,775, which was met from surplus
earnings and provisions:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £2,782,808 £2,999,823 £3,020,621
Reserves . . 1,823,043 1,964,075 2,060,144
Depreciation
reserve .. 1,461,330 1,756,905 2,033,788
Outside interests 12,502
Mortgage loan 1,125,000 1,100,000 1,075,000
Overdraft . . 989,296 388,400 789,644
Creditors . . 1,033,700 1,556,053 1,414,721
Staff fund .. 15,016 24,223 33,471
Tax reserve .. 190,667 364,168 299,150
Final div. . . 136,282 218,097 184,690
£9,569,644 £10,361,744 £10,911,229
Freeholds .. 1,737,749 1,758,949 1,793,108
Leaseholds .. 124,858 131,127 132,914
Plant . . . . 4,202,021 4,346,284 4,683,059
Stock . . .. 2,448,264 2,567,349 2,577,772
Debtors .. 918,611 1,176,841 1,329,075
Cash, shares .. 135,378 378,331 392,438
Intangibles .. 2,863 2,863 2,863
£9,569,644 £10,361,744 £10,911,229
To carry an extra £152,234 of debtors’
balances and smaller additions to other
assets, as well as clip £141,244 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
reduce mortgages by £25,000 the co. went
to its bankers for an extra £401,244.
There was an improvement of £21,029 in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£502,609)
despite the heavy outlay of fixed assets.
Although the immediate outlook in the
industry is mixed, sales continue at a
high level, some advantage is expected
from greater freedom in the purchase of
raw cotton, the effect of import-restric-
tions is beginning to show up, and share-
holders have the chairman’s comforting
assurances that, subject to anything un-
expected happening, “the current year
will be a satisfactory one from all points
of view.”
At 375. 6d. (425. a year ago) the f.-p. £1
ords. return a satisfactory 6.6 p.c. on a
12i p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
345. 4d., excluding the depreciation re-
serve. The well-protected 6 p.c. prefs.
seldom come onto the market.
John Mcllwraith Industries, Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS organisation in its
particular field, this now more-than-
century-old group —parent and 11 inte-
grated subsidiaries, operating in all States
—is giving a very good account of itself.
Earnings depend largely upon the level
of activity in the building and chemical
industries. The group manufactures
and/or handles a large range of builders’
and plumbers’ hardware, specialising in
the production of water-taps, connections
and fittings for water and sewerage pipes,
cast-iron porcelain enamelware (baths,
basins and sinks) and lead-sheet and
-pipes, etc.
The present co., formed in October,
1950, took over John Mcllwraith Pty.
(Melbourne) and its eight subsidiaries.
The price was £1,000,000, met by the
issue of f.-p. 10s. shares. The public
became interested in March, 1951, when
a placement of 500,000 of these 10s.
stock-units at 16s. Bd. each enabled the
co. to qualify for taxation and for Stock
Exchange listing on a public-co. basis.
The story since has been one of rapid
and profitable expansion, financed partly
by the issue of f.-p. shares, partly
from surplus earnings and partly
from borrowed funds. Over the
last five years shareholders have
had a steady 12i p.c. div., with widening
margins, and reserves have shot up from
£41,450 to £692,918, which is subject to
£497,042 of intangibles. In 1952 Mc-
llwraith Industries Pty. (Sydney) was
taken over for £349,043 in scrip, thus lift-
ing paid capital to its present figure,
£1,349,043. A new trading subsidiary
was set up at Geelong at the end of
1953, and, just before the close of
accounts in 1954, the electric-stove-
making plant, etc., of Etna Electrical
Appliance Pty. was bought and installed
in the Sydney factory. In September,
1954, the Coburg Iron Foundry Pty.
(Vic.) was bought at an unstated figure
and added to the list of subsidiaries. Also,
land was recently bought at Dandenong,
where branch premises are to be built,
and a property at Brisbane was acquired
to provide for future expansion there.
Meanwhile, a brass-extrusion plant was
installed at the Melbourne factory, and
commenced operation in October, 1954.
The cast-iron-porcelain-enamel plant at
Sydney is being substantially extended,
and first stage of the work is scheduled
for completion by March next.
Together with buoyant trading condi-
tions, it all helps to explain the vigorous
growth in net earnings over the last five
years:—
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. {-> —Dividends serves, serves.*
80, £ £ £ £
Preliminary expenses w/off, £BO5O 41,450
1951 t. 130,937 12$ p.c. = 83,333 47,604 89,054
Add subsidiary’s res., £87,960 .. 177,014
Preliminary expenses w/off, £1528.. 175,486
1952. .242,287 12$ p.e. =146,815 95,472 270,958
. Unexplained reduction, £2556 .. 268,402
1953. .241,494 12$ p.c. =168,630 72,864 341,266
Unexplained reduction, £l9l .. 341,075
1954. .304,237 12$ p.e. =168,630 135,607 476,682
Goodwill written off, £6OOO .. .. 470,682
Unexplained addition, £l2 .. .. 470,694
1955. .390,854 12$ p.c. =168,630 222,224 692,918
* Subject to intangibles, £497,042, 30/6/’55.
t Eight months.
Last term demand for all the co.’s
products remained strong, and the
Geelong subsidiary, brass-extrusion plant,
new range of stoves and the iron-foundry
helped the figures along. After allowing
for depreciation (£51,278, up £17,678)


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
*
JACKSON
osuwvan
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
' BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
"URANIUM AND RADIO
ACTIVE ORES"
By G. S. COMPTON, B.Sc.,
and W. H. CLEVERLEY, B.Sc.
2s. 6d. posted
From :
Prospectors Association,
Box 217, P. 0., Kalgoorlie,
Western Australia
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
his future is
ASSURED!
It costs so little to assure your
child's life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
L
■mr
&
■ - K'
Protection
from
Babyhood to Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
■ m <n*wo iom
tHS METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh St*.. Sydney
': i
Agencies available in some areas. Write to Agency Manager.
ELECTRIC LIFTS hydraulic
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
F.R.S. SPRING
(HOLDINGS) LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales on 26th July, 1930)
REGISTERED OFFICE: 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 83 William Street, Melbourne
ISSUE AT PAR (£1)
OF £70,000 REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
7%
CURRENCY
SEVEN YEARS
Each £1 note carries the option to take up two 5 7 -
Ordinary Shares at par in October/November, 1961.
NOW OPEN
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS AVAILABLE FROM:
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
and
Members of Stock Exchanges
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO.
360 Collins Street 3! Hunter Street
Melbourne Sydney
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
For public information onlys This is not a Prospectus or an advertisement of
a Prospectus, and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe for the Notes
mentioned herein.
ina.ts
and taxation (£215,581, up
£56,137), the spring in net earn-
ings was £86,617, or over 28 p.c.
The record £390,854 of profit
claimed was 28.9 p.c. on capital
as against 22.5, 17.6 and 20.6 p.c.
back to 1952. The £6OOO of
goodwill written-off was in
respect of the new Coburg sub-
sidiary. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined)
the year’s profit was a healthy
20.2 p.c.
Further improvement in the
liquid position, and the all-round
expansion already referred to,
are the features of balance-sheet
figures:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
„ . 1954. 1955.
Paid capital ~ £1,349,043 £1,349,043
Reserves .. .. 476,682 692,918
Outside interest .. 88 11
Overdraft .. .. 23,998 173,844
Loans .. .. 360,596 381,285
Creditors .. .. 257,160 349,580
Tax provision .. 197,762 237,109
Final div. .. 84,315 84,315
£2,749,644 £3,268,105
Land, buildings .. 580,516 610,259
Plant, etc. .. 296,122 342,367
Investments .. 17,562 17,562
Stock .. .. 772,355 1,040,015
Debtors, etc. .. 585,552 760,299
Cash .. .. 495 561
Intangibles .. 497,042 497,042
£2,749,644 £3,268,105
To carry an extra £276,660 of
stocks (in at cost), £174,747 more
book-debts and add £75,988 net
to the book-value of fixed assets
the co. went to its bankers
for a further £149,846, raised an
additional £20,689 on loans and
increased the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £92,420. The
year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid'surplus (£592,304)
was £140,171.
With the tightening of credit,
the rate of expansion may slow
down. Still, the long-term out-
look for shareholders is encour-
aging. At 235. 6d. (245. 3d. a
year ago) the f.-p. 10s. shares
return 5.3 p.c. on a p,c. div.
basis, or 6.4 p.c. should the dis-
tribution be lifted to 15 p.c. Net
tangible cover is 11s. 6d. per
share.
North Broken Hill
T ATEST accounts of the
North, which is one of the
largest and richest of the big
silver-lead-zinc mines at the
Barrier (N.S.W.), present a very
pleasing picture. Features are
(1) bigger profit, (2) lift in the
div., (3) increase in tonnage of
ore mined, (4) rise in metal
prices, (5) addition to ore re-
serves, (6) gratifying results
from diamond - drilling, (7)
further deepening of No. 3 shaft
and (8) increased income from
investments.
Also the end of the heavy
capital expenditure associated
with No. 3 shaft appears
to be only a couple of years
ahead. All these things combined
to send the price of the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares (there are
2,800,000 of them) up from
71s. 6d. to 105 s. 6d. over the
last two years. The immediate
return at 105 s. 6d. is 8.5 p.c. on
the basis of last term’s 180 p.c.
div., which called for 62.6 p.c.
of the profit claimed.
The spring in total revenue
was £820,788, of which £720,874
came from mine products and
£99,914 from investments:
Revenue— 1954. 1955.
Mine products., £6,057,057 £6,777,931
Investments .. 400,553 500,467
£6,457,610 £7,278,398
Expenditure—
Mine .. .. 3,998,745 4,015,873
P. and 1. items 690,778 1,251,430
£4,689,523 £5,267,303
Net profit.. .. £1,768,087 £2,011,095
Mine expenditure increased by
only £17,128, because outlay
connected with No. 3 ventilation-
shaft and the treatment of old
residue - dumps ceased. The
growth of £560,652 in p. and 1.
items was almost wholly on
account of provision for taxa-
tion and royalties (£1,074,000,
up £556,000).
After allowing £lOO,OOO
(game as previous year) for de-
preciation, the net result was
£243,008 stronger at £2,011,095
(14s. 4d. per share), or 287.2 p.c.
on capital as against 252.5, 228.5
and 366.6 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The div.,
which was lifted from 90 p.c. in
1953 to 110 p.c. in 1954, was
raised to 180 p.c. (9s. per share).
The 383,254 tons (up 5883
tons) of ore hoisted was the best
extraction from the mine during
the last 11 years. The mill
treated 382,217 tons (up 3216
tons), averaging 13.5 p.c. lead,
7.20 z. silver and 11.2 p.c. zinc,
for the following concentrates:
r- J Asßay —^
Concentrates— Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Lead— Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1954 .. 69,494 71.9 38.1 4.9
1955 .. 70,465 71.3 35.8 5.2
Zinc—
-1954 .. 70,509 0.7 1.6 50.8
1955 .. 72,920 0.7 1.4 51.0
Metal recoveries from the
respective concentrates were 97
p.c. lead, 91.8 p.c. silver and
86.8 p.c. zinc. About 75 p.c. of
the lead in the lead concentrates
was exported last term, and the
balance sold locally. The average
price realised was £A 122.5 (up
£A15.3) per ton. The average
figure for zinc is not mentioned,
but it increased, too.
Over 95 p.c. of the ore treated
came from the North section,
and was mined above the 2600 ft.
level, whereas' present
level in the mine is 3370 ft. No.
3 shaft is now down 2590 ft., and
is expected to be stripped to the
3070 ft. level by June 30 next.
After that ordinary sinking
operations will continue.
Diamond-drilling has proved
continuation of the ore-body to
a depth of 4050 ft., and has
shown that the lode is again
increasing in size at the lower
levels. Ore reserves at June 30
last were conservatively put at
4,697,000 tons (up 81,000 tons),
equal to over 12 years’ work for
the mill at last term’s rate of
throughput. And there is a lot
more payable stuff yet to be
opened up between 3370 ft. and
4050 ft.
The financial position
strengthened:
1954. 1955.
Shares other cos. £3,215,579 £3,375,305
Stores .. .. 506,712 456,765
Concentrates on
hand .. ~ 1,158,798 1,069,625
Debtors .. .. 46,971 296,332
Cash, etc. .. 818,012 1,390,070
Liquid assets .. £5,746,072 £6,588,097
Less liabilities* .. 1,953,372 2,677,912
Liquid surplus .. £3,792,700 £3,910,185
* Includes provision for taxation, final
divs., etc.
The year’s growth in the more-
or-less liquid surplus was
£118,485. Shares in other cos.
(up £159,726) are mostly in well-
established and expanding non-
ferrous and other manufactur-
ing concerns. Cash, etc., in-
cludes advances to associated
cos. (£927,000, up £762,241). It
all augurs well for an even
better return from investments
for the current term.
Since the close of accounts
prices for both metals have
strengthened. The London
average per ton for lead and
zinc rose from £5102.8 and
£591.3 for June, 1955, to £SIIO
and £596.5 respectively on
November 301 The advance has
been free from the fluctuations
which have affected the copper
market. The general level of
world trade and the activities of
the U.S. stockpile authorities are
the two main factors influencing
lead and zinc prices today.
Clarence River Basin Oil
The co.’s first annual report
(dated November 17, 1955) and
balance-sheet as at June 30 last
provide some interesting histori-
cal details.
The original boring equip-
ment under option to the co. was
condemned by G. H. and J. A.
Watson Pty., Ltd. The co.’s
drilling consultant, Mr. L. L.
McKillop, then advised that “it
would probably be more
economical financially to obtain
a secondhand reconditioned rig
from the U. 5.,” but, that he him-
self would be unable to carry out
the mission.
So it was decided that chair-
man H. Gregory Forster “should
make the trip along the lines
suggested.” This he did
between December, 1954, and
March, 1955, and “several rigs
were offered under very favor-
able terms.” But when the co.
asked for authority to import,
and for dollars to buy, its
request was turned down. A
similar request, made after the
chairman’s return from abroad,
received “a sympathetic hear-
ing,” but until “definite equip-
ment was selected” no decision
would be given.
Finally, a local contract was
entered into with Oil Drilling and
Exploration, Ltd., and work on
No. 1 well at the racecourse,
Grafton, began on September 17
last, and since then “difficulties
have occurred from time to time
between the drillers and the co.”
Drilling recently ceased at
4492 ft. “so that an electric log
can be run.” Nothing of much
importance so far as flow-oil is
concerned had been met with.
Meanwhile, the co.’s leases near
Port Macquarie and Kempsey
are being examined by geo-
lpgists. What shareholders
would like to know, but the
report does not tell them, is
how many financial feathers the
co. still has left to fly with.
At June 30 last paid capital
was £235,993 and there was
£2213 coming to sundry credi-
tors, a total of £238,206. Of
the capital £100,002 had been
issued in f.-p. shares for leases,
etc., and £135,991 had been
gathered in cash on 2,000,000
ss. shares called to 2s. each.
There was £91,658 in the
kitty when the books closed.
The other £46,546 of cash
receipts (including creditors) was
gobbled by underwriting com-
mission (£25,000), other share-
issue exes. (£1834), preliminary
exes. (£3560), sundry payments
connected with leases, etc.
(£1653), office-equipment (£528)
and net operating and adminis-
trative exes. (£13,971).
The scrip fetches around 6d.
in the market.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry—No. 77 of 1955.
BETWEEN MARY ETHEL PRICE WICKHAM Peti-
tioner and LESLIE PERCY WICKHAM Respondent.
TO LESLIE PERCY WICKHAM formerly of Cleve-
land in Tasmania but last heard of in Epping in
Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Honourable Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of MARY ETHEL PRICE WICKHAM of
Launceston in Tasmania praying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion In default of
you so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance must be
entered either at the Launceston District Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania at Cameron Street
aforesaid or at the Principal Registry of the said
Court at Macquarie Street Hobart in the State of
Tasmania. —D. W. SHIELDS, District Registrar.
N.B. —Friends of the abovenamed LESLIE PERCY
WICKHAM who may see this advertisement are re-
quested to bring it under his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO R. ROBERTS address unknown.—TAKE NOTICE
that NOEL FRANCIS CORBY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4033 of 1952 against his wife
DOREEN ALICE CORBY of Oaks Road Thirlmere
New South Wales on the ground of adultery on the
14th December 1951 at Cobbitty and that you are
therein cited as Co-Respondent If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
8th February 1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GREAVES NEWTON &
WANNAN, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The Premier, accompanied by Mrs.
Bolte, officially opened the Y.W.C.A.
Christmas Festival, for which Preston
Motors lent their large showrooms in
Russell-street until December 11. Twelve
countries are represented in the Festival,
each showing how the house is decorated
for this happy period. In the U.S. en-
closure Mrs. Givon Parsons and Mrs.
Joseph Wiedenmeyer, both wives of U.S.
Consuls, have arranged a replica of the
White House, where, on December 18,
President Eisenhower will light the
Washington community Christmas-tree
which will open the 1955 Pageant of
Peace.
The Austrian section’s centrepiece
(made in Melbourne by Professor Sharp,
formerly of the Munich Art Academy)
is a replica of the stained-glass window
in the Obemdorf parisffichurch, where
the Rev. Josef Mohr on Christmas Eve,
1818, first conducted the choir in singing
his hymn, “Silent Night, Holy Night.”
The Canadian section shows portion of a
living-room with two children gazing out
into the snow, admiring the brilliantly-
lighted Christmas-tree.
The Armenian, Swedish and French
sections are also decorated in the custo-
mary Christmas fashion, and at each sec-
tion attendants wear their gay national
costumes. The members of the Swiss
community did a busy trade selling tradi-
tional honey-cakes. The South Yarra
Auxiliary staffed a stall, where each day
and evening Christmas gifts will be sold
for Y.W.C.A. funds.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the first time the flag of the Uni-
versity flew over the members’-stand at
Caulfield racecourse, the University crest
was featured on the cover of the race-
book, and wives of the University staff
were guests at an official luncheon, while
their husbands were entertained by the
chairmen and committees of the four
Metropolitan racing-clubs. The clubs
had combined for one day’s racing, pro-
ceeds of which go to the University Cen-
tenary Appeal.
Mrs. Arthur Dean, wife of the Chan-
cellor, and Mrs. G. W. Paton, wife of
the Vice-Chancellor, were at the lun-
cheon, and other guests were Miss Myra
Roper (principal of the Women’s Col-
lege), Miss Mary Bagnall (principal of
Janet Clarke Hall), and wives of profes-
sors, including Mrs. W. Newton-John,
Mrs. R. C. Johnson, Mrs. R. W. T.
Cowan and Mrs. A. B. F. Amies.
V V V
Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Coles, of Toorak,
have announced the engagement of their
youngest daughter, Janice, to James, son
of Mr. Edward D. Barry, of Hampton,
and the late Mrs. Margaret Barry. Jan,
who is wearing a ring of sapphires and
diamonds, is an occupational-therapist at
Roydl Park. Plans are being made for a
wedding towards the end of next year, by
which time Jim expects to complete his
university degree in commerce.
V V *
Despite a chilly wind blowing in from
the sea, the barbecue organised by the
young members of the Gordon Group at
the Village Hall, Mt. Eliza, was a great
success. Looking quite professional in
their aprons and white chef’s-caps,
committee-members cooked chops and
sausages over 12 barbecues. Margaret
Campbell and Laurette Hill were respons-
ible for the decor in the hall, where later
the guests danced. The group’s president,
sim Grover, was present with his fiancee.
Angela Barrington ; also attending were
Mr. and Mrs. William Banks, Mr. and
Mrs. Max Kitchen (Ballarat), Barbara
Southey and her fiance, Neil Stacey.
Proceeds will buy floor-coverings for the
Gordon Homes.
Educated at the Methodist Ladies'
College, Beverley, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. R. Stewart, of Box Hill, chose
modelling as her career on leaving school.
She first came into the limelight by being
chosen “Miss Henley” and then “Miss
Moomba” Last month she celebrated
her 20th birthday by becoming Miss Vic-
toria. Beverley, always ready to help
any charitable cause, is in great demand
as a model for teenage fashions. Photo
by Latrobe Studios.
The opening of the Union Theatre
Repertory Company’s production of Ray
Lawler’s prize-winning play “Summer of
the Seventeenth Doll” brought a large
audience. Production was by arrange-
ment with the Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
University Vice-Chancellor Professor
G. W. Paton and Mrs. Paton had a large
party, among them Dr. and Mrs. James
Buchanan, Dr. and Mrs. Frank May,
Dr. and Mrs. G. Bearham, Mr. and Mrs.
A. T. Smithers and Dr. and Mrs. W. E.
King. Elizabethan Theatre Trust direc-
tor Hugh Hunt came from Sydney for
the opening-night, and others in the
audience were Mr. and Mrs. Frank Tait,
Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mr. E. Haisman
and his son and daughter-in-law, Dr.
and Mrs. Alan Wynn, Mr. and Mrs.
Peter Randall and Miss Irene Mitchell.
* ☆ ☆
St. John’s, Toorak, was setting for
the marriage of Winifred Frances Coates
and Walter Gherardin. The bride, who
is the second daughter of Sir Albert and
Lady Coates, of Toorak, wore a frock
of off-wfiite silk-organza, cut on simple
lines, with a very bouffant skirt. The
bodice featured a wide collar of French-
lace, which fell over the shoulders to
give the effect of tiny sleeves. Her finger-
tip tulle veil was caught with a pearl
coronet, and she carried a trail of gar-
denias and stephanotis.'
’Maids in attendance were her sister
Dorothy and cousin Marjorie Coates.
Their frocks were of white organza
mounted on yellow to give a gold effect,
and they wore circlets of frangipani in
their hair. Their posies were also of
frangipani. The bridegroom, who is the
elder son of Mr. and Mrs. W. Gherardin,
of Ormond, had Kenneth Jack as best
man, and Robert Gherardin was grooms-
man.
Beautiful flower-arrangements decor-
ated the home of the bride’s parents for
the reception for 150 guests. Lady Coates
wore a sheath-frock of powder-blue
guipure-lace with a forward-tilted black
straw platter-hat. Mrs. Gherardin chose
a frock and coatee of ink-blue silk-crepe
with a moss-pink straw cloche.
tc ☆ ☆
There were gay Christmas-trees in the
foyer of No. 9 Darling-street for the
dinner-dance organised for the Sacre
Coeur War Memorial Building Appeal.
On the tables were smaller Christmas-
trees made from pine-branches, silvered
pine-cones and shells. Guests dined by
candlelight.
There were four organisers: Mrs.
Harry Cumming, who chose a frock of
off-white satin-brocade highlighted with
a plum-colored Chinese stole; Mrs.
Diana Ryan, whose black taffeta frock
had a shawl-collar; Mrs. Ross Batten,
in short frock and matching jacket of
champagne-tinted brocade beaded in
gold; and Mrs. Derek Rumbold, whose
choice was a short bouffant frock of gold-
starred black silk-organza.
SYDNEY
The elections should perhaps have
been the main topic of conversation
during the week, but the weather put in
too strong a claim, with its thunderstorms
and its heat (93 degrees one day), and
then its bitter westerly on Sunday, with
snow (in December, mind you!) on the
mountains. During one thunderstorm,
however, which shed an unearthly golden
light over the city even after the sun had
set, it was rather unnerving to hear boom-
ing through the heavens a mighty voice
that said over and over again: “Mr.
K’Foops will speak here at eight tonight.
Listen to Mr. K’Foops here at eight
tonight,” etc. Perhaps the elections won
that round, at any rate.
☆ ☆ ☆
However badly the weather behaved at
other times during the week, it produced
a perfect night for the Moonlight Fan-
tasy, held on Friday at Point Piper in
aid of the Smith Family. A yellow moon
rose over the harbor and the lawns of the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Sam Lands, where
a dance-floor had been erected and little
tables were scattered under trees twink-
ling with silver angels and fairy-lights.
And as the moon rose, so, too, did the
white swan in the tidal swimming-pool,
showing first its flower-crowned head and
last the raft of flowers on which it rested.
Many of the girls wore white, which
made them look like sylphides in the
moonlight. Mrs. Tom Hughes was in
white organdie with a pleated petal
bodice. Mrs. Howard Rivett’s white
guipure-lace alternating with bands of
pleated nylon was very beautiful. Mrs.
Max Sturzen’s short white satin had
pockets of pearls and crystal.
Diana Rose Snider, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. L. S. Snider, of Point Piper, is
at present on her way to Europe after
having spent an exciting four weeks of
sightseeing in Ceylon, where she was the
guest of Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Maitland.
Diana, who is travelling with her friend
Sue Purser, intends to do a post-graduate
course in French literature at the Sor-
bonne early next year, and in the mean-
time will take in as much of the English
and Continental picture as possible. She
will be away 12 months in all. Photo by
Dayne.
At the annual meeting of the Braille
Writers’ Association the president, Mrs.
Harry Ringland, said that many members
had offered to will their eyes to an “Eye
Bank” which is being formed for help
in restoring sight to blind people. When
one of the members present asked
whether the eyes of people over 40 were
any good, Mrs. Ringland said she, was
unable to answer that question, but Mr.
H. F. Benning, honorary secretary of the
Blind Society, offered the opinion that the
eyes of women over 40 seemed to him to
be just as dangerous as the eyes of women
under 40, and that perhaps an eye-bank
was the best plage for them!
* ☆ ☆
The Penguin Club’s 18th birthday-
party went off very merrily under the
guidance of Mrs. Jean Ellis, Federal
president, assisted by Mrs. D. McArthur
(in a 1925ish black tunic-dress with
crystal fringe), Mrs. Len Buckley, Mrs.
H. T. Glover and Mrs. W. Crossan. It
was held in the conference-room of the
Rural Bank, and there were about 160
guests present, including 10 proud hus-
bands and two or three male “critics.”
The Penguin Club, which trains women
in public speaking, now has over 1000
members throughout Australia, and it is
its boast that all four women members of
Parliament in Tasmania are “Penguins.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Joy Smail livened the Sydney
fashion-scene when she arrived from
Paris last week to arrange with Aus-
tralian manufacturers the display of
dresses in French-cottons for the French
exhibition at the Royal Easter Show
next year. Mrs. Smail, an Englishwoman
who has lived in Paris for 25 years, chose
a corn-colored outfit —short, loose coat
over a sleeveless sheath-dress (cotton,
of course, but in a basket-weave that
resembled straw) —and a little bit of
veiling-nonsense for a hat on one of the
week’s hot days. She said that her only
non-cotton was a lynx-fur coat, plus
black skirt and sweater, for America and
“any cold places en route" No doubt
she wore these on one of the week’s cold
days! Mrs. Smail will organise the
making of the dresses for the Easter
exhibition and will return next year for
the display.
☆ ☆ ☆
Carols were sung at the Christmas
musicale of the English Speaking Union’s
music-circle, held this year at the Royal
Empire Society’s rooms. Guests-of-
honor were Lady Stevens, Mr. Justice
Richardson and Mrs. Richardson, Dr.
and Mrs. Garnet Halloran, Mrs. W. C.
Wentworth and Mrs. Dakin. During the
afternoon a presentation was made on
behalf of the members by Mrs. Persia
Porter to Mrs. Harry Twigden, in appre-
ciation of her work as director of the
music-circle.
☆ ☆ *
Among the most pleasant of the Christ-
mas parties will be the Christmas Ball
given by the Air-Officer-Commanding
and officers of the Home Command
Headquarters, R.A.A.F., at the Officers’
Mess, Glenbrook, on Friday, December
9, when Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters,
with Mrs. Walters, will receive the guests.
☆ ☆ ☆
A very attractive programme is
promised to guests of the Catholic Wel-
fare Bureau Auxiliary at its first function
to be held in the newly-decorated rooms
of the Legion of Catholic Women,
December 11. A High Tea (which the
committee promises will be quite “delect-
able”) at 6.30 will be followed by a play
by the Newton Players and a musical
programme by Monica Selig, Marie
O’Farrell, Dorothy Brophy and Nancy
Salas. It will be necessary to make reser-
vations with the president of the
auxiliary, Mrs. J. H. Pelly (FY4292), or
with Legion House.
☆ ☆ ☆
The first week in December is
generally a very happy one, partly be-
cause it brings with it the final task of
so many committees that have been work-
ing hard all the year for this very end,
i.e., the handing-over of cheques. Early
in the week Mrs. C. M. Guiney, presi-
dent of the International Ball Commit-
tee, handed a cheque for £750 to Mr.
R. J. Honner, president of the United
Nations Association, the proceeds of the
ball. Then on Thursday the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children was the
happy recipient of no fewer than three
cheques: £5OO from the newly-formed
Forget-me-not Committee under the
presidency of Mrs. Sidney Lennon;
£5OO from the Wollongong Auxiliary;
and £2OO from the Lebanon League. Mr.
K. F. Coles, chairman, received these
cheques on behalf of the society.
The Elizabethan Ball Committee
handed a cheque for more than £1460 to
the chairman of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust, Dr. H. C. Coombs, when the final
meeting for the year was held at the
board-room of the Commonwealth Bank,
and Dr. Coombs, in congratulating the
committee, said that not only had the
ball been a great financial success but
it had proved also an outstanding social
event.


Going to England?
Let one of London’s leading firms
find your FLAT, HOUSE, or
COTTAGE, in England. Send full
details, including: accommodation
required, district preferred, and rent
you are prepared to pay, to the
firm’s Representative in Australia:
GEORGE SANDWITH,
47 Kurraba Road,
Neutral Bay, Sydney.
DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
Vrovide one month’s treatment
ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD,,
26 Chase Road, Turramurra,
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH THOMAS MACK of Flat 3
Block 6 Moorehead Street Redfern.—TAKE
NOTICE that THELMA MARY MACK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2954
of 1955 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 2nd day of February
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from BERNE MURRAY &
TOUT, Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
TO JOHN WILLIAM HENRY BOURKE,
formerly of 874 Howe Parade South
Melbourne.—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife CATHERINE NELLIE BOURKE of
313 Flemington Road North Melbourne
Victoria has instituted proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of deser-
tion Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the 15th
day of January 1956 and file an answer
by the 10th day of February 1956 the
case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs. 'Die
address of the Petitioner for service of
any documents in this cause is care of
EDWARD J. THWAITES, Solicitor, 317
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Victoria.—
EDWARD J, THWAITES, Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
Fuiiti in the
Future
Mobility counts for so very much in modem
living. And nowhere, I believe, is this life-in-
movement more graphically seen than in the United
States.
America is keyed to the motor industry, which
is one of the really great influences in the everyday
life of the nation. I had noticed it on earlier visits.
It is more apparent now.
The domestic demand for motor cars is
proverbial of America. Add to that the big export
trade and you get the remarkable fact that the
U.S.A. is in the process of producing seven million
cars this year.
The five leading manufacturers of transport
vehicles and of agricultural and earth-moving
equipment are probably the most important
industrial group in the country.
Alongside the huge motor industry there is a
programme of road construction. New roads are
constantly being built; others, which we would
prize in Australia, are being taken up and remade.
Throughways and turnpikes (toll roads) are
appearing mile upon mile across the continent.
This is costing billions of dollars, but the
Americans —realists when it comes to living and
expanding—say it is worth every cent of the outlay
because of the life-injection it gives to commerce.
Such things as adequate roads—so necessary
in Australia —are only possible by financial
strength, combined with the flair for construction
which the Americans undoubtedly have.
Granted, there are differences in wealth and
in numbers between the two countries, but
fundamentally our needs are the same. Australia
must have the wherewithal to put into operation
the developmental work that we know will have to
be done. Be it roads or anything else, we must
gather the strength and exercise the will, and in
the vernacular phrase, “get moving.”
It is a matter of self-help. It is in our own
hands. And much of it—most of it—will depend
on our determination as individuals to get things
done.
7
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO:
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
( NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas, unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £l/16/-; 6 months 18/6; 3 months 9/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to ‘‘The Bulletin” or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Jokers on the Loose”
While it might be a trifle rash
to say there’s never a bad vaude-
ville show at Sydney Tiv., it is,
at least, very difficult to remem-
ber when there was one, and
Mr. David N. Martin’s latest
offering in the cause of enter-
tainment is so good that it makes
any such feat of remembering
doubly difficult.
The Wiere Brothers, three
superlative cloyvns, are the
centre of attraction —Herbert,
more-or-less straight; Harry,
who recalls Mischa Auer, but
defies any such comparison;
and Sylvie, whose size, shape and
humor are a ringer for Gion-
navetti’s rotund little badger, or
whatever it is, that gets itself
into so much trouble in the pages
of “Punch.” In fact, one might
even suspect Gionnavetti of
having seen Sylvie, or vice
versa.
All resemblances end there,
however, and what Herbert,
Harry and Sylvie do in the way
of subtle clowning and musical
foolery is nobody’s business but
their own, and extraordinarily
clever business it is—light as a
cobweb and just as perfect in
form and detail, it kept the Tiv.
audience laughing as loud and
long as this commentator, be-
tween laughs, has ever seen ’em
laugh.
In an evening which could be
carried by the Wiere Brothers
alone —they make five appear-
ances —there are several other
consistently good performers,
notably Red Moore, for his light
and skilful impressions, particu-
larly that of Billy (“Old Black
Magic”) Daniels; Alain
Diagora, for his balancing on
a rubber ball and on two empty
bottles, neck to neck, while
juggling an assortment of rings
and Indian-clubs ; ventriloquist
Canfield Smith and Snodgrass
(whose hand falls off and on to
the floor: “Wipe it before you
put it back”); Ken Littlewood,
who sprouts lighted candles be-
tween his fingers; James Up-
shaw and Phillida Cooper,
“Poets of the Dance,” whose
poetry is red-hot and spectacu-
lar ; and the Trio Gypsys, whose
flashing acrobatics in . em-
broidered white silk are, in-
deed, “thrilling, amazing and
sensational.”
And if, by any incredible
chance, there shouldn’t be some-
thing in that list for even the
most jaded patron, there is also
the Tiv. ballet, which, in its
own charming way, always con-
trives to appear as though it has
something for everybody.
* ►>
“Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll”
Written by Ray Lawler and
put on at Melbourne University’s
Union Theatre, this, in present
commentator’s opinion, is the
first intelligent play about Mel-
bourne that Melbourne has seen.
Mr. Lawler has dramatic skill
of a high order. His dialogue is
crisp and incisive, his characters
speak their mother-tongue—
Carlton —and he doesn’t put into
their mouths highfalutin poetic
notions alien to their natures.
The characters are mainly bar-
maids and canecutters, and the
cutters’ highest ideal is beer,
women and hard work, and a
good time when work is over.
The hard work is recognised
as a necessary passport to the
women, and the canecutters are
proud of their prowess in both
directions. They go off every
year to Queensland, cut cane,
earn big money and dream of the
five-months’ lay-off. When that
comes, down they go to Mel-
bourne to give the girls, who
have been working their beer-
pumps and also dreaming of the
lay-off, a helluva good time
before returning for the next
cutting season.
They have been doing this for
17 years ; marriage is never in-
stanced, and nobody has security,
so nobody is bored. This time,
however, it is a different story.
The older of the two canecutters
has something of the leader in
him and is an inspiration
to the other, but a younger man
comes into the gang and cuts
a bigger tally. They are two
defeated heroes who enter the
two-storied house in Carlton.
Mr. Lawler works this theme
out through three acts and five
scenes in the raciest manner, and
he can be forgiven a rather im-
potent conclusion —it is difficult
to see what else the two Carlton
Casanovas could have done but
wander off together back to the
wide open spaces.
Fenella Maguire, Roma
Johnston, June Jago, Carmel
Dunn, Noel Ferrier and Malcolm
Billings played the thing so well
that it would be superfluous to
differentiate between them. Ray
Lawler played the second cane-
cutter as, presumably, he thought
he should be played, and John
Sumner came across from Syd-
ney to produce it. He is taking
it back for the Elizabethan
Theatre.
❖ ❖
“Only an Orphan Girl”
For its last production for the
year Canberra Repertory offered
a boisterous combination of a
skit on melodrama and some
music-hall turns. To judge by
the response of the audience the
performance was a success.
With the villain speaking under
a shower of peanut-shells, and
the hero and heroine urged on
in their struggles with the world
by a steady flow of “modern” wit
from the audience, the show was
highly successful.
Leon Hudson was an
admirable master of ceremonies
—vulgar in dress, vulgar in
speech, but every inch a show-
man in love with life and the
business of putting it over with
the audience. His group of
vaudeville-performers and ballad-
singers put the audience in the
right mood, which did not flag
all the evening.
The actors in the play took-
over where Hudson left-off.
Helen Woodger, as the orphan
girl, and Jim Hutchins, as the
clean-cut farm-lad, were very
effective —they had thought
themselves into the minds of the
innocents who believed the Devil
is everywhere except inside one-
self.
The one weakness in Harald
Brokenshire’s interpretation of
the villain was that he did not
perceive that the traditional func-
tion of villains is to make the
audience loathe evil, and to be
horrified by it. Still, his appear-
ance was first-rate, and he played
up to the audience in traditional
style. Slim Bauer was also im-
pressive as the neighborly farmer
who knows how to serve the
Lord and look after the well-
being of his cows.
In the matter of direction,
George Ogilvie did a good job
with the music-hall section, and
Anne Godfrey-Smith extracted
the maximum entertainment
from script and players. In fact,
players, singers, interjectors and
audience were all caught up into
the mood the producers wanted
to create.
M.C.
Talkies
“Aida” (Sydney Paris): The
sweep of action which the screen
allows makes a magnificent
spectacle of this Italian film on
Verdi’s opera. The original
script is strictly adhered to and
the acting is excellent; the
dubbing-in of voices is generally
satisfactory, and eminently so
in the cash of the title-role —
sung brilliantly by Renata
Tebaldi. Guiseppe Campora sings
Rhadames with great power and
beauty of tone, and the two
voices blend to lovely effect in
the final duet in the tomb. Out-
standing performances from
Sophia Loren as Aida, and Afro
Poli, as the Ethiopian King.
“Lease of Life” (Sydney Em-
bassy): A warm-hearted story
of an English country parson
whose usually meek and self-
effacing character changes re-
markably when he is told by his
doctor that he has only 12
months to live. He preaches a
forthright sermon (and a very
good one) which shocks his
superiors and robs him of a
prospective headmastership but
delights his congregation.
Domestic touches are neatly
etched, and, in the chief
role, Robert Donat draws
a fine mixture of gentleness,
strength of character and whim-
sical humor. Kay Walsh sup-
ports him admirably as his
patient wife.
“The Glass Slipper” (Sydney
Liberty): M.-G.-M.’s musical-
dancing version of “Cinderella”
has the benefit of Leslie Caron’s
elfin charm and dancing, rich
dressing and settings in color
and deft touches of humor.
Michael Wilding’s Prince is a
trifle stodgy.
“The Intruder” (Sydney
Esquire): Stockbroker Jack
Hawkins, ex-tank-commander,
comes home to find one of his
old rankers ratting the place.
The intruder escapes and Bull-
dog Jack goes after him with
the idea of putting his old
swaddy on the straight-and-
narrow. Subsequent activities
add-up to a fair quota of excite-
ment.


A Christmas-gift to
Fascinate-
"THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING"
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia ioo years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography in the short space of three years
since it was first published in book-form.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise , what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon receipt
of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY . Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
'Phone: BW 8861.
P. BURDON, Manager.
120 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Sorry mr Keever
by
Jack
Lusby
ma JT HE Cairo Correspondent
/ focused sad spaniel eyes
L on the cable a second
time, letting it soak
right in.
It soaked in like O.P. vitriol in
an open wound. It was a mes-
sage of instant dismissal, terse
and final. It cracked like a whip.
Plump and sallow, the cor-
respondent ; sweat running in
the stubble on his face. The
white suit had been slept-in. He
sat slump-crumpled in a cane
chair, squat fingers furrowing up
through thick dark hair and
sawing a small moustache. The
cable stunted to the carpet.
There were other recent mes-
sages on a littered table. Ques-
tioning, carping, condemning,
culminating in the coup-de-
grace on the carpet. Also on
the carpet lay the assassinated
Ambassador. Staring up flat
and smug from an airmailed
newsheet. With screaming head-
lines and the scoop-story you
missed, Keever. Down there
in the news-picture the eminent
victim himself appeared to be
enjoying Keever’s distress.
Via the pension’s only bed-
room a boy swished onto the
small * balcony and put coffee
down. As he went Keever idly
noted he could see only red fez
and flowing white galabieh
moving in the inner room.
Moving, stooping, performing
tasks, though face, feet and
hands had merged in the gloom
and gone. Keever twisted in his
chair and stared fixedly at this
everyday phenomenon till a flash
of teeth and eyeballs reassured
him. He slumped again.
CJPEARS of sunlight pierced the
blinds and slanted down.
Out in the harsh-white cauldron
of the street shrill Arabic rose
high in altercation. Somewhere
a nasal radio yah-yahed thin
Egyptian music. Any morning
in the Rue Madabegh. The
Ambassador had died two
blocks away. It rankled.
Using both hands Keever
drank some coffee, and clattered
the cup back in the saucer. It
had been some week! Keever
groped vaguely for what had
triggered it off.
He remembered that farewell
to the film-floozie at the airport.
Cheesecake posing amid flowers,
fezes and four-bladed props.
And a bar where the new
writing-kid from Chicago listened
to everything and asked damn-
fool questions. “Man —what
d’you do in feluccas?” And
Renee, all black lace and legs,
laughing and leaning to tell him,
and the kid’s face turning red as
her hair.
Then there was the party on
the houseboat. Parked at the
edge of the Nile under the gum-
trees. Keever remembered look-
ing up at the moon through the
gumtrees and practically crying
into his pink gin with nostalgia
or something.
“But it’s vairy important!” the
woman had been saying to
him, over and over. Someone
else had been shaking him.
“Sure, sure. Aussies planted ’em
back in War One! But you got
a call here, Keever. Urgent.
D’you want it?”
The recollection, or dream,
went no further. Keever in the
cane chair was spurring his
brain against windmills.
Some reflex-fumbling in
pockets produced yesterday's
billet-doux from the London
office, and Keever flinched as he
recognised it.
“What the bloody hell are you
doing?” was the gist of it.
“Having wonderful time. Wish
you were here,” had seemed a
perfectly reasonable response
yesterday in Salveau’s ; Bar,
hilariously endorsed by press-
men very much off duty.
Only Salveau had felt bad
about it. He liked Keever. Sal-
veau was Turkish or Greek or
French or Armenian. He under-
stood many languages but kept
most of them under the counter.
Yesterday Salveau had kept his
skull and his smile rock-steady
while he shook his brain sadly
for Keever.
"VT ENTA L L Y maleeshing
yesterday and all its
brothers and sisters, Keever
achieved a fatalistic shrug and
even rose to a hoarse and shaky
bellow.
“Hakim! Ta ’ala hena! ”
“Effendi?”
“More coffee.”
Now, Keever, sftid the hob-
nailed voice in his head, you’ve
got the bullet, you’re broke and
out of credit. You’re not fit to
be seen ; but do something.
“Coffee, effendi,” said Hakim.
He put it down quietly and was
gone.
Keever let his gaze sweep
wearily around the pension.
Dusting his meagre possessions
with his eyes. Suddenly he
scraped the chair around and
jerked it a foot or so side-
ways with a heave of his
ample backside. He leaned
over and tugged open a stiff
bottom drawer, took out a solid-
looking package, and rolled off
the waterproof wrappings.
Oily blue-black and lethal
still, the Jerry paratroop Sten-
gun. Keever clicked it into one
piece, cocked, and pressed the
trigger.
Cluck! the gun said dis-
gustedly.
Whew! thought Keever. Hot
souvenir now! Gone a million,
caught with it. He weighed it
thoughtfully in one hand. H’m!
You little beauty! It’s cash or
the calaboose for Keever. With
heavy odds on the cash.
A twist and a pull slipped
barrel from butt; and into the
old leather satchel. It had taken
a lot of energy.
Relax and down some coffee.
One-handed this time. Might as
well even dig for a Camel. One
left, rriisshapen in a flattened
pack. Calls for concentration,
lighting these things. Ah —
second match gets it.
As he sucked the smoke right
down, Keever’s thoughts
jumped to pre-war Shanghai.
Sacked there once, after a week-
long party. Stoked coal home
to Sydney. The soft, dark dog-
eyes that now flicked to the
satchel had a prayer in them.
He got to his feet, donned a
panama, pocketed thirty surviv-
ing piastres and went out into
the mainstream of Cairo, almost
staggering under the first smack
of the sun.
TIE threaded his way sweatily
'along the glare-struck,
jostling pavements, his accus-
tomed ears barely registering the
shrieking, honking, wheedling,
muttering, whispering voice of
Cairo.
He hardly spared a glance for
a couple of veiled beauties who
demurely made way for him, for
a sullen woman slumped on a
doorstep breastfeeding a fly-
blown baby, for a high-ranking
Bedouin who strode arrogantly
by, for the grey-suited fezed
Egyptians sipping coffee and
talking their eternal politics at
the pavement-tables, for the high-
heeled clickety-clacketing French
and Greek girls.
He waved gharry-drivers and
cabbies away. The firmly-
gripped satchel was his world,
and its moon was the need for
a drink.
Must have been tottering along
at a fair bat, thought Keever.
Salveau’s just ahead. Stand here
in the shade for a minute. Calm
down. Bloody ticker’s going
like mad.
After the harsh whiteness of
the street it seemed almost dark
in Salveau’s Bar; but cool and
refreshing. Keever stood for a
moment till his eyes came good,
then saw Harris and Stowe-
Smith perched on tall stools
under a twirling fan. Keever
nodded without enthusiasm.
He’d hoped it was too early to
meet anyone.
Harris was an American of
such ample proportions that it
struck Keever as a risky thing
for him to be doing, sitting on a
stool of such small calibre.
Harris looks like an apple-on-a-
stick, he thought, and was almost
amused. Then: Damn them —
they’re both couth and kempt
and I’m frowsy.
“Good-day, M’sieu Keever.
Whisky?”
“Whatever you think meets the
situation, Salveau.”
Salveau’s smile stretched to
his long black side-levers and he
turned to a well-stocked shelf.
Achmet, the Sudanese rouse-
about, materialised and knelt to
remove the day-old patina on
Keever’s shoes.
“Saida, Achmet,” said Keever,
swirling Salveau’s reviver in the
glass and glancing down at the
bowed fez. “Enta kois?”
“Achmet tamam,” said Ach-
met, rubbing vigorously.
“Thank God someone's
hunky-dory,” Keever murmured,
and drank the potion.
“Keever,” Harris boomed
from a couple of stools away,
“you sure needed that drink!”
“Grandma Harris,” said
Keever, wincing. “What sharp
eyes you’ve got.”
“First time you do that to
me, Harris,” said Stowe-Smith,
“I’ll shoot you. It’s as well
Keever doesn’t carry a gun.”
Keever’s leaning-elbow rested
firmly on the satchel. Have to
make a move soon. Stowe-Smith
was still speaking—“ Anything
really wrong? You do look
rather down, you know.” .
“Fired,” said Keever. “As
soon as I turn my back some-
one perforates a bloody pleni-
potentiary, and like the cuck-
olded husband I’m the last to
know.” He nodded to Salveau’s
slightly raised eyebrow. One
more of those and he’d be feeling
human.
“As bad as that?” Stowe-Smith
was saying. “Look, I’m terribly
sorry, Keever. Anything in
view?”
“No.” He handed Achmet a
coin. The lustre on his shoes
would not have disgraced the
defunct diplomat. Achmet also
liked Keever. Harris boomed
again.
“Walmsley’s in Cairo.
Checked in at Shepheard’s.
Maybe he’s got something.”
“Walmsley! ” said Keever with
startled interest. “For how
long?”
“Not' long, I guess. But the
big boy’s there today.”
Sir Athol Walmsley was reign-
ing monarch of a newspaper
empire. From time to time he
sallied from London on a tour of
his remoter possessions.
“That’s news indeed,” Keever
acknowledged, and swallowed
the second glass of elixir. He
lifted the satchel, slid off the
stool and went out.
T7"EEVER stood blinking for a
moment, getting his bear-
ings. The sun seemed to flatten
his panama. The streets were
less crowded now. Then he was
hurrying towards a dim and
cluttered shop where an ancient
called Ali would buy pretty well
anything from a camel to a girl.
A tiny urchin saluted Keever
at the festooned entrance to this
Aladdin’s cave, and guided him
into the gloom at the rear, where
Ali sat in a jungle of rugs,


mti
«« *:
m
L i
%
*
:
■ v t;m : ::: : x
PS
§^|f§§
mm
B@S®i
ii
*W- <
■
r
$ •:
:• ••• Pf
I fp. "T : iv;::_7jg
S’
x*~
: :1&
-■ W
* ■PiSPP
*i§li
A good time was had by all
THERE’S SOMETHING about a Christmas Eve dance
in a country hall that brings out the warmth, good
fellowship, and the capacity for enjoyment of so many
Australians at this time of the year.
Maybe it’s the fact that country folk have to make
their own Christmas fun more than their city cousins
.. . maybe it’s because they don’t live at quite the same
pace ... or maybe it’s just the way they’re built.
"One of the things you’ll notice about pretty well
every Christmas Eve dance in the country is the array
of cars, utilities and trucks parked outside. Some of
them travel 20 or 30 miles —perhaps even further —often
over little more than bush tracks, just to get to “the
local hop”. The significant thing about this is that the
motor vehicle has made even the most isolated farmer
and his family a part of the community—economically
AND socially.
General Motors-Holden’s has helped to make this
possible, for one vehicle in three on our roads today is
a GMH product. The Holden cars, panel vans and
utilities —the Vauxhall cars and utilities—the Bedford
trucks and buses —the Pontiac cars—the Chevrolet cars
and trucks—the GMC trucks —all these members of the
GMH family are today serving the nation —distributing
our products, maintaining communications and services,
and widening our field of enjoyment.
Whichever way you look at it, General Motors-
Holden’s is a big business—from the point of view of
money invested, people employed, the amount paid in
taxes, the use of Australian goods and the contribution
to the prosperity of the country.
A big business —doing big things for Australia and
Australians—both for the people in the populated areas
and for those in the country who invariably say, after
the ball is over: “A good time was had by all”.
KlO3
A link in the chain of Australia's progress . . .
... a partner in Australia's future.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
carpets, brassware and knick-
knacks.
After preliminaries dear to
the Arab heart the gun was pro-
duced, assembled and examined.
Ali’s face was a maze of grooves
and wrinkles, every one of them
inscrutable as he looked at the
gun. He summoned the urchin,
sent him on an errand.
Keever found his own in-
scrutability hard to maintain.
He was glad of the gloom.
The urchin returned with a
bearded ruffian who was intro-
duced as Ashour, son-in-law of
Ali. Ashour took the gun, broke
it, reassembled it, cocked it and
pressed the trigger. Cluck!
Ashour handed it back to old
Ali, grinned at Keever and
departed.
There was no drawn-out bar-
gaining. Keever named a price
that took his own breath away,
and Ali nodded with, a mur-
mured “Tamam.”
Keever asked for a single note
of the appropriate denomina-
tion. It was procured for him.
Once more he was blinking in
the glare of the street. Blinking
with relief and amazement.
Somebody certainly needed
guns! So far —so good.
TN a small tailor’s shop where
he was known, Keever nego-
tiated for a spanking-new and
spotless white suit, which he
donned there and then over an
equally immaculate white shirt.
“Hat, effendi? Topee?”
No, the panama would pass.
Just a crisp white handkerchief
now, and make it snappy.
At the sight of the tendered
note the tailor spread his palms
in despair.
Not to be outdone, Keever
shrugged helplessly. Before the
tailor got around to the same
thing, Keever undertook to
change the note elsewhere and
return.
Acquiescence from the tailor.
After all, he knew the effendi.
Almost noon now. Keever
walked more sedately, keeping as
far as possible in the shade
afforded by awnings and over-
hanging buildings. He didn’t
want the new suit drenched in
sweat.
He turned into a barber’s
shop where Jacques had given
him many a much-needed shave.
Jacques and his assistants,
Henri and Marcel, always
greeted a customer as though the
latter had spent ten years on the
moon, and had just returned by
rocket. When the furore died
down Jacques made Keever
comfortable with many deft
touches and tongue-clickings and
exhalations, but at last the sooth-
ing lather was being slapped on
and Keever relaxed.
When the final hot and cold
towels were flicked away with
a flourish Keever sat up.
‘‘Ooooh, non, non, non!”
mooed Jacques, extending his
palms uptilted in a chest-push-
ing gesture. “ ’Aircut? Fric-
tion?” making massaging
motions—“ Shampoo?”
Keevgr denied himself these
delights. “In a great hurry. Im-
portant appointment. It was a
beautiful shave, Jacques. I feel
much, much better.”
Regretfully Jacques limited his
ministrations to combing the
thick black Keever hair, trim-
ming the almost untrimmable
Keever moustache, and brush-
ing imaginary motes from the
(still) immaculate Keever lapels.
Again the impressive note was
flourished. Jacques’s shrug was
almost equally impressive.
Keever again risked bursting his
own shoulder-seams. It was
Jacques who relieved the im-
passe.
“M’sieu must go quickly. The
important appointment! Next
time, M’sieu . . .”
Keever reached the pavement
through a barrage of reassur-
ances. He looked and felt a
vastly different man.
He telephoned Sir Athol
Walmsley. Using cunning
acquired over years of telephon-
ing the great, he blasted a
secretary from his path and
soon was speaking briskly into
the large fleshy ear of Sir Athol
himself.
“Er —yes, Keever. Heard of
you,” said the potentate.
“H’m . . . Would you see me
here at one-o’clock?”
“Certainly, Sir Athol. Thank-
you,” said KeeveF, and rang off.
For a moment he sawed his
moustache wih 4 forefinger and
gazed affectionately at the tele-
phone.
THE phone-cubicle was in a
tobacconist’s, all plate-glass
and glitter. Keever had
chosen it from dozens he might
have used. Now, through the
glass of the phone-cubicle he
looked across the interior of
the shop at the neat brunette
behind the counter.
Chin on wrists, she was staring
back at Keever. He pressed his
nose and palms to the glass and
assumed a yearning expression
like a child at a toyshop-window.
A peal of delighted laughter
from behind the counter.
Keever crossed the otherwise-
empty shop, panama at the
trail, passed adroitly between a
couple of showcases and paused
at the counter.
“You know what I’d like to
do, Yvonne?”
“With you, M’sieu Keever,
one never knows! But how
droll you were over there! ”
Yvonne was leaning forward
over the counter as she gurgled
on, and giving Keever the
slightly sideways look.
When he judged she’d leaned
far enough to make the thing a
resounding success Keever
leaned forward himself and
planted a kiss bang on a pair
of very ready lips. He took
advantage of her momentarily
closed eyes to glance over her
shoulder at a clock.
“It is now one week since you
did that,” Yvonne was purring.
“I thought you would go away
after telephoning and not even
say ‘ ’Ullo! ’ ”
“I had to come and kiss you
today, ma petite, to fortify my
morale! I have an interview in
a few minutes that means either
wealth or ruination. Now be
quick some very good
cigarettes ; yes, they’ll do, and,
h’m ; lemme see, that cigarette-
case. See the one? Ah, yes,
that’s it.
“Now you’ll have to trust me,
cherie, until this afternoon —I
have this note, see, but I want
to impress this famous man with
it. This afternoon— pouf!”
“But you don’t let me speak!
Certainement this afternoon!
Bon! And you talk of ruina-
tion with big money like that in
your pocket!”
Yvonne was leaning forward
again. Keever made this
hit-run job.
TTE slowed to a walk at Sal-
veau’s. There were twenty
minutes for relaxation, and
Keever needed them.
There were greetings from a
couple of groups at the little
tables; but Keever gave them
the friendly Garbo hint that
journalists always respect, and
sat at the end of the bar, peer-
ing anxiously across at the
mirror behind the bottles for
traces of Yvonne.
“Something long, cool and
effective, Salveau, and it’s on
the cuff for the moment.”
“Certainly, M’sieu Keever.”
Salveau felt cheered at the
change in his client.
“Thanks, Salveau. Can you
see any lipstick on me? Rouge?”
“Rouge, M’sieu Keever?”
Salveau raised his eyebrows to
his hairline, pursed his equally
mobile lips, cocked his head on
one side till ear touched shoulder
and subjected Keever to a
scrutiny of almost X - ray
intensity.
Keever had begun to wish his
singlet were clean when Salveau
suddenly resumed his normal
appearance, rubbery grin and
all.
“No, M’sieu Keever,” he
said. Keever relaxed, finished
his drink and headed for
Shepheard’s, supremely confi-
dent in one thing at least. There
was no rouge.
In fact, strolling along, he
felt an all-embracing glow of
confidence rising within him,
aided perhaps by Salveau’s
appetiser, but nonetheless justi-
fied. He slipped the excellent
cigarettes into the excellent
cigarette-case. He still carried
the battered leather satchel. He
left it at Shepheard’s cloak-
room with his panama.
QNE-O’CLOCK. Sir Athol
advanced majestically across
the spacious foyer and shook
{Continued on page 23)


Holden is powerful,
economical, dependable, spacious
... AND FIRST COST IS ONLY £B5O PLUS TAX
HOLDEN is the only utility designed and
built specifically for Australian conditions.
It offers a unique combination of 6 cylinder
power, 21 h.p. performance, exceptional
durability, the 30 miles per gallon reported
by so many owners and generous in.
long load space.
High re-sale value, ease of service, and
the ready availability of low-cost factory
guaranteed parts throughout Australia,
are further big reasons why Holden has
an outstanding name for value.
Holden popularity has
given it sales leader-
ship on the Australian
market and hundreds
of Holden utility
owners have written letters of appreciation
to General Motors-Holden’s. One,
Mr. P. Ballison Dobbies Limited, Gawler
Place, Adelaide wrote: . . One utility
purchased last year has now covered 40,000
miles. Servicing has amounted to one valve
grind and replacement parts have been nil .
The economy is outstanding and its nippy
performance together with its generous
payload area all add up to the fact that
Holden is ideal for our type of business
If you are thinking about purchasing a
utility now, or in the
near future, will you
give your Holden dealer
the opportunity of
proving Holden value.
Convenient hire purchase
arrangements are available
through CM AC —General
Motors’ own hire purchase
company.
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Utility
•registered trade mark
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
There are two Air Chief
car radios specially
designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
AGENERA^MOTOW^PjjODUCJ^
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN PEAIERSJTHROUGHOjJTAUSTgAU^
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
I
1
Established ItsUti m Reign of
George 111 .
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
The Take
by
H.C.morton
NAME’S Breen. My mates
call me “Stiff.” You
needn’t bother. There’s
this dee in Cairns. He’s
on to me solid. Pulling the
Vag. Act all the time.
I got a bank-account. We
play games. He pulls the Vag.
Act; I flash the bank-book.
Five-hundred quid, it says.
That’s O.K.
Every few days he pulls me
up. I keep the bank-book
handy. How come there’s no
new entries? He always wants
to know. He’s in a rut all the
way.
There’s a numbers-game every
night behind the Greek billiard-
shop. Maybe he knows about
it. He never heard it from me.
Hotels and beach - frontages,
that’s what I’m interested in.
That’s what I tell him. Call me
an investor. I tell him that, too.
Hotels with bars, beaches with
blondes.
He can’t see the joke. So I
start pencilling for this bookie
on account of this dee. That
way I got a job and a bank-
account. Double-barrelled.
This dee troubles me. I knew
him in Townsville, and before
that in Sydney. Different build,
face and name, but same joker,
always the same joker.
Nice little place in Townsville.
Walk in the front, cut your hair.
Nothing elaborate, short back
and sides,* that’s enough for
Townsville. Walk through the
shearing-room, only one chair.
Play a bit of pool in the next
room. Couple of tables. Used
to be only one. Set me back
four-hundred quid secondhand
the other one. They’re dear
tables. Little room straight past
the tables to the right. Nothing
elaborate. Not much overhead
for the whole set-up. Just me
and another joker. Of course
there’s a fair screw for tele-
phones and the South Coast
boys, but hell, we all got to live.
Talk about raids. There’s
s.p. blokes all over the place.
They’re getting hit once in a
while, but who’s copping it all
the time? Who does this dee
cotton on to? That’s right.
Had to snafch it in the end.
When a dee cottons on to you
like that pack up straight away.
You’ll save dough that way.
I’m a slow learner.
Forgot to tell you about that
dee in Sydney.
Same bloke. • Different face
and name * I’m in the petrol,
tea and butter lurk at the time.
Small way, just how I like it.
Small overhead, fair cop, on the
level all the way. None of those
forged coupons for this boy.
There’s blokes pushing tickets
all over the place. This dee falls
for me. Love at first-sight.
Never wants to leave my side.
He’s there that night up at the
Cross. ’Course, a man shoulda
known. The little bloke panics
and squeals.
“Only wanted two gallons to
see me out the month, Inspec-
tor,” he yelps.
Inspector to a dee. Aw hell!
Gives you a bad name getting
into strife like that. Got wiped
off the list. Couldn’t get back
on it. Short of petrol meself at
the end. Just goes to show.
YAIR, Cairns.
It’s a Friday night, and
there’s half-a-dozen darkies off
a lugger down at the Greek’s.
Tied-up at Smith’s Creek, noth-
ing to do till the tide. They’re
chucking dough around hand-
over-fist. They haven’t got a
clue about the game, all they
want to do is their dough. I like
them. Even though you’re not
running the game yourself a
good customer’s pretty to watch.
I like them enough to buy
them a beer after. Not all of
them, just two. One’s enough
to pump, but two makes it
friendly.
The big joker’s built like
Little Wolf, but polished cocoa.
Jaw full of teeth, mouthful of
grin, two-tone hair, comes from
too much salt-water shampoo.
“Not under the Act,” he
flashes at the barmaid.
“They play many games
where you come . from?” I
wonder.
So he’s from T. 1., and that’s
not the fort with the Indians,
and they haven’t got enough
games to go round, and we don’t
mention football.
And no dees. Just the turned-
up hats. It’s a take. Dumb
Murrays, turned-up hats, and
not enough games to go
around . . . No Customs-
clearance, no income-tax
declaration, no nothing. Just
buy your ticket, hop on the
plane, and that’s it.
In to Cooktown, Coen, Iron
Range, and down at Horn. Get
a ride over to Thursday on a
launch. Rough as guts. Hang
on to your little suitcase hard.
Nice little suitcase. Five-
hundred-quid-nice.
Poke into this pub built-up on
wooden frogstickers. Take it
easy for a couple of days, just
circulate with the flappers open,
back in the old routine.
Cautious, because it’s a cautious
"own.
Hear it from a flower-shirt
Murray in the end. Game on
down in an old packing-shed off
the Parade. I stroll down. It
pays to get the good guts on the
local technique.
Can’t get in. Damned if I
can. Must have to have a
knockdown from the Governor-
General or something. Told you
it was a cautious town. I stroll
back towards the pub. Bump
into this red-headed joker on the
corner of Hastings and Vic.
He’s sorry. He’s sorry and
he’s stung. Takes a drunk to
tolerate a drunk. I’m not
drunk. He’s reached the con-
fidential stage. Next he’ll be
crying. Now he wants to make
some dough. There’s a game
on down the street. He winks
and nods his head.
“Am I gambling-man?”
I’m living, ain’t I?
Maybe he won’t be crying for
a while. He can Johnny-Ray all
over the floor after he gets me
into the game.
We walk back the way I come.
It’s a good game, but it could
be run better. What it wants
is a little competition. There’s
nothing like competition.
I strike Redhead again at
nine-o’clock next morning.
How do you get tanked in T.I.
at that hour?
Yair, he knows where I can
rent a little place. Nothing
about T.I. he doesn’t know.
Drunk two luggers away here.
One of these days he’ll get
another one. One of these days
I’ll get a knighthood.
We’re going to have a look at
this place the next day. Red’s
going to tee it up for me. He’ll
see me tonight.
I KILL time in the bar with
Cairns Bitter. It dies slow.
I walk outside. There’s a
Murray standing under the big
almond-tree.
“Mister,” he says.
Maybe he wants me to get a
bottle of grog for him. The
“not under the Act” routine
won’t work up here. Maybe it’s
something else.
“What’s your trouble?” I ask
him.
Am I going to the mainland
soon? I’m not. He doesn’t say
any more. I follow-up. Never
ignore a lead. “You got a
light?” I ask him.
He has. He’s got a trembling
hand, too. I draw back on the
Phillip Morris.
“You got business in Austra-
lia?” I want to know.
No, not business. Just a
parcel. Little parcel he wants
delivered to an address in
Cairns. Fit it into the corner
HARBORSCAPE
All, here, is molten. The gold down from the bridge
Sinking in prodigal fountains,
Over and over, from the transcendent lights strung
Like fished-up pearls in dripping nets;
And the wash of blue over the dreaming sea
By some prodigal sea-god flung
Far from the wavy mountains
Into the trapped mirror of the shining harbor,
Reflected always in a frozen symmetry.
A thousand sails! And the tossing, shining of them
In a fabulous argosy!
And amid, in curving, steady sweeps, the ferries
Illume a rust-brown course, a streak of age
In the newness, the eternal newness of the deeps,
Scrapheap of mysteries
And that great heresy
Called love: for love burns like a banner here
In a surrounding flame that never sleeps.
Celebrate them now. The torpid green of trees,
The resplendent folly
Of villas, the thin veneer of the city’s edges,
Yet know that only one thing
Is divine here; sacred, though known by a flock of ships,
The blue, whose ages
Can never fully
Be fathomed; whose great heart beats in the narrow riba
Of the land; whose sheen the revengeful sky outstrips.
It is aloof, though; lonely, like the land it decks,
South, far south, and sometimes by evening
An Antarctic gleam blights it; the impersonal smile
Of the bright waters freeze to a deathly grin;
But in high summer see it; tossed, warm as honey,
That dreamed-of image
In blue Australia,
Blue as the smoky bush in the low, ripe mountains,
Blue as the dusk-striped plains of its inland; the funnel-web
evening sky.
N .s. W .
CHARLES HIGHAM.


(ADVERTISEMENT)
A
MM
un-
employment
SOCIAL
NFLAT/Om
UN
SQUABBLES
-ization
TAXES
UNISM
Nil
A
rs
_y
'■•V
Mixed
?^ofv\isE6
.. . 4
Don't
swallow
■f /// A
This is what you’ll get in a dose
from Evatt and his Labor stragglers.
Communist influence • socialization of industry • divisions and quarrels
within the Labor Party • a financial policy that would imperil the safety of
Australia • cripple development • States starved of adequate funds
• unemployment.
Evatt’s mixture would leave Australia weak, friendless and bankrupt.
You Can the Menzies-Fadden Govt.!
The recipe for success and prosperity has been well-tried and
proved by Menzies, Fadden and their loyal supporters. It consists
of sound finance, national security, international friendship,
encouragement to free enterprise, progress and development,
social justice, full employment.
VOTE
(MM
(Authorized by J. F. Dredge, Aust. Country Party, 42 Bridge St., Sydney)
hands, peering keenly at
Keever.
“Glad to meet you, Keever.
Shall we sit down?” They were
ushered to a table. “H’m, that’s
better.”
“D’ you smoke these, Sir
Athol?” asked Keever off-
handedly.
“Not before meals as a rule,
but —h’m, thank you. Now, er
oh, here’s the drink-
chappie”—
“What would you like, Sir
Athol?”
“Oh, whisky-soda, I suppose.”
“And a Tom Collins.”
The waiter glided away and
Keever opened his wallet non-
chalantly and laid the note on
the table.
“Now, I gathered this morn-
ing, Keever, that you’re pre-
pared to change jobs.
“Don’t like it there? H’m?”
“On the contrary, Sir Athol.
I’ve enjoyed it. But I belieye
there’s far broader scope in your
own organisation. I’d like very
much to become a working part
of it.”
The waiter set the drinks
down, flicked Keever’s note
from the table and departed for
change.
“H’m. Well, here’s luck.”
“Luck, Sir Athol.”
“Chance we may have a place
for you, Keever. We’ve been—
er —bringing in some new blood
lately. Damned hard to say,
offhand.” Sir Athol rubbed his
chin and appeared to be cogitat-
ing.
The waiter returned with
Keever’s change. Quite a stack
of it. Sir Athol, long accus-
tomed to paying, pocketed it
absentmindedly, leaving an
appropriate tip.
With an effort wrenched from
the very roots of his soul,
Keever controlled his emotion.
Don’t say anything just now,
Keever, don’t spoil it! Don’t
make him feel an old fool or
worse. Everything’s at stake !
Keever stayed dead-pan and
puffed a smoke-ring. Sir Athol
watched it float gracefully aloft.
“I’ll phone you this evening,”
he said. “May be a possibility.”
He rose to his feet.
Keever found that he, too, was
able to rise.
“Sorry, Keever, we can’t, h’m,
determine the matter on the spot
—but . . .”
C|IR ATHOL’S auf wiedersehti
utterance was drowned in a
spate of hoarse dervish voices as
the Arab rioters made their
Shepheard’s-debut.
The leading debutant Keever
recognised as Ashour, tlje
bearded ruffian earlier intro-
duced to him as the son-in-law
of Ali.
In Ashour’s clenched fists was
a'gun. The gun. Keever recog-
nised it. The gun that had
brought him comparative wealth
and some hope of a future. Blue-
black and lethal still, it looked,
and seemed heavy in the hands
of Ashour.
Thank God he knows me. If
the bloody madman points it
here all the king's horses and all
the king's men couldn’t put
Keever together again. Thinks
Keever.
With raised eyebrows and
outraged sensibilities the scatter
of white-clad Europeans rose to
their feet, appropriate protests
at - the - ready. Their flimsy-
frocked and expensively-uplifted
ladies also deigned to rise to
the occasion.
The Arab was apologetic. As
the gun scythed them down and
swept to Keever’s table, Ashour
said, n
“Sorry, Mr. Keever 1”
of your suitcase. Still have
plenty of room left over for the
fifty-quid he’s paying for
cartage.
I see this boy needs a
manager. I explain things to
him. Now this bloke in Cairns,
maybe he doesn’t want this
parcel when he gets it. Maybe
the price will Ipe wrong. Maybe
he won’t send the money.
Maybe I’ll get caught freighting
it out. He’s taking too much
risk. His markets are too far
away. Local sales, that’s what
he wants. He shakes like a wet
dog. Can’t sell local, too much
risk. Too dangerous for him.
He’s one scared Murray.
“The parcel, boy,” I put in.
“What’s in the parcel?”
He shakes his head and rolls
his eyes.
Maybe I’ll buy the parcel,
boy—see? I lolly.
No ; he doesn’t want to sell.
He walks away.
I grab his arm. A hundred-
quid, and no questions ; don’t
even have to open the parcel.
His eyes widen. He walks
under the shadow of the
almond-tree. “A hundred-quid
no good,” he says. “Not
enough. Seven - hundred,
maybe.”
The parcel, son; open the
parcel. Seven-hundred’s too
much chance for a lucky-dip.
He slips it out of his pocket.
It’s a pearl. A pearl half as
big as your fist. I drop it into
my pocket. He panics. Panics
with me and my Honest John
dial. I only want to show it to
a man for a minute tonight,
that’s all. He’ll get it back; it
or seven-hundred quid.
He doesn’t like it. Doesn’t
like it at all. I’m to be careful
who I show it to, he warns me;
not allowed to sell pearls. I
nod. You shouldn’t scratch
your backside when you’re
opening shells either. The boss
loses pearls that way. I walk
away.
He watches me out of sight.
He’s not happy.
13 ED’S in the bar. We go to
AV my room. He hasn’t teed
this place up for me yet, he tells
me ; not till tomorrow night.
I want to sell a pearl. Yair,
Red can fix that, too. I flash
it. A thousand-quid I want.
Red shakes his head. In
Aussie, yes, but up here, no more
than eight. You got to get
them out; that costs dough.
The Murray’s still under the
almond-tree. We open at four-
hundred. He’s stubborn. Must
have seven ; good pearl. Must
have it tonight. Going out for
a fortnight drift in the morning.
I can get the other three-hundred
up from Sydney easy in a fort-
night, I tell him. Pay him the
rest when his lugger comes in
again.
He doesn’t like that, much,
either. Maybe someone will
find the pearl on him by then.
Not if he leaves it with me to
look after. He doesn’t like that,
either.
Red walks out of the pub. I
call him over. Doesn’t he know
me? Doesn’t he know I’m a
man of my word? Sure he
does.
Red swi»gs it. I push four-
hundred into the Murray’s
hands. He stuffs it into his shirt
and melts away.
The bar’s not closed.
“Don’t pull anything on that
Murray,” Red advises. “He’ll
chop you up into little pieces if
you do.”
I believe him —but Sydney’s
a long way away. Too far for
a dumb Murray.
Red’s not around next day.
Either am I after the plane
leaves . . .
'THERE’S this place out at
A Marrickville. Shop out the
front, you buy things. Sort of
shop out the back, too, you sell
things. What d’ you want to
know the address for? You got
nothing to sell.
Bloke called Monty does the
buying. I find him sitting at a
pine-table with watch-gutzes all
over the top. He fastens his
watery eyes on me.
“You buying pearls still?” I
wonder.
“I buy lots of things,” Monty
reckons.
I roll the pearl towards him.
He takes a good gander.
“What d’ you think of it?” I
ask him.
“Good,” he says. “One of
the best of its type I’ve seen.”
He looks up. “Where did you
get it?”
I tell him. Monty’s got to
know these things—see? He
shakes his head. “You’ve been
away from home too long,
Stiff,” he says. He looks at the
pearl again.
“Who did you say sold it to
you—the Redhead?”
I don’t feel so good. “No,” I
tell him, “a Murray.”
“Oh,” he says. “It was the
Murray this time.”
He pokes in a drawer and
drags out the twin to my pearl.
“Monty,” I ask him, “my
pearl—how much is my pearl
worth?”
He screws up his face.
“Uhhr,” he says ; “couldn’t say
offhand. Czech bloke up at
Newcastle makes them. Think
he charges about thirty-six-quid
a dozen.”


GIVE HIM A
‘/A
WnA
FOR CHRISTMAS
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare old roots of
great age. Only finest grains are selected. With a
Barling Pipe you get the result of the experience of
the oldest firm of pipe makers in England. There is no
"breaking in," and to ensure free draught, only finest
quality vulcanite is bored.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING TOBACCONISTS
Trade Enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
- -4*
r\Yl\
m
0
k
ff
+.
T*
u
n
c , ~ii
&
aRs
coo
dwjia.
\H2 V
- 4+
KflM
D
$
■-+-
SERVICED
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HILTON THOMAS SMITH late of
Cowra.—TAKE NOTICE that LUCY MAY
SMITH has filed her Petition for Divorce
No. 3356 of 1955 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and asks for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion under
S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899-1954 If you intend to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 14th February 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MR. G. M. STAFFORD,
Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF.NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ISOBEL MAIE PITT late of Bent-
leigh Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
THOMAS JAMES PITT has filed his Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3237 of 1955 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you intend to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th February 1956 and obtain a
cony of the Petition without charge from
MR. G. M. STAFFORD. Solicitor, 79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH AND
LAUNCESTON
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Encyclopcedia Britannica,
latest edition, India-paper or ordin-
ary, with bookshelf; also, latest
edition Chambers’s Cyclopedia of
English Literature, three volumes.
—6221.
To buy copy of Glencoe (poems,
1947), by Douglas Stewart. —6223.
To buy copy of vol. XVIII,
part VI (June, 1932), of the “Royal
Australian Historical Society Journal
and Proceedings.”—6224.
To buy copy of “The Lone Hand”
for March, 1908.—6225.
To buy a copy of A Girl With Red
Hair and Other Stories, by Douglas
Stewart (Angus and Robertson, 1944).
—6226.
To buy copy of “Art in Australia”
for February, 1922. —6227.
To buy copy of The Count, which
refers to 'the explorer Paul Strzelecki,
who named Mount Kosciusko.—6229.
Does Anybody Know?
Where was the Wilga run men-
tioned in “Banjo” Paterson’s “Salt-
bush Bill”?—6230.
/
Information Sought
When was the Australian territory
of Papua brought under the United
Nations trusteeship system ?
Papua is not governed under the
trusteeship system. When U.N.O.
was formed, the various territories
formerly governed under mandates
from the League of Nations became
known as trust territories, instead of
mandated territories; and thus, Aus-
tralia having agreed to the United
Nations Charter, the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea became the
Trust Territory of New Guinea.
(The trusteeship agreement was
approved by U.N.O. General
Assembly on Dec. 13, 1946.) As the
Japanese retreated, Angau had
governed liberated Papua and New
Guinea; since the war the civil
administration which followed Angau
also jointly governed the two terri-
tories, under the Papua and New
Guinea Act (1949) and other legisla-
tion. However, though the two
territories are thus administered as
one, the identity and status of New
Guinea is that of a trust territory,
while Papua remains a possession of
the British Crown.
* * * *
Percentage of illiteracy in various
countries (list appended)?
It is not always possible to get
absolutely reliable figures about those
unable to read or write. Census-
returns are not always accurate, but
in countries where there is conscrip-
tion the percentage of illiteracy can
generally be gauged from that among
recruits. Everyman’s Encyclopedia
(third edition, 1949-50) says that in
Germany, Sweden and Switzerland
over 99 per cent, are literate; in
Holland 1 p.c 4 are illiterate, in
France 5 jp.c., m Belgium 10 p.c.,
Russia 10 p.c., Italy (1935) 19 p.c.,
Poland (1935) 21 p.c., Spain (1940)
27.5 p.c., Portugal (1940) 49 p.c.,
Greece (1935) 32 p.c., Mexico (1930)
59 p.c., Brazil (1920) 67 p.c. Every-
man’s also states that the lowest per-
centage of illiteracy is found in
Britain, Germany and Australia.
Eire and most of the American
republics have a high illiteracy-rate.
Figures for the U.S.A. (1952), as
given by the 1955 Pocket Almanac,
are 2,780,000 illiterates (1,554,000
males, 1,226,000 females) in a popu-
lation of 110,074,000 over the age
of 14.
* * * *
Some information on the timber
known as Negrohead beech ?
Also known as Antarctic beech,
Mountain beech and Red beech,
Negrohead beech ( Nothofagus moorei;
maiden, Fagacoe) is a pink to reddish-
brown, straight-grained, close-textured
timber, with no prominent figure,
except for small radial flecks when
quarter-cut. It gives no evidence of
borer-attack in sapwood, is tough,
durable, not difficult to work, and
will stand boring without splitting.
When thoroughly-seasoned,. it could
be used for cabinet-work, joinery,
mouldings, turnery, lining, flooring,
electric-light blocks, brush-stock,
boot-heels, and probably boot-lasts.
The logs are subject to pipe, while
the timber shrinks and warps badly
unless carefully-seasoned. Although
closely related to the true beech
botanically, it is quite different from
the European beech (Fagus sylvatica )
both in color and texture of the
wood. It occurs as a large tree,
extending to a 150 ft. height, confined
to localities at moderately-high alti-
tudes north of the Hunter River,
N.S.W., and on the Macpherson
Range to southern Queensland.
Brief Answers
A.R.McG.: “Punch,” 10 Bouverie-
street, London, E.C.4... .R.J.F.:
“The Catholic Weekly,” Catholic
Press Building, 104 Campbell-street,
Sydney H.McA.: To be eligible
for an age-pension you must, if a
man, be at least 65 years of age; if
a woman, be at least 60 years of age.
You must have lived in Australia for
a continuous period of 20 years—
not necessarily immediately prior to
claiming pension. Certain absences
from Australia do not affect eligi-
bility. .. .R. 8.: The Girt Who Helped
Ned Kelly, by C. E. Tif/lor, was pub-
lished by United Press, Melbourne;
and The Inner History of the Kelly
Gang, by J. J. Kenneally, by Reviews
Pty., Melbourne. Both books were
published in 1929 R.P.: Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Ltd., Brickfield
Hill, Sydney, are able to supply a
coffee-grinder, square, box-type, with
bottom drawer. The handle turns
on the top and it is regulated with
the drawer out. This is priced at
£3 2s. 6d A. 8.5.: The recipe
varies and you may need to experi-
ment to find the mixture you prefer.
Place some oatmeal, not rolled-oats,
in a basin, and pour over it a fairly
liberal quantity of boiling water.
Allow it to steep a while as in making
oatmeal-water, then strain it. It may
also be lightly boiled for a short
time, then strained. Into this water
whip a chosen quantity of whisky or
brandy, some clear honey and, lastly,
some sweet, fresh cream. Use either
hot or cold. Originally the brose was
only whisky and honey, a cure for
sore throats... .P.McT.: From
Gaston C. Renard, antiquarian book-
seller, Box 5295bb, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne F.N.L.: Write Under-
secretary, Department of the Army,
Canberra, A.C.T M.M.: An
article on Marjorie Barnard and
Flora Eldershaw appeared in The
Bulletin of March 24, 1937
J.K.A.G.: Write Horticultural Indus-
tries Pty., Ltd., pi Burnley-street,
Richmond, Vict o r i a... .G.P.:
Winners of the Steele Rudd
Memorial poetry competition, con-
ducted by the Queensland Authors
and Artists’ Association, were 1,
M. P. Rynne (Brisbane); 2, E. M.
England (Ipswich); 3, Pearl Hanks
(Melbourne).... W.G.H.: Published
books of verse by Kenneth Slessor
are Earth Visitors (Fanfrolico Press,
London, 1926), Cuckooz Contrey
(Frank Johnson, Sydney, 1932), Five
Bells (Frank Johnson, Sydney, 1939),
and One Hundred Poems (Angus
and Robertson, Sydney, 1947)
J.E.C.: Might be worth trying the
powder on a few of the worst birds;
better, write The Budgerigar Section,
Royal Zoological Society of N.S.W.,
28 Martin-place, Sydney... .K.G.P.:
Write Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 202
George-street, Sydney... .J.0’8.: All
the articles appeared on “The Red
Page” of The Bulletin. Dates of
appearances were: “A Poet’s
Mother —Louisa Lawson,” ' October
28, 1896; “The Three Lawsons,” by
A. G. Stephens, December 21, 1905;
“Louisa Lawson and Her Son,” by
Gertrude O’Connor, July 2, 1920;
“The Lawson Family,” by Gertrude
O’Connor, August 11, 1921; “Pur-
suing Literature in Australia,” by
Henry Lawson, January 21, 1899;
“Back Home,” by Henry Lawson,
June 27, 1918... .J.McD.: From
International Harvester Co. of Aus-
tralia Pty., Ltd., 171 City-road, South
Melbourne (Vic.).... A J.S.: Write
M. J. Pettigrove, Secretary, The
Taxpayers’ Association of Victoria,
Collins House, 360 Collins-street,
Melbourne R.F.M.: Dale Collins’s
address is 29 The Grange, East
Malvern (Vic.)... .W.H.S.: “In the
Droving Days,” by Harry Morant
(“The Breaker”), appeared in The
Bulletin of December 8, 1904.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
8.C.: If that is what travelling
on the Mosman ferry does to you,
try taking the tram from Wynyard.
. ...G.P.McQ.: Mary, who was “an
executive to an up-to-date, down-to-
earth mortician,” was given a
respectful burial.... R.R.: Never
have we met so many breezes, gales,
typhoons, blizzards, tempests and
tornados in one day’s reading
M.S.: Thanks, we will heed the
warning J.L.: So you’re another
whose “heart is like the tides of the
sea”... .T.J.: It has been duly
recorded in your dossier that when
you were young and penniless you
warmly wooed Miss Francis, and
took her when your purse allowed
to matinees and dances R.W.S.:
Keep that parody on “Waltzing
Matilda” within the family circle—
R.G.: Verses beginning
O lofty, lush, majestic col’mn,
Your face held to the sky,
What tales might you relate to me
Could you but speak on high.
cry aloud for rejection D. 8.: It
sounds more like a threat to u 5....
G.V.M.: We have never lived with a
rainbow and doubt whether we could
be tempted to do 50... .A.M.McD.:
“But now on my way I again must
be wending.” Good-bye!.... S.L.R.:
This must go down to posterity:—
A cat comes in
When a cat pleases,
Looks at you coldly,
And then sneezes.
W.H.E.: And so must this:—
By my campfire in the scrub
I sat all on my pat,
And thought of mates in a pub
All blind as a bat.
B.L.: Please call and collect one
crocodile, also sundry snakes and
lizards M.M.: “The Man They
Couldn’t Shoot” was soon bumped-
off at 252 George-street C.W.H.:
Not wanting “A Modernised Version
of William Shakspeare’s ‘The Mer-
chant of Venice.’ ” And that goes
for modernised versions of the rest
of William’s plays J.McL.: Keep
to Australian subjects... .K.C.L.:
We sometimes wish that more bees
would sting bush poets... .A.V.F.:
No literary value.


A Symposium, and a National Project
WATER
By PROFESSOR C. H. MUNRO
(Professor of Civil Engineering,
N.S.W. University- of Technology)
IN the scientific field, the
words “myxomatosis” and
“cactoblastis” are recognised
throughout the world as
evidence that Australians can do
other things besides play cricket
and tennis, train racehorses and
drink beer. In other words, Aus-
tralians are a virile . people,
physically and intellectually, with
a reasonable sense of balance in
national affairs.
Therefore, one would expect
that they would have tackled the
science of water-use and -control
with such vigor that other
nations would sit up and take
notice. On the contrary, by
some queer quirk in our
national character, we are “also-
rans” in this field. The plain
fact is that water is the governing
factor in the development of
Australia, and the seeds of
national disaster lie in the neglect
of this science.
The mean annual runoff in the
U.S.A. is 9in. compared with
l|in. for Australia! Yet, in the
U.S.A., the water-problem has
reached such a stage that Presi-
dent Eisenhower, in 1950, called
on a high-powered commission
to submit “A Water Policy for
the American People”—a classic
achievement of 800 pages, full of
lessons for Australia. If
America, with 9in. of runoff, is
worried, how much worse is
Australia’s plight?
Our poor rainfall does not
mean we should throw up our
hands in despair. Rather does it
constitute a challenge to show
what can be done by scientific
methods of data-collection and
-analysis, leading to the utmost
efficiency in planning national
schemes of water-supply, -con-
trol and -utilisation.
The community needs water
for rural use, irrigation, industry,
municipal and domestic supplies
and hydro-power. The latter does
not consume water, but returns
it unaltered to the streams for
further use.
The consumption of water in
U.S.A. in 1950 was five times
that of 1900, although the popu-
lation had only doubled. It is
estimated that, by 1975, water-
consumption in that country will
be twice that of 1950.
Many Australians think that
they appreciate the importance
of water, but in reality they
know neither how important it
is nor why. If, as a nation, we
claim to be conscious of this
vital problem, then our actions
belie our words. We do not even
get to first-base in our match
with Nature. To do that we need
a bat, and our bat in this case
is hydrologic data of stream-
flow, rainfall, etc. In this work,
the man on the land can provide
valuable co-operation.
It is really time that statesmen
and leaders of industry, finance
and primary production got to-
gether with engineers and scien-
tists to have a look at the prob-
lem, to see what can be done to
apply modern scientific methods
to water-utilisation. Therefore,
the N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology arranged a symposium on
“The Water Resources of Aus-
tralia—Their Control and De-
velopment” ; it was held at Ken-
sington, Sydney, on November
29 and 30. Nine speakers dealt
with various phases. I
As the first speaker in the
symposium, I discussed “The
Importance of Water Engineer-
ing.” I pointed out that many
current water-projects have to be
planned by inspired guesswork
on the part of the engineers, be-
cause of failure in the past to
collect the vital data. To ensure
that future schemes are not so
handicapped, a detailed plan for
the collection of data on water,
soil and allied problems was
given as an appendix to the
paper.
Vigorous action on data-
collection would get us to first-
base. To reach second-
base, the data must be sifted,
marshalled and published in
readily usable form. The run
to third-base is fraught with
difficulty. To make it success-
fully we must have strong re-
search- and investigation-organ-
isations to carry out work in
specialised, self-contained fields,
such as hydraulics, hydrology,
INDUSTRIAL WATER
1833 BARRELS
OF WATER
TO MAKE
BARREL
OF OIL
hydro-meteorology, soil-science,
spring-irrigation, sheet- and fur-
row irrigation, ground - water
supplies, and estimation of future
floods.
Even more important is the
need for some organisation, such
as a water-research foundation.
This could assure an overall
critical evaluation, and plan
research to seek the answers to
such questions as:
O What are the relative merits
for different circumstances of
Yeomans’s Keyline technique
and/or Geddes’s Water Har-
vesting, as compared with the
Water Conservation and Irri-
gation Commission Farm
Water Supplies work and con-
ventional soil-conservation?
• Should a much greater pro-
portion of Australia’s dams
/ (even such as Warragamba) be
planned as multi-purpose
schemes for power, irrigation
and flood-control as well as
town water-supplies, using, if
necessary, short-range flood-
forecasting techniques?
•Is it sound engineering
economics to endeavor to
provide plenty of water for
city gardens, while\we calmly
contemplate the rationing of
water in country irrigation-
schemes?
• What is the answer in Aus-
tralia to the controversy
between the use of big dams
as opposed to watershed treat-
ment for flood-control?
• Are the economists too dismal
in throwing cold water On
hydro-power schemes because
they “will not pay”?
• Should, irrigation be used
more widely in the medium-
rainfall areas of Australia, as
distinct from the semi-arid
regions?
• Can we improve techniques of
spring-irrigation to justify its
wider use and to avoid waste
of water?
Finally, I stressed that it is
useless to reach third-base with-
out completing the run. There
the statesmen must lend a hand
to see that the data research and
investigations are co-ordinated
in a final plan for the detailed
working-drawings of the pro-
jects. They must give us the
leadership, and if necessary the
legislation, to enable the en-
gineers and scientists to plan the
development of each river-basin
as a whole, with a careful balance
between various functions, and
to avoid a patchwork of plans by
separate agencies. The river-
basin is the natural unit—not
artificial legal boundaries,
As a parting shot at the
audience, I expressed impatience
with those who argue that, while
all this research on water is
desirable, Australia lacks tech-
nical men and manpower for in-
vestigations on the scale con-
templated.
It is merely a question of
national priorities. Admittedly,
the supply of graduate engineers
and scientists is inadequate for
all the tasks which Australia is
now attempting. Some of the
less essential tasks should be
set aside. Television, radio-
astronomy and the like, and even
atomic power and city railways,
must be slowed down, if neces-
sary, to ensure that funds and
men are available for the funda-
mental problem of water.
A strong national economy,
based on water, is Australia’s
best defence in future wars. We
must do with water-research
what C.5.1.R.0. has done with
other aspects of primary pro-
duction, and we must spend
money on the same scale.
* * *
The second paper of the sym-
posium was given by Commis-
sioner J. A. Aird, of the Vic-
torian! State Rivers and Water
Supply Commission, on “The
Economic Value of Irrigation
Projects.” He stated that the
cost of an irrigatiomproject
must be balanced against its
benefits.
These benefits may be primary,
secondary or tertiary, and direct
or indirect. Each of these
INDUSTRIAL
WATER
65,000 GALLONS
OF WATER
TO MAKE
TON
OF STEEL
benefits, in turn, may again be
classified into benefits to the indi-
vidual, the community, the
nation, or mankind, and
could be immediate, future,
and permanent. All of these
benefits must be weighed
against the cost of a project and
its adverse effects. References
were made to specific projects to
demonstrate and elucidate these
principles.
“Ground-water Supplies” were
dealt with by Mr. J. W. Whiting,
acting N.S.W. Government
Geologist. He distinguished
between free ground-water which
does not rise when struck in a
bore or well, and pressure-water,
which does rise. He mentioned
that pressure-water could be
artesian or sub-artesian, and
that although the first was ex-
ploited in* Australia, the latter
had not been tapped to any
large extent.
He next discussed the location
and occurrence of underground
water in the various rock-forma-
tions and the use which can be
made of these supplies and their
quality. One/point of particular
interest was the drilling of
igneous rocks for water-supplies.
The part that geophysics plays in
underground water-surveys was
also mentioned.
* * *
The first paper in the second
session on the Tuesday afternoon
was “Research in Hydraulics.”
It was given by Mr. H. R. Val-
lentine, senior lecturer of the
Department of Civil Engineering
of the N.S.W. University of
Technology, and covered the ap-
plications of the science of
hydraulics to civil engineering
structures.
He claimed that research into
many phases of water-behavior
was essential as well as labora-
tory investigation of the many
complex problems in the design
of hydraulic structures.
Some very interesting examples
of the use of models were given,
and supported Mr. Vallentine’s
contention that both public and
private organisations could gain
much from hydraulic-research.
* * *
Commissioner E. S. Clayton,
of the Soil Conservation and
Irrigation Commission, was at
home in his paper on “Soil Con-
servation in Relation to Water
Resources.”
He drew attention to the
immense damage which floods,
bushfires, unwise settlement into
rough mountain country and
forest-destruction can cause to
a catchment.
Erosion in Australia was
affecting all river-valleys and
shortening the useful life of
many dams.
The important catchments of
south-east Australia and the
hazards of the Snowy scheme
received special mention as
erosion was already in progress
there.
Mr. Clayton stated that soil-
conservation measures must be
incorporated into the design of
engineering works and carried
out concurrently with them.
The fascinating subject of
“Artificial Rainmaking” was
presented by Dr. E. G. Bowen,
of the Division of Radio
Physics, C.5.1.R.0:, as the last
paper of the day.
He stated that rain or snow
could be induced to fall in two
ways. Firstly, by introducing
freezing nuclei so that ice-
crystals can form in clouds
which consist of super-cooled
water-droplets. Secondly, by in-
troducing giant condensation
nuclei on which cloud-droplets
may grow by coalescence in
warm clouds.
Dr. Bowen thought it was
clear that an enormous increase
in productivity might result from
even a small increase in rain-
fall in a country like Australia.
The probable cost of seeding-
operations would only be a
small fraction of the potential
return.
* * *
On the second day of the
symposium, three further papers
were given. The first was by
Commissioner R. A. Young, of
the Water Conservation and
Irrigation Commission of
N.S.W., on “The Flood
Problem.”
Attention was drawn to the
unpredictable incidence and
severity of flood-flows in N.S.W.
rivers. These have occurred in
all seasons of the year. As a
general rule, cyclonic disturb-
ances adjacent to the coast have
given heavy precipitation on the
eastern side of the Dividing
Range.
The flood of February, 1955,
varied from these in that
saturated tropical air was
brought into central N.S.W. by
monsoonal influences and the
heaviest rain fell to the west
of the Divide.
Mr. Young mentioned the
possibility of even greater flood-
flows with different orientation
of the storm-centres.
Descriptions were given of
the flood-control measures and
the efficacy and disadvantages
of each assessed.
* * *
In a country like Australia,
where fresh water is sometimes
scarce but there are arid regions
near the ocean and, at times,
abundant supplies of brackish or
salt underground water, the sub-
ject of “Fresh Water From Salt”
is a most important one.
This was presented in a paper
by Professor J. P. Baxter, Vice-
Chancellor and Professor of
Chemical Engineering of the
N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology. The more important of
the many schemes proposed
were discussed, including distil-
lation by multiple effect and
vapor - recompression systems,
and the use of ion-exchange
diaphragms.
Professor Baxter spoke of the
possibilities of using atomic and
solar energy for this 'purpose in
the arid areas of Australia. As
in all schemes of this nature,
the costs were compared to
decide whether the various
methods would be economic or
not.
* * *
The Snowy scheme has found
itself a place in the popular
imagination, and the paper pre-
pared by Associate Commis-
sioner T. A. Lang, and presented
by Sir William Hudson, the Com-
missioner, gave an up-to-date
account of the progress of the
Snowy River Hydroelectric
Authority and its plans for the
future.
The first milestone was the
Guthega project, which went
into service in April this year.
At present construction was con-
centrated in the Upper Tumut,
and by the end of 1958 the first
units of the 320,000 kw. power-
station should come into service.
The completion of the Eucum-
bene-Tumut tunnel should en-
able the first Snowy water to
flow inland in 1959. Designs
for the second of the Tumut
River power-stations are in pro-
gress and also for the Cooma-
Turnut diversion. The Upper
Murrumbidgee is to be diverted
to Adaminaby, and this is also
under investigation.
The next objective is the diver-
sion of the Snowy River to the
Murray and the construction of
Stations M 6 and M 7. This
stage of the work should be
in operation by 1966.
* * *
One of the features of the
symposium was the wide range
of interests covered, as almost
every section of Australian com-
merce, industry and thought was
represented. The universities,
both local and inter-State, sent
members of the faculties of
science, engineering, economics,
agriculture and arts. The public
services of the Commonwealth
and States contributed speakers
and members of the audience.
(Continued on page 30)


TO ALL WHO FLY 8.0.A.C.
*1
Men of business, men of action,
Men of politics of every faction
Film stars, lawyers, graziers, airmen,
Doctors, dentists, engineers and chairmen ~ •
We’ve only space to name a few,
So here’s to daughters, wives and girl friends, too .• •
BEST WISHES FOR A VERY HAPPY CHRISTMAS
AND A PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR l
Reservations and information from all Travel Agent*
and Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General
Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS
BOM
AIRWAYS CORPORATION
A49/AU
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Running of the A.J.C. Villiers
(one mile) and Summer Cup (14-
mile) is a little more than a fort-
night away, and some of the
fancied horses will have their
final public test in the Festival
Handicap (seven furlongs) and
the Rosehill Handicap (li mile)
this coming Saturday. Promin-
ent Villiers candidates entered
for the Festival include Belbeiys,
Plato, Aboukir, Gay Vista,
Adelina, Prince Delville-and Kev
Mar. Cup horses among the
entrants for the Rosehill Handi-
cap include Advocate, Gallant
Archer, Livorno, Crimson
Pirate, Viteren, Hinges and
Prince Delville.
Handicapped at 7.7 in the
Villiers, Adelina has come right
into favor following her stylish
success in the Flying Handicap
at Canterbury Park on Saturday.
In that six-furlongs event she
also carried 7.7, but the limit
was 41b. higher.
Adelina has been placed at
her last half-dozen starts, includ-
ing two wins at Canterbury and
one at Warwick Farm. A week
prior to her latest success she
finished second at Randwick to
Julie Gai, but her success in
open company last Saturday was
her best performance since she
came from England, where she
was purchased by her trainer,
T. J. Smith. Adelina has yet to
win at a mile in Sydney, but,
now racing at top form, that
should not present any difficulty.
Cotton’s two wins and two
seconds from her last four starts
indicate that her first run in
open company should be especi-
ally interesting: her latest sue-
cess was in a restricted event,
the Canterbury First Ashbury
Stakes. A small but smart filly,
she had followed Adelina home
at Warwick Farm. Cotton is a
half-sister to well-performed
Attley (£23,727), and is by Mast-
head (imp.) from Coveshaw by
Staldon from Celia by Spear-
head (imp.).
Rosebery trainer Gordon
Brown keeps his horses fit by
hard work, both in races and on
the track in the early mornings.
For example, Andonni, winner
of the Canterbury Park Handi-
cap, had started in six races
between October 22 and Decem-
ber 3, and was probably the
fittest horse in the Canterbury
line-up. At any rate, he beat
the rest easily. Brown’s best
performer was Murray Stream,
winner of £28,762 in stakes, and
Murray Stream, too, did plenty
of fast trackwork as well as
running into 29 places from
numerous starts. Earlier this
year Brown won the Doncaster
with Fire Dust.
High Spot, three-year-old
winner of Canterbury Second
Ashbury Stakes, and High
Sovereign, third in the Two-
year-old Maiden for colts and
geldings at the same track, are
brothers. They are by French-
bred sire Emperor, from Bruena
by Brueghel (imp.) from
Princess Cadena by Valais
(imp.), and are half-brothers to
this year’s Doncaster winner,
Fire Dust. High Spot has won
at his last four starts, his three
previous successes being on pro-
vincial tracks. Both horses are
raced by G. Warby and trained
at Rosehill by Tom Kennedy.
Nine months ago Moyborough
won a race at Randwick, but it
wasn’t until Saturday that she
returned to the winning-list, and
then at an outside price. In
winning the Canterbury Welter
she beat warm favorite Julie
Gai, with Spearby third. Moy-
borough is trained at Randwick
by George Johnson, who races
her in partnership with his wife.
Former noted New Zealand
galloper Red Manfred figures in
the pedigree of Canterbury First
Two-year-old Maiders winner
Dark Jewel, a Star Kingdom
(imp.) filly from Red Lace by
Excitement (imp.) from Red
Clover by Iliad (imp.). Fil
Allotta trains the filly for
owner P. D. Osborne. Red
Dome (V.R.C. Newmarket) and
Red Streak (V.R.C. Oaks)
also figure in Dark Jewel’s
bloodlines.
Captivate, dam of Gay Meg,
all-the-way winner of the Can-
terbury Second Maiden Two-
year-old for fillies, belongs to the
family which produced Gloam-
ing. Gay Meg’s sire, Freedom,
won £14,813 in prizemoney ; his
progeny are now racing in their
first season.
• • • •
Outsider Heroic Fair, easy
winner of Caulfield’s Students’
Stakes for Two-year-olds, comes
from a family which on the
dam’s side traces back to a
former Australian stayer of note,
Trenton. The colt is by Fair-
court (imp.) from Maralloon, a
daughter of The Marne and First
Balloon by Air Balloon (imp.)
from Princess Nell by Prince
Foote. Heroic Fair had finished
fourth at his prior start at Caul-
field, but with the well-performed
Leave and High Socks in the
race connections secured long
odds. It was considered a match-
race between the pair named,
but after Leave and High Socks
had led at the home-turn Heroic
Fair won easily from Leave;
High Socks missed a place.
Reg. Rowe, former secretary
of the Rosehill Racing Club
(now S.T.C.), appears to have
bred a smart galloper in New-,
castle Maiden winner Alabama
Boy, a three-year-old gelding
by Prince Goldsborough (imp.)
from Hedge Rose by Denis Boy
(imp.). Alabama Boy was left
half-a-dozen lengths in a sprint
over 4i furlongs, but finished
fast to win from Jamaica Queen,
who has now been second on
six occasions. Alabama Boy’s
sire, winnner of races in Eng-
land up to one mile, is a son
of Nearco.
* * *
Rain again interfering with
the Harold Park programme, the
weekend trotting spotlight swung
to Melbourne and the Stirling
Free - for - All. Port Logan
showed he’s far from being out
of his class in fast Company by
slipping over the 9| furlongs of
the event in 2.34 (a mile-gait of
2.9 4/5), forcing Percy’s Elect
and Annex into the minor
placings. In the “last,” the 2.14-
class Malcolm Handicap, three
12yds.-markers fought out a
close finish, with Flexible appar-
ently making better use of his
neck than Pacing Peter and
Victory Dale to scrape it by a
half-head and half-neck. They
ran a mile-gait of 2.9 3/5 over
11 furlongs, so that form of the
topliners in Melbourne at
present promises well for their
rich Hunter Carnival at the
end of the month.
• • * •
At Newcastle on Friday night
Mineral Spring reproduced his
brilliant form at Harold Park
over recent weeks to take out
the first of their big events, the
Hunter Valley Free-for-All. He
beat two good free-for-all per-
formers, Blue Gamble and Maori
Home, with an ease that indi-
cates this fellow’s potential.
He’s by Springfield Globe, a son
of Globe Derby, out of Blue
Record, who’s by Royal Again,
by a mare from Adonis, from
Ruby, by Revenue. It’s a line
that has had more than one
champ. Trainer - driver M.
Adams says that a full-brother,
a grey, Steel Spring, who went
wrong in his preparation, was
even better than Mineral Spring.
4’ *+■
S.A. was defeated outright by
both N.S.W. and Queensland,
but has had a share of bad luck.
For one thing, S.A. batsmen
have been hard-put this year to
run into form, with rain-affected
wickets the rule in the first few
rounds of Adelaide’s district-
cricket. None of the State bats-
men had managed to get going
before their selection to tour. In
Brisbane, too, S.A. was handi-
capped by the absence of left-
hand spinner Wilson, injured.
But the Croweaters were sport-
ing losers: on the last day in
Brisbane there was no time-
wasting, and they gave Queens-
land every chance to win.
Bowlers generally have been
on top this year in Perth’s
pennant-cricket. In one recent
game Nedlands, not one of the
strongest teams, after being dis-
missed for 84, were all out (one
man short) in their second
innings for 16. It is believed that
this is the lowest total ever in
Perth pennant-cricket. (North
Perth, 5-117, won outright; Ned-
lands beginning its second innings
on the second day, the “man
short” arrived threequarters of
an hour after the start to find the
game over.)
On Friday two Sheffield Shield
matches begin: Victoria v.
Queensland in Melbourne and
N.S.W. v. W.A.' in Perth. It’s
the first run of the season for
Vic. and W.A.
The Victorian team has only
• one man new to Shield cricket —
fast-medium St. Kilda bowler
John Edwards, who will share
the new ball with Power and
Loxton. Edwards, one of the
most consistently successful
wicket-takers in pennant-cricket
for the past five or six years,
has been as consistently passed-
over by the State selectors; he
wasn’t even picked in the State
squad when it was first
announced. Apropos, he’s
always given his name in full in
pennant-cricket, because there’s
another John Edwards (called
Jack Edwards), a batsman, with
St. Kilda.
When he reached 129 in his
innings of 137 against S.A., left-
hander Ken Mackay became top
run-maker for Queensland in
Sheffield Shield matches. He’s
now nine ahead of Tallon’s
record 3594. Mackay, change-
bowler and good field as well,
first played for Queensland in
1946-47, and has been the batting
sheet-anchor for some time;
often, for spectators, his knocks
have been too heavy going. In
1953-54 he reached his zenith
with 223 and 198 in successive
matches.
• • • •
“Max”: That par. to the effect
that Bardsley and Morris were
the only Australians to have
made two centuries in the one
Test (B. 23 /11 / ’55) should have
specified “against England.”
Bradman made 132 and 127 not-
out against India in Melbourne
(1947-48) and Jack Moroney
118 and 101 not-out against
South Africa in Johannesburg
(1949-50).


Is this the
No. 1 cause of
heart disease?
Heart disease kills more Aus-
tralians than all other diseases
combined.
Header’s Digest for December
brings you evidence based
on latest research suggesting
the villain is cholesterol, a fat-
like substance . . . and shows
how to reduce this fat in your
diet.
Then there’s “Why women act
the way they do’’ . . . “Plain
facts about adolescence’’ . . .
‘ ‘ How to get along with the
boss” ... a wealth of stimu-
lating articles in the Christmas
issue of Header’s Digest, on
sale now only two shillings
at all newsagents and book-
stalls. Maks sure of your copy.
;o
& x" ft
VV V J !. i ,!> V / /
h 7
/ }
l/'J
ss
X. S--"\
A
mv\, A
A
v
PICTURE
IS
WORTH A
THOUSAHD
WORDS! |
Kiddies' pranks make entertaining talk, but when
you pass your snapshots around others can share
with you each amusing incident.
KODAK FILM . L „ . .
Always load your camera with Kodak
Film, Verichrome or Super-XX, for better
snapshots.
(tfuHUjs -Lute -youk COMM, fimdtf!
KODAK FLASHOLDER Model 2
Take snapshots by Flash. A brilliant
flash of sunlight is at your command
with this Kodak Flasholder. Fits most
cameras. £2/10/-. Fittings, 19/3.
Kodak DEALERS EVERYWHERE!
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
Branches in all States
Lost Your Car Lately?
The Car-stealing Racket
By C. McNEIL
HE found a parking-space
in the street outside, the
big block of flats where
he lived. He earned his
living, and the day had been
tougher than most. But,
although he felt tired, he was
careful. He did not just slam
the car-door and go upstairs.
He was methodical. He let
one window down just a frac-
tion, so a little air could get in
during the night and make the
car fresh inside in the morning
and not musty. He checked his
door-locking catches, took the
ignition-key, and got out and
locked the door.
Then, shrewd man that he was,
he lifted the bonnet and turned
off a “secret” switch in his
ignition-circuit. He closed the
bonnet and went inside to his
flat, where he no doubt care-
fully hung his coat up on a
hanger.
No one was more surprised
next morning than this careful
motorist when his car was gone.
He was shocked even more
about a week later when detec-
tives who had found the stripped
hulk and caught the car-thief
told him how long it had taken
the thief to get the car moving.
It had taken the thief a matter
of seconds to open the door
through that narrow slit left at
the top of the window for air.
It had taken' him a few more
seconds to run a prepared lead
from the battery to the coil, thus
circumventing the secret switch
and turning the ignition
permanently on.
Say, less than a minute for the
whole operation.
It would have taken even less
time if the owner had been like
a lot of motorists, and had left
his keys in the ignition-switch
and the doors unlocked.
The owner had been indig-
nant, naturally, when he came
downstairs and found his car
missing that next morning. He
had dialled 8030 and told the
constable someone had stolen
his car.
The constable took the par-
ticulars. A little later, out into
the air above the city went two
Morse pips—the signal for a
police memo, to all cars and
stations.
Desk-constables in the stations
pulled their typewriters across
towards them. Out in the
moving patrol-cars pencils poised
above the message-pads. Then
it came:
“Message 116 to all cars and
stations . . . stolen this date at
Elizabeth Bay ... a black ’54
sedan . . . registered-num-
ber Charlie Victor Nellie 259 . . .
engine-number —— . .
The owner’s loss was known
to all police, and as they walked
their beats or patrolled in their
cars they were on the lookout
for his black sedan —and a
couple of dozen others.
When his car was found,
stripped of accessories, worth
about one-third of its cost price,
hidden down a dark lane, he
askei police "what he should
have done to stop its being
stolen.
They told him that tricks with
the ignition were useless. He
should have locked his windows
completely, as he did the doors.
Car-thieves were fairly timid.
They would pause for thought
and have a good look about them
before they would break a car-
window, or apply a piece of pipe
as a lever on the door-handle
to smash the lock. That few
moments might make a lot of
difference on whether they stole
the car or not.
The police told him he should
have put some locking-device on
his steering-wheel. If you can’t
turn the wheel you can drive
the car as far as the first corner.
Then you need a towing-truck
to lift the front wheels right off
the ground. Car-thieves were
not generally equipped with
towing-trucks.
He could also have put a
locking-device on any of his
foot-pedals, or on his gears, or
installed a new gadget which
locks the brakes through the
ignition-key.
That owner got his car back.
Today it probably bristles with
locking-devices. He might even
be feeling confident again.
But he might .eome out one
morning and find it jacked-up
with both back wheels and his
bumper-bars and number-plates
missing. Such is life.
Car-stripping and stealing
have become a +>ig criminal
industry in Sydney. The police-
radio, VKG, broadcasts more
notices of stolen cars than of all
other crimes. The work of
tracking missing cars in a city
packed to the footpaths with'
cars has become enormous.
Every day VKG broadcasts
a special session for police-
checking, listing the stolen cars
mentioned in previous messages
—no other crime has warranted
that yet.
Police manpower needed \£or
all types of work is tied-up. And
there are more cars coming on
the road every day.
There were 739,372 registered
in N.S.W. in the year ending
June 30, 1955, compared with
684,186 in the previous 12
months. Twenty years back, in
1935, the figure was 244,428.
Some of these cars, like that
of the careful owner mentioned
here, will be found stripped up
some dark lane, or in scrub near
the city.
Some of may be wrecked
when frightened criminals driv-
ing them hear a siren on their
tail.
One such case was a car
stolen at Fairfield, Sydney, one
Saturday night. On the Monday
a police patrol-car spotted it in
Erskineville-road, Newtown, and
started chasing it. The stolen
car shot across red-lights and
they followed. The thief
collected the back of a car on his
way across an intersection.
With the steering damaged he
went up a narrow lane at high
speed and cannoned off a wall.
He shot out the end of the lane
across a street, into a park.
Out of control, the car spun
in a circle on the grass, then
back across the street and
flattened an iron-railing fence
outside a house.
The police pulled the driver
out and he didn’t have a scratch.
The front of the car was a write-
off. The police later found, still
in place, the penny he had used
to complete the car’s ignition-
circuit when he stole it.
But in many cases the owner
will get his car back in one piece,
for the police are as careful as
they can be when they are try-
ing to recover the owner’s pro-
perty for him. The police
record is good—in every 100
Cars stolen this year they have
recovered 97.
The rate of stealing has been
about 90 a week. Cars stolen
since the beginning of the year
would nudge £2,000,000-worth.
The fact that there are more
than 1000 unlicensed second-
hand-car dealers around the city
is one of the biggest drawbacks
the police have in their war
against car-thieves.
Most of these car-dealers are
as honest as —well, as honest as
a car-dealer can be, anyway.
Some of them, the police feel,
may close their eyes occasionally
when buying cars and thus
become “fences” for the thieves.
• And even the strictly honest
ones, presented with a car with
the right papers, and the regis-
tration in order, might buy it in
good faith and hand the car-
thief a fat cheque. This sort of
stolen car often comes from
another State.
Police have records of a
’family— a man, his wife, his son
and daughter—who stole cars in
Adelaide and sold them in Mel-
bourne, or stole them in
Melbourne and sold them in
Sydney, and worked the changes
the other way, too.
In preparing stolen cars for
resale, thieves go a lot of
trouble. They might start by
swiping the number-plates from
any two cars on the street.
Say these plates were ZZZIII
and YYY222. The thieves cut
them up the middle and do some
expert welding. The result
would be two fictitious plates
ZZZ222 and YYYIII. The
welding stands up to close
inspection.
The need for it is that the
police will have a record of car
XXX333, which was stolen, and
they will also know about the
two stolen number-plates. But
there is nothing on record about
the two composite sets of plates
the car-thieves have made.
Car-thieves have been known
to get a set of dies together for
altering engine-numbers. They
have been known to steal a car,
put a set of their composite
plates on it, tamper with the
engine-number registration, and
even give it a coat of different
colored duco. Then they have
driven it inter-State and
registered it.
In places where the law is
more penetrating, they might
evert have to fake expired
registration - papers. Having
registered it, they sell it.
Police in N.S.W. want second-
hand-car dealers licensed. If
they are licensed it will mean
that there can be some official
supervision of their buying and
selling. A period of a few days
could have to pass between a
dealer buying a car and offering
it for sale.
That would give police time
for checking all cars bought. At
present the secondhand turnover
is sometimes too rapid.
Police are fairly certain there
are shady spare-parts dealers
who provide the market for
accessories stolen by car-
strippers.
Some car-strippers make a
living by taking one hard-to-get
part from one make of car. By
doing so they immediately create
a prospective customer for one
of those parts. Other car-
strippers are more greedy.
They have been known to take
from a car:
Chrome fittings, seat-covers,
spark-plugs, distributor, hub-
caps, wheels, tyres, floor-mats,
fan-belt, radio, coil, condenser,
air-filter, generator, horn,
starter-motor, carburettor, all
four doors, steering-wheel, and
even the bumper-bars. That sort
of thing would not leave much
change out of £5OO.
There is a worse aspect of car-
stealing than even the way it
hits the motorist’s pocket.
Frequently the drivers of stolen
cars are young and are bad
drivers. Driving with one eye
on the rear-vision mirror, they
are likely to get into accidents.
When they do they will step
on the gas and go for their lives.
Police have found that very
frequently the hit-run driver is
driving a stolen car.
Again, stolen cars are frequent
accessories for criminals with
bigger jobs planned.
(Continued on page 30)


When the Laborlartw
cant cjovern itself:
now can if govern
YOUR CHOICE IS BETWEEN
The Menzies Government that has given Australia
a period of unsurpassed prosperity and expansion.
OR
The broken Labor Party.
NO DECISION WAS EVER CLEARER!
s * I
Invest in Success!
FOR A UNITED AUSTRALIA . A UNITED GOVERNMENT
AND UNITED PARTY
• • •
V
3t*
[ZJ SPOONER
0 RE,D
IX] McCALLUM
PLACE A NUMBER IN EVERY SQUARE
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, 30 Ash Street, Sydney
—rasr
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIGRATION
A LONGER-THAN-USUAL
discussion on migration to
Australia from Britain was
started by a letter to London
“Daily Telegraph” from Sir Clif-
ford Heathcote-Smith after his
return from a visit to Australia.
He wrote, in part, that “in
these days migration is under a
cloud”:
“In Britain there is such
frantic competition for labor
that we are actually encouraging
immigration. But what may
seem short-term wisdom to us
spells long-term ruin to the
Commonwealth.
“ ‘We are doomed,’ said an
outstanding New Zealander to
me, ‘unless we can adequately
people and develop our islands
—it is as simple as that.’ In
that Dominion immigration is
still a party-issue, and settlers
are admitted as through a drop-
glass.
“Australia is wider-awake. She
has a bipartisan immigration
policy. But even there I often
heard the remark that ‘in a
generation Australia will be
throwing in her lot with the
United States.’ ”
The letter drew quite a batch
of replies, most of them —as the
following excerpts indicate—in
complete agreement:
W. A. Wells: “At present the
[British] Board of Trade is con-
sistently exhorting an increase of
trade with North and South
America. The Treasury, pre-
sumably with Mr. Butler’s
acquiescence, has recently ad-
vised every effort to increase
trade with Western Europe and
the Americas to the neglect of
the Commonwealth.
“We entered into an inter-
national commitment in 1947
which still persists and which
prevents us doing the one thing
necessary to hold the Common-
wealth and Empire together. It
is to maintain a flexible system
of preferential trading.
“One person, the Prime
Minister [Sir Anthony Eden],
appears to have grasped the
principle of doing first things
first, for, in contradiction of
what is preached by other
Ministers, he declared:
“ ‘We must never neglect
those great Commonwealth
markets which take so large a
part of the output of our fac-
tories, but we must do our best
to meet the big new demands
arising in North America, Wes-
tern Europe and the Middle
East.’
“May we hope this utterance
has some effect on those
responsible for Britain’s trade
policies?”
* * *
E. Borland (A ustralian ):
“During my 18 months’ stay in
this country [Britain], I have
been continually amazed at the
profound ignorance in regard to
Commonwealth countries, even
among well-educated people. A
fully-fledged consulting-engineer
who was bemoaning the lack of
opportunities for young men
said he would not emigrate to
Australia as he did not want to
‘rough it.’ ”
* * *
F. W. Perryman: “The
lamentable fact remains that
only in bad times does emigra-
tion flourish.”
* * *
R. A. Piddington: “We
[Britain] are now a desperately
overcrowded nation fighting for
survival. Every six months we
run into a crisis that is due to
the everlasting scramble for
sufficient export-markets.
“Behind the deplorable neces-
sity of a biannual Budget lies
the stark fact that we can no
longer raise our standard of
living without raising imports in
much the same ratio—because
our 51-million people have used
up most of the raw materials
that Nature gave our little
island. v
“In fact, the pushing-around
of the inmates of this country
has already gone so far that the
new overspill-towns are wonder-
ing what they will do with their
own overspill.”
* * *
J. W. G. Richardson : “Propa-
ganda on the issue of emigra-
tion from Britain can never be
really effective in Britain if it is
to be carried on almost ex-
clusively by the [British] Com-
monwealth Governments. If
left to drift on this basis, the
whole field of migration may
London "Daily Mail"
HANGOVER
eventually be seen by the man-
in-the-street as something with
a catch in it, even as something
which the Commonwealth Gov-
ernments are .trying to sell to
him, but the British Govern-
ment will not touch with a
barge-pole.
“In short, before many
people, particularly those in a
comfortable way of life, can be
expected to change their out-
look towards emigration, there
must surely first be a change of
heart in Britain’s rulers. It
must be a change from a polite
but seemingly disinterested atti-
tude towards this issue to one
which is not only interested but
dynamic.
“We [Britain] plod on by
digging up our good agricultural
land to build new towns for our
overcrowded population, while
food-imports go up as the agri-
cultural acreage goes down.
Assisted passages are cheese-
pared while £250 million is spent
on new towns. And our excess
population in London is moved
just 40 miles away while land-
hungry nations gaze with envy
at our heritage overseas.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment: “There is a
sound case for the United King-
dom Government taking the
long view, and demonstrating by
an increase in the ludicrous
token sum of £150,000 a year
contributed towards assisted-
passages that it positively favors
migration to the Dominions.
“Whatever Governments may
decide, however, the temptation
for individuals or families to
take up a new life overseas has
been lessened by full employ-
ment and the Welfare State at
home. Nor is the adult British
citizen always very adaptable to
the new life when he gets there.
There is scope both for more
propaganda on the advantages
the settler will find and for more
warnings on what he or she will
not find.
“The high proportion of post-
war emigrants who have come
from European exiles, from the
Dutch, the Italians and the Ger-
mans is by no means to be
entirely regretted on grounds of
British trade or British senti-
ment. The Commonwealth has
been strengthened not
weakened by these ‘new
Canadians’ and ‘new Aus-
tralians.’ It is not a question of
too many Dutch but of too few
British reinforcing the
Dominions.’ ”
The Middle East
A London “Time and Tide”
post-mortem on events leading
to the present Middle East
tangle:
“Israel believes that Egypt, in
particular, and in her present
mood, is unappeasable. Sir
Anthony Eden believes still that
if we go on trying we shall win
Colonel Nasser’s favors and
friendship. Future events alone
can prove which is right. But
who, on any fair showing by
reference to past events, demon-
strates a greater probability of
accuracy?
“Britain negotiated an agree-
ment on the Sudan with Egypt.
It was in ruins before the ink
on it was dry ; and the continued
perplexing disturbances in the
Sudan are only a part of the
penalty that must be paid for
that mistake. It was argued that
if we were conciliatory over the
Sudan we should have an amiable
Egypt on opr side over the Suez
Canal Zone. What happened
was that Egypt’s terms for our
surrender of that vital base were
about as grasping and humili-
ating as could be conceived. The
effect of the ignominious defeat
was to make the establishment
of the Cyprus base necessary
and thus to estrange us from
our valorous staunch friends, the
Greeks.
“Then, because there was no
firm Western base other than
Cyprus left to us, the policy was
to build-up the ‘northern tier’
defences, an arrangement into
which Irak was cajoled, to the
undisguised resentment of the
Egyptians. Arms for ‘self-
defence’ were hastily distributed;
the Treasury let loose a flood
of frozen sterling balances, and
still the Egyptians were hostile.
“Then the Russians, as so
often before in their history
since 1917, struck; and down
tumbled the whole Humpty-
Dumpty policy. It is conceiv-
able that it is a wrong policy—
wrong in its first premises, wrong
in its working-out and disastrous
in its conclusions.
“The Prime Minister’s especial
difficulty must be recognised. It
is probably impossible for him


CS.R. CO.'S REPORT
Points from General Manager's Report
© Refined sugar sales up.
• Building materials sales
increase 18 per cent.
• Sales of chemicals increasing.
Sales of refined sugar, distillery products,
building materials and chemicals have in-
creased, Dr. R. W. Harman, general manager
of The Colonal Sugar Refining Co. Ltd., told
shareholders in his recent report.
Dr. Harman said that
Australian raw sugar pro-
duction would be about
1,170,000 tons or 115,000
tons below last season’s
record.
(The C.S.R. Co. owns 7
of the 34 Australian sugar
mills and produces about
one-fifth of the raw sugar.)
Total Australian produc-
tion of raw sugar since
1951 is as follows:
FIJI
Output of raw sugar
from the Company’s mills
is expected to reach
170,000 tons of raw sugar,
second only to the record
tonnage of 191,000 in
1953.
REFINED SUGAR
IN AUSTRALIA
During the year ended
30th September, 1955,
sales of refined sugar pro-
ducts from our Australian
refineries amounted to
481,000 tons, an increase
of 11,000 tons or per
cent, on sales for the pre-
vious year.
Expansion of our refin-
eries, to establish a good
margin of capacity above
the level of normal de-
mand, is proceeding as
planned.
NEW ZEALAND
Sales of refined sugar
products for year ended
30th September, 1955,
were 96,500 tons compared
with 95,900 tons in the
previous year.
) '
BULK HANDLING OF
RAW SUGAR
The new equipment at
our Sydney Refinery for
handling raw sugar in bulk
is working well and a regu-
lar flow of ships from
Queensland, carrying raw
sugar in bulk, is now be-
ing discharged by shore-
based cranes. In the past
year, a large proportion of
the raw sugar delivered to
our Melbourne Refinery
was discharged in bulk by
the use of ships’ gear.
OCEAN VESSELS
The keel of the replace-
ment vessel for the "Rona”
will be laid January, 1956.
The "Fiona” has under-
gone extensive repairs and,
upon completion of the
"Tambua’s” present survey
and conversion to oil firing
towards the end of this
year our fleet should be
free of the high mainten-
ance charges incurred in
DR. R. W. HARMAN
recent years. This, together
with the disposal of the
"Rona” and the expected
arrival of the new vessel
in May, 1957, will enable
more profitable operation
of our ocean vessels.
DISTILLERIES
Sales of industrial alco-
hol from our two distiller-
ies have been maintained
at last year’s levels. The
market for rum is improv-
ing and our sales are rising.
The demand for both
liquid and solid C0 2 is
still increasing and addi-
tions to these plants will
be completed by the end
of this year.
BUILDING MATERIALS
Sales of every one of the
eight main products, of this
Division increased this
half-year, the total increase
being 18 per cent, above
those of the last half-year.
The demand for Timbrock
hardboard has continued
to be very good and we
have had some difficulty in
meeting it. The growing
popularity of our floor tiles,
particularly Vinylflex, to-
gether with the increased
use of concrete floors, for
which floor tiles are such
a suitable covering, has
caused a large increase in
sales of this material.
ASBESTOS EXPORTS
Sales of blue asbestos
fibre from the Wittenoom
Mine of our subsidiary,
Australian Blue Asbestos
Ltd., have increased con-
siderably. For the calendar
year 1955 almost 8,000
tons of fibre will be ship-
ped abroad, thus lessening
Australia’s adverse trade
balance by over £BOO,OOO.
The Tariff Board held
an inquiry to ascertain
whether any assistance
should be given to the
production of asbestos fibre
in Australia. This coun-
try now imports 33,000
tons of asbestos fibre per
annum, £3,000,000 value.
We had thought it reason-
able to hope that the Tariff
Board would recommend
that some action should be
taken to make sure that as-
bestos fibre produced loc-
ally was used to replace
some of this imported
fibre, but the' Board’s re-
port has now been tabled
in Parliament and recom-
mends that no assistance
be given. Consequently,
the future of the blue
asbestos fibre industry at
Wittenoom will depend on
the continuation of ade-
quate markets abroad; these
are being further explored.
C.S.R. CHEMICALS
PTY. LTD.
The sales of chemicals
marketed by this Company
have continued to increase,
with consequent improve-
ment in operating results.
The polystyrene plant at
Rhodes and extensions to
the solvents plant at Lane
Cove are now in operation.
The C.S.R.’s new ship will carry general cargo,
molasses and raw sugar between Australian ports,
Fiji and New Zealand. It has been designed to
provide good working conditions and crew accom-
modation. (Illustration is from a water colour by
Mr. David Hogan.)
■
i^xx;
<(*> '***%%'''•>* .
\
7
M
mgs*
«ftB|fl||
to reverse a whole course ot
actions, founded on a firmly held
belief and pursued with assiduity
over years. All the more
unfortunate is it therefore that
he should have chosen to make
so marked and so personal an
intervention in this field and at
this time. After the rebuffs his
offer of mediation has received,
the Prime Minister would be
well advised to withdraw it.
“The [British] Government
possesses in Mr. Harold Mac-
millan a Foreign Secretary of
stature, of proven courage and
integrity. Were he given a com-
pletely free hand in the Middle
East he might even yet be able
to reconstruct something out of
the clutter of complex problems
which he has inherited.”
U.N. "Package Deal"
To end the long deadlock
over the admission of new
members to the General
Assembly of the United Nations,
Canada has suggested a
“package deal” by which the
admission of five Soviet satel-
lites (Albania, Bulgaria, Hun-
gary, Rumania and Outer
Mongolia) would be exchanged
for the admission of 13 free
nations (Austria, Cambodia,
Ceylon, Finland, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Jordan, Laos, Libya,
Nepal, Portugal and Spain).
Commenting, London
“Economist” notes that “this
mixed bag has had a mixed, but
not entirely discouraging,
reception”:
“The British are prepared to
put up with it (even with Outer
Mongolia) for the sake of end-
ing the deadlock, but the French
are unwilling to accept an
arrangement that would con-
siderably swell the ‘anti-colonial’
chorus in the Assembly.
“The Russians seem to be
agreeable provided they can be
quite certain that all their
candidates get home ; and this
is not easy to guarantee, since
even if the doubtful starters are
spared ’the veto they might
easily fail to muster the neces-
sary majority in the Assembly
or even seven affirmative votes
in the Security Council. More-
over, the Americans seem able
to stomach all the candidates
except Outer Mongolia ; aind this
exercise in straining at a gnat
while swallowing a camel may
wreck the whole plan.
“Of course any sort of
‘package deal’ over new mem-
bers is objectionable; it goes
much against the grain that the
admission of, say, Italy, should
be made dependent on that of,
say, Outer Mongolia. But
although in theory admissions
should be by merit only, it is not
so easy to stick rigidly to this
when the merits of a good many
present members are far from
clear.
“Moreover, the United
Nations stands to gain much
more from the inclusion of
such countries as Italy and
Japan than it does from the
exclusion of a few Soviet
satellites. If the sheep and the
goats now waiting outside the
door are inseparable —and it is
unrealistic to pretend that they
are not —then it is worth while
to let in some goats for the sake
of the sheep.”
U.K. Aircraft-industry
With (in the official Ministry
of Supply view) the build-up of
the Royal Air Force levelling-
out to a demand for replace-
ments, the British aircraft-
industry is faced with a con-
siderable contraction. Com-
panies producing Service aircraft
are likely to feel the pinch most,
while those producing large
civil types —such as Vickers
with their Viscount and Van-
guard, Bristol with the Britan-
nia, and De Havilland with the
Comet IV —will still play a large
part on the world-market.
A third Vickers project—the
V-1000, intended to provide
competition for the non-stop
jet-run across the Atlantic—has
been dropped by the Ministry
of Supply, and that field has
apparently been left to the
Americans. “This,” comments
London “Financial Times,”
“puts British manufacturers and
8.0.A.C. in something of a
difficulty”:
“In the first place, the market
is an extremely valuable one.
In the last few weeks orders
totalling more than £2OO-million
have been given for the Boeing
707 and the Douglas D.C.B. It
has been suggested that the total
market might be worth as much
as £ 1000-million.
“So far 8.0.A.C. has com-
mitted itself for the 1960’s to the
combination of a non-stop
turbo-prop crossing by Britan-
nias and a one-stop crossing by
Comet IV. Indeed, one of the
reasons given for 8.0.A.C.’s
lack of interest in the V.lOOO has
been that it will not require a
third aircraft.
“The decision must have been
a difficult one to take. It leaves
8.0.A.C. apparently in the posi-
tion of being the slow route
across the Atlantic once the
American jets start to be
delivered. It is easy to see it
being forced to buy American
jet-airliners in order to maintain
its competitive position inter-
nationally.
“It is true that in Common-
wealth routes the shorter-range
Comet IV may have greater
elasticity, but the prestige of the
Atlantic run will certainly help
to sell the American pair [the
Douglas D.C.B and Boeing 707]
for any other routes on which
they can be made to operate
profitably. In the long run one
would have thought that a non-
stop transatlantic jet would be
essential to any country wishing
to hold a major position in civil-
aircraft manufacture. That
makes the apparent failure of
the V.lOOO all the more
unfortunate.
“The next replacement-cycle
may now be taken as settled.
The non-stop Atlantic jet-run
has been lost to America for the
early 1960’5. It could be won
back in the second half of the
1960’s if our [Britain’s] , plans
now are correctly made.”
Various Voices
Geoffrey Rippon (British Con-
servative M.P .): “Today we
[Great Britain] enjoy prosperity
and we want to be in a position
to enjoy it tomorrow. But what
has to be accepted is that pro-
gress is not automatic. What
any Government can do to pro-
mote the welfare of the people
by raising standards of life and
liberty, lowering the cost of
living, increasing social benefits
and so on, is necessarily limited
by the country’s ability to make
and to pay its way in an increas-
ingly competitive world. What
stands between us and economic
death is our ability to buy
raw materials, make things and
sell them in the competitive
markets of the world with all due
regard to considerations of
price, quality and date of
delivery.”
David Gammans ( Britain’s
Assistant Postmaster-General ) :
“Wage-increases are not paid
for by some employer, but by
unknown customers —for in-
stance, the United States, or
Pakistan. If these people refuse
to pay, then only unemployment
can result.”


A MODERN
SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
m
■
m
7ke
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live ir. an unsewered area where there is no water supply*
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
'DISTRIBUTORS
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Industrial Acceptance
Corporation ltd.
Registered FIRST MORTGAGE Debenture Stock
61%
INTEREST
CURRENCY
614%
6%
5V 2 %
10 & 15 years
4 to 9 years
3 years
SHORT
TERM
5%
INTEREST
5%
4V 4 %
4%
3%%
314%
CURRENCY
24 months
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
Interest per annum, payable quarterly free of
exchange
ASSETS EXCEED £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
and all Branches of the
E., S. & A. BANK LTD.
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
\ and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE
ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
Brokers to the Issue s
lAN POTTER & CO., MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY
IAC.G
C.5.1.R.0., Bureau of Meteor-
ology, Department of Works,
Water Supply and Soil Conser-
vation authorities were all repre-
sented by their chiefs, directors,
commissioners or chief-engin-
eers. •
As might be expected, agri-
culturists were in considerable
strength, with many practical, as
well as research, men listening
critically. No less interested
were the bankers, with their
knowledge and consciousness of
the importance of water to the
economy.
Industry was another well-
represented section, with men
present from the steel- and
heavy - industries, chemical -
industries, oil-industry and the
agricultural - machinery - and
earthmoving - industries. The
current election-campaign pre-
vented many Parliamentarians
from attending, but all expressed
their keen interest in the sym-
posium and wished it success.
The papers and discussion
were stimulating, and will be
published by the University of
Technology. Will these pub-
lications now be pigeonholed, or
will something happen? The
engineers and scientists need the
co-operation of the practical
workers in primary and
secondary industry if scientific
principles are to be tested and
proved in practice.
* * *
At the symposium promise of
real and tangible progress was
heralded in a noteworthy an-
nouncement by the Chancellor
that a provisional organising
committee had been set-up to
establish an Australian Water
Foundation, and he called on
Mr. J. G. Beale, M.L.A., to
outline to the conference the
ideas of this committee.
Mr. Beale said a natural
question was: Why an Aus-
tralian Water Foundation?
The answer could be stated in
simple terms. Water is the basis
of life. Without it life would
cease to exist. Consequently,
water has played a vital part in
history. Ruins of dead cities
buried beneath desert sands pro-
vide ample evidence of nations
which enjoyed wonderful natural
resources but failed to conserve
them.
In Australia, the driest of all
continents, research on water is
vital because there is grave
danger that, at the present rate
of agricultural and industrial
expansion, Australia will reach
the limit of its water-resources
in the foreseeable future. It
was not merely a matter of
research for profit, but for
survival.
With almost equal area, Aus-
tralia has only about 15 per cent,
of the water available for
storage in U.S.A.
All sorts of questions needed
to be answered infiltration-
rates ; when to irrigate and how
much water to apply; design of
dams ; conservation —and the
right answers would lead to
increased productivity. It takes
325 tons of water to produce 1
ton of wheat f 1 ton of sub-
terranean-clover requires no less
than 525 tons of water.
In secondary-industry water
is of prime importance. Pro-
duction of 1 ton of steel requires
65,000 gallons of water; 1 ton
of sulphate-paper needs 64,000
gallons; a barrel of oil, 18.33
barrels. Water is a major con-
sideration in planning and
expanding industry.
To quench our national thirst
we may have to tap the resources
of the sea. The conversion of
sea-water into fresh is already
being tackled in many parts of
the world.
A pure domestic water-supply
is a most important factor in
public health. Life-expectancy
in the days of the Roman
Empire was about 25 years. A
century ago in Great Britain it
was less than 40 years. Today
in Australia it is over 68.
For flood - control, more
hydrological work must be
carried out. In fact, hydrology,
of fundamental importance to
this, and also to the supply of
water, has been sadly neglected.
Mr. Beale said that the Aus-
tralian Water Foundation arose
from discussions between
scientists, engineers, indus-
trialists, farmers and graziers on
how water-problems could best
be attacked. The N.S.W. Uni-
versity of Technology took a
leading part in the establishment
of the Foundation.
The speaker made the point
that, at present, research is being
done by various bodies and
individuals, but that there is
an urgent need for an organisa-
tion which will co-operate with
them, collect and co-ordinate
results, and then act as a clear-
ing-house to disseminate this
knowledge through publications,
press, films, radio and television.
The Foundation will promote
research into the water-resources
of Australia—the very subject of
the symposium—and will raise
funds to:
(1) Initiate and further re-
search at universities ;
(2) Obtain results of research-
work from all over the
world •
(3) Disseminate this know-
* ledge.
* * *
As one associated with the
formation, of this Foundation, I
sincerely hope it gets the
national support it deserves. To
quote Mr. Beale’s concluding
remarks: “Water uncontrolled
and wasted is national suicide,
Properly used, it can lead to a
bountiful life.”
A safe is stolen, and later
found ripped apart. Near by is
found the stolen car used in the
safe-break. It quite possibly
belonged to a pillar of the
church and had led a blameless
life up to then.
Not all criminals who start
the night by stealing a car for
the “big job” are successful.
One Sydney team of three —two
men and a blonde—secured the
necessary car and headed for
Punchbowl.
The blonde, who was to drive
the getaway car, sat with her
engine and stomach turning over
in a dark street about 200yds.
away. The two men started
hacksawing through the bars on
the rear window of a frock-shop.
None of the three was cut out
for the work.
The men made, too much
noise, aroused the neighbors,
and got themselves chased.
The blonde, seeing her two
partners hot-footing it down the
road, with what she took to be
plainclothes men on their heels,
drove off with a crash of gears
and left them to it.
The men disappeared in some
scrub, and the blonde, presum-
ably, has not met up with them
again. At any rate, no one
answering her description has
been found with her neck wrung.
The car-strippers who take
cars not as accessories to bigger
crimes, but merely for the
accessories Ihey can remove
from them, often use the big
areas of wild scrub around
Sydney for their work.
National Park, near Suther-
land, has at times been a regular
graveyard of stripped cars.
Things got so hot once that the
police called in the R.A.A.F. to
do some low-level spotting for
them over the park.
As the R.A.A.F. plane made
its recce, it radioed what
it saw to police-radio VKG, and
VKG directed the patrol-cars to
spots that looked suspicious
from the air.
Although car-stealing figures
are over 90 a week, N.S.W.
police are fairly certain that the
big organised gangs are no
more. Engine-number identifi-
cation and legislation imposing
a jail-term for car-stealing have
quietened the big guns. Today
the car-owners’ enemies have
become scattered but numerous
independent operators, without
the facilities of the gangs, but
cunning just the same.
The police are quite happy
with the present N.S.W. legisla-
tion, though it is not as savage
as the Victorian law which gives
up to 10 years’ jail for car-
stealing or up to £lOO or a year,
or both, for joyriding.
There are car-thieves who
could probably pinch a Matilda-
tank with its hatch battened
down. Given the right devices
they could make off with any
car on the road.
The police advise motorists
to make the car-thief’s work as
difficult as possible by locking-
down something mechanical,
like brakes, or gears, or steering.
If his car goes off even then,
the owner can increase his
chance of getting it back by
ringing the police immediately.


Sheep-owners! Cattle-
owners! Watch this
space each week for
important informa-
tion dealing with the
welfare of your stock.
It will explain how to
maintain lambs and
calves in good health
and good condition
and how to minimise
losses.
'iOOHd
SAI
S.JJH
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
a
-I
' I
i
im
ia
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysoght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
■S " WIRE,
WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOL INDUSTRY
By ALEXANDER JOHNSTON
RECENTLY, after spending
eight months in Australia, I
returned to the United States.
[Professor Johnston writes from
the Wool Department, Univer-
sity of Wyoming, Laramie,
Wyoming, U.S.A.: from March
to October, 1955, he was Ful-
bright Lecturer in Wool Science
at the N.S.W. University of
Technology.]
During my stay in Australia I
was accorded the privilege of
studying the production and
marketing phases of your great
wool-industry. I am grateful to
the industry for this opportunity
and for the hospitality so freely
given by numerous members of
the Australian wool-trade in all
its branches.
While in Australia several
authorities asked me to write a
commentary concerning wool-
production and -marketing in
your country. I now do so with
the hope that my opinions will
be considered as constructive
suggestions and not as criticism.
To begin with, ! was pro-
foundly impressed with the effi-
ciency and high standards pre-
vailing in the Australian wool-
industry. Your graziers, on the
whole, are producing a national
wool-clip that is superior in
quality and quantity to the clip
of any other country in the
world. You have the well-
deserved reputation of the
world’s premier fine-wool pro-
ducer, and you will keep this
position of honor as long as your
leading breeders and scientists
continue to give the same pro-
gressive guidance as they have
heretofore.
Probably the greatest asset of
the Australian wool-business is
the prevailing concept that de-
pendence for total success lies in
the co-operative efforts of all
the numerous branches of the
industry. Probably this attitude
is conditioned by the realisation
of the paramount importance of
the industry to the Common-
wealth. Everywhere I found' keen
interest evidenced by all seg-
ments of industry in the many
phases of its development, from
pasture-improvement and ovine
parasite-control to wool-manu-
facturing.
First of all, in the field of
wool-production, I should like to
make some observations for your
consideration.
Fodder-conservation is of vital
importance to Australia. At the
present time authorities estimate
supplies of stored hay and grain
to be only 10 per cent, of the
total food-requirements of the
sheep-population in a major
drought. Loss of sheep through
inadequate nutrition during a
protracted dry period can mean
immediate disaster for many
graziers.
To the industry, this means not
only the loss of productive
sheep-units, but future develop-
ment also is retarded because
generations of expensive breed-
ing are lost and never can be
replaced. To restock the pro-
perty after drought the grazier
is obliged to buy inferior sheep
that other graziers have culled
from their flocks.
One of the surest and most
reliable ways by which to in-
crease the profits of a sheep-
enterprise is to cull the breeding-
flock thoroughly. The elimina-
tion of ewes and rams that pro-
duce fleeces well below the
average fleece-weight of the flock
guarantees higher production of
clean wool-fibre per head. Thus
the production-cost per pound
of wool can be lowered and
greater profit will accrue to the
grazier.
It costs very little more to
maintain a sheep that produces
a large fleece compared to one
that produces a small fleece. Cull-
ing upon the basis of fleece-
weight at shearing-time is a
simple matter, requiring only an
operator with a weighing-scale
and a method of marking inferior
wool-producers in order that
they may be discarded.
It might be advantageous to
consider separation of the ewe-
flock, upon the basis of wool-
quality and staple-length, before
breeding to specific rams. In
many flocks there exists consider-
able variation in wool-quality
and in staple-length between
individuals.
Separation of the flock into
large or small groups of indi-
viduals that produce like quali-
ties and lengths of wool enables
the grazier to increase produc-
tion by breeding each group to
rams exhibiting superior wool-
characteristics. These matings
should be made to correct the
deficient characteristics of the
parents in their offspring.
This is called corrective breed-
ing. The practice is of great
value to the grazier who has
clearly in mind the specific
superior quality and staple-length
he is striving to attain in his clip.
By achieving greater uniformity
the efficiency of fleece-classing
during shearing will be increased,
because larger lines can be made
of the clip, and star lots can be
avoided.
Adoption of this practice
would tend to decrease irregu-
larity in quality and staple-
length attributed by wool-buyers
to many classed lines of greasy-
wool exhibited for sale upon the
show-floors in central-market
wool-warehouses today.
The Australian Merino sheep
is a superb wool-producing
“Push it nearer the mosque."
animal. It has been developed by
sound breeding and selection
methods into a biological
machine capable of yielding a
superior fleece of valuable wool
under a wide variety of environ-
mental conditions. Yet the
physical structure of this animal
could be improved further by
corrective breeding to overcome
certain defects existing to various
intensities in some flocks.
Specifically, these deficiencies
are: (a) Devil’s grip—constriction
of the chest-cavity behind the
shoulders; (b) excessive body-
development, or wrinkled skin;
and (c) lack of substance, or
narrowness and shallowness of
body.
It may be many years before
the Merino will of necessity
become a dual-purpose sheep,
producing both wool and
butcher’s lambs. However, im-
provement of the body by breed-
ing for a wider, deeper and
thicker trunk and heavier
quarters will yield a roomier
sheep, capable of producing more
lambs of superior type. This
could be of significant value in
improving the lambing percent-
ages in many flocks another
characteristic that is somewhat
deficient in the Merino at
present.
It might be well to consider
crossing some strains of the
Merino. In flocks that have been
line-bred to rams from one stud-
flock for generations the possi-
bility exists that hybrid vigor
could be obtained in offspring
by crossing the ewes with rams
from another blood-line. When
such a practice is contemplated
it would be best for the
grazier to demonstrate the ad-
vantages for his own satisfaction
first by making the cross with
small groups of individuals and
studying the characteristics of
their progeny.
It is imperative that caution
should be exercised in this
matter, because indiscriminate
crossing of strains will not
always produce superior off-
spring. For this reason it is
highly desirable that any such
programme first should be under-
taken on an experimental basis
involving small numbers of
sheep.
For the general good of the
industry, do not relax efficiency
in classing your clips. The prin-
ciples of classing greasy-wools
have been established through
many years of constructive
thought and progressive develop-
ment in your industry.
Today, the success in market-
ing the Australian wool-clip is
largely dependent upon your
high classing-standards. Con-
tinue to do everything in classing
which will make the functions of
your wool-broker easier and,
therefore, more efficient. This in
turn will reflect to your benefit.
In this connection, it might be
advantageous for the technolo-
gists and economists in your in-
dustry to consider initiating a
comprehensive study of the pre-
sent-day requirements of manu-
facturers who process your wools
in the various countries. In
America we have discovered
evidence which proves that pre-
sent manufacturing practices
require modified greasy-wool
preparation somewhat different
from the requirements of the
past.
Again, let me emphasise the
need for caution and adequate
research into this matter before
changing any of your present
practices in wool-classing.
Recently, wool-technologists
from Britain pointed out two
serious defects of Australian-
shorn wools, namely, second-
cuts and skin-pieces. I must
agree with their findings through
my own observations. During
my stay I visited a number of
shearing-sheds and found that
the amount of short wools, and
consequent staple-length impair-
ment, seemed to be abnormally
great.
Also, many fleeces in the large
classed lines contained narrow
strips of skin adhering to the
base of the staples; one strip
of skin actually measured 9in. in
length.
Now these are serious defects
from the manufacturing stand-
point. The short second-cuts
will be combed out of the long
fibres into the noil, which is
worth only 50 per cent, to 70
per cent, of the value of top
made from the longer fibres.
Greasy-wool with skin-pieces
attached requires extra process-
ing at the mill before it can be
combed. Thus, manufacturing
costs are increased because of
these defects.
Excessive amounts of second-
cuts or skin-pieces are quite
obvious to the wool-buyer, who
adjusts his bid-values accordingly
at the wool-sale.
Recently we have discovered
what is probably the source of
black-fibre contamination in our
white Wyoming wools. It is the
custom in the western States of
America to keep one or two per
cent, of black ewes and wethers
in herded flocks of sheep grazed
upon the open-range country.
These black sheep act as
“markers,” and, when they are
counted by the shepherd every
day or two, furnish a rough
check of the total number of
sheep in the entire flock. If all
the markers are present the shep-
herd can be reasonably sure that
a portion of the flock has not
been lost. Now, as the white
sheep brush against these black
sheep, black-wool fibres adhere
to the outside of the white fleeces
and appear in fabrics made from
the white wool. This constitutes
a serious defect in the finished
fabric, and a consequent depre-
ciation in its value.
I noticed quite a number of
black lambs and ewes in your
Australian flocks.
I was impressed by the fact
that you Australians in this vast
business of growing and market-
ing wool do not seem to realise
the worth of your marketing-
system. You have developed,
over the years, methods of ex-
hibiting classed greasy-wools for
sale, and a system'of selling by
public auction, to remarkable
degrees of efficiency.
By these measures you are able
to sell to the wool-manufacturers
of the world your annual clip of
1300-million pounds within
approximately 10 months, and
clear your warehouses in readi-
ness for the next annual clip.
This is an orderly and disciplined
system by which the clip is sold
in uniform quantities, week by
week and month by month, so
that wool-values do not suffer
from glutting of the world-
market through over supply.
Being familiar with the defi-
ciencies that exist in a wool-
producing industry lacking an
(Continued on next page )


Best
Mineral
Supplement
is
P
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum, of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Osi, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
CM
1W
Sit*
BOH*
«ak»
t dhi'€a£6&
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. 80. 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Saws money
i
Per unit of belt or drawbar h.p.,
the Fordson Major Diesel is
Australia’s lowest priced wheeled
tractor and it has greater,
more versatile work capacity.
pORDSON MAJOR is not too big and not too small.
It is powered and engineered for easy perfoMnance of
versatile work. Yet its price is Australia’s lowest for a tractor
of anywhere near comparable power or work capacity.
This means lower capital investment in plant and, through
continuous, year-round job after job, more profitable returns
from that lower investment. Low running costs and the
availability, always, of genuine parts and service through
Fordson Dealers are also big economy factors.
complete and including:
• 2 Speed Belt Pulley • Power Take
Off • Electric Lighting and Starting
Equipment • Tachourmeter
TYRES: 14 x 28. 6 ply, rear 7.50
x 16, 6 ply, front.
Optional equipment extra:
Hydraulic Lift, 3-point Linkage £76
Hydraulic Remote Control Kit
(SAE/ASAE Standard) £73. Raised
Power Take off Assembly £3O
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plants.
DIESEL
MODEL~
Saves .
muscles
One man operation and range of
time and labour saving equipment.
Fordson Major measures up to any kind of job . . .
heavy ploughing or discing . . . planting or cultivating
. . . harvesting . . . maintenance like terracing, building
silage trenches or dams . . . digging postholes or sawing
wood . . . mowing hay or transporting equipment or
supplies. Its system of “touch-control” hydraulics including
NEW Remote Control Kit and the range of equipment Fordson
Dealers can supply mean a tremendous saving of labour.
FMI23
□DKO
Australia's greatest name in
modern , low-cost power farming
LISTEN TO THE FORD SHOW ON ANY OF THE 65 STATIONS IN THE NATION-WIDE WEEKLY BROADCAST
Your local Fordson Dealer will supply further details .
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
integrated and orderly market-
ing-system, I have great admira-
tion for the wool-producers and
wool-brokers who have de-
veloped the Australian selling-
system to such a high degree of
perfection.
The application of science in
industry is growing all over the
world. In the field of wool, we
find that customers are begin-
ning to demand specific certifica-
tion of characters in the raw
materials and in the finished pro-
ducts they purchase. The appli-
cation of scientific measurements
to physical characters of wool is
slowly but surely gaining in'
popularity. If the present trends
continue, then measurement of
yield of. clean fibre in greasy-
wool, specific definition of fibre-
diameter, and quantitative
description of burp-fault and
other defects, based upon sound
scientific methods, will increase
in use. These have come to be
recognised as selling-aids by the
wool - industries of other
countries.
In closing, I should like to pay
tribute to the able scientists of
the Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research
Organisation, who have made so
many valuable contributions to
wool-science. Your industry
will continue to benefit from
their achievements as the dis-
coveries are applied to the many
phases of pastoral sheep-hus-
bandry and wool-processing.
The technical colleges and
schools of Australia also are
doing splendid work in training
thousands of young men and
women in commercial wool-pre-
paration, wool-handling, and
textile-processing and -manufac-
ture. Thus, you are assured of
a continuing supply of educated
technicians who are capable of
maintaining high standards of
production in the whole of the
great Australian wool-industry.
Visitors to Australia who ate
familiar with commercial wool-
production cannot fail to be im-
pressed and stimulated by the
progress you have made since
the founding of the Australian
sheep-industry. My short visit
of eight months has been a very
valuable experience.
Superphosphate
“R.N.”: Experimental work
by the C.5.1.R.0. in N.S.W. has
shown that superphosphate is a
triple fertiliser supplying phos-
phorus, lime and sulphur—three
of the most important nutrients
required by plants.
Commenting on this, W.
Mackie, of Commonwealth
Fertilisers and Chemi c a l s,
pointed out that both sulphur
and phosphorus are utilised in
the production of proteins,
which, in turn, are the im-
portant constituents of meat,
wool, milk, grain and many
other foodstuffs. All cash-crops,
and animals sold off the farm,
slowly but steadily deplete the
soil of these elements. In
addition to this man-made loss
there is a wastage through leach-
ing of lime and sulphur in the
heavier-rainfall areas.
Regular topdressing with
super, seems necessary under
most conditions. The N.S.W.
experiments have demonstrated
that topdressing with super, not
only corrects phosphorus-defi-
ciency but also builds up the
sulphur content. This wasn’t
recognised until recent experi-
ments.
Discussing a suggestion that
gypsum might be substituted for
superphosphate in correcting
sulphur-deficiency, Mr. Mackie
suggested that landowners
should maintain regular top-
dressing with super, while
making any tests with other
materials. “A simple trial may
be carried out by applying to a
strip of clover-pasture about
2c wt. per acre of crushed
gypsum, and comparing the
response with that obtained
from an equivalent amount of
superphosphate.”
In a symposium on “Sulphur”
held at the recent conference of
the Australian and New Zealand
Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, A. J. Anderson,
who has been doing pioneering
research on molybdenum
and sulphur for C.5.1.R.0.,
emphasised the importance of
topdressing with superphosphate.
He stated that very few soils in
Australia contain sufficient
phosphorus to allow gypsum to
replace super, in the normal
topdressing programme.
Windmill-grass
“R.W.C ”: E. O. Schlunke’s
remarks on windmill - grass
(Chloris truncata ) may apply in
the better-rainfall parts of the
New South Wales wheatbelt, but
from the drier wheat-country
and western plains they seem a
bit sweeping. In this western
part of N.S.W. we think
moderately well of windmill-
grass for several reasons.
As a forage-plant it is fairly
good, compared with some of
the other native-grasses in these
districts: of the more common
native perennial grasses, it would
be third in palatability to
wallaby - grass or white - top
( Danthonia ) and spear-grass
(Stipa).
Although a pasture of this
species may be regarded as a
degenerate community, it can
stand up to fairly heavy grazing,
and established plants respond
quickly to light summer showers.
Again, its free-seeding habit
and ability to colonise eroded
and partly-eroded surfaces make
it an ideal grass for preventing
further erosion. And it is
always the first reasonably stable
pasture-community to become
established following the
colonisation of severely-eroded
areas by saltbushes and roly-
polies.
It may be safely said that
much of the country in the
N.S.W. nearer-western plains
would be a windswept, eroded
waste, supporting little but roly-
poly and other weeds but for
the ability of windmill-grass to
replace the more palatable
species once they have been
eaten-out.
Windmill-grass is distributed
throughout western New South
Wales, but its main occurrence
is between the Min. and 18in.
rainfall-belts. It has been
recorded on all soil-types, but
seems to prefer compact loams
and clay-loams. It reaches its
best development on the lighter-
textured soils associated with
river country, coming in as a
result of heavy grazing. It also
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PLACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
Si S
h e attach-
e nt illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS'
BOY”
ROTARY
SCYTHE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.YV.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd..
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd ,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2496.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
$
CATTLE
TROUGHING
SEPTIC TANKS
o
□
WELL
LININGS
©
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that’s why you should always .specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an. outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings, give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
NSW OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
■ : PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
eaptoßl pc;• ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE,
FACTORIES ADAMb I fe YDALMERE JAMWORTH.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
V ( Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
NSW. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell StrC, Sydney. Ma „ g „
Telephone: BW 8131 (4 lines)
•phenovls'—Brand of
Phenofhiarine.
UpPH
V&9
9
yt/OUhP
rm
m
i
v «
m
m
in liquid,powder or tablet form
i The most effective drench
1 for worms in sheep !
ICI
Available NOW from Your Usual Supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED^—^
occurs as £ natural co-dominant
with Danthonia in the Denili-
quin - Narrandera - Carrathool
region.
A survey of natural pastures
in the Trangie (N.S.W.) district
carried out by the C.5.1.R.0. be-
tween 1948 and 1950 showed
that, although the composition
of the original pastures on both
heavy and light soils differed
markedly, overgrazing in both
cases led to a dominance of
windmill-grass.
Windmill - grass is weakly
perennial, requiring continua-
tion of good seasonal conditions
for persistence. However, its
free-seeding habit and rapid
growth enable it to quickly
assume dominance once the
hardier and more palatable
spear- and wallaby-grasses have
been reduced or removed by
overgrazing or other causes.
Windmill-grass will produce ex-
cellent forage at any time of the
year after rain, but makes its
most vigorous growth during the
warmer months. Probably the
main reason for the marked in-
crease of this species noted by
E. O. Schlunke over recent years
has been the succession of years
in which good spring and early-
summer rains have been fol-
lowed by good late-summer and
autumn rains.
It is truly fortunate that a
grass of such aggressive charac-
ter has some desirable qualities.
A similarly aggressive species
with practically no desirable
qualities, and plenty of undesir-
able ones, is wire-grass, or No.
10 (Aristida jerichcensis ), which
has considerably reduced the
grazing-capacity of much of the
red country lying between the
Lachlan and Darling Rivers in
western N.S.W.
Another species closely related
to windmill-grass is the curly
windmill-grass (C. acicularis),
more often known as umbrella-
grass. In this species the “ribs”
and “handle” of the umbrella
are much larger, and the seed
slender and needlelike, compared
with the short, triangular seed
of C. truncata. It is very palat-
able, hardier than windmill-
grass and, when protected from
grazing, produces large leafy
tussocks which are similar in
appearance to Mitchell-grass
when dried off.
This species is also found on
~ emi tvnes but
a wide range of sofi-types, o
seems to prefer sandyloams Md
heavy grey clays It n
shown considerable
over recent years d . ue ?- t - s
favorable ,
butmainly o
rabbits. Tim latter factor
also been res tort
appearance of ma y •
palatable species qf nattve
perennial grasses, some of winch
have npt been seen for 30 years
or more.
Demineralising
Salt-water
“Imalone”: In a country as
dry as Australia the economic
demineralisation of water would
be a boon. This can now be
done for approximately £2 per
1000 gallons ; the C.5.1.R.0. and
private enterprise, too, are push-
ing on with plans that promise
to lessen the cost greatly.
In Israel Dr. Kurt Spiegler
has developed a relatively low-
cost technique, which has been
taken up by the Weizmann
Institute of Science at Rehovot.
Equipment is manufactured
there and made available to
landholders. Salt-water is
passed through tubes filled with
synthetic resins and salt is
extracted in the first tube and
the acids in the second at the
rate of 20,000 gallons of water
a day. It’s claimed to be fool-
proof.
Even on our coastal lands the
Spiegler technique, if economic,
could be very helpful.
At Wyong (N.S.W.) only
about one bore in three has
struck fresh-water. The salt
comes from the clays overlying
the Hawkesbury sandstone,
which is too porous to filter the
water permeating it.
Water from a bore on my
own place, analysed by the
Department of Agriculture,
showed 270 grains of salt
(sodium-chloride) to the gallon
(7000 grains). This content
makes it unfit for agricultural
purposes, although it_ is quite
safe for large stock, or even
poultry—with, of course, salt
omitted from their mash!
N.G. Sheeplands
“Diamond H”: After several
years in New Guinea, the
Romney Marsh breed of sheep
has increased numerically to
1200 wormridden specimens
an increase of 200 on the valu-
able gift by philanthropist Hall-
strom. The survivors—poor in
'fleece as well as in body and in
health do not suggest that
woollies are the right animals for
Australia’s largest tropical isle.
Apart from the parasites,
which thrive despite regular
drenchings at short intervals, the
sheep lack a good protein diet
and adequate fencing for inten-
sive management.
Despite this, sheep might be
well worth another trial—especi-
ally if they are parasite-free on
entering the isle and legumes
can be made to compete with the
tall grasses.
In the meantime, cattle are the
better bet. Xbe A.I.S. and
Aberdeen Angus seem to be
doing much better than either
the Shorthorn or Hereford.
However, as tick is a problem
in at least some parts of N.G.,
what about using the Santa
Gertrudis to make the beef and
relieve the protein shortage?
Good-doing local Zebu-type
crosses already there support
the case for trying Santa Ger-
trudis.
Crosscuts .
“G.”: Barn-curing, tried-out
in N.S.W., has produced excel-
lent lucerne-hay, described by
an expert as “soft and leafy and
of excellent color.” Method in-
volves putting the crop in the
barn soon after cutting and
blowing air through it till it is
cured. This permits hay-making
in any weather without risk of
loss.
“Ann”: A quantity of a new
drug produced in the U.S.A. has
been received in Australia for
tests against nosema-disease in
bees. Reports from America com
firm that there the drug,
fumagillin, fed to bees in sugar-
syrup, has built up resistance to
nosema.
“Katyil”: Long-range fore-
cast in the fodder-field is that
artificially-dried green hay will
replace meadow-hay, silage and
grain as the main reserve in the
next few years. Overseas reports
promise that a new machine will
cut and dry greenstuff much
more economically than those
now being used in England and
elsewhere.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(28/11/’55)
Good general rains are likely throughout the whole of
New South Wales during December, with the mam rams
coming towards the close of the month. Similar conditions
should also occur in Victoria and South Australia.
Western Australia should receive good rams in the
Kimberleys, East Gascoyne and the goldfields area; mainly
light elsewhere. General rains may also fall in the K.im-
berleys during January, with only light ram m the balance
° f Moderately good rains are likely in the western division
of Queensland during December, but patchy ram,
from light to moderate, on the coast. The wet season s ou
begin during January, with widespread flooding and dis-
ruption of services. _ ,
As a result of strong tropical influences, good rams
should extend southward down the eastern highlands, and
into the northern pastoral areas of South Australia.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Darwin
That .article on Darwin (B. 26/10/’55)
was not a very true picture.
The houses the few wharf-workers own
are broken-down “Sidney Williams
huts” worth about £l5O. The mating of
white-men and half-caste women seldom
has the blessings of the church or the
approval of the Registrar of Births,
Deaths and Marriages. The “silvertails”
who walk on the wharf at night are base-
grade clerks and railway-workers who
go there to escape from the heat of their
huts under the hill.
The real “silvertails” don’t have to go
to the wharf; they live on cool- Myilly
Point, the Toorak and Point Piper of
Darwin. Neat, comfortable houses along
the cliffs house directors and senior pro-
fessional officers of the Administration
and Commonwealth Service. Each house
cost taxpayers between £20,000-£30,000
to build. Under each house is a Com-
monwealth motor-car to protect the
owner from rain and heat and exertion
on his way to his office about half-a-
mile away.
Darwin is probably the most uncom-
fortable town in Australia in which to
live. A bus runs out to the hospital
(about two miles out of town) and Parap
twice each day and again at night for
Parap people who wish to go to the
pictures.
Goyder’s surveyors “laid-out” Darwin
on the same fines as Adelaide. Great
wide and long streets which are a night-
mare of heat for those without cars.
There are no trees in the streets to pro-
vide shade, and the plight of the base-rate
clerk’s wife who has to walk many miles
along these empty streets each day to do
her shopping is miserable.
Little shanty-built shops are going up
every day in Darwin and tons of paint
is being lavished on the sheds in which
the main stores carry on business. Old
Darwinians are wondering what it is all
about. Since the war the Commonwealth
has built the Peel-street Mess (still un-
finished) and the nurses’-quarters. The
Legislative Council building is receiving
the last few alterations.
About 2000 public servants five in
Darwin, most of them in huts and hostels.
Games are played on an oval about three
miles out of town, but no man in his
right senses would walk that distance in
the blazing heat to see a football-match.
Most of this army spend their leisure in
the Darwin Club, the R.S.L. Club, the
Workers’ Club, the Buffaloes’ Club or
the three hotels in Darwin. Ships from
the east and west bring huge cargoes of
beer, provisions and timber. They return
empty to the south. Darwin produces
nothing.
The turnover of public servants is con-
siderable. Many of the women return
to the south at their own expense. In
Darwin they five in three ugly uncom-
fortable hostels and have not the conso-
lation of beer in the clubs and hotels.
Darwin is without tennis-courts, swim-
ming-pools, dancing-places or attractive
cafes. The hostels are badly furnished,
and are without the ordinary things that
civilised people are accustomed to have
in their homes. Young people become
lonely, and usually go home after a year
in Darwin. No attempt is made to make
their lives worth living in Darwin. The
churches provide some amenities, but
these are very limited because of restricted
finance.
In contrast, Alice Springs is one of
the most attractive towns in the Com-
monwealth, and civil servants make every
effort to remain there. Murran-ji
(N.T.).
Trucking Cattle
Further on {he drastic need for an
inland abattoir somewhere along the
Queensland Great Northern rail-line.
Recently 750 cattle from Roxburgh
station in the far-west were trucked in
two trains at near-by Dajarra for Swift’s
works at Oolbun (Townsville) on the
coast, nearly 600 miles away. On arrival
15 cattle were dead in the first train and
20 in the second. The remainder did not
go on the killing-floor as scheduled be-
cause of their condition.
At today’s prices the financial loss is
substantial and the economic wastage
difficult to assess. The unfortunate
breeder sees prime stock, which he has
carefully husbanded to maturity through
seasonal and other hazards, suffer death
or injury on their way to the slaughter-
house. —Quo Vadis (Q.).
“Wife-starvers”
With commendable caution, Ronald
Creasy (B. 26/10/’55) writes “allegedly
many people in Darwin are.... dodgers
of alimony-payments, men who have
deserted wives.” He could have gone
further and remarked that, for the same
reason, many of the wide-open spaces of
Australia have progressed wonderfully
and show a marked preponderance of
males.
Long divorce-lists, jails crowded with
“wife-starvers,” increasing de facto
unions, decreasing marriage-rates, juvenile
delinquency—all these stem, in part at
least, from the same source: something
has gone wrong with the institution of
marriage.
There are many no-hopers who shy
away from any form of responsibility, but
among those refugees from matrimony
who inhabit the open spaces are many
good and honorable—and bitter —men
who object to the archaic and unjust laws
which give women all the rights they
ever had plus many modern additions,
despite somewhat changed status, while
the rights of husbands have been almost
abolished, without any change in
responsibility.
Priding themselves on their practical,
opportunistic outlook, women have not
been slow to cash-in on injustice and, in
this pension-mad age, alimony. The
legal fraternity do well out of the busi-
ness, since costs are nearly always debited
against the man. Custody of the
children is also usually given to the
woman, which may explain many social
problems.
Much is written and talked about the
problem of increasing divorces, but there
is little investigation into the causes,
probably because of the militant feminism,
which frightens even politicians into
silence. A partial solution would be to
make it harder for women to get alimony
awards. Money-hungry wives frequently
destroy all domesticity and masculine
importance by declaring their independ-
ence and going to work, thereby neglect-
ing home, children, or both, or,
alternatively, nagging husbands into some
form of rebellion. When the inevitable
break comes they go to the courts plead-
ing poverty, obtain a life-pension in
alimony, and then go back to work. In
the case of some professional women the
whole thing becomes farcical, for
alimony, based on the husband’s earnings
in what are frequently his best years, is
merely an addition to an already adequate
income. The fact that no service is given
for money received is merely incidental,
Not the least deplorable aspect is that
the honest, sober and industrious citizen,
whose personal qualities are such that
he is always employed, is penalised most
heavily, while the unskilled and irrespon-
sible get off lightly—another example in
this topsy-turvy world of virtue being
penalised.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction should
be overhauled. If women had to justify
“Good shoots this end of the beach!"
their claim to maintenance by proving a
genuine effort to make successful
marriage ; if they had to show that factors
other than laziness prevented them earn-
ing their own living, and, above all, if
they knew that they would have to bear
their own legal expenses, the immediate
result would be a reduced waiting-list.
Whether divorce should be made easier
or harder is a debatable point, but there
is no question as to whether alimony
should be harder to get. Divorce has
become profitable business, and that is
one reason why there is so much of it. —
Burma (N.S.W.).
Literary Scholarship
The gift by a Melbourne citizen of
literary scholarships has been received
with mixed feelings by Melbourne
writers. -While gratitude and satisfaction
predominate, there are those who are
critical.
The donor remains anonymous, but it
is the general opinion that he or she is a
patriotic citizen with a genuine desire to
help Australian writers. The administra-
tion of the scheme has been placed in
the hands of the Department of English
at Melbourne University, but it is to be
hoped that outside advice will be sought
and a committee will be formed as sug-
gested.
The conditions state that “only in
exceptional circumstances would the grant
go to a brilliant writer without an
academic degree or to an undergraduate.”
Take away from the work of our
writers that done by those who had no
academic degrees and our native output
would not be very impressive. I can
imagine J. F. Archibald passing some
caustic comment.
Further, would two years in the U.S.A.
improve a student’s Australian outlook?
The advice of the Commonwealth Liter-
ary Fund Committee should be sought
before any awards are made. — Doubt-
ful Tommy (Vic.).
Lang and the Banks
“B. Comm.” (B. 16/11 /’55) quotes
Professor Giblin as saying that the chair-
man of the Commonwealth Bank Board
(Sir Robert Gibson) and the board did
not want the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank to survive. That gives a misleading
picture of events during the financial
crisis of 1931.
The sole cause of the bank’s closing
was the haywire financial proposals and
actions of Premier Lang. With the onset
of the depression, he refused to co-
operate with the other State Premiers
(some of them Labor) or with the Com-
monwealth. He had his own “plan.”
Lang repudiated interest-payments on
N. S. Wales debts to: English lenders
(while paying interest on an American
debt), termed the English lenders “Shy-
locks,” and then had the effrontery to
demand from the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment a loan of £737,000 to get N. S.
Wales out of the extra-depression into
which he had plunged it.
If the Commonwealth had been foolish
enough to grant his request it would
probably have found the interest on that
debt repudiated also. No responsible
Government, institution or person lends
money to a “bad mark,” particularly one
who accompanies his repudiation with a
series of insults directed at those he has
let down.
Is it any wonder that thousands of
depositors in the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank, realising that it was the
only bank where deposits were within
Lang’s reach, made such a rush for their
money that the bank had to put up the
shutters.
Whether Sir Robert Gibson wanted the
bank to survive or not is beside the point.
The Commonwealth Bank Board, as cus-
todian of the national finances under the
set-up then existing, could not have given
financial support to an institution under
the control of a Premier and Treasurer
whose promise could not be relied on
and who was obviously bent on replacing
orthodox finance with “the Lang Plan.”
Things were bad enough as they were.
Remember the type of legislation
which Lang tried to put on the statute-
book before or after the closing of the
bank? There was the “Tall Poppies
Bill” under which no public servant —not
even Supreme Court judges—would have
got more than (I think) £8 a week; and
there was the bill providing for a 10 per
cent, tax on all mortgages in N. S. Wales,
the tax to be paid in cash to the Trea-
sury within 14 days of the passing of the
bill. That was his final shot at the trad-
ing-banks but, like the “Tall Poppies Bill”
and other measures, it missed.
The Bank Board may have been open
to criticism in its dealings with the then
Commonwealth Government, but so far
as the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank
was concerned the Lang buck cannot be
passed to Sir Robert Gibson. — Bulls-
wool (Vic.).
Inflation
“E.J.S.” had things a bit mixed in
declaring that after the Napoleonic Wars
France “embarked on a sea of inflation”
(B. 23 /11 / ’55). It was after the Revolu-
tion of 1789 that this happened.
The financial policy of the restored
Bourbon sovereign, Louis XVIII, in the
post-Napoleonic period, was admirable.
French historian Julien Romier thus sum-
marised the financial achievements of
the restored Bourbon Dynasty in his
History of France :
In this respect the work of the Restoration
was remarkable for its honesty, technical
excellence, and brilliant results, thanks to the
management, first of Baron Louis, then of
Count Corvetto, thanks also to the leadership,
in the Parliamentary domain, of Royer Collard,
and of Villele, the leader of the Right. The
Budgetary laws of the Restoration remain
models to this day.
—Castlereagh (N.S.W.).


I Queensland Clubs
Until recently the law in Queensland
has allowed us to choose our leisure-houi
associates, but Premier Gair is now out
to stop all that undemocratic discrimina-
tion. Under his new licensed-clubs legis-
lation the only legitimate inquiry about
the qualifications of an aspirant for
membership will be, “Is he a good
bloke!”
Unlicensed clubs may blackball whom
they please, but a man whose nomination
for membership has been rejected by a
licensed club may appeal to the Licensing
Commissioner, who may demand that
the club “show cause” ; if, in his opinion,
the cause is not sufficient he may cancel
the club’s licence. Apparently what the
modern democratic club needs is not con-
geniality —that’s only another name for
“dicky” snobbery—but conviviality. To
the Devil with all scientific, literary,
musical, artistic, dramatic, sporting, social
and political distinctions; let us build
bigger and better bars, where we can
all get conveniently and comfortably
mellow and chant in unison, if not in per-
fect harmony, “For we are jofiy good
blo-okes and so say all of us.”
But if Bert Evatt—Gair’s good-bad*
friend-enemy, unifier-disrupter, anti-
communism - pro-Communist, leader -
destroyer of the Labor party — should
wish to join Gair’s Own Gathering of
Good Blokes, there would be at least one
piebald marble in the ballot-box —
provided the Queensland Premier ran
true to his recent “I-love-him-I-love-him-
not” form. — Double X (Q.).
Paint
Once you could go along to the store
and ask for “A pint of pink paint, please.”
No more, however —you must now know
the refinements of paint, so to speak.
The belief that there are only dull and
shiny paints, or oil- and water-paints, is
of little use when you front the salesman.
You are invited to buy paints with rubber
bases, paints with plastic bases, paints
that cover any imaginable surface with
only one coat, and paints that don’t even
smell like paints.
During the past few years I’ve used a
good many brands of paint, and for a
variety of purposes. Strangely, they’ve
all closely resembled the old common or
garden paint we used to know. They ve
all smelt very much like paint and con-
tinued to do so for a considerable time
after use; they've all needed at least
two coats ; they've all taken a reasonably
lona time to dry properly ; they’ve all
been messy; and they’ve all been
expensive.
As an amateur house-decorator of
some experience, I suggest to the paint
people that they spend less on advertising
and try the old-fashioned idea of price-
reduction as a means of promoting sales.
-A.W.F. (A.C.T.).
Hot and Cold
“Brick E.” (B. 26/10/’55) misunder-
stands the Water Board’s efforts to main-
tain the most important quality of the
water it sells—purity.
The man who does silly things to a hot-
water system, separated by a 2in. air-gap
from the cold service, might, in an
extreme case, do physical damage to him-
self or even to his family. The person
and the equipment at fault are then
obvious and treatment is simply pre-
scribed.
The introduction into the cold-water
line of slight traces of infected material
can infect a whole suburb, possibly kill
a few children and take weeks to identify
and remedy.— Yorick (N.S.W.).
Payroll-tax
Is the preparation of payroll-tax statis-
tics such a laborious and costly busi-
ness As “C.8.M.” implies (B. 9/11 /’55)?
I’ve been responsible for the returns
for a staff of 35 and, although it involved
some extra work, it wasn t much no
more than a few hours’ work a month.
The total cost of payroll-tax returns
for a particular employer depends on the
size of the payroll and its complexity
the fact that it is high for a particular
organisation does not prove that it
imposes a heavy burden on all employers.
As I pointed out before, no evidence is
available as to whether or not the cost
of collecting the tax is excessive. Even
if that could be proved, it would not
constitute a valid argument for abolish-
ing a form of taxation which is, at least,
sound in principle. It would, however,
indicate that simplification of the method
of assessment was desirable. Fhat
“ You'll simply have to change this. It keeps on drip, drip , drip."
would meet the main objections raised
by “C.B.M.” —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Socialism
I don’t think the Liberal and Country
parties are as keen on Socialism for its
own sake as “Dick Turpin” suggests
(B. 19 /10/’55). But they have found the
Socialist bogy pretty handy round elec-
tion - times, and they don’t want to
exorcise it altogether. It is a rather
shabby manoeuvre, that may recoil on
them some day. Added to this, of course,
they are afraid to stand up to the civil
service, though they could only lose the
votes of those who supported them last
time, probably not a very large number.
But the trouble goes the poli-
ticians. Most of us are anti-Socialist—-
we would be insulted if anyone said
otherwise —but all of us have a vested
interest in some aspect of Socialism.
The dairyfarmer is a sturdy individualist,
but he expects the Government to give
him what he considers a fair price for
his butter and cheese, regardless of
quality or demand.
The businessman extols the virtues of
free competition, but he expects the
Tariff Board to keep it out of his
industry. Others are against State
ownership or manpower-controls, but all
for price-fixing, rent-control or free
medicine.
If enough of us decided that we didn’t
want anything of Socialism in any shape
or form we would soon find like-minded
candidates standing for Parliament and
soliciting our votes. But until we make
up our minds we can hardly blame our
leaders for not taking a line that will
antagonise us all to some degree. I am
a cow-cocky myself, and it is nice to
know in advance what I will get for my
milk, but I feel sure that sooner or later I
will learn that I must do as the Govern-
ment says, or I will not get the guaran-
teed price.— Magnoon (Q.).
The Senate
The Menzies Government should have
a runaway win in the House of Reps,
on Saturday, yet may find it difficult just
to cut even in the Senate. Why? There
must be something very wrong when a
party can romp-in in the electorate but
have its advantage nullified by losing the
Senate—losing it by virtue of a carry-
over of Labor Senators who did not
have to face the electors.
The Senate has of late been subjected
to a lot of justified criticism, on varied
aspects. In the first year or two of the
Menzies Government the Senate, Labor-
dominated, acted as a perverse obstructer
of government —although the people had
voted for the policy of the Liberals the
Labor Senate-majority was able to thwart
the popular will.
Now the position is that, if Labor wins
three of the five Senate seats in only one
State, it will prevent the Government
retaining its present Senate majority. If
Labor wins in two States it will then have
the numbers.
Clearly the present electing-system for
the Senate (proportional-representation)
needs changing; and the whole Senate
must stand for election at the one time.
Otherwise the story will be of continued
deadlock, obstruction and inequitable
representation.
There can be other changes. Mr.
Menzies once suggested that each State
be divided into zones, each zone to return
a Senator —in place of the present system
of five'Senators for each State, irrespec-
tive of population.
The synchronising of elections for both
Houses is essential. A Senate poll was
held in 1953 and a Reps, election in 1954.
But for the present election, we may
have found ourselves with another Senate
election next year and a Reps, poll in
1957. Such a round of elections does not
make for good government.
When the new Parliamentary term gets
going and a cool reasoning returns to the
debates (if that is possible), it’s to be
hoped the whole question of the Senate
is given a drastic all-party overhaul. K.
Ross (Clarke-street, Ryde, N.S.W.).
Dairying
There are several reasons for the
apparent high price of dairylands (B.
16/1 1f55). First there is the inborn
love of a bit of land—while money has
been plentiful and wages high thrifty
people have been able to satisfy this
natural longing. There have also been
the business-people looking for a safe
repository for their money, and a means
of using profits for improvements to cut
down income-tax.
Second, even at present high prices
dairylands are still below value —if value
is based on what it would cost today to
bring unimproved land to a producing
dairyfarm. Our Gippsland hills forest-
ands would cost at least £3OO per acre
to clear on the 40-hour-week. And you
can add homestead, cowshed, hayshed,
implement-shed, and fencing to that.
Third, “holders are not selling” because
there is nothing to do with the money so
obtained. A 100-acre farm at £lOO per
acre only gives the seller £lO,OOO. If he
lived in a tent and socked all his capital
away at 5 per cent, he’d still be well below
the basic wage. A house would cost
£3500, leaving the seller with £6500,
which at 5 per cent, would leave Mum
and Dad less net income than the old-age
pension.
Landholders are mostly aged men —too
old to learn new tricks even on today’s
tolerant labor-market. They also know
that if a slump comes landholders will
still have their land. It might not then
be worth more than £2O per acre, but it
would still be there. They don’t feel so
sure about money.
For the first time, about 90 per cent,
of the farmlands in Australia is owned
by the farmers —thanks to their thrift and
increased skill and to the rise in world-
prices and -demand for farm-products.
When the last slump came 90 per cent,
of the farms were well into the banks.
Now, should a slump come, a man who
owns his land will not feel the loss in
land-value; all he will see is his land
still there. His returns will drop, but, he
reasons, he will always get a living, and
won’t need a debts-adjustment board.
So there you have the reasons for “land-
holding and high prices.” It is mainly
the poor value of the £ —l doubt if it is
worth 3s. 6d. compared with the old
£ backed by a promise to pay in gold on
demand printed across its face. Land-
holders will not change the substance for
the shadow. —K. G. V. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 359
Across
I — A tesque was bought because
someone did this like a soldier.
(11)
B—Conveyance carrying the bee
pronoun. (3)
10—Idol from the Venetian parade.
(4)
ll Conversing like .mice with
1-across deprived of sun dried
fruit and a sovereign. (9)
13 — Noise disturbed this Italian
river. (5)
14— Ran into a New York opera
house affectionately. (3) /
15 — Ask Sue to hide such decrees.
(6)
17 — Rhythm-maker suggests how to
catch fish. (8)
18 — Boy’s name. (3)
20 — You go to the doctor for a him
actress named Joanne. (3)
21 — Broken china on a relative of an
arkwright. (8)
22 Australian aviator. (3)
23 Stray berry dropping by. (3)
25 —Northern Englishman with an
Irish boy. (8)
28 — The French coin the sun. (3)
29 Russian composer-critic. (3)
30— Batting against a hotel and
getting 51 and 100 where all can
see. (2, 6)
32—Colombian city got swallowed
by a snake. (6)
34 — A floor covering one family of
violin-makers. (5)
35 — Novel throw by the French coal
exporting centre. (9)
38 — Where kine may eat French and
English articles. (3)
39 — The first female divorce case tor
the Vowels. (3)
40 — No North Dakota comeback
rodent is Republican. (3-8)
Down
1— South-east cuttle-fish up over 51
hundred articles (one Maori) in
the ratio of 5 to 2. (15)
2 praise a hum carelessly with
opium. (8)
3 One crippled in a North African
battlefront. (7)
4 Yorkshireman skite improperly.
1 (5)
5 The tide turned to work as a top
journalist. (4)
6 His French offspring. (3)
7 Tragedienne lost in treacle. (7)
8— Brain disorder is the making of
this chap. (5)
9 p ym spoke out here, but a diet
stunted. (5,10) .
12—Elegist locks a sign of advancing
years. (4,4)
16—Lark with Marx. (4)
19—-Welsh middle note is 8-down. (8)
23 Rest score enough for the
attendant. (8)
24 Utter defeat spoils the tour. (4)
26 Italian takes 100 off 25-across.
(7)
27 — New York or a place in Victoria.
(5)
31—Aspect of the moon changing
shape. (5)
33 —Dainty minute after tea. (4)
36 — Old age for the Spanish coppers.
(3)
37 — Mechanism left when 8-down
deserts 19-down. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 358


WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA
W////////W.
If
WM,
t#
%
m
m
A
w<
0
3®
is
%4
'///£
a
C?
s*&
X/
rjrrm
■-:
%
m
mm'/m*
f
m
m
>
Vi
? ■ V
\Tr
ss?
si§
588
§s
m
is
w
M
%
*5
4
X
'•:C-->.
J<SY
NX
?sVVN
S'X
A
MB
ss
••\v
w
5S
w W|fW//////
&
ffi
H
4^
-e?
//#
si
i//M
How paper saves money in your home
WHEN you put down linoleum in your home, an
underlay of Lino Felt ensures that your linoleum
gives maximum wear, affords a soft resilient surface on
which to walk, and makes a sound-absorbent base for
domestic traffic. In addition, Lino Felt acts as an excellent
floor insulation, giving warmth in winter, coolness in
summer. Consequendy, money which would have been
spent on heating, insulation, and in frequent linoleum
replacements is saved.
Lino Felt is a kind of paper, and is one of the products of
A.P.M.—Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
In all, A.P.M. makes 160 kinds of paper and 140 kinds
of paperboard*. These are sold to other manufacturers
who make them into a great variety of finished products
that make work easier, or reduce costs, or make life more
pleasant in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard , fibreboard and other
heavy-weight papers. Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria,
Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie, Q’ld. (under construction)
