

iMrm'A
Ifoua? of s£pp?lt
fou tty? float ifeartg
dmtmgs
The Bulletin
BAROSSA PILGRIMAGE —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3958
Wednesday, December 21, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 277 : the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
NORTHERN OUTPOST OF FAITH: IONA CATHEDRAL
AMONG the group of islands off the west coast of Scotland, known as the
Inner Hebrides, is the small island of lona, famed as the cradle of
Christianity in Scotland. From lona St. Columba set out on his journeys,
which resulted in the conversion of the northern Piets and the extension of
Christianity far and wide over Scotland and the islands.
lona became a place of pilgrimage, and there on the Ridge of Kings,
overlooking the Sound of lona and the white cottages of Fionphort, is the
burial-ground of Macbeth and Duncan, his victim, with fifty-seven other kings
of Scotland, Ireland and Norway.
St. Columba himself was buried on lona in 597, shortly after St. Augustine
had landed in Kent to convert the English.
Nothing now remains of St. Columba’s original foundation, which was
destroyed by Dafiish and Norwegian pirates in 807. The oldest building on
the island is St. Oran’s Chapel, dating back to the 11th century. Near it are
the remains of an Augustinian nunnery which survived the Reformation.
Little is known about the theology of the Celtic Church, but Presbyterians,
Episcopalians and Roman Catholics claim affinity with St. -Columba and for
that reason all of them may hold services in the Cathedral, shown in the
accompanying illustration. The Cathedral or Abbey Chufch was founded in
the 13th century but underwent many additions and restorations, mainly m
the 15th and 16th centuries.
Adjoining the Cathedral are some remains of the monastery, which are
now being restored by the active religious movement known as the lona
Community, formed in 1938 by Dr. G. F. MacLeod. The Members of the
Community, consisting of ministers fresh from the Divinity Halls, boys and
girls from youth organisations, workers, craftsmen and churchmen from all
walks of life, gather at lona during the summer months and assist in the
rebuilding of the abbey. Young people from Germany, Holland, Switzerland,
Scandinavia, Canada and U.S.A. share each year in the life of the community,
and money for the rebuilding also comes from many countries. In the
summer months lona, which has a resident population of about two-hundred,
is visited by many thousands of people from many parts of the world, who
journey to this most venerated and historic isle.


BUILD YOUR SUCCESS
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing ■
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereach <3v
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane: 21 GrenfV.il
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth
' CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2455) AGE
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you— fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate tee only il no-
The Red Page
THE WORKER
In his new collection of short stories,
Black Cargo (Australasian Book
Society), John Morrison arrives among
the most finished short-story-writers in
Australia, and as the most- accurate
literary representative of the Australian
worker.
That the intensity with which he
puts the workers’ viewpoint excludes a
broader point-of-view dpes not affect
the truth of his pictures; but it is a
limitation, and a further limitation is
that the “Australian worker” set down
here is mostly the waterside-worker,
heavily organised to cope with un-
stable, if not insecure, conditions of
hard but not highly-skilled employ-
ment.
This worker is ruthless, and an
example of it, “Going Through,” a
description of admission to the inner
circle of the Federation and a chal-
lenge to it, is also an example of the
precision of Mr. Morrison’s dialogue:
“I want to ask that man a ques-
tion.”
“Which man?” asks the president.
“Name him.”
“The third bloke from the left.
The bloke in the black raincoat”.....
“You was at Gagen’s when the
timber workers was out in ’thirty-
two. Now, what I want to know is:
where did you go to work then?
Because . . .” The shouting starts
again, but the interrogator claps on
steam, “because you never stopped
working. You took a job at Rick-
son’s in Camberwell-road, didn’t
you? Now, didn’t you?” The
victim is probably trying to make
some kind of answer, but he must
know he’s lost. He’d been a bundle
of nerves all the afternoon Now,
with several thousand keen eyes
watching his every change of expres-
sion . . .
Amid the rising tumult the
accuser goes on:
“Have a good look at me, Tom
King: I lived only three doors down
from you. You used to come home
every night after dark with your
work-togs in a bag. Everybody in
the bloody street was on to your
form! ”
“Order! The member must
make his charges . . .”
“I’ll make ’em all right, don’t you
worry. 1 had mates starved in that
strike, and that animal . . .”
... ..The unfortunate man must
have made a gesture, ,of confession,
of despair, of fear, because the rising
tide of noise suddenly breaks. I’m
not personally involved, but the
violence of it horrifies me.....
This worker remembers the indignity
of having to beg for work before the
days of the rotaiy-gang system (“The
Compound”); he hopes his gang will
not be called, in “The Pick-up,” so
that one can go home to his prize
dahlias, another to his backyard boat-
building, another to his homing-
pigeons, another to visit someone-else’s
wife, so that when the gang is called
the only two who are pleased are
Lean, who is “hungry it’s common
knowledge he owns two houses and is
crimping savagely to pay off the third,”
and Wiggs, still haunted by the depres-
sion; the same worker is sentimental to
the extent of blocking the gangway of a
migrant ship by carrying up icecreams
to migrant Italian children while he
is on the job; he justifies “hanging
around....on thirteen-bob an hour”:
“Seventeen men at thirteen-shillings
an hour... .it’s a packet, isn’t it?”
“You think the shipowners might
not be able to afford it?”
“Well, it’s a lot, isn’t it? And
we’re doing sweet nothing.”
“You think the national economy
might not be able to afford it?”
In all it makes a striking composite
picture, fairly painted, and maybe
putting in a wart or two more than
the painter’s intention. The story of
the goodness-of-heart of the wharfies
with ice-creams, for instance, might not
have given so much pleasure if the
ship’s captain had not been shown as
beside himself with impotent rage over
it; the story of the plain-man’s joy in
the banging of a train-carriage door
in “The Door,” first published in “The
Bulletin,” is at the expense of a
pompous but reasonably - offended
passenger, and leads to the breaking
of the window; the hermit’s refusal to
betray a fugitive to the police in “The
Fugitive” has the air rather of rejoic-
ing in the discomfiture of authority
than in the moral excellence of the
ancient: these complete the picture of
Mr. Morrison’s view of the worker’s
social morality, the social morality of
the irresponsible servant at the best,
and at the worst, of the criminal.
In one story, only—and it must be
one of the most brilliant of all Aus-
tralian short-stories—in “The Battle of
Flowers,” does Mr. Morrison’s narra-
tor, this time an expert gardener,
identify himself with his employer’s
interests, and bitterly he regrets it. The
two rich spinster sisters who employ
him quarrel; one buys the house next-
door and sets out to beat her sister’s
prize garden. At first the narrator
works for both; then one discharges
him and engages another gardener; the
rivalry goes from efforts to grow better
flowers to weed-slinging over the fence,
then to spraying rival flower-beds with
weedkiller, until both gardens are
ruined and both gardeners out of jobs.
But what most hurts the narrator-
gardener is his fall from grace; he,
who had been an independent servant,
soaking his employer for the benefit of
his children, has fallen so low as to
take her side in battle, even to the
commission of crime ...
This masterpiece of rounded story-
telling, compared with which most of
the other stories are only sketches and
the title-piece, “Black Cargo.” merely
propaganda, could be put with “The
Sleeping Doll,” the stoiy of a station-
hand who had the genuine disease of
sleeping on the job and with “Black
Night at Collingwood,” published
recently in “The Bulletin,” but not in
this collection, the record of an awful
evening in a Melbourne home after
the home-team had been beaten, as
Mr. Morrison at his best. In these,
where his object is more to entertain
than to expose, his dark humor
flowers with surprising richness of
invention.
SEA CHILDREN
When the sun blew over the hills on the
dry east wind
And the town was lit with sunflowers;
when the sea
Grew flat and green in the harbor, and
blue beyond,
And Pietro sang in his dinghy of Sicily,
Then the children would lie in the sand
And bar with a lazy hand
The glare of the stunning sun, and all time
to be.
For the children the sea was deeper, and
the dive
Longer, the things to be found in the
tangled weed
Richer and stranger , . . Coral, writhing,
alive;
A hairclip formed like a bow, or a
colored bead . . .
Rare things. And at times they saw,
Brown on the pale sea-floor,
The flat threat of a stingray stopped to
feed.
And beyond the arm of the, harbor, on the
banks
Of teased and surf-washed seaweed, there
would be
Frail sea-eggs, and sponges, and shells
with curious marks;
And the lighthouse, when dark came,
branching with light like a tree,
Made horses and flowers of the foam
On the reefs, and the boats coming
home
From the islands bucked like Pegasus over
the sea.
W.A.
RANDOLPH STOW.
Home-made Miracles
I Can Jump Puddles (F. W. Cheshire)
is a remarkable book that Alan
Marshall has written about his child-
hood. It gives me great pleasure to
review it, and I am probably one of
the few persons competent, as I am his
opposite: there isn’t an atom of self-
pity in his composition. I can appre-
ciate his struggle.
Only the other day he was showing
me his garden at Eltham. To show me
a plant he would swing downhill on
his crutches with his legs trailing use-
lessly behind him; then swing uphil
and dart off somewhere else, until I
was thoroughly exhausted. He took
me into the study he has built to show
me his books and pictures and the
aboriginal mats and weapons he has
collected in one or other of the surpris-
ing voyages he has made into the
wildest parts of North Australia in a
caravan designed so that he could drive
it with his hands alone and get it out
of bogs and quicksands. His arms and
shoulders are immensely powerful,
unnecessarily powerful for a writer:
how they became so he tells in his
novel.
While he was being bom his horse-
breaker-father looked through the win-
dow and said, with determination, “I’ll
make him a bushman and a runner, by
God, I will!” A few weeks after he
had started school he was stricken
down with infantile paralysis, the only
child in the district to get it. What
enabled him to turn this frightful dis-
ability into an advantage? Probably
an idea fixed in his mind quite acci-
dentally by his father. His father loved
the outback and wanted to take his
son there.
He stopped and sat thinking, look-
ing at me in a troubled way. After
a while he said, “We’ll have to think
up some way to stop your crutches
sinking into the sand outback. Yes,
we’ll get you up there some day.”
He was prophetic. Because of this
example it never entered Marshall’s
head that he was at a disadvantage
with other boys, that he couldn’t do
everything they did and that he was
in any way to be pitied, even while
his limbs contracted. Consequently 1 it
never entered the heads of the other
boys to feel sorry for him or to treat
him with the least consideration; and
when the school-bully challenged him
to a fight it never occurred to him to
refuse the challenge, and with the aid
of his crutches he simply whopped him.
He crept out at night to a dam for-
bidden to all the children and taught
himself to swim from a manual—the
first boy to swim in the district. He
secretly taught himself to ride, the
only thing his father thought it impos-
sible for him to accomplish, and he
quite innocently entered himself for the
school races.
Hence Alan Marshall’s crippled legs
have pleasant associations for him.
They are memories of resistance over-
come, of victories he has had over
himself. As he says himself:—
The word “crippled,” to me, sug-
gested a condition that could be
applied to some people, but not to
myself. But, since I so often heard
people refer to me as crippled, I
was forced to concede that I must
fit this description, yet retained a
conviction that though being crippled
was obviously a distressing state for
some people, with me it didn’t
matter.
Since he doesn’t pity himself, he
doesn’t stimulate pity in other people.
Most pity is only self-pity. But he
used to surprise people:—
The consternation that seized the
nurses who found me lying on the
grass surprised me. I could not
understand the summoning of the
matron, the gathering round my bed
and the mixture of concern and
anger that marked their interroga-
tion.
I kept repeating, “I tipped myself
over to get the lollies,” and when
the matron insisted on me answering,
“But why? Why didn’t you call a
nurse?” I answered, “I wanted to
get them by myself.”
“I can’t understand you,” she
complained.
I wondered why she couldn’t. I
knew father would. When I told
him he said “Couldn’t you have
sort of climbed out of the chair
without tipping it over?”
“No,” I said. “I couldn’t use my
legs, see.”
“I see,” he said, then added, “Well,
you got them, anyway. I wouldn’t
have called a nurse, either. She
would have got them all right, but,
then, it would have been different.”
“It would have been different,” I
said, .liking him more than ever.
M. G.S.
[This was written only a few days before
Mr. Marshall’s home at Eltham, described
here, was destroyed by fire.]
RIVERINA MORNING
Magpies unlock the day ;
Then it’s for me to say
What track I’ll follow.
The wren’s no help at all
With his gay harem call,
Nor, from his pulpit-wall,
The parson-swallow.
I have, myself, to choose ;
And, if I win or lose,
Have luck or sorrow,
The kookaburra will
Lock up my day until
The magpies on the hill
Unlock tomorrow.
N.S.W.
ERNEST G. MOLL.
New Cleary Novel
Jon Cleary’s new novel, Justin
Bayard (Collins), shows a considerable
improvement over anything he had
hitherto done.
Mr. Cleary has never been one to
play-down the possibilities of a situa-
tion; the fact that a police-constable in
North Australia has a revolver sug-
gests to Mr. Cleary that he should
shoot a few blacks with it; and bring-
ing in a black evil-doer to white justice
he does just that, to protect the evil-
doer from the vengeance of a tribe he
has wronged. Then, the fact that
natives have spears also suggests that
someone should be speared with them,
and this happens to the city-slicker
wife of the young heir to the huge
northern cattle-station.
A proper bad character she has to
be, to partake of Mr. Cleary’s justice,
making love to all visitors and scream-
ing obscenities in her rage when
crossed, especially when people try to
stop her selling her husband’s station
to get him back to the city.
But the story is well-rounded; it
gains a unity from Constable Bayard’s
being isolated there for the fortnight
before the plane sets down to take him
and his captive to judgment; it is kept
alive with the affair between Bayard
and the half-caste daughter of the
station-overseer in which they achieve
one of Mr. Cleary’s awkward love-
scenes in the rushes by the river, by
the efforts of the evil wife to discredit
the girl, by the efforts of the wild
blacks to kill the prisoner, by the
efforts of a neighbor, who is also a
lover of the evil wife, to interest the
young station-owner in an air-lift for
cattle.
Beneath it all throbs the steady pulse
of the great engines of the “Saturday
Evening Post’’; and if they don’t know
how to regulate a popular story, no
one does.
The Case of the Cautious Coquette:
Erie Stanley Gardner (Heinemann). As
with any of the Gardner “Case”-books,
it has something extra; this time two
damaged cars and two obvious hit-
run-drivers to the one victim. There
is another of Perry Mason’s brilliant
manufacturings of evidence, which in
the court-case causes surprise and
mortification to the district-attorney.


UU 1
DON’T TELL US
YOU’VE FORGOTTEN
YOUR MAHOUT?
We thought elephants never forgot (but don’t we all?). There s
always the offchance that the V.I.P. we would be most distressed
to overlook comes to our mind in the flurry of Christmas
only at the eleventh hour. But simple is the solution—
an Anthony Horderns’ Gift Cheque! Decide on the amount
to suit your budget, call at our Head Office, Third Floor, buy
a Gift Cheque, post it in our Ground Floor Post Office. It s
simple and easy ... the recipient can select his own gift and
will bless you for your good sense and thoughtfulness. Its
the most practical way of saying Happy Christmas we know!
DON’T FORGET YOUR
FESTIVE WRAPPINGS
© ttv
• Ml
Remember, .no gift is com-
plete without a pretty wrap-
ping. Choose yours from our
wide range . . . they’re
colourful, bright, in a big
variety of designs, paper
or cellophane. You’ll love
especially our imported Ger-
man wrappings—they’re low
priced, with delightful de-
signs, all expressing the
happy spirit of Christmas.
>l*
x-
-4
4
*V s
*
%
WHAT ABOUT
CHRISTMAS DINNER
We’ve an abundance of good things to eat for Christ'
mas . . . turkeys, capons, roasters, steamers . . . not
to mention' the beautiful tinned hams. You can choose
from Allowrie, Darling Downs, Huttons or Mayfair
brands, in small, medium and large sises. Small is
l6oz. to 41b., medium 4 to 8, and large Blb. to 14lb.
GOT YOUR DECORATIONS?
Box of small fancy glass balls, priced at 4/6 box.
Boxes of plain glass balls—small, 2/6; large, 4/11.
Door wreaths priced at 1/6 each. Small, at 9d. each.
4ft. high Christmas tree folds for storage. £6 each.
Just arrived! Osram Christmas tree light sets ,with
12 attractively coloured lights, flex and plugs. 240
volt. Just plug them in. 100 sets, at 49/6 a set.
Arrangement of small glass balls and pine cones in
pot. Ideal for table or window decoration. 2/11 each.
Arrangement of 3 glass candles and glass balls, 9/6 ea.
Spray of glass balls and leaves, etc., priced at 1/6 each.
{Table decoration of glass balls, leaves, etc., 3/11.
m.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
■nthony Horderns 1


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 21, 1955
Vol. 76 — No, 3958
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE AFTERMATH
THERE must be a host of people in politics who
are thankful that Christmas follows immediately on
the Federal election-campaign. It will at least give
them a breather.
The Government will need it, for there is a
hard and difficult year ahead. Mr. Menzies will
have to face all the pitfalls incidental to an overlarge
triumph in one House and a partial failure in the
Senate, which has power to sabotage jhis
programme. The apparent victoiy of an Anti-
Communist “Labor” man in Victoria prevents him
from being the complete master of his own destiny.
The Anti-Communists deserved to win the seat,
but, however meritorious their motives and how-
ever strongly they agree with the Government on
the issue of Communism, their party is still a
“Labor” party and pledged to the “Labor plat-
form.”
The only consolation for the Prime Minister
is that it will be a brave Senate which interferes
with his programme in a time of crisis immediately
following such a poll result. Nobody wants another
election-campaign. Both the country and members,
whose expenses are very heavy, are sick of elec-
tions, and neither party organisation can afford
another for a long time to come. And if the Senate
were to interfere seriously with the Government
programme, no matter how drastic it might be, a
double-dissolution would follow with certainty, and
swiftly, since the world economic situation is
developing in a way which will not allow the Prime
Minister to tolerate a stalemate for long.
Inside the Government parties there are
troubles ahead to be overcome. There are the usual
ambitious Liberals who believe that an all-Liberal
Ministry should be formed and that the Country
party should be allowed to stew in its own juice
on the cross-benches. This is scarcely practical
politics in view of the attitude of South Australia,
where there is a joint party organisation. The
Government would pay dearly for any such move.
There are others who call for a complete
reorganisation of the Ministry. It is much easier
to talk about than to arrange. With Sir Earle Page
out and the Country party with a claim to a senior
portfolio and with Mr. Anthony not in the best of
health, adjustment of the Country-party balance
with that of the Liberals in the Cabinet has its
problems, which would be accentuated if Sir Arthur
Fadden’s health compelled him to retire before
long from the Treasurership. There is admittedly
not much talent in the body of the C.P. compared
with that in the back-benches of the Liberal party,
which are brimming-over with dark horses all eager
to start, though some of them don’t measure-up to
their own estimates.
There are, however, enough with genuine
claims to make for awkward rivalry, the more
awkward because of inter-State jealousies and
claims. There will be still more when Parliament
has run its three-year course, and some of the older
Ministers seem to be approaching the retiring-age.
The new crop of members is of good quality, with
plenty of ambition.
Mr. Menzies has become a seasoned and
dominating leader, and will no doubt weather the
difficulties ahead with his usual equanimity and
reserve his real energies for the task of making the
country accept the medicine which it may soon
have to take in unpalatable doses.
The Labor party, of course, is in a far worse
mess than the Government could possibly be.
Its party coffers are empty, and the only unions
that can help it are those willing to do so at
a price—the price that the A.L.P. will form a united
front with Communism—which it has gone a long
way towards doing.
The fight for the party-leadership in Canberra,
especially if Mr. Allan Fraser enters the lists will
split caucus to bits, for there are other Richmonds
who will not stomach Mr. Fraser unless circum-
stances absolutely force him on them. It is one
of the failures of the campaign that it has not
stabilised the Opposition position by getting rid of
Dr. Evatt, as, almost to the last man, his own fol-
lowers hoped that it would. Each one of them will
have to go through the current Parliament with a
miniature of Molotov hung round his neck —a minia-
ture which will become larger and heavier every
week if Kremlin policy continues to develop as it is
doing, and especially if the Russian Communist
Congress in February should return the old Stalinist
Bolsheviks to their former position of ascendancy.
Premiers Cahill and Gair have reason to
feel the impact of what is happening round them.
Mr. Cahill announced a December election
originally, at the same time promising to tie the
basic-wage to the C-series cost-of-living scale. That,
apparently, was to be the piece de resistance of his
campaign. But there are dastards in his own party
who already accuse him of having planned to huriy
the election before the nature of this trick was
apparent. These sceptics profess to believe that
Mr. Cahill was too intelligent not to know that,
with the falling price of wool and other exports, he
was proposing to get approval to tie wages to a
falling price-scale with a view to saving the bacon
of his nearly-bankrupt transport-system and other
State enterprises. He is now, with notable discre-
tion, shuddering at the thought of an election and
has pushed it as far into the background as possible
—April 21 at the nearest, it seems.
Mr. Gaii is in worse plight. It is quite obvious
that the pretext on which the Trades Hall challenged
him—the immediate granting by Act of Parliament
of three weeks’ free leave in the year to all and
sundry—was only a pretext. It was chosen because
it was calculated to receive universal electoral
support. No doubt the authors of the idea knew
it to be economically impracticable, and they
wanted it to be impracticable; they wanted some-
thing to demand of Mr. Gair which he would have
to refuse, so that they could destroy him.
It is clear that a large section of the Queensland
caucus, 20, no less, out of 48, including Mr. Frankie
Forde, is willing to join in producing his ruin. His
vote in caucus on the holiday issue, incidentally,
was the only one which broke the pattern of a
strictly sectarian bloc-vote as between the Left and
the Right. He was with the Left.
Altogether, “Labor” is not in shape to give the
Commonwealth Government much trouble—except
through trade-union obstructionism—in carrying
out its plans. But it can be taken that it will go to
outrageous lengths to do so in order to divert atten-
tion from its own position and try to solidify its
broken remains into something like unity against
the “common enemy.”
Monument to a Minister
NATIONAL health has been a major preoccupa-
tion of Governments in many countries in the
decade since the war. The giant strides made in
medical knowledge, the application of technical
science to diagnosis and treatment of disease and
the discovery of the so-called wonder-drugs have
had a twofold effect. They have improved the
health of the people, tamed many one-time “killer”-
diseases and greatly reduced the risk and incidence
of epidemics.
But these advances have not been gained
cheaply. Sickness has always been an expensive
luxury, but the high cost of producing the new
drugs, sera- and anti-toxins, which play such a big
part in the modem war against disease, and of the
elaborate and intricate apparatus which is now
standard equipment in hospitals and surgeries, have
made this truer than ever before.
It is, of course, just as unthinkable that people
should be allowed to die because they can’t afford
medical attention as that they should be allowed to
starve because they cannot buy bread, and no
civilised community has ever accepted either
premise. It has been a tradition of the medical
profession that no person should be refused treat-
ment through inability to pay. In Australia the big
public hospitals have always given willing service
to a large non-paying element, and, through the
“honorary” system, the talents of the best surgeons
and physicians in the country have been available
to the poor as well as to the rich.
Till recently it could be said that, financially,
sickness meant very little to the man with lots of
money and nothing to the man with none. But to
the person of small or moderate means it meant
quite a lot; a serious illness in his family could put
him in debt for years. And since this type of person
comprises the mass of the community, the steep
rise in the cost of keeping well created a critical
situation.
To cope with this problem Governments in
various countries have devised various plans. Some
European countries have adopted compulsory
health-insurance—a system which tends towards
centralised Government control of the whole medi-
cal service. Britain and New Zealand, under the
influence of the post-war socialisation-wave,
virtually nationalised their medical services, pro-
viding cradle-to-grave free medical and pharma-
ceutical benefits and placing doctors on the national
payroll by means of capitation fees. In Australia
the Chifley “Labor” Government, also hell-bent
for socialisation but hampered by limitations
imposed by the Constitution, attempted to dragoon
the medical profession into accepting a free-
medicine scheme, but was balked by the High
Court. At the election which followed shortly after-
wards, the Liberal-Country-party coalition pledged
itself to introduce a National Health Scheme which
envisaged the “co-operation of the States, the muni-
cipalities, the hospital-managements, friendly-
societies and the medical, dental, pharmaceutical
and allied professions.” In his policy-speech Mr.
Menzies said it was a grave error to regard a health-
service as if it meant nq more than making cash-
payments to citizens from the Treasury, as the free-
medicine scheme seemed to imply. The problem
had to be tackled from the ground up, and “we
are utterly opposed to the Socialist idea that medical
service should become salaried Government,
service, with all its implications, penalising skill
and experience and destroying the vital personal
relationships between doctor and patient.”
When the Menzies Government took office it
fell to Sir Earle Page to draw-up and bring into
being the promised scheme. As Minister for Health,
he refused to be stampeded into introducing a half-
baked plan merely for political expediency or to
satisfy popular clamor for immediate action. Of
this there was plenty, both from the Opposition
and from sections of the press. On the one hand,
the Minister was attacked as an incompetent
dodderer; on the other as the puppet of the 8.M.A.;
but 30 years of politics had inured the New England
doctor to criticism, and he proceeded with his step-
by-step plan.
As he explained on numerous occasions, this
aimed at more than merely paying a patient’s
medical expenses; the full objective was a healthier
community. He claimed that nationalised medicine
or free treatment at the taxpayers’ expense was an
oversimplification of the problem and had been
proved in other countries to be wasteful in adminis-
tration, disastrous in its effect on the quality of
treatment and impossible to control effectively.
Moreover, the willing co-operation of the medical
profession was lost, resulting again in a decline in
quality of treatment and the intimate doctor-patient
relationship, so important in the successful treat-
ment of many illnesses, was destroyed.
The basis of the Earle Page scheme is
voluntary insurance to cover medical and hospital
expenses. By joining an approved medical benefits
society any person becomes entitled to a Govern-
ment subsidy towards the cost of doctors’ fees, The
idea is that the subsidy, plus the benefit paid by
the society, will cover the major portion of the
fees. The Hospital Benefits Scheme is somewhat
similar, except that the Government pays a pro-
portion of the patient’s hospital-fees, whether he is
insured or not. This proportion is considerably
increased if he is insured with an approved society,
and, of course, he receives the society’s benefit as
well.
These two schemes go a long way towards
relieving the financial burden of sickness in the
family, and, with the Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme* under which expensive life-saving and
disease-preventing drugs are supplied free on a doc-
tor’s prescription, they mean that no one in employ-
ment in Australia has any reason to regard himself
as “medically indigent.”
To meet the case of the really needy, free
medical treatment has been provided for pensioners
for the past five years; also, with slight reservations,
free medicine. In a drive to stamp out tuberculosis
within one generation the Commonwealth is subsi-
dising capital expenditure incurred by the States,
and the States have introduced compulsory X-ray
of all persons over 14; greatly-increased pensions
are paid to tuberculosis patients and their families,
with free hospital treatment. Finally, a free-milk
scheme for schoolchildren has been introduced over
a large area of the Commonwealth.
At the conclusion of the debate on some
amendments to the National Health Act last Octo-
ber, Immigration Minister Holt said they rounded-
off the programme on which the Minister for Health
had been engaged for six years, and he wished to
place on record “our admiration for what he has
accomplished for the people of Australia in connec-
tion with health services.”
Coming from the Minister’s colleague, such a
remark was no more than could be expected, but
“Labor” member Eli Harrison immediately
endorsed it, and said that the work of Sir Earle
Page,
despite our criticism of some aspects of it, musti
be admired by everybody who has watched the
growth of the National Health Services under his
control and administration.
Anti-Communist “Labor”-party leader Joshua
followed this up with:—
His work will stand as a monument to his
integrity and sincerity. If we should find it neces-
sary later to make any alteration of it, they will
be alterations of something which has a very
solid foundation.
Sir Earle Page has now announced his retire-
ment from the Ministry. In so doing he has the
proud and comforting knowledge that in the
National Health Scheme he has erected his own
monument, which he has every reason to believe
will endure.


“YOU’RE NEXT, CAHILL.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Portents for Cahill
When Premier Cahill chose December 3
as the date for his State election (since
postponed) he said he was doing so be-
cause to leave it till next April might
mean clashing with the Senate election,
and he didn’t want the electors to be con-
fused by having Federal issues brought
into State elections.
This would have sounded more Com-
mendable if it were not for the fact that
Cahill had won his last election on a
purely Federal issue—and a false one at
that. That time, with the assistance of
Dr. Evatt, he succeeded in convincing the
electors that the Menzies Government’s
financial policy was about to cause mass
unemployment. Three years have passed
without the unemployment occurring, but
the story achieved its purpose of giving
Cahill three more years of office.
But this time the only Federal issue is
Dr. Evatt, and he, far from being an
election-winner, is a dead-weight that not
even a popular State Government could
carry with confidence, let alone one with
a record like Cahill’s.
No one now expects the N. S. Wales
election to be held a day earlier than the
latest possible date permitted by the Con-
stitution —April 21. Mr. Cahill didn’t
want Federal issues brought into his
planned November campaign; he has
even less reason to want them raised now.
He can gain no consolation either from
the Senate vote nor from that for the
Reps.
Naturally Mr. Cahill has not expressed
any doubt about his Government’s
chances of winning the State election.
The loss of three Federal “Labor” seats
is, he says, no threat to State “Labor,”
because “the issues are different.”
Maybe the issues are different, but
Cahill’s whole policy in recent months
has been to convince the public that
“Labor” is one big happy family and that
there is no split in the party. Even
though he and some of his colleagues
who appeared on the same platform as
Dr. Evatt at some of the Doc.’s meetings
looked about as comfortable and happy
as publicans at a temperance rally, they
nevertheless were there, and they cannot
dissociate themselves from the issues
raised by Evatt and rejected by the people.
And they can scarcely be complacent
at the State-wide drop in the “Labor”
vote compared with 18 months ago. In
the two metropolitan seats lost to
“Labor” the swing must, be rather alarm-
ing to the holders of Assembly seats in
the same area. In Phillip a “Labor”
majority of over 3000 was converted into
a deficit of 1000, and in St. George a
majority of 1525 became a deficit of about
2000. In the country seat Hume a small
majority of 314 became a considerable
deficit of over 1000.
At the time of the New South Wales
election in 1953 the tide was running
more strongly in favor of “Labor” than
it was fifteen months later at the 1954
Federal election. For this reason all seats
lightly held by Cahill’s party in 1953 must
be considered in grave danger, and even
many with substantial majorities are now
far from safe.
Seats included in these categories are:
Armidale (1953 majority, 13), Dubbo
(691), Drummoyne (929), Parramatta
(990), Mudgee (999), Dulwich Hill (by-
election, 1236), Coogee (1323), Sutherland
(1425), Concord (1988), Ryde (2007),
North Sydney (2550), Kogarah (2559),
Young (2716), Liverpool Plains (2906).
Two Voices
It was recorded in the European press
last week that Moscow had begun to
clamp-down on foreign newspapermen
once more.
A few days ago the Moscow repre-
sentatives of the A.P.A. and “New York
Times” were summoned to the Foreign
Office and given a caustic lecture. The
“N. Y. Times” man "was told that his
reports contained “gross distortions”
which had led the American press and
radio to heap “gross attacks and insults”
on the heads of an unfortunate builders’
delegation from the Soviet Union then
visiting the United States.
The Soviet spokesman announced, no
doubt shaking an admonitory finger,
that this sort of thing was not to be'
tolerated, and that if it happened again
Moscow would take “corresponding
steps.”
This sally was followed by a fierce
attack on Western journalists who had
accompanied Bulganin and Khrushchev
and reported their antics and on the
British Foreign Office for its comments.
It appeared that the 8.F.0. “found itself
in an awkward position” after having
made “indecent sallies” about Marshal
(or Pandit) Bulganin.
Both the American press and the
spokesman of the Foreign Office seem
to have received these remarks with
equanimity, the latter remarking that
the pattern of Russian speeches seemed
to be becoming clear.
Moscow is not the only place in which
measures of the sort are being taken.
In Sydney a few days ago Sydney
“Herald” published some startling
revelations about loafing in the Eveleigh
Railway Workshops, Mort’s Dock and
the 1.C.1.
The charges against the workshop
employees received at least qualified
confirmation from the department re!*
sponsible. Nevertheless, the Moulders’
Union, which has leadership highly sym-
pathetic to Moscow and Moscow
methods —except when they involve
incentives and hard work —rushed to
attack the press. It demanded the
establishment of a statutory press council
to consider such articles. And it
suggested that.the “S. M. Herald” should
be made to apologise and that if it did
not unions in general should place a
black ban on the paper.,
The N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council,
to which these suggestions were
referred, approved the idea of a press
council created by legislation, and it was
discreetly silent about the suggestion to
blackmail an apology out of the news-
paper by threatening a ban. If it did
not approve, it at least wasn’t sufficiently
shocked to condemn the suggestion.
It is quite obvious that both Moscow
and the Sydney union-group at the
Trades Hall, which is listed in the
official directory as a branch of the
Federal Labor party, speak with one
voice and with one intention in the
'matter of the freedom of the press. Both
are ready to allow it to be free to say
anything that it is not awkward for
Governments or pressure-groups to have
published.
It would be interesting to know what
Dr. Evatt, the avatar of liberty, whom
Moscow, the Moulders and the T.H.C.
all support, has to say on the subject.
Shopping Hours
Taking its cue from New South Wales,
the Bolte Government in Victoria is to
hold a referendum on hotel trading-hours
early in the New Year. If public-opinion
polls are as accurate as they have seemed
to be recently, this will result in the end
of the early closing of liquor-bars in
Victoria. In the matter of ending the
early-closing rule for small shops, Mr.
Bolte has not troubled to hold a referen-
dum, nor is there any reason why he
should do so. An alteration to the Labor
and Industry Act recently passed by the
Victorian Parliament permits, from last
Wednesday, unrestricted trading-hours
for small shops handling certain com-
modities. These include butter, eggs,
milk, cream, tea, coffee, cocoa, soft-
drinks, tobacco, cigarettes, matches,
toilet-soap, shaving-soap, razor-blades
and sedatives.
Most of these lines are “request” items
at the little corner-shops in the suburbs
to which housewives have recourse in
the evenings or at weekends when
domestic supplies unexpectedly fail. For
years the law has made criminals of
respectable suburbanites, forcing them to
tap furtively at back-doors or side-
entrances to ask for a jacket of tea or a
pound of sugar. And it has encouraged
pimps and informers.
Attempts to gain a similar relaxation
of trading-hours control in New South
Wales have always come up against the
blank wall of trade-union domination.
Time and again Mr. Ernie O’Dea, secre-
tary of the Shop Assistants’ Union, has
proclaimed that his union will not permit
any extension of trading-hours, and time
and again the Cahill Government has
shown that it is not prepared to risk
annoying Mr. O’Dea, whose union, inci-
dentally, collects half the amount of all
fines inflicted for breaches of the law
reported by its members.
Shops exist to give service to the com-
munity, and shopping-hours should be
designed to suit the convenience of the
public. It is beyond all reason that the
hours of small shops, which are mostly
run by the proprietors and their families,
should be dictated by the Shop Assist-
ants’ Union, the majority of whose
members are employed by the big depart-
mental stores.
A short time ago a suggestion was
made in Sydney that the regulating of
shopping-hours should be handed over
to the local councils. It was rejected for
the usual reason. Now that the Victorian
Government has relaxed its restrictions
on small shops the New South Wales
Liberals should announce what they
intend to do about trading-hours if they
win the next election.
«*► ■
Spotlight on Senators
“In the ACT”: If any one lesson should
have been learned by all political parties
in the recent campaign, it is that Senate
candidates should be carefully selected
from the best available material, and that
if they reach the Senate they should not
at once regard themselves as being on a
high salary for six years-for the privilege
of carrying a gold-pass, employing a sec-
retary, and doing as little work as
possible.
Far too many Senators have regarded
the job as a sinecure. Many “Labor”
men in particular have accepted it as a
fitting reward and satisfactory pension
for past party-service, and have done
almost nothing over a long stretch of
years to justify their existence. They
have done much to bring the Senate into
disrepute, and to make even their more
energetic fellows in the House of Repre-
sentatives contemptuous of their neglect
of even the most elementary Parlia-
mentary duties.
In the last two or three years there has
been an effort, mostly on the Govern-
ment side, to remedy this state of affairs.
Some Senators realised, even if the party
organisations did not, that the prospect
of a knife-edge balance between the two
political sides by July 1, 1956, or even
earlier was not to be relished. They took
some steps, not wholly successful, but
commendable in view of their inexperi-
ence, to probe into some public matters
and to make themselves better known
to those who would be asked to vote for
them.
It is too early yet to determine how far
these tactics were justified by results,
but it is certain that by far the vast
majority of the voters who contrived to
cast a formal Senate vote were entirely
ignorant of the calibre of the men and
women against whose names they placed
indications of preference. Party “How-
to-vote” cards, those symbols of a care-
less and ignorant democracy, helped in
most cases, and in others the “straight-
down-the-ticket” school of thought pre-
vailed.
One aspect of Constitutional reform
which may now be faced is the possi-
bility of showing party affiliations on the
Senate ballot-papers. This seems to be
commonsense, now that the Senate is
openly and avowedly a party Chamber.
But the real reform must come from
within the Senate itself. Its members
are likely to be well in the limelight in
the coming few months, whatever the
final result of the poll, and they should
make the most of their opportunities to
show that constructive thought is pos-
sible in that Chamber, coupled with a
willingness to work for far more of the
year than in the past.
Outside Canberra it would be a good
idea if Senators took a far more active
interest in the State they represent. In
the past they have had few of the worries
of a Reps, member representing a con-
stituency which is always making de-
mands on him.
It would help the Senate and the coun-
try if Senators generally took over some
of those burdens now carried by private
members in the other House, and at the
same time became known to large seg-
ments of the population who only hear
of the Senate at election-time, and have
no idea of its role or record. The news-
papers, which have discouraged reports
of Senate proceedings (quite understand-
ably, in view of the usual drab level),
could help the good work by giving space
to worth-while speeches which are not
merely repetitions of party slogans or of
remarks made earlier in the House of
Reps.
A little limelight seems overdue, but
it will have to be earned.
o
Parliament and Canberra
“Stromlo” : It has been a Canberra
complaint for many years that Parlia-
mentarians see nothing of the capital
except the brief strip between their hotel
and Parliament House, and that they
hurry away from it with the utmost
celerity. This is largely true, although a
few members have established homes in
the A.C.T., and a Senate committee has
been doing some useful, if belated,
probing in recent months. The fact is
that Canberra development has been
largely at the whim or fancy of official-
dom, and some glaring blots on the land-
scape, some recent and some ancient,
indicate a mixture of past Ministerial
apathy and departmental incompetence.
There has been a sad failure to recog-
nise some of the essentials of a capital,
and some makeshift planning for reasons
of either economy or an attitude of “don’t
care.”
A National Capital Planning and De-
velopment Committee has been in
existence, but when it met to make recom-
mendations it found that its ideas were
being pigeonholed, and that action dia-
metrically opposed to its views was being
taken frequently. The A.C.T. Advisory
Council then recommended that the
planning committee should be given
powers under ordinance, and that each
proposal for amendment of the city plan
(Burley Griffin would hardly recognise
his original creation today) should be
presented to Parliament, accompanied
by a report from the committee.
An Advisory Council recommendation,
of course, is just as much likely to be
ignored as one from the planning com-
mittee —which is another serious weak-
ness in the Canberra set-up. However,
on this occasion, with members of Parlia-
ment at last recognising that they have
some responsibility for Canberra and
some, cause, aesthetic as well as financial,
to take an interest in its growth, some-
thing may be done, and done usefully. It
is too late to remedy some of the mis-
takes, but at least it should be possible
to prevent others, including some already
proposed.
More Force at U.N.O.
The proceedings on the election of new
members to U.N.O. add point to the now-
almost-general belief in the futility of
that expensive international luxury.
It was proposed that 18 new members
should be admitted to the Assembly. It
was unthinkable that U.N.O. could be
called a world assembly without some
of them; but that some others should
have any say in world affairs is ridicu-
lous. Spain and Portugal have been'
omitted, presumably because it has been
held that they are totalitarian, while
Russia and her satellites are in and have
the power of veto in the guise of demo-
crats devoted to world peace.
Japan has been, and is, out, but Chiang
Kai-shek’s remnant has been recognised
not merely as a member-State but as a
great veto Power, though it has been
living immured in a small island on the
bounty of the United States for years
and has no hope of ever recovering main-
land China, as even the optimists of
Washington must by now recognise.
The only reason why Chiang Kai-shek
has not been thrown overboard is that
Formosa is regarded as part of the vital
Pacific defence-chain of islands which
the Western Allies have no intention of
relinquishing to be turned into a Red
Gibraltar commanding sea- and air-
routes from the south and menacing the
Philippines, which are only an hour-or-
two’s flying-distance away.
The countries which it was proposed
to admit were made up of 13 Western-
sponsored nations Austria, Finland,
Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Jordan,
Libya, Ceylon, Laos, Cambodia, Nepal
and Japan. The Communist-Woe coun-
tries were Albania, Bulgaria, Hungary,
Rumania and Outer Mongolia—all, in
effect, separate parts of Communist
Russia, satellites with about as much free
will as an inmate of Pentridge jail.
When the Security Council met to con-
sider the admissions, which had been
recommended in a block by the
Assembly, Dr. Tsiang, Chiang Kai-shek’s
representative, proposed that two new
names, both anathema to the Russians,
should be added, namely South Korea
and South Vietnam. He was then
attacked furiously by the Russian dele-
gate Sobolev in the usual gutter style of
Moscow, and described as “this indi-
vidual who only represents himself,” a
“person whose days, if not hours, are
numbered in the United Nations.”
Russia had agreed to the 18 nations
already proposed—Moscow no doubt
felt itself lucky to get the five additional
'votes; but when the new proposals came
up it vetoed the election of 15 nations
in a row against the majority-votes of
the Security Council. Chiang Kai-shek,
having rejected the “package-deal,”
vetoed Outer Mongolia. Eventually it
was agreed to make a bargain—Outer
Mongolia would be omitted to please
Chiang Kai-shek and Japan to please the
Russians.
Once again the democracy of U.N.O.
has been demonstrated. On 75 occa-
sions Russia has bucked overwhelming
majorities by giving a veto, thus demon-
strating that the Kremlin is the real con-
troller of U.N.O. Twice France has
given vetoes and China (Chiang) has
been added to the list.
The position now is amazing, suited
delightfully to Communist world policy.
In Asia, two most powerful countries in
o Continued on next page )


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
the Far East, Communist China and
Japan, are excluded from the United
Nations, while scraps and snippets of
banditry which call themselves “coun-
tries” are included. If Red China were
admitted Chiang-China would go out and
there would be two Communist countries
with vetoes. Moreover, Russia and
China would soon turn U.N.O. into a
large branch of the Communist party
in short order.
At present Russian policy seems to
be directed towards using U.N.O. as long
as it is useful and until the Asian-African
bloc can be manoeuvred into a Com-
munist frame of mind and ripened for
inclusion inside the Iron Curtain. And
during that phase U.N.O. is a danger
rather than a protection to world peace,
providing Russia as it does with a world
forum and a public place in which it
can exhibit the power of its muscles to
little countries.
Few of the new admissions to the
Assembly have any interest in the ideals
behind the organisation. Some are totali-
tarian and out for what they can get.
They will not pay their bills if they can
help it, and they will be, like many already
in the holy circle, the instruments of
anybody they can get anything out of.
But they will meddle wherever they can.
Australia can now look forward to
hearing the views of the Albanians and
Libyans about their backwardness and
inefficiency in managing New Guinea
—and to paying for the privilege.
POLITICAL POINTS
Ten days after the Federal poll the
scrutineers are still sorting things out in
several doubtful seats. On Mqnday it
seemed that Dr. Evatt was likely to hold
Barton by his finger-tips after the distri-
bution of Independent Trembath s
preferences.
In Victoria preferences would decide
six or seven seats, but only three
of these were really in doubt Bendigo,
Maribyrnong and Fawkner. In Bendigo,
with only a few votes to come, on Mon-
day Liberal W. A. Day required 73 per
cent, of Anti-Communist “Labor” candi-
date Brosnan’s preferences to unseat P. J-
Clarey. The chances were that he d get
them. In Maribyrnong, A. S. Drake-
ford’s chances were a little better than
Clarey’s ; Stokes, the Liberal candidate,
needed 81 per cent, of the A.-C.L.
prefs. Fawkner looked like being the
closest fight of the three, with sitting
member Bourke needing 85 per cent, of
the “Labor” man’s prefs. to overtake
Liberal Peter Howson’s total.
In Maranoa (Q.) Independent C. Russell
still held a lead of 683 over Country-
party member Brimblecombe, with the
other Independent, Bauers, holding-down
over 3000 votes, which would ultimately
decide the issue. On paper the seat
looked like Russell’s, but with more than
6000 votes still to come from strong
Country-party districts, Brimblecombe
was fat from out of the race. His sup-
porters, in fact, regarded him as home
and hosed.
• •
When the Senate draw was announced
six weeks ago it was said here that draw-
ing first place in Victoria might give the
Anti-Communist “Labor” party a seat.
The count isn’t finished yet, but it seems
certain that the first man in the party s
team, P. F. McManus, will get the odd
seat. For that he should murmur a word
of thanks to the down-the-card voters,
without whose unthinking support he
would have just missed election.
The Government seems assured of a
3-2 majority in all the other States, which
will mean that the position of parties
in the new Senate will be Government,
30; “Labor,” 28; Anti-Communist
“Labor,” 2. That position will not
arise until after June 30. Till then the
Government will retain its overall
majority of two, as Senator Buttfield,
having been confirmed in her position as
Senator McLeay’s successor, will auto-
matically resume her place when the
Senate meets in the New Year.
• •
It is pdssible that’ Agnes Robertson
may beat G. H. Branson for the third
Government seat in Westralia. Excluded
from the official team, she stood with
Country-Democratic-League backing and
polled about 27,000 first preferences. She
will receive the second-preferences of the
A.-C.L. candidates, and there could easily
be a big drift of prefs. from the official
Liberal card when the surplus votes of
Senators Paltridge and Vincent are dis-
tributed.
• • i
Joke of the week! Khrushchev and
Bulganin in a farewell broadcast to
India: “Russia’s policy is one of non-
interference in other countries internal
affairs.”
%
• •
Commenting on a report that a dead
slug had been found in a bottle of beei,
the manager of the South Australian
Brewing Co. said that reports of foreign
matter in bottled beer were very rare.
That’s begging the question. No one
had suggested that the slug was other
than native-born.
• •
Hugh Gaitskell is the new leader of
the British Labor Party, having polled
157 votes at the meeting of Labor M.P.s,
against 70 cast for Nye Bevan and 40 for
Herbert Morrison. He assumes the
leadership at 49, after only 10 years in
Parliament. If he can stave off attacks
from the Left he should have a long
term in the top job, with the probability
of the Prime Ministership somewhere
along the trail. Attlee was 52 when he
was elected leader.
Gaitskell has no trade-union back-
ground ; neither had Attlee. The new
leader is a product of Winchester and
Oxford ; the old one of Haileybury and
Oxford. Both were attracted to Labor
politics through an interest in social-
welfare work. From war-time jobs with
the Ministry of Economic Warfare and
the Board of Trade, Gaitskell was
persuaded by Hugh Dalton to stand as
Labor candidate for South Leeds at the
1945 election. He won the seat, was soon
Parliamentary Secretary for Fuel and
Power, then, in 1947, Minister for Fuel
and Power. In 1950 he succeeded
Stafford Cripps as Chancellor of the
Exchequer.
• •
Because the new Bass Straits steamer
Tarinna has the chief-engineer’s cabin
on the same deck as the captain’s the
Merchant Service Guild instructed its
members not to work the ship, the reason
given being that the captain s status must
not be lowered. The Guild was over-
looking the fact that its skippers, by stag-
ing an illegal strike against an Arbitra-
tion Court decision, had already lowered
THE QUARTERMASTER
their status so much that they’ll have to
consider putting their cabins in the
crow’s-nest in an effort to recover it.
• •
Sydney “Tribune” says the drop in
the Communist vote in Victoria as com-
pared with the 1953 Senate election “can
be explained in the light of the vicious
struggle waged in that State by the
Groupers.” Or by the fact that the Reds
drew first place on the card in 1953 but
not in 1955.
• •
Dr. Donald A. Cameron, tipped as
Sir Earle Page’s successor as Minister for
Health, has been M.H.R. for Oxley (Q.)
since 1949. A War II colonel with service
in the Middle East and New Guinea and
an 0.8. E. and m.i.d. to his credit, he is
a graduate in Arts as well as Medicine
and is on the Council of the Australian
National University.
• •
Hubert Opperman will be Government
Whip in the new Parliament, replacing
Joe Gullett, who did not contest his
Henty seat. Oppy seems to have dug
himself in for good in Corio. He won the
seat from Dedman in 1949 and twice
resisted Deddy’s attempts to get it back.
On the second occasion, 1954, he had to
contend with a swing against the Gov-,
ernment which placed his small majority
in jeopardy, but his personal appeal was
strong enough to combat this. On paper,
redistribution weakened his position for
the latest poll, but he came back stronger
than ever.
“Poll Clerk”: An electoral anomaly
which gave us a good deal of extra work
at the recent poll was the former enrol-
ment of several Queensland electors on
N.S.W. rolls. With banana-farms just
inside the Queensland border, they had
much easier access to Murwillumbah,
where they did all their business, • than
to any town in their own State, so they
had applied for, and been given, enrol-
ment in N.S.W. A check a few months
ago brought in a lot of corrected appli-
cations, too late for the names to be in-
cluded in the supplementary roll. One
transferee didn’t care whether he had a
vote or not; his cynical “They’re all
tarred with the same brush” brought
from a bystander “They might all be
painted with the same brush, but they re
not all brushed with the same paint.
• •
Melbourne “Age” pre-election head-
line: “Evatt sees Labor swing.” Many
A.L.P. supporters would have preferred
it vice-versa.
• •
A deep-sea port for the south-eastern
coast of South Australia has been under
discussion for longer than most members
of the S.A. Parliament can remember.
Latest move is an undertaking by Premier
Playford to inspect a proposed site at the
southern end of Rivoli Bay early in Janu-
ary. Kingston (Lacepede Bay), Robe
(Guichen Bay) and Beachport (north end
of Rivoli Bay) staked their claims years
ago as sites for the port, and enough
soundings, inspections and reports have
been made to found half-a-dozen harbors.
Local cynics are saying that one more
inspection will be scarcely noticed.
• ©
Once there was only one “Captain
Stayput.”
• •
“In the ACT”: Some newspapers
began speculating about the prospect of
a double-dissolution as soon as the Senate
figures suggested that the Government
might not have a majority in that
Chamber. It would have been interesting
to hear the Prime Minister’s view of this
idea as he recovered his breath after the
campaign—and it might be more interest-
ing to see the White Paper he is preparing
on the general subject for tabling with
the papers relating to the double-dissolu-
tion in 1951. The papers (and the press
copies of them) were ready for presen-
tation to Parliament months ago. Perhaps
the 22nd Parliament will have the privi-
lege of reading them.
• •
“Actin’’: Far better than all the wordy
propaganda which the Services are using
to woo recruits were the recent remarks
of the Governor-General, and his listeners
were the Duntroon graduates just enter-
ing life as commissioned officers. The
whole speech should be printed, not only
for all the members and prospective
members of the Services, but for the
general run of citizenry. One brief
extract: —
Looking back on the road I have
travelled, with all its ups and downs, were
I once again your age, and had I the choice,
I would be where you are —at the start oi
an Army career. I would choose it again,
not because I happen to have been lucky
in it, but because it ottered me, as it offers
you, two things that any proper man wants
in his work —service and adventure.
The Governor-General went on to explain
what he meant by “Service,” saying that
in every great nation the flqme of its spirit
burns clearest in its armed forces. He
ended with the famous quotation that
“only those deserve freedom who are
prepared to defend it.” This was the stuff
to give the Duntroon graduates —and
many other people also.
• •
A scheme to boost tobacco-growing
has been announced by Commerce Min-
ister McEwen. A new research-station
will be built in North Queensland and
six State experimental stations will be
expanded. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment and tobacco-manufacturers will
each give £84,000 towards initial costs
and, with the growers, will contribute
£63,000 a year for running-costs.
• •
“Allan B.”: And we wonder why!
They’ve got staff falling over themselves
in Victoria House, London, to sell Vic-
toria to the British, yet it has now been
disclosed that of the whole bang lot of
’em only two—-the Agent-General and
his chief clerk —have ever seen Aus-
tralia. To the rest it’s just a name on a
map. With the pending appointment of
a new A.-G. “consideration” is to be
given to the staff question as well. Em-
ployers’ Federation president Gilmour
says a staff capable of selling the State’s
potentialities to prospective investors is
needed, and the job should not be handed
out “as a political reward.”
• •
“Mugga Way”: It was noted with
some curiosity that one member of the
Tariff Board, A. Date, didn’t sign the
annual report recently presented to Par-
liament. His dissent on two aspects, of
the report was not published with it, but
he has now been quoted in a Melbourne
newspaper as explaining that hfs dissent
referred to the reasons for establishing
a second board, and “to economic mea-
sures which he regarded as necessary to
restrict total demand.” He said he had
argued in favor of a more flexible tariff-
policy, with temporary protective duties
which would be much the same as a
“temporary l overdraft.” It would be pos-
sible, he considered, to administer such
a flexible policy if the administrative
machinery contemplated by Parliament
in December, 1953, had really been
brought into effect.
These views will arouse varying re-
actions, but they at least merit discussion.
But why weren’t they published with the
report?


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Oliver Filter”: An employee of a
.prosperous Sydney advertising-agency
1 decided that the way to comfortable re-
tirement was through the N. S. Wales
lottery. He gave the office-boy the price
of a ticket and sent him off to the lottery-
office. As the boy was about to leave, the
boss of the agency asked him where he
was going and, being told, asked the kid
to get him a couple of tickets, too. The
boy returned with a strip of three tickets,
tore one off for the copywriter and gave
the other two to the boss. The result
was a photo-finish—the copywriter was
one off £2OOO and two off a tenner; the
boss won £2OOO and a tenner.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric” Noticing some Sydney Hos-
pital nurses walking along Macquarie-
street, I think I know why there is a
shortage of recruits for their profession—
black lisle stockings, “sensible” shoes,
ugly aprons, starched collars and caps
that could have been originally designed
by Florence Nightingale. Smarten-up the
nurses’ costumes and many more girls
will come forward as apprentices.
<£♦ »*♦
“C.Q.”: The difficulty with Neil Mcln-
tosh, superintendent of the Croydon
(Vic.) telephone-exchange, isn’t that his
34 girls might pick the wrong number
but that he might pick on the wrong
girl. He has four sets of identical twins
on his staff.
❖ ♦>
“Baggyduds”: When simple good fun
was still a highly-valued commodity, the
men’s cricket-team in Bellevue (W.A.)
played an end-of-the-season match
against the ladies. Men bowled wrong
dook and batted from the opposite
stance. Our champion batswoman had
completed a sterling 50 when, in stepping
out for a smack, she missed the ball;
but her dental plate popped out and was
hooked, in smithereens, with Miller-like
ferocity to square-leg. “The Swan
Express” featured the incident, but
omitted to mention the lady’s good score.
My mother was volubly indignant at
this shifted emphasis—but she still has
the clipping!
“Mullum”: I was checking some work
of the junior in our office (he does some
work) when I noticed an error. I called
him over and explained, very quietly, that
unless the rules of addition had changed
since I left school, seven and three made
ten. “That’s right,” he admitted, point-
ing to the four he had written, “but that
line is supposed to be subtracted, not
added.”
❖
“Yakipan”: Priests in Japan, both of
the Buddhist and Shinto faiths, are having
a boom-time' conducting weddings. All
the young couples want to be married
before the new year, as 1956 to them will
be the Year of the Monkey, and a
“Monkey”-year is most unfavorable for
marriages. The word for “monkey” has
the same pronunciation as the Japanese
/~\NE of, his end-of-the-year certificates
_ was for “Services to the School.”
This startled us, and we inquired, with
respect, what these services had been.
They were: “Empytin’ the garbage.”—
“Poppa.”
❖ ♦> *s►
“T. Thyme”: Delight is found in the
observation (B. 30/11/ ’55) that “most
Canberra public * servants are steady
workers.* The choice of the word
“steady” is masterly. My copy of The
Shorter Oxford English Dictionary gives
the following definition:
STEADY:
1. Fixed or immovable in a position;
not liable to give way.
2. Firm in standing; not tottering or
shaking.
3. Not easily perturbed; e.g., “with
folded arms and steady eye.” — Shelley.
There are, of course, periods when the
term does not apply.
❖ *
“Christina”: Overheard in a subur-
ban bus: “I’ve got no confidence. I’m
not like you; I can’t push myself. Every-
one says, ‘You have such ability, you are
so competent, you’ve got personality—
it’s such a pity you have no confidence
in yourself.’ But I’m the shrinking, sen-
sitive sort . .
❖ *t* ♦>
“Forme One”: The story is going
round reportorial bars of the sub. given
the job of changing the names in a short-
story. An ex-air-force reader noticed
just in time that “George,” the automatic
pilot, had duly become “Stan.”
"Now for the perfect honeymoon!"
verb “to leave,” and this, to the super-
stitious, suggests divorce. For this reason
there are few weddings during a
“Monkey”-year, while during the years
immediately before and after there are
an unusually large number. On the other
hand, a “Monkey”-year favors the up-
and-coming young man, as it is the most
propitious year for those who aim to be
successful self-made men.
♦+♦ *> ♦>
“Metralia”: A young lady asks one of
the less-august papers for advice on a
social predicament: “My boy-friend
has invited me to a picnic-twosome. He’s
taking a bottle of gin, a bottle of sherry
and six bottles of beer. What should I
take?” The editorial advice is a some-
“ Cripes! I didn't think he Was due until the twenty-fifth."
what nebulous suggestion that she “Take
a chance.” I suggest as more practical
that she also take some glasses.
❖ *l* *x+
“Pelm”: In the street called Station
alongside the station of one of Mel-
bourne’s seaside-suburbs is a group of
14| weatherboard shops—-we call it 14!
because one has a frontage of 6ft. In
East Melbourne (Gipps-street) we noticed
a two-story brick house of seven rooms
built on a 10ft. frontage. The writer’s
ancestor, who owned a block in Collins-
street, evidently found trouble from the
Yarra fog, or buildings becoming con-
gested thereat, because he sold his block
for under £lOO the lot and built at 16-18
Palmer-street, Collingwood— two brick
cottages on land 30ft. by 92ft. and right
on the building-line: one enters from the
front-door on the pavement straight into
the living-room. In Williamstown, on
measuring an ancient domicile for valua-
tion and mortgage purposes, we found
four rooms of 9ft. by 7ft. each. Our
early citizens were certainly gregarious.
❖
“Quo Vadis”: Our new-customer
glances swept the shelves of the bar in
the little Rip Van Winkle town. Curi-
osity brought down the dusty unlabelled
bottle in the corner. “Been there for
years,” Bung said. “Some sort of Greek
wine.” Five-bob bought it; positive
identification of contents was more diffi-
cult. Many pubs later a connoisseur en-
lightened us: “French absinthe.” We
liked it; we’d buy a lot more if it was
available—at that price.
“Ariel”: Working-out the
likely origin of Bulletin con-
tributors’ noms-de-plume can
be entertaining. A few of our
number seem to have spelt their
own names backwards, instance
“Derf Reltuc,” “Nailil” and
“Niloc.” Some seem to have
enlarged on their initials—“Em-
jai” could have sprung from
rt MJ.,” and my guess is that
J. E. Macdonnell is “Jemac.”
Others use their occupations to
distinguish them. “Brick E.’s” game is
obvious, also that of “P.O.MjC ,” while
“Missus,” no doubt, devotes most of her
just horses, were tied to the posts and
beguiled the waiting-time helping them-
selves to the foliage. It’s a far cry back
to our pagan Nordic forefathers and their
Yggdrasil” or “World-tree” (said to be
rooted in Hell, while its branches sup-
ported Heaven), yet it was the forerunner
and originator of our Christmas greenery
our Christmas-trees, wreaths of holly
and ivy, Yule-logs and mistletoe-boughs.
“P.W.R.”: Nobody wants to look a
gift-horse in the mouth, but the eyebrow
of surprise was a little raised above the
glance of curiosity at an “S.M.H.” “For
Sale” item in this time of gift-giving:
Old French Woman Skeleton, a little
worn but fully animated. Ideal Gift for
Med. Student.
The advertisers are a Sydney tailoring
firm. Perhaps this is what happens to
ipannequins? Or take another small-print
ad.:— y
Prepare Now for Christmas
Enjoy Yourself On A
Used Motor Cycle
Maybe it would be better to wait for the
after-Christmas sales, where the Med.
student may pick up a live, unworn
French woman or a new motor-cycle,
cheap.
“Bo”: This week there will be a strik-
ing change in the mid-week procedure.
I will not have to fish the lid out of the
gutter into which it had been nonohalantly
tossed ; nor will I have to up-end the can
and put back into it half the contents
which had been blithely spilled in the
rush to get the job over quickly. And,
of course, there will be placed on the
lid which, for the first time in nearly 50
weeks, has been meticulously replaced —
a piece of doggerel that will at once pro-
claim the essential nature of the garbo’s
toil and remind me of his unremitting
services through all weathers, ending with
the hope that his sacrifices will not be
forgotten by me on the last call before
the 25th. Vain hope! For I am antici-
pating his poetical effusion, and he will
find this tied to the lid: —
time to household-chores. “Q. Ree”
might have me stumped, only I happen
to know that she was the only feminine
member of her science-group at Queens-
land Uni., and fellow-students used to
style her “Madame Curie.”
*i* *l*
“Kenyas”: A Christmas custom, long
gone out of fashion, was observed in
South Australia when I was a child over
50 years ago and posts supported
verandas in front of business-premises.
As Christmas approached the posts were
festooned with branches of trees brought
in from the bush, which made city streets
look like avenues in garden-suburbs.
Horses in sulkies, buggies and vans, or
MODERN POEM
What makes Christmas happy this year
Is the cheapness of presents; they cost
almost nix.
I instance a can-opener, “Priced at a
mere
725. 6dr
It offers the householder of modest means
Freedom from the oppressive impot-
ence
That lurks behind unopened cans of
beans — >
For 72-shillings and 6-pence,
Saving the rest of his weekly salary
For investment in a town-house or
weekend shack
Or a Daimler or a Rolls Royce for the
family . . .
Three-quid, twelve-bob and a zack!
O can-opener, run smoothly round the
horizon’s rim
Of the breadwinner of the nation, that
deserving man:
At that price, surely, you can liberate
him
From his predestined tin-can !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
You’ve waked me with your din
fcach Wednesday mom for years.
You ve concertina’d every tin
I hope you strip your gears.
I tell you what. Leave me ten-bob—•
I know you quarter-wits
Can well afford it, with your job—
And then I’ll call it quits.


AN inter-State liner was anchored in
the harbor. The newly-appointed,
ex-R.N. chief-officer rose early from his
afternoon siesta, caught a glimpse of
sailors loitering around the for’ard hatch,
and called the bo’s’n for an explanation.
“Yes,” said the bo’s’n, “I chatted them
about it —but they won’t take any notice
of me.” “What ? You’re the bo’s’n, 'and
the men disrespect your authority!
Come with me —we’ll jolly well see about
that!” They reached No. 1 hatch in
time to see two pennies falling. Pound-
notes were in the centre, and other money
on the side. “What a pretty picture this
is! ” the chief said. “Actually gambling
during duty-hours! ” “No, mate, ’ said
the spinner, “we’re ’avin’ a tarpaulin-
muster f’r the captain— ’e’s on strike. '
—“Y.B.”
*** ❖
“Zake”: One of the reasons which
gave rise to the passing of legislation
closing pubs on State and Federal
election-days (total or partial drought
"We 'll have to sleep in the lounge, dear. I've let our bedroom for the
holidays at ten-pounds a Week.
according to each particular State) was
probably the fear that the well-lined can-
didate might induce to vote for him
constituents whom he had filled-up with
grog But another potent factor must
have been that beer-fed political tempers
would boil-over into stoush. With this
in mind, it seems curious that the one
election-brawl in the recent Federal-
e ec on Saturday had to be in N.S.W.,
Srh hid Len damned for both
day Infnight'a mul p"ou
“I’m a bit old-fashioned.”
“Shillock”: “Blanc” need not have
worried so much about the mother-in-
law locked in the strongroom (B.
7 /12 / ’55). A mother-in-law in such cir-
cumstances would probably live for
several days. There must be some air
coming into a strongroom or the door
would not open. Builders generally make
a barred-vent if possible into a handy
chimney. One fussy inspector, at a
branch bank I was in, found the vent was
made into the stationery-room and in-
sisted on its being bricked-up. Next
morning we couldn’t open the strong-
room door, and the bricks had to come
out.
*l* 4 ❖
“D.J.G.”: One appropriately named
pub is a small hotel facing the Richmond
(Melbourne) cricket-ground, and in
sight of the M.C.C. stands, The
Cricketers’ Arms: emblem over the door,
crossed cricket-bats. What looks the most
inappropriate is The Bush Inn, in
Toorak, but its inscription reads: “Estab-
lished 1853” —when Toorak was largely
scrub and paddocks.
* ♦> *>
“Curriedeggs”: “Baggyduds” (B.
30/11/’55) would find machines, bread,
cutting, hand-whirling in the kitchen at
Liverpool (N.S.W.). Having just done
a term of National Service I encountered
one of these formidable weapons, which
was, however, without a loose wooden
guard. But the officers’-mess was
equipped with one of the electric
machines “Baggy” mentioned.
❖
“Curio”: The destination of the hos-
tile spaceship mentioned by “Howie
Wing” (B, 7/12/’55) was probably Cal-
listo, one of the 11 satellites of the planet
Jupiter. It. is one of the four discovered
by Galilei in 1610—a discovery that once
and for all removed the earth from its
alleged central positon in the universe.
Being a fairly large body (the diameter
is 3200 miles—slightly larger than Mer-
cury, the smallest planet) it has often been
used by science-fiction writers as a suit-
able base for space-patrol-stations, so
that it would almost certainly be a target
for extra-solar attack. Callisto’s distance
from the primary is 1,169,000 miles. It
apparently lacks any sort of atmosphere
and is very cold, not a very pleasant base
for spacemen. The original Callisto was
one of Jupiter’s many girl-friends, so it
is appropriate that she should still be
getting around with him after all these
centuries. v
♦>
“Nobs”: Film-advertisement ominously
over a hotel-door: “To Hell and Back.”
+X+ ❖
“Geep”: Most new residential areas
start with ambitions to be known as the
Garden Suburb. Each usually ends-up
as just another suburb, as one owner
after another gives up the battle against
weeds, pests and excess-water charges.
But residents of a new Perth suburb
really are garden-conscious, except one
who has surrounded an expensive house,
built on a large corner-block, with bitu-
men from boundary to boundary. But
his home is named, in foot-high letters,
Wildflower.
* ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Inattention to a minor
detail may spoil the illusion of time,
place or whatnot in a radio-play as
sharply as in a film. In an A.B.C. comedy
set in 1912 the telephone rang several
times with an intermittent (automatic) in-
stead of a constant (manual) ring.
♦> ♦♦♦
“Emjai”: “Peg-knife,” another defunct
game (B. 30/11/’55), was played on grass
with double-bladed pocketknives, which
were struck with the hand to send them
catherine-wheeling along the surface until
one' point stuck and they stood erect.
This Was repeated until there was failure
to stand up; competition was in the dis-
tance covered. It seems to have faded-
out with plug-tobacco and consequent
scarcity of hand-me-down knives. In
“Egg-cap” a ball (or pine-cone) was
dropped into one of a row of caps, whose
owners stood back on a mark. The
owner of the selected cap dashed in for
the missile, and hurled it at another
player, who, if struck and not too dam-
aged, became dropper. “Duck-stones”
was productive of bashed fingers in the
retrieving of stones knocked from the
“duck” (a large stone) while other fist-
sized stones were still flying around it.
But the real menace to life and limb was
“British and Russians.” The war was
with 4ft. shafts split from palings, with
folded paper, as a feather, in a two-way
split at one end. When tipped with a
horseshoe-nail and thrown * with a cord
around a notch, on the principle of the
abo. woomera, these were really lethal,
even when the armies were kept 50yds.
apart. It was banned in our old school
in the early ’nineties after much of the
back-fence had gone into armaments.
THE FESTIVE FRET
Come, let us forget
For the moment, the fret
And the fume of political shindy,
Dwell not on the vast
Thermonuclear blast
That’s made the whole world very
windy.
Why be bothered, perplexed,
And be painfully vexed
If you’re stung in your biz. by a
smartie ?
For the season’s at hand
When this problem must stand:
Will the bottled-beer last-out the party !
There’ll be laughter and song
In the gay, happy throng
As the tonsils are laved in the amber,
And the quips that are tossed
Will be hopelessly lost
In the shouts and the stamp of the
samba. •
But if steamy the night,
Spare a thought for the plight
Of the host; gauging thirsts is an art
he
Might find pretty tough.
There’s enough of the stuff ?
Will the bottled-beer last-out the
party ?
O, happy the guest !
He can blithely ingest
The wassail that’s parked there before
him,
His confidence strong
That before very long
An encore you’ll certainly pour him.
He’ll be unaware
Of the anguish you bear
As the host when, with thirsts very
hearty,
You are wondering this:
Was your judgment amiss?
Will the bottled-beer last-out the
party ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
The Cats and the Pretty Lady
“pOP ,” said the Pretty Lady, “when
Jt that cat lays another kitten, may I
have it for my own?”
“I suppose so, Lady,” I answered
lazily. It was nice to sit in the Canberra
sunshine in the old deck-chair and dis-
cuss the Pretty Lady’s favorite topic.
“She looks pretty fat,” said the Pretty
Lady, “and they always look fat before
they lay kittens.”
The cat, a nondescript creature, had
been bequeathed to us by Margaret, the
Dutch girl, and her husband, who had
hired a room from us until they at last
found a flat. There was one redeeming
feature about the cat. By some provi-
dential biological twist, it gave birth to
only one kitten at each accouchement.
Twisting the old cane-chair with the
broken leg around so that she could com-
mand my attention, the Pretty Lady
resumed the subject, the wisdom of eight
long years shining from her bright blue
eyes.
“She’s a pretty good sort of cat, that
one, Pop,” she went on. “She’s a clean
cat. Her name’s Mitzi, and Margaret
told me that Mitzi’s a special Dutch name
for good kind of cats. I don’t know why
Ninnie won’t let her in the house.
Every time she goes in, Ninnie shooshes
her out again.”
“Well, Lady,” I explained, “Ninnie’s
like me. We think cats are better out-
side.”
“Well, Pop,” said the Pretty Lady,
“Margaret says that cats are good in the
house sometimes, ’cos they eat up all the
mices.”
“Anyway,” I parried, “you’ve got a
perfectly good cat at home already.
“Oh, old Blackie,” answered the Pretty
Lady. “But Blackie’s sort of all of our
cat, and I’d like a kitten of my own. Any-
way, old Blackie’s dead.”
“How on earth did that happen?” 1
Eskcd
“Well, you spe, Pop,” said the Pretty
Lady, “Blackie came home last week with
his leg nearly tored off. Mummy said he
must of been runned over. So Mummy
sent for the man and old Blackie s dead.
He must of been a very old cat, Blackie.
He was Mummy’s cat long ago before
I was borned, and I know he was older
than Nigger, and Nigger’s my very oldest
doll.”
I had a fleeting vision of grubby old
Nigger, with one shoe-button eye and
most of the stuffing battered out of him.
“Anyway, I don’t think he was runned
over,” went on the Pretty Lady. “I think
he was fighting. I’ll tell you something,
Pop. Most of the trouble with the cats
around here is caused by the Africa-
lady’s cat.”
SHE waved a hand vaguely towards the
South African Embassy.
“That Africarlady’s cat—you know
him, Pop, the big black one with the bit
of white in the front and the big green
starey eyes. He leads them all. He s a
nasty cat that Africa-one. I told
Mummy that I’ve seen him fighting with
Blackie, and I’ve seen him at night after
I go to bed. He comes and gets this cat,
and Blackie and that yellow one of
Healy’s, and off they go at night hunting
the possums. And that’s about the
foolishest thing they can do, Pop, ’cos as
soon as they get near the possums the
old possums just run up the gumtrees,
and where are the cats then? And they
must go on and on hunting all night, Pop,
for when I go to school in the morning,
there they are fast asleep in the sun. Just
worn out with all that hunting, that’s what
they are.”
The Pretty Lady shook her golden head
pensively.
“Yes, he’s a real bad cat that Africa-
one,” she said. “He hates me, ’cos one
day I swished a stick at him, and now he
runs away as soon as he sees me. So can
I have the kitten, Pop, when that cat
lays again? You can see she’s a nice
clean cat.”
The animal, in the sunshine near the
woodheap, was performing an amazing
series of acrobatic ablutions and the
Pretty Lady watched her musingly.
“Well, darlin’, I suppose you’d better
have the kitten,” I said. “What will you
call it?”
“I think,” said the Pretty Lady reflec-
tively, “I think I’ll call it Bitzi, ’cos it’s
bound to be a bit like its mother, isn’t it,
Pop?”
“A most fitting name,” I said to the
Pretty Lady as she strolled across to in-
spect the roses.
STAN EAST.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Third time has proved it for B. M.
Sneddon, the young Liberal who has
won the new Victorian seat of Bruce;
he had made unsuccessful bids for Fre-
mantle in 1949 and Perth in 1951. A
Bachelor of Laws of the W.A. University,
he came back from overseas to stand for
election.
• •
James “Ironbark” Davey, cattleman
and one of the best rough-riders Aus-
tralia has seen (he’s not bad now, at 57),
runs about 24,000 cattle on his two
stations, Granite Downs, west of Oodna-
datja, and Anningie, north-west of Alice
ROUGH-RIDER
Springs. Ironbark ran away from his
S.A. home when he was 11, to learn the
rudiments of the cattle business on a
station in sou’-west Queensland. During
the depression he bought one of the
roughest hotels in Broken Hill, and police
and others predicted the new publican
would last one week. He had 14 fights
in the first 13 days and stayed for seven
years, selling-out to buy his first cattle-
station.
• 9
“M.G.S.”: What distinguished Alex
Gurney’s Bluey and Curley series from
most other strips was not their alleged
Australianism —Gurney, gone on in Mel-
bourne at 53, was an Englishman who
came to Australia as a boy—or the
draughtsmanship, which was not very
great, but a certain knowledge and ob-
servation of human nature which Gurney
had on a simple level, and which you
quickly found he had if, you knew him.
He was more in the Phil May class than
the David Low class. He didn’t judge
his fellowman but identified himself with
him, and would have made as wretched
a political cartoonist as Phil May. He
was the opposite of Low, who always
had some idea to put over. Gurney
made strenuous efforts to make himself
into an artist and studied under Des-
' chaineu,x in Hobart, but he was more
interested in the quaint foibles of human
beings than their visual appearance, as he
made clear in his caricaturing for The
Bulletin and other papers. His tens of
thousands of admirers —his death drew
many tributes—weren’t really interested
in his drawings. They would read the
wording underneath, then take a quick
look at the pictures, and laugh. Actually,
the genuine talent he had lay more in
the realm of writing.
• •
Old Digger and experienced agricul-
turist, Isaac Thomas has called it a day
after 42 years in the Westralian Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Born at Liverpool
(N.S.W.) in 1891, he ploughed his first
furrows on N.S.W. State experimental-
farms at Cowra and Nyngan before shift-
ing to Westralia in 1913 to join the
Chapman State Farm, now a research-
station. Fifteen months later he was
appointed manager, leaving to serve with
the old 51st Battalion. From 1924 to
1953 he was Superintendent of Wheat
Farming, urging along the expansion of
cereal-growing and the substantial in-
crease in Westralian wheat-production.
Much of his work in that possie had to
do with development of light lands and
establishment of research-stations. Dur-
“S World War II he chaired the State
Wheat Advisory Commission, becoming
Deputy Director of Agriculture in 1953.
A note from Fred Fitch, Amcliffe
(N.S.W.):
I am one of the old folk who remember
Will Ogilvie in his Australian days (B.
30/11/’55), and whom he asked The Bulletin
to convey his regards to and give his bless-
ings. I worked with him on Belalie station,
t’other side of Bourke, and we rode and
mustered together on plains where the fences
run wide and the Warrego River runs some-
times. Now in my 90th year, I wonder if
there are any who (beside myself) will
participate in his blessings.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Another Duntroon gradu-
ate who forsook the Army and took to
the air, Air-Vice-Marshal Hely becomes
Air-Officer Commanding Training Com-
mand from next month. Hely was sec-
onded to the R.A.A.F. on his graduation
from Royal Military College, and after
graduating as a pilot was given his com-
mission in 1930. In the war he served
at Darwin, Merauke and Bougainville,
and has since held a good-many senior
R.A.A;F. appointments, including the
one he is leaving of Deputy-Chief, Air
Staff. He wears A.F.C., C.B.E.
• •
“X.”: Alan Marshall, whose auto-
biography, I Can Jump Puddles, gives
numerous descriptions of his extraordin-
ary ability to triumph over a handicap
which would daunt most —he taught him-
self to ride, to swim, to run races and
take his place in school fights—was put
to the test again the other night when
the study he built on his mother’s pro-
perty at Eltham v (Vic.) caught fire and
burned to the ground in a few minutes.
Marshall’s first thought was for his 600
books, and his pictures, the abo. weapons
and drawings he collected on his journeys
by caravan to Arnhem Land, and the
MS. of his next book, a sequel to I Can
Jump Puddles . He crawled across the
floor half-blinded to get his crutches, but
couldn’t find them; in the nick of time
was carried out to safety by a neighbor.
He lost the collection of a lifetime and
his bungalow (uninsured) went to
blazes. He started rebuilding it next
morning.
• •
First to win the new £lOOO Victorian
R.A.S. travelling-scholarship is Robert
Maxwell Butler, a 25-year-old farmer
from the rich agricultural pastures of
Newstead. The scholarship, one of the
world’s richest, will take him to England
to study life on and in the soil.
• •
When a Bulletin man who had just
been refused permission to moor a house-
boat on the Yarra for fear he might pol-
lute it asked F. H. Rogan what he would
do with that noble stream to make it less
like the town-drain, Melbourne’s Town
Clerk designate replied, “If I had my
way I would have it ploughed-up and
planted with wheat.” Rogan learnt his
job at his birthplace, Maryborough
(Vic.); Town Clerk there for seven years.
Before that, five years’ A.1.F., rank of
TOWN CLERK
captain, part of the time in New Guinea,
controlling radar. He takes cntrol of the
complicated affairs of the bigger city on
January 1, when its traffic-river-fish-meat-
market-abattoir Master Plan and a mil-
lion other problems are expected to reach
a crisis ; but for his first year the Olympic
Games will be the major headache.
Richard Cleaver, 38-year-old sales-
manager, who recaptured the Federal
Swan seat for the Liberals, has had over
20‘years in Westralian public activities,
including a leading part in establishing
the Mogumber mission for natives.
Hitherto he’d been a cleanskin in politics.
KENNETH DOUGLAS MILLER,
president of the Brisbane Woolselling
Brokers’ Association and Queensland
representative on the National Council
of Woolselling Brokers of Australia.
Queensland manager of New Zealand
Loan and Mercantile. Plays bowls at
Clayfield.
“Fitz”: John Stanley Cumpston, Australian
Consul at Noumea for New Caledonia, is a son
of the Dr. J. H. L. Cumpston who was Com-
monwealth Director-General of Health from
1922 to 1945.
Born 46 years ago at Perth, the son was
educated at Wesley College and the University
of Melbourne—B.A. and Ll.B. For a couple of
years he wrote law-articles (he was admitted
as a barrister and solicitor in Melbourne,
solicitor in Sydney), became a legal-officer in
the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor’s offices in
Melbourne and Sydney, and in 1935 joined the
Department of External Affairs.
Before War II an A.M.F. officer, and
champion militia rifle-shot in Victoria, when
war broke he went with the 9th Div. to the
Middle East, attached to h.q. 26th Aust.
Infantry Brigade as liaison-officer, serving in
Palestine, Libya and Tobruk. He commanded
the 9th Div. Ski Company in Lebanon, and
also the 2/23 rd Battalion. Back in Australia
he became an intelligence-officer in the Allied
Geographical Section at MacArthur’s h.q., in
Brisbane, and later in the Philippines.
In 1946 Cumpston was appointed First
Secretary of the Australian Legation at
Santiago, Chile; he returned to Australia when
the Legation was closed after the death of John
Duncan, Australian Minister there. Prior to
his present appointment he was secretary at the
Australian High Commissioner’s office at
Wellington (N.Z.).
A Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society,
he has also taken an interest in historical
research and has specialised in a study of
Antarctica and the sub-Antarctic islands. One
of his publications (with E. P. Bayliss) was
Handbook to Accompany Map of Antarctica
(1939). He’s honorary life-member of the N.Z.
Antarctica Society.
• •
Passed on in Perth at 83, Henry John
Manning, former noted detective-sergeant
of the W'estralian C. 1.8. A skilled horse-
man and bushman, he went young to
Westralia from Victoria, rode out his first
job breaking horses for the Westralian
police, and as a mounted constable rode
long and lonely patrols in the North-West,
after which he became one of the original
members of the gold-stealing detection
staff, stationed in Kalgoorlie. He was
largely instrumental in getting the con-
viction of Coulter and Treffene, hanged
for the murder of Inspector Walsh and
Sergeant Pitman. Even more outstanding
was his tracking-down of another mur-
derer, “Snowy” Rowles. From a broken
tooth and a button, recovered from ashes
of the fire which consumed the body of
the victim, Manning built up the evidence
which brought Rowles to the gallows. In
evidence as a Crown witness in this case
novelist Arthur Upfield related that,
while collecting material for a new novel,
he had discussed with Rowles and others
the best way of disposing of a corpse by
burning.
• •
“C. 8.”: Latest provincial art-prize to
be judged by a Melbourne artist and won
by another Melbourne artist is the £lOO
prize of the Bendigo Art Gallery. Adju-
dicator was Malcolm Warner, president
of the Victorian Artists’ Society ; Alan
Warren, art-critic of Melbourne “Sun-
Pix,” won the £lOO for an oil-painting,
“South Gippsland.” The £4O watercolor-
prize went to Ronald Kirk, also of Mel-
bourne, with “Back Street, Fitzroy.”
The original idea behind these provincial
art-prizes—there are at least a dozen
of them in Victoria —was to promote
interest in art in country districts. But
all they seem to have done is to stimulate
an interest in provincial art-prizes in
Melbourne artists.
The Chair of Modern Languages at
Canterbury University College, New Zea-
land, is to be filled by an Australian,
R. T. Sussex, a senior lecturer in French
at Melbourne Uni. Succeeding Dr. C.
Malthus (retired), the new prof, was
born in Perth, studied at the Sorbonne,
bagging a doctorate, and has written a
book on Belgian poet Emile Verhaeren’s
work. Another book, Essays in Disquiet,
is with the printers.
• •
William John Aston, 39, millinery-
manufacturer, scored a notable triumph
for .the Libs, when he won the new
Federal seat of Phillip. Jointly-equival-
ent State electorates Bondi, Coogee and
Waverley are all represented by Labor
men. In several ways he is representative
of an electorate which has mixed and
sometimes contradictory characteristics,
but a decided character.
The long, skinny electorate contains
six surf-lifesaving clubs —Bondi, North
Bondi, Tamarama, Bronte, Clovelly and
Coogee—considerable business activity,
contrasts of fine homes, flats, and streets
of jerry-built houses, and several R.S.L.
sub-branches, including two of the
strongest in the State—Randwick-Coogee
and Eastern Suburbs.
The new M.P. is a former president of
the Bronte sub-branch, founded the
Waverley branch of Torchbearers for
Legacy, and worked his way from gun-
ner to commissioned rank in the 82nd
Ack-Ack Anti-searchlight Battery, mainly
around Moresby. He’s not a lifesaver,
but takes a lively interest in the clubs’
doings, follows Rugby League football,
likes cricket (captained an N.S.W. junior
cricket team once, and earlier scored 228
not-out for Waverley Public School);
now plays golf.
A moderately successful businessman,
he wasn’t in the employing class when he
M.P.
came out of the Army. In fact, he
started on a £250 Repat. business-loan,
and had quite a few headaches before his
millinery-manufacturing business was on
its feet. Before the war he had been a
salesman.
Meantime, he had become interested in
local politics: on the Waverley Council
in 1951, ’52, ’53, and Mayor within 11
months of becoming an alderman —
youngest Mayor in Waverley’s history.
Local affairs aroused an interest in
national ones, but the decisive step, oddly
enough, was prompted by a remark
dropped at a NeWtown-South Sydney
(R.L.) match by a prominent Labor man,
who said that a former Mayor of
Waverley might conceivably toss the
Labor candidate. He went home, thought
about it, and decided to “give it a go.”
His adviser, for obvious reasons, shall
be nameless.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney Hospital, suddenly, Paul Alexander
Henry, secretary-accountant of J. Albert and
Sons. Born in Melbourne, he started his
Sydney commercial life with Reuters, then
became accountant with the “Sunday Times.”
When the “S.T.” folded-up he joined Albert’s,
where he had been for the past 30 years. Main
outside interest was N.S.W. Geographic Society,
or which he had been hon. treasurer for over
20 years.
3 n at 86, Charles Alfred Jenkins,
retired Methodist minister, senior A.I.F. padre
and C.M.F. chaplain. Ordained in Victoria,
he crossed to W.A. in 1896, filled pulpits in
Albany, Fremantle and Perth, and was super-
intendent of the Central Methodist Mission
when be retired in 1938. A prominent member
ot the W.A. Historical Society, he was author
of a history of Methodism in Westralia.
D AL Latr °b e (Tas.), at 90, Reginald Maurice
Ritchie; admitted to the Bar in 1890, and up
to a month ago attended his office daily. On
Ck 5 ro H legal Practitioners his name
was sec °°d only to Westbury veteran George
adnSted'iTlSSs!' retired) ’ wh ° was


IN THE GOOD OLD SUMMERTIME!


ABORIGINALITIES
npHE law of averages and long odds:
five years ago I had to drive a truck
from Adelaide to Derby, in the Kimber-
* leys, via Perth. While in S.A. we took
the opportunity of looking at some of the
excellent sheep-country around James-
town —not being pressed for time, we
made a number of detours to look at
country on each side of our 4000-mile
route. We crossed and recrossed railway-
lines innumerable times, ran parallel with
them for many miles at a stretch; and
during the entire trip—Adelaide to Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), a distance of about 3000
miles —apart from suburban trains in
Perth we saw only two trains moving.
Yet, after travelling the “Madman’s
Ninety-mile,” and seeing the sights of
Mundawindi, Roy Hill, Nullagine and
Marble Bar, we had to pull-up at a level-
crossing on the now-defunct 120-mile
Port-Hedland-to-Marble-Bar railway-
line to allow the train to pass! And at
that time the train was running once-a-
month.—“Yampi.”
* * * *
“Const. Owl”: Daily I suffer the in-
dignity of dumb insolence from a wal-
laby which, over the past three months,
has acquired a taste for my pineapples.
The drill is always the same. I spot the
wallaby, take a shot, miss, and watch him
take a few leisurely hops before he rises
to his full 4ft. and says as plain as can
be, “All right, mug, have another go!”
After accepting the invitation I watch
him more-or-less stroll into the near-by
timber, and can imagine him telling his
"Dammit-ol' Herbie Bennett! Fancy running into you!”
mates about the bloke who wastes 14
rounds a week missing his useless hide.
It may appear to be plain bad marksman-
smp, yet I’ve shot off a two-handicap,
done a possible over the first three ranges,
and worn the crossed-muskets of an Army
marksman. The reason is bifocals. When
I can see the wally I can’t see the sights ;
when I cock the specs up so that I can
see the sights the wallaby is an indistinct
how on any convenient limb) is
the bower-bird’s nest that an
abo. never bothers to climb up a
tree after the eggs ; he just pokes
his spear in between the sticks,
loosens them a little and lets
the egg fall into his hand. Pos-
sibly the fowl gives so much
attention to his bower, his
playing-place, that he has little
time to give to such a utilitarian
matter as nest or egg. The blacks
say only two eggs are laid at a
time, and that the young
blur. Surely an age which has produced
the guided-missile has provided some sort
of help for bespectacled marksmen. Any-
one heard of it?
* * * *
“Kelvin”: Most memorable Snips
I’ve known practised in fleeting phases
of sobriety on an island-outpost of
Australia. At odd intervals a rumor that
Snips was sober would start a mad rush
of shaggy types to his establishment.
Almost always the rumor was unfounded.
The long-haired ones would have to
await the next overseas vessel with its
ship’s barber. Time and again the island’s
Esaus clubbed together to finance im-
portation of a barber from the south,
always with the stipulation that the new
man must be a strict teetotaller. Invari-
ably the importation, sober for a few
days, embraced John Barleycorn, to whom
he was usually introduced by the local
no-hoper, and caught the next boat south,
leaving the hairies still unshorn.
* * * *
“Wingella”: So flimsy an affair (just
a few odd sticks thrown together any-
bower-bird develops very quickly, and
soon is leading an independent existence.
He is known to them as Burrum-midget,
a “very quickfeller.” The full-grown
Bowery is very friendly, and will even
fly on to a veranda-table to take crusts
off it. The inside of the mouths of some
young bower-birds is bright orange, that
of others blood-red; but whether the
different colors distinguish the sexes 1
cannot say. Both wear the rainbow top-
knot at mating-time.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Axemen should be interested
to learn that a new event has been evolved
which for skill, excitement and general
crowd-appeal beats hollow any previous
form of competitive woodcutting. Tried-
out for the first time in Australia (and
therefore, no doubt, the world) at Fair-
field (N.S.W.) Agricultural Show, the
event was watched critically by officials
of the National Axemen’s Association
and unanimously voted a “must” for the •
Royal at Easter. Team-relay events have
generally consisted merely of standing-
cut and underhand alternately; the
new medley-relay combines five events:
“butcher’s block” (for the benefit of the
uninitiated: a. standing block 18in. in
girth chopped through by two men simul-
taneously) ; underhand cut, 12in. log;
18in. log sawn (sawyers working in
pairs); standing cut, 12in. log; and tree-
felling, llin. log. The event was con-
tested by three teams, all starting from
scratch, and won in 6min. 24sec. with
no more than five strokes between first
and second.
* * * *
“Burr Imul”: The ’roo fell victim dur-
ing an attempted road-crossing at night,
but her joey was unhurt, so we took him
home. He did all right, considering the
tormenting our two-year-old gave him.
That was twelve months ago; today we
were disturbed by loud screams, recog-
nisable as those of our pride and joy.
Our panic eased down when we saw
Kanga, strong from a year’s diet of
thistles, with Junior by the seat of his
rompers and the collar and shaking the
daylights out of him. Our pet was get-
ting quits.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Probably the best abo.
method of carrying fire was that used by
the natives of the bottom corner of W.A.
They used the giant seed-cobs of Banksia
grandis, known to them as “mangait.”
When lit these smoulder away as a cigar
does. A piece of green bark was stripped
from a jarrah or redgum and within this
"Y' know, Nat, I'm beginning to change my mind about capitalists."
tube the mangaits were placed, the outer
one alight. As each cob burned away it
lit the next one, with the result that fire
could be carried all day in ease and com-
fort, and with the certainty that there
would be a large red coal ready when
camp was made for the night. A few
small fires of mangaits kept the abos.
warm while they slept, and next morning
there would again be no trouble in start-
ing a fire.
* * * •
“Roni”: A favorite yarn among North
Queensland railway-guards concerns a
guard who was asked to explain why he
had left a box of butter standing in the
sun at a siding. He stoutly denied having
done so. Nor had he. But when the train
moved on, the guard’s-van had gone with
it, thus removing the shade in which he
had left the butter.
* * * *
“Kesem”: Many Australian tribes had
a special regard for the moon; some
thought it a different moon every night
or month, others felt it was somehow
related to them. All seemed to agree it
had power over them. Among the people
of the lower Belyando (N.Q.) those whose
tribal names ended in “burra” believed
that the blackheaded python—Kuthagoa,
as they named this, one of the most beau-
tiful reptiles in Australia —was once
venomous and responsible for the deaths
of so many blacks that the moon, Akkera
or Oggera, burnt the snake’s head as it
lay asleep in the dark ; thereafter Kutha-
goa had a black head and was no longer
venomous.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Someone
once asked here what is the
purpose of the conspicuous
white markings of some birds
which are otherwise well camou-
flaged. An example is the white-
faced heron, or blue crane,
which, standing still in the shade
of a tea-tree, would be prac-
tically invisible if it weren’t
for the blazing white patch on
its forehead and around the eye
and chin. In some birds the
distinctive markings, such as the
bright white patches on the mudlark,
seem designed to throw a pursuer off its
stride; the eye tries to sort out the black
from the white and follow both. I’ve seen
a hawk miss when you’d have sworn it
couldn’t, possibly by an error of judgment
induced by the changing pattern in front
of it. The swamp-hen flashes its white
tail-piece at a pursuer, even one of its
own species. But there’s something else
to it. During the breeding-season the
white area appears to be twice the usual
size and twice as bright, and the birds
parade around the swamp-edge with
feathers fluffed out making the most use
of their rear decoration. I suppose the
flashing of the white blaze acts similarly
to the more elaborate courting-display of
the peacock or the musk-duck —or of
dozens of other birds.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Lately read an item
describing a killed snake as “probably a
black dugite.” Can’t place it. There’s
more confusion than enough* over. the
dugite, mainly because his color varies
with the locality. He may be olive-green,
brownish with black spots, fawn, or olive-
brown, or darn’ near any shade in that
range; but a snake that could be de-
scribed as black doesn’t sound like a
dugite to me. The dugite’s a friendly
snake. He’ll come into your house after
mice; he’ll pass you on the doorstep
without turning a scale; and if he’s not
welcome he’ll leave. I doubt if there’s
a case on record where one has gone out
of its way to attack.
* * * *
'THE first blacktracker to be uniformed,
booted and put on full-time with the
N.S.W. police was Tommy Flood, who
in the 1870’s was a young stockman on
Kangaroo Creek station, up on the head-
waters country of the Clarence River.
While Tommy and a young gin
employed at the homestead were wait-
ing for the itinerant parson to come and
“fix ’em up white-pfeller style” a mob
of bush abos appeared and got a bit
fractious. The boss and other white-
men being away, Tommy warned the
intruders off. This proving futile, he
got an old muzzle-loader and attempted
to scare them off; one abo. was slightly
wounded and the rest took to the hills.
Later troopers called at the station, the
boss having notified them of the affair.
When Tommy saw them he made for the
creek, into which he took a header among
the hyacinths, and was not seen again
that day; in fact, some thought he had
struck a snag and had been drowned in
the fast-running stream.
When the coast was clear, Tommy
reappeared, wet but grinning, and
explained he had struck a snag all right,
but had used it to hang on to while he
breathed through the hollow stalk broken
from one of the water-plants.
Ultimately, he was given a horse and
persuaded to ride into town and tell the
police what had happened with the gun.
Tommy’s arrival in Grafton was pro-
pitious, for the police were in need of a
clue regarding a bit of local cattle-
duffing, and so took advantage of the
quick-witted boy from Kangaroo Creek
to help them. His efforts bore such good
fruit that a full report was sent to
Sydney and his regular employment as a
member of the force followed.
F. A.
HARVEST’S END
Dust and heat and never say die,
An hour becomes a day,
The farmer mutters and glares at the sky,
But he’s finishing, come what may.
The sun grows hotter, sweat pours down
To mingle with sticky flies,
His head is either a pumpkin’s crown
Or twice its normal size.
The tractor’s. high monotonous moan
Becomes a madman’s scream,
The lurching header’s clank and groan
Belong to a ghostly dream.
Behind the scrub and scrag of heath
A monster claws its way,
Belching clouds of purple breath
Into the yellow day.
Across the sky, across the plain
The monster roars in pain,
Like burning blood, a drop of rain
Falls sizzling in his brain.
A million wheat-heads stir and sigh,
Starved Indians in rows
Raise supplicating hands on high
Reproachfully as he goes.
He mows them down in savage haste;
A million spirits rise—
Accusingly on wanton waste
They turn their hollow eyes.
O life’s sweet blood, O Buddha save
Those slender islands of grain,
Prodigally left to mock and wave
In the race against the rain.
N.S.W.
OLGA SCHLUNKE.
FAR NORTH
Up in the Far North
Where crocodiles slide.
Riot of wilderness
Where rivers are wide,
The black-man can walk about
As if none but he
Owns any part of it,
Wild bird or tree.
N.S.W.
LUCIEN TUBS.


RATTLE-TRUCKING yards stronger
v/ than those at Alice Springs would be
hard to find. The rails are made from
welded sections of old railway-tracks ,
the cut-off gates on the races are made
of large pipe, also welded, and hang
from tracks along which they slide on
wheels. Such solidity is needed ; the big,
wild cattle handled here often have a
hornspread almost as wide as the race.
—“Morayda.”
* * * *
“Kune”: Slowly but surely, men’s
braces are disappearing from the Aus-
tralian male attire, particularly in the
country. On a recent trip to N.S.W.’s
north-west towns, where, at this time of
year, most men go coatless, I noticed less
than a score wearing them; and, apart
from a few pot-bellied businessmen, these
were mostly blue-shirted cops, seen
through the open doors and windows of
police-stations.
* * * *
“Harbel”: Explaining the recognised
building-practice of dowelling door-
frames to terrazzo steps, I was told by
an apprentice-bricklayer who is employed
by a spec, builder: “We don’t do that.
Asked what method his boss used, the
lad naively informed me: “We just stand
the frame on the step and go ahead.”
When I came to the method of fixing the
frame at the top the boy said: “The boss
reckons that wastes time, so we don’t
do it.” Shocked, I pointed out.that the
frames could fall out when the timber
shrank. “Ya-ir, I suppose they could,”
the lad admitted slowly. “But” —with an
all-is-saved smile —“we’ll be about six
jobs away by then.” He’ll get on.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Captain Cook’s
opinion on tea-tree tea (B. 12/10/’55) is
recorded in his Voyage Towards The
South Pole. He says they made a “beer”
out of a decoction of spruce-leaves and
“For Heavens sake hurry up with Willies fish—it's nearly time
for him to go to bed."
added “a quantity of the tea-plant” to
destroy or minimise the astringency. This
made the “beer” “exceeding palatable and
esteemed by everyone on board.” An
illustration in the book shows that the
tea-plant was Leptospernum scoparium
—the “manuka” of New Zealand—and
Cook said he’d given that name to the
plant on his previous voyage becausethe
leaves were used for making tea. That
they drank the same sort of tea on the
second trip, and with evident relish, indi-
cates that it was at least palatable.
** < *
“Bass”: A company chasing uranium
in WA. took the view that, as uranium
and copper are often associated, they
might get a lead by checking on some of
the copper-deposits in the big State.
There are several—copper was the first
metal mined in W.A., having been dis-
covered near Geraldton 13 years after the
founding of the colony, and, it’s been
mined since then in a number of locali-
ties from the West Kimberleys to Ravens-
thorpe, about 40 miles from Hopetoun on
the south coast The uranium-hunters
started at Ravensthorpe and found traces
of the radioactive mineral; but it didn’t
develop with diamond-drilling. Still, it
seems the work hasn’t been entirely
wasted. The drilling has already dis-
closed about 4,000,000 tons of ore assay-
ing up to 4 per cent, copper with a trace
of gold; and if the lode continues the
field could become one of the best copper-
producers in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: I can’t share James
Hackston’s poetical enthusiasm over
the circus-horse with neck arched “stiff
as starched” (B. 23/11 /’55), and no
doubt the late Anna Sewell would have
bitterly castigated him over it. In her
Black Beauty that lady harped so suc-
cessfully on the cruelty of the “bearing-
rein” that legislation was eventually
passed forbidding its use. The bearing-
rein consisted of two additional reins
which buckled on to the bit and were
pulled tight to the collar, breastplate or
surcingle. It compelled the horse to keep
his neck continually arched —in other
words, gave him a “bearing,” hence the
name. The only horses that suffer the
bearing-rein today are circus-horses;
maybe the law reasons that a circus-act
is not of long enough duration to cause
the animal acute torment.
* * * *
“Moorapi”: “Eldorado” on prospec-
tors (B. 30/11/’55) reminds me of a
public-spirited storekeeper in the once-
rich Vic. gold-district where I lived in the
early ’thirties. As the township’s princi-
pal industry was in the doldrums, the
pub veranda-posts were constantly sup-
ported by young chaps fast losing their
self-respect on the dole. The store-
keeper offered each man a fossicking-
dish on appro, if he agreed to go out to
the creek-beds every day and wash for
gold. Being an old prospector himself,
he told them the best places to try. Re-
sult : numerous pill-bottles full of specks,
consigned to the Commonwealth Bank
and bringing about £8 an ounce; general
revival of gold-production in them thar
hills; self-respect retrieved by the young
prospectors ; and increased popularity of
the p.-s. storekeeper.
* * * *
“Uramao”: An old New Zealand
farmer who sent in a return of his stock
had a half-draught horse among his
goods, chattels and stock. Back came
the demand from the taxgatherer for
information concerning the other half of
the draught.
*
“L.D.”: Fishing this spring for trout
a i on g the banks of the Goodradigbee,
near \y ee Jasper (N.S.W.), I came upon
a f ter fj s h lying on the bank. In
500yds. there were 16 to 18 trout, several
no t j ess than 41b. in weight; some could
have been around 51b. Only a thick
middle steak or cutlet was cut from one
fish. The rest weren’t even gutted; just
left for the flies. I have fished the area
for 15 years, and have never before seen
“Cant understand why the C.O. don't get something smaller
for a squadron mascot."
a trout larger than about To see
so many beauties now, tossed aside by
some wanton angler, made the whole in-
cident all the more fantastic.
* * * *
“North Easterner”: Does any old-
timer know what a “skeleton-suit” is?
Looking through an old book of accounts
going back to 1848 I came across an
entry: “3 skeleton-suits at 75.; 1 jacket
7s. 6d.” The jacket is plain going, of
course; but the first entry has all of us
beaten, even an aged draper-friend having
no recollection of such pieces of wear.
Another entry—the account-keeper lived
in Tasmania’s forest-country—relates to
a contract for “crowning 4 acres of
ferns,” but this, I find, was the old term
for knocking the heads off the big man-
ferns. The wage for farming and other
land-jobs was five-bob a day.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: A weathered sft. sin. of
mischievous energy, Old Bill put up the
shack on the rocky point with his own
hands. The joy of it all was the vaulted
concrete fireplace, just high enough to
clear his cranium. At the house-warming
his eager guests were given the freedom
of the stove. As each new amateur chef,
engrossed in a culinary masterpiece,
thumped his head forcibly against the
hard concrete and, dazed and cursing,
staggered back, his host would remark
mildly: “You want to watch that!” The
poor sports didn’t stay long ; the others
went about their chores with perman-
ently-bowed backs. They thought a lot
of Old Bill.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Of the veracity of this cat’s
tale I’m prepared to swear on the Good
Book. While I was half asleep Puss
jumped on my bed and purred lustily a
few inches from my nose. Thinking it
was the part-time animal we shared with
the folk at the back I took no notice.
I-woke to find it was a strange tabby—
George, our half-share cat, being black.
Tim, as we christened the newcomer,
settled down as if he had been with us
since kittenhood; George, disgusted, lit
out for other parts. Two years later Tim
introduced to the household a kitten —
another true Thomas. He washed and
trained it like a mother, and when it
was able to look after itself Tim moved
to the next-door home of a New Aus-
tralian couple, who promptly adopted
him ; but he visited us occasionally to see
how his successor was making out. The
New Australians decided on a trip to
Europe. Just before they left they sat
(the cat on the man’s knee) discussing his
future. “If we can’t get anyone to take
him,” decided the husband, “then we’ll
just have to get rid of the poor thing!”
At this, Puss jumped to the floor and
stalked from the room. He hasn’t been
seen since.
THE WHITE CRANE
The swamp-hens hunt on the grassy slope
Bonnets bobbing, smart tails flashing,
The fountain-crested pungas stand,
Green foam denied its splashing.
Last year a white crane sojourned here,
An ivory note against the green,
The swamp-hens seemed quite dowdy then,
The pungas less serene.
On listless eves the valley lay
In gold and lime and lemon
And flapping slow on widened wings
The pale bird ranged his gaze
On inky swamp-hens, pungas poised,
Then through the air would curve, retrace
His wingprints, circling, as he sought,
His chosen dreaming-place. _
NORFOLK ISLAND.
MERVAL CONNELLY.
ISLAND LEGEND
We were traversing up the Nengmutka
River during the survey of an extensive
area in the Warangoi Valley, New
Britain. This land had been bought
by the Administration from the Butum
natives, who had left the area generations
before because of evil spirits, or maselai.
At the many sharp bends in the sandy
Nengmutka swirling floodwaters had
scoured deep, forbidding-looking holes,
and on approaching one of these the boys
cutting the traverse-lines ahead nervously
came to a halt. They were Baining
natives from the neighboring village of
Gaulim, and they told me the following
story:
Many years ago on the banks of the
river near this waterhole was a flourishing
Butum village with plentiful coconut-
palms, gardens, pigs and fowls. Each
day all the physically-fit men, women and
children left the village to tend their
gardens, the only one remaining being a
very old woman, nearly blind and hardly
able to move about.
Soon a series of thefts began to
occur, and suspicion immediately fell
upon the old meri, who was severely chas-
tised. However, her grandson, in an
attempt to disprove the allegations, lay
in hiding and watched.
Soon a large malean, or eel, emerged
from the deep hole and, taking the form
of a tremendous python, entered the
village, committed the thefts and returned
to the river. The piccaninny traced its
path by scattering ashes along the track
it made to the water, and that night
informed the older natives.
His story was treated with a certain
amount of derision, but next day the men
went swimming and spearing in the
waterhole. As they brought each fish,
eel or crayfish to the surface on their
spears they asked the child, “Was this
what you saw?” until finally one man,
going deeper than the rest, found the
monster, and killed it after a terrific
struggle.
Brought to the village, it was cut into
many pieces, every native receiving a
piece, the head going to the old woman.
The eel-cwm-python was eaten with
the exception of the head, which remained
because the meri, as is the manner of old
people, merely pecked at her food. Then,
to the surprise of the woman, the head
caught fire and she hurriedly quenched
the flames by dipping it in the river.
At this the head spoke, thanked her for
her kindness in relieving him of pain and,
in gratitude, warned her that the village
would soon be destroyed because of its
attack on him. He advised her to take
her family and leave, but to do this
quietly without warning the others or
else she, too, would perish.
Next day, in fine weather, without the
rest of the river being affected in any
way, the water from the hole rose and,
accompanied by a tremendous wind,
swept through the village and destroyed
every native remaining. On returning to
the place later the old woman saw that
the houses, pigs, fowls, gardens and still-
burning fires had been left untouched.
No native since -then had entered the
area . . .
And now, for the first time since my
arrival in New Guinea, my chainman
and myself personally cut 10 chains of
traverse-lines. On doing this we came
"across the rotted stumps of coconut-
palms, definite indication of previous
settlement.
R. G. M. (Rabaul).


FuilJi in th e
m
Future
Before I left the United States at the end of
November I talked with some of the export bankers
in New York and Washington, and so had an
insight into the work American banks are doing in
expansion of their overseas business to meet the
demands of a growing international trade.
To appreciate this trend in U.S. finance, it is
well to remember two points—that banking, and
the spirit of investment behind it, have been
cardinal factors in America’s development; and
that U.S. production of goods and services is
reaching new records with every current return.
American banks with overseas departments
have long been operating in a Bankers’ Association
for Foreign Trade, and I was fortunate in being
invited to attend Conferences of this Association.
Their individual policies range from the financing
of exports and imports in the main, to providing all
the services available in their home institutions.
The important development now, however, is
that more banks are establishing foreign branches
or extending their lists of correspondent banks in
other countries.
Some of the leading banks have formed the
American Overseas Finance Corporation, to allow
U.S. exporters to give long-term credit to customers
overseas.
This does not necessarily mean that American
finance will be freely into foreign ventures.
There is the domestic economy to preserve; and
the problem of trade and tariffs is a knotty one
in international dealing.
But it does show that American enterprise is
anticipating the trade expansion that must come,
and is already coming, from the raising of economic
levels in many countries.
To me as an Australian it is interesting,
because part of the programme is to advise
American investors on opportunities available
outside their own country—and Australia is well
within the orbit.
In addition to all the faithful investment we
can make in ourselves, we need all the British and
American capital we can attract for the
development of Australia and New Guinea
ee'i
y
Missing Beneficiary
WILL ERNEST WINTER late of Flat
No. 7, 98 Bellevue Road, Bellevue Hill,
Sydney, or any relative of his, com-
municate with MESSIEURS MINTER,
SIMPSON & COMPANY, Solicitors, Union
Bank Chambers, 31 Hunter Street, Syd-
ney, when they may hear of something
to their advantage.
6y Appointment
to K M. Kina *
frederik IX
By Appointment
to tie late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H, M. King
Gustav VI AdoH
By Appointment
to H. M. the (
Queen of the
Netherlands'
rM p. •* *•■*—• *■
11 • i"! I • jWwiusutt #•
*4:fu Cl». HO*
KERRY
SS
Stem 1818 DernnorkV
liqueur dellghft
|or_your offer
- dinner, enjoyment
gum
or
ttffr
AUSTRALIAN 4GENTS-—SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
Business, Robbery, Etc
Picking Their Way
TNVESTORS continue to pick
1 their way through the share-
market as the year draws to its
close. Their selective picking has
had the effect of putting a firmer
front on the market as a whole,
even though Stock Exchange
business has lately shown a
tendency to slacken-off. Market
leaders like B.H.P. and A.C.I.
are back to within a shilling or
two of the year’s best prices,
though breweries are weak.
Cement companies, too, have
been influenced in market esteem
by the fact that cement is now
tending to be overproduced.
Textile companies are among the
weakest of all well-established
stocks, and hosiery concerns can
be included in the category.
Motor companies are down
(John McGrath and P. and R.
Williams are close to par again)
and hire-purchase concerns have
lost their lustre.
Bank shares have slipped over
the past six weeks. That is,
with the exception of the A.N.Z.,
which has improved smartly.
The ’Wales at £35 15s. gives a
yield of 5 p.c.
Because meat-marketing is not
so easy as it was, and with wool
prices lower, the sharemarket
pays less for F. J. Walker, not-
withstanding the imp r o ved
season.
Wool has shown a better trend
at auction lately, and the clip
Will be bigger than at first anti-
cipated. Most of the wool and
wheat areas continue to do
fairly well, but there is clearly
nothing like the profit in wool
that there has been over the past
few years. There will not be
the surplus for investment that
has been customary.
Accent at present is on selec-
tive investment. It is likely to be
emphasised in a few months’
time when further economic
adjustments seem almost certain
to occur. Among other things,
detailed results of the latest
Commonwealth loan will be
awaited with interest with
emphasis on interest.
Waltons-Sears and Cox Bros.
TXAVING made an offer to the
directors of Cox Bros.
(Aust.), Ltd., who rejected it,
Waltons-Sears, Ltd., has made
the offer direct to the individual
shareholders of Cox Bros.
Waltons-Sears offers to acquire
all the issued fully-paid ords. of
ss. each in the capital of Cox
Bros, with a payment in cash of
3s. a share, plus the allotment
of one ord. stock-unit of ss. in
Waltons-Sears for each three
ordinary fully-paid ss. Cox
Bros, shares.
The offer will remain open
until Dec. 31.
Waltons - Sears reserve the
right not to proceed with the
deal unless the offer is accepted
by not less than 75 p.c. of the
value of the issued fully-paid
ordinary shares in Cox Brothers.
Based on Waltons ss. shares
at 18s. 6d., the offer is equal
to just over 9s. for each Cox
Bros, share. Cox Bros, shares
before the offer was made public
were around 7s.
Sir Frank Richardson, chair-
man of Cox Bros., explained
that his board had unanimously
rejected the offer as being not in
the best interests of Cox Bros.
Cox Bros, earlier this year was
the successful bidder for Foy
and Gibson, Ltd., offers by
Waltons (as well as G. J. Coles)
being then rejected. Cox Bros,
paid a stiff price for Foy and
Gibson’s (£2,148,750 in cash
and 6,876,000 ss. Cox Bros,
ords.), and the market for Cox
Bros. ords. has since been sub-
dued, pending the thorough
digestion and assimilation of the
Foy and Gibson purchase.
Chairman Richardson has inti-
mated that a 10 p.c. div. will be
maintained on Cox Bros, ords.,
though there is now £2 million
of 6| p.c. debentures ahead of
them
The offer by Waltons-Sears
for the combined Cox-Foy-
Gibson enterprises represents, in
aggregate, £2,231,400 in cash and
£1,239,666 (par-value) in ss.
ords. On ruling market-value
for Waltons shares, the total
comes to about £6.7 million.
Waltons-Sears raise the ques-
tion of whether, on 1954-55
figures, Cox Bros, can maintain
their 10 p.c. ord. div., and point
out that the average percentage
of net profit to ord. capital in
Waltons-Sears, after deducting
pref. charges, has been 23.3 p.c.
over the past six years; the
average percentage for Cox
Bros, is given at 12.8 p.c.
Waltons-Sears suggest that net
profits of Cox Bros, will need to
be substantially increased if the
10 p.c. diy. is to be maintained.
It appears that Cox Bros, had
been willing to sell the Foy and
Gibson Adelaide store to
Waltons, it being surplus to their
requirements, but Waltons were
not interested in a single store.
They then made their counter-
offer, explaining, incidentally,
that the whole of the cash
(£2,231,400) involved would
come from Sears, Roebuck in the
U.S.A.
Sir Frank Richardson on
December 15 replied that the
Waltons offer was “frivolous
and vexatious, and could cause
mischief to our shareholders.”
A fault in the Waltons-Sears
offer is the short period in which
Cox Bros, shareholders have to
make up their minds, especially
in view of the Christmas and
New Year holiday-breaks.
Shaw River Alluvials, N.L.
TJLITHELY talking of tin-
values going 41b. to the yard,
and an area of 1296 acres to
work on, the prospectus of
Shaw River Alluvials brought in
speculators’ subscriptions to the
tune of £250,000, while the
vendors took £50,000 in shares
and £32,000 in cash.
That was in August, 1954. On
December 12, 1955, the directors
stated that there was little possi-
bility of establishing a “profit-
able operation of any size on
the Shaw River fields (W.A.),”
and that results of testing were
“most disappointing.”
Testing appears to have been
completed after the co. had spent
£242,558 on fixed assets. That
seems like having put the cart be-
fore the horse. Operations ran
off with £56,897. Net ore pro-
ceeds were £6991.
The co. has arranged to sell
some of its fixed assets and to
rent others for £lOO a week.
But shareholders, looking at
the directors’ report with a wild
.surmise, seem to think they have
done most of their dough. They
were accepting 6d. or under for
the 4s. 3d.-paids last week.
The property is in the Marble
Bar district of the Pilbara gold-
field (W.A.). It was worked in
a small way for five years prior
to flotation by the Johnston
family and L. F. Risdon. Re-
coveries by these previous pro-
prietors averaged 4.31 b. metallic
tin to the yard treated. But
apparently the good values exist
only in pockets, which is why the
present co. proposes to pack-up
and, with not much left in its
pockets to jingle, to look for a
property elsewhere.
Ninth Hole
TIJROM L. Owen: The failure
A of Rough Range No. 9 well
to produce anything more than
salt-water, in a formation-test
carried out between 3784 ft. and
3798 ft., should not come as a
surprise.
In a report from Perth, dated
December 11, it is stated that
the sandstone formation yielding
salt-water was penetrated at
3784 ft. below the surface. Pre-
sumably this is assumed to
correlate with the Birdrong
Sandstone reached at 3605 ft.
in Rough Range No. 1
bore. It is taken, also, that the
sand encountered at 3744 ft. in
No. 8, and at 3771 ft. ip No. 2,
belong to that stratigraphical
horizon. These figures are not
strictly comparable as, unfortun-
ately, the heights above sea-level
of the corresponding derrick-
floors are not available, but it is
safe to state that the geophysical
data were misinterpreted to indi-
cate a local structural (or, at
least, a stratigraphical) “high”
where there existed, in fact, a
“low.”
P. F. LeFevre, managing-
director of Wapet, states quite
candidly that the co’s. technical
staff will now have to re-evaluate
all geological and geophysical
data on Rough Range—a course
which has been advocated more
than once in these columns. He
states also, truly, that “there are
several possible explanations
such as faulting for the lack of
confirmation of the seismograph
data.” He does not suggest, as
he might have done, that much
of the present trouble was due
to inherited conceptions of the
local geology.
Personally, I am pleased at
the recognition of the effect of
faulting on both the Rough
Range structure and on its
geophysical interpretation. I
strongly suspected its existence
as soon as the characteristics of
the oil obtained from Rough
Range 1 were made known.
Faulting was obvious as soon
as the results from No. 3 bore
were made available. I expressed
that opinion quite freely at
Wapet press conferences held in
Sydney in November, 1954, and
subsequently.
I am, however, in complete
agreement with Mr. LeFevre
when he says that it is “still
considered that the Rough
Range structure has a promising
potential,” and it is good news
that Wapet has budgeted to
spend a further £3,000,000 in its
efforts to locate oil in this and
other promising structures.
Drive-in Theatres
A/TELBQURNE already has its
drive - in picture - theatres;
Sydney is shortly to have them,
too, including some in the open
spaces of French’s Forest. In
Canada the drive-in is the only
type of theatre to be attracting
increasing attendances at the
present time. Though fewer
Canadians went to movies as a
whole last year, takings of drive-
ins were up, and 56 more of them
were opened. In 1947 there were
15 drive-ins in Canada; there
are now 230.
Thirlwell and McKenzie
/"\NE of the biggest disappoint-
ments among investments on
Sydney ’Change has been Thirl-
well and McKenzie, Ltd. A con-
structional engineering concern,
with headquarters in the thriving
Port Kembla (N.S.W.) area,
where it also has a timber-yard,
as well as retail and hardware
interests in Wollongong, it hasn’t
paid a div. on either its ord. or
pref. capital during the past two
years. It has suffered “serious
cash deficiencies in the ac-
counts,” estimated at £42,816,
and last year made a loss of
£53,507. It now hopes for better
times.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIO
KUV neons SATE!
stifitlv
SANDERS,,
<S^»FILE§;
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., liled in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
iM
Prices and fur*
ther information
upon application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lid.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agentt-r-
MELBOUBNB
ADELAIDE .
rSBTB •
Norman Broa. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
Doaket Book Co. (AuaL)
Divorce Notice
TO KEVIN PATRICK FRANCIS RHODES
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
vour wife ETHEL RHODES by her
guardian ad litem HILDA THOMPSON
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of de-
sertion by you for a continuous period
of three years or more and she is seek-
ing the exercise of the Court’s discretion
pursuant to Section 27 of the Matrimonial
Causes and Personal Status Code 1948
IF you desire to defend such proceed-
ings you must file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth within FORTY clear day from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the cause may proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in absence.
DATED this 9th day of December 1955.
G J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, Forrest
Place, Perth, in the State of Western
Australia, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
WHEN
BUSINESS
GOES
ABROAD
Organising a business trip is a most important
matter, requiring careful thought and planning.
Experienced businessmen have found that it
pays to consult A.N.Z. Bank. In addition to
unsurpassed facilities for foreign currency
arrangements, complete travel services and
worthwhile business introductions are provided
as normal features of the Bank s highly
organised service for travelling businessmen.
Officers of A.N.Z. Bank too, are constantly on
the move throughout the world, and their
experience ensures that A.N.Z. Bank s service
for travelling businessmen is always up-to-date.
Every A.N.Z. Bank Manager is backed by
specialised departments which make full use
of the Bank’s contacts throughout the world.
A-N-Z
w
When planning a
business trip:
“Ask A.N.Z. Bank.”
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
>ANZ.55.1389«
Research in Industry
Power without Mussels
SOME YEARS AGO in
Victoria, and still more
recently in New South
Wales, large power sta-
tions drawing water
through long single pipe-
lines for cooling purposes
discovered that the latter’s
capacity was considerably
reduced by marine growth
and mussels.
These particular problems were investigated by Technical
Service representatives of ICIANZ, who overcame the troub e
by simply using Chlorine. The treatment they prescribed
consisted of chlorination at the intake for a short period each
day, the dosage being adjusted to provide a free chlorine
residual at the plant end of the line. Examination of the
pipeline some time later indicated that a satisfactory control
of mussels had been achieved. . . ,
Chlorine, however, has an infinite variety ot uses, the
most important of which is the treatment of domestic water
supplies. Here a residual content of one part m 2,000,000
parts of water is sufficient to eliminate disease-bearing
organisms. Chlorine is also used for the cleaning and
sterilisation of water in swimming pools, and the treatment
of sewage, bleaching of paper and cotton, shrink-proofing ot
wool, control of slime in condensers, etc.
In addition, it is employed in making other chemicals,
including such products as “Gammexane” and D.U.I.
insecticides, “Methoxone” and other hormone weed-killers,
Chlorine is produced in Australia at the ICIANZ caustic/
chlorine plants at Botany, New South Wales, and Yarraville,
Victoria.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
L.80.C.2280'
EARLE PAGE "RETIRES"
By “EK DUM”
AT 75 Sir Earle Page has
retired from the Federal
Ministry. He took the decision
to do so long before the election
and made his preparations
accordingly.
He has come to the stage at
which he can play only two fast
sets of tennis on end, apart from
working 15 hours a day, and he
feels that it is about time that
he gave way in the Ministerial
sphere to some younger and—he
hopes —more energetic man.
He merely, for the future, in-
tends to occupy himself with
some harmless hobbies, such as
the development of the New
States idea, the promotion of
the Clarence River irrigation
and electricity scheme, the
growth of the New England
University, and, in his more
casual moments, the assembly
of the vast mass of historical
material dealing with 36 years
of inside Australian political
history which he has accumu-
lated with surgical exactitude
during his career.
Earle Page’s history, on the
personal side, is one which shows
how little is to be gained either
materially or in gratitude from
devoting a life to politics in a
country like Australia. There
were no demonstrations of grati-
tude when he retired.
The writer first saw him 36
years ago. He was showing one
red-headed piece of dynamite
out of the room —Ross Smith,
to wit—when another walked in.
He was more rusty in coloring
than Ross, but not more restful.
He was then a brilliant surgeon
with a large practice, regarded
as a man who might look for-
ward to world status in the pro-
fessional sphere and reputed to
be making a very large income.
He was fresh from the war, in
his late thirties. He gave up
his practice for unremunerative
politics.
Before he reached his chair
he began a discourse on the need
for water-conservation, the utter
necessity for New State subdi-
vision and regional develop-
ment, organised export-market-
ing and a Federal Country party
to carry his policy to the elec-
tors. To this he added some
forceful thou g h t s about
national insurance and the pro-
vision of medicine for the
masses. At intervals I succeeded
in squeezing into the flow of
words such observations as
“yes” and “no.” This conver-
sation, begun in 1919, has con-
tinued for 36 years. The themes
have never altered. The pattern
has never altered save that there
have been periods when I have
been allowed to insert only the
word “yes” and have felt that
to try for a “no” would be
greedy.
During all that interval “the
Doc.,” as everybody calls him,
has had the aspect of. a con-
trolled tornado devoted to set
objectives and aiming for given
points.
He won the Cowper seat in
northern N. S. Wales the year
I first met him. It had been held
through five elections (the last
two unopposed) by John
Thomson, a bearded veteran
who had been chairman of the
then important Public Accounts
Committee, a member of the
royal commission on the fruit-
industry and who was Minis-
terial Whip. Page beat him
easily in a three-cornered con-
test. He beat him again in a
straightout fight the next year,
two to one. Anybody who has
opposed him for Cowper since
has been wasting his cash.
Within a few months after his
election, Page, at 40, was leader
of the Country party in the
Federal House and a dominant
factor, in national politics. He
held the job till 1939, when he
gave it up after his quarrel with
R. G. Menzies. In February,
1923, he became the co-leader of
the Bruce-Page coalition. Every-
body who didn’t know him fore-
cast that in a few months the
only name remembered would
be Bruce. It wasn’t. As
Treasurer, the most permanent
Page left the more permanent
marks on Australian history.
He showed himself quite in-
destructible and imperturbable.
He was no orator, though when
he liked he could make as con-
cise and clear-cut a speech as
anybody. In council, as a de-
viser of plans and methods, and
as a framer of schemes, he stood
out above everybody else. It
was his strength as a Minister
that he always had a concrete
plan and that he always stuck
to it. It could be said of him,
as of Castlereagh, that his de-
termining qualities were com-
monsense, integrity and a “busi-
ness ability which was as re-
markable as it was unobtrusive.”
He did not understand com-
promise. S. M. Bruce once re-
marked that it was as easy to
compromise with him as to
make a permanent dent in a
swansdown pillow. At a crisis
he merely paused and then went
on again in his chosen direction.
During the six years he was
Treasurer, 1923-29, he changed
the nature of the Common-
wealth by his amendments to
the Constitution embodying the
Loan Council agreement and
sealed the fate of the States as
then constituted. Four years
after he was elected he was
chairman of the newly-formed
Loan Council; in six years
Acting-Prime-Minister during
S. M. Bruce’s absences abroad,
in nine a Privy Councillor.
After Mr. Lyons became
Prime Minister he suddenly
switched to another theme and
turned up as Minister for Com-
merce and Agriculture in 1934
bent on a complete reorganisa-
tion of primary-produce fmarket-
ing and regimentation both at
home and overseas. He led the
Australian trade delegations to
England in 1936 and 1938, and
sat as chairman of his Australian
Agricultural Council for five
years. He decided to become
Minister for Health in 1937, and
it was during his term that the
germ of social service affecting
medical treatment and the plans
for national insurance were
born.
When J. A. Lyons died,
broken-d*>wn by some of the
contentions of the period which
largely centred roiind some Page
schemes (Lyons was on Page’s
side), he was Prime Minister for
a few days, and then, at logger-
heads with Mr. Menzies, went
out of the Ministry and out of
the leadership of the Country
party. It was Archie Cameron
who brought him back into
amity with the P.M.
He was selected as Australian
Minister to sit in the British
War Cabinet in 1941, not long
before Labor took office and
Japan entered the fray. He
travelled via Manila, the East
and the United States, and John
Curtin was the first to pay
tribute to the work he did
abroad.
In 1949 he was satisfied to
assume the apparently junior
Ministerial office of Minister for
Health in the new Menzies Gov-
ernment. It took some years for
Parliament and the Government
party in particular to realise the
nature of the job he had wished
on them. The Commonwealth
Health Scheme, attacked by
Labor, unpopular at first with
that section of the community
which believes in something for
nothing, has been one of the
greatest successes of the present
Government and seems bound
to become increasingly popular
as the insurance-cost per unit
is reduced through increase in
numbers of participants. With
its firm establishment Page
“retires.”
He is chancellor of the New
England University of which he
was a projector nearly forty
years ago when even enthusi-
astic locals laughed at the idea.
He has carried through most of
the great schemes which he fore-
shadowed as a young man,
though the great Clarence water-
scheme and the separation of
New England have still to come,
but are on the way. He is the
undisputed Elder Statesman
No. 1 of the Federal Country
party after having been in it
from its beginning for the best
part of 40 years, during which
he has been the main influence
in holding it together and con-
serving its ideals. His personal
inner Cabinet of advisers and
Workers, some of whom began
with him as boys, is the most
permanent, the longest-standing,
most closely consolidated in
Australia, or perhaps in British
political history. His views and
ambitions at 75, Father of the
Ministry and of the House, with
36 years of service as an M.P.,
a G.C.M.G. and a Companion of
Honor, are steadfastly the same
as when he was a young doctor
of 35. '
He has few enemies. He has
astonishingly achieved little
credit with the average Aus-
tralian for being the enduring
force which he has been.
Like Earl Bathurst, whose in-
fluence on early colonial history
was enormous, and exercised over
the best part of a lifetime, he will
be better appreciated a century
hence than at present. Mean-
time, he is girding his loins for
his final spurt which on present
signs will be a long one, his ideas
of retirement being somewhat
novel by 40-hour-week standards
and his conception of a nice
quiet spot the centre of a pol-
itical hurricane of propaganda.
In the intervals of publicist
work it will still be possible, at
frequent intervals, to invade his
modest room in Parliament
House and find him engaged in
his self-imposed “recreation” —
never abandoned no matter
what his office or other tasks—
of tending the bare-torsoed
Parliamentary sick and infirm.
For finger-aches and toe-aches
every M-P., of whatever party,
is apt to turn to the Doc.


Cap* Yart
QUEENSLAND
S
★
★>
★v
VICTORIA
PorVend
"From Cape Y
r ork to Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, C.B.E.
ri V ™ « l? man £,’ Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.:
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald.
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth. •
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Bertram J. F. Wright, M.B.E.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann,
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Representative for Newcastle:
0 H. B. Morison.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman); Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil
Brenan; A. E. Axon; W. Hamilton Hart.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
/~\F the big privately-owned trading-
w banks in Australia, the ’Wales is the
largest and oldest, anc| one of the most
enterprising, too. The co. now proposes
to broaden the field of its activities by
establishing its own savings-bank; a
wholly-owned subsidiary with a paid
capital of £1,000,000 has been registered
for the purpose. It is expected that this
additional service to the public would also
encourage more people to use the parent
trading-bank, whose stature and lending
powers would be thus enhanced. The
Federal Government has approved of the
proposal in principle but has not yet
issued a licence to commence trading.
To help provide the enlarged ordinary
banking-services which a fast-growing
nation needs, the co. got in £6,036,250
of fresh share-capital (£4,390,000) and
share-premiums (£1,646,250) a couple of
years ago—the premiums make a 9 p.c.
div. worth only 6.5 p.c. on the new capital
alone. Meanwhile, the banking and busi-
ness situation has changed from easy-
to tight-money conditions, and the lend-
ing policy of the banks—not entirely
of their own making—has come under
fire from both sides. Government
authorities think it is too liberal in the
light of potential inflationary pressures,
while businessmen, basing their claims
on the so-called “needs of trade” argu-
ment, think it is too restrictive. One
thing worth remembering is that increased
lending does not call forth additional
physical resources of labor and materials
when these are already fully committed.
Indeed, if increased lending pushed de-
mand beyond the limit of productivity,
one result would be to further reduce the
quantity of goods our £ would buy.
By mid-1956 the Government hopes
to get spending back to a level which
the country’s own productive resources
can accommodate. To do this it is rely-
ing on physical restriction of imports,
tight-money and public co-operation.
Tight-money tends to damp-down the
rate of business expansion by making
expectations as to prices, sales and profits
more cautious, and this has a bearing on
plans for capital expenditure, too; in
the securities market it is usually accom-
panied by an easing of prices and
strengthening of yields. However, unless
the senseless wage-cost-price spiral can
be arrested—and this calls for the co-
operation of organised labor—we will
just go on creating more claims on our
productive resources than can be readily
honored, and our last position will be
infinitely worse than our present one.
Apart from voluntary regulation
of hire-purchase transactions —the
effects of which have yet to be seen
—the task in the monetary field has been
placed almost entirely on the banking-
system. It is up to the Government to
see that the squeeze does not stop at the
boundary of the private sector of the
economy, in which the authorities still
indulge in the gentle art of dividend-
stripping.
Meanwhile the trading-banks are
assisting their clients to the limit of their
lending capacity, which is governed by
their own diminishing liquid resources and
central-bank directives and policy. Dur-
ing the year to September 30 last, the
Wales’ total assets increased by only £1.3
million as against £37.6 million for the
previous year:
r, ~ , 1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital £8,780,000 £13,170,000 £13,170,000
Reserves .. 7,710,173 10,769,240 11,277,835
Notes . 80,928 80,917 80,917
Deposits, etc. 426,014,259 456,082,876 456,879,061
Final div. 197,550 296,325 296,325
£442,782,910 £480,399,358 £481,704,138
Liquids ..163,661,597 131,591,143 126,909,604
Special a/cs. 77,369,950 84,760,650 72,206,977
Advances .. 196,028,276 257,254,345 273,918,153
Premises . 5,700,000 6,250,000 7,000,000
Other assets 23,087 543,220 1,669,404
. . £442,782,910 £480,399,358 £481,704,138
Statutory deposits with central banks, Aust*alia
and New Zealand.
Although the addition to deposits, etc.,
was only £796,185, advances expanded by
£16,663,808. To thus assist clients over
a period of difficulty, especially in con-
nection with forward import-commit-
ments, the co. was obliged to reduce its
holding of Government and semi-Gov-
emment securities (now £22,913,673) by
£6,170,220, and the central banks in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand released
£12,553,673 of the amount immobilised
with them on special account. The total
amount frozen in this way was 15.8 p.c.
of deposits at September 30 as against
18.6 p.c. a year earlier. Bank-credit
looks like getting tighter before it be-
comes easier.
Although current developments are
expected to have a sobering effect upon
trade expansion, no marked contraction
of bank earnings is expected. After
allowing unstated sums for taxation, bad
and doubtful debts, fluctuations in value
of investment securities and other con-
tingencies, as well as writing-down the
book-value of premises by an undisclosed
amount, the ’Wales’ declared profit in-
creased by £202,478 last term:
Net To R e .
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1960.. 847,790 8 p.c. = 702,400 145,390 6,791,663
1951.. 964,006 8 „ „ 702,400 251,606 7,043,269
1952.. 997,769 8 „ „ 702,400 295,369 7,338,638
1953.1,117,835 Bs,, „ 746,300 371,535 7,710,173
Share premiums reserve, £1,646,250 9,356,423
From inner reserves, £1,000,000 .. 10,356,423
1954.1,491,417 9 p.c. = 1,078,600 412,817 10,769,240
1955.1,693,895 9 „ ~1,185,300 508,595 11,277,835
The £1,693,895 of profit claimed was
equal to 12.8 p.c. on capital employed as
against 12.4, 12.7, 11.3 and 18.8 p.c. back
to 1951. So the 9 p.c. div. was covered
by a comfortable margin. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was a moderate
6.9 p.c.
At £35 (£3B a year ago) the co.’s
£2O shares return 5.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £37 2s. 6d. per share.
Australian Provincial Assurance
T ATEST accounts of the now-firmly-
established A.P.A., which writes
ordinary and accident contracts through-
out Australia and New Zealand, make
pleasant reading for both policyholders
and shareholders. And the report de-
lineates the co.’s position, and its progress,
with a fullness which makes for easier
understanding of a form of accounts
noted for their indigestibility. Features
are a further increase in the rates of
bonus paid to policyholders and a lift
in the div., and overall the stage appears
to be set for steady progress during the
years ahead.
Over the last decade the business has
more than doubled in size, as the follow-
ing broad statistical picture shows:
1945. 1954. 1955.
Total income .. £441,000 £990,000 £1,055,000
Assets . . .. 3,119,000 5,983,000 6,582,000
Life funds, etc.*.. 2,587,000 5,124,000 5,613,000
Sums assuredf .. 8,717,000 16,367,000 17,763,000
Bonus additions!.. 532,000 1,068,000 1,206,000
* Includes sundry reserves. fln force.
The interests of policyholders are placed
in the foreground, and the emphasis is
upon quality rather than quantity of busi-
ness. Last term the whole of the profit
earned in the life department remained
there for the benefit of policyholders.
Earnings for shareholders were confined
to the surplus on accident business and
to returns from the investment of their
own funds —capital and reserves in the
general section.
About threequarters of the life con-
tracts —they do not include group or in-
dustrial business —is written in Australia.
Last term £1,939,574 (up £219,892) of
new business was put on the books, the
average amount per policy being £1024
(up £B4). Net premiums, interest, rents,
etc., turned in £843,188 (up £24,561), of
which claims and exes, made off with
£390,690 (up £31,919). The excess of
income over outgo was thus £452,498
(down £7358), all of which was added to
the life fund, etc., raising it to
£5,198,435 —the etcetera is £70,000 ear-
marked for new business expansion.
The life fund itself (£5,128,43'5) ex-
ceeded liabilities under policies by
£154,842, of which £124,754 (up £16,976)
was distributed among policyholders in
reversionary bonuses at increased rates,
ranging up to a satisfactory 325. p.c. (up
2s. p.c.) on the sum assured for whole-life
contracts. Of the other £30,088, £20,000
was added to the reserve for new business
expansion, and £lO,OBB was carried
forward.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on the statutory life fund was 4s. 3d. p.c.
better at £4 9s. 3d. p.c., thus widening
the margin over the rate (2J p.c.) which
the actuary assumed the funds would
earn when valuing policy liabilities.
Exes, took 25.2 p.c. (up 1.7 p.c.) of the
year’s net premiums, the growth being
due to inflationary pressures. The mor-
tality experience was only 45 p.c. of
expectation.
In the accident and general department,
in which shareholders are mainly inter-
ested, the net surplus was £73,552 (up
£10,268), of which £9229 was on account
of accident business, £54,415 interest,
rents, etc., and £9908 tax refund. Leav-
ing the latter non-recurring item out of
the reckoning, the remaining £63,644 was
17.7 p.c. on the £360,000 of share capital.
The lift in the div. from 10 p.c. to 12|
p.c. was thus within the safety margin.
Public securities (up £531,685) and
shareholdings (up £81,396) constitute the
bulk of the assets:
1952. 1953. 1954. 1955.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 2.026.828 2.524,120 3.336,474 3,868,159
Mortgages.. 474,057 477,128 390,961 348 412
Loans on
policies, etc. 87,547 100,013 109,006 142,321
Book debts,
xash, etc. 174,422 174,938 198,621 212.321
Equipment. 17.481 10.337 22,153 8,382
Properties .. 647,504 526,006 387,028 382,696
Shares, etc. 1,476,227 1,545,333 1,638,703 1,620,099
Total .. 4,904,066 5,357,875 5,982,946 6,582,390
Creditors.. 191,467 264,159 431,796 539,780
Net tangibles 4.712,599 5,093,716 5,551,150 6,042,610
Assur. fund* 3,986,368 4,345,699 4,797,330 6,187,238
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1952
£34,000; 1953, £40,878; 1954, £51,393
Net tangibles (up £491,460) exceeded the
statutory life fund, etc., by £855,372, which
was £498,372 more than paid capital.
The £498,372 includes new business and
other special reserves totalling £162,000.
The market prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
375. (345, a year ago) to return a satis-
factory 6.8 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis.
The scrip is worth consideration as a
holding proposition.
Mutual Acceptance Co., Ltd.
'T’O consolidate its outside debts, reduce
the overdraft and provide for further
expansion of business within the limits
voluntarily agreed to by the major hire-
purchase finance houses in October last,
this 19-year-old and soundly established 4
Mutual Acceptance Co. is issuing
£2,375,000 of first-mortgage debentures,
some of which are sugared with rights to
take up new ss. ord. shares for cash at
par on or before December 10, 1958
Of the £2,375,000, the Bank of N. S
Wales has taken £775,000 (of which
£200,000 is presently to be redeemed) in
connection with the co.’s overdraft, and
the M.L.C. Assurance Co. £600,000 in
respect of mortgages and loans. The
other £1,000,000 is now on offer to the
public, with priority to those on the co.’s
own share-register. The whole issue is
secured by a floating charge over the
co.’s assets, and is available in short
(3-12 months), medium (2-4 years) and
long (5-10 year) currencies, with rates of
interest ranging from p.c. for three-
months to 6\ p.c. for seven-years or more.
Only the long-term paper carries the
right to subscribe for ord. shares. This
right will be represented by separate
coupons, to be issued on the following
basis:
r~ Debenture—-— N
Currency, Interest, Coupons.
Years. p.c. p.a. Rate of Issue.
50 p.c. face-value debenture.
9 45 „
8 40 „
7 35 „
6 6 30 „ „
6 6 25 „
The debentures and the coupons will be
transferable separately, and application
is to be made to the Sydney Stock Ex-
change for their listing under separate
headings.
The co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. recently
fetched 7s. in the market, the return at
that figure being 10.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. (rate paid for the last two years).
The holder of a £lOO 6\ p.c. 10-year de-
benture who exercised his full coupon
rights would be entitled to take
up 200 ss. ords. at a post of £5O.
Assuming the ord. div. remains unchanged,
he would thereafter receive in interest
and divs. £l4 p.a. on his total outlay of
£l5O, equal to 9.3 p.c. p.a.
On the other hand, if he chose
to sell his 200 ord. shares (and
assuming that the price remained
unaltered at 7s. each), he could
see a capital gain of £2O on the deal,
which, of course, would bump up his
average return to date of sale. And he
would still hold his debenture.
The co. and its operating subsidiary,
Martin Acceptance Co., are the only
major finance concerns catering ex-
clusively for h.-p. business in household
durables in N. S. Wales. For the year to
June 30 last combined turnover was
£4,054,700 (up £522,700) and the profit
£204,173 (up £59,738):
Parent Co.
_ i r. Dividends
June, Profit. Pref. t Ord. Reserves.
5 & 6 p.c.
£• ' £ £ £
9920 12J p.c. = 37,812 90,890
1953. .128,645 9920 12§ „ „ 37,812 171,803
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £lll .. 171914
Share premiums, £68,750 .. .. 240*664
,„r. Tax overprovided, £1250 .. .. 241,914
1954. .144,436 9920 15 p.c. = 59,125 317,304
Added reserves, £228 .. .. 317,532
Share-issue expenses, £13,307 .. 304i225
1955. .204,173 9920 15 p.c. =108,281 390,197
The £204,173 covered the pref. divs. and
26.9 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 34.1, 39.2 and 27.1 p.c. back to
1952. The decline in the ratios is due to
introduction of fresh share- and other
capital which had not developed full
earning-power during the periods con-
cerned. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s profit
was 16.6 p.c.
The financial set-up at last two balanc-
ing dates was as follows:
, Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955
£186,000 £43,205*
„ ° rd - 577,500 866,250
Reserves 317,304 390,197
Outside interestsf .. .. 354
Debentures 302,250 303,750
Overdraft 610,358 550,312
Creditors, etc 803,854 1,101,509
Unearned hire .. .. 421,108 541,089
Final divs. .. .. 36,437 64,969
£3,254,811 £4,215,857
Leaseholds, office equipment,
® tc - , •• .. 9,633 38,692
Hire purchase a/cs., etc. .. 3,242,285 4,176,543
Cash, etc .. 2,893 622
£3,254,811 £4,215,857
* After deducting £142,795 of pref. capital now
held by subsidiary. f Pref. share capital of sub-
sidiary held by outside shareholders.
Last term the co.’s h.-p. contracts, etc.,


INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claiins.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com*
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1955.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New couth
Wales, returns showing the total amount
of the premiums received by or due_ to
such companies in respect of risks against
fire during the year ending 31st December,
1956, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1955, applies ; less
any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other in-
surance companies contributing under the
said Act. . ,
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1956, subject to a penalty, not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned. „
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
L. G. WATT, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons* etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Briffades Act s
1909-1955.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1955, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insur-
ance company not registered in the State;
are hereby notified that they are required
to send to 'the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, returns show-
ing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property
to such insurance companies during the
year 1955.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1956, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default. . , , . '
Note: Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
L. G. WATT, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
DAVIES & COLLISON* Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —A DVT.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WADES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
A.P.A.
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION LIMITED
( Incorporated in N.S.W. 1912)
Head Office: A.P.A. Building, 53 Martin Place, Sydney
Mr. Leslie J. Thompson in his Address to S h
Meeting held in Sydney on the 21st December reported RECORD PROGRESS in
all Departments.
The following are extracts from his Address with comparable figures for prior
years: -
NEW BUSINESS
New Business written during the year
amounted to £2,016,074 gross (1954 —
£1,757,592).
AVERAGE POLICY
Average new Policy written amounted
to £1024 (1954—£940; the upward
movement has been progressive, the
average in 1950 being £562).
INTEREST YIELD
The net effective rate of interest (after
deducting income tax) earned on Life
Funds was £4/9/3% (1954—£4/5/-%).
BONUSES TO POLICYHOLDERS
An amount of £124,754 was set aside
out of the year’s surplus in the Life
Department for Bonuses to Policyholders
at further increased rates’(l9s4 Bonus
was at rates greater than 1953).
ASSETS
Assets, conservatively valued, now
total £6,582,000 (1954 £5,983,000;
1945—£3,119,000).
RESERVES AND
LIFE ASSURANCE FUNDS
These reserves and funds now total
£5,613,000 (1954—£5,124,000; 1945
£2,587,000).
SUMS ASSURED AND
REVERSIONARY BONUSES
IN FORCE
Total Sums Assured and Reversionary
Bonuses attaching now total £18,969,000
(1954 —£17,425,000; 1945—£9,249,000).
DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS
Dividend to Shareholders, raised from
10% to amounted to £45,000 and
was appropriated from the Profit and
Loss Account consisting of the surplus
from the Accident Department and
General Fund.
DIRECTORS
L. J. Thompson, F.C.A. (Aust.), F.C.1.5.,
Chairman.
G. J- Dingle, F.CA. (Aust.), FiC.I.S.,
Deputy Chairman.
Dr. C. A. Thelander, M. 8., Ch.B.
William V. McCall.
Air Chief Marshal Sir Keith R. Park,
G.C.8., K.8.E., M.C., D.F.C., D.C.L.
John F. Hall, A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S.
JOINT GENERAL MANAGERS
J. A. Palmer. L. F. Unwin
SECRETARY AND TREASURER
S. J. Le Patourel
manager for n.s.w.
T. A. Hall.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER
Dr. R. A. Green, M.B.
LIFE DEPT. MANAGER
S. Pheloung
ACTUARY
L. B. Denby, F.I.A.
ACCIDENT MANAGER
' F. Doherty
increased by £934,258, which
was financed mainly by introduc-
tion of £643,420 of fresh share-
capital and addition of £297,6 jj
to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., which consists
chiefly of loan and deposit
moneys.
Though the new debentures
might be a bit more expensive
than bank-accommodation, they
look like costing less than hair
the rate of profit earned on
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) last term. It
is claimed that more “good”
business is offering than can be
handled, and no difficulty is ex-
pected in maintaining the 15 p.c.
div., for the present at any rate.
B e cause of the important
economic effects of hire-pur-
chase, the hiring- or interest-
rates charged by the finance cos.,
and the volume of their busi-
ness, might yet be brought under
official control. The effect upon
their net earnings would largely
depend upon the maximum flat
rate of interest allowed.
Bruce Pie Industries (Bris.)
SCRIP in textile-manufacturing
concerns, especially that of
newcomers in the industry, like
this co., has failed to follow the
market trends for industrials
generally since mid-1953. Chief
reasons are the fluctuations, with
a marked down-trend, of the
raw-wool market and competi-
tion from overseas textile-
producers.
The div. of this nine-year-old,
which had dropped to 3 p.c. in
1953, following the heavy fall in
wool prices and flood of im-
ports, was lifted to 5 p.c. in
1954 and to 6 p.c. last term. Yet
the price of the co.’s f.-p. £1
shares fell steadily from 17s. to
13s. 6d. over the last couple ot
years. At the lower figure the
return is 8.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. <hv.
basis, and the asset cover 225. Bd.
in net tangibles.
Certainly the scrip is not a
growth stock in the ordinary
sense of the . term, and there is
no guarantee that the price is
now at bedrock, though it may
not be far from it. There is
thus a speculative interest in the
shares as a long-term investment.
The co. has never failed to pay.
a div. from the start, the average
over last nine years being 4.5
p.c., and at June 30 last share-
holders could see the whole of
their £675,000 of capital intact
and £89,992 besides. There is
nothing uncomfortable about the
finances —an important * con-
sideration in a period of tight
money—plant for the most part
is modern, and the co.’s pro-
ducts have established them-
selves in northern markets,
which can be expected to gradu-
ally expand, and which high
freight-rates should help the co.
to hold against southern
competition.
On the other hand the prop
for capital, which is steadily
strengthening, is none too stout,
and it is doubtful whether inner
reserves accumulated out of
revenue yet amount to much.
Earnings and divs. are there-
fore likely to remain sensitive
to fluctuations in trading and
economic conditions.
Last term the board was able
to show £4285 more profit,
despite the fall in wool prices,
growth of competition and stub-
bornness of costs:
To Be- Re-
Jne.,Profit. , —Dividend serves.*
£ £ £ £
*51..52,388 6 p.c. 29,809 22,579 21,100
’52..42,443 5 ~ ~33,750 8,693 29,793
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,917. 40,710
’53..27,827 3 p.c. = 20,250 7,577 48,287
Profit sale fixed assets, £369 .. 48,656
’54..51,067 5 p.c. = 33,750 17,317 65,973
Profit sale fixed assets, £9167.. 75,140
’55..55,352 6 p.c. = 40,500 14,862 89,992
* After deducting intangibles, written off
1954.
The £55,352 of profit—written
after allowing £13,817 (down
£183) for depreciation and
£28,000 (up £2800) for taxation
—was 8.2 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 7.5, 4.1, 6.3 and 10.5
p.c. back to 1951. There was
also a capital profit of £9167 on
sale of surplus freehold, which
was added to reserves.
Proceeds of the sale and more
besides went into extension of
factory premises, the net growth
in freeholds, etc., being £7227:
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £675,000 £675,000
Reserves .. •• 66,974 89,992
Overdraft .. .. 92,171 42,322
Sundry creditors* 160,795 190,984
Final divs. .. 33,750 40,500
£1,027,690 £1,038,798
Freeholds, etc. .. 190,099 197,326
Plant .. . • 137,919 135,474
Shares subsid. .. 116,142 116,142
Stocks . . . ■ 456,581 456,023
Debtors .. . • 125,802 132,664
Cash .. • • 1,147 1,169
£1,027,690 £1,038,798
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Excluding shares in the sub-
sidiary, which is a steady profit-
earner and dividend-payer, the
year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£316,050)
was £19,236. The overdraft was
reduced by £49,849 and £30,189
was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc. Stocks
(down £558) appear at the lower
of cost or market-value.
Despite import - restrictions
trade has become sticky since the
close of accounts, wool prices
have eased and costs have edged
up. It is doubtful, therefore,
whether any improvement in net
earnings need be looked for at
next balance.
Lithium v. Uranium
If American scientific gossip
and speculation about the possi-
bility of a lithium-fuelled reactor
being developed in the near
future turn out to be correct,
there will be some hard thinking
the world over about what the
more distant future holds for fis-
sion reactors, and their fuel,
uranium.
Text-books claim that lib.
of lithium, used as a solid
fuel, is capable of releasing heat
yi amounts equal to that ob-
tained from 4000 tons of coal,
whereas lib. of pure fissile
material could, if completely
burnt, produce more heat than
1000 tons of coal. In the fission
process, however, a reactor pro-
duces not only heat, but also con-
verts part of the uranium 238,
which forms the bulk of the fuel,
into another fissile material, plu-
tonium. Reactors in which this
most important feature occurs
are called “breeder” reactors.
One result is to reduce the
amount of uranium 238 required
to keep the reactor in action over
a period.
It has also been suggested in
a British “White Paper” that
thorium might be increasingly
used as a reactor fuel in the
future. So natural uranium
(U 238) looks like having more
than one competitor, if not in
the immediate future, then in the
years further ahead. Commonest
thorium-bearing mineral is
monazite, which is extracted as
a by-product from the rutile- and
zircon - concentrates produced
from beach sands on the Queens-
land and northern N. S. Wales
coasts, and in parts of India
and Ceylon.
It has been widely claimed,
though, of course, never offi-
cially acknowledged, that lithium
(as such or as deuteride) is one
of the ingredients of the H-bomb.
Dr. Bhabha (Indian physicist
and president of the U.N. Atoms
For Peace conference) recently
said that a special form of
lithium could be used in a
hydrogen-bomb reaction, and
that the special atom-smashers
could create the enormous
temperatures necessary to fuse
hydrogen atoms with lithium
atoms.
In the industrial field lithium-
producers continue to concen-
trate on expanding their outlets
in the present major consump-
tion areas of ceramics, greases
and chemistry. The lithium-
beayng ores found in Australia
are spodumene, amblygonite,
and lepidolite.
However, the fact that the
U.S. and U.K. Governments
have spent and/or plan to spend
hundreds of millions of pounds
on the development of uranium-
powered reactors, etc., is likely
to have a bearing on the speed
with which research in connec-
tion with the lithium reactor is
pushed ahead. In any event, not
too long hence producers of
uranium-ores look like joining
the ranks of producers of other
commodities not in short supply.
Following the discovery of
some pitchblende on its Alli-
gator River leases (N.T.),
Uranium Development and Pros-
pecting, N.L., has located new
radioactive anomalies along the
line of an uncomformity, which
“almost certainly” exercises a
major control on pitchblende-
mineralisation. Development-
work is being stepped up, and
the enthusiastic board says there
is “every indication” of the find
developing into a “m aj o r
uranium province.” Investors,
however, have now learned, to
their cost, that it is possible, by
a series of logical mental pro-
jections, to see more in the pic-
ture than is actually there. For
this and other reasons, the co.’s
f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares, which fetched
as much as 4s. lid. in 1954,
recently sold at Is. lid.
* * *
Unless something unexpected
turns up, Mineral Ventures,
N.L. (paid capital £160,419),
which left the stocks in Mel-
bourne in August, 1954, with
high hopes and prospecting in-
terests in the Gippsland oil-basin
(Vic.) and in some radioactive
leases in the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry
(Q.) and Darwin (N.T.) areas, is
near the end of its financial
tether. At September 30 last
£74,392 had been spent on
exploration, mostly in the Mt.
Isa area, without finding anything
of commercial importance.
There was then £5076 in the
kitty and £5620 coming to
sundry creditors. Debtors figures
at £l7l, plant, etc., £5889, pro-
perties £71,510 and preliminary
exes. £9OOl. The ss. shares paid
to 2s. 6d. each, which sold up
to 2s. lid. in 1954, now fetch
around 6d. in the market. £
* * *
Adelaide-controlled Pioneer
Mines, N.L., operating at
Hatches Creek, Centralia, which
put up an excellent initial per-
formance, but had to cease
work when the bottom fell
out of the tungsten-ore market,
is . creeping back into the picture
again with small but regular
monthly crushings, yielding
about five tons of concentrates.
These are sold under a 12-
months’ contract at not less than
2205. per unit (London) for
tungstic acid. Now that richer
shoots, assaying 2-4 p.c., over
widths of from 14in. to 24in., are
being opened up, more might
be heard of this mine during
1956.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO ERIC PATRICK HUDD formerly of Crookwell
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that GLORIA LORRAINE HUDD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4485 of 1955 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for 3
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 28th February
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. TAYLOR, KEARNEY &
REED, Solicitors, of City Mutual Building, Hunter
fr Wigh Streets, DOUGHAN, Registrar.
I* THE SUPREME COURT OF. NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERYL ELIZABETH COLL YER.—TAKE
NOTICE that THOMAS JOHN COLLYER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2307 of 1955 on the grounds
of desertion for 3 years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
King Street Sydney by 29th of February
19;>f> and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113
Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. Wales.—J. DOUGHAN
Registrar.
Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
To all readers of this Letter, sincere
wishes for a joyous Christmas, and with
the New Year, good luck, success and
every happiness.
☆ ☆ ☆
An unusual Christmas-tree of white
ostrich-feathers festooned with silver and
surmunded by pink and white hydrangeas
was highlight of the decorations used
in the Lower Town Hall for the party
given by Lord Mayor Selleck and his
wife, who were assisted in entertaining
by their son-in-law and daughter, Mr.
and Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, and their son
Bruce. Mrs. Selleck chose a bouffant
gown of powder-blue satin-brocade with
a matching stole, and Mrs. Tolson
covered her black ballerina frock with
a coat of Ming-blue satin.
Among the guests were the Premier
and Mrs. Bolte (she wearing a short
black chiffon evening-dress); Mrs. A. G.
Warner (her husband, the Minister for
Transport, was in Sydney preparing for
the Sydney-to-Hobart yacht-race); Vice-
Admiral and Mrs. R. R. Dowling, Lieut.-
General and Mrs. H. Wells, Lieut.-
General and Mrs. A. R. Garrett, Air-
Marshal Sir John McCauley and Lady
McCauley, Air-Vice-Marshal J. E. Hewitt
and Mrs. Hewitt, Sir Frank and Lady
Beaurepaire, Cr. and Mrs. Tony Luxton
(her full-skirted white organza gown pat-
terned in a pink circular stripe), Cr. Alec
Finlay, Mrs. Finlay and their daughter
Virginia, Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside,
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Dooling and Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Bennett.
☆ ☆ ☆
All the newest trends, including the
long bodice allied with a moulded waist-
line (this achieved either by draping or
by a wide corselet midriff), were seen in
a collection of charming fashions by
Ecstasy Creations. To the long bodice
has also been added, in several styles, the
high Empire bust-line, which, with the
long bodice, gives a fluid, flattering look.
Coats are to be slim, but not as narrow
at the hemline as seen in last year’s lot.
There is a tendency for a flare at the
hemline which gives a modified version
of the A-line. Softer, jackets and more
set-in sleeves were features in the collec-
tion, and the low, dropped shoulder-line
has gone.
Dresses show three main trends: the
tunic, the sheath, and the skirt with hem-
line animation. Latter is shown in a
pleated flounce set at knee-level or in
groupings of narrow pleats set just above
the hem of a slim skirt. Where skirts are
full, the fullness is brought in lower down
than formerly.
For the autumn and winter of 1956
Ecstasy Creations have put strong
emphasis on attractive colors for original
patterns brought from overseas by Bar-
bara Hughes. Blues range from mid-blue
to the inky- and slate-blues ; there are
pink-camellia and wild-violet, and a
wonderful jewel-red. Browns go from
champagne to chocolate.
There is much “surface interest” in
fabrics for autumn, especially in woollens
and velvets. Nearly all the cloths have a
pebbly finish, and the velvets are em-
bossed. The plain velvets are remarkable,
and will stand up well to rough treat-
ment. Rich wool-mohair coatings were
seen in plain colors ; soft Angoras and
fine woollens were used for dresses, and
there is a new jersey which has been given
“body” by a silver-thread weave.
An elegant pink-camellia example of
the new trend in coats 'was made in the
new “surface interest’!, cloth, featuring
an upstanding double-collar (one on the
outside, the other inside), the double-collar
attached to the lining and buttoned
snugly across the neck. Another elegant
coat was in wild-violet wool-and-mohair
fabric. Slim in front, with a narrow
shawl-collar, it flared slightly at the back
just at the knee-line. Coats with smooth
front-line and concealed fastening were
shown, as were winter-white and pale-
platinum coats. Gardenia-green un-
crushable velvet made a slim theatre-coat,
the cuffs being of blue-fox fur.
One of the highlights in the collection
was a pink-camellia jersey frock made on
simple lines with a high, side-buttoned
neckline. This frock won one of the
recent Wool Board awards. A frock
which received an honorable mention in
the board’s contest was a slim tunic-
dress in fine black wool. The very long
tunic buttoned down the front and the
neckline was finished with a narrow white
edging.
Evening-gowns are now showing the
“covered-up” look; displayed by
Ecstasy was one of turquoise-blue faille
with the very wide skirt finished in front
with a large bow, the bodice encrusted
with glittering beads and' sequins. For
less-formal wear there was a Paris-brown
silk-organza short evening-dress. The
long torso-bodice was moulded and
finished with huge, upstanding butterfly-
bows on the deep heart-shaped neckline.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mary Lorraine Evans was a lovely
bride when she was married to Louis
Junor Sallman at Melbourne Grammar
Chapel. Mary, elder daughter of Cr. and
Mrs. Bernard Evans, of Toorak, chose
a bouffant gown of white Chantilly-lace,
the bodice featuring a scoop-neckline and
long sleeves. Her fingertip veil of white
tulle was caught with a silver-gilt coronet,
and she carried a bouquet of white
orchids. Marie Rushbrook, of Geelong,
and the bride’s sister, Margot, were
bridesmaids. They wore white nylon-
chiffon over gold. Flowers of the same
material were appliqued round the neck-
lines of the frocks and the skirts were
short and full. They wore pale-gold hats
and carried small posies of frangipani.
The bridegroom, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. Louis Sallman, of Toorak, had Vai
Morgan as bestman and Jack Crow as
groomsman.
Reception was at the home of the
bride’s parents, where dinner was served
in a gold-lined marquee. Mrs. Evans’s
frock was of waterlily-green satin-brocade,
the skirt slim and graceful, the bodice
softly draped. Mrs. Sallman chose a
sheath-frock of pervenche-blue French-
lace. Mrs, Lucy Evans, the bride’s grand-
mother, chose grey Chantilly-lace
mounted on pale-blue taffeta. Mrs. Sall-
man, grandmother of the ’groom, wore
an all-black ensemble. Mrs. Ronald
Evans’s ballerina dress was of emerald-
green silk-organza. Among the guests
were Sir Harold Gengoult Smith and his
wife, Sir Frank and Lady Richardson,
Mr. and Mrs. Len Dooling, Mr. and Mrs.
James McGauran (her lovely scarlet
velvet coat had- the deep collar out-
lined with sapphire-blue mink), Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Marland and Mr. and Mrs.
Bob Amott.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. George Santoro, president of the
Dante Alighieri Society, welcomed on
behalf of members and the Italian com-
munity in general Marchesa Moretta
Serifini, newly-arrived wife of the
Consul-General for Italy, at the recep-
tion held in her honor at the South
Morang home of Madame Mario Vigano.
The guest-of-honor wore a slim frock
and matching jacket of deep-blue floral-
printed silk with a small white straw
hat. Madame Vigano’s frock and short
jacket of dove-grey satin had gold beads
on the bodice of the frock and mink on
the cuffs. Her daughter, Mrs. Don
O’Donnell, wore light-brown taffeta, and
her daughter-in-law (Mrs. Ferdy Vigano)
a black cotton blouse with a skirt of gay
Mexican-cotton fringed at the hemline.
At the party were U.S. Consul Joseph
Weidenmayer and his wife, Mrs. C.
Mattei and her daughter Beatrice, Pro-
fessor and • Mrs. Rubbo, Sylvia Clancy,
Dr. Percy Jones and Mr. B. Mei.
SYDNEY
A recent engagement of interest is that
of Margaret Burt, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Stewart Burt, of Lockerbie, Wallend-
been, to Anthony Buckingham, who is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. Ashley Bucking-
ham, of Newport and Sydney. Photo by
Norton T[?]vaire.
Christmas-cards this year bear heavily
upon ye-olde-Englishe-snowstorm type,
with robins and sleigh-bells and all the
rest of it—very inappropriate in this city
of Sydney. We should have pictures of
illuminated Christmas-trees glimmering
through sheets of. rain, shining wet
streets, gay people in sun-suits holding up
umbrellas and pretty ladies with cocktail-
hats sheltering under awnings.
☆ ☆ ☆
The rain, however, does not prevent
the populace from attending parties in
great numbers, going on from one to
another in a way that would startle a
teenager. There are the new shows to be
seen, too, including the “Nutcracker
Suite” danced by the Borovansky Ballet
at the Empire—a perfect dream-of-
Christmas, especially for a child. Elaine
Haxton, who did the costumes and decor,
looked striking on the opening night
with her new silver cap-cut hair-do, while
the white muslin nightgown with its tiny
blue bows designed by Miss Haxton for
nine-year-old ballerina Alida Glasbeck
will surely set a new fashion in night-
attire for little girls.
* ☆ ☆
The week saw one of the most fashion-
able weddings of the year, that of
Sarah Hordern, only daughter of the
Samuel Horderns, of Bellevue Hill, to
Baillieu Myer, younger son of the late
Mr. Sidney Myer and Mrs. Myer, of
Toorak, Melbourne. The bride is the
great-granddaughter of the Anthony
Hordern who founded the famous depart-
ment-store, and the bridegroom’s father
and uncle were the founders of Mel-
bourne’s largest retail-store.
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, where the
marriage took place, was decorated with
pink lilies and white satin ribbons, a
color-scheme repeated by the bride, who
wore a coronet of tiny organdie roses,
pink and white, and carried a Victorian
posy of the same hand-made flowers in
a ruff of white organdie. Her dress was
white Alenfon lace over satin, with a
satin-collared short-sleeved jacket.
The bridesmaids, Alice Doughty, Celia
Winter-Irving, Barbara Potter, Rose-
mary Ashton and Sue Carnegie, wore
full-length dresses of white taffeta, with
simply-cut bodices, and a dramatically
huge bow swathing the skirt below the
knees. They tucked a pink rose into the
back of the narrow satin circlets they
wore on their hair,, and their bouquets of
Cecil Brunner roses were surrounded by
an organdie ruff. The best man was
Digby Crozier, and ’groomsmen were
Captain John Slim (son of the Governor-
General), Sam Hordern, Jmv, lan Hay-
ward, and Michael Osborne. After the
ceremony a reception for 400 guests was
held at the Bellevue Hill home of the
bride’s parents.
☆ ☆ ☆
A Sunday-morning party which did
not allow the rainstorm to dampen its
brightness was that given by Mrs.
Margaret Fountain at her charming
Lindfield home. There was much talk
on ballet and drama, Miss Sheila Help-
mann (in black tapered slacks and dangly
bracelets) saying that her brother Robert
much wishes to be back in sunny Aus-
tralia (he little knows!). Major and Mrs.
C. Chapman were present, Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Bunning, Mr. and Mrs. J.. H.
Pelly, Mr. Noel Pelly, Madame D’ora
Scott (holding a little court of folk
interested in ballet), Mrs. Sharkey Simp-
son and Madame Marotta (reporting that
the Opera Ball on Friday night at
Prince’s had been a great success), Dr.
and Mrs. Lyle Buchanan, and Mrs. R.
Gloster (who sets off for New Guinea
shortly). Mrs. Fountain’s daughter
Adrienne helped her to entertain the 50
guests.
# if- V
It was fitting that the 10th birthday-
party of Musica Viva should be held in
the garden of Crona, the Warrawee home
of Mrs. C. Selby and her brother Mr.
Mandel, for it was there that this
chamber-music organisation was founded.
The leafy garden, lit by colored flood-
lights, was a delightful place to hear the
chamber-music of the Robert Pikler
quartet; the hovering rain-clouds failed
to impair the charm of the party. Mr.
Richard Goldner spoke of the society’s
history, and Mr. Ken Tribe presented a
gift of records on behalf of members to
Mr. Charles Berg in recognition of all
he had done for the society. The presi-
dent, Mr. B. P. MacFarlan, was helped
in his welcoming duties by Mr. George
Neu, president of the very efficient
younger-set which organised the party.
About 400 people were present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Reported remark about a new-made
medico : “He’s a quiet chap and doesn’t
let his brilliance go to his head.” Now,
if a woman had said that, it would have
been considered catty!
V V ¥
The Garden Club’s Christmas-party,
with annual meeting combined, again
featured flower-arrangements, this year
characterised by an increased austerity
of design. Mrs. E. G. Waterhouse’s
tiny tree of gold against black velvet was
enchanting, Mrs. Arthur Davis’s stylised
“Christmas in Japan” most attractive,
and the three arrangements by Mrs. A. C.
Macdonald (who came up from Goul-
burn for the party) were much admired.
Sir Frank Berryman, in his report of the
work of the Remembrance Driveway,
specially mentioned the remarkable work
done by the Goulburn auxiliary in the
planting of trees, their work being an
inspiration to all those interested in the
driveway.
V V
How many women are wishing they
hadn’t given away that old fox-skin with
the bushy tail which used to be worn
across the shoulders, head and tail joined
by a linked-cord? It would have made
a perfect Davy Qockett cap and made
some little boy happy this Davy
Crockett Christmas.
* ☆ ☆
The Aisling, that cheery little company
formed little more than a year ago for
the purpose of furthering its members’
knowledge of Irish culture, had its second
Christmas-party during the week, Father
McNally presiding in his own individual
way, Mary Hegarty and Eva Sullivan
giving a warm hand of welcome to the
guests, with president Brian McGrath,
Judge Dignam, Judge O’Sullivan, Mr.
James Meagher and many O’s and Macs
making up the assembly. The conversa-
tion, needless to say, was lively and witty.
V V V
Sydney’s beautiful Christmas flowers,
hydrangeas and Christmas-bush and
Christ mas-bells, decorated three floors of
the Royal Empire Society’s building for
their season’s party, held on Thursday,
while beneath the portrait of the Queen
there was a dramatic arrangement of
flowers in red, white and blue. The
guests included the Consul-General for
Switzerland (Mr. H. Hedinger) and Mrs.
Hedrnger, Dr. and Mrs. Edmund Collins,
Dr. and Mrs. S. Elphinstone, the Acting
High # Commissioner for Pakistan (Mr.
M. A! Alvie) and the Begum Alvie, Miss
Tennyson Miller and Mr. F. Rochfort.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
, GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Going to England?
Let one of London’s leading firms
find your FLAT, HOUSE, or
COTTAGE, in England. Send full
details, including: accommodation
required, district preferred, and rent
you are prepared to pay, to the
firm’s Representative in Australia:
GEORGE SANDWITH,
47 Kurraba Road,
Neutral Bay, Sydney.
Missing Friend
TO ROBERT ARTHUR GERLACK for-
merly of Deniliquin but now of parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
YIDA VENITA GERLACK has instituted
proceedings against you for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards UNLESS you enter an
appearance at the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court of Victoria at
Melbourne on or before the Tenth day of
January 1956 and file an answer in the
said office on or before the Twentieth
day of January 1956 the case may pro-
ceed your absence notwithstanding.
JONES & KENNEDY, 213 Nicholson
Street, Footscray, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction.
TO ERNEST LESLIE McCULLOCH late
of 16 Tyson Street Ainslie A.C.T. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH BARBARA
McCULLOCH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3584 of 1955 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme- Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th day of March 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from K. BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO.,
Solicitors, of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANTONIN KAZDA late of 141
Windsor Road, Northmead. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY BEATRICE KAZDA
by her guardian THOMAS STOKES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3253 of
1955 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for 3 years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 22nd February 1956 and obtain
a "copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. A. R. BALDWIN & CO.,
Solicitors, of 33-39 Hunter Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
A N Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
A-N-Z
w
ABRIDGED STATEMENT
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
(Expressed/ in Australian Currency)
30th SEPTEMBER, 1955
ASSETS £A
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers 27,998,888
Money at call and short notice 2,635,500
Treasury Bills Australian Government .. 1,999,589
Cheques of and Balances with and due from
other Banks 9,504,048
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 39,683,000
Investments at or under Market Value .. .. 23,015,268
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit . 61,303,444
Loans and Advances to Customers and other
Accounts 212,479,104
Liability of Customers for Acceptances . .. 4.372,526
Bank Premises and other Fixed Assets .... 7,142,468
Liability of Customers and Others on Con-
firmed Credits, Guarantees, etc 35,597,289
£A425,731,124
LIABILITIES £A
Capital paid up > 12,801,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss Account
Balance " 10,208,131
Current, Deposit and other Accounts .. .. 362,752,178
Acceptances for Customers 4,3/72,526
Confirmed Credits, Guarantees, etc., on
behalf of customers : .. 35,597,289
£A425,731,124
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea and
in London.
H. D. T. Williamson, General Manager.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Borovanskys
The Borovanskys’ “Nut-
cracker,” with David Lichines
choreography, opened at the
Empire on a night of typical
Sydney “Christmas weather
a real stinko, in fact. There
wasn’t a vacant seat in the
theatre, and the stage was full
to boot—children from the
Frances Scully - Borovansky
school swelled the ranks of the
company and more than once
the packed pink-and-white-and-
blue dancers looked like a con-
fectioner’s packet of nonpareils.
It says something for the
artistry of all concerned with the
Snowflakes scene that, under
these torrid and populous con-
ditions, the snow and the Ice
Maidens were so convincing that
even the most energetic pro-
gramme-fanners in the audience
gradually ceased their fanning
and lapsed into the dream.
Elaine Haxton s decor and
costumes were, with one violently
offensive exception in orange,
strictly candy-colored, and lolly-
pink predominated in a world
of gingerbeer fountains and lolli-
pop trees. Even Peggy Sager s
tutu was like fairy-floss and Miss
Sager danced like that spun-sugar
itself delicate, brittle and
lovely. She can hold an attitude
on one point as though she has
stopped breathing.
The ballet is loaded like a
Christmas-tree with glitter and
decorations, and the scamperings
of the children as' warring mice
and toy-soldiers, as maids and
cooks, as a box of bon-bons
and even as children— bring it
all very close to being a glorified
Christmas panto, to the lovely
ebb and flow of Tschaikowsky s
music. But what a pantomime
at that! Harlequin and Colum-
bine, the Toy Soldier, the Waltz
of the Flowers, Marzipan Shep-
herdesses as delicate as the
Dresden variety, old man Nut-
cracker himself —all these pass
in spectacular pageant before the
little girl in her nightdress,
danced with the lightness of a
skimming swallow and given a
concentrated childish rapture by
Alida Glasbeck.
The Dream Prince, of course,
is in white and silver, and was
danced with fresh and individual
spontaneity by Royes Fernandez,
who dances as though he enjoys
it, a pleasing Latin characteristic
seldom evident in Anglo-Saxon
dancers.
The divertissements, given
different color and choreography,
emerge with a totally unexpected
element of humor, most of it
obvious and some of it witty.
The Russian dance is a pattern
of candy-sticks, and the Chinese
and Arab dances could have
been titled “How erotic can you
get?” for the fantastic exaggera-
tions of the popular conception
of a harem. John Auld took the
honors here, as he did earlier
when he dominated the rather
tedious opening.
*l* <* *
“Laugh Around the Clock”
In order to carry out Mel-
bourne Tiv.’s latest prescription
it would be necessary to laugh a
lot in reminiscence, since the bill
only lasts a matter of three hours,
and there is nothing much in it
to make one laugh long and loud
long afterwards.
Low, Hite and Stanley, are
perhaps associationally funny,
provided you have the right
associations. Low is 2yft. high,
Hite is 7ft. 9in. tall, Stanley
comes somewhere in between
them, and they make the most of
these differences in stature ; but
it is easy to get oneself talked
about in that way.
To get oneself talked about
for real skill is another matter.
Marion and Eddie Rose, stream-
lined dexterities from Europe, do
that—their juggling with clubs
and their exchanging of sets of
whirling objects while sitting on
each other's shoulders is amaz-
ing. So are the fingerings of the
Salici Family with their puppets
—the great - great - great - grand-
father of the Salicis was delight-
ing audiences in Europe with his
puppets in 1740, so they repre-
sent a great tradition.
Melbourne’s Jack Barker and
English partner Daphne are
Queen Elizabeth’s favorite enter-
tainers, Billy Russell is Britain’s
foremost character comedian,
and Frank Marlowe is America’s
daftest clown. The latter gets the
most laughs.
In the meantime the Bourke-
street playhouse is all-out prepar-
ing the spectacular pantomime
“Sinbad the Sailor,” with Jenny
Howard as Sinbad. Miss Howard
has the secret of perpetual youth
and perpetual high spirits. It is
difficult to remember when there
was a pantomime in Melbourne
without her —or to imagine one,
either.
* *
“The Hunters and the Hen-
wife”
Spells, counter-spells and
“lamentable enchantments” are
cast with a prodigal hand when
the full moon rises on Unicorn
Mountain —trees writhe and
reach for the unwary, shadow-
owls chase the ghosts of glow-
worms through the forest and
eyes gleam with malevolent,
gemlike brilliance from the
shadows; in the Henwife’s
cottage feathers ruffle and hens
stir and gossip uneasily, a
clutch of eggs turns green and
the porridge over the fire
changes to soapsuds ; and, in the
Sorcerer’s castle above the mists
on the mountain, snakes slither
in hissing obedience to their
master.
These and other delightfully
hair - raising ingredients of
Nicholas Stuart Gray’s “The
Hunters and the Henwife” are
being offered to the youngsters
at the North Sydney Indepen-
dent on Saturday afternoons.
And the kids love it, of course,
particularly when Baron William
foolishly comes ahunting on the
mountain after the moon is up ;
when his two servants are
turned into one and bicker in
two voices until “we kick us on
our ankle”; and when the
kindly Henwife (a little dull at
school and with only one old
spell kept in a jam-jar)
challenges the might of the
Sorcerer to rescue her beautiful
daughter, and to nourish a
heart and human compassion in
the Sorcerer’s son, Bat—-whom
she found wandering in the
forest gathering thunderbolts
for his father.
May Hollinworth’s production
is a particularly happy one, and
the cast —Olga Yarad as the Hen-
wife, John Craig as the Baron,
Joan Bray as the daughter,
Laurence Kean as the Sorcerer’s
son, Barry Lovett and Tony
Yates as the servants, and
Sophie Krantz as a salamander
with a fiery tail (possibly a
relative of the Dong with a
luminous nose?) give every
evidence of enjoying the
escapade immensely.
As the Sorcerer, Peter
Williams looks rather like Dr.
Fu Manchu’s interpretation of
Warren William impersonating
John Barrymore. He calls
forth tempests and other power-
ful magic with the confident
arrogance of a Glendower—and
the only Hotspur in the audience
was one young brave who
answered the distant moaning
of the hunters’ horns with a
cheeky blurt from a mouth-
organ.
Artbursts
Melbourne Shows
To compensate for the low
standard of Melbourne’s ex-
terior Christmas decorations the
galleries have broken out in a
rash of pictures of a somewhat
higher order. Margit Pogany’s
oils and pastels at the Athenaeum
owe a good deal to Van Gogh,
but are not too remote from
Nature.
The nervous, broken line of
“The Cornfield” has freshness
of observation, and when this
New Australian .tackles the
Australian landscape the
authentic atmosphere and color
are sometimes detected through
her European accent. “Country
Road” is a good souvenir, and
so are “Red Roofs of Camber-
well” and “Green Meadows.”
“Golden Bough” is a lively
impression.
Chinese artists who wielded
their brushes round about the
time of the Taiping rebellion are
mixed with Australian artists at
Joshua McClelland’s. Techni-
cally they are as different as
chalk from cheese, but each has
its peculiar merits. There is a
flowing watercolor by the late
Harold Herbert and a sensitive
little landscape by Walter
Withers.
The Sedon Galleries have
their customary Yuletide display
of Australian Old Masters and
present-day painters who are
carrying on the tradition. They
include a Streeton, a Gruner, a
Jackson and half -a - dozen
Rubery Bennetts. Norman
Lindsay has a derelict galleon
being lured through a lush sea
by a cloud of flying mermaids.
A new expresso coffee-lounge
hard by the Tivoli Theatre in
Bourke-street is a portent of
fashions of the future. Its walls
are uncomfortably alive with
threatening shapes and colors
laid on by abstractionist
Leonard French in 6ft. panels.
They give one the uneasy feeling
of drinking coffee in the Infernal
Regions.
* ❖
Arts Week
For an Arts Week exhibition
at its Melbourne showrooms, the
Tasmanian Government Tourist
Bureau collected excellent stone-
ware by the Melbourne potter
Hughan, theatre- and textile-
designs by Anne Fraser and
Frances Burke, a dynametic
table by Gabriel Matves, a dis-
play of art-books, sculpture and
pictures by various Australian
artists and, behind all, a back-
ground of music arranged by
Sir Bernard Heinze.
With the exception of Noel
Counihan’s “The Wife,” a
vigorous study of a husband
wolfing his breakfast while his
spouse sits gazing into eternity
yearning for something higher,
and “The Acrobat,” a small
sketch by Dobell, the pictures
were as fashionably modern as
the bureau’s scheme of decora-
tion.
Talkies
“The Tall Men” (Sydney
Regent): The scenery alone is
worth the price of a ticket to
this frontier-film there are
superb snowscapes in mid-
winter Montana and some
striking sequences of a mob of
berserk cattle overrunning a
large band of attacking Sioux
Indians. There is also a
credible-enough story of a
partnership between ex-Southern
soldier Clark Gable and tough
Texan cattleman Robert Ryan,
an association made increasingly
uneasy by the turbulent
presence of the soldier’s trigger-
happy, undisciplined younger
brother (Cameron Mitchell) and
Jane Russell, whose favors are
provocatively distributed among
the partners. The acting is good
all round, and director Raoul
Walsh gives full play to his flair
for keeping big scenes moving
{Continued on page 24)


You Remember [?]mBer Jones
By A.B. Sherlock
"7" HEY boasted to me that
f the town was the Queen
v, j City of the Coast, and
before I could look scep-
tical, they drove me to see
glimpses of the river, the more
modern buildings, some infant
factories, and the trees (417
different varieties in the streets
alone; go ahead, count
them). And then a recital of
production tonnages, the burden
of butter and of beef, timber,
hides, sugarcane and so forth.
After that, a roll-call of the
town’s talented sons—a Federal
Treasurer, a physicist of inter-
national class, musicians, writers,
soldiers all eminent in this
century or the last. And, of
course, on the stage of sport a
truly impressive muster—
swimmers, cyclists and foot-
ballers principally. Also Puzzle,
A.J.C. Derby and Caulfield Cup
winner. Also Amber Jones.
“Amber Jones? The fighter?”
I was only surprised, but it
must have sounded like disbelief.
Yes, certainly, they insisted,
Amber Jones belonged to the
district, didn’t I know that?
Still living, in fact, down at
Redstone Point or somewhere,
down the river anyway.
Amber Jones. To me, it was
like hearing that some legendary
boyhood-hero, say Ned Kelly or
Stonewall Jackson, had escaped
from the safety of the past and
bobbed up in the next street. Or
that Melba was still alive and
singing for the radio in the
Argentine. The parados, the
time-kink, bothered me like a
hovering hornet.
“Amber Jones—if that’s right,
he must be hitting ninety years
old! ”
“He’s no chicken, but most
likely he’s still in his seventies.
Last I heard, he was still going
strong.”
I chewed it over. Nearly
everything that I know about
Amber Jones comes from my
father, who as a young man saw
Jones fight the American Boyd
Bullen. It was the first and only
fight that he ever saw, and his
account of it was a classic. He
brought it back in living detail,
still fresh with his own wonder
and amazement.
“The greatest fight ever
known,” he used to say. “Not
just my opinion—all the experts
say the same.” He owned a
country store, and on hot
summer nights groups used to sit
yarning on the wooden kerbs
waiting for the heat to dissolve
out of the houses. At these
gatherings, Dad’s story was a
request-number, even from those
who knew it backwards.
A MBER JONES had started
out as a jockey, and at
country meetings Won several
races on a horse called Ambef.
The name attached itself to him
for life. But he shot up too
robustly to hope for a future in
the saddle; he became a fighter
instead. In the early years of the
century he was punching his way
to the top ; a welterweight; iron-
clad, quick eyes, tireless arms.
Never beaten. Then came his
unforgettable match with Bullen.
Bullen was from Grand
Rapids. It was a fascinating
name, rolled out by my father
with the “r’s” burring impres-
sively. Grand Rapids, Michigan.
He was one of the earliest of a
string of Yankee invaders, and a
very puzzling figure to the locals.
“Chewed gum all the time,”
my father said. “Nobody
here chewed gum then. Voice
had a real wah-wah twang, and
his clobber was cut different to
ours, enough cloth to make two
of our suits.”
Yes, and an aura of superi-
ority, not a swagger exactly, but
a sort of top-dog confidence, not
to be shaken. In the ring he
was a dashing performer.
“He kicked-off in Melbourne,
did-over two of their cracks;
made them look like beginners.
So when he turned up in Sydney,
it was a case of trot out our
best man. What a hope! Nobody
except Amber Jones had a
chance.”
The gladiators of those days
came into conflict by a sort of
natural law, free from artifice or
any smell of publicity. The
encounter seemed to be no more
stage-managed than a thunder-
storm ; it mounted up amid
lively comment, it burst dramati-
cally, and when it was over it
was a glorious feast for profes-
sional liars. My father caught
the excitement from a couple of
work-mates, and found himself
wedged in a pack of bodies in a
smoky hall, his eyes racing to
record every shift and circum-
stance,
“Both these fellows had
muscles bulging up everywhere.
Nice clean hides on them, fresh-
looking. Underneath you could
see the muscles working like
steel springs under silk. Arms
and legs, back or front, it was
all muscles. It was a treat to see
them snaking and bunching
under the skin. This Yank had
black curly hair, looked a bit of
a Yid in some ways; little
frizzy curls all over his skull.
Amber’s hair was straight straw-
colored stuff, falling down loose.
“Well, they got started, and
when this Boyd Bullen moved
around, he was full brother to a
sawn-off gorilla. His hands
reached down nearly to the floor.
Had a swing he could hit you
with five-foot away. First go-off,
he looped one on to Amber and
bowled him into the ropes.
Caught him on the rebound with
another snifter. Amber sort of
wobbled in and collared him by
the arms. The referee had a hard
job to untangle them.
“You didn’t see these jokers
rushing head-on like billygoats—
not on your life. They just went
round and round, trying to get
behind each other, it looked
like. Never came off, of course.
Dancing a polka, the pair of
them. Every couple of seconds
lashing out like lightning. Ever
see a cat make a flick at a dog’s
nose? That’s how it was—out
quick, and back even quicker.
Took some watching, I found,
all this waltzing and twisting, and
the gloves popping out all the
time, snap, snap, snap—too fast
to keep count.
“It fooled me. For a while I
reckoned they couldn’t be land-
ing. My idea was, they were
shooting out a lot of quick
feelers before letting go with the
big gun. But after a bit I saw
the color starting to show. The
Yank’s ribs had a proper glow
up, and Amber’s face was the
same. About the fourth round
.these patches could be seen all
over the hall, red and angry-
looking.
“Then all of a sudden Bullen
went down, and everybody
yelled. Amber had caught him
a beauty, but I don’t know who
saw it. Bullen didn’t, anyway.
He lay there shaking his head,
then he hooked his legs up under
him and stayed doubled-up for
a while. Then up he flew like a
rooster, and this time it was
Amber who sat down. Down he
went, out of sight behind the
heads in front, but we could still
see Boyd Bullen prancing around
sideways, working his arms and
ready for slaughter. The crowd
let out such a roar, the way it
seemed to me, it just dynamited
Amber up on his feet, and there
he was, looking pretty savage.
“All right—it was boots-and-
all from then oji. They were
both out to kill, and everybody
knew it. Fight! Some rounds,
they were both down, still fight-
ing on the floor. Rolling around,
punching and kicking, and the
mob yelling blue-murder. The
referee was having a picnic,
dragging and hauling at them
the way he had to. His white
coat was in a mess, looked like
a sweat-rag, and his long hair
got loose and hung into his eyes.
Running around with his mouth
open. Struck me after a while
he got sick of trying to control
them. Reckoned it was good
enough if they only stopped
brawling when the gong sounded.
“Soon as they sat down for
a blow, their offsiders hoisted
their legs up and swabbed the
blood off their faces. Dousing
them with water, polishing them
up with towels—and while that
was going on, other chaps
would be pulling and slapping
at their legs. Behind the lot,
another cove would be thrashing
a towel up and down like a sheet
of iron, to fan a bit of air in.
The way they went at the job,
you’d swear there was fifty-quid
hanging to it.
“You never see me get excited,
but this night I went as silly as
the rest. Our mouths all popped
open on the one string, and no
mistake about it, we just roared.
No words, no sense, just this
roar going on all the time.
Clean off our rockers. As I’m
telling you, I was as bad as the
worst of them, bawling my head
off like a drunk at the races, but
the fellow next to me tore his
hat to bits. One of those lids
they used to call a straw-biscuit.
Every round he ripped off a few
more pieces. The hat finished
up all over the floor like confetti,
and he couldn’t make out how
it happened. Another chap with
a mouth on him like a tunnel
went to let out a mighty roar,
never even remembered he was
smoking a cigar. Coughed up
ashes and tobacco for ten-
minutes ; went blue in the face.
“I don’t reckon I could have
told anyone my own name that
night. The way those fellows
were fighting sent us out of our
senses. It was terrific. Sickened a
few, even in those times; and
those days, don’t forget, you
never saw a fight stopped for
a bit of blood. No referee would
come at that, not unless he
wanted to end-up in hospital.
Four-ounce gloves, no padded
floor, just a strip of lino. You
talk about tough; those fellows
were made of blue-metal.”
A MBER JONES was suffering
a ferocious battering in the
middle stages of the fight. Bullen
seemed to have worked out a
routine of systematic damage ; a
lump like a bantam’s egg rose
above Amber’s right eye, and a
crimson film bloomed over his
nose and cheeks. For that
matter, there was a surplus of
blood on both men by the end
of each round. Amber’s nose
was oozing fieely; Bullen’s
mangled mouth added its share.
Their seconds wiped them
clean in the intervals, but within
half-a-minute they would relapse
into a gory mess. Slamming at
each other with wet and stained
gloves, they spread the color
impartially, eyes and teeth glaring
out of incredible red masks. .
Amber Jones, according to my
father, put on an unbelievable
display of courage. “Bulldog
grit” was his word for it, and the
old-fashioned phrase rang true.
The man was obviously being
flogged raw, but no matter how
he was shaken and sickened, he
came back every time like a
captive ball. Not forlornly or
in despair, but fighting and full
of purpose. Shuffling up to his
enemy and clubbing at him
furiously. Knocked back by
Bullen’s fists, and coming in
again. Time after time —not just
dumbly enduring, but enduring
and hoping too. Through rounds
ten, eleven, twelve.
“Every time he want to his
corner we felt it needed a miracle
to bring him up for the next
round. But he was like iron, the
way he pulled together. By the
time the bell rang, up he stood
and started after Bullen again.”
Then in the Devil’s Round,
the unlucky thirteenth, Bullen
planted a punch flat on the
side of Amber’s head. Amber’s
left ear slowly blew up round
and red like a new cricket-ball.
It bulged uncouthly below the
hair-line, a swollen and
enormous grape.
The roar of the crowd; faded.
Instead, the hall was filled with
a troubled muttering, an exhala-
tion of concern and disapproval.
Somebody, with frog-like repeti-
tion, was calling out “Stop it!”
Amber took the deformity
back with him to his corner at
the end of the round. His
seconds were unprepared ; the
emergency found them at a loss.
The minute’s spell leaked away
in argument and indecision.
Amber left his comer in a fury.
Behind him, his seconds were
still disputing as he attacked
Bullen with pain-sharpened in-
centive.
The fighters smashed punches
on each other; each seemed a
little slower in movement, an
easier target. And so lie early
part of the round was sheer
animal punishment, butcher’s
work, gory and primitive. On-
lookers with frail stomachs
began shiftily to take their eyes
away from the ring and stare
attentively at their own knees.
They missed a grisly highlight
when Amber’s distended ear
blundered into the path of a
swing. The burst of Wood flew
like rain, spattering the startled
•ringsiders. Amber want to his
corner with the ear hanging in
fillets like some barbaric
decoration.
“They fixed that oar for him,”
my father remembered. “Slapped
some black stuff on it, looked
like tar. It turned him into a
horrible sight, but it did the
trick all right, because it stopped
worrying him after that. Just
before the round finished, he
landed two sollockers fair in the
guts, one after the other, and
there was Bullen creeping around
the ring like a hunchback.”
In the last quarter of the
battle, Amber’s dour no-sur-
render defiance began to pay. He
was now bombarding the ribs
and stomach with marked results.
For all the inhuman drubbing he
had taken, and in spite qf his
cuts and swellings, he could still
call up a lot of strength. He was
beginning to hold Bullen, he was
even shaking him at times.
The crowd encouraged his
ascendancy with a sustained
roaring. The excitement was a
white-hot blaze under forced
draught. For now there was
added the drama of a race, with
very little time left. Stubbornly,
Amber Jones was overtaking the
lead, and everyone knew it;
every staring and slack-jawed
onlooker felt it tingling to his
fingertips. The only question
was could Amber hold his
advantage, and would it last long
enough for him to win?
Well, he did it, of course. The
long-shot travelled true, the out-
sider scraped home. All in an
odd pocket of silence, as if for
a space nobody saw the referee’s
hand on the winner, the pointing
finger. The silence perhaps was
merely a universal gathering of
breath, because, as my father
explained, in a few seconds there
was a vocal cloudburst which
rocked the hall.
“The air was thick with hats
and caps. Everybody was skying
a lid, his own or somebody
else’s, nobody cared. Fast as
they fell down, up we’d sling
them again. Ahd cheer! We
kept it up until not a man-Jack
could raise a croak. Standing on
the seats, stamping, shaking
hands—you couldn’t equal that
night, not this side of Gehenna.”
Amber Jones went to bed for
the best part of a week, my
father’s story ran, and he never
fought again. He avoided any
anticlimax, and his great fight
became a gem of ring folk-lore.
It was as well; he could only
have detracted from its lustre.
Bullen caught the next boat to
the States, and after one more
appearance was killed in a
train-smash in Idaho. This
obviously helped the legend too.
T AM not at all interested in
1 fighters, but over the years I
had speculated vaguely about
Amber Jones, wondering whether
he had taken to drink or
domesticity; and to what twi-
light he had retired after the
glare of his glorious hour.
If he really was living at Red-
stone Point, it would be easy for
me to look him up; my holi-
days were merely beginning, and
the fishing at the Point had a
reputation. So I drove down
and booked-in at the hotel.
Armed with a little information,
the next day I went out to the
pensioners’ camp.
The estuary spread out,
smoky-blue; stone breakwaters
threaded it at unpredictable
angles. There were about a
dozen shanties standing without
plan or regularity, as if tossed
casually amid the scrub, the
paper - barks and the odd
banksias. Rusting iron and
mildewed canvas . . . but it was
still a lovely spot.
There was not much sign of
life; it was early afternoon,
sleepy and still. I found one
inhabitant sitting on a wooden
case and stitching some repair
into an old coat. The eyes he
turned on me were not un-
friendly, but they were watchful.
Perhaps I looked like some
variety of inspector.
“I’m looking for a chap called
Amber Jones,” I said.
His look changed. “That’s
me,” he said, and stood up.
“The old-time fighter?”
“You bet.” He hunched his
shoulders and jigged for a
moment in fighting pose. “Still
carry a wallop,” he said.
He didn’t look as if he did.
He was a scrawny skeleton of a
man, with a strongly-beaked
face; but he was considerably
bent.
“Just thought I’d like a yarn
with you,” I explained. “My
dad saw your big fight. He
never forgot it.”
“I can do with a yarn any
time. But . . . here in the sun
it gets a bit dry-like, don’t you
reckon? I’d sling an invite up
to the rubbedy, only it’s two
days to pension-day ...”
Well, of course, that was all
right. The fascination of the
past was in that stooped old


4
M
-+
by*'
rWVV>
A
V
nil
aa
0
% *
31 1
3& c
- 3+"
'-..AVIATION
SERVICER
The BP Aviation Service
is operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
(in association with
the British Petroleum Company
Limited)
6/5/55
man. My car landed us at the
rubbedy in three- or four-
minutes. A window in the bar-
room was open to the fresh
north-easter which rattled the
advertisements on the wall and
chased the flies to the other end
of the room. Amber took a
prodigious swallow of beer.
You could imagine it soaking
away amongst the dried veins
and parched roots of his system.
He banged down the empty glass
and started without invitation:
“Well, you know, a bloke
don’t like to sound a skite, but
they still reckon that fight was
the daddy of the lot. Greatest
go ever seen in a ring. Soon as
I seen the Yank, I said, ‘I can
beat this peanut.’ Know why?
His eyes had a bit of green in
the whites of them. Right in the
corners. You see a bloke with
eyes like that, and you can lay
odds-on he’ll turn it in sooner „or
later. So when I seen them
eyes”
Well, here was the great
Amber Jones, and talking like a
guide on a scenic-tour.' All he
needed was occasional refuel-
ling, and the publican seemed
to know, possibly from long
practice, when to attend to that.
Amber smothered me in details ;
he got more confused as his
cargo of beer rose, and he
chopped giddily from subject to
subject. I didn’t have to prod
him with questions ; all I had to
do was to look after the finances,
and clutch the flying skirts of the
narrative.
I can’t remember a quarter of
what he told me, but it was all
good value for the money. I
looked at him, and marvelled.
He still looked pretty tough,
good for a few years yet. His
shock of white hair carried a
hint of former rich blue-
blackness, so that it seemed to be
blue-rinsed like the head of a
stylish matron. While studying
his hair, I noticed his left ear.
It didn’t seem to have lost its
shape in its old-time battering ;
in fact, it looked much like any
other ear.
I intended to ask him about
it, but it was getting late and he
talked continuously all the way
back to the camp. He was full
of gratitude, and swore that I
was the most enjoyable company
anybody could want. It was a
treat to talk to a fellow like me,
a chap who was awake-up.
“Now what about tomorrer?”
he asked. “If you’ve got the
time, I mean. I could be up at
the rubbedy”
“No, you don’t!” interrupted
a peculiar voice. I looked
around and saw a second man
emerge from the shack ; a round
figure, slow and waddling, in
the light of dusk. “Not on your
life you don’t,” he said. Amber
made some sound of protest, but
the other silenced him. “Fair
go! A promise is a promise,
ain’t it?”
Amber didn’t argue. He
mumbled something to me, and
went into the shack. I turned,
too, and the fat man followed
me to the car.
HE gave an oozy chuckle.
“That old windbag,” he
said; “that old windbag—l bet
he’s been stringing you he’s
Amber Jones.”
“You mean, he isn’t Amber
Jones?”
“Z’m Amber Jones; the
dinkum article. That’s Tom, my
mate, you was talking to. No
more Amber Jones than Billy-
the-abo.” His liquid chuckle
bubbled out of him again. “You
wouldn’t pick his right name in
a month of Sundays. It’s
Peppercorn; Tom Peppercorn!”
“Well, he told me”
The new Amber Jones tapped
a finger on the polish of a very
bald head. “Bit touched. But
harmless; wouldn’t squash a
fly. Good bloke, too ; give you
his last deener. But we been
mates that long, he wants to
talk fights, too. Harmless, like
I said.”
I could see where this' was
heading—another session up in
the bar-room, this time with the
rightful Tichborne-claimant. I
didn’t struggle ; next afternoon
saw me entertaining and irrigat-
ing the Old Original. His
methods were like his person,
ponderous. No vague motions,
no gestures. He anchored him-
self on the bar, looked up into
space, and launched out, slowly,
but with the massive force of a
waterfall. He didn’t get
mixed-up.
“And when I hit him with that
right I felt the knuckle go, see?
Hurt? You bet it hurt! And I
knew Bullen’d spot it by my
face. The pain’s that fierce and
sudden; your dial’s a clean
give-away, no matter how tough
you might be. So I knew he
seen it, he was too smart not to.
But I fooled him. Quick as a
flash I started limping. Yeah,
limping, like I’d hurt my ankle.
Get it? Fooled him all right—
he never woke up my right was
rocky, or it might have been a
sight different.”
“That left ear of yours,” I
said. “I thought Bullen was
supposed to have wrecked ..
He brought his gaze down
from the ceiling and looked at
me for a moment. “Ha, my old
tin ear!” he chuckled, with that
lubricated gurgle of his. “Yeah,
when Bullen finished with it,
what a sight! This one is a
different lug —got it in France.”
“Got it where?”
“France, nineteen-seventeen.
It was this way. I was in
hospital with a dose of shrap. in
the legs. Fellows were dying
all around the place, and getting
carted away with two good ears.
So I put it on one of the doctors,
good sport he was, too. ‘What
about it, doc?’ I said. ‘Why
can’t you save me an ear?’ Well,
he just laughed at first, but after
a bit he reckoned he could do it;
only it had to be terrible quick,
before the new ear got cold.
I’m game if you are, I said.
Anyway, the same night he give
me a whiff, cut the old mess
away, and stuck on an ear off
a Queensland corporal who’d
just conked. Not five-minutes,
the whole works.”
“You mean you’ve got some-
body else’s”
“Not a stitch in it. Wonderful
job. Just strapped it on with
sticking-plaster healed up as
good as gold. Sore for a couple
of days, that’s all.”
What could I do but throw
down more money on the
counter? Amber Jones returned
his gaze to the ceiling and got
back to his monologue. He
talked monumentally. Little
smears of white spume peeped
out at the corners of his mouth,
like wisps of cottonwool. Beer
and saliva, churned white by the
relentless energy of his lips. I
was fascinated, but after a while
it dawned foggily on me that
Amber’s powers of* speech would
easily outlast my hospitality. In
sheer self-defence I was forced
to call a halt.
“Come on,” I said, “I’ll drive
you back to the camp.”
FOR the next three days I saw
nothing of the pair of them.
The fishing and the weather were
both too good. I could have
loitered happily for a month at
Redstone Point, but I had com-
mitments elsewhere. I bought
half-a-carton of bottled-beer as
a farewell-gift, and on my way
out to the main road, dropped in
at the camp.
There was nobody at the
shack, and I was wondering
whether to dump the bottles
in one corner and get on my
way, when an old man came
slowly up the path from the
water.
In his slowness was more
than mere age; arthritis lurked
in his twisted frame and the
painful adventure of each step.
But he came on without
pausing, and, incurious as
many old men are, he passed
within ten-feet without giving
me a glance.
On his back he carried a
weighty-looking sugar-bag. I
was a little surprised to see him
enter the shack; when I came
up to the doorway, he
appeared again, this time with-
out the bag, and looked at me
with hard blue eyes devoid of
feeling. He said nothing.
I explained about the beer,
and his eyes softened a little.
He had a naturally severe look,
a mouth which, I fancied,
rarely undamped itself for
purposes of speech. He was
all immobility and silence.
But he did speak at last.
“They won’t be back till
dark. Be all right if you
leave it.”
I pushed the beer down
behind an empty packing-case.
“Bad luck I missed them,” I
said to the Chinese image at
my side. “A pair of real old
battlers. Both claimed to be
Amber Jones. But I don’t
know. The first one’s hair had
been black, you could tell that,
and Amber Jones had fair hair.
Besides, his ears were normal,
no sign of a cauliflower. So
were the second one’s, although
he had a story ready when I
happened to mention it. Now,
with your ear” And I
stared pointedly.
His left e£r looked as if it
had been melted with a blow-
torch into a meaningless lump
and allowed to cool. He said
nothing, but he turned his
head and looked at me out of
his hard eyes. His face was
uncommonly broad, the wide
cheekbones now showing up
under the drying, leathery
skin.
“My old dad saw the fight,”
I went on. “Amber Jones and
Boyd Bullen. It was his big
story. I’ve heard it hundreds
of times. Made me wonder
what happened to Amber after-
wards. So when I heard he
was supposed to be down this
way, of course I had to follow
it up . . .”
The old devil gave me no
help. I doubted whether I had
ever encountered such rock-’
like stillness in anybody. He
stood listening rigidly, his
breath the only movement in
the stooped body, his big hands
hanging by their own weight.
I cleared my throat and
plunged ahead.
“If you are the real Amber
Jones —and I’d lay a shade of
odds that you are—where do
these other two understudies
fit in? They wear your boots
and collect all the fun while
you . . .”
“They take it turn about—
have done for years,” he said
slowly. “They’re my mates,
it’s all right with me.”
“All right for them, if you
ask me. Talking your lines
and cracking it for plenty of
free beer.”
He made a curt sound of
dissent. “They’re welcome.
Beer —I wouldn’t give it gut-
room. And I hate talking.”
As simple as that. A sort of
family - arrangement. The
blessed ingenuity of the poor.
I got the picture, even if there
were some parts I didn’t quite
see. What I did see was that
I could make no headway with
a man who hated talking, and
I didn’t try.
“I think I can work out how
it is,” I told him. “Well, I’ll
say good-bye. Glad I met you,
anyhow.”
I put out my hand, and it
was swallowed up in a cluster
of large bones and knuckles,
loosely held together in a
rough envelope like sharkskin.
A fumbling pressure, and I
turned away. In a few paces I
halted, suddenly realising that
the golden moment was over
and that Amber Jones had told
me nothing, that I had not
asked him a single question.
When I swung round the
taciturn old relic had moved
at last. He was going back
into the shack.
“Tell me,” I sang out,
“what did you think of Boyd
Bullen?”
An empty and idiotic ques-
tion, but the only one I could
rake up offhand. He stood
inertly for a moment or two
as if he had not heard. Then
he looked back over his
shoulder and seemed to con-
sider for a while. He answered
me then, completely and with
finality.
“Ah, Bullen,” he said at last.
“He was a lovely feller.”
EQUINOX
Hills, the slow anxiety of change,
open in the green of farms:
sheep or clouds the sheltered day
shows girls like trees with flowers
in their arms
and miles of orchards, caught in
spring,
weave nets of light across the air :
but a blue moth’s bewildered
wing
defines the season in its snare—
where down by the fern-dark
creek
winter’s orchid dies again
and tense in the orchard’s
nervous warmth
a rooster treads a scarlet hen.
TASMANIA.
VIVAN SMITH.


preserver ofmyfitHer
now of me, tfjc
mcCicim ofmtf ijouse
Shakespeare
H
m
r
JL^L
18 JT>
" 3o«
kitf/H'ty
CHA7IAII IANUNBA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
N.S.W. Agents: TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD. ESTB. 1838
CTI la
Ten-Bol Christman
by
Bernard
Harris
mm y m HAT Christmas Eve morn-
X ing, an ideal time for our
sport, for the town was
packed with bustling
shoppers, some of them cockies
from foreign parts up to fifty
miles away, who, imbued with
the spirit of the season, discarded
their empty matchboxes with
frivolous abandon, found the
three of us scavenging for match-
brands up and down the main
street.
'Hie place was such a hive of
activity that any time we chose
to lift our attention from the
gutter we could see a dozen
people hurrying about their busi-
ness. The tradespeople had cop-
spired to provide an intoxicating
atmosphere of rejoicing and
festivity all the way from the
skin-buyer’s to the Commercial
Hotel. The biggest bank had a
cardboard-reindeer tacked up on
one window and Mr. Kerr had
a ten-pound Christmas pudding
tied in rag dangling from his
awning to stare the passer-by
invitingly in the eye.
The foreign element had
thrown away some valuable
items. In the first ten minutes
we found a “Lancer,” a “Rose,”
a “Black Tulip” and two slime-
sodden “Unicorn’s” which would
dry out as good as new. Then
near the farrier’s culvert Wocker
pounced on something and
excitedly held it up.
It was a Ten-shilling note.
A wistfulness in the tone of
his “Someone irtusta lorst it”
suggested that he fervently
wished it had dropped from the
clouds, a pardonable longing, for
Wocker, in common with the
rest of the Wills household, was
always somewhat impecunious
round about Christmas-time,
mainly perhaps because of his
father’s habit of prodigally cele-
brating the joyous season for a
solid month before it arrived.
“Who’ll you give it to?” I
asked.
• “The copper, I reckon,” he
said sadly. “But not to that bitch
of a new sergeant.”
The “new” sergeant was widely
unpopular. Even Wocker’s
father had had occasion to point
out to him that he (Wocker’s
father) was accustomed to being
run in by gentlemen.
“You’ll get it back when
they’re finished with it,” I said ;
but the remark did not console
Wocker.
pOUSIN RUPERT had mean-
while stood silent and
thoughtful regarding the ex-
quisite piece of currency as if
cogitating on the fact that,
chiefly because the ladies his
mother washed for did a bit of
toil for themselves during
December to meet the season’s
commitments, his coffers were
always empty at Christmas-time
too.
“What d’ya reckon about
this?” he said. “It’s Christmas,
y’ know. What d’y’ reckon
some joker saw us scouting along
the kerb and shoved the dough
here so’s we’d find it.”
Wocker looked hopefully
about. The dozen busy shoppers
were still in view, but there was
nobody lurking behind a post or
in a doorway benignly viewing
the joy created in our innocent
hearts by his anonymous muni-
ficence. I could think of no one
in the town likely to leave money
lying about for anyone to pick
up; but of course there were
the foreigners, and you never
knew about them. The sugges-
tion had its merits anyway; but
Wocker did not think so.
“Na,” he said. “It’s some-
one’s. We gotta put it in.”
Now, Wocker, solid citizen as
he was in most respects, had one
deplorable weakness he was
prone to respect the opinion of
my Cousin Rupert, who, formid-
able tempter and politician in the
bud as he was, needed to waste
little of his time and eloquence
in order to talk Wocker’s credu-
lous soul into anything.
Dazzled by persuasion that
used even Santa Claus and
fairies, Wocker was first induced
to change the note to silver, then
to make a small purchase; and
before he well realised what he
was doing we were in possession
of presents for everyone, a
wonderful collection of trumpery
costing exactly ten-shillings.
Then Wocker had to hurry to
the horse-trough in front of the
Family Hotel for a long drink,
a 'necessity that proved he was
uneasy in his mind. Normally
he had to have a drink of some-
thing about every hour, due to
the fact, according to rumor
which had never been officially
denied, that he had drunk half-a-
bottle of sheep-dip when he was
a baby; but when he was
worried he could scarcely be
induced to move out of sight of
a tap, a circumstance that had
made him as familiar a figure
in every backyard of the town
as the nightman was.
His drink leaving him still
bewildered, he insisted that the
treasure be hidden away until
night, when it could safely be
carted home and put into the
“stockens.”
So, bearing in mind Wocker’s
thirst, we carried it up to the
stock-dam where, ensuring that
some “sub.” boys who were
playing in the water did not see
us, in a plant that we had used
successfully on many occasions,
but never of course for such
valuables as these, we concealed
the stuff.
“I’ll run Mum’s message now
and we can go on huntin’ later,”
said Rupert as, in a rather con-
strained atmosphere, we re-
entered the carnival air of the
shops.
He took a scribbled note from
his shirt-pocket and began to
look for his money. His face
changed from mottled tan to
crimson, to white, to grey; he
finished one round of his clothes,
then made another; he turned
his pockets inside out; he took
off his shirt and inspected it
thoroughly. Then he rearranged
his clothes and let us share his
concern.
“Y’ know what,” he said.
“That was Mum’s ten-bob. I
musta dropped it.”
nrHE announcement was no
blow to Wocker, who, no
longer thinking exclusively of
taps, presently led us back to
the stock-dam to retrieve the
goods and return them to the
shops.
There was our cache scratched
up as if a dog had been busy
on it, and everything was gone
except a conversation-lolly from
one of the stockings, which
blithely asked, “Would you like
a kiss?”
The “sub” boys had finished
their swim and were gone too.
Rupert offered to job all and
sundry and to kill a selected few,
but neither threats nor their
execution were likely to recover
the loot intact. We were left
with no goods and no ten-bob,
and Rupert would be a fugitive
from his own home till we made
good our loss.
Wocker had to take a long
swig from the dam before he
could face up to the situation,
and then it was hard to tell
whether he had water or tears
in his eyes. The sheep-dip had
left him with a soft heart that
made him an easy prey to
weeping.
“What’ll we do now?” he
asked.
“Well, we’re all in it,” said
Rupert stoutly. “The only
thing’s to earn it somehow.”
Between us we had nothing to
sell except a few beer-bottles that
would hardly have brought a
trey; so, Christmas Eve and all
as it was, we decided to earn the
ten-bob by the sweat of our
brows.
In seeking employment we had
a priceless asset in Wocker. He
knew everybody in the town, or,
rather, everybody knew him
and the very sight of him seemed
to inspire charity in the beholder.
At the very first house we
tried, old Stout took one good
look at him, led us to a back
lawn about ten yards square that
obviously had not been
tampered with for years, pro-
vided us with a blunt mower and
a pair of rusty shears, said,
“Make a neat job of this, boys,
and I’ll give you all a nice
Christmas present,” and left us
to it, Wocker plying the shears,
I pushing the mower and Rupert
supervising and piling the grass
in a heap.
The grass-stalks towered a
yard out of a mat a foot thick
and the midday sun was hot, but
when our hearts were ready to
break Rupert would rally us in
his inimitable way.
“It just serves us right,” he
would say. “We shouldna
thought for a tick of keeping that
dough instead of handing it in.”
Just as we were beginning to
make some sort of an impression
on the crop, old Stout came to
tell us that his wife had a head-
ache and could not stand the
noise of the mower, gave us a
buttered bun and threepence
each, wished us a Happy Christ-
mas and sent us on our way.
I felt as if it was past bedtime,
but Rupert was fresh and
optimistic.
“Only nine-and-three to go,”
he said. “We’ll soon get that.”
Wocker was received with
open arms into the next five
places where we ran a message,
cleaned out a fowlhouse, carted
wood, weeded a garden and
gathered manure from a horse-
paddock, all of these pastimes
boosting our earnings to a total
of two-and-eleven. Then, despite
Wocker’s personality, we had a
series of misses until old Adams
took us on to clean his guttering.
Old Adams lived in a two-
story house with big blackbutts
all round it and leaves and bark
protruding from the guttering on
all sides. He produced three
ladders, none of which proved
long enough for the job; so he
lashed two of them together with
a bit of rope, propped the com-
bination up to the guttering,
tested the strength of it by
standing on the first rung and
jumping up and down a bit and
pronounced it as safe as houses.
Cousin Rupert had one out-
standing virtue —• he would
climb anywhere a boy could
possibly reach and he displayed
no fear at all of height; but he
studied that ladder a long time
before saying, “I’ll hold the
bottom while you go up and
start, Wocker. You’re the best
at this.”
But Wocker’s hour was up, or
he was still very worried, and
he had to hurry away for a
drink ; so up I went.
The trapped twigs and leaves
that had been visible from the
ground were only a beginning.
Underneath them was a two-inch
layer of leaf-mould and beneath
that again an inch or so of black
mud which by the smell of it
still held some of the rain of
years before. Holding grimly to
the rotten guttering, for, even
with Rupert hanging to it, the
ladder showed an embarrassing
disposition to wobble in the
middle, I scooped out a hundred-
weight of debris and threw it
down on top of Rupert. Rupert,
as soon as Wocker returned,
commissioned him to hold the
ladder and, standing well clear
of proceedings, assumed his
proper role of adviser to both
of us.
AS I was creeping down the
ladder so that it might be
shifted to new ground, old
Adams came out to see how we
were going.
“Look, son,” he said to
Rupert, “there’s a job I’ve been
meaning to get round to for a
long time and you can do it
while you’re waiting.”
As soon as I reached the
ground, he picked up the third
ladder and poked the end of it
at us.
“Grab this and climb up and
I’ll help you,” he said. “I want
to get it up against the chimney.”
Wocker had to have another
quick drink and I took the oppor-
tunity of rubbing the dust out of
my eyes ; so Rupert took an end
of the third ladder and began to
climb. Old Adams ventured no
further than the third rung, and
from there heaved the ladder up
to Rupert, who somehow lugged
it on to the roof and propped it
up to a chimney that looked like
a factory-stack.
“It’s the starlings,” old Adams
called up to Rupert. “They’ve
got that chimney nearly blocked
up with old nests. Take your
time and clean it right out. But
I don’t want any damage done,
mind. Some of those slates are
loose and some a bit weak, so
if you put too much weight on
the ladder it might go through
them; and there’s loose bricks
in the chimney that would crack
my path if you knocked them
down ; so be careful.”
As old Adams disappeared
indoors, Rupert made a thorough
inspection of the old ladder pre-
cariously perched between the
pitched roof and the chimney
and then, as if intent on taking
one last look at the scenes he had
learned to love, began a lingering
survey of the surrounding
countryside ; but before this exer-
cise was half completed he
suddenly ducked down, slid pre-
cipitately to the guttering,
shinned down the ladder, and
without a word of explanation,
made off over Mr. Adams’s back
fence.
'DEFORE our thoughts had
time to do any real injustice
to his honor and before we even
had time to remember that he
had the two-and-eleven in his
pocket, we were brought to
earth by the sound of Aunt
Anastasia’s voice and the sight
of her leaning menacingly over
the front fence.
“So here you are,” she said.
“Where’s fte?”
We told her we did not know,
that he had been with us, but
had probably gone home.
“And that’s where you ought
to go if you don’t want some-
one out looking for you too,”
she said. “The thoughtless boy!”
And away she went.
“Don’t she look stinkin’ 1”
said Wocker in some awe.
Perhaps it was our imagi-
nation that had made her look
so “stinkin’ ” that, totally dis-
regarding the obvious danger to
life and limb, we really began
to work with a will. Haunted by
visions of Rupert as a permanent
outcast from his own hearth or
as a corpse struck down by his
own mother, and fired with a
zeal such as only the heroic
know, Wocker and I toiled all
the afternoon.
Gradually we worked our
perilous way round old Adams’s
guttering, every odorous inch of
which provided fresh fuel for
our consuming chivalry, several
times narrowly missing almost
certain death only because the
ladder wobbled the right way
in time. The guttering at last
finished, we actually attended to
the nests in the chimney, and
thought nothing of it.


Choose the MODEL for your JOB from
• .
THE BIGGEST LIGHTWEIGHT
LINE-UP£ftßg IN AUSTRALIA
AR-110 Utility, 115" w.b. 12 cwt. capacity
(above) AR-112, 115" w.b. 15 cwt. Panel Van
(below) AR-120,127" w.b., 20 cwt. with tray body
and drop sides.
Now is the time to choose your new
truck from the world’s best truck in-
vestments—lnternational trucks. Every
truck in the famous International
family has all the heavy-duty engin-
eered features and long-life perform-
ance that sets International ahead of
every make. Compare each model for
value feature by feature then you
must buy International.
If you’re a tradesman, a carrier, con-
tractor, builder, or farmer or grazier—
there’s an ‘all-truck’ lightweight Inter-
national with just the right capacity
and stamina for your job. See your
dealer NOW!
H
H
FMT 709-36
INTERNATIONAL truck features include:
•ff 100 max. H.P. engine for heavy loads, dt 3-speed
transmission for more usable power, -fg Proven duo-servo
brakes for positive safety, if Heavy-duty chassis design with
straight frames, -fc Natural anglesteering ensures comfort—
lessens fatigue, -jg Comfo-vision cab—room to spare for three
big men—wide ongle vision, ig Low-loading for ease of
transfer of loads. -Jr Long semi-elliptic springs for heavy
loads.. . smooth riding. -)g Nation-wide dealer organization
for competent service. -fg International trucks are Aust-
ralian-made—ensures full supply of parts.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital
Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
uiM WOOD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
“He’ll give us a quid for this
easy,” said Wocker, as, feeling
embarrassingly virtuous but
otherwise scarcely alive at all, we
went to collect our wages.
Old Adams waxed eloquently
over our industry and our exem-
plary conduct and then gave us
sixpence each and a. penny be-
tween us to blow up on Christ-
mas cheer.
I was in such poor health
that I was ready to take our de-
feat philosophically; but the
spirit of sacrifice had gone to
Wocker’s head.
“The shops close at nine,” he
said, “and we’ll have to have it
all by eight to give Rupe a
chance to get his things. There’s
only one way to get it in time.”
He looked as if he were about to
propose that we break into the
Commonwealth Bank. “It’s a
pity we can’t play the according,
but singin’ll do for six-bob, I
reckon.”
WE reached the first pub just
after closing-time, but
through the side-door there was
a steady trickle of customers
that we knew would flow for
hours.
Standing in the pub-yard,
directly in the way of the traffic,
we worked assiduously, Wocker
singing for all he was worth and
I wielding the hat and plying
him with water. . His voice was
not exactly melodious, but he
could make a noise all right, and
he had the ability to make him-
self look a pitiful figure, for all
the world like someone who had
drunk a whole bottle of sheep-
dip when he was a baby. We
were doing well, collecting
money hand over fist until
Wocker’s father came along and
offered to give us both a kick in
the slats ; and then we hurriedly
moved on to our next pitch.
It was at the fifth pub that
we earned our last penny, end-
ing up with one bob, three zacks,
nine treys, nineteen pennies and
eighteen halfpennies; and im-
mediately set out to redeem
Rupert.
For a start we made for his
home, in the vicinity of which
he might well be lurking like
the hunted animal that we knew
he was. Down the main street
we went, almost oblivious of the
little Christmas Eve frivolities
which our righteous labor had
denied us, scarcely glancing at
the happy spectacle of Mr. Kerr
dressed up rather skimpily as
Santa Claus lavishly distributing
bits of the Christmas-pudding
that had dangled from his awning
all day.
Right in front of the Dago’s,
we almost ran into Rupert
stalking along in the shadow of
his mother and dolled-up so that
we seemed to be taking a liberty
by speaking to him.
We followed him back to
Kerr’s, where, as Aunt Anastasia
moved in for her cut of the pud-
ding, he managed to disengage
himself from her for a while.
“I hurt my leg on Adams’
fence,” he said, “and she col-
lared me. I ain’t been able to
get away from her since. She
tried to reckon me leg was broke
and put me in bed. Now she's
come down to get the things her-
self.”
“Here’s the rest of the ten-
bob then,” I said, surreptitiously
handing him my hat.
He assumed a pained expres-
sion as if the mention of money
hurt his dignity or as if his own
travails had driven all thought
of the ten-bob from his mind.
“Didn’t she tell you?” he
asked. “I didn’t take the dough
at all. I left it on the table.
That’s what she was so crook
about hunting me for.”
Wocker seemed in instant
need of a long drink and he
showed great fortitude in not
dashing off to the nearest tap.
“Then we gotta put it in after
all,” he said, grabbing the hat.
“Where’s the two-and-eleven
you got?”
“She took it out of me shirt-
pocket,” said Rupert without
turning a hair. “She was so
wild I couldn’t tell her all about
it or she’d ’a’ killed me. And it
didn’t matter, anyway, seeing I
hadn’t taken her ten-bob. I told
her I’d saved it up, and she said
she’d look after it for me so’s
I wouldn’t/i leave it hanging
about. But I’ll get it back when
.she’s cooled down.”
He looked as if full realisation
of the situation was dawning on
him, the politician’s gleam was
in his eye as if he were about to
start on the fairies and Santa
Claus again ; but at this moment
Aunt Anastasia, emerging well-
satisfied from her pudding tran-
saction, took him in forcible
tow and lugged him away
through the happy, milling
throng.
MY admiration for Wocker’s
dogged perseverance re-
ceived a slight check at what
began to look like near fanati-
cism.
“We’ll do a bit more singin’,”
he said, and led the way back to
the pubs.
The trickle through the side-
doors had dwindled consid-
erably, and the part that was
not dead-drunk seemed to be
dead-broke. Wocker sang his
loudest and I begged my hardest,
but the shops were closed when
at last we reached our objec-
tive, and we could find no means
of changing our pile of coins
for a note.
Somehow we did not care who
was in the police-station, and
sure enough there was the
“bitch” of a new sergeant lean-
ing back in a chair beating time
with his foot to the strains of
unrestrained song and loud yells
of protest from the lock-up at
the back.
“We found it in the gutter,”
Wocker explained. “Someone’s
lorst it.”
"Good-morning. I've come to help you out with your
beauty problems."
The sergeant eyed us over
thoroughly, from our dirty feet
to the masses of debris that con-
cealed our hair ; then he looked
at the dirty pile of money in the
hat.
“It was just like that?” he
asked in his “bitch” of a voice.
“Na,” said Wocker. “It was a
ten-bob note, but we changed it.”
“Right,” said the sergeant,
holding out his hand, “what
about the rest of it?”
“There ain’t none,” said
Wocker, licking his lips as his
eyes fell on a tap over a wash-
basin in the next room.
“What did you do with it,
then?” asked the sergeant, grin-
ning horribly on one side of his
face. “It was a quid at first,
wasn’t it?”
“Na,” said Wocker.
' “What’s your name?”
You could hear the mechan-
ism in Wocker Wills’s head
turning over as it fished for an
answer.
“Herb Mullins,” said Wocker.
“Where do you live?”
The mechanism was heard to
work harder still.
“Henry-street,” said Wocker.
Immediately the grin left the
sergeant’s face and was replaced
by a smile that made him look
almost human.
“I can see you’re boys who
tell the truth,” he said. “The
money’ll be yours for sure in a
few weeks. Nobody ever claims
ten-bobs found in the gutter on
Christmas Eve. I’ll send it up
to your place, Herb Mullins,
when we’ve held it long
enough.”
OUTSIDE the main street was
well-nigh deserted. Cockies
and townpeople alike had called
it a day; the pretty lights were
out, the festive windows dark.
One of the few signs of life was
presented by the spectacle of
Wocker’s father belligerently
shaping-up to a telephone-post.
“That* ten-bob’s gone for
good,” said Wocker. “But I
couldn’t give me right name. I
thought he was goin’ t’ run us
in.”
As we walked the silent
streets I did not waste time
wondering what Santa Claus was
going to bring, for I was too
busy wondering how I would
explain to my own particular
“authority” why I had missed
two meals and was coming home,
half-dead and wholly-filthy, with
the milk; but all the way I had
the impression that Wocker was
walking on air because he had
had the best Christmas Eve he
had ever known.


m
S':
r*
5
■
m'A
%
m
MK*
K-*l< 4
V-.'ml
& I
Si. '"'jjr v IGeIA
% «&& v*R&.
*-t * ’ v lif,9 <k£&3&
%<&
Ik •• # '¥. y%
fe.%, % "i. fe,
%• %••.>. %. ’% i. ••y. , »
•y?
% 'V
•■>«&. M **sv
, «n»*. ”-».
&&&& ?
s^§*
SSh,"^
y%t
-*2»
%
s»S " \ j** - ...
tU >-.«*»<« »**»• \ j-A^
.
&J2*
?<%
mm
Vj*.V!
»>
33
m
>V
£&*§&<
fc.W
-“■V-
m
m
• '
• f V^*,
MS?
••JBSSaSi'sv.t.
<a>
***“£
Sgto
S 3
%
1
%
*
S'
i
35
&,
„ v *v
***** c *’sS
%
<- - s, fr
• V^
m
r*k
s®
s\
i
x
\\
i
m
V
-■ v
,V=)
'dT
Jr,
O
sS$
&v
sum**4
pw
a*MVH
.U
iIV
&
a
r.
15,
V £.i Hi Hi
?MJ
V
96
* V
sain
air
Mi
tit#
jsi? s *
?' teffiMdirii.
Mi
9": ’' .rt
•. 52
#|Pi§s
i'A-;
«W -«v « ;
%&|.
#.£l!
¥
S-;lV
■f &
I
“Si . v
Si .& ?
fl
mm
mi
m
m'm'm
m
It
as
SR
m
g Ifr l'rli-1
«r®
&ra
[*«
wmmMi
wii™
briskly and for sharp character-
drawing.
, I
“Love Me or Leave Me”
(Sydney St. James): Another
theatre-biography, this time on
Ruth Etting, who appears to
have been something in the
hoof-an’-howl line and who
was apparently cursed with a
most unpleasant manager-
husband. James Cagney gives
a remarkable performance as
this character—egotistical, loud-
mouthed and with a perpetual
chip on his shoulder. As the
singer, Doris Day trots-out a
sparkling person a 1 i t y and
matches Cagney in some worth-
while dramatic sequences.
“One Good Turn” (Sydney
Lyceum): Billed as “Britain’s
Mirth Master,” Norman Wis-
dom doesn’t figure very brightly
in this opus about a handyman
at an orphanage who tries to
save the orphans from being
turned out by an unscrupulous
land-shark. On the credit side
is one genuinely funny sequence,
in which a foreign orchestral
maestro finds his orchestra dis-
appearing from his sight when
a revolving stage they are on
gets going and the wind-
machine plays merry hell with
his long hair and the score-
sheets. Also, Wisdom has
about the best tenor voice of
any comedian on the screen.
“A Prize of Gold” (Sydney
State): Richard Widmark, G. 1.,
and George Cole, British Security
policeman, gang-up to hijack a
plane bound from Berlin to Lon-
don with a cargo of gold bul-
lion. They co-opt the services
of a war-time ace (Nigel Pat-
rick), down on his luck, to put
the plane down on an unused
English air-strip, and this part
of the doings adds-up. to fair
entertainment. Donald Wolfit,
as an uneasy crook with a
respectable facade, turns-in a
tiptop performance.
“It’s a Dog’s Life” (Hoyts
theatres): A delightful auto-
biography of a large bull-terrier
told by himself in a drawling
baritone. In the practised
hands of a low Bowery-type he
becomes a near-champ, fighter
for the benefit of his big-bet
boys, but seeing no future in it
he decamps and adopts an old
gardener. After that he enters
the more august realms of the
posh show-ring. The pooch gets
off some salty comments on the
strange ways of Homo sapiens
and the doings generally offer
some good clean fun. Edmund
Gwenn and Dean Jagger aid
and abet the amiable hound.
“The Virgin Queen” (Hoyts
theatres): Making its score
off some salty comments on the
historical facts, Hollywood here
concocts a one-sided romance
between Elizabeth and Raleigh,
and if Queen Bess looked any-
thing like Queen Bette Davis,
then Raleigh’s anxiety to get to
sea pronto is understandable.
Bette rolls along like a blue-
water A. 8., roars like a
sar’-major, and presents a visage
that would scare a bulldog.
There are a couple of good
portraits Herbert Marshall’s
adviser to the Queen and
Robert Douglas’s scheming
and fawning courtier. Richard
Todd is a forthright Raleigh.
“Moonfleet” (M.-G.-M. thea-
tres): A dull period-piece made
duller by a smuggling leader
who dresses in satins and lace
and mixes courtly manners with
strong-arm discipline among his
rag-tag followers on the Devon
coast. Stewart Granger adopts
an exaggeratedly mincing air and
speech in the part, and is matched
by George Sanders as a milord
who likes his napery spotless
but his lucre filthy. The pro-
ceedings have only a modicum
of excitement.


Wine Through the Windscreen
Barossa Pilgrimage
By VINO DEL PAIS
Prologue
j-« s G. K. Chesterton
AA pointed out long ago,
( I the rolling road ties up
V 1 with the roundabout
habits of the English, some of
whom even reach Paradise by
way of Bethnal Green. Thus I
make no apology for travelling
from Sydney to the Barossa by
way of Melbourne. In fact, I
rather pride myself on my
pilgrim’s progress, to which
floods and wayside hotels (of
which more anon) added the
suggestion of a penance.
Apart from rain, which I
struck at Yass in N.S.W., and
which remained with me, almost
continuously, to the gates of
the Barossa Valley in S.A.,
and a fortunately - successful
dash through floodwaters at
Wangaratta, the journey to
Melbourne Was commonplace.
I’d done it often, anyway, and
I consoled myself by wining and
dining at Mario’s before
trekking westward into the com-
paratively unknown.
Beyond Geelong, the Prince’s
Highway, in spite of its long,
straight stretches, passes through
some gorgeous country. First,
there are the stone-fenced
hillocks of Stony Rises —for all
the world like a_ little bit of
Wales—soon to be followed,
before Warrnambool, with
rolling downs covered with the
greenest of grasses and scattered
flocks of sheep, so reminiscent
of southern England. And then
on to Portland, many of whose
buildings might have been built
in the homeland during the
reign of the third George.
The deluge continued, but I
reached Mount Gambier, and,
during a temporary lull in the
weather, I was rewarded for
persistence, and compensated for
discomfort by the sight of the
crater-lakes. I have seen some-
thing resembling them in the
Azores.
In just two-hundred miles
(from Colac) I had covered, in
memory, much of England and
Wales,and was in mid-Atlantic!
From Mount Gambier until
the broad Murray Valley is
reached there is little of interest
to the casual tourist, whose
curiosity will be satiated, I
think, with one trip along the
Coorong, interesting as it may
be to the botanist, the orni-
thologist and even the simple
fisherman. It was fortunate
that the rain ceased at Kingston ;
otherwise I might have had
harder words to say about this
particular section of the Prince’s
“Highway.” Some of the
secondary caminos reales (in
English, “royal roads”) of
Central America are in better
trim.
But most of the journey from
the Murray to Adelaide —par-
ticularly the section after Hahn-
dorf—was sheer loveliness. If
anything can be labelled typically
Australian (forgetting the Dead
Heart), this is IT, notwithstand-
ing the occasional suggestions of
old Germany, and, in the descent
to the Adelaide plains, of the
Cotswolds. I have traversed
this section many times and it
always offers something new
and delightful.
With Adelaide, a really good
hotel, and a much-needed over-
haul for the car (affectionately
known as “Mo”), a further
visitation from Jupiter Pluvius
was easy to bear, and I spent
some of my leisure in quest of
the local nectar. The beer
(especially the cloudy variety)
was, I admit freely, of excellent
quality, but the six-o’clock swill
—of unhappy Sydney memory
was very much in evidence. I
had hoped to find a quiet wine-
bar, where I could sample by
the glass some of the excellent
vintages which I knew were
produced near by. If such
places exist they are so well
hidden as to be inaccessible to
a comparative stranger like
myself.
T erminus
Where, exactly, the Barossa
Valley starts is not obvious to
the wayfarer, but I assume that
I entered it at Gawler, beyond
which town vineyards predomin-
ate. There is, perhaps, some
remote resemblance to the dis-
trict of the same name in Spain,
but I failed to see it. One
reason for that may be that the
vines are pruned close to the
ground, and not, as in Spain,
trained over arches and pergolas.
The first name that attracted
me, however, was that of the
famed paladin .Orlando, and I
was soon being very hospitably
entertained by Colin Gramp, a
great - grandson of Johann
Gramp, who founded the house
of Gramp and Sons: he planted
the first Orlando vines in 1847
at Jacob’s Creek, only a mile
away.
My immediate desire was for
a really dry sherry of the type
the vintner so lovingly sniffs and
sips in Spain. My host explained
that there was not much demand
—as yet, he hopefully added,
for the connoisseur rarely cares
for the sweet variety—but I was
given several tasters, finally
picking on one which I con-
sidered near-perfection. To my
surprise, it was of no great age.
Then I was daringly offered a
well-known Spanish sherry of
1832 vintage. The Australian
wine, its junior by a century, did
not suffer by comparison!
Later we turned our attention
to hocks. There was not a poor,
or even an indifferent, wine
amongst them. The 1952
vintage, processed under pres-
sure, is something out of the
bag; and—thank heaven in
these days of standardisation —
the 1953 vintage has real
character. Both should improve
with maturity and should be at
their best when they are four
years old; they will be
supremely drinkable for the
Olympic Games, and I feel that
they will lead to the export of a
lot of Australian hock for
laying-down. The still-“green”
1954 wine shows even greater
promise. If it lives up to
expectations, it will be a world-
beater. It may not be quite at
its best in 1956, but I hope to be
alive to taste it in 1957.
I rounded-off my visit with a
1925 Australian port, which, as
Colin modestly stated, is not a
true “vintage” port. I agree
that it is not a vintage Oporto,
but, taken as a fortified sweet
red wine, it is, in its class, as
good as anything I have tasted
anywhere. With advantage both
to body and soul, I could have
spent a most pleasant week at
Rowlands Flats and then would
have been loth to leave ; but,
with that sacrifice accepted by
all pressmen with a mission, I
dragged myself away.
My next call took me to
Seppeltsfield, which I reached
along a palm-bordered lane
twisting round five disconcerting
right-angle turns before the
winery is reached. After my
visit I returned to Nuriootpa by
way of Greenock. It is evident
that Seppelts are far-famed as
dispensers of winely cheer, for
the winery-yard was crowded
with buses which had brought
parties to inspect the building
and to enjoy its products. As
wine-drinking is, to me, a rite
which I like to practise in
picked company and at leisure,
I made an appointment for the
morrow a favor readily
granted.
At the house of Seppelt a
vast quantity of good wine
passes through the portals of
the chateau. That brings in its
train the necessity for very rigid
methods of control and a uni-
formity of product which
checked me in my pride in an
ability to distinguish vintages.
That, however, did not prevent
me from enjoying the excellent
wines placed before me nor
from admiring the clean-cut
efficiency with which every
operation was conducted and
checked. Even, as my guide,
Mr. Bell, said with glee, the
landscape is made to work, as
the delivery-point for growers
selling grapes to the winery is
the highest on the property.
Gravity does the rest.
J. E. Seppelt came to the
Barossa in 1849 as a tobacco-
expert, but Providence, very
rightly, caused the enterprise to
fail, and he turned vigneron in
1851, when he acquired the
estate now known as Seppelts-
field. The first grapes were
crushed in 1852. Today, on the
same spot, the largest family-
owned organisation of its kind
is being run by the fourth-
generation. And its champagne
has made its mark overseas.
While much of the develop-
ment of the Barossa wine-
industry has been fostered by
vintners of German origin, a
most notable exception is
Samuel Smith, of sturdy Dorset
yeoman stock. Already in his
middle thirties and the father of
four boys and a girl, he migrated
to Australia and took charge of
the gardens of George Fife
Angas, from whom the town of
Angaston, then a tiny hamlet,
takes its name.
In 1847, with the capital he
had brought out from England,
he bought 30 acres in the Angas
valley, naming it the soft-
sounding aboriginal “Yalumba.”
His wife, writing, home to Eng-
land, described it as “our little
paradise.”
The Smiths planted their first
vines in 1849, working all day,
and by night when the moon
gave sufficient light.
To set his cherished vineyard
on its feet, Samuel Smith joined
the hurly-burly of the Bendigo
goldrush in April, 1852, return-
ing at the end of the year to
Yalumba with what was then
considered a large sum, with
which he bought another 80
acres adjoining his first holding,
together with farming-equip-
ment and horses. Later he built
a more substantial homestead,
and the first Yalumba wine-
cellars. In 1863 Samuel and his
son Sidney made 60 hogsheads
of wine.
I had, as guide, philosopher
and friend, for my tour of the
Yalumba winery, the expert help
of Alfred Wark. As all good
vignerons should, he sipped his
wine with reverence. Usually,
Reisling is not a wine which
improves much in bottle after its
sixth year, but the sample of
1941 vintage which I tasted had
aged remarkably well. So had
some 1942 Reisling, which was
quite distinct from the 1941
wine. And yet it is said —but
not at Yalumba —that the Aus-
tralian climate is too even to
produce wines which differ from
year to year, as they do in
Europe. Unfortunately, the
1941 and 1942 wines are no
longer procurable, but the 1952
vintage is still on sale, and it’s
good.
So is the dry sherry, and there
is a red fortified wine which
enjoys the name of Galway Pipe,
and is much too good to be
labelled “port.”
Recessional
Regretfully I left the hospit-
able Barossa by way of Angas-
ton and the Eden Valley to
reach again, through delightful
country, the Murray. After a
rain-free week, it started to pour
again at Tailem Bend. My
journey along the Duke’s High-
way was a nightmare of floods,
breakdowns and delays which I
need not detail. A rather un-
successful attempt to avoid the
roads worst affected by the Vic-
torian floods caused me to cover
much greater road-mileage than
I had originally intended, but it
did give me an experience of
country hotels and road-
services outside N.S.W. which I
propose to chronicle for
strangers and in the hope that
some of the more glaring defects
will be remedied before we set
out to exhibit our country areas
to overseas visitors.
Epilogue
(a) Australian Wines. Every
glass of wine which I sampled at
the wineries I visited in the
Barossa Valley—and purposely
I made a point of studying those
classes which correspond to the
vins ordinaires of Europe —was
good and sound. As an
aficionado who is inclined to be
critical, I make that statement
without reservations. The only
stuff of indifferent or poor
quality which I encountered was
served in hotels, and, even then,
the fault was often attributable
to bad storage. For most people,
the hotel is the commonest, and
in some cases the only, source
of supply, and this statement is
especially true with regard to the
tourist.
In verity, and sadly, I am
forced to admit that I have yet
to meet the Australian Boniface
who makes any real effort to
serve good wine at a price com-
parable to that of beer. Every
independent vintner with whom
I have discussed the question
assures me that it could be done
if the huge price-gap between
producer and consumer were
reduced to a reasonable amount.
Good, sound Australian wine,
both red and white, can still
be bought, in Sydney at under
14s. a gallon, which works out
at 2s. 4d. a reputed-quart bottle,
or less than the price of beer.
Not so very long ago it was 6s.
a gallon.
Much of this wine is worth
laying-down for a couple of
year? or more to mature, if suit-
able bottles and corks can be
got. Unfortunately, many Aus-
tralian bottles particularly
those of the hock type—
decrease in bore from the mouth
downwards. To seal the wine
properly, and to allow it to
breathe, the bore should increase
downwards, yet I am told by the
vintners that it is almost im-
possible to obtain the right
design except by importing at a
prohibitive cost.
Good, sound dry Australian
sherry—sometimes very good—
is obtainable at 21s. a gallon.
The better Australian hocks,
particularly those processed
under pressure, are superior to
their German or Alsatian
counterparts, which (for reasons
not known to me) have deterior-
ated sorely during the last
decade.
I have yet to discover an Aus-
tralian claret which resembles
the nectar of Bordeaux, but the
several types of wine—more like
Moulin a Vent than anything
else —which bear that label are
a thoroughly enjoyable drink,
and some of them are exquisite.
Most Australian burgundies are,
to my taste, rather harsh, but,
on average, they are equal to the
everyday French article. There
are exceptions, of course, and
one or two I have tasted could
compete with a good bottle of
Nuits. After all, it is a matter
of personal taste, and, as one’s
palate becomes accustomed to
the characteristic “bite,” one
finds good Australian burgundy
to be a very satisfying cold-
weather or evening beverage.
Unfortunately, the London
market has been spoilt by the
infiltration of trash in an
attempt, I assume, to compete
with other imported wines on a
price basis.
Port offers many problems to
the discriminating drinker.
Mfich of the Australian product
labelled “port” particularly
“vintage port”—is as good a
fortified red wine as ever came
out of a bottle. There is noth-
ing wrong with it except the
label! But it is not Oporto. Its
nearest relative in Europe would
appear to be Muscat. A word
of warning is necessary here,
however. Do not expect to buy
good “port” at bargain prices.
Some of the cheap brands, such
as those imbibed by Sydney’s
poorer drunks, are horrible.
No wine can be properl>
appreciated when it is consumed
in a “pub” under pig-swill con-
ditions, and wine-bars, in most
of the Australian towns, have an
evil reputation whether they
deserve it or not. Mr. and Mrs.
Overseas, when they come to the
Olympic Games, will look for
and expect a friendly wine-
cellar —of which there are far
too few here —in which they
can take their ease in unhurried
and pleasant surroundings while
sampling, by the glass, and at
a reasonable cost, the marvellous
array of good wines which Aus-
tralia has to offer. This offers
a heaven-sent opportunity for
the local vignerons to get
together and instal cantinas,
after the South European model,
wherever the tourist may
penetrate.
( b ) Roads and Services. Many
of our Olympic visitors will take
the opportunity, while they are
here, of seeing as much of Aus-
tralia as they can by car. Their
impressions—and whether they
become unofficial ambassadors
or critics of the country on their
return overseas will depend
largely on the condition of the
Australian roads they travel
along.
The surface of some of our
main highways is splendid over
(Continued on page 31)
MY GRANDFATHER
My grandfather knew
How to prune a tree —
That’s how he grew.
When visitors came
He’d show them the tree,
Smile, and exclaim—
“ The wisest of fruits
Depend on the bole
And patterns of roots —
Till, crinkled and old,
The fruit is unable
To hang in the cold.'
We mourn for the garden,
And tree that is dead;
But a worse frost has bitten
My grandfather’s head.
VICTORIA.
R A. SIMPSON


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
u
h
m
Pi
f
01
.
I
-
■ ■
m
V)l WfnmTr
The bonk is ever alert to the
problems of the business world
The varied requirements of industry and com-
merce call for co-operation and understanding
between banker and customer.
As a result of its long experience, this bank
which is owned and staffed by Australians—brings
a broad and sympathetic understanding to the
problems of the businessman.
The hank's officers at Head Office, or at your
nearest branch, will be glad to tell you how its
services can help you.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The A.J.C. Villiers Stakes
(£3000; one mile) at Randwick
next Saturday has attracted a
particularly smart field of top-
grade performers. Over the years
the Villiers has been won by
notable gallopers, among them
Carioca, who scored three years
ago at 10 to 9 on, and Raconteur,
two years back, at 6 to 4 on.
Other good ones include Fili-
pino, Bernborough, Rimveil,
Yaralla, King's Head and Clos-
ing Time. Race-record time,
1.35£, is held by Raconteur.
Selections: Hans, 1; Bel-
beiys, 2 ; Plato, 3.
With, at time of writing, such
speedy gallopers as Felstorm,
Aussie Edition, Sajax, Rumleigh,
Royal Kingdom, Sweet Apple,
Merry* Borough and Jinks likely
to be in the line-up for the
December Stakes the pace will
be on from the release of the
starting-gates. Unbeaten Fel-
storm last week won a Warwick
Farm half-mile barrier-trial
from Gimcrack Stakes winner
Sajax, while Aussie Edition’s
47sec. in winning his barrier-trial
was fastest of the session.
Favorite Pipe On cleared out
with the A.J.C. Summer Cup last
season, beating Tatyoon and
Oxley; he covered the 12 fur-
longs in the smart time of 2.29.
This long-established Randwick
staying-event, first run in the
’sixties, was decided at 13 fur-
longs until 1953. Last winner at
the mile-and-five was Carioca,
his time being 2.43|, but
Young Crusader ran 2.42-} in
1937. Horses five and six years
old have a good record in the
Cup. Racing on the opening
day (Saturday) might, of course,
bring to light a new threat to the
favored horses.
Selections: Advocate, 1;
Viteren, 2 ; Grand Stream, 3.
Five horses flashed over the
line at the finish of the Rosehill
Flying Handicap last Saturday,
which must have pleased S.T.C.
handicapper, Bert Creagh.
Adelina, from the T. J. Smith
stable, finished fast on the out-
side to gain the verdict by half-
a-neck from Lazy Day, with
Hans half-a-head away third;
then, close up, Fairy Dream and
Akoukir.
Both Hans and Lazy Day were
hampered in the straight in the
Rosehill race, and maybe Hans
will do better in the Villiers. He
won the Epsom Handicap a
month or so back, and has been
placed at his two starts since.
Bookmakers found punters
willing to lay heavy bets at
odds-on for the recent country
and city winner Red Vain in the
Rosehill First Parramatta Stakes,
but the five-year-old mare added
one more name to the long list
of failures at odds-on. Perhaps
she was feeling the pinch of
racing and training. Royal
Stamp, winner of the race,
carries the colors of Mrs. Brian
Crowley.
Segenhoe (Scone, N.S.W.)
studmaster Lionel Israel has a
happy knack of retaining horses
for racing rather than putting
them into the sale-ring. Another
was added to his list at Rosehill
when Gay Lover, by Nilo
(imp.), making his first race-
appearance, easily won the
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap
from the favorite, Amanullah.
Gay Lover was last of the
progeny of Gay Romance, and
so was probably kept for senti-
ment reasons. Gay Romance
won the A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes
and other sprint events.
Improving on prior outings,
Blazeaway had an easy win in
the Rosehill Welter Handicap
(nine furlongs). Kev Mar,
though he did meet with a check
near the furlong-post, had every
chance, but wasn’t good enough.
Two-year-old Labasa created
a favorable impression when
she won the Flemington
Maroondah Handicap in easy
style last Saturday. A week
earlier she had finished second
to leading Melbourne filly
Leave at Moonee Valley.
Trained at Mentone by Fred
Hoysted, Labasa is by Ottoman
(imp.) from an imported mare,
White Flag, who hasn’t been
long at the stud. Ottoman, a
son of Blue Peter, won races in
England from six furlongs to
lj mile and has had several
winners in Melbourne.
Flecked Marble, who beat
short - priced favorite Clear
Profit and Ray Joan in the
Doom ben Two-year-old Handi-
cap for colts and geldings, is, a
grey by Dentur (imp.) from
Marbelina by The Marne from
Belle Eaton by Eaton Lad
(imp.). Belle Eaton was a
sister to Bonnie Frances, winner
of races on the old pony tracks
in Sydney.
Now rising eight years, versa-
tile Brisbane galloper Gascar
Lad went out unfancied for the
Doomben Flying, starting at 66
to 1. He easily beat better-
performed Toshah and Cool
Customer.
It is rarely that successive
races are won by horses from
the same dam, but this unusual
breeding-slant was a feature of
a recent Hawkesbury meeting,
and both gallopers are trained
by Rosebery mentor Sid Day,
who has been in the racing
game for many years. Day
supplied 33-to-l winner Persian
Barb (Two-year-old Maiden
Handicap) and her half-sister,
Miss Pukka (6 to 1), in the First
Greenhills Maiden. Persian
Barb is by Persian Book (imp.)
and Miss Pukka is by Melhero.
Their dam, Barbara Pentheus, is
by Pentheus from Pakanaire by
Legionnaire (imp.).
“I didn't have the heart to shoot him”
“P.0.M.C.”: Jack Thompson’s
hat-trick at Rosehill on Decem-
ber 10 was his third three-in-a-
row (or better) performance since
resuming late last season from a
spell due to injury.
* * *
There are many nations in the
trotting-game, among them a
Maltese contingent. Accustomed
only to the rollicking square-
gaiter, the Maltese drivers were
at first in trouble here trying to
cope with the speed, fractiousness
and agility of the hopple-horse;
“Mick” Xuerub was like a
schoolboy let loose in the latest
Mercedes. But on Saturday
night, Xuerub got a hand from
the crowd for his drive behind
December Handicap favorite
Black Pepper; he won by five
lengths. Black Pepper is a trimly-
built, racy-looking four-year-old
by Wilver Dillon from Pepper
Pot, by Black Panther from
Neena Raider, who’s by Sky
Raider. He put the Ilf furlongs
behind in 3.10, only a fifth of a
second slower than the time
taken by crack four-year-old Set
Point in the “last.”
The tussle goes on in Mel-
bourne: in Friday night’s 12|-
furlongs Moroney Handicap,
scratch-marker Halt was 4yds.
to the good against his pint-
sized opponent, Port Logan, who
went off 12yds. Both horses, two
of the smallest racing, now need
one more win to qualify for the
A. G. Hunter Cup. Starting from
the same marks next week, they
should turn on a thriller.
+ +
Keith Miller took his 100th
Sheffield Shield wicket in the
game against Westralia. Miller
landmarks of this nature crop up
time and again. After a great
season in the West Indies, he
has either made a century or
done a devastating piece of
bowling in every Shield match
so far this year.
In the Sheffield Shield games
played over the election-week-
end, Victoria defeated Queens-
land outright and N.S.W. beat
W.A. on the first innings. Vic-
toria was helped somewhat by
the virtual absence, through
injury, of Ray Lindwall, while
N.S.W. was handicapped to a
similar extent in its bid for an
outright by rain interfering on a
couple of days.
W.A. opening-batsman John
Rutherford, whom Westralians
was the case several times with
England in the Tests here last
year, the tail-enders did better
with the bat than the batsmen.)
Crawford and Miller, who
crashed S.A. in Sydney earlier
this year, again ploughed
through the Croweaters. S.A.’s
first-innings Jop-scorer, with 57,
was young left-hander Tim
Colley, playing his first Shield
game—duplicating the feat of
Murray Vernon the week before
for W.A. against N.S.W. in his
first State game.
* * *
One or two recently-made
Australian swimming - records:
Lorraine Crapp, new time
(65.55ec.) for both 110yds. and
100 metres. (A week later she
beat that time, setting 65sec. for
100 metres, 65.25ec. for 110yds.,
but for administrative reasons
these later records cannot be
recognised.) Murray Rose, new
440yds. time (4min. 35.35ec.,
nearly 2sec. faster than his own
previous record); and Murray
Garretty, 3sec. off the time for
the mile (new time, 20min.
56sec.).
In athletics, too, one or two
new Australian records: the two
speedy Hungarians, Iharos and
Tabori, almost dead-heating in
clipping just over 4sec. off Dave
Stephens’s time for the two
miles (Iharos, Bmin. 47.45ec.).
Stephens followed them home,
■third, but a couple of days later
cut 22.45ec. off the '5OOO-metres
time (new time, 14min. 7.25ec.)
—the Hungarians this time fol-
lowing him. A new sprint-
record, too Hec Hogan’s
10.4 sec. for the 100 metres, dis-
allowed, however, because of
wind-assistance.
* * *
Having a crack at the N.S.W.
bantamweight championship at
Leichhardt, Frank Bennett
(8.3 f) outboxed Johnny Jarrett
(8.5|) early, but was eventually
beaten per t.k.o. in round seven.
Jarrett twice upset Bennett by
swinging him off his feet—the
first time for a compulsory
“eight” count. Immediately
Bennett made his second visit
canvaswards ref. Vic Patrick
awarded Jarrett the t.k.o. win.
Still, though Bennett attacked
for a few rounds, and got inside
many of his opponent’s long
punches, the flyweight champion
of Australia couldn’t cope with
Jarrett’s strength when they got
to close quarters, and was more
weak than somewhat when the
old Vic called it a night.
consider their best bet to make
the team to England, scored 125
against Queensland, a mixture
of brilliance and weary dalli-
ance. Staking an even stronger
claim for a trip as an opener,
N.S.W.’s solid Jimmy Burke,
who has got among the runs in
three of his four Shield games
this year—Bs and 56 against
Queensland, 189 against W.A.
and 150 at S.A.’s expense,
....
S.A., down 6-49, did well to
reach 215 in the first innings
against N.S.W. in Adelaide. (As


A Pioneering Epic
THE McCAUGHEY STORY
By M. H. ELLIS
T" HE field of Australian
/ pastoral biography is
f, being covered with
remarkable swiftness.
Much of the work is being done
by women writers, from whom,
in the past year or so, there have
been three useful contributions
—Mrs. Mamie Bassett’s The
Hentys; Mrs. Alexandra Has-
luck’s biography of Georgiana
Molloy and her family, who
settled in Western Australia at
the beginning of the 1830’s;
and now Mrs. Patricia, Mc-
Caughey’s Samuel McCaughey
(Ure Smith, Sydney).
Each of these books illustrates
the sound stuff of which Aus-
tralian pastoral history was
made—the Hentys, , solid yeo-
man stock; the Molloys, tough
returned-soldier blood from the
Peninsular War blended with the
even tougher offspring of border
reivers turned Presbyterian ; the
McCaugheys, North of Ireland
with a grim Covenanter back-
ground.
Samuel McCaughey came, on
his father’s side, of a family
which had lived off the tract of
land and sea between Lome and
Ulster for a good many cen-
turies. The “Caughey” in the
name is the Erse eochaidh,
meaning “horseman.”
The family emigrated to Scot-
land, 'crossing the Northern
Kingdom to the Leslie region, on
the way leaving behind the seed
of the MacDonalds. Then it
emigrated back to Ireland, settled
down at Ballymena, and, like
many another Ulster family—in-
cluding that of D’Arcy Went-
worth —plunged into the flax-
and linen-business in the days of
Strafford. They were essentially
farmers by nature, with all the
native love of learning of the
Scots, the sane clannishness of
the Celt, and the strict outlook
and stern tendency to discipline
which have made Presbyterian
Ulster manners proverbial.
When this breed intermarried
with the Covenanter Wilsons,
one of whose members escaped
to Ireland in time to avoid the
fate of his famous sister Mar-
garet —there is a woodcut of her
martyrdom in the rising tide of
Solway in Firth’s edition of
Macaulay—the result was all that
could be expected. This refugee
was Samuel McCaughey’s great-
great-grandfather.
Both the Wilson and the
McCaughey families were large,
and both showed signs of finding
Ulster too small to hold them
all in the early 19th century.
So first two Wilsons, then
Samuel McCaughey, and later his
brothers David and John, made
for the antipodes. The original
Australian Wilsons —there were
more later, to the great benefit
of Victoria and colonisation in
general—arrived in 1838 with
£lOOO between them, and a letter
of introduction from their uncle,
General Chesney, to Sir Thomas
Mitchell.
It didn’t take them long to get
colonial experience, walk from
Sydney to Melbourne and buy
a small station named Wood-
lands about 80 miles from Mel-
bourne. They brought out their
brother John, and founded, in
1841, the firm of Wilson
Brothers. It is significant of
their quality that they began to
establish themselves on the land
on famous Wimmera stations
right in the middle of the Hungry
’Forties. In 1847 one of them
married Marion McKinnon, a
Scottish girl.
By the time the Hungry
’Forties and the first flush of the
gold-era were over there were
half-a-dozen Wilsons operating
and buying stations, as other
people bought horses, at prices
which less than a quarter of a
century after their arrival were in
the quarter-million-pound range
—Longerenong, Yanco (across
the N.S.W. border, which they
acquired, with 200,000 acres, for
£30,000), Vectis, Ercildoune
(which was purchased for a
contemporary record of
£236,000), Toorale, Dunlop.
And then they extended north
into Queensland.
It was one of these Wilsons,
Samuel, who gave Melbourne
University its priceless Wilson
Hall, before he retired to Eng-
land and became M.P. for Ports-
mouth, surviving till .1895. He
was the youngest of the Wilson
vanguard, and he was three
years older than his close friend
and cousin, Samuel McCaughey,
the eldest son of the family,
“Anyone home?"
who, at 20, having studied
surveying, decided to follow him,
despite the reluctance of his
father to let him go. (“What’s
the use of your going to Aus-
tralia? You’ll have to sleep
under a tree and the snakes will
come and bite you.”)
He came out with Charles
Wilson and a friend (perhaps a
relative), Constantine Dougherty,
in the Chamira, and landed in
Melbourne in 1856 after a
voyage of 88 days. He found
himself in a roaring, gold-mad
city of 300,000, with the first
Parliament being elected and
50,000,000 acres of unoccupied
freehold land awaiting attention.
The pair wasted no time on
Melbourne, but started off to
walk to the Wimmera, getting
work chopping firewood on the
way. Sam McCaughey afterwards
told that strangely legendary
character Harry Peck (Memoirs
of a Stockman ) that his hands
were soft at that stage, and that
by the time he had finished his
initial apprenticeship he could
hardly hold the axe.
They tramped on across the
Pyrenees, and landed up at
Walmer among a whole coterie
of up-and-coming Wilsons. Sam
found a job as a jackeroo on his
Uncle Charles’s Kewe'll pro-
perty under the shadow of the
rugged Grampians. No favor
was shown him. His wages were
£3O a year, but he soon worked
his way up to overseer, and
showed himself a born sheep-
man.
He had learnt plenty of
animal-husbandry in Ulster,
where he had tended his flocks
with his Shakspeare in his hand.
He had a training in rural
accountancy, and also proved
himself very quickly a born
mechanic with an inventive turn
of mind, priceless in a remote bit
of country where mechanics were
as rare as pearls. He was robust
and equable of temperament, a
good manager of men. In three
years he was manager of Kewell.
He was 23 when he was left in
complete charge while the owner
took another trip to Ireland.
McCaughey soon made his
influence felt in the district, in-
troducing what was then
regarded as intense subdivision
—4OOO-acre paddocks thus
starting the fencing-era in the
Wimmera.
In 1860 his uncles financed
him into a third-interest in Coo-
nong, a 42,000-acre property in
the Riverina, about 12 miles from
Urana, between Jerilderie and
Wagga. The property was
bought in 1860 for £26,000, on
a deposit of £12,000. It carried
4200 cattle, being considered un-
suitable for . sheep, owing to
water-shortage.
McCaughey from the first
campaigned to irrigate and sup-
plant the cattle with sheep, but
the other partners, David Wilson
and John Cochrane, would not
agree. They went on to get an
interest in Singorimba, on the
Murrumbidgee, but their pros-
pects appeared to be bleak.
Their stock-sales were negoti-
ated, on the buying side, usually
with promissory-notes which
were not met.
For a time they were living
on dealings with Samuel Wilson,
who bought 10 cattle a week
at £2 10s. a head to keep them
alive and running. They offered
to forfeit their deposit to get out
of the Coonong sale. David
Wilson gave up and sold his
third-share for £lOOO, and Coch-
rane, who bought it, eventually
offered his two-thirds-share to
McCaughey for £7OOO. Mc-
Caughey didn’t take it; then
Cochrane went off to England
and left him in full charge.
McCaughey’s first step was
water-conservation, and his
measures represented the germ
of a revolution.
By the time Cochrane returned
a year later matters had im-
proved so much that McCaughey
paid him £15,000 for the shares
for which he had refused to pay
£7OOO the year before. In 1864,
then, McCaughey became the
owner of Coonong, and from
then onward he never looked
back.
By 1872 he had Singorimba
and Goolgumbla—l37,ooo acres
of freehold in all. As his in-
terests developed he exhibited a
new and priceless faculty—he
was a first-class chooser of right
men, showed great capacity in
the art of delegation of
authority, and was a good em-
ployer, paying good wages. He
rarely, during his lifetime, lost a
man in whom he had confidence,
save when one of his lieutenants
would become sufficiently sub-
stantial to start out on his own
account.
His shrewd family in the North
of Ireland acted as. a recruiting-
agency, sending him a flow oi
suitable workers.
He remained a bachelor—too
busy to get married, he said,
until nobody would have wanted
him save for his money; but he
was not merely a money-maker.
> He could be stem and sharp in a
deal or in getting things done,
but with employees he was
courteous and considerate. He
was careful about his personal
appearance, a genial host, but a
man who never lost the habit
of reading or of thought. He
was, however, strait-laced
about some things. He declared
in later years that a cigarette in
a woman’s mouth was like a
curse in a man’s.
His properties soon developed
fine gardens, amenities and
pleasant surroundings and in-
teriors. He was a large man in
most ways in his conceptions and
perceptions and courage especi-
ally.
He was never deterred by other
men’s opinions once he had
investigated and decided on the
right course. He plunged into
a policy of water-supply, and
later irrigation, wherever he
went.
He was a pioneer of tree-plant-
ing and artificial pasturage in
the Riverina and elsewhere, and,
beginning with a flock of old
ewes from Widgiewa good,
sound foundation-stock —he was
soon infusing the priceless Ercil-
doune blood, using Bayly rams
from Havilah, from the Camp-
bell strains out of Camden
Park, and was experimenting
with imports from Kermode’s
Mona Vale, in Tasmania.
He kept thorough records of
his matings, with full descrip-
tions to show the way in which
his experiments turned out —
noting form, constitution,
weight, wrinkle, yolk, density,
quality and the characteristics of
wool from every part of the
sheep’s body. His workshops
became a synonym for efficiency
and range of work-capacity. He
himself, a competent farm-black-
smith, spent many hours a week
at the anvil. All his vehicles were
built almost from the beginning
on his own properties. He
invented an earthscoop which
played a great part in dam-sink-
ing over a wide area of Aus-
tralia. He adapted the old
Euphrates irrigation waterwheel
to his uses; and at a later stage
coupled pumped water flowing
through 12in. pipes from the
river to generate electricity for
station use.
He put in the first woolscour
outside Sydney in N.S.W. The
“crab-hole” country of Coonong,
reckoned locally to be useless,
was presently torn up with the
aid of five traction-engines im-
ported from England. He tore it
up a foot deep, and soon had
it growing sorghum and oats
feet high. He was the first
mechanised farmer and grazier
in Australia, the first to
mechanise farming and tank-
sinking, which he carried out
with his engines and a square
scoop of his own devising—not
the original one.
Fifteen years after he walked
out of Melbourne he was a man
of wealth, and when he returned
from his first journey to his
homeland in the early 1870’s,
and built Coonong homestead
in all its mid-Victorian comfort
and stateliness, fronting a lake
amid parklike grounds, he signal-
ised his establishment in his new
country by having the word
“Vici” —“I have won” —carved-
in the fanlight over the broad
front-door.
Everything about the mansion
was large and open—halls, court-
yards, furniture, solid and digni-
fied ; the big library well stocked
behind its glass-cased shelves.
Everything, too, was Australian.
Though he had the furniture
made in England it was of Aus-
tralian timber.
When his uncle, Sir Samuel
Wilson, decided to return to
Europe McCaughey bought
from him his Toorale and Dun-
lop properties on the Darling, a
matter of 2,500,000 acres, for
£400,000. They were soon revo-
lutionised under his reforming
hand, huge water-barrages con-
serving the surface floodwaters
from the Darling and Warrego.
He plunged into the artesian-
bore business as one of the
earliest pioneers in 1888-89. And
he modernised the two great
properties (which in one year
shore 500,000 sheep), and set the
pace in country where the con-
ception of sheep-raising had
been to let sheep roam the un-
watered and unfenced range till
they were ready to shear, trusting
to Providence to send the rain
and the. grass and the markets.
On Toorale, the shearing-shed
—in 1887 i— was the first in
history to have electric-light.
And when Fred Wolseley, of
Europa, on the Darling (brother
of Lord Wolseley), demonstrated
his new shearing-machine in
1888, McCaughey was promptly
in the market, and in July, 1888,
Dunlop, the first station in Aus-
tralia to shear entirely by
machine, was fully equipped and
ready for the season’s work.
A tape-record of the remarks
of the old-time ringers when they
saw the plant would be worth a
fortune today. The reaction of
the shearers was emphatic.
Dunlop had 40 stands to deal
with 184,000 sheep, and after
one disgusted glance at the new-
fangled gadgets—they were run
by a ponderous steam-engine,
the power transmitted to the
machines through an endless
hempen rope—they retired across
the creek and sat glaring for
three weeks.
When they were persuaded to
make a beginning, there was
sabotage, sullenness, slovenliness.
The hempen rope suffered badly
from knife-slashes. The shearers
suffered worse from slashes
when a steel rope replaced it
and showered the cursing
barbers with sloughed needles of
metal.
The tally, for the first weeks,
was nearer 40 a man than< other-
wise, but it was gradually built-
up under a bonus-system, and on
October 11, 1888, Jim and
George Davidson and Alec
Hutchinson won special prizes
by hitting the dizzy level of
173. . .
It was certainly a historic
season, not only for Dunlop but
for the country. Strikes, blood,
(Continued on page 31)


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of enr
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes ins. x3i ins.,
61 x 3f and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application .
Jackson & O'Sullivan [g;
.. Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
104-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GENEVA FAILURE
CjOME last words on the failure
of the conference of the
British, U.S., French and Russian
Foreign Ministers at Geneva:
* * *
“New York Times": “The
Foreign Ministers, including Mr.
Molotov, were directed last July
by the heads of Government,
including Mr. Bulganin, to take
account of ‘the close link between
the unification of Germany and
the problem of European
security,’ and to bear in mind
‘that the settlement of the Ger-
man question and the reunifica-
tion of Germany by means of
free elections shall be carried
out in conformity with the
national interests of the German
people and the interests of Euro-
pean security.’ It must have
seemed to Mr. Molotov, and he
must have reported to his
superiors in Moscow, that the
time had come to put this lug-
gage away.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“There seems to have been a
period at this meeting when Mr.
Molotov thought the West ready
to bargain. He may have thought
that Mr. Macmillan and his
colleagues would prefer conces-
sions to extinction of the hopes
kindled in July. They would
have included surrender of the
demand for free elections, dis-
mantling of the defence-
apparatus built around Western
Germany, and dropping the
pilot, Dr. Adenauer. When he
was certain no such retreat was
even thought of, Mr. Molotov
was able to report to Moscow
that this was a time for tough-
ness, whatever Comrade Malen-
kov and others might once have
thought. Back to Geneva he
came, calm and affable in private,
tense and blistering in public.
Descent from the summit was
complete.
“We are back at deadlock, and
now it is not even cheerful dead-
lock.”
* * *
London “Spectator”: “Mr.
Molotov has once again been
kind to the Germans. By his
straightforward exposition of the
aims of Soviet policy in Europe
he has spared the moderate
centre parties which today
means more than two-thirds of
Western Germany—a great deal
of indecision and heartburning.
It was accepted in Germany
from the start that this Geneva
conference was not going to
bring German unity any nearer
than the previous conferences,
but there had been many fears
that the Soviet Foreign Minister
might use subtle tactics to spread
suspicion between Western
Germany and her Western
Allies and heighten the tension
between the two main parties
inside the country. The opposite
has happened, and it is now up
to the West to consolidate this
advantage.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”: “The
Communist world has gained
—and the free world has lost —
the greater part of 1955 in foster-
ing and then dismissing the great
illusions about meetings at the
summit. Let us be grateful that
the time lost was not longer and
the concessions made were not
greater. Let us recognise once
and for all that no agreement
which relies on Russian sincerity
or goodwill towards the West,
or which assumes that the Soviet
leaders are ready to live at peace
with the rest of the world, or
which uses the word ‘peace’ as if
it meant the same to the Russians
as it does to us, is worth the
paper it is written on.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “Mr.
Molotov has said firmly that
Russia cannot agree to the free
exchange of ideas, information,
or persons. He is afraid that
various ‘dregs of society’ might
conduct unrestricted subversive
activity in the countries of
Socialism and democracy. This
is a striking testimony to the
Soviet fear of ideas. One would
think that after nearly 40 years
of existence the Soviet State
would have little reason to fear
that its foundations would
tremble because a few ideas of
Western freedom were permitted
to penetrate the minds of the
Russian proletariat. Evidently,
however, the risk cannot be
taken.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “The
Russian challenge is being made
in Europe and the Middle East,
in India, Burma, and Afghani-
stan. That challenge must be met
if the world is to be saved from
Communism. We must not go
on retreating and conceding as
we did with Hitler, only to make
a stand on some .unexpected
issue which made war inevitable.
If that situation is not to be
repeated a stand must be made
now.”
Soviet H-bomb
Russia followed the failure of
the Geneva conference with the
explosion of a hydrogen-bomb
claimed to be as powerful as any
of its kind yet detonated. As
the following typical comment
suggests, the explosion could
have a twofold effect: psycho-
logical, particularly in Asia, and
strategical—by some balancing
of thermonuclear weap o n s
between East and West, to restore
to the Soviet a measure of its
advantage in manpower.
* * #
London “Time and Tide”:
“Eighteen months ago America
abandoned tests of the hydrogen-
bomb. Now the Russians, who
for years have been clamoring
for the banning of the bomb,
produce their biggest explosion
yet—and so, inevitably, the
Americans will recommence
their tests. The political purpose
of the Russian explosion is clear:
it is to frighten the masses of the
free world and to promote a
mass demand for the abolition
of atom- and hydrogen-bombs.
“The purpose of that, too, is
equally clear. In conventional
weapons the Russians possess an
immense superiority over the
West. They have the biggest
Army in the world, the biggest
Air Force in the world and the
second-largest Navy in the world.
With the deterrent of the bomb
removed, the pressure of that
immense superiority in
conventional weapons would
enormously expedite their plan
for world conquest by Com-
munism.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“By exploding the new bomb
just after unsuccessfully appeal-
ing at Geneva for a ban on all
thermonuclear weapons, the
Russians hope to show world
public opinion what Western
rejection of their disarmament
plan is likely to mean. ‘We did
London "Daily Express”
SOME NEUTRALISTS ARE MORE NEUTRAL THAN
OTHERS
our best for disarmament at
Geneva,’ their statement implies,
‘but the West refused to co-
operate. So we have no altern-
ative but to go on experimenting
with bigger and better bombs —
until public opinion forces the
West to change its policy.’
In other words, the latest
Russian explosion may be more
an experiment in psychological
than thermonuclear warfare.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”:
“The West’s case against a
general ban is that there is no
system of control which would
not leave at least a 10 per cent,
margin or error. Therefore, since
complete control is impossible,
and since the Communists have
a heavy preponderance in con-
ventional armaments, the West
cannot, in common prudence,
agree to a general ban on the
Vise of their main deterrent
against aggression.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “It
is no less noteworthy that the
information [on the Russian
bomb] has been released during
the visit of the Soviet leaders to
India. It is obvious that the in-
tention is to make a deep im-
pression upon Indian and Asian
opinion. The immediate aim
may be to try to convince the
East that Russia’s proposals at
Geneva to prohibit such weapons
were sincere, that they were not
dictated by fear and that
throughout she has been in a
position to negotiate from
equality.”
# * #
London “Daily Mail”: “The
Russians said they exploded
their weapon at a great height
in order to prevent this peril
[radioactive fall-out]. But obvi-
ously they have succeeded in
scattering the dust over
enormous areas of the earth.
There are no protests, however,
from the so-called ‘uncommitted’
nations. Yet when the fall-out
from America’s Bikini bomb
killed and injured a few Japanese
fishermen, Asia erupted in angry
uproar.”
* * *
“New York Times” : “Moscow
has gone to great pains in recent
months to emphasise its willing-
ness to disarm. Yet at the same
time, it is now clear, Soviet
scientists have pushed ahead as
never before with the develop-
ment of death-dealing weapons.
Moscow has shed tears over the
Japanese fishermen injured by
the fall-out of the American
nuclear test early in 1954, but it
has no compunction about its
own tests wihch send radioactive
rain falling down over Japan.”
,* * *
Paris “Le Monde”: “Surely
nations can very well live without
a solution of the problems that
oppose them. With a little opti-
mism one could imagine a com-
petition between two rival philo-
sophies that would remain peace-
ful and economic with the
bounty of the two camps aiding
the underdeveloped nations
whose favor they are seeking.
“However, this reassuring view
is contradicted bluntly by the
thunder of atomic explosions
that are going on deep in
Siberia, in New Mexico or in
the atolls of the Pacific. These
explosions prove not only that
confidence is not re-established
between the two worlds but that
the two worlds are still getting
ready for an apocalyptic argu-
ment. The incessant develop-
ment of the technique of destruc-
tion increases the danger that
lies over humanity even without
the actual outbreak of war.”
Self-determination
London “Economist,” with
some clear thinking on a term
which causes endless debate in
the U.N. Assembly, and which
has become a favorite catch-cry
of Communists:
“Self-determination is a fine,
woolly concept which lends
itself to high-sounding speeches,
but when dispassionately dis-
sected reveals all sorts of prac-
tical difficulties. It is not sur-
prising that a committee of the
United Nations should stumble
over it; but it is rather surpris-
ing that historical memories
should be so short as to over-
look all the complications and
illogicalities that arose out of the
Allies’ attempt to base a peace-
settlement after the Kaiser’s
war on this principle. Even the
most famous champion of the
idea, President Wilson, who at
one time proclaimed it to be ‘an
imperative principle of action,’
later came to realise that he had
stirred up a hornets’-nest and
had created more difficulties than
he had settled.
“On general grounds, few
would want to quarrel with the
principle that all peoples have a
right to be independent and to
choose their own form of
government. But the principle
can neither be pushed to its
logical conclusion without pro-
ducing a reductio ad absurdum,
nor applied indiscriminately
without creating endless con-
fusion, difficulties and hardship.
“I f self - determination i s
acknowledged as an absolute
right, there is logically no reason
why, say, the Liverpool Irish or
the Istanbul Greeks should not
set up their own little imperium
in imperio; nor is there any
reason why the Walloons should
not disrupt Belgium, the Sikhs
India, the Indians South Africa,
or the Red Indians America if
they had a mind to do so.
“In practice, of course, self-
determination never has been
applied either logically or indis-
criminately. The American
colonists broke away from the
rule of George 111, but later the
majority of their descendants
went to war rather than allow the
same right of secession to the
Southern States. After 1918 the
principle of self-determination
was invoked to justify the break-
away of the Czechs and the
Slovaks from the Austro-Hun-
garian empire, but it did not
stand in the way of the inclusion
of the Sudeten Germans within
the frontiers of the New State.
“When Westminster relaxed
its hold on Dublin, the Ulster
Protestants were allowed to re-
main free from Catholic Irish
rule, but the Catholic elements
in Tyrone and Fermanagh—and
for that matter in Belfast —have
not been granted the right to
secede from the rest of Northern
Ireland. India successfully
threw off British rule, but it is
not prepared to allow the Kash-
miris to choose their own future
for themselves, and neither the
Indians nor the Portuguese are
as yet willing to allow self-deter-
mination to the Goans.
“Similarly the Burmans and
the Indonesians, who have both
freed themselves from alien rule,
have both forcefully prevented
minorities such as the Karens
and the Ambonese from paying
them back in their own coin.
And, of course, there are a whole
host of unfortunate peoples from
the Latvians and the Lithuanians
to the Tibetans and the Kazakhs
who are now deprived of their
independence and their political
freedom by either the Russians
or the Chinese.
“There is, of course, nothing
at all to be said for the denial
of self-determination to those
who once enjoyed it and are per-
fectly capable both of exercising
it again if they get the chance
and of forming a viable State.
But the refusal to do as you have
been done by in the matter of
self-determination is not neces-
sarily and universally to be con-
demned.
“What is objectionable, how-
ever, is the tendency of so many
countries, most of whom have
at least one self-determination
skeleton rattling in their own
cupboard, to press on others a
principle that they have no in-
tention of observing themselves.
One reason for their attitude is
obvious ; the idea of self-deter-
mination, which not only appeals
strongly to heady nationalist
feelings but is also closely
associated with the idea of self-
government, provides a splendid
weapon to brandish against the
‘imperialist’ Powers.
“Mr. Robert Lansing, who
was President Wilson’s Secretary


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN O. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD mc*Chalrman).
STKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT MjjO UGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. !*• E- MANION. Manager.
Brunches in all State* Agencies in all Country Centres
CATTLE
TROUGHIN©
a
SEPTIC TANKS
WELL
LININGS
□
□
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516. • *
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE,
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE TAMWORTH. 1
of State, described it as a phrase
‘loaded with dynamite.’ But
while he was appalled by its
potentialities, today Communist
mischief-makers and under-
developed and formerly depen-
dent countries with a chip on
their shoulder are delighted.
They may not manage to blow-
up the imperialists with it, but
they can certainly hope to cause
them a good deal of trouble and
inconvenience.
“Ironically, Britain, which has
set more people free to go their
own way than any other country
has ever done, is now among
the principal targets of the self-
determination-at-any-cost school
and among the opponents of the
attempt to write self-determina-
tion into the [U.N.] human-
rights covenants.
“On the other hand, the worst
offenders today, Soviet Russia
and China, are left in peace be-
cause those who shout loudest
and longest for the principle are
either Communist sympathisers
or else realise that the Com-
munist Powers are much too
tough a nut to crack —a reputa-
tion that Britain, unfortunately,
does not enjoy.”
U.K. Guided-weapons
The reduced demand for Ser-
vice aircraft in Britain looks
like being offset to some extent
by the increasing development
and manufacture of guided-
weapons. One of the Fairey
Aviation Company’s guided-
missiles is going into initial pro-
duction and another is already
reported as in production.
Further guided-missiles are
being assembled in what London
“Financial Times” describes as
“significant quantities and flown
under test-conditions either at
Woomera in the Central Aus-
tralian desert or at the experi-
mental-station at Aberporth,
Cardiganshire” :
“Examples are the Sir W. G.
Armstrong Whitworth Aircraft
ship-to-air missile which will
shortly undergo sea-trials on
H.M.S. Girdleness; the English
Electric Company’s land-based
anti-aircraft missile; the Bristol
Aeroplane Company’s ramjet-
missile (with rocket-assisted take-
off), in the development of
which ‘tremendous strides’ have
been made during the last 12
months ; a Vickers guided-missile
and one manufactured by De
Havilland.”
The Bristol Company, the
“Financial Times” adds, has an
agreement with the General
Dynamics Corporation of
America, builder of the world’s
first atomic submarine, Nautilus.
This agreement is of interest
“not merely because it primarily
concerns ‘long-term’ aeronautical
development plans, with the long-
range civil aircraft based on the
Britannia as’ a more immediate
objective, but also because the
ramjet, in the development of
which Bristol has played a lead-
ing role in Britain, has long been
recognised as probably the
simplest method of using nuclear
power to propel an aeroplane.
“The Hawker Siddeley Group
is also planning to develop
atomic-powered engines for
aeroplanes (and presumably also
for guided-missiles), for ships
and for the production of indus-
trial power by small power-pro-
ducing reactor-furnaces.
“Rolls-Royce and A. V. Roe
and Co. —a relative newcomer to
the guided-missile field —are also
known to be working on atomic-
propulsion units.”
U.S.-Canada Defence
The possibility of trans-Arctic
attack is a considerable factor
in American strategic thinking,
and to meet any such emergency
the defence of the North
American continent must, as
London “Economist” com-
ments, “remain a shared respon-
sibility of Canada and the United
States.” .
One impressive field in which
this responsibility is being
shared is the quadruple radar
defence-system now being strung
across the North and lately
described by the Canadian
Minister for Defence, Mr. Ralph
Campney:
“The four main elements in the
integrated continental air-defence
system of North America are:
“First, the Pinetree-system,
which ties in to the Canadian
London “Daily Mirror”
HERE WE GO AGAIN
and United States air-defence,
commands a basic radar warn-
ing- and control-system and,
through extensive communica-
tion networks, links-up the
Canadian and United States air-
interceptor forces.
“Second, the mid-Canada Line,
an early warning-line supple-
menting the Pinetree padar-
system.
“Third, the Distant Early
Warning or DEW-line across the
most northerly practicable part
of North America.
“Fourth, extensions down both
flanks of the continent to-pre-
vent outflanking of the trans-
continental network by hostile
aircraft.
“Of the four elements, con-
struction of the Pinetree radar-
system was tackled first. Part
of it was constructed by Canada
and part by the United States.
In October, 1953, when the
Pinetree-system was becoming
operational, a group of Canada-
United States scientists and
military advisers recommended
that additional early-warning
capacity should be provided.
“After further consideration
by the Chiefs of Staff of both
countries, recommendations were
made which led to the acceptance
by Canada of the responsibility
for financing, constructing and
operating the mid-Canada-line,
while the United States under-
took to construct the DEW-line,
with Canada contributing such
resources and assistance as could
be made available. The United
States also became Responsible
for the seaward extension down
each flank of the continent.
“Coming to the mid-Canada-
line itself, this line is being con-
structed roughly along the 55th
Parallel and is a job of magni-
tude, fraught with great diffi-
culties and new problems and
accompanied by a good deal of
hardship and discomfort.
“In establishing these pro-
tective and early-warning lines
to meet the threat of thermo-
nuclear war, we are rolling back
tbe ma P Canada more rapidly
and to F a far greater degree than
our people realise. We are
pioneering the unknown. We are
opening-up the Canadian North
“As the job progresses, many
of the unknowns which made
the sub-Arctic so forbidding to
all but the most venturesome are
steadfiy d^ lled Q
ques required . sue-
sub-Arctic are becoming known
ing its air of mystery and haunt-
ing f ear .
“An approximate idea of the
scope of ffie job may be formed
from the fact that early this year
it was estimated that about
$l7O-milhon would be required
to provide the basic elements
for getting the line into opera-
tion. That ts enough money to
build brand-new modern housing
along one side of a street well
over 100 miles long. Over 1200
men were at work on the line
spon after it started ; and, as the
project goes forward, thousands
of others are being employed
across the country in workshops
and in industrial- and electronic-
plants.
“Technically the mid-Canada-
line consists of a series of unit
detection- and warning-stations
with main stations at appropriate
intervals extending from the
Labrador coast westward.”
After listing some of the con-
siderable difficulties encountered,
the Minister said the building of
foundation; in the North also had
its special problems: “In some
areas ideal bases for buildings
are provided by solid plateaus of
ancient rodk of the pre-
Cambrian-age. In other areas,
where the top-soil is deep and
subject to intease freeze-up and
prolonged thawing, ordinary
foundation - construction pro-
cedure would he entirely in-
effective.
“In such areas it has been
found that pile-construction
must be used. The piles are sunk
in holes made deep into the
permafrost by high-pressure
steam-jdts.
“Some of the construction-
obstacles are less technical. At
one of the locations in the Hud-
son’s Bay region last August a
field-party found so mariy polar-
bears occupying the site that
work could not be safely under-
taken and had to be postponed
for a time.”
Automation
Commenting on a Detroit
(U.S.A.) radio-poll which sug-
gested that American people
were almost as worried about
automation as about Russia,
London “Economist” notes that
“for American labor, particu-
larly in its more enlightened
moods, automation is a crucial
dilemma”:
“Local unemployment and
the obsolescence of traditional
skills are bound to come with
the age of electronic factories.
Labor leaders realise, moreover,
that their own wage-claims are
forcing industry to put a high
premium on every kind of labor-
saving device. Simultaneously,
however, union chiefs, such as
Mr. Walter Reuther, know that
automation is inevitable and are
seeking to approach it with the
sympathetic attitude towards
technological improvement that
has paid organised labor such
good dividends in the past.
“What they are seeking to do
is to assure labor’s rightful share
in any increase in productivity
and to educate both the Govern-
ment and employers to the
economic and human responsi-
bilities that will come with the
new industrial age.”
One U.S. labor approach to
the problem is to move for a
shorter working - week. As
“U.S. News and World Report”
puts it, “The word ‘automation,’
so new to the English language
that it can’t be found in last
year’s dictionary, is causing a
stir in the business-world”:
“Unions are wondering how
many workers will be displaced
by this trend toward more use
of automatic machines. Em-
ployers, always eager to increase
efficiency, are grabbing the new
time-saving devices as fast as
they are turned out.
“A clfte to the effect that auto-
mation is having on union think-
ing has just come to light in
testimony before a subcommittee
of the Joint Economic Com-
mittee of Congress. Employers
are put on notice by this testi-
mony that the time is not far off
when unions will be demanding,
and really pushing for, a work-
week considerably shorter than
the 40 hours that is now the
standard.
“The start toward this goal
will be gradual. At first unions
are • expected to be willing to
settle for 37 or 38 hours. Some
unions are talking in such terms
now, and a few already have
achieved work-weeks of 35 to
37 hours in some plants where
they have contracts.
“This process of chipping
away at the 40-hour-week is to
continue for several years,
union leaders believe. A few
more unions probably- will be
able, in that period, to get their
industries to shorten the work-
week.
“Labor-union officials expect
the unions to move to the 30-
hour goal by stages, but there is
no doubt about one thing:
Unions will demand that
workers receive the same weekly
pay which they now get for 40
hours, regardless of the cut in
schedules. It will be easier to
do this if small ‘bites’ are taken
in hours.”
Scientists Needed
The warning by Lewis L.
Strauss, chairman of the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission,
that Russia could outstrip the
U.S. in scientists and engineers
within 10 years moved “New
York Times” to comment that
“the situation is indeed alarm-
ing” :
“Between 1928 and 1954 the
Soviet Union graduated some
682,000 professional engineers
and the United States 480,000.
In agriculture in the same
period there were 244,000 Soviet
graduates, but only 133,000 in
the United States. In medicine
the disparity is even more
marked 320,000 against
148,000.”
In another comment on
Strauss’s report, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” says “He gave
warning that, between 1950 and
1960, Russia was expected to
produce 1,200,000 and America
only 900,000 of these essential
workers. This has a familiar
sound, for most features of the
domestic situation mentioned by
Mr. Strauss are paralleled in
Britain, but it is also alarming
news, because the U.S. techni-
cal and scientific lead remains a
decisive makeweight cancelling-
out huge Communist resources
of manpower.
“The success of [Russia’s]
training-programme so far is a
good example of the advantage
a totalitarian State enjoys over
a democratic one in organising
human resources for a material
purpose.
“A huge task faces the [U.K.]
Government. It must somehow,
by a free system of incentives,
ensure that all our most essential
needs are met, that skills are
used to the greatest advantage,
and that the teaching-problem
will be overcome.
“Dwarfing all these difficulties
is the question of the pupil’s
willingness to study scientific
subjects, which may well be
undermined by a growing
awareness that material mastery
is not enough. It has rightly
been insisted that the new de-
velopment must not be achieved
at the expense of culture in
general. The alternative would
be to ‘humanise’ science, to pre-
sent it within the wider context
of knowledge and reduce the
mental isolation of the young
scientist.”


Thai Airways
Vang
QANTAS
to V'^ es
Air-lndia International
Slick Airways
WORLD’S FINEST AIRLINER IS SERVING
Australia
LOCKHEED,
///tel
EOUEIAy
The latest in a line of great Lockheed transports, the 1049 G version of the
Super Constellation is serving Australia. Enjoy the quiet comfort, speed
and luxury of the largest, roomiest airliner in the world. 20 great world
airlines now fly Super Constellations over connecting routes which cross
every ocean and span every Continent.
For your future enjoyment,' watch for the Super Consteflation/1649 A
with its revolutionary high-speed, long-range wing. It will
go into service as a companion to the 1049 Gto carry
further Lockheed’s tradition of leadership*
LOCKHEED Aircraft Corporation • Burbank • California • U. S. A.
Qantas Empire Airways and KLM
afford Super Constellation service to 5 Continents from Australia
Hr
W
.Northwest Orient Airlines
%
Seaboard & Western ste:n to 88
Flying Tiger Line
£
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN ALAN BRADBERY of Syd-
ney New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that PHYLLIS JEAN BRADBERY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4262 of
1955 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend , you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Ist day of March 1956
and obtain a copy of this Petition with-
out charge from E. WILSHIRE WEBB,
Solicitor, of 4 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN PATRICK COLLINS.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELYA AILEEN COLLINS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3288 of 1955 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three (3) years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 21st
day of February 1956 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO., Solicitors,
of 90 Pitt Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLYDE RICHARD BATTYE late of
5 Chatham Road Cheswick South Aus-
tralia. —TAKE NOTICE that FLORA
LILLIAN BATTYE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3585 of 1955 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry. Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 21st day of February 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from K. BRUDENELL-
WOODS & CO., Solicitors, of 90 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO:..
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
{NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas , unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £l/16/-; 6 months 18/6; 3 months 9/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to “The Bulletin ’’ or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Sphinx of
Eaglehawk and Canvastown, by
“Rolf Boldrewood.” —6234.
Words of poem (possibly called
“Moonbi Ranges”) beginning:
Little bush-maiden, wondering-eyed,
Playing alone on the creek-bed dry,
A small green flat on every side,
Walled-in by the Moonbi Ranges high.
—6235.
Information Sought
What way Mr. Lang’s accusa-
tion against Mr. Chifley at the
1949 elections re his financial
investments ?
On Dec. 6, 1949, firstly in a
national broadcast and then at an
election meeting, he stated that
between February, 1930, and April,
1942, Mr. and Mrs. Chifley had lent
on mortgage a total amount of
£15,000, and that the rates of interest
charged were as high as 9 per cent.
There were 24 loans involved, of
amounts up to £lOOO, and Mr. Lang
gave details taken from the Registrar-
General’s records. Mr. Chifley’s
reply was that all the money, with
the exception of a few hundred
pounds, was money entrusted to him
for investment or money from trust-
funds of which he was executor; also,
that he himself had never received
anything for these services. Still,
these transactions, even though it
was trust-money involved, were in-
consistent in the extreme with his
attacks on the banks for alleged
high-interest charges.
* * * *
Easy method of rendering gauges
(measurements of metal thicknesses )
into millimetres, and vice versa?
No easy, direct method. A
conversion-table from millimetres to
inches is necessary. It is further
complicated by there being many
different wire and sheetmetal gauging-
systems, some American, some British.
Also, there is considerable variation
in the use of different gauges; for
example, a gauge ordinarily used for
copper, brass and other non-ferrous
materials is at times used for steel,
and vice versa. Gauge-sizes, indicated
by numbers (No. 20, No. 24, etc.),
are measured in inches. The
American Machinery’s Handbook
says, “Much confusion has resulted
from the use of gauge-numbers, and
in ordering materials it is preferable
to give the exact dimensions in
decimal fractions of an inch.” In
Australia this applies to the ordering
of electrical wire, but it is common
practice still to order sheet-iron,
galvanised-iron, etc., in gauges.
Here are one or two gauge-millimetre-
inches comparisons taken at random
—No. 20 gauge, 0.036 in. (Imperial
Standard), = 0.914 mm.; 0.0319 in.
(Brown and Sharpe), = 0.811 mm.;
No. 24 gauge, 0.022 in. (Imperial
Standard), = 0.558 mm.; 0.02476 in.
(Birmingham Sheet and Hoop), =
0.628 mm.
* * * *
Did Australia send a naval con-
tingent to China during the Boxer
war ?
Yes. In June, 1900, Sir William
Lyne, the N.S.W. Premier, received a
cable from the British Colonial Office
suggesting that vessels of *the Aus-
tralian squadron should be sent to
China. Lyne agreed, and also offered
a naval-brigade contingent intended
for South Africa. Accordingly, the
Wallaroo left Port Jackson for China
on July 2, 1900, with the naval con-
tingent (260 men from N.S.W. under
Captain Francis Hixson, R.N., and
200 from Victoria under Captain
Tickell, R.N.) following in the liner
Salamis from Sydney on August 8.
The South Australian Government
offered the Protector, which left
Sydney on August 11 with 96 officers
and men under Captain Creswell, of
the S.A. naval forces. The N.S.W.
contingent, after being kept some
time in Tientsin, wintered in Peking;
in January, 1901, a small party under
Lieutenant Spain destroyed a Boxer-
held temple. The Victorian con-
tingent remained at Tientsin, where
their police-work proved so valuable
that they were retained there longer
than originally provided for. A
detachment was also sent with
General Ballond to capture Pao-
ting-fu. The whole Australian con-
tingent, which arrived back in Sydney
in April, 1901, received high praise
for smart, soldierly bearing, good
conduct and efficient police-work.
* * * *
Description of (1) the Australian
coat-oj-arms, (2) the N.S.W. coat-of-
arms ?
(1) The Australian arms consist of
a shield bordered with ermine, con-
taining, six divisions pale-wise, the
badges of the six States. On a
wreath of gold and blue there is for
crest a seven-pointed gold star, and
for supporters a kangaroo arid an
emu, both proper. At the base and
round the lower part of the
supporters and shield is a mass of
wattle, with the word “Australia.”
The arms were granted to the Com-
monwealth by George V on Septem-
ber 19, 1912, slightly amending the
arms granted by Edward VII on
May 7, 1908. (2) Azure, a cross
argent voided gules, charged in the
centre chief point with a lion passant
guardant, and on each member with
a mullet of eight points, or; between
in the first and fourth quarters a
fleece of the last banded of the
second, and in the second and third
quarters a garb, also or; for the
crest, on a wreath of the colors, a
rising sun, each ray tagged with a
flame of fire proper; for supporters,
on the dexter side a lion rampant
guardant, and sinister a kangaroo,
both or, with the motto “Orta Recens
Quam Pura Nites” (Newly arisen, how
bright thou shinest). The arms were
granted by Edward VII on October
11, 1906.
Brief Answers
1.H.: (1) It appears that Dr.
Woolnough’s report on the iron-ore
deposits of Australia has never
actually been published, and the only
copies existing are those held by the
various Government departments, so
it is unlikely that you would be able
to obtain a copy of it. A reasonably
good resumd of the iron-ore position
in Australia is given in a recent
bulletin issued by the South Aus-
tralian Mines Department, entitled
“The Geology and Iron Ore
Resources of the Middleback Range
Area,” by K. R. Miles. Copies of
this publication could be obtained
from the Department of Mines, South
Australia. (2) Land in the Hundred
of Goyder, Northern Territory, was
compulsorily acquired by the Com-
monwealth in 1952 for the purposes
of the Rum Jungle uranium-project.
Inquiries regarding land so acquired
should be addressed to The Secretary,
Australian Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, Box 5343, G.P.0., Sydney
H.8.H.: (1) Information on the
availability of land in Papua and
New Guinea is obtainable from the
Director of Lands, Mines and
Surveys. (2) The queries raised on
taxation can only be answered by
taxation-officials in Australia. There
is no direct taxation on earnings in
the Territory of Papua and New
Guinea... .J.K.E.: Write N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, Farrer-
place, Sydney, for pamphlets
“Papaw Culture,” by R. G. Kebby,
and “Propagation of Fruit Trees,”
by G. C. Whittaker, J. D. Bryden
and E. C. Louitt J. 8.: Seedlings
of the carob-bean ( Ceratonia
siliqua) may be obtained from the
N.S.W. Forestry Commission, 44
Margaret-street, Sydney, and in-
formation on the plant’s cultivation
may also be obtained from the same
source. The fruit of this species is
sometimes known as the Algaroba.
Prosopis alba, the “Algarroba
bianco” of the Argentine, is not
available in N.S.W. as far as we
know, though inquiries may be made
through the Department of Agricul-
ture and Stock, Brisbane E.H.J.
and A.C.: Write Commonwealth
Experimental Building Station,
Delhi-road, North Ryde (N.S.W.).
X.D.: (1) Casualties in the
Battle of Britain (Aug.-Oct., 1940)
were—during daylight, 1700 killed,
3360 seriously injured; at night,
12,581 killed, 16,965 seriously
injured. Total civilian losses (killed,
or missing, believed killed) in Britain
for the whole war were 60,585. (2)
No information, but seems very
improbable. (3) Life of Cardinal
York, by B. W. Kelly; Last of the
Royal Stuarts, by H. M. Vaughan;
Henry Stuart, Cardinal York and His'
Times, by A. Shield; and The Royal
Stuarts, by T. F. Henderson....
R.L.A.: Eric Partridge’s address is
15 The Woodlands, Southgate,
London, N. 14.... J.G.: The sun rises
north-of-east in the winter and sets
north-of-west;' in the summer it rises
south-of-east and sets south-of-west.
P.H.M.: “Meanjin,” University
of Melbourne, Carlton, N. 3, Victoria ;
subscription, £1 10s. p.a A.McH. :
A photograph of Dingley Dell, near
Port McDonnell (S.A.), the cottage
in which Adam Lindsay Gordon lived
after his marriage in 1862, will be
found in “The Lone Hand” for
October, 1912.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.J.A.; Such neat handwriting is
always a pleasure to read, but the
verse is not up to the mark T.J.:
“The House in the Swamp” is too
full of gloom, fog, frogs and dying
old men.... D.G.: “Under a Custard-
apple-tree” was a promising title for
a poem, but you disappoint expecta-
tions by not finding a rhyme for
custard-apple... .L.F.: The Bulletin
looks askance at skeletons, and
publishes them only in a frivolous
and cheerful mood E.H.W.:
Good heavens ! There seems to be
no limit to the folly of female
Scripture-teachers when let loose in
a beer-garden... .H.B 1 .: The only
welcome phrase in your yarn was
“The End” L.M.: Just a sermon,
and a dull one at that C.8.A.:
Deficient in inspiration and postage.
L.E.: What is it: a short-story
or a testimonial for a cure for bald-
ness? ... .R.W.S.: Showed “The Way
Out” the way-out... .J.M.A.: We
are still a little misty-eyed:
Love me, Petal, love me only;
Leave me not to fret and pine.
At the pub, I’m sad and lonely,
Drinking aloes with my wine.
L.B.S.: Still blinded by the
opening-sentence: “Flash Jim was on
his feet in a flash, his flashing eyes
flashing with anger” F.P.: Thanks
for the warning. It prevented us
from marrying our c00k... .A.McG.:
“Enclosed please find three stories.
You are welcome to read them
without feeling under the slightest
obligation to purchase all or any of
them.” Never in our long history
have we experienced such extra-
ordinary consideration... .P.R.L.:
We soon got rid of those bodgies
and widgies M.C.W.:
Bullocky Bill’s a bosker bloke.
Always ready to share a smoke,
Or lend you his wall-eyed moke.
Bill’s a bloke that likes a joke ;
One day he saw a big mopoke
Nesting in an old she-oak,
Croaking “Croak! Croak! Croak!”
Said Bill: “ ’Twould make you choke,
Or, perhaps, have a nasty stroke,
Or become an awful old soak,
To listen to that ‘Croak! Croak!”’
So Bill decided to
That will be quite enough, thank
you M.E.8.: Turned the hose on
the first of this summer’s busbfire-
yarns T.R.: That plot might have
come from a penny-in-the-slot
machine... .G.8.H.: “The Girl He
Left Behind” is now weeping in the
basket D.M.: Obviously, you’re
a Sydneysider. No one else would
use the phrase “shot-through like a
Bondi tram” a dozen times in one
short-story... .K.G.: Well, it was a
comfort to learn that Ralph’s inten-
tions were honorable B.B.: Don’t
want poem beginning:
“ ’Tis Summer ! ’Tis Summer!”
Cried the mad drummer.
“ ’Tis a hummer ! ’Tis a hummer!
Is Summer, is Summer.”


The first reason why you should buy
Ampol Tractor Fuels is that they are
the finest available to you.
The other 35,000 reasons are all good
Australians like yourself, your friends,
your neighbours ... the people who own
and control this all-Australian Company.
Your support may help to develop what
could be Australia’s greatest asset . . .
our own self-contained oil industry.
When you buy Ampol Tractor Fuels you
buy the best —and buy Australian,
Use
AMPUL
FUELS & FARM
LUBRICANTS
Ampol Distillate, Power Keroslne, Lighting Kero-
sine, Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants offer
you your complete petroleum
needs. Available in drums or
economical bulk x deliveries to
special overhead equipment.
You’ll find your local Ampol
jjl agent a great fellow
to do business withl
"top
JD1.30
Here's 35m and 1
reasons wf>y yon
shou/dtwy
flmpot
Hi
in
11
says JACK
DAVEY
"Listen to Jack Davey In ths
Ampol Show every Friday, through
Macquarie Broadcasting Service.**
USTRALIAN
BUY AUSTRALIAN • BUY
AMPOL
long distances, but these sec-
tions, unfortunately, are inter-
rupted by unannounced, un-
expected and therefore highly
dangerous stretches of potholed
or unsealed pavement. Some-
times there is a notice “Road
under Repair” which, more
often than not, should read
“Road in Chronic Disrepair.”
All States and the Federal
Government will have to rouse
themselves from their present
lethargy and remedy this
deplorable fault. The sudden
change from a perfect surface to
a homicidally bad one is particu-
larly noticeable in Victoria and
South Australia, both of which
possess apparently endless miles
of straights which lull the
motoring stranger into a false
sense of security.
Another hazard, which should
not exist on any “highway,” is
the narrowness and rough edges
of the bitumen-bind. The one-
car-wide seal on the Murray
Valley Highway, monopolised as
it is by heavy coaches or semi-
trailers, is an invitation to acci-
dent as the private motorist is
forced on to the treacherous soft
edge to avoid a head-on col-
lision, or when he wishes to pass.
(c) Australian Pubs. Most of
the “hotels” which the traveller
has to endure on the mainland
(including those in the larger
towns) are unworthy of the
name. Tourist accommodation
in them is merely a legal neces-
sity and is a very unwelcome
adjunct to a beer - licence.
Charges in relation to services
rendered are, in the majority of
cases, exorbitant. There are
exceptions, of course, and I
remember with gratitude one in
Melbourne and one in Adelaide.
Both were unlicensed!
In one large hotel in a size-
able inland town, the bed-spring
was broken, the mattress was
lumpy, the wallpaper ,was
stained and the very-badly-worn
carpet filthy. On the ground-
floor, however, the tiled bars
were scrupulously clean and the
chromium glittered. The menu
included a magnificent array of
dishes, but all the joints, except
roast mutton, were “off.” I
doubt if they ever appeared,
except in print. Fish was obtain-
able at extra cost, but it was not
worth eating. The charge for
dinner and breakfast and a
shared bedroom was 38s.
In another hotel, in the same
price-bracket, the bedroom was
clean and the food good, but
the dining-room was being
painted with a particularly
smelly paint, and the operation
continued throughout the even-
ing meal.
At a third hotel the accommo-
dation offered was so bad and
unclean that, having taken one
look at the room, I decided to
try the only other inn in the
town. With difficulty I retrieved
the key-deposit money and was
fortunate enough to secure a
“left-over” room, not required
by a tourist-coach party. I
accepted it gladly as dusk had
fallen and it was raining.
Just imagine how people
accustomed to European or U.S.
accommodation —at least out-
side the hillbilly areas —will react
to such conditions, even where
good wine is offered as a solace,
which it is not —at present.
-team all featured in the opera-
(ions but 200 000 sheep were
eventually shorn in 12 P weeks.
S U £dJSZr&on. whose
tain “me dangeT U came a w
Sh at one sttgfta the pro-
There is still a great deal to
be written about the effect of
McCaughey’s pioneering m
machine-shearing in producing
the age of industrial unrest, on
the edge of which the pastoral
industry was sitting in 1888.
. .
Meanwhile, McCaughey h
acquired °fher Wilson proper-
ties, including Coree which
passed on to his brother Davi
in 1885 four years after he had
acquired it. David, whom ne
had brought out in 18/4, was tne
lather or Roy, the nusDanalo
the author of Samuels bio-
graphy, and now the sole heir
to the enterprise and of the for-
ward-looking qualities of the
McCaughey family a man
whose name is becoming almost
as much a legend among cattle-
and shee p-b reeders and
property-improvers as that of his
uncle in an earlier day.
. At various tunes in his life
Sam McCaughey was owner or
part-owner of 12 great stations
in N. S. Wales and three in
Queensland—Coonong, Dunlop,
Toorale, North Yanco, Fort
Bourke, Nocoleche, Rockwood,
Barenya, Bonus Downs.
His holdings at the peak were
enormous. Four of them ran
for 280 miles along the Darling
banks, and the Wanaaring-road
snaked through them for 127
miles. One fence ran through
Dunlop and Nocoleche for 90
miles on end.
Samuel McCaughey left his
mark on every one of these
holdings. His coming to a dis-
trict invariably marked a gen-
eral spurt of progress: the in-
troduction of irrigation, followed
by lucerne and wheat or sorg-
hum, even in supposedly arid
non-agricultural areas ; Rhodes-
grass from South Africa, straw-
berries from Devon, bananas
from the tropics—and all this
on "faU couggyig*
water was produced in the Shape
of destructive floods from higher
up across the border
He was utterly tireless, and as
his wealth increased so did the
breadth of his vision and the
expensiwmess oi ms ventures
m experiment, corny uim
of Vermont sneep are parv uiuic
filun m ke irrigation a
grim fight to make irrigation a
permanent feature of the N S.
Wales landscape, which involved
many legal actions' about water-
rights, is another tale of nationa
significance.
His great y anco project be-
gan ag far back as iB6O. It was
tben tbat be and s amue l Wilson
started t be Yanco cutting which
enab j ed tbe wa ters of the Mur-
mmbidgee to flow into Yanco
creek j n tbat ma tter he and his
- deag won The pioneer of the
- dea Q £ bacteriological control
tbe ra bbit, he lived too early
tQ S££ m y X omatosis succeed —
p asteur » s men were daunted by
his proposals.
His i n fl uen ce on legislation
a g ecdn g the land was great
a £ ter b j s f r j end George Reid
bad j n ducted him into the Legis-
j at j ve Council. He was strongly
behind Robert Gibson’s bill to
p rov j de f or the building of the
Burrinjuck Dam, at a cost of
£300,000, which it was proposed
they should accomplish by
private enterprise. He saw the
dam started and water made
available to the Murrimbidgee
Irrigation areas in 1917 before
he died. Today the dam has a
greater storage-capacity than
Sydney Harbor.
It was a day of celebration for
the Riverina men when, during
the Sydney Sheep Show in the
winter of 1905, McCaughey was
knighted. He had just won the
Merino ewe grand championship,
along with the strong-wool
championship. All his friends
took a day off to fete him in the
Orient Company’s launch on
Middle Harbor.
But knighthood did not stop
him working, and the Irishman
who told him that a sheep and
shovel would be the right
emblems for his coat-of-arms
had reason on his side. The
only tendency towards slacken-
ing-up was a little more attention
to sport—he played billiards
occasionally and was keen on
boxing.
As he aged he sensibly parted
with his properties to men whom
he knew would carry on his
work, his last sale being that of
his first-owned and best-beloved
Coonong. This he disposed of
in 1919 a month before his
death, and after he had held it
for 59 years—to his 21-year-old
nephew David Roy McCaughey,
who had just returned from
World War I. D.R. still owns
it, and it is one of Australia’s
pastoral-domestic show-pieces.
Samuel McCaughey was one
of Australia’s greatest bene-
factors: distribution of bequests
under his will to churches,
charities and educational founda-
tiorfs totalled £1,500,000. No
fewer than 21,500 soldiers’ and
sailors’ children have been
helped by his great bequest of
£458,000 for the benefit of their
education —by 1960, when the
trust will end, it will have dis-
tributed £BBO,OOO.
He left £458,000 to Sydney
University and £228,000 to
Queensland University. Six Syd-
ney schools benefited —£10,000
each —along with seven hospitals
and the Burnside Homes. His
private bequests were only
£227,000.
The family, sons of his
brother young David
McCaughey and his • brother
Samuel have since added
to their uncle’s benefac-
tions by giving Coree, 24,000
acres in the Riverina, to be used
as a Pastoral Research and
Training Institute and known as
the McCaughey Institute, as a
memorial to Lieutenant Samuel
Michael McCaughey and Air-
Gunner David Leslie Macpher-
son, the original Samuel’s grand-
nephews, who were killed in
World War 11. It has begun to
function under a trust and an
advisory committee linked with
Sydney University and is being
developed to carry sheep and
beef-cattle and provide practical
and scientific training for students
of the pastoral sciences—it is
hoped ultimately at a post-
graduate level.
Mrs. McCaughey’s rendering
of the family saga is concise and
well written, and free of ex-
traneous matter and opinion.
Apart from its value as a record
it makes good reading for the
intrinsic merit of its story.


SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
m
m
HI
m
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply*
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street* Sydney
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore:
N.Z.:
N. Guinea :
'DISTRIBUTORS'
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St.. Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 116 Wickham St.. The Valley,
Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., C.M.L. Building, King
William Street, Adelaide.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (W.A.), 349 William St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania. *
S’ ® ee Jee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin,
wf eni T Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
Giobal Agencies, James Building, Cuthbertson St., Port Moresby.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS ."
PLEURO.
(CONTAGIOUS pleuro-
pneumonia came to Aus-
tralia in 1858, with the importa-
tion of a small shipment of
cattle into Victoria. It spread
and killed. Within 15 years of
the first outbreak it had
accounted for some one-and-a-
half-million cattle.
By 1864 pleuro. had appeared
in the far north of Australia,
where it did a good deal of
damage. There, because of the
difficulty of control on large
holdings, pleuro. is, next to
cattle-tick and its associated
fevers, the greatest cause of loss.
Infected cattle come south, of
course, and spread the trouble.
There have been cases in New
South Wales this year. When it
gets in a dairying district, losses
can be serious before the out-
break is controlled. Tasmania
is the only State which is really
free from pleuro.
However, the point is that it
can be controlled—that is, the
pleuro. can be prevented from
spreading—in the more manage-
able districts of the south A
point made effectively in an
excellent article on contagious
pleuropneumonia in '•Rural Re-
search,” a C.5.1.R.0. nublica-
ti on
.
The chsease .s mcurable and
is difficult, if not impossible, to
control m the northern cattle-
country. But, although losses
are severe, they are not usually
spread over a large area. Pleuro.
is, apparently, only spread by
There is a far greater
risk of fly strike when
lambs have been
marked and tailed
with a knife than if
Elastrator Rubber
Rings have been used.
The blood from a
knife wound is an
irresistible attraction
to blowflies and strike
will frequently follow,
despite all precau-
tions. The Elastrator
Rubber Ring method,
on the other hand, is
bloodless thus offering
little attraction to
blowflies.
cattle. Buffaloes and similar
animals are very rarely, if ever,
infected. Sheep and goats may
get local infections after sub-
cutaneous injection, but the
C.5.1.R.0. Division of Animal
Health has been unable to
demonstrate that these animals
become infected naturally.
In the hot, dry northern
climate the organism doesn’t
live long outside the body of
the animal. And a beast must
inhale a comparatively large
dose of the organism before the
disease will develop. t
Under natural conditions in-
fection only occurs, apparently,
when a susceptible animal is
standing within a few feet of
a diseased beast when it coughs.
Air-currents may occasionally
transmit the infection over
greater distances. “However, in
the vast north, where cattle
rarely congregate in mobs, close
contact is infrequent, except, of
course, at watering-places and
during mustering. But even
then, as this work is carried out
in the dry season, opportunity
for spreading the disease is rela-
tively slight. In southern Aus-
tralia, on the contrary, once an
outbreak begins, conditions
favor the rapid spread of the
disease, especially through
dairy-herds.”
C.5.1.R.0. officers who have
studied the disease in Queens-
land report that approximately
25 per cent, of the cattle in that
State may be naturally resistant
to pleuro.
There are other features of
the disease, however, which are
not so comforting from the
point of view of control.
There is the chronic case—an
animal with lesions walled-off in
its lungs, which appears to be
quite healthy. These lesions,
which contain the live organ-
isms, may break down, and the
disease then spreads among sus-
ceptible cattle. An understand-
ing of the part played by
chronic cases in spreading
pleuro. might prevent many a
southern owner from buying
cheap” cattle from unknown
parts.
' Then there is the sub-acute,
or symptomless, case, which
cannot be detected, or which is
easily passed over in routine
examinations.’ Although vets
suspected that such cases
occurred, they did not realise
how frequently until 1936, when
a thorough study of the course
of the disease in the field was
made. Sensitive diagnostic aids
revealed that almost half the
animals infected had such a
mild form of the disease that
it was difficult, or impossible,
to recognise it clinically.
Pleuropneumonia may have a
long incubation period ; another
factor which favors its spread.
During the tests mentioned, it
was found that, on the average,
cattle were in the herd four
months before they showed
evidence of infection; although
the period might be as short as
a month or as long as eight
months. There is no way of
detecting the infection during
this interval. **
The acute case is a particular
menace, as a badly - affected
animal coughs frequently, and
there may be a large amount of
highly-contaminated bronchial
discharge over 100-million
viable organisms may occur in
every millilitre of this material.
About 30 per cent, of animals
affected develop an acute form
of the disease.
There are two main methods
of control. By slaughtering all
active cases and “carriers” and
by protective vaccination. For
the first a reliable diagnostic
test is necessary, and this must
be applied to each animal indi-
vidually. The method is obvi-
ously impracticable when there
are many cattle, on big, un-
fenced properties, and wlien it
is impossible to make clean
musters: carriers left behind
will obviously start the trouble
again. But this method can be
carried out quite efficiently in
southern Australia.
If it were possible to vac-
cinate all cattle in Australia the
disease would die out. Where
close supervision and blood-test-
ing are impracticable as is the
case in districts where the disease
has become firmly established,
C.5.1.R.0. recommends regular
vaccination-—say, at weaning.
For many years contagious
pleuropneumonia could only be
diagnosed by symptoms such as
increased body - temperature,
the characteristic slight cough,
labored breathing, and so on.
The procedure then was to
slaughter either all obviously
affected cattle, or both these and
all “in-contact” cattle. The last
gave control, but it was expen-
sive.
Killing only the sick animals
failed for the reasons already
mentioned—the chronic case, the
sub-acute case, and the long
incubation period. Efforts were
made to find a reliable blood-test.
Dr. G. G. Heslop, working at
the Melbourne University Veter-
inary Research Institute in the
early 1920’5, found that simple
agglutination could be used to
detect diseased animals, and
that a more intricate serological
test the complement-fixation
(C.F.) test —could differentiate
between infected and non-
infected animals.
After a series of researches,
C.5.1.R.0. workers simplified and
improved the C.F. test, which is
now a sensitive and thoroughly
reliable diagnostic aid.
These workers also outlined
proposals for the use of the
complement-fixing reaction in
conditions varying from small
dairyfarms to big northern
leases. The C.F. test has been
used by veterinarians in different
States and overseas (notably in
Kenya, Nigeria and Sudan) for
discovering “carriers” which can-
not be detected by ordinary
examination. It has also proved
invaluable in research.
But the complement-fixation
test, although very valuable, is
not easy to apply to a large
number of animals. It entails
careful labelling of samples, a
well-appointed laboratory, and
a high degree of technical skill.
And it takes a lot of time.
Fairly recently C.5.1.R.0.
officers developed a relatively
simple and rapid test for use in
the field. It is known as the
rapid whole-blood agglutination
test. A drop of blood is mixed
on a glass slide with one drop
of colored concentrated antigen.
If the animal is infected, the
antigen flocculates into aggre-
gates within two minutes.
The test is not nearly as accu-
rate as the C.F. reaction, and is
not as satisfactory for detecting
chronic cases, but it has great ad-
vantage for screening cattle
quickly. The stock-inspector
can pick out and destroy imme-
diately a high proportion of
affected beasts which are not
showing any clinical signs of
the disease. Spread of the disease
in the herd can be checked. The
test also permits rapid diagnosis
of a herd in a district. In both
respects, the tests were very use-
ful during the 1952-53 pleuro.
outbreak in Victoria.
Vaccination for pleuro.-im-
munisation was first used in
Belgium about the middle of
last century. Copious pleuritic
exudate containing large num-
bers of the causative organism
gathers in the chest-cavity of
sick animals. This “natural
virus” was collected and animals
were vaccinated by injection into
the tip of the tail. The method
was introduced to Australia in
1860. .
In 1931 a culture-medium
known as BVF-OS, which made
it possible to produce a stand-
ardised laboratory-culture vac-
cine, was developed here. Unlike
the natural virus, this vaccine
could be prepared in quantity,
stored, and would not transmit
other diseases. More than eight-
million cattle have been protec-
tively vaccinated at a cost of
about 3d. a head. Injections are
usually done by Government
veterinary-officers, but in more
remote districts graziers do the
job themselves. The vaccine is
prepared in the C.5.1.R.0.
Animal Health laboratories at
Parkville, Melbourne, and stocks
are kept at Alice Springs, Towns-
ville, Brisbane and Sydney.
Some samples have retained
their potency for five months
under field-conditions: however,
the general recommendation is
that vaccines older than two
months shouldn’t be used.
Vaccination - does not, of
course, cure the chronic case, or
prevent animals already in the
incubation-stage from developing
the disease. And about 3 per
cent, of vaccinated animals are
still susceptible. But the grea
majority (about 97 per cent.) are
satisfactorily immunised. Im
munity develops surprisingly
quickly only four days after
vaccination most cattle will with
stand the disease —and immunity
probably lasts over the useful life
of the animal. Yearly vaccina
tion does not increase the
resistance of individual animals
Stock Experiments
“Narellan”: Current work by
Melbourne University’s animal-
husbandry research-team indi-
cates that heavy hand-feeding of
the beef breeding-herd is more
likely to put fat on the cows’
backs than to benefit their calves
much' It seems to be a better
proposition to feed the cows
just enough to make planned
weight-gains than to waste extra
feed on fat.
But, as yet, no definite con-
clusion can be drawn from these
experiments, which are still in
progress ; with the same neces-
sary qualification, experiments
suggest that autumn-bom calves
are more likely to do well under
southern conditions than are
spring calves.
Another “maybe”—indicated,
but not yet proved is that
autumn-saved pasture is more
valuable for beef-weaners than
for the lactating herd with
vealers at foot.
Among the sheep, experiments
indicate that really good feed
should be saved for lambs at
foot, rather than over-used in
late pregnancy, when the chief
requirement is to feed well
enough to prevent “twin-lamb”
disease. Also, a good assessment
of lamb-carcass quality can be
made by measuring the length of
the hind-leg, the depth of chest,
and the thickness of flank and
loin.
It will be interesting to see
how far present indications are
substantiated in these and other
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/12/’55)
The heatwave conditions in the southern States are
further confirmation of the Single cycle, although a cool
period is likely between December 16 and December 18,
but followed by a further period of excessively hot tempera-
tures commencing about December 20, with the main
December rains occurring just after Christmas.
Heavy rains and widespread flooding should be
experienced in Queensland during January, although the
southern mid-interior may not benefit from these rains
until February.
Fairly heavy rains may also occur on the coast, table-
lands and part of the western division of New South Wales
during January, but elsewhere poor.
In Victoria, during January, good rains may occur in
the lower north-east and east Gippsland, with some moderate
rains in the central division. However, in the balance of
the State, rainfall should be deficient, and the inland areas
should be dry for the first few months.
Excellent rains are likely in the pastoral areas of South
Australia, but poor elsewhere. Some good falls may be
received in the Kimberleys of Western Australia, but poor
in the balance of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOBS A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
BOS,
Write or telephone your neartst
State Distributor for free particulars
and' for free demonstrations of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operattve Ltd.
46 Young St., Sydney. BU1611.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1661.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.
448 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2681.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
116 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Lie., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2496.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
14 Castlereagh St., Sydney
WUNDERLICH SINKS
outshine f them all
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store. Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
w-
• -'i
W
m
The NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
SINKS.
6252
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE
STORE
ebb
HIES
TRACTORS HDD HACHINB
CROPS MID TREES
m
WSmm
mm
Takes the hard work out of tyre pumping
and hand greasing . . . Saves enough time to
pay for itself quickly ... A QUALITY product
with the Mobilco 6 months' guarantee.
MOBILCO
COMBINATION 1L
COMPRESSOR-PUMP fits any
make of tractor
Pumping tyres was hard, but not with
the Mobilco Compressor ... Greasing
implements was hard (and you often
wasted time trying to push grease
through) ... but not with the Mobilco
Compressor and Grease Gun. They give
you POWER GREASING . . . And a
special pump conversion kit gives you a
handy boom or nozzle type water or
chemical spray as well. \
And you're buying quality a first class
article, built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months . . .
REMEMBER IT FITS ALL TRACTORS AND
ALL MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS.
aHs
’f/S'rl
/
y
V
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. TELEGRAMS: "MOBILCO , SYDNEY.
You will want to know more
about this handiest of farm aids.
Send the coupon now and you
will get a very prompt reply. Just
address it to Mobi/co, Mitcham,
Victoria.
POST THIS COUPON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me straight away, and without
obligation, all details of the MOBILCO
COMPRESSOR/PUMP.
Name,....
Address.
“ Which Way is it to the mushroom exhibition ?”
experiments in train when the
tests are completed and the
results are sorted out and pub-
lished.
Rats in Pineapples
“J.O ”: North Queensland
pineapple-growers, badly hit by
a cannery failure last year, but
happy at the prospect of deliver-
ing 51,000 cases to the new plant
at Cairns during the 1955-56
crop, have been perturbed at
the losses caused by rats in their
crops.
A large percentage of growers
are established in canefarming
areas, and the enemy is known
to breed amongst the sugarcane,
despite the regular baiting with
thallium-sulphate, which is a
routine practice among cane-
growers—the baits, from the
Pest Destruction Board, are paid
for by a per-ton levy on the
crop.
Preferring pineapples to cane,
the rats have moved into many
plantations, but an effective
measure of control can be gained
by using the following system.
Obtain loz. oil-of-aniseed,
ioz. oil-of-geranium and a
bottle of vanilla-essence. For
the first baiting place a rag
soaked in aniseed in a bag con-
taining bread broken to iin.
squares. At the same time place
thallium-baits in another tin
with a similar dose of lure.
Spread the bread-and-aniseed
through the crop and on head-
lands.
The rats take this “burley,”
and, as it has no ill-effect, will
take the thallium, similarly
treated, when it is spread a
couple* of days later.
The following week use the
same method, but change to
oil-of-geranium; and in the
third week use vanilla.
There’s a reason for this. The
rat is a sagacious beast. He’s
managed to hitch-hike his way
to every country in the world,
despite elaborate campaigns
against him. He’s intelligent
enough to roll an egg down a
flight of stairs without breaking
it, and he’s wise enough to sool
the younger members of the
tribe on to any new tucker, no
matter how succulent or tempt-
ing.
That’s the reason for the
“burley.” The young ones eat
the bread and lure without harm-
ful effects, and a couple of
nights later the whole tribe will
give it a go. If you’ve used
aniseed they won’t touch it
again for a week or so; which
is, of course, why you must
switch to geranium, then to
vanilla.
Spread the baits at 10yd.-
intervals in every third row of
the pines. A count over three
weeks has shown: Trior to bait-
ing, 50 per cent, bitten; after
first baiting, 20 per cent, bitten;
after second baiting, 3 per cent,
bitten.
Thallium-baits run at about
4s. a pound prepared. Aniseed
is 6s. an ounce and oilof-
geranium is 275. an ounce.
Vanilla you pinch from the
wife’s cupboard. Baiting ave»-
ages at about 30s. an acre, and
this has to be carried out a.V
least three times during the
cropping-season. It may appear
expensive, blit, with pines giving
15 tons at a minimum of £25 a
ton, it’s cheap insurance.
But keep at it and change your
lures —the rat won’t take the
same bait twice.
Late Silage
“Nilma”: Most silage in
Australia is cut early in the
season, when conditions are too
wet for haymaking especially
in southern districts.
In England some of the silage
is cut later in the season, after
extra grazing to delay maturity
and increase the clover-content.
Farmers there believe that so
long as the sward is cut before
it is mature, and can be made
into palatable silage, late-made
silage is just as good as that
made early in the season. _
It is claimed also that as much
food is recovered from grass
made into silage as when grazed.
Housing Pigs
“Bill C.”: Pigs are not very
tolerant of sudden weather-
changes ; they are easily upset
by extremes of either heat or
cold. Shelter-sheds of the mov-
able type are superior to the
fixed variety, which get damp
underneath. Place the sheds in
positions where they are not un-
duly exposed to draughty winds.
Many pig-troubles besides the
common ones of sore-throat,
pneumonia and colds are caused
by moist, chilly conditions.
Board- or thatch-roofs are
much cooler than tin-roofs for
sheds, and a depression in the
pen for filling with water in hot
weather is a great help. But,
even with these precautions, heat
sometimes knocks them out. In
such cases, move the victims to
a shady spot and sprinkle cold
water over their backs and
heads.
Crosscuts
“A.C.T.”: Director of Agri-
culture, Stock and Fisheries in
Papua and New Guinea told a
questioner in the Legislative
Council in Port Moresby that the
minimum and maximum blocks
for the main agricultural crops
of the Territory were: Coconuts,
600 acres, and 1000; cocoa, 150
and 250; coffee, 100 and 200;
all plus sufficient land for native
food-production, a timber-lot,
and waste-land.
* * *
A team of Ayrshires won the
Bledisloe Trophy—top English
award for dairy-breeds at the
London Dairy Show; Jerseys
were second, Red Polls third.
All entries were from attested
herds, and prizes were awarded
on conformation, on inspection,
and for the quantity of milk
and butter-fat produced in milk-
ing-trials.
Supreme champion dairy-cow
at the show was a Friesian —the
fifth of the breed to take the
supreme championship in post-
war years; reserve-champion was
another Friesian. The system at
the London show is for two of
the best cows froffi each of the
10 breeds on display to be
selected, on the basis of milk-
yield and appearance.
The emphasis on milk-yield in
the U.K. awards underlines a
criticism of the Australian
system of judging dairy-breeds
by type—that is, by appearance
—rather than by production: a
point made scores of times by
local critics, but recently
revived by the lively comments
of Professor Boutflour (U.K.
expert, and Principal of the
Royal Agricultural College,
Cirencester), who visited Aus-
tralia at the invitation of the
N.S.W. Milk Board.
A new electronic milking-
machine won an award at the
London Dairy Show. Quickest
milking-times come from uni-
f rvulsation a t the correct rate
m ? nute Once it was a 50-50
P • , t - . recent iy
( S considered
60, with a 75-25 ratio, gives the
fastest milking yet known. Fh
electronic system, it is c
has the advantage of precise ana
uniform pulsation. There are
n 0 wires or electrical contacts
between pulsators and teat-cups,
so there £ no danger to the cow.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Taxpayer “Shouts”
The Commonwealth Auditor-General
has pointed out that the bars and dining-
rooms at Parliament House, Canberra,
lost £29,129 gross during the last finan-
cial year.
Such an amount, in a Budget of over
£lOOO-million, may not seem large, but,
assuming that the annual sitting-time of
Parliament is six months (which I doubt),
it means that over £lOOO a week is going
down Parliamentarians’ throats at the tax-
payers’ expense. Surely it is a bit thick
that the public at large should have to
meet such an annual loss —the dining-
and bar-facilities at Parliament House
were never intended to be a burden on
the people.
That politicians have the power to
raise their salaries at will is bad enough ;
that they can eat and drink to their
stomachs’ content and pass the loss to
the taxpayer is worse.— Geg (Vic.).
Savings-banks
“The Nark” (B. 23/11/’55) claims too
much credit for Tasmania’s two local
savings-banks—the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank is larger than either of them.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank has
£ 14-million, as compared with £ 121-mil-
lion (Hobart) and £loi-million (Laun-
ceston). There are also more accounts in
the Commonwealth Savings Bank than in
either of the two trustee savings-banks.
The Commonwealth, again, has 239
offices in Tasmania, compared with 35
for the Hobart Savings Bank and 53 for
the Launceston.
These two trustee savings-banks fol-
lowed the pattern of the first savings-bank
in Australia —the Savings Bank of N.S.W.
In the early days the only type of savings-
bank was that established by the Rev.
Henry Duncan in Scotland in 1810. In
his time the poor were a charge on the
charity of the church. Duncan decided
he should encourage the poor to save their
pence and so be independent and self-sup-
porting in times of adversity. Such sav-
ings-banks were, of necessity, supported
and controlled by local businessmen, who
gave their time and experience to assist
the needy.
In these modern times it would be
difficult to secure similar support —time
and experience are worth money.
Gradually the establishment and man-
agement of savings-banks became a mat-
ter for Govemment-confrol-HState or
Commonwealth—and the safety of de-
positors’ funds was guaranteed by the
Government. The Government in turn
was assured of the investment of the
major portion of savings-bank funds in
loans to the Government.
A radical departure from past Austra-
lian practice is the decision of the Gov-
ernment to permit shareholders of a
private bank to make profits out of the
savings of the people. One hopes strict
controls will be enforced as the profit-
motive could act to the detriment not only
of depositors but the Commonwealth as
a whole. — Scorpio (N.S.W.).
Olympic Preview
The occasion was November 22,
exactly one year from the day when the
Olympic torch will be planted on Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground.
The Olympic Games committee, the
high-priests of the 1956 Olympiad, had
arranged for approximately 200 pressmen
to see and marvel at the works of the
committee, and they had flown from
Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane. We
packed into three enormous buses and,
led by the Lud Mayor with his pennant
flying and followed by car-borne Minis-
ters of State and other representatives,
we started off, under police-escort, for
the Olympic Village, nine miles from
Melbourne.
It was amazing, or, rather, the police-
man was. His siren screaming, he roared
through the traffic, ordering trucks, semi-
trailers and cars to take their rightful
places in the gutter. He banked at inter-
sections astride the stream of traffic and
waved us through the red-lights at 40-50
m.p.h. Then he would double-back like
an anxious sheepdog and bark furiously
at the heels of the procession.
Twice the Lud Mayor tried to escape
in a maze of suburban backlanes, only
to be brought ignominiously back with
the police-dog snapping at his tail.
At the Olympic Village we were met
by a horde of the lesser priesthood
armed with enormous maps, diagrams
and specifications, and after a short
prayer from food-caterer Brigadier Elliott
and another from Mr. Davey, chairman
of the Housing Commission, we were
shown inside one of the housing-units,
replete with inner-spring mattresses and
electric-washers. Then we crowded out-
side and a short, fat member of the hier-
archy waved his hands in the air and
adumbrated more than 750 flats and
houses, a shopping-centre, an adminis-
trative block, 10 dining-room-and-kitchen
units, each designed to serve 600 ath-
letes and officials with everything from
Chinese dim-sims to Hungarian goulash,
as well as a concert-hall and Finnish
steam-bath. Regret was expressed that
it would be impossible to provide snow,
the date of the Games being in mid-
summer.
Already painted in bright pastel-shades,
and with thousands of trees and shrubs
and acres of lawn arising out of chaos, the
village made a most attractive picture.
We were piled back into our coaches
and, led by the Lud Mayor and shep-
herded by the same policeman, we thun-
dered back through the city to Olympic
Park. Here were 25 acres with three new
arenas, a cycle-track, hockey-field and
swimming stadium—an extraordinary
steel structure like a modernist painter’s
nightmare with tier on tier of concrete
sufficient for the accommodation of
35,000. The peaceful waters of the Yarra
flowed near by and the white palace of
the Governor of the State towered in the
distance. “The finest sports-centre in
Australia,” murmured one of the priest-
hood.
We returned to our buses for the short
drive to the M.C.G. adjacent. Work was
in full swing. A vast three-tier stand
for 110,000 people was rising 80ft. above
the verdant parklands and underneath it
40 broadcasting-studios were in prepara-
tion. The top of the members’-stand was
being prepared for the 800 accredited
pressmen, the 120 accredited broad-
casters, the 125 accredited still-photo-
graphers and the 100 accredited movie-
and television-correspondents who will
send'the colossal amount of 10,000 words
an hour through the 110 telegraphic
channels outward from Australia to the
87 countries whose representatives will
be romping around the arena during the
10 days the Games will be on in Mel-
bourne. At the same time 3000 radio-
photos will be speeding to the ljmits of
the globe in a maximum time of 15
minutes.
We went in to lunch, and what a
lunch! Oysters in the shell, Napoleon
brandy, chicken, white wine, peas in
aspic, Scotch, asparagus, Australian beer,
ice-cream and strawberries-and-cream,
D.O.M. and cherry-brandy, and, over
everything, Olympic emblems, including
a gigantic torch of solid ice with an
electric flame burning inside it.
There was a speech from Mr. W. S.
"Kelly always gets drowsy near a fire”
Kent-Hughes, high-priest of the Olympiad
and an old Olympian himself. It was so
optimistic that you almost felt that the
Games were over and that you had heard
somebody say, “The number of national
teams which lined-up on the Melbourne
Cricket Ground for the opening cere-
mony on November 22, 1956, was an all-
time record.” —M. G. S. (Vic.).
Child-endowment
Too many pensioners for the Treasury
to carry at ever-rising rates?
Of course there are, so why is child-
endowment handed out to all and sundry,
irrespective of means? A young couple,
both earning a large salary, can support
"My husband was lost at sea —a bathing-beauty got him.”
one or two children without Federal as-
sistance. I know some at least who admit
that they don’t need it —they bank for
the child’s glory-box the money gratui-
tously bestowed On them by a muddled
Government.
Yet would-be pensioners, who had no
such benefits in their day, are subjected
to a rigorous and searching means-test
before they can claim barely enough on
which to subsist. — Pandanus (Q.).
Evolution
“Magnoon” (B. 23/11/’55) writes littie
that could not have been written about
a.d. 1900.
He acknowledges that “nearly all” of
what he writes is purely theory—obvious
enough when he indulges in flights of
imagination about what happens when,
“at intervals of perhaps 50-million years,”
the Earth’s placid existence is “broken by
a much shorter period of intense seismic
activity.”
“Magnoon” adduces only one series of
facts —the pedigree of the horse. Yet
there are many scientists who are either
quite baffled or completely sceptical about
the same pedigree. Rimmer, in The
Theory of Evolution and the Facts of
Science (1943), attacks the idea with such
facts as these: Equus nevadensis and
Equus (true horses) were eat-
ing grass side-by-side with tiny Eohippus,
from whom they are supposedly derived.
Not only that, but the relationship be-
tween New World horses and Old World
horses is a matter of pure conjecture.
In any case, Eohippus, though so small,
is recognisably a horse, so that the pedi-
gree begins and ends with horses.
Such a minor evolution from small to
large, with minor variations in toe-forma-
tion, etc, is paralleled in reverse by quite
a few examples. Thus Elephas imperator,
fossil elephant, was much bigger than
Jumbo of today. Megatheriuni, the giant
sloth, weighed up to 4 tons, while the
sloth of today weighs a mere 301 b. The
fossil dragonfly, order Odonata, had a
wingspread of 18in.; ours has about a
4in. spread. The monster Tyrannosauru
has today become our crocodile, anc
Smilodon californicus (the sabre-toothec
tiger) has vanished into a smile of it
former self —the wild cat of the America
Pacific Coast.
What do such facts really prove
Nothing at all as to intergeneratic rela
tionships. Nowhere do we find th
elephant changing into or approachin
the horse ; and as to the first beginning
of life, whether “soft-bodied, micro
scopic organisms” or not, there is abso
lutely no evidence. And without evidenc
there can be no science.
I hope “Magnoon” does not think
Professor Max Westenhofer “out o
touch” ; in Research and Progress (1937
he considers organic evolution to be stil
a mysterious business wherein he> as die
Bateson before him, thinks the evidence
—the real, the existing evidence —point
to no more than “the old idea of Lin
naeus; there are as many species as the
Infinite Being has cheated.”
In other words, we have polyphyletic
evolution, the horse remaining a horse
despite minor changes brought abou
no one knows how. We have not mono
phyletic evolution —from any origin in
marine protoplasm, which, in any case
is something that took existence only in
the fertile imagination of T. H. Huxley
Protoplasm does not now exist and, so
far as evidence goes, never has existec
in the objective world of biological fact
—Martin Haley (Q.). •
Science, as I understand it, demands
that under given conditions a certain
reaction will take place at any time, not
just yesterday or tomorrow. Con-
sequently, if there is anything in the
theory of evolution surely there must be
some place on this planet where suitable
conditions allow for a re-enactment of
the drama. But there is no sign of it,
and until evolutionists answer that one,
there is no point in formulating theories
that will not stand practical experiment
or conform to present-day observation.
Further, apart from the re-enactment of
the evolption-drama, we should also see
new forms emerging, but can “Magnoon”
point to a single species that is definitely
changing for the better?— J. J. A. (Vic.).
Australian History
I note with interest the proposal for
a Chair of Australian History at Sydney
University.
If the proposal succeeds, it may lead
to some attention being given to the view
that the real commencement of Consti-
tutional government in Australia was in
Western Australia in 1829.
In 1834 a further step, it seems, was
taken, when the free province of South
Australia was founded by Act of Parlia-
ment. The province’s initial success, de-
spite bitter opposition, must have greatly
affected the form of the Durham Report
and thus all subsequent Australian
colonial Constitutions— T. B. (S.A.),


Nurses’ Conditions
Pay and conditions are often blamed
for the shortage of nurses, but after work-
ing in and visiting hospitals for 20 years 1
wonder just what inducements girls need
to become nurses.
Granted they do have to work night-
shifts, and public holidays are ignored,
but they are compensated by extra days
off after night-duty and longer annual
holidays than, say, typists and factory-
workers. The nurses’-homes are gener-
ally as good as, and often better than,
the homes the girls have left. And
when their training is completed the world
is their oyster. They can, and do, leave
Australia in great numbers to see the
world, do post-graduate work and earn
what they need as they go.
The pre-war nurse worked long and
hard for a pittance (as did resident-
doctors) ; as a physiotherapist I drew
more for doing 18 hours a week than a
trainee-nurse who worked at least 56
hours. Also, at the hospital where I was
during the war mine was the only car
among the trained staff of 14. A letter
from a friend still at that hospital says:
“Two new Sisters arrived today and their
first question was ‘Where can 1 park my
car?’ The place is so cluttered we’ll have
to advertise ‘No cars.’ ”
I attend a small bush-nursing hospital
now with three Sisters on the staff. Two
cars are parked in the ground—and
they’re not jalopies, either; both are ’55
models. I’m also on the committee of
this hospital, and during a crisis, when
only two Sisters were available, they
worked 12-hour shifts seven days a week
and drew £4O per week each. One has
since flown to England.
I think it is time the Sisters’ cars were
paraded before teenagers as a lure for the
nursing profession.—Physio (Vic.).
Full-blood Aborigines
How many people in Australia know
that aborigine artist Albert Namatjira,
who pays £5OO a year in taxes, is not
technically a citizen of Australia, has no
Federal vote and is not entitled to any
Commonwealth social-services?
No full-blood aborigine is a citizen of
the Commonwealth, although he may
have worked for the white-man all his
life and paid taxes. In departmental
jargon, he is “deemed to be a person in
whom there is a preponderance of abo-
rigine blood,” and, as such, is not entitled
to the Commonwealth social-services.
The different aborigine-welfare autho-
rities in the States exempt full-bloods and
near-full-bloods when they reach a cer-
tain standard of assimilation. We issue
them exemption-certificates, which look
like passports and include the aborigines’
photos and personal details. The abori-
gines call these exemption-certificates the
“dog-licence” because when a full-blood
enters a hotel the publican has the legal
right to ask him, “Where is your exemp-
tion-certificate?” If he hasn’t got one he
can’t buy a drink—although that doesn’t
matter much, because others will black-
market the drink to him.
When a full-blood is exempted, he
cannot live on a Government aborigine-
station —the Commonwealth then says to
him “Get off. We won’t pay you the
pension while you are on a Government
station.”
The Aborigines Welfare Board of
N. S. Wales has been exchanging polite
notes with the Commonwealth for many
years asking for a more humane and
understanding consideration of pensions
for aged, non-exempted full-bloods, but
nothing has been done. The Federal
Minister for Social Services passes the
buck by placing the onus on the State.
The board wants all aged full-blood
aborigines allowed the pension and
allowed to remain on the board’s station,
where they can be cared for by the man-
agers and matrons —aged people, black or
white, need to be helped.
There are only about 200 full-bloods
still left in N. S. Wales and 114 of these
are aged and ready for the pension. A
few years ago there were 953 full-bloods
in N. S. Wales. They are conveniently
solving the problem by dying-out rapidly.
Official figures give 29,000-odd full-bloods
still in Australia, but I think those figures
are inflated.
It would cost only a little over £23,000
a year at present to give every full-blood
in N. S. Wales the pension.
I wonder what Australia’s delegates at
U.N.O. would reply if asked, “How do
you treat your aged full-blood aborigines
in Australia?” — Michael Sawtell
(N.S.W.).
U.K. and U.S. Industry
Ben Fryer’s contention (B. 26/10/’55)
that the men who pioneered American
secondary industry showed themselves
“But, Peggy, you can t just Walk out of my life like this!"
more enlightened than their British
counterparts by concentrating on develop-
ment of the home-market ignores the
difference between the two situations.
It was circumstances, not deliberate
choice, that dictated concentration on the
home-market.
The Industrial Revolution began in
mid-18th-century England. Then came
the French Revolution and Napoleonic
wars, which lasted about a quarter of a
century (1792-1815). Europe was fought-
over by the contending armies while the
U.K. enjoyed internal peace. British in-
dustrialists were thus able to get a long
lead in the use of new techniques. After
the war they found themselves dominant
in the markets of the world. Naturally
they did not pay particular attention to
cultivating the home-market. They got
the lion’s share of that in any event.
Secondary industries did not develop
in U.S.A. on any large scale until the
second half of the 19th century. For
most of that century the country was
basically agricultural, pastoral, and a
producer of raw materials. Vast quan-
tities of foreign capital helped in the
development of 19th-century U.S.A. —
during World War I the British Govern-
ment alone sold £2400-million-worth of
investments in U.S.A. formerly made by
British nationals. Had British capital been
confined to the Empire that huge sum
would not have been available to help
build American industries and raise the
standard of living.
The great amount of free and cheap
land available in the U.S.A. for most of
the 19th century kept the general wage-
level high. That, and several other
markets. Hence the American manufac-
tures, except in certain lines, in world-
markets. Here the American manufac-
turer, protected by a high tariff, had to
devote his main attention to the big home-
market. Even today only about 5 per
cent, of American industrial production
is exported.
When American manufacturers had
supplied the middle-class market to
saturation-point they had to induce the
working-class to buy their products. As
this section could provide only a limited
cash-market for many kinds of goods,
hire-purchase has been developed on a
massive scale. This, however, is not an
unmixed blessing—too many citizens are
persuaded into heavy debts.
While U.S. secondary industries were
being built-up under high protection,
farmers did not enjoy a similar privilege.
A substantial proportion of wheat and
meat, for example, had to be exported at
world-prices. It was possible to do this
profitably for a long time, partly because
much of the export-production came
from free or cheap lands, exploited by
bad farming-practices. That, in course
of time, resulted in a widespread decline
in soil-fertility and serious soil-erosion.
—Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
Time to Get Tough
I agree with “Burr Imul” (B. 2/11/’55)
that the road-safety authorities in Aus-
tralia' will have to “get tough” with
traffic-offenders ; they will have to use
methods proved successful in America
and other countries to detect culprits, and
then let the courts punish them to the
limit. Anything short of that is merely
toying with the situation.
The Road Safety Council of Australia
is now a vast organisation spending a
good deal of public money in a vain effort
to reduce road-accidents. Thousands of
well-meaning men and women have
formed themselves into branch-councils
throughout the country and meet every
month to consider local road-safety pro-
blems. Conferences are held at various
centres, and delegates consider resolu-
tions submitted by branches, endorse
some, reject others, and usually wind-up
with a dinner at which a number of
“experts” speak learnedly on various
aspects of road-safety. The delegates
then return home to report to their
branches, and almost invariably make a
point of describing the hospitality of the
conference-centre as “overwhelming.”
I happen to be a member of one of
these road-safety councils and know what
I am writing about. If it were not that
the people comprising them are well-
meaning and sincere, I should describe
them as a waste of time and money.
Recently I heard a member’s motion —
that, where practicable, drivers involved
in accidents be tested again as soon as
convenient to determine their fitness to
hold a licence —described as likely to be
unfair to the “innocent” driver! How
can any road-test be unfair to a com-
petent driver?
Similarly a move to have parking
banned outside a hotel fronting one of
our great highways was rejected on the
ground that, if parking is permitted out-
side shops and other business-houses, it
would be wrong to ban it outside hotels.
It is this namby-pamby attitude to-
wards road-safety which encourages,
rather than deters, road-accidents. I
have every sympathy for a driver involved
in an accident through no fault of his
own —it is possible for all parties to an
accident to be more-or-less blameless, and
if the road-toll were limited to such cases
we should not have much to worry about.
It is the selfish, discourteous, inattentive
and intoxicated drivers who de-
serve to be dealt with rigorously,
and, if a few more-or-less blame-
less people get their feelings
hurt in the process, it won’t
greatly matter.
Possibly it isn’t so much
courage as imagination that
our road-administrators lack.
If the police department were
adequately staffed and told to
get on with the job, the road-
toll would be drastically reduced —-
assuming that magistrates and judges
played their part.
Imagination is a valuable asset in
dealing with most present-day problems.
A newspaper article published in Sydney
recently told how the new chief of the
Paris police-force had reduced congestion
and accidents in that notoriously tangled
city by forbidding the sounding of motor-
horns except where life depended on it.
Offenders have to pay a fine equivalent
to £1 on the spot, £2 if they go to court.
The police-chief said he regarded a motor-
horn as the careless or bullying driver’s
method of getting his own way. When he
is forbidden to use it, except in case of
dire necessity, he has to behave himself,
and as pedestrians know a driver cannot
sound a warning, they too, are doubly
careful. Incidentally, pedestrians in
Paris are compelled to use specially
marked crossings—they have no legal
rights outside of them. In Australia a
pedestrian can wander across the street at
will and woe betide the motorist who
hits him.
A combination of courage and imagi-
nation, rigorously applied, would go far
towards reducing the road-toll in Aus-
tralia. The question is when, if ever, it
is to be tried. — Peter Simple (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 361
Across
I—Wine pick is needed for the
castle gate. (10)
s—Sovereign5—Sovereign lump of baccy. (4)
9—Examines those with the franchise
like Bradman and Ryder. (4,9)
12 — Poet is a big hit in the U.S.A. (5)
13— Just the team for the economic
street in London. (9)
14— Unlike a southerner from
Orvieto, an Italian from say
Assisi or Perugia might so call
himself an Englishman. (12)
18—German batting wizard’ against a
pole holding a way to Mel-
bourne’s airport. (8,4)
20—Tanned submerged islands said
phonetically. (3-6)
22 Spanish boy to leave twice, once
permanently. (5)
23 Who has trees for broth when a
monk follows a lager-maker.
(6, 7)
26- days before a Central
American appears. (4)
27 Pop by a dead tongue swallowed
in a Bavarian province. (10)
Down
1 — Two factors with a vital bearing
on the cricket game in which
money is thrown about. (5-3-4)
2 The wet iron can be responsible
for this Rugby Union gospeller.
(4-4)
3 Races mismanaged by Franck.
(5)
4 Measure for the Chinese source
of a red dye color quite unlike
it. (5)
6 Internationa] body’s help is not
mentioned. (6)
7 The keynote shivoo. (2)
8— Protest about an ugly Leftist. (8)
10 — Transparent editor like pasture
that was once timbered. (7)
11 — An education in helping a boxer
dish to come after the appetiser.
(6, 6) J ,
15 — xhe most robust and brawny
heavens in a hovel. (8)
16— How the Duke of Edinburgh
might speak of his wife’s
emporium in Bourke-street. (5)
17— Firm favorite is ahead of a
famous stallion king who associ-
ated with a beggarmaid. (8)
19__Rather contemptuous, and spar-
ing with the handkerchief. (6)
21—Bread from Miss Paget of Holly-
wood. (5)
22—Loincloth pence to torrid ego.
(5)
24 — Ate up a Greek letter. (3)
25 — ’oly ’ebrews won’t ’ave it this
morning. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 360


SWs entire pa*e In s PAID ADVERTISEMENT
monthly hy MOFFAT-VTRTTJE
m.V. AGRICULTURAL AEUIS
December
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1955
GRAZIERS CAN SAVE THEMSELVES AT
LEAST £13 MILLION THIS SEASON!...
A 3-point plan to end major sheep and wool losses through blow-fly strike
offers graziers the means of saving an estimated £13 million in one season .
Governmental and private research has proved conclusively that there is only one way to stop strike
losses . . . and that is thorough crutching and year-round jetting. Now the introduction of the new
chemically based insecticide is claimed by the manufacturers—and the claims seem to be borne out by
its successful use by many graziers— to give immunity from fly-strike over a protracted period.
The introduction of this powerful
chemical insecticide leaves the
grazier little excuse for not carry-
ing out regular jetting of his flocks
. . . The chemically based jetting
fluid is marketed by several
medicinal stock remedy manufac-
turers.
In a concentration of 0.1 per cent,
using a 30 per cent, emulsion Aldrin
jetting fluid has been tested under
Australian conditions, and its
phenomenal success is due to two
unique advantages ... It possesses
the capacity of diffusing along the
wool fibres right into the new
growth of wool, so that its killing
power remains, even after consider-
able growth of wool. Secondly, the
effectiveness of Aldrin is against
maggots rather than flies. Sheep
sprayed with new Jetting Fluids may
be struck even after a week, but
when the young maggots hatch out
they are immediately destroyed.
Crutch-strike, the most common
form of blow-fly strike, can be
virtually eliminated by spraying with
an Aldrin fluid, provided, of course,
it is properly applied. A jetting
plant capable of maintaining suffici-
ent pressure to operate three jet
nozzles is required.
Thorough saturation is vital in jet-
ting to prevent crutch-strike. For
poll strike and body strike, too, a
good jetter is necessary to get maxi-
mum penetration. For body strike
prevention sheep can be jetted along
the back as they stand in a branding
race.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., has long urged
the value of thorough jetting to pre-
vent strike. Now, with the success-
ful introduction of the new jetting
fluid the grazier who already owns
a Moffat-Virtue Jetting Plant has
the most powerful, effective and yet
economical weapon yet devised to
beat the fly. With an Aldrin jetting
fluid 1000 sheep can be jetted for a
cost of only about forty shillings,
using the M.V. Jetter, which com-
bines the advantages of high-
pressure (for full penetration) with
low volume (for economical use of
the fluid).
The Moffat-Virtue Senior Jetter is
the plant that will effectively carry
out Aldrin jetting best, because of
its ability to operate two 5-jet
nozzles at up to 2501b. per square
inch pressure. The pressure is
adjustable to suit the density of
saturation required, which, of
course, varies with the extent
of wool growth.
The combination of a Moffat-Virtue
letter and the new Aldrin jetting
fluid is the best fly-strike protection
money can buy. Those who do not
already have this equipment are
urged to read the brief summary of
the features of the- Moffat-Virtue
equipment on this page and to con-
tact their nearest M.V. Agent, or
any of the State Distributors listed,
for complete advice and informa-
tion on the advantages of owning
an M.V. letter.
#
It
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
"SENIOR"
JETTING PLANT
THE MOFFAT-VIRTUE “SENIOR” JETTER
This is the Standard Moffat-Virtue Jetting Plant that has proved
by its performance its unrivalled superiority and efficiency . . .
Powered by the famous and reliable
M.V. h.p. “V 3” type Petrol
Engine (Hopper Cooled), the Senior
letter incorporates a double-acting,
heavy-duty Glandless Piston-type
pump. The pump is: ® Compensat-
ing to give even pressure. • Equalis-
ing, to reduce fuel consumption.
# Totally-enclosed, to exclude
sheep-yard dust. • Runs in oil, for
perfect lubrication. # Simply de-
signed, for easy maintenance.
The M.V. Jetter is adaptable, and
many other jobs can be found for it
when not in use for jetting . . . fire-
lighting is an important subsidiary
use, and it is also suitable for spray-
painting yards, etc. . . .
Other exclusive features, necessary
to get the greatest advantage out of
jetting include:—•
1. Sturdy wooden base, which can
be used as “skids” for loading
and unloading.
2. Two 30ft. lengths of fin. high
pressure hose are standard
equipment, each fitted with a
high-pressure jetting gun with
hand grip.
3. Variety of nozzles available
. . . single jets, three-jet non-
track and five-jet multiple.
4. Forty-four gallon, specially de-
signed, corrosion-proof tank,
with oscillating paddle agitator
is standard equipment.
5. Vee-belt drive to lower horse
power needed, and therefore re-
duce fuel consumption.
6. Conveniently - placed pressure
gauge, calibrated up to 2501 b.
7. Handy cock permitting use of
one or two hoses.
8. Brass bulb valves for effective
seating and longer life.
9. Powered by the reliable and
economical M.V. “V 3” Hopper
Cooled Petrol Engine.
10. Precision built and tested by
skilled engineers at M.V.’s own
Rosebery Plant.
1
The New
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
PORTABLE
JETTING PLANT
The three necessary features
for effective jetting, namely
high pressure, low volume and
right design (for reliability and
easy maintenance) are found
in the new M.V. Portable
'‘Roller Spray” Jetting Plant.
Here is a small highly portable
unit that gives “large plant”
performance.
This compact, lightweight
unit is an ideal all-purpose
spraying and jetting unit you
can take and use efficiently
anywhere on your property. It
is particularly suitable for the
smaller flock, or as an auxiliary
plant on large properties.
The exclusive Needle Roller
Eccentric Drive gives the
pump a smooth action, plus
trouble - free running. The
plant is powered by the famous
“Mark 10” 1.3 h.p. Air Cooled
Villiers Engine.
The plant will operate at high
pressure two single jet nozzles,
two three-jet nozzles or one
five-jet nozzle. Other features
of the plant include . . .
Pressures up to 2501 b. per
square inch. Built to last a
lifetime with: • Non-corro-
sive air-bottle, pump body
valve seat, valve seat inserts
and springs. O Non-corrosive
cylinders. • Renewable
cylinder liners.
The plant is also suitable for
spraying gardens, fruit trees,
spray-painting, etc. . . . so
that it need never be idle, even
when not being used for
jetting.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Ply.
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide. •
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
