

tftymeftd
/
afptfM'
e
SOLERO *
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
A BREAK FROM THE CITY-m©* 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3946
Wednesday, September 28, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
LADY HOBY OF BISHAM
SEEMS LESS QUIET
THAN HER EFFIGY SUGGESTS
TjISHAM ABBEY and its beautiful surround-
" ings beside the River Thames, near
Maidenhead, in Berkshire, has been portrayed
by de Wint and other well-known artists. The
Abbey’s projecting oriels and tall tower rise
above the green lawns and the ancient trees
of the surrounding parkland.
In the 11th century the manor of Bisham
was presented by William the Conqueror to
Henry de Ferrers, whose grandson gave it to
the Knights Templars in the reign of King
Stephen (1135-54). Later the manor changed
hands several times until, in 1335, it was
granted by Edward 111 to William Montacute,
Earl of Salisbury, who founded the Abbey two
years later for the Austen canons.
Most of the illustrious members of the
founder’s family were buried there, including
William Earl of Salisbury, who won distinction
at the Battle of Poitiers, and Richard Neville,
the king-maker, who died at the Battle of
Barnet in 1470.
Shortly after the Dissolution the Abbey site
was granted to Anne of Cleves, and later it
came into the possession of Sir Philip Hoby,
who built an Elizabethan mansion on to what
remained of the old Abbey. Apart from the
moat the 14th-century fragments that remain
today are a fine porch in the Decorated style,
with the original oak door; a part of the
massive wall of the Chapel; and the great
hall to which was added a minstrel’s galley.
The impressive mansion built by the Hobys
between the years 1557 and 1561 included a
Council Chamber with a fine oriel window, a
panelled dining-room with mulliohed windows,
a panelled study and the octagonal tower.
Colorful features of the interior decoration are
the early 16th-century tapestries. Much of the
woodwork, some of the plasterwork and the
heraldic glass are Jacobean in style. Queen
Elizabeth I was entertained by Sir Edward
Hoby at Bisham Abbey, which was also
frequently visited by James I (1603-25).
One of the bedrooms at Bisham Abbey is
supposed to be haunted by Lady Hoby, whose
effigy is illustrated here, who appears in
mourning with a self-supporting basin before
her in which she is perpetually trying to wash
her hands. The legend is that because her
young son, William Hoby, could not write
without making blots on the paper, she beat
him to death. The remarkable fact is that in
the 19th century, while alterations were being
made, some children’s copy-books of the
Elizabethan Age were discovered beneath the
floorboards, and in one of these it appeared
that the owner could not write a single line
without making a blot.
No. 265: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


800 KHUN TER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
A service for readers. That difficult to' obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
THE STORY OF AUSTRALIA
Intending immigrants who chance
to read Mr. A. G. L. Shaw’s The Story
of Australia (Faber) at least cannot
say they have not been warned.
Here where the “vast semi-arid
plain” merges into “the trackless
desert which covers more than one-,
third of the continent,” where men
“contend with heat and drought, dust,
ants, termites, scorpions and centi-
pedes, with ‘willy-willies’ thrown in
for good measure,” the lad from
Lancashire must clearly be prepared
to meet the worst.
There were, says Mr. Shaw, “no
native animals that could be domesti-
cated by the aborigines and no native
plants that could be cultivated for
food.” Dingoes, foxes and rabbits
“prey upon sheep and eat up the
pastures.” Navigable rivers are
“almost non-existent,” and the Murray
is too shallow and “goes in the wrong
direction.” For mile after mile the
scrub is “dismal and monotonous.”
And if conditions may have improved
in some respects since the, early days,
concerning which Mr. Shaw quotes
Professor S. H. Roberts with such
relish, it is to be feared that the smell
of sheep-manure remains unalterably
alarming:—
Rarely enclosed, hot and dusty in
dry weather, muddy in wet, with
flies and vermin attracted by the
sheep’s dung near by, and mosquitoes
breeding on the river or dam—
such was the squatter’s first home
.... .It was a “sordid, filthy existence,
despite all the eulogies of free life
in contact with nature and com-
munion with the gums. The only
real contact was with a few degraded
convicts and the eternal smell of
sheep effluvia. Its sole return was
monetary; in itself it was penal
servitude of the worst type—there
is no romance in monotony and
mutton-fat.”
There are times when, rather liking
the smell of the sheepyards and seldom
having been bitten by a willy-willy—
or a termite either, for that matter-
one wonders wflether Mr. Shaw is not
overemphasising the discomforts of
our existence; and whether, indeed, he
has seen very much of the outback
upon which he comments so wound-
ingly. He describes the bower-bird as
a “mimic”—which it isn’t—and he says
that Sturt’s picture of a waterless Lake
Eyre “appears to be correct for nine
years out of ten”—which, again, is
not correct.
But Mr. Shaw’s acid eye—if one
may use such a term —has its
advantages. He stares at Australia as
if it were a snake about to bite him;
and, when he has it safe in his histori-
cal laboratory, nothing of it is allowed
to escape his candid and remorseless
dissection. It is salutary, if a little dis-
concerting, to be told that the “bush-
man,” idealised in the ’nineties, was
“just another of those romantic illu-
sions so warmly held in this period of
booming prosperity and wishful think-
ing”: perhaps we are not, after all,
entirely a nation of Lawson’s swaggies
and Paterson’s horsemen. It is refresh-
ing, even if another illusion goes bung,
to have the cult of “mateship” traced
back to—of all outlandish places!—
Eton and Harrow:—
One sometimes wonders wherein
this [mateship] differs (except pos-
sibly in language) from the public- *
school tradition (English in origin)
of not “letting down” the side; but
most Australian workers at all events
(and many who write about them)
like to think that there is something
“mystic, wonderful,” not to say
unique, about this idea of the kin-
ship of the bush (and the working
man).
And, of course, it is exceedingly valu-
able, considering all the nonsense that
has been written about the wicked
squatter (for which only his wool-
cheque can console him) to have such
a clear analysis as this of his part in
the country’s development:—
As the stately mansions of the
grazier appeared throughout the
Country, and as the loneliness de-
creased with improving communica-
tions and a growing population, the
squatters frequently became a target
for the criticism of the land-hungry
miners and the poor in the cities,
for in securing their land they had
gained a monopoly. As time went
on the squatter often led a leisured
life, giving perhaps some justifica-
tion to his detractors ... ..But in the
early days most of the “squatting”
fortunes were earned by the hard
labor of men who started with
nothing and worked their way up-
wards by enterprise, skill, a little
luck, a great deal of tenacity and
sometimes a little cattle-duffing. In
establishing and developing the wool
industry, the squatters were primarily
responsible for the prosperity of
Australia up to 1851, and Went-
worth exaggerated only a little when
he told the electors of Sydney in that
year: “If it had not been for the
squatting class.... their magnificent
city would have shrunk into a small
fishing-town, unfamed and disre-
garded by European nations.”
In one or two instances Mr. Shaw,
though usually so severe on legends,
seems to have adopted the conventional
and legendary views of historical
facts: he gives the usual impression
that Macarthur’s letter to his wife
gloating in the downfall of Bligh was
written on the eve of the rebellion,
whereas it was probably written about
a fortnight later; and his otherwise-
admirable account of Eureka fails to
make clear that steps to remedy most
of the men’s chief grievances had been
taken long before the uprising. But
these are two minor details in a book
whose general authority is, if severe,
unquestionable: Mr. Shaw is senior-
lecturer in history at the University of
Sydney.
His book is one of a series, ranging
from “The Story of Canada” to “The
Story of Holland,” which his pub-
lishers are bringing out, presumably
for the enlightenment of the British
public: and, as Has been demon-
strated, Mr. Shaw will certainly
enlighten that audience on the history
—and the horrors—of Australia. But
Australian readers, if they are pre-
pared to face an essentially economic
rather than a human approach to
history, too compact for much color,
will also find it a most useful account
of what has gone on here from
Phillip to today:’ whether ; for such
peculiar crumbs of information as that
13 tons of mice were once destroyed
in three days at eight Victorian rail-
way sidings, for the vivid summary of
World War I or for the general story
of our emergence, heroic and romantic
as it still seems, from the awful days
of the convicts and the smell of sheep-
effluvia to our present “century of the
common man” who, creating his some-
what doubtful paradise, “has attained
his goal in Australia perhaps earlier
than in many other countries.”
THE WEATHER
A signpost I, a gallows T,
That’s all you fellows make of me—
IT’s fine, IT’s wet, IT’s hot, IT snows,
That’s how your feeble idiom goes.
What am I, people, after all,
The thing you wrap so neat and small ?
I am the storm, the shrieking gale,
1 am the thunder and the hail,
I am the black bombastic cloud,
Shaggy-bearded, beetle-browed,
I am the still, sun-drunken noon,
The ghostly rainbow round the moon,
The dry sirocco’s burning breath,
The hurricane’s mad dance of death,
The flood, the fog, the frost, the drought,
The dust-storm and the waterspout,
And yet a paltry I and T
Is all you fellows make of me.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
New Upheld Mystery
Arthur Upfield’s newest adventure
of Detective-Inspector Bonaparte,
Cake in the Hat-Box (Heinemann), is
set, says the first paragraph, 1500 miles
north of Perth and 300 miles inland.
Near enough in Australian mileage to
the Agar’s Lagoon pub a disliked
constable is found shot dead in his
jeep, his black-tracker missing. The
scenery in this work is as well-painted
as in Mr. Upfield’s other books, but
it does not dwarf the action as in such
things as “Death of a Lake.”
Maybe for this reason this is one of
the best detective-stories he has done.
By the end of many of his books, one
has been so caught-up into the
atmosphere, the life and the people, as
to forget that there is any problem
to be solved. But in this book, the
detection moves steadily from surprise
to surprise, and the problem itself
changes, from why to whether the
constable was murdered in his jeep,
from whether he was murdered by
vengeful cattlemen or their aborigine
servants to whether it was because the
three big brothers and their beautiful
hobbledehoy sister keep an afternoon-
tea set in a hatbox and have valuable
books on their bookshelf with the
insides scooped-out. And the solution
is seen to turn on the first wild
drinking-scene in the pub.
To the mystery-addict, such achieve-
ments constitute virtuosity.
Louis Becke
The death of Louis Becke is not
one of the crimes that can be laid at
Archibald’s door. Norman Lindsay
(Red Page 7/9/’55) has confused
Becke’s death with that of Francis
Myers, whose end from tuberculosis
took place after a trip to 'the snow-
country in search of copy!
Becke’s lack of vocal resonance was
caused by the cancer of the throat
which carried him off in 1913—six
years after the issue of the first number
of the “Lone Hand” in May, 1907.
Becke’s . contributions to the “Lone
Hand” were few indeed—two only to
the best of my knowledge.
The Bully Hayes book, for which
Norman Lindsay drew the cover,
appeared in 1913, and in Australia, at
least, it is one of his best-known books.
Becke, despite Norman Lindsay’s
assertion, did contrive to live—and
lived well—as a writer until his last
years.
Walter Stone.
"Cricket Typhoon"
Though coming in somewhat down
this year’s cricket-book batting-list,
Cricket Typhoon, by Keith Miller and
R. S. Whitington (Macdonald), plays
easily the best knock of any so far.
The main reason for its extra read-
ability is the wider cricketing range
of its material: it is not, as is usual,
all straight-up-and-down stuff on the
Tests, though they are discussed in
detail enough. There is, too, an
interesting epilogue, “Appointment
with Speed,” by the former English
captain C. B. Fry. Fry, incidentally,
nails the ancient legend that “W.G.”
used to cheat: a legend due, it seems,
to jealousy bom of the Doctor’s great
success.
The book’s title comes, of course,
from the fast-bowler Tyson, the man
who overnight became cricket’s Name,
the biggest draw-card since Bradman.
Tyson has clearly won the writers’
hearts: a “hater of batsmen” on the
field, off it he’s mild and studious.
Then we come to the matter of who
should or should not have been Aus-
tralia’s Test-captain last season. With
many people of the opinion that Miller
should have led Australia, Whitington
alone discusses this. In essence he
believes Johnson did a first-rate job,
and was rightfully skipper. “Doubt-
less I shall be accused of turning
traitor to my co-author. That at least
will be a pleasant change, as to date
most people have criticised me for
being too loyal to him.” But he be-
lieves that Miller must eventually
attain, and will deserve to attain, the
captaincy. *
On one point Whitington is not
quite fair to Johnson. He says that,
if the 13 members of the Australian
Board of Control had seen active-
service in a major war, they would
without doubt have made Miller cap-
tain. Miller was an operational night-
fighter pilot over Germany, and had
a splendid record. But Johnson, too,
as a Beaufighter pilot, saw active-
service in the Pacific war; yet to this
Whitington does not refer.
A small error which occurs twice
is the statement that Australia won
the first Test by “an innings and more
than 200 runs”—the margin was an
innings and 154 runs.
The Fight for the Ashes 1954-55, by
A. G. Moyes (Angus and Robertson),
is one more of the straight-up-and-
down variety; few critics, though, have
a greater knowledge of the game than
Moves. “The Season Reviewed,” with
which the book concludes, is an
admirable summary, and has useful
hints on how to rebuild Australian
cricket. •
WATCH THE FISH
To have discovered legs, just watch the
fish;
Vermin mostly, floundering on the jetty.
One drags its sausage-body closer with a
swish
And squirm of its tail, convulsively,
And earns a kick. A comical
Sargasso crab, a specialist who despised
Those once-discovered marvels, the clever
wheel
Of mortal legs, who devised
Paddles from superior propellers, how
foolishly,
Like a broken toy he heaves at the touch
Of a toe. Such a useless life that mulishly
Stuck to the sea, when offered a crutch
To rescue identity. From such failure, I
have
Rediscovered my legs, some sanity save.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
H. E. Bates in Burma
Among recent Penguin reprints The
Jacaranda Tree, by H. E. Bates, seems
most absorbing. Reading it I was
reminded of a generalisation of the
immortal Rabelais in Gargantua and
Fantagrael (another excellent Penguin
reprint in a new translation):
“Cuckoklry follows a man more
naturally than his shadow.”
Cuckoklry certainly follows Paterson
in Bates’s story more naturally than
his shadow in the hot Burmese land-
scape which Bates describes in such
vivid detail. Paterson is the manager
of the local rice-mill in a small
Burmese town and has to organise the
evacuation of the English colony when
the Japanese forces approach the
Lower Irrawaddy.
There are two decrepit motor-cars
which the assorted evacuees have to
share between them and in which they
have to face the dangers and rigors of
the 500-mile trek to the Indian border
across the burning plains and through
the mountains and amongst the Nagas,
inveterate headhunters: not to mention
the Japs, who are reputed to be burn-
ing and blowing-up and massacring the
populations of whole cities somewhere
in the background. The question to be
decided is, how is the party to be
divided between the two cars without
somebody’s prejudices being violated.
Paterson rides roughshod over their
feelings, the rank outsider. With his
mistfess and his boy hp finally gets his
car-loads moving to join the general
exodus of millions from Burma, of
which Bates gives such a masterly
description that you can almost smell
the dust, the sweat and the stench of
the corpses decaying by the roadside
and hear the groans of women being
delivered of their babies.
Before the journey is over death has
resolved most of the evacuees’ conflicts
of amorousness and prejudice. There
are still, however, the major, the
Eurasian girl and the beautiful Mrs.
Betteson. The major, having brought
his bicycle with him, pedals back to
Burma, the Eurasian girl starts to walk
back and Mrs. Betteson, too simple to
have a conflict, walks happily along
with her towards the copper and purple
sunset and the Japs.
Rabelais, the monk, knew his world
and understood it. H. E. Bates knows
his world, too, and whether or not he
understands it as well as Rabelais, he
gives a magnificent description of it.
F.S.


m
p i :
m
Mm
i
m.
/OX 4
y/r/km
Jif? Sk\
i ’ r* '>S J>S
&
m
X
„ \
, X. \
——
□
gy
w
bs.
V
Enjoy a living-room outdoors with . . .
Retractable Aluminium Awning
I Imagine your home with an outdoor living room like this.
Protected from the hot sun—cool and inviting all day,
wonderful for entertaining. It’s yours with an Ajax Awning for far less than you
think. The revolutionary new Mello-Lite Retractable Awnings combine inter-
locking aluminium panels mounted on pantographic arms. Simple to erect,
Ajax Awnings defy the wind and weather . . . are rattleproof, rustproof and
watertight. HORDURA METAL VENETIANS: Our Hordura Metal
Lath Blinds are made from a specially processed lightweight aluminium
lath which has a baked enamel finish that will not break or chip and is
easily cleaned. These blinds have a wood head rail and neatly moulded
fascia which covers all working parts. Ten lovely pastel shades available.
Including Cream, Pink, Blue, Green, Primrose and Ivory. CANVAS
BLINDS: We make up all types of canvas blinds in Plain, Drop
or Florentine style. There is a large range of designs from
which to choose. We can do plain stripes or gay multi-
stripes in either woven canvas or famous “Bralla” proofed
canvas. Send for Brochures covering all types of inside
and outside blinds, or ring and our Representative will
call and measure anywhere in the Metropolitan Area.
wm
m
vi-
-111
mm
mm
Hi
ass
H
I
i
m
a
ihkk
ns
'V
'/A.
.'•Vi
H V
mk
•;
am
J
A TRUTH tN ADVeRnSIKIC"
nthony Horderns’
BUND DEPARTMENT. THIRD FLOOR,
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 'PHONE T.O.P.S. FOR SERVICE 8D951.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 28, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3946
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 f
-Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wbstralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.)- Wellington.
REFORM AND THE STATES
THE quarrel which has brought about the deposi-
tion of Mr. Murray Robson from the leadership of
the Liberal party in the N. S. Wales Parliament
highlights not only the condition of the party which
rejected him but the position of State Parliaments
as a whole.
Mr. Robson was not thrown out on any major
point of policy or platform. He was not thrown
out at a time when a change of leadership did not
matter. The incident took place at a juncture when
the Liberal party should have been behaving itself
with decorum and solidarity; on the eve of an
election campaign—or perhaps two, Federal and
State —when it had the first chance for years of
winning office and ejecting the suspect Cahill mob
which a decent community should be raging to be
rid of, along with all its shadiness, muddle and
opportunism. ■>
The “Labor” party has been tom with quarrels
reminiscent, both in issues and in the manner in
which they are conducted, of the feuds of old-time
pushes in Surry Hills. It was up to the Liberals to
set an example in unity and to place the good of
the State before everything.
Rank-and-file of members had no quarrel with
Mr. Robson oil Liberal principles; they could have
had no quarrel with the manner in which he led
them in the House. While he was accused of
playing a lone hand, there was no allegation that
he was not earnest and unswerving in his support
of everything that Liberalism stands for. It cannot
be disputed that he, more than most members of his
party, insisted on co-operating with the Country
party, which is so near to Liberalism that it has
been in coalition with the Liberals in the Federal
sphere in every anti-“ Labor” Government since
1923. In one State, South Australia, there is a joint
party-organisation, and candidates for Parliament
may choose whether they sit with the Liberals or
with the C.P. in the Federal House.
Full co-operation with the Country party will
be doubly necessary if the present Opposition hopes
to form a Government after the next election.
However, probably the most important feature
of the whole situation is that in the view of the
average elector it does not matter very much what
happens nowadays in State politics. A couple of
decades ago it was impossible to think of politics
without thinking in State as well as Common-
wealth terms. A little earlier men of the calibre
of Holman, Ryan, Theodore, McCormack, Storey,
Menzies and more were still operating, or had
been recently, in the sphere of State politics,
which were a primary issue. But from the time
of the amendment of the Federal Constitution
consequent on the loan agreement, the States have
gradually declined in prestige and influence.
Quality of members has declined also. Few men
of real ambition or ability look to the State Parlia-
ments as a career. The house of the States in the
Federal Parliament —the Senate —has sunk down
and down until it has become, on the Government
side, a flank to be held by as weak a force as
possible and to “Labor” a repository for unwanted
and aged demagogues who must be rewarded or
pensioned. The advent of uniform taxation and
collection through the Commonwealth has made
the position more marked. The habits developed
during six years of war, and especially through the
eight years of a “Labor” Government which was
carried on largely according to the bureaucratic
methods of Moscow, have accustomed people to
think in terms of Australia as a whole rather than as
a Federation of sovereign States. Even the modem
new-State movement is the emanation rather of
distaste for the present class-war and gerrymander
products which call themselves State Parliaments
than of any real upsurge of local patriotism. The
movement has been galvanised into existence by
the virtual disfranchisement of the greatest part of
the areas of the existing eastern States, due to the
crowding of electorates into industrial areas, the
majority of whose denizens have no sympathy with
any national or developmental policy and who are
content to become subservient in large blocs to
Communist or near-Communist domination, in
exchange for freedom to exact ever-rising wages
and ever-shortening hours and output, irrespective
of whether industry can pay or the national income
meet the drain.
The original Federal theory that the States are
the dominating factor and the Commonwealth the
voice of their aggregate opinion has already disap-
peared. The inter-relation of States and Com-
monwealth now boils down into a continual wrestle
by States governed by one party to thwart the policy
of and to destroy confidence in a Federal Govern-
ment ruled by another party.
There could be no worse recipe for progress
and national unity than this condition of affairs in
which the parts are truly sovereign and the whole
is not; in which it is possible for a part to legislate
to ban Communism or to punish treason, for
instance, but for the whole to lack the power,
yet in which the detail of regional develop-
ment is at the mercy of a centralised financial
authority sitting perhaps thousands of miles away
in the unreal imitation of a Californian cemetery
on the Molonglo which is described as the national
capital.
It is no wonder both State Parliaments and
State parties are falling into dilapidation and disre-
pute. When an organ of any body ceases to serve
the functions for which it was designed it first
deteriorates and then withers. And the State
Parliaments have ceased to be directly responsible
to the electors for finance, which is the heart of
government and the test of government. They, in
fact, have long since declined in influence and
ceased to be responsible, since finance is also the
test of responsibility. The quicker they wither in
the present form and are reborn in some shape in
which they can serve a useful and less expensive
4 purpose the better. The Federal system only works
at all when the Federation becomes the dominant
factor. And there is no in history in which
it has worked perfectly except in Switzerland.
Mr. Menzies has foreshadowed an all-party
consideration of the whole question of reform of
the Constitution. The sooner it comes the wiser.
The English system, which hands detailed responsi-
bility in a great number of national activities to
municipalities and other forms of local authority,
is far better than our own. Most of the really
useful functions which are now performed by the
States could be less expensively, less cumbersomely
carried out by county councils and municipalities,
to the stimulation of local interest in government
and local patriotism and initiative and originality.
At the same time most of the larger and properly
national tasks such as long-distance transport, both
by rail and road, could be better co-ordinated with
regard to national security by the Commonwealth
than by States operating in watertight compart-
ments and competing with each other and with
air-transport, which is a Commonwealth matter.
Something should be the more easily done,
having in view the fact that “Labor” has in its
policy a plan for the cutting-up of the present
States; that is, if “Labor” remembers what is in
its platform, or if its policy is not momentarily
under suspension by order of Dr. Evatt.
The whole matter should be thrashed out now.
Apart from anything else —though in view of the
grip whieh the public services have on policy, this
is one of the difficulties —it should be possible to
rearrange the mode of government to make an
immense saving through elimination of the duplica-
tion of manpower which exists in Parliaments and
in the State and Federal, and sometimes municipal,
civil services.
The Keyline Foundation
IF for no other reason than that it represents an
actual attempt to do something, instead of the usual
leaving of the doing to somebody else, the Key line
(Research) Foundation, launched in Sydney, merits
attention. On two other grounds, it commands
respect: the calibre of the men at the head of it and
the quality of the independent outside testimony
to its basic idea. The Australasia-wide breadth
of its vision could be yet another.
An agricultural organisation, it can be said
to have as its primary aim the best use of the most
land, everywhere. The basis of its plans, as
announced by organising-secretary Harold Sarina,
are (1) that vast areas of agricultural and pastoral
land can be made much more productive; (2) that
equally vast areas of land hitherto considered of
no agricultural value can be made richly produc-
tive, rapidly and profitably. In the new agricultural
technique it is working on there are other naturally
related aims, among them erosion-prevention and
flood-control. .
Those taking an active part in establishing and
furthering it include G. B. S. Falkiner, of Haddon
Rig Merino stud, Warren (N.S.W.), a vice-president
of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association; Anthony
Hordern, Jnr., grazier, member of the well-known
commercial and grazing family; C. R. McKerihan,
president of the Rural Bank since 1934; Sir Stanton
Hicks, Professor of Human Physiology and
Pharmacology at Adelaide University, and widely
known in Britain and the U.S., as well as here, for
his special interest in soil-development; John
Darling, of John Darling and Son, the flourmillers;
Professor J. R. A. McMillan, Dean of the Faculty
of Agriculture at Sydney University; and D. R.
McCaughey, of Borambola Park Shorthorn stud,
Wagga (N.S.W.), and Coonong Merino stud,
Narrandera (N.S.W.). Mrs. Anthony Hordern, Jnr.,
and Mrs. P. A. Yeomans are also Foundation trust-
members.
Elected president of the Foundation is P. A.
Yeomans, who in his book “The Keyline Plan”
made public the agricultural technique of rapid soil-
building which he worked out on his North Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) property, Nevallan, and which has
made it a showplace of the State. It attracts a
regular daily quota of visitors —as many as 118 in
one day—inspecting on the spot the working layout
of the property, the designed tree-plantings and
water-storage, the soil-building and erosion-prevent-
ing action and other aspects of the technique which
in the amazingly brief time-space of three years
coated unpromising-looking hillsides of shale and
sandstone country with an almost incredible depth
of dark, rich, fertile soil.
Of the other top names in the Foundation,
Harold Sarina, on the permanent working side, is
known to land-men in all States, for his work on
their behalf over the quarter-century or so of his
executive part in the R.A.S. Field-officers are
being appointed and trained to assist in the practical
work of mapping properties for the Keyline
technique and helping to establish it.
The new organisation is non-Govemmental,
though it does not make a virtue of the fact. It is
.co-operative in the sense that it aims to work as
much with the land-man as for him, and in the
further sense that it welcomes co-operation, Gov-
ernmental or any other kind, in support of its aims.
It hopes to see relevant Government departments
bringing a national outlook to bear on the weighing
of its objectives and inspecting x>f its accomplish-
ments; it has, in fact, attracted something of that
interest already, and may well get more. It is
entirely non-political, but, quoting only as an
example, the conference of the Federal Rural Com-
mittee of the Liberal party, which met at Cowra
(N.S.W.) under the chairmanship of D. Mackinnon,
decided to ask the Commonwealth Government to
make an examination of the Keyline Plan experi-
ments on the P. A. Yeomans North Richmond
properties, Nevallan and Yobamie.
The plans now under way include adopting in
different localities what will be known as Founda-
tion Farms, where the Keyline technique will be
instituted with owners’ co-operation, and where it
will be seen working in actual practice, with reports
on progress and development made available to
other land-men in the locality and elsewhere. Also,
when the Foundation has trained experts they will
make personal visits and give practical on-the-spot
aid to owners generally in putting in the new
agricultural method.
The erosion-prevention and flood-control
aspects are really integral: they naturally follow,
since what might be called the first principle of
the technique is the planned holding of moisture
in the land. Actually, instead of rainfall being
“safely” got rid of, its flow is intercepted on the
hills and valley-sides: it is retained, steered back
around the ridges, soaking in as it goes. Two other
associated factors, vital in the technique, complete
its ability to prevent erosion and lessen flood-risk.
They are the designed pattern of tree-planting, and
the positioning of dams. As far back as 1945 there
was a total of 50,000,000 gallons of stored water
on the Yeomans properties.
• Independent outside testimony encouraging the
Foundation includes the following typical
examples:—
E. J. Breakwell, M.Agr.Sc., pastures adviser to
the Australian Mercantile, Land and Finance Co.,
Ltd.: “I am becoming convinced that it [the
Keyline technique] could be a very big thing in
national development, and so is worthy of study
by all farsighted people. Concisely stated, Keyline
is a method of obtaining maximum absorption
by the soil of rain which falls on the farm. This
is an obvious and laudable objective, but the
Keyline principle is one which, strangely enough,
has evaded a veritable army of scientific workers
and practical farmers over the past 40 years,
p. A. Yeomans is the founder and driving force
behind Keyline, and if it succeeds, as I believe it
will succeed, he will have made a contribution to
agriculture of the utmost magnitude.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) “Morning Herald” agricul-
tural writer, Eric Sparke: “An impressive weight
of evidence supports claims that a low-cost solution
has been found to the chief problems of the
Hunter Valley farmer —flooding, erosion and loss
of soil fertility.”
Editor of “Queensland Country Life,” Wallace
Skelsey: “The benefits of the Keyline technique
are available for all to see at Nevallan, and it is
no overstatement to say they represent the greatest
agricultural revolution this country has ever
known.”
An independent, co-operatively - working
Foundation, set-up by men of vision to further a
land-innovation capable of evoking reactions of
the above order from disinterested outside observers
who have personally inspected the practical results,
certainly has some impressive claims to attention,
consideration and support bn a national scale.


CALLING THE TRIBES


PLAIN ENGLISH
December Election?
When the Budget was presented in the
Commonwealth Parliament there was
little enthusiasm for an election this
year. In Ministerial circles the
mechanical difficulties were stressed.
A bit later more eagerness for an early
election showed-up in “Labor” circles
than among Liberals. It was felt in
A.L.P. branches that Mr. Cahill might
hog all the money for a State election
before the federal men had a chance to
secure their just cut. Also, that the
N. S. Wales Premier might orient his
campaign in such a way as to under-
mine the Evatt faction. An early election
would certainly see “Labor” somewhat in
chaos; but a late one might see it much
worse off.
Mr. Menzies has given no indication
which way his own thoughts run, but his
party has now come round not merely
to favor a December election, but to
feel that one is inevitable before the
first meeting of Parliament in 1956. The
Liberals of N. S. Wales have announced
that by the end of October they will be
organised, candidates chosen, muscles
flexed and ready to take on all comers.
“Labor” preselection ballots have not
been helpful in N. S. Wales, the crucial
State. The fight over Watson (re-
organised so thoroughly that it has
virtually ceased to exist and has become
mainly the old Cook electorate under
another name) is not productive of unity.
The defeat of Gordon Anderson, a kindly
and popular man who at present holds
Kingsford-Smith, but. has been defeated
in the new Kingsford-Smith electorate
by the raucous Dan Curtin, who is in
Parliamentary quality and nature much
like the grand old Duke of Devonshire
who dreamt that he was speaking in the
House of Lords and woke up to find that
he was, leaves an unpleasant taste in
the mouths of many moderates. And
the ousting of Dr. Evatt’s firm supporter,
Greenup, from Dailey by W. O’Connor,
who is regarded as one of the supporters
of the industrial-groups, was a severe
smack in the face for the leadership in
a safe electorate which previously had
been held by E. G. Theodore and Sol
Rosevear. So was the preselection of
Mr. Daly, the Whip, who makes no
secret of his views of his leader.
The Liberals, however, are hot likely
to have it all their own way, and they
are doing little to help the cause of the
Government. The quarrel over the
leadership of the State Opposition has
scarcely raised Ash-street Liberal H.Q.
higher in popular esteem. And the
paucity of candidates of any reasonable
calibre, apart from the few now in the
Houses, speaks volumes for the lack of
enthusiasm of men of ability for Parlia-
mentary life at the present standards, and
for the failure of the organisation to
induce self-respecting candidates to face
selection- under the present system,
which requires candidates to be pawed
over and cross-questioned at great length
by the Ash-street selection committee.
The real evidence of the weakness of
Liberalism in N. S. Wales is that it doesn’t
seem able to find a candidate of requisite
stature and standing to oust Dr. Evatt
from Barton.
The Real Test
Mr. Casey’s voice is not so loud as that
of some External Affairs Ministers who
have represented Australia, but it is
always clear and it always utters common-
sense. And amid all the warinesses of
the U.N. Assembly meeting his speech
last week on the pre-essentials to peace
was to the point.
He said that co-existence as between
the Communist and non-Communist
worlds depended on the cessation of
subversive activities; that it was a first
essential to co-existence that “no one
country or group of countries should try
to harass or subdue another.” It must
also mean that “no country shall attempt,
politically or otherwise, to undermine
the allegiance of the people of another
country from its Government.”
The change necessary to bring this
condition of affairs about presented no
difficulties on the Western side. But on
the Communist side it needed a complete
reversal of policy and decisions at the
highest level by the authorities of Moscow
and Peking.
This might well be made the first test
of Russian sincerity. Instead of reaching
straight for agreement on disarmament,
the simple questions might be asked of
Moscow: '
(1) Are the rulers of the U.S.S.R. will-
ing to withdraw all support and counten-
ance from Communist parties abroad and
abolish the Cominform and its Peking
equivalent and to amend the tenets of
the Russian Communist party to abandon
the doctrine of the inevitability of the
world revolution?
(2) Failing this, is Moscow willing to
permit those Western citizens who look
upon Communism with distaste and the
Moscow system of government without en-
thusiasm, to establish or support and
encourage in Russia organisations de-
signed to secure control of Russian key
industry, and to aim at creating a revolu-
tionary situation leading* to the over-
throw of the present Russian system and
the establishment of a Western system of
democratic government—in other words,
to organise a counter-Communist organisa-
tion in Russia, the opposite-number of
the Communist party in Australia?
Only when Russia can say “yes” to
one of these two questions can there be
any arrangement for secure co-existence
between Communism and the West.
And there seems to be very little
chance. The gulf between the two
ideologies, Communist and Democratic,
was illustrated in the week in which the
U.N. Assembly met by the disappearance
from his home in West Berlin of an
official of East Germany who had decided
that life offered better chances in the
West and crossed the border. When
next heard of it was discovered that he
had somehow come into Russian or East
German hands, and had been sentenced
for life in a slave jail for his “desertion.”
At present, despite the official glad-
handing, it is still a capital offence for a
Russian to cross to the West for a holi-
day, and under most circumstances for
him to associate in any way with citizens
of the West, even in his own country,
save with the express permission and
under the express supervision of Russian
Government agents—the M.V.D. and
the G.R.U.
Facts Needed for Firm Policy
“In the ACT”: Although the Prime
Minister had numerous conferences
while preparing the deferred statement
that he was scheduled to deliver on
September 27, there was no indication
for the public as to the facts disclosed
In the next issue of “The Bulletin”
will begin a series of articles in
which “Ek Dum” will analyse the
Petrov Commission’s report against
the background of Communist
activity in Australia.
during the talks, or what limitations were
disclosed in the knowledge of Mr.
Menzies’s visitors or of Mr. Menzies him-
self. The “groups of responsibility and
influence” who have been asked to
observe self-restraint for the next six or
nine months can be expected, mostly, to
do their best in what the Prime Minister
termed “an experiment in co-operative
understanding of a national problem,”
but it must be doubted if they have all
had the clear understanding of the nature
of the problem which he attributed to
them.
No one person or group in Australia
today is, or can be, fully aware of all
the implications, and it is an impossible
task at present to find all the facts
adequately marshalled so that major
policy-decisions can be either made or
discussed. Mr. Menzies may be armed
with many opinions and a mass of data
as a result of his private talks, but even
if he is capable of assimilating them he
will find some gaps—and no one else
will have the same information to permit
an objective assessment of the position
and of the proposed remedies.
A London banker, in an article just
published by the Victorian Institute of
Public Affairs, declares that this general
ignorance is responsible for the “lack of
any explicit, coherent economic policy
adaptable to changing economic condi-
tions.” He feels that the only explana-
tion is the lack in Australia of authorita-
tive presentation and interpretation of
facts designed to inform the public and
provide the basis for analysis and criti-
cism. He was especially critical of the
lack of an economic survey, “which was
published by most Governments in other
democratic countries,” and of the com-
plexity and obscurity of public accounts
for the Commonwealth and States.
It is highly unfortunate at present that
the Government has not yet implemented
the suggestion of the Treasurer some
months ago for the setting-up of an
objective survey which will provide the
basic material on which all shades of
opinion could form policies. The Statis-
tician does something of the sort at pre-
sent, but his figures are neither complete
nor collated in the manner needed for
this purpose. He may be able to do the
job if asked, or some other person or
group may have the necessary qualifica-
tions. If it had been done some time ago
we might have avoided our present diffi-
culties in Australia, because they would
have become apparent earlier. If it is
done now we may at least avoid more
troubles in future.
Loans for Homes
At the Premiers’ Conference in June the
Prime Minister intimated that the Com-
monwealth had in mind a new plan to
replace the Commonwealth-States Hous-
ing 'Agreement. Last week the State
Governments received from Canberra
details of the proposed new agreement.
The main feature of the scheme is that
it places the emphasis on building for
ownership instead of for letting. The
Commonwealth proposes that it should
make money available to the States at
3| per cent., repayable over 53 years,
and that the States should set aside 20
per cent, of their allocation (increasing
after two years to 30 per cent.) for the
financing of home-building through co-
operative building-societies. Money so
advanced by the States should bear 4} per
cent, interest and be repaid over 27 to
31 years.
Homes built under the plan must be
of reasonable size and designed for
families of low or moderate means; the
land on which they are built must be
bought by the State Governments on
just terms, and half the homes built must
be earmarked for ex-servicemen.
So far the Premiers have not com-
mitted themselves far on the proposal.
Mr. Playford has commented that the
provisions defining how the States shall
dispose of the money allotted to them
are a “very bad principle.” Mr. Bolte
has said that his Government will
examine the plan very carefully to see
that it does not threaten to hamstring
home-construction. Mr. Cahill is opposed
to it and says it will mean fewer homes
will be built. All Premiers have passed
the proposals on to their housing
authorities for study.
Details of the scheme may need
modifying when the Premiers meet to
talk it over with Mr. Menzies, but the
proposals seem to be a step in the right
direction. The post-war shortage of
homes forced the Governments into
home-building on a scale they had never
attempted before, but there is no need
why, 10 years later, they should still be
aspiring to become universal landlords
to their citizens. A progressive retire-
ment from the field of rental-building is
visualised by the framers of the scheme.
Mr. Cahill’s complaint that this will
mean fewer homes does not bear examina-
tion. In his own State the building-
societies have thousands of applications
from people who want to build a home
they can call their own. “Little capi-
talists” a former “Labor” Federal
Minister of the era which gave birth to
the last housing agreement called them.
Loan-money devoted to helping them
achieve their object will be much better
spent than if used exclusively for rental-
homes.
The, Evil of Precedent
It was about time some voice of authority
had a crack at precedents in law decisions,
and it’s to be hoped Australian Parlia-
ments, the judiciary and the legal
fraternity do some deep thinking about
the remarks of Lord Reid at the conven-
tion of the Australian Law Council in
Brisbane some weeks ago.
This British judge, who is a Lord of
Appeal in Ordinary and was formerly
Lord Advocate for Scotland, remarking
that “the body of case-law is now so
large and unwieldy that the next genera-
tion of lawyers will not be able to handle
it,” said the system of deciding cases on
the basis of previous decisions cried out
for amendment; it created a rigidity that
could only be broken by Parliament, and
even the House of Lords was bound by
precedent.
Lord Reid would not predict what the
change should be, adding that modern
life was so complex that lawyers “must
have something to go on,” that judges
were human and apt to do what was
human, and that simplification “beyond a
very limited point could make it harder
for people to ascertain their rights and
even lead to unjust decisions in some
cases.”
To which it may be added that more
than 200 years ago, when we may assume
life not to have been so “complex,”
Jonathan Swift was aware of the matter.
In a lecture to the Houyhnhnms on Eng-
lish ways, Swift’s hero, Gulliver, says:
It is a maxim among these lawyers, that
whatever has been done before may legally
be done again; and therefore they take
special care to record all the decisions
formerly made against common justice and
the general reason of mankind. These,
under the name of precedents, they produce
as authorities to justify the most iniquitous
opinions; and the judges never fail of
directing accordingly.
Lord Reid’s advice is peculiarly timely
to Australia, where private citizens, the
States and the Commonwealth have been
involved in costly litigation for 25 years
over the rights of private road-hauliers to
travel where they will on this continent—
rights guaranteed them and all other Aus-
tralian citizens under the Federal Consti-
tution. Following a wrong decision in the
beginning, all other cases were decided on
the precedent thus established, until
Hughes and Vale successfully upset the
precedent this year.
All in all, that one example of prece-
dentism must have cost close to a million
pounds one way and another.
Price of Tea
Tea-importers and -wholesalers explain
that the price-rise is due to higher prices
at tea-auctions in Colombo and to the lift-
ing of the Commonwealth tea-subsidy.
There will no doubt be renewed demands
for the reintroduction of the subsidy, but
it is unlikely that the Federal Govern-
ment, having got rid of an unnecessary
burden, will agree to pick it up again.
There is no more justification for a
subsidy on tea than there is for one on
coffee, cocoa or any other imported
beverage. Tea-prices are determined at
auction in Ceylon. If the price rises
above an economic level buyer-resistance
will ultimately force it down again, or,
alternatively, enable Java (a big supplier
in pre-war days) or some other producer
to capture the Australian market.
High tea-prices are an inevitable result
of the “awakening of Asia,” and the
groups now most vocal in deploring the
rise are those who in the past condemned
“colonialism” and “imperialists who
battened on cheap Asiatic labor.” They
can’t have it both ways. Any benefits
gained in the past through cheap products
from low-wage tropical countries were
shared by the whole communities in
Britain and Australia. It is futile to
advocate improved living-standards for
Asian countries, and at the same time
expect the products of Asian industry to
sell at the old prices. Tea will not
necessarily remain at the present price
for long; competition will almost
certainly bring it down again. But the
days of really cheap tea are gone for
ever.
Britain's Financial Policy
One certainty that emerges from the
speeches at the Istanbul International
Monetary Fund Conference, which Sir
Arthur Fadden has been attending, is
that Australia is not alone in its financial
difficulties. These aie world-wide, which
gives all the more reason for proceeding
with wariness and caution. As Mr.
Butler, Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, remarked, “it is certainly not
a time for taking risks that cannot be
calculated.”
Inflationary fears are not restricted to
countries with wilting external balances.
The United States, Germany and Belgium
are having no trouble in that direction,
yet all are taking steps to limit expansion
of credit. It seems to be very true of
the whole Western world, as Mr. Butler
declared, that “in many respects the
monetary equilibrium of today is by no
means soundly based.”
The reactions and direction in which
the United Kingdom is moving is of vital
importance to Australia in its own diffi-
cult position. Britain is our crucial
market for export goods and what
happens to its buying power is of great
moment to us.
Mr. Butler says that “fundamentally
British trade is sound, and there are signs
of its great vitality, but some difficulties
arising from various causes must be met
before the United Kingdom can put into
practice a policy of enlarging trade and
making payments freer, which has been
and still is the British Governments
basic policy.” In fact, British industry is
facing a difficult task in maintaining
existing export-level, in view of the
lower-price competition of the long-hour-
small-wage countries of the Continent
and the Orient and the increasing
pressure of demands in British industries
for all-round increases in wages.
The Chancellor declared—and the
declaration has point for the Common-
wealth Government which has been
facing the same sort of advice and the
same sort of rumor that it will take it—
that the parity of sterling to the dollar
would remain unchanged and that
currency convertibility was a matter ot
(Continued on next page )


timing; that Britain, though not at
present Contemplating any move, might,
when it had placed its house in order,
choose the proper moment to make
sterling convertible. He had, he said,
“made it clear that we do not contem-
plate an early move on any—l repeat,-
any—aspects of the exchange front. We
must first go through the arduous process
of strengthening our internal and com-
petitive system.” All rumors and dis-
cussions and rumors about the impend-
ing change of parity of, or margins for,
sterling are “unrealistic and irrelevant.”
He admitted, however, “provided we
choose the right moment, again,” an
increase in the price of gold and a con-
sequent increase in the value of gold
reserves “would make it easier for the
world to ensure that temporary balance-
of-payments fluctuations are dealt with
without recourse to restrictive measures.”
World conditions are, as he says,
“largely dominated by the economy of
the United States” and “much depends
for all of us on the world dollar-supply,”
which led him to hope for “atomic pro-
pulsion” by the U.S. towards tariff-
reductions and wider trade oppor-
tunities. This hope seems vain in spite
of President Eisenhower’s gestures.
Meantime, Britain, like Australia, is
taking “first steps to remedy the situa-
tion and the way in which her balances
have been moving” and “intends to
defend our currency by taking all neces-
sary measures on the home front.”
Whatever happens the devaluation of
the currency for which some people
seem so eager both in London and in
Australia appears to be. regarded as a
remote contingency in both countries.
POLITICAL POINTS
Next year N. S. Wales will celebrate
the centenary of responsible government
in the State. Responsible ?
• •
When this went to the printer the
Prime Minister’s much-postponed state-
ment on economic policy was scheduled
for utterance last night. Further cuts
in import-quotas to take effect from
October 1 were expected'to be the main
line of action adopted to reduce the drain
on sterling funds, and it was thought that
Mr. Menzies would make a strong appeal
to business and private interests to curtail
spending on luxuries and semi-luxuries.
It was generally assumed that as a
result of the Canberra talks hire-purchase
terms on cars would be tightened—the
term reduced from three to two years
and the minimum deposit raised from a
quarter to a third. At the weekend
higher interest-rates on bank-overdrafts
and deposits were also being discussed.
• •
After the Prime Minister had con-
cluded his series of chats with representa-
tives of banking, finance, commerce,
manufactures and the A.C.T.U., he said
he had initiated the talks “so that we may
arrive at a sober and common assess-
ment of the matters to be dealt with and
so that I may feel that the highest degree
of co-operation will be forthcoming
I have been refreshed by the realisation
that responsible Australians of all sorts
have a constructive approach to those
matters which concern the security and
prosperity of the country.”
• •
“Spend a Million to Attract Foreign
Investors,” says the Victorian Employers'
Federation. It’s a good idea in theory,
but with things as they are at present it
might be like throwing a mackerel to eaten
a sprat.
• •
When Anthony Eden asked the Earl
of Home, who had been Secretary of
State for Scotland in the Churchill
Cabinet, to take over the Commonwealth
Relations portfolio, Home expressed
some diffidence as to his qualifications
for the new job, * Eden clinched it by
saying, “Well, if you can handle Scots-
men, you ought to be able to cope with
anything.”
• •
In Federal preselection fights for
“Labor” nominations in N. S. Wales the
two factions broke even, Dan Curtin
(Evatt-“Labor”) beating Gordon Ander-
son in Kingsford-Smith and O’Connor
(pro-groups) defeating Greenup (Evatt-
“Labor”) in Dailey. These were the only
two seats in which sitting members
clashed. Counting for Senate-pre-
selection will not be finished for a week
or so. Fixer Ashley is keeping his toes
crossed.
• •
English fast bowler Tyson has just
gained his B.A. at Durham University.
Bowled Aht?
• •
After two changes of leaders in a little
over a year it’s to be hoped the N. S.
Wales Liberals are prepared to stick by
their latest decision; any further signs
of doubt will mean that their chances
of ousting “Labor” at the next election
will go down the drain.
Fourteen years in the wilderness have
naturally had a debilitating effect on the
party, but its internal dissensions have
scarcely served to establish it in the
public mind as the party to which to turn
for a certainty of strong and stable gov-
ernment. Even when Liberalism was
riding high in 1950, after the Menzies
Government had just been returned in
Canberra, the N. S. Wales Opposition
parties were unable to unseat “Labor” in
the State Parliament and in 1953 they
were soundly trounced.
There was plenty of evidence available
from Victoria to show how internal dis-
sension could wreck a Liberal party and
keep it out of office, but the lesson wasn’t
accepted.
Last year the leadership hung in the
balance for many days. Vernon Treatt,
after an 11-all tie with P. H. Morton, was
re-elected 12-10. Feeling that this narrow
win did not justify his continuing in the
job, he resigned. After that there were
four 11-all dead-heats between Morton
and Askin, before the latter stood down
in favor of Murray Robson, who was
persuaded to stand to break the deadlock.
Even then there was another dead-heat
before Robson became leader by 12 votes
to 10.
In his turn Robson has now been
passed over for Morton, six of his erst-
while supporters having changed their
minds. With the voting 16-6 in his favor,
the new leader commands, on paper at
least, a bigger following than either of
his predecessors. With an election just
round the corner, he’ll need it.
• •
Present degree of R.A.A.F. readiness
calls for units to be “operational” within
24 hours,' the Air Minister, Athol
Townley, told the Reps. Announcing that
two fighter-squadrons were about to hold
mobility exercises, he added that if the
world position deteriorated the R.A.A.F
would have an earlier defence readiness.
Or if more pilotless planes get away?
• •
There must be an election in the offing.
All newly-naturalised New Australians
are being handed electoral-enrolment
cards as they receive their citizenship
certificates, and they are told of their
right and duty to vote.
"Don't look now, but I think we're being followed!"
Captain Matthew Flinders came in for
a little deserved, if belated, praise last
week Navy Minister Francis reported
that H.M.A.S. Warrego had surveyed the
Gulf of Carpentaria to ascertain if a
developmental port or beach-landing
facilities could be provided. It had been
found that on the southern shore between
Calvert River and Baily Point there was
no possibility of providing anything of
the sort, as all the inlets were cut off by
drying sandbanks. “In fact,” said the
the Minister, “the surroundings and the
situation generally are very much as pre-
viously reported by Captain Flinders.”
• •
Final figures in the Canberra liquor
poll gave ten-o’clock closing the verdict
by 1272 votes in a poll of 13,689. As a
sequel Minister for the Interior Kent
Hughes announced that from October 1
hotel-trading hours would be 10 a.m. to
10 p.m. These hours will also apply to
licensed clubs and restaurants. There’ll
be no evening break as in N. S. Wales.
• •
Australia’s first aluminium plant was
opened at Bell Bay (Tas.) on Friday,
Supply Minister Beale deputising for the
Prime Minister to pour the first ingot.
Output for the first year will be 6000
tons, rising to 13,000 when the full plant
is in operation. Beale expressed some
anxiety about the supply and cost of
hydroelectric power. The expectation of
a plentiful supply of cheap power had,
he said, been the “sole and only justifi-
cation for establishing the industry in
Tasmania.”
• •
South Australian “Labor” is flogging
the dead horse of nationalisation.
Opposition-leader O’Halloran last week
introduced a motion proposing the
termination of the B.H.P. iron-ore leases
and the nationalising of the plant and
works. The suggestion had no hope of
success; it was a propaganda move
designed to embarrass Premier Playford
by putting his Government in the posi-
tion of appearing to oppose the establish-
ment of a steelworks in S.A.
• •
Richard Stokes, Labor member for
Ipswich in the House of Commons,
seems to be a forward-looking man in
many respects, but he’s 19th century in
his ideas of Australia’s economic role.
He wants us to forget all ambitions of
building up a manufacturing industry
and concentrate on primary production.
Mr. Stokes is a manufacturer of earth-
moving equipment.
• •
“Telespy”: What is to happen about
TV and big sporting events? Charles
Moses of the A.B.C. predicts that both
Government and commercial TV
authorities will demand that big fixtures,
such as cricket Tests, the Melbourne and
Sydney Cups and the Davis Cup should
be classed as “national,” thus giving all
TV-stations the right to televise them—
with fees to be fixed by agreement or
arbitration. It looks like- a lively
argument.
Young blood should replace the Old
Guard, says Government Whip Gullett.
Some transfusions might help, but for
the time being Menzies might be wise to
leave the gory business of public execu-
tions to the Opposition.
• •
Attacking the assertion that “Labor”
was the only party which had done
anything for the wage-earner, Country-
party Assemblyman L. C. Jordan has
reminded Cahill that there was no
“Labor” Government in N. S. Wales
before 1910, yet by that time the
Industrial Arbitration Act had been
passed, the Industrial Court had been
established and the principles of prefer-
ence to unionists proclaimed. From 1908
the court had been empowered to fix
minimum rates of pay and maximum
hours of work.
• • •
Ballarat Libs, have chosen a man from
Premier Bolte’s home town, Meredith,
to oppose R. Joshua, leader of the Anti-
Com. “Labor” party at the next Federal
election. He’s Dudley Erwin, a 38-year-
old farmer and a past-president of the
Winchelsea branch of the Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union. Erwin is also a former
flight-lieut., with six years’ service in the
R.A.A.F., doing 72 operational raids
with the Darwin Beaufighter Squadron.
• •
Sydney “Sun-Herald” and “Sunday
Telegraph” are locked in one of those
periodic circulation-fights in which the
weapons are competitions with prizes
running into thousands of pounds. In
the field of statistics a paper bought for
the coupon and thrown away ranks
equally with the one read from first to
last page. But are the advertisers, whose
eyes the inflated figures are intended to
dazzle, really going to be impressed by
such transparent moves?
• •
Federal members were rightly resentful
that the annual report of the Common-
wealth Bank reached them the day after
the consideration of the Treasury Esti-
mates. The Prime Minister, asked about
what may have been an “unfortunate
coincidence,” admitted that it was unsatis-
factory', and said every effort would be
made in future to see that relevant docu-
ments were in the hands of members in
good time. Does the bank think it’s been
getting a little too much publicity?
• •
“In the ACT”: Fadden appears to have
“talked turkey” to the International
Monetary Fund meeting in Istanbul. He
denounced the harmful effects of excessive
agricultural protection in Europe, and
pointed out that even where the general
level of nutrition was low, big urban
populations had been largely denied access
to meat, fruit, dairy products and grain
from other countries at world prices. He
added that
if the world generally and primary-producing
countries in particular are to move towards
convertibility and non-discrimination, it is most
important that Europe should begin to adopt
active policies designed to scale-down their
present barriers.
• •
The name of the electoral division of
Darwin (Tasmania) has been changed to
Braddon —to avoid confusion with the
Northern Territory Darwin. The new
name honors a notable Tasmanian.
Edward Nicholas Coventry Braddon,
P.C., K.C.M.G., came to Tasmania in
1876 after 30 years in India, entered the
State Parliament and faithfully served his
new country for a quarter of a century.
He died in 1904, having been successively
Agent-General, Premier and a member
of the first Federal Parliament. As one
of the Founding Fathers of the Federa-
tion he did much to safeguard the
interests of his adopted State, for which
the larger partners showed remarkably
little concern.
• •
First electricity from the nuclear-
power station at Calder Hall in Cumber-
land is expected to be fed into the British
national network on November 22.
Calder Hall is an experimental station,
and the amount of power utilised from
it will be small to begin with, but the
10-year development plan provides for
having eight stations in production by
1965, with a total output of 1500 to 2000
megawatts, equivalent to the power that
would be produced by five to six million
tons of coal.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTEO
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TV/TOST people feel a little sad when
they see their old car being taken
away after years of faithful service, but
remorse soon departs when a shiny new
streamliner takes its place. However,
one elderly gentleman who sold his car
heard that the new owner had no garage.
He and his old lady visited the purchaser’s
home. “Thought I’d bring you this,” he
said, handing over a car-cover; “it’s not
used to being out all night.”—“Doric.”
+J+ <£♦
“Maitri”: The upper reaches of
Sydney’s North Shore line were about to
burst forth in a welter of freezias —
countless fragrant blooms thronged
banks and level spaces beside the rail-
tracks. “Just one more day,” passengers
remarked to one another, “and they’ll
be at their best.” Next morning from the
train-windows the landscape suggested
the abomination of desolation. Once
again freezia-time and the railways’
annual burn-off had synchronised.
* *> ❖
“0.W.W.”: In Ja. less-expensive Wel-
lington (N.Z.) private hotel a scruffy-
looking fellow came down to dinner clad
only in singlet and trousers. The Maori
waitress refused to serve him. “You go
back and comb your hair before you
come in here,” she said indignantly.
“Doynest”: Mrs. D. belongs to two
new organisations for housewives and
mothers like herself, who, while admit-
ting that they can no longer be called
young, would be indignant if referred to
as middle-aged. “Young Matrons” is the
euphemistic cliche. She announced
that they had decided to call the social
club “The Banksias,” after the pic-
turesque native tree which adorns our
bayside suburb. “Now we want to think
of something equally appropriate for the
gymnasium-club,” she said. “Perhaps
we could call it after some native bird.”
I gave the matter thought; at last I
murmured, “What about The Wag-
tails’?”. But they’re to be “The
Brolgas.”
“Big End”: A garage-proprietor
, obliged a friend by driving a hearse and
i leading a large funeral from a country
centre to Sydney. Miles from nowhere
a bad short-circuit on the hearse melted
through a connector-link of the battery.
More than 40 cars were held-up while the
temporary hearse-driver hustled through
the tool-box, found some washers and
jammed them into the burnt link. A
police-sergeant at a later stage (it is
understood) booked 35 cars for speeding ;
then tore up his book.
❖ ❖ *
“Blanc”: Of all our mispronounced
words I feel sure that none can beat
“dais.” On Anzac Day, 1954, an
announcer constantly called it “dieass.”
“From the dieass here I can now see
the Thirteenth Battalion,” he called, and
he saw every unit from this incorrect
viewpoint. I wrote to him from Yaralla
Hospital to tell him it was “dayiss” or
“dace,” and this year he got it right. The
master of my lodge continues to call
it “dieass” although I have tried tactfully
to correct him, and my Rotary Club
president, on special nights when he is
on a platform, always calls it “dieass.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Vim”: After World War I a
memorial-tablet of polished wood was
placed in the entrance of our church.
The names of my two brothers who were
killed in France were on the list with
many others, and we read them with
pride as we passed in. Someone with a
passion for change and modernising has
had the board removed and a monstrosity
of shining white plastic-looking sub-
stance, of a kind suited to the milk-bar
or delicatessen, put in its place. Imagine
my grief and anger to see my brothers’
names in a list which should read: Pine-
apple, Fruit-sundae or Fritz! No one
seems to know who was responsible.
Well, the boys had a sense of humor, and
the absurdity might have amused them.
“Muskeen”: A Melbourne paper
stated that the Malayan contingent were
the first Australian troops to go abroad
not wearing the “rising sun” badge. I
don’t know what badge the N.S.W. con-
tingent that left for Sudan in the
’eighties wore, but I am quite sure it was
not the “rising sun.” South African
troops were raised and equipped by the
colonies independently, and not only did
they wear different badges, but their
“I’m all for closer employer-employee relationships—
aren't you, Miss Wilby?"
uniforms were not all of the same pattern.
Also during World War I a heavy siege-
battery left Australia for France wearing
its own badge and not the “rising sun,”
which, by the way, is not a rising sun at
all. It is a stand of bayonets.
“Allan B.”: Once again the dolled-up
kids and adoring mummies have invaded
Ballarat (Vic.) for the 65th annual South-
street Competitions, coming from all over
Australia to cash-in on the record prize-
money of £5114. The entries are also a
record, topping 3654, involving 9000
appearances in front of the unfortunate
adjudicators. The contest had to be put
on two days earlier because of the record
entry of 1274 in the dancing-section,
which will be judged by Miss Phyllis
Brunt, of Sydney. Bearing the brunt,
indeed! The indoor sections will eat
up £3564 of the prize cash, with the
balance of £1550 for the bands. Brass-
blowers from all over the Commonwealth
have entered, as the section also includes
“Marilyn, will you . . . will you divorce me?"
the Victorian State champs. The old
near-collapsing Alfred Hall will prob-
ably see this eisteddfod for the last time
this year—since 1899 —as the new Civic
Hall should be ready by next year. The
show will run for seven weeks.
❖ *> *>
“Port Dalrymple”: In Launceston’s
port, no one knows where he is. Bass
and Flinders discovered Port Dalrymple
in 1798 and named it in honor of Alex-
ander Dalrymple, Hydrographer to the
Admiralty. For some time Launceston
Marine Board has wanted to name the
three deepwater ports in that part of the
Tamar estuary “Port Launceston,”
instead of Port Dalrymple; but the
Nomenclature Board has vetoed the idea
because of history. Marine Board
officials point to the Port of London as
precedent for the proposed change of
title, and say that it would increase Laun-
ceston’s importance to abandon indi-
vidual names like Beauty Point, Inspec-
tion Head and Bell Bay for the deep-
water berths now known as Port Dal-
rymple. Launceston’s daily paper has
come out with an ultimatum that in future
it will speak of Port Launceston only,
and advises the Marine Board, importers,
and others to do the same. This will pro-
bably set up a problem for postal depart-
ments, amongst others.
<s► ♦>
“Ex”: Randolph Bedford in his short-
story “To Pay Paul,” set in Townsville,
N.Q., had a stolen bag of 500 sovereigns
hidden by the hero unknowingly in the
police - superintendent’s garden. This
year, demolition of the police-inspector’s
old residence in that city has brought to
fight a cache of £6OO under the boards
of the upper floor, not in sovereigns, but
in £lO- and £5-notes. The find is being
investigated by the chief police-inspector
from Brisbane. There is,not likely to be
a police claimant, so the finders, two
carpenters, an apprentice and a laborer,
are wondering how they will fare. The
cache may be a relic from the hectic
war years when Townsville’s population
was boosted with troops to near the
100,000-mark.
“Avon”: On a Christchurch (N.Z.)
street I struck a lurk I thought had died
out long ago. Armed with a pair of
sharp scissors, a small sheet of black
paper and an ingratiating approach, he
was doing extremely faithful silhouettes
—about two minutes for each work-of-
art. Encouraged by the promise of “a
lovely transparent folder” (which turned
out to be a neat affair of thin bank-
paper), victims parted-out two-bob a
time. The veteran was on his way to the
trots at Addington, where he planned
to buttonhole owners into deals with
silhouettes of their winning nags. Are
there other practitioners still sharing what
the likeable old chap set down as “just
a gift”?
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Mugga Way”: A display in London
of Yorkshire woollens showed new
designs, new colors, new blends, new
mixtures. Some crease-resistant cloths
were a blend of terylene and wool and
mohair, and there were also blends of
wool with mohair, cashmere, alpaca and
vicuna. Women were expected to wear
the cashmere-blend, but males were being
offered colors including variants of dark
charcoal, in which grey had been blended
with pink, blue, green and brown. Looks
as though peacocks Will be getting
envious.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Quo Vadis”: At dawn I saw reposing
in incredible solitude at the foot of the
big tree in front of my dwelling a full
bottle of rich, red wine. It became mine.
A sad-looking chap appeared, walking
slowly, circling each street-tree, head
downcast, then gazing earnestly into the
branches. He passed by, but came back,
ever searching. Seemingly, all he needed
was a lantern. People were watching now,
suspiciously—l accosted him, and handed
over; his misery vanished in a grin. If
he had been Diogenes it might have been
because he had found an honest man.
In the circumstances . . .
* ❖ ❖
“Phillida”: An elderly relative of ours
has always been noted for extraordinary
acrobatics in her conversation, but with
practice it has become easy to follow the
train of thought. A number of us left
town in her car for her seaside cottage.
She took the wheel. We charged down a
hill at the precise moment a man on
crutches decided to cross the road.
Working his crutches madly, like a pair
of oars, he bobbed across in front of us,
only just making it. At our shrieks our
unperturbed relative remarked coldly,
“Well, we didn’t hurt him.” She was
quiet a moment and then said with exas-
peration, “Oh bother! I’ve forgotten to
bring the blood-and-bone for the garden.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Geep”: The only girl on the staff
lately had her driving-test. Next day
she seemed reticent about it. A circle of
curious males pumped her at morning-tea
with little effect until her favorite said
“Please?” Then it all came out, a stall-
by-stall description.
CONVERSATION-PIECE
“The P.M.G., Mr. Anthony, announces that
the fees for calls from public telephones will
be increased from 2d. to 3d. on October 29.”
The little glass conversatory up or down
your street
Has grown uneconomic, it appears ;
Where other housing-values have gone
up with wool and meat,
Its rent has been the same for forty
years;
Well, now it’s been revalued, no matter
what we say,
And many busy housewives will repine
That the present rent of twopence that
secures it for a day
Will be threepence from October 29.
The statements that have cost you dear
will cost you dearer now:
“... .■ Five-bob both ways on Deadhead
—am l 0n? ....”
“ Of course I love you, Mabel —
we’ll get married, anyhow....”
“....Yes, dearest, come tomorrow —
he’ll be g0ne.....”
“..... .I’ll bring a dozen bottles; it’s going
to be a feast....”
“....Oh, no, you haven’t sacked me
—I resign !...
The price of your mistakes and of your
crimes will be increased
By a penny from October 29.
Still, suppose you could be certain that
the phone-book would be there
With the page that you were looking
for untorn;
And on lifting the receiver you found
the line was clear
Of that hornet exercising on his horn;
Suppose you pressed the button after
working on the dial
And the pennies didn’t jam, it would
be fine —
Yes, suppose you got your number at
your first and only trial,
Who’d boggle at October 29 ?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


"COUR young men from the Camden
district decided to explore the
Redex route before the start of the race.
Fitting out a Fargo truck for the long
journey, they left Camden, farewelled
by most of the citizens of that town, on
July 4. The journey was almost without
incident, and the only mishap occurred
outside Port Hedland, where they ran off
the track and had to have minor repairs.
“The doctor says if We don't keep up with the instalments
he'll have to repossess the baby."
They arrived back in Camden on Septem-
ber 3, neither they nor the truck much
the worse'for wear.—“P.W.R.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Vim”: In a crowded tram a small
piquant-faced little lass of about four-
and-a-half piped up, “That’s where
I had me ether!” She reminiscently
cupped a hand over her nose and shut
her eyes. A few streets further along,
she announced, “That’s where I had me
injections!” pointing to the town-hall. I
pondered whether she will end as
scientist, hypochondriac or a boring
raconteur of her latest operation.
♦♦♦
“Uncle Bill”: Imagine what an old-
time sergeant-major would say to Sid
Black’s digger with his hands in his
pockets (B. 7/9/’55)! The sketch
reminded me that, although the late
Frank Dunne never had a drawing
published in The Bulletin, that journal
went a long way towards
making him “Smith’s
Weekly’s” best cartoonist
of the Digger. In 1914
Frank, then about 16, sub-
mitted a sketch that The
Bulletin turned down
fiat, and in “Answers to
Correspondents” said,
“What a godsend pockets
are to the unskilled
draughtsman.” From then
on Frank was frequently
seen holding his left hand
out at various angles and
doing sketches -of it. In
Egypt with the A.I.F. soon
after his seventeenth birth-
day, Frank went on to
France with the First
Division in 1916. His
unit’s movements could be
traced about the Western
Front by the sketches of
hands on the walls of every
billet they occupied.
“Mrs. P.”: With wages so high child-
labor in the home had to come, but it
surprises me the early age at which they
are expected to take up the burden. Our
paper is advertising tea-towels with
nursery rhyme designs.
* ♦> ♦>
“Nunk”: Many of those who in these
rich days avoid having children so that
they can afford motor-cars are finding
that they have merely exchanged one
kind of “hostage to fortune” for another.
Especially in areas of many flats, most
of them have to leave their cars out on
the streets where, even more than
children, they can be stolen, bumped,
scratched and can get in the way of
other cars. What value a child has is
theoretical, but a car represents around
£lOOO in hard cash—the car-owner of
today frets and quarrels with other car-
owners until he is as nervous a wreck as
any parent. Such is fate—you can’t avoid
anything, anyhow.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Bo”: For years I have been
bombarded with propaganda, by film and
novel, that as a hot-blooded lover the
Latin was unbeatable. The picture
evoked is one of a swarthy swain leap-
ing at his inamorata, bending her back-
wards like a bow and crushing her lips
with superheated kisses. Masterful, per-
suasive, irresistible, he made the poor
Anglo-Saxon look a joke in the realms
of mush. Then came the Italian Opera
Company’s season, and the belief was
torn to shreds. Among the herd of
Roman and Neapolitan stage-lovers who
were supposed to be wooing their Aidas,
Violettas, Toscas and Cho Cho Sans not
one of them was a lover’s bootlace.
They’ve been shying away from the
heroines as if they had the German
measles. The only one who has acted
like a real lover has been one of the
allegedly cold-blooded Anglo-Saxons —
Australian tenor Kenneth Neate.
♦♦♦
“5 GR”: The brochure on “what is
the right thing” (B. 14/9 /’55) reminds
of my arrival in India to join a Royal
“They say she lived about 3500 B.B.—you know , before Berlei .”
regiment of Gurkhas. The War Office
had presented me with a foolscap sheet
on what to buy. There would be a
morning coat “for garden parties,” and
the customary top hat, of course. But as
I was joining a frontier-force regiment, I
thought the top hat would be super-
fluous in a border war. There was a long
diatribe on Indian customs, which I
studied with care, but the injunction that
tickled me most was a prosaic bit.
“There are more sharks in Bombay than
in the adjoining waters,” a fact I soon
proved and confirmed on a recent visit.
❖
“St. Ruth” i News that Yanks don’t
read many books isn’t so surprising when
you consider the number of digests and
condensed novels arriving with the
morning grapefruit. All too often in
the library I am in charge of, when some
book (often quite new) which I expected
to be popular is bypassed, I overhear the
same remarks: “I’ve seen that on the
movies,” or “I’ve read that condensed in
a magazine somewhere.” Writers and
publishers can’t have it both ways.
*** ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: About six months ago in
our suburb (Concord, Sydney) the
council set up new posts at every street-
intersection, affixed thereto neat scroll-
type metal brackets and attached
pastel-green-and-black street name-plates.
Some three months later, all the name-
plates disappeared practically overnight
while the nice, white-painted posts
remain bare as badgers. Anyone know
why?
+> ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Only two of us on
evening duty, and I, allocated to the
nursery, had finished topping and tailing,
and was behind the screen in the ward
giving the maternal massage. The other
lass popped out of labor-ward and
appeared at the door; she could not see
me, but knew from the slap, slap, plop,
plop sound what I was doing. So she
called, “Ellell, I’ll need your help very
soon. How much longer will you be
batting on that wet wicket?”
*
“Hand Out”: With ratification of the
1949 International Convention on Road
Traffic this year, Australians became en-
titled to “AUS” number-plates on cars
taken overseas. The Commonwealth
Government has appointed the Australian
Automobile Association to be its sole
AUS-traders, for the issue of plates and
international driving-permits which en-
title holders to motor through most
foreign countries without further tests
or licences.
“Hyanlo”: One of those childless
women who lavish their thwarted
maternal instincts on a lapdog, she drove
up for juice and handed Joe the key to
her car’s petrol-tank. As he put out his
hand the powdered, patted and pam-
pered poodle ceased its yapping just long
enough to nip his cuff. When he handed
back the keys it snapped again. “You
know, Ma’am,” said Joe, “that pup’s a
bit on the dangerous side. It’ll end up
having a piece of someone. “Oh, no,
she said, “Fifi wouldn’t bite anyone;
she only snaps at, tradespeople.”
*X* *> ❖
“Metralia”: An embarrassment of
cleanliness is the curious problem of U.K.
health authorities. Down 40-million sinks
bubble synthetic detergents used by soap-
rationed housewives. Detergents so potent
they continue to froth in the difficult
milieu of the drains and, ultimately, in
the even more difficult one of the sea. On
a favorable tide they come frothing back
to shore. Owners of sea-front gardens
find them waist-deep in foam.
❖ *X* ❖
“Westaussie”: A chap making a deter-
mined attempt to catch a bus put on a
terrific final spurt and managed to grab
the rear door hand-rail, but could not
make the step. The bus gathered speed
—and so did he. After about 30 yds. of
nerve-shattering ( my nerves) effort he
lost his hold, rolled over about three
times and finished-up in the gutter. We
ran over to him, but before we reached
what we half-expected to be the “body”
he got up, brushed-down his clothes and
proceeded unconcernedly on his way.
Incredulously I called out, “You all right,
mate?” “Yes, thanks.” He didn’t even
bother to turn round ; but he had spoken
too soon. A moment later he skidded on
a greasy patch of pavement and came
crashing down. When we reached him
this time he was cursing uninhibitedly and
nursing a painful, swelling wrist.
❖
“Emel”: Last Coronation showed how
well velvet can last. Lady Saye and Sele
wore a red velvet kirtle and mantle, still
in perfect condition, that her mother-in-
law had worn in 1911 for George V’s
coronation, and the Duchess of Devon-
shire wore a vintage-piece a lot older still
—a red velvet dress, 150 years old at least,
and yet looking as if it might have been
worn for the first time. An off-the-
shoulder model, the Duchess’s antique
was originally made for the lovely
Georgiana, that Duchess of Devonshire
whom Gainsborough, Romney and
Reynolds loved to paint.
♦>
“8.A.L.”: Tradespeople took a differ-
ent attitude to customers in my boy-
hood. My father worked at night, so the
gate was then always kept locked and
the key placed where the milkman could
reach it from outside. Wet or fine, that
milkman unlocked the gate, walked to
the house —a considerable distance from
the fence—filled the milk-can, relocked
the gate and replaced the key,
CAUSE AND EFFECT
“After 20 years’ research into the subject
two Italian physicians have reached the conclu-
sion that the high incidence of tonsil-removal
in men has led to loss of masculinity, fighting-
spirit, stamina, adventurousness, mental powers
and physical prowess, indifference to women
and an aggravation of thirst.”
You may often idly wonder
Why you’ve made a business blunder
Or have lost your former passion for
contentiousness;
What has caused your slipping denture,
Made you timid of adventure,
Or induced a falling-off in conscien-
tiousness.
It has been, perhaps, a puzzle
Why much beer you love to guzzle ;
Why your triceps lack their former
elasticity,
Or your toenails constant cutting;
Why you’re such a dud at putting,
Or you haven’t heard of words like
“immundicity.”
You, around whom once they wove a
Reputation Casanova-
Like —what caused you to become so
apathetical ?
Time was, angered by somebody
You could swear worse than a swaddie;
Now your attitude’s so mild, apologeti-
cal.
When you’re faced with blonded glamor
All you now can do is stammer
A splurge of words to her incompre-
hensible —
More certain than, perhaps, is
This one cause of all these lapses :
You rashly deemed your tonsils were
dispensable !
If intact your tonsils still are,
Acting as a sort of pillar
For your throttle, and a germ-trap of
stability,
You’ll be less inclined to ramble,
Beat your wife, embezzle, gamble,
Or have a brain of very poor fertility.
They were given you by Nature,
And it’s time the legislature
Made their extirpation something quite
unlawful.
It was after I submitted
To this op. that quarter-witted
I became, and quickly, too — isn’t it
awful!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERIONAL ITEMS
A bit of his products’ look about visit-
ing Labor MP. Richard Rapier Stokes—
ruggedly solid, he heads the heavy irri-
gation-equipment firm of Ransomes and
Rapier, known wherever ditches, dams
and such run on a large scale. Awarded
the Order of the Nile by Farouk in 1938
for his part in Egypt’s irrigation projects
(the year he won Ipswich for British
Labor; still there), Stokes is a Royal
Military Academy and Cambridge gradu-
ate. He took an engineering degree from
the university, and M.C. and Bar from
the War I Royal Field Artillery, com-
manding his battery at the age of 20.
Attlee’s Minister of Works, and a Privy
Councillor, he was Minister of Materials
when, in 1951, Churchill went in.
• •
Eric Hardy (attached) was born
amongst steel (in Sheffield) and has been
working that commodity since, way back
and a long way from home, he was
apprenticed to engineering at the old
N.S.W. Government Dockyard. Now
he manages the considerable Queensland
interests of boilermakers Babcock and
Wilcox. Making his own ladder after
the dockyard closed down, Hardy free-
lanced round Newcastle, getting what
engineering work he could, and finally
joined B. and W. in Sydney. Presently
he was design-draftsman and section-
leader. His Queensland connection
began four years afterwards; senior
technical assistant and later assistant-
BOILERMAKER
manager. The firm’s work up north in
those days was much less extensive than
now, and the assistant-manager was
frequently called away on special techni-
cal investigations—roving over all States
and a sizeable slice of New Zealand.
Given the managership shortly after War
11, he’s anchored solidly enough now.
Earlier holding quite a reputation as an
amateur magician, now he spare-times
with tho> somewhat more solid member-
ship of chambers of commerce and manu-
factures, of Brisbane Rotary and coun-
cillorship of the Royal Empire Society.
• •
New two-year president of the N.S.W.
Chamber of Manufactures, John Hurley
succeeds Engineer-Captain George Hut-
cheson, boss of Cockatoo Docks. Hurley
jointly heads Berlei, Ltd.
Lighthouses, lights, buoys, beacons,
fathoms, fairways—all the multifarious
and insistent considerations of caring for
the safe navigation of a State’s water-
ways have been the responsibility of
Captain W. B. Nicholson since, 14 years
ago, he came ashore after 17 years’ sea-
time. First a superintendent stevedore in
Sydney and Port Kembla, he shifted
south to Tasmania as Deputy Director of
Navigation. Then the complementary
post in Westralia. Now he becomes navi-
gation-chief in Queensland, with the Reef
on his slop-chit.
v • •
“Flag Off.”: Crossed the bar in Sydney,
at 92, Captain F. C. C. Pasco, R.N., was
a grandson of that Lieutenant Pasco who
once wrote, in a published letter: —
His Lordship came to me on the poop.
“Mr. Pasco, I wish to say to the Fleet
‘England confides that every man will do
his duty’ and he added, “You must be
quick, for I have one more to make, which
is tor close action.” I replied, “If your
Lordship will permit me to substitute
expects for confides the signal will soon be
completed, because expects is in the vocabu-
lary and confides must be spelt.” His
Lordship concurred in haste . . . accord-
ingly, I hoisted the signal at the topgallant
masthead, and there it remained until shot
away.
Nelson’s flag-lieutenant, later captain,
settled in Australia. Captain F. C. C.
Pasco followed his grandfather and father
into the Royal Navy, and spent most of his
sea-time in the surveying-branch, a good
deal of it in survey-vessels on the Aus-
tralian station, before the birth of the
R.A.N. This country has reason to be in-
debted to Pasco for his part in ihany sur-
veys, the principal ones being in the Inner
Route of the Great Barrier Reef, and on
the north-west coast round King Sound.
The last-named charting, done in 1909-
10, has only recently attained its full
value with the opening of the iron-ore de-
posits in Yampi Sound. Fifty years ago,
at the Trafalgar centenary celebrations in
Sydney Town Hall, Captain Pasco’s only
son (then aged eight, and later killed in
War I) hoisted the flags of Nelson’s his-
toric signal.
• •
“Metax”: First Tasmanian to become a
Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur, T. H.
Goddard, a Sydney University graduate,
has practised medicine in Hobart for
years. He retired from the position of
State Director of Tuberculosis in 1950,
but has continued as Consular Agent for
France in the Speck. President of the
Alliance Fran$ais in Hobart since 1938,
his knowledge has helped many students
and visitors. Also C.B.E., Goddard leaves
shortly for Paris, to visit his daughter,
married to a French medico.
• •
“Yalram”: One of the men behind the
success of the Brisbane Exhibition (B.
24/8/’55) was quiet, hard-working R.N.A.
trustee and chairman of Works Com-
mittee, George Ernest Green. Born and
educated at Maryborough (Q.), he entered
the public service when young and trans-
ferred to E. G. Eager and Son, of which
sizeable concern he is now chairman and
managing-director. A former Rugby
star —he -repped for Queensland —he has
captained and presided over Royal
Queensland Golf Club for some years.
For the Queensland Bush Children’s
Health Scheme, he was chairman of a
very successful appeal for funds shortly
after War II; he also did a sizeable job
as chairman and controller of Australian
Army Canteens in Northern Command
during the Pacific Islands campaigns. At
the same time he was a member of the
Liquid Fuel Control Board and a repre-
sentative on the Directorate of
Emergency Road Transport, and later
appointed member of the Army and Allied
Works Compensation Appeal Boards.
Work is his main hobby, though he some-
times gives it away for his cattle-
property at Croftby in the rich Boonah
district, 70 miles from Brisbane.
Sydney University’s Post-graduate
Committee has here for lecturing British
medico Robert Platt, for the past 10
years in the Chair of Medicine at Man-
chester University and physician at that
city’s Royal Infirmary. For almost the
whole of War II in the R.A.M.C. (ending
up brigadier), the visitor currently edits
the “Quarterly Journal of Medicine”
and sits on the Medical Research
Council. Has researched himself exten-
sively into kidney and allied complaints,
and when free from renal pursuits likes
playing the ’cello in a string-quartet. In
this more salubrious field he has a coun-
cillor’s say in the Royal Manchester
College of Music and chairs the cotton
city’s Chamber Concerts Society.
• •
“Macnell”: Admiral of the Fleet Sir
Reginald Tyrwhitt, who died at 81 four
years ago, was one of the famous names
of Britain’s War I Navy. He took his
destroyers into action at Heligoland
Bight, again at the Dogger Bank, and
commanded the famed Harwich
destroyer-force when the U-boats
surrendered to it in 19 He had only
one son —Sir St. John Reginald Tyrwhitt,
just promoted rear-admiral in her
Majesty’s Fleet, Too late for his father’s
war, the son was in Hitler’s to the tune
of D.S.C. and Bar, D.S.O. All won
while in command of destroyers: first,
Juno, sunk by aircraft off Crete in May,
1941 ; next, Defender, sunk the same
way two months later off Tdbruk (Aus-
tralian Vampire’s men will remember
her); lastly, Tartar, the same as our
Tribals, and which came through. *His
sister, Dame Mary Tyrwhitt, one-time
Director of the Women’s Royal Army
Corps, had the unusual distinction, for
a woman, of being an A.D.C. to the
King. Tyrwhitt has, on promotion,
relinquished his own appointment as
naval A.D.C. to the Queen.
• •
Now wearing on his cap-peak the
golden oakleaves of a four-ringed captain,
Clive Hudson, at 41, still retains the
bollard-like build which gave him (when
a trifle younger) destroyer-like propen-
sities on nsval football-fields. He
plumped for navigation, and had just
done his specialist course in the subject
when Adolf gave him opportunity to
practise it in a most exacting school—
the Ist British Minesweeping Flotilla,
where the be-all and end-all and every-
thing in between is meticulous navigation.
Followed destroyer-piloting in the
Atlantic and the Java Sea, special inva-
sion survey-work in sloop Warrego round
Pacific parts till Roy Russell Dowling
(then captaining cruiser Hobart, now
Chief of Naval Staff) requested that
Hudson, Hobart’s pilot, should lay-off
courses to take the cruiser and her six-
inch guns at bombardment range past
Tarakan and Balikpapan.
• •
Lord Home (herewith), casually languid,
quietly spoken, is a man whose looks
belie his record of activity. Of a Scot-
tish family whose records go back to
William the Lion, the visitor is
traditionally of Eton and Oxford (degree
in History), and untraditionally member
in the Commons for 14 years for the
Scottish industrial constituency of Lanark,
which he won at the age of 28. Thence-
U.K. RELATER
Forward the climb was steady—Chamber-
lain’s private secretary at Munich-time,
Under-Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs, Minister of State for Scotland for
the past four years, and here now as
Secretary of State for Commonwealth
Relations. He entered the House of
Lords in 1951 as successor to the earldom
created 350 years ago. Likes fishing now
—in younger days repped for Middlesex,
and toured in South America with an
M-C.C. team organised by Plum Warner.
Sincerity’s the first and main impression
of Philip Henry (always “Pat*’) Morton,
new leader of the Libs in the N.S.W.
Parliament. Though frosty-pated, that
impression is belied by a nuggety, concave
phiz, a face-opening grin and well-
upholstered frame to match. Something
more than sincerity took him from
basket-emptier to manager and company-
director of an automobile-parts firm;
and had him, at 35, Mosman’s youngest
mayor. An indication of how he could
win through in his latest role are the cir-
cumstances of his first entry into Par-
LIB. LEADER
Uametit-yhe’s fourth of his family to sit
in the Temple of Talk.
He stood (in 1947, for Mosman) against
Independent man D. P. Macdonald. Wise
birds thought Macdonald the sitter;
Morton wasn’t so sure. He talked his
way from house to house, selling, as he
did in his business, his personality. Both
product and salesmanship fair enough,
apparently—he won the seat handsomely.
A champion of the idea that local-govern-
ment can be best carried out by local
governors, he’s 44, born at Lismore, on
the N. S. Wales North Coast.
• •
A record number of pooches have been
entered for Melbourne’s Royal Show,
now in full blast. There’ll be a record
in the American pair who have arrived
in the southern city to judge ’em —Captain
Will Judy and wife, making the first time
in R.A.S. experience husband and wife
have judged together. Each examiner is
widely-recognised in his/her field; he
has judged canines in the farthest-north
show Alaska. Also has looked over
Australians before when, an A.E.F.
staff-officer, he was attached to Monash’s
headquarters at Picardy, in France.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 52, Dr. J. H. Blake-
lock, director of the National Health Institute.
A graduate, later bacteriologist, of Sheffield
University (Eng.), he was for years bac-
teriologist in Shanghai for the Municipal
Council, eventually becoming director of the
medical laboratories of .the council’s health
department. Arriving in New Zealand in 1941,
he was appointed to his last post in 1952.
At 61, in Melbourne, Major D. L. K.
Richardson, in the ’twenties A.D.C. to Victorian
Governor Lord Somers, later private secretary
to acting-Governor Sir William Irvine. At the
Gallipoli landing, he went right through, to
become 2/i.c. to General Johnston, then
administering captured German territory in New
Guinea. Widely known in Victorian Masonry
and the Naval and Military Club —committee-
man for years.
At Marryatville (S.A.), at 75, the Rev. Martin
Trudinger, of a family of which at one time
eight were missionaries. Landed in Adelaide
a year after he was born in England, he was
a pioneer missionary in the Sudan, and in
Korea was in charge of a leper-colony. One
of his daughters is teaching with a mission in
the New Hebrides.
In Perth, at 70, Donald Guy MacLeod, one
of the best-known pastoralists of the Westrahan
North-West. Part-owner of Minilya station
(one of the largest properties in the Gascoyne
district, which he managed for over 30 years),
and part-owner of two other stations in the
Gascoyne, he was one of the first to use motor-
vehicles for station-work. In public life he
was for years on the Gascoyne-Minilya Road
Board, and on the Minilya committee of the
W.A. Pastoralists’ Association.
At 43, in Adelaide, Sewell Myers, well-known
city businessman whose family had for years
a half-interest in the Theatre Royal. His father
founded the Adelaide and Suburban Adver-
tising Co. some 35 years ago; at the end S.M.
was managing-director.
In Hobart, at 65, Gerald William Mahoney,
secretary of the Painters’ Union for more
than 30 years. He had been M.H.A. between
1931-34, and M.H.R., 1934-40. X
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 67, Albert Yincent
Docherty, who, while mine host of the Opunaki
Hotel, accumulated one of the finest collec-
tions of kauri gum in the world. The museum-
cwm-bar attracted thousands of overseas
visitors. He had been New Zealand’s champion
cyclist.
“Fitz”: Ray Mathew, one of the
younger Bulletin poets, clerks in the
Sydney office of C.5.1.R.0., where also
works another Bulletin poet, the young
and gifted Mena Kashmiri Abdullah.
Born in Sydney in 1929, polished at Syd-
ney Teachers’ College, Mathew taught at
one-man schools in N.S.W. in Tottenham,
Derriwong and Pinnacle North, near
Forbes. Adjacent to Pinnacle North is
the tiny hamlet of Ironbark (population
30) whence came the celebrated
character of “Banjo” Paterson’s. Asked
whether “flowing beards are all the go
way up in Ironbark,” Mathew said that
the male population was not particularly
bewhiskered; in fact, no one in the
locality seemed to have heard of “The
Man from Ironbark.” The pride of the
district was a rotting fence-post, all that
remained of a stockyard once one of
Ben Hall’s hideouts. Resigning from
teaching, Mathew took up his present
job and is a familiar figure in Sydney
literary circles. His first book of poems,
With Cypress Pines (1951), a Lyrebird
Writers’ production, was greeted by The
Bulletin as being “completely honest
poetry, nothing false about it in emotion
or technique, with an Elizabethan gusto
and frankness in the love lyrics.” Gone
to press is another book of poems, Song-
and-Dance, also to be published by Lyre-
bird. Recently there was staged at Sydney
Independent “We Find the Bunyip,”
Mathew’s first play. Now working
on a new play dealing with life in Western
N. S. Wales, Mathew is known also to
radio-listeners—recently Dame Sybil
Thorndike presented a version of his “The
Medea” over the A.B.C.


ACED!


ABORIGINALITIES
OUTCROP OF ROCK
I am laced with silver lichens and velvet mosses,
My face is roughed with carbuncles and bosses,
I am seamed with crevices deep where flourish
Dwarfish but brave little plants which I nourish
With sweet waters stored in my ancient bones
And chance-born litter and spoil of broken
stones;
And I laugh at your lusty grasses, your flaring
flowers — .
You dwellers in fleeting soils, your life is of
hours
While mine runs back, runs on, for millions of
years,
And it is but a fraction of me that appears
Above the ephemeral earth, and frets the hill
With my stern and resolute features stolid and
chill.
Do I envy, you passing men, your rush of days,
Your sparkling jewels of flying Junes and Mays,
Your momentary thrills, delirious joys,
That fail and are thrown aside like children’s
toys?
Ah, no, I would not exchange my age-long
trances
For all your vanities, your frail romances,
While you are the targets of the slings and
arrows of fate
And any hour may end and ruin your state.
I stand stoic, whom no loud gale can astound,
No storm can ruffle, no thunderbolt confound.
n.z. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
THE news that the Sarina (Q.) store
of W. R. Williams and Co. (est.
1885) has been burnt-out recalls the days
when trade between Mackay and Sarina
(then known as Plane Creek) was by
sailing-boat.
In the sugar-district there was a large
French coterie, including many who had
followed the sugarcane from Mauritius.
Du Bois, Des Bois, Du Pont, De
Pasteurelle, Tecon, Ringuet and many
others were there, but the most romantic
figure of them all was “Big Amedee,”
“The Big Frenchman” —Amedee de Sot
de Saint Hilaire.
A giant of a man, bearded to the waist
and of bull-like strength, he ran a
trading-cutter between Mackay and
Plane Creek. Once he anchored in the
stream and rowed ashore in the dinghy,
leaving his small son to “tie her up
good” while he went up to the store to
discuss les affaires.
The affairs, liquid and commercial,
had been under discussion for about
half-an-hour when the small boy
appeared in the doorway.
“Fader!”
“Yes, my son?”
“Is a ’ound turn an’ two ’alf ’itches
good tie for a boat?”
“Yes, ve’y good, my son. You make
a sailor-man yet.”
“ What , no radar?”
“But, Fader, de boat is gone!"
“Sacred thunder of God!"
And his “tonnerre” rolled like thunder
as he leaped for the door, but, before
he caught-up with his diplomatic
offspring, the boy had reached the
dinghy, which was stranded on a sand-
bank further downstream, and there were
no resounding repercussions.
OLD MAC.
“Kelms”: Have seabirds any serious
enemies apart from man? Although
many species lay only one egg a season,
whenever the birds are unmolested by
man their numbers never decrease. One
egg a year wouldn’t provide replacements
for most landbirds —many species find
it hard to maintain their numbers with
three or four in a clutch —so the
mortality-rate among seabirds must be
remarkably low. Allowing for the
numbers killed during storms, and the
immense distances the birds travel across
oceans, there doesn’t seem to be
room for many natural enemies.
Take the shearwaters. At least
two types—the little and the
wedgetailed— nest on islands off
the Westralian coast. Both
types lay only one egg and they
won’t even bother to replace
an egg that’s taken from the
nest —one’s the limit. They nest
in burrows, and the little shear-
water, which nests in winter,
must have some losses through
flooding of burrows during
excessive rains, yet the numbers
remain fairly constant each year. ■
Possibly the birds’ toughness
helps, and that seems to be
deliberately fostered by the
parents. As a rule they feed the
chicks only on alternate nights,
increasing the intervals between
feeds to three or four days as
the chicks grow, and they actually cease
feeding them a week or more before the
young leave the nest. No doubt the
birds’ first flight is prompted by an
urgent need for food, and its spartan
training must stand it in good stead
during rough weather when there are no
surface fish to feed on.
* * * #
“Woorarra”: As the friendliest bird
in the bush under natural conditions I
nominate the white-eared honeyeater—a
bird which must surely “see men as trees
walking.” An individualist, he is utterly
unaffected when other birds are thrown
into panic by your approach. He stands
his ground and eyes you calmly and
benevolently. Many cases are on record
of this honeyeater alighting on human
shoulders, apparently in search of nesting-
material. He hails from heathlands and
heavy timber, rather than gardens and
cultivation-paddocks, so his friendliness
is not the result of familiarity. His call
is one of the loudest in the bush and his
color mostly olive, with black head and
upper breast and white ear-patches.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: Oswald Pryor’s drawing
of the stuttering blacksmith (B. 3/8/’55),
and many recent references to Cobb and
Co., recall the old-time “service-stations”
which operated outback. Smith and
Striker, Blacksmiths and Wheelwrights,
had their own anvil-drill. It didn’t
matter whether Sam Smith stuttered or
not —he didn’t have to tell Stan Striker
where, when and how to strike. His
instructions were given in code with his
hammer on the hot iron and on the anvil
—a meaningless and apparently time-
wasting jumble of “clanks” and
“clinkety-clinks” to the outsider, but a
clear and definite signal to the man with
the sledge.
$ * * *
“Saaedi”: A gtoup of kookaburras I
know use an area of heavy gums for
autumn and winter quarters. They raise
their families elsewhere, but the day they
return to the gums a taking-over cere-
mony occurs. With a kind of wild
exhilaration the ungainly birds dash
through the trees, round and round,
“ Don't go too close—you may catch something .”
flying flat-out like birds possessed.
Presently two or three settle and start to
laugh uproariously. Soon a couple more
join the chorus and, before long, they are
all perched and roaring their heads off.
This sequence of frenzied flight and
rowdy chorus is repeated several times
until, finally, the tremendous excitement
simmers-down and the celebration is
over.
* * * *
“Nada”: A professional photographer
from the south tells me there are a
number of different breeds of Hereford
cattle and that the Queensland breed is
much lighter in color than those in
southern States. If that is so, I can only
assume that our strong Queensland sun
has bleached them after they were
imported from a common source
overseas.
* # * *
“C.P.G.”: A Castlemaine (Vic.) family,
fed-up with a mudlark tapping at their
window for weeks, lured it through open
louvres and caught it. They took the
bird miles away into the bush and
released it. Two days later it was back
and now divides its labors between their
windows and those next door.
* ' * * *
“Swelpme”: The longest avian battle
—in both time and distance—l’ve seen
was between an eagle and two crows.
The contestants were merely two dots
and a slightly bigger one in the western
sky when I first sighted them. When
they were nearly overhead, and still
high, the manoeuvres became apparent.
The eagle was “sandwiched” between
his attackers and, every few
minutes, the Kelly above would
dart down towards the eagle’s
back. Immediately the big fel-
low would sweep up to meet
the attacker face to face and,
on that instant, the real attack
came—shooting in like an arrow
from underneath. The fight was
still on when two full-stops and
a comma gradually faded-out
far away in the east. It seemed
ironical that the eagle had no
answer to the “sandwich”-
tactics —his family has always
used the identical manoeuvre.
“Wilco”: The camouflage of the bush
curlew is good enough to trick a human
being, but not a dog. I have walked
among what I thought was cast-off bark
only to have the accompanying pooch
pick up one curlew in its mouth and
cause a second to fly away. No wonder
the curlew, and many other ground-
frequenting fowl, have been almost
wiped-out in some districts by the dingo.
* * * *
“G.S.”: The double-gee, or bindi-eye
(Emex australis ), was brought to W.A. a
year or two after the founding of Swan
River Colony in 1829. It came from
South Africa, where a migrant whose ship
called at Cape Town saw it, thought it
would make a good vegetable, and
brought some along. Now it’s spread
through every State —except perhaps Tas-
mania—and there’s general agreement on
it as a curse, though views differ on the
derivation of its popular name. One
theory says “double-gee” comes from
dubbeltge-doorn, Afrikaans, for Devil’s
thorn ; another is that it derives from the
same language, but the word is duiveltje,
meaning “little devil.” That sounds
logical. Each fruit of the plant has two
spiked horns and a beak, as near to the
popular conception of Old Nick as you’d
get.
* * * *
“G’pa’s Understudy”: Victoria’s Pretty
Sally, subject of Kathleen Dalziel’s poem
(B. 17/8/’55), has a bad reputation be-
cause of the many traffic accidents there.
The hill got its name from the proprietress
of a shanty which flourished at its base
in the gold-rush days. A 22-stone woman
of most forbidding appearance, she was
facetiously dubbed “Pretty Sally” by
her customers. Sad to relate, Sally was
addicted to spirituous liquors and died as
a result of a fall from a dray. In her
cups she imagined she was in a carriage
and, as a contemporary writer stated,
“The elegant lady was descending with
pointed toe in true aristocratic style to
place her foot upon the step, to conduct
her to terra firma, when lo! she placed
it in mid-air.”
* * * *
“Zebu”: The final say on “near”-and
“off”-sides (B. 31/8/’55) may be left to
the Queensland Brands Directory. It
reads: “The word ‘off’ refers to the right,
or milking, side, and the word ‘near’ to
the left side of stock.”
* * * #
“Lorna Doone”: “Watt Thyme’s”
journey on the Adelaide-Broken Hill
express (B. 31/8/’55) reminds me that
I’ve travelled that railroad many times
on that same “square-wheeled flyer.” One
resident of the Hill calls it the train with
the “Y.M.C.A. wheels”—from the latter’s
triangular emblem —and swears that the
reason for its fairly persistent late-
arrival is that, at the border-fence at
Cockburn, there are two pubs, one in
S.A. and one in N.S.W., and, in order to
get the passengers back from the latter,
the engine whistles itself off the boil.
* * * *
SOME young hawksbill turtles, about
3in. long, came ashore near
Fremantle (W.A.) and most of them
were promptly dispatched by seagulls.
These are the real tortoiseshell turtles,
and they probably hatched out on a
beach on one of the Abrolhos islands
or on the mainland north of Geraldton,
only to be blown south by the gales.
Which shows how unlucky a turtle can
be. These little blokes would have dug
their way out of the sand on a day when
every bird for miles around was waiting
to pounce on them, and when the sea
was swarming with fish which had also
come to the feast —notified of the impend-
ing event by one of Nature’s mysterious
methods. The turtles survived the mad
rush to the water, in which many of their
brothers and sisters perished, and got
through the ravenous fishy hordes, only
to fall victims to scavengers on a city
beach. Rather remarkable how anything
so young and so small could survive
being blown 300 to 400 miles out of their
course. Incidentally the Perth daily
which reported their appearance called
them “Hawkesville” turtles. —“Bass.”


THE ORIGINALS
These are the women, of a nameless tribe,
They wear like royal silks their nudity,
Then- glances sharp as arrows . . .
They are not frightened but completely tre .
What diagram of bone is this?
The smooth articulation lean as death . . a
But life, deep-kindled, warms .
The black integument and sings througn
breath.
These the serpent knows
As truly as he comprehends his mate;
The copper dust, wild country furred witn
light, . ,
So much is theirs and his. Immune to fate
He slithers soft from peril, so do they—
Tcf stretch in polished calm ,
Upon the ground that burns, upon, the sana
Where very grains vibrate like earth s first
psalm.
Are there not many tribes?
But only one whose creatures curve and move
In tune with patterns on the cavern wall . . •
With equal force these can destroy or love;
And if their bone is broken—
Smoke will rise and bear their substance over
Rock and sunburnt thorn of wilderness,
Where man, encamped, will feel the slow caress,
And see the primal shade beside his loyer.
n.z. Paula Hanger Birch.
* ■ * *
A MINER out at Hatches Creek
(N.T.), finding that his detonator
wasn’t working too well, went down the
shaft to fix it up. When he got back to
the surface he said to his black boy,
“Jacky, that detonator’s no plurry good.”
“I know, boss,” replied the willing helper.
“I been tryim all the time you down
there.” —“Borroloola Jack,”
A
* * * *
“J.D.W.”: Auckland’s Historic Places
Society is taking up the cudgels on
behalf of the volcanoes, claiming that, in
20 months, more quarries have been
carved into them than in as many years
previously. Of the 35 extinct cones in
the Auckland district the score-book
reads: six almost disappeared, 18 partly
quarried, five heavily quarried, three
demolished, and only three pretty much
as they were. The scoria needed for
Auckland’s big roadmaking programme
is the trouble, and, although the history-
minded people say they don’t want to
make “impracticable requests,” it looks
as if they’ll have to make up their minds
between crook roads and purposeful
eroding.
* * * *
“Millicent”: The structural efficiency
of a bird’s skeleton (B. 7/9/’55) is sur-
passed by that of insects. All animals
have hollow bones of roughly circular
section, which is the most economic shape
for load-bearing columns, because all the
material under stress is equidistant from
the central axis. But where birds and
the larger animals have a slender internal
skeleton with heavy masses of unstressed
flesh hanging on the outside of the bones,
insects have their light skeleton outside
with all the tissue hanging from the inside
and helping to support it —structurally
the most efficient arrangement of the
materials possible, not only for the com-
ponents, but for the mechanism as a
whole. Result: compared on a strength-
for-weight basis, fleas, beetles and ants
make the larger animals mere ponderous
weaklings.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The plant with the tiny
purple pea-flowers now in full glory
about Sydney (B. 7/9/’55) is the “false”
sarsaparilla, so often confused with the
native sarsaparilla, which bears small
black berries and was said to be the first
plant used medicinally by the early
settlers.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Sir lan Clunies Ross
wasn’t exaggerating when he told
members of the Institute of Engineers
that the mallee-hen takes daily
temperature-readings of her incubator-
mound. There’s nothing lazy about the
birds—they work harder on the incubator
than other birds do on the nest, and they
have a remarkable knowledge or instinct
where correct heat is con-
cerned. When the mound
is being prepared it is first
excavated, then filled with
vegetable-matter leaves,
twigs, bark or anything
that’s lying around —but it
isn’t covered until there’s
been enough rain to soak
it. Then the debris is
covered with sand and left
to rot, all the time
generating a moist heat
that’s ideally suited to
hatching eggs. The mound
is built in winter and so
timed that the heat is just
right by about October,
when laying begins. After
that the temperature is
regulated daily where necessary. Early
in the day the birds scratch away the sand
to let the sun in, then they cover it in the
afternoon to keep the heat in for the
night. Under those conditions the eggs
start to hatch as soon as they’re laid, so,
although they take up to eight or nine
weeks to hatch, some of them are well
advanced before laying ceases. Yet the
hens can scratch holes in the mound,
lay their eggs, cover them, and still
contrive to maintain the correct overall
temperature. They may have something
to teach engineers there.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Can’t agree that a curlew
has the ability to change the color of its
eggs to conform to the nest-environment
“at will” (B. 3/8/’55). I lived in curlew-
country for years and examined scores of
eggs, but color of the googs never varied
with nest-location. There was a variation
in pattern, certainly, but it seemed to
lack significance, and, for that matter,
many birds not preoccupied with camou-
flage-problems show a like variability.
What I did notice was that any curlew’s
egg could be placed on any of the three
classes of soil found in my district, and
it would merge imperceptibly into its
surroundings. For the rest, I don’t doubt
that the lanky screamer "exercises con-
siderable skill in choosing a nesting-site.
It can’t afford to miss a single camou-
flage trick or it will certainly perish.
» * * *
“Sebak”: What’s all this Americanism
that is creeping into our short-stories?
Amid a lot of authentic Aussie yabber
in “Johnson Wins a Hand” (B. 10/8/’55)
we find such alien usurpers as “We all
allow that this is mighty peculiar,” “I
think the hell with him,” “Find ourselves
some gorgeous honeys”; besides a heap
of “Yes, sirs” and an allusion to a
“baby” in the Tin-pan Alley sense. To
make things worse, Joe, in “The Twig
That Lied” (same issue), repeatedly says
“guy” when he means “bloke,” and
muses that a certain clearing-job would
have been a “cinch,” thereby showing a
preference for a foreign tongue, although
his native slanguage offered the unassail-
able “snack.” I’ll allow that down to
Sydney you might lamp some no-account
hombres actin’ like they was plumb loco,
but Ah reckon there ain’t no call to
talk that-a-way. No, sir!
* * * *
“Mulloway”: The large sun-fish (B.
24/8/’55) has a small relative even more
freakish. It is the little or oblong sun-
fish which is always a source of wonder
when it is infrequently washed ashore on
our northern coasts. It grows to about
3ft. and has the appearance of a
normal fish cut-off just behind the dorsal
and anal fins, which are slate-colored
and joined by a slate-colored band,
bordered by two red bands that surround
the body. Its real tail is just a 2in.
fringe. This, and the two large backward-
curving fins, are responsible for its generic
name Triurus (three-tail), and its head
and body are ornamented by varicolored
diagonal and vertical lines of bars and
dots. It’s another of those monstrosities
“that have to be seen to be disbelieved.”
GRASSMASTERS
YOU may go to the races, the big
tennis, the cricket, the football or
your weekend game of golf or bowls;
the track looks fine, the court’s like a
billiard-table, the oval’s a picture or the
greens are in “great nick.” Sometimes
they’re not: and herein lies the tale of
“Please fall-in two paces behind me and don't be insubordinate!
many a wayward blade of grass. Spon-
sored by the N.S.W. Golf Association
and Imperial Chemical Industries (Aust.
and N.Z.), Ltd., the Grass Research
Bureau (N.S.W.), Ltd., has launched a
journal, “Grass Research,” which is
devoted to “the dissemination of infor-
mation and matters of interest to all
organisations using turf for playing-
areas.” 1
(It, incidentally, welcomes both contri-
butions and comment from its associated
bodies and bthers interested in turf-
management and -maintenance.)
This research has been brought about
“Is THAT him?"
by the realisation that there is more to
a well-kept golf-green than a green-
keeper, a mower and a hose. Greenkeep-
ing is a science; and our greenkeepers
have long sensed the problems of their
science without ever being quite sure of
the antidote. Overseas methods, it was
learnt, weren’t of much use. Somehow
the crisis had to be met locally under
our own climatic conditions—and
economically.
Turf-testing plots were established
several years ago. Golf-courses were
natural testing-grounds, and during 1953
observations were made on disease-
control on the Pennant Hills course.
From these observations on the efficiency
of the chemicals calomel (mercurous
chloride) and T.M.T.D. (tetra-methyl-
thiuram-disulphide) came the idea of
carrying out extensive experiments over
a number of courses. After the N.S.W.
Golf Association, the individual golf-
clubs and greenkeepers were approached,
experiments were carried out on the
Royal Sydney, the Australian, Manly,
Pennant Hills, Roselands and New
Brighton courses. These began in Octo-
ber, 1954, and their analysis is still taking
place.
Other experiments are in swing, some
at the Ryde School of Horticulture and
Turf Research. This has been set up by
the Department of Technical Education
under the supervision of the head of the
School of Agriculture and Horticulture,
Sydney Technical College, its original
purpose being to provide practical train-
ing for horticulturists, nurserymen and
greenkeepers. Experiments in fine-turf
plots' are developing well. Some couch-
grasses for research were selected from
an experiment conducted over three years
ago at Ryde ; but most of the grasses used
are those tested and proved overseas.
Thirty-six grasses are now under observa-
tion for turf-forming qualities, durability,
drought- and disease-resistance, fineness
and adaptability to our climate. Some
26 different fertiliser-treatments are being
used.
Not many blades are left unturned by
these researchers. If something’s wrong
with the grass, they’ll go to the cause,
which as often as not is the fundamental,
the soil. Data on soils are still being
rapidly absorbed, but the basic facts are
clear: the physical condition of the soil
ties up with drainage, aeration and com-
paction. Moisture-holding capacity and
aeration of the soil go together: sufficient
water to satisfy the plants and enough air
in the soil to allow them to grow is the
ideal medium. Too much water can be
worse than too little.
The plant-food lost under frequent
mowings must be replaced. Nitrogen is
the most important nutrient for grasses:
sulphate of ammonia and the organic fer-
tilisers are the most important sources of
this nutrient. Their applications are at
their best applied moderately and fre-
quently. Of the grasses being tested, some
of the creeping-bent grasses, some hybrid
couch (from Tifton, U.S.A.), Menon
Blue and some of the zoysias are high
in the adaptability-poll.
Greenkeepers must be ever on the look-
out for those slight defections in their
greens which can easily ruin a whole pro-
gramme of otherwise fastidious work. A
strict management-programme is the
greenkeeper’s best ally. That formidable-
looking roller can be as ominous to the
grass as it looks. Surface-compaction of
the soil by the roller leads to poor drain-
age and aeration; poor, weedy turf
results. When a motor-mower is used, no
need for any other means of compression.
There’s more to correcting uneven sur-
faces than heavy-rolling.
The first mowing should only be very
light, but should start very early in the
life of a green. Cutting encourages the
growth of new shoots and thus lateral
spread. Experiments carried out by the
British Board of Greenkeeping Research
showed that regular light mowings remove
far less plant-food than occasional
“shearings” ; a dense turf is maintained.
A common practice in England is to
drag a piece of matting over the surface
before mowing so that the grass goes to
its execution bravely.
Top-dressing is one of the finer points.
When this dressing goes down many
points have to be considered: soil-
texture ; soil make-up—its share of
organic matter ; composts ; lime ; and an
avoidance of too much sand. Most of
the know-how of top-dressing can be
related to compaction and that happy
medium of air and water. Spiking, with
the aid of one of the labor-saving drilling-
machines, greatly helps in the elimination
of compaction.
Pest-control is another of the green-
keeper’s headaches, but the researchmen
reckon they’ve got their measure, too.
Heteronychus sanctcehelence, the black
beetle, is in for a lean season: they’ve
got his activities plotted month by month,
and the right mayonnaise for his grass-
salad when he appears. In fact, they’re
revolutionising golf—even to the layout
of courses —and they’ll do the same for
other sports when they decide to cash-in.
Googly-bowlers had best watch out.
These Grass Research fellows might find
a cure for sticky wickets!
R.A.


FROM THE NEW
YARRA FALLS PATTERN BOOK
A parade of
fashionably dressed men...
All leading tailors have just received the new Yarra Falls
Pattern Book. See it before you order your new suit.
The range of specially selected “London Shrunk” materials is
truly eye-catching and smart, incorporating the newest fashion
trends you will find a cloth to suit your purpose, whether
business, social or sporting.
When you choose a Yarra Falls fabric you select the finest
material made in Australia from pure Australian virgin wool.
F ound a fine wardrobe on
rr J
is
\'tc
Materials of Character
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5g ins. x ins.,
6§ x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or. Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Business Rollery Ete.
The Shape of the Problem
The governor of the central
bank, Dr. Coombs, in his annual
report, again comments on the
present rate of Australian
development and investment of
a capital nature. It is clear, he
says, that this rate, “particularly
in the private sector, combined
with a rapid growth of hire-
purchase finance for durable
consumers’ goods, has raised
expenditure to levels which
strain internal resources and is
causing pressure on international
reserves.”
Dr. Coombs goes on: “Im-
port-restrictions have been ap-
plied to protect these reserves,
but restrictions themselves will
tend to increase the pressure of
internal spending. This pressure
will need to be counteracted by
other measures, including appro-
priate action in the field of
monetary policy. Moreover, if,
in the present situation, the
terms of trade were to move
significantly against us, we would
be faced with the danger of
serious interruption to the flow
of those imports such as fuels,
materials, components and
capital equipment, upon which
our industrial structure is becom-
ing increasingly dependent.”
Earlier, in a statement to the
press on September 14, Dr.
Coombs had said that measures
were needed to steady-down the
increase in expenditure, “par-
ticularly on imported products,
and ensure that plans for
developmental expenditure are
revised so as to be kept in line
with available resources.”
Treasurer Fadden, in his
Budget-speech on August 24,
stressed the belief that private
capital expenditure was one of
the chief causes of “tensions and
pressures in our economy that
will, unless corrected, produce
open inflation.”
All this emphasis on private
capital expenditure as a source
of inflationary pressure needs to
be accepted with reserve.
Whatever our immediate and
pressing problems, Australia is
short of nearly all types of
“works,” whether public or
private. Last year it is estimated
that apart from outlay on. motor-
vehicles, dwellings and the like,
private investment on capital
equipment in Australia was £282
million. This was below the
amount allowed for depreciation
for the same period (£289 mil-
lion, including, presumably, de-
preciation allowed on vehicles
used for business purposes).
It is clear enough, with
expenditure on public works at
under half the figure of £282
million for private capital ex-
penditure (excluding motor-
vehicles), that consumer-spending.
(including outlay on motor-
vehicles, which last year soared
to £256 million) is much too
high. Leaving out motor-cars,
the figure for 1954-55 was £3llO
million.
Australia’s productive facilities
have developed in a patchy way
since the war. We have ahead
of us the prospect of a steel-
shortage for several years ; but
already we haVe overproduction
of refrigerators and the like.
Cement-making capacity is only
now catching-up with the de-
mand ; but clothing of most types
is being overproduced.
The high cost of plant and
machinery at present makes it
difficult to judge, on aggregate
figures, to what extent old pro-
duction and transport facilities
are being renewed or extended.
Capital-erosion has been a
very real thing in the Australian
( economy through inadequate
tax-free depreciation-allowances,
and the stand by the Treasurer
in not reviewing the subject of
depreciation-provisions is a
matter of present economic ex-
pediency, not long-range fore-
sight. -
Overfull so-called employ-
ment has created excessive con-
sumer-demand, which demand
has been added to by excessive
consumer-cjedit facilities. This,
combined with inadequate pro-
ductivity to begin with, more
than anything else has been the
cause of shortage of resources
for capital expenditure, either
public or private.
The 40-hour week has been
the chief cause of Australia’s
present dilemma, notwithstand-
ing that other countries are
facing problems similar in
shape but not in extent
to our own. A fall in the price
of wool to three or four times
its pre-war price (which is the
level at which most other prices
have stabilised) would show up
Australia’s weakness of inade-
quate productivity more sharply
than in any other country.
Working as a rational and will-
ing community we should have
little difficulty in finding finance,
either from our own resources
or from abroad, for anything
we undertake that it is within
our physical and industrial
power to complete. Thrifty,
industrious people have few
economic problems that don’t
virtually solve themselves. Eco-
nomic restriction and regula-
tion are needed only so long
as production is inadequate and
costly.
Davis Gelatine
Davis Gelatine Consolidated’s
profit of £299,709 for the year
to June 30 was arrived at after
setting aside £60,731 for depre-
ciation and £201,259 for taxa-
“ Well , sir, how about if We throw in a retiring-allowance
and a directorship at sixty?”
tion. The net figure appears to
be a conservative one, but it
represents 20 p.c. on the capital
of £1,500,000. The whole of the
profit will be carried to reserves,
but a probable 7 p.c. dividend
has been spoken of for the
future.
In past years the business
has been built up largely from
ploughed-back profits. It has its
own line of business pretty much
to itself wherever it operates
(including Maoriland and South
Africa) and is a key industry.
The shares at 275. 6d. have
distinct attractions for longish
holding.
Canning Desert Basin
L. Owen comments: The
announcement that the flying-
magnetometer survey was com-
pleted at the beginning of Sep-
tember will come as no surprise
to those familiar with the rush
of modern exploration for oil —
and, in fact, for all other
minerals which offer any hope
of detection from the air. In the
space of four months, the
Mosquito aircraft employed
travelled 21,500 survey-miles
and covered 68,000 square
miles during the “recon-
naissance” phase and 25,000
square miles of “detailed”
flying.
I cannot resist enclosing the
words “reconnaissance” and
“detailed” in double quotation-
marks, as their meaning appears
to have suffered fundamental
change within the last decade.
Where both the geology and
the geological history are known
with a degree of accuracy, as,
for example, in the United
Kingdom and in some parts of
North America, such speed may
be justified, particularly where
the physical properties of the
hidden strata, and their specific
reaction to the several geo-
physical methods, have been
accurately determined. In Aus-
tralia, on the other hand, where
our knowledge of the geology,
except in a regional sense, can
be described only as frag-
mentary—a criticism even more
true of the geological history of
the continent—the policy of
making haste slowly should be
followed.
Had this advice been taken,
the footage of abortive oilwell-
drilling on the mainland would
have been reduced substantially
and the development of uranium
deposits would not have reached
its present chaotic stage.
Even in the case of the
groundwork, the “desired speed
and efficiency”—l quote from
an official report —may have
been attained as far as speed is
concerned, but it is very ques-
tionable if the same is true of
efficiency. Any experienced
field-geologist will agree that
the only way of discovering
really correct information is on
foot. Even in such areas as
deserts, where blown sand pre-
dominates, it is astounding, to
anyone who has not experienced
it, what very valuable data can
be collected by slow, tedious,
costly and uncomfortable foot-
slogging. Such data are, more
often than not, missed in aerial
reconnaissance and, even when
visible on the aerial chart, are
very liable to misinterpretation
by anyone without a detailed
ground geological knowledge of
at least a part of the area
covered.
It is, therefore, surprising to
learn that the data obtained
from the Canning Desert flying-
magnetometer survey is to be
sent to the United States for
compilation and interpretation.
Even the scant information
obtained by the hurried, motor-
transported ground - parties
would possibly have avoided
some error in the translation of
magnetic anomalies (blessed
word!) into sane geology.
In the much more intensely
studied Carnarvon Basin, more-
over, the ground-geologists—
again obviously owing to lack
of sufficient time —have failed
signally to explain away either
the limited extent of the Rough
Range lense of oil-impregnation
or the peculiar (and, I may add,
characteristic) form of its base
contour.


HOLDEN GIVES YOU IDEAL POWER
ECONOMY AND DURABILITY
AT THE LOW FIRST COST OF £B5O PLUS TAX
Only Holden gives you the ideal
combination of 6 cylinder 21 H.P.
performance, 30 m.p.g. economy
and exceptional durability as re-
ported by many owners. Only Holden
combines all these advantages, because
Holden is the only utility designed and
built for Australian conditions.
How well the good looking Holden lives
up to claims made for it is told by owners
like Mr. D. R. Unger of Mt. Gambier.
When his Holden had done 40,000 miles,
Mr. Unger wrote: — “. . . This vehicle is
used for every purpose a man on the land
can put a vehicle to, mustering sheep, fox
hunting, etc. and in that time the only
repair has been a new set of spark plugs at
33,000 miles. The petrol consumption I find
amazing and its convenience when making
visits to the city is very good.”
Let your Holden Dealer prove that
Holden gives the best combination of
power, economy, durability and value.
And, in view of the very heavy demand,
may we suggest that you place your order
as soon as possible.
Month after month
Holden is first choice
of utility buyers
In the first five months of 1955>
official registrations of Holden have
been three times those of any other
utility. More utility buyers have
chosen Holden every year since
1952. The reason is that only
Holden offers all these advantages.
★ 6 cylinder, square engine power.
★ 21 h.p. performance.
★ 30 m.p.g. economy and outstand-
ing dependability as reported by
many owners.
★ Generous payload area —length
on floor 75b"; max. width at front
561".
★ 37 feet turning circle.
★ Roomy 3 seater cabin.
★ Nation-wide service;.ready avail-
ability of low-cost, factory gua-
ranteed parts.
HOLDEN *
Australia’s Own Utility
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX * REGISTERED TRADE MARK
Australia's Own Panel Van, List Price £865 Plus Tax
• Convenient GMAC Hire purchase
available. • Air Chief Car Radio
is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
AGENERA^OTOR^RQDUCT
» SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA GlOB
jFaitii mi UlC
Fuluf+c
Nature had all the colours on the palette when
she painted Arizona. She mixed them well and
scored them wide. And now the mere writing of
the State’s name brings back to me a richly
coloured memory.
The charm of Arizona is in its diversity; in
the variety of its ranges, in mountain and plateau
and desert; in canyons that rank high among the
grandeur of earthly sights, and in streams whose
powerfully dammed waters make fertile the valleys
below.
But the greater attraction to me was in the
human elements that have gone to give Arizona its
character; and in meeting at Phoenix my good
friend Jim Deaderick, who is doing such a
magnificent job in the development of that State.
Here has been superimposed a century of
American living upon a Spanish colonial civilisa-
tion stretching back to the 16th century. And
beyond that again is the ancient Indian culture
that survives today in such remnant “nations” as
the Apache and the Navajo, so many of whose
reservations I saw in this part of America.
Because of what it has in climate and colour,
Arizona enjoys a tourist trade worth an estimated
150 million dollars (£66 million Australian) a year.
In many ways it resembles parts of Australia.
Its rainfall varies from five inches a year in desert
regions to 20 inches or more in the high mountains.
With a population of fewer than a million,
it is limited in manpower to develop its 113,956
square miles. But what it lacks in manpower—
and in finance, by the standards of some other
American States—it makes up for with the use of
agricultural implements and earth - moving
machinery. It has a fine system of roads.
Yes, I have always liked Arizona—its moun-
tains, its invigorating air, the sunshine, the blue
skies, the feeling of movement in good living.
Sometimes I imagine a gum tree standing
where a ponderosa pine is growing—and “the trail
becomes “the track” ... I like this comer of God s
creation for its own sake; but also because it
reminds me of home.
////cisf^s
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
SEPTEMBER is a full month
for the London theatre, with
an average of three first nights
ci week.
Transfers from the Edinburgh
Festival include the Old Vic
“Julius Caesar” and, for a short
season, Dumas’s “La Dame aux
Camdlias,” with Edwige Feuil-
lere. It is not known whether the
specially-commissioned Thorn-
ton Wilder play, “A Life in the
Sun,” will follow, since its
reception was lukewarm.
Sandy Wilson, the young man
who has made a fortune with his
first musical-comedy, has written
words and music for another,
“The Buccaneer,” which deals
with the attempted conversion of
a dull but wholesome boys’
paper into a horror comic. It is
well spoken of.
The intelligentsia think they
have found an answer to their
unfulfilled needs in the works
of Ugo Betti, the Italian who
died just over a year ago. “The
Burnt Flower-Bed” at the Arts
Theatre i§ the first of four plays
to be presented in London this
year.
That there is still scope for
writing merit alone is shown by
the acceptance of a new topical
comedy by Michael Brett about
industrial disputes, “Lucky
Strike,” which won second prize
in an open drama competition
run by the “Q” Theatre. (The
winning entry, significantly, was
considered “not suitable for com-
mercial presentation.”)
On the lighter stage, “The
Punch Revue” has the novelty
of being the first time a wholly
professional theatrical venture
has been devised by a journal
and its contributors.
It remains only to record that
there is a welcome increase in
the number of plays by in-
digenous authors and to review
three of them;
Poor Little Rich Girl
“The Reluctant Debutante”
(Cambridge Theatre), which has
been playing to packed houses
for four months, is a slight but
tender comedy set in Belgravia
beneath, as it were, the very
walls of Buckingham Palace
grounds. This is fitting, since
a socially-aspiring mother has
uprooted her well-to-do hus-
band and horse-loving daughter
from rural contentment and
transplanted them into an
Edwardian whirl of dances and
dinner-parties with the single-
minded objective of performing
that matronly function which, in
less restrained circles, would
blatantly be referred to as “get-
ting her off.”
Yet Mrs. Jimmy Broadbent is,
indeed, blatant. She is also gush-
ing and brazen, inviting young
men, at once aristocratic and
eligible, to her table on the
flimsiest of pretexts. Jane, the
daughter, accepts these tactics
as part of an accredited but
boring game. As the result of a
complicated (and over-con-
trived) mix-up with telephone-
numbers the wrong man arrives.
He is eligible enough but, since
scandal hangs upon his name,
the despair of matchmaking
mothers.
Bored by high-born nincom-
poops, Jane falls for him in a big
way. She is determined to get
her man and she does, having
the last laugh. For not only is
he a teetotaller and non-smoker
but also a celibate and, by a
third-act inheritance, an Italian
count.
The chief interest is the per-
formance of an 18-year-old girl,
Anna Massey, as Jane. There
is no professional veneer in this
study. Her emotional growing-
pains and near-unhappiness are
real and moving.
A .major fault dramatically is
the whitewashing of the young
man, particularly as the father
is allowed a pre-marital slip.
This sop to convention might
have been left to the film, the
rights of which have been sold,
it is said, for some £30,000.
Water Musical
An attemp-t to put a full-scale
English musical-comedy on the
stage is brave and laudable. The
sum of money at risk is sub-
stantial—£2o,ooo at least.
“The Water Gipsies” (Winter
Garden Theatre) represents a
considerable marshalling of
resources, artistic as well as
financial. A. P. Herbert has
written the book and lyrics,
Vivian Ellis the music. The
company numbers 40, with 17
principals, the orchestra over-
spills the pit and the 10 scenes
are not stinted.
While the production as an
entity is rather disparate and
uneven, notwithstanding the
excessive vitality of all con-
cerned, something really endear-
ing emerges. The sentiment rings
true; the nostalgia is heart-
warming. Not all the episodes
lifted from the novel take kindly
to the stage. The ever-so-pure
Jane, for example, is party to a
discussion on sex, a strip-tease
artist and a maiden at prayer,
all in rapid succession; and
some of the dialogue is as dis-
tracting as if the author himself
had stepped on to the stage to
recite a limerick. But the second
part is more cohesive and
rhythmic, containing a studio-
party of the ’thirties which is
pure delight.
The flighty sister, > Lily, is
heaven-sent for Dora Bryan,
who has only to modify her Lan-
cashire vowels and piquant self,
talking “big” and shockingly mis-
pronouncing her words, to steal
all the comedy.
Vivian Ellis’s music has a
“commercial” ring that one does
not associate with his individu-
ality and gift for parody.
Jack the Rebel
J. B. Priestley, whose blunt-
ness of expression conceals a
delicate sensitivity, admits that
his love for the theatre does not
extend to its practitioners. Con-
sequently, the now rare appear-
ance in the West End of a new
Priestley play has the air of a
bold experiment by way of
rebellion, if not of revulsion,
against the powerful but wrong-
thinking moguls of show busi-
ness. These plays are “differ-
ent”: established dramatic rules
and conventions are defied and
the players suggest a coterie of
the author’s rather than success-
ful candidates of a hard-to-please
casting-director.
It is all the more surprising
that “The Scandalous Affair of
Mr. Kettle and Mrs. Moon”
(Duchess Theatre), despite the
fact that the author, producer
and leading actors have been
working together in ‘a new ex-
periment in entertainment’ on
television, should turn out to be
neither esoteric nor innovatory
but a straightforward, honest-to-
goodness, bread - and - butter
comedy of engagingly bad
manners.
The theme is the universal one
of sudden rebellion against
routine. A bachelor bank-
manager (Clive Morton) decides
one Monday morning that' he
has had far too much of bank
and clients. Like Miss Trant, he
sets out for adventure, which he
finds in his own flat in a dread-
ful Midland town, all ochreous
gloom and perpetual rainfall.
He accompanies the Polovtsian
dances on the coal-scuttle, shoots
down toy jungle beasts and dal-
lies promiscuously with a kindred
soul (Frances Rowe) who is
married to a stupid, cliche-
speaking estate-agent. His most
important client (another Mr.
Ridvers) bullies him, the superin-
tendent of police humors him,
the chief bank-inspector cajoles
him and a comic psychiatrist
hypnotises him. But unreason
triumphantly (and with easy
dramatic effect) prevails.
For all the exuberance some
{Continued on page 19)


Does your WILL i still express your intentions?
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
lacorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR.18.3S
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over 77 years’ specialised experience in die Administration of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLUNS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGU STREET, SYDNEY.
Capita! (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £971,002.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman): G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.)
HTHE Government’s twin anti-inflation
1 measures of import-restrictions and
credit-squeeze are likely to prove more
of a help than a hindrance to the heavy-
engineering trade. For this and other
reasons the immediate outlook for this
old-established and enterprising Kelly
and Lewis business is as bright as it can
be in the circumstances. The board has
expressed its confidence by lifting the
ord. div. from 10 p.c. to 12£ p.c., which
still left a comfortable margin for
reserves.
Yet the price of the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords.,
which rose from 275. a year ago to 295.
early in August, 1955, eased to 265. 6d.
last week. The immediate return at
265. 6d. is 9.4 p.c. on a 12| p.c. distri-
bution, and the net tangible backing
(book-value) is 375. 2d., nearly all in
premises and plant, worth in the long-
run what they can earn. The 6 p.c. prefs.
at 19s. 3d. yield 6.3 p.c. Net tangible
cover for the prefs. was £5 ss. 7d. The
recent drop in the price of the ords., and
consequent current high yield therefrom,
is due partly to buyers withdrawing to
the sidelines pending amplification of the
Government’s intentions in respect of
its monetary and trade policy and partly
to the uncertain long-term outlook for
the industry, because of the threat of
overseas competition from low-cost
European countries. Of these two factors
the first looks like being temporary or
diverting, while the second will remain
in the background as a menace.
The parent and subsidiaries are a
carefully integrated group, with Com-
monwealth - wide connections, whose
activities and output have expanded con-
siderably since the war, due in part to
strengthening of the sales organisation.
Output ranges from small and large
centrifugal- and axial-flow pumps, com-
pressors, steam- and internal-combustion
engines to structural-steel work, electric
generators and switch-gear for power-
houses and pneumatic tools and farm
machinery, etc.
Last term structural-steel, pumps and
electrical equipment figured prominently
in turnover (£3,899,776, up £432,289),
which has doubled in the last four
years. Demand for structural steel has
been, and still is, running ahead of
supply, with delivery from overseas for
current orders mostly quoted for 1956.
The co.’s pump-works, on which some
£200,000 has been spent of recent years,
have benefited by orders under the
Colombo plan, and can now, the chair-
man says, compete with overseas makers
in export markets. The electrical-
equipment works have long been kept
busy on contracts from the. Federal Gov-
ernment and local-body authorities. A
large part of the foundry output is
associated with or “captive” to other
sections of the business. Labor and raw-
materials costs continued to creep
forward, but the effects were largely
offset by bigger turnover.
After deducting £25,000 paid in
respect of bank guarantee and £3714 on
account of a loss incurred by one of the
subsidiaries and allowing for deprecia-
tion (£39,130, up £10,087) and taxation
(£58,958, up £147), aggregate net earn-
ings of the group increased by £11,070:
Kelly and Lewis and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N
Ist 2nd Re
June, Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1952.. 66,961 8 5 8 50,040 348,373
To staff fund, £2500 345,873
Sundry additions, £3077 .. .. 348,950
Surplus sale assets, £1902 .. .. 350,852
Amortisation, £8492 347,360
Written off investments, £21,250 .. 326,110
Work-in-progress written down, £51,979 274,131
1953. .102,724 8 5 8 50,040 326,815
To staff fund, £5OOO 321,816
Sundry addition, £2705 .. .. 324,520
Profit sale assets, £8467 .. .. 332,987
Amortisation, £3493 329,494
Written off investments, £43,717 .. 285,777
1954. .106,578 8 6 10 59,580 332,770
To staff fund, £5OOO 327,770
Less reserve adjustments, £8156 .. 319,614
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 329,614
1955. .117,643 8 6 12i 80,436 366,821
To staff fund, £5OOO 361,821
The £117,643 of profit claimed, which
leaves out of the reckoning reserve
adjustments interlined in the table, was
enough to pay the pref. divs. (£13,820)
and show 19.4 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 19.8, 19, 11.6, 20.7 and 20.3
p.c. back to 1950. So the addition of
2i p.c. to the distribution, making 12£
p.c. for the year, was a comfortable
matter.
During the year 32,500 f.-p. £1 shares
in Bulldog Tractors Pty. (now a wholly-
owned subsidiary) were bought for
£22,500, the surplus (£10,000) being
added to reserves. The co. also bought
all the 360,000 issued and f.-p. ss. shares
in Uni-Versil Consolidated (insulation-
manufacturers) in exchange for 60,000
of its own f.-p. £1 ords. The difference
(£30,000) was used to rub out intangibles
and write down some of the other assets
acquired to a conservative figure. Uni-
Versil paid 10 p.c. in 1953, but nothing
since. It earned a small profit last term,
and a “satisfactory” return is expected
for the current year.
The next table shows the financial
structure of the K. and L. group:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1956.
Pref £210,000 £210,000 £210,000
Ord 477,000 477,000 537,000
Reserves .. .. 321,816 327,770 861,821
Mortgage .. .. 114,347 103,667 92,000
Overdrafts .. .. 154,897 163,835 287,748
Creditors . . .. 239,482 279,356 426,920
Tax provision .. 45,544 60,891 76,158
Final divs. .. 25,020 . 29,790 40,322
£1,588,105 £1,652,309 £2,031,969
Freeholds .. .. 253,396 308,186 357,493
Plant .. .. 375,173 398,714 493,396
Stocks, etc. .. 601,801 517,630 803,516
Debtors . . .. 271,610 382,826 359,498
Investments .. 79,005 35,500 13,000
Cash, etc 7,120 9,453 5,066
£1,588,105 £1,652,309 £2,031,969
The year’s net additions to freeholds (up
£49,307) and plant (up £94,682) partly
reflect the two businesses taken over. The
growth in stocks (up £285,886) was partly
on account of bigger business and partly
a hedge against delayed deliveries of
structural-steel and import-restrictions,
which will affect agency supplies from
some of the co.’s overseas principals.
The overdraft increased by £123,913 and
the amount coming to sundry creditors by
£147,564.
7 S'
Adelaide Steamship Co.
'T'HE co.’s assets fall into two main
1 groups, shipping and investments.
The fleet of five passenger- and 19 cargo-
vessels, aggregating 64,320 tons gross, is
the largest on the coast. Together with
tugs, lighters, etc., it figures in the books
at £2,858,101, or 49 p.c. of all the assets.
Investments total £1,620,304, or 27.7 p.c.
of the assets, and include shares in sub-
sidiaries £136,500, shares in other cos.
£706,864, and Government securities
£776,940. Among the shareholdings are
scrip in J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham Collieries, A.N.A., A.W.A.,
Newstead Wharves and Stevedoring Co.,
Waratah Tug and Salvage Co., Port
Adelaide Steam Laundry and North Aus-
tralian Cement (Townsville), which got
into production in October, 1954, and is
now working to capacity and earning a
profit.
Earnings from both shipping and the
coal trade have strengthened over the last
couple of years, thanks mainly to con-
tinued growth in the volume of cargo
handled and prompter adjustment of
shipping freight-rates and coal selling-
prices in relation to operating costs.
Still, it is difficult to say exactly
how much of the surplus of income over
outgo, etc., in the shipping section is
genuine profit, mainly because of the
high-and-still-rising cost of tonnage
replacement and totally inadequate
official allowance for depreciation. No
real profit is earned by any business until
adequate provision has been made for
replacement of its assets at current cost.
Hence the declared policy of the board
is to pay a reasonable dividend and at the
same time build up reserves to safeguard
replacement of the assets when worn out.
In coalmining the depreciation problem
has been recently put on a more satis-
factory footing.
What each section turns in isn’t ascer-
tainable from the published accounts ; but
shipping results were affected last
term by a nation-wide strike of two
weeks’ duration on the waterfront, as
well as by slow turn-round of the vessels
and petty industrial stoppages. So,
although the co. had an extra 4141 tons
of shipping at work, the cautious board
wrote net profit from the entire under-
taking at only £139,518, or £3 more than
the previous year’s figure and only £lO
in excess of the 6 p.c. dividend charge.
That was after making unspecified pro-
visions for depreciation and taxation,
and dropping £lO,OOO into the insurance
reserves (£732,000), a like amount into
the replacements reserve (£572,500), and
£124,109 into provisions for docking and
repairs (£358,751). Additions to these
reserves and provisions in the previous
term were £50,000, £75,000 and £139,773
respectively.
Although the stoppage on the
waterfront had a marked effect upon
earnings, the profit claimed by the
board is obviously conservative. In-
cluding additions to the insurance and
replacements reserves, net earnings avail-
able for allocation compare as follows:
To Be- Be-
June, Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 150,276 5 p.c. = 116,257 40,019 985,662
1951.. 156,268 6 „ ~ 116,257 40,011 1,025,673
1952.. 241,273 5 „ ~116,257 126,016 1,150,689
Decrease repairs provision, £21,130 1,129,559
1953.. 252,887 sjp.c.= 127,883 125,004 1,254,563
Added repairs provision, £139,778 .. 1,394,336
1954.. 264,515 6 p.c.= 139,508 125,007 1,519,343
Added repairs provision, £124,109.. 1,643,452
1955.. 6 p.c. = 139,608 20,010 1,663,462
* Includes additions to insurance and replacement
reserves.
The £159,518 (down £104,997) was equal
to 6.8 p.c. on capital compared with
11.3, 10.8, 10.3, 6.7 and 6.7 p.c. back to
1950. And some of the set aside
for docking and repairs might prove to
be in excess of requirements. So, with a
twinkle in its eye, the market notes the
chairman’s statement that prospects of a
more satisfactory year ahead induced the
board to maintain the div. at 6 p.c.
During the year two new freighters,
built in Scotland, were delivered and put
into commission, and a tug, on its way to
Fremantle for delivery, was lost at sea with
all hands. The year’s net addition to the
book-value of the fleet was £397,670:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £2,326,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Beserves .. .. 1,254,563 1,619,343 1,663,462
Overdraft .. 221,454 600,439
Sundry creditors* 772,344 1,111,976 866,682
Provident fund .. 238,509 268,327 802,739
Final div. .. 81,380 81,380 81,380
Total .. .. £4,671,931 £5,527,614 £5,839,787
Freeholds, etc. .. 251,063 256,013 270,733
Steamers, etc. .. 1,734,999 2,460,431 2,858,101
Shares subsidiaries 136,500' 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 256,930 241,651 216,085
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 1,279,575 1,609,613 1,580,654
Govt, bonds, etc. 1,012,864 823,406 777,714
Total .. .. £4,671,931 £5,527,614 £5,839,787
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the year’s outlay and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
by £245,343, the holding of Government
securities, etc., was reduced by only
£45,692.
To meet'the growing competition from
air, rail and road transport, coastal ship-
ping cos. have to keep their fleets abreast
of modern developments in sea trans-
port, which mostly means improved
handling facilities and cheaper operating
costs. Hence the need for Government
recognition of (1) an adequate deprecia-
tion allowance, with consequent relief in
the tax-bill, (2) of payment of an increased
subsidy on Australian-built ships to bring
their cost of the cos. more into line with
overseas prices, and (3) of smoother-
working industrial machinery, in which
respect the board suggests return to direct
relationship between management and
men within the framework of the Arbitra-
tion Court. The Tariff Board is investi-
gating the subsidy question, and the Gov-
ernment has appointed a committee to
examine the industrial problem, but has
not yet taken any action in respect of
depreciation.
In a nervous sharemarket, the price of
the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares eased from 245.
to 225. 6d. and then edged back to 235.
over the last few weeks. The return at
235. is 5.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or
6.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 475. lid.
Lennons Hotel, Ltd. (Brisbane)
PROFITABLE expansion, spurred by
1 boom conditions of which an able
management made the most, has been
the keynote of activities ever since the
present co. took over the business —it is
one of the most up-to-date hotels in the
Commonwealth—from City Mutual Life
about eight years ago. The dividend
climbed from 1\ p.c. in 1948 to 10 p.c.
for the four years to 1953, followed by
12£ p.c. and then 15 p.c. last term, with
comfortable margins.'
With an eye to the future the board
bought an adjoining property, Salisbury
Chambers, in 1950 for £64,000-odd. These
premises are now being demolished, and
a new building, similar to the main hotel,
is to be erected on the spot at an esti-
mated cost of £450,000. The money is
to come partly from mortgage and partly
from new share-capital. When complete,
the new building will increase the co.’s
accommodation capacity—woefully short
of demand of recent years—by 70 p.c.
Those on the ord. register at September
16 last were offered 235,000 new £1 ords.
at par, one for one, payable ss. applica-
tion and the balance in three calls of ss.
each over the next 12 months. When
all the money is in paid capital will be
£620,000, of which £150,000 now carries
a cumulative 7 p.c., as against 5 p.c.
hitherto. The pref. div. and 15 p.c. to
the ords. will then call for £15,037 more
profit than was claimed last term.
The board confidently expects to main-
tain 12£ p.c. on the increased capital.
The fresh share-money will also enable
the co. to provide its proportion of the
capital in two new associated cos., each
of which is presently to build a new
hotel, one at Broadbeach, near Surfers
Paradise, to cost about £500,000, and
another at Toowoomba to cost about
£385,000. At June 30 last Lennons
Hotel, Ltd., had taken 100,000 £1 shares
in Lennons Broadbeach Hotel and
50,000 £1 shares in Lennons Too-
woomba Hotel, on which Is. a share had
been paid in each instance, leaving a total
of £142,500 to come.
The Toowoomba co., which has just
issued its prospectus, will have an issued
capital of £202,500 in £1 shares, of which
Lennons Hotel, Ltd., holds 50,000, 2500
have been taken by the directors and
150,000 are offered and underwritten by
lan Potter and Co. Of the 150,000,


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET «• at 30th Jane, 1955.
LIABILITIES.
Central Banking Business —
Capital .. .. ••
Reserve Fund .. .. ••
Rural Credits Department—
Capital .. .. ..
Reserve Fund ..
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital
Reserve Fund
Special Reserve —Premium on gold
sold ..
Notes on issue
Deposits—
Special accounts of trading banks
Other deposits of trading banks ..
Other deposits, bills payable and
other liabilities (including pro-
vision for contingencies)
Total
£
4,000,000
6,569,559
2,571,000
917,063
6,143,000
443,522
6,143,000
2,114,375
26,901,519
4,754,954
362,752,950
280,559,000
29,782,337
281,010,292
985,761,052
' ASSETS.
Gold and balances held abroad (in-
cluding money at short call)
Australian notes and coin
Cheques and bills of other banks
Commonwealth Government Securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills)
Securities of other governments and
of local and semi-governmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off) ..
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) :
Central Banking Business
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Department ..
Industrial Finance Department
Other assets ..
t
367,259,075
2,869,095
12,289,614
449,793,567
89,680,951
8,611,298
692,607
9,376,890
60,138,771
5,026,679
25,138,123
4,985,389
Total
985,761,052
Note. —Inter-departmental accounts totalling £55,466,892 have been offset.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1955.
Gr.
Dr.
Central Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund ..
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve
Fund
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Capital Account
To Rural Credits Department
Capital Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account
Not* Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Capital Account
To Rural Credits Department
Capital Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account
To Commonwealth Treasury
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department
Reserve Fund
To Rural Credits Development
Fund
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance Department
Reserve Fund
£
2,269,148
1,759,146
143,000
71,000
143,000
143,000
143,000
71,000
143,000
143,000
6,616,409
96,174
96,174
65,183
397,545
11,189,777
Total
By Profits (after provision for
contingencies)—
Central Banking Business..
Note Issue Department ..
Rural Credits Department ...
Mortgage Bank Department ..
Industrial Finance Department
4,518,293
6,016,409
192,348
65,18*
397,546
Total
. 11,189,777
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) J. B. WRIGHT, Secretary. (Sgd.) H.-.C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 22nd August, 1905. _
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1955.
liabilities; —
Capital
Reserve Fund
Deposits, bills payable and other
liabilities (including provision for
contingencies)
Balances due to other banks M
£
5,143,000
2,169,820
225,492,836
454,378
I
Total
. 233,250,034
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion, notes and cash at
bankers
Money at short call —
(a) London
(b) Elsewhere
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank .. .. • • ••
Cheques and bills of other banks and
balances with and due from
other banks
Treasury bills —
(a) Australian Governments
(b) Other governments
Public securities (excluding treasury
bills)—
(a) Australian Governments
(b) Other governments
(c) Local and semi-govemmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off) .. .. • •
Loans, advances and bills discounted
(after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful)
Other assets ..
Total ■ ■
£
14,497,051
1,800,000
33,850,000
2,312,81*
7,500,000
40,019,41*
27,138,030
3,506,161
99,960,504
2,665,151
233,250,034
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1955.
To National Debt Sinking Fund
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Reserve Fund
£
300,013
300,012
Total
600,025
By Profits (after provision for con-
tingencies) ..
£
600,025
Total
600,025
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statement* furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) A. N. ARMSTRONG, General Manager.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
Sydney, 22nd August, 1955.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th Jane, 1955.
LIABILITIES.
Reserve Fund
Depositors’ balances and accrued
interest
Other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies) -
£
8,828,201
695,929,796
20,674,773
Total
725,432,770
ASSETS.
Australian notes and coin
Cash balances and money at short call
Commonwealth Government Securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills)
Securities of other governments and
of local and semi-governmental
authorities .. .. ' ..
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off)
Loans and advances
Other assets .. -
£
692,108
72,718,801
470,778,659
72,708,731
4,666,724
92,821,154
11,046,699
Total
.. 725,432,770
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1955.
Dr.
To National Debt Sinking Fund
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund
9
Total
£
562.458
662.458
1,104,916
ft
By Profits (after provision for pay-
ments amounting to £750,985 due
to State Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation Agreements
and after provision for contingen-
cies) ..
1,104,91 ft
Tot ax.
1,104,916
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) H. G. T. SEARLE, Chief Superintendent. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 22nd August, IS»5._
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for the
Commonwealth (Mr. J. Brophy).
50,000 are earmarked for prior
application by shareholders in
Lennons Hotel, Ltd., one of the
vendors of the property has
similar rights as to 20,000, the
underwriters have taken firm
65,000, leaving only 15,000 for
the general public. Arrange-
ments have also been made to
raise £lOO,OOO on mortgage and
£lOO,OOO on overdraft. The
board expects that the co. “will
be capable of paying dividends
of at least 10 p.c. p.a.” when the
hotel gets into full-scale opera-
tion.
The Broadbeach co. is not
expected to issue its prospectus
until November next.
Last term the Brisbane co.’s
earnings benefited from addi-
tional accommodation on the
fifth floor, and from brisker
bar-, lounge- and catering-
activities, and costs didn’t gobble
too much of the gain. After
allowing for depreciation (£7418,
up £688) and taxation (£44,400,
up £11,100), net earnings took
a leap of £20,324 (30 p.c.),
reaching £89,963:
I —Dividends N Defl-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. cit.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1950.. 44,896 5 10 31,000 33,135
1951.. 50,751 6 10 31,000 52,886
Tax underprovided, £1845.. 51,041
1952.. 42,905 5 10 31,000 62,946
1953.. 40,366 5 10 31,000 72,312
1954.. 60,639 5 12* 36,876 96,076
Assets revalued, £235,000 .. 331,076
1955.. 80,963 5 15 42,750 369,289
* After deducting goodwill, now £lOl.
The pref. div. called for £B5OO,
and the balance of the year’s
profit was 30.8 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 22.6,"
13.9, 15, 18.4 and 15.9. p.c. back
to 1950. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined)
as at the close of accounts the
profit was a healthy 10.7 p.c.
The freehold -premises were
written-up by £235,000, or
£lOO,OOO less than the amount
by which the revaluation figure
exceeded their former book-
value. There is no mention in
the report of any intention to
issue bonus-scrip, nor does an
overall view of the undertaking
suggest that it would be desir-
able to do so at the moment.
Balance-sheet figures com-
pare as follows:
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Preference .. 150,000 150,000 150,000
Ordinary .. 235,000 235,000 235,000
Reserves .. 72,412 96,176 369,389
Creditors .. 30,220 43,430 44,966
Tax provision.. 33,378 40,645 51,035
Final divs. .. 17,850 21,375 24,312
538,860 586,526 874,702
Shares associated
cos. .. 7,500
Freehold, etc... 381,815 404,164 655,072
Plant, etc. .. 93,262 100,143 103,432
Stock . . . . 24,887 16,721 14,705
Debtors . . 9,463 12,109 75,390
Cash and bonds 29,332 53,288 18,502
Goodwin .. 101 101 101
538,860 586,526 874,702
Of the growth of £259,908 in
freeholds, etc., the writing-up
represented £230,000, the other
£15,908 being mainly on
account of addition to the fifth
floor, where a further 13 bed-
rooms became available in time
for the Brisbane Show in August
last —the current year’s earnings
should benefit.
At 355. 6d. the f.-p. £1 ords.
return 8.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. dis-
tribution, or 7 p.c. on a \2\ p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 295. sd. The
prefs. are not listed on ’Change.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd.
TPHE position of shareholders
in this old-established wine-
and spirit-business is inde-
terminate at the moment. For
the last four months or so
negotiations have been current
between Caldwell’s and “another
well-known wine and spirit co.”
for a merging of their interests,
but announcement of final agree-
ment is still awaited. The name
of the other co. isn’t mentioned,
but the “Wild Cat” wouldn’t be
surprised if it was Leo Buring
(Holdings), Ltd. No hint is
given as to the terms, or prob-
able terms, of the merger, or of
what is holding up agreement.
The trouble in the trade as a
whole is overproduction and the
evils that go with it. For some
time, the chairman says, an
amalgamation of interests has
been considered essential for the
ultimate good of the industry.
Caldwell’s profit rose from an
average of £13,729 for the six
years to 1946 to an average of
£29,499 for the six years to 1952,
followed by losses of £8717 in
1953 and £9681 last term, when
shareholders were again passed
by for the first time since 1941: .
—Dividends , Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.t
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1950.. 26,809 8 10 18,254 90,179
Unexplained addition, £5144.. 95,323
1951. .28,881 8& 5 10 22,500 101,704
1952.. 27.563.8& 5 10 22,500 106,767
From tax reserve, £7OOO .. 113,767
Loss.
1953.. 8,717 6.2 & 5 4 12,180 92,870
Profit sale assets, £3050 .. 95,920
1954.. 9,681 Nil Nil 86,239
t After deducting goodwill (now
£25,000).
Losses have been arrested since
the close of accounts, the co. is
now trading at a profit and
“satisfactory” results are confi-
dently expected for the full 12
months of 1955.
The co. owns a number of
licensed freehold and leasehold
properties in and around
Sydn'eyj a modern winery and
distillery at Yenda, vineyards at
Corona, Mandalasea and
Corowa and cellars at Camper-
down, near Sydney. There is a
branch at Brisbane and a
recently - established selling -
agency at Melbourne.
The financial structure as the
published accounts show it is
as follows:
Paid capital— . 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. .. 160,000 160,000
Reserves* .. .. 92,870 86,239
Overdraft .. .. 60,578 136,689
Creditors .. ... 64,623 83,936
Tax provision .. 40,000 40,000
Staff funds .. .. 12,118 10,092
Final divs. .. .. 2,530
£532,719 £616,956
Freeholds .. .. 184,334 199,750
Leaseholds .. .. 30,393 46,322
Plant . . .. 44,549 49,526
Stocks .. .. 217,099 255.560
Debtors .. .. 55,366 62,457
Cash, etc. .. .. 978 3,341
£532,719 £616,956
* After deducting goodwill ( £25,000).
When the books closed more-
or-less liquids exceeded the out-
side debt (including tax-provi-
sion and staff fund) by £50,641.
So half the pref. and the whole
of the ord. capital was repre-
sented by fixed assets. There has
been no writing-up of the book-
value of freeholds, which
appear less a depreciation re-
serve of £16,470 and plant
figures less a depreciation reserve
of £37,018. Stocks, in at cost
or under, dominate the position.
The market prices Caldwell’s
f.-p. £1 ords. at 14s. 6d. (265. 6d.
in August, 1954), or 16s. 3d.
less than their net tangible book-
value. The prefs.—so,ooo first 8
p.c. and 50,000 second 5 p.c.—
have not appeared on ’Change
for some time.
Leo Buring (Holdings), which
became a public co. in 1950, has
a paid capital of £203,336 in
f.-p. ss. shares, which the
market prices at 4s. 4d. each. The
co. netted £21,743 (down £4154),
or 10.7 p.c. on capital, last term,
and paid 8 p.c. as against 9 p.c. l
for the previous year. Net
tangible cover is ss. per share.
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L.
Following mine developments
on No. 13 level, the co.’s con-
sulting geologist, H. J. C.
Conolly, advises that the bottom
of tin- and wolfram-values has
been reached. However, there
is still 284,320 tons of positive
and probable ore of average
grade in the mine, which is equal
to about five years’ work for
the mill at last term’s rate of
throughput, with the possibility
of lateral developments opening
up more payable veins.
Here are operating results
over the last three years:
Year, June 30, 1953. 1954. 1955.
Ore milled, tons 44,847 52,876 60,353
Concentrates —
Tin, tons .. 580.60 630.17 715.87
Wolfram, tons 212.58 181.03 163.92
Flue dust, tons 235.81 266.26 258.13
Net profit, £ 477,366 334,426 333,964
Dividend, p.c. 625 450 525
„ amount, £ 390,625 281,250 328,125
Last term the tin concentrates
averaged £B3O (up £76) per ton
of metal content. The wolfram
concentrates are sold to the U.K.
Government under contract
(which run out November 16,
1955) at an undisclosed floor-
price, which is higher than the
open-market figure. London
price of the stuff has been fairly
steady around £SI2 11s. per unit
since the beginning of 1955. The
board gives no hint as to the
extent to which profits are likely
to be affected if and when open-
market trading is resumed.
Much will depend upon whether
a new contract can be secured,
and upon what terms.
Paid capital is £62,500 in f.-p.
Is. shares, priced in the market
at 14s. lid. each as against
245, 6d. a year ago. At 14s. 1 Id.
the market values the undertak-
ing at £932,292. So the investor
who looks for his money back,
plus 10 p.c. p.a., counts on
distributions averaging £279,687
over the next five years.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Prior to the official opening of the
Royal Agricultural Show the Governor
and Lady Brooks were entertained at
luncheon by R.A.S. president T. N.
Mitchell, who was assisted by his sister,
Miss Florence Mitchell.
Lady Brooks chose a black-and-white
tweed frock with a matching jacket high-
lighted with a collar of Indian lamb and
a Ming-blue felt cloche. Miss Mitchell
had dark-brown accessories for her blue-
and-tan tweed suit; her brown hat had
a double-fluted brim with a band of
string-colored silk around the crown.
Guests included the President of the
Legislative Council, Sir Clifden Eager,
and Lady Eager; the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Frank
Selleck); Mr. and Mrs. John Cain, the
Sam Horderns (Sydney), Mr. Justice
Mitchell and Mrs. Mitchell, and Mr. and
Mrs. T. C. Woodfull.
# V *
Friends in Victoria and N.S.W. are
delighted at the engagement of Sarah
Hordern and Baillieu Myer, announced
at a family-party at the Toorak home of
Sarah’s grandmother, Mrs. Clive Baillieu.
Sarah is the only daughter of. Mr. and
Mrs. Sam Hordern, of Retford Park,
Bowral, and Baillieu is the younger son
of Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer, of Toorak,
and the late Mr. Sidney Myer. At the
party were Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hordern
(over here for the Show), Mrs. Sidney
Baillieu Myer, Mrs. Neilma Jantner,
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine and the
Hon. Simon Warrender and Mrs.
Warrender. Sarah wore a floral-printed
cotton frock and tucked white orchids
in the strapless bodice. Her engagement-
ring is twin baguette diamonds with
diamond shoulders set in white gold.
Wedding will be in December, in Sydney.
# #
The Governor-General and Lady Slim
and the State Governor and Lady Brooks
will attend the Navy Ball to be held on
Oaks Night, one of the big occasions of
the spring racing session. Officers of
visiting warships will also be among the
guests. Mrs. R. R. Dowling, wife of
Vice-Admiral Dowling, is president of
the ball-committee. This, the seventh
Navy Ball held to raise funds for the
Memorial Chapel at Flinders, will see
the objective reached —almost £BOOO has
been raised. Ticket-secretaries are Mrs.
Edward Campbell (BM3004), Mrs.
George Fowle (LA4926), Mrs. L. Gordon
Darling (8J4356), and Mrs. Peter Cox
(8J3359).
☆ ☆ ☆
The president of the Opportunity
Clubs, Eugene - Gorman, Q.C., and
members of his committee were hosts at
a luncheon-party at the Australia to
farewell Mrs. Iris Clarke, who is off to
England to take up an appointment at
Australia House. For some years Mrs.
Clarke has been organiser for the clubs,
and the auxiliaries she has formed have
raised substantial sums to help their
work. It was also announced at this
luncheon that arrangements had been
made for a presentation of the “Lux
Theatre of the Air” from Menzies’ Hotel
on October 30. Proceeds will go to the
Thombury Opportunity Club. Miss
Kaye Morrison, who is the new organiser
and press-relations officer for the clubs,
was also at the luncheon.
☆ -A ☆
Bowls of white and gold flowers and
pillars swathed with gold material and
white ivy-leaves decorated St. Kilda
Palais de Danse for the dinner-dance
arranged by Old Girls and friends of
Clyde to aid the school-memorial build-
ing-fund. In the official party were the
headmistress of Clyde, Miss Olga Hay;
the president of the dinner-dance com-
mittee, Lady Murdoch; and vice-presi-
dents Mrs. John Shaw and Mrs. W.
Murray. Miss Hay chose a slim black
gown, Lady Murdoch one in deep-
carbon-blue silk, the front overlaid with
white guipure-lace.
Mrs. Alastair Mackinnon’s attractive
gown of silver-grey silk-organza had
ruffles on the bodice and full skirt of
white nylon-lace. Mrs. Cohn Bednall’s
short, full frock was of lime-green silk-
faille. A lovely cape-stole of olive-green
velvet edged with white Arctic-fox fur
was worn by Mrs. Trevor Clarke with her
strapless gown, which had a swathed
bodice of olive-green taffeta and skirt of
grey Chantilly-lace. Mrs. John Summons
wore flowing red chiffons, the bodice cut
to reveal one shoulder ; Mrs. Desmond
Deasey a billowing skirt of red faille
and bodice of white organdie with
stand-up collar and bracelet-length
sleeves.
☆ ☆ ☆
A gay and unusual function was
organised by the youthful members of
the Gordon Group auxiliary to aid the
Gordon Boys’ Cottage Homes appeal.
It took the form of a progressive dinner-
party and commenced with cocktails at
Park Court, Hawthorn, with hosts James
Grover and Walter Gheradin; then to
soup with hostess Beverley Ball in Canter-
bury. Guests then moved on to Fin-
haven Court, Kew, for dinner with Mrs.
William Banks, Mrs. Brian O’Sullivan,
Clemency Game and Felicity Nuttall;
and finally coffee and liqueurs in Mal-
vern, with Jane Shannon as hostess.
Among the guests were Judy Leask, who
was accompanied by her Captai'n
Michael Reyne; Winifred Coates
(daughter of Sir Albert and Lady
Coates); Pamela Middleton (in a frock
of deep-blue tie-silk); Mrs. Andrew
Hardie (wearing soft rose-pink velvets);
Mrs. Malcolm Smart (whose white jersey-
sweater topped a black taffeta skirt);
Mary Lou Doggitt, Pamela Power and
Jill Holman.
A classical gown of pure white satin
was worn by Judith Ann, only daughter
of Brigadier and Mrs. J. D. Rogers, of
Malvern, when she was married to Major
David Scott Thomson, M.C., at the Little-
john Memorial Chapel, Scotch College,
which was decorated with daffodils and
white blossom. Orange-blossom held her
fingertip tulle veil, and she carried a
bouquet of gardenias, hyacinths and
andromena. Janet Cooper, of Wahroonga
(N.S.W.), was bridesmaid; she wore a
full-skirted white organza frock trimmed
with white velvet ribbon lined with gold
to match the epaulettes of the military
uniforms of men in the bridal-party. She
also wore a tiny close-fitting hat and
carried a bouquet of white azaleas. The
bridegroom, eldest son of Mr. H. G. L.
Thomson, of St. Kilda, and the late Mrs.
Thomson, had Major Ken McKenzie as
best man. Ushers were Major J. C.
Langtry, Major A. F. C. McDonald and
the bride’s two brothers, D. W. and A. J.
Rogers. On leaving the chapel the bridal
couple passed through a guard-of-honor
with crossed swords. About 150 guests
attended the reception at the Metropolitan
Golf Club. Photo by Laurie Richards.
The Delphic was gaily decorated for
the Oaklands Hunt Club dinner-dance
celebrating the ending of the hunting
season. Large oil paintings of hunting
scenes were on the walls, and white horse-
head plaques carried the club’s colors of
black and white. On each table were
miniature reproductions of country scenes
and the names of properties over which
the club had hunted during the season.
Receiving the guests were the Master of
Oaklands, Keith Campbell (wearing his
pink hunting-jacket), and Mrs*. Campbell
(in full-skirted gown of burgundy shot-
taffeta), ticket-secretary Jennifer Tolley
(who wore white organdie and guipure-
lace) and ticket-secretary Nola Attwood
(whose ballerina frock was of junior
blue organza).
SYDNEY
Over 300 people attended the late-
afternoon reception given at Prince’s on
Friday by the combined Empire Societies
in honor of the visiting Secretary of State
for Commonwealth Relations, Lord
Home. The toast to the distinguished
visitor was proposed by Dr. Garnet
Halloran and supported by Major C. D.
Chapman, of the Overseas League, and
Mrs. Cameron Wilson, chairman of the
standing committee of the Victoria
Leagues of Australia; Mrs. Wilson wore
a black, head-hugging Paris-model hat
with her black faille and lace frock.
Lord Home, in his fluent speech of
response, salted a lot of sound sense
with some delightful touches of humor.
Mrs. Chapman wore a gold-threaded
black dress and a small vieux-rose hat.
Mrs. Garnet Halloran was smart in black.
The deputy-president of the Victoria
League, Mrs. H. H. McNall, wore a small
contrasting hat with her deep V-necked
black frock.
Mary Cullen has the leading role of
Sari Linden in Noel Coward’s “Bitter
Sweet,” which will be presented by the
Sydney Light Opera Company in the
Mosman Town Hall tomorrow and
Friday nights (September 29 and 30)
under the auspices of All Saints Hospital
Women’s Auxiliary. Mary, who has
portrayed almost every heroine in the
musicomedy calendar, will also be the
Kathy of “The Student Prince” in the
Pic ton Musical Society’s production in
November.
The long and close inspection given
by Lady Slim to the many flower-arrange-
ments in the Grey Room at Mark Foy’s
last Wednesday, when she was guest-of-
honor at a reception given by the Garden
Club of Australia, made it quite clear
that her Excellency was greatly taken by
the artistry of the exhibits.' And they
were arranged with taste and skill, and
demonstrated just what can be achieved
without having to resort to floral masses.
Some of the best effects were obtained
with the sparse use of flowers which
have no special status in the horticultural
What’s What.
One of the most striking was an all-
white arrangement in a grey-and-white
china vase, with plum-blossom, azaleas,
camellias and Ms, by Mrs.Vidler, of
Narrabri. Two most unusual and very
effective arrangements by Mrs. Arthur
Davis, the club’s president, were white
daisies and dried wistaria branches in an
ancient Japanese driftwood-bucket and
a. plain upright Japanese vase, from each
tier of which was arranged a single spray
of white peach-blossom. Mrs. E. G.
Waterhouse used three camellias in
unusually-shaped pieces of driftwood and
full-blown camellias and a dried branch
in a bronze bowl to exquisite effect.
Her Excellency, who wore a forest-
green coat-dress with black accessories,
was received by Mrs. Davis, who had a
daffodil hat and accessories to go with
her black-faille dress. Mrs. Vidler chose
alabaster bag and gloves as a foil for her
grey-and-white pure silks. Mrs. A.
Morgan, the club’s hon. treasurer, added
a tiny beaded tangerine hat as companion
for her black suit.
# # V
The “Faust” curtain-rise delay of half-
an-hour while the principals held their
kerbside meeting outside at least gave
the audience the rare opportunity to go
right through the programme, even
down to the credits and the ads. “Faust”
is one of those operas in which —as in the
avian world —the males are the only
gorgeously-clad ones. Mephistopheles
(Salvatore Catania) was resplendent in
Act I in vivid red tights and jacket and
a magnificent floor-length gold satin
cloak (with which he performed wonders)
and a cute skull-cap with a long feather
which protruded (in Stephen Leacock’s
words) “half-way into the air.” Then he
changed to black tights and black-and-
red jacket and a scarlet-lined black cloak.
Kenneth Neate,' as Faust, sported a
slashed blue jacket and a large white hat-
feather which must have made any
woman mad to see it wasted on a mascu-
line head. But poor Marguerita, Siebel
and Martha —they had to be content
with sombre homespuns!
☆ ☆ ☆
In 1818 Thomas Love Peacock wrote
his Nightmare Abbey, in which he loosed
barbed shafts of satire at the Romantic
movement, and in particular at three of
its leading exponents, Shelley, Coleridge
and the playwright Skeffington. Three
years ago Anthony Sharp made it into a
play (which he called a frolic), and it is
this hilarious piece which is the next
offering of the Genesians, opening on
Friday next, September 30. Production
is by James Lang; Margaret Clancy,
Barbara Maxwell and Brian Farmer have
the leads.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gorgeous flowers and peach-blossom
in profusion turned Hoyts’ Double Bay
theatre into a festival of spring for the
gala preview of the Cannes Film Festival
prizewinning “Marty,” proceeds of which
function go to the Peter Pan Free
Kindergarten. Mr. and Mrs. Ron
Michaels (of United Artists), Mrs. Arthur
Hill (the organiser), and committee-
members Mrs. Alan Kirkland, Mrs. Reg
Moses, Mrs. Tony Inglis, Mrs. Keith
Moss and Mrs. Frank Coles must have
been well satisfied with the results of
the work they had put into it.
Lady Lloyd Jones wore a beautiful
white fur stole with her ballerina frock.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere mixed mauve and
black in her cocktail-dress; her tiny
cloche was of massed violets. Jennifer
Roche teamed a black lace bodice and
a beaded chiffon skirt. Toby Singer had
a red cummerbund for her scoop-necked
black ballerina; another red cummer-
bund, of velvet, was worn by Michele
Dekyvere with her smoke-blue laces.
☆ ☆ ☆
At Australia’s first Festival of Color,
held last week at the Trocadero, a new
range of wall-colors in matt-finish was
displayed in 14 rooms. These included
orchid-green, cinnamon, camellia, tango,
coral-rose and citrus. They were used
in a variety of tasteful combinations, and
selected according to the fbrnishings used,
which mostly followed the contemporary
trend.
That colors may lend an illusion of
both space and temperature is an
important factor. For instance, blues
and greens, the cool colors, not only
make a hot room appear to be of a lower
temperature than it really is, but they
appear to recede, and so give the impres-
sion that a small room looks larger. On
the other hand, reds and pinks incline
to make a cool room look warm; they
also appear to come closer to the eye,
with the result that the illusion is created
that a large room is smaller. With the
strictly-limited room-sizes being forced
on home-builders these days by ever-
mounting costs, this latter aspect seems,
however, a rather dubious advantage.
A natty idea for entertainment use
when floor-space is not too generous was
six triangular-shaped upholstered stools
(three each in different pastel shades)
which when placed together form a
circle.
At this Festival of Color a series of
fashion-parades displayed swimsuits and
beachwear, casuals and formals and
separates, all in Tootal fabrics. The
one-piece swimsuit is more than hold-
ing its own against the bra-top, and
prints are gay. For day-wear the pencil-
slim skirt hadn’t a hope against the
swishing flareds. Separates tend to the
exaggerated in design and color-scheme.
One had pedal-pushers in white and an
outsize green jacket with billowing
sleeves, with a huge white Byronic collar.
☆ ☆ ☆
From Brisbane comes a note that that
city has a special reason for being
interested in the production of “Medea,"
for Jacklyn Kelleher, the first Queens-
lander to be offered a contract by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, has a part in
it, and our correspondent “F.A.M.”
adds “From what I have seen of this
young actress I think she has a future,
and that this town may become very
proud of her.”


DIGESTIVE TROUBLES
COLITIS, DIVERTICULITIS
TAKE CHERBA TABLETS
Specially prepared from an old
proven herbal recipe. For chronic
conditions. Postal note for 12/6 will
provide one month’s treatment.
‘ALLAN MURRAY PTY. LTD.,
26 Chase Road, Turramurra.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN FRANK HOSKING late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that JOANE
PATRICIA HOSKING has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2909 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1954 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 18th November
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. C. RICKARD,
SYMONDS & CO., Solicitors, of 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
NOTICE OF CITATION
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In ‘Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ARTHUR ERNEST ALLAN late of
118 Staples Street Kingsgrove in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that VERA FRANCIS ALLAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1429
of 1951 on the ground of desertion by
failure to comply with a Decree for Res-
titution of Conjugal Rights If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 25th November
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOSEPH CHRISTIE
& HOLT, Solicitors, 20 Montgomery
Street, Kogarah, or their City Agents,
F. C. BRYAtfT & CO., Solicitors, Win-
gello House, Angel Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
! By Appointment
to H. M. King/
/rederlk UU
By Appointment
to the late
KlngGeorge VI,
By Appointment
to H. M. King*
Gustav VI Adult
8y Appointment
toH.
Oueen of lhaj
■Wethwlamly
lii! i
oCUmH****
KM
sa
iji ••qdtfci o» p‘" M .V.un
SStiliniißi ccMMffi
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark*
liqueur delight
for your“ofter
(dinner, enjoyment
(Jiff* t
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
passages are flat, yet the laughs
come freely, and the expert con-
struction makes for a sustained,
ever-mounting, tempo. A thick
veneer hides a shallowness of
dialogue and characterisation.
The Priestley voice, rejoicing in
the act of rebellion, is always
fluent, often fecund (some of the
outbursts sound like extracts
from Roget’s Thesaurus), but it
is, heard above everything else
ahd would benefit from more
specific instances to tilt at.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Melbourne Royal Show
Over £6-million-worth of
exhibits, representing virtually
every primary and secondary in-
dustry in the State, are on dis-
play at the Melbourne Show-
ground in a vast parade of Aus-
tralia’s basic prosperity.
Threats of economic disaster,
depression, inflation, import-
restrictions and lack of this or
that for our New Australians —
these might be nightmares con-
ceived in the mind of a politi-
cian, but there was no evidence
of them here. There was an
atmosphere of hope, and the
hope seemed to be centred on
mechanisation.
Everything is mechanised, even
the old sheep-dip, whose place
has been taken by a shower
which sends pink water in a
penetrating downpour over the
jumbuck. The manufacture of
dimsims in the new Chinese cafe
was not inspected, but they are
probably rolled in an electric mill
now instead of in the fingers.
The display of milk-pasteurisa-
tion by the Milk Board was
astounding. If the white-coated
scientists engaged had been
nuclear physicists occupied with
splitting an atom it couldn’t
have looked more mysterious or
complicated.
Chief Little Wolf dominates
the sideshow-section with his
new 1955 international revue
presenting the world’s largest
wrestler and smallest equine.
Stage and Music
“Faust” and “Carmen”
The spot of industrial trouble
which at one stage threatened to
wreck the last two weeks of the
Italian Grand Opera Co.’s Syd-
ney season seemed to have had
no other effect than to sharpen
some of the last remaining per-
formances. Gounod’s five-acter
(compressed into three acts with
inter-act scene-changes) and
Bizet’s colorful opera of Iberian
passions were among the
season’s best offerings.
“Faust” was dominated
throughout by Salvatore Catania,
who as Mephistopheles was a
strikingly sardonic representative
of the nether world. Aided by
an arresting costume, he seemed
to tear the role apart to see what
made it tick. He made no bones
about his mastery of the man
to whom he had given new
youth, and he sang his evil Cava-
tina outside Marguerita’s win-
dow in a voice loaded with cyni-
cism—his bass had admirable
power and resonance.
Kenneth Neate soared easily
into the high reaches of the
lovely apostrophe to Marguerita’s
dwelling and blended his tenor
with the soprano of Gabriella
Tucci to fine effect in the fragile
“O Tender Moon.” Signorina
Tucci was a most appealing Mar-
guerita, and in her best voice
for the lush “Jewel Song” and
“The King of Thule.”
John Shaw made the most of
his opportunities in the “Loving
Smile” aria, and his death-scene
was well-contrived. Justine Ret-
tick sang Siebel’s “Gentle
Flowers” with good warmth of
feeling, and Wilma Whitney was
a sprightly Martha.
The production fell below
standard in only two phases. In
the first act Faust’s transforma-
tion was achieved rather crudely
by having a couple of not-too-
mysterious figures come forward
and pluck his face-weed and
long cloak from the aged philo-
sopher. It contrasted badly with
the sudden transformation under
cover of a burst of flame or
behind Mephistopheles’ putflung
cloak. And in the redemption
scene at the last Faust and Meph.
merely slink out the wings in-
stead of a spectacular exit —as
though by supernatural aid —
through a convenient trapdoor.
“Carmen” had Dora Minarchi
in the title-role, not convincingly
suited to representing that way-
ward cigarette-factory hand,
but still able to give the impres-
sion of being full of natural com-
bustion. She put a deal of fire
into both the Seguidilla and the
Habanera. Other famous airs
well-served were Micaela’s “I Am
Not Faint-Hearted,” by Gab-
riella Tucci, the Toreador Song
(Mastrangelo as Escamillo) and
the Flower Song (Umberto Borso
as Don Jose).
Borso may be no great shakes
in portraying the gentle passion,
but when it comes to mad rages
of jealousy he lashes into it with
a will. His scene with the ill-
fated Carmen in the final
moments of the opera was
almost painful in its realism.
Scenery and costumes quite
good; choruses attacked with
accuracy and zest; orchestra,
except for some ragged work
by the brasses at times, treating
the piquant score with respect.
*l* * *
Josef Krips
The Austrian conductor, 15st.
of tremendous energy, piloted
the Sydney Orchestra through
a reading of Schubert’s C Major
Symphony (“The Great”)
notable for the verve of the lilt-
ing rhythms which constitute its
mainspring. He was able, too, to
call up strong dramatic tensions,
and in the last movement —one
of the greatest in all symphonic
literature —he built the motive
up from the four single notes
first played softly by the horns
to climaxes which were never
too forced.
It was obviously realised, too,
that this work has none of the
cosmic soul-struggles of a Beet-
hoven symphony, but is bathed
in strong sunlight and is full
of healthy dance and song; even
the meditative slow movement
contains no note of undue sad-
ness.
Schumann’s Symphony No. 4
in D Minor —interesting chiefly
because of the fine skill with
which the motto-theme is woven
through the uninterrupted four
movements and the way the
themes pop-up in varied guises
throughout—was the second big
work. Krips translated it into
poetry, the essence of all
Schumann’s music.
“Till Eulenspiegel,” that vivid
tone-poem which ends with the
comic vagabond-hero being
strung from the gibbet to the
squeak of the wood-winds, was
given with great gusto —the
whole orchestra worked like
demons to wring the last ounce
of wit and humor out of
Strauss’s score.
The Overture was Weber s
graceful “Euryanthe.”
* * *
Colin Horsley
At his two Sydney recitals the
New Zealand pianist gave a
thorough workout to his impres-
sive technique and maturing
interpretative powers. He had
meaty substance in C6sar
Franck’s Prelude, Chorale and
Fugue—Franck’s biggest work
for the keyboard —and his play-
ing of it was .crisp and lucid, his
phrasing particularly good.
In Chopin’s Ballade No. 2 the
middle section was invested with
an almost cyclonic fury, the
pianist’s digital dexterity coping
easily with the high-speed in-
tricacies. In the Scherzo from
Mendelssohn’s “Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” he captured the
fragile charm of this loveliest of
fairy-music.
Climaxes were built up to im-
posing proportions in Beet-
hoven’s Sonata Op. 27 No. 1
and in four Rachmaninoff Pre-
ludes. Of three Ravel pieces,
the most convincing was the
“Pavane.”
Three Mazurkas by the con-
temporary English composer,
Lennox Berkeley, obviously
owed much to Chopin for
structural form and, thematic-
cally, they were not unattractive.
Where delicacy and nimble-
ness rubbed shoulders, as in
Chopin’s Nocturne in G Major,
Op. 37 No. 2, and his Etude Op.
10 No. 7, Horsley produced
music that could stand up to any
comparison.
Artbursts
Royal Art Society
Except for Lance Solomon’s
adventurous and stormy sea-
piece and Garrett Kingsley’s
exceptionally vital nude
(neither wholly successful: the
seapiece is rather confused; and
there seems no point in Garrett
Kingsley’s decorating his girls
with grapes and monkeys) there
is little fresh force to be found
in the 76th annual exhibition of
the N. S. Wales Royal Art
Society at the Education Depart-
ment gallery.
Perhaps exceptions should also
be made of James R. Jackson’s
“Pathway, Athol Gardens,”
G. K. Townshend’s “Yachts in
the Bay” and two landscapes by
Robert McKechniefor Jack-
son has here departed from his
familiar Harbor blues into a
very strong and attractive bit of
green forest, Townshend’s
stormy bay is on a larger scale
than usual, and McKechnie,
with something of the effect of
Lloyd Rees, looks as if he might
have something new to say in
landscape.
Apart from these there are
quite a number of paintings
with something pleasant to say
for themselves: notably Hay-
ward Veal’s “Snow in Green
Park,” H. A. Hanke’s “Cloud
Shadows, Cudgegong,” Erik
Langker’s “Autumn Landscape”
and his watercolor “Sea and
Lagoon,” Mary Edwell-Burke’s
New Guinea panel, John
Rowell’s “Winter,” Albert
Rydge’s “Bowral Slopes,”
Margaret Coen’s “Flowerpiece,”
May Neill’s ‘‘Rainy Day,
Sydney,” and T. Medhurst’s
lively drawing of a cat named
Wiz.
There is no doubt, however,
that the show as a whole needs
a bit more Wiz.
Sydney Group
The Sydney Group at David
Jones’ is so much like the
travelling French exhibition
come to town again that any
words of wonder or woe used
for the one will do equally well
for the other. It is a bright,
painty, hit-or-miss lot of stuff in
which Orban’s pastels and Drys-
dale’s portrait of the fat lady,
having some solid technical
accomplishment and some feel-
ing for life rather than merely,
for new fashions in paint, look
quite out-of-place. Among the
hits are the little girl in Wallace
Thornton’s murky sketch of a
“Shop by the Harbor,” Donald
Friend’s “Homage to Pallo”
and, for some suavity and
sweetness in the paint, Jean
Bellette’s “Coastal Still Life.”
It is a pity to see John Pass-
more losing himself in abstrac-
tion.
Landscapes
The most surprising thing in"
a mixed exhibition of landscapes
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
is to see Justin O’Brien, hitherto
known only for his red-and-blue
religious paintings, coming out
as a straightforward painter of
landscape in a style that might
be mistaken sometimes for
Rupert Bunny and sometimes
for Roland Wakelin (both also
represented). A hot pink land-
scape of Centralia by Arthur
Murch is another surprising dis-
covery —it is years since Murch
has shown anything from up
that way. What looks to be the
outstanding painting, J. Caring-
ton Smith’s quiet and mournful
green “Trees,” is hung in a
corner where it is rather difficult
to see.
Talkies
“Eight O’Clock Walk” (Syd-
ney Esquire): An English film
about a junior counsel who steps
into the breach when his senior
suddenly takes ill on the eve of
a murder-trial. The plot is well
constructed and the trial itself,
which takes most of the running-
time, is a model of calm English
judicial procedure. lan Hunter,
as the Crown Prosecutor, and
Derek Farr, as the junior
defence-counsel —they are screen
father and son—both give ex-
cellent performances. Richard
Attenborough is the bewildered
accused.
“The Maggie” (Sydney
Lyceum): An engaging comedy
by the makers of “Whisky
Galore.” The Maggie is a
small and ancient cargo-boat
whose beer-loving skipper (Alex
Mackenzie) has bamboozled a
green young shipping-agent into
entrusting him with a valuable
cargo; the strenuous efforts by
the wealthy American owner of
the cargo to try to get it tran-
shipped to a safer bottom form
the basis of the comedy.
“Daddy Long Legs” (Sydney
Regent): The theme and senti-
mentality of Jean Webster’s story
of the orphan who fell in love
with her ward are about all that
remain in this streamlined song-
and-dance version. Fred Astaire,
as the bachelor-philanthropist,
flings as nimble a hoof as ever,
and Leslie Caron matches him
step for step, adding charm and
vivacity. The ballets by Roland
Petit are fast and imaginative
and the sets spectacular.
“The Young at Heart” (Syd-
ney Mayfair): Frank Sinatra as
an anti-social, second-rate Tin
Pan Alley music-arranger who
beats a handsome and successful
composer to the hand of
vivacious Doris Day and then
spends the next hour moaning
about himself as a failure. Then
■he survives another failure —
this time to bump himself off —
which caps the sentimentality
pervading the whole thing.
Some of the domestic touches
in a family of three daughters
are a slight compensation.


The Kukis
by Jack Lusby
Major houghton
wore a monocle, Lieu-
tenant Narokha Singh
Kohdi a black beard
and flawless turban, and Lieu-
tenant Kedjja a kukris.
The major was tall; slim, and
spoke in the few staccato phrases
allowed the Regular Army.
Narokha Singh was taller, heavy,
and spoke a throaty Punjabi-
Cambridge English. Kedjja the
Gurkha was squat, mongolian,
and spoke rarely..
Also to sail on the S.S.
Panthia were 2nd Lieutenant
Lightbody, four of Kedjja’s
Gurkhas, a dozen Australian
pilots and 1500 hurriedly-
recruited Rajputs. The Rajputs
were raw, gazelle-eyed and deer-
wild. They’d neither seen the
sea nor felt the throb of a ship.
We first saw their tufted turbans
on the steamy Bombay wharf.
They moved restlessly in the
glaring-white heat like a field
of dun-flowers.
Pallid and perspiring, behind
rupees stacked on a packing-
case, 2nd Lieutenant Lightbody
was paying the Rajputs. Near
by, in a Lascar babble and rattle
of winches, S.S. Panthia was
swinging stuff aboard. She lent
no beauty to the scene.
Three weeks earlier, down on
the steambath south-east coast
of Ceylon, we’d got one of those
crazy war-pressure signals;
“Are the Australians at BooSsa
bound to or from the Middle
East?”
“To,” we replied.
“Proceed overland to Bombay
and embark,” ended this
correspondence.
Train-70 miles to Colombo,
where a harassed R.A.F. pay-
master shook out the words
“Sorry, can’t give you anything.
Never heard of you. Daresay
reimbursement Bombay.”
Train all night through high
jungle villages. Ferry from
Ceylon’s arid north coast to
India. Train to Trincinopoli,
Madras, Gandhi jailed again.
His unpassive followers wreck-
ing trains and knocking off
passengers bearing any resem-
blance to H.M. officers. Try
and get you through on train
leaving tonight. Sorry, no ; no
money.
“Who’d like to be on a Bondi
tram?”
“Dengue, dysentery, dermo
and destitute!”
“Write a book — Broke to
Bombay.”
“Dumped on a death-train.”
“Mauled by the Mahatma! ”
Checks, wrecks, rioting and
dieting. Who’ll beg for a peg?
And at long last, weeks later,
rattling down from Poona to
Bombay. No reimbursement.
* <-EXCUSE me,” I said.
“We’re”
“Australians,” said 2nd Lieu-
tenant Lightbody.
“ broke,” I said.
“Got your paybooks?” asked
the pallid Samaritan. “Good.
Come back when I’ve paid these
sepoys and I’ll give you what’s
left.”
_ “In the meantime, will you
come with me?” asked Lieuten-
ant Narokha Singh Kohdi, loom-
ing in the shadow behind Light-
body. “We will go to the Taj
for a drink.”
“Aaaah! ” breathed Manton,
“Aaaacha hail”
In the Taj the cool tinkle of
ice and turning of fans. On the
way back a steaming downpour,
and in the streets a spate of
flying white dhotis and black
umbrellas. Lightbody; had
finished paying the Rajputs and
they were streaming aboard the
clanking Panthia.
“Can let you have three-
hundred rupees each,” said
Lightbody.
“You beaut!”
“Hell, I shouldn’t take that
much. Got to pay it back
sometime — 1 making biggish
allotment.”
“Don’t be a bloody mug—
we’ll probably go down in this
tub.”
“Where’s Manton?”
“Lost as usual.”
“By the look of this tub he’s
using his head for once. Any
convoy?”
“Most unlikely,” said Light-
body.
Manton was swung aboard in
a sling at the last moment, and
the Panthia creaked away from
the wharf into a sunshot haze
that pressed on the harbor like
a poultice. Sucking the stink
of India after her she began to
throb sullenly towards Egypt.
Manton fished something out
of his kit and silhouetted out
into the white glare of the deck.
Came straight back.
“What did you do —chuck
your pay book overboard?”
“No — The Rains Came. Book
all about glamorous India.”
Manton was a long, sandy,
dreamy - looking ex - jackeroo.
Unembarrassable and unpre-
dictable, with a streak of
genius for saying and doing the
wrong thing. But nobody found
fault with consigning The Rains
to the sea. Coming across India
we’d had only two books to
read — The Rains and Lower’s
Here’s Luck.
“Don’t chuck the other half
of the library over,” I said.
Major Houghton was o.c.
troops on the Panthia and he
called a quick conference in the
saloon. Monocled, immaculate,
fair-moustached, forty, he
flicked a frosty blue eye over
us Australians, Narokha
Singh, Lightbody, Kedjja the
Gurkha —and acknowledged all
present with a single quarter-
inch nod.
“This is a troopship,” he said.
“I’m in charge of troops.
Troops are 1500 raw Rajputs.
Untrained, undisciplined, never
been to sea, no conception of
sub.-attacks, air-attacks. Rush
shipment for training in Egypt.
Best of fighters later if we get
’em there.”
One slender, hand twisted the
monocle, then drummed deli-
cately on the table. “Essential
to teach them boat-drill and air-
raid drill with dispatch. I
must call on all you chaps to
help. Sub.-attack, as you know,
all hands up to the boats. Air-
attack, all below. Won’t be
easy. God help us if both
happen together. Scene for
Dante.”
He gave a sudden surprising
smile. “I know Indians rather
well. Been out here twenty
years. God help me if I go
back to England, matter of fact.
Funds cut off in a flash! ”
“What did you do?” asked
Manton, the irrepressibly
curious.
“So bloody long ago I seem
to have forgotten,” rapped the
major. “Probably asked some
damnfool question like yours! ”
The smile had gone as if hit
with a grenade.
“His English is very poor,
sir,” said Gannon. “He
probably didn’t understand you.
Gawd —anybody got an axe?”
“Names, please, now,” said
the major.
He jotted them down, snap-
ping a glance at each of us.
“Subidar Kedjja’s Gurkhas
will police practice-drill and in
emergency will kill if necessary
to prevent panic and riot.
Narokha Singh will have a
roving brief and assist wherever
required. The Australian party
will drive the troops to alarm-
stations as forcefully as possible
and check all water-bottles and
life-belts. Lifebelt loose, upper-
cut him with it. Break his
neck, loose, if he jumped over-
board. ■ J Water-bottle empty
smack him on the face with it.
Above all, make ’em jump to
it l”
Major Houghton produced a
small cigar and lit it carefully.
Narokha Singh yawned mightily
and turned his dark eyes to a
porthole. Kedjja squatted
stolidly in front of me on a
reversed chair, sheathed kukris
hanging dead-centre from the
back of his polished belt.
The major was so theatrically
like the tall, clipped-spoken,
monocled major of fiction the
whole sudden situation seemed
unreal.
“We’ll meet subs before air-
craft,” the major went on. “So
sub.-drill first. The Rajputs are
in the holds and they’ll be quite
seasick. Beating ’em up to
boat-stations yqu’ll walk hock-
deep in it. Seasickness no excuse
for any Indian missing boat-
drill. Oh, and work out a
roster among you for sub.-watch
on the bridge. That’s all, chaps.
I’d like a peg with you later.”
in the pitch-sizzling glare
of the deck Manton was
under attack.
“Well, it was a bloody funny
thing for him to say,” Manton
defended. “And what the hell
did he do?”
Narokha Singh turned from
gazing at the zigzag wake jink-
ing back into the haze shrouding
India. A big man. Beneath the
upswept khaki turban heavy,
arched eyebrows met over a
large Semitic nose. Rogue eyes
and snowy slash of teeth in the
black mat of his beard.
“What we must do, my
friends,” he said, “is look at our
Rajputs.”
They were stacked in layers
round hastily-erected galleries
from top to bottom of the two
holds. Each Australian was
allotted a group, and my mob
was quartered in the basement of
the for’ard residential. A man
wearing a havildar’s three stripes
leaped to attention and answered
Narokha Singh’s brief speech in
rapid Hindustani. Then he
addressed the tight-packed
clutter of sepoys, who turned
their tufted turbans and decep-
tively soft eyes towards the Aus-
tralians grouped in the hot pit
of the hold.
The soft eyes widened in
smoky-white gleams of distrust
at the stolid, felt-hatted knot of
Gurkhas. Awareness of (he
relentless Gurkha knife slashed
into tiers of queasy bewilder-
ment in the lava-hot, throbbing
bowels of the jahaj.
“I have told them their lives
depend on instant obedience,”
said Narokha Singh. “Enough
for the first lesson. Later they
will understand. We may now
have a peg. Eh?”
“Acha hail” from Manton.
“How d’you like his ricksha-
boy accent, Narokha?”
“He says it with enthusiasm.
He must have tipped them well
to learn it like that.”
“One day we’ll tip you,
Manton. Overboard.”
“Aw, leave him alone. Too
much bloody overboard talk on
this ship!”
We stepped round strewn
deck-chairs on the shaded upper-
deck and into the saloon. Fans
stirred the steamy air and the
Eurasian chief-steward leaned
listlessly on the top octave of a
yellow-fanged piano. He wore
a mahogany-creased expression
of imperishable gloom.
“Beer all round, Chiefie,”
said Manton.
“For me, whisky and ice,”
burred Narokha Singh.
“For me, water — baraf pani,”
said Kedjja, surprisingly. He
hadn’t till then given the impres-
sion that; Gurkhas indulged in
any kind of speech, so his
English was surprising.
“That kukris of yours, Kedjja,
I’ve never seen one,” said Mac-
Dougall, with his big Fiji-
conditioned grin. “Can I have
a look at it?”
“Yes,” said Kedjja. He
whipped a brown hand behind
his back and the fearsome blade
leapt into his fingers. He
handed it gently to MacDougall,
who ran a thumb gingerly along
the curved edge.
“Hell, it’s sharp—you could
shave with it!”
We all handled the kukris.
The feel of it made your spine
tingle.
“Have you used it?” Manton
asked.
“Yes. In Malaya. Some
Japs.”
“Cripes! What happened?”
“Twenty of us walked into a
tommy-gun ambush. They said
‘Drop your rifles. Come forward
with your hands up.’ Then
they came out of hiding. It
was about the same number
of Japs. They stood in front
of us pointing the tommy-guns
and one man kicked the rifles
into a heap. Then they came
right up to us and started to
feel our shirt-pockets for
cigarettes and money. They
said ‘Hold your left hands out’
to take our watches. Then I
think they were going to shoot
us. They were very silly.
Suddenly we all at the one time
had the kukris in our right
hands. They had forgotten the
kukris behind us in the middle
of our backs. The man I hit,
his head jumped that high!”
Kedjja whipped his hand a foot
above his own brown head.
The little tale tightened our
stomachs. Gannon handed
CHINAMAN’S FINGERNAILS
To have worn some distinction that, severed
From body and soul, is distinguished still as belonging
As sea-weed to triton, as fingernails to a Chinaman,
Is some power of achievement. So 1 gathered
The shells, the long ones only, belonging
To Chinamen; though 1 could not question a Chinaman,
All seeming, here, long past dead; and just their nails
Like coffins of porcelain lying in sets on the beach.
And though these were true shells, what likenesses! what
libel,
To have called them Englishmen s nails, when pigtails,
A pair of chopsticks, were not needed to teach
Their discoverer their name. Even on Babel
They would have had their portrayal, the same in all
speech
Spoken, had a beachcomber peddled them there from this
far beach.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


Ah
•m&M
Gillette
w/sf/.'M
i
i
r i
Y/S/ft/fi
5*
I
v//Asyys
m
m
QfJ/CK-FEED
DISPENSER
Qf/f&C-mOK
RAZOR
Here you have the perfect team! Twist . * . and
the quick-action Gillette Razor opens to accept a
new blade from the quick-feed Dispenser. Twist
. . . and the Blue Gillette Blade is ready to give
you the fastest, smoothest shave ever! Start
Superspeed Shaving to-day with the world’s finest
shaving system.
ESI
KA&A
Quick-feed Dispenser
with container at back
for used blades.
Al *ays buy
Bluc OIUETTt hhies
m a Dispenser
Era****
! —-Hi,.?
Quick-action Razors in
Gillette Sets from 9/6
START GILLETTE
Y/S.
SHAVING TO-DAY!
back the kukris. “Did you kill
all of ’em?” he asked.
“Yes.” Kedjja touched the
blade to the back of his wrist
and a ruby spot of bjood
appeared. Then he sheathed the
kukris,
“What’s that for?” said
Manton.
“We believe that when we
draw the kukris it must draw
blood.”
“What? Even in fun?”
“Fun?” Kedjja seemed at a
loss. “With our kukris it is
never in fun”
“You have seen a religious
gesture,” came the deep voice of
Narokha Singh. It seemed to
rumble in under the thin
Oriental tones of the Gurkha.
“The knife is the Gurkha’s God.
We Sikhs have a mellower
faith.”
“In what?” I asked.
“In good whisky,” said the
Sikh. He hurled his glass into
the twirling fan and brittle
fragments showered the saloon.
The chief-steward made a hand-
wringing entrance.
“Something stronger than
that!” ordered Narokha Singh
with a harsh crack of anger in
his voice. Then, “He is a thief
like all chief-stewards. But also
he waters the whisky!”
The unhappy adulterator
returned.
“I will break all your glasses,”
said the Sikh, “and smash your
piano if necessary!”
“Please, please, sir,” wailed
the steward.
A SOFT Indian gong throbbed
in the air, and we went to
a rather belated meal. S.S.
Panthia was still getting
organised.
Major Houghton made no
appearance, the sallow-pale
Lightbody picked dispiritedly at
his curry. He looked ill.
“All you chaps know the drill
now, of course?” he asked.
“Actually we’re damn’ glad to
have you. Unexpected. Can’t
help feeling a bit chilly about
this trip.”
“Anything out -of - the - way
grim about it?”
“Oh —it’s simply that Hough-
ton and I have done the thing
seven times now, different tubs.
Always been some little thing in
our favor. Faster ship, better
armament, escort or convoy,
experienced troops, subs and
aircraft occupied elsewhere, that
sort of thing. We’ll have to be
on our toes. Ship, the Amritsar ■
Star, wirelessed torpedoed and
sinking today near Aden.
Indifferent augury. Picnic-
ground for subs there, shipping-
routes converge sort of thing.”
“Funny thing Houghton said
this morning,” said Manton.
“Oh” Lightbody actually
laughed. “You’ll find he’s quite
eccentric.”
Half-an-hour later most of us
were stretched stripped under
cabin fans when the long
whistle-blast went for boat-
stations. I grabbed clothes,
water-bottle and gasmask-bag
(now stuffed with more appro-
priate odds and ends), gulped a
bellyful of water from a
decanter, bolted out along the
deck and joined the other blokes
in a sort of fireman’s ladder-slide
into the babbling chaos of the
hold. We’d been on another
ship not much safer than the
Panthia in its present situation
and had learned to take these
exercises seriously.
Manton was shrieking his
special Hindustani Jao! On the
jao! and pointing aloft and
tearing about like a sheepdog.
After £ lot of shoulder-smacking
and shoving I got all my own
charges heading upwards except
the havildar and one who lay
inert rolled in a dhoti.
“He is too sick, sahib,” said
the havildar.
“Sick!” I said. “He looks
dead! ” I prodded with my foot.
No response.
“ThrowVhim in the sea!”
Narokha Singh roared fero-
ciously at the havildar.
“Ek dum, Subidar?”
“Ek dum!”
The corpse leaped to its feet
and, dhoti flying, went up out
of the hold like a white bird.
Though the Panthia was
ploughing over a long, flat
swell many men had already
been sick and it was a relief to
leave the hold’s simmering stink
for the swarming confusion
above.
A good many Rajputs, in the
belief that they were required to
seek the highest parts of the
ship, were acrobatically festoon-
ing the remoter regions far
above, and Gurkhas were bark-
ing at them fiercely. It took
some time for comparative calm
to settle at the outslung boats.
In charge of mine was the
second-mate.
“She’d have gone to the
bottom five minutes ago,” he
said resignedly. “What a
bloody mess.” He’d been sunk
three times. Habitual survivor.
His boat suited me. It was
slung out abreast of the saloon,
lascars standing at bow and stern
in position to lower away, or to
cut her loose. Also in the boat
was a remarkable stock of
brandy. Boat-drill over, the
chief-steward carried the bottles
back into the saloon. It took
him four trips.
“He gets it into the boat like
a streak of greased-lightning,”
said the second-mate. “I’ve had
him in training for weeks. It
keeps you going just that bit
extra that can make the differ-
ence. Did, last time I copped
it!”
“I’d like to see what’s in the
big Sikh’s boat,” said somebody.
“He’ll scoot to shore on 100-
octane whisky! ”
“Brandy’s best,” said the
second-mate.
“Brandy for heroes,” quoted
2nd Lieutenant Lightbody.
“This trip I don’t qualify.”
“All survivors are heroes.
Don’t you know that?” said the
second-mate.
He was a free-and-easy mix-
ture of bird-alertness and casual
efficiency. Direct in speech and
off-hand in manner. I liked
him because he talked survival;
not sinking. A man to stick
with.
THAT evening we sat in the
shuttered saloon, feeling the
dull throb of the engines and
the sluggish list of the ship as
she changed tack every few
minutes.
Johnston, who’d joined' the
Air Force from a nightclub, was
quietly extracting some catchy
stuff from the aged molars of
the piano. Narokha Singh sat
near him, leaning forward like
an interested bear and watching
Johnston’s hands intently, as
though looking for the trick in
a conjuring-act.
The major strode in briskly
with a document of some sort,
and the light caught his monocle
as he embraced the saloon in
that quarter-inch nod and brief
white flash of teeth. He sat
with Lightbody and signalled
the steward.
Johnston always finished play-
ing so unobtrusively you were
hardly aware the music had
stopped. On this night there
suddenly came some remark-
able sounds from the piano and
even the letter-writers looked up
from their heart-pourings.
Narokha Singh had taken
Johnston’s place and was heavily
resting banana-sized fingers here
and there on the keyboard in an
effort to conjure a tune. In
another second his expression
of sixteen-stone concentration
would have brought the house
down; but . . .
"stopr
It was a shrill screech with
the whip-crack of hysteria.
Major Houghton was on his
feet, mouth working, staring
balefully at Narokha Singh, who
had swivelled on the stool. The
major’s expression was incon-
gruously childish. The monocle
had gone. Without another
word he jerked into movement,
as though someone had pressed
a starter-button, and raced from
the saloon. As he went, the
guest-pianist gave a great shrug
and leaned back, elbows on key-
board. A ghoulish discord
rolled in the wake of the major.
In the brief silence that
followed, Lightbody stooped
forward and picked some
trampled splinters of glass from
rampiea spnmeis g
“I shouldn’t worry too much,
chaps,” he, said. X The major
has spares.”
There was a hubbub of con-
j ec ture. Lightbody drooped
under Manton’s forceful interro-
gat ion. The only unshaken
occupant of the saloon seemed
to be Kedjja. He sat back m a
cane chair, stubby brown fingers
presse d together, staring inscrut-
ably into the twirling disk of a
as if seeking some revelation
there.
“Give Lightbody a break,
Manton—he’s with the major
a// the time!” j
There was a muttered
“p ro b a bly both round the
bend! ”
“ Xhe smoke in here’d cure a
pig! ” said MacDougall. “Any-
olle coming out for air?”
y T was a botj velvety night.
1 pitch-black deck, black sky,
and leaning 0 n the invisible rail
we i oo k e d down at the phos-
pbores cent lace widening as it
slid pas t on the dark water.
“ Arab i an Night.”
“Yeah. We’ll probably wind
up in the hundred-and-second
story - fifteen-hundred bloody
Indians and one mad major!”
, •‘Well, to hell with the lot of
em I m turning-m.
The ship’s white track curled,
jewel-shot, back into the face of
the rising sun. Down on their
decks the Indians squatted oyer
their cooking or stood spinning
on their feet as companions
guided the winding turbans.
Some of our blokes, having
caught the habit, were hiking
round .the deck in the im-
memorial fashion as though
hypnotised and sent on an
urgent but endless errand
Lightbody paused for breath
where Gannon and I were
draped languidly on the rhil as
a Catalina appeared, droning
low over the sea on a beeline
from nowhere to nowhere.
“Fishing for subs,” said Light-
body w j tb approval.
“With us for burly,” said
Gannon. '
The Cats were a cheering
s i gb t from a troopship. They
had a habit of appearing
albatross-fashion vast distances
from land, and added consider-
ably to ulcers in enemy subs,
Gannon had done a sub.-
watch.' “What’s that machine-
gun up behind the bridge?” he
•**£«£* dy
“Break it do™? 1 read
it down 1 read
ab °gMkem a
or not ’ 11
wotcnKiss
g
stern, T said, is it up to
sc * 1 T Ammosus-
pec^ BHoughton 8 Houghton says
P a nv crew-aunners seen
f™ nexS Seen
<^y as be ser i oU s?”
„ with Houghton* j never
know ” said Lightbody. Several
* wefe lis t en ing now,
about wa i t i ng f or
break f ast
“He’s miahtv keen on shooting
® J,» said Manton
Gurkhas ’will kill if neces-
t nrevent panic blah-
blah—would these Gurkhas do
tbat7 »
“Without hesitation ” said
r - btbodv
“So would I ” Narokha Singh
£ rom a cr eaking deck-chair,
( Continued on next page )


“Yes, so would you,” said
Lightbody.
“Next time you play the
piano, Paderewski,” said
Gannon, “you’d better have
Kedjja there for protection! ”
Narokha was saved from
reply by the muffled beat of the
breakfast-gong. But he stared
at Gannon strangely for a
moment.
That morning there was boat-
drill, without much improve-
ment. The sea had risen and
with the constant twisting of
the Panthia on her tortuous
course produced a gut-gripping
increase of vomiting in the
holds. With Narokha Singh’s
help I told my havildar if he
didn’t have the mess cleaned as
fast as it occurred I’d have him
eat it. Narokha had a happy
knack of making these threats
ring like prophecies of doom.
Beating my mob up in the after-
noon scramble the air below
seemed a degree more
breathable.
We’d just hounded all hands
up to boat-stations this time
when the air-attack whistle
sounded, and we had to stam-
pede them back into the holds.
The Indians were convinced we
were mad.
A S the days zigzagged
sleazily astern the tension
mounted. The deck - pacers
paced at a rising tempo.
On sub.-watch up in the wing
of the bridge you saw the ship’s
officer on duty pacing panther-
like port-to-starboard squinting
at every ruffle on the surface of
the sea and from time to time
twitching his head skywards.
Conditioned reflexes. You felt
glad you hadn’t gone through
the conditioning.
“Concentrate thousand yards
for’ard quarter,” he snapped at
you. “Look for a steady ripple.
Periscope.” Your mate was
hunched over the other wing of
the bridge staring likewise.
The second-mate was on the
bridge. The survival expert.
He paused in his port-to-
starboard pounding and apropos
nothing in particular began to
talk.
“Ship I was on crossing the At-
lantic we had Air Force aboard
doing sub.-watch like you blokes.
Had cargo of green paint for
English camouflage.' Had
Oerlikon cannon aft of the
bridge. Bloke from Cobar,
Australia, called Smith, Air Force
character, doing sub.-watch
when the sub. three-quarter-line
got set to tackle. You’ve seen
Cobar?”
“Yes, five-hundred miles
north-west of Sydney. You
can’t miss it next time the
Panthia goes up the Darling.
You’ll pick her a hundred mile
east by the red dust.”
“Off the main shipping-routes,
obviously. This Smith kidded
the skipper into busting the
green-paint-drums and pouring
it over the stern. When the sub.
marking our tub rose to the
surface the green paint covered
the periscope and the sub.
thought she was still under-
water. So she kept on going
up. Our ack-ack Oerlikon shot
her down from an altitude of
eight-hundred feet.” Victory
for the merchant-marine.
I’d been following with
interest.
I believe the second-mate
thought of sinkings in terms of
subsequent special shore-leave
for survivors.
Major Houghton
TT sounded the first night-
alarm the long blast speared the
smooth, smoky, piano-ruffled
silence in the saloon.
Narokha Singh was again
watching Johnston at the worn
instrument. Johnston’s smooth
dexterity fascinated the burly
and otherwise sophisticated Sikh.
Childlike, he seemed to think
the music came from the fingers.
But “Below and bring them
up ! ” he roared on the first
harsh intrusion of the whistle.
v
“Where is your MacDougall?
This might not be practice.”
“Top bunk, cabin, asleep.”
I followed Narokha, because
it was my cabin, to grab my
ditching-gear. He snatched
MacDougall off the top bunk by
an ankle and cracked him
conscious like a whip. Heroic-
sized awareness fired the Sikh,
But it was a practice-alarm. We
raced along the now-known
darkness of the deck and down
the companionway, dropping
like ticks to the well-deck, and
ladder-slid into the warren of
waking Rajputs.
You could feel hot, dark
resentment of this shock-
disturbance down in the throb-
bing belly of the Panthia.
Slapping sooty bodies into
wakefulness you felt a claustro-
phobic fear. Any one of them
could let you have it in the
dark. Easy to imagine copping
a swift knife, or being expertly
throttled, in the black confusion
of the swarming pit.
The vomit - stinking air
vibrated with foetid curses in
hurried Hindustani. After one
“ Wouldn't you think they'd ringbark 'em?"
effective smack India’s vilest
insult was spat at me safely in
the dark.
H was cheering to hear
Manton screaming “Jao! Ontha
J ao ! ” and slapping madly some-
where near by. Seven minutes
after the alarm the fifteen-
hundred were qt boat-stations.
Not bad, I thought, for the
first night-drill, but . . .
“Hit slap in the guts ; she’ll
sink in a minute-and-a-half,”
said the second-mate. Still, he
was a constructive pessimist—
this time it took the chief-
steward five trips to return the
brandy to the saloon.
The saloon seemed the centre
of sanity—normal seagoing in
reverse. Our Rajputs stowed
below, this night we sat there
ordering bahut sarob from the
sad steward.
“In this neck of the Panthia’s
woods,” said Stocky Gannon of
the red hair, “you can kid your-
self you’re having a quick one
at the Australia before meeting
tbe I^°I > at Usher’s and jumping
a taxi out to Randwick.”
«r Raadwi< ; k? sa id Manton,
Last time I was there I put the
C J p °5 the first inmr and
d °S? ed ?P.
N arok ha, said Gannon,
a ui b^n^i y ’ le§:ged bush-
whacker Mah-blah blatherskite,
P e cou I answ er an examina-
questlo“ abou t the difference
be lV ee ? ™ ul f a and a Merino!”
, 1 dont know y° ur native
J anguage ” said N a rokha Singh,
J , sense y ou s P eak of m y
friend Manton with affection.”
“God forbid!” said Gannon.
“Manton gets my affection post-
humously the day an M.E. 109
sticks him in the Sahara like a
dart! ”
Kedjja’s interruption was
strangely animated for a Gurkha.
“You joke? You would be
glad when your brother-
countryman is killed?”
“One of the many attractive
defects in the Australian
character, Kedjja, is that we can
safely abuse our friends. We
can even call them bastards!”
Gannon was a handy mixer in
this cosmopolitan saloon.
“I think I understand. But I
hate one man of your race,” said
Kedjja.
“What? Got your claws into
aq Aussie?” said Manton.
“An Englishman,” said Kedjja.
“Bah! A Gurkha hates every-
one! A certain amount of not-
drinking is going on!” roared
Narokha Singh, pounding a ham-
sized fist on a table. Even the
imperturbable Sikh w&s showing
nerves. “Bara-peg-baraf-pani! ”
he rumbled at the chief-steward.
“And beer for my friends!”
“How much do you hate this
pongo?” said Manton. “Would
you gut him with your kukris?”
“Yes,” said Kedjja.
“What did he do?” said Man-
ton. “Your missus?”
“ ‘What-did-he-do! What-did-
he-do!’ You sound like a bird,”
said Narokha Singh. “You
asked that about” .
“Steady, he’s just come in,”
I said.
Lightbody followed him in.
»A S the ship lurched on her
hopeless zigzag course the
major announced:
“As you know, chaps, ships
break radio-silence only when
attacked. We are two days out
of Aden. The Hindustan, one
day ahead of the Panthia, is hit
and sinking. The Kulbeera, one
day astern, has radioed ‘Being
attacked.’ All troops must be
brought immediately to boat-
stations and kept there, lifebelts
tight and pani-bottles f «U. nigh,
and day— its only two days,
chaps.”
“And so, when the ship went
down, what did he do?” Gannon
muttered at Manton.
“Played his ukulele,” said
MacDougall.
We herded the long-suffering
Rajputs up again, and they
squatted there, jam-packed on
deck till dawn. Murmurs of
restive doubt ran through them,
They were fifteen-hundred dark
cells in one uneasy mind. They
had no conception of the thing
they feared and waited for.
“Will the jahaj go down today,
sahib?” a voice close in the dark.
“Who’s that?”
“Havildar, sahib.”
“No one knows. Be ready.”
A soft hand rested quickly on
my arm in the dark.
“Sahibs now,” came from
MacDougall. “In Egypt effendis.
By God I hope I become an
effendi! ” He began humming
Fiji’s Isa Lei. . . .
“Keep it up, son,” said Man-
ton. “Sing around the bloody
cattle.”
“It’s a melancholy measure,
Mac,” said Gannon. “Don’t they
have brighter tunes where you
come from?”
“Try this for size,” said Mac-
Dougall. “O i lei Suzi, Suzi
O i lei Suzi”
This was a brisk ditty, and I
saw the dim flash of grins among
the nearest Rajputs. The Pan-
thia was zigzagging with the
dawn on her wake.
T IGHTBODY was picking his
- L ' way through the herded
Indians.
“Don’t see how we can miss
it,” he said. “In a way, good to
think at last it’s over.”
“Good to think about the old
second-mate here,” I said.
“Piece o’ cake,” said the second-
mate. “Last ditching was twenty
days off-shore.”
‘ “Incidentally,” Johnston called
from along the deck a biti
“there’s company! Ship with us
on the starboard side * Must have
caught up in the night.”
I went to starboard and had a
look. A comforting sight the
other ship. And she was stay-
ing with us Zigzagging in
unison. About a six-thousand-
tonner like the Panthia And
about ’ as handsome. Dirty grey
hull and grey clutter of derricks,
rafts and outslung boats. As the
ri m 0 f the rising sun warmed her
stem a signal-lamp flickered on
her bridge,
tbe „ a i oon : mt nff thp rrn wdprl
declc Throimh the nnen Annr.
wav ' on e j t her side fife tufted
turbans turned restlesslv as the
R a f ni f t ! and wSrhe? the
sea P The whit k t • t d
* v a<ltprn „ nd p nnf h, a v
o ur feet.
Narokha Singh had a stiff
whisky-peg beside him. His
elevated mood was punctuated
with brief periods of glum
silence. A mercurial giant. Both
he and Kedjja seemed corn-
pletely anglicised in the matter
of food. As usual, no sign of the
major. He was rarely seen in
the saloon now. Lightbody
brushed away his breakfast and
got a drink. It wasn’t much of a
breakfast, anyway,
“I’ve never seen you looking
paler,” Manton said to him.
“Should get out in the sun a bit
more. Do a bit of swimming.”
“Yes, splendid opportunity,
All facilities,” Lightbody said
in a brittle voice.
That’s right,” said Manton
cheerfully. “Make the most of
it.”
“Gawd, Manton, don’t talk
with y’r mouth full!”
“You’re next to him, Kedjja
—stick your kukris in him!”
Kedjja jerked his bullet head
up and gazed about the table as
if caught day-dreaming.
It’s all right, chaps,” said
Lightbody. “Don’t mind me.
Had this bloody trip, that’s all.”
He got another drink.
“Major playing up again?”
somebody asked.
“Funny thing you said that.
He is, rather. I can’t quite make
him out. He’s always a bit
edgy, of course. High-strung
bloke. Eccentric. But this trip
something extra’s got into him.”
“Perhaps he just hasn’t
recovered from seeing Narokha
hammering the piano.”
“A slight coincidence there,
actually, that’s all.” Lightbody
tossed-off his drink and lit a
smoke.
“Well, what the hell’s got into
him?” asked Manton. “What’s
he do that’s funny?”
“Oh —cuts off important con-
fabs. in the middle and sits star-
ing into space. Unlike him.
When you get up to buzz-off
and leave the blighter to it, he
says ‘No, don’t go!’ as if you
were leaving him in a lions’ den.
Acts like a bloke seeing things.
Gives me the heebies, rather.
But you get a bit jumpy, these
trips.”
“You’re dead right!” said
Gannon. “Up on sub.-watch
yesterday saw two periscopes
that weren’t there.”
“Never mind. Better luck
next time!” Narokha’s big grin
flashed in his beard. He stood,
stroking this dark growth affec-
tionately and looking at the
piano.
“Now, don’t start leaning your
big fingers on it,” MacDougall
said. “We want a bit of it for
Johnno!”
“Some time Johnston must
teach me.”
“Nice bloody time to 'think
about music-lessons,” said Gan-
non as he stepped out on deck.
We leaned on the rail and I
squinted against the harsh light
reflected, from the passing water.
A few notes, clumsily solemn,
rolled from the saloon.
“He’s improving,” Johnston
acknowledged. “A nice death-
rattle dead-march jangle about
it.”
“It almost sounds like some-
thing,” I said.
“Jeez —a plane! ” somebody
shouted.
“0.K., ours —it’s a Blen-
heim ! ”
It seemed to come from
nowhere, curled low round the
two ships, and was gone.
“They can’t hang around long.
Don’t carry the gas.”
“Yeah, with Blenheims it’s
home James, quick-smart, or the
ditch.”
“Where’d he be from?”
“Aden, I suppose. Half his
luck.”
A ship’s officer I hadn’t seen
before had burst up on deck at
the roar of the plane. A fat,
red-faced, balding fellow. He
turned now from the rail wiping
his face with a large handker-
chief and went below shaking
his head and muttering to him-
self.
T PICKED my way round the
-*■ deck and had a look at my
own mob of Indians; then came
back and stepped into the
saloon. Only Lightbody was
there, doing a bit of office-work.
I sat down and talked to him
for a while about the ship and,
inevitably, the major. Like
Manton we were all a bit curious.
“He often drops you little bits
about himself, then shuts up like
a clam,” Lightbody said. “Nice
as pie at times, but you can
infuriate him in the wink of an
eye, and you never quite know
how it came about. Awkward
to work with.”
“Did he start his soldiering in
India?”
“Yes, after Sandhurst. Had a
sticky time at some little post
up on the Frontier. Cut off, no
o Continued on page 24)


A Further Stage of a
Great Project Completed
THE photographs on this page illustrate some phases of the
Australian steel industry’s tremendous development,
consequent upon the decision to establish a hot strip mill
at Port Kembla.
Some features of the expansion project already completed
at Port Kembla are the complete reorganisation and full
mechanisation of three collieries and opening of a new colheiy;
the erection of a battery of 72 by-product coke ovens; the
installation of a third blast furnace and construction of a hot
roughing and plate finishing mill and a wide continuous hot
strip mill.
The hot strip mill will enable Australia’s secondary industries
to speed the mass production of innumerable products such as
car, refrigerator and washing-machine bodies.
A section of the new hot strip mill at Kembla Works showing the horizontal
scale breaker and broadside mill, with slab being lifted and turned before
broadsiding.
Surface buildings at A.I.S. Nebo Colliery on the southern coalfields,
where £7,000,000 has been spent on development since the war.
The s.s. “Iron Yampi” at Yampi Sound ore-loading jetty, W.A.
These ships transport ironstone produced there to the steel works
on the eastern coast.
No. 3 blast furnace is the newest and largest of the
three furnaces at the Port Kembla Works of
Australian Iron & Steel Ltd.
Steel plate emerging from the exit side of the reversing
roughing mill after being reduced to the final thickness
required. From here it is transferred to the plate finishing
department.
Ironstone crushing plant at Cockatoo Island, Yampi Sound,
W.A., which produces portion of Port Kembia’s ironstone
requirements. Initial workings on the ore face can be seen
at top right.


NOW OPEN
AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
4i% 12 months
4% . s. . 9 months
3|%. ..i . 6 months
3J% 3 months
LONG TERM
Interest (per annum) Currency
10 & 15 years
6%.... 4 to 9 years
3 years
5% 2 years
Interest payable quarterly free of exchange
Assets exceed £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES,
All Branches of the
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.,
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA WESTERN AUSTRALIA TASMANIA
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Stock mentioned herein.
lAC-C
relief, that sort of thing. Believe
when help eventually did come
only three officers left; Hough-
ton and two Indian chappies,
They had no food or water —all
three practically babbling idiots.
At least, I gather from the
major’s mention of the show
that he has very little coherent
recollection of it. The final
stages. Remembers mainly one
of the other chaps endlessly
playing three chords over and
over on a piano—first three
chords of Rachmaninoff’s Pre-
lude, all the chappie knew ap-
parently. The major says he
threatened to shoot the Indian
officers for refusing to carry
out orders, but doesn’t remember
doing any more about it.”
“God, what a nice party!
Did he shoot them?”
“Well, the whisper in India is,
when they were rescued the
Indians were both pretty seri-
ously wounded. One shot and
the other with a deep knife-
wound. But the odd comment
you hear in India is pretty vague
and open to exaggeration. Hap-
pened a goodish time ago.
Twelve or fifteen years.”
“Still, it’s got a ring of truth.
Any more to it?”
“Oh, there seems to have been
quite a fuss at the time. Hell of
a lot of men lost in the show.
Supposedly Houghton’s fault.
Indian officers in their defence
said the only orders they refused
were given after Houghton went
out of his mind. Said he tried
to kill them in their sleep.
Houghton’s father was a big
bug in the Army at home;
rather hushed the thing up.
Houghton’s account more or less
accepted. Other two fellows not
actually booted out —shred of
doubt—but reduced and dis-
graced.” Lightbody pressed a
buzzer. “A drink?”
“Good idea. Eight-bells, and
all’s still well! ” Other people
were drifting into the saloon.
Gannon trotted in wiping his
face, shaking his head and
muttering in the manner of the
fat, red-faced ship’s officer, and
raised a laugh.
“Well, I know what Houghton
did," I told Manton when he
appeared. “What’s it worth?”
“Biggest pot o’ beer in the
house!” he said, and hitched a
chair up. “Let’s have it!”
Made a blue in the Army,
blamed his Indian cobbers after
beating ’em up, all while of un-
sound mind. Big-bug poppa got
him out of it; but told him
‘Never set foot on this fair Eng-
land any more or I’ll cut you
off without a shilling, you
damned young scoundrel! ’ ”
“Well, I’ll be damned. Is that
all?”
“You might like to know —we
now have a corvette with us,”
came a voice, sharp-cut as the
rattle of morse, from a ramrod
silhouette in the saloon doorway.
The white glare behind came
through the flare and drape of
his bush-jacket and slacks, and
lit the sides of the narrow head,
giving him an X-ray thinness.
Again the flash of monocle as his
quick glance swept the room.
Again the quarter-inch nod, and
he was gone.
“What was that—-the Flying
Dutchman?”
“Certainly acts like a bloke
who sees ‘No-parking’ signs
everywhere.”
“Or ghosts,” laughed Narokha
Singh.
“Thank God for the corvette,
anyway! It’s no ghost! ”
We all went out on deck and
had a look. There she was,
curving on the glassy sea like a
diamond-cutter. A belligerent
splinter of protection. Lunch
seemed more palatable.
'THE big Sikh was in exuberant
mood. He grabbed the squat
Gurkha, swung him aloft and
sat him forcefully on top of the
piano.
“See?” roared Narokha Singh.
He is my doll! He opens his
mouth and shuts it! He talks!
He is silent!”
“He’s bloody silent all right.
You must be pulling the wrong
string.”
Narokha leaned over the back
of the piano and peered comi-
cally at Kedjja’s face. Then gave
a large, apologetic shrug and
swung the little man back to the
floor.
“It is not his day,” he said.
Kedjja grinned faintly, shook
himself like a ruffled terrier, and
walked across the saloon to-
wards his chair.
“Ha!” A great jungle-grunt
from behind him. Kedjja twirled
in a flash. Narokha leapt like
a lion, teeth bared white in the
black beard, broad flash of
Kedjja’s own kukris in his hand.
He fell upon the spread-legged
Gurkha, enveloping him with a
massive arm. Then they were
apart. The kukris had disap-
peared.
Kedjja crouched stunned for
a moment, then reached behind
his back, found and unsheathed
the kukris. Forehead puckered,
he stared intently at the blade,
turned it over. Narokha Singh
sat heavily in a chair and bel-
lowed with laughter. Td us, like
Kedjja, the frightening sleight-
of-hand seemed magic.
“The rules have been observed,
Kedjja. See this gaping scratch
in my little finger!” Still laugh-
ing, Narokha rose and patted
Kedjja affectionately on the
back. Everybody relaxed and
laughed. Relieved laugher.
Only Kedjja’s grin was per-
plexed. It was 'just a grin any-
way.
The red blaze of the sinking
sun swept erratically from port,
to starboard ahead of the Pan-
thia and her companion as they
zigzagged into the late after-
noon. The faces of the Raj-
puts shone like burnished copper
in the khaki uniforms crowded
on the deck. The corvette was a
fiery streak of wake, hunting far
out on our flank.
I was a' good way aft on the
deck, checking the Indians’
water-bottles and lifebelts.
Near by Kedjja was at his usual
pbst at the head of the com-
panionway leading down off the
deck to the after-hold. I finished
my check and leaned against the
saloon entrance, watching
Narokha coming aft along the
deck towards me. He pointed
saloonwards as he came and
wiped his mouth.
I’d just waved in agreement
when a burst of shouting came
from the stern. A§ I turned,
Kedjja spun and crouched,
staring down. him was
violent activity around the stern-
gun.
XfEDJJA turned and shouted
AV “Torpedo just passed
under stern!”
The sub.-alarm almost drowned
his words. The Rajputs sensed
something and sprang to their
feet, round-eyed and tense.
The other ship heaved in the
water and a blinding red flash
filled the sky. A shock-wave of
stunning sound crashed on our
ears.
The deck-load of Rajputs
stood transfixed and uncompre-
hending at boat-stations. We
were all shaken by the shatter-
ing of the near-by ship. The
smoke and steam enveloping the
boiling wreckage drifted astern
as the Panthia ploughed on in
the failing light. There came a
series of explosions, dull in our
deafened ears, and a glimpse of
the corvette cutting furiously
across our curving wake. The
fat, red-faced ship’s officer came
clattering down from somewhere
above, caricaturing his own
distress.
“Jesus—he must climb up the
mast!”
Brittle laughter. Kedjja stood
spread-legged and tense, guard-
ing his companionway. I heard
Narokha’s deep voice rolling in
soothing Hindustani over the
sardine-stacked Rajputs. The
second-mate materialised genie-
like beside our lifeboat. Lascars
leaped into its bow and stern
and poised, knives in hands,
ready to cut loose or lower-
away, their dark, taut-skinned,
moustached faces turned on the
second-mate.
“Come on, come on,” he said
to the streaming sea. “Let’s have
it!”
Then came the totally un-
expected, turning the Panthia
into a six-thousand-ton schizo-
phrenic—the high scream of a
falling bomb, the drone of a
plane, the terrier-defiant yap of
the Hotchkiss.
The ship shied sideways like
a startled horse and a high pillar
of white water from the near-
miss broke and fell on her like
tropic rain.
The second-mate leaped out
into the lifeboat and stared up,
twisting his head at the
marauder.
“Well, all I can tell you to cheer you up is that the
housing shortage outside is still bad”
“Bloody ‘88’! Where’d he
come from? He’ll strafe!” He
bounded back onto the deck.
“Bed jao!” he screamed at the
Rajputs. “Back from the rail!
Lie down!”
pEW obeyed. The Rajputs,
now at boat-stations under
sub.-attack, had been drilled to
race below under air-attack.
They bunched and surged aft
towards Kedjja’s companionway.
Major Houghton landed on the
deck and stood quivering like
an arrow.
“We’ll stay on top!” he
shrieked. ‘Sub.’s main danger.
No one leaves boat-station! ”
In the crescendo snarl of the
hurtling plane we screamed
“Stay put” at the bare-teethed,
babbling Rajputs. Kedjja barked
the major’s order to his nearest
Gurkhas, who barked it on. All
this in seconds. Kedjja crouched
at his post, kukris in one hand
and .38 in the other, like a
wicketkeeper, behind the tight-
faced, monocled major.
“Sub.’s not your main danger,”
Narokha Singh said to the major
as the turbaned giant lumbered
lithely past us. He stooped,
shouted something in Kedjja’s
ear, gave a great shrug and
strode into the saloon. The
major seemed not to have heard.
He stood rock-steady now, facing
the restive tide of Rajputs.
As the plane swept by the
ship the rear-gunner raked it
stem to stern. The Panthia’s
stern gun blasted one point-
blank round and the Hotchkiss
jammed in hysteria.
Before the smashing march of
the bullets the ■ Rajputs rushed
as if propelled by a giant broom.
A brovvn forearm crashed into
the major’s throat and he went
down. I drove my fist into one
brown, pop-eyed face, then
sprawled backwards on the deck.
The rush stopped. The plane’s
drone died high in the dusk. I
got to my feet.
Kedjja’s face was a bare-
fanged, red-gummed mask of
ferocity. There was no shine, on
the clenched kukris.
Before him two Rajputs lay
face-down in a smear of blood.
This- grim tableau shocked the
turbanned swarm into retreat.
The darkening air held no more
bullets. There was an eternal
quality in the. sudden, solid
silence.
Where the deck turned aft of
the saloon, I could see the
major’s inert, outstretched feet.
Kedjja’s head turned quickly
from the Indians. He seemed to
be looking down at the major,
more than half-hidden round
the turn in the deck. As Kedjja
sprang the bloody kukris twirled
in his hand. The major’s feet
were suddenly dragged from
sight.
I ran twenty yards and round
the turn in the deck. Kedjja
knelt beside the major, kukris
upraised, and on his upturned
face was a look of absolute
amazement. The major had
raised himself on his elbows and
his head was turned away from
the kukris towards the saloon.
They were both listening as if
hypnotised to the three great
chords thundering drum-like
from the piano.
Boom boom BOOM!
Boom boom BOOM!
The beginning of Rachman-
inoff’s Prelude.
and over. Accompanied,
w behind us, by the clatter of
boots on the deck as the Rajputs
went below. The music stopped
and Narokha Singh stood with
us, a grinning slash of white in
the blackness of his beard.
“You see?” he roared proudly.
“When no one was looking, I
remembered! ”
“You knew, of course,” said
the major, “that when no one
was looking, Kedjja would
remember.”
“Ah!” said the Sikh. “Like
you, I know Indians well. There
are only two ways to stop a
Gurkha. You must kill him, or
confuse him. I would not have
killed Kedjja for you.”
Another night was falling on
the Panthia as she turned and
twisted towards Aden. Stand-
ing now, Kedjja sheathed his
kukris. Slim beside the great
bulk of the Sikh, the major
fumbled for a moment in a
roomy pocket, then his eyebrow
rose and settled delicately on a
new monocle.
“The incident is closed,” he
said.


Who They Were: What They Did
The Men Who Wrote
The Bush Ballads
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
A POINT to remember
about the best of the bush
balladists is that they
knew the bush. They
knew it at first hand ; they lived,
or had lived, with what they
were writing about.
The pick of what they wrote
is now available to all in the
very finely compiled and beauti-
fully presented extensive antho-
logy which Douglas Stewart,
Nancy Keesing and Angus and
Robertson have between them
produced under the title Aus-
tralian Bush Ballads.
Hitherto anyone wanting to
track down most of these
ballads has had to spend days'
or weeks searching through old
files and otherwise unprocurable
books at the Mitchell Library
in Sydney. My own time spent
hunting some of them up for
Bulletin inquirers has often
spread over days.
For instance, a while back I
spent a very tedious time at the
Mitchell Library tracking down
Ted Keneally’s ballad about
shearers which begins: “ ‘Come
and have a drink at Allman’s,’
said a hard-faced lad from
Yass.” A few months earlier I
had given myself a headache
looking for a ballad, the last two
lines of which were:
A startled night-bird gave a scream
and flapped across his sight—
“ Matilda’s ghostt” he gasped, and
fled, a madman through the night.
The ballad, of course, was Jacy
Hill’s “The Swagman’s Farewell
to Matilda.” I also had difficulty
locating Walter Hegarty’s “The
Funeral.” All I was told was
that the corpse in the ballad was
named Scotty Wallace and that
the writer had known Henry
Lawson.
Dipping into the Stewart-
Keesing book I met several
othef- old friends who at one
time or another took some find-
ing at the Mitchell —such pieces
Illustration by A. J. Fischer of Thomas E. Spence r's "How
M’Dougal Topped the Score” from “The Bulletin Reciter."
as “Old Fossicker Jack” by
J. M. Marshe, “Tom Free-
man’s,” “An Idyll of Pipeclay
Ponds” and Dorham Doolette’s
“The Old Coolgardie Road.”
Doolette, a South Australian
who lived in Perth, and who
called himself “The Prodigal,”
was preparing for publication
his Desert Verses and Lovers’
Rhymes when he died in W.A.,
about 20 years ago.
Until the Stewart-Keesing
volume arrived my acquaintance
with ballads about bushrangers
was confined to such popular
favorites as “Banjo” Paterson’s
“How Gilbert Died,” Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s “Wolf and
Ho u n d,” Barcroft Boake’s
“Featherstonhaugh,” T. V.
Tierney’s “Rafferty Rides
Again,” and a couple by Ted
Harrington, one on Dan Mor-
gan, a callous killer if ever there
was one, and the other on the
Kelly gang, with the recur-
ring line: “Ned Kelly, Dan
Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe
Byrne.”
Harrington was born at Shep u
parton (Vic.) and spent his boy-
hood at Colbinabbin, where his
father had taken up land when
the property of that name was
subdivided. Later the family
tried their luck in the Mallee,
and it was his experience of the
heartbreaking work of clearing
scrub and trying to farm sand-
hills that prompted Harrington’s
first Bulletin verse, “A Cry
From the Mallee.” That was in
the early 1920’5, and in his pre-
face Douglas Stewart says: “Of
post-war balladists continuing
the ’nineties tradition the writer
who has best understood the
requirements of his craft is
Edward Harrington.”
One or two others of the 30
bushranger ballads in the book
I had met before. Bernard
Espinasse’s moving “Marion
Lee”: —
To “The Wanderer’s Rest” at the
foot of the rise
Where the ranges grow purple when
evening dies
Come troopers, hard-riding, all dusty
and brown,
On the trail of a bushranger hunting
him down.
Bernard Espinasse wrote a
great deal of verse for The
Bulletin in the old days, and
had some success in London as
a playwright. In Australia he
dramatised The Three Muske-
teers for George Rignold, and
The Bulletin once said of him
that he “commenced his drama-
tic authorship as a small boy
with a play in 15 acts and 67
scenes. He was later successful
with pieces of less portentous
dimensions.” Related to Ber-
nard Espinasse by her marriage
to his brother was Elise
Espinasse, whose “The Price
of a Kiss” is among the
bushranging ballads. Mrs.
Espinasse, with A. G. Stephens,
/ Roderic Quinn and Fred Broom-
field, edited a little anthology,
Shamrock and Waratah, “a
tribute to Victor Daley.” “The
Price of a Kiss” appeared in
The Bulletin Reciter, from
which no fewer than a dozen
ballads, all firm favorites for
more than 50 years, have been
included in the book.
Some of the bushranger bal-
lads are so vigorously written,
so rich with exciting incidents,
that it is astonishing they
should have been overlooked for
so long. For example, the lively
sequence on the Kelly gang in-
cludes a delightful piece, “The
Mystery/ Man,” by “N.Q.,”
which deals with a widely-held
notion that Dan Kelly got away
from Glenrowan and roamed
the bush until he died a very old
man.
Boake’s “Featherstonhaugh,”
mentioned earlier, was written
just before Boake took his own
life in 1892. The verses were
found on his body, with a note
directing that they should be
handed to J. F. Archibald of
The Bulletin. Featherston-
haugh was a real person, and
there is a vivid description of his
dealings with “Blue Cap’s” gang
—the theme of Boake’s ballad —
in his book After Many Days.
Alexander Forbes, who wrote
“The Death of Halligan” in the
Bushrangers’ group, was a
brother of Archibald Forbes,
the war-correspondent, and was
the first in time of the Queens-
land bush poets. Born in Scot-
land, Forbes led a roving life,
following many occupations —
shepherd, miner on the Morinish
goldfield, rouseabout and station-
hand.
Several of the authors of the
ballads included in the Gold-
fields section were either born'
on mining-fields or had lived on
the diggings. Marie E. J. Pitt,
whose ballad “A Bush Legend”
is located “back in the heart of
the Gippsland Hills,” was bom
at Bulumwaal, among the
mountains of north-east Gipps-
land, and also lived in the Tas-
manian mining-districts.
Edward Dyson, author of
“The Old Whim-horse” and
“The Rescue,” taken from his
Rhymes From the Mines, as a
youngster worked as whim-boy
and battery-feeder in Victorian
mines and was on the Lefroy
field in Tasmania. Edward S.
Sorenson fossicked for gold in
N. S. Wales, and J. E. Liddle
followed the game in W.A.,
whence he had the inspiration
for his vividly authentic ballads
of the ’fields.
Randolph Bedford was a
mining-reporter on the “Argus”
at Broken Hill, and it is said that
he and “Smiler” Hales, who
worked for a rival sheet, were
thrown out of more mines—if
you can throw anyone out of a
mine—than any other mining-
reporters anywhere. A good
part of Randolph’s adult years
was spent travelling Australia
looking for payable mining-
fields.
In 1904 Bedford made a col-
lection of his Bulletin verse,
but the unbound sheets were all
burned during a fire at the
printers, except about six copies
which were bound without title-
page and apparently given to
friends. Later he said he didn’t
regret the fire. Once when he
was standing for Parliament he
entertained all the male voters
in a Queensland hamlet—seven
of them—in a pub. “I didn’t
make a speech,” said Bedford.
“I recited my poetry to them.
Illustration by Fred Leist of “R.A.F.’s” “Bucked Off Its Brand"
from “The Bulletin Reciter.”
Funny thing, when the numbers
went up I didn’t get a single
vote there.”
Following the gold-rush of
1892, “Dry blower” Murphy
went to the West from Victoria
and was sufficiently successful
to be able to take two trips to
Europe. While on the goldfields
he had begun writing verse for
the press, and about 1900 joined
the Perth “Sunday Times,” to
which he contributed a column
“Verse and Worse,” for nearly
40 years.
A colleague of Murphy on the
“Sunday Times,” A. T. Chand-
ler, another Victorian, joined in
1894 the stream of adventurers
flowing to Coolgardie. Chandler
edited “The Goldfield Courier,”
Coolgardie’s first newspaper,
and was later on the Coolgardie
“Miner.” He was on the Hamil-
ton (Vic.) “Spectator” when
J. F. Archibald wrote his first
paragraph for that paper.
Blacks, perishes in the desert,
and wayside shanties follow the
goldfields in that order in the
book. In the first of this group
Francis Myers, author of Lex
Talionis,” wrote under the pen-
name of “Telemachus. A
Bulletin discovery, Myers
flashed into an assured place
among Australian writers, but
died suddenly at an early age,
under the shadow of Kosciusko.
Today he is remembered for his
serene literary essays rather than
for his verses.
When Myers was up above
Tumbarumba (N.S.W.), “where
diggers fossicked, cattle-duffers
lurked, and the polite world
seemed remote,” he corres-
ponded with Henry Kendall,
then at Camden Haven (N.S.W.),
The two arranged to meet in
Sydney. “When we met,” said
Myers, “Kendall was not comely
I told a wealthy friend, a
pretty good fellow, too, of
Kendall’s circumstances. ‘Last
time I saw him,’ said he, ‘he was
coming out of that building at
the corner of Pitt- and O’Connell-
streets [the old “Herald” office]
which looks like a penitentiary
for the correction of literary
aspirants. His coat was green
with wear, and split down the
back.’ ‘Did you take him round
to David Jones’ for a suit?’ I
asked. The wealthy fellow went
away with a snort.”
F. C. Urquhart, who wrote
“Powell’s Revenge,” served in
the North Queensland Mounted
Police and later became Admini-
strator of the Northern Terri-
tory. Similarly, J. E. Liddle
wrote out of his knowledge of
the aborigines in the Murchi-
son (W.A.) district.
Barcroft Boake’s “Where the
Dead Men Lie” was a moral for,
the “perishes,” in which group
Ernest Favenc certainly had to
come in also, since Favenc him-
self almost did a perish on one
of his exploring trips—away
back in 1878, when “The
Queenslander” commissioned
him to organise a party to go
out and report on the little-
known country between Black-
all (Q.) and Darwin. Setting out
with two white men and an
aborigine, Favenc made his way
to the Diamantina, went nor’-
west through unexplored coun-
try between the Burke and Her-
bert Rivers to Buchanan’s
Creek. It was after they had left
the last permanent water at a
place called Adder Waterholes
that the big thirst commenced.
Favenc is represented in the
anthology with “The Watchers,”
from his Voices of the Desert.
Among the other writers of
death and near-death on dry
stages, Robert Bruce (“Verdant
Green and the Crow”) knew the
South Australian desert, and
Francis Humphris Brown (“The
Pride of McTague”) was
acquainted with the parched
country beyond the back of
Bourke.
F. W. Ophel, who wrote under
the pen-name of “Prospect
Good” in the Kalgoorlie “Sun,”
and also for The Bulletin, had
experienced the hardships of
the western wastes, and John
Wilson (“Wilo”) knew what it
was to be “Out from Noonkan-
bah.” Wilson was a Bulletin
contributor, but little is known
of Ophel, to whom were due,
said A. G. Stephens in Oblation,
(Continued on page 30)


DERBY DAY
AT RANDWICK RACECOURSE
SATURDAY, IST OCTOBER
SEE THE BEST THREE-YEAR-OLDS COMPETE
IN THE FAMOUS CLASSIC EVENT
Special tram service into the Course from Circular
Quay and Railway
Special buses will leave Bondi Junction at
frequent intervals
Racecourse gates will open at 10 a.m.
W. N. PARRY-OKEDEN, Secretary, A.J.G
6 Bligh Street, Sydney
(3Jvs saxom dnx
SANDERS#
tf^FILES;
Corrai ponds dc*. ln»ok»
•tcrtsmsntft. sic.. Clod In tha
"Sandor*" can bs securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
(ho end of oach month —or
rru« tntf fa»>
Cb«r n(anßs(lM
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon St Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. . .Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Randwick track is in splendid
order for the opening this
coming Saturday of the A.J.C.’s
spring racing carnival.
The meeting will extend over
the customary four days, and
upwards of £50,000 will be dis-
tributed to owners of winners
and placegetters.
Star attractions of the opening
day will be the £lO,OOO Derby
(1| mile); the £2OOO Breeders’
Plate (five furlongs); and the
£2OOO weight - for - age George
Main Stakes (one mile).
On Monday chief events will
be the £4OOO Epsom Handicap
(one mile); the £2OOO Gimcrack
Stakes (five furlongs); and the
£2OOO weight - for - age Colin
Stephen Stakes (ly mile). The
£3OOO Craven Plate will high-
light the third day, while the
£6OOO Metropolitan (13 furlongs)
will be the’ feature-event of the
final day.
King’s Fair, favorite for the
Epsom, was not produced at
Rosehill last Saturday, but
several candidates for the Rand-
wick mile competed in the.
Quality Handicap. Compound
lost friends as a result of his
faraway eighth in the Quality.
He drops 111 b. in the Epsom,
but he should have made a much
better showing against Epsom
rivals.
From Saturday’s Rosehill run-
ning it would seem that Fire
Dust will be chief danger to
King’s Fair, and he will be
better suited at a mile than at
seven furlongs. Fire Dust had
galloped brilliantly at Rosebery
two days before the Quality
Handicap, and the plunge on
him missed only because he was
interfered with near the half-
mile and later was cramped for
room on the rails. He does best
when away from the inner sec-
tion, unless, of course, ample
space is left for him to stretch
out.
Silver Phantom’s second to
Hans in the Quality was a smart
run, but both of them are six-
year-olds and that age-group
holds a lean record in the
Epsom. Also, Hans is not
proved at a mile in the best
company. Silver Phantom won
the Epsom two years ago.
For the Epsom: Fire Dust, 1 ;
King’s Fair, 2 ; Magic Carpet 11,
3.
Chances in the Derby appear
restricted, taking a line through
public form in recent weeks.
Best performances of the three-
year-olds was Caranna’s easy
win in the Rosehill Guineas, in
which he was followed home by
Kingster and Knave, with
Romanos fourth. Cara n n a
overcame difficulties for that
success.
Despite his good second to
New Zealand champion Somer-
set Fair in the Hill Stakes at
Rosehill, Kingster doesn’t appear
a real threat at 12 furlongs, but
Knave and Romanos look like —
and gallop like —stayers, and
they may be the chief dangers
to Caranna. Though the Rose-
hill Guineas hasn’t been much
of a pointer to the classic,
Caranna is a staying-bred colt
who could add his name to, the
small list of winners of both
races. Caranna’s sire, Valognes
(imp.), has sired a Q.T.C. Derby
winner, Castillo.
For the Derby: Caranna, 1 ;
Knave, 2 ; Romanos, 3.
Bred for speed, the Newtown
Wonder (imp.) colt Greater
(from Merry Smile, a brilliant
sprinter in her day) looks like
starting a warm favorite for the
Breeders’ Plate. He won barrier-
trials under racing conditions at
both Randwick and Rosebery in
easy fashion —at Randwick by
half a dozen lengths in time
equalling the best for the session.
For the Breeders’ Plate:
Greater, 1 ; Starover, 2; Royal
Kingdom, 3.
Port Arthur’s runaway success
in the Rosehill September
Handicap (10 furlongs) brought
him right into the Metrop.
picture.
Orionis, who had a 10-lengths
win over moderate opposition in
her heat of the Randwick two-
year-old trials, will be strongly
fancied for the Gimcrack Stakes.
Another of the Star Kingdoms,
Orionis is a member of T. J.
Smith’s team. She recorded fast
time in her public trial and
finished full of running after
taking the lead at the start.
Brisbane-owned and -trained
filly Sweet News, a daughter of
Newtown Wonder (imp.) and
Gilla, made smart time in her
Rosebery barrier trial, and if
well drawn at the line-up could
make the Gimcrack interesting.
Nina Ricci, Sail and Felstorm
are other likely ones. Altogether,
the two-year-old fillies look a
smart bunch.
Turf records show that four-
year-olds have been the most
successful age-group in all major
handicaps. Forty-one of that
age have won the Epsom ; next 1
best, 30 five-year-olds. As the
best three-year-olds concentrate
on the Derby, they have a lean
Epsom record, and it seems that
these days aged horses should
be P assed over, in both Epsom
and Metropolitan. Aged horses
have won only four Epsoms and
seven Metropolitans. Last aged
winner of the Metrop. was
NigHtbeam in 1944, and of the
Epsom, King’s Head in 1938.
• • • *
An exasperating run of seven
minor placings in eight starts
ended last Saturday for the
three-year-old colt Gay Ran-
nick, trained by Ted Hush for
J- K. Thompson. Hd won the
Auburn Stakes, carrying maiden-
weight 7.7. He comes from
the family which produced
Speciality, Metropolitan winner
in 1922 with 9st, and also
winner of the Doncaster the
previous year Bred by Percy
Brown, of Randwick Lodge,
Whittingham (N.S.W.), the colt
1$ - Y &h
winner to 2* miles, and is from
the Andrea (imp.) mare Gay
Senonta. .
’ . ‘
Somerset Fair had an easy
task in the B*-furlongs Hill
Stakes at Rosehill, easily beat-
j ng bi s three opponents. Kingster
put up a bit of a show in second
"It’ll cost you two drinks if you miss.”
place, but Prince Cortauld raced
much below expectations and
doesn’t appear to be much of
a threat to Somerset Fair in the
coming w.f.a. contests. After
completing his Randwick en-
gagements Somerset Fair (one
of the best horses to have come
from New Zealand, and a strik-
ingly handsome individual) will
go to Caulfield, where he
should quickly add to his win-
nings.
Some Metropolitan candidates
are expected to face the barrier
in the Colin Stephen Stakes at
Randwick on Monday. Since
1938 four winners of the weight-
for-age event have won the
VMetrop.—Dalray (1952); Delta
(1951); Beau Vite (1940), and
Royal Chief (1938). When the
track is fast the Colin Stephen
Stakes is mostly run round 2min.
32sec., but Beau Vite cut the
mile-and-a-half out in 2.29, which
is close to the Australian record,
and still fastest time for the
Stakes.
Brisbane’s best three-year-old
colt, French Charm, impressed
Melbourne racegoers when he
won the mile Moonee Valley
Stakes on Saturday after drift-
ing sharply in the betting. French
Charm is all Queenslanders
claim for him. Before return-
ing to his home State he will
tackle the class three-year-olds
from Sydney and Melbourne in
the Caulfield Guineas (October
8). One of his rivals will be
Sydney speedster Star Realm,
npw racing at top form. How-
ever, Star Realm is not proved
at the Guineas distance (one
mile). French Charm is by
Gabador (imp.) from Eastern
Charm by Nizami (imp.). His
dam is a half-sister to Dalray.
Eastern Charm is also dam of
Epsom fancy Magic Carpet H.
At Rosehill Nilo Boy, winner
of the Second Parramatta Stakes,
started at 100 to l, Chilled was
second at 250 to l, and Leval
third at 100 to l. This could be
close to a record starting-price
about any three placegetters in
Sydney.
....
Records show that over the
past 25 years the only topweight
winners of the Epsom have been
Chatham (1933—9.10); High
Caste (1940 9.5); Achilles
(1950—9.2). Chatham, one of
the greatest milers in Australian
racmg hiktay. .also won the
Epsom m 1932 with 8.13.
...
Trainer A. Phillis had ac-
cepted with both Avondale and
StrathfieW Jack for Saturday
nights Flying Mile at Harold
Park. On Friday night Avon-
dale was taken away from his
stable, and ran against hun.
PhlUlS WCD - hell-for-leather for
an impressive win; Avondale
ran unplaced Not a recognised
miler, Strathfield Jack shaving
his second run from a. spell—
gave promise of big things this
time up. At home over the mile,
Blue Gamble ran on well for
second money. He’s said to
race best when stale; the fine
way he’s stepping out he must
almost by now be blue-mouldy.
Given a quicker exit from the
fence, Victorian Flexible could
have notched his first win in
the State.
Cowra Cup form proved good
at headquarters when in the
Padstow Handicap Esquire ran
the race of his life with a
devastating last-lap sprint that
pinned the ears of the brilliant
South Coast pacer Regal Gold.
They were both credited with
mile-gaits of 2.8 —good consider-
ing they had five furlongs extra
to go than the milers, whose
winning-gait was 2.7 f. In a field
full of promising pacers, Esquire
showed class that will make him
a fancy from the front line in
the Spring Handicap, the quali-
fying divisions of which are run
on Friday, October 7. Runners-
up Regal Gold and Merry Bar
failed to qualify for the spring
plum, but there’ll be races galore
for this pair.
+ +
Williamstown and Port Mel-
bourne have met in three V.F.A.
grand-finals, 1945, last year and
this year. Town has won each
time. This year Port had been
on top of the table almost all
the way through, with Town in
fourth place, though never in
danger of not making “the four.”
In the grand-final on Saturday
the Seagulls were similarly trail-
ing well behind Port for three
quarters, but put on 6.6 to 1.2
in the last quarter, to win their
second successive premiership,
13.19 - 13.10. Rover Linton,
playing strongly, kicked six goals
for ’Town. Port Melbourne has
reached the last six grand-finals,
but has won only once (1953).
Des Healey, the Collingwood
wingman who was knocked
unconscious in the last quarter
of the grand-final when Mel-
bourne 19th-man Adams crashed
straight into him as he raced on
the field, won this year’s Cope-
land trophy, Collingwood’s
award for its “best-and-fairest.”
(The crash incident was Mel-
bourne’s “football sensation of
the year.”) As a cricketer Healey
has been included in the squad
from which Victoria’s Sheffield
Shield team will be selected.
* * *
South Africa thrashed Aus-
tralia 6-0 in the fourth Soccer
Test in Sydney. “Australia” was
made up of 10 from N.S.W.
and left-half Sander from
Queensland, who was easily the
best Australian on the field. In
the four Tests the Springboks
have kicked 19 goals and in
return not one has so far got past
their own giant goalie, Uytenvo-
gaardt. The Australian forwards
might perhaps have been
rewarded this time had his
team-mates not completely
ignored the New Australian
centre-forward, Mueller.
* * *
Playing what’s been hailed all
round as the greatest golf ever
in an Australian women’s cham-
pionship, 20-year-old English
lass Veronica Anstey beat
Queensland champion Joan
Fletcher 10 and 9. The Anstey’s
approximate score for the 27
holes was five under bogey. This
included an eagle three at the
414yds. seventh in the afternoon
round and seven birdies.
* * *
Young Western Suburbs (Syd-
ney) runner Keith Ollerenshaw
won the N.S.W. marathon on
Saturday in Australian-record
time of 2hr. 22min. 17sec. His
time was also better than the
Czech Emil Zatopek’s Olympic
record of 2hr. 23min. 3.2 sec.
Ollerenshaw earlier this month
became Australian 15-mile
champion. This was his first win
in a marathon, but on this run
he is undoubtedly the best
marathon prospect Australia has
ever had.
Event coming up: the Jubilee
G.P.S. Athletics Meeting, Sydney
Cricket Ground, Saturday,
October 8.
*. * *
The Murphy brothers, of
Dunnstown (Vic.), were first and
second at Adelaide Royal Show
in sheaf-tossing. Leo Murphy
threw an 81b. sheaf 49ft., to de-
feat world-record holder Jack
Schwerdt, of South Australia,
by 3ft.
* * *
Jack Read, on the big
stoush:
Boxing is a young man’s game,
and it was youth that enabled Rocky
Marciano to retain his world-
heavyweight title when he met
Archie Moore at the Yankee Baseball
Stadium, New York City, last week.
Moore, who holds the world
light-heavyweight title, surprised by
weighing 13.6 to Marciano’s 13.61.
The extra poundage was expected to
slow Moore down, but he outsped
Marciano for a few rounds, and his
right crashed the champion to the
canvas in round two. Marciano
took charge in round three, and,
although his nose bled badly, he
handed out heavy punishment, twice
flooring Moore in the sixth round.
Only the bell saved Moore at the
end of round eight, and round nine
was another tough one for him,
a left hook to the chin flooring him
for the full count one minute 19
seconds after the round began.
Moore twice defeated Ron
Richards at Sydney Stadium in 1940
—l5 years ago; and statistics say a
boxer’s active life ends after 10
years in the ring. Whatever his real
age may be it’s time he gave the
game away.


Up Lightning Ridge Way
A BREAK
FROM THE CITY
By LES SUCH
Drover,
Lightning ridge?
. . . Opals, isn’t it? ...
Yes, and plenty of sheep,
cattle, ’roos, emus and
pigs. -
The best way to get there is
the way I went —with the Army
mate. He has a soldier’s block
of 13,000 acres, and I’d been
promising—for about 12 years—-
to go up with him for a visit.
So he’s in Sydney, and you
can do it in style, in a big, new,
high - powered motor - car ; as
comfortable as first-class in a
train, only you can please your-
self where you go and when you
stop and have no one to annoy
you.
You start from Aaron’s Hotel
at nine one fine winter’s morn-
ing. First stop Maitland. It’s
still dirty with silt from the
floods, bridges down and homes
wrecked. You have a couple of
drinks and a feed of fish, and
head on to the New England
highway through Singleton,
eating up the miles at a steady
Home on the Ridge.
50 an hour and you wouldn’t
think you were doing 20.
On and on under the soft
silvery clouds of the winter sky.
Perfect weather for this trip;
no sun-glare, and neither hot
nor cold —just mild. There’s
flood-damage all along here,
with graders pulling the roads
into shape again.
Through the rich Hunter
River Valley the roads getting
straighter and the traffic scarcer,
every so often you pass a large
patch of violent green—young
wheat. This is the country of
old convict-built pubs, post-and-
rail fences as old as the first
settlers, and English trees.
Through Muswellbrook, and
into some rich stud-country;
and then you start climbing
through the ranges that surround
Tamworth, where you have
accommodation booked for the
night. Nice names for the
creeks . . . Dogleg Creek, Jacob
and Joseph Creek.
Climbing through the Liver-
pool Ranges at sunset is some-
thing this day. Tips of purple
hills catching the setting sun
shining like copper with clouds
spilling over them like snow.
You think the sunset will last
for ever, but at last it’s dark
and you see the lights of Tam-
worth 12 miles away and they
look not two miles distant.
This proud city does you proud
at its best hotel, at a price.
After an early breakfast you
take off for Werris Creek, where
Bomber, the Army mate, wants
to look at some rams. You’re
getting into the Bush now.
More creek-names Slaughter-
house Creek, Onus Creek. And
Deadman’s Gully. And you
cross the Breeza Plain.
Crossing the plain makes you
dizzy—so, 60 miles an hour on
a dead straight road and seem-
ingly getting nowhere. You
slow-down through Gunnedah -
and make a halt at Boggabri.
The towns are getting quieter
now, and you see men with big
hats.
On the road again, straighter
and lonelier than ever. You
pass an elaborate old grave,
stonework, iron railings and
what-have-you, just off the road.
She was a gin chased over the
■cliff by her lover.
Late lunch at Narrabri, then
on again, and the sun comes out
so there can be a spectacular
sunset later. You leave the last
of the hills and the country is
as flat as a board.
A pause at Guriy. The pub
is the only thing there ... no
beer, but you’re still getting
Scotch to drink.
You come on Moree suddenly
from the deserted road . . . the
last of civilisation; and, of
course, Bomber knows plenty of
people here, so there’s quite a
lot of powwow of one sort and
another before you take off on
the last stretch to Mungindi,
where Bomber’s brother keeps a
Plenty company, land-roving.
pub. On this stretch you hit the
black soil you’ve heard so much
about. Seventy-five miles to go.
The sun goes down in a mass of
cloud - formation and pure
sparkling gold.
Mungindi is, as you feared, a
bit hard to pass. It takes three
days. No hurricane-lights or
candles here . . . electricity,
Drovers.
refrigerators, radiograms. You
realise that it’s a long time since
you lived in the bush. You
celebrate on champagne, walk
on expensive carpets and sleep
on an inner-spring.
Then one morning after a
breakfast of two geese-eggs on
mighty slices of toast you take
off for the property. A hundred-
odd miles of mostly straight
road, and you see only two
vehicles on the way. The last
twelve miles have six gates, and
then —the homestead!
A bit of a surprise, as is the
country around it. Instead of
the desolation you expected, this
landscape is covered with timber
and teeming with wild-life.
’Roos ip. droves ; big blue and
red fellows. Emus six and
seven at a time. Pigs in mobs.
Galahs by the thousand.
Bronzewing-pigeons and wood-
ducks.
You know you’re seeing it at
its best after all these good
seasons, but it’s still a surprise.
The house could take its place
quite gracefully at Palm Beach.
It’s built mainly of cypress-pine
cut on the spot, as are the
shearing-shed and the yards. In
front, surrounded by a gravel
drive, is a small park with lawn
and flower-beds. Even roses.
Next day you go to the Ridge
itself. It’s about 12 miles away.
You come on it unexpectedly
through the trees. Each grave-
like mound on the diggings has
a shaft sometimes 60ft. or 70ft.
deep, and many are connected
below, just big enough to admit
a man.
You meet old Uranium Jack,
who tells you in his cultured
voice all about opals here and
in Africah and Indiah. The
ones here are evidently the best
opals in the world, but because
there’s no black labor, and
because there’s big money to be
made in the sheds, very little
gouging or noodling is done
today.
The town consists of a pub,
store, post-office and some 70-
odd souls. An old ironwood-
tree stands like a sentinel in the
middle of the street. They call
it the Tree of Knowledge. The
publican had just installed the
only street-light there.
At the pub you meet a
shearing-contractor who was
born here at Lightning. Ridge 40
years ago. He tells you the
place was named when a mob of
300 sheep were killed by light-
ning in one hit. They were
huddled along a wire-fence.
Drover,
There are 2000 miles of opal-
bearing country from North
Queensland to South Australia,
but the Ridge is the only place
for the genuine' black opal.
The Ridge started in 1903, got
going in 1905, and by 1908 there
were 1300 men digging.
There’s nothing much doing
now; but on wet days, when
shearing is out, George, a
specialist in the game, goes after
opals. He went on a Tuesday.
On the Saturday you saw him
at the pub again showing his
finds after two and a half days’
digging. Eighty-quid’s worth of
opals!
You leave George, the special-
ist, with his opals, and go back
to the property and its ameni-
ties —tasteful furniture, good
books, hot-water system. You
take the boy’s room—he’s seven
and away at school. One wall
is covered with ribbons won at
shows with his ponies. Cama-
lally Rodeo, Collarenebri P. & C.
Sports, Mungindi P. & C.
Association, etc., and there are
cups on the chest-of-drawers.
Tree of Knowledge.
You live high—fresh milk and
eggs; meat straight from the
paddock; citrus-fruit and vege-
tables straight from the garden.
Poultry and scrambled emu-
eggs. On a cold, Wet day you
stay in the parlor, a warm
lounge where you pull up the
settee to a log fire, turn on the
radio, and drink Scotch.
On fine days you usually find
yourself going somewhere in the
Land Rover; down to the
bottom paddock, up to the
drain. Following emu-tracks
for their eggs. You never tire
of land-roving. In and out of
ruts, between trees, zigzagging
at high speed, deviating
suddenly and making tracks
across wide, red claypans, ready-
made airfields ; the country con-
tinually changing, from black
to grey and red soil, mud to
sand, timber to just grass—
bluegrass, neverfail and Mitchell.
The timbers are coolibah, box,
myall, belah, boonery, dogwood,
sandalwood, and, of course, the
shady wilga and cypress-pine.
Returning to the city after
two weeks you think you ve
been in another land for two
years.


EX DISPOSALS STOCK
TYRES FOR SALE
EARTH MOVER TYRES
4 18.00 x 24-16 ply Smooth tyres A suitable for Scoops,
4- —. is no v ia « j 1 *rt £4O and 3at £25 each.
~ p l y Go s dy ® ar tyres, shallow tread, near new
r 18 on i oi a ?n ag< l t °xT^r Cls A b H t wlll not affect tyres). £125 each.
2~91 on EW Goodyea r tyres, deep tread. £225 each.
1 21.00 x 24 S/H tyres, 1 repaired at £9O, 1 clean at £125.
TRACTOR TYRES (Repaired)
1 15 x 30 tyre, Good tread
1 14 x 28 tyre NEW tread £*-j
1 11 x 28 tyre, near new tread
j 12.75 x 24 tyres, half worn, each at Z*
retreaded 18 ’2^:..?!*?... tubeS ’ 3 ' new,''i
? ~ £5O x 20 tractor tyres, i new, 1 S/H' plenty 'tread.'' Pair £l6
Sr new Each 2 at WheelS ’ and tUb6S ’ Bar tread ’
TRACTOR TREAD AIRCRAFT TYPE TYRES
(Suitable for Timber Jinkers, logging arches and soft-soil work.)
IJOO x i 6 T y r es from £3 to £7/10/- each.
15.50 x 20 Tyres from £5 to £l5/0/0 each.
TRUCK TYRES
2~ii no I? «'m grooved tyres, bar tread, at £l5 each.
9 Z 9o°J /H groov ® d tyres, at £l2/10/- each.
1 innn Y “oo+ roug^~plenty of tread, at £8 each.
1 10-00 x2O S/H tyre, bar tread, £7/10/-.
1 10-00 x2O S/H tyre, bar tread, £l5.
» = S l afa*.
FOREMAN TYRE REPAIR SERVICE
195 Victoria Rd., Marrickville, N.S.W. Phone: LM 5894
We can repaid ANY Type of Tyre made anywhere in
the world.
Missing Friend
WOULD anybody knowing the present
whereabouts of THELMA ELIZABETH
EADE (formerly JAMES), please com-
municate with J. McNEILL SIMPSON,
Solicitor, Hay, N.S.W.f
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J »Z. I J t ,i2 halnnan) ' P - W ' RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SINGAPORE SURVEY
COMMENTING on the
_ “breath-taking suddenness”
with which the Communist
threat has sprung up in Singa-
pore, a “U.S. News and World
Report” writer in those parts
notes that “even the optimists
will tell you that Britain may
be forced to grant full self-rule,
if not outright independence, to
the colony within a year or
maybe two years.”
The writer suggests that,
“when that happens, the Com-
munists almost certainly will
take over, turning Singapore into
a satellite of Red China—and a
Communist beachhead deep in
the • heart of non-Communist
Asia.”
To support his prophecy, the
writer adds that “the startling
changes taking place here are
clearly visible to an American
correspondent who has been in
and out of Singapore frequently
in the last six months”:
“Only last March, you had the
feeling that Singapore was the
most secure and tranquil spot in
all South-East Asia. People were
friendly. With the exception of
a few politicians, no one seemed
eager for a radical change. For
one who had witnessed the riots
and mass violence of recent
years in Seoul, Tokyo and
Saigon, it was a relief to return
to Singapore a city that was
clean, orderly and safe.
“All of that changed in a
matter of less than three months,
starting with a sudden explosion
of springtime rioting and violence
that killed four people, including
an American.
“Now Europeans no longer
feel so safe on the streets, especi-
ally during recurrent periods of
acute labor unrest. When you
drive through the streets, it is not
uncommon to hear Chinese
schoolchildren shouting obscene
taunts against the white man.
Periodically, people get the feel-
ing that another eruption of
mass-violence is in the offing
“Any newsman who has been
in this part of the world for a
long time is forced to think:
‘This is where I came in.’ The
atmosphere of Singapore in
1955 is like that of Shanghai in
1948 or Saigon in 1953—a city
in the grip of fear and tension.
TTie Communists, here, are step-
ping up their ‘cold war’ at a time
when they talk of peace and
relaxation elsewhere in the
world.
“The Communist drive
threatens two of the biggest
assets left to Britain from her
once-powerful Far Eastern
empire :
“Singapore itself, Britain’s key
military base in South-East Asia
and one of the world’s busiest
ports one that means profits
for all kinds of British mer-
cantile, shipping and insurance
companies.
“Mal&ya—a Communist-ruled
Singapore would almost certainly
mean the end of British rule in
the neighboring Federation of
Malaya to the north, with its
rubber plantations and tinmines
that make it Britain’s biggest
dollar-earner.
“Why Singapore is drifting
rapidly toward Communist
control is not hard to understand.
“Chinese account for more
than 900,000 of the city’s popu-
lation of 1.2 million that also in-
cludes Malayans, Indians, Pakis-
tanis, Eurasians and only
17,000 Europeans.
“Singapore’s Chinese, until
recently, had little interest in
politics.' While most have strong
ties with their ancestral home-
land, and regard themselves
first and always as Chinese, their
initial attitude toward the Com-
munist conquest of China was to
sit on the fence. They waited
to see whether the Reds could
consolidate their grip on China,
and whether the U.S. and its
allies could ensure the defence of
South-East Asia.
“The Communists, however,
have gone to work on the
Chinese community with a
vengeance. The result, as one of
Singapore’s wealthiest Chinese
businessmen puts it, is this :
‘A Chinese here still can be non-
Communist but he can no
longer afford to be anti-
Communist.’
“The Reds organised Chinese
students. Next they infiltrated
existing unions and organised
thousands of Chinese factory-
workers into new unions. Then
they practically took over a
political party, the People’s
Action Party, which has emerged
as the most dynamic political
force in Singapore. Finally,
they even managed to convert the
conservative and powerful
Chinese Chamber of Commerce
into a reluctant tool of the Com-
munists.
“Chinese students, many of
them still in their early teens,
are playing a key role in the
Communist drive toward seizure
of this crown-colony. Nearly
half of Singapore’s students
attend schools.that are financed
and managed privately by the
Chinese community. These
schools, free of Government
supervision, are open to Com-
munist infiltration and the
Reds lost no time turning them
into schools that produce loyal
subjects of Red China.
“What this means for Singa-
pore’s future shows-up in the fact
that at least half of the 30,000
youngsters who reach voting
age every year have undergone
intensive indoctrination in the
glories of China under Com-
munist rule. One foreign dip-
lomat says : ‘lf the Communists
want to play it absolutely safe,
they can just sit and wait. In a
few years, a solid majority of
the electorate will be pro-
Communist.’
“But the Communists are not
waiting. Ten-thousand students
in seven private high schools are
solidly organised by the Com-
munists. Each school has its own
organisation, dominated by a
cell of 12 to 20 actual Com-
munists. Students have little
choice but to co-operate.
“Chinese high-school students
also are the backbone of a Com-
London “Daily Mirror”
HANDLE WITH CARE
munist political machine cam-
paigning for pro-Communist
candidates. Students, campaign-
ing door-to-door, bring pressure
to bear on parents and neigh-
bors. They are not above em-
ploying threats to force voters
into line.
“British colonial officers and
the recently-elected local officials
are afraid to challenge Com-
munist control of the Chinese
high schools. Most political
observers believe the students are
so strongly organised that
serious violence would result
from any attempt to break the
Communist stranglehold or to
establish Government control
over these schools.
“Singapore’s trade - union
movement, like the student-move-
ment, is rapidly being brought
under Communist control. In a
matter of less than six months,
Communists have worked
themselves into a dominant posi-
tion. Practically all the 15,000
transport workers have been
taken over. The Factory and
Shop Workers Union, organised
only a few months ago with
Communists pulling the strings,
has mushroomed from 2000-
members to 20,000 since March.
“Steadily, Communist labor
organisers are nearing their goal
—to emasculate the Trade Union
Congress, non-Communist but
already weak, and get control
over all of Singapore’s 75,000
organised workers.”
Kenya Tribute
An editorial comment and
tribute —by London “Daily Ex-
press” on the improved situation
in Kenya, marked by the with-
drawal of 2500 troops, asks
“how has this change been
brought about?” and replies:
“By the bravery and devotion
not only of British troops and
African troops but of the entire
law-abiding population of the
Colony.
“In prolonged and nerve-
racking conditions the people
remained steadfast British
settlers and their wives on lonely
farms, police and officials, loyal
Africans and others. Through
their efforts victory against the
beastly cult of Mau Mau has
been brought within sight.
“Here then is one Colonial
tribulation successfully tackled.
Britain, along with other Colonial
Powers, ha§ faced many of them
since the war—not always with
such a sure touch.
“What was the secret this
time? Swift and firm action.
“Once the threat had been
appreciated, Mr. Oliver Lyttel-
ton (Colonial Secretary at the
time) would allow nothing to
deflect him from stamping it
out —not even the objections of
those at home who were ready
to make excuses for this cruel,
filthy terrorism.
“Determination is always the
answer. It heartens the sup-
porters of law and order. It
wears down and demoralises the
forces of chaos.
“The Colonial Powers are
right to defend their rule. For
they are defending also the
justice and order they brought
with them. Imagine Kenya in
the hands of men who could per-
petrate the horrors of Mau
Mau! ”
Cyprus
Typical press comment on
one of the most acute sore spots
in the Mediterranean:
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “One
might ask of Cyprus, as of the
woman who had legitimately
married seven brothers in suc-
cession, ‘ln the Risorgimento
whose wife shall she be?’
“The Greeks came ’to the
island as traders about 1400 b.c.,
and definite settlements were
being established about 1200
b.c. Phoenicians, Assyrians,
Egyptians have played a part in
the island’s history. It became
the western seaward limit of the
Persian Empire. It was ruled
by the Ptolemies, came under
the sway of Rome, and then
Byzantium.
“Richard I of England held it
momentarily. It passed to the
Franks and next to Venice, was
conquered by the Turks in 1571,
and was occupied by the British
in 1878. When Turkey went to
war with us [Britain] in 1914,
we annexed Cyprus, and our
title to it was confirmed by the
Treaty of Lausanne in 1923, of
which Greece was a signatory
and a beneficiary.
“Whose wife shall she be?
Britain says that her current
marriage-lines are still in order.
The • Greek population clamor
for Enosis with Greece. Turkey
has no objections to the British
marriage, but claims that if
Cyprus is divorced from Britain,
the Turkish wedding will be
reinvalidated.
“That the history of Cyprus
has been so variegated is due
mainly to her strategic import-
ance. The great Powers of the
world have found it necessary at
various times to deal with
Cyprus, as the late Sir George
Hill said in his monumental his-
tory of the island, ‘on their way
to some more important objec-
tive.’ On this point he quoted
Gustav Hirschfeld, a German
archaeologist, who .in 1880
wrote :
“ ‘He who would become and
remain a great power in the
East must hold Cyprus in his
hand. That this is true is proved
by the history of the world dur-
ing the last three and a half
millennia from the time of Thut-
mes 111 of Egypt to Queen
Victoria.’ ”
“New York Times”: “There
are three fundamentals in the
case that cannot be ignored.
First is the moral right of the
Cyprians to live under a Gov-
ernment of their own choosing.
Regardless of whether this
means independence, union with
Greece or some changed status
within the British political
framework, it must be a Gov-
ernment by consent. Greece
cannot furnish that consent, nor
can Britain or Turkey. It must
come from the Cyprians.
“Second, the British defence
position in the eastern Mediter-
ranean cannot be impaired. Cy-
prus is an irreplaceable factor in
that position. Cyprian nation-
alism or enthusiasm for union
with Greece cannot replace
British strength in the area.
The two factors must be recon-
ciled and Britain’s military posi-
tion must remain unimpaired
regardless of what political
decisions are reached.
“Third, since the Turks con-
stitute a well-defined minority
group on Cyprus with about 18
per cent, of the population,
there should be firm assurances
that minority rights will be fully
respected and preserved. The
Turks do not wish to become
second-class citizens on Cyprus,
and there is no reason why they
should be.”
London “Time and Tide”:
“The Greeks —the passionate,
romantic, often silly, always
lovable Greeks —have put them-
selves and everyone else in a
pickle. No Hellene appears to
have, thought out one of the
many practical implications of
the Enosis which he has made
into so ferocious an issue. A
romantic cafe-table aspiration
has become an ugly quarrel be-
tween old friends. A terrorist
campaign, even of the character
so far achieved in Cyprus, is
not a negligible offence between


PROTECT
YOOR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBUO
friends and allies. Athens
Radio, in support of the extrem-
ist Cypriot demands, has poure
out a flood of bitter, lying P ro "
paganda, so irresponsible and so
dangerous that it has tempor-
arily at least —shocked and ali-
enated some of the oldest and
best friends Greece ever had in
Britain. • ■
“It would be impossible to
claim, however, that Britain has
been superlatively wise or
shrewd over Cyprus. The
islanders have been subjected to
the usual ham-handed Colonial
Office treatment, both niggardly,
and patronising. Years of aloof
parsimony have taken their toll
here as elsewhere.”
London “Daily Mail”: Just
what is this thing called ‘Eno-
sis’? What is our [Britain’s] in-
terest —and Turkey’s in the
island?
“We know, broadly, that Eno-
sis expresses the urge for union
with Greece. But do the Cy-
priots themselves realise its im-
plications in full? They say :
‘Enosis first —then we will tell
you what it means.’
“This may seem to us hardly
a satisfactory basis for intelli-
gent discussion and such an ap-
proach becomes the more
puzzling considering what a full
union with Greece might entail.
“If Cyprus became part of
Greece herself her standard of
living would fall. The island’s
Communists, who have been
most active in raising trouble,
would be liable to internment.
Greece could hardly hope to
carry through on such a large
scale the present British pro-
gramme of construction and ad-
vancement.”
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
ultimate sovereignty of the
island is not an eternal British
interest so long as we can be
assured that the major strategic
purposes of the British occupa-
tion are preserved.”
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The British task must be to
gain time, to postpone by every
means at our disposal the last
act. If all the factors were con-
stant, this would only be to post-
pone the inevitable. But they
need not necessarily be. Our
commitments in the Near East
could alter ; or time may bring
to the surface some of the con-
tradictions inherent in the Eno-
sis movement. Here is a Church
which begs to be absorbed in a
State which has nationalised all
Church property ; here are Com-
munists who support a cause
which, if successful, would re-
sult in their own internment. So
great is the irony implicit in
these aims that the merely mis-
chievous would be tempted to
forward them. Unfortunately,
it is no joking matter.”
Poland
The proposal that Britain
should guarantee Germany
against an attack from Poland
received scant approval from
London “Daily Express”—never
one for entangling Continental
alliances.
Quoting Field-Marshal Kes-
selring’s criticism of Britain’s
1939 guarantee to Poland he
suggests that Britain could have
saved the peace by putting pres-
sure on the Poles to give Danzig
to Hitler—the “D.E.” comments:
“British policy towards Poland
can certainly be criticised —and
the ‘Daily Express,’ alone among
British papers, criticised it at the
time. But Kesselring is wrong”:
“Britain was never in a position
either to prod Poland into con-
cessions, or to protect her from
aggression. Yet a foolish
guarantee was given against
Germany. It did not prevent
war —any more than ‘just a little
pressure on Poland’ would have
done. Nor did it save the Poles
when war came.
“On the contrary they are
still under foreign rule today
—the only difference being that
it is Russian instead of German.
“Surely the folly of such a
guarantee could not have been
made plainer by events. Yet—
would you believe it? —there is
even a proposal to repeat it.
“This time the idea is to guar-
antee Germany against attack
from Poland!
“Britain should have no part
of any more meaningless
guarantees. Instead of taking on
new commitments the policy
should be to shed old ones.
“Let Britain concentrate on
standing closer to the Empire
and on strengthening the alliance
with the United States.”
Japan's Problems
Three editorial views on
Japan’s economic and defence
problems:
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“The Government of Premier
Hatoyama came to power advo-
cating a policy less dependent on
the United States than its pre-
decessor’s. The task of pursuing
such a policy and still retaining
close ties with the West, of satis-
fying criticism at home while
strengthening the country’s posi-
tion abroad, had raised a number
of grave problems.
“In the all-important matter of
national defence, the Hatoyama
Government is faced with a par-
ticularly complicated situation.
The total personnel of Japan’s
land, sea and air self-defence
forces stood this spring at about
163,000. The United States is
clearly anxious to see this
strength increased ; yet American
policy has until recently tended
to discourage Japanese military
recovery.
“The idea of expanding the
defence-forces may be popular
with Japanese conservatives, in-
dustrialists and defence officials ;
it is highly unpopular in many
other influential Japanese circles.
“In the economic field there
are difficulties, too. The cost of
stepping-up the defence establish-
ment would impose a severe
strain on the Japanese Budget.
To save the Budget, an expan-
sion of trade would be required.
Expansion of trade points to
restoration of markets in Red
China. Yet Red China is not
likely to co-operate without
demanding Japanese recognition
of the Red Government, a de-
mand that neither Japan nor the
United States is disposed to
welcome.
“The problem confronting the
Hatoyama Government is, in
short, how to build-up Japan’s
defences without damaging the
country’s economic structure or
committing political suicide.”
“New York Times”: “It is
certainly to our [American]
advantage to have Japan pro-
gressively less dependent upon
the United States.
“At the moment, however, the
real crux of the matter is
whether the present Japanese
Government can persuade the
Diet and the people to take the
necessary steps to provide an
adequate Japanese defence-force.
As soon as such provision is
made the United States will be
only too glad to be relieved of
some of the burden it is now
carrying. Until there is a firmer
policy and programme in Japan,
however, the United States can-
not afford to leave the Japanese
defenceless, either in their
interest or in ours.”
“Manchester Guardian”: “It
is possible that the Japanese
to-day are taking a too dismal
view about their future pros-
pects ; they may be on the brink
of a spectacular new period in
their history. For their circum-
stances have recently been
changing.
“As long as the world was
overclouded by the possibility of
war in the immediate future,
japan, in its exposed geographical
position, had certainty been des-
perately placed. But if the
hydrogen-bomb has made war
unlikely, Japan can look forward
to a new rise of its star.
“It has the largest reserves in
Asia of managerial skill, and
knowledge of how science can be
applied. It has the labor force
with the best training. It is a
rational ambition for it to be the
industrial supplier of the under-
developed countries of South
Asia in their efforts at indus-
trialisation. Some Japanese are
evidently thinking that Japan
may improve its chances if it is
the first of the Asian countries to
produce and use atomic power
on a large scale. This would
remedy its fuel-deficiencies.
“If atomic power helps Japan
tp regain its former eminence,
how strange its history will have
been. Overthrown by the atom
in its warlike form in 1945,
Japan may revive its position
tomorrow as a 1 world Power
partly by the use of the atom in
its beneficent form.
“Certainly there must be fear
when new prospects of greatness
are seen for Japan. There is an
incalculability, an irresponsi-
bility, and an irrationality about
N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
THE MEETING OF MINDS
Japan’s undertakings. One of
the misfortunes of the world
is that a people so energetic and
ingenious have such an inade-
quate fundament of ideas about
a proper way of life. ,
“But if Japan’s energies are
not used there will be an
explosion, in the next generation
if not in this; and the ambition
to be again a great industrial
Power in Asia would be less
harmful today than it was in the
time before Japan had seen it
demonstrated that military
adventure leads inevitably to the
grave.”
Burgess and Maclean
Many overseas commentators
profess to see the Soviet’s new
attitude of benignity towards the
world in general as something
even more difficult to handle
than the frozen hostility of the
“cold war.” They see the new
friendly approach as a device
calculated to relax the prepared-
ness of the West, to bring
about a popular outcry for
lower arms-expenditure, and to
start the disintegration of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion by making it appear that
such a body is no longer neces-
sary.
And they could be right. At
any rate, the Russian shift of
attitude was quite a shrewd one.
Malenkov has been credited
with initiating it and it was pro-
phesied when he was deposed
that a stricter line would prevail.
Instead his successors seem now
to be following an even more
genial course.
An interesting suggestion re-
garding the “new look” comes
from lan Colvin in London
“Sunday Express.” He suggests
that someone with a sound ap-
preciation of Western ways of
thinking is advising the Kremlin,
and nominates the vanished
British diplomats Guy Burgess
and Donald Maclean as the
advisers.
“Four years ago,” Colvin
writes, “when two discredited
British Foreign Office men de-
camped behind the Iron Curtain,
I strongly resisted the idea that
they would play a further role
in Soviet policy. Two years ago,
when I heard this theory again
from a shrewd observer, I was
still reluctant to believe it.
“But I believe it now. I do
not suggest that Maclean and
Burgess have actually changed
Soviet policy. What I do sug-
gest is that once Soviet policy
was changed, they suddenly be-
came immensely useful. I think
they are acting as prompters.
They have initiated the Russian
mind into the mysteries of the
Western mind —an almost inter-
planetary feat —and taught them
how to keep ‘the ball ,in play’
with a rapidity .that is beginning
to leave the West rather
breathless.
“If Maclean and Burgess were
not in a high advisory capacity
in Russia,” Colvin concludes,
“they would have been displayed
to the world long ago, like the
ineffectual Otto John in East
Germany. They would have
been allowed to broadcast and
write articles for the press.
“To be sure the De-freeze has
many architects at all levels,
from Churchill at the Summit to
the Left-wing of the Parliament-
ary Labor Party. But those
deft and rapid touches in Mos-
cow are the work of a team on
the spot. What other experts
are there who have chosen the
East? You could count them
on the fingers of one hand.”
Beer
Beer-drinking is declining in
the U.K. and other countries,
and, as the “Christian Science
Monitor” notes, “latest statistics
show that in 1953, for 50,000,000
Britons, British brewers pro-
duced 25,000,000 barrels of
beer.
“Fifty years ago two-thirds as
many Britons consumed nearly
half as much again. The de-
cline has occurred in the face of
continuing ‘social’ pressure to
drink. The attraction of the
television-equipped living-room
is greater.
“If it is surprising that
Britons should be losing their
taste for beer, what shall one
say of Germans who are doing
the same thing? Blame it on
milk-drinking American Gls,
say German brewers.
“And Americans? In the last
seven years their beer-drinking
has declined from nearly 19
gallons per head per year to 15
gallons.
“The trend isn’t altogether
British. People in many coun-
tries are discovering that ‘life
can be skittles’ without becom-
ing beery.”
Various Voices
General Howley (Vice-Chan-
cellor of New York University ) :
“There is a terrible, dreadful
risk to jthis delaying policy (of
coexistence). The dreadful risk
is that the Soviet Union will
confuse us and destroy our
moral fabrics because we permit
certain things to go on, and then
we can’t teach our kids the right
things. Then there is the fact
that they are obtaining these
mass means of destruction and
the means of delivering them.
And we will reach the day when
we do not have our present
superiority.”
Lieut.-General Henry Wells
(at a Press conference in
London ): “You can do lots of
things from the air, but who is
going to hold the gains you have
made and take advantage of the
bombing to secure the ground?
I have never yet found that the
Army was subordinate to the
Air Force and'l don’t see that
it will be so in the nuclear age.
President Eisenhower: “We
must not think of peace as a
static condition in world affairs.
That is not true peace, nor in
fact can any kind of peace be
preserved that way. Change is
the law of life, and unless there
is peaceful change, there is
bound to be violent change.”
T.U.C. President Geddes: “We
(the British Trade Union move-
ment) cannot lightly evade our
own responsibilities in the pre-
sent economic position of this
country. We have in the past
sincerely and rightly believed
that while we were working to
improve our own conditions we
were also working for the benefit
of our children, but if we are
not careful we shall be working
only for ourselves at the expense
of our children. If we over-
exploit full employment our
children may be exploited by
unemployment. If we are pricing
ourselves out of the export
market we are pricing ourselves
out of a job and that is
industrial suicide.”
London “News Chronicle”
Science Editor, Ritchie Calder:
“Scientists are inarticulate be-
cause they cannot convey what
they are doing, how they are
doing it or why they are doing
-it; illiterate because literacy im-
plies the capacity to communi-
cate ideas; irresponsible because
they have left their discoveries
like foundlings on the doorstep
of society.”
U.S. Chief of Staff for the Air
Force, General Twining: “Today
there is a flood of aircraft stream-
ing from the aviation arsenals of
the Soviet Union. This new
Soviet air-power holds far more
potential danger than the
mightiest hurricane. This could
pour out of the Soviet Union
engulfing and overwhelming not,
only cities or States but our entire
nation.”


the idea of the first section of
and the material of several lines
of his (Stephens’s) poem
“Bayley’s Reward.”
An odd thing about Alex
Montgomery, who wrote “A
Curious Reminiscence” (in the
Shanties’ section), a macabre
piece in which a corpse is
dragged in from the stables to
drink with old boon-compan-
ions, is that he was a mild, spec-
tacled chap who once fainted in
The Bulletin office at the sight
of a cat that had just met an
accidental death. The writer of
some of the most blood-curdling
verses that ever appeared in The
Bulletin, Montgomery was
himself killed by a tram at Cre-
morne (Sydney) in 1922.
Montgomery had knocked
around a lot before he became a
Bulletin staff-writer. A Lon-
donderry man, born, in 1847, he
belonged to an old Anglo-Irish
“plantation” family with French
connections. Intended for the
diplomatic service, he didn’t
relish the prospect, so he sailed
before the mast, visited numer-
ous parts of the world, and re-
mained a “rolling stone” till
1870 found him in Melbourne,
where he was for several years a
journalist. He then went to Singa-
pore, drifted down the Malay
Archipelago, and, back in Aus-
tralia, was some time on “The
Evening News,” then bushed it
for a couple of years with sur-
veyors’ parties. Returning to
Sydney, he was on “The Echo”
till its death, when Archibald
nabbed him for The Bulletin.
R. J, Cassidy (“Gilrooney”)
was of Irish stock, and was, he
said, educated “in the school of
men that gather around the
campfires o’ nights.” He was
carpenter, miner, prospector,
fencer and general bush-worker
before he drifted into journal-
ism. Henry Lawson and
Roderic Quinn were his closest
friends.
The inclusion of G. M.
Smith’s “The Devil on the Rock”
from his The Days of Cobb and
Co. is a reminder that a lot of
good ballads were printed in
country newspapers in the old
days. As “Steele Grey,” G. M.
Smith wrote for the Cunnamulla
(Q.) “Watchman” and the Cess-
nock (N.S.W.) “Express.” Else-
where in the anthology “Steele
Grey” has three other ballads —
the wildly hilarious “Post Hole
Mick”; “The Girl at Native
Dog” (she was a ginger-haired
girl with a pleasing figure); and
the one concerning the old-man
black goanna that helped to
make local history along the
Castlereagh.
Moving from the shanties—
Paddy Doolan’s on the old
Jerilda road, the “pub in
Riverina where they kept a
smashing brand,” and The
Travellers’ Retreat on the banks
of Sandy Blight— to the droving
and shearing ballads, the horses
and horsemen, the bullock-
drivers and swagmen, “The
Lights of Cobb and C 0.,” and
the big mobs from the Gulf, the
reader of Australian Bush
Ballads comes to the full flower
of Australian balladry. What
came before—the outlaws and
the diggers, the blacks and the
lost men dying of thirst, the
drunks in the shanties; tragic
and amusing, exciting and enter-
taining as they are—is but a
sparkling curtain-raiser to the
Australian ballad at its peak—
Paterson, Lawson, Ogilvie,
Gordon, Morant, Boake.
The king of them all was Paterson
[says Douglas Stewart], widest in
range, most fertile in the creation of
national types whether humorous or
heroic, as deft as any in versification
though not as musical as Ogilvie,
most typical of the proud, robust
and sardonic spirit of his age, surest
in his instinctive understanding that
the first thing a balladist should do
is to tell a story.
Elsewhere in his preface
Douglas Stewart writes of
Henry Lawson (eight of his
ballads are included):
.... one aspect of the epic of the
Australian outback to which Lawson
always did respond, as so many of
his short stories attest, was the
tragedy of the lonely woman, the
wife left to battle with that enormous
wilderness while her husband was
away droving; and in his brief
sequence of droving ballads he con-
trived to put into verse the same
deep humanity that characterises the
best of his prose. I do not know
anything else in Australian balladry
that sounds so forlornly tragic, or
that comes so close to the ghostly
enchantment of the Border ballads,
as the concluding stanza of his
“Ballad of the Drover,” after Harry
Dale, his returning hero, has been
drowned:
Across the flooded lowlands
And slopes of sodden loam
The packhdrse struggles bravely
To take dumb tidings home;
And mud-stained, wet and weary
He goes by rock and tree,
With clanging chains and tinware
All sounding eerily.
Born at Narrambla, near
Molong (N.S.W.), the son of a
grazier, “Banjo” Paterson re-
mained a bushman at heart all
his life. Henry Lawson lived, a
“boy in the bush,” on the
wretched selection at Pipeclay,
now Eurunderee (N.S.W.), did
contract building on the old
Gulgong and Home Rule
diggings and humped his bluey
in western N. S. Wales. Will
Ogilvie, during his 12 years
sojourn in these parts, was a
drover, horsebreaker and
station-hand. His poem “Fair
Girls and Gray Horses” was
written under a gumtree on the
stock-route between Forbes
(N.S.W.) and Bogan Gate.
While in Australia, Ogilvie
learned to love the bush and
bushmen, and still recalls with
pleasure, at 86, the years he
spent outback more than half
a century ago. In 1898 The
Bulletin published the pick of
his earliest verse in book-form
under the title of Fair Girls and
Gray Horses, and in 1901 put
out a second book, Hearts of
Gold. He has 20 books to his
credit, mostly verse, and wrote
regularly for The Bulletin
from the time he left this corner
of the globe until about a year
ago. A letter he wrote to me
from his home at Selkirk (Scot-
land) last Christmas showed
that his handwriting was as firm
and as clear as it was in the
’nineties.
Reckless, hard-riding, irres-
ponsible Harry Morant (“The
Breaker”), who was Ogilvie’s
friend, rode many buckjumpers,
mustered more than his share
of wild scrub cattle, and broke
many a bush girl’s heart. Adam
Lindsay Gordon was an S.A.
mounted trooper, horsebreaker
and steeplechase-rider. The
wonder is that he didn’t break
his neck on the hunting-field
before he shot himself at
Brighton (Vic.) in 1870. Bar-
croft Boake was a land-surveyor
in the Monaro (N.S.W.) district
and was a boundary-rider in
N. S. Wales and Queensland be-
fore he hung himself with his
own stockwhip near the shore
of Long Bay, Middle Harbor
(Sydney). A. G. Stephens
thought that if fortune had
favored him Boake might pos-
sibly have become the foremost
poet of Australia.
More than likely “J.P.8.,”
whose “His Story” and “His
Last Stage” are included, is
John Philip Bourke, the “Blue-
bush” Bourke who confessed to
A. G. Stephens that he wrote
ballads for The Bulletin under
those initials. Bourke knocked
around the N. S. Wales bush for
12 years and did some prospect-
ing. For five years he was in
charge of a school on the
Queensland border. He resigned,
he said, “to escape the decora-
tion of the ‘sack’ because of
whisky and neglect of duty. The
women declared that I was so
seldom on view at the school
that their children did not know
me.” In 1894 he went to the
W.A. goldfields and made, and
lost, a lot of money. In his own
phrase, he and “Dryblower”
Murphy were “singers standing
on the outer rim, who touch the
fringe of poetry at times.”
John Neilson had practically
no education, and was shepherd,
shearer and farmer all his life.
He never had enough money to
get good land; like other
pioneers, he fought drought,
rabbits and other pests, and
received little reward for his
labors: He died in 1922, having
lived just long enough to see his
son, John Shaw Neilson,
accepted as an Australian poet'
His included ballad, “Waiting
for the Rain,” was popular in
the shearing-sheds during the
’nineties.
Regarding Ted Brady,
Douglas Stewart says: “Brady’s
bush rhymes and ballads have
always seemed to me more
vital, more authentic than his
salt-water ballads, which rarely
tell a story and mostly consist
of the conventional rollicking
farewells to imaginary ladies.”
Brady, in fact, was never a
sailor. He was born in the bush
—at Carcoar (N.S.W.) —worked
on a farm in the Nepean
(N.S.W.) district and travelled
Australia in a light-tilted
wagonette.
If there are people who, when
they think of him as a poet,
think of Brady only as a sea-
balladist, there are others who
think of C. J. Dennis only as a
writer about city larrikins, for-
getting that his Backblock
Ballads and Other Verses was
on sale before “The Bloke”
mooched into the bookshops.
“Den” was born in a small bush
town —his father was a retired
sea-captain turned publican—
and he worked during his youth
as a miner, carpenter and laborer
in Broken Hill.
Joseph Furphy (“Tom
Collins”) was a bushman
through and through. His father
was head-gardener on Yering
station, now Yarra Glen, in Vic-
toria, where Joseph was born,
and was later a hay- and corn-
merchant at Kyneton (Vic.). As
a young man Joseph travelled
the Victorian countryside with
a threshing outfit. He took up
a selection near Colbinabbin
(Vic.), sold out, and soon after-
wards owned a couple of
bullock-teams, trading from Hay
(N.S.W.). Furphy followed this
“adventurous and profane occu-
pation” for seven or eight years,
then joined his brother’s agri-
cultural-implement foundry at
Shepparton (Vic.). Kate Baker
rescued the few poems he had
written and published them in
book-form in 1916. His “Are
You the Cove?” is an example
of his easy-going style and his
dry, objective humor.
Many other balladists • not
previously mentioned in this
article toiled at one time or
another in the bush —Charles
Shaw (“Mat’s Mate”) was cer-
tainly one of them.
J. W. Gordon (“Jim
Grahame”) carried his swag
with Lawson on the track to
Hungerford (N.S.W.), and later
lived on the Murrumbidgee
irrigation area, where Lawson
lived with him for a spell. Billy
Goodge, creator of “The Great
Australian Adjective” and
author of Hits! Skits! and
Jingles! was a jackeroo on a
Cobb and Co. station, Winga-
dee, near Nyngan (N.S.W.),
when he was a stripling, and
Jack Mathieu, the blind Queens-
land poet, who wrote “That Day
at Boiling Downs,” was, after
some years as a sailor, a miner,
drover and shearer before he
lost his eyesight.
Little merry Jack Moses, of
“Nine Miles From Gundagai”
fame, travelled for a Sydney
wine firm, covering country
agricultural shows. Mounting a
butter-box, Jack used to recite
bush verse to attract the atten-
tion of customers. The Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse and
Recitations was dedicated “to
that Good Australian, ‘Jacky’
Moses, for many years a
Bulletin reciter in the bush.”
After farming in Queensland
for some years, George Essex
Evans entered the Queensland
Public Service, and when he
died was District Registrar at
Toowoomba, where there is a
monument erected to his
memory. All of his ballads in
the anthology are laughter-
provoking, particularly “The
Red Creek Consultation,” a
“take-down” ballad in which a
barmaid is the tempting prize
offered in a bogus mining-field
lottery.
“ ‘We’ll all be rooned,’ said
Hanrahan in accents most for-
lorn” every Irish-Australian
knows the verse that opens with
that line, as he does “The Old
Mass Shandrydan” and “Tang-
malangaloo”—all three written
by “John O’Brien,” which was
the pen-name of Father P. J.
Hartigan, a bush priest for more
than half a century.
Another bush cleric, Rev.
Robert Allen, once of Mudgee
(N.S.W.), appears in Australian
Bush Ballads as “Guy Eden,”
author of “The Braidwood
Coach” and “The Man Who
Came to Burrambeit.” His Bush
Ballads and Other Verses was
published in 1907.
J. W. Kevin (“Arthur Ferres”),
represented by “The Judge’s
Decision,” was an N.S.W.
school-inspector, who in 1901
published The Free Selector and
Other Verses.
Among the many others in
the collection a few of the more
important are: Peter Airey (“P.
Luftig”), a Queensland teacher;
John Barr, one-time a Bulletin
sub-editor; Marcus Clarke;
G. H. Gibson (“Ironbark”);
Henry E. Horne, who died a
few months ago; E. W.
Hornung; Francis Kenna;
Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”),
another Bulletin sub-editor;
Rod Quinn ; Thos. E. Spencer,
who wrote “How M’Dougal
Topped the Score”; W. A.
Woods (“John Drayman”), a
Tasmanian labor writer; and
David McKee Wright, a New
Zealand parson who later joined
The Bulletin and edited “The
Red Page.”
Lex McLennan, writing for
The Bulletin again after a long
spell, lives in the country he
writes about. His ballads come
in from Thangool, in the Callide
Valley (N.Q.). Writing about
his poetry, McLennan has said:
“Many of my ballads are as
rough as the hills they’re written
about, but they are genuine.
Many are absolute fact; some,
stories told by bushmen. From
a ridge a mile or so from where
I live you can see the white cliffs
of ‘Rideout’s Land’ on a clear
day. The pub of ‘Horseman’s
Country’ (a ballad about the
jockey Fred Shean) is in Than-
gool, three miles from my
place.”
McLennan, in his hours of
leisure —when he is not writing
poetry—is a steward and handi-
capper to several race clubs. As
stipendiary steward for the Rock-
hampton Racing Club he dis-
qualified a horse and owner for
life, which his friends claim is
a record for a Bulletin bard
in the “Banjo” Paterson tradi-
tion.
T. V. Tierney, a Victorian,
wrote many gems of Australian
humor for The Bulletin, such
as “Back to Bangaloo” (about
the ghost that drank the cele-
bration’s beer) and “Bill Barb-
wire’s Murray Cod” (it sank a
submarine), and that delightful
satire on bush ballads and bush
balladists “Rafferty Rides
Again.”
Among others living are
W. M. Fleming; Will Lawson,
still going strong at 79 ; E. R.
Murray, the wife of a Queens-
land pastoralist; Mary
Durack, one of the Kimberley
(W.A.) Duracks; R. C. Pearce
(“Bob Bloodwood”); and an
old mate of Charles Shaw now
farming in New Zealand,
Bulletin balladist C. H. Winter,
who wrote “Barcoo Jim’s Bath”
and “The Whaler’s Odyssey.”
And then there is Edwin
Gerard (“Trooper Gerardy”),
who in Australian Bush Ballads
has a section all to himself —
“The Light Horse” group,
which contains four of his
ballads: “The Horse That Died
for Me,” “South of Gaza,” “El
Maghara” and “Lofty Lane.”
“Gerardy” was coach-painting,
trucking and prospecting in the
west and farming in N. S. Wales
before World War I. He en-
listed in the 12th Light Horse
and saw service on Gallipoli and
in Sinai, Palestine and Syria.
Returning to Australia, he took
up a property at Grenfell
(N.S.W.).
THE CHILD AND THE PIANIST
"O tell me then what lies between
the landscape mirror of the keys
the lakes of gleaming wood
and ferns and trees and trailing light
and your thin excited hands
that move like birds
in a gully hung with silence
and pale water-sounds?
What land have they found or summoned,
those fluttering birds?
What land within the country of sound
they carry and hold
in the brilliant length and pace of their flight?
Flown out of death and into life?
Can hands sing the world’s delight?”
“O child, each shape contains itself:
tree or stone. Wing’s water-flight
creates its double season.
Heart needs no other reason.
And you are that strange and distant land.”
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
TWO MEN PLAYING DRAUGHTS
VICTORIA.
They watch a disc; its final square
Is near, which is a minor death.
Now what they think is spread beneath
The mounting dark in tired air,
And, near their heads, the adamant light
Still argues with a face of night.
At last they doze above the board:
The game is closed and discs are piled
Like towers: no questions solved
But hours of thought are neatly stored
Within the box behind the eyes;
Two men asleep are locked and wise.
R. A. SIMPSON.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months* subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—-
NAME
ADDRESS ... -.
12 months £l/16/
6 months 18/6
9/6
3 months
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. Moo. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
S.C.H.: Somewhere amidst that
astounding barrage of capital letters
you seem to have something.
. ...S.A.: Never begin a
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of An Outback
Marriage by A B. (“Sanjo”) Pater-
son ; also the “National Geographic
Magazine” for July, 1934. 6165.
To buy The Orchids of New South
Wales by Rev. H. M. R. RuPP-
—6l6O.
Words of poem “Our Valley by
Roderic Quinn beginning:—
When folks come to our valley
They praise its many charms,
Its sunny glades, its shady groves,
Its orchards and its farms.
—6161.
Words of old song or recitation
containing the refrain “If „ Ca pt^ n
Cook had never landed here. —6IPZ.
Middle-aged woman living alone
in the country would like to cor-
respond with another. —6163.
To buy Songs of a Sentimental
Bloke by C. J. Dennis.—6l64.
To buy copy of Australian Nursery
Rimes, published in 1917 by The
Bulletin. —6168.
To buy copy of Caddie: The
Story of a Sydney Barmaid by
Dymphna Cusack. —6167.
Author of poem “The Pauper s
Drive” beginning:
There’s a grim one-horse hearse
In a jolly round trot.
—6166.
To buy copy of The Honour of
the Station by Will H. Ogilvie, com-
prising short stories and sketches ot
station life, mainly in Queensland,
and partly in N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria, published in 1914 by Holden.
-6169.
To buy copies of Off the Bluebush,
by J. P. Bourke; The Story of Old
George-street, by Charles H. Bertie;
and Bushman and Buccaneer: Harry
Morant: His Ventures and Verses,
by “Frank Renar” (Frank Fox).
-6159.
Information Sought
What were the events leading up to
Churchill becoming Britain’s war-time
Prime Minister ?
Before World War II Churchill
was the outspoken opponent of
British Prime Minister Neville
Chamberlain’s relations with the
dictators, and for some time had
directed the attention of the Govern-
ment to the rate of German
rearmament. When, in March, 1939,
Chamberlain decided to draw the
line against further concessions,
Churchill backed him up, and during
the summer of 1939 there was an
increasing popular demand that
Churchill be appointed to the
Cabinet. On Sept. 3, 1939, a few
hours after Britain’s declaration of
war, Churchill was installed in his
old office of First Lord of the
Admiralty. The collapse of resistance
in Norway (May, 1940) resulted in
the fall of Chamberlain. In a
dramatic debate (May 8) Churchill
supported his chief; but the vote,
though nominally in favor of the
Government, was in effect a censure,
and Chamberlain (an old and sick
man, who died later the same year)
resigned. Churchill became Prime
Minister on May 10, 1940.
* * * *
(7) Definition of an overtone ?
(2) Does it apply to the human voice
as well as to an instrument?
(1) Overtones, also known as
harmonics or upper-partials, are tones
of a higher pitch than a given
musical sound. They are present in
a regular series in every perfect
musical sound; that is, every note
contains a set of overtones. Since
the series diminishes in intensity as
it ascends, overtones are best heard
in lower-pitched notes, such as low
“C,” where often as many as five
or six overtones can be recognised.
(2) Yes. The human voice is
probably the richest of all instruments
in overtones.
* * * •
(7) How to stain the pine top of a
table to match its cedar legs? (2)
What polish to use on it ?
(1) If the top has been already
treated and colored, sandpaper
smooth and clean. A good stain
may be made by dissolving
permanganate-of-potash crystals in
methylated-spirit or raw linseed-oil:
water may be used, but is inclined
to raise the surface of the wood. An
added pinch of Venetian-red should
give a cedar color. Experiment on
an unseen part of the wood first.
(2) Best of all polishes is beeswax
melted in turpentine: shred the wax,
cover with turps and allow to melt
together, or blend it over hot water
it is highly inflammable. However,
it is difficult to make pine match
cedar, and if the table is valuable
it should be given to an expert in
furniture.
* * * *
How to dispose of ordinary Aus-
tralian stamps for charity-work?
There are two methods: (1) V ut
stamps from envelopes, leaving
paper-backing. Paper-pieces should
be as small as possible, but stamps
must not be cut. These can be sold
by weight—price depends on range
and quality of mixture; 3s. 6d. a
lb. is a fair average price. (2) Gives
a far greater return for considerably
more labor. Soak the stamps oil
paper; dry and sort them; and
discard heavily-cancelled, stained or
damaged ones. Pack in bundles of
the same variety, using music-tape
or small packets—never cellotape.
These can be sold to stamp-dealers,
who will forward price-lists on
application. Stamped, addressed
envelopes are appreciated.
* * * *
Which is the older, Sydney Boys\
High School or Fort Street Boys
High School ? When was each
opened? „ , '
Sydney Boys’ High School was
opened on October 1, 1883. It then
occupied a site in Elizabeth-street.
The Fort Street Boys’ and Girls
High Schools were formed in 1911,
and in 1916 the boys’ section was
transferred from Fort-street, City, to
Fort-street, Petersham. However,
the Fort Street Centenary Book
reveals (p. 36) that in 1894 Fort
Street School had begun “to prepare
lads for the March Matriculation.
This appears to have been the com-
mencement of secondary education
at Fort Street. The Model National
School, or Fort Street School, as it
was later called, was established in
1849.
* * * *
How can l best rid my Melbourne
suburban home of troublesome
possums ?
The Victorian Department of
Fisheries and Game issues permits
to residents in the suburbs of Mel-
bourne for the destruction of limited
numbers of possums when it is satis-
fied the animals are causing damage
and annoyance. In cases, where easy
trapping of possums is possible, a
box-trap, which catches the animals
alive, is supplied on the understand-
ing that the animals caught are taken
to the country and released. Poison-
ing is strictly prohibited under the
Games Act; conviction involves a
penalty of up to £2O.
* * * *
Some information on the horse-
disease known as lampas ?
Lampas is merely a symptom of
some gastro-internal disturbance such
as chronic gastric-catarrh, and the
treatment of the swelling in the roof
of the mouth must be directed to
the primary cause of the condition.
Local treatment such as cutting,
or even burning, the lampas is
barbarous; it seldom has the desired
effect, as the condition will quickly
recur. Cases of gastric-catarrh are
usually caused either by feeding-
methods or worms. Erupting teeth
may upset the blood-supply to the
mouth to cause- the condition in
young horses; but it will pass as
soon as the teeth come through.
Teeth which require rasping may
cause the trouble in older horses m
that the food is not properly chewed,
which may bring on the gastno-
catarrh. It is best, if possible, to
have a vet. inspect to establish the
primary cause.
* * » *
Some information about the
British Admiralty?
The Admiralty is the governing
administration body of the Royal
Navy, corresponding to the Austra-
lian Commonwealth Naval Board.
It is controlled by the First Lord,
the First Sea Lord and Chief of
Naval Staff and four other sea lords
(the number varies with the amount
of business). The First Lord is a
member of the Cabinet and a Privy
Councillor; he resigns when the
Government does. He presides over
the deliberations of the board and
has the general direction and super-
vision of all business relating to the
Navy, controls all appointments to
higher posts, and at the board-
meetings he has the casting-vote.
Personal responsibility for operations
of war falls to him, for ex officio he
“Just one more round—then We'll get you a lovely
pub-licence.”
is also the chief naval adviser to the
Government. The other sea lords
have their allotted responsibilities
in the functioning of Naval
administration.
Brief Answers
J.M.: Bob Fitzsimmons and Bill
Lang fought at Sydney Stadium on
Boxing Day (December 26), 1909,
when Lang defeated Fitzsimmons in
round 12. Arthur Scott was the
referee, and Hugh D. Mclntosh
promoter... .T.H.S.: Article James
Tyrrell—Veteran Sydney Bookseller”
appeared in “Biblionews,” a monthly
news-sheet published for book-
collectors by Walter Stone, 64
Young-street, Cremorne (N.S.W.)
B L : The Increased Price of Liberty
by Frederick T. Macartney, published
by the author at 66 Stanley-street,
Black Rock (Vic.), price Is., plus
postage S.C.: Write the Tax-
payers’ Association of New South
Wales, 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
E.G.C.: (1) The necessary
qualifications for grant of service-
pension are that the applicant must
have been a member of the forces,
served in a theatre of war and
reached the age of 60 years or, in
the case of a woman, served in a
theatre of war, served abroad or
embarked for service abroad and have
reached the age of 55. (2) If an
applicant for service-pension has
accumulated property (excluding the
value of the home in which he re-
sides), the net capital value of which
exceeds £1750 or, in the case of a
husband and wife, £3500, a service-
pension is not payable. (3) Applica-
tion for service-pension should be
made to the Deputy Commissioner
of Repatriation in your capital city.
R.J.K.: Write Secretary P.E.N.
(New Zealand Centre), Box 5121,
Post Office, Lambton Quay (N.Z.).
.. A.L.R.: “Encounter” is edited
by Stephen Spender and Irving
Kristol, and is published monthly at
Panton House, 25 Haymarket, Lon-
don, S.W.I N. 8.: Write Don
Richardson, Honorary Secretary, Ski
Council of N. S. Wales, Box 3, G.P.0.,
Sydney H.H.: From the National
Book League, 7 Albemarle-street,
Hyde Park, London, W.l C.J.F. :
(1) Lake Eyre , South Australia: The
Great Flooding of 1949-50. The re-
port of the Lake Eyre Committee,
published by the Royal Geographical
Society of Australasia (S.A. Branch),
Adelaide. (2) Lake Eyre and Its
Tributaries, an address given by
Major E. T. Towner before the Royal
Geographical Society of Australasia
(Q’land Branch), and published by
Major E. T. Towner, Kaloola, Long-
reach (Q.)... .RJ.McA.: Write
Gaston C. Renard, Box 5295,
G.P.0., Melbourne A.8.L.: Write
the British Travel Association, 252
George - street, Sydney... .R.8.F.:
Saddle for a Throne by Will Ogilvie,
compiled by Thelma E. Williams,
with an introduction by Vance Palmer
(R. M. Williams, Adelaide) K.D.:
Joseph Furphy: The Legend of a
Man and his Book by Miles
Franklin in association with Kate
Baker (Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney, 1944) R.W.C.: Victor Daley
by A. G. Stephens (Bulletin News-
paper Co., Ltd., Sydney, 1905),
Creeve Roe: Poetry by Victor Daley,
edited try Muir Holburn and Mar-
jorie Pizer (the Pinchgut Press,
Sydney, 1947)... .F.A.S.: Rede x
Products (Australasia), Ltd., 5a
Church-street, Lidcombe, N.5.W...
M.P.S.: Such courses in high schools
are available to boys only. How-
ever, correspondence-courses in agri-
cultural subjects are available to
everyone. Further particulars from
the Secretary, Sydney Technical
College, Mary Ann-street, Ultimo
A.8.W.: At the end of their first
two racing-seasons (i.e., as two- and
three-year-olds) Trivalve had won
£28,275 and Phar Lap £26,976. Phar
Lap.won the 1930 Melbourne Cup as
a four-year-old; Trivalve won the
event in 1927 as a three-year-old
S.W.: Contact the Technical Educa-
tion Department, Mary Ann-street,
Broadway, where a correspondence-
course is available on farm-
mechanics .... J.S.P.R.: Areally
good specimen of a 2d. Sydney view
on original cover is a valuable stamp.
It is impossible to give a valuation
from your description, but the
stamp in its numerous listed types
ranges in catalogue-value from £lO
to £7O; and your specimen sounds
worth a good proportion of its
catalogue-value... .A.K.T.:.Katharine
Hepburn was awarded an “Oscar” as
the best actress of the year in 1933.
..LB.: The Pulitzer Award for
fiction went to Ernest Hemingway in
1953 for his “Old Man and the Sea.
There was no award in 1954
A G.W.: Write the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Tourist Bureau, Challis House,
Martin-place, Sydney T.J.: The
world-record mile for a pacer is
lmin. 55sec. held jointly by Billy
Direct (as a four-year-old in 1939)
and Adios Harry (as a three-year-
old this year) R.F.: The failure
of apricot- and guava-trees to set
fruits is probably owing to a lack
of nitrogen, which would cause dry-
ness at blossoming and fruit-setting
time. The trees should be treated to
about 3-41 b. of a good mixed fer-
tiliser in the spring to ensure their
having moisture during the blossom-
ing and fruit-setting period....
ACU.: Yes, Build Your House of
Earth by G. F. Middleton; obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, for 225. 6d.... .E.K.P.:
Joseph Furphy: An Annotated
Bibliography, compiled by Walter W.
Stone and obtainable from Mr.
Stone at 64 Young-street, Sydney.
poem with “Have you ever”....
R.A.: “A Bushman’s Homecoming”
is F.H.: Pie poem exploded
M.C.H.: Sorry, you have no luck
with “Shopgirl” J.K.S.: All
lightweights T.J.: “Perfect peace
pervades the place.” But pounds of
p’s won’t make a poem... .T.F.:
“Doubt” got a second reading....
R.W.: Old Sam was given another
swig of rum to sustain him on the
homeward journey P.J.F.: What
were the “wondrous thoughts” that
“did come” to you?... .J.D.D.:
Susan should never have left the
farm F.M.G.: Saw it only dimly
through the tears J.H.: “The
rising tide of fate engulfed him,’
then we hurled the whole of it in the
w.p.b E.W.C.: Couldn’t make
your butler or his “young master”
feel at home in our pages A.R.G.:
So that’s the new and entirely
individual style F.T.: “Travelling
Companions” are on the way back.
H.M.: Half Australia laughed
when Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”)
first wrote that yam M.W.:
Judging by the drift this week there
must be about a poet to the mile on
the road to Gundagai K.W.: “If
I remember correctly you had several
other suitors besides myself, and
from what I witnessed you gave
them more attention than you did
me.” No wonder, if that’s the way
you talk V.O’L.: Not wanting
the “typical Australian cattleman”
who “used to come into the public-
bar, put his hand on his heart, make
a stage bow and adapt his order for
gin and peppermint to some popular
song” N.F.S.: Swagmen who
walk off “into the sunset” rarely
walk into print... .W.N.: In these
pages, as in real life, no star
reporter solves murders E.V.M.:
Three thousand words based on one
old chestnut... .E.S.F.A.: No sliding
panels in the old manor, please....
T.L.: That chirpy style is hopeless.
p.S.: Surely it’s not as bad as
this:-
Vision the poor girl who, when sacked by
her boss,
Picks the easy way, and mingles with
the dross.
She can’t live for ever in her foolish
folly, , .
Soon cast aside like some poor broken
dolly.
W.D.: Half-dressed curate on
antheap is a variation of a much-
exploited theme A.T.: No time
for “those rather eerie crimes com-
mitted by the savage inner self of a
normally temperate person” J.N.:
If it ever had a point the postman
must have mislaid it... .R.J.C.: Not
here you can’t “send echoes of song
reverberating down Sydney’s streets
and lanes,” nor “across her Harbor
wide and blue” D. 8.: Began well,
but you were struggling before the
second page.. • .P.P.: Not for us
the “unequalled and delightful thrill
of playing with death”... .J.8.C.:
After counting 17 queerly-named
characters in the first three -pages we
threw in the sponge K.L.: Laid
the corpse to rest... .L.S.: Beware of
faces that come “a-haunting when
night does fall” G.R.: We, too,
would have been ashamed to sign
our name to that bush sketch
R.S.: Not only the binder needs
“frenzied efforts at repairing”
F. 8.: More suited to an English
magazine... .W.W.: Yes, Henry
Lawson was about your age when
he first sold a short-story to The
Bulletin, but you’re no Henry
Lawson J.8.W.: Much too thin
and worn... .A.F.F.Don’t like
“dare-devil cat burglars.”


SANITARY
SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage into a sterile
solution. This passes automatically to an underground sump and is
absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all-over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
you just curry it around!
- 1
■fit; • : W- *
■ .y^
i
mu
«f¥T^
»
I*lB^
illlll*ir
* N
The MOBILCO 'Junior'
GRAIN AUGER
It's pretfy handy you know, to carry a little grain auger to
a bin . . . push one end into the grain and deliver it into
bag, bulk truck or a barrow at 150 bushels per hour.
This miniature auger, with full sized performance, can be
driven by V 2 inch electric drill, V 2 h.p. electric motor, or,
if you are a bit more energetic and money conscious d*an
the average, by a small crank handle.
if you're using a shovel and a lot of time and
perspiration in handling wheat, oats, rice, corn, small
saw-dust and other small grained bulk material, you're
going to be sorry if you don't look into this new
Mobilco Junior Auger right away. Once you have
tried it we guarantee you'll keep it right by your side
as the best little labour saver you've come across.
The Junior Auger weighs only 40 lbs. It is 3Vi inches in
diameter, 10 feet long, and it sells at a pocket-sized
price, £24/8/-, ready for attachment of your electric
drill or fitted with crank handle and ready for use. Send
an order now for quick delivery and a Junior Auger will
be on its way to you immediately.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN - PHONES: YX1244-5
HEAD OFFtCE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VtC.
WU 1081 (9 LINES) - BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
AGENTS - LAUNCESTON AND HOBART
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS ."
SHEEP AT ADELAIDE
COME inter-State sheep-judges
at Adelaide Royal Show told
South Australian breeders they
must prepare their entries for
show if they want to be com-
pared with other States.
Many South Australians still
maintain that the fair way to
judge a sheep is just as it came
out of the paddock. They
reckon rugging, housing, feed-
ing and the like falsify the
animal’s value and mislead the
client. According to this reason-
ing the judge who is worth his
salt should be able to assess the
unprepared animal. The com-
mercial sheepman may be misled
by the glamor; he may be dis-
appointed when he takes home
the ram he bought from the
stud which had skilfully-pre-
pared animals on show.
On the other hand, the com-
mercial breeder is influenced by
show successes: the show is the
accepted shop-window. If S.A.
breeders let the awards go inter-
state, business will go the same
way. So breeders must make
up their minds. The ideal of
unadorned exhibits is a worthy
one. But it’s an age of win-
dow-dressing and salesmanship.
Besides criticism for neglect
Of preparation as shown in
appearance, some exhibitors
came under fire for not training
their sheep to be tractable in
the ring. Judges do not appreci-
ate the agility of a mountain-
goat on judging-day. ’
Smaller Merino-breeders did
well at Adelaide this year: all
the grand championships and
reserves went their way, and the
“farmers’ ” classes offered some
of the keenest competition.
A stud with less than 2000
sheep bred and exhibited this
year’s grand-champion Merino
ram, a medium-woolled rising
six-tooth from the Flairville
stud of R. W. Lehmann, George-
town (S.A.). Sired by the grand
champion of 1952 and bred on
Old Bungaree blood, this ram
was praised by the judges for
his even covering of stylish true
58-60’s wool.
It was on the quality of his
wool that he scored over the
reserve grand-champion from
the stud of S. Kidman and Co.
(S A.). This massive, beautifully-
proportioned four-tooth was
winner of the strong-wool open
class for rams over and under
2} years. ' S. Kidman and Co.
were competitors in the classes
for flocks under 2000 sheep.
Well-known N.S.W. sheep-
man Basil Clapham, who
judged the strong-wools, said
that this ram was easily the
biggest ram and heaviest cutter
exhibited; for length of staple,
density and tremendous bulk he
was outstanding. Mr. Clapham
said he was a bit disappointed
with the section as a whole:
“For the strength of wool, it
was a little short.” And he
would have liked to have seen
better heads on some of the
sheep.
Last year’s grand-champion
ewe, bred and exhibited by
D. R. Mclnnis and Sons, Hallett
(S.A.), took the major female
award again this year, after
winning in the to
class, strong-wool. The ewe
was described as having every-
thing “size, conformation,
length, density and bulk.” She
was the only exhibit from a
flock of less than 1000. The
reserve grand champion was a
two-tooth, described by the
judges as outstanding for her
age. Again from a stud with
less than 1000 sheep, the ewe
was bred and exhibited by
J. K. D. Vidal, Cunliffe, via
Kadina (S.A.).
For the second year running
the coveted Jubilee Challenge
trophy for the best exhibit of
five Merino sheep was won by
the Ashrose stud of W. B.
Ashby and Sons, Ltd., Hallett.
The line-up in this contest
was particularly impressive, the
winners scoring on evenness,
size and conformation, against
keen competition.
A tribute to Mr. Clapham’s
judgment in the strong-wool
open section was the fact that
three of his champions went on
to win grand- or reserve-grand-
championships. These were the
Kidmans’ champion ram, which
went on to reserve grand-
champion, Mclnnis’s champion
ewe, which became grand-
champion, and Mr. Vidal’s
reserve-champion ewe, which
was reserve grand-champion
ewe.
For his reserve - champion
strong-wool ram, Mr. Clapham
selected a two-tooth from the
stud of Murray Thomas, Clare
(S.A.). Mr. Thomas was one
of the most successful exhibi-
tors, with several major awards,
including the breeders’ plate and
a string of places.
Judging the medium-wool
section, L. J. P. Storey, of
Mungadal, Hay (N.S.W.),
awarded the ram championship
to a heavily-used sire from
Murray Thomas’s stud; this
ram was shown in Adelaide in
1953 as a two-year-old. Reserve
championship went to a ram
from the stud of L. B. Rayner
and Son.
Newly - registered breeders
who fared well during the day
were L. P. Paech and Sons, of
Palmer (S.A.), who won the
medium-wool ewe champion-
ship. In reserve was Murray
Thomas.
In the fine-wool section the
ram championship went to a
stud also exhibiting in the under-
-2000 section—A. J. Dinning and
Co., of Naracoorte (S.A.). In
reserve was a ram from A.
Mills and Son, Native Valley
(S.A.). A. J. Dinning and Co.
also showed both the champion
and reserve champion fine-wool
ewe.
The judge of the fine-wool
open section, Ivan G. M.
Lannin, of Lillimur Estate, Vic-
toria, said that the section had
fully maintained its standard
over the years.
R. W. Lehmann’s ram was
champion in the strong-wool
section for flocks under 2000 ;
a ram from the same stud
winning the grand-champion-
ship. Champion ewe came
from J. K. D. Vidal’s stud,
which also took the reserve-ewe
grand-championship. In the
fine- and medium-wool section,
under 2000, the champion ram
was the grand - champion.
J. K. D. Vidal’s ewe was cham-
pion in this section.
In the under -1000 - sheep
classes the strong-wool cham-
pion ram came from the stud
of H. R. Proctor, Hilltown
(S.A.), and the champion ewe
from L. P. Paech and Sons’
stud. Ram champion in the
fine- and medium-wool section
(under 1000-sheep) came from
L. P. Paech and Sons’ stud;
ewe champion from Mr. Vidal’s,
stud.
Victorian studs were promin-
ent in the Corriedale and Rye-
land classes.
R. H. R. Baker, of Baringup,
exhibited both the champion
and reserve-champion Corrie-
dale ewes and the reserve-
champion ram. Champion ram
was from the stud of V. N.
Rathjen, Birdwood (S.A.). The
judge of the ewes, Mr. A. Gub-
bins, of Chatsworth (Vic.), said
that the classes were very good ;
his only criticism was of weak-
nesses on the points and head.
The judge of the rams, Colin
Turnbull, of Wedderburn (Vic.),
said that ram-classes had im-
proved, but some were not well
enough prepared for a Royal
Show.
Corriedale entries totalled 85
—nine less than last year.
Judge of the Polwarths, R. C.
Campbell, of Birregurra (Vic.),
said that the display was a won-
derful advertisement for the
breed. He especially liked the
young ewes.
In the Ryeland section the
Ltd., Gawler River (S.A.).
Reserve-champion ram was a
two-tooth, winner of the New-
bold Challenge trophy for a
ram shorn not more than seven
days before judging. This ram
was shown by W. S. Martin and
Sons, Sandy Creek (S.A.),
winners of the breeders’ plate.
Champion ewe was a shorn
two-tooth from E. W. L.
Dawkins, of Gawler (S.A.).
Reserve-champion ewe was
young Victorian breeder, B. A.
Whiteley, of Merndale stud,
Pakenham, took both champion-
ram and -ewe awards.
The judge of the Dorset Horn
section, E. A. Turnbull, of
Romsey (Vic.), was pleased with
the display and congratulated
the breeders on the way their
entries were presented. With
133 entries, the section was 10
down on last year.
Champion ram was exhibited
by W. J. Dawkins Newbold,


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
EOE
Write or telephone your nearest .
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W. : Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46. Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LAND : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAB.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES Sc CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CELESTINA QUIRK (formerly
MORANDY) late of Rosebank New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that STANLEY
LAWRENCE QUIRK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4325 of 1953 on the
ground that between the Ist November
1952 and 31st July 1953 you did in the
State commit adultery with LESLIE
JOHN McINTOSH at Rosebank aforesaid
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 15th day of November 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from either MESSRS. OAKES &
OAKES, Solicitors, of Lismore, or from
their Sydney Agents, MESSRS. F. W.
HALL & EDGINGTON, of Stanway House,
77 King Street, aforesaid, Solicitors. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
BUILDINGS
IN EASY, STANDARDISED, INTERCHANGEABLE
STEEL BUILDING UNITS
.
Mr ». ‘ . ■ , .. *-'V ' *("' V
'
M
A-
i>:
sweating »eh»
1?
-ja.ro
tJuJ
SMEAR'MO BOARD
mOOL JTTORB
OTHER
STEEL-FRAIM
BUILDINGS
SHEARERS' HUTS
UTILITY SHEDS
MACHINERY SHEDS
COUNTRY COTTAGES
AND HOMESTEADS
THE FAMOUS
STEEL-FRAIM
Ready-to-Erect
Shearing Sheds
This is only one of a number of shearing shed
layouts a team of handy men can erect econ-
omically and rapidly using the well-known
STEEL-FRAIM Standardised building units.
Everything is made easy to follow by painting
the various foundation, wall and roof members
distinctive colors—even the doors are complete
with locks and hinges ready for bolting.
If you want a larger shed, or a smaller shed, or
a different arrangement of pens, shearing board
and wool room, let us show you how simple it
is with STEEL-FRAIM.
Plan what you want, how you want it—and add
extensions at any time —with Sidney Williams'
Standardised steel building units now being
designed, fabricated and erected by . . .
Bowas Constructions Ltd.
Williams Parade (off Constitution Road)
DULWICH HILL, N.S.W. LM 5204
from the stud of C. M. Hart and
Co., Two Wells (S.A.).
Absence of tail in the South-
down classes pleased the Vic-
torian judge, J. R. Metcalf, who
complimented breeders on bring-
ing out their entries in true
Royal Show style.
Glen Shera Estate took me
ram championship and reserve,
together with the ewe cham-
pionship. Reserve - champion
ewe was exhibited by E. F. Han-
cock, of Warracknabeal (Vic.),
who also took the breeders
plate for me best group of
hoggets.
The consistently - successtul
Suffolk Downs exhibitors, A. E.
Day and Sons, of Alma (S.A.),
won both champion awards in
their section this year. The
judge, J. Mclntosh, of Merri-
gum (Vic.), seemed pleased with
entries.
Although entry numbers in
the Border Leicester section
were down from 79 to 67 this
year, S.A. judge H. K. Bake-
well, of Narrung, said they were
the best he had seen in Adelaide.
D. E. Brown and Son, of Mait-
land (S.A.), won all the first-
prizes except three, and scooped
the pool with all championships
and reserves.
Major awards in the Romney
Marsh section went to C. R.
Rundle, Bratton stud, Salisbury
(S.A.), who showed both the
ram and ewe champions. W.A.
judge, Forrest Rose, was im-
pressed by the champions’
excellent fleeces.
English Leicesters, Shrop-
The 3-h.p. “Farmers’ Boy
Major,” from the U.K. manufac-
turers of the 1½-h.p. “ Farmers’
Boy.” The new model is now on
the Australian market; power-
unit is the 256 c.c. Villiers Mark
25, four-stroke, air-cooled petrol-
engine.
shires, Cheviots and Hampshire
Downs were represented by only
one competitor in each section.
PAT RIVERS.
Strawyards for
Poultry
“Big Billy”: In the U.K. use
of strawyards has improved
winter egg-production. The
practice has been successfully
tried in New Zealand and might
well be recommended for the
colder Australian districts.
For best results an open-
fronted house of limited width
is provided with an outside run
of deep, built-up straw.
The run is confined within
fencing, the lower portion of
which is usually solid, to con-
tain the straw and to act as a
windbreak .against ground-
draughts. .
The system is particularly
suitable for mixed-farmers who
are able to convert farm-build-
ings into poultry-houses and
have an abundant supply of
straw for the outside runs.
Two square-feet of floor-
space per bird should be
allowed in the house, and a
further four square-feet per bird
should be given in the yard.
The yard must be well-
drained, so that in heavy rain
water will not accumulate under
the straw. Drainage may be
improved by putting down a
thick layer of rubble or large
stones on the earth.
The surrounding fence should
be about Bft., allowing for the
straw to build-up inside over the
year and still leave a minimum
of 6ft. of wire-netting from the
top of the straw.
Place corrugated-iron sheets
at the bottom to a height of
about 2ft. 6in. to 3ft. to hold
the straw and protect the birds
against draughts. Bagging or
brushwood will serve equally
well.
To begin with, put a foot of
straw down, and add to this
regularly as the straw is trodden-
down and soiled. At the end
of the first year completely
remove and replace the straw.
In the United Kingdom the
strawyard has also been used
successfully for raising growing
pullets after the brooding-stage.
Milk Promotion
“Lebanon”: Although milk is
an essential food, continued
demands for higher prices and
more legislative action against
substitutes are building up cus-
tomer-resistance and bad public
relations with consumers.
A happier approach, which has
resulted in increased consump-
tion per head in U.S.A., is to use
every publicity medium to pro-
mote milk.
As a result of such campaigns,
half of all U.S.A. dairy-produc-
tion is sold as wholemilk • and
cream. Consumption of whole-
milk instead of coffee in cafes
is increasing greatly.
U.S. farmers know it is to
their advantage to talk and
“sell” dairying. They have been
doing this through the American
Dairy Association, which they
support with a contribution of
about 3d. for every lcwt. of milk.
The message that milk is of
superior nutritious value, and
at the same time is relatively
cheap, is getting across to the
nation.
Complementary to the school-
milk programme, the A.D.A. is
stressing the importance of milk
in adult as well as children's
diets. The special campaign in
June, when dairy products are
at their best, includes Butter
Days or Dairy Festivals at which
milk-products are promoted in
demonstrations, parades and
Queen competitions.
Weedkillers Affect
Stored Seeds
“Big Billy”: Tests carried out
in N.Z. have proved that seeds
suffer if stored near weedkillers,
chiefly of the hormone-type.
Deterioration in germination
occurred particularly with peren-
nial rye-grass.
Weedkillers causing the dam-
age are held to be the volatile
formulations of 2,4-D, such as
the ethyl or butyl esters, and
the volatile D.N.B.P. and I.P.C.
preparations, with the butyl
esters of 2,4,5-T to a lesser
extent.
Some doubt is held as to
whether low volatile materials
such as T.C.A., C.M.U., and the
less volatile esters of 2,4-D and
2,4,5-T do any damage.
It is considered that the results
of the trials are sufficiently
advanced to arrive at the con-
clusion that stored seed and
weedkillers of any description
should not be kept in the same
room; in any case seed should
j-jot be stored with opened tins
of weedkillers.
Clean-faced Romneys 1
“Jubilee”: Breeders of
Romney Marsh sheep are in-
debted to Massey Agricultural
College (N.Z.) for research into
the. merits of clean-faced Rom-
ney lambs.
Many of us can remember
when the Romney was a bare-
faced, bare-legged sheep with
a wonderful constitution.
Breeders have produced a sheep
with wool to the toes and a
woolly face. Massey College has
compared clean-Taced and
woolly-faced lambs at weaning
time from a flock of open- and
close-faced ewes.
The clean-faced lambs were
4|lb. heavier than the woolly-
faced lambs. Both lots ran
together, and were not shorn.
Six weeks later the difference
in weight was 101 b. liveweight—■
representing, in money, about
10s. per head in favor of the
clean-faced lambs.
My own experience is that a
woolly face handicaps a lamb
through successive stages of its
life: causes it to get caught up
in blackberry and the like,
obstructs its vision—counteracted
by wigging and, generally,
lowers its vitality.
Crosscuts
W. A. Gunn, chairman of the
Australian Woolgrowers’ Coun-
cil, described current attempts
to raise interest in a wool-
stabilisation scheme as “com-
pletely futile.”
* * t
Australian Wool Bureau
reports that Belgium is now
classed as Australia’s fifth-largest
customer for wool. Belgian
shipment of 90,030,0001 b. of
wool last season was an increase
of nearly 3,800,0001 b. on 1953-54
shipments.
* * *
Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock estimates
that area planted for wheat for
all purposes in the State is about
700,000 acres.
* * *
Total wheat harvested in Vic-
toria for the 1954-55 growing
season has been estimated at 48
million bushels: less than the
previous season but equal to the
post-war average.
Farm Hints
“W. Court”: Don’t allow a
turkey-hen to take her chicks
out foraging like a duck or hen.
She’ll lead them into the bush
until dusk and will bed-down
for the night, going on next
morning if the dingoes or foxes
miss them. Turkeys are dry-
country fowl; black-soil pad-
docks are unsuitable. Despite
all precautions, blackhead, the
worst turkey - disease, often
strikes; it is more certain to
appear if fowls are kept near
the turkeys.
“Billjim”: Husband autumn-
pasture until spring-growth
comes away by rotating the herd
around the farm. Paddocks
should be small enough to main-
tain a concentration of between
20 and 30 cows per acre, and this
can be done by using an electric-
fence. Aim to graze pasture
when it is 4in. to 6in. high, as
it is then at its most nutritious
stage. Don’t keep cows more
than a day or two in these
paddocks. Let the cleaning-up
be done by dry stock.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(18/9/’55)
The single cycle is still the controlling influence on
the trend of the season, although sunspot outbreaks are
apt to upset the sequence to some extent.
October and November should be patchy months in
NSW. although the coastal section should be the most
favored, with falls varying from moderate reasonably
good. Sydney should receive good rains, a little above
average, similar ttern D f patchy rains should also be
experienced in the remaining States, but
should bring relief to many areas during December, although
no heavy rains should occur in Queensland until January.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
What Is Prosperity?
Commenting on the proposed new loan
for Australia from the , International
Bank, a contemporary editorial says,
“No nation of such comparable wealth
has been forced to run up this kind of
distress-signal so often.”
Comparable wealth? Where is it, and
what is it?
We talk too loosely about our wealth —
where, after all, is the wealth that creates
a really prosperous economy? Our soil
may be full of gold or uranium or even
coal, but what is the use of it if the cost
of extracting it for conversion into real
Wealth is prohibitive? For all the good
we get from some of these treasures of
“potential wealth” we might as well not
have them at all. Talk of this potential
wealth is misguiding.
While transport conditions remain as
they are, potential wealth beyond its
reach is valueless so far as the national
economy is concerned. The only useful
wealth of Australia lies in its volume
of saleable production, and that, at the
moment, is dangerously limited. It is
limited because it costs too much, and it
costs too much because the labor that
it produces too little for the
wages it demands.
While the idea of leisure and pleasure
at any cost takes precedence over work,
we shall remain the sufferers —we cannot
expect a harder-working outside world
to offer any sympathy or to encourage
that take-it-easy attitude . so much
encouraged by trade-unions. We may all
have homes to live in, cars for every adult
member of the family, and every kind of
labor-saving household device, but the
hard fact remains that we own nothing
till we have paid for it in full. Today
that means we pay at least 20 per cent,
over the retail-price of most things for
the pleasure of indulging in the dubious
benefits of hire-purchase.
Much of our wealth is illusory. Our
national prosperity is really built on a
knife-edge. A slump in wool or any
other of our mainstays for overseas trade
would very likely send us toppling down
the slippery slope of trade-recession.
Just as illusory is the idea that Asia—
where wages on the average are less for
a month than the Australian earns in a
week—will provide anything more than
minor markets for our high-priced pro-
duction. Just as the U.S.A., hungering
for markets to keep the industrial wheels
turning after World War I, tooled-up
Russian industry for the Soviet five-year
plans and suffered for it in the next war,
“Sorry, madam, I'm on the air."
npi<^wtV°r 1 ' Up l nd te £ ach our Asian
neighbors the know-how of everything we
kll That m wflf and ™ a^ in u ery -
> create °° mar kets, however,
o gh it may create competition. Nor
Australian e wavt Ch t 0 ad ° pt
Australian ways. People who can go to
the countryside and build the homes
they want from the soil and the jungle
rT? °“, tbe s °il tbey cultivate will
d prov is, e customers for Australian
S nCVer ’ m fore -
n ,„_ e future, have, or even want, basic
g as we have in Australia. In the
main they are simple people who will
work to live, and the white man will not
easily change them.
No, our wealth must come from trade —
competitive trade. Not even home-trade
will serve to keep Australian industry
moving. We are dependent upon
overseas trade and we will be unwise to
forget it. Potential wealth will fill no
empty stomachs until it is converted into
real wealth in pounds, shillings and
pence, and that will not happen —barring
another war —until every man does a
real day’s work and earns the wages he
gets. His pound may then, if he is lucky,
be worth 20s. once more.
There is np other road to real wealth.
—H. J. A. (N.S.W.).
Accidents and Insurance
Third-party insurance (B. 14/9/’55) is
a clumsy and expensive method of achiev-
ing the desired result—compensation for
the person injured. Some of the
anomalies and injustices can only be
explained on historical grounds. Even
today many people start with the pro-
position that a negligent driver should be
made to pay for the injuries that he has
inflicted. This concept partly explains
the exaggerated jury verdicts.
Of course the advent of compulsory
third-party insurance made such a theory
untenable. The emphasis is placed on the
injured party. Accidents occur too
frequently for them to be ignored, and
there is no justifiable reason why com-
pensation should depend solely on the
wealth of the driver. From the viewpoint
of the motorist it doesn’t matter very
much whether the accident is due to a
slight slip or to conduct so irresponsible
that it would shock the community.
This really means that we are provid-
ing a social service under the cover of
inappropriate legal rules. Damages are
no longer paid by the person morally
culpable, yet this is the principle upon
which our legislation proceeds. Why
should an injured person be able to
recover exorbitant amounts from the
community? The case for a strict tariff
scale of compensation is very strong.
On the other hand, is there any sense
in a proposition that people injured on
the road should receive compensation,
while those who are incapacitated else-
where should receive nothing? This
breach of the law requires considerable
revision, but anomalies and injustices
will continue to appear until we decide
why and to what extent an injured person
should be compensated.— MacD. (Vic.).
Interest-rates and Profits
Suggestions that hire-purchase should
be controlled by Federal Parliament were
only to be expected, but whether h.-p.
should be restricted is a moot point.
Private enterprise is already burdened
with too many controls. On the other
hand ’ read y finance channelled into the
hire-purchase field is eagerly snapped-
up by avid buyers of refrigerators, radios,
gramophones, polishers, cleaners,, cars
and endless other items which, but for
payment by instalment, would, at their
current prices, be beyond the financial
reach of the majority of present
purchasers. * P
Not that there is anything wrong with
every household enjoying the benefits of
modern machinery. What does call
for consideration is the evidence that
keen demand is responsible for excessive
profit-margins on the goods themselves
and excessive interest-rates on h.-p. loan-
funds.
A glance at the financial columns of
the daily press indicates that a 10 per
cent, dividend is a most modest net
result of a year’s trading for all but a
few firms, while double that is not
remarkable. These high returns derive
from the fact that consumers are falling
over each other to buy the products of
the electrical and automotive industries,
which have had little competition, and
which . are able to work together in
price-fixing and marketing agreements.
Refrigerators, for instance, carry a
very large profit-margin, and recently
published returns from General Motors-
Holden’s leave one with the impression
“Better carry a bit o' chaff with ’ee."
that the Holden car could be marketed
at a profit for less than it present price.
A well-known make of electric-shaver
was recently reduced in price by an even
£2—a cut of one-sixth —and £3O cuts on
refrigerators have been advertised by
some retailers.
From a business point of view, of
course, there is every reason for the high
selling-prices. The market will stand it —
indeed it seems eager to pay the asked
prices. Take the Holden car, as an
example. At just on £lOOO each, the
demand results in a waiting-list that takes
months to cover.
The result of the present set-up is that
a family is able to borrow all the money
it needs to furnish and equip a luxury
home and to buy a car, yet it can’t
borrow enough to buy or build the house
and garage to put it in.
A dispassionate consideration of the
foregoing facts leads one to appreciate
that restriction of h.-p. finance could be
most beneficial all round. Undoubtedly
a tighter market would result in some
drastic price-reductions of goods that at
present are overloaded with profit. The
reductions would probably go beyond a
mere clipping of present margins because,
under present conditions, production-
costs themselves would stand revision and
trimming for efficiency’s sake.
It is obvious that, during the free-for-
all, the consumer is being held to ransom,
but because of the freedom of h.-p.
finance, the ransom-money is readily
available on easy terms. Since the con-
sumers are not disposed to look after
their own interests, it might be just as
well for someone to do it for them.
Enforced reduction of profit-margins
and rates of interest would be sour wine
to many people, but it could be a gobd
thing economically and socially.—
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Long-service Leave
A recent decision by the High Court
of Australia that all Victorian
workers as defined by the State’s Long
Service Leave Act, whether working
under Federal awards or State wages-
board determinations, are entitled to the
benefits _of the Act—illustrates the
stupidity of our dual system of industrial
authorities.
Long-service leave, although granted
liberally to Federal and State public
servants at the taxpayers’ expense, has
been consistently refused by the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court so far as
industry generally is concerned. There
is sound justification for the court’s
attitude. Whereas Government depart-
ments are, virtually, immortal employers,
backed financially by the country’s
resources, employers in private industry
are impermanent and relatively unstable.
They die, go out of business for various
reasons, suffer financial losses and so
forth.
As an employee’s enjoyment of long-
service benefits depends essentially upon
his employer remaining in business and
retaining him in employment for a
lengthy continuous period, it is, in prac-
tice, impossible to ensure that every
employee will receive such benefits, and
industrial awards which purport to con-
fer them on all employees are manifestly
unfair to those who are deprived, through
no fault of their own, from benefiting.
Notwithstanding these and other sub-
stantial objections, the State Govern-
ments in N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Queensland have legislated for the grant-
ing of long-service leave. In Victoria’s
case the High Court decision means that
the benefits of the State Act have been
superimposed upon all the other
privileges and conditions conferred on
employees by the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court.
The decision of file High Court may
be challenged by appeal to the Privy
Council; its implications should cer-
tainly be studied by all our legislators,
State and Federal. For under our crazy
scheme of State and Federal industrial
laws the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court is, in practice, at the mercy of the
State Parliaments, which can, it would
appear, grant what the court refuses, or,
as in the case of the 40-hour week, force
the court’s hand.
Either we should scrap the Federal
court and leave industrial law to the
States, or we should amend our Consti-
tution and grant full power in industrial
matters to the Commonwealth. The
present dual-control system is simply
unworkable. — Doynest (Vic.).
Fremantle
Fremantle (W.A.) harbor must be the
most efficient and industrious port in
Australia. Certainly it is well ahead of
all other major Australian ports in
cargo-handling capacity per berth.
Recent investigations showed that in this
regard it was 50 per cent, better than
Adelaide, 100 per cent, better than Mel-
bourne and 150 per cent, better than
Sydney.
In 1951-52, for instance, Melbourne’s
98 deep-water berths handled just over
8,000,000 tons, an average per berth of
86,000 tons. Fremantle the same year
handled 3,100,000 tons with 17 berths —
an average per berth of 184,000 tons.
Fremantle’s average should actually be
higher still, as at least two of its 17
berths are never used for cargo-handling.
An important factor in Fremantle’s
favor is, of course, the absence of strong
Communist influence on the waterfront.
Equally important, however, is the strict
and efficient control exercised by the
Fremantle Harbor Trust, which has a
say in just about all shore operations.
The trust, under the guiding hand of
general-manager F. W. Tydeman, is for
ever building new berths, - dredging
Cockburn Sound or otherwise engaged in
improvement-work.
Cockburn Sound, incidentally, on
which stands the new industrial town
and oil-refinery of Kwinana, is con-
sidered to be part of the Port of Fre-
mantle. Kwinana has made Cockburn
Sound of considerable defence signific-
ance. The sound also offers a splendid
sheltered anchorage, and, if anything did
happen to Singapore, it could become
all-important as a naval base. — Maros
(W.A.).


On the Line , r
Those fettlers who have such a hard g
time in Queensland and N. s - Wales '■ t
17/8/’55) might find their Utopia 1
Victoria. . , £
The one-time back-breaking job ol
chipping miles of fencing fire-strips has £
been abolished by a rotary-hoe which
tears-up grass at a rate of knots. Gone
also is the old hand-pumped poison- (
cart. A special poison-train now sprats
100 miles a track a day. Even a tamping-
machine is on the job to do away wit
the manual packing of ballast under the
sleepers, not to mention a mechanical
rail-saw, sleeper-drill and nut-tightener.
Country fettlers are-provided with a ‘
house and special rates for the cartage
of provisions. Wages seem to be reason- ‘
able and advancement is encouraged.
Those who take the game on rarely leave
it.—J.P. C. (Vic.).
Pensioners
In all the argument about the plight
of the old-age pensioners it is essential
to remember the basic idea of the
pension.
Originally this payment was to assist,
in some degree old people without means,
or very limited resources, who, by virtue
of their bad luck, improvidence or
indifferent management, had fallen on
evil times. That was the basic idea, but
consider what is happening now,
People of moderate means at about
55-60 years of age are judiciousb/ getting
rid of their assets, to the family in many
cases, and becoming wards of, the State.
Nothing up to £5000 or £6000 can earn
as much as the old-age pension, the
economic system having defeated thrift.
So many elderly people, having, by
devious means made themselves - ligible
for the pension, keep a small cottage and
find themselves living in modest comfort
for the rest of their days. In thousands
of cases they augment their incomes from
outside sources and what is under the
carpet.
Electors are well aware what is going
on and the sob-stuff does not count
“Labor,” therefore, had better think of
some other attack on the Government.
They could, as something constructive,
advance to the people a sound cheme of
national insurance, without a means-test,
with contributions from all classes of the
community.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Road-safety Measures
Our traffic-laws already provide ample
safety-measures, and if they were
observed the accident-rate would drop
considerably. At present there’s very
little attempt to observe them for them-
selves alone —as you’ll see if you come
to a stretch of road that isn’t regularly
patrolled. If a 30-m.p.h. limit is imposed
in a certain area there’s a reason for it,
and the bloke who does 40 to 60 often
demonstrates that reason, sometimes
fatally. So does the driver who won’t
stop at intersections where he’s required
to, who can’t see the sense in giving way
to the right, who takes a chance on
passing on the wrong side and who’d
sooner pass a vehicle on a hill than
change-down. More than half the acci-
dents occur through the habitual breaking
of commonsense regulations.
Another serious cause of accidents is
temper. Ever get mad when a speed-
hog cuts-in too close as he’s passing? He
may be everything you’re calling him,
but until you calm-down you’re not a
safe driver yourself. If you respond to
the urge to overtake him and give him
some of his own medicine you’re a definite
menace. A driver nearly skittles you at
an intersection where you definitely had
the right-of-way; as your heart slips
back down your throat your gorge rises
and for the next half-mile or so you’re
reviling him and his ilk. For that dist-
ance you’re pot a safe driver. Almost
every driver can think of occasions when
he could easily have had an accident if
there’d been another vehicle there to
have it with —and all because his atten-
tion had been diverted by a regulation-
breaker who’d incensed him.
Just now W.A.’s diesel-electric trains
are having a spate of accidents with cars
and even bicycles at level-crossings, and
the dailies are heading a demand that
something be done about it. What more
can be done? The trains have been
painted white with a red stripe, they’re
fitted with a bright headlight with a
blinking light on either side of it, their
sirens can be heard a half-mile away and
a lot of the crossings are fitted with red
warning-lights. Yet accidents still
happen.
One big trouble is that most motorists
must learn by experience. If their first
accident is a minor one they get the
lesson cheaply. If it isn’t they and
“Now well get some fish!”
others pay through the nose. There’s the
driver who’s confident he can handle a
skid —until he’s in one. Then he learns
just what a skid is and realises he hadn’t
the faintest idea of what to do. After
that, of course, he drives carefully on
wet roads.
There are two ways in which every
motorist can help to reduce accidents.
He can drive carefully and, if necessary,
slowly, obeying the regulations which
were framed to save his life ; and he can
report any other driver he sees blatantly
committing a serious breach. Pimping
is obnoxious, but reporting an attempted
murder isn’t. The driver who recklessly
hurls a ton or more of metal along a
busy street is a potential murderer.
I’d make a suggestion to the authori-
ties. Cancel the licence of everyone
involved in an accident. If the holder is
innocent, restore the licence immediately
that fact is reasonably established. If
he’s innocent, but could have avoided the
accident if he’d been more alert, leave it
cancelled for a week. If he’s guilty, make
it up to a year, depending on the gravity
of the offence.
Punishing innocent people? Not a bit
of it. A day off driving won’t hurt any
man who’s just been involved in an
accident. — Nangabrook (W.A.).
State Housing
The announcement by Victoria’s
Minister for Housing that the rents of
that State’s 22,000 Housing Commission
homes would be raised immediately by
about 18 per cent., on an average, evoked
loud protests from the tenants and a
certain amount of public sympathy,
particularly from the State Labor ranks.
It is apparently overlooked that these
tenants have been generously treated by
the State in the past and that the main-
tenance of rents at present levels could
be done only at the expense of the tax-
payer generally. Rents have been
assessed on the basis of costs at the time
of construction of the houses ; thus, those
lucky enough to obtain homes before the
steep increases in building-costs over
recent years have so far paid very modest
rentals by present-day standards. The
costs of maintenance, rates, taxes,
insurance and other charges have risen
very considerably, and the loss On the
commission’s homes for the last 12
months has been half-a-million pounds,
bringing the total deficit on the State’s
houses to one-and-a-half million.
Bluntly, many of these tenants have
been the recipients of State charity. They
have been spared the bother and expense
of building their own homes, they have
had complete security of tenure so long
as they have paid their rents and, where
the family-income has been below speci-
fied amounts, they have had the benefit
of rental rebates at the taxpayer’s
expense. They are not compelled to
retain their tenancies —they are at liberty
to find other accommodation whenever
they wish—and they have the opportunity
to buy their homes on very reasonable
terms.
The protests at the announced
increases in rents suggest that the
generous State aid in overcoming the
housing problem was misguided. It has
encouraged people to lean on the State
for housing and to complain when they
are obliged to pay their proper share of
the cost.
There is no valid reason why the State
should provide housing any more than
it should provide food, clothing or other
necessities, except for those who are
incapable of making any provision for
themselves. If the State, in accordance
with its mistaken conception of the
obligations of a welfare society, persists
in its present housing-policy it will incur
tremendous liabilities in the future and
receive meagre thanks from the recipi-
ents of its benevolence. Slum-clearance,
the provision of homes for the aged and
destitute —these are the proper fields for
State housing-activity. The erection of
houses for all and sundry should be
abandoned at once. —Wusslean (Vic.).
Spend or Save?
Whether we should spend or save (B.
31/8/’55) is a question for each man
to decide according to his resources and
responsibilities. But “Keima” may rest
assured that, if everyone decided to save,
the result would not be mass-unemploy-
ment. Money put in a bank, or invested
in bonds or shares, is spent mostly on
capital goods, such as farms, factories,
roads, etc., which make just as much
employment as the luxury industries.
If we saved more, interest-rates would
eventually fall, which would make it
easier to establish new industries. A
thrifty community is less liable to sudden
variations in its economy; its life is less
precarious if perhaps less exciting.—
Howie Wing (W.A.).
Payroll-tax
Can’t agree with “C.8.M.” that, in
view of the Budget surplus, “one of the
first moves by the Federal Treasurer
should be the abolition of payroll-tax”
(B. 17/8/’55).
Although its introduction was a war-
time measure, payroll-tax is based on a
sound and logical principle, which is
more than can be said for some of the
other forms of taxation with which we
are afflicted. At the time it was brought
in, money had to be found for the pay-
ment of child-endowment (also a war-
time innovation, and a good one). From
an economic viewpoint, it is logical that
the employers of labor should contribute,
in proportion to their labor-requirements,
towards the cost of maintaining and
bringing future recruits to the labor-
force. This, in essence, is what the tax
aims at, and no valid objection can be
levelled at the principle behind it.
Objections on other grounds might,
if sustained, justify the abolition of the
tax —if it can be shown that the original
purpose has been departed from and that
this particular revenue is simply lumped
into general funds, or if it is used to raise
more revenue than is required for child
endowment. It might also be shown that
the cost of collecting the tax is excessive,
but no evidence is available on that point.
It seems an overstatement to say that
the tax “creates a tremendous amount of
work in the collating of details and the
submitting of returns.” These records
must be kept, for other purposes, any-
way, and the extra work and expense
involved in calculating the tax and for-
warding remittances would be relatively
small. ,
As for * the saving to the Federal
Government if the payroll-tax were
abolished, only an extremely naive tax-
payer would assume that the total num-
ber of public servants would be reduced
by such a move. From past experience,
they would all be “absorbed,” whether
needed or not, by other Government
departments, in accordance with that
accommodating public - service motto:
“Move up and make room for more.” —
D. J. G. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 349
Across
I— A sweet marble to lead with a
Red Indian. (7)
s—Hutton was opposed to this
Glynis on Boswell’s pet subject.
(7)
8— A perfume pig to bring forth a
lamb like one across or others
of the same language group. (10)
9 Face a reversal if rested. (4)
ll Prosecute for language before
tea. (6)
12—I blubber to a Rhode Island
crescent with regard to some
details of weather maps. (8)
15— The first fellow who composed
“Giselle” had ham among lazy
speakers. (4)
16— The language which initiates
beating up rich men every Satur-
day evening. (7)
20— Meat to tuck back a European.
(7)
21— The creature is in love. (4)
24 —But this resident of a N.S.W.
town might be in his dotage.
(5,3)
26—Where to spot the north-easts
cricket who has opened for
Australia. (6)
28— Captured to mark approvingly.
(4)
29 The old man walks like a cripple
with time (not applicable in
Adelaide or Perth) for an MS.
that has been written on twice.
(10) .. . .
30— lah the Evil is apostrophised in
the shortest book of the Old
Testament. (7)
31 — Pesters one who equips folk
with a special insignia. (7)
Down
1— Tending to join together a hair-
dresser swallowed by a con-
servative. (11)
2 Glassy lava boys like 30-across,
26-across, and 5-across. (8)
3 Tea fowl’s young one to urge a
horse on. (6)
4 Waves about jokers. (4)
5 Overalls for stars like Gabin and
Simmons and one whom the
stars interest intensely. (5)
6 Lift the alternative to these
street tunes. (6)
7 Kelly. (3) .
10—Humble seaman on the sea
changed a foundation. (5)
13 — Marxist writer satisfies McNess,
a poet, when in hiding and
counterbalances a loss. (11)
14— Bee after a mongrel in check. (4)
17— The illiterate signatory may
make his money for Antony. (4)
18— Fruit chap on leave. (5)
19_Stick together for a notice on a
slot machine? (8)
22 — China duck on the French dome.
(6) . .
23 Improvised description of a
siren’s victim? (6)
25 —What remains of the burnt sea-
man to embarrass an assault?
(5) . _ .
27 A branch entertainer of Aus-
tralian band-fans. (4)
28 — The number which is due in
Italy. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 348


TWs entire paye la s PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Vfeepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTU E LIMITER
fll.V. AGRICULTURAL nEUIS
September
monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1955
“ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION FOR DAIRY
CATTLE SOON ON FULL COMMERCIAL SCALE”
°::r;r an °" w/,o had just returned from ,4mer/c«.
s# U d bull 9aVe * n e T° rd defa, ' S ° f mOVeS far early commeneement of commercial "production" of
stud-bull semen for Dairy-Cattle breeding in Australia.
The successful use of snap-frozen semen for
Dairy-Cattle breeding jn the United States has
provoked world-wide interest. Now plans are
under way for the introduction of a full-scale
commercial Artificial Insemination service for
Australian Dairy Farmers. Veterinarians through-
out country areas will be able to order semen
supplies for their clients from a semen “bank,”
selected from a large catalogue of Champion Stud
Bulls.
This service will mean quick, easy access to
sought-after stud bulls by Dairy Farms every-
where. Snap-frozen semen may be kept in perfect
condition even for years, and in this form can be
packed in dry-ice and transported over great
distances without fear of deterioration.
In American experiments, artificial insemination
nas had a record of successful calvings better
than that of natural insemination. Scientific cross-
breeding using A. 1.” has increased successful
pregnancies from 70% to 90% of services.
The success of artificial insemination means that
another blow has been struck in the effort to
increase the yield of milk per cow. “Strip”-
grazing, efficient pest and disease control, water
conservation and soil improvement, new designs
for milking bails . . . these are some of the
weapons the up-to-date Dairyman is using to
ensure the continued growth of the Dairy Industry
in the face of rising costs. Any development
which increases the efficiency of the Dairy Farm
is being eagerly grasped by the industry. Many
At left is a typical
layout of the Moffat-
Virtue Milking
Machine, which graphi-
cally illustrates the
si m pli city of the
machine. Visible are
the famous M.V. “V 3”
2} h.p. Petrol Engine,
which powers the
machine, also the
Puls at or Control
Assembly, Re leaser,
Milk Cooler, etc.
who in the past have been loath to admit the
advantages of scientific farming are being forced
by circumstances to revise their ideas.
The increased need for efficiency explains the
ever-growing popularity of the Moffat-Virtue
Milking Machine. Because it simplifies operation,
maintenance and washing, the M.V. Milker saves
valuable labour and time, cuts repair-bills, reduces
effort, and means faster, better milking. Faster
milking, too. means more time for the dairy cows’
grazing, ruminating and rest.
The M.V. Milking Machine is more than just an
improvement on older designs ... it is a complete
departure from previously accepted ideas, and is
acknowledged by experts everywhere as the most
advanced and efficient plant obtainable
MILK IN INDUSTRY
Milk is, with one exception, namely honey, the
only material specifically designed by Nature as a
food. It is highly beneficial to young and old
alike, and appears in an amazing variety of forms,
from ice-cream to cheese.
However, new uses and derivatives are continually
appearing. Milk is used, for example, in the pro-
duction of glue, paint, artificial fibres, and in the
mushrooming plastics industry.
It is also used in the production of lactic acid,
chemicals, explosives, dyes, and for the wonder-
drug penicillin.
Every day milk is helping to feed, clothe and heal
more and more of the earth’s millions. Socially,
strategically, and economically, the Dairy Industry
is vital to Australia as never before.
The New Pulsator-Control
Assembly.
Efficiency Plus
Simplicity means
YOU save money
There are only three
main parts to clean in
the Moffat - Virtue
Milker. The Releaser,
of the most advanced
design, is noted for
its cleanliness. The
simple Control
Assembly ensures a
constant vacuum all
the time.
CHOOSING A MACHINE CAN
BE A BIG PROBLEM...
Usually it is important for the farmer to seek
expert advice when purchasing new machinery
and equipment for his property.
I hat way he is assisted in deciding exactly what
features the machine should have to best meet
his requirements.
And that is the reason for the popularity of the
Moffat-Virtue Milking Machine. Owners have
made a careful comparison of the machines
available feature by feature, and concluded that
in the M.V. Milker are incorporated the quality,
sound design and practical construction that will
save him money.
The clear-cut superiority of the Moffat-Virtue
Milking Machine is in its simplicity in operation,
cleaning and maintenance. Here is the depend-
able machine that gets the milking done faster,
costs less to buy and run. The Dairy Farmer gets
more time for other important jobs, like fencing,
repairs, manure-spreading, spraying, etc.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd,, urges every Dairy Farmer
to consider the advantages of installing new
Milking Machinery.
Easy Terms are available for the purchase of Moffat-Virtue Milking
Machines, and full information may be obtained from the State Distributors
listed below.
N.S.W.; Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTHERN Q’LAND: Dalgety and Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Shearing
Limited, Adelaide,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
