

/
ok^
I
SOLERO
S W E
T OR DRY
The Bulletin
GUIDED MISSILES - DEFENCE ATTACK PAGE 28
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3920
Wednesday, March 30, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 239: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
SADLER’S WELLS, FAMOUS THEATRE OF BALLET
BRITAIN’S world-famous national ballet-company takes its name from
its place of origin, the old-established Sadler’s Wells Theatre at
Islington, in north-east London.
The present theatre, opened in 1931, is the latest of a succession of
places of entertainment which occupied the site since 1638. In that year a
mineral spring was discovered on the spot and its possibilities were exploited
by a Thomas Sadler, who provided musical and theatrical distractions for
those taking the medicinal waters —the well still survives today. In 1765
the original Music House, as it was called, was replaced by the first theatre,
and this building had a varied history. It was there that Grimaldi, the
famous clown, gave his first performance in 1781 and also his last in 1805.
In the early years of the 19th century many equestrian acts were staged there
and, under the management of Samuel. Phelps, the theatre achieved its
greatest fame by the production of thirty-four of Shakspeare’s plays. Part
of this theatre is incorporated in the modern building, which has a stone
relief over the entrance portraying Drama.
When the modern theatre was opened in 1931 it was managed in con-
junction with the Old Vic Theatre in south London by Lilian Baylis. Both
theatres had the same aim—to present first-class performances of opera and
classical plays at the lowest possible prices. Soon, however, it was decided
to concentrate opera at the Wells and drama at the Vic. There was ballet,
too, at the Wells, for in the year of the new theatre’s inauguration the
Sadler’s Wells Ballet (originally the Vic-Wells Ballet) gave its first full-
evening performance.
After the Second World War the Sadler’s Wells Ballet, now recognised
as the leading company in Britain, was transferred to the Royal Opera
House, Covent Garden. But ballet was not lost to the Wells, for a new
company was formed —the Sadler’s Wells Theatre Ballet, which, in the few
years of its existence, has become almost as widely celebrated as the parent
company and has had several overseas .tours already to its credit.


BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
THREE FROM N.Z.
Hands Off Taranaki
It is really shocking to visit Eltham
in New Zealand and not say anything
more about it than that a girl in a
restaurant was startled, as well she
she may have been, when a fellow-
traveller asked for six ice-creams in
his milk-shake ; but that is all Robin
W. Winks does say in These New
Zealanders (Whitcombe and Tombs).
What about Eltham’s Taumata
Park, the bushy haunt of lovers and
Rugby footballers, known irreverently
to the young as Tomato Park? What
about the, brown trout in the
Waingongoro? What about that most
magnificent view of the dawn from
Mangamingi Ridge, when a flush of
rose suffuses the snows of Egmont and
the mist rolls silver through the gullies
to the wraith of Ruapehu? What
about the bacon-factory?
Then there is New Plymouth. New
Plymouth on page 24 is “one of the
most uninspiring cities in all New
Zealand set in one of the most
inspiring of settings.” On page 159
it is “an ugly town.” Is it really so
foul? There were shops and things,
as one remembers it, in the hollow
under the great Boys’ High School, no
worse and no better than other shops ;
no skyscrapers and no Byzantine
cathedrals, of course, but a very
pleasant grey old church where Brown,
the friend of Keats, lies buried . . .
and never anywhere, whatever the
town may be like, did the sea so dash
itself into a splendor of foam as in
that wild hollow between the break-
water and the Sugarloaf.
It is small compensation for a
Taranaki man to discover that Gisborne
is pretty, Napier (as restored after the
quake) “delightful,” Hamilton “the
most pleasant in its color-scheme” and
the rail-junction of Palmerston
North —to everyone’s surprise ; in-
cluding, surely, that of the modest
Palmerston Northonians —“one of the
most charming of all the Dominion
settlements.”
Well, Mr. Winks, an American, is
a superficial traveller. Very, at times.
His view of New Zealand literature
is strictly limited to what goes on at
the moment, without a word about
“Old New Zealand,” “Tutira,” “The
Greenstone Door,” “Erewhon,” Eileen
Duggan, Robin Hyde . . . His view of
music fails to take in Alfred Hill, and
when he praises “the Polynesian
magic ; the rhythm, the tone, the style
of presentation” of “Now Is the Hour”
(or, “The Maori Farewell”) he is
obviously unaware that it was written
by an Australian and originally put
out as “The Swiss Cradle Song” . . .
And on the supremely important
subject of fishing he does indeed
mention Taupo and Russell but with
an appalling brevity and a total lack
of scenic description.
But then Mr. Winks does comment
tellingly on the awful vegetables
served in New Zealand restaurants —
they are almost as bad as Australian,
which is saying something. He discovers
that New Zealanders drink too much
beer, and can’t take it when they do,
and on the other hand they don’t swear
nearly as much as they probably hope
they do. He praises the bookshops.
He mentions that there is now a Maori
magazine, “Te Ao Hou.” He finds
the press hampered by antiquated
libel-laws. He likes the glow-worms
at Waitomo. He believes the people
have bad teeth due to drinking too
much tea. He likes the homes and the
winter firesides.
And, comparing the New Zealanders
with the Americans, as is his purpose
throughout the book, he makes it very
clear that one cannot in these parts
point the finger of scorn, as so many
people unthinkingly do, at the state of
culture in the U.S.: “50.000.000 people
every year go to America’s many fine
art-galleries—one-third of the total
population. Has one out of every three
New Zealanders attended an art-gallery
show this last year?” Silence would
perhaps be the best reply to so awkward
a rhetorical question.
Mr. Winks is an historian and
anthropologist from Colorado who was
in New Zealand as a Fqlbright
scholar in 1952 studying the Hau-Hau
and Ringatu movements. Maddening,
pleasing, stimulating, lightly written
and always well-mannered, his book
will doubtless interest New Zealanders
as much as did the recent bestselling
humorous commentaries of C. V.
Smith.
Pioneer Novel
Judging by the astonishing success
of Georgina McDonald’s first novel,
“Grand Hills for Sheep,” which was
about Scottish immigrants in the South
Island and which has run through four
editions since 1949, New Zealand has
a big public for the pioneer-novel.
Stinson’s Bush (Whitcombe and
Tombs), Miss McDonald’s second
novel, may be equally popular but it
suffers from a curious anonymity, a
placelessness, as if the author had said
all she wanted to say about the scenery,
the feeling of the local earth, in the
earlier pioneer-story. A great deal of
it is set in Northern Ireland—far too
much for it to fulfil its proper purpose
of recreating early New Zealand life—
and when it does come home to Otago
there is little to show that Stinson’s
bush is not in England, South America
or anywhere else on earth:—
They came to the bottom of the
gully, where water trickled over
stones in a harmless little stream,
scarcely an inch deep. Carlie had
negotiated it effortlessly at least
five hundred times. But this
morning she drew back from it,
gracefully lifting her skirts from its
contamination, then modestly
dropping them again in a maidenly
flurry. So Hector, all masculine
protectiveness, stood on the low
bank and swung her over as if she
were no more than a leaf. This
pleased them both mightily and,
forgetful of their several responsi-
bilities to the shearing, they sat
down together on a mossy log.
Hector picked a handful of fern
and separated the delicate fronds.
“I’ll not be satisfied,” he said,
“till I know the name of every
fern and tree in this patch of
bush.”
But Hector never does learn the
names ; nor does one feel very strongly,
except that the Invercargill Show is
described with some color and spirit,
that he or any of the characters is fixed
in the New Zealand earth. Like Brent
of Bin Bin, though without that
writer’s verve and sense of place, Miss
McDonald has allowed herself to
become absorbed in a set of courtships
and marriages among her Irish
immigrants (with an excessively
mechanical happy - ending to the
principal romance) and it makes, on the
whole, an amiable but very light
confection.
The Rascally Mutineers
Though it has its salty moments, as
when the captain and his chief-mate
camp all night beside an anchored
whale, in a heavy sea and a cold wind
20 miles off the coast of New Zealand,
The Whaling Journal of Captain W. B.
Rhodes, 1836-38 (Whitcombe and
Tombs) is not so lively, simply as a
narrative of whaling, as one would
expect.
The captain, who had retired from
the sea to go sheep-farming in N. S.
Wales before he was induced to take
command of the barque Australian
for a two years’ whaling cruise in New
Zealand waters and around Tonga, is
content for the most part simply to
record that a whale was harpooned, or
not, on any given day, with a bareness
appropriate to a ship’s log but rather
too bare for the reader looking for
pictorial detail.
But as a considerable compensation
the book is quite astonishingly lively
for its accounts of trouble with the
crew, which persisted throughout the
voyage and which may have arisen
partly because Captain Rhodes, though
experienced at sea, had no experience
of whaling and partly, no doubt,
because as Captain Howe of the
Harriet declared at Port Cooper, when
he was called aboard the Australian
to investigate the propriety of Captain
Rhodes’s having beaten the cook, the
crew were “an extremely rascally and
mutinous set to deal with.” Also, one
suspects, Captain Rhodes was a some-
what peppery character.
He sailed down Sydney Harbor on
June 12, 1868, tranquilly enough ;
in fact, too tranquilly, for the ship was
becalmed that night off Point Piper—
when one of the owners, Mr. Roberts,
with several other gentlemen came
aboard for a champagne dinner —and
again the next night off Watson’s Bay.
But by July 6, as soon as he had
passed Mount Egmont on his way to
Cook’s Straits, when all hands were
called to shift some sails that had been
damaged in the gales, he found that
The watch below then peremp-
torily refused to come on deck.
Consequently the officers found it
impossible to carry the Captain’s
orders into execution which tends
much to endanger the safety of
the ship in . the event of
another gale coming on. At
noon the Captain o r d er e d
the rations to be brought aft
in the cabin. The Chief Mate
went forward and told those men
that had been working to go into
the cabin and get their dinners.
They reply’d they would have it
forward or not at all. They
then all went -below, with the
exception of Wra. Stirling, boat-
steerer, the mechanicks & boys.
Apparently from that point onwards
the captain stopped the rations of all
those who refused to work, and it was
not until five days later that, “after
their voluntary fast,” most of the men
returned to work and meals. Two
weeks later the boats’ crews refused
to tow a deal whale at sunset; and
The officers did not at all exert
their authority and by their silence
the crew were encouraged to resist
the orders of their Captain. I was
much grieved at the highly im-
proper behavior of my officers.
On August 27, the unfortunate cook
happened to be on deck when Captain
Rhodes emerged from his cabin at
6 a.m. to find that the men had not
turned out at 5 a.m. to tow a whale.
Captain Rhodes asked him why he had
not been called at five-o’clock and
He replied that he had no orders,
and was extremely abusive. Being
irritated, I gave him a beating.
Notwithstanding the noise made on
deck, as the captain guilelessly remarks,
“none of the officers appeared.” But
the crew at least took notice of the
event and demanded, before they would
resume duty, that there should be an
inquiry into the captain’s conduct by
the skippers of three other whalers then
at Port Cooper.
In spite of Captain Howe’s useful
finding that the crew were rascally
mutineers, the third-mate that same
day, “from some cause best known to
himself,” made use of “a great deal of
insolent language”—to which the
captain did not reply, “not thinking it
of any use to try and bring such a
blackguard to terms.”
On September sth, after another
quarrel with the third mate, we are
offered the surprising information that
“the Captain took the knife and
bounded” ; and though it appears, on
a closer reading, that “bounding” is a
technical term used in dismembering
a whale, the incident was at least
exciting enough for the captain to be
obliged to return to Port Cooper with
his crew in a state which Captain
Collins of the Nile, called in again with
Captain Fowler of the Elizabeth to
adjudicate, described as “as rank a
mutiny as could occur on board of
ship he considered them an in-
famous lazy set of scoundrels.”
Captain Rhodes thereupon dismissed,
or allowed peacefully to depart, 17 of
the rankest mutineers. But his troubles
were by no means over, for after a
happier interlude at Cloudy Bay,
when “the ladies at the Bay
were very condescending, and took
lodgings on board the ship, to the great
satisfaction of the sailors,” he set out
for Tonga, and the boy Joe deserted
with a Maori on one of the islands.
Whereupon, the pair being recaptured
and the Maori, for diplomatic reasons,
being exempt from punishment, “The
boy I ordered to be transferred to a gun
with his posterior exposed and made
the other boys inflict four dozen stripes
with a cat prepared for the purpose.”
After a call at Sunday Island in the
Kermadecs, where he found a settler
named Read and his Maori wife
growing pumpkins, and six deserters
from the Cheviot living on mutton-
birds, Captain Rhodes had a final
quarrel with the third-officer over
whether or not the whales sighted that
day had been sperm-whales. The
officer “damn’d his heart” and called
the captain an (adjective) liar; and, to
complete the discomforts of the voyage,
the ladies of Tonga, under the strictest
missionary influence, were found to be
wholly uncondescending. The nation
was living in a state of the utmost
religious correctitude, only modified a
little by their habit of converting out-
lying islanders by wholesale massacre.
Captain Rhodes survived the
turmoils of his voyage and subse-
quently bought a million acres of New
Zealand from the Maoris, comprising
most of the coastal districts of Hawkes
Bay from Table Cape to Cape Turn-
again. Most of these vast claims were
disallowed by Governor Hobson’s
Land Commissioners ; but one way or
another, chiefly as a merchant in
Wellington, Captain Rhodes managed
to set himself up as a substantial New
Zealand citizen, becoming a member
of the Legislative Council from 1871
to his death in 1878.
His grandson, William Barnard
Rhodes-Moorhouse, got a V.C. in
World War I, being, as C. R. Straubel,
relates in his informative introduction
to the “Whaling Journal,” the first
pilot and the first member of the Royal
Flying Corps to receive this award ;
and his great-grandson, William Henry
Rhodes-Moorhouse, was one of the
R.A.F. pilots shot down in the Battle
of Britain.
Reviewed Briefly
An Introduction to American
Politics: D. W. Brogan (Hamish
Hamilton). A most useful explanation
of the great American mystery—what
Republicans and Democrats are, and
how they get into and out of power —
written with a wealth of color that
makes the book also a picture of the
American way of life. It is an up-to-
date successor to Professor Brogan’s
“The American Political System,”
and, surprisingly until you come to
think about it, shows how very
powerful a factor television has be-
come, making the long Presidential
pre-election tours unnecessary and
forcing the candidates to become
“photogenic”—“his chief job is to
present himself on the air.”
* * * *
Dog Training My Way: Barbara
Woodhouse (Faber). For the average
householder who has one dog and
wants to know how to make it behave:
with hints on how to make it sit down
(perhaps not really a difficult matter),
on remote control, how to stop dog-
fights and how to discourage sheep-
and poultry-worrying. To stop a dog-
fight Mrs. Woodhouse seizes hold of
her dog’s skin on the forehead, “an
extremely painful hold”; but what she
more strongly advocates is teaching
them not to fight at all, which you dc
by training them to “ignore” other
dogs. Which calls up a wonderfully
English picture of dogs strolling
through Kensington Gardens in the
evening, all studiously ignoring each
other . . .
, * * * *
African Bush Adventures: J. A.
Hunter and Dan Mannix (Hamilton).
Stories of some African pioneers;
hunters, settlers, explorers, mis-
sionaries. With crocodiles and canni-
bals, native warfare and an up-to-
date account of the Mau Mau move-
ment in Kenya, based on an interview
with Dr. Leakey, the Nairobi anthro-
pologist who discovered the “Kanam
jaw,” said to be “the oldest human
remains.”


m
Why not
lay-by?
It’s a wonderful help!
Just a small deposit
(4/- in every £) se'
cures those goods that
you can’t afford at the
time, till you finalise
the balance by easy
monthly payments.
Clothing
Hospital
Our famous clothing
hospital repairs, in-
visibly mends, alters,
re'fits, re-lines both
men’s and women’s
clothes. We also re-
condition leather coats
and jackets. Grd. Fir.
Visit our
Optical Centre
We consider optical
health enormously im-
portant. That’s why,
on our Second Floor,
we’ve a special Opti-
cal Centre. Mr. J. A.
Galloway, A.S.T.C.,
F. 1.0., is the consult'
ing optometrist.
Our
Animal Clinic
This is the only clinic
of its kind offered by
a department store.
Free veterinary advice
from experts on Tues'
day and Friday from
2to 4 p.m. 4th Floor.
Ho all gour 1955 shopping through
TOPS.
T.O.P.S. —our Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping Service —is the easy, modern
way to shop. In fact, for many harassed housewives, busy executives and out-of-town
tradesmen, it’s the only way to shop. T.O.P.S. brings every department (big and small) in
Ar:u:n h t.\ advert isjnc
nthony Horderns’
just as near as your own telephone, wherever you live in N.S.W. Gone are the days
when, with a lengthy order to place, you had to endure the irritation of being transferred
from one department to another, with consequent delay. Gone, too, are the days when
orders from different departments arrived on different days. Now an efficient T.O.P.S.
assistant takes your complete order and has it delivered promptly and efficiently to your
door. And, if you desire personal selection of any merchandise, a Personal T.O.P.S.
shopper will gladly go round the store and shop for you. T.O.P.S. helps everyone!
T.O.P.S. can help you !
■
? M
FOR T.O.P.S. RING 80951 ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2 712, G.
. 0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 30, 19SS
Vol. 76—No. 3920
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;.
‘Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
PARLIAMENT SHOULD MEET
APRIL and May, 1955, will probably go down in
Australian political history as months of note. The
atmosphere, to say the least, is momentous. Mr.
Menzies is home after an important tour of the key
capitals of the Western world, to deal with an
increasingly alarming external situation in which
Russian and Chinese defence is being rapidly con-
solidated. Nothing has been more ominous in post-
war history than the swift reorganisation of Russia
under a group which is essentially military, the
substantial changes at Moscow being followed
immediately by the appointment of an overall
commander-in-chief of the forces behind the Iron
Curtain in a manner which leaves no doubt but
that all the Eastern European countries overrun by
the Soviet forces in 1944-45 are Russian colonies.
Marshal Rokossovsky, though a leading Red
Army commander of World War 11, has been
ostensibly Minister for Defence of Poland and
served by a galaxy of Russian generals, some of
whom, in their Polish guise, have been travelling
under false names. He has obviously been
organising the vanguard of Russian Western
offensive territory during the past several years.
And his new appointment seems to be the outcome
of the satellite defence conference attended by
Krushchev, Mikoyan and Bulganin last September—
it followed a visit by the same three musketeers to
China and Siberia at a time when it was believed
that substantial atomic experiments were going on
there. Last week the Russian generals and several
Chinese generals were simultaneously promoted.
The new appointments of Russian Defence
Ministers —Zhukov and a band of marshals—and
commissars, and of the new commander follow
directly on the Seato conference in Bangkok and
the completion of the first stage of the planning
of the defence of Western Europe involving
re-entry of West Germany into the military field.
They also come when politics in Britain and other
parts of the British Commonwealth are in a state
of flux.
Mr. Menzies and Australia face a peculiar
series of difficulties arising out of the Afro-Asian
conference. It is obviously a meeting in which
Australia cannot participate. It is one in which
no self-respecting former Minister for External
Affairs would embarrass the Government by
participating ; but, nevertheless, it seems certain
that if Dr. Evatt can get there he will be there
cheek-by-jowl with Dr. Burton, formerly his
Secretary for External Affairs, who has played the
game of the Communists and the U.S.S.R. to the
point of visiting Peking Peace Conferences and
lending his authority to the loathsome atrocity and
germ-warfare charges which were propagated
against United Nations troops during the Korean
war by an enemy Government.
It should be made clear that in proposing to
go abroad to Bandoeng for the Afro-Asian Con-
ference Dr. Evatt and his henchman Dr. Burton
are not acting on the basis of a foreign demand
that they should attend. The proceedings of the past
few days make it clear that it is they who are
seeking to force their presence on the conference
for the purpose of using the occasion to embarrass
the Government of this White Australian nation.
This has been perfectly evident from the statement
by the Indonesian Ambassador to Australia, who
made it clear on March 23 that no invitation had
been issued to the “Labor” party and that the
matter had been initiated at the Hobart
Conference. He said that he would “discuss with
Dr. Evatt the question of an invitation to an
Australian Labor delegation to go as observers
next month.” If the delegation goes it will delight
Moscow as being one more admission that Australia
is part of Asia and therefore within the region in
which Russia and China have a claim to interfere.
Were party conditions normal in Australia,
Mr. Menzies or the Speaker would be facing at this
time a strong clamor by “Labor” to have
Parliament summoned to deal with the conditions
created by the floods in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. The Speaker, in fact, would be under
continual pressure to call the House of Representa-
tives together whether the Government liked it or
not. But for once “Labor’s” soft heart is not
moved by the distress caused by the floods. Dr.
Evatt has shown a singular lack of interest in what
has been happening in his old home - town of
Maitland. He is on the verge of paying a State
visit to the areas adjacent to the flood-damaged
areas ; but he is going there not with the flood in
view, but with another kind of catastrophe as the
activating motive. “Relief for Evatt,” not for
flood-victims, is his covert slogan.
He is going, in fact, because the unions in the
coalfields have a distinct leaning towards Com-
munism among their leaders, and it is among the
unions influenced by Communism that Dr. Evatt
expects to secure his support. So far as Parliament
is concerned, he and his immediate lieutenants are
in the mood to hope that it never meets. For it to
meet now would be embarrassing to the point of
ruin for them, more especially since it is only a
matter of weeks before the Petrov Commission
report can be expected to emerge and co-ordinate
the staggering information which has been brought
out piecemeal about the extent to which the
External Affairs Department became infested with
Communists and Communist - supporters and
parlor-Pinks during the years in which the Doctor
was its Ministerial head.
Mr. Menzies, it is understood, does not intend
to call Parliament together immediately. It will
certainly meet before May 3, but cannot meet
much earlier unless special arrangements are made.
The problems arising from the changes in defence
plans and methods require attention. The questions
arising out of the pressure for margins, and particu-
larly that by the Commonwealth public service,
whose wages were raised last December without the
necessary consent of Parliament only two months
before a fresh set of demands was formulated, call
for public debate.
It is vital that Parliament shoulcj consider flood
damage and the import position, which should be
debated at the earliest possible moment. It is also
wise that the position of the Opposition, which is a
vital section of Parliament, should be established as
soon as possible in relation to Parliament, and that
early opportunity should be taken to go into the
question of the Senate’s position in relation to the
half-election which it is due to face next year. The
sooner a Constitutional convention meets the
happier everybody will be in the light of the growing
impatience of New England with the Cahill
Government and the growing strength of the New
State movement in the North.
The quicker the Government calls all its
Ministers home and gets to work on the heavy
programme in front of it the better it will be for
everybody—including the Government.
The Future of Australian Steel
FOR several years the South Australian Director
of Mines, Mr. S. B. Dickinson, has been waging,
through the medium of his annual reports, a one-
man war against Broken Hill Proprietary. Attacks
on Australia’s only steel-producer are nothing new.
They are part of the stock-in-trade of every Socialist,
it being an article of faith among the tribe that the
steel-industry is a “must” for nationalisation.
Communists abuse the B.H.P. as a matter of
course, realising its key position in the Australian
economy, and that any damage done to it will by
chain-reaction spread throughout the whole com-
munity, thereby swelling the pool of discontents on
which their creed thrives. The company is also,
by its very size and importance, a natural target for
all those professional and amateur politicians and
publicists who fancy themselves in the role of giant-
killer.
Mr. Dickinson cannot be classified among any
of these groups. He is a highly qualified scientist
and geologist with an unsurpassed knowledge of
the iron-ore resources of Australia. In his official
capacity as Director of Mines and Government
Geologist he has been associated with Premier
Playford in the development of South Australia’s
mineral resources in several fields, including Leigh
Creek coal, Radium Hill uranium and Naime
pyrites —in the last of these he worked in close
co-operation with B.H.P. experts.
About 18 months ago the Dickinson reports
were the subject of a full-scale debate in the South
Australian Parliament—where, in contrast with
some other State Legislatures, bills are still per-
mitted to be introduced by Opposition members—
on a “Labor” motion that a select committee should
inquire into the desirability of establishing a steel-
works in the vicinity of Whyalla, as suggested by
the Director of Mines.
Premier Playford opposed the motion, saying
that his Government was wholeheartedly in favor
of a steelworks for Whyalla, but that no useful
purpose could be served by appointing a select
committee. He said that the B.H.P. also favored
the proposal, but was financially fully extended
with developmental work at Port Kembla and else-
where, which was also tying up its staff and
technical equipment.
It is the knowledge that B.H.P.’s resources
are stretched to the limit that leads Mr.
Dickinson to make his controversial proposal.
Boiled-down, his reports amount to a statement
that Australian steel-production since the war has
lagged behind that of most other countries ; an
assertion that there is no prospect of the lost ground
being ever recovered by the 8.H.P., far less of
sufficient provision being made for the future needs
of a rapidly-growing population ; a suggestion that
the S.A. Government’s agreement with the B.H.P.
regarding iron-ore leases be cancelled so that some
of them may be reissued to a new company in
which the 8.H.P., the South Australian Government
and the Commonwealth Government should be
major shareholders. He estimates that the cost of
setting-up a completely integrated steel-industry at
Why alia would be approximately £lOO million, to
which a further £2O million would have to be added
for working capital.
Playford’s reply to the financial portion of this
was that the B.H.P.’s financial resources, as already
stated, were fully extended, that his own Govern-
ment had no means of raising money on the scale
required, and that the Commonwealth Government
was not likely to join in the project. As to the
suggestion of cancelling the leases, his Government
would not be a party to such a repudiation.
Figures quoted by Dickinson showed that,
on a population basis, B.H.P. had an ingot-capacity
of 4801 b. of steel per head in 1939; the correspond-
ing figure for Canada was 3601 b. By 1952 the local
figure had risen to 5001 b., but Canada’s exceeded
7701 b.
Quoting the B.H.P.’s own figures, Mr.
Dickinson put the estimated Australian steel-
production for 1960 at three million tons, but
claimed that the Commonwealth’s needs by that
time would approach five million tons. He further
claimed that Australian imports of steel in the
years 1949 to 1952 averaged over a million tons.
If it is accepted that Australia’s requirements
of steel will necessitate continued importations it
is indisputable that additional steelworks would
be a national gain. What is in dispute is the
practicability of establishing it. Two main problems
emerge: Is the finance available? Is the ore
available to feed the works?
Premier Playford has already answered the
first question. It is not so much a matter of money
as of technical equipment and materials. The
B.H.P.’s stock of all three is already fully
committed, and there is no alternative supply
available in Australia.
To this, former Federal member J. P. Abbott,
who has accepted the Dickinson reports in toto and
recently read a paper on them at the annual
conference of the Graziers’ Association of New
vSouth Wales, has an answer. He suggests that the
Commonwealth Government should approach
steel-companies in Britain, Canada and the United
States and “offer them access to the iron deposits
of Australia” on condition that they establish
steelworks in this country. He proposes that any
plant involved should be fabricated abroad and
admitted duty-free, so that the least possible strain
should be placed on Australian resources.
Unfortunately, Mr. Abbott, like Mr.
Dickinson, wants the South Australian Government
to tear-up its iron-ore agreement with the B.H.P.
Failing that, he wants the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to seize the leases (also those in Westralia)
under its defence powers and sublet them. Such
action would not only be dishonest; it would be
lacking in commonsense. What reputable company
in its right senses would place any value on a
contract which was based on the repudiation of
another contract? What worth is there in new
promises based on broken promises?
The Dickinson reports show that the known
reserves of high-grade ore in Australia are not
large. They are all held by B.H.P. Mr.
Dickinson speaks of ample reserves for the next
25 to 30 years. That is surely not excessive for
a company operating on the scale of B.H.P.
With B.H.P. resources fully extended, it seems
that Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Abbott are correct
in saying that further expansion must depend on
outside capital and materials. It must also depend
on outside ore —i.e., ore outside the present leases.
It was no doubt the lack of known deposits that
led them to suggest the extreme step of cancelling
the leases. Fortunately, within the past few weeks
hopes have been raised that there are deposits of
considerable magnitude just outside the B.H.P.
limits in the Iron Knob area. Drillers from Mr.
Dickinson’s Mines Department have established
the existence of an ore-body there, and are at
present trying to determine its size. If it comes
up to expectations it will mean that one big
hurdle has been surmounted, and the way will be
clear for the South Australian and Federal
Governments to offer overseas companies a
genuine inducement to extend the steel-producing
capacity of Australia.


FROM AMONG THE COBWEBS
“Not my work, Ike; and it would have been better left covered up, I think."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Formosa and Korea
The South-East Asian situation is going
from bad to worse, as evidenced this
week virtually every day.
Though little has been said about
Korea in the press for some time there
has been considerable alarm at the build-
up of military strength in North Korea
over the past months in flat defiance of
the Armistice conditions. It was reported
recently that new airfields, new Russian
MiG’s, new tanks and 750,000 men are
now gathered in the area and that a
fleet of gunboats for service under the
North Korean flag is being built at Dairen
and that some of it is already off the
coast. The armistice neutral commission
—Sweden, Switzerland, Poland and
Czechoslovakia nominated delegates—-
might just as well be at home for all it is
allowed to see. South Korean Parliament
has voted to kick the Iron Curtain mem-
bers out of the South Korean zone for
partisanship. U.N.O. forces in S. Korea
are down to two U.S. and one British
Commonwealth Division.
The results of the various conferences
in London, Bangkok and Washington
have borne their first-fruits in announce-
ments that Australian and N.Z. units
would take part in the sea- and air-
defence exercises off the S.-East Asian
coasts in a few weeks’ time. This was
followed by the announcement of Mr.
Holland, N.Z. Prime Minister, that the
Dominion would move its emphasis in
world defence from the Middle East to
the Pacific with plans to raise an infantry
division with armor, artillery and all
ancillaries to be ready in the Pacific area
in the event of war. It is proposed that
Maoriland will recondition and man an
R.N. 5.25 in. cruiser of the Royalist class,
establish a naval reserve of two of three
frigates, send two frigates to Malaya.
N.Z. will also send an airborne ground-
attack squadron and half an air-
transport squadron to Malaya. Addi-
tional Australian troops must follow. Mr.
Holland’s warning of the dangers which
are growing was only an echo of that of
Mr. Dulles earlier in the week and of Mr.
Menzies’s later statement on his return
to Australia.
Mr. Menzies said that he had found
everywhere in the U.K. and U.S. full
approval of Mr. Churchill’s views on the
hydrogen-bomb, in which he emphasised
the deterrent effect of continued progress
in the thermo-nuclear field. He said that
“without the bomb our military inferiority
would indeed be ominous.”
The P.M. declared that the issue of
Formosa had become the focal-point of
danger, and that agreement having been
reached and a truce secured in Vietnam,
Communist China had turned to the issue
of that island with renewed vigor, and the
claim to control it had become “the most
explosive thing in the world.”
His own view is that the fate of For-
mosa should be “determined by civilised
processes” and not by armed aggression,
in which everybody in the West at least
will agree. But unfortunately the Chinese
Communists are unlikely to accept his
view that “the juridical position of For-
mosa and the Pescadores has never been
determined.” Peking holds firmly that
it has been determined immemorially, and
while Mr. Menzies points out that “the
recent historical position of the island is
that it contains hundreds of thousands of
Chinese who are refugees from the Com-
munist regime and now enjoy free
asylum,” Mao and his Cabinet are likely
to hold that the fact that they are Chinese
lends added justice to the Communist
claims —especially since almost every
refugee in the place is adjudged a war-
criminal, and a civil one as well by
reason of having fled the country.
Similarly, the very arguments that are
adduced by the Prime Minister —that
Formosa is part of the route by which
invasion has travelled and can again
travel to Australia, and that the off-shore
islands in the Formosan Strait do not
matter save as defences of Formosa and
stepping stones to the invasion of For-
mosa —are in reverse used by the Chinese
Reds to justify their demand that for
defensive purposes they must have both
the Straits and Formosa successively even
if war be necessary.
But these facts make it all the more
imperative that a concrete policy of unity
of action with the United States and the
rest of the British Commonwealth should
be formulated at the first possible
moment. This is especially so in view
of the obvious results of Communist pro-
paganda in disturbing Southern Indo-
China.
Ashley's Preview
“In the ACT”: That erudite and urbane
“Labor” man, Senator William Ashley,
has announced that the Petrov Royal
Commission has failed to produce
evidence of espionage in Australia, and
that when its report is received, nothing
more will be heard of it. Undoubtedly
Senator Ashley’s former occupations
and youthful training have qualified him
to offer this judgment in advance.
He has also certainly attended some
meetings of the commission, especially
when his “leader,” Dr. Evatt, was per-
forming there, and he may have read the
full available transcript of evidence,
although friends of the Senator might find
this rather doubtful. There is no question
that he has not seen the evidence taken
in secret or any of the documents made
available privately to the commissioners.
He has presumably read the commission’s
interim report, which would have ended
for ever the public life of any one less
egotistically thick-skinned than Dr.
Evatt. Now he has reached and pub-
lished his decision.
Admittedly, even the most attentive of
observers at the proceedings of the com-
mission must have wondered sometimes
where so many apparently-unrelated
threads were leading. They must have
wondered—as the judges admitted doing
themselves —whether Petrov was not
something like a Trojan horse,
although the facts have long since dissi-
pated any lingering doubt on that score.
But even the facts which have been pub-
licly disclosed, when reviewed at this
stage, suggest that whatever is done with
the commission’s report the inquiry itself
has been of extreme value to Australia,
and probably to several other countries.
The hearings began on May 17 last
year, and they have been overlong, but
this was not the fault of the commission.
The chief blame on this score, and per-
haps for the public’s loss of interest, can
be laid at the door of the Leader of the
Opposition, whose caperings may have
had those purposes, as well as offering a
distraction to his restive caucus in
Canberra.
It is probable that the commission’s
report—and on this few are as prescient
as Senator Ashley—will be a sober docu-
ment, setting out Russian methods in this
country in greater detail than expected,
and disclosing, perhaps, that some Aus-
tralians communicated information to the
possible prejudice of our security. Per-
haps not a great deal more will be heard
of it publicly, although the political effects
of Dr. Evatt’s appearance will continue
to be suffered indefinitely by his peculiar
brand of “Labor.” But the report is likely
to strengthen the hands of those charged
with security, to show a pattern of events
and activities which will never be per-
mitted in this country again, and to reveal
the unscrupulous and sinister work of
the Communist underground which is so
intimately linked with so many of Senator
Ashley’s trade-union associates.
Redistribution—Vic. and S.A.
Redistribution proposals have now
been announced in all States. In Vic-
toria the changes follow a similar trend
to those in New South Wales and reflect
the population-moves of the past seven
years. Increased industrialisation of
inner-metropolitan areas with consequent
loss of population and intensive home-
building in the outer suburbs of Mel-
bourne have resulted in the disappear-
ance of two inner-suburban seats, Burke
and Hoddle, and the creation of a new
seat, Scullin, out of their remains. Most
other metropolitan boundaries have been
pushed out a little and a new outer-sub-
urban seat has been hacked out of
Latrobe and Deakin. This is to be called
Bruce. In naming the two seats after
former Prime Ministers the commissioners
showed a nice sense of the appropriate;
each of the two leaders at one time repre-
sented portion of the electorate that will
now bear his name.
In addition to these major changes
minor alterations were made in most
divisions ; only three of the State’s 33
electorates retain their old boundaries.
The two seats to be abolished are both
held by “Labor” ; of the new ones Scullin
should be a blue-ribbon “Labor” seat
and Bruce safe for the Liberals. Else-
where changes have reduced the likely
“Labor” majority in some seats and the
Liberal advantage in others. There
should now be at least 10 marginal seats.
South Australia gains a seat in the re-
distribution. This is to be called Bony-
thon, after the former proprietor of the
Adelaide “Advertiser,” a member of the
first Commonwealth Parliament and a
great philanthropist. It comprises por-
tions of the present Sturt and Wakefield
electorates and stretches from the city
to include the long-range-weapons project
at Salisbury and part of Gawler. Its
electoral-tally is only 35,000, compared
with an average of 42,000 for the other
10 South Australian seats. This is to
provide for the expected growth of the
satellite town, Salisbury. Bonython will
be a safe “Labor” seat, and Norman
Makin, “Labor” member for Sturt, now
likely to be a Liberal electorate, has an-
nounced his intention to contest it at
the next election. Minor alterations in
the boundaries of other electorates are
not expected to alter their political color.
Hobart to Bandoeng?
“Stromlo” : It is easy to be cynical at
the thought of Dr. Evatt solemnly lead-
ing a delegation of the “Left-Labor”
party to the Afro-Asian conference in
Bandoeng on April 18, and discovering
there, with the aplomb of a Stanley, his
erstwhile secretary and a Peking “Peace”
Conference delegate, Dr. John Burton
(who publicly affirmed support of Red
China’s charges of U.S. germ-war in
Korea). They might be regarded either
as instructors in the art of securing
maximum publicity for a conference, or
as learners of the somewhat different
task of producing an appearance of
unanimity out of vastly dissimilar
interests.
The matter, however, is too serious for
cynicism. Certainly most Australians
will bitterly resent any attempt by Dr.
Evatt or his depleted mob to persuade
Asians that they speak for Australia, and
they will wonder what the reaction will
be of those countries which have
sponsored this curiously assorted but
possibly significant conference. New
Delhi, Djakarta and Peking must know
by now the facts of the Hobart explosion,
and they are surely not likely to imagine
that any “Labor” team could be of the
slightest use to the conference, or com-
petent to present anything useful on its
return.
The Australian Government has not
been invited to attend the show officially,
a fact which is not surprising when the
genesis of the gathering is known, but
it is surely possible that the Australian
Ambassador in Djakarta, together with
representatives of other nations, will be
invited as an observer, and afforded any
necessary facilities for reporting fully
to Canberra. Whatever is thought about
the purposes of the conference, or of any
decisions which may be reached, there
has been no desire apparent to lock the
doors on the proceedings. Some
hundreds of journalists are to attend, and
there has been careful study of their
communication needs. The world will
be told pretty fully what occurs, whether
the proceedings are frankly uninhibited or
confined to agreeable platitudes.
Therefore this move by “Left-Labor”
is more than another attempt to distract
Australian public-opinion from “Labor’s”
woes, or even to ascertain what happens
in Bandoeng. It seems to be a deliber-
ate attempt to link one Australian
political faction and its sinister associates
in this country with certain groups in
Asia, and perhaps in Africa. If the
conference-sponsors are prepared to
allow such a delegation any facilities,
then Australia can do nothing officially
about it—although we would be entitled
to regret any simultaneous blocking of
official observers.
But the Australian people, already fed
to the teeth with Evatt’s posturings, will
draw their own conclusions, and will
know more than ever what to do at the
next Federal election. The proposal has
been prompted by folly or desperation.
It is unjustified by any need in Australia,
and unwarranted by the poor standing of
the proposed delegates. If there is any
commonsense left among those who made
it, they will withdraw it at once.
Make Motorists Pay
If, as has been published, the Common-
wealth hasn’t been able to spend all the
£2OO million allotted to Defence for the
dying financial year, how much of the
balance will it allot for the making of
roads? Roads are a nation’s first
strategy in land defence, and Australia’s
main roads are in a disgraceful
condition.
We’re hearing and reading a lot about
roads lately. But nothing much is being
done about them. Estimates of cost
running into many millions are blithely
put forward, and there is the usual
wringing of hands as to where the money
is coming from. As usual the motorist,
who already pays heavy sectional taxa-
tion for the use of roads which keep the
entire population and its goods moving,
is being told that if he wants better roads
he must pay more for them.
Even the Sydney “Herald” is advocat-
ing increased Commonwealth loan-
allocations and increased taxation of
motorists as a means of financing State
road-works. What these people over-
look is that, in addition to his State
road-tax and registration-fees, the motor-
ist pays 10|d. a gallon on all petrol he
buys. That is a special tax which, when
last heard of, was putting £25 million a
year into Commonwealth revenue.
It originally began at 3d. a gallon
about 30 years ago. It’s hard now to
find any particulars of it in Common-
wealth statistics, because Treasurer
Fadden a couple of years ago calmly
lumped it into the National Development
Fund. How much a true accounting
would show both in the fund and in
current annual collections isn’t known
publicly, but there was £6O million in
it and £25 million a year being collected
just before the Treasurer whipped it out
of sight.
There is plainly enough money taken
from motorists now to finance a 10-year
road-plan. But it is no good starting it
by State road-departments on their
40-hour week day-work system. It is
a job for big private contractors of the
type who came from America to con-
struct the Big Eildon hydroelectricity
plant in Victoria and did it three months
under schedule. By day-labor it wouldn’t
be half-done yet.
In matters of national importance like
road-building this country must give up
the notion that it can be left to Govern-
ment departments and day-work. And
all those advocating the spending of vast
sums on road-construction ought to find
out where all the petrol-tax and other
direct and indirect motor-taxation is
going before glibly assuming that motor-
ists ought to pay more now for some
dream of the future. And how much of
the expected £lOO million Defence
surplus will Canberra allot to roads —a
prime factor in defence?
Diary of Disaster
The last week in March, 1955, will be
remembered by the A.L.P. probably as
its blackest since 1917. Following the
Hobart Conference the ship began to fall
to pieces:—
Monday, March 21: Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Santamaria exchanged courtesies, the latter
leading. He denied a report, propagated
apparently by Mr. Arthur Calwell, Dr. Evatt’s
loyal deputy, that he had had a “clandestine
association” with Dr. Evatt. He said that
he had only met Dr. Evatt twice—at the latter’s
request at the beginning of 1954. At both
meetings they discussed methods of fighting
Communism, and Dr. Evatt “expressed his
strong support of the industrial-groups and
matters of migration and land-settlement.”
Dr. Evatt said: “It is perfectly correct that I
met Mr. Santamaria only twice. At the time
1 was in favor of the continuance of the
industrial-groups because the Labor party had
given an undertaking to that effect in 1951.”
He said Labor was “itself opposed to Com-
munism,” and its supporters would “still try
to see Labor supporters elected to trade-union
office.”
Tuesday, March 22: It became clear that Dr.
Evatt, plus his restored man-Friday, Dr. Burton,
erstwhile a delegate to Peking Peace Confer-
ences, and the supporter of Chinese germ-
warfare propaganda, were planning to attend
the Afro-Asian Conference at Bandoeng. Mr.
Cosgrove, Premier, at the Tasmanian A.L.P-
Conference, sought to have no further action
taken against two rebel Tasmanian delegates
to the Hobart Federal Conference. His move
was defeated by 13 votes and a resolution
supporting the Federal A.L.P., moved by
Mr. D’Alton, the Government’s leader in the
Legislative Council, was carried by an over-
whelming majority. Melbourne Town Hall
refused to the “old” Victorian A.L.P. Execu-
tive for a Sunday meeting. Melbourne City
Council apparently values its property. The
“new” Victorian A.L.P. Executive met and
declared the old one “bogus.”
Wednesday, March 23: Redistribution plan
for Federal electorates in Victoria announced—
the seats remain at 33, but the seats of Messrs.
Cremean and Peters (Burke and Hoddle) were
wiped out to make way for a new “Labor
electorate called Scullin and a new Liberal
seat called Bruce, which comprises part of old
Flinders. Fawkner, held by Mr. Bourke, and
Wannon, held by Mr. McLeod, seemed to have
lost their small “Labor” majorities. Recon-
struction seemed to have driven Mr. Norman
Makin out of his S.A. seat, Sturt, which he won
from Keith Wilson at last election and he
announced his precipitate retreat to the new
“Labor” seat of Bonython. Dr. Evatt
declared that the “issue [of his quarrels] is not
one of Communism,” but “whether Labor
should be subverted by a fifth-column which
had no allegiance to it and which advocated
only one policy—‘a negative policy of anti-
Communism.’ ” Mr. Cain, Premier of Vic-
toria, cancelled his visit to Mildura because
of the gravity of the A.L.P. dispute. The Vic-
torian State Council of the A.R.U. con-
demned the attempts to disband the A.L.r.
industrial-groups as ‘tantamount to a non-
aggression pact with the Communist party.
At a meeting of N.S.W. Parliamentary Caucus
Mr. Cahill called for a meeting of the annual
(or a special) conference of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. to be held in April instead of in June,
as is normal. Mr. Hetfron repudiated a sug-
gestion that he would lead a breakaway
movement from Mr. Cahill. Mr. Clive Evatt
arrived at caucus after the fun and voting we
over. Mr. Cahill said that he could se
(Continued on next page )


nothing wrong in three State members, who had
declared their loyalty to Dr. Evatt, attending
his meeting at Wollongong. Mr. Colbourne,
general-secretary of the N. S. Wales Executive,
said that the executive welcomed Mr. Cahill’s
suggestion for an early rank-and-file conference.
Thursday, March 24: Dr. Evatt attended a
meeting of 800 people at Wollongong organ-
ised by the Waterside Workers’ Union, which
is headed by . members of the Communist Party
Central Committee, and the local A.L.P. He
was supported on the platform by Senator
Ashley, Messrs. Whitlam, Davies, M.P., Con-
nor, M.L.A., H. Fowles, M.L.A., and L. Kelly,
M.L.A. Mr. Eddie Ward apologised for his
absence —on “account of illness.” Dr. Evatt
declared that the Hobart Conference decisions
divorcing the industrial-groups from the A.L.P.
applied in all States. He declared that “the
Menzies-Fadden-Santamaria-Fascist cell” was
trying to “force the Labor party to move even
further to the Right than the Liberal party.”
He gave his first hint of a new Asian policy
favoring anti-U.S, views. The Northern
Miners’ Federation Board of Management
carried resolutions supporting Dr. Evatt, and
the Newcastle Trades Hall Council —which is
a hotbed of Communism —carried a resolution
congratulating Dr. Evatt on his stand. In
Queensland the Premier, Mr. Gair, with the
Treasurer, Mr. Walsh, and Messrs. Cole (Rail-
way Maintenance Union) and Bolger (State
Service Union), who were all Federal delegates
to, and who all boycotted the Hobart Confer-
ence, had a private meeting. The Queensland
Trades and Labor Council by 53 votes to 20
decided to back Dr. Evatt. The Tasmanian
Labor Conference ousted Mr. Duthie, M.P.,
an Evatt supporter, from the Federal Executive.
Mr. Duthie announced that he would visit
Japan in the interests of Moral Rearmament.
Supporters of Dr. Evatt won seven seats out
of 11 in the new Tasmanian executive, but
Senator Cole, who boycotted the Hobart
Federal Conference, topped the poll. All Vic-
torian members of the party were warned by
the “new” A.L.P. Executive that any of them
who dared support the principle of freedom
of speech by attending the meeting to be held
the following Sabbath by the “old” A.L.P.
Executive would risk expulsion.
Friday, March 25: Four State Ministers
(Messrs. W. P. Barry, Minister for Health;
T. Hayes, Minister for Housing; P. L. Cole-
man, Transport, and Government Leader in the
Upper House; and F. R. Scully, Honorary
Minister), nine M.L.A.S and four M.L.C.s,
plus Messrs. Mullens, Joshua, Cremean, S. M.
Keon, W. M. Bourke, Andrews, Bryson, M.P.,
and Senator Devlin decided to ignore a circu-
lar from the “new” executive ordering them
not to take part in any proceedings of the
bogus “old” executive. The Victorian caucus-
meeting on Tuesday, March 28, was tipped to
be good fun. In N. S. Wales, the A.L.P.
Executive decided to follow Mr. Cahill’s advice
and bring forward the June annual conference
to April 23 and 24. Mr. Cahill solemnly
announced that the State elections would be
“held next year.” In Brisbane, after a 6i
hours’ debate, the Queensland Central Execu-
tive of the A.L.P. defeated by 31 to 23 what
was intended to be a vote of censure on the
Premier and his co-delegates for having boy-
cotted the Hobart Conference, The Q.C.E.
now has to face the task of obeying the con-
ference-order to oust the industrial-groups.
Saturday, March 26: Death of Mr. Sheehan,
M. member for Cook, and formerly Whip
of the Federal party. His seat is a safe
“Labor” seat, which will be even safer next
election, but it is also one in which if the
factions care they can have a fine try-out of
relative strengths. It has been known that
young Mr. Whitlam, of Werriwa, has had
ideas of contesting the nomination. Mr.
Gordon Anderson, the decent little member for
Kingsford-Smith, who was in Darwin for the
opening of the new Legislative Council,
collapsed there and was admitted to hospital.
Sunday, March 27: After what was described
as “bitter and noisy debate” the northern
N. S. Wales regional conference of the A.L.P.
carried a motion of confidence in Dr. Evatt
by 83 votes to 51, and endorsed the Hobart
decision to have the affairs of the N. S. Wales
branch inquired into. The delegates refused
to allow the State A.L.P. general-secretary. Mr.
Colbourne, to preside at the conference. A
delegate called Mr. Dougherty, of the A.W.U.,
and Dr. Evatt’s main supporter, a “power-
crazed plutocrat.” Another delegate called
the industrial-groups, his opponents, “a
Frankenstein monster devouring and destroying
everything good that Labor stands for.” At
Melbourne the Sunday meeting called by the
“old” A.L.P. Executive, 3000 unionists, with
19 Federal and State members of Parliament on
the platform, unanimously carried a motion
supporting the old executive in its “work for
the unity of the party.” The acting secretary
of that body said that “11 out of 12 members
of the Federal Executive had openly or
privately said that Dr. Evatt was the worst
leader Labor had ever had,” and that “at the
first chance he must be got rid of.” Only one
executive member had had, he said, any time
for Dr. Evatt —Mr. Duthie, and he was now
defeated. He said Mr. Ward had declared Dr.
Evatt the worst leader on record, but had said
that he would “do anything to keep him leader
till he could succeed him.” Mr. Cain, Premier
of Victoria, threatened in a broadcast to sever
his connection with those who would not accept
party discipline. There was a caucus due on
March 28. If he keeps his promise he would
be compelled to throw out 17 members of his
Parliamentary following, including Ministers
and his deputy in the Legislative Council. At
the Brisbane Trades Hall 700 unionists and
A.L.P. delegates cheered Dr. Evatt in a speech
in which he said solemnly that “if the boycott
delegates at Hobart had obtained a majority,
there would not have been a Labor party
at all.”
Is there one? Solidarity! It’s
wonderful!
POLITICAL POINTS
Cables report a shortage of doctors in
Indonesia. They can keep two Australian
doctors who may be in Bandoeng
shortly.
• •
Frankie Forde, with about 600
votes still to be counted, is expected to
win the Flinders by-election for the
Queensland Assembly by about ten
inches. Floods dislocated transport so
much on polling-day that only about a
60 per cent, vote was recorded. .
• •
Last week prophets were predicting
early elections in both New South Wales
and Victoria. Cahill was quickly on the
job denying that he had any intention
of hurrying things; he insisted that the
present N. S. Wales Parliament would
run its full term and that there would be
no election until next year. Cain wasn’t
so voluble. With his Parliamentary team
and even his Cabinet divided in allegiance
between two State executives, the deci-
sion may not rest with him.
• •
Discussing redistribution as it affects
Victoria, one paper said that Hubert
Opperman had won Corio on two or
three occasions with a majority of only
about 100 votes, but that the electorate
would now become “a completely
marginal seat.” Looks as if Oppy can
expect a close fight for a change,
• ©
A brewing-company has offered to
build a £5 million “culture and convention
centre for opera, ballet, plays and meet-
ings.” In Sydney?—No, Toronto. —
What! Toronto up on Lake Macquarie?
—No, Toronto, Canada.
• •
Sydney’s populous Eastern Suburbs
have been told by Transport Minister
Wetherell that his department will “restore
full bus-services” in “a few weeks.” Let’s
see, wasn’t something like that said by
Premier Cahill’s predecessor about the
E.S. railway, or was it the predecessor
before that?
• •
Because shipping companies want to
call wharfies for weekend work by press
and radio announcements the wharfies’
union has complained to the High Court
that it is a plan to “bring a form of com-
pulsion” into wharfies’ homes by com-
pelling them to read newspapers or listen
to radio. It’s these insidious attacks on
the freedom of the individual by the
Fascist-minded exploiting class that
keeps the democratically minded water-
siders ever on the alert for vicious sabo-
tage of their dearly-won privileges. All
out, boys!
• •
America has replied to a U.N. feeler
on the subject of adopting a revised World
Calendar saying in effect that it doesn’t
support the plan and thinks U.N.O.
should be able to find more important
things to occupy its time. Some feelings
will be hurt, but the answer is at least
practical, which the proposal, at present,
is not. The change to the Gregorian
calendar (Rome, 1582 ; Britain, 1752) was
necessary because the time-tally had got
out of step with the sun. No such reason
exists for the present proposal; it springs
from a desire for tidiness which, however
commendable in its way, is not worth
considering in the face of the religious
objections raised by devout Christians,
Jews and Moslems whose holy days would
be upset by the change.
• •
Eildon Weir, in Victoria, begun in
January, 1951, and scheduled for com-
pletion next September, is running well
ahead of time and is expected to be fin-
ished in June. Contractors are the Utah
Construction Co. of America. If N. S.
Wales Premier Cahill wants the address,
Eildon, Victoria, will find ’em.
• •
A Russian named P. Gustal came to
Australia in the Soviet merchant ship
Omsk, had a look at it, then went home
and wrote The Australian Tragedy.
According to a Moscow reviewer, “With
hurt in his soul the author sees dead
eucalyptus trees. They were killed by the
people because, instead of these wonderful
trees, they wanted grass for the sheep.”
A little over ten years ago all Australia
was being urged to give “Sheepskins for
Russia.”
• •
Vic. Minister for Transport Coleman
has decided to “reconsider” his ban on
a Melboume-Echuca air-service (B.
23/3/’55). He says he feels “sorry for
these young ex-R.A.A.F. chaps who
bought their ’plane before getting final
approval to conduct the service.” Does
this mean he didn’t hear the roar of dis-
approval from the Goulbum Valley and
adjacent parts?
• •
Duthie, “Labor” M.H.R. for Wilmot,
who supported the Evatt faction at the
Hobart conference, lost his place on the
Federal executive in a ballot held last
week. Like Kim Beazley, Duthie seems
more interested in Moral Rearmament
than Australian politics. Recently back
from a conference in America, he’s now
on another M.R.A. trip to Japan. Next
to being an 1.L.0. delegate, membership
ALL DRESSED UP—BUT NO INVITATION
of M.R.A. seems to be the surest way
of seeing the world.
• •
It seems that “Labor’s” foreign policy
will be foreign to all but its begetters.
• •
Tom Sheehan, who died in Sydney last
Saturday, had been “Labor” M.H.R. for
Cook (N.S.W.) since 1937, when he suc-
ceeded Jock Garden. He was a member
of the Federal Public Works Committee
1940-3, of the Joint Committee on Broad-
casting 1946-9 and Government Whip
1943-6.
The Cook vacancy will present a few
problems. Under the redistribution an-
nounced but not yet adopted, the new
Cook seat will be vastly different from
the old and will include large slices of
the present Grayndler and Parkes. The
holders of these seats, Daly and Haylen,
are on opposing sides in “Labor’s” tribal
war and are expected to be rivals for the
nomination at the next general election.
A by-election now, on the old Cook
boundaries, won’t suit either of them as
they can scarcely resign in order to con-
test it, and it’s the new Cook seat they
are interested in, anyway.
At the same time the by-election could
easily provide some fireworks. Pre-
selection of the “Labor” candidate is in
the hands of the anti-Evatt N. S. Wales
executive.
• •
“Wusslean”: The suggestion that we
may any time hear that someone has
“broken into Pentridge, erected a scaffold
and hanged himself” (B. 16/3/’55) is not
so far-fetched as it sounds. It’s easy
enough to get into Pentridge surrepti-
tiously, as was demonstrated not long
back when a friend of a prisoner entered
and spent a considerable time inside the
high stone walls. As for committing
suicide there, that’s been done on more
than one occasion; the last offender,
Robert Walker, dissatisfied with the com-
mutation of his death-sentence to life-
imprisonment, contrived to import a
revolver and enough ammunition to
shoot himself and a selected group of
warders and fellow-prisoners. Only
courageous action by one of the warders
limited the deaths to that of Walker
himself.
• •
In the by-election for the Clarence
seat in the N. S. Wales Assembly, vacant
through the death of Country-party
member C. G. Wingfield, its holder for
17 years, the official C.P. candidate, J. I.
Moorehead, went under to an unofficial
C.P. man, W. R. Weiley. Voting: Weiley
(Ind. C.P.), 8382 ; Moorehead (C.P.),
5899; G. R. Munro (Ind. C.P.), 1571.
• •
A.B.C. has announced that Radio Aus-
tralia will soon begin broadcasting to
south-east Asia in Mandarin. The answer
will probably be a lemon.
• •
Her Majesty’s Attorney-General for
the sovereign State of N.S.W. seriously
advanced this, among other reasons, in
•simnnrt nf a hill for the abolition of
support or a Dili ior me aDoiuion ot
capital punishment : A murderer, having
murdered one person, will murder two
or three at the same time knowing that
the [death] penalty cannot be increased.”
LJ * ■
• #
' . .
As a counter to the Argentine-ants now
infesting some Melbourne suburbs a
spray has appeared on the market by the
name of Hexachloroepoxyoctahydrodi-
methanonaphthalene. Apparently the
idea is that while the pests are struggling
to get their tongues around the word
, .. . .1, •
they 11 have no time to tackle anything
else.
• • '
Under Cain’s two-for-one Electoral
Districts Act, passed at the end of 1953,
there was a redistribution of Victorian
Assembly seats on the basis of two seats
j. ,"V j 11*
for each Federal electorate. No election
has been held on the new boundaries and
now the Federal redistribution makes the
’ , , , . r, ,
State electoral map out-of-date. Whether
there will be a further redrawing before
the general election depends on the time-
fnrtnr-
iaciui..
• •
Petrol began to flow from Kwinana
rxv a \ loot wppk Tt ones hv
refinery (W.A.) last week. It goes by
pipeline to Fremantle 17 miles away at
the rate of 27,000 gallons an hour.
• •
Of the 54.5 million dollars in the new
loan to Australia from the World Bank,
47 million will be used for agriculture and
transportation. Imports of tractors,
harvesters, other farm-equipment and
machinery to improve existing roads are
planned; also more diesels for the rail-
ways. The remaining 7.5 million will be
used for power-plants, transmission-lines
and manufacturing industries.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
T> ADIO-INTERVIEW which stirred
me: “I believe that while you were
abroad you met our own Peggy Popsinger
over there?” “That’s so. I” “Right.
Now tell us about Peggy Popsinger. How
is she getting on and all that?” “Well,
as for Peggy Popsinger, you’d never
know her. You just would never know
her! She’s working for Impress Ario,
you know.” “So I heard. How did she
land that?” “Just walked right into it.
Impress took one look at her and said
she was just the girl he had been looking
for. Then he took her in hand. Abso-
lutely remade her. Sent her to a glamor-
school. Had her taught to walk and all
that. Got them to change her hair-style.
Taught her how to dress. Even had her
taught singing all over again. Yes, you’d
never know Peggy.” “But I
suppose she’s still the same old
Peggy Popsinger?” “Oh, yes,
rather! Still the same old
Peggy.”—“Bianca.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *l*
“Kune”: Is this a record?
One in every five of 40 em-
ployees at Sydney flour-
millers McCorquodale Bros,
has been there 40 or more
years. Incidentally, the firm’s
mill must be uniquely situated
for modern times —so much
in the heart of the city that
you could throw a loaf of
bread on to the roof of
Sydney’s Town Hall!
♦♦♦ ♦>
“W.P.T.”: At the junction
of Parramatta - road and
Glebe-road (Sydney) is a
small garden-plot which is
actually three memorials in
one. In the centre is a foun-
tain erected on August 2,
1909, to celebrate the municipal jubilee of
Glebe. At one end is one of the old Syd-
ney boundary-stones, bearing the name
of Lieut.-General Richard Bourke, C. 8.,
Governor of N.S.W. (originally erected in
Broadway, it marked the western
boundary of the City of Sydney). Most
recent is a tablet which bears this inscrip-
tion: “In memory of a great Australian
and gentleman, one of Nature’s greatest,
Dave Sands, Empire Middleweight
Champion, Rest in Peace. Erected by
Tom Laming’s gymnasium, also Glebe
supporters and admirers who knew him
as he was —1952.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: There’s a thought in the
Archbishop of Canterbury’s suggestion
that risk of war might be lessened if type-
writers were wiped oif the earth. But,
with respect for Dr. Fisher’s wisdom, I
ponder on the fact that men were inter-
mittently hacking each other with swords,
axes and cannonballs for centuries before
the sedate contraption now tapping out
this par. was invented.
<* ❖ ❖
“Soc.”: In its Sunday issue Granny
“S. M. Herald” had a shot —five shots —
at picking the winner of the Labor
Mixed Stakes, now being run not with-
out dust and heat. Giving a form-guide
on each, she named her selections in this
order: Evatt, 1; Calwell, 2 ; Clarey, 3 ;
Ward, 4; Lemmon, 5. On the previous
day “Granny” also had just five shots at
picking the winner of the Newmarket
(also with form-guide), in this order:
Sunny Hour, 1 ; Dicast, 2; Raconteur,
3 ; Kamet, 4; Cowboy Bill, 5. Quite
obviously this is a secret Delphic oracle,
the key to it being how they actually
finished in the Newmarket. Using this
key, we get this result: Dicast Calwell,
3rd; Kamet Ward, 4th; Raconteur
Clarey, 5th ; Cow'boy Bill Lemmon, 15th ;
Sunny Hour Evatt, 23rd. Field of 24.
Turning now to what finished first and
second in the race, we find that the winner
and runner-up (i.e., leader and deputy-
leader) in the Labor Mixed Stakes must
be: Swynphilos ?, 1 ; Great Saint
• ?, 2. Names which seem to indicate
a win for The Movement.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Chevroford”: A man from Deer Park
dropped into Melbourne to see the
Moomba and hailed a taxi. “Could you
take me on a day-tour?” he asked. “Too
right,” said the driver. “Where do you
want to go.” “Anywhere,” said the man
from D.P. They made a swift circuit of
the city and then emerged into the coun-
try. “Where are you taking me now?”
asked the fare. “Deer Park,” said the
driver, “nice scenery round there.”
“Nakhoda”: So, according to Coven-
try’s City Chamberlain, Lady Godiva’s
famous nude ride never happened. It
appears that she was an old lady of 60
at the time and would never have dreamed
of doing such a thing— taxes or no taxes.
In fact, the C.C.C. says Leofric was a
good-natured bloke and a kind father to
his subjects. The story, it seems, is a
bowdlerised version of an ancient custom
in which people stayed indoors and a
woman rode out to bless the crops on
Rogation Sunday. This is not unlikely.
In his Golden Bough Frazer lists a
“ Where's baby ?”
number of such quaint customs,
aimed at increasing the productivity
of the soil by sympathetic magic.
Farmers would go out into the furrows
at night with their wives to be in
harmony with the sowing-season. Coven-
try is now rebuilding its cathedral,
destroyed by Nazi bombing. If it had
done that in the time of Lady Godiva the
architect would probably have bricked a
child into the foundations to ensure the
strength of the building.
“Rec.”: A Maitland (N.S.W.) house-
wife, returning from exile on higher
ground, stood at her fence contemplating
the sea of slime and mud around her
house. Instead of tears there was a grin
on her face as she said: “You know,
every year since we have been here Jack
has threatened to top-dress the lawn. Of
course he has never done it, but it’s top-
dressed now all right.”
❖ ❖
“Sam”: Queer Yankee notions about
Australia (B. 16/3/’55)? In the 1920’s an
acquaintance visited the U.S., where he
had relatives, and took his teenage
daughter with him. At a relation’s place,
the daughter of the house asked her
“Bonjour, Ma'm'selle.”
cousin would she be offended if she
asked her a personal question. The Aus-
tralian lass said “No.” “Well,” asked the
American, “don’t you feel uncomfortable
in the clothes you’re wearing?” “No,”
answered the puzzled Australian, “why
should I?” “But in Australia don’t you
wear only a grass skirt?”
* * ❖
“Uranium Bob”: South Australia
mightn’t suit Westralian Sydneysider
Gavin Casey (B. 16/2/’55). The &.A.
“Hansard” of September, 1896, records
the late King O’Malley speaking in a
debate on local option: “Unfortunately,
South Australia’s beautiful barmaids
can only be regarded as the polished fangs
of the stagger-juice rattlesnake.” They’ve
been banned in Playford’s State since
1909.
• . 9 . .
“Mugga Way”: Gavin Casey will be
glad to learn that his famous Canberra
licensee and bar-worker (B. 16/2/’55) is
still hale, although long since retired
(unfortunately) from the scene of her
domination. The place isn’t the same.
Lots of blokes she wouldn’t have allowed
into that saloon-bar, and others who
wouldn’t have been game to enter, go
there now. It is typical of her that one
of her regular visits is paid to a sick
woman in my block of flats. She drives
in quietly, and never arrives empty-
handed. We used to call her “Martha”
in private, but never to her face, and she
used to call us everything, and we liked
it. Long may she prosper.
*X* ♦+♦
“Chipper”: If present-day youth is
going to the devil a first-year cadet in my
newspaper outfit looks a certainty to be
seated at the right hand of Satan. When
I had to have a piece off his hide for
dirty copy and bad spelling he poured me
right back on my 50-year-old heels.
“After all,” he retorted, “it is' a long time
since I left school.” I felt like giving him
a backhander, but didn’t. He’s the type
who could easily become a general-
manager.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Alban”: Nothing escapes Sir Hugh
Lucas-Tooth. According to the London
“Sunday Despatch,” in opening a Civil
Defence headquarters the Knight Baronet
said: “If hydrogen-bombs were exploded
over this country, we should all be in-
volved in a complete transformation of
our way of life ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sandy”: If it’s true that dreams last
only split-seconds, I wish someone would
invent some kind of machine to record
them. If I could only get into words the
plots and sequences of my split-second
dreams, I’d have 10 best-sellers a month.
❖ ♦*< *>
“Zanda”: A prominent Tin-pan Alley
song-writer has dropped songs and
switched to archgeology. When next the
lure of the Alley sets him poring over his
score, it won’t be surprising to see the
radio-set bouncing to the tune “Do you
dig me, Brother Bones?”
❖ ❖ <*
“A.J.S.”: I thought I had more than
a passing acquaintance with the Great
Australian Slanguage, but a visiting Eng-
lish writer has introduced a new one. In
My Low-down on Down Under, Mary
Gallati, an English lass who spent about
12 months in Australia, mentions hear-
ing a Perth waitress swear “By the Hokey
Fly,” and was told that it meant just any
old thing you liked. I have never heard
the phrase in Perth; where is it in use?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Plug. R. Bill”: In our refrigerator-
factory there is a suggestion-box with a
notice saying that any employee making
a “time-saving” or “improvement” sug-
gestion will be rewarded. I can prove
that it is just a “come-on” for the
workers, because when I suggested that
a separate compartment should be added
to fridges for “the freezing of newly-
acquired boxing-titles” I never got a
deener.
DOG’S WALK
/ walk one mile, he runs ten
In his own orbit, not in mine,
Now he returns to me again:
"Dear, dear, master,
Can’t you go a little faster ?
No?
Well, off I go,"
Gambolling, tearing,
Rabbiting, haring;
An invisible tether
Holds us together,
His soul, however full
Of strong imaginary smells,
Still feels the pull
Of strong subvocal spells,
So, sniffing my track,
He comes reluctant back,
The brief delirium goes by,
The centre of his world is I.
Christian, Christian, look and learn,
A child, guided, with Christ you walked,
You listened, while your mentors talked,
To precepts grave and stern,
But then, in adolescence, when the fires
Of bursting youth kindled the wild desires
Did you not run astray
From the strait way,
The ancients’ lore depising,
Lusting, erring, gormandising,
Hasting, racing,
Idle pleasures chasing?
Drawn down by drugs impure
And beauty’s fickle, fugitive allure ?
Yet the old bond is not broken,
You, like my dog, must still
Under compulsion subtle and strong.
In spite of wayward will,
And wild words hastily spoken,
To Him return, though the hard way be
long
And your old sins bite back in the relating,
The path is open and the Master waiting.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


CO far the only beneficiary of the offer
made a few months ago by Melbourne
“Argus” of £lOOO for the first photograph
of a genuine flying-saucer has been the
staff-member who suggested it. He re-
ceived £lO. —“Hugh Galleon.”
❖ C +!♦
“Eurimburra”: A radio-station was
doing a good job raking in flood-relief
donations by playing request records at
£1 a tune. After several renderings of
“Tell Me a Story” a lady sent in a quid
to have the record not played but
smashed. The disk-jockey joyfully com-
plied.
“Zorok”: Sydney weather-men have
been wide of the mark in daily forecasts
—when they’ve tipped “mainly-fine,” more
than once it’s poured all day. Still, no
doubt they suffered their share of retribu-
tion, though perhaps not as badly as a
U.S. woman weather-forecaster. Just
off-duty, the lady, on an excursion with
her family, was trapped for 19 hours in
a blizzard she hadn’t foreseen.
❖ ❖ <+
“J.C.M Tell “Scat” (B. 9/3/’55) that,
sitting next to me, the young policeman
leaned out of the window and bought the
evening-paper. Without so much as a
glance at the headlines he turned to the
comic-page and became absorbed.
Which plainly suggests that as a comic-
addict he had been inspired by the likes
of Rip Kirby, Dick Tracy and Co. to
become a crime-stopper himself. Have
the anti-comic fanatics ever thought of
that ?
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Recla”: My dictionary of shudder-
words has two additions. From the wire-
less came “siltation,” a patently stupid
verbal invention where “silting” could
have been used. The second was from a
meeting where the chairman rolled
“organisational” around his tongue until
I fumbled for my pearl-handled revolver.
Such vocabularial uglifications are mal-
odoriferous.
“Moorapi”: Another Australian poet
with a fondness for tossing pennies to
youngsters (B. 9/3 / ’55) was John Shaw
Neilson. Some who spent their childhood
in Gordon-street, Footscray (Vic.), where
Neilson passed his last years, may remem-
ber the coppers, fruit and sweets handed
out regularly by the old chap known to
them as Uncle Jock. He knew them all
by name—and never forgot birthdays. He
usually moved from the tram to his front-
gate surrounded by eager but respectfully-
fiocile kids. It was not generally known
thereabouts until after his death that he
was a poet.
“Pelm”: Never had so many moved
so much, so often or so fast, observed
Charles, as he took his seat on the tram.
First, there was the plasterer, with his
sack of odds-and-ends. He had shifted
away from Charley into the far-corner
seat. A middle-aged housewife had moved
over opposite with her string-bag of
groceries. Then, at 4 p.m., a
young chap wearing a bow-tie, a
toiler from Victoria Barracks,
came on the tram, sniffed at
Charley and caught the next
tram, after travelling a few
blocks down to the Blind
Asylum. To cap all, a college-
boy got out of their compart-
ment, after looking hard at
Charley’s socks, and took a seat
in the smokers’ section. Arriv-
ing home, Mabel, Charley’s
wife, sniffed. “Where have you
been, dear? . . . Anything on
your boots?” Charley, look-
ing amazed, felt in his pockets,
and found the linen covering of
a gorgonzola cheese. The fore-
man at the delicatessen-shop
where Charley worked had
dropped the cloth, as he passed
the boiler-room, into Charley’s
pocket.
“Ned C.Q.”: What are you coming at,
“Stanford” (B. 2/3/’55), on Queensland
trains? I have travelled in numerous Vic-
torian ones and could never find anything
to praise in them. Admittedly some Q.
ones are rather old, but have you travelled
in our Midlander, Sunlander or Inlander?
Carpets, adjustable individual seats, hot
and cold water, beautiful upholstery,
splendid diner, air-conditioning, etc.
Haven’t seen anything in the South to
beat them.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: The morning after the
opening of Melbourne’s Moomba,
cycling along the street came a chap with,
balanced on his head, its legs pointing to
the skies, its back just clearing his rear-
mudguard, a large, well-upholstered arm-
chair. Evidently bent on seeing the
Festival in comfort.
“Tos”: Epitaph for the perfect public
servant, from a book by Dr. Thomas
“ Captain! Would you go down to 'E' deck and speak to that impertinent
steward with the ginger moustache ?”
Jones, deputy-secretary to the British
Cabinet under four Prime Ministers:
Why was I welcomed? I can only guess
that I possessed what is called, in the
language of philosophy, “an unspecialised
aptitude for eliciting generalisations from
particulars and for seeing the divergent
illustration of generalities in diverse circum-
stances.”
“I wish the girls back in the office could see me now—back
in the office !”
“K.R.”: Those bellpulling-for-their-
supper English swans (B. 23/3/’55)
haven’t anything on the cygnets in the
harbor at Landskrona (Sweden). These
have their own bank-account: the
townsfolk finance it to feed the swanlets—
which don’t have to feather their own
nest, so to speak.
“Wusslean”: The Collins-street specia-
list greeted me in “How-to-win-friends”
style when I went along to collect my
wife after she’d had an overhaul. He
chatted brightly about topics of the day,
then noticed the paper I had. “May I
have a quick glance?” He had his quick
glance, handed it back, and remarked,
“Looks as though I’ll clean-up quite a
packet. I bought a large parcel of shares
in so-and-so transport company and
they’ve risen one-and-sixpence already,
thanks to this Privy Council decision up-
holding Section 92.” I offered congratu-
lations, the sharemarket was discussed
briskly ; at length I presumed to ask what
he really thought of my wife’s condition.
“Oh, yes,” he said, as though reminded
of a trifling oversight. “Of course, she’s
coming along nicely. I’m very pleased in-
deed, very pleased. You need have no
worry at all, old chap, everything’s turn-
ing out favorably indeed.” On the way
home the wife said, “He’s such a nice
doctor. Such a nice friendly manner,
hasn’t he? He must be making lots of
money, with all these shares. I’m sure he
won’t charge a great deal for the opera-
tion.” Captivated by the friendly hand-
shake and the “old chap,” I felt that way
—until the account arrived. Next time,
old chap, we’ll look up one of those old-
fashioned, gruff-voiced, strictly profes-
sional doctors, if any such survive.
♦Jj-
“N.L.”: Watch your step. A story
recurs with monotonous regularity in
banking circles wherein the storyteller
always claims it as a personal experience.
The setting is a quiet counter, an atten-
tive teller and a customer counting the
proceeds of his cashed cheque. “Years
ago,” says the customer, “I cashed a
cheque for ten-pound here and when I
got outside I found the teller had given
me eleven singles. Back I went and said
politely ‘I think you made a mistake.’
He was very curt and snapped, ‘I don’t
make mistakes!’ Later he got in touch
with me and asked if he had given me
a pound too much, I said, ‘No, you don’t
make mistakes! ’ ” Never try it; tellers
have to use tremendous willpower to
keep their hands off their revolvers as the
story unfolds.
❖ ❖ *!♦
“L’Allegro”: From the local church
paper: “Foam-rubber cushions neatly
covered with serviceable material were in
place on the church pews last Sunday
The minister has been persuaded not
to preach from Amos 6:1, ‘Woes to them
that are ease in Zion.’ ”
❖ ❖
“Villefair”: The young woman asked
for curtain-knobs, was shown several
types, and selected a pair of brass ones. As
the assistant was putting the box back the
buyer made a little exasperated exclama-
tion, then: “Isn’t it too silly?” she said
with a wry smile; “I can’t get it off.” She
had absently fitted the knob on her little
finger, ring-fashion. I tried gentle firm-
ness, without success. Her sister (pre-
sumably) tried. So did the assistant. The
finger began to swell. “A bit of soap
rubbed on will do it,” declared the
assistant confidently, and led the way
through the back of the shop. Seven or
eight minutes later they came trooping
back. “O.K. now?” I asked. The lady
raised her finger in lugubrious gesture;
it was still adorned. “The chemist might
help you,” spoke up the assistant brightly.
“Or, perhaps, a plumber.” The lady
nodded and was about to move towards
the door, when he cut in quickly, smiling
ingratiatingly: “That will be one-and-
nine for both knobs; save you coming
back, won’t it?.”
UTOPIA COMING UP
“Soviet Professor Erskin told listeners over
Moscow Radio that if they didn’t worry they
could live to 175.”
Fools, the nonagenarians who
Sit and dribble and drool, naught to do!
Man could work like a nigger,
Play Soccer with vigor
Right up till a hundred-and-two.
Barring accidents, all could survive
Till a hundred-and-seventy-five
Without even ailing ;
A chievement’s straight-sailing.
From cares all diseases derive.
Your gizzard will keep in good nick,
Your ticker continue to tick,
But not if through worry
You get in a flurry —
That’s like getting hit with a brick.
Though millions of microbes are lined
Up to battle against humankind,
The deadliest bacillus
Can’t possibly kill us
So long as we’re carefree of mind.
How pleasant to anticipate
That at some not-quite-specified date
We could all be cavorting
And eagerly courting
At something like one-forty-eight!
Forget all the debts you incur,
Never get in a stew about her.
Abjure mental tension
And you’ll draw your pension
For over a century, sir !
But ere to conclusion you leap
That long life may thus be bought cheap,
Perpend! This is certain:
Behind the Iron Curtain
Alone such a boon they may reap.
Where comrades in happiness dwell’th,
And shared is the Socialist wealth ;
Where toil’s never cloying,
And where they’re enjoying
(So vital!) collectivised health.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Rear-Admiral H. A. Showers, who
retired last month from the position of
Flag Officer-in-Charge, Eastern Austra-
lian Area, has been appointed secretary
of the Nuclear Research Foundation at
Sydney University.
• •
If anyone wants to beat the record of
Frank Dale for length of employment in
the Commonwealth Public Service he’ll
have to better 51 years and three-and-a-
bit months. Dale delivered his first tele-
gram for the P.M.G. in 1903 and retired
this month from the position of assistant-
superintending-engineer in Perth. Many
of his years were spent in the south-west
corner of the State and three of them in
France with the 11th Battalion.
• •
Famous French doctor, theologian and
musician Albert Schweitzer has given
permission for his life of service and
achievement in French Equatorial Africa
to be filmed at his hospital at Lambarene.
He has always shunned publicity, but has
consented to a half-hour presentation on
the 8.8. C. dealing with his eleventh
return to Africa just before his 80th
birthday.
• •
When the subject of this sketch takes
his cap and tunic off he is the Efficiency
Engineer of the Westralian State Electri-
city Commission, a post for which he
qualified by way of an engineering-degree
at Westralia’s University. It’s nothing to
Max Sheari’s discredit that he took nine
years to complete the four-year course ;
between his third-year exams, and the
commencement of his final year he sand-
MIDGETS
wiched an action-packed naval career —
first on Gibraltar convoys in corvette
Bluebell, then on special service on
X-craft (midget subs.). He was in charge
of a midget in the raid on Bergen in
April, 1944, helped to train others in the
technique of the new craft, and in June,
1945, was given the job of cutting
the Singapore-Saigon-Hong Kong cables.
For this he practised in Whitsunday
Passage and Hervey Bay (Q.) with H.M.S.
Bonaventure and a team of midgets;
successful accomplishment brought him
a Bar to the D.S.O. he earned at Bergen,
also a U.S. Bronze Star. Now a member
of the R.A.N.R., Shean was doing a
brush-up training-course as lieutenant
(E) when fellow-navalman Woolcott
sketched him.
• •
Whatever the literary and sociological
critics may say about Bert Vickers’s novel
The Mirage, to be published this month in
Melbourne, they should find it hard to
fault its atmosphere and background. A
study of a half-caste lad’s struggle to
become “assimilated,” it Has as setting,
first an outback Westralian sheep-
station, later a wheatbelt town. Born
in Birmingham (Eng.), Vickers came to
Australia at 19, his first job scrub-clear-
ing in newly-opened wheat-country at
Calingari (W.A.). After this came 18
years of shearing and woolclassing in the
Westralian nor’-west, chiefly around
Marble Bar, Carnarvon and Port Hed-
land. Marriage and poultryfarming were
the next joint enterprise, both interrupted
by three years in the Middle East with the
A.I.F. Since the war writing has been
his main interest. The Mirage was com-
mended in the first “S. M. Herald” novel-
competition and another Vickers entry
tied for third prize in the following year.
A former president of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers in Perth, Vickers has
also written short stories and radio-plays.
Three men who were only minor names
in the entertainment world, but who each
had a passing claim to fame, died in Eng-
land within a recent week. Most of
Frank Carter’s songs are now forgotten,
but his “If You Knew Susie” was sung
and whistled round the world long before
infant Johnny Ray uttered his first cry.
The same can be said of “Mademoiselle
from Armentieres,” which has been
popularised, plagiarised, parodied, bowd-
lerised, re-parodied and revised, and still
has the power to bring back, at Old
Digger reunions, nostalgic memories of
the fighter side of War. I. Yet, of all the
multitudes who have yelled it out in
rowdy chorus, probably not one in a
thousand could name its begetter—until
the cables mentioned that Edward Row-
land had died at 72. Will Murray, third
member of the trio, was not a song-
writer. His specialty was discovering and
training comedians ; his most famous finds
were Stanley Lupino, Tommy Trinder
and —Charlie Chaplin.
• •
English portrait-painter Edward Halli-
day, who went to New Zealand last year
to paint Sir John McKenzie, has been
commissioned by an anonymous donor
to paint a portrait of Sir Winston
Churchill, to be presented to the Domin-
ion. Priminister Holland, while in
London, obtained Churchill’s permission
for the sittings provided they did not
impinge too much on his time. It’s to be
hoped Halliday makes Winnie a little
more winsome than did the artist who
painted his 80th-birthday portrait.
° ©
“Jock”: In N.S.W. there are six retired
Methodist ministers who have had 50
or more years’ service. Oldest of them is
the Rev. A. Graham, of Wahroonga
(Sydney). He conducted services for 60
years. One “youngster.” with 50 years
to his credit is the Rev. C. J McAulay,
who is virtually still in harness. He
“retired” in 1944, but still conducts two
services each Sunday in the voluntary
position of relieving minister at Mayfield
and Lambton (Newcastle) Methodist
Churches.
• •
Half a century of service in making
fife more, liveable for deaf and dumb
children will end with the retirement of
J. O. Love, Old Digger and Sydney Arts
graduate, who has been headmaster of
the Deaf and Dumb School at Mosman
Park, Perth, for the past 28 years. From
Sydney Uni. he went to Edinburgh for
specialist training in lip-reading and the
application of physiology and psychology
to the instruction of the deaf and dumb.
In his practical work, he concentrated on
the mental development of children before
teaching them to speak.
• •
Provision of information and services
for customers going abroad has become
an important function of most Australian
trading banks —services rendered include
the booking of accommodation and pas-
sages and assistance with passports, visas
and income-tax clearances. Last year the
Sydney Travel Department of the Bank
of New South Wales handled fare-book-
ings totalling more than £1 million. H. R.
Brown, manager of the branch—-which
has a staff of 40 —has just left by Qantas
plane for Johannesburg on the first leg
of a trip which will take him to Kenya,
Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Turkey,
Spain, Portugal, Greece, Western Europe,
North America, Japan, Hong Kong,
Thailand and Singapore. After his return
in October if there are any questions he
can’t answer about these countries he’ll
be able to refer the inquirer to T. H.
Kellock, his opposite-number in Mel-
bourne, who is accompanying him on the
trip.
• •
One of the best-known clergymen in
South Australia, Canon H. P. Finnis, is
retiring after nearly 47 years’ service in
the Anglican ministry. Ordained in 1908
at St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, he
was for many years rector of St. John’s
church in Halifax-street, Adelaide, resign-
ing in 1927 to become Bishop’s vicar at
St. Peter’s Cathedral. Nine years later
he was appointed choirmaster and organ-
ist and his work in that field has been
outstandingly fruitful—2o boys and 12
men, all of whom he had trained, took
part in Melbourne’s Four Choirs’ Festival
last year.
• •
Physicist Dr. D. S. Robertson, of the
Long Range Weapons Department (S.A.),
is moving to Canberra, where he will
work under Professor Marcus Oliphant
at the Research School of Physical
Sciences, His job will be to assist in
the construction of the world’s largest
synchrotron, which has already been a
year in the making. The function of a
synchrotron is to produce very energetic
protons, which are directed as projectiles
against targets of other elements and
observed for investigation on nuclear
reactions. The Canberra gadget will be
three times as big as America’s “cosmo-
tron” at Brockhaven, New York, and ten
times the size of the synchrotron at Bir-
mingham (Eng.) on which Robertson
worked from 1946-1948.
# #
Last week a Korea veteran assumed
command of over 7000 of Victoria’s
youngest soldiers.
The career of Lieut.-
Colonel I. Hutchi-
son, D. 5.0., 0.8. E.,
M. E.D., should
be an inspiration to
the lads of the 3rd
Cadet Brigade. In
1930 he was a cadet
himself with the
N. S. Wales Scottish
Regiment, of which
he later became C.O.
When the Second
A.I.F. was raised he
went to the 2/3
Battalion as lieuten-
ant ; he was still with
it at the war’s end
and his personal re-
cord included Bardia
(M.C.), Tobruk
(wounded in action),
the Owen Stanleys
(m.i.d.) and Aitape-
Wewak (D. 5.0.). By
that time he, was the
battalion’s C.O. His third battalion-
command came when he led 1
Battalion, R.A.R., into action in Korea.
For this, 0.8. E. After that he was
appointed to raise and command the 13th
National Service Battalion. Originally a
Citizen soldier, he joined the Regulars in
1949.
• •
Vic. Railways Department now has so
many New Australians on the payroll
that it has appointed a full-time welfare-
officer with the gift of many tongues to
deal with their problems. He is N.
Piergiovanni, and he will advise the
N’Aussies in the matter of pay, sick-leave,
workers’ compensation; arrange for
translation of orders and encourage the
newcomers to attend the free English-
lessons conducted by the Education
Department.
• •
Bill Charnley, who dropped-in at 252
George-street last week on one of his in-
frequent visits to Sydney, is a dyed-in-
the-dust Westralian who has contributed
“Abo.” pars and other items to The
Bulletin over several decades. In the
same period he can claim to have appeared
in almost every Australian paper open to
the freelance, and his name has figured
under or over paragraphs, verse, articles,
short stories and serials ; there are even
a couple of novels cruising around in
MANUSCRIPTS
search of a publisher. He has also had
considerable success overseas, particu-
larly with the “Wide World Magazine,”
which has hailed him as its most prolific
Australian contributor. Charnley remem-
bers the W.A. goldfields in the days when
local condensers were the main source of
the water-supply ; he was in Coolgardie
when the water came through, and he
regards John Forrest as the greatest man
Australia has produced—with C. Y.
O’Connor not far behind.
Violinist Max Rostal can’t be accused
of coming on his A.B.C. tour badly
equipped in woodwork. He has a Stradi-
varius (its delicate tone for the small
“intimate” hall); a Guamerius—acquired
from the family of the novelist Charles
Reade—and a Guadagnini (both more
rugged, their tone better suited to the
big hall). Austrian-born and now a
naturalised British subject, Rostal sawed
at his first fiddle about the time he was
learning the alphabet. He was saved
from becoming just another burnt-out
prodigy by being spirited away from that
hot-house atmosphere and put to solid
w°rk It paid dividends. He won the
Mendelssohn Prize (open to all mstru-
MUSIC
ments), made his debut with Berlin Phil-
harmonic Orchesta, then became assistant
at the State Academy to his old teacher,
Carl Flesch. Rostal left for London
early in the Hitler regime and has since
made it his headquarters. As a diversion
from double-stoppings and glissandos, he
hobbies with a Leica camera, and when
opportunity offers likes to hit 90 in his
Mark VII Jaguar over Europe’s auto-
bahnen.
• •
Oldest shire-councillor in Victoria, pro-
bably in Australia and possibly in the
world, Joseph Lockwood has been
returned as president of the North-
western Shires’ Association for the 19th
year in succession. He’s 93.
• •
“Stromlo”: Canada’s deputy Prime
Minister, C. D. Howe, due to arrive
on April 11 for a fortnight’s stay in
Australia, is popularly regarded in the
Dominion as the “coming man.” A
Bachelor of Science and a Privy Coun-
cillor, he was born in the U.S., but
became a Canadian citizen in 1913, and
he has held many portfolios in the Cana-
dian Parliament during the last 20 years.
He has, been Minister for Trade and
Commerce since 1948, and for Defence
Production since 1951. Plans for his visit
include sugar- and wheat-areas in Queens-
land, coal and electricity in N.S.W., dried
fruits in Victoria and Radium Hill in S-A.
He will also visit Canberra.
• •
A New Zealand scientist has joined
distinguished company holding the
Andree Dumont Medal —an Italian, a
Britisher, a Pole, a Dutchman and an
American. Professor C. A. Cotton, ex-
head of the geological department at
Victoria University College, Wellington,
has been chosen by the Geological Society
of Belgium for the honor in 1954, and
the Belgian Minister in N.Z., Armand
Nihotte, in announcing the award, paid
a tribute to his world-renowned contri-
bution to science. The Dumont Medal
was instituted in 1947 to commemorate
the hundredth anniversary of Dumont’s
completion of the geographical map of
Belgium.
• «
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 59, Surgeon Rear-Admiral
D. A. Pritchard, Director of Naval Medical
Services and an honorary surgeon to the
Queen. He was 32 years in the R.A.N. and
was squadron medical officer in cruisers Perth
and Australia during the war.
At sea, aboard the liner Rangitiki, John
Brodie, New Zealand author and journalist,
who wrote several novels under the name
“John Guthrie.”
At Albany (W.A.), at 86, Warren Marwick,
last survivor of the firm of Marwick Brothers>
pioneers of Westralia’s York district, and
operators of a carting-trade to the goldfields
before the railway went through.
In Victoria, while touring the Kiewa project
with other Parliamentarians, Henry Stephen
Dunks, chairman of committees in the S.A
Assembly and Liberal member for Sturt ana
Mitcham for 22 years.


NATURAL JUSTICE


ABORIGINAHTIES
nrHE syllabus of modern education now
in force in our island territories
might well include lessons on the proper
treatment of the natives’ four-legged
friends.
The Papuan, for example, can conceive
of no custom of the white man more non-
sensical than that of feeding good meat
to dogs. His view is that any dog that
can’t fend for himself should starve, and
the village mongrels—mere skin and
bone —present pitiful evidence of this
opinion.
Coming south, we left our Scotch-
terrier to the care of the houseboys, with
sufficient meat for him during our
absence. On our return a month or two
later we found the houseboys in better
"He's got a hoarse throat too, same as me, Doctor!"
condition than ever, but the pup reduced
to a framework. I inquired how he
became so thin ; had they fed him? “Oh,
yes. Taubada ; all the time we gave him
plenty rice, but he no eat!”
M. A. W.
* # * *
“Emel”: The Bulletin has been used
for many blocking burrows
to packing bunks. Here’s a new one: In
Rhodesia photographer Jack Cato’s
Mashona boy absconded with the square
of ruby glass from the front of his dark-
room-lamp. Among Cato’s recent mail
was a Bulletin. He used half a red
outside page doubled in place of the
ruby glass. “It answered admirably,” he
records, “until with much use the candle
scorched it. Then I gradually used up
the rest —it was adequate for the trip.”
* * * *
“Zanda”: The sight of him interrupted
my labors. He was nimbly balancing on
the stalk, assiduously pecking at a zinnia
going to seed. Mottled brown-and-white
breast, with red-and-black markings on
his head, and yellow near his black, white-
spotted tail, he looked Nature’s personifi-
cation of joy-in-labor. To this, his spirited
chirp acted as an apt finale. He fluttered
away. I didn’t know his name, but I
wished I could have taken the same
delight in my work. At least, he made me
want to whistle all afternoon.
“C.A.A.”: Yet another
can be added to Peter
Bladen’s various “pink lakes
unique in Australia,” as he
notes in “Lazy Walkabout”
the locals call them. This
“unique” specimen is a few
miles north of Linga, near
Underbool, in north-west
Victoria. In fact, there are
several in the locality.
They’re salt, and have been
the subject of study by U.S.
scientists.
“M'eliphaga”: The Service Department
of The Bulletin was given a curly ques-
tion when asked (9/ 3/’55) the nature of
the nest and eggs of “the honeyeater.”
There are in fact about 70 species of
honeyeaters in Australia alone, and their
nests are —well, custom cannot stale their
infinite variety ; they range from the rela-
tively large and well-knit baskets of the
leatherheads to the tiny cradle of the
spinebill and the remarkable lacelike nest
of the painted-honeyeater. Not all are
fibrous; the saucer-shaped nests of the
wattle-birds are composed of small sticks.
Nor is it wholly correct to say that the
nests are always open and cup-shaped.
As an extraordinary fact, two small
members of the group in the tropics have
broken away from family traditions by
building somewhat bulky dome-shaped
nests, equipped with a side-entrance. What
brought about this departure is anyone’s
guess. Possibly it came into practice
through the nature of the material used,
this being mainly the soft bark of the
paperbark tea-tree, which may be better
adapted to the dome-shaped nest than to
the orthodox open type.
* * * •
“P.J.R.”: Shod bullocks (B. 9/3/’55)?
Around Roeboume (nor’-Westralia) I
saw hundreds done. Ordinary horseshoes
would, of course, have crippled them,
so old shoes worn thin were cut in half,
and these half-shoes nailed to each hoof.
The action of the cloven hoof was thereby
not interfered with. The bullocks were
shod lying down in a crush.
• • • • •
“Neerim”: Fitting a bullock with
trilbies was known, not as shoeing, but
“queing.” The “que” consisted of a
narrow ridge (complete with nail-holes)
starting at the front of the hoof and
running back until it flattened out into a
thin heel. The bullock’s hoof-wall is a
lot thinner than a horse’s, and it was
a highly-skilled job. Stand a bullock on
hard, clean ground with just a little sand
on top, and the track he will leave with
half of one foot is an exact replica of
a Q, hence the name.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: The School of Arts at
Kiama (N.S.W.) stands as a monument
to an unknown pioneer who, apparently,
was unable to get the rest of Australia
interested in a revolutionary project he
"Sign here — it's registered."
attempted. Perhaps only a bricky would
notice the memorial he has left behind
—the bricks he made. They are half as
big again as the ordinary clay- or shale-
brick, measuring 9in. long by 4|in. wide
(the same as orthodox bricks) but 4iin.
thick instead of 3in. Theoretically .the
bricks should have been rushed by
builders: they are a nice red in color
and the extra size should have reduced
brickwork costs by a third. Obviously,
however, the experiment was not a finan-
cial success, since, although the building
was constructed in 1900, the idea has not
spread. I know of no other place where
similar bricks have been used.
• * * •
“Nimrod”: Don’t know about kanga-
roo-meat for the U.S.A. (B. 16/ 3/ ’55),
but we seem to be missing-out on a home
market for another meat. My Italian
friends complain that the small sausage,
the salsiccia, as made in Australia is not
up to the standard of those produced in
Italy. Reason? Our manufacturers use
beef and pork, whereas for perfection
either donkey- or horse-meat is essential,
not being as fat as beef nor as moist.
In view of this, it is interesting to note
that over a thousand donkeys have been
shot on one Westralian station
alone since last October.
* * *
“Fair Mac”: In my hero-
worshipping days only the tyro
axeman stepped on his log
bearing an axe with the knob
still on the end of the handle.
The rest shortened their
handles, the idea being to use
a shorter, quicker stroke than
that needed for cutting in the
bush. At a recent country
show I noted with amazement
that every competitor had a
knobbed axehandle. Talking
with one of them, I learned
that axemen still use handles
two inches shorter than the
ordinary variety, but they now
make their own. A billet of
hickory can be bought for 4s.
from the firms which supply
competition axes; the axeman
shapes his handle to his par-
ticular taste and can fashion a
knob on the end after cutting the billet
to the length required.
* * * *
“Woe Wun”: In screen hold-ups the
victim is almost invariably marched away
with the gun boring into his backbone.
One of the first things yve learned about
commando-tactics was that you can move
quite slowly and yet turn round and at
the same time knock a gun away from
you if it is only held close enough to
your back. Apparently the Yanks never
learned this. Just as they never learned,
if we are to believe the countless cinema-
sagas, that you should never advance in
close order. The average infantry advance
on the films would be just plain suicide
even if it were opposed by a blind man
with a muzzle-loading blunderbuss. Per-
haps the new wide screens will enable
them to open up a bit?
* * * *
“Keima”: The spear-fisherman in Sid
Black’s joke-block (B. 2/3/’55) certainly
got a bull’s-eye on that target-patterned
flatfish. Apparently it was too easy for
him to pinpoint the fish on the side facing
him; no, he coils his spear right round
the fish and scores full marks from the
opposite side ! Remarkable; an achieve-
ment not lessened by the fact that the
spearman’s eye-piece had no aperture for
him to see through!
* * * *
“Kerba”: There are some queerly-
named localities in N.S.W., but two in
particular fascinate me. Between Weis-
mantels and Dungog a sign informs road-
travellers they are climbing Linger-and-
die Mountain. How the grim warning
became the name of the mount nobody
in the district seemed to know. Neither
was anybody able to tell me how or why
Putty—a township off the road between
Singleton and Windsor —received its
strange handle.
* * ♦ *.
BEER IS SAFER
IT comes as rather a shock to read, in a
reputable medical journal, of one
who became a milk-addict, with dire
consequences.
This gentleman, of 56 years of age, had
suffered from a stomach-ulcer since 1944,
and began drinking milk in an effort to
ease the pain. Gradually the insidious
habit developed until it owned him, body
and soul, and he was prepared to sink
to the lowest practices in order to satisfy
his craving.
At the time of his admission to hospital
in July, 1950, he had reached the record
consumption of a gallon per day, and
just could not keep off it. .He was de-
scribed as “dejected and tearful,” and,
in addition, had quite a large number of
lumps in various parts of his body, includ-
ing some most inconvenient places.
X-rays showed the lumps were deposits
of lime from the excessive consumption
of milk.
After about six months in hospital he
was successfully weaned and apparently
restored to a reasonably normal condi-
tion, but, like most addicts, it was not
long before he began to nibble again at
the forbidden drink, and within a few
months his consumption-rate had again
reached a gallon per day. It was during
this period that he grabbed a bottle of
milk intended for his infant grand-
daughter and drained it in one gulp.
He was returned to hospital, and this
time larger and more numerous deposits
of lime were found in the bones, arteries
and other places.
When last heard of the unfortunate
was undergoing another process of wean-
ing, but no doubt, as happens in more
popular forms of addiction, the craving
will win in the long run.
Perhaps beer is a safer hobby.
MEDICO.
NEW AUSTRALIANS
[Extract from Part II of
“The Dispossessed”]
To us it was bewildering, this young and lusty
land,
Where sunburnt stony deserts stumble on to
foam-fringed sand
And hungry pastures grow beside the creeks
where gold is panned.
Even the skies are alien. The Southern Cross
hangs there.
To us, it is a symbol of the cross we have
to bear.
To them it is a holy sign of God’s eternal care.
The gumtrees are monotonous, one everlasting
green.
They shed their bark and not their leaves,
and litter every scene;
Yet here and there the skeletons of gaunt
ghost-gums are seen.
We saw the flooded creeks a-banker, wasteful
they seem to be;
Half-hearted weary rivers that will never reach
the sea;
Dry sun-caked lakes, and billabongs from living
waters free.
We saw the shifting sand-drifts creep on fertile
river-plain;
The blackened burnt-out forests come
burgeoning green again;
The pulsing pregnant jungle and long miles
of golden grain.
We heard the bushfire’s fury, when all life’s
a living hell.
We cowered beneath the duststorm’s spite in
summer’s arid spell.
We suffered droughts and loneliness, and
plagues and floods as well.
They’re a laughing, gambling people, and it
seems they do not care
For sanctified traditions or conventions that
would dare
To tidy up their petticoats and braid their
yellow hair.
They drain the brimming cup of sunshine.
“Near enough,” they say,
And pioneering makeshifts are so often left
to stay;
They laugh and shrug and grumble, then go
on their casual way.
They disparage so their country, yet they’ll
fight to prove its worth.
But only native lips dare slight the land that
gave them birth.
To these bewildering people, it’s the finest land
on earth.
VICTORIA.
J. PENMAN LAWRIE.


Old lush Songs
This cattle-duffers’ song is usually sung today to a tune composed by Louis
Lavater, but was originally a parody on a sentimental American song about
slavery, “Darling Nelly Gray.” Since passing into folk-currency the tune has
acquired several variations. This version of the original tune was sung to John
Meredith by Leo Dixon, ex-shearer of Balmain, Sydney, who learned it from
his father in the Orange (N.S.W.) district. The words are in Paterson’s “Old
Bush Songs.”
WHEN preparing for corroborees two
bucks will face one another, each
decorating the other with white corella-
feathers (or, if they can get them, pelican-
feathers) which have been dipped into a
jam-tin of effective adhesive
for sticking the feathers to the skin.
Blood is obtained by piercing an artery
of the arm with a splinter of glass. Dur-
ing the last corroboree “season” here at
our N.T. station a bullock was killed to
provide meat for the stock-camp, and
the boys happily collected a few tins of
bullock-blood to save draining themselves.
—“Morayda.”
* * * *
“Palaver”: As a veteran champion
equestrian Harold Bloodworth (B.
9/3/’55) had a rival in Barney Veech,
who won first-prize for weight-carrying
hack and best gentleman rider for eight
successive years on the same horse at the
Wellington (N.S.W.) Show. After his
eighth effort the committee asked old
Barney to bring another horse next year.
He did ; leaving Quilbone 24 hours before
the show began he got there in plenty of
time—a distance of 160 miles. Don’t
know old Barney’s exact age at the time,
but he was no chicken.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Though that gloomy denizen
of damp places the swamp-pheasant spends
most of its life on the ground it will
take refuge in the topmost branches of
tall trees when hard-pressed. There,
where leaves are thickest, it conceals its
bulky body with remarkable skill. I
flushed one which, in customary fashion,
flew a short distance and touched-down
in long grass. Disturbed again, it
landed on a low shrub, from which it
sought refuge in one of the lower branches
of a big swamp-gum. There it com-
menced to cluck in a peculiar manner, a
noise utterly unlike the whooping call
typical of the species. Presently out of
the swamp came a young bird, sufficiently
fledged to fly in clumsy fashion. It
joined its mother, and the pair made their
way to the top of the gum where they
concealed themselves from my view.
Incidentally, though the swamp-pheasant
lays up to five eggs, I have never known
them to rear more than one chicken. In
common with all ground-nesting birds, the
swamp-pheasant casualties are very high.
* * $ *
“Harbel”: The mother-love instinct in
birds can be the noble thing that universal
opinion regards it; but Ma Canary is
often on with the new maternal love
before she had finished with the old. It
is not at all unusual for immature young-
’uns to be bunged out of the nest so that
laying-operations may begin again with-
out hindrance. A pair of my canaries
went farther. While the hungry, home-
less outcasts huddled together on the
ground, Ma and Pa systematically relined
the nest with soft, downy feathers. Where
did the material come from? Plucked
from the unfortunate youngsters.
* * * #
“Kelms”: A Westralian camping in a
caravan woke to find a scorpion burying
its sting in his leg. In the morning he
found more sting-marks and three more
scorpions, and when he collapsed at work
next day the scorpions were blamed.
That was probably right, but it must be
one of the first cases on record of a person
in Australia being seriously affected by a
scorpion-sting. The sting’s poisonous all
right, and it’s instantaneously lethal or
paralysing to the scorpion’s prey and to
many of its enemies; but to humans it’s
rather less painful than a bee-sting and
probably less damaging. The scorpion is
an arachnid, which means it’s allied to
the spider, and both the sting and the
poison-bulb are located in the end of the
tail, which is swung into attack over its
owner’s back and head. That’s the typical
scorpion method, but it isn’t used in a
fight against another scorpion. Appar-
ently they know that their poison'won’t
work against themselves ; but they have
other armament which is most effective,
because such fights are always to the
death. And the winner eats the loser.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Dad was quite content with
the herd of cows and small retail dairy.
Mum had bigger ideas; so a skillion,
built on the side of the dairy, became a
mixed business. As calculating prices in
pin. I*, 1 *, quarts and gallons, just about
cut out Dad’s arithmetic, he laboriously
work&d out the first customer’s score with
pencil and paper. After five minutes’
mental sJnvery he proudly announced:
“That’s seven-and-tuppence, mister.”
“Good,” .'aid the customer brightly. “I’ll
give you ten and-tuppence. You give me
"Hey! You left the door all abrooard, laud !”
three-bob. That’ll make us square.” Dad
glared at him belligerently and got pencil
and paper going again. Suddenly he
threw the whole lot in the air and stalked
out shouting “Mum! Mum! For gorsake
come’n’ fix this cranky beggar. I’m goin’
for th’ cows. A man knows where he
stands with them Dad stoutly refuses
to handle anything else now except the
milk-production department.
* # * *
“Saaedi”: The magpie condemned to
death by his mob almost seems
to acquiesce with his fate —little
resistance is offered to the execu-
tioners by the victim. Moreover,
while the misfit usually has some
warning of his unpopularity he never
seems to use flight to escape to safer
regions. Birds are sometimes destroyed
because they are delicate, sometimes be-
cause they are “different” ; one purge-
victim I saw was an unusual color. A
peculiar feature about this practice
amongst magpies is that the misfit is
frequently tolerated in the mob until just
prior to mating-time. Perhaps our pied
songster is also a keen eugenist.
* * * *
“O.W.W.”: Warned by the caretaker
not to use bad language while drafting
sheep in the saleyards, “as women are
working in a near-by tea-room,” the
drover drawled reassurance: “Don’t
worry,” he said “I spell out all my swear-
words —it makes ’em go further.”
* * * *
“Baksac”: The black-snake lay on the
edge of the tarred road 20yds. away.
I got off my bike and collected a stick.
Joe made no move till I was within 3yds.;
then his tongue swiftly licked out and in
twice. In my experience a basking snake
will sometimes lie motionless and allow
you to hit him, but when his tongue
licks out'he’s “on” you and intends to
make a move —either flight or fight. This
one being a black I expected him to take
off. He didn’t try to until hit, so some-
thing evidently had made him pretty sick.
In spite of the popular supposition that a
tyred vehicle can’t hurt a snake, it’s
odds-on that that one had tangled with a
car or truck.
“Sebak”: The lower limbs of the More-
ton Bay fig were ideal for our ham-
mocks. We had assembled everything
when Rip Van Winkle’s older brother
came past. “Ain’t thinkin’ of campin’
there tonight, are y’?” he asked. “Y’
won’t get any sleep,” he added, and
walked on, chuckling in his whiskers. We
decided that he must have known some
stupid ghost-yarn about the tree. Later I
woke with the eerie feeling that something
spooky had flitted past. Then I identified
the thing that had fanned me with its
ghostly wings. Relieved, I was settling
down when the whistling shrieks began
and bedlam broke out. The old boy waS
right-: we didn’t sleep. Moral: Don’t
camp under a Moreton Bay when the
flying-foxes know the figs are on.
THE EUMERELLA SUOPE.
There’s a happy little valley on the
Eumerella shore
Where I lingered many happy hours away.
On my little free selection I have acres by
the score,
Where I unyoke the bullocks from the
dray.
Chorus:
To my bullocks then I say
No matter where you stray,
You will never be impounded any
more ;
For you’re running, running, running
on the duffer’s piece of land,
Free-selected on the Eumerella shore
When the moon has climbed the moun-
tains and the stars are shining
bright,
Then we saddle up our horses and away,
And we yard the squatters’ cattle in the
darkness of the night,
And we have the calves all branded by
the day.
Chorus:
Oh, my pretty little calf,
At the squatter you may laugh,
For he’ll never be your owner any
more ;
For you’re running, running, running
on the duffer’s piece of land
Free-selected on the Eumerella shore.
If we find a mob of horses when the
paddock rails are down,
Although before they’re never known to
stray,
Oil, quickly will we drive them to some
distant inland town,
And sell them into slavery far away.
Chorus:
To Jack Robertson we’ll say
You’ve been leading us astray,
And we’ll never go a-}arming any
more;
For it’s easier duffing cattle on the
little piece of land
Free-selected on the Eumerella shore.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each week.]
THE KEILOR MAN
IN the short 15 years since it was dug
up, the Keilor fossil-skull has roused
speculation and controversy almost worthy
of some of the world’s better-known and
worse-preserved relics of man’s past.
Early estimates of the age of this
antique aboriginal headpiece, based on
the geological evidence of the surround-
ing strata, went back as far as 150,000
years.
This figure was subsequently reduced,
following more detailed geological exam-
ination of the Maribyrnong River valley-
terraces, and the belief was then held for
a time that the remains (there were some
limb fragments, too) may have been a
burial, in which case the age of the terrace
in which they were found would be no
indication of the age of the fossils.
Now the latest and most accurate
method of fossil-age estimation, radio-
active carbon analysis, has (indirectly)
settled the question of the skull’s anti-
quity—pro tern., anyway. The test, made
in the U.S.A. on some ashes found with
the skull, puts their age at not far short
of 9000 years.
Another, different kind of chemical
analysis has also shown that the body was
not buried where it was found, so it is
thought to have been washed down the
ancient stream-bed to its 9000-year rest-
ing-place from some unlocatable spot
indefinitely higher-up.
MILLICENT.


w
/■%
ll
fflf
ABB
without
v- , 5
WITH A
r
personal portable
Handsome
carrying case,
65/- extra.
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands of country as well as city users.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books. Context eliminates tedious additions, and exasper-
ating errors. Contex < supplies the answers with infallible ac-
curacy, m £..5.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or mea-
sures. Anyone can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
•POST THIS OR PHONE: M 0425"
CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me free pamphlet on the Contex
NAME
ADDRESS ... ’ *. *.
C 0.23.16
Have you tried
e ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you. .
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
m
N*
:
& ' i
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke—and to offer
—these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
P. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond StreeC»
London, W.l.
AS FULL OP CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
Business, Rollery, Etc
Import-cuts and Costs
T MPORT-RESTRICTIONS in
A Australia are back again.
They are symptomatic of two
outstanding features of the
economy—the need for imported
capital-goods and essential raw
materials to provide for indus-
trial expansion, and the inability
of many of our industries to
produce a sufficient exportable
surplus saleable at a profit
overseas.
Our exports are falling short
of our imports— to the tune of
£4O million during the first eight
months of 1954-55, and, includ-
ing freight and shipping costs,
etc., an estimated £l5O million
for the full financial year. For
the first eight months of 1953-54
there was a surplus of exports
amounting to £135 million. The
deterioration during the present
term has been the result of both
higher imports and lower
exports.
Australia has been getting
lower prices for some of its
products, especially wheat and
wool. The lower income from
wool and metals has been chiefly
responsible for the fall in export
values, while the item among
imports showing the greatest
increase is metals and metal-
manufactures, machinery, etc.
Textiles and other consumer-
goods have shown considerable
increases also.
There will be many complaints
on many different scores regard-
ing the present import-cuts. The
Government will be blamed for
a number of things, though the
critics may be more or less
incoherent in their criticism. But,
wherever the blame lies, the need
for cutting imports is almost
entirely due to Australia’s low
rate of production per man-hour.
A low rate of man-hour output
raises costs in a way which no
manipulation of the exchange-
rate can successfully overcome,
and it increases the need for
imports in two ways—firstly by
not providing enough consumer-
goods internally, and secondly
by increasing the need for mo'e
units of manufacturing-plant
because of the low output from
each unit of plant per working-
shift.
With its nominal 40-hour
>yeek (which is less than an effec-
tive 35-hour week in many
industries) Australia’s produc-
tion-rate per man-hour and per
man-week in most industries is
much lower than in other manu-
facturing countries. The wool
industry and the crude-steel and
base-metal industries are almost
unique in Australia for their
competitive ability in overseas
markets. The majority of other
Australian industries require
tariff assistance even to protect
their Australian market, and are
in no position to stand up to
world competition in overseas
free markets.
The 40-hour-week award was
the chief factor in our gross
post-war costs-inflation, and the
freezing of the basic wage subse-
quently is only a palliative, not
a corrective.
However equitable many of
the recent and forthcoming
increases in wage-margins may
be, the fact cannot be denied that
the ensuing rises in costs will
make it even more difficult for
industry to pay its way and meet
overseas competition. Pressure
will generate under the frozen
basic wage unless increased
margins provide an incentive
spur to greater output per
worker.
Responsibility for our high-
costs position, from which trade-
balance problems and currency-
convertibility difficulties flow, as
mentioned before, spreads over
many sections of the community.
But tracking-down responsibility
becomes easier if it is recognised
that low man-hour production
is the chief contributing factor.
And that is very largely the
responsibility of the political
“Labor” parties, State and
Federal, which have nevpr been
prepared to take a firm, common-
sense stand against their trade-
union adherents. They have set
such a low standard of economic
responsibility that other poli-
tical parties have found it
impossible to do the completely
honest and sane thing competing
against them at the polls.
10 p.c.
The shilling-a-share distribu-
tion from B.H.P. indicates an
annual div.-rate of 10 p.c., com-
pared with 81 p.c. for the past
seven years, and follows an
increase in the price of steel
earlier this year. The co.’s huge
expansion programme, the
annual cost of which may rise
to £l3 million during the next
five years, is the chief factor in
the still-low div.-rate.
Where the money for future
expansion is to be obtained, and
on what terms, has not been dis-
closed.
Wide and Deep
From L. Owen: The results
from drilling and the toll of
abandoned wells throughout the
Commonwealth over the last
few weeks have emphasised the
truth of working principles
which the oil-industry has long
employe d—consciously or
unwittingly, according to experi-
ence —in its search for
petroleum.
Important among these is the
acceptance of the fact that the
presence of large domes with
high closures is only one of the
many factors which add up to
the making of a commercial
oilfield. Another factor the
importance of which has been
overestimated is the strati-
graphical thickness of the sedi-
mentary beds which underlie a
favorable structural feature.
It is, of course, a mathemati-
cal truism that, on average, the
greater the stratigraphical thick-
ness of clastic beds [beds of
fragments of older rocks] pene-
trated by the drill, the greater
the chance of striking oil. The
buyer of lottery-tickets employs
exactly the same line of reason-
ing when he buys a block of
tickets, instead of one, in the
hope of bettering his chance of
winning a prize. In both cases
the investment required is
increased, but in a lottery the
probability of buying a winner
increases with the number of
tickets held in a straight-line
relationship. In oil-drilling, on
the other hand, the relationship
between the cost of drilling per
foot and the depth of the well
is represented by an ever-
steepening curve. Drilling cost
per foot at 10,000 ft., for
instance, is much greater than
twice that at 5000 ft. under any-
thing but very abnormal condi-
tions. It follows that to locate
wells merely because outcrop
and geophysical evidence indi-
cates large thicknesses of sedi-
mentaries i s economically
unsound.
Far more important than
mere thickness are the condi-
tions under which the beds were
laid down and consolidated :
that is, their geological history.
This applies equally both to
“source” and “reservoir” strata.
Possibly one of the major bene-
fits that will accrue from the
present intensive search for oil
is that it will place an economic
value on the detailed study of
the geological history of the
Commonwealth.
There are some outstanding
examples of localised geologi-
cal history-studies in existence,
but most of these are purely
academic and rarely developed
from the point of view of oil-
finding; and they are too
restricted in extent to be of
great value in practice. Such
work as has been done by the
experienced oil-geologists on the
staffs of commercial companies
is not ordinarily available, and
the regional data are too meagre
and generalised to have been of
much use.
The geologist without ade-'
quate experience in oil-work is
thus forced to rely on textbook
and rule-of-thumb, which, in
itself, is not only uneconomic
but heart-breaking to himself
and his employers.
Nock and Kirby, Ltd.
The 83-year-old retail-hard-
ware business now familiarly
known to Sydney shoppers and
tradesmen, and most card-
players throughout Australia, as
Nock and Kirby, is floating as
a public co. It has written-up
certain freehold properties (in-
cluding the George-street head-
quarters) by £250,000 (£54,496
less than the V.-G. figure),
made a bonus issue of £107,628
(bringing paid capital to
£300,000), and it now proposes
to issue 200,000 ords. of 10s.
each at a premium of ss. a
share. That will make paid
capital £400,000.
Including the share-premium,
net tangible assets on the re-
valuation basis amount to 21s.
a share. Net earnings, for
1953-54, after adjustments for
income-tax and depreciation,
represented 14.8 p.c. on the new
capital, compared with 13.3,
11.2 and 25.1 p.c. in the three
preceding years. With a con-
tinuance of favorable conditions,
says the prospectus, the co.
should be in a position to pay
dividends of not less than
10 p.c. a year. There is
18 p.c. on the present capital
standing in tax-free reserves.
The revalued freeholds figure
in the books at £475,504. Other
freeholds for which the V.-G.
figure is not given appear at cost
—£139,899. »
Total fixed assets figure in the
accounts (31/8/’54) at £738,725.
Stocks appear at £546,367, hire-
purchase debts at £329,503, and
other debtors at £115,937.
Investments stand at £1139, and
net proceeds of the new issue
will be £148,362, making total
assets £1,880,033. Current lia-
bilities and provisions (including
employees’ superannuation fund,
£103,990) total £640,975, and
mortgages and unsecured notes
£394,000.
The subsidiaries are Thomas
Herbert and Co. Pty., Ltd.
(formed 1937 as a manufac-
turers’ representative and whole-
saler) ; Nock and Kirby Finance
Co. Pty., Ltd. (formed in 1953
to finance N. and K. term-
sales) ; Nock and (Banks-
town) Pty., Ltd. ; Nock and
Kirby (Wollongong) Pty., Ltd.
(formed in 1954). A freehold
shop-building has been bought
in Parramatta, but has not yet
been occupied, and plans for
building a large retail-store on a
freehold in Hunter-street, New-
castle, are well in hand. In
addition to its retailing, Nock
and Kirby does some manufac-
turing, under the trade-name of
Norlin, at its Camperdown
premises.
Compared with some others
(which specialise more) in the
hardware trade, Nock and
Kirby’s past earning-rate is not
high in relation to the proposed
capital. It has larger investments
in freeholds, and caters more
for the general public than
do builders’-hardware .specialists,
which so often do not carry so
many miscellaneous items of
stock. But at 15s. for the 10s.
Nock and Kirby shares the return
of about 6i p.c. available is
reasonable. Market increment
would seem to depend prin-
cipally upon improved earning-
capacity later on, which should
come with the completion of the
co.’s new-shop programme.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
ARTS
Circular Charts for all t yp+t
of Recording Instruments
tor i<if class of WscJsut—7
' or Equipment
METER CHARTS • SpociaHp
JACK^WO’SILUVANfU^
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Missing Friends
MILLER, Louis Alfred, son of Louis and
Margaret Miller, born near Daylesford,
Victoria, 1873, last heard of at Too-
woomba, Queensland, about 40 years ago,
or anybody knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY Co., Ltd., oi
401 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
MILLER, Richard Frederick, son of
Louis and Margaret Miller, born near
Echuca, Victoria, 1889, last heard of at
Toowoomba, Queensland, about 40 years
ago, or anybody knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY Co., Ltd., of
401 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
16,000 helping hands...
V
in business
on the land
in the home
when travelling
You don't need to be "a captain of
industry" to have an account with the
Bank of New South Wales every
responsible person can enjoy its advan-
tages. Businessmen big and small,
farmers, housewives, employees, even
juniors can open their own accounts,
and already more than half-a-million
customers know that "you can bank on
the 'Wales'
In Australia, New Zealand, Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea over 8,000
pairs of hands are at your service when
you consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5507C
ROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
Regd.
■
H
888
m
mm
i
y
mm
mm*
mm
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l± PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to-:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
London Oiunail
From Herbert Holman
MR. ANEURIN BEVAN’s
arrogant protestations of
disloyalty, each succeeding one
more spiteful than the previous,
were the root-cause of the recent
rumpus. And how quaintly
ironical are the repercussions
of glowing confidence in those
two hated centres of reaction,
the Stock Exchange and the
Conservative Central Office!
Security prices are wobbling
and uncertain for a number of
“Old Smasher Was lookin' f'r cigarette-butts
yesterday and found uranium."
reasons, including Mr. Butler’s
toughness, the Wall-street set-
back and a general holding-off
of buyers until a bottom is
touched —conditions, it is hoped,
of a temporary nature. A
change of Government, how-
ever, would have more serious
consequences. Thanks to Mr.
Bevan, such apprehension is no
longer felt. Politically, the short-
term consequences of his head-
strong actions are simple and
definite.
They virtually assure the
return, with an increased
majority, of a Conservative
Government at the next general
election, no matter what happens
to his person; for, though he
has been disciplined, the
conflicts will sharpen over the
months, making the Labor
party’s annual conference in the
autumn the bitterest ever.
Altogether, the time is a most
unhappy one for Mr. Attlee and
the Socialist headquarters at
Transport House. One strong
opinion is that they have written
off their chances of success at
the next election and are striving
to plan ahead. The “Daily
Herald,” for example, repudiates
Mr. Bevan’s assurance that he
“never intended to assail
Labor’s leadership” and impugns
him on three counts of having,
by his conduct, aimed at dis-
rupting his party. And, less
openly, the' mightiest of the
trade-unions has increased its
affiliation to the Labor party by
a further 165,000 votes.
Another is expected to take the
same course to the extent of an
increase of 250,000 votes. Apart
from a considerable increase in
income to the political fund
this amounts, simply enough,
to packing the hand against
the Bevanites.
Party Behavior
It is the opinion of a Canadian
political economist, who has
made a thorough and en-
lightened study of our two
parties, that there is very little
to choose between the working of
them both, so far as the relation-
ship of each with the party-
machine is concerned. Perhaps
this assumes that all other things
are equal and that the weather
is fair.
Granted that there must
always be, in either party, some
diversity of opinion, some dis-
agreement over policy or prin-
ciple and some dissidence at the
perimeter, it is an understate-,
ment to pronounce that the Con-
servative party is as solid in its
cohesion as the Labor party is
jagged in its division. Tory
eruptions soon compose them-
selves. Labor eruptions snow-
ball out of control.
Political conviction and
prejudice aside, why is this?
Since, for most politicians,
flagrant disaffection means the
end of a career, loyalty is a
compound of conscience and
realism, and this consideration
may have a chastening effect
upon the many professionals
among the Tories.
The answer would seem to
lie in the peculiar end-product
of the evolution of Socialism.
In office, the responsibilities of
government dictate a course
which sooner or later must come
into violent conflict with the
militant rank-and-file, survivors
and successors of the oppressed
and downtrodden (though any-
thing but undernourished them-
selves). Without this vocative
and mystical force at the back
of his consciousness, Mr. Bevan
would probably be no more than
an insignificant crank. And Mr.
Attlee would surely have been
more demonstrable a captain,
dealing summarily with unsatis-
factory members of his team?
Moreover, the constituency
organisations tend to favor the
lesser character, so long as it
keeps to the Left. Dr. Summer-
skill, although no mean orator
on the class-war theme, has failed
to be adopted by the reconsti-
tuted Fulham constituency. She
ranks high in the party counsels
but is to the Right.
The overriding question is
causing some concern in Britain,
especially after the Bevan affair.
When shall we have a good
alternative Government, so
essential to the working of the
two-party system? The Social-
ism that we know, torn as it is
between myth and makeshift, is
a far cry from that ideal.
Town and Country
“Wonderful Town” (Princes
Theatre) is a musical adaptation
of the play “My Sister Eileen,”
which was, in turn, an adaptation
of Ruth McKenney’s stories
about two smalltown sisters’
failure to take New York by
storm. Inevitably, the transition
was no simple affair of one-man-
one-script, for the credit titles
acknowledge a profusion of re-
creators. Yet this is an instance
where many hands are justified.
The “book” is light, carefree
and pertinent, while the lyrics
are of high quality in wit and
intelligence. In exuberance,
warmth and pleasure - giving,
“Wonderful Town” is without
post-war equal, for it has neither
the psychotic quirks of the
musicals of the ’forties nor the
mincing archness of those of the
’twenties.
Pat Kirkwood and Shani
Wallis sing delightfully and
invest the would-be writer and
actress sisters with personalities
which, though they may not be
dramatically apt, are always
winning. And the unselfishness
with which Miss Kirkwood en-
courages her young partner is
as commendable as it is rare in
this medium.
Leonard Bernstein’s music,
though at times overloud and
strident, is masterly in effect and
subtly derived. The composer
evidences a witty relish for Tin
Pan Alley with, maybe, some
tongue-in-cheek abandon. Close-
harmony, Irishry, a Conga that
is all Congas in one, the violent
cliches of nineteen - thirties’
“swing” and a take-off of com-
mercial jazz, are nostalgic and
satirical.
Robert Helpmann, now busy
rehearsing for the Australian
tour, has produced a high-
lighted “As You Like It” at the
Old Vic. He not only lets the
familiar passages speak for
themselves, but gives them an
unashamed emphasis. The
result is invigorating, for the
humor bursts naturally and
spontaneously out of the action.
Unfortunately, there is too much
humor (or too much play). The
comedy in the later scenes gets
out of hand, and a variety of
gimmicks, including a “cod”
umbrella-turn borrowed from
the Crazy Gang, cheapens the
production.
Virginia McKenna is the best
Rosalind seen and heard for
years; without once suggesting
a Principal Boy she successively
bristles, twinkles, guys, mopes
and triumphs. John Neville’s
Orlando is deftly complemen-
tary; for, although robust and
masculine, he yet remains the
weaker character. Eric Porter’s
Jaques, mock-serious, gone-to-
seed and other-worldly, is
funnier than the motley and the
rustics together


Discussion of your needs —in complete
confidence —is cordially invited. Call
or write for a copy of “Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors,
Trustees
A SERVICE OF GREAT VALUE TO
Business and
To the man who has acquired valuable business
interests and seeks an assurance that there will
be no dislocation or lack of efficient control
after his death, Union Trustee provides the
solution.
By appointing Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney, such a man
ensures sympathetic, efficient administration
of all his business and individual requirements
and the future security of his Estate.
Professional Men
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
TNVESTMENT interest in A.I. and S.
■*- is both direct and indirect. Of the co.’s
£14,500,000 of share capital, only the
million of 1\ p.c. prpfs. is held by the
public, the 13,500,000 ords. are owned
by 8.H.P., whose own scrip is one of the
most actively traded stocks on the market.
To help meet A.I. and S.’s big and costly
post-war programme of plant expansion,
B.H.P. took 8,800,000 of the ords. at par
over the last six years, and at November
30 last also figures as creditor for
£6,277,902, some of which might presently
be transferred to capital account. Over
the last decade the co. has paid five
ord. divs. totalling 15 p.c., an average of
only 1.5 p.c. Thus, after paying pref.
divs., over 63 p.c. (£3,896,116) of declared
net earnings for the period remained in
the business, and liberal allowances were
made for depreciation (total £13,158,766),
replacements (£750,000), taxation and
other contingencies.
Meanwhile B.H.P. has kept its distri-
bution at a moderate 8| p.c. since 1948,
thus placing the national need in front of
its own immediate interest. Now that
output, to which the level of costs is
closely related, is responding to recent
heavy expenditure on plant, earning-
power of the whole B.H.P. group is
beginning to gather strength. So,
although A.I. and S. kept its div. steady,
the parent has announced a long-awaited
lift in its distribution by declaring that
it will pay a final of 5 p.c. (=lO p.c. p.a.)
for the 12 months to May 31 next,
making 9 1-6 p.c. for the year. The
chairman also announced that, over the
next five years, the group proposed to
spend about £65,000,000 (average
£13,000,000 p.a.) on further expansion of
plant-capacity, etc., but did not say to
what extent, or when, shareholders would
be asked to assist—no doubt more will
be said in respect of this and other
matters at B.H.P.’s annual roll-up,
usually held in August.
The improvement in A.I. and S.’s
declared profit last term was £312,163.
That was after setting aside £2,513,319
(up £243,408) for depreciation, £300,000
(down £150,000) for replacements—
official allowances for depreciation are
inadequate at today’s level of costs —and
something for taxation and other
contingencies:
r—I—Dividends 1 —Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. p.c. p.c. serves, serves.*
1951.. 550,477 75,000 275,000 200,477 2,835,837
1952.. 713,213 75,000 337,500 300,713 3,136,550
To plant replacement re-
serve, £450,000 3,586,550
1953.1,275,459 75,000 337,500 862,959 4,449,509
Tax overprovided, £750,000 .. 5,199,509
To plant replacement reserve,
£300,000 5,499,509
1954.1,587,622 75,000 337,500 1,175,122 6,674,631
* After deducting pending interim div. on pref.
shares.
The £1,587,622 of profit, which leaves
out of the reckoning £750,000 that had
been overprovided for taxation in
previous years, was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 11.2 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 8.9, 4.7, 4.3 and 4.9 p.c.
back to 1950. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 7.4 p.c. The div. was kept at a
modest 2\ p.c., for reasons already
explained. The 2\ p.c. is equal to 1.35 p.c.
on B.H.P.’s £24,969,074 of capital.
The encouraging feature is the steady
improvement in the earning-power—in
heavy industry new plant, always a costly
item, takes time to get into its stride. Last
term more coking coal was produced from
the co.’s collieries on the N. S. Wales
South Coast, thanks largely to continued
mechanisation, and, with the help of addi-
tional coke-ovens and open-hearth
furnaces, the output of basic materials—
coke, pig-iron and steel-ingots—rose
to record figures:
Year, Coke, Pig-iron, Steel-ingots,
Dec. 31, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1951 .. 685,468 577,032 642,663
1952 .. 746,590 631,439 638,926
1953 .. 1,011,536 872,004 942,596
1954 .. 1,066,000 966,000 1,116,000
Demand for all types of iron an,d steel
strengthened as the year advanced. For
some lines, especially structural-steel and
light-gauge plates, it is now running ahead
of output, and is likely to continue to do
so, following the recent strengthening of
import restrictions. The first section of
the new hot-strip mill came into opera-
tion, but not until the second, or hot-fin-
ishing, section is complete will the co. be
able to meet the current level of demand
for hot- and cold-rolled sheets and
galvanised iron. The current year’s earn-
ings should also benefit from the recent
lift in the selling-price of steel. The com-
bined steel-ingot capacity of, the Port
Kembla and Newcastle works was
1,750,000 tons in 1949 ; today it is about
2,300,000 tons, and is scheduled to be
2,650,000 tons at end 1956.
The year’s net addition to the book-
value of fixed assets was £874,868, as
against £4,458,202 for the preceding 12
months:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £14,500,000 £14,500,000 £14,500,000
Reserves . . 3,174,050 4,487,009 6,712,131
Mortgage . . 1,500,000 6,000,000 6,000,000
Overdraft . . 2,205,136 1,027,244 1,410,058
From R.H.P... 6,487,500 6,487,500 6,277,902
Sundry-creditorst 8,359,351 9,099,837 9,924,810
£36,226,037 £41,601,590 £44,824,901
Fixed assets .. 27,740,048 32,198,250 33,073,118
Shares in asso-
ciate co. . . 386,497 386,497 386,497
Stocks.. .. 6,114,307 7,266,376 8,599,073
Book debts . . 1,967,118 1,732,400 2,748,146
Cash, Govt, bonds 18,067 18,067 18,067
£36,226,037 £41,601,590 £44,824,901
t Includes provision for taxation.
The bigger trading is reflected in the
growth of £1,332,697 in stocks and of
£1,015,746 in book-debts. To help meet
the outlay and reduce the debt to B.H.P.
by £209,598, the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £382,814 and increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
by £824,973, probably on account of
taxation.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
TCXACTLY what lies ahead of the big
outback-run-owner in Australia is
difficult to say l at the moment. The im-
mediate trouble is in the export market
for meats. After 14 years of bulk-buying
by the U.K. Government, trader-to-trader
operations were resumed in October last.
Since then the British consumer has
turned to prime-quality home-grown and
Argentine chilled beefs. One result has
been a sharp drop in demand for Aus-
tralian frozen beef, and, because stocks
held by the British Government have been
slow to move, cold-stores in the U.K.
are crammed to capacity, and stocks are
also beginning to accumulate at the Aus-
tralian end, too. The Smithfield (Eng.)
price for top-quality Australian frozen
hindquarters dropped from 2s. 4d. to
Is. lOd. per pound over the six months to
January 27, 1955, and would have fallen
further had Ministry stocks been forced
on to the market. Hopes are that the
transition from public to private trading,
and reduction of Ministry stocks, will
not be protracted.
The 15-year meat agreement between
the U.K. and Australian Governments
provides for a guaranteed average level of
prices for each class of beef. If average
open-market realisations fall below guar-
anteed levels, the U.K. will, at the end
of the year, make a deficiency-payment
covering the difference to the Australian
Government. The guaranteed price for
beef and veal for the year to September
30, 1955, is 13.18 d. (stg.) per pound, or
16.47 d. Australian currency. The Aus-
tralian Meat Board says “there is no
practicable method of ensuring that a
deficiency - payment*... can be directly
returned to the actual producers of live-
stock concerned, but efforts will be made
to ensure that the money so collected will
be used to sustain the market for live-
stock in Australia.”
Q.N.P.’s big leaseholds, aggregating
some 9200-odd square miles, are in the
far-west of Queensland and over the
border in the Territory, and there are
three fattening coastal freeholds, totalling
45,000-odd acres, in the Gladstone, Nan-
ango and Kilcoy districts. Of recent
years earnings have fluctuated mainly in
accordance with seasonal conditions,
which affect the turn-off and quality of
livestock and wool marketed. The rise
in selling-prices has largely offset the rise
in costs —it now costs over £7 to bring
a fat bullock for the co.’s Lake Nash and
Barclay Downs properties to the Bris-
bane market as against about 50s. in
1944.
Last term seasonal conditions were
only moderate, but satisfactory prices
were received for both animals and wool
sold. After setting aside something for
taxation, etc., but before allowing for
depreciation, there was a slip of £15,350
in net earnings:
, Dividends N
Pref. Ord. Writ- Re-
Dec., Profit. 12 p.c. 12 p.c. ten Off. serves.
& & £/ & &
1960. . 98,110 30,000 9000 15,050 110,940
Unexplained addition, £5215 .. .. 116,165
1951.. 103,674 30,000 9,000 18,651 162,178
Unexplained addition, £2547 .. 164,725
10 p.c, 10 p.c.
1952.. 54,642 25,000 7,500 18,565 168,302
Unexplained addition, £4668 .. 172,970
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1953.. 109,366 37,500 11,250 22,384 211,202
1954.. 94,016 37,500 11,250 26,868 229,600
Deducting the provision for depreciation
(shown as written off), the distributable
profit was £67,148 (down £19,834), equal
to 20.6 p.c. on capital (pref. and ord.
combined) as against 26.7, 11.1, 26.1,
25.5 and 13.9 p.c. back to 1949. The
distribution was maintained at an all-
round 15 p.c., of which 9 p.c. is labelled
bonus. Average distribution over the last
five years was 12.8 p.c., compared with
an average of 6.8 p.c. for the preceding
quinquennium.
The £325,000 of capital is in 250,000 £1
6 p.c. cum. prefs., which participate with
the ords. in any distribution beyond that
rate, and 600,000 ords. of 2s. 6d. each—
the other 17s. 6d. a share (£525,000) was
written off in 1932 to cover losses due to
drought, anasmic markets and other
causes, which is a grim reminder of the
risks inherent in this class of undertaking.
However, the co. is well-equipped to
meet contingencies, as the large holding
of cash and shares, etc., shows:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 75,000 75,000 75,000
Reserves . . . . 168,302 211,202 229,600
Creditors, etc.* .. 347,217 412,407 402,713
Final div. .. 32,500 48,750 48,750
£873,019 £997,359 £1,006,063
Freeholds .. 27,903 27,903 27,903
Leaseholds ~ 113,305 142,656 181,585
Plant .. .. 63,259 68,370 72,335
Livestock .. 157,036 146,787 156,230
Wool .. .. 2,340 1,680 1,200
Stores .. .. 51,897 51,580 32,576
Debtors .. .. 9,316 522 » 552
Shareholdings .. 42,254 72,219 95,981
Cash, etc. .. 405,709 485,642 437,701
£873,019 £997,359 £1,006,063
* Includes provision for contingencies and taxation.
The year’s net addition of £38,929 to
leaseholds partly reflects expenditure on
improvements and a new 30-year lease of
Roxburgh Downs, an 820 square-mile
cattle holding in n.-w. Queensland. The
big creditor item includes provision for
contingencies and taxation.
At ss. 3d. (4s. 2d. a year ago) the
return is 7.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution.
On the same basis the prefs. at 375. 3d.
yield 8 p.c. Net tangible cover is 445. 4d.
prefs. and 10s. Id. ords.
Hastings Diesels, Ltd.
YOUNGEST and now biggest member
A of the enterprising Hastings Deering
group, this lusty Diesels co. kicked off
in Sydney as recently as 1947 as
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hast-
ings Deering Building, Ltd. It
was converted to a public co. at
the end of 1952, when paid capital stood
at £325,000. Since then two subsidiaries
—Hastings Deering (Queensland) Pty.
and Hastings Diesels (New Guinea), Ltd.
—have been formed to handle the busi-
ness in the areas indicated. And so rapid
has been the growth of the entire under-
taking that the public and the Building
co. have together put up £1,180,500 of
fresh capital, lifting the total on the
register to £1,205,500 at August 31, 1954.
Sales have continued to increase, and
to help provide the extra working capital
needed to carry additional stocks and
book-debts, shareholders are now offered
a further 300,000 new £1 shares at par.
The issue will lift paid capital to
£1,505,500, on which a 12| p.c. div. (rate
paid for the last two years) will call for
£188,187, or £70,247 more profit than
was claimed for the year to August 31
last.
The co. and its subsidiaries represent
the Caterpillar Tractor Co., U.S. (makers
of Caterpillar tractors and earth-moving
equipment, etc.) and Deere and Co., U.S.
(agricultural-machinery and -tractors,
etc.) throughout Queensland, the Northern
Territory, Papua, New Guinea and the
s.-w. Pacific Islands. The co. also distri-
butes and services Lima and Michigan
cranes, power-shovels, draglines and other
equipment throughout Australia, and
operates the Hastings Deering Beef
Research reserves in the Northern Terri-
tory.
Sales depend largely upon the require-
ments of Governments and semi-Govern-
ment bodies for construction and develop-
mental projects, etc., and upon the needs
of the mining, building, agricultural and
other industries, which use materials-hand-
ling and other heavy equipment. Branches
have been established at Brisbane, Dalby,
Mackay, Ingham and Innisfail in Queens-
land, and at Port Moresby and Lae in
New Guinea.
Turnover, which is not disclosed,
doesn’t appear to have been affected much
by the general curtailment of activities
of public and other authorities in 1952-
53, and has stepped along in fine style
since, providing ready and profitable
employment for the flood of new capital.
Net earnings, which advanced from
£11,790 in 1951 to £48,779 in 1952, have
since shot up as follows:
Hastings Diesels and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
August Profit. i Dividend serves, serves.
31. £ £ £ £
Share-issue exps. written off, £3367 .. 14,639
1953.. 71,977 12| p.c. = 51,212 20,765 35,404
Share-issue exps. written off, £24,789 10,615
To capital reserve, £1415 .. .. 12,030
1954.. 117,940 121 p.c. = 96,855 21,085 33,115
Last term’s £117,940 (up £45,943) of profit
was equal to 15.2 p.c. on average capital
employed as against 17.5 p.c. for the
previous year. The div. was kept at a
generous 12£ p.c., and the £21,085 that
remained, and £3704 besides, was used
to wipe out the cost of new share-issues.
There has been little opportunity to
accumulate much in the way of reserves
(£33,115), which are a slender prop for
capital. Net earnings and divs. are likely
to be sensitive to fluctuations in economic
conditions for some time. So the 12| p.c.
distribution cannot be regarded as secure.
The recent strengthening of import
restrictions is not expected to seriously
affect the business, the bulk of which is
done in territories where saturation point
has not yet been reached. Greatest
threat at the moment is from surplus
stocks of Government agencies. The
organisation is second to none in sales-
manship, and servicing and sales of parts
should make a handy contribution to
earnings as the age of equipment in-
creases. To help overcome the tariff and
import restrictions, the American Cater-
pillar Tractor Co. has formed a subsidiary
in Australia, which will presently turn
out and/or supply replacement parts and


Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Ety. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osumvA*
OTTO.
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
BANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
( "NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
GOLD MINING
MALAYA
Applications are invited by the Raub
Australian Gold Mining Co. Limited tor
the position of GENERAL MANAGER of
the Company’s Mine at Raub, Pahang,
Malaya. Applicants should possess a
University Mining Degree or Diploma
from a recognised School of Mines, and
a sound practical experience in the mining
and treatment of gold bearing ores.
Applicants should have also had a sound
administrative experience. A liberal
salary -will be paid to the right man,
and, in addition, the Company pays a
Cost of Living allowance and provides
free furnished accommodation. An
entertaining allowance will also be given.
Fares and reasonable travelling expenses
of the successful applicant and wife will
be paid to the Mine. Term of initial
engagement three years with six months’
leave and return fares to port of embar-
kation on completion. Rates of Income
Tax in Malaya are comparatively low.
Applications closing on the 30th April,
1955, with original references and par-
ticulars of age, marital state and experi-
ence—accompanied by Medical Certificate
regarding health —should be addressed to
The Secretaries, Clarke & Son,
Box 2771), G.P.0., Brisbane,
Queensland, Australia.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED HENRY DAWSON.—TAKE
NOTICE that MERLE ROSE DAWSON
has filed Petition No. 4181 of 1954 for
divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry King Street Sydney by
the 6th June 1955 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. C.
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME'COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN SHEDDEN late of 119-
121 Queensbury Street North Melbourne.
—TAKE NOTICE that JAMES MUNRO
SHEDDEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3747 of 1953 on the ground
of your desertion during 3 years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 31st day of May 1955 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
R. C. F. SERIO, Solicitor, 67 Castle-
reagh Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
DIAMOND
jubilee'
h /A
CO
cn
♦
CXI
60 years!
OF >
LIFE ASSURANCE
SERVICE
AUSTRALIA
ASSURANCE C5tT
INC. IN Q lANO 1093
SPEC/AL/S/NG /N OF UFE AND
ACC/DENT INSURANCE
LIF
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. ’Phone BWBO6I.
live
Oft*
I was on the bridge over the Markham outside
Lae—the new 1690ft. bridge that is the longest in
the territory of Papua-New Guinea.
It spans the broad stream eight miles from its
mouth ; 17 Bailey-type steel sections, with decking
20ft. above the river’s normal height.
To me there is something very romantic
about this bridge. It symbolises the Faith that
is rising in New Guinea.
Just across, on the northern side, are Heath’s
and Edwards’ plantations, made famous by our
soldiers as the scenes of heroic encounter in the
recapture of Lae from the Japanese in 1943.
I thought of that, and of other campaigns
fought in the jungle so that this island might
remain part of the Australian heritage; of the
hard marches of our men ; of those for whom it
was the last march and the last stand.
I thought of other bridges thrown across such
streams as this, some of them spidery structures
of vine and bamboo, which had served the natives
and were welcome in the paths of our soldiers.
New Guinea was redeemed at a price beside
which the cost of the Markham River bridge and
its road approaches can never be reckoned.
And it seems to me that a territory worth so
much in life and treasure for the keeping, is worth
a superlative Australian effort now to ensure that
it will be well and richly developed.
Every bridge that is built, every mile of road
that is opened, every school for native education
that is established, every fresh acre that is planted,
is a positive step towards bringing New Guinea
into its own.
Those steps, I believe, will have to be
hastened. For Time—like the river—rolls on.
7
other components for the co.'s
tractor and earth - moving
equipment, etc.
The financial structure is well-
balanced : —
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £628,455 £1,205,500
Reserves .. . . 35,404 33,115
Mortgage .. .. 59,996 57,740
Overdraft .. 46,967 22,407
Creditors, etc. . . 357,821 128,075
Tax provision . . 32,015 63,343
Dividend .. .. 51,212 96,855
£1,211,870 £1,607,035
Land, buildings .. 212,765 301,519
Plant 86,108 102,962
Stock . . .. 684,125 726,192
Debtors ... .. 218,868 467,305
Cash, etc. .. 3,270 9,057
Intangibles .. 6,734 —
£1,211,870 £1,607,035
The most vulnerable of the assets
are stocks (up £42,067), in the
books at cost or under, and
book-debts (up £248,437), which
appear less an unspecified pro-
vision for doubtful debts. When
the books last closed, more-or-
less liquids exceeded liabilities
by £834,134, and there was only
3s. 4d. of outside money in the
business for every pound belong-
ing to shareholders.
The shares, which have a net
tangible cover of 20s. 5d., are not
listed on ’Change.
R. H. Gordon and Co.
'T'HE 51-year-old R. H. Gordon
and Co. (Sydney) grew
up in the cash-order trade,
and the attractive returns
it won therefrom enticed
many competitors into the field.
Today, however, the bulk of
business done is in furniture,
furnishings, crockery and other
household durables, part of
which is financed by the co.
itself on hire-purchase, the
returns from which are a nice
sweetener to the retail profits on
sale of goods.
From the investor’s point of
view, the co., which has an attrac-
tive history, is still a good profit-
earner and dividend-payer, with
strong reserves, a sound financial
structure and an experienced
management. These are qualities
for which the market is always
prepared to pay a high premium.
It therefore prices the f.-p. 15s.
shares at 38s. (335. 3d. a year
ago) to return 5.9 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 355., and assets are
believed to be worth more than
their book-value.
Since the public became
interested (in 1909) the co. has
issued £307,450 of bonus-scrip
and returned £223,333 of its
capital, leaving the figure at
£194,250. Last gift, was one-for-
three early in the 1951 term.
Dividends averaged 18.7 p.c. for
the 18 years to 1930, 12.6 p.c. for
the next decade, 13.3 p.c. for the
five years to 1945, and 19.3 p.c.
for the five years to 1950. Then
the flood of imports and slacken-
ing of activity in the building
trade, and in the furnishing that
goes with it, reduced earnings,
and the div. was lowered from
20 p.c. in 1950 to 16.6 p.c. and
13.3 p.c. for the next two years.
Turnover and net earnings
responded to the revival of trade,
and the div. was lifted to 15 p.c.
in 1953. Under the influence
of more stable economic condi-
tions, profit increased by
£12,760, reaching £50,801 for
the year to December 31 last —
best showing since 1929:
Re-
Dec., Profit. , Dividends serves.
£ £ £
1950.. 43,226 20 p.c. = 29,100 1
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j MZ.iW
Asset revaluation reserve,
£47,250 279,650
Bonus share issue, £47,250 232,400
1951. . 36,918 16§ p.c. = 32,313 1 nf)P -
To staff fund, £2OOO .. J zds,,uuo
1952. . 25,444 13J p.c. = 25,900 t „„o niQ
To staff fund, £l5OO .. j
1953. . 38,095 15 p.c. = 29,138 t <ma non
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j
1954.. 50,801 15 p.c. = 29,138 } i«q
To staff fund, £2500 .. J
The £50,801 was equal to
26.1 p.c. on capital as against
19.6, 13.1, 19, 29.7 and 23.8 p.c.
back to 1949. The cautious
board kept the distribution at
15 p.c., of which If p.c. is called
bonus. After passing £2500 to
the staff fund, the £19,463 that
remained lifted reserves £64,919
higher than paid capital.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital ..£194,250 £194,250
Reserves . . . . 240,007 259,170
Sundry creditors* . . 92,921 93,585
Overdraft .. . . 39,966 84,012
Staff fund . . .. 17,728 18,813
Final div. .. . . 16,188 16,188
£601,060 £666,018
Property and plant,
etc 142,680 152,688
Stock . . . . 96,859 100,275
Hire agreements and
book debts . . 358,682 410,521
Shares, debentures,
etc 2,729 2,424
Cash, etc. .. .. 110 110
£601,060 £666,018
* Including taxation.
The growth of £51,839 in hire
agreements, etc., reflects brisker
trading, and the net addition of
£lO,OOB to the book-value of
property and plant was mainly
on account of remodelling the
co.’s Newtown branch. Import
restrictions will tend to retard the
flow of merchandise from
abroad, but the 15 p.c. div.
appears tq be in no immediate
danger.
King Island Scheelite
TTHE co. operates a big open-
cut wolfram deposit on King
Island, Bass Strait, where large
quantities of overburden have to
be removed in order to get at the
ore. Technically and financially
the co. is in good shape.
For the year to October 31 last
an extra 84,311 tons of over-
burden were removed, but 39,045
fewer tons ore were milled,
owing to a 98-day strike at the
mine:
, Oct. 31
1953. 1954.
Overburden, etc., tons 812,220 896,531
Ore milled, tons (dry) 220,188 181,143
Head value, WO3 ..0.505 p.c. 0.57 p.c.
Concentrates, tons .. 1278.9 1146.8
Average grade, W 03.. 60.3 p.c. 63.9 p.c.
WO3 units produced.. 77,050 73,582
Profit £684,448 £652,669
Div.—
Rate .. .. 100 p.c. 90 p.c.
Amount .. .. £500,000 £450,000
The output of concentrates was
down 132.1 tons, with a con-
sequent shrinkage of 3468 in the
number of units of WO3 pro-
duced. Average price received
per unit was £25 3s. sd. (down
245. Id.). A tight hold was kept
upon controllable exes., and the
profit on working accounts
(£1,086,357) was £50,556
stronger.
There was a slip of £31,779 in
net earnings, due to heavier
allowance for taxation (£264,722,
up £40,722) and to cost of plant
scrapped (£47,804, which was
charged against the year’s earn-
ings). Provision for deprecia-
tion was £lOO,OOO (unchanged),
and the charge for development
£23,264 (down £5675). The
£652,669 of available profit was
130.5 p.c. on the half-million of
share capital as against 136.8,
162.5 and 177.5 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The div., which
had dropped from 120 p.c. in
1952 to 100 p.c. in 1953, was
lowered to 90 p.c.
Shareholders can thank high
floor-prices (undisclosed) in the
co.’s contracts for sale of concen-
trates to the U.K. and U.S. Gov-
ernments for the fat returns won.
These contracts, due to run out
in February, 1956, and
December, 1957, respectively,
have been extended for a further
98 days. On the London Metal
Exchange the average price of
wolfram per unit rose steadily
from £SB 4s. 6d. at the beginning
to £SI2 11s. 6d. at the end of
1954, the average for the year
being £SB 18s. Id., equal to
£AII 2s. 7d. The co.’s working
costs per unit of WO3 were over
£AIO.
Ore reserves at October 31
last were put at 3,164,000 tons,
averaging 0.48 p.c. WO3. At the
same date, current assets, includ-
ing stores (£302,002), totalled
£906,493 and current liabilities
£784,530, which includes pro-
vision for taxes and dividends
payable.
During 1954 the price of the
co.’s f.-p. ss. stock-units dropped
from 245. to 16s. 6d. in the
market. Last week the figure
had recovered to 225. 9d.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
All the theatrical comings and goings
during the week seem to indicate that
Sydney is beginning to realise that there’s
no business like show business. John
Scarlett, representing the Old Vic com-
pany, arrived to make arrangements for
the Shakspearian season, one of his
“headaches” being to find a soundproof
room in the heart of Sydney for
Katharine Hepburn, who hates noise.
English playwright Terence Rattigan
also put in an appearance. In the next
three months three of his plays will be
seen here, “The Sleeping Prince” and
“Separate Tables” with the Ralph
Richardsons and the Lewis Cassons, and
“The Deep Blue Sea” with Googie
Withers and John McCallum (what a
spate of husband-and-wife teams!).
Then came Ron Randell, the boy from
Northbridge, back home via New York,
Hollywood and London. He is to play
in “The Caine Mutiny” at the Palladium.
Spike Jones arrived with his band and all
his weird instruments, which include a
set of tuned door-bells. Johnnie Ray left
promising (or threatening) to return, and
Ted Heath set off home with his band
saying he was going to publicise Australia
in England as a great place for show-
people.
Meanwhile the National Opera season
takes its final curtain next Saturday.
There have been some wonderful per-
formances by the company, which make
the cancellation of the Newcastle and
Queensland seasons very sad news. Con-
ductor and artistic director Warwick
Braithwaite has resigned because he does
not want interference from the executive,
and particularly from Mrs. Clarice
Lorenz. Apparently the immediate cause
of the trouble was that Mr. Braithwaite
wished to take the full orchestra from
Sydney to Queensland, while Mrs.
Lorenz wished to recruit portion of it
there and thus save travelling and
accommodation expenses. The resigna-
tion of producer Robin Lovejoy followed,
and the principals have refused to go to
Queensland unless Mrs. Lorenz and her
executive resign, which they will not do,
and so the tour has been cancelled.
The ironical thing about this dispute is
that there would certainly not have been
a season of National Opera in Sydney
this year but for the pertinacity of Mrs.
Lorenz, yet it is this very pertinacity that
seems to be causing the difficulty at the
present moment.
Also of theatrical interest is the leasing
of the Majestic Theatre, Newtown, by
the Elizabethan Trust. At a meeting of
the Elizabethan Ball committee during
the week the director of the trust, Mr.
Hugh Hunt, said that the renovations
which were proposed would give Sydney
another theatre. “It seats 1650 people,”
he said, “and reminds one of the Vic-
torian type of theatre with a lovely sweep
about it. It looks like a theatre and not
like a swimming-pool.” A cocktail-party
is to be held there on April 29 for mem-
bers of the trust, arranged by the ball
committee, of which Lady Braddon is
president. The ball, which is to be an
annual function, is set down for Sep-,
tember 14 at the Trocadero.
* ☆ ☆
The 1100 women who attended the
“Bouquet of Fashions” at the TroCaderd
in aid of the Deaf, Dumb and Blind
Children were a fashion-parade in
themselves as they swarmed over the
foyer and the entrance chattering like
starlings and looking, in their smart little
hats and gay dresses, like a flock of
tropical birds. Beril Jents designed the
clothes shown in the parade, which con-
firmed the trend to longer - line. A
feature was the wearing of brilliant
buckles and bows at the hipline, and a
loose, casual air to coats and jackets.
Most interesting designs were in the
sheath-line, but most-applauded were
the romantic types. Sheila Helpmann
was the compere, and there were six
beautiful mannequins who willingly con-
ceded that the hit of the show was Ann
Elizabeth Sellwood, three - year - old
daughter of the Neville Sellwoods, who
modelled three garments with great
aplomb.
Nominations for the position of State
president of the Country Women’s
Association closed with that of Mrs.
W. H. Cullen the only one received.
She will be elected unopposed at the
annual conference, due in Sydney,
April 19 to 22. It will be her third term
of office.
Lois Dawson, recently returned from
a trip to America with her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Roy J. Dawson, of Brighton-le-
Sands, has designed some of the interest-
ing modern furniture which will be a
feature of Anthony Horderns’ exhibit at
the Royal Easter Show. A graduate of
Sydney Technical College, Miss Dawson
is assistant to Miss Joyce Brown in the
store’s contemporary-shop, so naturally
took special interest in interior-decora-
tion during the three months she was in
the United States.
A new trend, she says, is to decorate
rooms in varying shades of one color —
ranging, for instance, from blue-green to
lime-yellow, with just a touch of water-
melon-pink for contrast. Dark-green
walls with chalk-white accents were also
popular, and one hall she saw was
painted in a deep flame-pink. Outside
Chicago she saw small country-houses
painted emerald-green or deep-blue,
which were most attractive.
Television has brought in the tele-
vision-table, which stands about 7in.
from the ground and fits over one's
knees. Many settees are as much as 8ft.
long and may occupy the full width of a
room. There is much use made of
rubber and leather, and mahogany and
teak are now popular for furniture.
Miss Dawson says she was most
impressed with the standard of work-
manship, the finish and quality in all the
modern American furniture she saw.
Her photo is by Montgomery Dunn.
At an interior-decoration exhibition
during the week it was noticed that the
decor of one room was so perfect that
the jackets of a couple of books of poetry
lying “casually” on the floor matched the
cushion-covers exactly. Surely this is
the key to solving the poets’ problem of
how to make money from their works. In
the past they have paid too much atten-
tion to what is inside the covers and not
enough to what is outside. Their sales
will increase a hundredfold if they adver-
tise their work along these lines: “The
poems of Eliot Spender in six different
colors and a choice of three different
dust-covers. Choose the Regency design
for your cedar-furnished lounge, the
Abstract for your contemporary sun-
room and the Victorian for your frilly
bedroom. All suitable for being left
casually round. An invaluable gift for
those who love beauty and who cannot
find time to read: 10s. 6d. a copy ; set of
three, 305.”
Any poet who cannot make poetry pay
after receiving this hint must surely have
only himself to blame.
☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting engagement is that of
Miss Joyce White to Mr. Frank Hutchens,
well-known and popular figure in Syd-
ney’s musical world. Miss White, who
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. B. S.
White, of Cremorne, is a former pupil of
Mr. Hutchens.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Spender will be guest-of-honor
at the At Home and Musicale which the
Women’s Auxiliary is holding this after-
noon (Wednesday) at the Royal Empire
Society. The function is in aid of the
Flood Relief Appeal, and there is to he
a stall for the sale of home-made cakes
and jams, and also flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flood Relief will benefit also from the
proceeds of the Orange Ball, which will
celebrate the birthday of Queen Juliana
of the Netherlands on Friday, April 29,
at the Trocadero. At the ball there will
be a queen competition, Dutch folk-
dancing, Dutch food and games.
* ☆ ☆
A most interesting talk was given by
Mrs. Roy McCaughey at last week’s
meeting of the Society of Women Writers
when she spoke on her forthcoming
biography of Sir Samuel McCaughey,
“nation - builder and philanthropist.”
Mrs. McCaughey paid a tribute to the
help and encouragement which the Rev.
Archibald Crowley had given her in
preparing the biography and to the
research which he had undertaken for
her.
At one time Sir Samuel McCaughey
owned four properties in N.S.W.
adjoining one another and covering
3,250,000 acres. When he consulted
the famous scientist Louis Pasteur about
ridding his properties of rabbits, Pasteur
threw up his hands in despair. “Why,”
he said, “it is as large as the whole of
France!” The life of Sir Samuel is
bound up with the history of the sheep-
industry in Australia, and his irriga-
tion-schemes at Yanco are famous. His
benefactions to education include one
bequest by which 22,000 children have
been educated among them, eight
Rhodes Scholars.
MELBOURNE
The Moomba Festival was quite a
success, and it seems certain that it will
become an annual event. Towards the
close there were afternoon-concerts at the
Treasury Gardens, and at night thousands
sat on grassy lawns for the National
Theatre’s presentation of “Les Sylphides”
and “Madame Butterfly.”
Cynthia Cooper, the second daughter
of Mrs. Frank May, of Eltham, and the
late Dr. R. W. Cooper, M.B.E., formerly
of Rabaul, is just commencing her final
year of nursing at the Royal Melbourne
School of Nursing, and today (March 30)
will be 21. Both events were celebrated
by Cynthia, with step-sister Alison May,
at a dinner-dance at the Eltham home of
their parents. John Warlow photo.
The large garden was floodlit and gay
with colored fairy-lights, and in a large
marquee dinner was served. Cynthia’s
frock of watermelon-pink organza-plisse
had a bustle-bow at the back of the
waist. Alison’s gown of flame chiffon
carried white and crystal beading on the
bodice ; the full three-tiered skirt featured
the new harem-hemline.
Relatives present included Cynthia’s
grandmother, Mrs. A. O. Watson, her
brother Nigel and her sister Hilary
Cooper. Other guests were Mr. and
Mrs. D. A. Connelly, Major-General and
Mrs. H. G. Edgar, Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey
Brewer, Mr. and Mrs. John Cooper
(Shepparton), Alison’s two sisters Mrs.
Victor Donnan and Mrs. Alan Watson,
and their husbands.
☆ ☆ ☆
Social highlight of Moomba was the
dinner-dance at the Royale Ballroom,
when the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
was guest-of-honor (proceeds for Legacy
and children of deceased servicemen).
Petunias, phlox in all shades, and yellow
and orange zinnias massed with greenery
filled the foyer. Amusing little Moomba
figures, hung on boomerangs and sus-
pended among festoons of colored bal-
loons, also helped to brighten the foyer,
and the same motif was used in the ball-
room. There were gilt candlesticks hold-
ing gold candles and white and gold
flowers on the official table.
Accompanying the Governor was his
daughter, Mrs. Robin Byrne, who wore
a full-skirted gown of white sheer pat-
terned in pink and blue. With it she
wore a smoke-blue satin stole. *ln the
vice-regal party were Col. R. W.
Spraggett, Mrs. Spraggett (whose graceful
gown was of magnolia-tinted satin), Anne
Spraggett and Lieut. John Larkin, A.D.C.
Lord Mayor Selieck and Mrs. Selleck
received the official guests. Mrs. Selleck’s
gown was of Italian silk-organza in moon-
light-blue shadings, the skirt accordion-
pleated, the bodice encrusted with moon-
light sequins and beads. Lady McCauley,
wife of Air-Marshal J. P. J. McCauley,
mixed grey organza with grey guipure
lace. Mrs. W. Comeadow wore powder-
blue satin-brocade. Ticket-secretary
Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s sheath-gown of
white satin was encrusted with an all-
over pattern of silver ; from the skirt fell
a floating back-panel of white satin.
Mrs. W. Wiedenmyer, also a ticket-secre-
tary, wore white chiffon embroidered on
the bodice, the skirt embellished with
black sequins.
Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson wore a full-
skirted gown of white chiffon highlighted
on the skirt with bands of white guipure
lace to match the strapless bodice.
Madame le Bas de Plumetot, wife of the
French Consul, wore a Jean Desses model
gown of black chiffon over pink chiffon,
the skirt caught at the knees with large
bows. Silver-scrolled white satin was
worn by Mrs. Leo Curtis, flame chiffon
by Sara Hordern, of Sydney. The wife
of the U.S. Consul-General adorned her
chignon with a wreath of tiny colored
Burmese flowers, and her gown of white
lace featured a tiered skirt. Most attrac-
tive was the short hooped gown of pink-
and white-striped silk-organza worn by
Mrs. Bing Molyneux.
# # #
Friends of former U.S. Air Force
Attache, Colonel John L. Sullivan, who,
with his wife and children, returned home
recently, have received an amusing
greeting-card. On one side is a kanga-
roo wearing a Digger-hat and sitting on
top of a map of Australia; on the other
side is a small ’roo wearing an Uncle
Sam top-hat and in his paw holding thf.
new address of the Sullivans, which is
H.Q. Tech. Trng. AF., Gulfport, Miss.,
U.S.A. Underneath is a jingle:
Americans are sure to return with a souvenir,
A boomerang, a woomera or maybe some beer.
We’re bringing one too, but not a toy;
A real live Australian —Mark, our fourth boy.
☆ ☆ ☆
A perfect day brought out many silk
frocks for the ending of the V.R.C.
Autumn Carnival at Flemington. But
mostly the fashion-picture was of suits,
mainly in black or grey, many showing
the slightly-waisted effect. Hats were
mostly without brims and materials
favored were velor and velvet.
Lady Manifold, wife of the V.R.C.
chairman, chose a coat, straight and slim,
in currant-red tweed, vertically striped
in black to match her tiny velvet hat.
Of silver-grey tweed horizontally striped
in darker grey was the smart suit worn
by Mrs. T. O. M. Edwards ; flat feathers,
crossed at the back, trimmed her bright-
red hat. Mrs. Arthur Joyce chose a grey
suit highlighted with a lapel-posy to
match her coral-pink jersey turban, which
was swathed to the front. The jacket of
Mrs. Tom Blarney’s black-and-grey hair-
line-striped worsted suit was buttoned
high to the neck with a collar bound in
the same material; her tiny black satin
hat had a long satin feather across the
front. A vivid green beret-type hat,
caught with two large grey pearl orna-
ments at the side, was worn by Mrs.
H. F. Creswick with her anthracite-grey
suit. Ann Lyon chose a pale-cocoa-brown
frock with nutria-fur trimming at the
neckline, and for contrast added a tiny
burnt-orange hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Brookes is president of the com-
mittee of the dinner-dance which will be
held under the auspices of the Victoria
League at the Royale Ballroom on May
19 in the presence of the Governor and
Lady Brooks. Tickets at two-guineas
each may be obtained from Marjorie
Tatnall (WF 4304) and Adrienne Max-
well (UY 3315). Hon.-secretaries of the
committee are Mrs. Peter de Wolf and
Miss Paddy Wilkinson.


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, as a Proprietary
Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £l each
577,045 New Ordinary Shares of £l each
» •
£1,205,500
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each.. .. ..
j, 505,500
494,500 Shares of £1 each ..
HELD IN RESERVE
t•• • • •
• •
300,000
£1,505,500
494,500
2,000,000
£2,000,000
300,000 NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/- EACH, PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
CAPITAL REQUIRED to Operate Valuable "Caterpillar" ★
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to secure the
greatest possible returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of the valuable
franchises held by the Company and its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS PEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY.
LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CATERPjLLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria, U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD n
Caterpillar" Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment for
STATE OF QUEENSLAND ,
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
DEERE AND COMPANY of Illinois, U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes, Shovels and Draglines for the
whole of Australia.
ON TRACKS
1904*1954
"CATERPILLAR'S" WORLD STATUS!
• Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on tracks is
"Caterpillar."
• In Australia, too, "Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by far the
highest user preference, as every year more "Caterpillars"
are sold than any similar type.
Caterpillar Is a registered Trade Mark.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
Year ended 31st August,
augurs well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of new Ordinary Shares are proposed to be applied as
working capital for the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompanying the Prospectus,
dated 28th February, 1955, and must be lodged direct with the Company's Office.
Copies of the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained upon application
to the Company's Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Diesels Limited will be given absolute priority of
allotment of shares applied for not later than the 31st March, 1955. Any shares not
then applied for by such shareholders will be dealt with as the Directors may
determine. The Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without
notice, whether the issue be then fully subscribed or otherwise. In the event of
applications being received for more than 300,000 New Ordinary Shares, the Directors
reserve the right to allot additional shares ranking pari passu in all respects with
the New Ordinary Shares offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such
additional shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing further working
capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must be raised by the
issue of shares offered for subscription by this Prospectus is £20,000, being required
solely as working capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
DIRECTORS*
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 77 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W., Chairman and
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General Manager.
LESLIE EUGENE BRANDON, 61 Seventh Avenue, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Qld., Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W., Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
JOHN DUDLEY LOBB, Lum Road, Wheeler’s Hill, Victoria, Architect.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN PEARSON, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Manager.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES, F.C.1.5.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company's Registered Office.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been
information only and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe,
advertisement, is dated 28th February, 1956, and copies thereof have been filed respectively
Wales (who takes no responsibility as to its contents), the Registrar of Companies in
Australia and Tasmania and the Rpgistrar-Oeneral in Victoria.
Applications will be received only upon one of the forms of applications referred to
of the Prospectus.
fully complied with) is published for
The Prospectus, of which this is an
with the Registrar-General in New South
Queensland, South Australia, Western
in and endorsed upon a printed eopp
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M., ON 30th JUNE, 1955. CONSIDERATION WILL BE
GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED, PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT
THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
NOTE: The
minimum subscrip-
tion having been
received the
Directors have
proceeded to
allotment.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address
State
B-SO


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
In the preceding instalment of
his travel-story Peter Bladen,
making his way per pushbike
and “lifts” from Perth to
Adelaide, told of Port Lincoln
and its fishing, and of Whyalla
and its tremendous industrial
progress, (visiting there its Iron
Knob and Iron Monarch back-
ground, where they blast out the
ore). He also visited and
described Port Augusta, and is
now on a short trip out from
Quorn.
WE entered the country of
“Bitter Springs,” where
the film was made by the
Ealing Sudios in 1949,
past the ranges and the site of
the corroboree, into Warren’s
Gorge.
The scenery is rugged in its
grandeur, with ruined ramparts
of rock, great walls of stone like
the shells of ancient castles, pre-
carious towers of masonry
balancing on the steep hillslopes
about the winding track. It is
more-or-less a gateway to the
north, a promise of the majesty
and unusual beauty of the great
McPherson Ranges.
We stopped for a while on a
green hilltop where there are
still the remains of a hut burned
by the natives in one sequence
of the film. It is a quiet and
beautiful spot now, and its
centuries of tribal concord and
discord before the coming of the
white man have left no more
evidence than its brief hour of
cinematographic glory.
On the way back to Quorn we
met three little boys, one of them
with the intriguing name Inky
Sweet. They were on bicycles
and said they had been racing
the train, and would have beaten
it, “but the man kept putting
coal in it.”
On the outskirts of Port
Augusta another film was made,
“Kangaroo,” Australia’s first
full-length color-film. People
still point out the Travellers’
Rest, called in the film the Last
Stand Hotel, where the roadway
was covered with dust to a good
depth during filming.
It is said that the company
arrived on location with some
idea in mind about a war
between men and kangaroos,
and, in typical Hollywood
fashion, the script had to be
altered. Birds were fastened to
the trees, and at times were found
hanging upside-down from the
branches.
The film-stars and technicians
lived in a settlement of pre-
fabricated homes constructed for
them by the Government and
now part of a housing project,
still known as Zanuckville, after
the film’s producer. Many local
people took part in the crowd-
scenes, and much interest was
displayed, until the film was
released, when most agreed that
it was a mockery, considering the
scenic possibilities of the area.
Most visitors to Port Augusta,
like those to Southern Cross, see
only the railway-station, and
nothing of the town itself. At
times, especially with the illusions
of sunset, it is a romantic place, >
the point of departure for the
opal-fields, and the Rocket
Range, and for Alice Springs.
Stuart set out from here on his
journeys attempting the first
crossing of the continent from
south to north, and other early
adventurers made it a resting-
place.
The weather was changing, and
was rather boisterous for camp-
ing out, so I sent on my luggage
by train to Adelaide, setting out
again by bicycle, travelling as
lightly as possible, on the third
and last stage of my walkabout.
PORT AUGUSTA TO
MELROSE
TJEFORE leaving Port Augusta
I visited a lady who collects
shells, a display-collection kept
in a tall cabinet with glass
shelves. She also makes orna-
ments, using delicately tinted
coral pieces, as frail as crinkled
petals. It was a pleasant visit,
and when I left my pockets and
the kitbag were bulging with
oranges.
Five miles out, at Stirling
North, in the early days known
as Minchin’s Wells, an important
watering-place for the bullock-
teams, only one hotel remains,
and a cluster of farmhouses.
The bicycle was dusty and full
of complaints, and not even
going where the handlebars were
pointing.
It was a slightly sobering
thought that the ranges lay
directly ahead, but my heart was
carefree, and I imagined curious
shapes in the mountains —a ewe
with a nuzzling lamb, and a
recumbent dachshund sur-
rounded by a host of little pups.
At a closer approach a scar
could be seen on the lamb’s
hindquarters, and flies on its
mother’s back, which I knew
would soon resolve themselves
into miniature bushes and trees.
Behind I could see the gulf
widening out, the far shores
rising to a long plateau of ranges.
There was a rush of wind in
the tall eucalypts, and presently
I came to the old brick walls,
scribbled over with autographs,
which are the only memorial of
Swindon Town. Until recently
the old hotel was a “hobo’s rest,”
but the roof has now collapsed.
Near the turn-off to Nectar
Brook and Port Germein the
road begins its long upward
climb winding between the hills.
A notice reads: “Horrocks Pass.
Caution, corners, spoon drains, ’
and, of course, it is bullet-holed.
I’m not sure how many miles
there were, but I walked nearly
all the way to the summit, stop-
ping now and then for breath or
a drink of water, and once to
photograph an indignant gum
which the road had pushed aside.
At last, while wondering
whether the ranges were as wide
as they were long, I reached the
top of the pass. There is a cairn
looking down through a gap in
the hills to the distant regions
of the north-west, bearing these
words:
John Ainsworth Horrocks
Pastoralist and explorer
accompanied by Theakston, Gill,
Kilroy and Garlick, traversed this
pass 17-19 August 1846 with Camp-
bell of Melrose and a native.
They found the pass 10 August
Horrocks was accidentally wounded
1 Sept, at Hake Dutton and died
23 Sept, at Penwortham
Horrocks was born in 1818 at
Penwortham Lodge in Lanca-
shire, on the estate owned by his
father, and came to South Aus-
tralia with his younger brother
in 1838, being entitled to bring
out a small party of emigrants
with him, since his father had
invested in the colony. His sister
Celia later wrote that he was a
tall, handsome and upright man,
gentle and kindly and a natural
leader. He had visited with
Royalty in Vienna, and lived at
a French chateau. When the
time came to prepare himself
for his new life he diligently set
about learning all manner of
things, even “to the use of a
lemon-squeezer.”
In Adelaide the Government
was slow at giving out land, there
were many delays, and prices
soared. When Eyre reported
good land to the north, Horrocks
declared that the settlers needed
only someone to set them an
example, and early in 1840 took
up land on the Hutt River. He
did some exploring and dis-
covered Mt. Horrocks.
His first camp was set up in
the shade of a hollow gum, with
his household utensils nailed to
the trunk, and a tarpaulin for
shelter. When the land was later
parcelled out, by lot, he chanced
to draw the very sections on
which he had camped.
He was often kind to others
in less fortunate circumstances,
and at one stage paid for the
release of a gentleman
imprisoned for debt, a man
named Theakston, formerly
head-sculptor to an English
knight.
When his camp became more
elaborate and he was living in
“a hole in the ground,” Horrocks
would have his cloth laid on a
barrel in the hole, and his silver
fork and spoon placed on it
daily, to make his men feel that
he was their master and head.
Writing home, he declared:
“I, who had so lately a Princess
seated on each side of me at
dinner, had at that moment a
convict on each side of me....
who were only kept from
murdering me because of my
personal strength of body and
the way I kept my orders obeyed
and the way I ruled them.”
At the age of 22, he was known
as “The King of the North,”
keeping order with justice, kind-
ness of heart and staunch
determination.
He must have presented a regal
figure, with a beard almost to
his waist. On part of his run he
planned Penwortham village, and
said that he would not exchange
the satisfactory feeling of having
brought civilisation into those
beautiful wilds for any other
pleasure the world could give.
Like Richard Maurice, he felt
that life in these solitudes raised
the soul of man.
Back from a visit to England
after the death of his father,
Horrocks planned an expedition
to the north. Writing to Celia
on March 14, 1846, he was ready
to set out in high hopes ; but
he had made his will, and various
provisions in case he did not
return.
He had a horse called Flibbity
Gibbit, but he preferred his
camel —the first in South Aus-
tralia ; the only one of six to
have survived the journey by
sea from Teneriffe. The party,
consisting of Horrocks and
Theakston, Gill the landscape-
painter, Kilroy the horse-driver,
Garlick the tentkeeper, and a
native goatherd, left Penwortham
in July with 13 goats, two carts,
six horses and the camel. In the
District Council office at Wil-
mington, there is a sketch of the
party, showing, among other
things, a most odd-looking
animal, presumably the camel.
The goats stampeded, the tents
were torn down by wind and rain
and the carts were bogged.
Malcolm and Campbell had a
station at the foot of Mount
Remarkable, and Campbell
accompanied the party to look
for a pass through the ranges,
which a native, Kelly, was to
show them. The native de-
camped during the night with a
lubra he had stolen a few days
earlier from a native policeman.
The camel bit one of the goats,
and for a change of diet tried to
make a meal of Gariick. The
party found a pass, which was
“a tolerable place.”
Horrocks took the camel, with
some provisions, down the range
through “a nasty narrow valley,”
and the camel, not being used to
carrying loads, bit holes in two
bags of flour, and later bolted,
scattering 3501 b. of stores
through the pass now known
after his master.
It took a day to get the first
dray down the pass. An axletree
was broken, and the goats
amused themseles by jumping on
the tent when it was erected and
tearing it. Natives had recently
murdered a shepherd, and the
party had to fire guns to scare
them away.
After reaching Eyre’s old
camp at Depot Creek Horrocks
headed north-west with Gill and
Kilroy to the shores of Lake
Gill, which Babbage was to re-
name Lake Dutton. There, on
September 1, Bernard Kilroy
noticed a beautiful bird which
he wished to add to their collec-
tion and Horrocks prepared to
shoot it down.
“At this moment,” he recorded
in his journal, “the camel gave a
lurch to one side, and caught his
pack in the cock of my gun,
which discharged the barrel I
was unloading, the contents of
which took off the middle fingers
of my right hand between the
second and third joints and
entered my left cheek by my
lower jaw, knocking out a row
of teeth from my upper jaw.”
Kilroy walked alone for 100
miles through waterless country
to the depot for help. Horrocks
later wrote to the honorary
secretary of the Northern
Expedition: “It is with extreme
sorrow I am obliged to terminate
the expedition as the two here
with me, the camel and myself,
were in excellent working con-
dition ” He was worried
about the camel, fearing that it
might be treated with cruelty,
and left instructions that, in the
event of his death, it was to be
shot and buried near him.
Horrocks suffered a relapse
after returning to Penwortham,
and died there on September 23.
The adventures of the young
King of the North in a strange
land were over. In the notebook
in which his sister Celia recorded
the brief story of his life, there
are notes on the Psalms, in
German, and one hymn in
English:
I journey on not knowing,
I would not if I might.
I would rather walk in the dark with
God,
Than walk alone in the light.
On a signboard near the cairn,
some imaginative soul has
recorded the landing at this spot
of his meteor-jet on a round-the-
world flight in 1907. One of the
less scathing comments scrawled
underneath says “Argit!”
Near by are the ruins of an
old homestead, set in a coed


green recess, shaded by wide-
spreading trees. It seemed only
a few minutes from the summit
before I beheld a wide landscape,
with distant belts of trees, and
wide bare plains, rising to further
ranges, pink and purpling in the
late afternoon.
At the foot of the hills, just
over the outstretched arm of
Mount Maria, lay Wilmington.
Flocks of galahs chattered and
scattered about me. It was heart-
breaking to have to use the
brakes, because of the gravel and
the corrugations, now that the
road was downhill.
The Beautiful Valley Hotel
takes its name from the original
station-homestead. Wilmington
is said to have been the name
bestowed in 1876 by Governor
Musgrave; his wife was an
American, and he may have
named it after the seaport in
North Carolina or the city in
Delaware, although there is a
Wilmington in the County of
Kent.
It is a township with lanes and
side-streets branching off the
wide, tree-lined highway. The
Globe Hotel is a large and
rambling two-story building.
There I spent the night.
The corridors were dark, and
I collided with a chap who
turned out to be a travelling
optician. At table we were
served by a most polite and
efficient waitress. We both made
up to her. She said that her
name was Kaylene, and we
learned that her age was 10.
Talking of Iron Knob, the
travelling optician said it was the
only place he knew where the
houses were chained (because of
wind-storms) and the dogs were
let loose.
Later I visited another shell-
collector, a lady who possesses
one of the fabled golden-cowries
from Japan.
She is also a collector of jugs.
She has 600 jugs, arranged on
glass shelves in a tall cabinet.
There are beautiful inlaid
wooden jugs from Quorn, jugs
made of china, silver and other
metals, jugs in odd shapes, some
smaller than a thimble, some
large and round, and others flat,
the delicate and the grotesque,
jugs like flowers, and some like
mugs, vases or decanters, and
others just plain jugs. Each of
the 49 United States has been
represented, and there are figures
of Churchill, Harold Lloyd,
Chaplin and Roosevelt, as well
as animals and ducks. We spent
a pleasant evening by the fire,
discussing shells, and jugs, and
Wilmington.
In the morning before leaving
I made some new friends. Mrs.
Hampel, a bright old lady with
a twinkle in her conversation, was
propped up in bed with pillows,
“having a few days’ rest.” She
lives in a nice home now, but
she said that she lived in a
humble place in the early days,
and once when her grandmother
was visiting she began to make
apologies. But her grandmother
interrupted her. She had come
out from Germany, where, she
said, she lived in a hollow tree.
I was told about a gentleman
who used to live near Wil-
mington. “He was educated-
even wore paper collars. He had
a lot of cats—they were every-
where, even in his almond-trees.
He was the chap that had all the
fairies! ”
“River Murray ferries?” I
asked innocently, thinking I must
have misheard.
“No, just fairies. He used to
seal his doors with sealing-wax
to keep them out, and when he
went through a door he would
have to go right round the house
to another door to trick them.”
The country on the way to
Melrose is more closely settled,
and the traveller is rarely out of
sight of farmhouses. There are
old suspension-bridges, tottering
over dry creek-beds at Wil-
mington and Melrose, and in
between the towns there is a turn-
off to Alligator Gorge, so named
because of its tortuous windings.
At Terka (“kangaroo place”),
the original Spring Creek, a large
township was once surveyed, but
nothing came of it; and I didn’t
know that I had passed through
the place until the next township
turned out to be not Terka but
M elrose.
MELROSE
TO WIRRABARA
A/TELROSE is a compact and
picturesque old township,
nestling at the foot of the range
known as Mount Remarkable,
one of South Australia’s highest
mountains.
A company secured 20,000
acres in the district in 1846, and
the townships of Melrose and
Bangor were laid out at opposite
ends of the run for the con-
venience of settlers. Some believe
that a chap called Armstrong (or
Scotty the Kinkier) named the
place after Melrose Abbey in
Scotland, but a pastoralist at
Mount Pleasant, called George
Melrose, believed that it was
named after himself by Thomas
Freeman Nott, a surveyor for
whom he had cared during an
illness. The natives knew it as
Wongyarra (“one big hill”) or,
when viewed from a distance, as
Willowie (“green trees and
water”).
The town was once the police-
headquarters for the north, and
a stopping-place for the mail-
coaches. There were barricades
against the natives.
The first hotel, the North Star,
was licensed in 1854, and the
Mount Remarkable three years
later. A great-granddaughter of
the first licensee has recently
returned with her husband to
take over the Mount Remark-
able. The walls of the old build-
ing are 21 inches thick, and in
the bar an old wooden shovel
from the brewery is given pride
of place.
In the days when the remoter
townships were more-or-less self-
supporting, with their own flour-
mills, blacksmiths and imple-
ment-makers, Melrose had two
breweries in succession. The
second ceased to function less
than 20 years ago, and the old
buildings are now used as
shearers’-sheds.
I felt at home at once. Every-
one seemed friendly, and no
surnames were used. The cook
had lived in Subiaco, and remem-
bered me as one of her son’s
friends at school, when I was “so
high” with a fondness for toffee-
apples. I was treated as one of
the family, with extra blankets at
night, and second helpings at
meal-times. The rainwater was
velvety soft, and there were
cheerful fires at night. The
kitten would laze in the lounge-
chair cuddling a teddy-bear; and
in the courtyard a friendly calf
was wandering loose.
It was cold at night, and the
barman would say: “For
goodness’ sake put the piece of
wood in the hole,” meaning
“Shut the door!” Somebody
remarked: “I suppose it is sur-
prising what you would go
through op a trip like yours!”
and I sadly contemplated my
bank-balance. “Yes,” my friend
added, unsuspectingly, “you must
certainly have some great
experiences! ”
That evening I was invited to
the police-station, where a few
friends had gathered for a loyal
toast. Although no one had had
very much to drink, the subject
of elephants cropped up, and the
policeman confessed that
elephant-making was one of his
hobbies, and presently there were
elephants all round the room, in
pink and green and many
assorted colors. He said that
he had made over 500 altogether,
but had retired from the trade.
They were very nice elephants,
but everyone continued to
express surprise at seeing so
many of them, and now and
again someone would add:
“And after only a couple of
glasses! ”
The policeman had found
some old records at the station
when he arrived, and later
allowed me to peruse them.
They were stored in the old feed-
troughs and chaff-bins in the
stables, with chickens doing more
than men to save them from the
ravages of insects and worms.
My friends at the hotel were
interested to hear whether there
would be any record of the early
licensee, great - grandfather
Thomas Moran, and, sure
enough, there were many refer-
ences to him. Most of the
charges were “for not having his
licensed public-house at Melrose
closed at half-past-three on the
afternoon of Sunday,” or “not
having his lamp burning....
between sunset and 11-o’clock
in the morning,” but there were
also cases of “tippling, drinking
and riotous and disorderly
conduct,” and “suffering pigs to
stray unlawfully and goats to
stray and go about in a public
place.”
The last charge made me
laugh, with memories of the calf
in the courtyard, and chuckling
about the reports later in the
bar, we had to stress to one old
gentleman, who was slightly
deaf, that the pioneers had be-
haved not “righteously” in the
bar on Sundays, but “riotously.”
There seem to be a number
of characters in Melrose. One
chap told me that he was a
highwayman, meaning that he
worked on a road-gang. Another
was supposed to have been a
buck jumper. When he bought
his first motor-car, it reared up
and plunged through a plate-
glass window. A former barber,
I was told, had to keep reciting
funny stories to prevent his
victims from crying.
In the hotel yard I met a little
boy. The little boy asked:
“Where do you live?”
I told him: “Here!”
“You won’t do nothing to us,
will ya?” queried the little boy,
eyeing my beard.
“What do you expect me to
do?” I asked. “Eat you?” end-
ing with a throaty growl.
The little boy backed to the
wall, with bulging eyes, and said:
“You won’t though, will ya?”
I said I wouldn’t, and laughed,
and the little boy laughed, too.
Then the calf camq up to us and
started to frisk.
On a beautiful day with wispy
clouds, I left for Wirrabara, 17
miles away along the bitumen
highway. Farms were all along
the way, with lambs and foals in
the paddocks, and tractors,
including one which was
equipped with reins like a horse.
Murray Town, on Wild Dog
Creek, surveyed by A. B. Murray,
a pioneer pastoralist, is a small
one - pub - and - several-churches
settlement. There were small *
orchards, and apiaries, with the
bees in uniform white boxes,
looking rather like cemeteries
from a distance. Just past the
turn-off to Port Germein there
is a lonely school, and the road
winds on through gently undulat-
ing farmlands, past several
clusters of farmhouses which are
almost townships, to the tall
chimney-stack not far" from
Wirrabara.
At first sight the chimney
could be mistaken for an isolated
memorial. It is a relic of the
Charlton coppermine which was
worked nearly a century ago.
When the mine flooded, and
primitive pumps were unable to
cope with the water, the mine
was closed-down. Jackie John’s
boarding-house and the smithy,
and the little town which grew
there, have vanished, and there
are even folk in Wirrabara who
have never heard of Charlton, or
do not know the history of the
chimney-stack.
Downhill the road leads past
tall firs, across a bridge which
fords a creek with water in it,
to the compact and pleasant
township of Wirrabara, where
the chemist is Mr. Wurm and
the mechanic is Mr. Menz, and
where, as at Melrose, everyone is
very friendly.
At Wirrabara I stayed with the
family of the local historian.
The history of many of our small
towns has been lost or is remem-
bered only by word of mouth,
but occasionally some local son
dedicates himself to the task of
writing the story of his locality.
The historian of Wirrabara
was Josiah Hollitt. I would have
liked to meet him, but was sorry
to hear of his death a few months
earlier. Instead, I visited his
family, on a farm two miles or
so beyond the township. My
first visit was brief, but when my
walkabout had come to an end
I was to return to spend several
weeks in this pleasant country-
side with my new friends.
Wirrabara (a corruption of
“Wirra-birra,” “gum-forest and
running water”) was part of a
sheep- and cattle-run covering
89 square miles, taken up in 1851
at ten-shillings a square mile by
the White brothers, who had
been driven from their holdings
on Eyre Peninsula by fear of
native attacks.
In those days the pastoralists
were explorers and pathfinders.
White Forest was later to be
known as Wirrabara Forest, the
site of successful afforestation
operations for many years. Pine-
plantations are now its glory
rather than the original great
redgums. Many of the old trees
have gone to the making of huts
and fences, sleepers, jetties and
bridges, and for the timbering
of mines.
In the early days in this out-
of-the-way settlement children of
10 drove teams and helped to
cart timber, widows took in
laundry to support large families,
diseases took heavy toll, and
there was always a struggle to
educate the young, who were
referred to at times by visiting
know-alls as “little heathen.”
The “little heathens” made good
settlers on the land, learning
more from the courage and
industry of their parents than
more regular lessons would have
taught them.
One of the most colorful of
the early pioneers was a Dane
Claus Boetheram, who was born
in Schleswig-Holstein, and left
the ship on which he was serving
when it reached Australia. He
married, at Tothill Creek, an
Irish girl from Fantaugh
Tisdoonvarna. People there used
to call her Mrs. Botherim, which
annoyed her so much that her
husband’s name was changed to
Claude Bathern.
Claude Bathern was a clever
and educated man. He brought
to Wirrabara Forest a steam-
engine for sawing timber, and
delivered many poles for the
Overland Telegraph Line. His
home was a meeting-place. He
taught, advised, wrote letters for
others, and arranged sing-songs,
and during epidemics even acted
as minister and undertaker, mak-
ing the coffins and the redgum
head-pieces for the graves. Some
of these are still in evidence in
the old cemetery, a beautiful but
almost forgotten spot on a slope
surrounded by green trees, six
miles from Wirrabara.
One of the head-pieces bore
an inscription to “James James,
Died (by his own Hands) ”
It is said that underneath was
carved: —
As I am now, you all must be
prepared to follow me,
to which somebody later added
in lead-pencil:
To follow you I will ne’er be content
Until I know to which place you went.
One of the first schoolchildren
(Continued on next PQge)


NO OTHER
INVESTMENT
OFFERS
ALL THESE
ADVANTAGES
YOUR
IS
C^plTAl-
secur*
IS
YOU
income TAX
,u,l sust“ uA
There is no more absolutely secure investment
on the market today than the Commonwealth
Security Loan now open. Repayment of capital
in full at maturity is unconditionally guaranteed
by the Commonwealth Government.
Also unconditionally guaranteed by the Common-
wealth Government is the payment of interest on
Commonwealth Securities, each six months, at a
fixed rate for the full duration of your investment.
When you complete your Income Tax Return,
you deduct from the amount you would expect
to pay a sum equal to 2/- in each £1 of the
interest received on your Commonwealth Loan
investment. This Income Tax Rebate of 2/- in
the £1 of interest, applying to Commonwealth
Securities, puts extra money directly into your
pocket.
Money invested in the Commonwealth Security
Loan now open will go to work at once on public
work projects designed to speed Australia’s
development and improve and extend basic and
community services upon which the national
economy depends. You will make a very real
contribution to the building of a Greater Australia
by investing to the greatest possible extent in this
Commonwealth Security Loan.
INVEST 'f&t a (ftedtek, AuSftuduL
IN THE £40,000,000
COMMONWEALTH
Security LOAN
NOW OPEN
Authorised
by the Commonwealth Treasury.
INVESTORS MAY SELECT
1. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
4i%
per annum, issued at par
and maturing on Novem-
ber 15, 1968, or
2. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
3%
per annum, issued at
£99/5/- per cent, and
maturing on April 15,
1957.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 2/- in each £1 of interest
increases the effective interest yield.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION is £lO for long-term and £l,OOO for
short-term Securities.
APPLICATIONS may be lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank
or Stockbroker.
CONVERSION of Maturing 2% Securities
2% Commonwealth Bonds and Inscribed Stock, issued
in March-April, 1952, will mature on April 15, 1955.
Holders are invited to convert them into new
Commonwealth Bonds or Inscribed Stock on the
terms offered for the Security Loan now open.
225L6.107
was a cirl called Elizabeth Fry.
Her father was Wirrabara’s first
butcher. Another little girl was
lost in the forest. She lived
with her mother near the
Beetaloo Fence, and while visit-
ing neighbors for a sewing-
afternoon wandered away, and
nothing was ever seen of her
again except one foot, found a
long time afterwards, still with
a weatherbeaten shoe attached
a weatherbeaten shoe att cneci.
Near Ippinitchie Creek there
were some Chinese market-
tat H nlaep later known
gardeners (at a place later known
nLes m Ah°Hing Ai, ChuL'Ah r
FaTand Ah l&rp. They were
industrious and their gardens
prospered. At meal-times they
were summoned by a bullock-
horn which could be heard for
mi j es
Local legend is rich and varied,
telling of Archdeacon Twopenny,
the first minister of the North ;
of a man who had never known
his fiancee except as Annie Jane,
and recording that he looked
round in bewilderment during
the wedding-service when asked
if he would take Susannah Jane
to be his wife; of the lad who
didn’t want his father to send
away a calf by train to the
slaughter-yards “because the
smoke would get in his eyes”;
of early ploughing, when Father
drove the bullocks and Mother
held the plough with the baby
placed in a small hammock be-
tween the handles of the plough ;
and the thrashing of wheat by
hand, or the use of horse-teams
to trample it into chaff; of sly-
grog stores ; and of the misprint
which labelled one of the
migrant ships: “The Prince of
Whales.”
Bently’s Hill was named after
a man who murdered his wife
a man who muraerea ms w re,
and decamped with his son, not
to be heard of again. Where
some timber - workers had
some Ember workers
whTthev movld 0“ lea°vTn"
only the corner-posts, ’you will
still find Four Post Creek.
Dan Murray’s Creek received
its name from a man who
seduced a servant-girl and left
h er dying in his hut/ Willie Cob
whose wagons were bogged at
the spot, gave his name to Willie
Cob’s Creek, while a heavy bit
of road near Mr. Payne’s
charcoal-burning kiln, where
teams were regularly bogged, was
known as the Charcoal Pinch,
In the Flinders Ranges near by
there was a coppermine known as
the Sudden Jerk Mine.
At a settlement called Stone
Hut the original stone hut is still
standing, a relic of the coach
days when horses were changed
there.
The building is in a picturesque
spot near the Rocky River, sur-
rounded with pine, redgum and
weeping-willow, its three rooms
used as dormitory, dining-
room and post-office store.
The windows, with cast-iron
frames and sashes, have 49 panes
of glass to each, designed to
prevent theft.
Other early settlements
include Ucolta, where lived
Perkins, the inventor of the
famous Bag-lifter, one of the
most appreciated of farm labor-
saving devices. Near, too, the
Burra Burra mines. To the west
of Peterborough the outlying
flanks of the Flinders Ranges
were known as Never-Never.
The natives knew the area (the
Hundred of Appila) as “a happy
hunting-ground.”
During my second visit to
Wirrabara we visited the Garden
of Windmills. The Curnow
brothers live in Wirrabara
Forest. Cecil has a private zoo,
and Percy, a “Win’mill Garden.”
In a valley visited only by
woodmen, ' beekeepers and
occasional sightseers from the
town, we came to the overgrown
cottage where Percy Curnow
lives alone. A tunnel in the hill-
side beyond the house was once
used for storing apples. It is a
place of green and natural
beauty.
The Windmill Garden is along-
side the house, a few of the
mills for pumping water, and the
rest for show, clustered together
almost as thickly as forest
saplings.
Perched on the pipes, making
novel fans, there are little men
waving flags, or seesawing,
children on swings, and a pirate
with ears and eyes which wobble,
swans which glide around in
circles, small animals chasing
hunters chasing small animals,
circuses and roundabouts, pranc-
ing horses, aeroplane-tails and
ferris-wheels.
Some of the fans are abstract,
with spirals, globes and what-
nots ; one shows a kangaroo
looking like Old Nick without
the arrowhead on his tail, and
another has two headless
characters. Mr. Curnow said
that the figures became locked
together one night in a gale and
decapitated each other.
With a sudden eddy of wind
the fans and buckets and blades
began to revolve. The garden
will live in the memories of its
visitors, children and others still
young in spirit, as a garden of
delight which the fancy of an
old man’s hobby made material,
and the wind would stir to life
with a breath of magic.
WIRRABARA TO
MOONTA
■pROM Wirrabara I returned
to the turn-off, and cycled
through green and shaded
valleys, by russet hillslopes where
the young grass-blades were
hidden in wispy straw, and by
rippling creeks and still water-
pools, towards Port Germein.
At last I was reaping the benefit
of the long uphill climb at
Horrocks Pass, returning again
to the coastal plains.
The port was discovered by
Samuel Germein in 1840 while
taking supplies in the Water-
witch to Eyre at the head of
Spencer’s Gulf. It became a
flourishing port for the shipment
of wheat in the windjammer
days.
Its pride was the jetty, a mile
and a quarter long, which some
people claimed to be the second-
longest in South Australia, and
others the longest in Australia.
Unfortunately, after the storm
which ravaged the shores of the
gulf during my stay at Port
Lincoln, at present it can only
claim to be the longest jetty at
Port Germein.
The tide was well out when I
saw it. Weed and mud-flats
extended far out from the shore.
The jetty itself was a ruin of
twisted and broken railway-lines,
loose planks and disorderly
remnants of railing. A painted
sign gave the warning: “People
walking jetty do so at their own
risk,” while someone in less
official parlance had chalked the
words: “Dead jetty.”
Dr. Nicholls, of Port Germein,
a lover of Kipling’s poetry, died
in 1897, and the lines from the
poem “L’Envoi” were inscribed
on his tombstone. It is said:
“His heart was in his work; he
o Continued on page 27)


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“La Traviata”
Robin Lovejoy’s production of
Verdi’s three-act lyric-opera for
National Opera at Sydney
Palladium brought the company’s
work to the highest artistic pitch
of the season: casting practically
faultless; decor simple, yet sug-
gesting the elegance of Second
Empire furnishings, etc.; dress-
ing of principals and chorus by
Charles McKervey sumptuous.
The salon-scenes had natural-
ness of movement; and the
chofuses especially the big
“Libiamo” number shortly after
curtain-rise—had verve, strength
and excellent balance.
The big success of the night
was Joyce Izett, who, as the
courtesan Violetta (the “Lady of
the Camellias” of Dumas),
moved with authority from
vivacity in the first act to tragedy
at the close. To qualities of
serene beauty, charm and acting
ability, Miss Izett added a voice
of good quality, flexible, and
adequate to cope with the heavy
demands in the “E Strano” aria.
Ronald Dowd was a more
gallant and enthusiastic lover as
Alfredo than he had been aS
Rodolfo in “La Boheme,”
and his uninhibited vocal work
in both solos and duets was
meritorious. Neil Easton’s
Germont had dignity and
character; he sang the noble
“Di Provenza” with fine feeling
and respectable volume.
Margaret Elkins’s was the kind
of Flora one would expect as a
match for Violetta’s early gaiety.
Warwick Braithwaite’s
orchestra did particularly well
in the lovely preludes to the first
and third acts, the high strings
excelling themselves. In the
matter of accompaniment—
weight in arias and concerted
numbers the singers could have
had no complaints.
❖ *
Sylvia Fisher
Some points from the dramatic
soprano’s Sydney recital:
The evenly rich quality of the
voice, ringing as clear down in
mezzo territory as in the high
reaches. Her smoothness in
moving from register to register
and mastery of the half-voice,
both searchingly tested in Richard
Strauss’s “Dream In The
Twilight” and in parts of the
long aria from the night’s sole
operatic offering, “When I Am
Laid In Earth” from Purcell’s
“Dido and Aineas.”
Her continued ability, even
when leaping an octave or so,
to land dead-centre on pitch
and to project the full weight
of dramatic intensity when
needed, as in Schumann’s
“Voice of the Woods” and in
his famous “I Chide Thee Not.”
The clarity of diction, nowise
dulled even in the fast-moving
middle section of Purcell’s
“From Rosy Bowers.”
Two fine Grieg songs, “The
Swan” and “It Was a Lovely
Summer’s Eve,” and the para-
doxically quick accompaniment
to Schubert’s less-known song
“Torpor.”
The alert and sensitive work of
Henri Penn at the piano.
“Out of the Frying-pan”
This is the stuff to breeze away
theatre doldrums. Sydney
Metropolitan’s comedy is about
young actors and actresses (three
of each) living together in
platonic penury.
Beneath their sleazy apartment
lives a big producer. He lives in
his sleazy apartment for luck:
he was there when he made his
first Broadway hit. Cooking is
his solitary vice. His private life
is blamelessly occupied with
Mrs. Beeton and a frying-pan,
and it is the actors' ambition to
seduce him from his stove long
enough to give them a trial-run.
Instead of witty talk this play
offers witty situations galore.
Author Francis Swann makes
all three acts fizz with ingenious
farce which yet stays on the
Credit side of credibility. The
practical, custard-pie humor of
the old silent-films is translated
into modern idiom.
John Craig has a nice easy
boldness about him, and both
Rae Shadwell and Robert
Gerrard were often funny with-
out being forced. Only John
Kernahan over-burlesqued his
part as the parent scenting too
much of bohemia in his
daughter’s way of life. Marjorie
Glynn dodders beautifully as
the old duck of a landlady and
merits a less wiggy wig.
Adrian Borzell’s production
was ball-bearing smooth, and the
large audience laughed itself
silly.
G. P.
“The Red Mffl”
Rockdale (Sydney) Musical
Society is making a topline repu-
tation in amateur musical-
comedy. Much of the success of
its latest production, Victor
Herbert’s “The Red Mill,” is
due to the musical direction of
Fred Quintrell, whose orchestra
gives life to the production.
There is good comedy from
Patricia Gosling, Peter Calrow
and Stan Wolfenden, working
well as a team. The singing
needs strengthening, although
David Hillier, who played the
Governor, has a promising voice
of some quality.
Artbursts
Contemporary Group
“Girl Reading” by J. Car-
rington Smith is, in its quiet
way, the strongest of the Con-
temporary Group paintings at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney.
Everything is “in keeping” in
this portrait: the studious mood,
the soft greens and greyish-
purples, the composition in flat
planes that give a curious effect
of reserve and durability. It is
too quiet and somehow too
distant to be exciting; but it is
pleasant.
“Tuscan Landscape” by Lloyd
Rees, another outstanding paint-
ing, is the best yet seen of the
“It’s time you left th' tropics—you re not looking Well.”
strange white landscapes he
brought back from his trip
abroad, less ghostly than the
others and with more of his
familiar solidity. It blazes with
the white heat of the sun on
creamy clay, but has too much
the effect of plasticene, as if a
veil of whitish paint had been
smeared all over it.
Given its proper distance,
Roland Wakelin’s large “After-
noon at Werri” is effective in his
unvarying formula, and Grace
Cossington - Smith’s “Drapery
and Wattle,” bought by the
Marshall Bequest, has a light
charm though the larger
“King’s Across the River” shows
the limitations other method.
There is a welcome touch of
warmth in George Lawrence’s
“Farm Buildings,” and other
attractive landscapes are T. J.
Santry’s “The Clay Pit” and
Gwen Eichler’s “Kurrajong
Storm.” Among lively oddities
in a show that generally seems
rather static and repetitive are
Imre Szigeti’s very Parisian
“Fete in Woollahra,” Justin
O’Brien’s sensitive “Boy in
Costume,” Carl Plate’s “Fossil”
and, perhaps, as decorations for
a cafe, the bright but facile still-
lifes by Elwyn Lynn.
❖ * *
Ballet Drawings *
Ballet-drawings are too often
stiff, pretentious things which
make some glorious living
creatures like Baronova or
Markova look like petrified stick-
insects. Eileen Pearcey’s work
is refreshingly different. It is
showing at the Peter Bray
Gallery in Melbourne, and the
exhibition is the liveliest thing
that gallery has shown in the
course of its existence.
Miss Pearcey lived and worked
in England and must have sat
about the wings a lot in order to
do her sketches ; all she has been
able to catch and set down on
paper in some cases is a few
lines, yet they are most expres-
sive. She calls her show “Dancers
in Action,” and she has caught
the action even if she has lost
a lot of detail.
The leaping male figure in her
“New York City Ballet” sug-
gests movement, and her Spanish
dancers suggest frenzy. Her
Javanese and Balinese dancers
and her Krishna Kutty and Uday
Shankar dancers have a certain
stillness: they are posturers
rather than dancers, but she has
fixed the posture just as it seems
to be turning into something
different, and not as if it had
been frozen.
❖ ❖
Melb. Gallery Acquisitions
The first thought that comes
to mind on looking at the four
new acquisitions from the Felton
Bequest of the National Gallery,
Melbourne, is that, if the trustees
considered Alessandro Turchi’s
“Charity” worth buying, why did
they bother about the others?
Turchi was a 16th-century
Italian who painted in Rome,
where he came in contact with
the art of Caravaggio, and
Caravaggio, who went in for
banditry in his leisure moments*
was a great painter, though not
among the very greatest. Turchi,
too, was a good painter, though
not a great one either, but his
tall lady in her rich red brocaded
costume, holding a suckling baby
with one hand and a naked boy
by the other, is a delightful
picture in which flesh looks like
flesh and the texture of the gown
is subtly rendered.
On the other hand, Nicholas
de Stael’s still-life is five
amorphous blobs of color, sug-
gesting a jug and bottle, with
neither transparency nor volume,
against two unmodulated areas
of white and dark paint. The
gallery bulletin says that it could
scarcely be simpler invstatement
—and neither it could!:''
De Stael was born in St.
Petersburg in 1914 and studied
in Brussels. Bernard Buffet, son
of an ex-miner, was born in
Paris in 1928 and was practically
self-taught, having studied for
one month only at the School of
Fine Arts. There is no evidence
in his picture of an owl and two
birds as to whether they are
stuffed or live ones or that he
knows any more about the art of
painting than De Stael does,
though he has picked up some
school conventions. “The Music
Lesson,” by Michael Kikoine,
another Russian, looks like a
heavily painted reminiscence of
Renoir.
Turchi, though not, as already
mentioned, a great painter, could
have painted the heads off the
three moderns.
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases:
“No Business Like Show
Business” (Regent): High-speed,
glittering backstage musical with
the inevitable family of senti-
mental Hibernian troupers. The
opus suffers from a couple of
“sultry” songs groaned by
Marilyn Monroe and the appear-
ance of Johnnie Ray in the un-
convincing role of a hoof-’n’-
croon son turned priest; it is
saved by the skilled all-round
work of the cheerful Donald
O’Connor, by Ethel Merman
and Dan Dailey as two old-time
vaudevillians, by Irving Berlin’s
tuneful airs and some snappy
ensembles.
» * »
“The Last Time I Saw Paris”
(Liberty): A sentimental tear-
jerker with yet another U.S.
soldier (Van Johnson) returning
to Paris full of gloomy nostalgia
for the city where he had wooed,
won and lost. Elizabeth Taylor
covers herself with glamorous
clothes.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 323
Across
I—Escapes1—Escapes as disorderly art exhibi-
tors of permanent-waves and
cloaks. (9)
6—We sup in secret and close the
rent. (3, 2)
9 —Cesario has the Maori to ravish.
(7)
10 —Ceremonious Jolson joins the
class. (6)
12 — Pull the ear. (3)
13— Seaside outing makes a novelist
named Rex choose the devil, by
the sound of it. (5, 6)
16 — Sage exemplifies this boy. (4)
17— Backward Bay. (3)
19— The ready-made are each a
University faculty to possess.
(5-2-4)
20 — Suitable name for the author of
a novel whose title is 13-across?
(5, 6)
23—The German redback. (3)
25 More sheepish pitcher. (4)
26 — Measures taken in recent times.
28— Cop. (3)
29 — One of the commonest spreads
a barrel Queen. (6)
30— A fancy ham in the middle. (7)
32 Examines the Maori streets. (5)
33—Ebony publisher in England
with Algernon slighting a
German forest? (9)
Down
1 — Rescue Myrna from Frankfort?
(7)
2 A hybrid in company with others.
(5)
3 Scramble up the sesqui-century
preserver of ancient flies. (7)
4 Poet who writes poetry
effortlessly. (3)
5 Staff-officer is like this. (2)
6 I and Roy Rene take America
up in Finland. (5)
7 Girls may look forward to this
character in an all-female pro-
duction of a Sherwood Forest
play. (9)
8 — Piano priest of Shiloh to
conserve a bird which fishes. (7)
11 —Miss Walker? (3-5)
14— Before. (3)
15 — A reversing taxi makes use of
counting equipment. (8)
18 —Money-music on the shore. (9)
20 — Wine-cask instrument for a
musician to play with fire, but
Buck sat in it. (7)
21 — Dewed with no divine sheep. (3)
22 — Crowd your denuded estates
with sheep and cattle about to
flower. (7)
24 —Discounted willow in hollow-
stemmed grass. (7)
27—Aside from such fancies, one is
found in the danger-time for
Caesar. (5)
28—Direction to King George to ring
the Spanish black like Uncle
Tom. (5)
30— Cha. (3)
31 — Seaman has a month with the
Jews. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 322


not too SwflH
Powered, sized, equipped &
priced for versatile work!
As
m
j
s
It’s right-it’s FARM-RIGHT!
With more farm-right features than any other tractor, Fordson Major is unequalled for all-
purpose capacity and all-job economy. The latest overhead valve, low-friction engines
deliver much more power, use less fuel and work longer . . . 6-speed transmission . . . “touch-
control” hydraulics . . . 3-point linkage . . . range of “Crown” and matched implements and
equipment, and many other advances result in savings of time, labour, and money. See your
Fordson Dealer, he will show you, feature by feature, why Fordson
is farm-right for you.
TWO
farm-R»« ht
models
KEROSENE MODM.
£9lB
diesel model
£1077
with pneumatic tyres
Optional equipment—
Hydraulic lift and 3-point linkage only £76.
□lSjraiicejca
FM26A-40
Your Fordson Dealer will supply further details.
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 64 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy books, pamphlets, pro-
grammes, or any other types or
publications dealing with the 1900
and 1904 Olympic Games. —6023.
To buy copy of the book How
M’Dougal Topped the Score and
Other Verses and Sketches published
in 1906.—6024.
Producer with amateur - players
would like to hear from dramatic-
groups willing to exchange complete
sets of play-books.—6o2l.
To buy copy of book The Little
Mother That Sits at Home. —6022.
Information Sought
Brief biography of Nicholas Rowe,
the first modern editor of Shak-
speare ?
Nicholas Rowe (1674-1718) was
educated at Westminster School, and
became a barrister of the Middle
Temple; but abandoned the legal
profession for that of playwright,
and made the acquaintance of Pope
and Addison. At Lincoln’s Inn
Fields he produced his tragedies:
“The Ambitious Stepmother” (1700),
“Tamerlane” (1702), and “The Fair
Penitent” (1703). His “Ulysses” was
also staged there (in 1706), his “Royal
Convert” was put on at the Hay-
market (1707) and his “Jane Shore”
(1714) and “Lady Jane Grey” (1715)
at Drury Lane. In 1704, at Lincoln’s
Inn Fields, he produced an unsuccess-
ful comedy, “The Biter.” His “Fair
Penitent” and “Jane Shore” pro-
vided two of Mrs. Siddons’s most
successful roles. Rowe became poet
laureate in 1715, and was buried in
Westminster Abbey. His poetical
works include a translation of Lucan
(1718), which won the praise of Dr.
Johnson; his collected works
appeared in 1727. Rowe edited
Shakspeare’s plays (1709), dividing
them into acts and scenes, supplying
stage-directions and generally making
the text more intelligible.
* * * *
(1) Some information on Service
pensions available to returned soldiers
at 60 ? (2) What would a man and
his wife receive? (3) What may they
jointly own in the way of money and
property? (4) Any income allowed
and what amount, before pension is
affected? (5) If in receipt of a small
military pension, would this affect the
amount of Service pension ? (6)
Could the couple let a flat built
under same roof, but self-contained ?
(7) Any further information ?
(1) Service pensions are payable to
ex-Servicemen who have attained the
age of 60 years, provided they are
“Members of the Forces” as defined
in the Repatriation Act, have served
in a theatre of war (as defined) and
are without adequate means of sup-
port. The method of assessment is
similar to that which applies to age
pensions. (2) The wife of an ex-
Serviceman who is granted a Service
pension on grounds of age does not
qualify for a grant. The maximum
rate of Service pension is £7 per
fortnight. (3) In the case of a mar-
ried applicant, he is not disqualified
(by reason of accumulated assets
alone) unless his own and wife’s
combined assets (exclusive of the
home in which they live) exceed
£3500. Where assets are less than
that figure, the pension otherwise
payable is reduced by 9d. per fort-
night for every complete £lO by
which half the total exceeds £2OO.
(4) The applicant and his wife may,
jointly, have income up to £l4 per
fortnight without affecting the pen-
sion. (5) Any war pension already
payable is “income” for assessment
purposes. The rate would determine
whether or not it would be paid in
addition to the Service pension. (6)
Income from sub-letting portion of
the home in which the applicant
resides would not be taken into
account in assessing the pension.
(7) The subject of entitlement to and
assessment of Service pensions is a
complex one, and you should place
before the Deputy Commissioner of
Repatriation, Box 65 IK, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, full details of your finan-
cial position so that your eligibility
or otherwise may be determined.
* * * *
Information on the ( naval) Battle
of Coronet in World War I ?
It was fought on Nov. 1, 1914, off
Coronel (Chile), between Rear-
Admiral Cradock’s squadron
(armored-cruisers Good Hope and
Monmouth, light-cruiser Glasgow,
and the converted merchantman
Otranto) and a German squadron
commanded by Admiral von Spee,
consisting of the armored-cruisers
Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, and
light-cruisers Leipzig and Dresden.
The British ships were old and their
armament greatly inferior to the
Germans’, and the result was never
in doubt. The Good Hope and the
Monmouth (the flagship), after a
gallant fight against odds, were both
sunk, with the loss of 1400 men.
Rear-Admiral Cradock went down in
the flagship. No German ship was
sunk, and their loss of men was
negligible. The causes of the defeat
can be traced to a faulty apprecia-
tion by the Admiralty of the relative
strength of the two squadrons
(Cradock’s request for a “powerful
modern cruiser” had been refused)
and to ambiguous instructions sent
to him. The Glasgow, incidentally,
took part in the Battle of the Falk-
land Islands a month later when
Admiral Sturdee routed and sank the
German fleet.
**. * *
Information on Irish authoress
Jane Barlow ?
Jane Barlow was born at Clontarf,
Dublin, in 1857, daughter of Rev. W.
Barlow, vice-provost of Trinity
College. Her numerous publications
included Irish Idylls (1892), Strangers
at Lisconnel (1895), Creel of Irish
Stories lrish Neighbors
(1907), Irish Ways (1909), Flaws
(1911), and Doings and Dealings
(1913). In her writings she brought
a seriousness to the study of the
Irish peasantry, with a poet’s sensi-
tiveness to the changing beauty of
the Irish landscape. She died in
1917.
* * * *
Is it true that there is no letter
“h” in Gaelic ?
Maclennan’s Pronouncing and
Etymological Dictionary of the
Gaelic Language says: “The letter
‘h’ is not acknowledged in the
Gaidhlig [Gaelic-language] alphabet.
It has, however, a certain grammati-
cal function. It is used as the sign
of aspiration of consonants, corres-
ponding to the ‘point’ in Irish. It
is retained initially in foreign words.
It stands before words beginning
with a vowel, in certain circum-
stances, such as after the article na
(gen., s., f.), na h-dighe, of the
maiden; na (n. pi.), na h-eildean,
hinds.”
Brief Answers
M.A.C.: The only institution in
Sydney which will train a person not
in possession of a N. S. Wales Leav-
ing Certificate as a kindergarten-
teacher is the Sydney Day Nursery
and Nursery Schools’ Association,
39 Park-street, Sydney. It is suggested
that you contact the secretary of
this association, who will provide
you with all details regarding the
training L.T.: Presume that you
refer to Miss Florence James, care
Constable and Co., Ltd., 10 Orange-
street, London, W.C.2. She is
searching for Australian manuscripts
of every kind, excepting work for
children and poetry. She is inter-
ested in factual material as well as
in novels, including scientific books
for the general reader J.P.C.:
Grinding the colors with a little
glycerine or a solution of gum-arabic
in water to a fairly dry consistency
is recommended. The pans or even
the whole paint-box may be immersed
in shallow water for a while until
the paints soften, but the water must
only cover the cakes and should not
be shaken or disturbed lest the
paints flow away. Such water should
b'e soft rainwater, either filtered or
distilled if paints are valuable; but
renovated colors should not be used
for important work. Experiment first
with a small quantity of color
T.N.G.: It is likely that Armco
(Australia) Pty., Ltd., Kembla Build-
ing, 58 Margaret-street, Sydney, may
be able to help you A.P.K.: The
cartoon was by David Low and was
called “Billy Makes a Friendly
Call.” It was printed in The
Bulletin of May 11, 1916
L.H.8.: (1) No information on
which was the first British submarine
lost at that time N.McL.: Word
not in any Gaelic dictionary 8.5.:
Unable to discover whether some of
those inquired after were, or were
not, Masons A.M.M.: There is
no fixed procedure; different
societies have different rules. Usually
the amount would be decided
upon before election T.H.P.:
Lloyd’s Register for 1877 indicates
that there were two ships named
Normandy running at that time: (1)
an iron-screw steamer of 107 tons,
built at Newcastle in 1863, and (2) a
steamer of 443 tons built at Glasgow
in 1867, and owned by M. C. Gib-
son. Her home-port was Leith. No
information is available concerning
her doctor or dentist... .T.C.W.: (1)
The building now used as the Syd-
ney Eye Hospital was the Domain
Hotel, conducted by Maria Nari-
carrow in 1890. The adjoining build-
ings at that time were used as a
boarding-house by Mrs. J. C. Tunk.
(2) The tramway from College-street
(Sydney) junction was opened for
traffic on August 9, 1915, on which
date trams began to run on it. On
April 17, 1916, the line was extended
to McQuade’s Point and on August
18, 1918, a further extension was
made to No. 2 Shed on No. 1 Wharf.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
F.McD.: You take too long
making a start and you go on and
on after the logical finish G.D.:
There is too much trivial dialogue
in that yarn M.N.: Try it else-
where... .D.L.: They are now
exploring the depths of the w.p.b.
... .8.C.: We do not go in for paro-
dies... .M. 0.: “Greetings from
Dinky-Di Down Under” is about
this week’s worst J.C.H.: Not
vastly different from the thousand
and one other poems on Sydney
Harbor which we receive every year.
T.M.: Sent Bill back to the
mulga A.C.R.: No kennel on
our premises for your St. Bernard
dog L.L.H.: Glad you liked the
scenery L. 0.: Not in the market
for that tract of fairyland E. 8.:
Sorry to learn that your girl turned
you down W.E.T.: Afraid we
will not be singing it to the tune of
“John Brown’s Body” or any other
tune W.F.: Surely Melbourne
deserves a better farewell than that.
J.P.C.: We allowed Joe to
mooch around for a while, then sent
him home R.J.M.: It was an ill-
wind that blew that hopeless yam
into our office V.R.: “Does
Dinny Dyson Pass Muster?” Dinny
does not A.L.G.: At the rate you
are progressing you should break
into print a quarter of a century
hence H.M.: Easter cannot be
too far off, else that well-known
family would not be in town....
J.K.L.: When last seen your story
about a pub-crawl was crawling
home A.W.: If that is a sample
of your style, once in a lifetime will
be sufficient, thank you C.F.: In
less than no time that wild cat was
caged in the basket H.C.D.:
After having been told that Barney
was often “half-seas over,” “under
the table,” “three sheets in the
wind,” “stinko,” “top-heavy,” and
“pot-valiant,” it came as no surprise
to learn that he liked to “wet his
whistle,” “splice the mainbrace,” and
to “lift his elbow” 5.. J.: Your
larrikin belongs to a past age....
E.C.H.: Could we persuade you to
sign a pledge to write no more
stories like that? .., .R.F.J.: Only in
schoolboy fiction does the hero per-
form such prodigious feats L.K.:
That nagging wife is not for our
pages O.B.: Can’t see you bring-
ing down the house with those comic
characters J.A.: You sent it to
the wrong paper; try a religious
journal A.McM.: Not handing
out Bulletin cheques for mere
descriptions of dogfights P.C.T.:
That lightweight will not help “to
keep the wolf from the door.”


Human Side in the Worst of It
FLOODLIGHTS
By R. D. MURPHY
I.—THE HIGH TIDE
ON the Thursday morning,
the day before floods
changed the face of
Maitland, I was reading
to a first-year class Jean
Ingelow’s poem, “The High-Tide
on the Coast of Lincolnshire”:
The old mayor climbed to the belfry
tower,
The ringers ran by two, by three.
Very few were absent from
school, though many had come
through rising water ; ironically,
it was the day fixed for their
annual swimming-carnival.
Someone remarked that the
poem was topical; wireless-
warning had replaced the bells
tolling “Enderby,” but flood-
prevention was about as effec-
tive now as in the 16th century.
As we finished the reading,
they were sent home, many to
find the poem prophetic:
Then banks came down with ruin
and rout
Then all the mighty floods were
out
Upon the roofe we sate that night.
That ebbe swept out the flocks to
sea.
2.—PIANOS
to shifting silt after a
flood, the heaviest job l
know is shifting pianos before it.
There is no adequate place to
grip and lift the dead weight
(how many homes have piano-
straps?) ; the footling castors (if
any) are likely to swivel the
cantankerous bulk and pin you
against a wall.
The local convent, having lost
four pianos in the ’49 flood,
installed on a second-story a
block-and-tackle and we (with
language suitably subdued to the
cloister) manhandled and hoisted
up three from the lower floor —
monotonous and tiring work,
enlivened for two hectic minutes
when a strap attaching one of the
instruments to the tackle 12ft.
above four of us on the ground
ripped to the last half-inch.
After jacking-up three more
pianos for neighbors, we lifted
our own on top of a platform.
It was found, a few days after,
lying perversely on its back in
2ft. of water and mud. It was
some satisfaction to rip off the
sodden casing with an axe and
use it to boil the billy.
3.—THE PHONY WAR
"CLOODS, like war and death,
come as a shock in spite of
long warning and preparation.
The first trickle of water down
your street conveys more effec-
tively than any newspaper- or
wireless-warning the reality of
danger. But the advance is so
slow that apprehension wears
off, and, as in war, there is a
phony or unrealistic phase when
calamity wears the mask of
adventure or novelty.
On Friday morning, when
Maitland’s High-street was
already a swiftly flowing stream,
men with trousers rolled and
women with skirts held up waded
cheerfully to shops still open.
Cars with a yellow bow-wave
were nosing their way gingerly to
high ground near the railway-
bridge.
Two kids rode a log and were
cheered by drinkers at hotel
doorways. More cheers from
spectators on balconies as three
men salvaged a drifting 18-gallon
keg. “She’s full!” they
announced.
Hunter continued to pour over
its banks as over a spillway into
the streets. Water deepened, the
current became stronger; it
needed an effort to wade back
against it, carrying your bag of
tinned supplies.
A drunk weaved across the
stream, floundered, fell and was
borne along by the water before
being hauled into safety. A
wardrobe and two pillows went
sailing by. Shopkeepers began
piling goods on to high shelves,
but- with a resigned rather than
a desperate air.
We helped three families to
the second-floor of the school,
cleared the science- and sports-
rooms, took up the house lino.,
piled furniture on tables, sand-
bagged doorways, and com-
forted ourselves with history:
“After all, the ’49 flood didn’t
come into the house.”
By mid-afternoon water was
pouring across the completely
submerged schoolyard, two
panels had been ripped off the
fence, an Army “duck” had to
rescue a straggler from the gate
and water was flowing round the
veranda.
The phony stage was over.
4.—NIGHT PIECE
OING down the dark stairs
with a fading torch (the
electricity had gone) to take up
another load was like descending
into the hold of a sinking ship.
In the rooms below, the water
was waist-deep and rising higher
and colder at each trip.
A smoky hurricane-lamp on
the top landing showed shadowy
piles of books and cutlery, desks,
wardrobes, bedding, chairs,
pictures, tinned-food cluttering
the hallway.
There was only a glum word
now and again ; no one laughed
at Joe’s antics when he dropped
the end of a stove on his toe.
At two-o’clock we turned in
and listened to the swish and
bubble of water flowing by in the
black street, the soft thump of
the remaining furniture against
the walls downstairs,, the
muffled boom of pews pounding
against the locked doors of the
cathedral across the yard.
Occasionally came the sharp
crack as another shop-window
burst in High-street.
Ugliest sound of all was the
fluttering and screeching of the
fowls drowning in their shed.
No one had thought to let them
out.
S.—MORNING
SATURDAY morning showed
through a drizzle a shabby
Venice with houses islanded in
Bft. of brown water, over which
surf-skis skimmed like gondolas.
A flood-boat arrived with bags
of bread and ill news: thirty
people reported drowned, dozens
of houses washed away, the town
isolated.
We watched George Long and
his wife being rescued through
the roof of their newly painted
house. Rooftop- and balcony-
talk between neighbors sounded
loud across the flats of water.
Debris, including bottles,
sodden cartons and a chair,
floated past or piled against trees
and walls. Ern went fishing with
a colander tied to a pole and
salvaged a box of stationery,
some pencils and toy ducks.
Even the toys in Maitland
needed to be amphibious.
Six fowls survived huddled on
the shed roof.
As the flood inched down,
tops of hedges could be seen like
tufts of grass above the water,
the river-bank emerged as a
narrow green line. R.A.A.F.
Dakotas circled to drop bundles
of food and blankets near the
post-office, departing with a
cheerful waggle of wings. A
Navy helicopter hovered in the
sun like a silver dragon-fly, and a
flight of swans touched the sky
with grace.
6.—NATURE NOTE
TNSECTS showed their usual
prescience. Before the flood,
the tops of fences near the river
were alive with spiders ; a colony
of ants in the kitchen moved its
eggs to a high shelf behind some
tins. People laboriously remov-
ing belongings to higher ground
must have envied the snails
which, in scores, carried and
attached their one-room cottages
to the underside of shed-roofs.
Two cows we saw saved their
lives by their hardihood in stand-
ing all night on the river-bank
with water pouring over, but a
fox floating downstream on part
of a haystack probably found
his cunning of no avail.
After the flood, Wilfrid
rescued a Muscovy duck and two
kittens from the submerged
tennis-court. The duck evaded
capture for a long time by swim-
ming faster than we could wade
and diving under water when
cornered; the kittens repaid
their rescuer by an act of base
ingratitude in his room.
Among the less disagreeable
things found when cleaning-up
were some earthworms in the
library shelves (“Bookworms,
obviously,” said Laurie), a 6in.
perch stranded but alive in the
mud in a bedroom, and a school
of minnows swimming in the
tuckshop.
7.—SURVIVAL
HTHE ten of us spent forty-
eight hours on a veranda
upstairs without gas, light or
water, a hardship made bearable
when we considered that
hundreds of unfortunates had
not even a veranda and many
would never need one again.
We had plenty of bread and
tinned-stuff, even some beer;
but what we missed most was a
cuppa and a newspaper. As
rooftop - communication
improved, however, a primitive
system of barter provided even
these. Sorrels across the way
had a primus; half a dozen eggs
were exchanged with them for a
billy of hot water. On the other
side, a deal was made with
Connors: two tins of condensed-
milk for half a pound of tea.
Encouraging or warning shouts
by both parties helped the trader
carefully holding aloft the
“makings” across sloping tin-
roof or shoulder-deep water.
While neighborliness and self-
reliance flourished, so did the
weed of irritation. Cooped in a
narrow area cluttered with
booby - trap furniture and
kitchen-gear, we developed a
peck-order, like poultry.
Chief target was young Gerry,
whose cheerful repetition of
Chesterton’s saying about the
Battersea floods, “An adventure
is only an inconvenience rightly
considered. An inconvenience is
only an adventure wrongly con-
sidered,” prompted the advice
that he take to heart the same
writer’s remarks on “The
Optimist as a Suicide,” and the
sour comment that Chesterton
never had to shovel 2ft. of silt
out of his house.
Then, and later, we found
more to consider in the furphies
that sprang up in the absence of
real news: the Maitland morgue
was full of bodies; drinking-
water was polluted and a typhoid
epidemic was about to break out;
another flood Was on the way ;
everyone was to be evacuated.
Irony occasionally seasoned
the monotony and misery, as
when we heard the wine-bar pro-
prietor two doors (or roofs)
down being asked by his
neighbor and best customer:
“Hey, Ed, have you got any
water?”
One of the largest city firms,
with every window wrecked and
most of its goods washed away,
carried the inscription: “Half-
Yearly Clearance.”
A gasometer overturned in silt
had near it the advertisement:
“Use Gas. You Can Depend
On It.”
Joe, sweeping out mud in dour
silence, straightened his back to
see a truck splashing by on the
road with the sign, “Electricity
for the Home.” “We’ve got
neither,” he said.
The local convent again lost
three pianos, but the flood
floated in as compensation a
28-gallon keg of beer.
B.—CLEANING-UP
■CVERY room had a Plimsoll
of black stuck here and
there with bits of grass above
a dado of dirty grey lapped by
2ft. of water. Underfoot you
slipped on inches of slime. Mud
coated every exposed ledge. You
broke open water - swollen
drawers, cupboards and com-
partments to find them half-
filled with mud. Curtain-ends
were stiff with mud, it clogged
the motors of the refrigerator
and washing-machine, turned
clothing and books into
malodorous pulp.
When the dingy veil of water
was withdrawn, the face of the
enemy was there: obscenity,
visible and palpable. Streets,
gardens, yards were bogs into
which you sank knee-deep, which
sucked the shoes from your feet.
No amount of shovelling, hosing,
scrubbing seemed to exorcise the
infestation. At night it spoke
with two voices—the taunting
croak of frogs and its own foul
aura.
While the floodwater was still
standing, you had to scrub-down
walls and rough-clean furniture.
Squeegees (if you could get them)
were used to push out the soft
silt, and then came the real
hosing and scrubbing. Unfor-
tunately, no tap-water was avail-
able for nearly a week, and you
lived in sour-smelling rooms into
which you trailed more mud
from outside, worked in clothes
stiff with mud, ate and slept
unclean.
Clearing roads and yards was
a job for earth - moving
machinery. As someone said: “A
little bulldozer goes a long way.”
9.—STREET SCENE
ttIGH-STREET looked as if it
had been bombed. Rows of
shops had every window and
showcase smashed ; junk of all
kinds, rotting fruit and vegetables
littered or filled craters in the
footpaths.
Outside a wrecked stationer’s,
kids rummaged for treasure;
two girls examined sodden
dresses in a press that had floated
from a grimy cave, once their
shop. Cars, some new, lay
buried to the doors in mud.
You waded knee-deep through
the slush in the road, trying to
avoid the splash of R.A.A.F.
three-tonners and an occasional
Army “duck” full of evacuees.
These, with a Dakota circling
Coronation Park and a Sigs
sergeant directing traffic,
heightened the after-battle effect.
On the high ground near the
post - office, shops were
untouched, many open for busi-
ness. Here a slight wind stirred
dust from the side of the road.
At the Belmore Bridge a five-
ton steel-and-concrete section of
the approaches, torn off and
hurled on to the footpath; a
broken 6in. pipe gushing water;
the enormous gaps in the banks
and the debris and driftwood
enlaced in the steel mesh Bft.
above the road-bed all bore wit-
ness to the savagery of the river
now sullenly mumbling below.
In near-by Sempill-street,
muddy allotments with a brick
pier or two left standing showed
where houses had vanished. A
small provision - shop was
impaled with a large tree. A
cottage with two rooms sheered-
off had a line of pin-ups on a
whitewashed wall, staring
incongruously out at ruin.
Mt. Pleasant-street, where in
October the blue-bonneted
jacarandas had kept kindly
guard, was devastated. More
than 20 houses had been washed
away ; almost all were badly
damaged.
On a crazily tilted veranda an
elderly man was scraping away
mud. “How’re things, Tom?”
asked a passer-by. “Not too
bad,” was the reply. He spoke
for the town.
You heard much grumbling,
some bad language, but little of
the tears and hysteria that
appeared in daily-press accounts.
Against the score of immense
material loss must be credited
the pioneering virtues of forti-
tude, charity and self-reliance of
the people afflicted, the unselfish-
ness and generosity of those who
helped them, police, the Services,
miners, the public at large.
Sectional interests and differ-
ences were forgotten. The only
class that tried to make capital
out of misery was the Reds, who
commandeered ships’-lifeboats at
Newcastle and came with them
to Singleton under the banner:
“The Communist Party Brings
You Relief.”
The organisations of all creeds
remembered only their common
Christianity in housing, feeding
and clothing the destitute. In its
ordeal by water Maitland, and
perhaps the community,
discovered its soul.
OUTSIDER
How strange it is to call unheard
to people crossing silently
their native grass, when distance makes
a still, transparent boundary
between them and the watcher’s eye
outside his soundproof wall of trees.
There Man-Alive and visible
is listening. He sees
a neighbor to a neighbor speak—
a bright flag streaming from a shadow—
but what they say is never known.
It could be death or any sorrow,
for neighbors do not fly to tell
how they are quick with strength and grace
because the morning, beautiful,
falls across the heart and face.
He longs to tell them that the sun
brings heart and tongue and ear together
in such a meaning that is lost
when people chat about the weather.
How strange it is to cry aloud
and not be heard or seen or known,
as if he breathed inside a glass
silence has turned to stone.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JI. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS KEITH MEREDITH
formerly of Peterborough Avenue Lake
Illawarra South.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY NORILLE MEREDITH has filed
a Petition No. 394 of 1955 for Divorce
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 6th day of June 1955 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from JOHN WARREN BINNEY,
Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
For years past usually a little-
noticed jumpers’-flat, the Aus-
tralian Cup came into something
like its name with a field which
made it the race of the day for
the wind-up of the V.R.C.’s
autumn meeting at Flemington.
The 17 starters included Wodalla
(Moonee Valley Gold Cup and
Melbourne Cup winner the
season before last), Hellion (fast-
finishing second to Rising Fast
in last year’s Melbourne Cup),
Gay Helios (pacemaker and
game third in that same Cup),
Dunsinane (second to Pride of
Egypt in the recent V.R.C. St.
Leger) and Royal Radiant (a
good distance-winner at the
meeting).
• • • •
From a false start Gay Helios
grabbed the bit, galloped a mile
and a half and was withdrawn.
Top weight of 9.1 was too much
for Wodalla over the 2m. If.
110yds. Hellion (8.8; favorite
at threes) added an Australian
Cup to W. Cook’s grand score
of big wins, the four-year-old
Hellespont black horse unwind-
ing a three-furlong finishing run
like the one he unwound in the
Melbourne Cup (showing that he
may have been very unlucky to
get the knock McGrowdie said
he took at the five-furlongs in
that race). Three - year - old
Dunsinane (beaten by Hellion a
length) looks a future big Cups’
prospect, if reasonably handi-
capped.
*•• • .
The best horses to have raced
in Australia have been winners
of the Chipping Norton Stakes,
including Phar Lap, Amounis,
Windbag, Limerick, Ammon Ra,
Comic Court, Rogilla, Lough
Neagh, Bernborough, Katanga,
Carbon Copy, Delta and
Carioca. Katanga twice won,
and Lough Neagh had three
wins—as a four-year-old, a seven-
year-old and an eight-year-old.
Earlier on Melbourne two-
year-old Saintly Fire won a
sprint at Caulfield. He won
another at Flemington on
Saturday the Gibson Car-
michael Stakes, seven furlongs,
and, with W. Cook up, won well.
A first foal, he is related to
Flight, St. Razzle and Sir
Simper. By Empyrean (imp.)
from St. Luzette by St. Magnus
(imp.), he is trained by P. Burke.
Rising Fast had an “exercise
gallop” to beat his solitary
opponent Electro in the w.f.a.
Carbine Stakes at Flemington.
The race proved something of
a farce with only two horses to
compete for £3OOO. Aldershot
was to have made a third, but
broke down. At Rosehill there
were only three runners for the
Rawson Stakes, but the finish
was tight between two of them.
* • • •
Curtain-raiser for the AJ.C.’s
Easter carnival will be the War-
wick Farm meeting on Saturday,
when the long-established Chip-
ping Norton Stakes (w.f.a.,
l£m.) and a new race, the £3OOO
Champion Stakes for three-year-
olds, l£m., will be features. The
AJ.C. is probably disappointed
with the modest entry for its first
Champion Stakes and lack of
inter-State interest, but the class
should partly make up for that.
L. O’Sullivan, part-owner and
trainer of speedy Gay Vista, let
it be known that he wasn’t
pleased with the 9.7 allotted the
gelding for Rosehill’s Railway
Quality Handicap—the maxi-
mum provided under the condi-
tions—but Gay Vista made light
of the impost and scored by five
lengths after easing in the
betting. O’Sullivan has a habit
of placing his horses to advant-
age. Gay Vista has now been
promoted to sharing Doncaster
favoritism. He has 9.4 in the
Doncaster, which seems plenty
for a horse unproved at the
distance.
Backers who laid odds on
Prince Morvi —a bet of £5OOO
to £2OOO on was noted —winning
Rosehill Rawson Stakes got a
shock when the favorite managed
by only half a head to beat New
Zealander Finito after a des-
perate riding duel between
Sellwood and A. Thompson
(Finito). The only other starter,
Gallant Archer, was at sea in
the soft going. Prince Morvi
has w.f.a. (9st.) in the Doncaster
and is sharing favoritism with
Gay Vista.
A stayer, Finito is in the Syd-
ney Cup with 8.7. In the Rawson
Stakes the visitor revelled in the
soft going. A smart-looking
six-year-old gelding by Finis
(imp.) from Fiesoli (imp.), he last
January added the Wellington
R.C. Handicap, \\ mile, to his
score. He carried 8.3 then.
Finito’s sire, Finis (imp.), now at
the stud at Singleton (N.S.W.),
was formerly located in New
Zealand. In England Finis won
the Gold Cup (2|m.) and the
Yorkshire Cup (2m.). He is
sire of winners of upwards of
£llO,OOO in New Zealand.
Queensberry, who bolted in
with the 10 furlongs Rosehill
Auburn Stakes with Bst., relished
the conditions. The course was
a quagmire after heavy rain.
Queensberry has 7st. in the Syd-
ney Cup, a decided pull for a
horse with staying ability if
racing on a holding track. Talis-
man’s Rosehill Cup win was in
better company. He carried 7.8
and also spreadeagled his oppon-
ents. He is in the Sydney Cup
with 7.2.
Crack two-year-old Kingster
ran unplaced in the heavy going
at Rosehill. Kingster took no
harm from the run, carrying 9.5.
Best performance among top-
weights last Saturday was Gay
Vista’s win with 9.7 in the Rail-
way Quality ; but he’s Sydney’s
No. 1 speedster, and all track
conditions come alike to him.
At Victoria Park, Adelaide, on
Saturday hurdle-winner Co-Star
was timed to run two miles in
3.3 li-, a world record. Co-Star
won by four lengths from High
Counsel.
Segenhoe Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), has several of the pro-
geny of the successful Nilo
(imp.) for auction at the Rand-
wick yearling sales. A sister to
one of the Nilo’s, Beni Mazar,
won at Eagle Farm (Q.) last
Saturday.
Sydney owner A. Basser went
to 3200gns. at the Melbourne
yearling sales for a colt by
Gabador (imp.) from Subject,
submitted by The Lodge Stud,
Dandenong. Basser paid highest
prices for Melbourne yearlings
at the 1953 and the 1954 sales.
Last year he got Empire Link,
a recent Rosehill winner, for
4200gn5., and in 1953 paid
4000gns. for Indian Empire, who
won five races at two years.
Gabador, a French-bred sire,
has one representative in Inglis’s
Randwick catalogue, a colt from
Olive Fox by Foxbridge (imp.).
The crack N.Z. three-year-old
Somerset Fair is coming to Syd-
ney in mid-July for Australian
spring racing. After winning 11
races on end the son of Fair’s
Fair, (imp.) and Diversion was
beaten out of a place in the N.Z.
St. Leger, lfm., which plainly
suggests that he was given a race
too many.
Winner of a Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) two-year-old maiden,
High Spot, passed in at the 1954
yearling sales at 550gns., is
raced by G. and D. Warby and
trained by T. Kennedy. High
Spot is a bay colt by Emperor
(imp.) from Belle Pomme by
Beau Pere (imp.) from Burnt
Apple (imp.) by Pommern.
Family lines include Lady
Kuvera, a well-performed mare,
New Jeep, Trader and several
other winners. High Spot fol-
lowed up his win by a good
second to Star Realm at Rosehill.
Owner-trainer W. M. Clancy
got a fairly cheap yearling at the
1954 Randwick sales when he
paid 250gns. for a bay filly by
“ Boy—what a smother !”
Near Way (imp.), a son of
Nearco, from Sublime Point
(imp.) by Panorama. Racing as
Nearama, the filly opened her
winning account in a Two-year-
old at Hawkesbury, downing the
odds-on favorite, Chianti, in a
close finish. Nearama possesses
Carbine blood and is from an
English family which produced
Snow Maiden, a winner of the
Oaks; Nimba, a winner of the
American Oaks, and Electra,
winner of the One Thousand
Guineas.
Four horses jumped away in
Lismore (N.S.W.) Hying Handi-
cap last Saturday. All four
finished, but the third horse,
Beau Style, won the money, with
the fourth, Shampoo, second.
There was no third. Whirlwind,
at odds-on, was first past the post
by f-length from True Shot, but
they weighed in and
light respectively, and were
promptly disqualified. The scales
were tested and found correct.
A.J.C. chairman Potter’s two-
year-old Star Realm spread-
eagled a field of maidens at
Rosehill on March 16 and fol-
lowed up with another brilliant
win at the same track last
Saturday. He revelled in the soft
going on each occasion. He cost
1250gns. as a yearling and is
by the successful sire Star
Kingdom (imp.) from Valley
Stream by Midstream (imp.).
Star Realm traces back to
Maltster, and the family lines
include Artilleryman, Alawa,
Valicare, and Maikai.
Though he failed in the Kirk-
ham Stakes, Master Hua has
won at two of his last three
starts. A son of Hua from the
Manitoba (imp.) mare My Miss,
whose dam, Snow Queen, is by
Beau Pere (imp.), Master Hua
apparently didn’t appeal much
to buyers at the yearling ring
last Easter. Bidding ceased at
225gns. and St. Aubins stud
retained him. As he is related
to Salutation, a winner of the
N.Z. Oaks, and to Limarch and
Te Kara, Master Hua is a
potential stayer. Te Kara won
an Auckland Cup in 1924 and
ran a dead-heat for first the year
before. He also won a Brisbane
Cup, a City Tatt.’s and a Tatt.’s
Cup at Randwick.
• •
Sydney trot fans must have
kicked themselves when they
heard of the 10 to 1 offered about
Frisco • Sky in Melbourne last
Saturday night. His 3.25 f for the
12|f. broke the race-record. The
Sky Raider colt showed great
form on northern N.S.W. tracks
near the end of last year and re-
tained the sparkle at Harold Park.
Best favored for the Derby
heat were the local filly, Explicit,
and speedy N.Z. colt, First
Variety,, who ran unplaced.
In the first V.T.C. Derby
heat, W.A. Derby and Sires’
Produce winner Marine Dealer
dealt it out to crack Victorians
Halt and Medorina. Their time
was only a fifth of a second
slower than the second heat and
equalled the race-record. With
only two yards between the
placegetters in this heat, a close-
fought final seems likely.
Hexible, who took £2056
from the Melbourne Showground
last season, received the big end
of the £lOOO Moomba Cup. His
unreliable form lately was
responsible for his price of 20
to 1. Former New Zealander
Defiance, driven by Sydney reins-
man W. Barrass, starting favorite
at 7 to 4, was second, three yards
behind the winner.
+ +
“Moorapi”: In the West
Indies the yelling and chanting
of cricket spectators (mostly
colored) is traditionally punctu-
ated by the din of exploding
crackers. Jamaicans take the
game seriously, willingly parting
with half-a-day’s pay for admis-
sion to Tests. Perhaps the W.I.
authorities had this enthusiasm
in mind when they decided some
years ago to equip cricket-
grounds with barbed-wire fences
between playing - fields and
public-enclosure.
“K.R.”: Arthur Morris has
scored a century in his first
first-class game in four countries.
In Australia he made 148 and
111 for N.S.W. against Queens-
land (1940-41), in England 138
against Worcestershire in 1948,
153 against Natal (South Africa)
in 1949-50 and now, in the West
Indies, 157 against Jamaica.
• * * * *
“T.F.McM.”: Englishman
Worthington was not the only
man ever dismissed by the first
ball of a Test (B. 23/2/’55). In
the third 1926 Test, at Leeds,
when Arthur Carr sent Australia
in, Bardsley was caught in slips
by Sutcliffe off Tate from the first
ball of the game.
.•• • •
“lanmac”: Not the first ball
of the match admittedly, but I
saw Australian Charlie Kelleway
clean-bowl A. C. Russell with his
first ball in England’s first
innings in the first 1920-21 Test
in Sydney. Kelleway was almost
immediately taken off, and not
put on again that innings; Eng-
land made less than 200, and
Australia won handsomely.
“Narumee”: It was during the
Compton-Bailey creep in what
Charles Fortune referred to as
“this benighted Test”—the Fifth.
Fortune was endeavoring to
bridge a dreary, runless gap by
a fervid dramatisation of the
arduous four-day flight to the
West Indies to be undertaken by
the Australian XI. Running
short of adjectives and statistics,
he appealed confidently to
Gilligan, “Of course, Arthur,
you have done this trip many
times?” Shatteringly, the reply
came, “No! Never!” Fortune
tried again, “But you will be
going that way home?” You
could almost hear the apologetic
expression on the .Gilligan dial as
he said, “No. I’m not flying.”
Fortune sailed in, “Ah! You’re
going all the way by sea?”
Peace and harmony was restored
as the master of acquiescence
answered, “Yes, Charles. I’m
going—all the way—by sea! ”
“Keima”: Though undecided
as to what part age should have
played in the Australian selec-
tion for the West Indies, I won’t
accept selection of the older
players on the ground that the
country to be toured wants
“name” players, irrespective of
whether they’re in or out of
form. The aim of a touring side
is to win, and the team selected
should be picked on that basis
and no other.
* * •
“A.C.T.”: Reports of a
mooted Rugby Union competi-
tion with New Guinea, Japan,
Fiji and other Pacific countries
in it suggest that New Guinea
Administrator Cleland has been
caught napping. As a West Aus-
tralian, he is an admirer of
Aussie Rules. Incidentally, what
has happened to the Aussie Rules
campaign, now operating
strongly in Queensland, which
was to encircle Sydney and leave
it an isolated Rugby League
fortress?
* » •
“Keima”: Harry Hopman
picked an outback lad named
Peter Cheney for his Brisbane
tennis coaching-class: As Lemmy
Caution might have said, “This
guy sure must be the berries. He
travels over 400 miles every
weekend by train just to practise
tennis. And if you mugs have
ever travelled over 400 miles by
Queensland train you’ll be wise
to why Harry grabs him ...”
* + •
Cambridge won the boatrace
on the Thames against an
Oxford crew which rowed with
a “passenger” when No. 6, J.
McLeod, an undergrad, from
Mosman (Sydney), had his wind
cut off. Oxford went away well,
but near the Hammersmith
Bridge a big wave (and Thames
waves can be big) wrenched
McLeod’s oar and it jabbed him
too near the solar plexus. He
finished in a state of collapse
and by that time Cambridge was
16 lengths ahead. \
** * *
Victorian Dave Stephens, in
rain and on a heavy track, set
new Australian time for the
5000 metres (14min.-29|sec.). It
was his fifth Australian record
inside three months.
* * *
“Goalsneak”: There was an
Aussie Rules game recently
between Oxford and Cambridge,
with snow falling, and it was
televised. According to one
report, the game was a real hit
on TV, despite the bad weather.
I don’t wonder. It’s easily the
most photogenic of all football
games, and when it’s televised in
Australia will pin the viewers to
their sets.


Paint Your Car
for 70 /-
NO BRUSHING OR SPRAYING
Enamel your car with the amazing
new Sapphire Enamel. Simply clean
your car and wipe on Sapphire with
the special applicator supplied.
HIGH GLOSS MIRROR FINISH
Costs only a fraction of sending a
car out to be sprayed. It’s so easy
to use. Sapphire will go over any
old enamel or lacquer. Covers in
one coat. Old cars glisten like new.
NO BRUSH MARKS. NO LAP
MARKS. Not a wax or polish, but
a new super enamel. Dries to a
beautiful mirror smooth, flawless
finish, without a single blemish or
brush mark. Paints trucks and
tractors too.
SIMPLY WIPE IT ON
Guaranteed not to chip, peel, fade
or crack for two years, or your
money refunded in full. Send 70/-,
plus postage for a quart of Sapphire
Enamel, special applicator and in-
structions. Write NOW. You risk
nothing. Send TODAY. Paint your
car with a mirror finish that looks
like a spray job.
28 POPULAR COLOURS
Mark colour required on coupon
below. White, Off White, Ivory,
Cream, Light Cream, Rich Cream,
Light Stone, Mid Stone, Fawn,
Pastel Green, Light Green, Lawn
Green, Dark Green, Grey Green,
Dove Grey, Dark Grey, Mail Red,
Cherry Red, Russet Red, Dark
Maroon, Maroon, Chocolate, Sky
Blue, Light Blue, Royal Blue, Navy
Blue, Yellow, Black.
POST COUPON NOW
PACIFIC AUTO SUPPLIES,
47 McLeod Rd., Carrum, Victoria
Enclosed is Please
send quarts of Sapphire
| Enamel, special applicator, in-
I structions and 2-year guarantee.
! My colour choice is
I Price 70/ per quart, plus 4/4
I postage. SPECIAL OFFER: 2
quarts of Sapphire Enamel for
I £6/10/, postage extra. Kindly
add exchange to cheques.
Name
Address
1216
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... .. ; 2/-
Yearly Subscription 22 id
cared not so much for payment,
but for the mastering of
illness ” Someone from Port
Germein wrote to Kipling, and
the poet replied that he was
“touched and proud” that his
lines had been selected to grace
the tombstone of the good
doctor. Kipling continued: “I
don’t quite understand the photo
of the j’etty, which seems to be
trending towards the South
Pole.”
At Port Germein I learned
that a lump of chalky stone
from the shore near the jetty was
without doubt a piece of the
White Cliffs of Dover brought
over in a vessel as ballast!
Seventeen miles separate Port
Germein from Port Pirie. The
land towards the coast looks flat
and marshy, and the mountains
were grey with overcast skies
when I continued my journey,
Three dead sheep lay beside the
road, and in a bare paddock other
carcasses rotted. Port Pirie was
strung out for miles along the
level horizon in a pall of smoke
from chimneys and steamer-
funnels.
The crows squawked. It was a
desolate countryside, and I kept
thinking of the ranges through
which I had passed. “Beautiful
recesses of unpeopled earth ”
It was strange how the words
kept running through my mind,
and how soon they were no
longer appropriate.
Port Pirie is a drab place to
enter. After the dull flats, oil-
tanks and rubble greet the visitor.
There are names on signboards
like Gaunt and Blight, and there
are peculiar smells.
Beyond Solomontown lay the
port and its suburbs. Trains run
through the main street with a
hand-bell ringing, while the
railway-platform has nothing to
distinguish it from an ordinary
road, except the presence of the
train, and the extravagant
station-buildings in the back-
ground.
In 1845 Crystal Brook station
was founded. A boiling-down
plant was installed in the follow-
ing year, and soon an outlet was
being sought for grain, wool and
barrels of fat. Tarparrie (“a
muddy creek”), known as
Samuel’s Creek after its dis-
coverer, Samuel Germein, a spot
on the coast well known to the
natives, was selected. A shed
was erected, and a schooner, the
John Pirie, soon nosed its way
into the muddy waters.
The original settlement took
place at Solomon’s Town, named
after a Jew who gave land to
anyone who would build a
church, thus becoming a bene-
factor to the Methodists. Port
Pirie was proclaimed a town in
1876, and became South Aus-
tralia’s first provincial city in
1953.
Ballast from 100 ships was
used for the town’s foundations.
Land had to be reclaimed for
the construction of the wharves
and the smeltery, and the harbor
dredged. Water was carted in,
and is still supplied by pipeline.
In the early days there were
rowing-boats instead of carts in
the main street, and the Barrier
Hotel stands on a site once
known as Seaweed Corner, while
the man-made beach was once a
stretch of rnangrove swamps,
The schooner John Pirie was
named after a Lord Mayor of
London, who, like Dick Whit-
tington, had arrived in that city
penniless. The little port which
bears the name, with no early
industries and few inhabitants,
also enjoyed a change of fortune,
and 40 years after the arrival of
the Crystal Brook pioneers, the
first load of ore, tons hauled
by a six-horse team, arrived from
Broken Hill for shipment. Three
years later the smeltery was
opened, and a refinery. The
workmen lived at Bagtown, near
Dead Horse Creek. Port Pirie
was revolutionised, and so was
the silver-lead industry. The
smeltery is now the largest in the
world, rivalled only by the one
at Trail in Canada,
Broken Hill ore has been
treated at the smeltery for the
recovery of lead, silver and gold,
and in the surrounding slag-
heaps it is estimated that £ 100-
million-worth of zinc is waiting
to be recovered when economical
methods can be put into practice.
Now the sulphur fumes,
released in the sintering of the
lead-concentrates, are to be
trapped by a newly constructed
plant for the production of
sulphuric-acid. And, more up-
to-date than all, more land is
being reclaimed for the estab-
lishment of a uranium-treatment
plant to handle ore from Radium
Hill and probably Rum Jungle.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters, with an eye to hygiene
and safety-first, rather than the
romance of industry, installed
many modern devices which
make a smeltery look less
interesting, and prevent many
accidents. There are fewer
chances of going into poetic
rhapsodies over streams of
molten metal, or of being
engulfed by them.
Accompanying a friend who
works in the research laboratory
I visited the smeltery, and saw
not only the mammoth plants
where roasting and smelting and
refining are carried on, the cranes
like great underslung electric-
tramways, furnace-blocks being
made, and the Baghouse (where
the fumes are treated), but also
the automatic - telephone
exchange, the picture-show and
the vivid plots of lawn, and a
machine which can weigh the
difference between a cigarette-
paper and a cigarette-paper with
a name written on it.
The town itself has kept pace
with its industrial expansion, and
now boasts 29 suburbs or more,
ranging in beauty from the drab-
ness of Solomontown to Tenny-
son and the more elegant
avenues. Sprinkled through the
suburbs are parks and children’s
playgrounds, equipped and
maintained by the smelters. The
townsfolk are proud to possess
South Australia’s only legal s.-p.
betting-shop, a railway said to
be the only one in the world with
three tracks of different gauge,
and Lealholme in Risden Park.
Lealholme was a fine old home
built by one of the town’s busi-
ness pioneers, a Mr. Scrutton.
In the days of Mr. Fred Grey its
ballroom was the scene of many
brilliant social functions. In
Captain Elm’s time it even
boasted a menagerie.
Then, one day in 1949, Rev.
Guthberlet, of the Methodist
Mission, began a campaign for
the care of the aged and infirm,
suggesting through the local
paper the purchase or erection
of a home.
It was a scheme often proposed
and as often thwarted by build-
ing, financial or Governmental
restrictions. But somebody
offered Lealholme for the
purpose at a reasonable figure,
and the minister, gambling on
“the soul of the town” for
support, and without a penny
behind him, accepted the offer.
At the time of purchase, not a
plate or saucer or a stick of furni-
ture was in the house, yet within
a month the home was officially
opened. There were contribu-
tion-schemes and donations,
“popular grandma and grandpa”
competitions, and the Associated
Smelters subsidised the under-
taking on a pound-for-pound
basis with the workers.
After its varied history, the
old home is a place of rest and
peace, in a town full of energy
and industry; a monument to
public charity.
“Port Pirie is a good bread-
and-butter town,” it is said, “but
not a place to retire.” Never-
theless there is a spirit of friendli-
ness abroad which many of its
working residents would sadly
miss should they retire com-
pletely to scenes of greater
beauty. Bus-drivers and shop-
assistants and waitresses, the
ordinary people of the town, are
much more friendly than in the
majority of larger towns and
cities.
During the war, among com-
parative strangers at Darwin I
celebrated a birthday, and a chap
called Tommy organised the
party. We donned our “drink-
ing-pants,” and stuffed ourselves
with hoarded drinks and fruit-
salad until we were sick, and
discussed our. respective girl-
friends in faraway places.
After that we were cobbers,
and when we separated, Tommy
said to visit his folks whenever
passing through his home-town ;
so on my first visit to Port Pirie
after the war, waiting while
changing trains, I phoned his
mother. She jumped on her
bicycle at once, and cycled a
mile with a flat tyre to say
“hullo” to me. We met again
on my present visit and the meet-
ing was sad, because Tommy had
been killed in a motor-cycle
accident some time before.
I stayed with his people. They
treated me like a son. The black
dog made a fuss of me, too, and
I made a fuss of him, because he
was Tommy’s dog. It was largely
through the kindness .of my
friends that Port Pirie seemed
more than just a “bread-and-
butter” town.
We went for several drives into
the hills on one occasion to
Nelshaby Park. There are
extensive pea-growing areas near
the port, and Nelshaby (“boil-
ing spring”) and Naperby are
market-garden settlements near
the foothills. Nelshaby is the
home of “Ward’s Prolific,” a
celebrated variety of wheat.
The road through the park was
shaded by pines, winding into
the hills. We parked the car
and walked, accompanied by the
keeper’s dogs, enthusiastic
animals large enough to bowl
the unwary over. The keeper
is a one-armed Frenchman with
a French beard and quaint
French accent. He addressed
Tommy’s mother as “Madame.”
A notice near his cottage
explained his endeavor:
To the Public—At a time when
trees, bushes, etc., are disappearing
rapidly it is of the utmost import-
ance to the people of Port Pirie to
preserve an area in its natural state
for their picnics. Realising this
necessity I have for many years
done all in my power to protect
this naturally pretty spot. I ask
you to show me your appreciation
by NOT damaging trees, etc. Help
me to keep the wild beauty, Pic-
turesque Aspect of this Park. Por
you, A. Gerard.
I will remember Port Pirie for
the people who said, sincerely,
that their doors would always
be open to me; and for the
industriousness which prompts
the minister to foster youth-
clubs and amateur radio-stations,
and the editor to lead-out in
cricket and football and conduct
not only Sunday-school classes
but also a symphony orchestra ;
and because it was there that I
was finally persuaded to part
with my beard! I chanced to
see my reflection while undress-
ing. Because of the cold I was
wearing long underwear, and the
sight of that, plus the beard,
proved too much for my pride,
and to save what was left of it
the beard was finally sacrificed.
The changing weather and the
loss of the beard combined to
give me a tremendous cold, and
remembering the saying, “You
haven’t travelled until you have
been to Moonta,” and wishing to
travel before I should pass away,
I decided to cover the 100-odd
miles to Moonta by train.
There was a change of trains,
with a two-hour wait, at Snow-
town, a prosperous little town-
ship with a children’s play-
ground, and a rather forlorn
Centenary Park. The council
office presented me with a
booklet on the growth and
development of Snowtown. It
is a slim volume. The town was
named after Thomas Snow, an
aide - de - camp to Governor
Jervois, and often registers the
maximum temperature for the
State during heatwaves. It lived
up more to its name during my
visit.
It is a town without a
cemetery, the area set aside for
the purpose having been sold.
The original settlement was at
Condowie, six miles to the east,
but nothing now remains there
except the railway-station, two
churches and the cemetery, truly
a township of the dead.
Waiting for the train I ate
some uninteresting pasties,
wondering whether I would
chance upon any of the famous
Cornish-pasties at Moonta, and
called at a shop for some fruit.
“These oranges are cheaper
than the ones I’ve been seeing,”
I commented.
“Where was that to?” asked
the storekeeper, reminding me
where I was to, at present.
The train was a diesel with
comfortable seats and wide
windows. A long climb took us
to Barunga Gap, to the north of
Lake Bumbunga, with wide views
into a misty distance. At least,
the distance looked misty, but it
soon became apparent that the
mist was a cloud of swirling dust,
which enveloped the train. It
was as dense as fog, blotting out
the paddocks, while the trees
were lost, or left standing like
dark ghosts and lonely shadows.
At Bute, a namesake of Bute
in the Firth of Cylde, there is a
decent township, and you could
make the obvious pun about it
without being facetious. We
passed scattered ruins, and Willu-
mulka, a grain-store and a
few houses. There are literally
“tons” of mice around here ; at
any rate, the fumigation of the
wheat- and barley-stacks at the
siding had resulted in the killing
of five tons of them. They had
to- be removed by trucks.
Into more level country we
approached Kadina, a town of
trees and parks, the near-by
Wallaroo Mines, and the
mullock-dump, and Wallaroo on
the sea, with its jetties and the
ruined smeltery. There were
dust-clouds over the bay.
Past old mine-dumps and
paddocks where there were
horse-teams and a shaggy pony
or two, by Yelta and the grain-
sheds, we travelled on to the
home of Cap’n Hancock and
Cousin Jack.
{To be continued next week)
JOY AND MISERY
Misery seeks a mate,
But joy walks all alone
Along the lifted mountain-tops.
Bare as sun-whitened bone.
Misery needs must wag
A tongue, say this and that,
Crying its pain aloud;
Rub shoulders with the crowd
For consolation; sit
In the warm hollows where
Others have sat;
Stand knee to knee with ribaldry
Rather than face its own grim
company.
Joy whole and rounded, feeds
On itself for sustenance, and
needs
No other fillip; finds
Its own rich radiance from
within;
Breeds its own bliss.
And then there’s this!—
Joy knows but does not care
That misery lopes behind,
While misery, deaf, hooded and
blind
Beyond the power of waking,
Goes unaware
That joy is there,
Ripe for the taking!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


YOUNG SHAVER
WM.
wm
im
yym-Z'vA
-Jill
Wm
%
Boys will be men, soon
enough it’s those snap-
shots made when they are
only “young shavers” that
will be treasured in later
years. For indoor or outdoor
snapshots you can’t beat
KODAK Super-XX Film.
Koda*
ety
cH&2
PAN
SPM2
high
KF674
KODAK
LERS EVERY WH
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FASTER AND FASTER
Attack and Defence in the Air
13ARELY 12 years ago an
engineer from Rolls-Royce,
speaking of engines for combat
aircraft, told an R.A.A.F. class
that the internal-combustion
engine “had gone about as far
as it can go.” It could, he said,
be made more powerful, but
would become so complicated
and so expensive that it would
exceed the bounds of practical-
ity. “What we need now,” he
said, “is something more power-
ful, yet simpler. And we think
that w c have it.”
T.en Years Ago
He was, of course, speaking
of jets, the power-units which,
in 10 years, have reduced to
obsolescence such perfect air-
craft as the Spitfire, Mosquito
and Lancaster.
It was round about the same
time that the world was shiver-
ing at the destructive effects of
the R.A.F.’s 10-ton blockbusters,
and of the German VI and V 2.
Electronics, too, was a fast-
growing infant —r ad a r gave
early warning of approaching
bombers and pinpointed
targets for anti-aircraft guns;
Britain’s “G” and America’s
“Loran” enabled aircraft far
from home to fix their
positions with surprising accur-
acy ; both British and German
bombers were using radar
“bombsights” to deliver their
loads through cloud and dark-
ness ; and in Britain, to camou-
flage the fact that nightfighters
were using radar “gunsights,”
it was put around that eating
carrots gave night-fighter pilots
an almost uncanny vision.
It seemed then that the age
of science was in full flower,
and yet barely a decade later it
reads almost like bow-and-arrow
stuff. In little more than 10
years the destructive power of
bombs has been multiplied a
millionfold; speeds have
increased to the stage where it
looks like a one-day hop to
Eternity; and, because human
thought and reaction are too
slow to match such speeds,
science is providing minute and
miraculous electronic “brains”
to “think” and to “act” in
replacement of the human
factor.
Missile v. Aircraft
It would be hard to say which
is the major factor behind the
changes—the destructive poten-
tial, the speed or the elec-
tronics. They are all so closely
meshed that each forces the
other along, but speed would
seem to be the dominating
item.
Looking at it broadly, as the
bombers fly faster and faster, the
ability of a fighter to get into
the air and intercept them
becomes doubtful. The answer
to that problem is guided-
missiles with speeds much in
excess of that of the bombers
and with electronic “brains” to
find and destroy the enemy, and
with the ability to perform
manoeuvres beyond the capacity
of any human pilot.
The next step from there, of
course, is to speed-up the
bombers—to replace them with
guided-missiles of inter-contin-
THE MARCH-PAST
—London “New. Statesman and Nation”
ental range. And the next
step . . .
It all points to speed and still
more speed, with the human
element retiring more and more
to the backroom and its push-
buttons.
One facet of the swiftly
changing scene is the much-
publicised delay and bother over
Britain’s fighter - aircraft. It
would be a fair bet that, at the
root of the trouble, is the ques-
tion: Will manned fighter-
aircraft serve any useful defen-
sive purpose in another war?
Even if the question is as yet
unanswered, it is significant
that, although rather more is
heard of American guided-
missiles than of the British
variety, over 100 British aircraft-
firms are working on such
missiles and, as London “Finan-
cial Times” points out, more than
1500 of them have already been
fired from Woomera and from
Aberporth, in Wales.
Britain’s Programme
In a very good survey of
Britain’s guided-missile develop-
ment, the same publication
notes that “the anti-aircraft gun
is already outdated by the high-
flying bomber travelling at or
above the speed of sound, while
the development of defensive
anti - aircraft guided - missiles
means that in the future
inter-continental rocket or
guided-missile bombers will be
required to ensure any certainty
of successful bomb-delivery”:
“For this reason the United
States, Soviet Russia and Britain
have considerable development-
al! production-programmes for
guided-missiles, and rockets,
while less-ambitious programmes
are also being carried out or
planned by France, Sweden and
Switzerland.
“Britain’s programme is by no
means negligible. The White
Paper on Defence states that
production-orders have so far
been placed for one type of
guided-missile to be carried by
fighter-aircraft (fighters are
already being equipped with
special radar ‘eyes’ which calcu-
late their distance from the
target) which is guided to its
target electronically.
“A number of such electronic
homing - devices have been
developed, some of which
depend on the use of photocells
which are especially sensitive to
the infra-red rays generated by
the heat of the enemy plane.
They can sense the presence of
comparatively low heat-sources
and respond by triggering-off a
relay-circuit which uses the
power stored in a small
electrical-battery to operate the
missile’s navigational - controls.
Missiles of this type have been
tested over a long period on a
number of planes.”
“Prey-seeking Devices”
Of the 1500 missiles so far
fired at Woomera and Aber-
porth, the “Financial Times”
notes that “one is the radar-
controlled English Electric anti-
aircraft guided-missile, which can
be fired from the ground to
heights exceeding 50,000 ft., and
which can manoeuvre and travel
towards its target at speeds
exceeding 2000 miles an hour”:
“A second British guided-
missile of a similar type, which
is also nearing production, :s
the Armstrong - Whitworth —
Sperry - Gyroscope Company-
naval anti-aircraft rocket. This
rocket was tested both at
Woomera and, on a small scale,
at sea off Aberporth in 1954.
It has four sets of twin booster-
rockets to start it on its way.
“This rocket is one of several
which will be used on the
special guided - missile ships
described in the Naval
Estimates.
“Such prey-seeking devices, of
which a number of different
types are under investigation,
can be designed so as to seek
out not only heat (that is, infra-
red rays) but also magnetic
radiations from the enemy’s
fuselage or electronic equip-
ment, or electrostatic discharges
such as those caused by the
enemy plane’s or missile’s
passage through the air.
“British devices have been
developed that will sense and
locate sound, estimating its
distance and direction, while
other devices, which are like-
wise capable of operating the
navigational-controls of missiles
via amplifying- and relay-
circuits, can detect the wake of
planes or missiles.
“Miniature short-range radio-
sets like the Ecko radar-eye
already mentioned, though far
smaller, can also be used to
direct this final homing of the
missile to the bomber it must
destroy. Lilliputian capacitors,
wires, batteries, and other com-
ponents have had to be pro-
duced so that such devices,
some of which contain ten
times as many valves as a large
television-set, can be fitted into
the missile.”
“1,500,000 Parts”
After listing various kinds of
missiles with speeds up to 3000
miles an hour and ranges up to
100 miles, the “Financial Times”
adds that “the short-range (20
miles or so) naval artillery
guided-missile whose develop-
ment was forecast in the Naval
Estimates and the long-range
inter-continental rocket, capable
of travelling 1000 miles or
more, forecast in the Defence
White Paper, are primarily
weapons intended for delivering
nuclear explosives.
“Work is already well
advanced on similar land-to-
land bombardment rockets,
some of which may, it is
expected, achieve, if not exceed,
the aims of the German war-time
project AlO and carry their
missiles far above the earth’s
atmosphere, which ceases 100
miles up.
“Both America and Soviet
Russia are engaged in similar
development-projects. The diffi-
culty here lies in the immense
heat —sufficient to melt diamonds
—that is generated as the result
of friction when the missile
turns back into the earth’s
atmosphere at a speed of
perhaps approximately 10,000
m.p.h.
“Behind all this development-
work, in which more than 100
British companies are engaged,


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Would you like
good whisky better?
§L.^^ e r r\
BEIXS
t cotcf, lV, lis(
100% SCOTCH WHISK'J*
OIITIUEO AND BLENO*
"; IN SCOTLANO
tiA hP
D| STILLERS WBTH SCO
PRODUCT SCO™*^***^*^
imaaL
There’s nothing better than a real
old Scotch Whisky. Or is there?
If whisky is really good, made in
Scotland, well matured—can one
ask for anything more? We think
so. You can ask for just one thing
more—that it should bear the
name ‘Bell’s’. We have been distilling
and blending whisky since 1825.
We hope and believe that Bell’s
Whisky is as near perfection as
can be.
We are one of the few old firms of
independent distillers. We value
our independence. It gives us the
opportunity to go on making, as
we have done for some 125 years,
the finest whisky our long
experience can produce. But you.
Sir, are the man to judge. Buy a
bottle Of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if you
do not savour that subtle flavour
which is Scotch Whisky at its
spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
jfa&vjffiLSfvArM Jit
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
lies a revolution in the develop-
ment of new materials capable
of withstanding the immense
temperatures and stresses
created and also a numerous
range of novel control-instru-
ments (the American Nike has
1,500,000 parts) and a mass of
aerodynamic research.”
Radar Defences
During World War II the
radar set-up from a defence
point of view consisted roughly
of a chain of radar-stations,
with ranges of approximately
100 miles; when a station
picked-up an aircraft it passed
the information to fighter-
control, which, in turn, directed
the home-fighters to intercept
the enemy. The information
was also passed to anti-aircraft
defences, which, thus warned,
were ready to use their own
short-range and highly-accurate
radar for laying their guns.
It was, in those times, a
remarkably fast and efficient
system, and it was also a secret
one. At the beginning of the
war it bedevilled the German
bombers and, for a time, left
the Nazis wondering what
prescience it was that enabled the
British to put their few fighters
into the air in the path of the
approaching bombers.
The set-up in Britain today, as
described by the “Financial
Times,” consists of “a new
radar-chain using a new and
more efficient type of radar,
which, with its hundreds of sub-
terranean control - units, now
covers the whole of the United
Kingdom.
“Linked to this chain a
further network of electronic
instantaneous - response controls
is being developed which, when
fully perfected, will, it is hoped,
automatically scan all objects
travelling in the air. Then with
the aid of centrally-based com-
puters it will identify them as
friend or foe.
“In the latter case, the com-
puter will trip a switch which
sets off action-pulses which in
turn will start the firing-devices
for those missiles closest to the
target within a fraction of a
second.”
KOREAN PRISONERS-OF-WAR
British Official Report
COME time after the event, the
U.K. Ministry of Defence has
issued a brochure on “The Treat-
ment of British War Prisoners in
Korea” —‘“a shilling shocker
from the Stationery Office” the
“Daily Express” calls it:
“grimmer than any horror comic.
It tells of unimagined agonies,
coldly inflicted.”
British and American
The brochure has had several
interesting effects, one possible
one being on Anglo-American
relations. As the “Daily
Express” adds, “British prisoners,
of course, were not the only
victims”:
“Many more Americans
suffered in the Red prison-camps.
And 11 captured U.S. fliers are
still there. They are paraded
before the world as ‘spies.’ The
Communists refuse to release
them, even though Big Brother
Bulganin has hinted that they
should.
“Can anyone in Britain still
swallow this Chinese ‘spying’
charge? Does anyone still blame
America for rejecting appease-
ment of Red China? Does any-
one still question that in the Far
East Britain should back up the
firm diplomacy of her American
ally?”
Expressing much the same
sentiments from the other side
of the Atlantic, “New York
Times” describes the brochure as
“a closely reasoned and sub-
stantiated document based on the
testimony of something more
than 900 men who were prisoners
of the Communists. They
sustain, in detail, the charges of
barbarity that some of our
‘neutralist’ friends have, in the
past, been inclined to call ‘over-
emotional.’
“It has been obvious for some
time that one of the elements in
the division of thinking about
the Far East between Britons and
ourselves has been a more acute
sense of casualty in this country.
There is hardly a village in the
United States that has not had its
sons in Korea. The losses have
been nationwide. There have
been, also, returned prisoners
and returned'missionaries whose
testimony is important in their
home-towns. There has been
less of that in Britain.
“It is therefore possible that
the publication of this document
at this time may make it some-
what easier to reach an accom-
modation between British and
American points of view. It
seems to us that the British Gov-
ernment has been wise in setting
forth these facts, and in setting
them forth at this particular time.
The material is not new, but its
timing can be important.”
Campaigning Against
Relatives
Dealing with the “campaign
against relatives,” the brochure
recalls that, during the Korean
war, agents of the Chinese Com-
' munists in Britain worked on the
wives and mothers of prisoners-
of-war, trying to persuade them
to take part in Communist-
propaganda activities in Britain
in the hope of being put in touch
with their husbands and sons.
This, as the “Yorkshire Post”
notes, was “a cunning attempt to
carry the war of nerves into
British streets and homes by hit-
ting at those who were most
vulnerable”:
“While these tactics were being
employed against the women-
folk at home, the men in the
prison-camps in Korea were
being subjected to many forms
of cajolery and ill-treatment to
persuade them to accept Com-
munism. Every device was tried
from the offer of cigarettes or
letters from home to systematic
brutality or withholding of food.
“When a British or United
States prisoner broke-down
under the infliction of savage
cruelties he was made to write
a so-called confession of crimes
which he, and his persecutors,
knew he had never committed.
Later these spurious confessions
were used to impress gullible
visitors such as the Dean of
Canterbury, who accepted and
widely publicised stories of
germ-warfare and other atrocities
supposed to have been com-
mitted by the United Nations
forces.”
“A Nasty Crew”
Another aspect brought up by
the brochure is the position of
four Britons who were behind
the enemy’s lines in Korea. They
were, as London “Daily Mail”
sets them out:
Alan Winnington, now in Red
China: “A staff reporter of the
‘Daily Worker.’ His main role,
says the report, was that of visit-
ing propagandist in the camps.
Communist propaganda, of
course, when Britain was
fighting Communism.”
Michael Shapiro, also in Red
China: “Also a ‘Daily Worker’
correspondent. His activities
were such, says the report, that
they even disgusted a British
Communist.”
Jack Gaster: “A London
solicitor who contributed to the
paper [“Daily Worker”] a glow-
ing account of conditions in the
camps.”
Mrs. Monica Felton, in
Europe behind the Iron Curtain :
“In some ways that woman's
work was the meanest of the lot.
She offered to post letters from
the prisoners to their families.
Back here in Britain she did post
those letters —150 of them. With
each one she included Com-
munist propaganda, preying on
the fears and anxieties of those
whose men were in the cruel
hands of the Chinese.”
“A nasty crew,” the “Daily
Mail” calls them, expressing
popular British opinion, which,
also, would have liked something
done about the four. The House
of Commons, in fact, accepted a
motion to introduce a new
Treason Bill making it treason-
able to give aid and comfort to
the enemies of the United
Nations.
New Treason Bill?
Strong feelings, however, do
not, as London “Economist”
notes, “necessarily make good
law”:
“There are several respectable
reasons for looking askance at
this bill. The future of the
United Nations is unknown, and
to make the assumption that it
will constantly be facing enemies
in the field with the forces of
signatory nations is going too
far. Equally, is a very
real difficulty about amending
the law of treason to cover all
cases in which, if British troops
are in action, it could be a capital
offence to give aid or comfort to
those opposing them. ‘Aid and
comfort’ can be variously inter-
preted. It could be interpreted
too widely; and nobody should
want to introduce into politics—
or into anything else —more
smell of the rope.
“The situation in Korea was
an exceptional one —or at least
it was a new type of situation.
Britain was not at war with a
State; North Korea was not a
State ; British troops were fight-
ing Chinese, and were
imprisoned and tortured by
Chinese, but Britain was not at
war with China —indeed was
trading with China at the time.
It is, of course, possible that such
situations may recur, as the
result of this country being
forced to take sides in a civil war
engineered by Communist
infiltration; but unless the
United Nations is involved—
which on any future occasion
Russia will make sure does not
happen by simple use of the
veto on the Security Council—
the bill will prove no deterrent
to a future Winnington.”
It is possible, however, that
British law as it stands could
deal with Winnington and
Shapiro. As London “Spec-
tator” comments:
“The Attorney - General's
remark in the Commons —that it
should not be assumed that if
Winnington and Shapiro, the
two ‘Daily Worker’ correspon-
dents, returned to this country
the arm of the law would be too
short to reach them —has a sound
legal basis”:
“The question of" whether
North Koreans were the Queen’s
enemies is one of fact and does
not depend on the existence of
any declaration of war, still less
on whether the North Korean
State was a recognised legal
entity. There may be a subtle
distinction between a de jure
war and a de facto war for some
purposes; but from the point of
view of the English criminal law
a war is a war, and those who
give aid and comfort to people
who are fighting against her
Majesty’s Forces are traitors.”
“Advice to Troops”
Still another aspect of the
matter was raised by Richard
Viner, in a letter to London
“Times,” suggesting that it might
be expedient to give some special
advice to troops likely to be
engaged against an enemy which
does not subscribe to the Geneva
Convention.
“I think,” he writes, “that it
would have been of some help to
those of us who were prisoners
of the Japanese in the past war.
A prisoner myself, I remember
that by studying the ‘Geneva’
cards we had filled-in the
Japanese quickly discovered my
civilian occupation of journalism
and writing. At once they
‘invited’ me to compose their
broadcasts, an invitation that
coincided with the news that
another prisoner had been shot
for refusing to accede to a similar
request.
“It seemed to me that if I
agreed I should be guilty of
treachery, disloyalty, and of
assisting the enemy, for which,
doubtless, I should be court-
martialled and reimprisoned on
return.
“In this rather desperate
quandary I asked the advice of
a fellow-prisoner who had been
a distinguished lawyer—and still
is—in Malaya. He said: Today
I have been assisting the enemy
by digging gun-emplacements for
the Japanese with one of our
working-parties. I can see no
difference in doing that than in
writing broadcasts for them.’
“By luck and low cunning I
managed to evade my uncom-
fortable predicament, but the
lawyer was right; British and
Australian officers who did write
for the Japanese were, after
court-martial, excused on the
grounds of ‘unendurable duress.’
“My point is that troops, where
engaged against an enemy likely
to disregard our standards of
treatment towards prisoners-of-
war, should be given some brief-
ing as to the best chances of
survival. To get the sparse
maximum of food out of the
Japanese all had to work for
them. To get similar concessions
from the Communists it seems
one must profess Communism.
“Many will doubtless disagree,
but I feel that here the wily
dualism of the Vicar of Bray
would seem justified. If, in
escaping, it is not wrong for a
prisoner-of-war to don a disguise,
is it wrong, where escape is
impossible and only survival
probable, to assume a disguise
of mind? A prisoner in such
circumstances should surely be
ruled by guile first, last and all
the time, assuming a villainy
though he has it not.”
Various Voices
Vice-Admiral John Hughes-
Hallett: “If the electorate voted
out of gratitude for good govern-
ment there would be no risk of
a Socialist victory at the next
election [in Great Britain]. Un-
fortunately electorates are not
grateful for past services. In
practice electorates are too easily
swayed by petty criticisms which
warp their judgment, and too
easily dazzled by golden
promises.”
U.S. Navy Secretary,
Charles S. Thomas: “Even
though our sick world’s tempera-
ture is far from normal, reason
and logic have not been lost
entirely. Paradoxically, the more
we withdraw from war and the
weaker we become, either
mentally or physically, the more
likely becomes its danger. Fac-
ing the danger, preparing for the
danger is our best hope for fore-
stalling and preventing it.”


THE OTHER FEĹOW'S MIND
Colonialism and Communism
When the folly of Great Britain in the
18th century 1 drove the American colon-
ists to war and to independence there
was conditioned in American minds a
reflsx of utter hostility towards colonial-
ism, no matter what form it took. This
reflex became traditional. It stamped
American foreign policy for more than
a century and a half. President Wilson
devotedly pursued the anti-colonial line
at Versailles; it was one of his 14 points.
Subsequent American Presidents outdid
President Wilson’s antipathy towards
colonialism at Yalta and Potsdam, with
disastrous consequences.
After World War 11, however, the
technique of Communist agents-provo-
cateur in South-East Asian countries be-
came startlingly clear. Communists
exacerbated what injustices did exist in
colonial countries and fabricated fresh
ones. Their strategical objective was,
and still is, to split colonial peoples from
the West under the guise of nationalism.
With this achieved, Communist ieaders
know that the whole of the eastern flank
of the Atlantic Powers would be exposed,
that Pacific countries with Western ties,
such as Australia and New Zealand,
would be isolated, and that millions of
colonial peoples could be drawn into the
Communist camp.
Faced with all this, American policy-
makers realised that to press for self-
determination for backward countries
was completely unreal. American policy
on colonial problems, which for so long
had been inspired by a compound of
idealism and national sentiment, fell into
line with British policy. Americans rea-
lised that their suspicions of British
colonial policy were groundless.
For generations British colonial policy
has been plain. The lessons and experi-
ences of the past have not been ignored.
Certainly British colonial policy has never
run to any timetable; colonial countries
have secured their independence as soon
as they have been ballasted with an appre-
ciation for cons'itutional government and
have been capable of assuming obligations
as well as rights.
Today, America, which caused Britain
to change its outlook on colonial affairs,
now agrees with Britain on colonial
policy. No longer can responsible
American opinion be persuaded that the
advancement of colonial countries to-
wards self-government can be secured by
any formula. The ecstasy of idealism has
been shattered by the grimness of the
times, and by actual experience with the
problems of Asia arid Africa.—D. J. K.
The Road Toll
Surely “Quo Vadis” (B. 9/2/’55) isn’t
serious in suggesting annual tests for all
drivers in road-competency, mechanical
knowledge and physical fitness. That
Svould only provide employment for more
civil servants, and there would be little
decrease in the number of deaths due
directly or indirectly by motoring acci-
dents.
About 80 per cent, of accidents are
caused by the human factor, which would
rarely be revealed by routine examina-
tion. 'The most significant facts are that
more than 25 per cent, of accidents
happen between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. on
Saturdays, and that speed, coupled with
alcoholic exuberance, is the greatest single
factor.
The careless, discourteous and reckless
driver is the root of the trouble, and the
toll of the road would certainly be cut if
drivers knew that one conviction meant
cancellation of their licence for a period,
and a second conviction imprisonment
without the option.
A surprising number of accidents are
caused by the same citizen-types, and it
is against these that war should be
directed. Mechanical knowledge is a rela-
tively unimportant factor, since only 8
per cent, of accidents are caused by
defects, including those impossible to
forecast.— Burna (N.S.W.).
Simplified Spelling
There might be a case for the simpli-
fied spelling nominated by “Archaen”
(B. 23/2/’55), though I’ve never been
able to see the necessity for it. Spellings
like “ax” and “catalog” are perhaps
defensible, but when “A.” advocates the
recasting of the language altogether he’s
getting into deep and troubled waters.
In his exemplary sentence of only 16
syllables, he has succeeded in giving the
letter “u” no fewer than six different
values, “e” and “i” two each, and has
retained an unnecessary double-conson-
ant to modify an “i” that doesn’t need it.
His “simplified” example would mystify
a foreign child as much as it would in
normal English.— Millicent (Vic.).
Ow delitful it wil b for us to red
Shaksper in this nu langwij:
Th Merchnt of Venis. Tryl Sen.
Porsha:
The kwaliti of mersi is not straind
It dropeth as th gentl rain
From hevn a pon th urth bneth.
Wot nonsens! —G. W.S. (Vic.).
French Without Cooking
In a letter to the Sydney press an in-
dignant mother asked, “What kind of
comic-opera is this so-called secondary
education for girls?” She went on to
say that her child sat in class and took
notes on washing-up, a trade to which she
had long been apprenticed at home.
In today’s shop-window of girls’
secondary education one sees a row of
sweet little girls in starched white uniforms
all boiling eggs to numbers; or they’re
sitting around a table drafting half-sized
garments in tissue-paper. This sort of
stuff seems to go down with the gullible
public ; it looks as if the girls are learning
something useful.
If a girl elects to attend a home-science
school, well and good ; but if she has the
wish and the brains to take an academic
course, why force her to doodle away
about six precious hours a week on sub-
jects which are not necessary, and which
"Golly, Herb, have you noticed how my tree has shot up since you've
been using that hormone fertiliser?"
are a needless expense to the taxpayer?
The teaching of Latin or French calls for
the minimum of equipment:—a classroom
and a teacher —at a minimum cost to the
taxpayer. On the other hand, the cost of
equipping a demonstration-kitchen is
considerable
The long-suffering taxpayer may well
ask if the expense is justified, since the
majority of girls come from homes where
they generally assist with the cooking.
And any girl who is capable of grappling
“They're a marvellous ground-crew—they go thoroughly into everything."
with the intricacies of trigonometry or
turning Latin prose into English will,
when required, find little difficulty in
coping with a recipe.
Miss Fanny Cohen, former principal of
Fort-street Girls’ High School, always
fought for the rights of her pupils to
concentrate on academic subjects. She
maintained that girls with superior intelli-
gence should not fritter away their time
on domestic subjects.— Recla (N.S.W.).
Typists
Lately, I had to replace a junior typist,
and when I read my little advt. in the
three Melbourne dailies, smothered in a
profusion of lavish double-column ads.
offering every conceivable inducement to
junior typists, I despaired.
What chance did I have of competing
with those who offered free this-and-thats,
two hours a week off for shopping and
hair-dos, firm-sponsored social clubs, and
the like?
To my surprise I had an applicant.
Our office, situated on the outskirts of the
city proper, happened to be on her bus-
route. I had her signed up before she’d
been in the place two minutes; she starts
next week, and my staff-worries are over.
Or are they? The unpleasant thought has
struck me that she may hear of another
needy office, also on the bus-route, nearer
home. I don’t know what to do if she
does ; the only thing I can think of is
to call and collect my staff at their homes
every morning and run them back at
night. The way things are going in the
typist-field, that will be routine practice
for the office-manager in the near future.
—Doynest (Vic.).
Why No Flood Insurance?
I was astonished to read a statement
attributed to the N.S.W. Premier, Mr.
Cahill, that flood-insurance is impractic-
able. Probably he was merely repeating
a statement made a few days earlier by
the secretary of the Fire and Accident
Underwriters’ Association that most
insurance companies do not issue flood-
policies because the “consequences of
flood-damage are beyond computation.”
What does that mean? I live in a so-
called bushfire area and have to pay a
higher insurance-premium as a result;
because the bottom portion of my house
is of weatherboard the premium also car-
ries a loading to compensate the company
for the additional risk involved. If insur-
ance companies can get down to tin-tacks
oyer bushfires, which are just as unpre-
dictable as floods, surely they should be
able to work out a cover for flood-areas,
the premiums being calculated according
to the risk. These premiums would pro-
bably be high, but I am sure most people
would pay them. Those who wouldn’t
would have to carry their own risk.
During the disastrous bushfires on the
lower mountains of N. S. Wales three and
a half years ago a number of people
rushed to a local insurance-agent for a
cover when it seemed probable that their
houses would be destroyed. The agent
had previously approached some of them
to take out a cover, but they had refused;
this time he felt reluctant to take the risk
without first consulting his company. He
was told, in reply to a telephone inquiry,
to issue a cover to anyone who wanted it,
even if destruction of their property
appeared inevitable. “That is what we
are here for,” the insurance company’s
official told him.
The cover-notes were issued on the spot,
and a few days later the company settled
a number of substantial claims without
even having issued a policy.
If insurance companies are prepared to
take such risks about fire I am sure they
would do the same with floods if it were
put to them.—M. F D. (N.5.W.).;
Simple English
There may be some support for
“M.F.D.’s” criticism of high-flown lan-
guage (B. 2/3//55), but the current
fashion of applauding simple English at
the expense of style and color in writing
and speaking is fast reducing journalism,
literature and oratory to a pitiful level.
How many papers in Australia present
their contents in good, sound, orthodox
prose? There are not many. Certainly
the ponderous, pedantic journalism of a
century ago would hold little reader-
affection today, but that is no reason why
the sublimity and versatility of the Eng-
lish language should be disdained, and
journalists depend on hackneyed expres-
sions and drab cliches. Modern journal-
ism seems to be designed to cater for
slothful readers who clamor for pictorial
journalism and dressed -up feature-
articles.
And what of simplicity in spoken
English? There are any number of Aus-
tralians who acquit themselves fittingly
upon soap-boxes, but they outrage every
sensibility of those who believe English
should be spoken properly. Public-speak-
ing in Australia is poor. Invective, satire,
repartee —these are all lost arts, sup-
planted by abuse, crude ridicule and
boorishness.
A comparison of the speeches made in
the Federal Parliament today with those
made, say, in the House of Commons in
the 18th and 19th centuries clearly reflects
upon contemporary Australian legislators.
The loftiness of style, the magnificent
rhetoric and the devastating wit that
studded the speeches of Burke, Pitt, Glad-
stone and Disraeli are not to be found in
Australian Parliamentary speeches today.
A peroration such as Sheridan’s at the
trial of Warren Hastings—could that be
paralleled by Australian politicians?
In ordinary conversation the average
Australian vocabulary today would be
roughly equivalent to that of the average
English peasant in the 17th century.
And this in an age that is supposed
to be enlightened.
The pity is that Australian educational
authorities are apparently unmoved by
the trend in writing and speaking. School-
children should be inculcated with a real
respect for English, and taught to under-
stand that it is a language capable of great
variety of expression and responsive to
care and proper usage, whether it is
written or spoken.—D. J. K. (Q.).


WALTHAM
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
Our Inter-State coverage saves you freight charges
and ensures SPEEDY DELIVERY.
TRADING CO.
96 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
ALSO AT: 319-321 SWANSTON ST. (Head Office).
393 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE
IN OUR EXTENSIVE RANGE OF GOVERNMENT EX-SERVICE EQUIPMENT WE MAY HAVE THE VERY ARTICLE FOR WHICH YOU ARE SEARCHING OBTAINABLE
AT A FRACTION OF THE ORIGINAL COST.
IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO MAKE A PERSONAL CALL, WRITE US YOUR SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS, OR WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR LATEST CATALOGUE
TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT
\
er
double
BU)/
Vo
o
*3«J
B£'>
C.Z*A
TABLE MODEL
Army Field Telephones
TYPE “F”
(As illustrated on left)
Table model. This is the best type of
Telephone used by H.M. Forces in
every theatre of war, including: the
recent Korean campaign. Entirely self-
contained unit, with in-built battery
compartment, double-action loud ring-
ing bells, and three-bar crank gene-
rator. Fitted with standard P.M.G.
handset. Can be used successfully over
distances up to 25 miles. Sturdily con-
structed to withstand rough usage and
all types of climate.
Price £B/10/- ea.
Telephone Switchboards
For the benefit of our customers who
require two or more telephones with
independent operation, we have avail-
able brand new telephone switch-
boards, six line, magneto operated,
with drop indicating shutters, P.M.G.
type handset, complete with cords and
inbuilt batteries. Very fO/in/_
simple in operation. Price mO/ lit/
WALL-TYPE TELEPHONES
WALL TYPE TELEPHONES
{as illustrated on right )
This is a wall type Telephone built into a polished
wooden box. Dimensions, 92in. x 7in. x 32in. Externally
mounted double-action loud ringing bells, fitted with
standard P.M.G. handset and latest type generator.
This Telephone can be used efficiently for communica-
tions over distances up to 20 miles.
Price £6/10/- ea.
SB
//
MOTOR-DRIVEN PUMPS
Brand new. Manufac-
tured by Thompson of
America, the foremost
manufacturer of this
type of pump, and is
suitable for pumping;
water or any other
liquid. Ideal for drain-
ing flooded cellars,
bilges, or for use with
fish ponds and small
irrigation sy ste m s.
Capacity 400 gallons
per hour. Complete
with 24 volt Motor ready for
immediate use on 24 or 32
volt D.C. supply. PIUCJE
Pump only £3/10/-
£l2/10/-
0
Larger model, capacity 700 gals, per hour, complete with 24v. Motor.
PRICE £l4/10/-
Combined Motor and Pump. English made, cap’ty 400 gals, per hour.
PRICE: 24 volt model, £3/10/-, 12 volt model, £5.
Postage and Packing 6/-. Interstate 8/6.
The famous DELCO-REMY AIRCRAFT GENERATOR,
TYPE P.l
When connected as a welder this unit will deliver £OO amps for a
sustained period and £5O amps for intermittent service. This
Generator is widely used for shop built port-
able welders. Rated 200 amps 28 volt, 2500.
r.p.m., using* 10 h.p. Dimensions 15in. long
by 6in. diameter. Weight Sllbs.
£37/10/
SPECIAL
CLEARANCE OFFER
TYPE “A” 12 VOI/T 500 WATT
A.M. AIRCRAFT GENERATOR.
Suitable for use with trucks,
tractors, road machinery and
home lighting battery plants.
Stock must be cleared to make
room for further shipments.
Price 45/- ect,
REGULATOR
AND CUT-OUT
American made by Bendix. :>C
volt. Brand new. Ideally suit-
able for use with 24 or 32 volt
borne lighting- plants, or as spare
cut-out for tractors.
Price £3/10/-
Postage and Packing 5/-. Inter-
state 6/-.
HYDRAULIC
Hydraulic three-
stage. 6001 b s. per
square inch.
PRICE
£7/10/-
12001bs. per square inch. This model
ideally suitable for operating fork lifts,
or other similar equipment.
Price £lO
Postage and Packing 6/-. Interstate 8/6.
GENUINE DU PONT
"PLASTACELL"
TRANSPARENT
PLASTIC SHEET
Latest Shipment from U.S.A.
This CELLULOSE ACETATE SHEET
made by Du Pont —America’s leading
PLASTIC Manufacturers, is the result of
extensive war-time research and experi-
ment, and was specially designed for use
in combat aircraft, where a light, flexible,
durable material was essential. Far
superior to any other plastic sheet on "The
market.
This material is
rigid, yet pliable,
clear and non-
inflammable. 11
can be easily cnt,
formed, solvent
bonded, laminated.
Motor-cycle Windshield
Motor-car Side Screens.
Use it also in Caravans, Pleasure Craft,
Building Construction, Picture Frames,
Models, Window Display, Hobbies —a
hundred and one uses in the plastics
industry.
25in. x 21in. x 4mm., approx. 5/32in.
42/6 per sheet.
25in. x 2lin. x smm., approx. 3/16in.
45/- per sheet.
50in. x 21in. x 4mm., approx. 5/32in.
85/- per sheet.
50in. x 21in. x smm., approx. 3/16in.
90/- per sheet.
CAMP STRETCHERS
j■' '■! yTTi 1 ' y S
An excellent standby for that unexpected
guest, and an essential piece of equipment
to ensure comfort in your camping holi-
day. Sturdily built, folding wooden
frames.
With heavy duty Canvas covers
39/6
pq/'Vmg: 5/-.
TELESCOPES
5 to 15 POWER ADJUSTABLE HIGH ANGLE TELE-
SCOPE. (As illustrated on left.). Suitable for RIFLE-
MEN, BIRD WATCHERS, AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS.
This is undoubtedly the finest Telescope bargain we
have ever offered. Sturdily constructed. Originally
used by the Armed Forces for aircraft spotting. This
model has two adjustments, one for altering the
magnification, and one for focusing. Dimensions,
2ft. long by 2Jin. diameter. Made by W. OTT-
WAY, ENGLAND. PRICE: £l5.
SIX-POWER ELBOW TELESCOPE
(As illustrated on right)
Ideal for use as a spotting Telescope, or whenever high or right-angle viewing is
desired. Also adaptable for telephoto work. It makes looking up or down easy, cuts
down eye-strain and fatigue. Can be easily mounted by means of tinree bolt holes iu
the mounting place. Posting and Packing: 5/-. Interstate: 6/6. PKICb
ffc I"
"THE ANGLER S DREAM"
Three-piece Whip Aerials, the bigger brother of the two-piece
of which we have sold several thousand. These Whip
Aerials were originally manufactured as fishing rods, and
are so strong and pliable that the Government requisitioned
the whole output for use with radio equipment during the
war. Three 4ft. sections give 12ft. of super tempered tubular
steel. Two types available: —
American made, screw-in type, brand new. Per set 35/-
English slotted type. Per set.
22/6
Can also be used for car or truck aerials.
Two-piece model, English slotted type
15/-
Packing and freight, all States, 5/- extra.
SPOTLIGHTS
R.A.A.JF. Signalling
Lamps. Ideal light-
weight spotlight. Com-
plete with twin
handles and
trigger operated
switch. sin. re-
flector. Can be
adapted for 6,
12 or 24 volts.
Price 30/
Postage and Packing 6/-. Interstate 8/6.
D.C,
-A.G
CONVERTERS
Use standard electrical equipment wherever
you are. Rotary Converters will give you
230 volt A.C. from a 12 or 24 volt D.C. supply.
24/32 volt D.C.—
Output 240 volt A.C.;
85 watts £lO/19/6
12 volt D.C. —
Output 240 volt A.C.; 85 watss
£l4/19/6
BATTERIES
Lightweight model (as
illustrated). 2 volt 20 amp.
hours. In bakelite case
7in. by 3in. by 2ain.
Weight 321 b. Ideal for
model aeroplanes.
Price 10/- ea.
Larger model, suitable for
caravan lighting, etc. In
a sturdy metal case.
American made. 21 volt
11 amp. hours.
Price £l/19/6
FLYING GOGGLES
These Goggles
were manufac-
tured to a par-
ticularly high
standard re-
quired by the
Air Forces.
Type Mark
IVB. Complete
with adjust-
able sun visor. Ideally suitable for motor
cyclists, tractor and truck drivers and
racing motorists.
PRICE 17/6 pr.
Postage and Packing 4/-. Interstate 6/6.
STOP PRESS BARGAINS!!
$
$
0
SHAVER CONVERTERS. Use your electric razor every-
where, in caravans, car or launch, by means of a Waltham
Shaver Converter. Will operate from 12, 24 or 32 volts,
giving an output of 230 volts. Neatly constructed self-
contained unit in metal case, fitted with flush mounted
standard three-pin socket. These are also ideally suitable
for use on outback stations where 24 or 32 volt home
lighting plants operate. Posting and Packing; 6/-.
Interstate: 8/6.
“MORSE” BUZZER SETS. Consisting of buzzer and
lamp. Fitted into a compact wooden box, dimensions Bin.
by Sin. by 2in. Can be operated by Morse Key from two
torch batteries. Ideal for Scout Troops and amateur radio
enthusiasts. Postage and Packing: 3/-. Interstate: 4/-.
MOTOR GENERATORS. Hand crank Motor Generator.
American made, Type GN-35. Can be used to operate as
a 6 to 12 volt Electric Motor without alteration. Final
drive through reduction gear 200 r.p.m., drawing 5 amps
approx. Ideally suitable as driving motor for trawling
in small boats on rivers or lakes, duck shooting, etc.
Generator rating output: 10 volts at 1.25 amps; 400 volt
at 0.7 amps.
STETHOSCOPES. Engine Knock Stethoscopes, for locat-
ing engine knocks and faults by sound. Amplifies sound
for locating faulty valves, piston slap, bearing knocks anti
other engine faults. Postage and Packing: 4/-.
Interstate: .6/-.
£5/19/6
19/6
£2/10/-
£2/10/-
WHEN GOODS ARE TO BE FORWARDED BY RAID PEEASE ADD 5/- TO
COVER PACKING AND DELIVERY TO RAILHEAD. PLEASE ADVISE
NEAREST ATTENDED STATION. SORRY. NO C.O.D.
OPEN SATURDAY MORNING 9 TILL 12 NOON.
Prismatic Pocket
COMPASSES
Ideal for hikers and Boy
Scouts. Not a toy, but . a
precision instrument and
thoroughly reliable. These
Compasses have been
standard Army equipment
for the past fifty years.
They are also suitable for
Surveyors, for fishermen
and for taking bearings.
Sturdily built in solid
brass case, fitted with a
specially ground viewing
prism and hair line. Cali-
brated in 360 degrees. Can
be supplied in two types
—either liquid damped or
dry card.
DRY CARD MODE!,:
Price £6/10/-
LIQUID DAMPED:
Price £l4/10/-
Postage & Packing: 3/6.
Interstate: 4/6.
ll m
. '
m


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
- w .CW- 0s \
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any parUcalart'yladly aapp Had—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE! G.PO. Isa ISM.
SYONEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • GAO.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 768 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O. Boa 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
FOR SALE AUSTRALIAN COPYRIGHT
Annual Publication
The Proprietors wish to dispose of the Australian rights of a Farm Publication
which has a wide and successful circulation in New Zealand. Would sui ac '
retired Farmer or Business Executive prepared to travel. Bank references requi
Reply to Publication, care of this paper.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS”
FARM LABOR
'TF'HE thoughtful article (B.
A 9/3/’55) by E. O. Schlunke
is timely. There is no doubt we
must see development along the
lines envisaged by him, but, in
the place of hired-labor, what’s
wrong with the family-unit?
Under present conditions land
and its development require so
much capital that many land-
owners with sons find it impos-
sible to acquire holdings to give
the sons a start. On the other
hand, the cost of living is too
great to allow them to retire
from the land, letting their sons
take over and going into the
near-by town to live, as has
been the practice in the past
several decades —a bad practice,
anyhow.
Now for the alternative:
New homes for the sons must
be built on the properties, con-
nected together with the facili-
ties of electricity, water, tele-
phone ; perhaps educational
services for children and
bulk-buying of stores, etc.
How is this to be paid for?
By an all-round intensification
of production, with increased
revenue under all heads, and
savings. With proper education
the young men can undertake
many jobs, wool-classing, shear-
ing, shed- and house-building,
all types of farm-repairs,
engineering-work and farm-
bookkeeping. Income-tax
returns should not be beyond
the ability of the educated
young man of today.
Consider the first item,
expanded production. This can
be obtained by closer attention
to all flock-requirements, par-
ticularly in the lambing-season.
It is well known that many
land-men take only a cursory
interest in the ewes at this
important season.
Again, with only a modest
plant, useful, quantities of stock-
feed can be grown and stored
in special verminproof sheds
and silos.
What would be wrong with a
couple of lusty young men
shearing the sheep? It might
be a bit back-breaking and slow,
but it would be well worth
while.
Think of the revenue to be
obtained from a well-run
poultry-yard, dairy and kitchen-
garden ; and, equally important,
think of the tremendous cutting-
down of the family household-
bills. The unit could become
largely self-supporting: feed for
the fowls and cows, and water
for the garden, all coming off
the land.
Like many other movements,
the process will be slow, but
something of the sort must
come. Economic circumstances
and commonsense will hasten
the tendency.
In the meantime, the picture
put forward by Mr. Schlunke,
and, perhaps, my own ideas,
should be stressed at all times
per media of press, country
schools, radio-talks, stock-firms
and agricultural societies —and
bank-managers.
The writer is himself a bank-
manager, and can assure Mr.
Schlunke that he has heard
several of the species playing the
piano ; probably to drown their
sorrows. I’d like to assure Mr.
Schlunke also that they’re not
bad fellows at heart; pushed into
the job, generally, by their
parents.
In a primitive way and under
pioneer conditions the early
German settlers (I know some-
thing of them) built-up their
homes and provided for their
offspring with the family as the
basic foundation. With modern
conditions we can do much
better —keep people on the land
and augment production materi-
ally, at the same time reducing
costs. We will also be able to
sell at lower prices at a profit.
C. B. M.
Early Mating
“Cornish”: It’s more profit-
able to mate the flock in mid-
November than in the fashion-
able mid-December (or later in
December under conditions in
north-east Victoria), according
to experiments in the last four
years at Rutherglen Research
Station.
At a stocking-rate of two
ewes an acre, the early-mated
flock produced £l4 4s. 2d.-
worth of wool and lamb an
acre (gross) per ewe, compared
with £l3 7s. and £l3 2s. lOd.
respectively from the mid-season
and late-mated flocks. In 1953
the average consumption of hay
a ewe was 561 b. in all flocks.
Research-workers sum-up the
experiment thus:
1. Every year early lambs
ready for market before prices
drop to export parity.
2. Wool-weights and -values
about the same in each flock.
3. Unless marketed before
mid-September, early lambs
would produce more money for
their owners if allowed to
become heavier. However,
future markets may give still
higher premium for early light
lambs.
4. In the last four years early-
mated ewes haven’t needed any
more conserved-fodder than
those in the other two groups.
But extra feed could be a finan-
cial consideration after a bad
spring, when very little clover-
burr would be produced for the
early-mated ewes in the late
summer and early autumn.
Straw Chopper
“Triticum”: One of the
greatest dangers in wheatfarming
is the loss of fertile soil at, or
near, the surface —from erosion
by wind or water, and from loss
of good physical structure, or
tilth.
In surface-erosion not only
"No, you CAN'T come in!”
soil is lost but often phosphates
which have accumulated from
continued fertilising of the crop.
Less stubble-burning in recent
years has been one good step
towards saving some of this
surface-soil, and minimising its
physical deterioration.
Where oats succeed wheat in
the immediately following
season, the general practice of
leaving the land as long as
possible in standing stubble,
broken-down to some extent by
sheep, protects the land much
better than the working it must
have for another wheat-crop.
Oats for grazing can be grown
with very little seed-bed prepara-
tion, or even with none, except
the use of the combine in the
sowing-operation.
In the northern part of the
wheatbelt, where summer rains
and good soil-fertility allow
wheat to be grown continuously
—at least, for a few years—a
better preparation of the soil,
involving either rapid decom-
position of the stubble in the soil
by cultivation with disk imple-
ments or leaving the stubble
largely on the surface as a mulch,
has to be undertaken.
Working the soil with imple-
ments such as the chisel-plough,
blade-cultivator, or broad-sweep
cultivators, which have come
forward in recent years, is at
least making a surface-mulch
possible. Such a mulch has some
advantages over disk-cultivation
practice from the standpoint of
protection of the soil. Beating
rain and rushing water in a wet
summer, wind and burning sun
in a dry summer, can do serious
damage to the exposed soil.
But difficulty arises in sowing
wheat through a heavy stubble-
mulch with the sowing-
machinery at present largely
available.
In the southern half of Aus-
tralia’s wheatbelt wheat is still
sown on stubble-land, to some
extent; but the practice is
decreasing.
Southern wheat-land is, how-
ever, generally not so fertile as
that of the north, and fertiliser
is more heavily used on it. When
soil is. lost from it by erosion,
a relatively heavier loss of total
fertility is therefore suffered.
Moreover, the southern wheat-
belt has generally wet winters
and dry summers, and is more
vulnerable to loss of soil from
water-erosion in winter and
wind-erosion in summer.
For the more general long
fallow in the south, if oats are
not sown on stubble, the standing
stubble is allowed to go on
through the winter for soil-
protection. In either case the
land is generally fallowed in
spring, and the soil is bared to
the hot, blazing sun during the
summer months.
In both the north and the
south, therefore, wheatfarming
would be benefited by a summer
mulch of chopped, rather than
standing, straw. Such a mulch
would be of greater efficiency
from the standpoints of both
soil- and soil-moisture-conserva-
tion, and sowing through it could
readily be done by the present
seeding-machinery.
Local machinery - manufac-
turers might take a tip from that,
and develop the idea of chopping
the straw at harvest. The use of
such straw-chopping equipment
for attachment to cereal-harvest-
ing machinery has been increas-
ing in recent years in America.
New Wheat
“Sundowner”: A new cross-
bred wheat being bred in the
Victorian Wimmera is likely to
excel the high-yielding Pinnacle,
Quadrat and Magnet varieties
already doing well in the heavy-
soils of this area, according to
H. L. More, Vic. Department
of Agriculture’s senior
agronomist.
Hore points out that the
Baldmin-Quadrat cross has
topped the yields on black land
in trials at Longerenong College
(in the central Wimmera), at
Salisbury (in the northern
Wimmera), and Kaniva (in the
west Wimmera). This wheat has
also shown satisfactory quality
characteristics.
Seven Sheep to the
Acre
“Pat O’Day”: In the eastern
Riverina (N.S.W.), including the
Junee district, there are large
areas of improved pastures.
Some of these Junee properties
have adopted the rotational (and
correct) way of cropping. One
man, a hard worker and also an
experimentalist in the grazing
game, runs fine-woolled Corrie-
dales at the rate of seven sheep to
the acre; shearing 11,000 on a
comparatively small property.
Although the Junee area
cannot carry a superfine Merino
(dust and seed in some parts) it
can carry a sheep cutting a more
profitable fleece than the westera
strongwool (60’s). Fine- and
medium-woolled Merino-types
are found in some parts of this
Riverina district; varying be-
tween 70’s on the eastern and
improved country and 64’s in the
more marginal areas.
The best type of Merino for
this type of country (with its
lower rainfall-capacity than that
of the south-west slopes) is a
large-framed sheep cutting a
good length of shafty 64’s, carry-
ing very little condition.
This type does very well and,
under proper conditions of feed
and management, will cut a
fleece of about 101 b. to 121 b. for
ewes, and, of coqrse, higher for
wethers. Length, color and soft-
ness, if maintained, will ensure a
good wool-price.
While the finer wool (for
instance, 70’s) can be grown in
this area, the yield per head is
lower and dust and such faults
usually bring a lower overall
return than from the 64’s-type.
A bad season, or a series of
dry or overwet months, are, of
course, always possibilities. It
has been found that 64’s stand
up to this sort of thing better
than the fine 70’s, which have a
tendency to become very plain
and webby.
Junee sheepmen have found
that by putting newly bought
sheep (two months to three or
more off - shears) on to their
properties, and not making up
lor their loss of tucker on the
way (from north or west to
Junee, by train or motor-truck),
a distinct break can be seen in
the wool at shearing. Large
sheds, to hold an adequate
number of freshly shorn sheep
(chilly August is Junee's
shearing-time), are a feature of
the district.
In the higher, harder country,
with its sparser feed, but absence
of dust and burr, the smaller
type of fine-woolled Merino is
run.
Pepperina-trees (planted by
the old hands for shade, feed-
value for sheep, and shelter), as
well as pine-belts, kurrajong and
oaks, are on most properties.
Frost-damaged Fruit
“Jubilee”: N.Z. Department
of Scientific and Industrial
Research has been looking into
the problem of frost-damage of
fruit.
In central Otago this season,
on the morning following a
severe frost, 24 apricot-trees of
two different varieties were
sprayed with a hormone pre-
paration-—a highly-diluted form
of 245 T; it has been used
for spraying gorse and black-
berry.
Neighboring trees which had
not been sprayed suffered a 50
per cent, loss of fruit. On one
of the two varieties sprayed
there was fairly severe damage
to fruit and foliage, but on the
other damage was very slight;
in some cases the yield from
sprayed trees was 100 per cent.
The effect of the spraying is
that the fruit is stimulated, and
develops without a kernel —
only a hollow stone in the
centre. The kernel is the first
part of the fruit to be damaged
by frost.
The spray is cheap, and if
further research into strength of
sprays, etc., is successful, its use
may be extended to other frost-
sensitive crops. The lead came
from U.S.A. research, but New
Zealand workers have been
using a different preparation.
Paspalum Weedicide
“K.R.” (Ryde): Don’t know
the chemical components of that
paspalum-killer tried out by
Ryde (N.S.W.) Council (B.
(i Continued on page 34)


The World's Largest Plow!
if
This 52-foot Graham-Hoeme
Chisel Plow, manufactured by
Yeomans Proprietary Ltd. to
the order of Mr. Harry Kauter
of Jandowae, Queensland, is
the largest cultivating imple-
ment in use in the world
to-day. It combines three
standard 16-ft. Graham Plows
fitted with an additional exten-
sion. Total effective plowing
width is 52 feet.
Equipped with long shanks
2 inch cast chisels, the plow
is operating with Heel Sweeps
with a plowing depth of 5
inches. All Graham-Hoeme
standard equipment.
■JL. This giant Graham-
Hoeme effectively
plows 500 acres in 24
hours.
There's
. GRAHAM-HOEME
for every type of tractor
—the Graham-Hoeme
is the GENUINE -
the REAL CHISEL PLOW
No other implement of lesser strength is capable of accom-
plishing the maximum progressive soil development that is
possible with the amazing Graham-Hoeme Plow.
Builds a mulch into
the soil.
Doubles the subsoil
mixture.
Quickly builds soil
fertility.
Shatters the hard pan.
'jif Conserves soil
moisture.
★ Prevents erosion by
water and wind.
Gives a perfect seed
bed, easier, quicker.
Cultivates front 2
inches to more than 16
inches.
Cultivates the rough,
rocky or stump coun-
try that no other
implement will stand.
Produces a better
pasture better crop
yields.
Fill in this coupon and post to us for illustrated
literature on the Oraham-Hoeme Chisel Plow.
NAME
ADDRESS
IState Make and Model of Your Tractorl
Contact the Graham-
Hoeme agent in your dis-
trict. Arrange for
Graham - Hoeme demon-
stration on your own land.
★
GRAHAM-HOEME
GUARANTEE
Main frame is guaranteed
for two years. Coiled
digging springs and
shanks for 12 months
unconditionally against
bend or break.
GRAHAM-HOEME
CHISEL PLOW
Patented throughout the world. Manufactured in Australia under licence from the
Graham-Hoeme Plow Co., Amarillo, Texas, U.S.A.. by
YEOMANS PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. MX1784-MXIBB4
This is the NEW GRAHAM-
HCEME SQUARE - LOCK
MODEL designed for
Dairy Farming, Row Crop*
ping. Pasture Improve-
ment and all crops. Illus-
trated is the 5' 6" Square-
Lock Model—3-point link-
age—with long shanks
and fitted with patented
"Clamp-on-Tines." Priced
at £BO, without depth
control wheels f.0.r.,
f.0.b., Sydney.
Graham-Hoeme "Square-Lock" Trailing
Models from £250
Illustrated here is the
GRAHAM - HOEME
RJ TO-ft. 'SPRING
CLAMP' TRAILING
PLOW priced at
£365, f.0.r., f.0.b.,
Sydney. This is the
most popular size
plow for the usual
30 h.p. wheeled farm
tractors.
The steep country in the illustration contains slopes up to
almost 100°/ QI hence the use here of a small crawler tractor.
S£
This is the MODEL
"RE" 7-ft. 'SPRING
CLAMP' MOUNTED
GRAHAM - HOEME
PLOW for tractors
equipped with three-
point hitch. Price,
£145, f.0.r., f.0.b.,
Sydney. With Depth
Control Wheels, £4O
extra. Available in
sizes 5 ft., 7 ft. and
illustration shows the Model "RE" 7 ft. working behind a Ferguson
Tractor. This sized plow can be extended at any time to a 9-ft.
plowing width.
A Graham-Hoeme is the soundest investment you the man on the land can make to-day!
47-4255


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
•«« tter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage 1>
absorbed into the soiL
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
‘DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dißsolvenator
(Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wick-
ham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & 00,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
Venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment
trated is the ™
“FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
illus-
Write or telephone
your nearest State _
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Urazeos Co-operative Ltd.i
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO SEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
16/3/’55) —it’s a trade-secret —
but I do know that the weedicide
was only partly successful. It’s
not the answer to the elimination
of paspalum from suburban
streets.
Some Ryde streets were given
two applications this summer;
which the more civic-minded
followed up, after a suitable
interval, by burning-off. All. to
no great purpose. For a time, I
grant, the paspalum was killed —
or at least appeared to be;
though the resultant landscape
was hardly an attractive one.
Now, however, Ryde is again
profuse and luxuriant with
paspalum. The rains we’ve had
have doubtless contributed to
the rank growth, but it seems
that the council’s weedicide is
capable of only a temporary job
of destruction.
Keep Air-deaner
Clean
“M.F.A.”: Many farmers go
to a lot of trouble to keep dirt
out of their fuel, but get care-
less about keeping it out of the
air their engines use. An effi-
cient air-cleaner can keep 98 per
cent, of dirt out of the air your
engine needs. But an unserviced
air-cleaner:
1. Lets gritty abrasive dust
into your engine.
2. Reduces the air-supply
and makes the fuel too rich.
3. Besides causing engine-
troubles, dirty or bent air-
cleaners can reduce fuel-
mileage by as much as 8 per
cent.
Fodder! Pigs, Dairying
“Hortus”: “Billjim” (B.
23/2/’55) reminds me of a
similar set-up on my grand-
father’s 550-acre farm, some 40
miles from London. However,
instead of fodder-beets, the crop
was mangelwurzel, a species of
mangold.
When harvested, tops trimmed
and dried, the mangels were
“pitted”—i.e., heaped up in
long pyramidal rows, covered
with dry straw and soil. Care
had to be taken that pits were
well drained. Crop kept in per-
fect order all through winter
months.
The mangels formed an
important percentage of ration
given to 100 dairy cows, shedded
during winter. They were
chopped-up by machine and
mixed with grass-hay chaff and
either wheaten or oaten chaff
and fed to the cows daily. They
were also chopped into halves
and thrown out to the sheep in
the paddocks.
Prior to cultivation of pad-
docks intended for mangels,
cow-manure, which contained
dry litter, liquid and solid
matter, and which had been
heaped in a large concrete yard
adjacent to cow-sheds, was
carted out and spread over the
ground waiting to be ploughed.
No other fertiliser was used
and the return sometimes
reached 60 tons to the acre.
The fat-stock for the Christ-
mas market also received a daily
ration of chaff, chopped mangel,
bean-meal and oil-cake. Eighty
pure Berkshire pigs were
shedded at one end of the
farm. Two hundred and fifty
acres were cultivated. Careful
crop-rotation was observed.
Wheat, barley, oats, potatoes,
peas, beans, mangels, rape were
sown each year, and all fodder
used by the animals was grown
on the farm, with the exception
of the oil-cake.
Supporting “Billjim’s” state- .
ment, the mangel-crop was one
of the most economical grown.
What’s more, it added succu-
lence to the dry-feed and made
it more palatable.
Crosscuts
R. J. Flynn, agronomist at
Grafton (North Coast, N.S.W.),
has been investigating what
happens to lime in the soil.
Apparently it sinks, at the rate
of about lin. a year (on the soil
tested); too deep for the roots
of white-clover after a certain
period. Instead of putting on
more lime, soil was stirred up.
* * #
The “Western Star” (Queens-
land) reports that work will
start soon on small abattoirs at
Mitchell.
* * *
“Big Billy”: Myxomatosis
has been so active in Victoria
following the February rains
and high humidity that the
Vermin Branch of the Lands
Department has postponed its
simultaneous destruction-
campaign until midwinter, when
bunny may be a little more
numerous. Incidentally, in this
year’s poisoning operations 1080
is likely to be used to a greater
extent.
* * *
“Frank”: Meat - producers,
meeting in Melbourne, decided
to demand that Australian meat
should be sold on the open
market. If adopted by the Aus-
tralian Meat Board, this policy
could mean the end of the 15-
years’ meat-agreement. It was
claimed that the agreement is
now of no benefit to Australian
producers, and is wrecking the
meat-trade here; and that’
Britain continues to buy meat
where it suits her.
* * • •'
Under the terms of the current
15-year agreement for the sale
of meat to U.K., Australia has
assumed an obligation “to use its
best endeavors not only to
maintain the present volume of
exports, but to bring about
steadily increasing exports of
meat to the United Kingdom and
to this end to promote develop-
mental programmes.”
“Beef is one of the relatively
few foodstuffs with export-
market prospects which can be
regarded with some optimism.”
(N.S.W. “Review of Marketing
and Agricultural Economics.”)
“Eastern Queensland and
southern Australia offer the best
prospects of increasing beef-
production in the short term, but
the importance of long-term
development in the more remote
far-northern areas must not be
ignored.” (J. H. Kelly, Com-
monwealth Bureau of Agricul-
tural Economics field-officer,
who spends a good part of his
time in the north.)
“In the Northern Territory
and much of remote Queensland,
it is doubtful whether a third of
the calves born are eventually
marketed. In a poor season
there is a tendency for northern
cattle to find their way down the
stock-routes to the south, and,
as they get very run-down in the
long walk over the dry stock-
routes, many are lost. Of those
which reach their destination,
some are carriers of bovine
pleuropneumonia, and they cause
severe outbreaks among the clean
beef- and dairy-herds of the
south.” (W. A. Beattie, A Survey
of the Beef-cattle Industry of
A ustralia.)
• • • •
The same: “Summer rain
renders it virtually impossible to
muster or move stock over the
greater part of Northern Aus-
tralia from November to March.
Slaughterings thus reach a peak
between April and September
and are low during the rest of
the year.”
The 1954 increase of 646,000
in number of cattle on farms in
U.S.A. was the smallest since
cattle numbers began to rise in
that country, in 1949.
• • • •
“During recent years we have
seen an agricultural revolution.
Machines such as the pick-up-
baler, forage-harvesters, de-
hydrating plants, the Patterson-
buckrake, and improved irriga-
tion equipment have opened new
horizons in production-
technique.” (Dr. M. C.
Franklin, McMaster Animal
Health Laboratory, Sydney.)
• • •; L *j '
The same: “The water-
harvesting work of H. J. Geddes
at the McGarvie Smith Animal
Husbandry Farm [Badgery
Creek, N.S.W.] has created wide-
spread interest, and has indicated
a system of water-harvesting and
pasture - improvement which
could lift beef-production in
many areas which have had to
rely in the past on poor native
pasture. The ‘Keyline-farming’
technique of P. A. Yeomans
[North Richmond, N.S.W.] is
also pointing the way to new
horizons.”
Franklin (in an article on beef-
cattle in a specialist publication)
goes on to describe what he has
seen of the feeding of beef-cattle
from irrigated pasture in Cali-
fornia: “The pasture was cut,
allowed to wilt, picked up with a
forage-harvester, and then fed
from an automatic side-delivery
lorry into feed-troughs running
the length of the feed-lot. Other
feed-lots were seen where all the
weighing and mixing of feed for
groups of from 10,000- to 15,000-
head of cattle was carried out by
one operator sitting in front of a
switchboard.”
» • • •
“These—pushbutton - control,
water-harvesting, Keyline-farm-
ing, forage-harvesting—are a few
of the new techniques which
make us pause and wonder what
advances are still to come. The
novel techniques of today may
well be accepted as commonplace
in the future. They certainly
can be expected to change our
approach to animal-production
problems.”
The McGarvie Smith Farm,
besides being used for practical
work by vet.-students, and for
experimental work by the
faculty, is a commercial dairy-
farm ; and a successful one. But
when Geddes was first inter-
viewed by The Bulletin, the
possibility of the application of
techniques such as strip-grazing,
pasture-improvement, irrigation
and—as the pivot— water-
storage, to beef-cattle fattening,
seemed obvious. Something of
the sort is now being done in
New Zealand.
P. A. Yeomans, when he was
in this office a couple of weeks
back, mentioned that he was
getting his first significant returns
from cattle—some seven-month
vealers sold for an average of
£35 a head. Since then, he topped
the market at Flemington with
£57 25., average £55 95., for a
small lot of steers and bullocks.
A field-day is being held at
Nevallan (North Richmond,
N.S.W.), April 3 —a Sunday.
General idea —flood-control.
♦ * »
“Barkly”: Steelweld Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray (Vic.),
worked round the clock for
seven days to complete and
deliver eight motor-graders to
N. S. Wales for work in flooded
areas. They will be used for
clearing debris, repairing
washed-out roads and re-estab-
lishing drainage. The grader is
built in Australia to the designs
and specifications of Caterpillar
Tractor Co. (U.S.A.), which
has established a £3,000,000
company at Essendon (Vic.).
* * *
Registration of 1340 animals,
including eight imported from
the United States, is covered in
the latest Poll Shorthorn
Society (Australasia) studbook.
* * *
R. Marks, Binda (N.S.W.),
won the fat-lamb-carcass com-
petition held in conjunction with
Royal Easter Show, with
Southdown - Romney Marsh
cross lambs. “Very high
standard” all round, reports the
judge, J. A. R. Ford.
Standard and grading of Aus-
tralian lambs for export are
excellent. Still, as a Bulletin
man just back from the Old
Dart remarked, “Just try and
tell an English housewife that.
Over there, when people think
of imported lamb they think —
and ask lamb.”
An example of what good
publicity can do.
There was quality and good
marketing behind the New
Zealand publicity, of course.
But now, when Australian lambs
for export are as even as peas
in a pod, and when the quality
is, if anything, superior to the
Canterbury lamb, the U.K.
woman -in - the - shop is still
unimpressed. A lesson in pub-
licity which could be applied to
other Australian products.
* * *
“Sundowner”: Revised esti-
mates of S.A. fruit-crop, after
gale-force winds and bushfires
in December and January:
Pears (120,000 bushels) down 50
per cent.; plums and prunes
(75,000 bushels) down 30 per
cent.; apples (475-525,000
bushels) down 25 per cent.;
apricots (495,000 bushels) down
10 per cent.; peaches (250,000
bushels) down 5 per cent.;
cherries (58,000 bushels) down
3 per cent.
Farm Hints
“Quo Vadis”: Crown- and
pinion-setting is an expert’s job,
but it’s an easy matter (if you
know how) to remove the diff.-
cage assembly without disturb-
ing this adjustment. Don't
undo the lock-screws holding the
locks on the bearing adjusting-
rings on each side of the diff.-
cage. Unscrew the four big
holding-down bolts and remove
the whole assembly intact. All
adjustments remain unaltered,
and the assembly goes back into
its original position when the
four bolts are tightened into
place.
“C.A.A.”: Early rains fol-
lowed by high humidity in south-
eastern Australia have increased
the burden of the large stomach-
worm in sheep. Paleness of the
skin and soft swellings under
the jaw usually indicate a heavy
build-up of this parasite. Drench
with phenothiazine or black-
leaf-40 immediately, as a pre-
cautionary measure.
“W. Court”: Thinning - out
unwanted timber with arsenical
solutions is best done during
autumn-winter months. The
dope will be taken down into
the roots as the sap descends,
leaving no part alive to throw
out suckers. In summer the
poison is carried upwards, to
kill the tree-top in record time,
but without destroying the roots.
“J.J.A.”: When planting
carrots, stretch a string-bob
soaked in creosote along the
rows and about 2in. above young
plants. Will keep most pests at
bay.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(20/3/’55)
It is becoming increasingly obvious that the influence
of the Uranian cycle must be taken into consideration when
determining the trend of the season. Though very
unreliable at times, it has the disconcerting habit of becom-
ing effective at short notice, as instanced by the heavy rain-
group which was indicated in Sydney between March 15
and 18.
Furthermore, this cycle also indicates very heavy rains
in the latter part of April and during May in N.S.W., and
as a result renewed flooding may be experienced at this
time.
A good rain-group should occur about March 27 [see
date of writing above], and this should be followed by rain
and showers early in April.
LENNOX WALKER.


GOVT. DISPOSAL DEALERS
WORK CLOTHES SPECIALS
TERRIFIC VALUE!
Brand New Trousers
Heavy quality K.D. Ex-Army
type. Size waist 32, 34, 38, 40
and 42.
Price 30/- pr.
Post 3/- extra. All States.
BRAND NEW
101/? Tested/
WORK
BOOTS
Suede Leather. Rubber and
Leather soles. Sizes 10, 11, 12.
Price 40/- pr.
Post 3/6 extra.
Ex-Army Slouch Hats
Renovated in perfect condition,
complete with band.
Price 27/6 ea.
Damaged Slouch Hats
that have been blocked and
cleaned. An ideal hat for work
or Ashing.
17/6 each
Post on hats 2/6 extra.
Ex-Army ANTI-GAS HAVERSACKS
Final Release. Ideal for school bags
lunch bags, fishing gear, etc, Perfec
condition.
5/6 each
Post 2/- extra.
Special quote for
Ex-Army Shirts
I •"
Khaki drill. These
have also been laun-
dered and used, hut
are perfect. Combined
with the trousers, these
are ideal as a complete
set of work clothes.
Price 107-
Post 2/6
EX-NAVAI/
Square Rig Shirts
MhamM
4m
A
(.Laundered). Heavy-
duty, ideal work shirt.
Price 10/- each.
All sizes.
Post 2/6 extra.
Heavy Duty
Canvas
10/- each.
Post 2/- extra.
EX-ARMY SHORTS
V
Khaki drill. All Sizes.
Laundered.
7/6 pair.
Post 2/6 extra.
WOMEN'S
ALL-WOOL
CARDIGANS
Sizes SW, W,
Blue, Green,
Grey, Brown,
Navy Blue.
PRICE
32/6
EACH
Limited Stock.
m x \ <5.
WOMEN’S
SHOWER-
PROOF
GABERDINE
RAINCOATS
Single-
breasted
Shoulder
pads,
complete
with belt.
Women’s
size only.
Price
39'6
Post 3/6
extra.
BRAND NEW Ex-Army HAMMOCKS
Or can be used as a stretcher Cover. Made from
heavy quality Jute, 10ft. Jin. x 2ft. Jin. 11 eyelets
either side. Reinforced. 2 ropes, llin. long. A first-
class buy,
19/6 each.
Post 3/6 extra.
Canvas Folding Chairs
■y :
pwtVssy: r .
a
»
a
n
A
Arm-rest type. Condition Per-
fect. Ideal for week - enders,
camping: leisure.
Price 30/- each.
Hot Water Containers
Approx. 10 gal. capacity, with
tap.
Clubs, Canteens, etc.
Price £5/-/- each.
m
EX-ARMY GIGGLE JACKETS
All sizes.
Price 9/6 each
Ideal for work or fishing.
Post 2/6 extra.
EX-ARMY DRILL JACKETS
Men’s size only.
Price 14/6 each
Post 2/6 extra.
EX-ARMY KHAKI PULLOVERS
Wooden Baby Cots
Also 4ft. x 2ft.
4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. Drop Side
Perfect Condition.
Price £5 each.
HORSE RUGS
MS
and new and complete with
fittings, blanket lined, all
sizes, 6ft. 6in. Heavy duty
canvas. This is real waterproof
winter rug at off-season prices.
Hundreds to clear.
Price £4/15/- each.
All wool Ex-Army blankets price
25/- each.
Repaired Ex-Army sheets, single bed size.
15/- pair.
FIRST QUALITY LINEN
Ex-Army pillows in first-class condition. Price
4/11 each.
MATTRESS
Ex-Army heavy - duty Fibre
Mattresses. Single-bed size only.
Price the two
30/-
MATTRESSES WITH BRAMi
NEW DESOUTI MATTRESS
COVER.
39/6
EX-ARMY
Cottage Type Tent
Size 14ft. x 12ft. 8-man tent.
No fly needed.
Will stand any weather.
Price £l2/10/-
S. H. TARPAULINS
Sizes Prices
36ft. x 20ft £372
24ft. x 18ft £25
18ft. x 12ft £124
These tarps. have been repaired,
if necessary, eyeletted and are in
perfect condition. Buy now at
the off-season prices.
Ex-Army HOT BOXES
Size 30in. x 18in. x 15in. Ideal
as an ice-box or hot-box, will
keep food and drinks hot or cold.
Condition perfect. Insulated 2in.
all over and would be worth £2O
to manufacture.
New Price £6/-/-
Secondhand £5/-/-
CORRUGATED ROOFING IRON
Used but in very good
condition. Size Bft-
sheets.
10/-
Also large _ stocks ot
Bullnosed iron. 9ft.
overall length, straight
section 6ft., curved
section 3ft.
CORRUGATED FIBRO ROOFING
Corrugated Fibro
Rooting. Big corru-
gation, 3in. Has
been used but is in
extra good condi-
tion. Normal size
Bft. x 3ft. 6in.
sheets. This must
be inspected before
purchase. Price
upon con dition.
Select your own at
this address:
172-78 Castlereagh
St., Redfern.
GYPROCK
WALL AND CEILING
BOARDS
i
m
6ft long by 2ft wide. PRICE 8/6 PER SHEET.
New Ex-Army Release. Unlimited Stocks Available.
In crates of 15 or 50 sheets. Packed ready for despatch.
Country Orders. ,
YONO FOLDING BEDS
Price 50/- each
Are normal beds with top and bottom ends that
fold underneath spring wire. Guaranteed perfect
condition.
/A
X*
g
Lai
OAK AVI)
LIGHT UTE.
TOOL
KIT
Contains tool
roll, pump,
jack, grease
gun, screw-
driver, 3
open - end
spanners,
3 tube span-
ner s, wheel
brace, tyre
levers, point
setter, etc.
Price £2/19/6 each
SHOVEL AND BAR
Price
Shovel, 12/6
Bar, 10/-
LEATHER STRAPS
In perfect condition.
Size 30in. x 2in.
Complete with brass
buckles.
Price 15/- dozen
Post 2/6 extra.
PLEASE WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS
NO C.O.D. MAIL, PHONE, OR CALL NO C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding please add Freight.
KING’S
LEATHER GOODSTYRES
122-124 Devonshire St.
£acUUektf
GENERAL MERCHANTS
ney
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station
Phones: FA 7691—MX 3954. After hours only: MX 1269
EX-ARMY WEBB
GAITERS
Good condition, ideal for
bush walkers, muddy
work, etc.
WALK IN COMFOR >
N o o'
Price 3/6 pair
Post 1/- extra.
WRITE FOR FREE
CATALOGUE
' \ 0
Ex-Army All-leather
SADDLE BAGS
Price 12/6 pair
Post 3/6 extra.
FOLDING STRETCHERS
TUBULAR STEEL
Suitable for residential*,
shearers’ sheds. Diamond wire.
Every bed guaranteed.
Priced at £2/5/- each.
GOOD CONDITION.
SINGLE BEDS
With fixed ends, diamond wire.
Used, but in excellent condi-
tion.
35/- each.
MEAT CHOPPER
Brand new, solid steel, lOin. x
6in. blade. Overall length 24in.
Price 25/- each.
UNLIMITED STOCKS
TABLES EX-ARMY
W—.
Good condition. Mess type, with
stools attached. Ideal for large
families,, shearers, caterers, etc.
Incomx)ax , able value.
Size 7ft. x 3ft.
Price £4/10/-
StlrU
RIFLE SPECIAL
Including gun buck-
et 30/- (new),
Cleaner 3/6, Rifle
Oil 5/6, bandolier
3/11.
LOT 37/6
Only Mai! Order with this line.
SPANNER SPECIAL
m
28 Spanners. All sizes anil
shapes, in tool box container.
A mixed assortment. This is
ideal for farm or country use,
as nearly every size is included.
Price £6/15/- lot.
Set Five Brand New Pure Bristle
PAINT BRUSHES
Set in Rubber.
Sizes 4in, 3in, 2in, IV2III, lin.
Price 35/- Set
Post 3/6 extra.
PAPERHAHGER'S BRUSH
Pure bristle. Size lOin.
Price 19/6 each
Post 2/- extra.
COMMERCIAL ARTIST BRUSH SEi
6 brushes, all types.
Price 157-
post 1/3 extra.
STIPPLING BRUSHES
Brand new. Size SV2 x 3Vz.
Price £2/10/- each


WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA-
m
fi
S'
Jk
S&K
Sfe-u.
‘JliiiiL
5*
r.-rrsx^fjfj/Vi
Wmsm
v.-.-.-.y/.
m&mmsA
>Hi
in iHH,
mam
mm
um.
i^sgs
f S&ISSSSsa
"?S
’’M
£$
~r=s»ss
SSSKgSS
MHH
vjr.
m
m:%
SE
l^-sp3ES
as
a
fo*
i-.
1
w
> ■
pa
ow
s feed us
USTRALIA is one of the great food-producing
,/jLCountries of the world. But good crops and
pastures don’t grow without the help of such special aids
as super-phosphate, which many farmers now buy in
paper bags. Not the ordinary kind of paper bag—but
outsize bags made of many thicknesses of strong, brown
paper. These multi-wall bags for “Super” are made
in Australia from Australian brown paper. Most of the
special paper for them is produced by A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. and sold to other
manufacturers who make the finished bags.
A.P.M. produce 160 kinds of paper and 140 kinds of
paperboard*. These are made by others into a great
variety of finished products that make work easier, or
reduce costs, or make life more pleasant in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard, fibreboard and other
heavyweight papers. Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W. and Petrie, Qld. (under construction)
