

/
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRV
A
The Bulletin
Begin Reading “LAZY WALKABOUT”- page 20
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 76— No, 3914
Wednesday, February 16, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
DEGREES FROM EDINBURGH
ARE UNIVERSALLY RECOGNISED
EDINBURGH, Scotland’s capital city, has
been called the fairest city in Europe; it
has also been called the modern Athens, because
no other city since classical times has owned
so many Doric, lonic and Corinthian columns
—so many buildings that might be mistaken
for temples. Most of this impressive archi-
tecture originated at the end of the eighteenth
and the beginning of the nineteenth century
and is an outstanding feature of this great city.
Among the many fine buildings are two
imposing examples of the classical style—the
General Register House and Edinburgh
University—both of which were designed by
Robert Adam. The University, illustrated, was
designed in 1789 and completed by Playfair in
1827. It is a massive structure, enclosing a
spacious courtyard, and is surmounted by a
dome with a figure of Youth, added in 1883,
which is a prominent landmark for miles
around. It is the youngest of Scotland’s four
universities, having been endowed just before
the Reformation by Bishop Reid, although not
founded until 1582 in the reign of James VI.
Edinburgh University is famous throughout
the world for its faculty of medicine; law,
theology, science, music and the arts are other
notable faculties. It was one of the first
universities to admit women to classes and
degrees. The student population numbers over
4,000 with a teaching staff of fifty professors
besides many lecturers. The library hall is a
magnificent room and contains many early
books and manuscripts. Another handsome
room is the McEwan Hall in the New University
buildings, opened in 1897, which serves as the
student graduation hall.
On the site of the old university stood
Kirk-O’-Field, a four-roomed house in which
took place in 1567 one of the most impenetrable
mysteries in all Scottish history. On
February 10th of that year Henry Darnley was
lying ill there when a great explosion demolished
the house. Darnley’s body was found in an
adjoining garden showing marks of strangula-
tion but no other injuries. Three months later
Mary Queen of Scots and Bothwell were
married, and, although there are speculations,
it will never be known what exactly happened
on that fateful night, or to what extent, if
any, Mary and Bothwell were implicated.


WIN SUCCESS IN 1955
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTTS will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlere.
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21
St., Adelaide; 2o l Murray St., Per
rgh St.,
Gx-enteil
- h -
cur AND MAIL THIS coupon
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in
MY NAME
AIJIIKESS
(S.B. 455) AGE,
You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you —any book from any-
where .... Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
The Red Page
THE HAWKESBURY SONG
A flood in the Hawkesbury, in the
form of dozens of letters pointing out
the American origin of the song, was
started by the publication of “Way
Down on the Old Hawkesbury” on
this page as “an old bush song.”
A great many of the old bush songs
are, in fact, parodies of a similar kind
—witness “That Hungry Man from
Queensland,” published in the same
article, who appears to have once been
a hungry man from ’Frisco. Almost
all the melodies of the earliest songs,
with new words fitted to them to fulfil
their Australian purposes, were taken
from Irish folksongs—incidentally, it
might be of interest here to mention
that the present writer, travelling in
Ireland, lately heard people in Kerry
singing, as one of their own folksongs,
our famous “The Wild Colonial Boy.”
They also had an immensely long
ballad about Michael Dwyer, “the
Wicklow chieftain,” who, though his
song has not been recorded as
travelling with him, was exported to
these parts and is buried in Waverley
cemetery, Sydney.
Correspondents who wrote about
the Hawkesbury song are hereby
thanked; and three representative
letters are printed.
From “W.J.C.”: The “touching little
ditty” of “Way Down on the Old
Hawkesbury” is very close to an old
American ditty which has been sung
“down Mississippi way” for many a
long year. As a child, and that’s not
yesterday, I heard Liverpool sailors
crooning it in the “scouse boats.” The
chorus ran:—
Down where the Swannee River’s
flowing,
Down where the fields of cotton’s
growing,
That’s where I wander in the
gloaming,
That is the place I constant see ;
Down where the ivy-vines are
creeping
That’s where I left ma sweetheart
weeping,
That’s where the ole folk now are
sleeping,
Way down on the Old Swannee.
My father sang it when he was a boy
in the 1880’s.
From “Ararell”: Many years ago an
American singer of sentimental ballads,
appearing at Brennan’s National
Amphitheatre in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, only a few doors from Harry
Rickard’s Tivoli, introduced “Way
Down the Old Hawkesbury” under its
correct name, “Down Where the
Swannee River Flows.” His name was
Sam Gale, and 'another song made
popular by him was “ ’Neath the Shade
of the Old Apple Tree.” His daughter
Sadie married the late Roy Rene
(“Mo”). *
From Dr. Colin Lawson: My
impression of the people of the
Hawkesbury River in the early
days of this century was that they
were not as given to sentimental songs
as to hard work, hard food —and
wonderfully good health. I first heard
the song as a pupil in sth class at
Chapel-street, Marrickville, school in
1905—sing by “Peng” Peindestre.
Later it was sung in a dugout of the
3rd Battery behind Bull’s Trench in
December, 1916, by Oliver Taylor—
who within two months died of
pneumonia. Both versions were identi-
cal in words. The long-drawn-out
wailing is surpassed only by “Boys of
the Dardanelles,” which I heard that
night on the Somme for the first time.
Judging from the interest in the
Hawkesbury song, there should be a
public for Will H. Ogilvie’s “Coo-ee,”
a review copy of which, with music
by Sir Charles Stanford, has been sent
to “The Bulletin” by Allan and Co.,
276-278 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Allan’s write: “We took over Aus-
tralian rights from an English firm who
referred it to us. It was the last song
Stanford composed, and it apparently
was unnoticed in England, where the
verses would have less significance than
they would here, and apparently the
composer knew little of this country,
because to our horror the word
‘Coo-ee’ was set to three notes, so
that it read ‘Coo-00-ee.’ However, in
our opinion the musical setting is up to
the high standard expected.”
Incidentally, Mr. John Meredith,
who as president of the Australian
Folklore Society and leader of the
Bushwhackers’ Band, collects both
words and music of old bush songs, is
inquiring for a recitation called “The
Oozlem Bird” and the words of a
song called “The Banks of the Goona-
windi.” Replies to Mr. Meredith, c/o
“The Bulletin’s” Service Dept., will be
forwarded.
Thomas Mann's Fable
Only readers accustomed to medical
textbooks are likely to enjoy Thomas
Mann’s new short novel “The Black
Swan” (Seeker and Warburg), for the
physiology of women in the crises of
middle-age and the symptoms and
treatment of cancer are here described
in precise clinical terms seldom
encountered in other forms of prose.
It is the story of a German woman,
prattling, foolish and romantic, who,
in her late middle-age, falls in love
with her son’s young American tutor.
In an old Rhineland castle (where a
black swan on the lake represents, in
rather weak symbology, the looming
figure of death) she arranges to give
herself to her lover. Then she finds
that what she thought was a symptom
of renewed vitality is really the onset
of cancer, and, in the last macabre
scene, she is operated on and dies.
Even reading it with the necessary
clinical detachment, one cannot but
wonder why Thomas Mann, at the age
of 80, thought it worth while to tell a
story which, if one decides not to
regard it as repellent—on the grounds
that all truths may be told—seems to
remain either puritanical or pointless.
Is “The Black Swan” merely a shorter,
grimmer version of that unpleasant
cautionary tale “Madame Bovary,” in
which the middle-aged woman—her
passion here turning to cancer—is
warned of the danger of lust?
Or is there, having regard to Thomas
Mann’s great international reputation,
some deeper allegorical meaning which
could both give point to the story and
redeem its sordidness? On the whole,
one is inclined to think that is the
case.
In “Doctor Faustus” Thomas Mann
certainly dealt in symbol, analysing, in
the guise of a novel, the spirit of Nazi
Germany; “The Holy Sinner,” that
most bizarre of his tales, also appeared
to have some allegorical meaning,
though what it may have been eluded
the present reviewer; and “The Black
Swan” could also reasonably be
interpreted as a parable of the German
soul.
Frau Rosalie von Tummler is the
“good,” democratic Western Germany
of today; hungering, in spite of her
years, for the fresh vitality of her
American lover. It is too late for
regeneration, Thomas Mann is saying
if one reads him correctly; however
willing America may be to co-operate,
Europe is ageing, rotten, doomed; and
only disaster can come from their
union.
This is a mere guess, and may be
wrong. However, it seems plausible
and provides some reason—if still not
exactly a merry one—for the existence
of this strange piece of writing.
Penguin Classics
Goethe’s statement that the test of a
good poem was that it could be trans-
lated into another language or into
prose is well substantiated in the excel-
lent series of new translations of the
Greek tragic poets being hatched from
time to time by those prolific birds, the
Penguins.
The Sophocles set has just been
followed by a new translation by Philip
Vellacott of “The Women of Troy,”
“Ion,” “Helen” and “The Bacchae” by
Euripides. If the characters of “The
Bacchae” lived in Greek for Greeks
as intensely as they do in Mr. Vella-
cott’s modern English it is no wonder
that the inhabitants of ancient Athens
had as great a passion for the theatre
as for the stadium and the arena.
Mr. Vellacott uses the ordinary
language of the educated man-in-the-
street, and it doesn’t sound any less
dignified in the mouth of the god than
in the mouths of the Bacchae. He is
dealing with the Greek myth, but the
myth as seen through the profound
understanding Euripides had of human
nature, and how profound the play is!
“Fables of Aesop” is another new
translation by S. A. Handford. It has
the same quality of freshness and
modernity as the Greek tragedies, and
some of the fables are so unfamiliar
that the present commentator is drawn
to the conclusion that the edition he
read in his childhood must have had
the attentions of the late Dr. Bowdler.
This one is entitled “Plucked Clean”:
A man whose hair was turning
grey had two mistresses, one young
and the other old. The old one
was ashamed of having a younger
man make love to her, and when
he came to her she kept pulling
out the black hairs from his head.
The young woman, who did not
like the idea of having an old man
for a lover, used to pull out his
grey hairs. So between them they
ended by making him completely
bald.
Aesop adds his usual improving
moral: “111-assorted companions never
come by any good.”
“The Peloponnesian War,” by
Thucydides, is another excellent trans-
lation by Rex Warner, who made such
a lively narrative of Xenophon’s
“Persian Expedition.”
Goethe’s “Faust” (Part One) is
another.
Orwell and Lawrence
Republication of George Orwell’s
“Keep the Aspidistra Flying” (Seeker
and Warburg), first published in 1936,
draws further attention to the best
British socio-literary critical intelligence
since D. H. Lawrence: unmoved by
ornamental styles and brilliant literary
techniques, they both diagnosed the
“fever of the bone” in contemporary
life; and Orwell was as content to find
the text for his sermon in a Billy Bunter
serial for boys as Lawrence was in his
essays on American literature.
That Orwell was a product of Eton
and Lawrence of universal education
accounted for much of Orwell’s clarity
and reserve and Lawrence’s misty
ebullience. Orwell did not feel the
need Lawrence did to differentiate
himself from ordinary people; and
when they both set out to portray the
redemption of the world in the union
of the sexes, Lawrence had to carry
along with him his hankering for hob-
nobbing with the aristocracy. Thus in
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover” the theme
of the gamekeeper and the lady, the
philosophic gigolo, shows the other
side of Lawrence’s sturdy independ-
ence; a repressed feeling that some-
one ought to keep him, whereas in
“Keep the Aspidistra Flying” both of
the lower-middle-class lovers start
from scratch, and there is no million-
aire father-in-law to underwrite love’s
idyllic ecstasies.
Nor, in Orwell, are there any idyllic
ecstasies. Lawrence, who sought and
often found the grey texture of day-
to-day life in his novels, hardly caught
it better than in this story of Orwell’s
of the advertising copy-writer who
had a book of verse published, and left
his job for the unexacting duties of a
shop-watcher in a squalid little book-
shop and library, so that he might
devote most of his life to poetry. The
horrors of lodging-house life, the decay
of infrequent baths, the loyal despair
of his typist-sister, the kindness of his
rich friend, publisher of an esoteric
magazine, and the love of the fashion-
plate designer who is growing older as
he wrestles with his verse—“ She still
thought of herself as a very young girl,
and so did everybody else. Yet if you
looked closely the marks of time were
plain enough on her face”—are por-
trayed precisely, without exaggera-
tion.
The waste of the young poet’s effort
to create in a vacuum without experi-
ence or background is slowly shown
without being stated. The scene in the
countryside in midwinter sunshine
when the girl is as protected from him
by her unwilling assent as by a prayer-
book of prohibitions is a masterpiece
of truth, and their eventual marriage
and acceptance of the ordinary life of
ordinary people complete the antithesis
to Lawrence’s solutions; for Lawrence
was the apostle of silent knowledge
who never could keep quiet, and of
self-possession who never could sit
still.
Thus if truth, realism and profound
beauty were the only criterions, this
would be a better novel than “Lady
Chatterley”; but truth, realism and
beauty remain in nature, and whether
the contortions and aberrations of
genius are considered crack-brained or
divine revelations, they are the addi-
tives which are unique to personality
and to art, and will always tip the
balance in favor of their owner. Orwell
was a fine critic, and he wrote at least
this fine novel; but he was not a great
artist.
Arnold Bennett
“R.H.”: Wasn’t the Red Page article
on Arnold Bennett rather careless?
The “little erotic statues” were not the
only things Bennett had to say about
Rodin. Two other points were given
in more detail. Yet on this inaccurately
reported talk the writer concludes that
A.B. was “the least reflective of
writers,” and compares his scraps
unfavorably with the “two-page
masterpiece of description that G.B.S.
wrote when Rodin sculpted him.”
Bennett could write brilliant articles,
too; he wrote hundreds a year, but
naturally does not put them in ' his
journal. He was recording talk about
Rodin and not a personal meeting. The
paragraph about the origin of “The
Old Wives’ Tale” is also inaccurate.
The incident did not occur in “a
French provincial cafe” but in a
“Duval,” one of a string of cheap,
standardised Parisian cafes. The fat
old lady was not chivvied away by the
waitress; she moved of her own accord
when Bennett took his usual seat at the
table. To describe “The Old Wives’
Tale” as “a narrative of revolutionary
Paris” is very strange. The novel is
only about one-third on the subject of
Paris, and the adjective “revolutionary”
would to most readers mean that the
book dealt with Paris from 1789
onwards, instead of the much milder
Paris of 1870 and later. As for the
idea that A.B. was the least reflective
of writers, his reflections are wide and
profound, and could make a good
handbook on human psychology.
“The Follies and Friendships of
Oscar Wilde”: Lewis Broad (Hutchin-
son). Mr. Broad writes clearly and
with a well-balanced mind, but his
run-through of the years of wit and
fame, the plays, the libel-suit, the dis-
grace and the final dissolution in Paris
adds little to a story that must already
be familiar to most readers.


'
temporary design furniture
In delightful Chinese cane with smart blach wrought iron legs
It’s light, it’s clean and comfortable,
contemporary in design. Only the clever
Hong Kong craftsmen would have the
patience to weave rattan into such
unusual shapes. The slender, modern
black frames, and the interesting texture
of the natural rattan, make pieces that
stay in the dining-room, or go out
to the sunroom. Frames are
unscrewed for country orders.
warn
sS? i
i#}|
wm
<oo^w»rr^.S»:
\ms-
ia p:
H
M
sA
v
2
■<r*-y
#l2
,4 1'
Above\ Nest of tables with rubber-tipped
legs. Tables at 24 in., 21 in. and 18 in.
diameters respectively. Priced at £ll/8/-
Saucer shaped easy chair. Priced at £7/5/-
Below left : Half saucer chair, in rattan with
iron legs. Priced at £6/14/-.
Below right : Round coffee table has tray
top and shelf underneath. Priced at £6/17/6
****** ■? '
Mi
Wsm%
. . ; :.-*v
■ ••• . / < ■■ .••. •
n»
m
WMwM
. . m
.
, ■
mmm
WMA
• , ■:.' , :
11+ _ I
, ■■
1111111
'Pi V, 1111
1111111
H
m i
s . sms,
Above : For dining-room or patio, rattan table with beaker holders at
the corners. With strong, graceful iron legs. Table priced at £lO/17/-.
Chair priced at £6/6/-.
Below: Perfect for relaxing! Comfortable, easy-to-move lounging chair,
24 in. wide, 36 in. high and 76 in. long. Priced at only £l4/2/6 each.
'< .v-t**-' • yy>
■; : ;
"* >♦> »>/» &#*•**
«sg:v' • ' * .••' '• 2
» «
WRITE DIRECT TO THE CONTEMPORARY SHOP
Supervised by our group of 'experienced interior decorators, the
Contemporary Shop is a unique service to those homemakers who
want something “out'of'the'ordinary” for their homes.
t' !>'RUTH I Nti-A DVERTI SI NC'
TS6OH iatJOHdi -O‘d'3 ‘Z l L Z XOS 'HOOU QHIHX dOHS IHVaOdUISIMOD


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 16, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3914
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
i Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;]
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
BACK TO 1939
“THE BULLETIN” has previously pointed out
the importance of Krushchev in Soviet politics, and,
at the time of Malenkov’s elevation, it commented
that the position assigned to him at Stalin’s funeral
seemed “on precedent to mark him down as the
current Crown Prince.” In his office as general-
secretary of the Communist party, the traditional
office of the real ruler of Communist Russia, and
held before him by Stalin throughout his
building-up period, it was clear that he was the real
Government. But he and his followers were too
shrewd and wise in the ways of Communist politics
to try to step into the seats of obvious power until
the clean-up after Stalin’s death had been finished
and somebody else had assumed the responsibility
of wiping out their enemies and rivals for them.
With Beria liquidated and the Cabinet “cleansed”
of elements likely to follow his line, a process which
has been going on over the past two years without
attracting much notice, the time became ripe to
take over.
Malenkov himself was apparently set at odds
with various people. As early as January 19 “The
Times” was concerned about the clash between
Krushchev and Malenkov, and added that dissen-
sion in the Kremlin should be watched with special
care. It told its readers—as “The Bulletin” did 18
months before—that committee rule in Russia
could not last long.
In plain fact it seems never to have existed,
save as a fiction, during the period in which the
Beria party was being liquidated. There was little
doubt from the start of Krushchev’s control of
agricultural policy. There was none about his
control of foreign affairs after he led the delega-
tion which signed the important Russo-Chinese
treaty, handing back Dairen to China, giving large
concessions and subsidies to Chinese heavy
industries, and in return obtaining the right to
build strategic railways which would enable Russia
to militarily control Chinese policy in the interior
and fink the inland provinces in time to the Russian
economy.
Krushchev’s stablemates on this expedition
were Bulganin and Mikoyan. There followed on
the Chinese visit a secret mission by the three
somewhere in Siberia which almost inevitably was
connected with the hydrogen-bomb. Nuclear-
bombs were exploded within the range of their
absences from Moscow. Malenkov in these matters
sat in the background, as he did afterwards when
Krushchev presided over the September security
conference of the European satellite States at which
it became evident that the general-secretary was
also the arbiter of Soviet defence policy.
✓ That Krushchev has come out in the open at
the present juncture is ominous. The China crisis
is at its height. The Soviet resolution, offensive
and threatening in its verbiage, was before the
Security Council of U.N.O. calling for a confer-
ence to deal with “United States aggression in the
Far East.” The Russian Ambassadors to all lead-
ing European nations had been called home—they
are apt to escape, and Soviet secrets with them, at
such crises. And on top of that, on February 3, at
the meeting of the Supreme Soviet, the Minister for
Finance Zverev announced a record Budget,
including a wide expansion of expenditure on
“defence” and a wider one on heavy industries.
It was announced that there would be a
considerable expansion of atomic and other
weapons during the year. But throughout the
Budget session Malenkov was given nearly all the
limelight. There are no doubt many red faces in
London, where “The Times” led all the rest on
February 4 in announcing that there was “nothing
really substantial on which to base the sugges-
tions made recently that Malenkov has been losing
ground to Krushchev”:—
The latest reports deny rumors of rivalry ov
competition between the two Kremlin leaders.
What is now taking place, it is understood, is a
growing division of labor, with Mr. Krushchev,
the more energetic and ebullient of the two,
coming more prominently into the limelight....
If the first-secretary—eager for power as he no
doubt is—were aiming at supremacy over the
Prime Minister he would hardly want to spend
so much time away from Moscow, touring Russia
and visiting distant China, leaving his rival to
rule in the Kremlin.
Nobody seems to have seen any significance in
the fact that the ex-Nestorian priest Mikoyan, a
senior member of the polit-bureau and the ablest
Armenian of them all, a known opponent of
Molotov and one of Krushchev’s party with
Bulganin on the China mission, slipped quietly out
of the Ministry of Internal Trade on January 25
and reappeared in the Soviet Session in the guise
of a Deputy-Premier, his promotion not having
been announced publicly.
The main theme of Krushchev at the meeting
of the Central Communist Committee preceding
the fateful session of the Supreme Soviets was based
on the thesis that those who declared that heavy-
industry development, which provides the material
of war, had ceased to be the main task of Socialist
construction were “ill-starred theorists.”
Three days afterwards, amid vituperation
against the United States, Malenkov (who had
spurred-on consumer-goods production) was ousted
and demoted to the minor position of Deputy Prime
Minister—there are several—and Minister for
Electric Power Stations. The change was held up
by Moscow to the world as a manifestation of the
workings of Constitutional democracy in the Soviet
Union.
In plain fact, it is a complete reversion from
a disguised to an open dictatorship of the proletariat
by the Communist-party Polit-bureau. The head
of the State, the policy-maker, as in the case of
Stalin, is party general-secretary Krushchev. The
Prime Minister becomes, as in the pre-war years,
merely a manager of departmental government, and
the job is vested in a comparatively minor
personality, Nikolai Bulganin, one of Stalin’s
immediate instruments—though he has field-
marshal’s rank he is by experience a political
civilian.
The background to the new set-up is a Gov-
ernment of Red Army leaders, the supreme com-
manders of the forces, who appeared in the Supreme
Soviet, openly and belligerently provocative to the
West.
The set-up is remarkably like that of 1939, and
it is timed at a moment when the West is thrown
into confusion in Continental policy once more by
the collapse of the French Government. The tenor
of thought in Russia is clear.
First, there was a tightening of accord and an
organisation of war-footing relations with China.
Next a delegation to conciliate Japan. Then an
attempt, or pretended attempt, since those who
made it knew it was bound to fail and were only
acting for propaganda effect, to achieve German
neutrality and union on virtually a satellite basis.
The satellite security conference was held in,
eastern Europe. Nehru was asked (and went) to
Moscow. China struck at the Tachens, hoping to
tempt the United States into a position in which
it might be convicted of a deliberate act of aggres-
sion. A new organisation was discovered in
southern Siam, where, without the Siamese offering
any resistance, a base for a fresh attempt on Malaya
from within has been established on the border of
British territory, where the British cannot get at it
without violating Siamese neutrality. Then the
immensely increased war Budget was put through.
And at once the Soviet Union reverted to 1939
aggressive Stalinism, with Krushchev at the helm
and Bulganin as its instrument.
The very next day the Red Army leaders,
Koniev and Zhukov, emerged into the open, as
Voroshilov did on the verge of the making of the
Stalin-Hitler accord in 1939, bullying the world at
large and uttering strident threats. Zhukov
becomes Minister for Defence in place of
Bulganin. It remains to be seen whether he will
accept the friendly invitation of President Eisen-
hower to visit the United States.
Bulganin, in his first speech as “Prime
Minister,” said that the Government would “unceas-
ingly carry on the policy elaborated by the Com-
munist party” and described by-him in Leninist-
Marxist phraseology, a double-talk which carries
an innocent meaning to the average reader in the
West and a different one to the Communist.
When he speaks of “consolidation of universal
peace and security” he is careful to say that
he used the words in a Leninist sense, where-
fore they mean peace and security attained by world
revolution and the subordination of all Govern-
ments to a Communist type of rule centred in
Moscow. The local programme which he enunciated
was an echo of Krushchev’s speech to the Com-
munist-party Central Committee a week before.
The “development of heavy industry,” he says,
echoing Krushchev, is the central factor in “the
noble task of development of all branches of our
national economy.” Also, incidentally, of Russian
aggressive strength. His reference to the U.S.
following “a dangerous road in Formosa, a lawful
part of China,” was ominous. China, it seems, can
count on the help of her “true friend,” the Soviet
Union. A “tremendous supply of modem weapons”
is, Bulganin says, available, and the Red forces ar 6
“ready to fulfil any instructions of the Communist
party ’ ’—mentioned first—“and the Government,”
of which he is the supposed head—mentioned
second. And this part of his speech was linked to
his references to Formosa and the alleged
aggressions of America.
Mr. Dulles says that the United States has seen
signs of internal trouble in the Soviet. If there is
—and there certainly have been signs of it—the
worse for the West. For history is full of instances
in which conscienceless and bloodthirsty dictators
of the species that rules in Moscow have sought
security by provoking war with others and thus
diverting the fury of those whom they rule to an
objective other than themselves.
Eggs and the New Guinea War
“WUZZY-FUZZY”: War and omelettes both
require eggs. But few wars, and certainly no
housewives, could afford eggs at the cost of those
produced on the Karakatana poultry-farm in
New Guinea during the last two years of the war.
When some old hands get together they chuckle
about curious aspects of this project, recalling
the lofty carved totem-poles which bore the sign
“Eggs for Empire.” Perhaps it would be better to
say they cackle.
The farm was situated 40 very rough miles
from Moresby. It was set up on an authority dated
August 3, 1943, for the production of eggs and
table-birds, “primarily for hospitals in New
Guinea.”
Materials and equipment were obtained partly
from Army depots and partly from the A.N.G.
Production Control Board. Erection of buildings
and fowl-runs began in September, 1943, and the
n.c.o. in charge of the farm went to the mainland
and bought 1030 birds.
These arrived in March, 1944. The following
month they laid 1281 eggs. Of these, 44 were
liquidated” for domestic use, 41 were classified
under the fine old Army word “sundries” and the
balance were delivered, free of charge, to three
Angau officers’-messes.
By this time the n.c.o. had under his charge
three other-ranks and 24 natives, and expenditure
had been £1892, apart from the cost of erecting
buildings and fowl-runs, the purchase of equip-
ment, the rental of the site, the cost of the n.c.o.’s
visit to the mainland and the pay and allowances
of the Army and native personnel. In addition,
£244 had been spent on poultry-feed. No one
seemed to know at the time or since what the true
total cost was.
It was admitted that the farm was well planned
and a model of efficiency. It should have been.
But there were warnings that its maintenance
would be costly. There was even an elaborate
card-system showing the records of each individual
hen s production and the weight of each egg.
Someone on the staff who must have kept some
chooks in civil life went on record as saying “In
the absence of cockerels the need for this elaborate
record cannot be understood, as all the eggs are
infertile.” Another comment on the farm said “It
can be described as ‘elaborate,’ with the academic
aspect overshadowing the practical purposes for
which it was established. It is assumed a sound
reason existed for the selection of a site on private
property, isolated by miles of very indifferent roads
from the nearest depot.” It declared that a generous
estimate of the farm’s output in full production
would be 250,000 eggs a year, and described the
venture mildly as “uneconomical.”
The next September the farm came under
official notice once more. By this time a sergeant
was in charge, assisted by one n.c.o. and 13 natives.
Card-records had been abandoned, but on the debit
side 13 fowls had died, and 109 were “missing”—
presumably a.w.l. The loss of 11 per cent, of the
original birds in six months was naturally
considered “unreasonably high.”
In the six months only 51,911 eggs had been
produced. Of these, 32,866 had gone to DID
Sogeri and Army hospitals (in an unknown propor-
tion), and 12,708 had been sent to the Gemo native
hospital—but six Angau messes had scored 5084.
Army decided to close the project at the end
of 1944. The 920 surviving birds, including 102
chickens, realised £285, or a little over 6s. each.
The original landed cost had been 365. a bird.
“All useful equipment, including demolished build-
ings, was forwarded to Angau salvage-dump. It is
unlikely that any of this will be disposed of by
sale,” said the report.
There was no inquiry, in spite of a cutting
criticism that “the issue of approximately 10 per
cent, of the eggs produced to Angau units and
officers’-messes calls for comment when the
primary reason for initiating the project was to
supplement hospital ration-scales.”
Someone else’s addendum was more philoso-
phical. Saying that no further action was contem-
plated by Army, it added: “The scheme is regarded
as one of those trial-and-error schemes in war-
time, which fail owing to lack of experience in
handling such a matter.”


THE DUNCE


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor" Splits
“Labor” in N. S. Wales has teen in a
bad enough way during the past week.
Dr. Evatt’s rooms at the Common-
wealth Bank, Sydney, have been a bee-
hive as panting members have appeared
to tell each piece of fresh bad news
about electorates rent in halves, electoral
councils blown to bits by redistribution,
and of Government-held electorates like
New England strengthened. Misfortune
dealt Dr. Evatt an extra blow in the
announcement that his faithful private-
secretary, his voice and publicist in the
Canberra branch of the party and trusted
private watchdog, had resigned.
Then, later on, at an “enthusi-
astic meeting” of industrial-groupers in
the Sydney Town Hall, the strength of the
groups and their powerful unions was
demonstrated, and the note of warning
and defiance to Mr. Dougherty and Dr.
Evatt was channelled by W. P.
Colbourne, general-secretary of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P., who declared that it
was a “travesty and a direct lie to say
that the industrial-groups were sponsored
by any other body than the A.L.P.”
Most significant was the presence at the
meeting not only of the secretaries of
the Federated Clerks and Ironworkers as
an earnest of the financial support behind
the opposition to Dr. Evatt, but of influ-
ential State and Federal politicians,
including F. M. Daly, Federal* Whip, F.
Stewart (Lang), Gordon Anderson
(Kingsford Smith),. D. Minogue (West
Sydney), and W.' O’Connor (Martin).
Even more interesting was the presence
of Mr. JMallam, member for Dulwich
Hill, Mr. Cahill’s closest personal friend
and adviser in the State House.
At a meeting of the Victorian Execu-
tive on February 11, the ex-Communist,
D. Lovegrove, secretary of the Victorian
State A.L.P., had moved rescission of the
Victorian Executive’s decision to boy-
cott the special Victorian A.L.P. Confer-
ence to be~held on February 26. The
conference had been ordered to elect a
new Victorian executive free of industrial-
groupers and to choose six delegates for
the Tasmanian Federal Conference at
Hobart in March.
Mr. Lovegrove had strong support,
including that of John Cain, Premier of
Victoria, Messrs. Galvin, Deputy-Pre-
mier, P. J. Clarey, E. W. Peters, M.P.s,
R. Broadby and several prominent and
powerful union-secretaries. They were,
however, in a hopeless minority.
An opinion from Sir Garfield Barwick,
Q.C., that any individual executive mem-
ber could apply for an injunction against
the conference in the Supreme Court was
mentioned. Steps later were taken to
act on it. The debate was heated ; the
voting was 16 to nine against Mr. Love-
grove’s motion. Afterwards the Premier,
his deputy (Galvin) and Lovegrove and
others —a total of eight—resigned from
the Victorian A.L.P. The ninth, who
voted for the motion, but who did not
resign, was E. W. Peters.
There seems to be no chance of com-
promise. Indeed, a compromise would
be worse than division. It is not -only
the Victorian party which is divided.
The sixteen rebels have strong backing,
including prominent members of both
the Federal and State parties; i.e., they
have the funds of the industrial-group
unions at their beck and call, while the
financial grouping which will be at call
to the rebel section led by Mr. Cain
will run to extremes —both the A-W.U.
and the Watersiders and other Com-
munist bodies will be eager to down the
common enemy.
The Federal shadow-Cabinet, of
course, is now specifically divided. Mr.
Arthur Calwell may not want to be
with the industrial-group section; but
he is in such a position that if he were
the most agile parrot in South America
he could not swing back on to the same
perch as Dr. Evatt. The A.C.T.U. con-
trol is divided.
The Victorian State Government has
become divided as much as the party. The
Ministry will include a breakaway
“Labor” group, and a State election
might easily be forced and would almost
certainly result in “Labor” being thrown
on the ash-heap—Mr. Cain has Supply
till June, but he might easily get himself
into the position in which he is voted out
of office when Parliament meets in about
six dr seven weeks.
There is no time in which to apply
glue to the Victorian position before the
Victorian conference of February 26,
when the A.L.P. Federal Executive must
be ready for action. If it is not prepared
to act firmly, or cannot act firmly, its
obituary-notices as a power in the land
can be taken as read.
To make matters worse, the Federal
House meets early in March, and then
either “Labor” will have to display its
animosities in ridiculous guise (with
rebels and Evatt-followers lying down
together with claws bared) or split like
the Victorians.
Following the Parliamentary meeting,
and with Federal Parliament still in
session, the Federal Hobart Conference
will take place—or will it?
“Labor” has been in bad situations
—in which it has been split from end
to end by Communism and sectarian-
ism—and it has been able to put itself
together again. It might by some unusual
miracle achieve this again, seeing that
principles are not at stake, and everything
that passes for them seems to be mere
opportunism among the careerists who
lead the party.
But, even if it can reunite, there is
one thing it cannot put together again—
its leader. The day he stood up in the
Petrov Commission, made his groundless
charges of conspiracy, and called for Dr.
Bialoguski as a witness in chorus with
the Communists, he filled-in his political
death-warrant. “Labor” can only be
reunited without him. The industrial-
groups, and the Keon-Mullins-Calwell
section of. politics, will never genuinely
sit under him as leader again.
Tachens Evacuated
The evacuation of the Tachens over the
weekend was feverishly described
by one alleged eyewitness as the most
spectacular and terrible thing he had seen
since the day he landed in the Iwo Jima
mess, one of the, toughest little fights of
the Pacific war.
In fact, there was no resistance, and
it was a Guy Fawkes Day rather than
another D-day. The Chinese Com-
munists were content to do most of their
fighting through Peking Radio, which,
however, was not much more abusive
than usual.
The main effort of the Russians and
Chinese at the moment is directed
towards obtaining a propaganda confer-
ence, to consist of 10 nations, to discuss
the Formosa question. The plan is that
Nehru, the visionary Brahmin of
Marxist education who rules India and
who is fresh back from contact with
Moscow, should call the conference
either in Shanghai (in Communist
China) or in New Delhi, and should
ask Communist China, Russia, Burma,
Indonesia, Pakistan, Ceylon and
Britain, France and the United States —
to discuss the whole matter.
The reason for the selection is plain,
but it might be asked why Siam (which
is almost next-door to Formosa), Indo-
China and Japan and the Philippines, all
infinitely more interested than Ceylon,
Pakistan and the two bits of turmoil
in Burma and Indonesia which call
themselves Governments, are hot
included. Also, why Pakistan, beyond
India, should be interested and Aus-
tralia and New Zealand left out, if the
idea that Australia is part of South-East
Asia holds any water.
The great Western Powers, however,
are at last learning the futility of these
meetings and the fact that they are of no
use to anybody except the Communists,
who use them to damage “the face” of
the West among > ignorant Asiatic
peoples. The certainty of failure is self-
evident, since the request for the meeting
by Moscow is accompanied by a barrage
of assurances couched in insulting
language from Peking that Communist
China will never negotiate about For-
mosa, “a de facto part of China, a
portion of its flesh which we will not
allow to be ripped off by sharks and
wolves.”
"Redheap" Walks Again
About the silliest piece of censorship this
country ever saw was the banning of
Norman Lindsay’s Redheap, which is
the best and liveliest picture of an Aus-
tralian country town in our literature,
and which, if it does mention some of
the town’s sex-life (along with the
immortal Uncle ,Jobson’s views on the
onion as the scavenger of the stomach,
Mr. Piper’s habit of measuring people’s
heads and Grandpa Piper’s grand revenge
of standing on hats), is so mild by con-
temporary standards that it is incredible
that there was ever a fuss about it . . .
such a fuss that one Sydney paper
accused the novelist of committing
“matricide” on the fair person of Aus-
tralia.
However alarming this innocent little
comedy may be, the National Library
for the Blind in Great Britain has lately
asked Norman Lindsay and his pub-
lishers for permission to turn it into
Braille for the entertainment of the blind
all over the English-speaking world.
Saturdee, the classic picture of Australian
small boys, is being done at the same
time; and, transcription into Braille
being such a rare and costly process,
Australian literature,
though it may have been, has received a
considerable compliment by the decision.
There is a committee in Canberra
which sits on books banned by the
Customs, as Redheap was, and from time
to time unbans works which it considers
innocuous. Surely it is time it sat on
Redheap —and decided that the Customs
Department shall sit on it no longer.
Facing Which Way?
“In the ACT”: Before the airline com-
panies talk any more about defying the
Director-General of Civil Aviation
regarding the instruction for rear-facing
seats to be installed in all planes delivered
after January 1, 1957, they might make
some real effort to find out the opinion
of their passengers. One company is
reported to claim, with dubious authority,
that such seating is not acceptable to
passengers. At least one regular airlines-
passenger, who has flown in a dozen
countries, and has sat with varying
degrees of comfort facing sideways, for-
wards and backwards, is prepared to
settle for what is regarded, on the strong-
est evidence, as being the safest position
in the event of a crash.
No one suggests that the companies
should overload planes with safety-
devices, but this rear-facing argument
.should be one-sided, with the odds on
safety every time. Half the passengers in
a train or a tram normally face the rear
without showing any appearance of
nausea, and in a plane it takes about
five minutes to become accustomed to the
same position. The view out of the
windows is equally good, and many male
passengers might appreciate the oppor-
tunity of seeing more of the hostesses as
they potter around the kitchen in the
course of their duties. In any case, surely
the Civil Aviation Department and its
Minister and officials are not going to
take this threatened defiance lying down.
The best thing for them to do is to face
backwards and ignore it.
Elections in Tasmania
On Saturday the electors of Tasmania
will go to the polls. Parliaments in the
Speck have a life of five years, barring
accidents, and the one recently defunct
went the full span, although “Labor”
Premier Cosgrove at no time had a
majority in either House.
The 1950 election gave “Labor” 15
members, and there were 14 Liberals and
one Independent, so that after appoint-
ing a Speaker, Cosgrove was dependent
on the vote of the Independent, Wedd.
After three years Wedd grew weary of
the honor and resigned, allegedly to give
the parties a chance of ending the dead-
lock. However, binder the Hare-Clark
system of proportional-representation
which has been used in Tasmania since
1909, the vacancy had to be filled by an
arithmetical reshuffling of the 1950 ballot-
papers. This resulted in the election of
another Independent, McPartlan, and a
position of as-you-were.
Political allegiance in Tasmania is very
evenly divided, and proportional-
representation makes for deadlocks or
near-deadlocks. The five Federal divisions
each return six members to the State
Assembly, and it requires a very big
swing towards one party to give other
than a three-three return in each division.
A recent Act to avoid deadlocks pro-
vides that in the event of a 15-all tie the
party polling the higher aggregate of
primary - votes will be declared the
majority party. The minority party will
then have the option of appointing a
Speaker and a chairman of committees.
If it declines the honor the majority party
may appoint a Speaker, whose prefer-
ence-votes will then be inspected for the
purpose of electing an extra member to
the Assembly. Very complicated and,
on the surface, very fair.
The catch is the intrusion of Inde-
pendents, whose primary-votes are
ignored in deciding the majority party.
Among others, both Wedd and McPartlan
are standing again, one for Denison, the
other for Franklin. In the past their
votes seem to have come from Liberal
rather than “Labor” supporters, and the
Liberal party fears that even if neither
Independent gains a seat the disregarding
of their votes may make “Labor” the
majority party.
The key, of course, is the extent to
which the “Labor” faction-fight has
affected Cosgrove’s party. At every
Federal election since the State poll in
1950 the Liberal vote in Tasmania has
exceeded that of “Labor,” but the margin
last May was very small. Since then
things have gone very much against
“Labor,” and it could well be that this
time the Independent vote will be drawn
from dissident “Labor” supporters. This
could possibly put in an Independent at
the expense of a “Labor” member; it
would in any case pull down the “Labor”
vote and enhance the Liberal chance of
becoming the majority party. Saturday
may see the end of 21 years of “Labor”
rule in Tasmania.
Road-courtesy
“Knights of the Road,” formed in Mel-
bourne, is an organisation of inter-State
road-transport men who will “model
themselves on the English transport-
drivers, who are known throughout the
world for their road-courtesy.” The idea
is welcome, though it has taken a long
time for it to come to light.
There’s to be a “code of ethics”
designed to protect consignors and con-
signees and all road-users, consolidate
the inter-State road-transport industry,
fight for reasonable freight-rates, urge
safe speeds, and co-operate with State
transport boards.
Well, if all this protection, consolida-
tion, fighting and urging results in road-
courtesy even approaching that of British
transport-drivers, it will be worth writing
home about. Any Australian motorist
who drives in Britain can scarcely believe
his eyes at the way truck, bus, van and
semi-trailer drivers take him in hand.
He very quickly learns not to try to
pass until the driver ahead signals him
to do so, to pass when he is signalled,
to slow down and wait when so signalled.
He also realises that the vehicle won’t
hug the crown of the road longer than
is necessary. In other ways the British
driver makes himself responsible for the
safety of the following driver until he
can send him by.
Obviously all this is taught the drivers
and is insisted upon by their employers.
Its real worth is in the cumulative
example it sets. From the heavy-trans-
port driver it goes right down the
motorists to the little three-wheeled cars
scudding about the U.K. roads.
The calling hand which means “Come
on, you may pass me now in safety,” or
the up-and-down hand which means
“Don’t try it, danger ahead,” are so rare
on Australian roads that few of us would
know what they meant. Reform could
well begin in the thousands of Govern-
ment vehicles, few of whom interest
themselves in the man behind.
Dollars to Sharkey?
The week’s commentary:
The Petrov Commission seems to be moving
towards more spectacular things, if not to more
important ones. The piecemeal evidence about
individuals in whom Russia was interested
may not have Seemed of great moment to the
average reader, except in spots. The illusion
that it was not important was heightened by
the repeated denials that those concerned, even
where they were or had been Communists,
had aided Russia or were in any way sym-
pathetic with Russia as distinct from
Communism.
But it all added up (apart from the high-
lights, such as the evidence that the lady who
handled the confidential files in Dr. Evatt s
department during the height of his power
and world influence was a practisipg Commun-
ist) to the fact that during his reign a
number of Communists and the associates
of Communists, and/or their fellow-traveller
movements (mostly now professing repentance)
was inducted into the Department of External
Affairs. It seems that the whole matter is
becoming worth another separate inquiry into
the department’s running at that time and the
effects —this quite outside the somewhat narrow
issues which circumscribe the Petrov
Commission’s inquiry.
Other and equally important issues which
have begun to be of great interest to the
“Labor” party were raised during the week.
On February 8, Petrov gave evidence that the
M. had sent him in September, 1953, a
sum of 25,000 dollars in American currency
(£11,250 Australian) which was brought by
diplomatic courier. He was instructed to have
this handed to Lance Sharkey, general-secre-
tary of the Communist party, through
Antonov, as an “assistance fund” for the
“trade-unions,” i.e., for the Communist party.
He said that he carried this money to Antonov
and it was duly handed over to Sharkey in a
“conspiratorial flat.”
Petrov said that Hughes, the secretary of
the Clerks’ Union—he was the dominating
factor in the so-called Hughes-Evans group
which controlled the State Labor party in
N. S. Wales for a time in 1940, while at the
same time an active Communist —had told him
at a secret meeting in 1952 that Sharkey was
in need of Soviet Union medical attention and
had mentioned that the “Tribune” and the
Communist party were badly in need of funds.
Petrov declared that both he and the Ambassa-
dor advised Moscow of Sharkey’s need to go
to Russia, and that he sent a separate cable
on the situation through the M.V.D.
Permission was dispatched for Sharkey to visit
o Continued on next page).


Russia. When the money had been received
later and handed ..over Sharkey had given a
receipt for “25,000 lists,” and the Embassy
was instructed that the transaction should
be designated as “purchase of wool.” Petrov
swore to obtaining a warning through the
Australian-Russian Society that they should
not go near Sharkey’s office on a day when it
was proposed to hand the money over because
a raid by Security was expected. After the
money had been paid he sent a cable announc-
ing the fact in terms directed, He said he
had made a statement to Security-officers on
the matter about August 24, 1954. Mr. Win-
deyer indicated that Petrov had written down
the names of four persons who, he said, had
received funds from the M.V.D. Petrov also
gave evidence that Moscow had instructed him
to make contact with J. R. Hughes, of the
Clerks’ Union, and ask him if he could obtain
direct contacts with the Security Service.
Mr. E. F. Hill, the secretary of the Victorian
Communist party, appearing for Sharkey,
suggested that the story, which was confirmed
by Mrs. Petrov, was a fabrication, and that it
was bora of Petrov’s desire to “get his own
back” on the Soviet Embassy for having
accused him, after his defection, of having
stolen funds. Mrs. Petrov, who recalled also
hearing a conversation between Rex Chiplin,
of the “Tribune,” and Pakhomov in which
Chiplin told Pakhomov that Security was inter-
ested in her and another Embassy employee,
gave details of the arrival of the money and
of sending Sharkey’s receipt to Moscow.
Sharkey appeared in the witness-box on
February 10. He declared that quite out of
the blue Petrov had conveyed an invitation
to him to visit Moscow for medical treatment,
that the Communist party had paid his fares
for himself and his wife, and that he had
not been charged for his treatment. He denied
that he had received money either from Petrov,
Antonov or any other person connected with
the Russian Embassy. He said that the Com-
munist party did not keep any books, and
no minutes were kept of party meetings,
despite the fact that he admitted that the
payroll would be £lOO a week or more at
headquarters. He admitted that he attended
the annual congress of the Communist party
in Moscow (while supposedly under medical
treatment) and that he had made a speech in
which he said that eight-million Australians
were “no longer assured of adequate food-
supplies” and closed his address with the
slogan, “Long Live Comrade Stalin.” He
admitted that he had been to Russia three
times.
Mr. Hill, Sharkey’s counsel, in cross-examin-
ing Mrs. Petrov, asked if she had read sugges-
tions that the Communist party, the trade-
unions and the Labor party were concerned
in a transaction involving £12,000 or £13,000
to oppose the passage of the Communist-party
Dissolution Act during the referendum cam-
paign. Mrs. Petrov said she had read them.
Mr. Hill then asked:
You have heard the allegation that the
Soviet Union pays money to the Communist
party in capitalist countries?
Mrs. Petrov replied: “I know they pay cer-
tain money.”
It appeared from the evidence that Sharkey
was not the only Communist whose health was
so bad as to need Russian treatment —Mr.
Henry, another prominent member, was in the
same position, and his case was discussed,
according to Petrov, with J. R. Hughes.
The commission then returned to the case
of Clayton, head of the Communist-party’s
Control Commission, who has disappeared and
who is believed to have slipped out of the
country. Both Hughes, who served with him
on the Control Commission, and Sharkey
denied knowledge of Clayton’s whereabouts.
When Hughes said that there was “no
mystery” about his lack of knowledge of him
and that he did not know that Clayton had
operated under three separate names, Mr.
Justice Ligertwood commented that “you and
others are forcing me to the conclusion thaf
Clayton Was the centre of a spy-ring here in
Australia. This important man in the Com-
munist party is mentioned in the Moscow
letters, and nobody will help us to find him.”
And Mr. Justice Owen was just as incredu-
lous about the Communist party’s lack of
records. He said it seemed “incredible, and I
don’t believe it.”
Hughes, who is chairman of the State
branch of the Communist party, .said that he
neither knew the rent paid for the branch’s
two Sydney offices or the landlord of either
of them.
POLITICAL POINTS
New South Wales Parliament opened
yesterday. Cahill probably wishes it had
closed instead.
• •
The fall of the Mendes-France Govern-
ment was the signal for the usual game
of “La Ronde.” At the moment it looks
as if M. Phlimlin is the temporary winner.
• •
There’s no reason why a politician’s
private-secretary shouldn’t resign his job
to take on another post. Dr. Evatt’s
private-secretary, W. Byrne, has just
resigned to take on. an other post.
• •
At a time when non-“ Labor” forces
in Victoria should be concentrating all
their efforts on showing the electors that
they can offer the State a stable Govern-
ment, they are as disunited as ever they
were—and as determined to remain dis-
united. There’s a Liberal-Country party,
a Country party and a Victorian Liberal
party. Among them they muster 27
members against Cain’s 38 (including one
Independent Laborite).
Cain’s tally is, of course, subject to any
amendment that may be necessary as a
result of Friday night’s revolt against the
Victorian executive, when Cain and
Deputy-Premier Galvin, among others,
resigned from the executive.
The resignations were hailed by
Dougherty of the A.W.U. as “the begin-
ning of the end for the agents of an anti-
Labor movement who have infiltrated
into the party.” He was referring not
to those who resigned from the Vic-
torian executive but to those who didn’t.
Cain’s comment was “It’ll all be over in
a fortnight.” Similar prophecies are
made at the beginning of most wars.
• •
Price-control was lifted from seven
more items in N. S. Wales on Friday.
Four of them concerned the leather
trade; the other three were rice,
daily papers and electric batteries.
That makes nearly three-score articles
decontrolled since the middle of De-
cember in accordance with the new policy,
of gradual elimination of controls. The
strange thing is that the Cahills wouldn’t
hear of such a policy until their hand was
forced by the Vic. Government’s sudden
dropping of all controls. Now they’re
talking as if it were the result of long
and earnest thought.
• •
Jack Lang has discovered who really
started “The Movement.” It wasn’t a
Victorian at all. It was Mussolini.
• •
Albert Monk, A.C.T.U. president, has
warned the democracies not to create “a
Frankenstein monster out of the Soviet
switch of leadership.” He added that,
“Liquidations happen often in the
U.S.S.R. There have been so many they
are hard to catch up with.” Almost as
hard as trying to keep up with who’s
which in the A.L.P. and A.C.T.U.
• •
Holt, Federal Minister for Labor, came
out with this: “Loss of working-time
because of industrial accidents in recent
years has been much greater than losses
caused by industrial disputes.” On the
day that was published a Brisbane paper
gave figures showing that in 40 days
from January 1 last 60,000 man-hours
were lost through 17 major “industrial
disputes” on Queensland wharves, delay-
ing more than 40,000 tons of cargo and
more than 40 ships. It would take a lot
of accidents to match that.
• •
Eden told Silverman (Lab.) in the
Commons that he could “conceive of no
circumstances in which Australia or New
Zealand were involved in danger in
which our Government would not be at
their side.” Silverman had asked
whether Britain had ensured itself “free-
dom of action” in the event of either
Dominion getting into a war because of
the Anzus Pact.
When a Sydney plumber was dragged
to court and fined for carrying his own
tools and material to his own job in his
own truck, the offence being “competing
with the railways,” the Sydney daily
newspapers “went to town” about it. Yet
he was not by any means the first to suffer
such a penalty; the injustice has been
practised for 25 years, and periodically
people have been fined just as the
plumber was. But that doesn’t make the
law any less unfair.
• •
Army Minister Francis, announcing that
the Army height-limit had been lowered
to sft. 2in., said “it was felt that the
lower height-standard would broaden the
recruiting field.” Does this mean our
Army will now be as broad as it’s long?
• •
The American Federation of Labor and
the Congress of Industrial Organisation
have agreed to unite and enter 1956 with
“American Labor united for the first time
in nearly 20 years.” The news will be
received with envy by the present leaders
of Australian “Labor.”
• •
In 1917 Frank Forde was elected to
the Queensland Assembly as member for
U??R
(This cartoon was published in The Bulletin on March 11, 1953,
following the announcement of Stalin's death and before the appointment
of Malenkov as Prime Minister. Since then some of the doctors who
were “purged” have been reinstated, Beria has been liquidated, and
Malenkov has resigned in favor of Bulganin, with Krushchev holding the
key position of general-secretary of the Communist party. Heavy
question-marks still overhang the Kremlin.)
Rockhampton ; he was 27, the youngest
member of the House. Five years later
Capricomia sent him to the Federal Par-
liament, where he became, in time,
Deputy-leader of the “Labor” party, a
Minister in the Scullin, Curtin and
Chifley Governments, and, for a week,
Prime Minister. Rejected by Capricornia
in 1946, he was appointed High Commis-
sioner to Canada. Now, at 64, he is start-
ing out on the long trail again, having
narrowly won the pre-selection ballot for
the Queensland Assembly seat, Flinders,
vacant through the death of Mines
Minister Riordan. The by-election will
be held on March 9.
• •
If Sharkey and Hughes are to be be-
lieved —and no one would suggest that they
would tell the Petrov Commision judges
an untruth —the Australian Communist
party is miles ahead of its Russian teachers
in one thing. It has solved the problem
of running its finances without books or
records of any kind. Apparently the whole
secret is in the beautiful trust the local
Comrades have in each other. It must
be something like the touching faith that
existed between Malenkov and Beria a
couple of years ago—or between
Malenkov and Krushchev until last week.
• •
In 1953 the Doc. was prepared to throw
his weight into State election campaigns
wherever he could get his feet on a plat-
form or his chin in front of a mike —
and State “Labor” leaders were glad to
have him. It’s different now. The Tas-
manian electioneering is almost over, but
there’s been no speech by Bert and no call
for him. And if Cain finds himself forced
to the polls in the next few months he’s
not likely to look to the Doc. for help.
As for Cahill . . .
• •
Red China is to have a conscript army.
To the individual Chinese soldier this
means that, instead of being made to
volunteer, he will be permitted to accept
compulsion.
• " •
The Miners’ Federation has suggested
that the Federal Government should fix
a maximum quota for the amount of fuel-
oil to be used in industry in competition
with coal. If was through the selfish
antics of the miners that many concerns
installed diesel-plants, and now that the
coal-industry has lost customers and
markets they are squealing for help.
• •
At least one part of the world doesn’t
accept the Hollywood caricature of
Captain Bligh. When Princess Margaret
landed on St. Vincent, in the Windward
Islands, she was welcomed by an islander
dressed in antique naval uniform to
represent Bligh and standing in a long-
boat manned by a crew of nine Caribs,
descendants of original inhabitants of the
island, to which Bligh brought bread-
fruit plants from Tahiti.
• •
N.S.W. Railways’ chief blah-merchant,
Winsor, has had his name broadcast and
his signature reproduced in advertise-
ments to the wonder of millions of radio-
listeners and newspaper-readers. A
flattering portrait of himself took-up
acres of paid-for advertising-space. But
blah won’t run railways. Over the past
two years the Sydney suburban system
has been breaking down more regularly
than it ever did before.
• •
Last week’s “Tribune” did not mention
the name of Malenkov or of any other
Russian leader. By this week, of course,
the party-line will have been clearly de-
fined and the local disciples of Moscow
will know exactly what to say.
• •
Defending the rises in public-service
pay, Minister for Labor Holt said,
“Australia simply could not afford to
have other than executives of top ability
handling administration and expendi-
ture.” But how can we be sure we’re
getting them under the p.s. system of
promotion, where seniority usually out-
ranks ability?
• •
While in London the Australian P.M.
has been putting in some strong words in
support of Anglo-American friendship,
and some lively criticism of com-
mentators and others who make il
“terribly easy for these great com-
munities and countries to misunderstand
each other.” His last few sentences al
the Australia Club dinner:
Judge every nation by its actions, don’t
worry about words and lose no sleep over
commentators If by the end of this
century mankind has managed to move
into a period of peace, it will be found
by the responsible historian that this was
the result of an honest and clear under-
standing and mutual purpose between the
people of our own race and the great
people of the United States. Anyhow,
that is what I think, and I am sustained
by the last three elections in thinking that
this is what Australia thinks.
• •
“Docket”: It was only 55 minutes
after starting-time when the chap at the
desk next to me in the Department of
Thisandthat reached the newspaper item
which began, “Professor F. A. Bland,
M.P., today called for a full public
inquiry into the workings of the Federal
Public Service to discover if it could
work better.” My neighbor yawned.
“These politicians are an interfering lot,”
he remarked. “They think they govern
the country. Just think what’d happen
if we weren’t here to do it. Wonder when
that girl’s going to bring the tea round?”


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
-OICHARD ALDINGTON’S biography
of T. E. Lawrence shows the hero
of Revolt in the Desert with feet of sand.
Right or wrong; it’s a coincidence that
Aldington’s early best novel should have
been called Death of a Hero. —“Viper.”
❖ ❖ +*♦
“Excaf”: ‘lf you’re a clerk you get
a job as a cook” was a maxim of war-
time Service-life which I thought would
have died out; but lately a lad, an able-
seaman employed by Melbourne Harbor
Trust, applied for admittance to the
Navy for his National Service training—
and was sent to Puckapunyal (Vic.) as a
private in the Army! This, despite a
strong recommendation in his favor by
the Department of Labor and National
“ Don't say ‘ him ,’ lady. She’s one of th' fair sex.”
Service. He surely can be pardoned for
feeling bitter, particularly as he Jiad
considered making the Navy a permanent
career at the end of his National Service
term.
& *l* ♦>
“Pat”: Is change-of-sex more than the
whim of an occasional crank —is it the
spreading malady of a. neurotic age?
Attending three recent fancy-dress
functions, I was struck by the desire of
the young people to change sexes. Nearly
90 per cent, of the girls went as space-
men, toreadors and Robin Hoods ; in
even greater proportions the boys went
as beach-girls, Marilyn Monroes and
other sexy types.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Plus-Forty”: That insurance company
which proposes to give preferential rates
to women drivers under 25 (B. 26/1/’55)
has a different outlook from the cop
who gave me a licence
last year. Once round
the block, two easy ques-
tions, a few admonitory
words* and I was
through. But a young
spinster friend, going for
her driving-licence a
week later, was given a
really gruelling test by
the same bobby. The
furious and curious one
asked why the difference.
The reasons given were:
Married women
generally have their
children in the car with them, so naturally
they tend to drive cautiously. Married
women mostly drive a hard-earned family
car, and get what-for from their husbands
if they dent it. Married women go on
receiving tuition for the rest of their lives!
(I’ll say /)
❖ ❖
“Bianca”: At the beginning of this
school-term schoolboy train-travellers
received, with their free passes, a note
from the Deputy Commissioner for Rail-
ways (N.S.W.) requesting good behavior
on railway premises and trains. Included
was a list of “instances of misbehavior”
which the pupils were urged to avoid.
With mounting horror I read down the
list, comprising such examples as:
Firing missiles from catapults at one
another inside the carriages, and also at
workmen alongside the lines.
Gathering gravel from station platforms
and throwing it at trains.
Playing cards for money.
Exploding fireworks in carriages and on
station platforms.
Incredulously I asked my son: “Boys
don’t really do those things, do they?”
He looked ms straight in the eye and
solemnly replied, “No, Mum, that
report is highly exaggerated. I can
honestly say that in four years of travel-
ling to school I have never yet seen boys
playing cards —for money.”
❖❖ ♦ ,
“P.M.”: What gave “Metralia” the
idea (B. 2/2/’55) that you must first
produce two-headed, to get two-tongued,
women?
“Ceg”: Recently saw a picture of the
Admiral’s quarters on a British battle-
ship. Dainty dimity curtains over the
portholes —or are they windows? —and
chairs prettily covered in cretonne.
Thfe table set for afternoon-tea, with
fragile-looking chinaware and vases of
flowers. It looked more like the boudoir
of a fastidious lady of fashion than the
den or lair of a sea-dog. I couldn’t help
wondering what Hawkins or Drake
would have thought about those flowers;
“Ex-Nitkeeper”: Police who raided a
Melbourne swy-school were somewhat
astonished by the comforts provided
patrons. They told the court there were
comfortable forms, a carpeted floor,
shaded lights, a bar and other amenities.
From the bar, they said, a man was
serving “tea and cakes.” Tea and cakes!
*** *• ❖
“Nunk”: Some may have been sorry
for poor Mr. Charles Moses ; being only
general manager of the A.8.C., he had
to sit out on the lawn outside Sydney
"She leads him a dog’s life."
Conservatorium during the first concert
of the fully l subscribed A.B.C. Beethoven
Festival; but remembering, when I saw
the picture in the paper next morning,
that they chopped the last movement of
the No. 2 concerto (with Hephzibah)
to make room for a record of some very
ordinary songs sung by an eminent
Chinese, I unkindly hoped that Mr. Moses
might have caught a cold. For, very
truly, there is no end to this kind of thing.
♦♦♦
“Sister Ellell” : When I finished my
midwifery training, I thought I’d seen
my quota of odd incidents in that field.
But lately I was standing on the doorstep
of the local obstetric hospital, about to
depart, when a taxi swept up and halted
by the door. The driver, in a real twit,
flapped around with the cases and baskets.
Passenger showed no sign of moving
from the back seat . . . and from the
look of her she was not doing any better
than neck-’n’-neck with the,stork! The
driver looked puzzled, and then decided
to move the gear inside —while Mumma
drew the last gasp from her cigarette.
Doubtless from previous experience she
knew that that was the last fag she’d
see for a week or so!
*X* ❖ ❖
“C.A.L.”: The cyclone which passed
through W.A. from Roebourne to the
Bight early in the New Year had its
flying-saucer thrill. At night, during the
height of the blow, drinkers in the hotel
at Mt. Magnet were watching the
lightning and rain from a doorway on the
sheltered side of the bar when a large
circular shining object passed flying close
to the ground. A flying saucer? And
seemingly looking for a place to land!
A loud bang soon settled this point, and,
ignoring the wind, rain and lightning,
everyone m the bar made a dash for
the spot where the crash was heard,
hoping to catch at least one Martian
alive. What they really did find crumpled
against the cowyard fence was a new
2000-gallon corrugated-iron tank which
the wind had lifted from an elevated
stand in the township a quarter of a
mile from where it pranged.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Eurimburra”: “Swingle” (B.
26/l/’55) is right; you can find blokes
up for traffic-offences a long way back in
our history. About the luckiest drunk
I’ve heard of was one Mr. Geo. Patten-
den. Just 101 years ago, Mr. Stubbs,
Sydney’s then nuisance-inspector, caught
up with him at the Royal Hotel. Next
day Geo. appeared, as drunk as ever,
before the Beak, charged with “galloping
a horse along George-street and nearly
riding-down a pedestrian.” Accused
indignantly told the Bench that he was
“one of the best riders in the world,”
and that, as he’d been in the colony only
three weeks, it was hard to be “pounced
upon” in such a manner. He considered
it a gross shame to “impose upon people,”
and that such a thing would cause a riot
in England. “I’m too good a rider to
hurt anybody,” he added. Mr. Nicholls,
for the Crown, pressed for the maximum;
their Worships imposed the minimum,
viz,: Two-quid and 13-bob costs?' “Notes
were proffered on all sides” to pay the
fine, as evidently Geo. was “held in high
regard by very many present.”
“F.U.F.”: “W.P.T.” (B. 12/17*55)
reports on the speed-hogs of 1907, but
they existed years before that. A
“Hobart Town Mercury” of 1860 reports
a cab-driver before the P.M. charged
with “furious driving.” “He was driving
at the rate of 12 miles an hour,” said
witness. Forty-shillings and costs, or in
default one month in the cooler, said the
P.M.
“Highfields”: Toowoomba (Q.) early in
this century had a regulation forbidding
“trotting round the corner” at the main
intersections. It was alleged that the
mayor himself had broken the law by
trotting round from Ruthven-street into
Margaret-street. Inevitably there was
the query: “Was it a horse or a. mayor
that trotted round the corner?”
* ❖
“X.S.”: A smash-grab raid which
deprived an Elizabeth-street, Melbourne,
jeweller of £5400-worth of jewellery,
recovered later, stimulated his imagina-
tion. After the broken window had been
replaced with the new glass he stuck up
the notice, “Even Melbourne’s under-
world appreciates our values.”
$ ♦>
“Metralia”: Gobbledygook is often
used by highbrow music-writers. But
how’s this from a swing-writer? -
“He’s the only musician to have bridged
the gap between gutbucket and bop with
any degree of success.”
* * ❖
“Alma”: Come, come, “Tas.” (B.
26/1/*55); some of your facts aren’t.
My blood is the common old scarlet
variety, but I spent very pleasant hours
in the Ascot Royal Enclosure at the
Coronation meeting, and all four days,
together with fares from London every
day, cost far less than fifteen-guineas
about half that amount would be closer*
I was one of many lasses from Common-
wealth countries who enjoyed the honor.
Far less crowded than the garden-
parties, it gave us many chances of seeing
Royalty clearly and closely, without
gaping and jostling. A few days previ-
ously my cobber and I had been to the
Derby, mixing it “for free” on the heath
with the world and his wife. We de-
lighted in both outings, one no less than
the other; it was exciting to be one of
the crowd that turned to the Royal Box
and cheered when her Majesty’s colt
came in a winner (not that her Majesty
saw much of it; she was far excited
jigging on one foot and “riding” Choir
Boy home with her race-book against
the palm of her hand), and it was also
exciting to be suddenly and surprisingly
dancing a jig with an elated Cockney
(who had previously us into
a fails-position because we’d come
12,000 miles to see the Derby) when he
won twenty-quid on Pinza.
A HOME FOR THE HOMELESS
At a Homes Exhibition in a Sydney
dance-hall
They say they’ve got a house that hasn’t
got any wall;
It’s a saving on the bricks, and the paper
and paint,
And small rooms don’t matter when the
four walls ain’t.
It’s a tempting proposition, but I’m hold-
ing aloof
Till they take away the ceiling and take
away the roof ;
Without a wall to hold it, on the first
windy day
It’s possible that anyhow the roof would
blow away.
And should a sudden thunderstorm or
deluge occur
You’d be chasing roof and ceiling with
your good furniture —
So now that I’ve designed so much, I’ll
do a bit more:
In addition to no walls and roof, it won’t
have any floor.
It won’t be cluttered up with things like
tables or chairs,
No baths, beds or carpets, no hallways
or stairs,
It won’t require a block of ground, or
garden or sward —
My home for the homeless, that all can
afford.
I wouldn’t need to fill it with wife and
family ;
And then I needn’t live in it, for then
I’d feel free;
But whether I should hang around, or
whether I’d roam,
I’d always be certain no place was like
home.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AT the end of the movie in which a
Y*- mob of toughs on motor-bikes had
terrorised a country town (including the
local representative of law and order)
“You can call the Wedding off , Lydia. I met THIS luscious
thing this morning."
the chap in the next seat spoke out
loud to no one in particular. “Might be
all right for cityites,” he exclaimed, “but
they wouldn’t have lasted five minutes in
Menindie.”—“Ealbook.”
* * *
“Tingo”: Here are two items from two
English newspapers of high repute:—
“aa u 4. j. „ * i /-i
Manchester Guardian” (Special Corres-
pondent in Peking): Faces are happy—•
happier than in Moscow. Except at the
airport, there are no effigies of Stalin or
of Mao Tse-tung.
London “Daily Telegraph” (Special
Correspondent in Peking): The laughter and
gaiety in the streets have gone for the most
part. From the walls of most buildings
saturnine portraits of Mao Tse-tung,
Stalin, Mr. Malenkov and Mr. Molotov
glower down.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Driller”: Had The Bulletin film-
reviewer been an oil-man he could have
picked a number of holes in “Caspian
Oil Men” (B. 19/1/’55). The drilling-
equipment used by the Russians is either
obsolescent or obsolete in design,
and the motor transport looks
like war-salvage stuff. The fire-
fighting technique is completely
outdated and makes one suspect
that this part of the film was
fabricated in a studio ; other-
wise it is difficult to believe that
the fire was ever overcome by
the methods adopted. Even the
glamorising effect of color-
photography can’t hide the lack
of paint and general mainten-
ance in the ferry-fleet, and the
casual shots of the hulks used
for the construction of an out-
to-sea breakwater make one
wonder how decrepit an iron
hull must become before it is
considered junk by the Russians.
“Joel”: “Narumee’s” mention of
Charles Fortune’s fruity voice (B.
26/1/’55) came to mind as I got stuck
in the crowd at the Adelaide Test. What
with raucous-voiced kids selling ice-
cream, a group of louts near by advising
the players what to do, squealing women
and a head which bobbed in front of
my glasses each time I focused them I
was glad to get home to listen in dignified
comfort to the radio-commentators’
fruity tones.
+> ❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: Mention of Bill Fitz Henry
among The Bulletin’s old hands (B.
26/1 /’55) reminds me of that staunch
144-page helpmate of the freelance The
Australian Authors and Artists’ Hand-
book, edited and published by Fitz in
1935. It contained a wealth of information
and kindly advice, from submission of
MS. to elucidation of copyright laws,
as well as a detailed list of papers and
their requirements—all for 2s. 6d. It
was a well-thumbed inhabitant of my
desk in those grim pre-war depression-
days, and remains there still, for nostalgic
reasons. Since then, alas, many of the
journals listed have either changed
drastically or died, and the freelance’s
scope has dwindled accordingly. I note
that the weeklies which have shown the
least change in their attitude to Aus-
tralian writers and artists in the 20 years
since Fitz produced his Handbook are
The Bulletin and the “Woman’s
Mirror.”
* *
“Cag”: A Melbourne school journal,
the “Brighton Grammarian,” has
recorded a coincidence which could be
passing interest to a wider circle. A
football-match (Aussie Rules, of course)
was played on the Ivanhoe Cricket
!; T t IQI/1 n
Ground on July 30, 1934, betwee
Brighton and Ivanhoe Grammar Schools.
It was the last game of the Associated
Grammar Schools’ series, and the cap-
tain of the Brighton team was the late
Geoff Waring, who was playing his final
game. The result was a tie, not usual in
Australian Rules. Twenty years later, on
July 30, 1954, Brighton and Ivanhoe
Grammar again played the last game in
the Associated Grammars’ series on the
Ivanhoe Cricket Ground. The result was
again a tie; but there’s more to the story
than that. Although the Brighton team
was not led by a Geoff Waring this time,
that happened to be the name of the
“I Wont have any off this tree — it's been sprayed."
Ivanhoe School captain, and he was also
playing his final game.
+> *t* ♦>
“Jasby”: Where did Peter Bladen (B.
9/2/ ’55) get the notion that “Smiler”
Hales was an American journalist? The
creator of McGlusky was born in
Adelaide and gained his mining
knowledge and his journalistic experience
in Broken Hill. He certainly visited
America (and England) before going to
Coolgardie, and after his sojourn on the
goldfields he visited most parts of the
world. Hales was a war-correspondent,
in the South African War (wounded and
captured by the Boers and imprisoned
for the duration), the Russo-Japanese war
and World War I; he also fought for
the Macedonian rebels against the Turks
in 1903. Miller’s Australian Literature
lists 60 of his novels, including 20
McGluskys.
* ❖ ❖
“C. 8.”: Melbourne’s Moomba festival,
due in March, is warming up nicely. One
of its features will be a theme-song,
“Come to Melbourne for the Moomba,”
by that veteran song-hit writer Jack
O’Hagan. Committee-members almost
wept tears of joy when they heard a
recording of it —they confidently expect
that the milk-ohs of the world will soon
be whistling it, as they have whistled so
many of the O’Hagan compositions,
which run into several hundred and have
sold well over two-million copies.
❖ ❖
“Lavengro”: Queer happenings in
radio (B. 2/2/’55)? One recent week
produced something that it is a wonder
does not happen more frequently—the
same question asked on two widely
separated stations (Melbourne and Bris-
bane) on the same night. The question
was: “In what country is Ashby-de-la-
Zouche?” The Melbourne competitor
said “Spain”; but the Brisbane entrant
gave the correct answer, “England.”
♦j *z* *
“O. K. Lee”: I carefully omit to
identify the Australian capital where I
held the noisy pre-war party of which
I was reminded by the joke-block (B.
19/1/’55) showing the constable solicit-
ing the loan of the patrol-wagon to take
his family for a jaunt. The party was
crashed by two burly plainclothes blokes
with John Hop stamped all over them.
They brushed me aside, laid an unerring
course for the keg, surrounded a round
or two and left without breaking silence,
but returned to repeat the performance
several times during the night, leaving
their patrol-car outside. Some time in
the small hours they became officious,
demanded the names and addresses of a
half-dozen of my guests, bundled them
into the boob-buggy and departed. While
we were deliberating a protest the phone
rang and I heard from one of my lately
whisked-away guests that he had been
dumped, with attendant saving of taxi-
fare, at his own door. On this news the
other guests docilely waited to be
“arrested,” as they duly were by the
returning minions of the law, who made
several trips. Thereafter any of us who
were attending parties made sure that
these demons were tipped-off. The 1939
war brought an end to a pleasant era in
which, before police-departments sported
official public-relations sections, the Force
in one State was building up goodwill in
large lumps.
❖❖ . ❖
“Russell”: So the Manly (N.S.W.)
Council has decided to call tenders for
the disposal of the junk-heap at the ocean
end of the Corso. Originally figuring as
the centre-piece of the Coronation decor-
ations in Whitehall, this unwieldy
anachronism was bought in London,
dismantled, crated, shipped to Sydney,
and then laboriously re-erected over a
garden-plot almost within splashing-
distance of the sea. On the site selected
there stood a clock which was at least
useful, but this cumbersome contraption
of corroded piping and tarnished embel-
lishment is a plain eyesore. It arrived
far too late after the Coronation to have
any appeal either to trippers or locals, and
this fact, together with the obviously
recurring expense of painting and main-
tenance,, entitles the local businessmen
who strenuously opposed the purchase to
say, “We told you so.”
♦> ❖ ♦♦♦
“8.1. K.”: Reading the excellent notice
of Miss Bedford’s book on Sir Alfred
Stephen in the Red Page, with the refer-
ence to the attack by O’Farrell on the
Duke of Edinburgh, recalled a story told
by an uncle of mine, Q. L. Deloitte,
doyen of rowing in N.S.W. for many
years. Attending the Clontarf do as a
lieutenant of the Naval Brigade, he saw
a lady pick up the duke’s cap after it
had fallen in the attack, and make off
with it in the crowd. He followed her
and politely demanded his Highness’s
cap. The lady said “Certainly not” ; put
the cap under her crinoline, and sat
down. He told me that that stumped
him; and remarked that the cap was no
doubt now an heirloom in someone’s
family.
♦♦♦ *
“O’Johnno”: Duty-stamps on receipts
is another little business transaction that
goes along with the charge for exchange
on cheques (B. 26/1/’55). Various shop-
keepers here in Tassie have the formula,
“Sorry, I’ve run out of duty-stamps, but
I’ll give you a duplicate receipt,” and so
save the few pence involved. A piano-
tuner of my acquaintance gets away with
it in this way when he pockets the fiver
which is the tuning-fee. I don’t know
whether I’m culpable for accepting an
unstamped receipt, or for failing to report
him! According to Tasmanian law,
duplicate receipts stated to be such must
be certified to the satisfaction of a col-
lector of stamp-duties in order to be
exempt from a stamp.
SUMMER SUNDAY
You ve had your fill of ceaseless ocean
surge,
Of “chasing shoots”; so you at last
emerge.
A day you’ve dreamed of, this. The sun
on high,
And not a cloud to mar a perfect sky.
No lover of sun could possibly withstand
The potent lure of glorious thermal sand.
Into its golden, soft embrace you sink,
And soon your pelt assumes a tinge of
pink.
What I Get beneath the outsize beach-
umbrella ?
That’s only for some soft, fat, pansy
fella!
IJp to the sun you turn your frontispiece
And soon you seem to be immersed in*
grease.
You’ll cook the other side ; over you roll.
The beams beat down from the “inverted
bowl,”
Inducing a condition soporific
That’s helped by murmurings from the
Pacific.
Now on your back again, your arms
akimbo,
You taste the lotus, float into the limbo,
“The world forgetting, by the world
forgot” —
Forgetting, too, it’s getting extra hot.
Slowly, some two hours later, you awake,
Drowsily thinking: what a glorious
bake!
And then you try to open up your lamps;
Your lids seem gummed, or fettered fast
with clamps.
Your shins are tighter far than any drum.
Like ancient parchment has your face
become,
So that, when essaying an outsize yawn,
It cracks, the color of a just-boiled
prawn.
Your chassis’s regist’ring, you’re much
afraid,
Over 140 in the shade.
Next morning it will be more aggravating.
Putting your collar on’s excruciating.
O agony, to bend to tie your laces,
And even worse than that, to pull on
braces!
Your experience you will scarcely say’s
enriched,
When, some days later, you have peeled
and itched.
This consolation, though, you may com-
mand :
That naked baking’s altogether banned —
For in your misery of getting brown
At least, you must admit, you can sit
down!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Airlines all over the world are ordering Viscounts
the fastest, smoothest, most popular, medium-range airliner in the world
NPV36A
British European
Brl Vways
3& Viscounts
60 Viscous
&£2s>
-rraM- Ca r lil
Airlines
21 Viscounts
TAA
TteUtlS
AttaCZaica
AiA&nJU
Tap
ntwtw-m&mmmm
\
fl
Reservations: 119 Phillip Street, Sydney. Phone 80526
PERSONAL ITEMS
Peter Heydon has gone a good dis-
tance —geographically and professionally
—since he first saw the light at Epping,
Sydney. Trained to law, admitted In 1936,
he shortly afterwards joined External
Affairs, to become private-secretary in
turn to Sir George Pearce, R. G. Menzies
and S. M. Bruce. Then his travels
started: Australian Legation in Moscow ;
the same in Washington ; External Affairs
Counsellor in London; Australian
Minister to Brazil; ending at his present
address, the High Commissioner’s office
in New Zealand. Next April he’s due to
cast-up in New Delhi, as High Com-
missioner. An old Fortian, just passed 40.
• •
On the podium facing the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra (as here indicated)
the 180-2001 b. of athletic bone and muscle,
plus intellect and geniality, that go to
make up JCurt Woess, the Viennese con-
ductor who began his Australia-wide
tour for the A.B.C. with the Beethoven
Festival. A pupil of the great Wein-
gartner, he waved a baton over his first
orchestra—-the Vienna Symphony—at 22,
and in the eighteen years since then has
piloted a host of celebrated orchestras.
Between 1951-53 he directed the Japanese
BATONS
Broadcasting Orchestra —the' first Euro-
pean to hold that post.
Steeped in the classico - romantic
tradition, Woess revels particularly in the
works of Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert
and Brahms —and rarely has recourse to
a score in the concert-hall. He keeps
his classics in trim with (according to
season) tennis, skating, skiing, swimming
and horseback-riding, and puts his mind
through the hoop by browsing on Shaks-
peare, Goethe and Schiller, topping off
with some Schopenhauer philosophy.
• •
“Montrose”: Melbourne’s Sir William
Angliss (B. 26/1 / ’55) could claim to be
the dean of its diminishing band of
flower-wearers. For uncounted years
S’Williaih has perhaps never been seen
without a flower in his lapel—preferably
a red rose.
.. • ©
“Uramao”: Sir Arthur Sims, one-time
Test-cricketer, a distinguished graduate
of Canterbury University College (N.Z.),
and a benefactor of science and education,
has been honored by the New Zealand
University with an honorary Doctorate
of Laws. His more recent benefactions
include a cobalt telecurie unit for cancer-
treatment costing upwards of £25,000.
He presented the two thrones in the
Wellington Legislative Council Chamber
used by the Queen and Duke of Edin-
burgh. Now 78, Sir Arthur founded a
large firm of meat- and produce-exporters,
and is a director of the N.Z. Shipping Co.
• •
“Pip Tok”: The storm over the Jap
pearl-divers ruffled but lightly the head
of Bernard Bardwell, retired master-
pearler of Broome (W.A.), Boer War
and War I soldier, rank of captain. Born
in Melbourne, he shifted to Westralia
in 1897, and was pearling from 1903 till
he retired in 1939. War-time interruptions
were not his only setbacks. In 1908 he
had two luggers sunk under him in
cyclones. Another time he spent 17 hours
in shark-infested waters, about 70 miles
south of Broome, before he was rescued.
Now 74, he fossicks among his magni-
ficent collection of seashells, said to be
the finest in the world, which he started
as a boy in Melbourne. He intends the
collection to go to Melbourne Museum,
o •
From anchors to ploughshares goes
Enzedder Captain W. Whitefield —from
close on half a century with the Union
Steamship Co. to a share in 1900 acres
of land in South Australia. He com-
manded some 30 of the company’s craft;
skippered Aorangi on her last journey to
the wreckers in Glasgow in 1953, the
hospital-ship Maheno in the Raiser’s war,
and the Maunganui in Hitler’s.
• •
Academic honors seem to come
naturally to the Clunies-Ross family.
David, youngest son of the C.5.1.R.0.
chairman, last year matriculated with a
Commonwealth scholarship and is now
doing an arts-course; second son Adrian
is in his final year at Duntroon ; Anthony,
the eldest, having completed four years
of a medical course on a scholarship,
has been awarded a Major Resident
Scholarship to Trinity College, Mel-
bourne, where he will do arts. Their
father has collected a raft of research-
fellowships since he first started with
the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute on
veterinary research.
• •
Norman Lindsay’s memory of Syd
Long (passed on in London):
I really knew little about Syd Long worth
recording, unless it be that when I first met
him in 1901 he wore a top-hat and a well-
tailored frock-coat, which struck me as a
remarkable garniture for any artist to wear
in that era—or any other, for that matter.
But Julian Ashton had just resigned the presi-
dency of the Society of Artists in favor of
Syd, and I suppose he felt that the dignity of
his position demanded some stylism of
appearance.
Also, he had recently made his reputation
as a painter of distinction by two large
canvases, “The Bathers” and “Flamingoes,”
and it is rather depressing to record that they
still remain the best things he ever painted;
at least, to my knowledge. But he was a
competent painter and has his place in the
plastic tradition of this country. Perhaps he
became a little too competent; that sort of
competence which becomes stylised, and tends
to sterilise the struggle for fresh achievement.
That in his early painting he did work hard
to get the best out of a picture by solid study
and sustained effort can best be placed on
record by the lady who sat for him as the
model in “Flamingoes” and who saw him at
work on that picture.
Rose Lindsay’s recollection:
My first introduction into the art world was
to pose for the standing figure in “Flamingoes,”
now in the National Gallery. I was at Syd
Long’s door well in advance of his arrival.
He showed me a sketch of the pose required
and soon put me at ease about stripping;
I didn’t know I would have to pose nude.
I posed every day for six weeks at ss. a day,
big money in those days for a working-girl.
He painted many studies for that figure, and
on weekends went to some river to make
studies and to the Zoo to paint actual
flamingoes.
I knew nothing of art or artists at that time,
but have made a few observations since, and
realise how much work Sydney Long put into
those first studies, which he would take from
the easel and turn to the wall before opening
the door to a knock or before telling me to
have a rest. This increased my curiosity so
much that I dived on to them for a hurried
look when he went forth carrying the teapot
to the caretaker’s quarters.
When he engaged me he stipulated that I
pose only for him till his picture was finished.
After that I went to Julian Ashton’s classes,
where there was much comment on Long’s
top-hat. It was said that he bought it to
wear to some function when the Duke of
York was here; Fred Leist said he wore it in
order to make himself look taller against a
tall slim lady he was then paying serious court
to; Julian Ashton sucked in his under lip and
said, “It’s all a lot of damn’ rot.”
I grieve to state that I never saw the grand
sight of the short Sydney Long in a high
silk-hat and morning-suit.
A man who’s left his mark in many
places, Wylton Todd, has cast-up in
home-town - Adelaide after 27 years.
Navigating an R.A.F. Mosquito, he was
shot down over Germany and boarded
for two years in Stalag-Luft 111, the
camp of The Wooden Horse. Released
by American troops, he returned to
London, to take up again his normal
calling, architecture. The Battle of
Britain Air Force Memorial Chapel, un-
veiled not long ago by the Queen, is
Todd’s work, as are structures in Canada,
New York and California. He’s now
working on a project in the Bahamas.
Visiting father and mother in Adelaide.
• •
One Old Digger will succeed another
as Public Service Commissioner in
Westralia when S. A. Taylor retires
shortly. Commissioner for the past 10
years, Taylor entered the Westralian
public service as a messenger in 1907,
studied accountancy, and was Auditor-
General from 1936 until appointed P.S.C.
in 1945. He lost a leg while serving with
the Bth Battery on Gallipoli. Taking
over, Herbert Smith entered the public
service in 1913, and has been Under-
secretary for Lands since 1946. A
quietly spoken but earnest administrator,
he served with the 16th Battalion in the
Kaiser’s war. He’s had a couple of
years on the R.S.L. State executive. One
of his posts is chairman of the State
Gardens Board, a job he, has made a
hobby. He will hold office until the end
of the year, when the creation of a Public
Service Board will replace the present
system of administration by a sole
commissioner.
• «
That T.A.A., starting from scratch
with one DC-3 aircraft, has grown into
an organisation with possibly the largest
internal air-route network in the Com-
monwealth speaks for good generalship,
and Lester Brain, g.-m., should get much
of the credit/ Starting as bank-clerk,
back in 1922 he was one of five selected
from 700 applicants for entry into the
R.A.A.F. A few years later he was
cleaning-up Air Derbies in Queensland
and N.S.W. as one of Qantas’s two
original full-time pilots. In 1929, when
airmen Anderson and Hitchcock perished
trying to find the Southern Cross, out
in the wastes of n.-w. Australia, it was
Brain who located their lost aircraft.
He got A.F.C. for it. Six weeks later
he hit the headlines again, when Owen
and Moir came down on Cape Don,
near Darwin, en route from the U.K.
Brain quietly sat down, worked out air-
currents, speeds and other factors, then
JOYSTICKS
flew straight to the spot. In 1934 he
piloted here from England the first DHB6
airliner, to open the Qantas run between
Brisbane and Singapore; later, wing-
commander, R.A.A.F. Reserve, he
ferried Catalinas from the U.S. Now 51,
he takes over the managing-directorship
of De Havilland in Sydney, relieving
Murray Jones, who remains chairman,
and who was his C.O. at Point Cook
when he first took to the air.
Succeeding Brain in T.A.A., John Peter
Ryland joined the company with him in
1946, his assistant, and has been that
since. Widely experienced himself—
formerly a commercial-airline pilot, he
was in Borneo, Darwin and Ambon with
the War II R.A.A.F., won D.F.C. and
rank of group-captain. Before joining
T.A.A. he managed the airline-division
of Ansett. Another accomplishment,
used mainly in his Melbourne garden
these days, in his degree of Bachelor of
Agricultural Science. Forty-three.
HUGH HUNT, Scots Guardsman of
War H, producer of the Abbey Theatre,
Dublin, and the Old Vic, now in Sydney,
executive officer of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust.
Put on his fourth (captain’s) ring, Ralph
Lowe, who holds the rather unusual
distinction for a supply-officer of D.S.C.
He won it for gallantry when cruiser
Perth was battered down by an over-
whelming force of Jap cruisers and
destroyers in , the Java Sea. Behind
bamboo for more than three years, he’s
now looking after Fleet requirements at
Navy Office in Melbourne.
e •
“X.”: There will be no exhibition of
portraits and colossal landscapes by
Ernest Buckmaster at the Athenaeum
Gallery, Melbourne, this year. A New
Zealand hotel-owner, with a chain of
’em on both islands, has commissioned
him to paint landscapes for the lot, and
Buckmaster will spend 12 months among
the glaciers and fiords. It is probably
the largest and most lucrative commission
that has come the way of an Australian
artist, but Buckmaster is used to it. An
incessant worker, the late Bernard Hall’s
most prolific pupil often gets a wire from
a station-owner or a Sydney magnate
inviting him to paint his favorite bit of
Nature. Buckmaster finishes hi£ 4 latest
Archibald Prize portrait and flies over.
• •
Into the Silence:
On his property near Cowra (N.S.W.), Eric
Killed, pastoralist, owner of Poll Shorthorn
and Shorthorn studs in N.S.W. and Queensland,
and consistent prize-winner at leading shows.
He was president of the Shorthorn Stud Asso-
ciation.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 85, Father Thomas
O’Connor, a Redemptorist priest who lived at
St. Gerard’s Monastery, Wellington, for 20
years. An Irishman, as chaplain to the Third
Imperial Division he was at Ypres and about
the Somme. After the Armistice he served in
the Philippines and 'in Australia.
In Sydney, at 93, Robert John Nosworthy, a
Devonshire lad j educated in Brisbane who
served as' a junior clerk in the Bellambi Coal
Co. and with Burns Philp, and rose to be a
director of the first and vice-chairman and
managing-director of the second. He retired
from the shipping co. in 1943, and, five years
later, from the board of Queensland Insurance.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 62, Frank Wilson,
vice-president of the New Zealand wholesale
Merchants’ Association, and former president
of the Associated Chambers of Commerce.
Four years ago he led his country’s delegation
to the Commonwealth conference of Federated
Chambers of Commerce in London.


HERO-WORSHIP


ABORIGINALITIES
AT Riwaka, in the tobacco- and hop-
districts of Nelson (N.Z.), are
adjacent fields: one with trim rows of
tobacco-plants, the other with tall lines
of hop-plants. Between is a small, well-
kept cemetery. Significant?—“Jayf.”
* * * ■ *
“Firestick”: For two years my
neighbors were a family of quarter-
caste abos. Almost invariably their
kitchen-stove would be going into the
small hours of the morning, mostly for
grilling purposes. Slow rubbish-fires
burned in the backyard all day; the
wash-boiler was almost a 24-hour-a-day
job. The lives of their ancient race had
been lived around an open fire; they
seemed quite unable to sever the
ancestral link.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: At a kangaroo-meat
barbecue at Noarlunga, about 30 miles
south of Adelaide, joints were roasted by
being hung on cords in front of the fire,
allowing them to turn after the style of
the old-time spit. Of the 40 present—
all of whqm praised the dishes —only
two had eaten ’roo previously. The 40 were
Australians, but the ’roo-barbecue was
organised by a visiting American scien-
tist, William Cassidy. His comments:
“Cooked properly, your kangaroo-meat
is equal to any venison in the world.
Why you Aussies let thousands of
kangaroo-carcasses rot after they’ve been
skinned is a mystery to me. If you don’t
want to eat kangaroo yourselves, why
don’t you deep-freeze it, ship it to the
U.S. and let us eat it for you? We’d
pay lots of dollars for it.” As one who
has lived on kangaroo from choice and
not from necessity, and who introduced
it to scores of Americans during the war,
I’ll back what he said.
* * * *
“Burna”: The close of a warm and
humid January 26 treated Sydney to the
phenomenon of a “mock” sun, or peri-
helion, clearly visible almost due west
for half an hour or so. Behind a film
of cirrus cloud on the, edge of a halo
the glowing disk appeared, with the true
sun further south by an angle of 22
degrees subtended from the eye of the
observer. Solar or lunar halos produced
by refraction or bending of light-rays
by ice-crystals (of which cirrus clouds
are composed) are frequently seen, but
only rarely do the crystals assume a posi-
tion where vertical facets are presented,
essential to the creation of the parhelic
circle. Meteorologists do not accept the
halo as an infallible sign, but 48 hours
later some considerable falls of rain
proved that old weather-proverbs anent
halos are not without some foundation.
• * * *
“Stromlo”: Legislation is being planned
to ensure preservation of aboriginal
relics, historical sites and natural features
in the Northern Territory. In the mean-
time a new ordinance makes it an offence
to deface, damage or interfere with
aboriginal ceremonial-grounds and relics,
including carvings and paintings, in the
Territory. The vandals who destroy,
remove or conceal relics,, carvings or
paintings, “or anything of ethnological
or anthropological interest,” will also be
prosecuted.
* # * *
“H.C.S.”: We blamed the shearers for
marks on sheep until we saw a station-
hack walk into the middle of a mob of
“woollies,” seize a 1201 b. wether by a
back leg, lift it off the ground, and carry
it for about a dozen yards. The same
horse was seen lifting a lamb by the wool
on its back and carrying it.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: As to the ability of
a snake to escape damage when run over
by car or truck (B. 12/1 / ’55), I hold the
theory that Joe, who isn’t as hard as a
highly inflated tyre, flattens out on
impact and regains shape immediately
the pressure is removed. The frog’s
another beast that can carry weight.
Once drove a roller made from a solid
tree-trunk over ploughed land. Frogs
leapt away after I’d passed; they’d left
deep impressions in the sod, but the
squeeze didn’t seem to affect them.
“Don't you know about giving Way to the starboard ?”
“K.A.”: Getting volts and amps
mixed is nearly as dangerous as getting
finger-rings between battery-leads, but
the scientific world will marvel at a six-
volt battery delivering 600 volts for any
period (B. 2/2/’55). When fully charged
a battery rarely exceeds 7.5 volts, and
the capacity of most car-batteries is about
90 ampere-hours—meaning it will deliver
one ampere for 90 hours or 90 amperes
for one hour—theoretically,- of course,
The starter-motor usually draws about
“Planning a little vacation , Spike ?”
15 amperes, so theoretically a good bat-
tery should turn over the engine con-
tinuously for about six hours. Those
motorists who intend regularly testing
their battery by putting the car in gear,
applying the brakes and pressing the
button may have my business-card
immediately scrap-batteries, burnt-
switches and old starter-motors have quite
a fair junk-value.
* ■* * *
“Mick O’Mallee”: As a special
Coronation gift, a kiwi (Maoriland’s
national bird, now so rare that each
surviving specimen is jealously guarded)
was sent to London Zoo. The kiwi being
nocturnal, visitors can see it only when
a keeper brings it from its sleeping-box
for a few minutes each day, so, in an
effort to alter the bird’s habits, the cage
is now floodlit at night and darkened by
day. You never know what you can
do till you try, but creatures such as the
kiwi are highly specialised in the
evolutionary sense ; they represent forms
of life which have developed into weird
types over millions of years. Change in
their living-conditions is liable to prove
fatal.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: I came across this loafer
in my garden, stretched out in the cool
shade of a big mulberry-tree. He looked
a rough sort of cove, and struck an
aggressive attitude when he saw me,
balancing lightly on his feet, head up,
eyes alert, following my movements. But
he was a bluff artist; gave ground when
I neared. He wouldn’t indicate exactly
what he wanted, but I tipped he’d helped
himself to a feed. Barefoot, in dull
yellowish-grey, pepper-and-salt suit, there
was a spiky stubble on his chin. His
bright eyes and swollen throat suggested
thyroid-gland trouble. But I could be
wrong in this diagnosis, of course ; other
frilled lizards I’ve seen looked just the
same.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: The writing-desk had been
hacked and scarred by at least two
generations of soulless users who had no
eye for a splendid piece of craftsmanship,
but the fine cedar in it could have been
planed up again, provided care was taken
in the demolition. I was taking care ;
and because good glue will often tear
lumps out of the grain before letting go
I ran warm water under the joints,
allowed time for the glue to dissolve
a little, then gently tried to prise the pieces
of timber apart with a chisel. There
was no movement; the warm water had
not affected the glue in the slightest
The original joiner, I decided, must have
used marine-glue; then an old-timer
enlightened me: “I knew the carpenter
who made that desk—he always put milk
in the glue-pot and stewed it into the glue,
Reckoned it made the glue waterproof.”
He evidently beat industrial-science by
about 40 years. Today, most of the
cold-water, semi-waterproof glues on
the market are made from casein—a
product of milk.
THE RECOMMENDATION
Four-hundred head of HerefOrds from the
snow-grass to the Stump
And only Mick and me to drove and carve
the hanger’s rump.
First night out from the home-run along the
Mitta side
We camped and cursed, went fly for fools and
could have cried;
Five miles out from the home-run and five
hundred to the fence
And a white-face mob with brains of snow
instead of sense.
A mob with the cry of “Salt-O” luring them
like a star
And droving’s dust and tangle, far cry to their
cool Funday’.
Mick and me with a home-sick herd making
the miles dead-slow,
Two men out to Queensland and all the way
to go.
We camped and kicked ourselves for fools —
and round the river-bend
A kid rode in on a rangy roan and greeted
us and grinned:
“They told me back at Faithfull’s you were
two men out,” he said;
“I’ve been a while with cattle and can earn
my meat and bread.”
“We need another hand, son,” said Mick, “or
maybe two —
This white-faced mob’s no picnic—but not a
kid like you!”
“I’m from the High Plains country, up on
the Dargo side,
Where if you make with cattle you must know
how to ride;
“And I rode for Naughtons !” we heard
the young-’un say,
And he rode with us to Queensland all the way.
N.S.W.
A. MCD. CAMERON.
WESTRALIAN ZEPHYRS
IX7ESTRALIA has been having a series
* of cyclones and tornadoes, and the
two are vastly different. Cyclone is
another name for what would be a hurri-
cane in the West Indies or a typhoon in
the Philippines and the China Sea. In
nor’-west Westralia it’s a willy-willy,
although newspapers mistakenly apply
that name to anything from a dust-devil
up.
Whatever you call it —and it does get
called other names —a. cyclone is the
result of an atmospheric depression.
When the Dulverton lay sheltering
behind Lewis Island during the recent
big blow the barograph dropped to 957
millibars, and there was a 10-minute lull,
with only a light, warm breeze.
That’s typical of the heart of a cyclone.
A few miles away the storm was raising
mountainous seas and wrecking coastal
towns, and even at midday it would have
blotted out the sun and made the day
almost pitch-black; but at the centre of
the disturbance, which may have been a
few miles across, there was a calm, with
blue skies.
By the same token, the centre is about
the worst spot to be in, because after
the short lull you’ve got the whole radius
of the cyclone to go through. And a
really big cyclone may be up to 1000
miles across.
The wind in a cyclone is circular,
moving around the centre at speeds of
up to 150 m.p.h. The movement is clock-
wise in the Southern Hemisphere and
anti-clockwise in the Northern Hemis-
phere, and the whole body of the storm
moves forward at from 20 to 40 m.p.h-
A tornado is more-or-less electrical in
origin, like a waterspout. It begins in a
low cloud and develops into a whirl-
wind which extends downwards like a
huge funnel. Where the bottom of the
funnel touches the ground it has a greater
destructive force than a cyclone, but its
path is restricted —it may be only a few
hundred feet across, although it could be
considerably greater.
It could never achieve the proportions
of a cyclone. Its centre is thought to be
a vacuum; walls of buildings in its path
collapse outwards and roofs are lifted
off through the explosive force of the air
inside the buildings.
A tornado moves forward at about 40
m.p.h.; the speed of the circularly
moving air in it hasn’t been measured
(because instruments can’t stand up to
it), but you can bet it’s considerably
greater than that of a cyclone.
GRAVELSNATCHER.


TE* VERY early-afternoon the parents of
-*7“' a three-quarter' grown kookaburra
disappear westward, leaving Jack jnr.
to poke about under the trees for grubs
and beetles. Towards sunset he perches
about 7ft. off the ground in the biggest
of the gums, crouching close in against
the trunk. From there it is impossible
for him to see further than the bank of
big trees about 100yds. to the west of
him. Nevertheless, soon after sunset he
becomes agitated, and suddenly takes off
towards the top of those same trees.
Just as he reaches them he begins a
half-formed cackle, and wheels to join
Mum and Pop, who suddenly come
beating in out of the sunset. Night after
night he picks up unerringly that the
old birds are on their way. I can’t work
out how he learns that; any more than
I can fathom how a flock of galahs
hundreds strong can wheel as simul-
taneously as if they were a solid fan of
pink and grey.—“Gigas.”
* * * *
“Oscar”; “Columba” (B. 19/1/’55) is
astray in his Moreton Island (Q.)
geography. The Yellow Patch is not
“the world’s highest sandhill” —that dis-
tinction belongs to Mount Tempest,
about eight miles south of Yellow Patch,
which is a lagoon (so-named because of
its distinctive sand) just inside North
Cape.
“Jack Howe”: Many Queensland
graziers have concreted the floors and
roofed large sections of their sheep-yards,
sufficient to house enough sheep to see
them through several days’ shearing.
Thus hold-ups in work due to a “wet”
vote by the shearers (as lately described
in “Man on the Land”) are practically
eliminated. Only the rouseabouts are a
little forlorn over this; their chances of
getting easy money for spinebashing in
wet weather are thereby slimmed.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Don’t know about that horse
shying at his almost nude boss, or "his
dog shaping to bite him (B. 19/1/’55),
but it goes in reverse with my old yellow
cat. On the odd occasions when I emerge
in my Sunday clobber he lights out for
the scrub until I call or whistle. Then he
stops in his tracks, looks in amazement,
comes trotting back, sniffs, and rubs
against my leg. “It is you, old boy! ” he
meows. “What are you trying to put over
me?” Sound, smell, sight are the order
in which the senses serve.
* * * *
“Spin”: Speaking of things in the bush
which take fire readily, an old coat, left
lying for a year or so where the sun
strikes it, will become so much tinder
waiting for a spark. How would the
spark get there? Well, I’ve seen brumbies’
hoofs strike sparks from rocks as they
raced over rough ground, and I suppose
other animals cofild do the same. A ’roo,
for instance, has a pretty hard hoof.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: The local engine-crew,
stabling their loco., must have had a bad
day. “I’m gonna change me dog’s name,”
the fireman bawled out, getting down
from the footplate; “I’m gonna call ’im
Enginedriver, ’cause he’s just like you;
he sits on his tail and growls all day.”
“Growl! Y’ no-good !” flung back
the driver. “What else can a man do with
y’? If y’ was hung for being a fireman
they’d be hanging an innocent man.” I
didn’t hear the rest of it, but saw them
breaking a quid together over the bar-
counter an hour later.
“Gravelsnatcher” :
Wollaston came to
Australia in 1841
(B. 12/1/’55), but he
wasn’t appointed
chaplain until 18
months later. He
seems to have made
the journey primarily
to give his children
a start in a new
country. On arrival
he was told there was
no church for him,
and that his stipend
wouldn’t start .until
there was ; and being
the type of man he
was he set about
building it. That was
the church at Picton
(W.A.) mentioned by
“J. 8.”; it took 18
months to build, be-
cause Wollaston was
a poor man and had
to provide a living
for his large family.
He did this by farm-
ing, and he seems to
have been as success-
ful as most of his
neighbors. He
dropped farming
when his stipend was
approved. I think
“J. 8.” errs in fixing
that stipend at £3 a
year. As chaplain at
Albany he was paid
£lOO a year, and
thought it good.
“I hate mock-Warfare.”
“Quo Vadis”: At Blackall on the
Barcoo, Winton on the Diamantina,
Camooweal on the Georgina, Longreach
on the Thomson, the Queensland frogs
have been “kwarking” their welcome to
the “wet.” From December to March
two-thirds of the annual rainfall is
received there. These big inland rivers
then flood out in a vast brown sea, flow-
ing s.-w. away to Lake Eyre in S.A.
They inundate hundreds of square miles
of lush cattle-fattening Queensland
“channel country,” making it independ-
ent of its sparse local rainfall, annual
average of which is mostly well below
10 inches.
LAZY JIM
Way out there where the ground is bare
And there’s nothing but dust and dirt,
tn a lonely shack in the far outback
Where the sweat fairly rots your shirt,
h’ .y° u . see a bloke on a poor old moke
With its ribs sticking through its hide,
JOusty and crook with a dopey look,
A horse not fit to ride,
The rider astraddle upon the saddle
just as lank and lean
With a whiskered chin and sunburnt skin
And don’t look none too clean—
Busted snout all bent about,
A bloke with one cockeye,
Tong and slim, that’s Lazy Jim
Way out at North Gilgai.
QUEENSLAND.
JIM GUNN.
CHEWING THINGS OYER
'T'HE Canine Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Humans had called an
extraordinary general meeting to discuss
developments and problems arising from
recently implemented legislation, as well
as other business which threatened to
strain the normal friendly relations
between dogs and the people they owned.
Blue Heeler, the president, was in the
chair. He rapped a shinbone for order.
“Bitches and dogs,” he said. “We who
are privileged to live in the oldest city
of the Commonwealth have recently been
confronted with an entirely new set of
"Before you leave, would you turn her over so she wont snore?”
circumstances which vitally affect those
bipeds with whom we live in honorable
partnership, and who generally evince
S a r °- Ur w^ are - I refer,
o’clock at to ' °f >enm ® P ubs ten-
nT f • . ' . ,
in narticnlar 6^/ 316 ma^ e
addressed for it ic °thf>l e ti 3eratlons a y e
ones to whom we Ire bound by the
strongest ties me
“A/I/-10+
hut" vrm ,i,ni S n women we ti enough,
different Nn i^ at are
e tiiped would drool
over us such revolting expressions as
‘lckle diddums’ or tie a ribbon around
our necks.
“But who amongst us does not prefer
to have his ears pulled till he howls while
his human friend fondly addresses him
as ‘You old blankard,’ and who does
not remember the ecstasy of being rolled
over on his back and having a big boot
massage his belly?
“It is the women who heartlessly drive
us from the comfortable lounge-chair in
their idiotic pursuit of a fetish they call
‘cleanliness.’ What on earth do they
buy vacuum-cleaners for? Who, on the
other hand, is it that will often
surreptitiously smuggle us into the chair
with him and cunningly conceal us behind
his afternoon-paper? Need I ask?
“Don’t think I’m complaining about
our human friends, but one cannot but
admit that the female biped’s sense of
" ' My owa l vp c ° pped ? cra^ k
over the rump with a fly-swat only
this morning when a pool of water was
discovered on the kitchen lino. He was
Perfectly innocent of any dereliction of
duty, for I had observed only a few
minutes before the master spill his
shaving-water. But humans were denied
the speech of animals, so how could I
tell her?
“So we come to a vital question: how
best to succor such male bipeds as we
happen to own who are forbidden by
their masterful mates to derive any benefit
whatever from the privilege others enjoy
of soaking up a beaker of suds as a post-
prandial diversion from the awful cares
of the conjugal life? Are there any
suggestions?”
Judy, the bulldog bitch, heaved herself
up. “Whilst I am naturally loth to take
sides against one of my own sex, for we
have problems in common, nevertheless
I must admit that justice must be
accomplished.
“I therefore suggest that any canine
among us who happens to own an
unfortunate biped might render him
stout service by getting hold of his, or
her, collar-and-lead immediately after the
night-meal, dropping it at his feet and
wagging a vigorous tail, if any. Such a
hint must register with the dullest human,
not even the brightest of whom could
be expected, of course, to have a canine’s
acumen.”
There was a din of discussion following
this, and eventually the president secured
silence with the shinbone.
“Very good, indeed, Judy,” he
said magnanimously. “That could,
I think, be tried with profit. Any
further suggestions ? ”
Baron Rothschild, a long, short
dachshund, got to his feet, though
it made scarcely any perceptible
difference to his height.
“I haff der suggezchen, nein?”
he said in his guttural tones. “If
ve haff der Herr Meister who is—
how you say? mitout der guts
v’ere his frau is gonzerned, it might
pe der goot t’ing if der ganine vot
owns him ver’ to roosh in mit
mooch loudness of der barkings,
choost like der humans read of in books
aboudt der fait’ful hund giffing der
alarm v’en little Villie teeters on der edge
of der deep pond. Der Herr Meister he
roosh out, kervick, Towser he roosh out
after him, und lead der vay kervick to
der pub und shtand oudside vagging his
rudder like der madness.”
“Good on yer, Fritzie,” yelped an
Australian terrier. “Cripes, a blanky
good idea for 9 foreigner.”
“Foreigner pe damped,” growled the
Baron. I vould haff you know I’m a
dinkum third - cheneration Aussie —my
great-grandvater gom out from Chermany
four years ago!”
“Well,” broke in the president, “I
think we can, where necessary, act on
either one or both of those valuable
suggestions. And now there is another
and, may I say, more personal matter
which concerns each one of us here.
“As you know, the city is suffering
a current plague of fleas. It is the usual
midsummer visitation, but some less-
understanding humans are blaming us —
they seem to think we breed ’em!
“This is unjust. Why, I myself have
often had a flea jump on me when I’ve
been having a session on a chair which
had previously been occupied by humans.
Not, of course, that I minded greatly.
“You often hear a woman say ‘That
dog’s alive with fleas!’ as if it was a
terrible thing. For my own part I
wouldn’t be without them, and I think
that goes for all of us.” (Woof, woof!)
“A dog’s life,” the president went on,
flourishing the shinbone, “can be dull,
especially if there is a paucity of cats in
the neighborhood, but how immeasurably
duller if we were denied the glorious
delight of nibbling all the way up our
backbones in search of the elusive
bouncers? Why, I ask, did Nature design
our hind legs like she did if she hadn’t
had in mind the use of it for scratching
fleas behind one’s ears?
“Certain kindly-meaning but misguided
humans think they are doing us a good
turn by using in our bathwater chemical
washes which are guaranteed to kill all
fleas on us. We thus emerge from our
baths flealess but miserable.” (Unanimous
howls.)
“I put it to the meeting that we can
be doing our human friends a financially
good turn, and at the same time ensure
ourselves a continuing supply of
interesting fleas. This, too, by a simple
stratagem. Whenever you see the old
man reach for your bath-tub and the
chemical, streak over the front gate and
don’t show up again until the friendly
darkness makes you immune from the
terrors of the tub.
“In addition,” added the president,
“this provides our before-mentioned
benefactors with all the excuse they need
to saunter out looking for us.
“And now, fellow-pooches,” concluded
the president, stowing away the official
shinbone, “that, I think, covers the short
agenda. This meeting will now adjourn
sine die. God save the Queen, a true and
devoted dog-lover.” (Loud and prolonged
woofs.)
BO.


TO ANY EXECUTIVE
FROM HIS SECRETARY
I read that advertisement I
recently, and I must say I feel
sorry for you! How you
manage to carry on under that
awful pressure, I can’t imagine.
We all worry about you—we
hate to see you looking so
tired and old, because you’re
a nice, kind person, even if you
do get irritable at times. But
it’s really your own fault. Why
don’t you do as the ad. says
and get a Dimafon?
Apart from what a Dimafon
will do for you, think of what
it will do for me. Don’t you
realise how much better I
could handle your correspond-
ence if I could transcribe it
through the day, instead of
popping in and out of your
office whenever you have time
to dictate? You could get it
off your mind at any old time.
I could type it off while you’re
busy doing other things, or
out on business. There’d be
no five o’clock rush, no frantic
last-minute scurry to get the
mail done. Your letters,
reports and what-not would be
done on time —and done
accurately.
Am I boasting? Not a bit!
You see, it’s so easy with a
Dimafon. Every word comes
out clearly. I can take a few
words—or a phrase—or a
sentence —at a time just
whatever I can type comfort-
ably. If there’s anything I
don’t understand, I can go
back over it to make quite
sure: No tricky gadgets to
operate either —just that simple
foot control for start —stop—
reverse.
Believe me, Boss, a Dimafon
would make us both a lot
happier.
Phone Chartres Ltd. for a
demonstration —M 0425
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
Hivaaa
anoA
SNV3I3
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
m I
■v.
mm
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate Dental Cream
instantly removes enzyme-producing bacteria and
prevents tooth decay. Scientific tests showed that
the Colgate way of brushing teeth right after
eating stopped more decay for more people than
ever before reported in all dentifrice history.
ONE Brushing with Colgate Dental Cream removes
Enzymes that cause Bad Breath and Tooth Decay!
... .. uoT
Business, Rollery, Etc
I Just a Year Ago
npHIS time 12 months ago
speculative interest in the
Rough Range (W.A.) oil-
find was intense. Ampol
Petroleum was making its
new issue at a high premium,
turnover in Ampol Exploration
shares was heavy, and Freney
Kimberley was about to be
reconstructed. Papuan Apinaipi
was in process of being raised
from the near-dead, and Oil
Search and Oriomo Oil had
taken on a new lustre. But the
boom had not yet reached its
most exuberant peak. That was
to come about July.
A year ago Australian Oil
Exploration, Ltd., did not exist,
though some of its antecedents
were in being. The great flood
of new oil-issues had not yet
begun. And only two uranium
companies were listed on Sydney
Stock Exchange Uranium
Development and Prospecting,
N.L., and Uranium Mines, Ltd.
A few months later came the
deluge. New oil-prospecting
companies had no difficulty in
raising a half-million or a
million pounds, and it was much
the same with uranium flota-
tions. After public subscription
many of these ventures went to
much higher capitalisation on
the sharemarket. Next to the
Ampol issues and Oil Search,
high in the scale of market
favor were North Australian
Uranium Corporation (Nauc)
and Australian Oil Exploration
(A.0.E.). The last-named had
interests in uranium leases near
Mt. Isa as well as in the search
for oil. t
On August 4 last year, after
an extensive survey of the share-
market position, The Bulletin
gave speculators the following
warning:
From the sharemarket point of
view the great danger is that the
longer the boom continues, the more
deeply will gamblers be committed.
Before the oil-show at Bough Kange
late last year 1.1953 J most people
were gambling with pin-money. It
is different now. Some businessmen
are becoming seriously involved.
The uranium gamble has added to
the oil-bubble, and moneymaking
on the Stock Exchanges in the past
few months has been all too easy.
While no sharebroker or financial
adviser can say with certainty that
any particular mine will not
eventually make big profits, all will
probably say that a large propor-
tion of the companies will never pay
a dividend. Someone, some day,
will be left holding the bag in a
number of companies which have
had theif glamor-hour on 'Change.
It went on to explain the
dangers that underlay a boom
of such extraordinary dimen-
sions as then existed:
A boom of the present nature, to
be maintained, must go on expand-
ing. It cannot stand still. To con-
tinue in existence it will therefore
require fresh discoveries and
periodic stimulation.
To an extent, the present boom
in oil and uranium shares is an
inverted pyramid with its apex
balanced on the pinpoint of the
oil-showings at Bough Bange in
W.A. Without the W.A. oil-shows
the whole present mining -share
boom would have been a compara-
tively feeble thing. To the extent
that the W.A. venture develops
favorably, the longer will the boom
be sustained, possibly assisted by
other discoveries. But even in the
event of flow-oil being struck in
payable quantities here and there,
or uranium-deposits of world class
being discovered, the longwinded,
costly and unspectacular, job of de-
veloping and marketing the mineral
product will weary the patience of
the gamblers.
The more people get sucked into
the oil-uranium boom, the greater
will be the crash one of these days.
There will be a dry hole where oil
was confidently expected; there will
be a petering-out or chopping-off of
a “glamor” uranium-deposit that
promised well on the surface. The
ensuing market setback will produce
selling by those who are overcom-
mitted. And the more forced sales
there are the more there will have
to be. That is the almost inevit-
able mathematical - plus - psycho-
logical formula which operates in all
major Stock Exchange gambles.
After the crash the producers and
good “prospects” will remain, but
for a while even they will be ad-
versely affected in the market by
the shock caused by the fall of the
no-hopers.
The real benefit to Australia from
oil and uranium will probably arrive
long after the sharemarket boom
has fizzled out.
The Bulletin’s article had
hardly been written before the
No. 2 hole at Rough Range
turned out to be dry. This was
the first sharp knock to specu-
lators’ confidence. Since then
five more dry holes have been
drilled at Rough Range, and
one at Cape Range.
But the boom in uranium
shares then outstripped oil-
share activity. Nauc scrip soared
to around 505., and A.O.E.
became one of the principal
“glamor stocks” among the list-
ings which by now were almost
radioactive in the sharemarket.
The blow in this section came
when Nauc directors announced
that the grade of ore on the
co.’s Arnhem Land leases was
not high enough to warrant
transportation to the Rum
Jungle treatment-plant, and that
high capital expenditure on
machinery might be necessary
at the ore-site if production was
to be economical. Other
economic factors, including
high transport costs in out-of-
the-way places as a general
thing, thein began to impress the
sharemarket. Heavy falls in
share-prices became the order of
the day.
The wet season has now taken
over in the Northern Territory,
and development - work has
slowed down where it has not
temporarily ceased.
Ampol Petroleum ss. shares
last week touched 16s. 9d., the
lowest quote since the oil-strike
in December, 1953. Ampol
Exploration at 255. 6d. was also
at its lowest level, giving the
W.A. oil-prospects a market-
valuation of £5O million, com-
pared with over £2OO million
at one point. Oil Search shares
at 14s. were down over 50 p.c.
on their highest 1954 quota-
tion. Much interest still exists
in the result of tests of gas, etc.,
in Omati No, 1 hole. These are
now in process following the
clearing of the hole.
In Queensland, Longreach Oil
and Westland Oil are boring
hell-for-leather, per medium of
contract-drillers. No time is
being wasted by either of these
companies in their drilling
operations.
Although the interesting
drilling-stage has been reached
by a number of smaller oil-
exploration fry, in most cases
their scrip is below par. That is
principally because Rough
Range has been a disappoint-
ment, and Omati No. 1 (in New
Guinea) has not yet shown
positive indications of oil.
All is now quiet on the oil
and uranium fronts. You can
almost hear a share-certificate
drop.
Interim Dividends
On average, interim distribu-
tions on ordinary shares are now
more than holding their own.
Where there is a change in the
rate, in nine cases out of 10
it is an upward change. Some-
times the lift brings the distribu-
tion up to no more than half
last year’s full rate (the interim
then having been lower than the
final); in other instances the
higher interim suggests a greater
total disbursement for the year.
What rate will be paid by
Australian Paper Manufacturers
for the full year is still an open
question. For 1953-54 it paid
an interim of 2\ p.c. and a final
of 4 p.c., making p.c. for the
term. The interim for 1954-55
is 3 p.c. If the same final is
paid as for last year the rate
will go up to 7 p.c. In view of
present conditions in the paper-
trade, such a distribution should
be quite possible.
The sharemarkets have
remained fairly stable in the
face of a variety of develop-
ments, favorable and unfavor-
able, since the beginning of the
present year. Chief dangers to
continuing stability are the drop
“Get a move on, No. 133. You re holding up
the swimming-bus."
in wool and wheat, the tighter
credit-situation and the lift in
production-costs arising out of
the increased wage-margins for
skilled workers.
On the other hand, the
Formosan crisis has produced
higher prices for base metals in
Britain and the U.S.A., and this
has brought a return of specu-
lative interest in both com-
modities and shares.
Iron Ore
South Australia’s steady
development in mineral assets
has received a big impetus in the
announcement of promising new
iron-ore deposits in the Middle-
back Ranges, near Iron Knob.
First tapped during World
War I, more than 50 million
tons of Iron Knob iron-
ore have been extracted for
the steelworks in New South
Wales. Ore reserves at present
are said to be in the neighbor-
hood of about 175 million tons,
but, as according to calculations
this would give the field only
another 50 years of life, the
importance of the new field can
hardly be overestimated.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO/THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
r sworn
sttftilv
SANDERS!
<*s&fcFlLEt
Correspondence. Invoices.*
statements, etc., filed tn the
“Sanders*' can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
m'
Prices and far-
ther information
apon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agentt —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE ~ Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH, .. ..Docket Book 00. (Auju)
CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. fot 80 Guests. All
Rms. H. & G. and Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trains. FISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
SURE TRIPS IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOB HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet. '
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
For Sale
TAIHOA, MT. IRVINE
One of the healthiest, most beautiful spots
in the Blue Mountains, Very quietly
situated 65 miles from Sydney. (Now
in use as a Guest House.) Beautiful
country home with solid woodwork in all
rooms: sewered. Abundant spring water.
Separate cottage (now in use as a
children’s holiday resort) and 54 acres
of fertile volcanic soil, with avenues of
walnuts, chestnuts, poplars, suitable fat
lambs’ nursery, apples. Or will sell with
10 acres. Price £15,000. Terms may
Apply H. HAMILTON
MOORE & CO., Solicitors, 7 Wvnvard
Street, Sydney. 8X3144, J '
TOLLEY’S
SPICIAI
lid
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
YOU’LL FEEL
TIP-TOP ON
TOLLEY’S
iii^l
m
Kill
mess
103
w:
Liai mo^
Sn,S" .*. < *... i ’.»
«co*»
T5T.44.12
Traditional
BRITISH
Service
makes all the
difference, all the
way, on Speedbird
world routes.
B-O-A-C takes good care of you
See your Travel Agent
for complete trip-
planning help—no
charge.
to all six Continents
Experience is the secret of 8.0.A.C.’s
world-famous high standard of service ...
35 years of experience in caring for the
comfort of passengers, with courteous
attention and flying skill. Small wonder
that so many experienced travellers
recognise 8.0.A.C. as “the leader in
world air travel.” Fast, frequent services,
by fully-pressurized 4-engined airliners.
Liberal stop-over privileges. No tips: no extras.
Speedbird Services link Australia with
INDONESIA, MALAYA, BURMA, THAILAND,
HONG KONG, JAPAN, CEYLON, INDIA,
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA, EUROPE,
GREAT BRITAIN U.S.A., CANADA, CENTRAL
AMERICA, BERMUDA.
f I Y^MM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANT AS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
, A46/AUa
London Oirmail
From Herbert Holman
The 15-year plan for the
modernisation of British rail-
ways is welcome. It is at once
sweeping, farsighted and, subject
only to rising costs and labor
relations, realistic.
Of the total cost of £l2OO
million, the Transport Commis-
sion will provide a third from
its own resources and 'will
borrow, the rest by the issue of
transport stock. The plan has
three priorities. It will overhaul,
drastically, the long-obsolescent
freight-services. There will be a
systematic change-over from
steam to diesel and, ultimately,
to electric traction. Long-dis-
tance trains will cruise merrily at
100 m.p.h. and will be clean,
punctual, regular and economic-
ally run. And, finally, some
£55 million is to be spent on
amenities in trains and stations.
So that, all being well, by 1970
the nation will be proud of its
railways, passengers will find the
new service so worthy of them
that they will prefer it to road-
or air-travel and the railway-
workers will enter vitally into
the alert and progressive spirit
of achievement gained over the
15 years.
That, in essence, is the ideal.
It may be rose-|inted, but it is
not beyond accomplishment.
The railways (and, for that
matter, the roads) have been
wantonly neglected since the
beginning of the war. Welfare
and defence expenditure have
robbed them of essential capital
which, in fact, has worked out
at less than depreciation. And a
more realistic and forward-look-
ing treatment of railway finance
might well have checked the
present deep-seated unhappiness
of labor-relations. So it is
natural that a show of enterprise,
such as is taken for granted
from new industries, should have
been well received in principle.
There are, too, some import-
ant qualifications on the financial
side. At least half of the pro-
jected sum would be required to
maintain the railways in their
present state. Diesel-trains in
the congested West Riding have
already proved that they can
win back custom. And the plan
stipulates, not without reason,
that in good time the railways
will pay their way..
Easy Money
The days when, in strict family
circles, a pack of cards was
known as the Devil’s toy and
to bet on a horse was the first
step on the broad, slippery road
to hellfire belong to the puri-
tanical past. But there are still
countless folk who, like the tee-
totaller and his glass of port, can
enjoy a mild plunge without any
sense of sin and with conscience
fully preserved.
The football-pool is that very
outlet. Deriving originally from
the working-man’s local patriot-
ism, it has grown to fantastic
proportions, with some 8,000,000
regular “investors” every week.
An idea of its ramifications can
be assessed from the fact that
the loss to the Government,
measured in tax on “dividends”
forgone because of abandoned
matches, was estimated at
£500,000 on one snow-bound
Saturday.
Football-pool promoters are
now compelled by law to declare
what proportion of the weekly
“subscriptions” is set aside for
expenses and commission. Not
without misgivings, they have
published their figures, which are
uniformly a round 20 p.c. The
Government appropriates a fur-
ther 30 p.c., and the “investor”
has what is left. As by far the
most popular pool is the “penny-
points,” which provides a maxi-
mum tax-free dividend of
£75,000, it is arithmetically plain
that the investor will be lucky
if he gets back, on average, even
half of his stake. And if the
unsuccessful may look with envy
upon the few fortunate capital-
ists, it is nothing to the envy of
the businessman for the pro-
moter. Who wouldn’t relish so
hefty a turnover of-cash (with
no complications of buying and
selling and holding stock) and
with expenses and profits guaran-
teed before a penny is paid out?
Through the enterprise of Dr.
Summerskill’s election-agent, the
pool has now extended to politi-
cal finance. It seems that the
source of remuneration of Labor
agents depends largely upon the
proceeds of raffles, football-
sweeps and the like which,
although always illegal, have
until recently been winked at by
the police. But pools, being
credit-betting, are legal. So the
constituencies are busy enrolling
“investors” for the good of the
movement. The first eight weeks
saw a profit of £lOOO. Business
is improving steadily, and the
organisers aim to make £500,000
a year—the total present annual
revenue of the Labor party.
Set On—
The Old Vic “Richard II” is
a welcome breakaway from the
addiction of Shakspearian pro-
ducers to loud and fussy em-
bellishment. Such noisy ex-
changes and accompaniments as
there are greatly enhance the
mood of rebellion. Otherwise,
Michael Benthall groups his
players with traditional simplic-
ity and allows them room for
physical expression and time to
speak the verse. He points the
shape of the play so well that,
although uncut, it never drags.
One realises, too, that to sit duti-
fully through the First Folio is
not without reward, for the
poetic quality of “Richard II” is
transcendent.
Purists may cavil at John
Neville’s lackaday King and
some of us ihay notice a resem-
blance, uncanny as a flashback,
to the young Gielgud, but the
-reading is essentially poetic and
the artistic model is a worthy
one. This Richard is a wrong
King rather than a weak King.
He has, if anything, too much
character. When riled he is
supercilious, waspish and self-
pitying, but when left to himself
he is introspective and epicene.
A pallid melancholy tinges his
good-looks, and he is the very
soul of poetry. This high-note
personification somewhat upsets
real values, for it disproportion-
ately whitens the King and
blackens the Court. But the gain
in sympathy makes the play
more cohesive.
The best of an unequal sup-
porting cast are ErfC Porter’s
ruffianly purposeful Bolingbroke,
Michael Bates’s doddery York,
kindly even in treachery, and
Robert Hardy’s splendid double
of the vainglorious Mowbray
and the hard-faced Bishop of
Carlisle.
—and Sitting Out
“The Night of the Ball” (New
Theatre) is the first West End
play of a young author, Michael
Burn. It is a strange comedy of
manners alia Henry Arthur
Jones un poco Pinero.
To escape from reality, a
financial knight gives a ball on
the grand scale. He invites a
mixed batch of high-hat guests
who retire, between dances, to
his sumptuous private room to
find themselves repulsed,
attracted or entangled with one
another. They bicker, expostu-
late and by dawn have sorted
themselves out. Their lives and
their personalities amount to
little. The dialogue is not especi-
ally amusing or distinguished.
Yet the stage effect is always
good to look at (not least
because of Loudon Sainthill’s
elegant set), the closing scenes
are wistfully evocative, and a
fetching but quite undefinable
message emerges.
The acting largely amounts to
improvisation. Gladys Cooper
curvets delightfully as an aged
society butterfly, Brian Oulton’s
man of destiny is ipore vehement
than dynamic, Jill Bennett’s
ingenue is touchingly immature
and Wendy Hiller’s plummy-
voiced, sophisticated • lady is
brilliant as a character who is
herself acting a part.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; A. R. L. Wiltshire.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J.
Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer;
W. Sydney Jones; Allan G. Potter.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878»
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
Write or call for free boo kl et.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Com’wealth Industrial Gases, Ltd.
■DEHIND the remarkable post-war
13 growth of this still-expanding 19-
year-old group—parent holding co. and
nine operating subsidiaries—lies (1) the
foresight and energy of the management
in bringing under one control the activi-
ties of a number of widely scattered con-
cerns engaged in production of industrial
and medical gases and ancillary equip-
ment, and (2) the use of oxygen, acety-
lene, nitrogen, and more recently of argon
gas, in ever-increasing quantities for a
wide range of industrial purposes.
Demand, especially, for oxygen and
acetylene, has kept more or less in step
with the level of activity in steel-produc-
tion and in the heavy and light engineer-
ing trades, electrical-equipment manufac-
ture, the motor-industry, the railways and
vehicle-repair shops, etc. Recently plant
was installed for production of argon
gas—previously imported from Britain —
which has become indispensable over a
broadening field because of its advantages
in welding non-ferrous metals.
Of the nine subsidiaries in the group,
six make industrial gases, one manufac-
tures industrial- and medical-gas equip-
ment, and the other two turn out electrodes
and arc- and resistance-welding equip-
ment. The policy has been to follow the
market by setting up factories as demand
warranted in metropolitan and country
areas throughout the Commonwealth.
The big British Oxygen Co. (London)
holds a controlling interest in the busi-
ness, and has been a pillar of strength.,
technically and financially.
Production and sales have risen with
an almost uninterrupted trend since war
ended. Paid capital, £850,000 at the
beginning, is now £3,000,000, of which
£486,105 is bonus-scrip, handed out in
1951, when 1,055,581 new £1 shares were
also issued at par to lighten the debt to
the London co. To help finance further
expansion £1,000,000 was raised later on
unsecured registered notes, one half at
4| p.c. and the other half at 4£ p.c., the
lot maturing between 1958 and 1962.
This note-money is earning a lot more
than its keep, and is therefore very help-
ful to those on the share-register.
Last term the tempo of industrial
activity quickened, new oxygen and
other plant came into operation, demand
and production reached new peaks, unit
costs were lower and selling-prices were
reduced. So, after allowing £387,113
(down £1912) for depreciation and
£483,611 (up £65,071) for taxation,
declared net earnings took a leap of
£258,834 (47.5 p.c.), reaching a record
£834,535:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1950 .. 310,790 10 = 174,998 t 135,792 899.894
Reserves capitalised, £486,105 .. 413,789
Unexplained addition, £3965 .. 417,754
1951 .. 239,939 8 = 204,814 36,125 452,879
Unexplained addition, £9435 .. 462,814
1952 .. 445,885 8 = 240,000 205,885 668,199
Unexplained addition, £5955 . . 674,154
1953 . . 575,701 8 = 240,000 335,701 1,009,855
Unexplained addition, £13,403 .. 1,023,258
Tax refund, £936 1,024,194
1954 .. 834,535 10 = 300,000 634,535 1,568,729
* After deducting excess cost over net tangible
value shares in subsidiaries on incorporation, now
eliminated from books and including special reserve
for depreciation (now £255,096).
t Includes 5 p.c. on bonus scrip issued Oct., 1960.
The £834,535, which leaves out of the
reckoning £13,403 tossed from somewhere
into the special depreciation reserve
(now £255,096), was 27.8 p.c. on capital
as against 19.1, 14.8, 9.5, 21.3 and 11.5
p.c. back to 1949. The div., steady at
8 p.c. for the three preceding years, was
lifted to 10 p.c., leaving. £534,535 to
plough back into the business and
nourish its further growth.
Vigorous expansion and a healthy
financial position are the features of
balance-sheet figures:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Reserves .. .. 668,199 1,009,855 1,558,729
Unsecured notes.. 700,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Overdraft .. 304,249
Creditors .. .. 347,980 446,454 576,653
Owing group cos. 419,315 22,389 178,395
Special tax reserve 164,055 150,593 137,133
Tax provision .. 478,418 579,043 655,419
Pinal div. .. 135,000 135,000 165,000
£6,217,216 £6,343,334 £7,271,329
Freeholds .. 1,198,476 1,188,193 1,285,379
Plant .. .. 1,806,201 1,976,834 2,466,822
Investments .. 36,624 36,624 36,624
Stocks .. .. 2,346,038 1,479,415 1,710,372
Debtors .. .. 828,565 .872,854 1,058,001
Cash, bonds .. 1,312 789,414 714,131
£6,217,216 £6,343,334 £7,271,329
To meet net additions totalling £1,003,278
to plant (up £489,988), freeholds (up
£97,186), stocks (up £230,957) and book-
debts (up £185,147) the co. increased the
amount coming to • sundry creditors by
£130,199, raised an extra £156,006 from
other members of the group, mainly the
London co., and drew upon cash, etc.f for
£75,283 net. The large holding of cash,
etc., ‘‘might be required to finance the out-
standing expansion expenditure under
way in various States,” the chairman says.
A five-year programme of expansion
has already been planned which is ex-
pected to cost about £5,000,000; but no
hint has yet been given as to when share-
holders are likely to be asked to assist.
The current term opened with sales
well ahead of what they were a year
earlier. Anticipating its benefits, the
market prices the f.-p. £1 shares at 50s.
(425. 3d. a year ago and 365. Bd. 12
months before that) to give an immediate
return of 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 6 p.c. on his
money counts on a 15 p.c. distribution, or
a one-for-two new share-issue at par and a
12 p.c. div., which would then call for
£290,000-odd less profit than was claimed
last term. Net tangible cover (book-
value) at September 30 last was 30s. 4d.
Gordon Edgeil & Sons (N.S.W.)
r’ was an exceptional year (to June 30
last) for Edgells, whose factories at
Bathurst and Cowra turn out tinned-
asparagus, -tomatoes, -peas, -beans, -cauli-
flowers, -apricots, etc., from crops grown
on the co.’s own and other farms on the
near-by river-flats of the Macquarie
and Lachlan.
After two years of contracting profits,
accumulating stocks and mounting debt
to the bank, due to easing markets,
rising costs and erratic seasonal
conditions, there was a strong upsurge
of demand last term. With the help of
a vigorous selling - campaign, turnover,
especially in Australia and the Pacific
islands, reached a new record level. Wage-
rates and other operating costs were
steadier, and the price of tinplate eased
a littLe. On the agricultural side pro-
duction was lower, with the exception
of asparagus. In the circumstances, how-
ever, that was a help, not a hindrance,
because it placed no obstacle in the way
of reduction of the excessive stocks
which had accumulated at the close of
accounts in 1953.
During the year stocks (in the books
at cost or under) were reduced by no
less than £584,282:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Ord 477,000 477,000 477,000
Reserves .. .. 315,310 330,912 367,582
Overdraft .. .. 384,550 898,768 226,039
Creditors, etc. .. 106,248 64,290 72,632
Tax provision .. 94,228 45,319 65,529
Final divs. .. 17,452 17,452 23,415
£1,454,788 £1,893,741 £1,292,197
Freeholds .. 276,209 300,508 303,785
Plant .. .. 215,298 197,907 189,978
Plantations .. 4,378 8,820
Stocks .. .. 873,194 1,273,055 688,773
Debtors .. .. 84,826 112,550 108,511
Cash, etc. .. 883 901 1,150
£1,454,788 £1,893,741 £1,292,197
With the help of surplus earnings, etc.,
the management was thus able to slash
£672,729 off the overdraft, and so bring
the whole financial structure into better
balance. When the books last closed
there was only 6s. 7d. coming to the bank
and sundry creditors for every £1
belonging to shareholders in the business
as against 225. 2d. a year earlier. The
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£410,819) was £50,142.
So the board was able to claim a profit
of £78,730, which was over double the
1953 figure, and £8319 better than the
previous peak figure in 1951:
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 64 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30.. £ ~£ £ £ £
1948.. 36,342 3,900 8.1 p.c.= 20,412 12,030 126,200
From inner reserves, £1247 .. .. 127,447
Surplus sale'assets, £3688 .. .. 131,135
Goodwill written off, £2384 .. .. 128,761
1949.. 46,052 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 21,992 150,743
Share premiums, £20,900 .. .. 171,643
1950.. 69,607 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210,150
1951. . 70,411 3900 8 „ „ 27,200 39,311 249,461
Excess tax provision, £12,500 .. 261,961
Share premiums, £32,538 .. .. 294,499
1952.. 51,263 3900 6i| p.c. = 26,552 20,811 315,310
Capital profits, £12,219 .. .. 327,529
1953.. 38,288 3900 6i p.c. = 31,005 3,383 330,912
1954.. 78,730 3900 8 „ „ 38,160 36,670 367,582
And the £78,730 was a conservative
statement of actual earnings. It was
written after setting aside £44,000 (up
£6476) for depreciation and £49,500 (up
£32,725) for taxation as well as writing
off the whole cost (£24,728) of land-
preparation and asparagus - establish-
ment —an allowable deduction for
taxation purposes—'against the year’s
earnings. The £78,730 covered the pref.
div. and 16.5 p.c. on the £477,000 of ord.
capital as against 7.2, 11.5, 19.5 and 19.3
p.c. back to 1950. But only \\ points was
added to the div., making it 8 p.c., which
was the rate paid for the seven years
to 1951, and which the board hopes to
maintain, subject to seasonal and other
influences. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the
£78,730 was 8.8 p.c., which is a satis-
factory rate of earning.
Since the books were ruled off
activities have been extended to Tasmania,
where the Devon cannery, set up by
H. J. Heinz and Co. Pty. during World
War 11, was recently bought at an un-
stated figure. The deal is to be financed
in part by an outside loan, and for the
other part by an issue of 159,000 new £1
ords. at par, one for three, to those on the
register at February 14. The issue, under-
written by R. V. Spier and Morell (Sydney
brokers), will lift paid capital to £696,000,
of which £60,000 carries a fixed cumu-
lative 6{- p.c. On that lot the pref. div.
and 8 p.p. to the ords. would call for
£23,950 less profit than claimed last
term.
The market looks upon the undertaking
as an 8 p.c. proposition, and prices the
ords. at 265. 9d., at which the net price,
after exercising rights, etc., would be
255. 3d., and the return 6.3 p.c. on an
8 p.c. distribution. The rights thus have
a theoretical value of approximately 55.,
and might become available for less. The
prefs. at 225. yield 5.9 p.c. Including
the new issue, net tangible cover is
£l7 14s. 6d. prefs. and 31s. 7d. ords.
Amalgamated Textiles (Aust.), Ltd.
yvOUBTFUL of what the future might
hold for raw-wool prices—fluctua-
tions in which have played havoc with
the co.’s figures in the past —and of the
effects of competition, both local and
overseas, the sharemarket shortened its
bid for this co.’s f.-p. 10s. lOd. shares
from 9s. 3d. to ss. 6d. over the last
12 months. At the lower figure the
immediate return would be 10.4 p.c. on
the basis of last term’s distribution of
5.4 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 15s. lid., of which 6s, 10d. is repre-
sented by freeholds, plant, etc., worth
what they can earn.
Plant, to which substantial additions
have been made since the war, is reported
in good order and condition. It is not
overvalued in the books, nor are the
freeholds. And the medium-grade
worsted and other lines turned out by
the mills at Orange, Albury and Goul-
bum enjoy a good reputation in the
market. The co.’s biggest obstacle is
the position of the mills in relation to
the main (metropolitan) markets for the
finished products. The consequent
burden of overhead is a severe handicap
in a highly competitive field, where
margins are fine. In this respect —de-
centralisation of manufacture —the co.
deserves a lot better treatment than it
has ever received from the Government
by way of rail-freight and other con-
cessions. Indeed, the history of the
business is a sad commentary on the
maudlin pleas of politicians upon this
important question.
After 17 years of buffeting and the
jettisoning of £211,263 of share-capital,
the business was got on an even keel
in 1940. And for die next 10 years very
encouraging progress was made in a
sheltered and expanding market —divs.
averaged a shade over 11 p.c., and
reserves of £146,470 were accumulated.
Then, for the next two years losses
totalling £100,571 showed up, due not
to any shortcoming on the part of
management, but firstly to a sharp drop
in raw-wool prices and consequent
writing-down of stock-values by £160,503
in 1951, and secondly to a temporary
shrinkage of demand for the output of
local textile-mills following the import
flood.
The position improved as retail in-
ventories were reduced and wool-prices
steadied, and the co. was able to balance
on the right side of the ledger again in
1953, when the net result was conserva-
tively put at £38,278. That was after
debiting the year’s earnings with a
special depreciation allowance of £20,000,
which, together with £llOO from stock-
reserve, was transferred to free reserves
last term:
To Re- Be-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 66,933 15,35p.c.= 36,782 30,151 147,683
Special tax provision, £24,500 .. 123,083
1950.. 60,169 15.38p.c.= 36,781 23,388 146,471
From special tax provision, £24,500.. 170,971
Share premiums, £38,042 .. .. 209,013
Loss.
1951.. 35,077 4.6 p.c.= 14,896 159,040
Tax overprovided, £4lBl .. . • 163,221
1952.. 6*.494 Nil 97,727
Profit.
1953.. 38,2*8 Nil 38,278 136,005
From depr’ation reserve, etc., £21,100 157,105
1954.. 44,656 6.38p.c.= 20,596 20,060 181,165
So the improvement of £6378 in the 1954
profit wasn’t all it looked, for reasons
already stated. Trade improved and
costs were steadier, but competition,
especially from overseas, was keen and
margins finer. The £44,656 of profit
was 11.5 p.c. on capital as against 10 p.c.
for the previous term, and the two-year
drought for shareholders was broken
with a 5.4 p.c. div.
The financial position improved, the
growth in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£321,790) being £15,765.;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital ..£382,520 £382,520 £382,520
Reserves .. .. 97,728 136,006 181,166
Overdraft .. .. 179,997 229,659 182,599
Sundry creditors .. 34,351 86,340 71,435
Tax reserve .. —•— 7,500
Final div. .. 11,769
£694,596 £834,525 £836,989
Freeholds .. .'. 98,422 . 98,22 2 97,872
Plant, etc. .. 135,431 114,279 144,024
Stocks .. .. 362,767 423,643 381,172
Debtors, etc. .. 97,869 198,271 213,808
Cash, etc 107 110 H 3
£694,596 £834,525 £836,989
A reduction of £42,471 in stocks (in at
the lower of cost or market-value), to-
gether with surplus earnings, etc., enabled
the co. to carry an extra £15,537 of
book-debts and clip £47,060 off the
overdraft and £14,905 off the amount
due to sundry creditors.
Though wool-prices have eased since
the books were ruled off, the drift —it now
appears to have been arrested —has not
been great enough to cause serious con-
cern. Trade has held well, but competi-
tion from abroad remains keen, and
local textile-manufacturers have asked
for tariff-protection. Until the co.’s sky
becomes clearer, the market prefers to
take a cautious view, as already indicated.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 6.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known—'
M JAXUL M PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes ins. x3i ins.,
61 x 3g and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson 4 O'Sullivan "j;
SM-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 8446, BU 1409.
DIAMOND
<
JUBILEE
CO A GO
CJI f CO
5* 1 »
60 YEARS
LIFE ASSURANCE
SERVICE
AUSTRALIA*
METROPOLITAN UFt
RAMCECJH*
m
LAND raas
SPEC/AUS/HG /A/ AIt^FOPAfS
OF LfFE AND
ACC/DENT tNSLf&AN&E
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
Albert G. Sims, Ltd.
npHE co. deals in and processes
scrap-iron and -steel and
other metals. Earnings therefore
depend largely upon the level of
activity in iron-foundry and
allied trades, where production
expanded very rapidly after the
war, reaching a peak about mid-
-1951. It eased considerably over
the next two years, but has since
picked up, and is now running at
or near the 1951 level again.
Founded by A. G. Sims, who
began dealing in scrap at
Newtown (N.S.W.) in 1920, the
business continued in a small
way until the end of 1947, when
it was converted into a public co.,
and £40,000 of 5 p.c. pref. capital
was gathered, raising the total on
the share-register to £94,940 at
June 30, 1948. At the close of
last accounts the figure had
grown to £635,000 in 200,000 £1
6 p.c. prefs. and 1,740,000 ss.
ords. —just before the books
closed 160,000 new £1 6 p.c.
prefs. were issued at par, and the
old 5 percents, were converted
into 6 percents.
Meanwhile substantial addi-
tions were made to the main
works at Mascot (N.S.W.), where
scrap-iron and -steel, and some
non-ferrous metals, chiefly tin
and copper scrap, are processed.
Activities have also been
extended to Melbourne —where
plant similar to that at Mascot
has been set up—and to
Adelaide. And in 1951 all the
shares in Abrahams and Williams
Pty. (Brisbane) were bought for
£63,000-odd, of which £50,000
was satisfied by the issue of f.-p.
ss. ords.
Over the last three years there
has been a marked recession in
net earnings of the parent and
subsidiaries, due partly to condi-
tions in the trade and partly to
the dislocation and expense
inevitable in rapid expansion:—-
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, —Dividends Re- Re-
Jne.Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Written off intangibles, £13,286 43,530
’52..71,677 5 10=35,010 36,667 80,197
Unexp’d additions, £1034 .. 81,231
’53..58,670 5 10=40,749 17,921 99,152
Unexp’d additions, £279 .. 99,431
’54..49,403 5/6f 10=46,700 2,703 102,134
* Subject to intangibles, £59,359 at
30/6/’54. f 5 p.c. on old prefs. until
April 5, 1954.
Lasyerm’s £49,403 (down £9267)
of profit was written after allow-
ing £11,570 (down £1812) for
depreciation and £23,927 (down
£7167) for taxation. It was
enough to meet the pref. require-
ments and show 10.6 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against
14.6 p.c. and 21.1 p.c. for the
two preceding years. The div.
was kept at a generous 10 p.c.,
and the £2703 that remained
lifted reserves to £102,134,
subject to £59,359 of intangibles.
There is nothing uncomfort-
able about the finances:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Pref. . . 40,000 40,000 200,000
Ord. ..340,000 435,000 435,000
Reserves .. 80,197 99,152 102,134
Overdraft .. 105,349 86,543 163,481
Creditors* . . 164,50ft'188,971 121,089
Dividends .. 34,010 39,749 45,700
763,912 889,415 1,067,404
Freeholds . . 88,736 94,409 109,164
Plant, etc. .. 116,682 118,065 138,023
Buildings, plant
in progress 41,330 141,274
Stock . . 331,864 377,378 323,949
Debtors . . 169,519 198,793 288,923
Cash, etc. . . 6,623 6,137 6,712
Intangibles . . 50,488 63,303 69,359
763,912 889,415 1,067,404
* Includes tax provision.
The £160,000 of new pref.
capital, together with an extra
£76,938 from the bank and
£53,429 from reduction of stocks
(in at the lower of cost or market
price), went mainly into fixed
assets (up £134,657) and book-
debts (up £90,130). The year’s
improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£289,312) was
£22,267. There was a lot of
money represented by fixed assets
which had not had an oppor-
tunity to contribute to the pool
when the books closed.
To see the programme of
plant-expansion, etc., to comple-
tion and provide more working
capital, 356,000 new ss. ords.
were offered to those on the
register at February 2 last. That
will lift paid capital to £625,000,
on which the pref. div. and 10
p.c. to the ords. would call for
£64,400, or £14,997 more profit
than was earned last term.
The market, which notes the
slender prop for capital and the
generous dividend policy, sums
up the risks by pricing the ords.
at ss. Bd. to return 8.7 p.c. so
long as the 10 p.c. distribution
continues. The rights recently
sold at 6d. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover (book-
value) is £3 16s. Bd. prefs. and
ss. 4d. ords.
Price of Copper
There is no more sensitive
barometer to national and
international developments than
the open-market price of non-
ferrous base-metals. The recent
sharp rise in the price of copper
is a case in point. During 1954
the average London spot-price
of the metal per ton advanced
from £5225.2 for January, to
£5238.8 for June and to £5280.7
for October, and then remained
on a fairly even keel until the
end of the year. Since the
beginning of 1955 the figure has
shot up from £5295 to £5360.5
( = £A450.6) on February 10.
The forward quote was then
£5343.2, the backwardation
being £SI7-3, which suggests
that the spot price is not
expected to hold indefinitely at
its current level.
British fabricators of copper
are reported to have covered
about three-quarters of their
requirements by period con-
tracts, largely with Rhodesian
producers, the price being geared
to London Metal Exchange
quotations' The other quarter,
equal to about 100,000 tons p.a.,
has to be obtained on the open
market, and comes largely from
Chile. In the U.S. fabricators
draw the bulk of their supplies
from American producers and
the big Belgian Congo group,
which disposes of most of the
balance of its output on Euro-
pean Continental markets.
Toward the end of 1954 world
copper-supplies began to tighten,
and the position has become
worse since, due firstly to the
effects of strikes in Chile and
the U.S., and consequent reduc-
tion in exports from these coun-
tries, and secondly to strikes in
Rhodesia, where some 32,000
African mine-workers were
recently dismissed. At the same
time talk of an official embargo
on American exports, following
developments relating to the
Tachen Islands off the China
coast, had the psychological
effect of stimulating immediate
demand.
In Australia the fixed price of
electrolytic copper per ton to
local producers of the metal fell
from £A3SO in August, 1952, to
£A33O in April, 1953, and to
£A32O in October, 1954. Gov-
ernment control of the market-
ing of the stuff was then dis-
continued, and the price has
since kept more or less in step
with the London market, after
allowing for freight, insurance
and handling charges.
The three principal Australian
producers, and their output of
copper during their last financial
term, as well as the ratio of
profits earned and dividends
paid to their respective share-
capitals, are:
Output Ratio to Capital.
Copper, ( —'^— 1
Tons. Profit. Divs.
Mt. Isa .. 20,551* 36.4 p.c. 20 p.c.
Mt. Lyell .. 8,938 t 17.7 „ 8| „
Mt. Morgan .. 5,402* 24.0 „ 20 ~
* Blister, f Electrolytic.
Isa is primarily a big lead-zinc-
silver producer. Owing to the
recent strengthening of the price
for lead and for zinc as well as
for copper, the co.’s f.-p. £1
shares have advanced from
58s. 6d. to 655. 6d. over the last
2j months. During the same
period Lyell’s £1 shares moved
up from 20s. 4d. to 245., and
Mt. Morgan’s f.-p. 10s. shares
from 245. to 275. Morgan is a
large producer of gold and
pyrites as well as copper. Isa
and Morgan sell part of their
output of blister and/or concen-
trates on the American as well
as the local market. Lyell sells
its electrolytic or refined copper
locally, and gets a nice rake-off
from the gold and silver by-
products of its ore, as well as
from production of pyrites.
Great Western Cons’d.
Some of those on the register
of Great Western Consolidated,
Yilgam field (W.A.), which has
£1,768,000 of capital to feed in
f.-p. 10s. shares, are beginning
to wonder whether the co.’s
Copperhead mine will finally
provide a satisfactory return on
the amount of their money
invested in it. Their chief
grounds for doubt are the size
of the co.’s debt to Western
Mining Corp. and the bank,
which totalled £943,792 at March
31, 1954, and the results achieved
from the mine to date.
For the year to March
31, 1954, the mill —it only
started up in November, 1952 —
treated 420,219 tons ore, averag-
ing 2.43dwt., for a profit of
£14,445. For the 36 weeks to
November 30, 1954, the co.
crushed 297,452 tons for
37,3770 z. fine gold, an average
of 2.sdwt. At March
31, 1954, ore reserves at
the Copperhead were put at
431,000 tons in the quarry,
averaging 2.3dwt., and 292,000
tons underground, averaging
4dwt. The suggestion is that
the opencut is yielding very
poor recoveries, because when
ore therefrom is mixed with the
4dwt. stuff from underground
the average is no more than
2.sdwt.
However, there is always
a chance in mining. In
this case it might come from
the development of better than
run-of-mine ore underground at
the Copperhead, which is still in
the development stage, or from
the co.’s Frazer mine, at
Southern Cross. Recent driving
on No. 12 level at the Copper-
head was in ore averaging sdwt.
for 163 ft. and 6.ldwt. for a
further 166 ft. Meanwhile the
market prices the scrip at ss. 3d.
Faith ift the
Future
One of the most interesting studies I have
found in Life is in what people believe, and why
they believe it.
There are so many ways by which men come
to their different creeds, that to learn about them
is to have a wider understanding of humanity.
We have known men who have walked one
path, to be brought, in all conviction, to another.
They have exercised a free right—and that, too,
should interest us.
And sometimes we have seen men separated
in their allegiance to opposing causes, so that not
even the closest of other bonds would reconcile
them.
The right to oppose, the right, indeed, to be
honestly mistaken, is part and parcel of freedom.
So it seems to me unwise for one to sit in
harsh judgment on the beliefs of others simply
because one does not subscribe to them. The real
test should be whether the other fellow is sincere
in his belief —and how well he is applying it for
his own and his neighbour’s good.
Remember that very much of what comes to
us in personal beliefs is accidental, and man can
no more change his native environment than he can
change the geography of this earth.
I think it is well to remind ourselves of these
things now, when, acknowledging the diversity of
individual thought that ranges among us, we can
still find ground for a common belief —in Faith in
the Future of this country.
It is tremendously important that we should
cultivate that spirit of Faith in unity. For on it
depends, ultimately, our title to hold a land in
which a mam can live well and practise whatever
belief may open to his conscience.
Once we have resolved to be faithful to our
combined trust we are well on the way to the
working out of our own and Australia’s salvation.
H. Hastings Deening
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
There were two weddings in the family
of Dr. and Mrs. A. H. Powell, of Henty
and Hunter’s Hill, during the week: that
of their third son Roger on Friday to
Patricia Pickworth, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Lloyd Pickworth, and that of
their elder daughter Cynthia to Oswald
Boyd on Saturday.
At the first wedding, which took place
at St. Stephen’s Presbyterian Church,
Macquarie-street, the bride, Patricia
Pickworth, wore a beautiful gown of
delustred brocade embroidered all over
with silver rosebuds. She wore a finger-
tip-veil with a circlet of orange-blossom
and carried stephanotis and white rose-
buds. Her bridesmaid was Hilary
Powell, sister of the ’groom, whose dress
was of white nylon tulle with a green
sash and green flowers in her titian
hair. Dr. John Harrington was best man,
and a reception for about 90 guests was
given by the bride’s parents at their
riverside home, Garden Reach, at
Hunter’s Hill.
Hilary Powell was bridesmaid also to
her sister Cynthia when she married
Oswald Boyd, only son of the late Mr.
B. L. Boyd and Mrs. Boyd, of Lansdowne,
The Rock (N.S.W.), at St. Mark’s Church,
Darling Point, on Saturday. Her dress
was of white delustred satin accented
with a yellow sash and yellow roses in
her hair. The bride wore Chantilly-lace
over nylon-tulle with a tiered tulle veil
and a wreath of gardenias. After the
wedding a reception for about 120 guests
was held at the home of the bride’s aunt,
Mrs. Harvey Sutton, at Rose Bay.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is a rumor-report from America
that several Hollywood film-companies
are negotiating for the rights of Aus-
tralian novelist Catherine Gaskin’s best-
seller Sara Dane. It seems highly likely
to be true, as this is just the sort of book
the film-makers go after.
☆ ☆ ☆
The opening night of the Franquin
show, at the Empire, provided an inter-
esting experience for this Letter, as a
young man in her party got himself
hypnotised—while sitting in the dress-
circle ! He had watched Franquin closely
while two groups of people were being
hypnotised, but became very quiet'while
the third group were being “put to sleep.”
Then, when this group were told to play
the flute, he rose up from his seat and
made the correct motions for playing a
tune. He resisted every effort to get him
to sit down, but did so when Franquin
told those on the stage that they had,
finished. As he sat down he whispered
to his wife, “I’ve got a flute.” Later,
when the hypnotist told his stage-subjects
they must place the flute on the conduc-
tor’s-stand, this young man dashed down-
stairs and insisted on doing the same.
Many people around thought this was
just another “bit of business,” but in
point of fact it was rather embarrassing
for members of the party. The young
man cannot remember anything of the
matter except that he is certain he had
a flute, offering as evidence, quite illogic-
ally, “How could I have put it on the
conductor’s stand if I didn’t have one?”
There is no possibility of pretence in
this little incident; the young man is a
close relative. It makes you think,
doesn’t it?
☆ ☆ ☆
Three new babies with something in
common are Mary-Jane Philomena Bate-
man, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Tom
Bateman; Vanessa Mary Philomena
Jones, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas
Jones, of Rodd Point; and Philomena
Barbara, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John
Keenan (whose mother is also well-
known as Dr. Sheila Drescher). St.
Philomena, an early Christian martyr
who died in childhood, is said to be the
patron-saint of all little girls, so this may
be the beginning of a new vogue in names
for baby girls.
☆ ☆ ☆
Those who sent or received the Red
Cross Christmas-cards which are also art-
union tickets will be interested to hear
that the winner of the first-prize, the
Austin A7O motor-car, was Mrs. L. L.
Smith, of Breadalbane, Elphinstone
(Vic.). The art-union was drawn last
Thursday by Miss Gladys Moncrieff at
Red Cross House, Jamieson-street.
☆ ☆ *
One of two interesting engagements
during the week was that of Ann Fairlie-
Cuninghame to Bill Vout. Ann is the
second daughter of the late Sir Hussey
Fairlie-Cuninghame, of Manilla, and of
Mona, Lady Fairlie-Cuninghame, of
Darling Point. Bill is the elder son of
Mr. and Mrs. B. E. Vout, of Hobart.
The second engagement is that of
Jennifer Chapman to Sam Walder, which
was announced at the cocktail-party
which Mrs. Henry Hill gave at her
Darling Point home for Sue Playfair.
Jennifer is the only daughter of Mr. G.
Chapman and the late Mrs. Chapman,
of Bellevue Hill, and Sam is the son of
the late Sir Samuel Walder and of Lady
Walder, of Point Piper. Jennifer’s ring
is a solitaire diamond with diamond
shoulders. She is to be bridesmaid to Sue
Playfair when she marries John Atwill on
February 21.
☆☆ . ☆
Surely the 2500 gate-crashers at the
wedding of Princess Pia of Savoy and
Prince Alexander of Yugoslavia con-
stitute an all-time record, though perhaps
they would be disqualified as gate-crashers
since the father of the bride, ex-King
Umberto, is said to have invited “all the
Italians in the world” to the wedding.
There were 700 guests (100 of them
journalists) in the little fishing-village
church of Cascais, outside Lisbon, where
the wedding took place, but 2500 1 guests
were to attend the reception at the Palace
Hotel. In fact 5000 turned up, many of
them fishing-folk with gifts of fish, birds,
loaves and vegetables. It was decided
to let them all stay, and what was to
have been a very formal occasion became
a gay celebration in the old-world
manner. The bridegroom, Prince
Alexander, is a nephew of the Duchess
of Kent, who was present.
Dr. Roma Bedford, who has just been
appointed Resident Medical Officer at St.
Luke’s Hospital, in becoming a doctor
made a breakaway from the traditional
occupation of journalism in her family.
Her grandfather was Randolph Bedford,
Bulletin writer for many years; her
father, film-producer Eric Bedford, has
also written short-stories for The
BULLETIN; her sister Nell (Mrs. Anthony
Whitlock, now in London ) is a
journalist. Dr. Bedford’s chief interest,
outside medicine, is music, and she has
her A.M.U.S.A. as a pianist. Photo by
Freeman.
A Sunday-paper reports a man’s-eye
view of lunch-hour fashions as “Belts,
too tight; petticoats, too many ; skirts,
too short; jewellery, too much.” This
is as good a guide as any to the girl
who wants to be right in the fashion—
wear a tight belt, a lot of petticoats, a
very short skirt and wads of jewellery.
MELBOURNE
It was a nice gesture on the part of
the management of the State Theatre
to make available to the White Ensign
Club the whole of the lounge-section for
the premiere of “The Caine Mutiny.” As
a result, the club’s committee hopes to
clear £5OO for its work of caring for inter-
state naval-ratings on leave in this city.
The Governor, with Lady Brooks and a
large party from Government House,
attended, a detachment of Navy cadets
forming a guard-of-honor, and an R.A.N.
band playing nautical airs.
Lady Brooks wore a full-skirted gown
of soft pink satin, the wide neckline
having a deep cuff. The vice-regal party
—received by Mr. James Collins, manager
of the State Theatre—included Mrs.
Robin Byrne, daughter of Sir Dallas and
Lady Brooks, Mrs. Turner-Laing (mother
of Lady Brooks), Mrs. John Buckland
and aides Capt. Michael Rayne and Lieut.
John Larkin.
In the audience were Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins, Lady Collins and their
daughter Gillian; U.S. Consul-General
Gerald 'Warner and Mrs. Warner ; Mr.
and Mrs. Bruce Leahy ; Mrs: Ken Luke;
the Lady Mayoress (in jet-beaded gown
of black French-crepe) and her daughter,
Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson (who chose silver-
grey tulle); Sir William and Lady
Angliss; Mr. and Mrs. George Winwood;
the W. Moores; Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Bourchier and the Royden Honeymans.
It was only last May that singer Cathy
Lloyd left her Sydney home and went to
London . Her success was immediate
when band-leader Ted Heath signed her
up. Wherever she sang British audiences
acclaimed her; as may be observed . she
has looks to add interest to the voice.
Cathy returns to her own land to star
with Heath’s Royal Command Show
Band, which opens in Sydney on March
H and will be heard in Melbourne on
March 17. Photo by Bruce Minnett
(Sydney).
Rich jewel-colors, emerald and ruby,
and flame-blue added warmth and beauty
to the tweeds shown by Stell-Ricks in
an outstanding collection of suits and
topcoats. Most interesting were the com-
panion-cloths for matching suits and top-
coats woven in different designs from
identical dyed yarns.
The general “line” of the collection was
feminine. Long, slender, torso-fitting suits
were seen, and new trends showed the
heightening of the bustline by soft swath-
ing and Empire-line bow, and the slender-
ising effect of diagonal-buttoning on the
jackets of suits. As well as tweeds there
were mohair, cashmere, angora with a
satin finish, and pure-wool as soft as doe-
skin.
Sherwood Forest was the name given
to a green tweed suit gently shaped with
set-in sieves. The vented back was
trimmed with a flat bow, and it was worn
with a complementing coat in green tweed
overlaid with gleaming brown mohair.
Red-setter was another companion-suit
and coat, this time in identically-colored
bronze tweed flecked with black, one
design in diminution of the other. The
suit had a supple long line, with diagonal
buttoning, and the topcoat had long,
sloped lapels and curved line from the
shoulder to hip-pocket.
A Bermuda-blue barathea suit showed
the gentler shaping of the longer jacket,
threaded at the hips with a sash ending
in a soft bow. A town-and-country coat
in a flecked tweed of black, -white and
vivid Paris-blue (really China-blue) fea-
tured a shawl-collar and deep, inset
sleeves. A modified H-line was the high-
light of a mink-brown-and-black-striped
cardigan-coat. It was unshaped and un-
cluttered, fastening with two large black
buttons. Two slit-pockets and winged-
cuffs added subtle touches. Tiger-tan doe-
skin-tweed gave the name Le Tigre to
an elegant suit. The material was sharply
printed with black, and the jacket was
slim and long with the softly-draped
top held under the bust with an Empire-
line black velvet bow.
In darkest wool and mohair, gleaming
with a bronze light, was a coat to be worn
anywhere. It had a high collar, deep
pockets and a removable low-slung belt.
Of finest cashmere was a hand-stitched
American-styled casual town coat. Called
Indian Spice, it was a mellowed burnt-
orange, and had stitching on the deep
collar and down the front. Elegant and
luxurious was a black mohair coat cut
on wrap-around lines. It was banded with
white Russian ermine from stand-up collar
to hem, and the sleeves were made to
push up. In Pola Negri, a coat of black
satin-angora, the deep shawl-collar was
of Kohinoor-mink. The back was bloused
and the skirt was a wrap-around style.
A wide sash draped through a large
diamente buckle.
☆ ☆ *
The premiere of “Simon and Laura”
at the Comedy Theatre brought before
an Australian audience for the first time
star of stage and screen Googie Withers
and her equally well-known husband,
John McCallum.
Googie first appeared in a tailored
frock of shell-pink linen, the skirt box-
pleated, the rounded neckline of the
bodice draped into a soft bow. In the
second act she wore a striking gown. It
was full skirted, white and gleaming with
the light from its silver embroideries.
The bodice had wide shoulder-straps and
a medium-rounded neckline. Her third
frock showed the H-line with its long
torso and deep-flounced hem, which fell
from below the hips. It was white, with
an all-over pattern of green flowers and
leaves.
In the audience were the mothers of
the two stars, Mrs. L. Withers (whose
lovely gown was of pink-patterned grey
brocade) and Mrs. L. E. McCallum (the
bodice of whose black-lace frock was of
black velvet spotted with gold).
Mrs. Frank Tait allied a black-crepe
bodice and a full black skirt embroidered
in a gold spider-web pattern. Mrs. David
Elder wore a long-sleeved blouse of pale-
grey Chantilly-lace with a short bouffant
skirt of garnet-red satin. Margaret
Cochrane’s full-skirted black-organza
gown was appliqued with white-organza
flowers. Mrs. John Gourlay and Lady
Robinson wore black Chantilly-lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
v ln inaugurating its first Sunday
cabaret-dinner, Chevron had seteral
Tivoli artists along for the evening,
Virginia Parris sang some Negro
spirituals, and there was a fashion-
parade to further entertain guests. A
large party included Col. and Mrs.
Malcolm McArthur (she wearing an
olive-green taffeta frock), the Gordon
Blackburns, Mr. and Mrs. Guy Living-
stone, Mr. and Mrs. John Pitman, and
Mr. and Mrs. D. Davidson-Craig. Mr.
and Mrs. John Carrodus, the latter
attractive in a halter-neck frock of
powder-blue silk striped with black,
entertained Mr. and Mrs. S. Aarons (her
slim short frock was of black Chantilly-
lace). Mrs. Frank Christie’s frock was
of primrose-yellow taffeta; Mrs. H.
Bucklow’s short strapless black velvet
frock was matched with a tiny bolero.
☆ ☆ *
Le Louvre Salon was the setting for
a cocktail-party given by Miss Lillian
Wightman for members of the Kurneh
Auxiliary, who are organising a Parisian
Parade at Menzies’ for February 21.
President Mrs. Lindsay Mildred, in
anthracite-grey silk-shantung frock and
tiny black hat, had her twin daughters
with her: Patricia, in full-skirted frock
of white spotted in black, and Elizabeth,
wearing a very bouffant frock of pale-
gold shantung patterned in a tiny black
flower-design. Vice-president Mrs. Reg
Baillieu wore a pale-pink frock patterned
in black and a black picture-hat.
Ticket-secretaries Mrs. R. V. Gove
and Mrs. lan Miller were also at the
party, along with organising-secretary
Mrs. M. Farquharson, in pale-gold silk
striped in black ; Mrs. N. Hill, who wore
with her black-spotted white French-
organza frock a small white hat; hon.
treasurer Mrs. Frank Wilson, whose grey
silk frock was patterned in a small red-
cherry design ; Mrs. David Elder, who
had a swathed pink chiffon toque to go
with her pink black-spotted silk frock;
Mrs. Lindsay Plant wearing a topaz-
brown shantung frock and small black
straw hat; and Mrs. W. Lempriere, in a
slim black French-crepe frock and white-
chiffon-draped small black hat.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
By Appointment
, to H. M. Kinfg t
frederik IX.
By Appointment
to the late
KirtS George VI
By Appointment
toH.M. Kino
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment?
"
Queen of tha>
‘ Netherlands'*
* rlf i
i! USi
: i s
SSr!
«e
U**DlJv<l o» OlUM***
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark*
liqueur delight.
for your after
dinnet, enjoyment
oueSd-
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
A Play About Ants
“Under the Sycamore Tree,”
a farcical fable by Samuel
Spewack, with obvious remi-
niscences of Capek’s immortal
“The Insect Play,” put oh by the
Union Theatre Repertory Co.
at the University of Melbourne,
is all about ants.
Mr. Spewack has an ingenious
vvay of putting his message over.
The Queen (Maree Tomasetti) is
offstage performing her
immemorial and instinctive
function of laying the eggs for
the future black-ant population
which will hatch in two weeks
into larvae, to be fed for a month
by a diligent band of workers
before they transform into pupae,
thence to emerge in three or four
weeks as winged males, winged
females, large workers, small
workers and members of the con-
stabulary and the defence force.
The eggs arrive on stage on a
travelling belt, and are counted
by the chief statistician (Michael
Hourihan) while the radio
announces the result—3so—to
an expectant nation. While this
mechanical operation is proceed-
ing, the General (Alex Scott) is
leading the black-ant army
against their hereditary enemies,
the brown-ants.
Fortunately or unfortunately,
however, the scientific spirit has
got into the antheap. The
Scientist (Brian Crossley) tries to
put intellect in place of instinct,
and ants that normally had no
sexual function get ideas into
their heads and start falling in
love, and when in that condition
behave as fantastically as
humans.
The Queen takes a sentimental
fancy to the scientist and they
marry and have a single baby,
and the Queen becomes so
immersed in wifehood and
maternity that she loses all
interest in the economy of the
antheap and the population
problem, and is bored when the
general returns flushed with
victory from his campaign
against the brown-ants.
Mr. Spewack could usefully
have rounded-off his play at the
point where the scientist finds by
X-ray that a batch of eggs
contains an embryo queen and,
as a possible threat to his
domestic felicity, destroys it.
The first act is wildly funny,
but most of the second and the
third are innocuous nonsense;
and the finale, where the scientist
climbs up the leg of President
Eisenhower’s pants and whispers
in his ear that it is better to love
than kill your neighbor, has no
relevance to the preceding
business.
Maree Tomasetti, Michael
Hourihan, Alex Scott and Brian
Crossley played the piece in the
right spirit and Ray Lawler gave
it intelligent production.
French Play
M. Bernard’s “Martine” at
Sydney Metropolitan is indeed
a damp martini. For, highbrow
notions to the contrary, as much
tosh is written by French play-
wrights as by anybody else. And
this translation into English
cliches certainly doesn’t help.
Any overtones were lost.
The plot is slender to the point
of starvation. Its theme is that
French boys of good family are
sometimes cruel to girls of poor
family. Young Julien decides
to walk the last lap home after
his two-years’ military service.
On the road he meets and makes
highbrow love to pretty Martine.
Then there are complications.
As Martine, Melpo Zarocosta
almost brought reality to the
play. How wise to cast a Euro-
pean as a European! Ben
Gabriel, as Julien, was more
wooden than is necessary, even
when playing a blockhead.
Betty Lawson was a too-skittish
French grandmother. High-heel
shoes and short skirts are
doubtless now the order of the
day with French grandmothers,
as with those elsewhere. None-
theless a stage grandmother
should look . like everybody’s
notion of a grandmother.
❖ ♦> $
Verse Play
In its production of
“Prunella,” the verse-play written
by Laurence Housman and
Harley Granville-Barker in
1904, the Independent Theatre
for Children, Sydney, captures
the pale, moonlit charm of the
fantasy very well, but as there
is not enough vitality in 4he
play’s * gentle love-making and
dated philosophising to carry it
all the way, it begins to droop
early in the third act.
The story tells of how Pierrot
and his gay crowd of mummers
entice Prunella away from the
sedate, Cranford-like atmosphere
of her home and how they all
return disillusioned three years
later. It seems too low in key for
a children’s play, but its delicate
beauty may appeal to them.
The large cast maintain a
good level of acting, and speak
the verse in many instances very
beautifully. Jocelyn Hemfield is
Prunella, Karl Levett Pierrot,
and the producer is Richard
Hughes.
+> ♦j-
Beethoven Festival
Kurt Woess is a conductor
whose procedures one takes to
immediately. Tall, athletic-
looking, he knows what he
wants, and he gets it by simple
and direct methods.
He has no compunction about
parking his tenuous baton and
taking to his 10 fingers or his
fists for better effect. Thus in
the Symphony No. 7 at Sydney
Con. he brought in the great
crashing chord which electrically
opens that work with a punch
that could have rocked “Rocky”
Marciano. It was a first-rate
performance.
It is a unique feature of
Beethoven’s nine symphonies
that all the even-numbered ones
are bright and gay, possibly due
to his need for relaxation after
the soul-torments of all the odd-
numbered ones except the
Mozartian First. Two of these,
the Fourth and the Eighth, were
included by Woess in the second
concert, and both were delight-
fully done.
The gaiety of the Fourth is
easily conceivable, for it was
written during a time when he
enjoyed a brief and rare happi-
ness, at Linz. But the lilting joy
of the Eighth remains an enigma,
for during its composition
Beethoven was racked by ill-
health and a long, involved law-
suit over his graceless nephew.
The second movement of this
latter symphony is the famous
allegretto scherzando, wrought
so ingeniously on the ticking of
Maelzel’s metronome. In this
a faultless precision was achieved
by the orchestra.
Ernest Llewellyn was soloist in
the two Romances for Violin
and Orchestra. Llewellyn is
one of those dependable
violinists whose work never falls
below high standard, and his tone
in these works was rich and
felicitous.
+>
Hypnotist
Hypnotist Franquin is in
Sydney again (at the Empire)
giving an entertaining display of
memory-testing, hypnotism and
mesmerism. He is the whole
show, and proves that he can
hold a large audience spellbound
(some literally) for nearly three
hours.
Crowds of volunteers from the
audience rushed on to the stage
anxious to be “put under” on the
opening night and these he
reduced to about 40 with simple
tests. Those who were refused
were given free passes and told
they would be given a trial at
some later performance.
Under the influence of the
master the remainder then pro-
vided a hilarious night, some
dancing the can-can, some
haranguing the crowd as Com-
munist candidates, others imagin-
ing themselves Marilyn Monroe,
Swedish diplomats, the Lord
Mayor of Sydney, the Andrews
Sisters and so on. They all went
through the rigors of World War
II and reacted characteristically
to air-raids and shipwrecks, some
rowing boats, others swimming.
THREE SONGS
FARMER’S SONG
Love it is harvest time,
The wheat lies white to the moon.
Tomorrow the farmer must rise
And cut it down to the ground.
The header will moan and roar,
The night be as loud as day,
And the harvest be bagged and
sewn
Befo re .he can close his eyes.
But tonight it is harvest time
For the crop that we two grow.
And tonight we must bring it in,
Or be tomorrow alone.
LINES TO AN ALLY
I’m tired of thinking of life and
death.
I’d rather think of you my girl,
Of how your body’s white is firm
And never-dying to the mouth.
The taste of love is moist and
dark,
But it lights the senses like a
flame
To something harder than mere
day,
The immortality within the heart.
By day you are a woman, girl,
And two and two are always five.
N.S.W.
And clever as algebra you
deserve
The will-you-have-a-biscuit smile.
But when the night has made its
bed
And brought you silent to my
side,
I know that you are not polite,
That you and I must outlast
death.
HORRIBLE AND FULL
OF LOVE
Horrible and fujl of love
Peg the red - haired prostitute
Bends to pat the dog-eared cat
That lords it in Victoria-street.
Sweet and sad it is to sneer
At this casual, occasional scene
Where the love that humans have
Displayed itself as if alone.
Sweet and sad for poet - blokes
Bleary from the night before
To conclude that nothing good
Has longer life than what they
saw:
That blotched, that sloppy thing
of self
Tender with a sudden thought
Stoop to give a touch of love
And take acceptance as reward.
RAY MATHEW.
Artbursts
Harald Vike, . showing 50
canvasses at the Athenaeum
Gallery, Melbourne, has a very
good case with regard to Nature,
but unfortunately he overstates
it. Having sufficient knowledge
to catch the mood of a landscape
or a sitter, he turns out a good
job in “The Old Flower
Nursery”; “Anna, the Artist’s
Daughter” has a pearly lustre
that suggests flesh and “Sun
Showers” suggests sun showers ;
but “Sun Glitter,” with the sea
and a hedge and a stretch of
green grass, is heavily overstated.
♦> <£♦
A Unesco travelling exhibition
of Japanese woodcuts is show-
ing at the N.S.W. National
Gallery until February 23.
❖ ❖ ❖
Melrose Prize
The triennial Melrose Prize
in South Australia is worth
£lOO and will go in 1955 to the
best “portrait or single figure
or portrait-group'or composition
in which the figure or figures are
the prominent part of the work
and express its intention.”
All Australian-born artists, or
artists resident here seven years,
may compete. Closing date,
May 6, 1955. Details from the
Director, National Gallery,
Adelaide, S.A.
O * *i«
Penguin Art Books
Painting in Britain: the
Middle Ages, edited by Margaret
Ricket, is an addition to the
Pelican History of Art series
which covers the period from
the Anglo-Saxon heptarchy
when England was divided
amongst seven kingdoms to the
end of the Middle Ages.
Although most of the material
that survives from that poli-
tically crazy epoch is in the form
of illuminated manuscripts,
mainly of monkish origin, there
is enough panel-painting, mural-
painting, embroidery and
stained-glass in an architectural
setting to show that the art of
Britain in the Middle Ages was
as virile as in any other period
of its history.
There was a great efflorescence
of native schools of painting at
ecclesiastical centres like Win-
chester, Canterbury, St. Albans
and Westminster, and although
there were no great masters like
Titian and Velasquez there were
anonymous craftsmen capable of
producing work like the glorious
“Coronation of the Virgin” in the
great east window of Gloucester
Cathedral.
Enjoying Paintings, by A. C.
Ward, is another recent Penguin
art-book. It is an attempt by an
enthusiastic picture-lover to
convey in words the pleasure he
gets from various paintings.
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases:
“Monsieur Hulot’s Holiday”
(Savoy). Jacques Tati (who did
such outstanding work in “Jour
de Fete”) emerges in this satire
on seaside boarding-houses as
the best comedian on the world’s
screens, and a worthy successor
to Chaplin. Moreover, he writes
and directs, as well as acts, prac-
tically the whole film. He
exploits to the full the foibles
of human nature and uses a
wonderfully keen sense of timing
for his effects ; he uses slapstick
sparingly but tellingly, and his
script here, as in his earlier film,
is studded with original and
uproarious situations.
* * *
“Beachhead” (Esquire):
Laughs assay fairly high in this
opus, though they are not meant
to. It has to do with the deadly
business of jungle-warfare, but
it is a true Hollywood version.
There is of course the bewchus
goil who nobly assists the U.S.
Marine hero to get the vital
message through the Nip lines..
That the hero is Tony Curtis is
sufficient guarantee that the
histrionic department is C -
grade.
* * *
“Trouble in Store” (Capitol):
Britain’s alleged comedian,
Norman Wisdom, infests this
crudely-written and poorly-
directed comedy about a goon
who works in a big department-
store and does everything wrong.
His brand of slapstick never rises
above the crockery-smashing
level, and his efforts to gain
contrast with an injection—in the
Chaplin manner —of the touch of
pathos for the bewildered little
man are painful. The one bright
touch in the film is Margaret
Rutherford’s performance as a
genial dowager-shoplifter.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
Continuing his “lazy walk-
about ’’ from Perth to Adelaide,
per pushbike and other means,
and wearing a beard as a sort of
protection against flies and the
like, Peter Bladen has already
visited and described Northam,
Cunder din, Bullfinch, Southern
Cross and Coolgardie, and,
having reached Kalgoorlie, is
now being taken on a car-run
to Leonora by the Rector of
Boulder, on this trip passing
through, _among other places,
billiard-champion Walter Lind-
rum’s oddly named birthplace,
Broad Arrow. They have just
left the old mining-town of
Menzies.
COOLGARDIE TO
LEONORA (continued)
A FEW miles out from
Menzies we came to the
boundary of Jeedamya
station. There were fre-
quent gates and cattle-traps and
quite a few willy-willies. A
week earlier the Menzies hotel
had lost its veranda in a willy-
willy, and when we reached
Leonora we found the town still
recovering from a “Cock-eyed
Bob” which had just about
flattened it.
McPherson’s homestead is an
oasis, a house with pleasant
lawns set in 500,000 acres of
parched lands, running about
5000 sheep. We chatted on cool
verandas and were treated to
afternoon-tea. I remembered
Bullfinch, where I had seen no
gold, when we left Jeedamya
without seeing any sheep. The
land was very thirsty, as no rain
had fallen for nearly twelve
months.
Not long afterwards we saw
a humped hill in the distance.
Leonora and Gwalia were just
beyond it. The twin-towns are
set in a wide plain, but their
immediate environs are marked
with a series of hills, crowned
with rocks or reservoirs.
A large heap of bottles greeted
us at the approaches to Leonora.
There is a respectable main street,
wide, with trees and a bitumen
road. Once it was a thriving
town, with at least seven hotels,
including the White House
Hotel, which was brought here
from Menzies and is one of the
few still standing.
In 1908 Leonora was named
the most progressive township
in Australia, with many ameni-
ties found only in the larger
cities, such as electric-lighting
and the tram-service, a water-
scheme and a fire-service with
electric-alarms in the main
street. In its heyday it had a
population of 8000, but now the
population of the whole Roads
Board area of over 12,000 square
miles is less than a quarter of
that.
The township was built at a
central point between the Sons
of Gwalia Mine and the Four
Mile Lease, but the gold petered-
out at the latter, and there has
since been a keen rivalry be-
tween Leonora and Gwalia.
Each town has its own school
and/ convent, church services,
stores and hotels. The hospital,
which is shared by both, is the
only building on the road con-
necting them, standing in
splendid isolation.
Gwalia is the settle-
Leonora is the “white-
colter business-centre and the
h m n ’ yet 11 ls , estl_
matea mat 6U per cent, of its
people are kept employed by
tneir less pretentious rival.
• steam-tram service was
installed m 1903, converting to
electricity four years later,
Great were the days when the
staid people rode inside, with
the young folk on the roof where
the sparks were flying. The
trams gave way to a motor-
truck on rails, and later to taxis
and the bus.
Old prospectors ....
doggedly dreaming.
We drove on towards Gwalia.
The hospital is a building with
a history. The main portion
was brought from Malcolm on a
jinker. In the early days it had
the services of Dr. Bertram
Wills, later of Harley-street,
where be was considered one of
the world’s leading surgeons. He
owned the first car in Leonora,
and once, it is said, ran over a
man, and, reversing to see what
had caused the bump, ran over
his victim a second time.
In a recent willy-willy the
hospital had lost its roof, and
years of accumulated dust
crashed down with the ceiling.
Gwalia is more of a shanty-
town. Apart from the hotel,
which was the first State hotel
to be built in Western Australia,
and which is reputed to be the
only one run at a profit (such is
the thirst of miners), it seems
little more than a collection of
chicken-coops and corrugated-
iron shacks.
In every storm the houses lose
more iron sheets. I would have
thought that one decent “Cock-
eyed Bob” would send the whole
place sky-high. It is a town
half-made, for the site wasn’t
planned, and the roads are
merely those pieces of ground
where there aren’t any build-
ings. At night the streets are
well lit. It becomes a luminous
skeleton of a town.
The homes are surprisingly
comfortable inside. We went
visiting on the first evening, and
sa t chatting in the garden in
the cool. The main topics of
conversation were the number
of centuries the temperature had
reached in succession, the motor-
cycle mania which has gripped
the young people of the district,
and the “blasted garden” along-
side the cottage. Our host
explained that the ground had
to be blasted and soil carted in
before a garden could be estab-
lished.
Later I went climbing hills to
i
view the townships. Tank Hill
I would have thought a good
place for lovers, with quiet
corners behind the buttresses of
the reservoir, and it wasn’t sur-
prising to hear that its name
was once Smoodgers’ Hill.
Though behind nearly every
scattered bush and strewn over
the rocky ground there are
broken bottles and rusted tins,
and even battered toys and the
remains of old cane-chairs, and
other evidence that many foot-
steps have wandered here in the
past, there is always the fond
hope that the last rains may
have uncovered nuggets never
before revealed to man, and
visitors are spurred by tales of
recent discoveries, such as that
of the Jessie Alma just over the
railway-line, where much gold
was obtained. But all I got out
of my excursion was a fright
when a fox leapt from the rocks
ahead of me, and a sunburnt
neck, a few photographs, one
glass marble and a hole in my
shoe.
I was to learn that the “hill”
I had climbed was Mt. Leonora,
and that the cairn of stones on
its summit was placed there by
John Forrest.
From the summit there was a
wonderful view. Below were
the scattered townships with
their toy houses, and the mine
like a meccano-set gone mad,
with a saltpan where the waste
was dumped, and, on the plain,
painted shrubs stretching to the
distant ranges.
Here Forrest came in 1869,
when, at the age of twenty-two,
he was appointed leader of an
expedition to search for Leich-
hardt. Almost every high point
in this eastern hinterland was
visited, and many were named
by Forrest, and quite a few
cairns were erected as trigo-
nometrical points. But far out
beyond these horizons still lies
the secret of Leichhardt, which
Forrest failed to unravel
Forrest marked the waterholes
which others were to use. In
1895 Booden, a prospector, was
the first to find gold in this area.
His camp was burned by natives
and all his provisions stolen, and
he had to walk into Cue bare-
footed and living off the land.
Edward (“Doodah”) Sullivan, in
the next year, found gold near
the present town-site of Leonora.
He died a few months later, and
his grave is still on the site of
the lease.
Still, in 1896 three men —led
by Jack Carlson, “the big-
hearted Swede,” and backed by
the Tobias brothers, well-known
Welsh storekeepers on the gold-
fields—found gold and obtained
the famous Sons of Gwalia
lease (meaning, in translation,
‘Sons of Wales”). The partners
sold the mine for £5OOO.
Carlson was buried in Kal-
goorlie in 1944, his headstone a
memorial to the fact that he dis-
covered the mine. The Sons of
Gwalia mine has produced over
2,000,0000 z. of fine gold, sur-
passed only by the Great
Boulder Mine in the Golden
West, and it still has a long life
ahead of it.
The successful development of
the mine was largely due to the
work of Herbert Hoover, one
of the early managers, and later
a President of the United States.
He first came to the eastern gold-
fields in 1896 at the age of 22,
an orphan boy who fought
against poverty to achieve a
wonderful destiny.
It is a poetic thought that he
must have visited the White
House Hotel in this outback
mining-town long before his
entrance, in far different cir-
cumstances, into the White
House in Washington. Indeed,
the present licensee still holds’,
as a keepsake, a bill left unpaid
by the now ex-President.
With the rector I was shown
over the mine. The - present
manager went through old
records, climbing on tables and
peering into high and dusty
shelves in search of Hoover’s
signature for us. We saw a
glass scale-model of the mine,
which is said to have the deepest
underlay-shaft in the Southern
Hemisphere. It is possibly the
only goldmine in Australia
where horses are still worked,
and stabled, underground.
In 1921 there was a disastrous
fire which held up production
for several years, but so rich
were its potentialities that the
mine lived to reach new peaks
of prosperity. All events are
dated from the fire, either
Before, or After. Only those
who were here Before can
claim to be old identities.
We saw the shaft, nearly a
mile in length, and the winches,
with the skips which carry the
men into the earth to work and
bring back the ore which they
obtaihthe giant crusher,
crunching away at the rock'like
a greedy animal, a machine
rather reminiscent of a fat lady
trying to rhumba in an enclosed
space ; and we saw the solutions
and the filters and the slime—
but still no gold.
Everywhere we walked great
clouds of powdery dust rose at
our footsteps. We saw the
power-house and the furnaces
where 400 tons of wood a week
are consumed, realising that not
only lack of rain had left this
country bare of trees; and the
great rooms of machinery with
only one or two men in charge.
We wondered what would
happen if the machines suddenly
rebelled.
We also saw the manager’s
house, built for Herbert Hoover,
with lofty ceilings and elegant
rooms, the pleasant gardens
where, the manager’s wife told
us, there were. frequent snakes,
and wide views over the
surrounding plains.
There are still 250 men em-
ployed at the mine, and room
for more. It is interesting to
recall that the pastoral industry
in this area began as a move to
feed the prospectors and miners,
when sheep and cattle were
brought overland from the
Murchison in 1896, but the
industry has far outgrown this
humble need and is now a
major asset to the State.
At the mine the waters used
in the various processes are
stored in a swimming-pool. I
spent some happy hours there,
with Italians from the mine and
local youngsters, who referred
to me as “Forrest,” in tribute to
the beard.
At the hotel there was hot
water on tap—in both taps, in
fact, as the pipes are close to
the surface and the temperature
was still over the century.
For many years there have
been a lot of Italians working at
Gwalia. We were told that they
are good workers and have
mixed well in community life.
We had tea to the accompani-
ment of “Roll Out the Barrel,”
sung, I should think, in Italian.
At one time there were seven
languages spoken in the local
bar, and a record-time of
twenty minutes was set for
emptying an eighteen-gallon keg.
The block-and-tackle used to
raise the kegs from the cellar
can still be seen.
It is a friendly place, and
provides a good life for those
who don’t fear hard work, and
who prefer the comradeship and
security of a country town to
the confusion and stress of
modern cities.
After tea I sat on the lawns
of the tittle park in Gwalia,
where the children were play-
ing Red Rover and the Itatians


Were singing to the strains of
mouthorgans or playfully
wrestling with each other, and
later I went for another swim
in the floodlit pool.
Gwalia is the Cinderella
among our mining-towns. It
Las had practically the least
spent on it and has proved to be
one of the most permanent.
It was pleasant to walk in
the darkness with poetical
thoughts and not to be bitten by
anything.
On Sunday we went to Sturt
Meadows, named from the
Sturt-pea which grows there so
profusely, the scarlet flower of
the desert, first known to
Dampier, Cunningham and
Eyre, and found by Sturt in the
Barrier Ranges in 1844.
The homestead is 30 miles
north-west of Gwalia. It was
very hot, but we spent a pleasant
afternoon on lounges in the
shade of palms and athol-
tamarisks, on lawns by the
swimming-pool—another oasis
fenced-in from the red acres
surrounding. It is quite a self-
contained community, with
orchard and poultry-run, gar-
dens, a tennis-court, even its
own telephone-exchange con-
nected to the various out-
stations, a laundry and
butcher’s shop, cooling-room,
powerhouse, machine-shop and
quarters for the men. There is
ample water in the wells.
The property contains three-
quarters of a million acres, and
runs about 17,000 sheep. In the
past it had been overstocked,
with as many as 37,000. I dare-
say it is typical of
Paradise and Des-
demona and other
stations in the area.
This time one of the
younger members of the
party confused me with
Henry Lawson.
On the way home we
saw several emus, look-
ing extremely frustrated
when they were running,
not having any arms or
wings to wave ; and there
were many kangaroos.
On the road back to
Kalgoorlie we took a
different track for the
first 80 miles.
At Malcolm we saw
half a dozen houses and
the railway, old tracks
in the bush, and a few
heaps of rubble, but no
sign of its old-time
mayor and councillors.
We missed the turn-off
to Melita homestead,
following a road which
dwindled opt at a wind-
mill where we saw sheep,
and on the way back
many ’roos. The road
was a strange one, made
by car-tracks wandering
over bare soil and red-
sand creek-beds.
Tampa proved to be as
transient a settlement as
the namesake of its neighbor,
Butterfly,- And when we came
to a hotel surrounded by scat-
tered ruins and wind-blown
mullock-heaps, which we thought
must surely be Tampa, we
learned that Tampa was nearly
12 miles behind us and we were
in Kookynie.
Kookynie was once a lovely
and prosperous town of nearly
3000 people, with seven hotels
and three churches and even
swimming-baths. Now it has its
ruins and its memories, a few
pepper-trees, and a re-treatment
plant which is only just paying
its way.
We called on the Brights, who
live on the outskirts of the town
and run a pastoral company.
There had been little rain for
two years, yet the agents had
sent excellent reports on the last
wool-clip.
“This is the time of year,” said
Mr. Bright, “when you’ve just
got to smile and make the most
of it!” And Mrs. Bright pre-
pared us a tasty lunch, and was
cheerful despite the heat and the
flies, and if her smile wore a
little threadbare at times, she
would say: “I’ve never been
asked if I’d like to leave here —
my husband’s afraid I might say
yes!/’ }
We heard of the little girl who
had never been baptised, because
her parents couldn’t locate
sufficient godparents in the
dwindling township, and as we
were leaving we suddenly had to
retreat again to the house as
gusts of wind whipped the
powdery heaps of mullock into
clouds of swirling dust.
Once, I heard, there were five
brass-bands in Kookynie. Now
it is cheered only by the hosts
of wildflowers which make it a
place of beauty after the rains.
I had wanted to take a photo-
graph at Niagara. The name
derives from a 30ft. fall of rock
where the water streams after
rain, and which some wag named
Niagara Falls. Like Kookynie,
Niagara did fall. Once there
were four pubs at one inter-
section. It was one of the richest
alluvial spots ,in the world. But
when we passed through I found
nothing left to photograph.
Back in Menzies we saw less
than on opr first visit. Most of
the town was blotted out in a
duststorm.
All the way back to Kalgoorlie
I kept echoing: “Five brass-
bands!” Most of the small
mining-towns sprang up where
gold jvas discovered. They
became the springboards from
which the prospectors set out on
their lonely quests, to which they
would return for stores or to
slake their thirst. Many of the
small settlements flourished in a
blaze of glory, with substantial
buildings, and mayors, brass-
bands and swimming-pools, and
an enormous number of pubs,
Painted, it is said, front a copy of the
original by a native in the local jail.
but most, as one old-timer com-
mented, were “just like perish-
ing mushrooms,” their stones to
be incorporated in the buildings
of more permanent towns, their
shanties transferred and trans-
formed into country chicken-
coops.
Now that the population is
more centralised, and men can
travel greater distances to work
by motor-vehicles, there is less
need for the host of little towns.
The old prospectors, now that
the hotels and the stores, which
were their stepping-stones across
the seas of sand, are closed, and
they themselves are no longer
encouraged to seek new El
Dorados, retire, with all their
history and the genuine
knowledge which textbooks can-
not equal, to rest-homes in the
city, or street-benches in the sun
at Kalgoorlie, now a mild
suburban town in the twilight
of its glory, while only a few
still remain in their lonely bush
huts, doggedly dreaming.
Among all the rambling words
of the glorious past, of fortunes
won and reefs yet unrevealed,
one can glimpse the old courage,
the pioneering spirit, the
comradeship and the humanity
of men who suffered together
and saved the lives of their mates
in gallant quests for water, and
also the breezy laughter which
enriched their lives.
Of such a place as Burtville,
for instance, there remains little
trace. The name has disappeared
from many maps, and ah that I
have seen of Burtville was a
programme from the Christmas
Sports of 1900, but if this pro-
grammers any indication Burt-
ville must have been a rollicking
place.
The programme commenced
with a burst of song:
THE MULGA’S LAST WAIL.
If you tljink at Christmas you are
likely to be dull.
Ramble out to Burtville, where you’re
certain to be full.
Don’t come out in Sunday-clothes
and put on whips of swagger.
For we will be in bowyangs, to enjoy
our Christmas stagger.
The various events included
the “100yds. Sprunt (Draught)”
—Sprunt was the local brewer —
pole-vault and tug-of-war and a
donkey-race in which the “last
horse wins,” while the prizes
included a bottle of hair-
restorer, a 14ft. hole, one
compound-fracture, a bung-eye,
and a coffin, one Scotch-reel
(donated by Mr. Piper), a bag
of flour (donated by Miller), a
box of worms (donated by Bait-
man), and a butcher’s dog
(donated by Mr. Barker), the
“Away from Home” lease (a
dump of mullock from the Sailor
Prince lease), and for the donkey-
race the jawbone of an ass, one
dolly-pot, and one young
aborigine (donated by Mr.
Black).
There were advertisements for
“the best table in town,” one for
“the best stable in town” and
another for “the best table out
of town.”
Sprunt’s advertisement read:
Sprunt is the brewer of the
Southern Seas. There is no dark-
brown taste associated with SPBDNT
ALE. Why is there a 4oz. average
at Burtville? Ask Sprunt? Why
do they only work four days a
week at BurtviUe? Ask Sprunt?
Why is Sprunt the only Brewer in
Laverton? Because no one dares to
encroach his trade! Quality speaks!
Re quantity, ask Burtville. A pint
of Sprunt is a perfect dream!
Beer, beer, glorious beer!
If you drink Sprunt’s you’U never
feel queer.
Brink all the morning, drink all the
night,
As there’s nothing to suffer, you can
always get tight.
Probably Burtville is now
another empty paddock in the
outback with a few abandoned
shafts and dumps of mullock for
its memorial, but I like to think
that the brave and hearty spirit
of its pioneers did not die with
the township, but has scattered
far and wide, and that the lives
of many who lived in the many
similar little ghost-towns are still
enhancing a world of wider
horizons, for who would imagine
that a little girl brought up in a
town which began With tents and
packing-cases would perform on
concert-platforms throughout
the world, or that a little boy
who played marbles with pebbles
in the desert dust would p»rove
to be one of the greatest billiard-
players the world has seen? And
just as the names of Eileen Joyce
and Walter Lindrum are
renowned throughout the world,
so should the little towns where
they lived, Boulder and Broad
Arrow, and the names of others
now booming and others now
ghost-towns also be remembered.
At 5.30 we reached our
destination. And still I thought
of those lonely roads and the
miles of thirsty paddocks—and
the “five brass-bands” !
KALGOORLIE
T7ALGOORLIE, the name
given to Hannan’s Town, is
a corruption of Galgurli, the
name of a native shrub growing
there. Once it was spelled
Kalgurii, a spelling still per-
petuated by one of the mines.
The visitor hears stories of a
past as glorious as that of any
of the mining-towns, that there
were once 12 different publica-
tions, including “Hannan’s
Hatchet,” while now there is
only the “Kalgoorlie Miner,”
but, unlike most of her sisters,
Kalgoorlie is still a town of con-
siderable importance. For many
years Kalgoorlie has been the
principal goldmining centre in
the Commonwealth, and still has
a long life ahead of it. Several
thousand men are employed on
the Golden Mile. It is still
prosperous, but it is quieter now.
Once the scene of wild excite-
ment, in the days which inspired
the municipal-seal depicting
Fortuna, the Goddess of Chance,
holding the wheel on whose
revolution all things depend, in
the act of presenting a miner,
complete with pick and shovel,
with the Golden Apple which is
his reward —now the town is
coming nearer to the thought
behind the underlying motto:
“Fortune Yields to Industry.”
Even the two-up schools, once
the biggest in Australia, have
“gone bush,” and the Boulder
street-car, surely one of the
wildest demons ever to lurch over
any road, has gone the way of
other wheeled monsters.
The zest which was spent in
building the Round Church,
which would not leave the devil
any corners in which to hide,
has matured, and expresses itself
in the designing of municipal
housing-projects, like that at
Victory Heights, and, instead of
the latest rushes, talk of pros-
perity depends on such factors
as the “tungsten-bit” and the
“air-leg,” new and efficient
methods of mining which combat
the upset caused by production-
costs which keep rising, while the
price of gold doesn’t.
It is a town proud of its beer-
gardens, and snack - bars,
beautiful churches and good
sports-grounds, and the School
of Mines, which holds a high and
secure position among the
world’s educational institutions.
The hope of finding nuggets
and rich veins belonged to its
youth. Now the mullock-heaps
are being treated and re-treated.
One commentator has
contrasted the treatment
of mullock and the
wealth found in telluride
with the introduction of
tea to England, when the
first users drained off the
liquid and ate the leaves.
Even the old excesses
which ravaged the
timber-areas for many
miles around are quieten-
ing down; the timber-
towns will soon be a
thing of the past when
the hungry furnaces are
consuming coal. The
days commemorated by
“Dryblower” Murphy in
his goldfields’ verses still
live on the lips of the old-
timers on street-benches,
but the old-timers are
far outnumbered by busy
shoppers, and children
off to swim in the
Olympic Pool.
Paddy Hannan hasn’t
been forgotten. The
principal street has been
named in his memory, and
his statue is situated near the
Town Hall. Paddy was pro-
vided with a waterbag, never-
endingly replenished from the
waters of the pipeline. From his
perch it was estimated that he
could behold 17 pubs which
supplied a beverage stronger than
that in the waterbag and also
named in his honor.
Until recently he was the figure
of many escapades, and the
Town Fathers were alarmed on
many occasions to discover that
he had been on midnight jaunts,
sometimes returning to his seat
in the morning minus his pick or
the waterbag, and once failing to
return at all. He was located
at the rear of one of the hotels.
The Town Fathers decided that
Paddy, also, must share in the
peaceful twilight-spirit envelop-
ing the town, and he was filled
with cement to prevent further
rambling.
On the anniversary of his gold
discovery a toast is drunk in
front of the statue —a toast in
water from the waterbag. Visi-
tors marvel at the elegant homes
and the picturesque gardens, the
bitumen and concrete which have
almost allayed the menace of
dust, and the
myriads of
twinkling lights
outlining the
town, making
it seem verit-
ably a Golden
Mile in the
desert, and if
they stop to
consider what
made all this
possible the
answer lies in
the courage de-
picted in that bronze face,
typical of the courage of a host
of old-timers, and in the constant
stream of water, the of
a courageous dream.
. Nathaniel Harper, once senior
mining-manager on the gold-
fields, claims to be the man who
convinced Forrest in 1895 that
water could be pumped to Kal-
goorlie from the coast. It was
during Forrest’s term of office as
Premier of the State that the
great scheme was instigated.
The work of construction was
carried out by C. Y. O’Connor,
one of Australia’s great
engineers.
At the time it was a scheme
unique in the world. Water was
carried by pipeline 352 miles,
mostly through arid country,
with eight pumping - stations
similar to those at Cunderdin
and Ghooli, each with storage-
reservoirs and pumps to force
the water along the next stage of
its journey.
The scheme cost in the vicinity
of £3,000,000, and the official
opening took place on January
24, 1903. A weir was constructed
at Mundaring, near Perth, work
commencing five years earlier,
and the first water was pumped
out on March 10, 1902. But,
after six years of constant attacks
and criticism against both his
character and his engineering
judgment, O’Connor did not live
to see the fulfilment of the dream
which he had worked to bring
to reality. He had taken his own
life only a month before ...
They still talk of the opening
ceremony. The Prune Minister
(Mr. George Reid) arrived in the
middle of the hottest January on
record. It is said that he was
lowered down a mine, one of the
coolest places available, with a
good supply of liquid-refresh-
ment to keep him in spirit for
the ceremony,
A great banquet was held in
the vast underground reservoir,
(Continued on next page)


where the acoustics were so bad
that the voices of the speakers
could not be heard, but no one
seems to have minded, since, as
one of the journalists recorded,
a good time was had by all, and
everything under the sun was
drunk in Kalgoorlie that day,
except water.
Since then it has been possible
to supply the area with as much
as 6,000,000 gallons of water a
day, and the years of waterholes,
brackish 'wells and condensers
are all but forgotten. In a matter
of weeks, the red soil was flushed
with green and the desert was
retreating.
During my stay in Kalgoorlie
there was no dearth of water.
The drought broke with a
vengeance. A few days after our
return from Leonora, Onslow
was lashed by cyclones, and the
rains swept down the State. The
railway-line out from Leonora
was 3ft. under water. Rail- and
road-traffic from Perth was cut
off. Planes couldn’t land, and
for a while we received no mails,
papers or milk.
In the mornings on the roads
leading to Maritana Hill a few
hopefuls would be seen walking
along with their eyes intent on
the gutters, hoping to discover
a few gold specks washed from
the gullies by the rains. In one
of the side-streets a woman
picked up a 38dwt. nugget which
had been washed bare. This
reminded me of the old story
that the streets of Kalgoorlie
were paved with gold, and it is
interesting to note that such was
in a sense the case.
In the early days the value of
the telluride ores was not recog-
nised. It was considered that
they were worthless, and they
were used in the laying of foot-
paths from the Boulder turn-off
to Fimiston. Some telluride was
used in the making of hearths
and chimney-places.
In 1896 Arthur Holroyd
reported the telluride, and six
months later “Modest” Mary-
ansky, a mining expert from
Cripple Creek, Colorado, con-
firmed the report. The telluride
ores of the Kalgoorlie field later
proved to be unique, of extra-
ordinary richness. The foot-
paths were torn up again and
treated. In the meantime much
pilfering went on. People carted
ore home in billycans, and
secret plants for its treatment
were installed in abandoned
workings and out in the scrub.
Two policemen inquiring into the
gold-stealing were murdered.
Those were the days when, in
the course of a stroll down
Hannan’s-street, you could pass
eight or nine illegal goldbuyers
waiting for customers. Many
wealthy people were involved in
the transactions. The Gold
.Stealing Detection Staff came
into being, gradually stamping
out the evil.
There is a story of one
resident who had made a fortune
from illegal gold. They say that
when he learnt that the Detection
Staff was on his track he bought
a new car, “just about lined it”
with gold, and sent the car over
East with his chauffeur, intending
to follow later to set himself up
for life in new fields. When
the chauffeur reached the
eastern States, so the story goes,
he sent back a telegram to his
former employer: “Thanks for
everything,” and “went into
smoke.”
Many people blame, or thank,
the Gold Stealing Detection
Staff for the present quietness of
Kalgoorlie. Gone are the days
when men on a £5-per-week job
could retire within two or three
years, with a home and a car in
the city.
In Kalgoorlie I stayed in the
veranda-room with a well-fed
mouse in one corner, and
watched the water pouring in
when it rained. A chap from an
inner room seemed to enjoy my
“intellectual companionship.” He
would visit me late at night to
ask my views on the Fourth
Dimension. He was anxious, he
said, to discuss such things with
one of my intelligence.
My views on the Fourth
Dimension are vague at any
time, but especially at midnight.
Then he would ask what I
thought about the Theory of
Relativity—-“ You know,” he
would coax me, “the one that
says we are all related to
monkeys.” Before leaving he
would try his luck at borrowing
a fiver.
Any time I went out, the
paper-bags or envelopes I was
carrying would become covered
with names and addresses of
people I had to meet, and it took
longer and longer to walk down
the street.
My new acquaintances
included Alec, from the Native
Affairs Department (his friends
called him “The chap who is
mixed up in Affairs with
Natives”); my friend at the hotel,
who has the best collection of
gold-pieces in Australia, and a
dachshund called Fritz Kreisler,
probably because he is always
fiddling with everything he can
reach; the people at the
Exchange Hotel, known as the
“Young and Jackson’s of Kal-
goorlie,” after the famous Mel-
bourne pub, with a picture of
“Chloe” in the bar, painted, it
is said, from a copy of the
original by a native in the local
jail; and Angel, the native
police-tracker, impressive to the
other natives in a very warm-
looking and nondescript outfit,
complete with a badge—nobody
seemed to mind that it was a St.
John Ambulance badge.
I heard stories of Eileen Joyce,
who spent her girlhood in
Boulder; of a Mr. Poole and a
Mr. Flood, who work at the
Water Supply Department; and
of the s.-p. betting-shops, well-
organised affairs.
One evening there were even
pink elephants walking along the
road. They had circus-guards
with them, and had been spray-
ing themselves with the red dust
from their camping-site.
The paper-boys carried more
in their baskets than any paper-
boys I have ever seen. One
came to grief near our place one
Sunday morning, and took over
a quarter of an hour to restack
his basket. He said that he was
the ninth to come off that morn-
ing, as far as he knew.
During my visit there was a
write-up in the “Miner” dealing
with a letter printed in a London
paper, concerning a “fabulous
missing English ‘rich man’,”
who had been picked-up by the
police and lodged in the Kal-
goorlie lock-up, with many
charges of theft and embezzle-
ment to face. The write-up
referred to “leather-belted,
drably-clad miners,” wearing
wide-brimmed slouch-hats, and
described Kalgoorlie, “on the
frontier of the desert,” as a hard
and ruthless centre, and “no
town for luxury.”
The residents were as amused
at the write-up as they would
have been at the sight of anyone
except a circus-hand wearing
leather-belt, drab clothes and
slouch-hat. I wondered whether
the readers of the London paper
believed what was printed, and
would have liked them to see
some of the beautiful homes I
visited—homes where the style
of living is as substantial and
gracious as in any of our cities.
Even so, the homes are never
far from the industry which made
the town. The neighbors of one
of my friends were having their
house renovated, and tried to
prise out some stones they had
seen when the floorboards were
lifted, to make a rockery. On
investigating, they found that the
stones formed the perimeter of a
deep abandoned shaft over which
the house had been built.
There are many cultural
societies in Kalgoorlie, includ-
ing the repertory, musical, adult-
education and even the Historical
Society. One evening I went with
the rector and his wife to an
“evening,” which proved to be
an unforgettable experience.
The talk, illustrated with
colored slides, was given by
members of an expedition which
had recently visited caves on the
fringes of the Nullarbor Plains,
There was a good roll-up; many
young people, and one cat which
later followed us to the R.S.L.
hall for supper.
The expedition had visited the
caves westwards of Eucla, near
the South Australian border,
including Weebubbie, the Mun-
drabilla caves, Laundry rock-
hole and Cocklebiddy, An
attempt was made to find the
grave of Baxter, the companion
of Eyre who was speared by
natives, but the scrub was too
dense and the quest was aban-
doned.
I have heard that Baxter’s
bones were lost, but not in the
desert. It is said that they were
transferred to Perth, and were
stored in the catacombs under-
lying St. George’s Terrace, cata-
combs so tortuous that no one
can find his way there without
using a ball of string; and I
wonder whether the bones of
Baxter will ever again see the
light of day.
There were some wonderful
slides, despite the difficulties of
photography in the intense
underground darkness, of crystal-
clear lakes, winding caverns,
tremendous vaulted ceilings and
honeycombed archways, stalac-
tites and stalagmites and forma-
tions like mushrooms and
pumpkins. I was feeling rather
excited, since this was country I
was soon to see . . .
Towards the end of my stay
in Kalgoorlie someone dis-
covered that I hadn’t been down
a mine, and it was arranged that
I should visit one. The mine
was a dead one, and my guides
were two young surveyors, one
of whom had been on Heard
Island. I believed that they were
going to survey, and felt quite
happy about the visit, thinking
that the surveying was done on
the surface. The Yanchep caves
were the deepest things I had
plumbed before.
We arrived at the mine, over
bouncing by-roads, and I dis-
covered that we were going
down. “There is nothing as dead
as a dead mine,” one of my
friends said ominously. The
shaft looked abandoned, with a
tower and the rusted metal-work
of the cage above it.
“The engine has had it!” my
friend continued, unfolding a
coil of rope, and I began to
visualise myself swinging * from
the end of the rope somewhere
down in the bowels of the earth.
The rope looked a little frayed
and my nerves began to feel the
same way. I began to get dry.
Then one of the chaps raised
a trapdoor and there was the
ladder. The ropes were for
lowering the gear. The shaft
was about 400 ft. deep, but we
went only to the 160 ft. level. I
have never climbed! so many
ladders. There was a miner’s-
lamp about my waist and all
went well except that I slowed-
down once, and the chap above
me trod on my head.
Down under, we found
tunnels with timbered sides, and
the surveyors planted their stubs
of candles on rails, and set up
their tripods. Rails disappeared
into black tunnels leading off the
main one, and I saw stopes lead-
ing at a sharp incline to other
levels, with timber-struts to
support the rock above. All the
rock looked the same to me,
grey and crumbling, with no hint
of gold.
The roof was low, so I sat
most of the time, gazing at the
candles, like stars in those quiet
tunnels. I’m sure there is nothing
quieter than a dead mine.
It seemed silly to be saying
“Excuse me!” when I sneezed,
and it seemed an odd place to say
“Goodbye” when I left. I said:
“I’ve never been in such a hole
before!”
My arms were nearly falling
off by the time I had reached the
last ladder and could clutch at
the daylight above. It had been
cool below and became warmer
as I ascended. The% lowering
the light to my friends by means
of the rope, and waiting for the
tug to signal that they had
received it, I made my way back
to Kalgoorlie and indulged in
several baths.
KALGOORLIE TO
Norseman
ATY last visit at Kalgoorlie was
to the Kurrawang Native
Mission.
The mission is away from the
bitumen road, past the market-
gardens and the aerodrome, near
the site of the old Kurrawang
township, now marked by only
a few pieces of old iron and a
palm growing where the pub
stood.
The mission had been moved
to its new location a few weeks
earlier. It is handy to the pipe-
line and shaded by spindly trees.
A hundred yards away in the
bush we came to the native-
camp. Most of the men had seen
us approaching and had “gone
walkabout.” Their humpies
were scattered through the scrub,
crude archways of boughs 3ft.
or 4ft. from the ground at the
highest point, covered with pieces
of old rag and clothing, worn
tarpaulin or even blankets.
The earth was their floor, with
a piece of sacking or an old
blanket for their bed, and in
every other humpy a dog was
taking its ease. Some of the
younger men hadn’t even such a
humble shelter, a shirt or a coat
thrown over a bush indicating
their place of abode.
The old women gathered in
little groups or walked through
the bush in a most desultory
fashion. One small boy followed
us, bowling a battered tyre and
laughing with huge pleasure at
“the visitors.”
My friend Alec talked to the
missionary, and a little group
slowly formed about us, widows
wearing gumnut-caps, two old
women with withered arms, sorry
sights to see, and one clumsily
patching a garment with huge
rents in it, a young chap, kept
in the camp with a heavy cold,
and two old men, one whose
face was so screwed-up and puffy
that he could scarcely see, and
the other with a distended belly,
caused by a spear-wound, wear-
ing what looked like old-
fashioned bathers, or long red-
flannel underpants.
They seemed more like a
crowd of monkeys, watching us
while we talked.
The Government supplies
rations for 20 natives —presum-
ably the old folk who have no
one to support them —but many
above that number drift in and
out of the mission. They are
unable to obtain work because
they cannot speak adequate
English, and the people of Kal-
goorlie object to them begging
in the streets, believing that they
are well enough provided for at
the mission. Their only hope
of sustenance is to “live off the
land,” but the white-man has
taken over the good waterholes,
and depleted the native game,
and the only diet remaining is a
choice between rabbit and
kangaroo, when these are
obtainable.
So they potter around hope-
lessly and lose heart at their
campfires; and the lucky ones
who receive Government rations
collect their meat and flour, a
little salt, sugar, tea and
powdered-milk and perhaps peas
and oatmeal, once a week and
share it with the less fortunate;
and wait with patient hunger for
the next issue.
The missionary did not seem
to notice my presence, and didn’t
say good-bye to me when we left.
The visit had sb depressed me
that I said little, myself; and I
could not forget those helpless
old folk on cold wet nights in
the bush.
On the road back to Cool-
gardie I kept seeing the glint
of gold, but my only discoveries
were fragments of broken bottles
and dried orange-peel.
It is a lonely road, with only
one or two old shacks between
the two towns. Outside Cool-
gardie three boys were sporting
in a muddy waterhole. It was
very hot. I was feeling a little
dry, and managed to consume
three glasses of squash, a jug of
water and a large bottle of
lemonade, without perspiring.
In the bar of the hotel there
were some other natives, in
remarkable contrast to the folk
at Kurrawang. They were well-
dressed, finely built men with
good faces and friendly disposi-
tions. They were an example of
what could be achieved once the
opportunity had been given.
They had certificates which
confer rights akin to citizen-
ship, and can vote, drink in
hotels and marry without the
usual Government supervision.
They are accepted in the com-
munity, hold good jobs, and
without assistance have achieved
decent homes, with linoleum as
shining, and rooms as neat and
comfortable, as those of any
suburban cottage.
The usual saying is that liquor
sends natives mad. It would
seem truer to say that it wakens
their resentment. The men I
met at Coolgardie had nothing to
resent.
{To be continued next week)


Following a
GOOD EXAMPLE
■/
W*v.
V.'/
The widest choice of
Australian manufactured
tractors to choose from!
Six models all with a
full line of matched
equipment! AOS-6 for
orchards and vineyards
AOS-6 Standard for mixed
farms. Super AW-6 and
AWD-6 for wheat areas,
and two Farmalls for row
crops and tall crops.
with McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
TRACTORS AND MATCHED EQUIPMENT
Follow the lead of successful farmers and invest in McCormick
International tractors and matched equipment. They've proved
that matched equipment pays off with more acres covered per
gallon of fuel. The two tractors illustrated above are the Super
AW-6 and AWD-6, two from the full line of six McCormick
International tractors, all with a full line of equipment matched
in size, weight and speed of operation. See your local I.H.
dealer today for more information.
i
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VICTORIA).
WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG
m
BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT
FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
' «L 489-18
HIGH PRESSURE
by E.O.Schlunke
y~|T the Rotary Club dinner
f \ that memorable night, I
I remember that Rossell and
I were fined for sitting
together again in spite of the
“Club Fellowship” rule which
demanded that we sit beside a
different person each week.
We, however, considered that
it was worth the small sum
involved and the slight amount
of opprobrium, because we
wanted to discuss our symptoms
regularly —we both have
arterial hypertension, what is
vulgarly known as high blood-
pressure—and the club dinner
was the most convenient place to
talk about it.
At one time there had been a
tendency among the others to
make fun of our esoteric con-
versation.
“My systolic was two-fifty and
my diastolic was one-twenty last
night,” I might say ; “I just have
to live with my sphygmomano-
meter.”
But when the uncouth cracks
had begun to fly Rossell had
looked around solemnly at the
fellows—he is a big, dominating
sort of man —and said in that
impressive way he’s developed
from auctioneering land, houses
and other valuable property, “In
that state he could collapse any
minute. He might recover the
use of, say, one side of his
body; or be helpless for the
rest of his life ; or he might just
snufi out entirely.”
That made them subside pretty
quickly. For all the earnestness
of their talk about their noble
aims and objects, they don’t like
to hear you talking about death
at Rotary Club dinners.
“If you’ve got a few minutes
to spare after this is over,”
Rossell said to me, “I’d like you
to come up to my place. I’ve
got some new dope that seems
to be really good. I got my
systolic down from two-twenty
to one-oh-five in three-quarters
of an hour, and it stayed below
one-hundred-and-forty for six
hours.”
That was astonishing and
tremendous news to me. I
explained it to the goggling,
ignorant Rotarians.
“It’s like a drowning man
coming up for the third and last
time, to suddenly find a strong
rope in his hands.”
“I’ll certainly come up,” I said
to Rossell.
TN a town the size of ours, we
get to know every car; that
is, all the good cars; the big,
late-model Americans, and the
few really classy English ones
that go round the two- to three-
thousand-mark. Well, we’d just
started off to Rossell’s place in
his Frontenac; just got out of
the business streets into the
residential area, when a roar of
sound and a flash of light shot
past us.
“Who’s that blasted fool?”
said Rossell.
He didn’t like to be passed,
even in the street.
It’s just stupid flashhess driv-
ing like that at night in a built-
up area,” I said, to soothe him,
but it looks the sort of low-
slung, sporty car that Wishart
jT!J es ’- onl Y I think his is a
different color and hasn’t so
much nickel on it.”
“Just the sort of way Wishart
would behave,” Rossell said,
seething more than ever.
When we got to Rossell’s
place, there was the grey-and-
suver car, parked outside his
gate ; crouched low to the ground
and giving off that exciting and
tantalising smell of duco and
upholstery that a new car has
for the first couple of thousand
miles.
“It’s a beauty,” I couldn’t help
saying, even though I knew it
might annoy Rossell; “just like
a racing greyhound ready to
spring into action.”
But he just grumbled. “We’ll
soon find out who owns it
anyway.”
We went into the house,
quietly. The first person we saw
through the open lounge-room
door was Rossell’s wife sitting by
herself. She looked up, seeing us,
with that familiar, brief, house-
wifely frown which seemed to
say, “Visitors! Without a warn-
ing! At this hour!” Then she
smiled with dutiful hospitality.
“Isn’t there anyone else here?”
Rossell inquired after our polite
exchanges, still in his irritated
voice.
His wife smiled, a trifle pity-
ingly, and at the same instance a
loud, deliberate stage - cough
came from behind us. Sunk in
an armchair beside the doorway
we had entered by was .Wishart.
He was smiling, too, with that
easy, secure indifference of his
that looked so much like
contempt.
“Just dropped in,” he
explained facetiously, “to see if
I could persuade Marjorie to
come for a ride in my new car
with me, while you were away
Rotating.”
I had to laugh, because it was
so audacious. Wishart was
infamous for his attempted
intrigues with married women,
and there was a lot of scandalised
talk going round the town that
he was having more than his
usual success with Mrs. Rossell.
Yet here he was, forestalling any
possible objection by Rossell, by
making a joke of it.
i Rossell flushed. s It looked as
if he might have had his
suspicions, but couldn’t think of
anything adequate to say. That
was Rossell’s handicap; he
wasn’t very nimble-witted. A
smart fellow like Wishart could
upset him temporarily, but his
spectacular success in his busi-
ness was proof enough that, given
time to think things out, nothing
could stand in his way. Now,
because of his characteristic
single-mindedness, he immedi-
ately returned to his previous
subject, full of his interest in his
new drug again.
“Sit down here,” he said to
me. “I’ll go and get the stuff and
the booklet that goes with it.”
WHEN Rossell had gone,
Wishart stared at me in a
manner that could have been
flatteringly interested, or plainly
insolent; it was impossible to
tell, with him.
He was a solipitor, younger
than either of us, who had
recently established himself in
our town. Just come in and set
up an office in opposition to our
established legal men ; ridiculing
them as old-fogies and attract-
ing a lot of business of the more-
or-less shady sort that our reput-
able men wouldn’t touch with a
forty-foot pole.
“So you’ve got high blood-
pressure, too,” he said, letting
me see that I was so transparent
that I didn’t need to tell him.
But his next sentence astonished
me, “I’ve got it, too, you know.
I’ll bet you I’m a worse case
than you. What do you go up
tCJ?”
I answered very cautiously,
suspecting that he was trying to
pull my leg. But I soon found
out that he was genuine ; he was
a case all right. He knew all the
symptoms and the language as
well as any layman I’d ever met.
Soon Rossell returned, full of
animated talk. As well as having
the small bottle, he had his arms
full of surgical devices; a
stethoscope, a hypodermic
syringe and a sphygmomano-
meter. He put all these things
down on a table with an
elaborate air of importance, like
a conjurer getting ready to saw
a woman in halves. Then he held
up the bottle and struggled to
pronounce an eight-syllabled
word. 1
“It’s called pentapyrolidinium
bitartrate,” he said, regarding the
bottle as if it contained the very
elixir of life, “the absolutely
(Continued on next page)


Whichever way you look at it ...
VAUXHALL UTILITY
gives top value
Tg
In smart good looks ... in payload capacity
. . . in engineering excellence the versatile
Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe-Utility is top value.
Sturdily built on a rugged chassis frame, the
Vauxhall Utility is a tough dependable worker
. . . yet after hours, readily doubles as a stylish
3-passenger Coupe.
CHOICE OF POWER
UNITS
For good performance with
excellent economy there’s
the 4 cyl. 15.63 h.p. O.H.V.
“over-square” Wyvern en-
gine ; while for good econ-
omy with outstanding per-
formance the 6 cyl. 23.44
h.p. O.H.Y. “over-square”
Yelox engine is available.
Both vehicles are full 10
cwt. capacity:
List prict, Wyvern £B9O
plus Sales Tax.
List price , Velox £950
plus Sales Tax.
IMPORTANT DIMENSIONS
AND FEATURES
Ar Length of body flooi
(internal) 80".
Ar Floor length tailboard
down 101".
Ar All-steel body with hard*
wood floor.
Ar Rugged, cruciform
Chassis Frame.
Ar 3-speed synchromesh
gearbox.
Ar Luxurious full-width
front seat (56f").
Ask your Vauxhall dealer about the G.M.A.C. Confidential
Hire Purchase Arrangements. Ask your dealer too , about the
built-for-Vauxhall “Airchief” Car Radio .
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
VU29-3J.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 2878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
fc'i’RUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
latest thing out. Produced by
one of the biggest chemical firms
in England. As far as treatment
goes it’s still in the experimental
stage; but let me tell you—it
certainly will reduce your blood-
pressure.”
“I wouldn’t let anyone experi-
ment on me," Wishart said,
attempting to ridicule Rossell’s
enthusiasm.
Rossell turned on him, sud-
denly grinning quite happily.
“You wouldn’t be game; hey?”
“I wouldn’t be such a fool as
to muck about with a thing that
might affect my heart.”
Rossell wagged his head at
him and said with a good deal
of patronage. “If you had high
blood-pressure you’d do any-
thing to reduce the risk of
suddenly passing out.”
Wishart turned to me with a
patient smile. “Tell him,” he
said.
“He’s got it, too. He’s a worse
case than either of us.”
Rossell was astonished. “You
don’t say so,” he said, unbeliev-
ingly.
“I certainly do,” Wishart
affirmed, in a clipped, legal
manner.
“Well, why, then,” Rossell
demanded, quite injured at the,
to him, quite incomprehensible
duplicity, “heven’t you ever said
anything about it?”
Wishart glanced across at
Rossell’s wife.
“I thought it would be a
pleasant contrast,” he said in a
slyly over-self-confident way, “if
there was one high - blood-
pressure case in the town who
didn’t talk about his ailment.”
“Hear! Hear!” said Mrs.
Rossell, with a jarring lack of
conjugal sympathy.
jD OSSELL seemed decidedly
put out for the moment. He
fiddled with the instruments and
frowned at his wife; then he
resumed his theme.
“I was going to give you a
demonstration,” he said, mainly
to me. “I thought if I let you
see how high my pressure was;
then gave myself an injection;
and after half an hour or so I
took another reading, that would
convince you.”
“It certainly would,” I said,
encouraging him, “if you could
get anything like the results you
were telling me.”
“I can. I tell you, I will.” He
was suddenly enthusiastic again.
He threw off his coat and began
to roll up the shirt-sleeve of his
left arm. “Here, Marj, come and
read my pressure.”
He sat down beside the table
of instruments, laying his bare
arm on it expectantly. But his
wife remained in her seat,- look-
ing most reluctant.
“Come on, now,” he urged
her; “you know it’s impossible
for me to take a really accurate
reading on my own. I want this
show to be absolutely on the
Level.”
But Mrs. Rossell still
hesitated; mainly, it seemed,
because Wishart was watching
her and her husband with
superciliously amused eyes, and
giving me an occasional, barely
perceptible nod. *
“Come on, come on,” he
demanded, with such passionate
impatience that it looked as if he
was going to provoke a major
domestic scene.
His wife went to the table, but
she protested. “I wish you
wouldn’t ask me to do this when
people are here. You know it
makes me feel silly pretending
to be a doctor.”
But the reason she gave did not
sound quite genuine. She put the
bandage round his arm with a
distasteful expression on heir
face, which increased when he
grabbed the rubber bulb and
pumped rapidly until the mercury
shot up in the meter. He stopped
it at the two-thirty mark.
“There it is,” he said, quite
exultant about the height of the
indicator, “I can just about do
without you. No, no. You take
it now. Use the stethoscope to
make sure.” ■
“It’s about one-eighty,” his
wife announced, after listening.
“No, no. I’m sure it’s more,”
Ross e 11 contradicted her
arrogantly; “you try again.”
“Now it’s two-hundred,” Mrs.
ninSv” rep ° rted; no ~ one -
“For God’s sake hurrv no and
complained. It s hurting me like
“Well, then, it’s two-thirty,
and you were right all along!
That ought to satisfy you.”
She flung down the stetho-
scope, and Rossell unwound the
bandage angrily.
“I can see,” Wishart said in
his smooth way, “that blood-
asTmoter-tadawT ** “ **
as she returned to her chair.
Rossell stared after her,
surprised. “You don’t usually
minri toi/mn if» j \
m.nd taking it, he reminded
JHEN in his purposeful, one-
track manner he speedily
HentkednnTht bZTni eneS H
Sehvnnlr^^^ tfleand
“Nnw w? havp^^’ - +• »»
, we h * ve m J e ction,’
manner
and alttimiab vnn 1
and although you might say that
it isn’t exactly the way they do
it ir, tL a y -ii y °
it in the hospitals, you will agree,
.when you try it yourself, that
i‘whoi?h e ™ the ? usy
man who does his own injecting.
Now I stick the needle through
the rubber stopper, then I turn
the bottle upside-down; I’ll soon
show you why I do that.”
He kept up a running com-
mentary of great length and
singular animation, taking an
inordinate time over what was
really a very simple procedure,
Then, when he had at last injected
a little over one c.c. of the
preparation into his thigh, and
given the spot a lengthy massage
with a scrap of cotton-wool
soaked in methylated spirits,
“towards the heart,” he sat down,
looking as important as if we
might reasonably expect him to
be presently changed into a
rabbit, or have something
equally phenomenal happen to
him.
“Now we just wait for three-
quarters of an hour or so for it
to work.”
The rest of us looked at each
other and couldn’t help grinning
a bit. But suddenly he jumped
up again.
“I remember it says in the
pamphlet that it works better if
you stand up.”
He took up the booklet and
began reading the polysyllabic
technical jargon out aloud, but
too quickly and too jerkily for
us to have a chance of under-
standing it. Then he stopped
abruptly and looked up.
“Did you get that last bit?”
he inquired. “I’ll read it again,
‘the hypotensive action is stimu-
lated by the salivary action
accompanying the ingestion of a
meal! ’ ”
He turned to his wife. “That’s
an idea. What about getting a
meal? We could all do with one.
Then we’ll see how much it
stimulates my hypotensive
effects.”
He looked at Mrs. Rossell
again, expecting her to be as
eager to experiment with his
symptoms as he was, but she
received the suggestion very
coldly.
“Don’t be foolish, you’ve just
had your Rotary dinner.”
Rossell dismissed that with a
sweep of his arm. “That little
bit of cold corned-beef and
lettuce! You wouldn’t call
that a meal! Go on. It’s not
much trouble to get something.
Just some good, solid slices of
bread and cheese, and some
cakes, and a cup of tea, a bit of
toast, too, say, and some sweet
biscuits. That wouldn’t take you
(Continued on page 30)
TO THE POETRY OF JOHN BLIGHT
Tending your wild garden of adult verses,
Sifting the caked and acrid soil for strands
Of life or less, your five-pronged senses
Spear the bulk of friable fact, loosen
And lift the fancied mandrakes to the light.
Begging no pardons I read over your book’s
Square shoulder, unravel, your knotty problems,
Bruising the mild thumb of humor, blunting
The sharp forefinger of wit in the process, then brooding,
Nosing and savoring, holding your relics at mind’s length—
(And one or two unravel like smoked cigars,
Rare bones for this dog-akin bag of an appetite.)
But chiefly, John Blight, I praise your hard
Right-hand clasp of craft and sullen rime
Past rhyme. You’ve caught the country’s nervous
Tic, the aged land’s half-hearted beat
Of lifeblood, the whistle of ita lungs
Like a shaken locust-whir, a tired creaking ~
Suddenly become a ringing paean.
Not totems to me are your poems so much aa
Ringbar'ked stark tokens pointing a way
Back from or towards a green truth past singing,
A rasping of tongue-dried facts tempered with sweet
Relief like rain at the end of every utterance.
I think of you in a dark night of words,
Harsh and familiar star to my far sighting;
A crystalline and ragged luminosity
Winking a prism distantly, then loosing
A coruscating catherine-wheel of numbers,
Into the pitfall night, illuminations.
N.S.W.
BRUCE BEAVER.


And the more we are together...
Barmaids, Bless Their Hearts
By GAVIN CASEY
y*| FEW days ago a rather
f \ pleasant old relic of
\I World War I called Tom
turned up in his favorite
bar after an unexplained absence
of many weeks. He arrived
out of the blue at an hour when
non© of his old mates were
around the place, but nonetheless
he got a welcome that made him
first flush and then practically
tremble with excitement.
He got the welcome from the
barmaids—the sensible-looking
brunette, the worried blonde
with the sorrows of the world on
her shoulders, and even the
synthetic redhead who usually
seemed never to even look at
anybody within 20 years of
Tom’s age.
“Tom!” screamed the sensible
brunette, who doesn’t usually
scream. “Where’ve you been?
The place hasn’t been the same.”
Without even asking, she
started pouring what she knew
was his drink, and his leathery,
lined, tired face began to glow.
He said, “I been out Concord
for a while.”
How and why he went back
to the Repatriation Hospital,
where Old Diggers find friends
but lose their valued freedom,
wasn’t mentioned. For a few
moments even the redhead
abandoned a bloke in a hat so
flat that it looked like 50,000
sheep—to swarm around old
Tom, and tell him the place
hadn’t been the same without
him.
“How’s the mob?” Tom asked.
“Just the same, only Jim got
married,” said the brunette, with
a wry grin that might not have
been as much of an act as it
looked. “There’s another bloke
I missed!”
There was a seething crowd, but
somehow the girls made a small
ceremony of giving Tom his first
brandy-and-milk. And for half
an hour after that he got a
welcome-home from the sensible-
-1 poking brunette that was warmer
than would have been likely to
come from a lot of wives.
Tom, it turned out, had no
wife, and had not had one for 10
years. He had a grown son and
a granddaughter in New
Zealand, and a married daughter
in one of the city’s fancy
suburbs who “got on better with-
out him,” though it “wasn’t that
she ain’t got a good heart —but
a woman’s first duty’s to her
husband, and I’m getting on all
right, anyway.”
He was, in truth, “getting on
all right,” too, in spite of
occasional retirements to
Concord, and in spite of resi-
dence in a furnished room at
Redfern, which I never saw, but
can imagine. The room would
probably have shocked his dead
wife, but old blokes like Tom
don’t have their eyes focused
on the state of the ceilings and
the wallpaper. When they’re not
looking appreciatively at a
brandy-and-milk they are gazing
into the gay past, or watching
the barmaids with understanding
old eyes. They like the barmaids
as much as the barmaids like
them.
All sensible barmaids naturally
like old fellows with crinkled
faces who drink a fair bit and
never make a nuisance of them-
selves. And a lot of the old
fellows, without any senile
lechery, but with an apprecia-
tion of womankind that might
have enabled them to avoid a lot
of mistakes had they had it
earlier in life, appreciate the
barmaids.
But, having had a lot of time
to think, the old, grey customers
don’t only admire the forthright
commonsense of the girl at the
end of the bar —they sorrow a bit
for the kid in the centre, the
fluffy- and feather-headed one
for whom too much association
with too many males has been
too much. They don’t say any-
thing, because they know it
would do no good, but they feel
sad, and sometimes they have
had daughters who fell for what
is nowadays called “a smooth
line.”
Anyway, in his favorite bar
old Tom got the best reception
he’d had since he came through
the familiar hospital gates. To
the wowsers it may seem terrible
—trapping an old, sick man into
drinking to excess, and all the
rest of it. But to me it seemed
good, because if Tom didn’t get
a welcome there, where would
he? 4
In my youth “getting mixed up
with barmaids” was about the
most shocking thing that could
happen to a man, particularly if
married and it somehow
seemed to happen to a. surprising
number of them, whether or not
in a prior state of connubial bliss.
I’ve been wondering ever since
how much of the supposed sin
was merely in the minds of the
prudish wives, pinned there for
ever by husbands too annoyed
to deny anything.
As far as I’ve been able to
observe, barmaids spend their
working-time serving liquor and,
if they are any good, doing it
with a friendly but not generally
amorous smile. Being human,
and of the sex which, luckily
for mine, lacks discrimination,
they sometimes fall for dreadful,
showy types to whom no fellow-
male would even lend a tram-
fare home. But they average
out perhaps better than steno-
graphers, tram - conductresses,
shopgirls, fashion-models and
female competitors in the ring
events at Royal Shows.
Years ago, long after my father
had died, and after I had left the
town where he lived and had
finally come back to it, I went
into the superior bar of its
superior hotel, and was served by
a high-bosomed female who
looked like one of my late
mother’s friends. In those days
I was as lean as a whippet, and
much frustrated by many fancy
ideas I didn’t know how to carry
out. But the barmaid who, if
she’d ever seen me before at all,
had seen me when I was less
than 10 years old, knew who I
was and was pleased about it.
“Your father was a fine man,”
she said. “Your dad was always
welcome here.”
This looks a bit pompous and
pretentious in black and white,
but she didn’t say it like a dime-
store duchess with a nagging
inferiority-complex. She said it
in just the manner in which some
old friend of my mother’s might
have referred to one of the local
parsons, though Dad was nothing
like a parson, local or otherwise.
Anyway, with those few words
the dear old girl imposed
standards of behavior on me
which would not become
irksome, but would soon grow
into part of my picture of myself
and help me over the awkward
beginnings of life in a man’s
world, as distinct from a boy’s.
Unlike most barmaids, this
fine old battleaxe, and the other
one in the bar (who resembled
her in figure, manner and style
of dress), both used to drink too
much, and I suppose it was that,
as much as the changing times,
which finally ended their regime.
But it was many years before she
ever hit the bottle too hard
except after the shift was over,
and even when she grew a little
careless she got fuddled as
pleasantly and inoffensively as
anybody I ever knew. Only it
was a bit hard on the glasses and
the bar-stock.
And before the old girl let her
head go she saw two sons
launched into the world as adults
with better educations and
prospects than most of her
customers. In that, of course,
she had much in common with
the barmaids of today. When
she and her cobber were
“retired” the old bar of heavy
timber panelling and furniture
dark with age, deep with leather
upholstery, and softly lit so that
the mirrors gleamed remotely,
was rebuilt into a blaze of tiling,
chromium-plate, stainless-steel
and fluorescent-lighting.
The new bar was staffed with
fluffy blondes, exciting rather
than soothing, and the passing
of the good old days was much
mourned, not only by the elderly
citizens to whom the place had
been a home-from-home but by
many young fellows like myself,
“Never mind about my beer — I want to feast my
eyes on this glorious sunset."
who liked at least occasionally
the flavor of the past in our
drinks and the drowsy peace and
quiet.
Even qowadays, of course, a
high percentage of barmaids are
married. Late husbands, ex-
husbands, useless husbands and
husbands who toil hard but just
can’t earn enough send them into
the work. In the last-named
case they come; and go more than
in the others, tending to build up
the bank-account for a while
and then go home to look after
Dad and the kids properly for a
spell. The main thing I can see
wrong with our 40-hour week is
that it isn’t. In order to live in
reasonable dignity and comfort
most workers have to strive for
a 60-hour or so week, for the
overtime, or else get a job for
Mum.
Anyway, these “girls,” young
and old, do a fine job. They
impose, too, obligations in the
matter of conduct on the
customers, closing their ears
tactfully to ordinary free-and-
easy language, but acting
decisively, and with the support
of the mob, if anyone oversteps
the mark. There are some low-
grade floosies behind bars,
naturally, as there are behind
office-desks, factory-benches and
shop-counters. Similarly, we
have in our community a
percentage of embezzling
accountants, lawyers who play
ducks-and-drakes with trust
funds, and lethally lazy and
inefficient doctors.
The barmaids average out
well: neat, spiling, self-reliant
and efficient Where barmen
often grab the fjlass and bark,
“Wots yaws? the girls are more
likely to make it, ‘Would you
hke another drink. In some
overseas countries where Ive
lived there are no barmaids, and
I used to miss them, though
otherwise drinking conditions
were much more pleasant than
at home.
Some of the barmaids appear
to have nothing whatever in their
make-ups remotely resembling
the human bram, but the lack
seems unimportant. One day
recently one of my favorites >vas
excited by the news that tier
brother had just gone from
England to is Canada
close to England/ she asked,
brightly. , .
For a moment I thought it was
a gag, but she really didn t Know,
and >vhen I told her it was about
3000 miles away, across the
Atlantic, she seemed to think
the Atlantic was an oil company.
You know North America.
I said. “Well, it’s the great big
country in red that’s the northern
part of that.”
“Oh, I know,” she said,
happily. “It’s the part that looks
like a shoe!”
Whether she was thinking of
the toe of South America or of
Italy I’ll never find out. But I
drew a lot of beer-maps on the
counter, and finally went off with
no belief that even my illustrated
geography-lesson had done much
to dispel her blissful ignorance.
Nonetheless, it is a pleasure to
be served a beer by that girl.
Immaculately neat, and dressed
with the good-taste women seem
to learn these days if they learn
nothing else, she has your glass
half-filled with whatever you
usually drink before much more
than the brim of your hat has
appeared around the door. If
you happen to want something
else for a change* she gets it
smilingly. Her eyes rove cease-
lessly, nobody’s glass is ever
empty more than a second or
two, and she never makes an
error in dealing out a full-hand
of drinks or giving change.
She is one of those whose
husbands firmly believe that only
fools and horses work, but she
makes the best of hers, cherishes
their children, and dresses the
offspring like young princes and
princesses.
Being human, female, and
much exposed to men, barmaids
do quite often fall for a
customer, and since mere
exposure to men doesn’t seem to
improve female judgment of
them they make some dreadful
blunders. They love and mother
the gentle old relics like Tom,
and they have an awed respect
for such of the customers as
they consider “clever men,” but
they fall for the super-salesman
type, with spectacular
moustachios, who fling their
money around in large handfuls.
It is obvious that one needs a
lot of sheep to be able to be
the prince of good fellows among
the boys and to lavish much on
the opposite sex as well, but the
girls just don’t think of that.
Their lives are filled with excite-
ment, broken romances and
breathless talk about it all—and
no doubt these are among the
attractions of the work.
But fewer barmaids than ever
before seem to drink, at least
on the job. This is a point on
which they show true wisdom,
though one of the few things
that annoys me about the
pleasant creatures is the way
they are always guzzling that
habit-forming drug, tea, or
tickling their tonsils with straight
soda-water. I try to turn my
head while this goes on, so that
I can enjoy my beer. Their other
great weakness is their taste in
radio programmes.
Anyway, faults and all, the
barmaids, bless their hearts,
brighten the pub scene and are,
I’m sure, an influence for good
in the drinking world, particu-
larly in places where the six-
o’clock swills have crowded out
most signs of civilisation.
The frequent moves to banish
the barmaids which are made
from time to time will always
meet with fierce opposition from
me. More-or-less weaned by a
gracious old barmaid, and treated
by them ever since with courtesy
and attention on a high level, I
hope they stay with us for ever,
in spite of the alarming tactics of
some, like the famous Canberra
woman (licensee as well as her
own bar-worker) who held half
the drinkers of the national
capital in a state of fascinated
terror foif years.
One of the best tales told of
this domineering figure concerns
a knock-off-time rush when, as
usual, she was hurling beer over
the bar faster than it could have
been sprayed through a fireman’s
hose. Elbowing his way timidly
through the crowd came a very
junior civil servant, representing
himself and two of his pals.
Money on the bar, he lisped,
“Good-afternoon, miss. I’ll have
three middies —one with a dash.”
Whereupon the lady, grabbing
three glasses and gushing theta
full of straight beer, immediately
slammed them in front of him
and snarled, “Dash indeed! Do
you think I’ve got time to mix
bloody cocktails?”
I’ll swear no affidavit on the
truth of that one, but it’s too
good not to be true, really, and
from some of the things the lady
said to me in my Canberra days
I wouldn’t doubt it.
Anyway, she was not in truth a
barmaid, but a licensee, a class
with a widespread belief in their
right to behave as they like when
they feel like it, though there are
many exceptions. The true
barmaid is not one for very long
if she acts and talks even
remotely like that, and she
doesn’t.
She has a welcome-back for
old Tom, or a welcome for the
first time to the kid who is mak-
ing opening flirtation with the
demon rum. And she’ll try, in
most cases, with tact and
patience, to send each of them
home in due course not the worse
for drink but the better for it.


The name is
07
s
nrCaUum)
Scot* OJhWy
the whisky is
Wnoiiy distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807.
MS.JB/3A
“Cricket Year Book,” 17th Edition— s/- plus 9d. postage.
“Watson’s Index to the Laws of Cricket”— 2/6 plus sd. postage.
“Family Health”— l /- plus 3d. postage.
M.C.C. Cricket Souvenir Programme— 2/- plus 3d.
“Coronation Cookery Book”—8/- plus 1/- postage.
V. C. DAVIS AND COMPANY,
» A.M.P. Building, 40 Miller Street, North Sydney. XB 5821.
SPORTING NOTIONS
V.R.C. autumn racing begins
at Flemington on Saturday with
the new w.-f.-a. Lightning Stakes,
run over five furlongs and worth
£2OOO (£4OO for second and £2OO
for third). Sydney appears to
be best represented by Gay Vista.
Races at w.-f.-a. for all ages over
five furlongs seems to be com-
peting with the dogs. On the
following Saturday at Moonee
Valley, in the Alister Clark
Stakes, the line-up will include
Rising Fast and Sydney-trained
Prince Cortauld.
Advocate indicated readiness
for autumn when he beat a
modest field in the Rosehill
Handicap. He was second-
favorite. An early pick for the
Sydney Cup, in which he has
95. t., Advocate’s price tightened
after he cut out li mile, with
9.6, in fast time.
• • • •
Belbeiys, winner of four races
in succession and popular for
the Doncaster in early betting,
seems to be set a tough task to
win it. But he is a quick
beginner, will be handy all the
way, and is capable of a stout
finish. Another three-year-old
and a better-performed one,
Pride of Egypt, has a pound
more than Belbeiys, while Prince
Delville, of the same age, has
8.6. Belbeiys may be the only
one of the trio to start. In the
weights the grey, El Carretero,
seems nicely placed'on 7.11.
Yeti, winner of the Rosehill
Two-year-old Maiden for fillies,
is a speedy type. She is closely
related to Silver King, one of
Sydney’s fastest gallopers of
about 20 years ago. He won the
Rosehill Guineas and the
Hobartville Stakes at Warwick
Farm, and was caught near the
winning-post in the 1934 A.J.C.
Derby by Theo. By Newtown
Wonder (imp.), sire of speedsters,
Yeti is from Wedding Gift by
Sir Calidore (imp.) from Wedding
Ring by El Cacique (imp.) from
Golden Wedding Day by Poly-
phonic (imp.).
Cragsley’s third win in five
starts has taken him from the
restricted ranks, and he will now
tackle better horses in open
company. Judging by his run-
away successes at his last two
Rosehill starts he should quickly
win in sprint company, though
he will meet much stronger
opposition.
A 15-year-old apprentice, G.
Lane, rode three winners at
Moonee Valley Golden
Doubles, Beautiful Spy and
Talgarno Lad. Lane is in the
stables of Tom Woodcock, the
man whom Phar Lap put on the
map.
• * • •
Vistaed led all the way to win
the Rosehill Flying 7 furlongs
from Indian Empire and Bird-
wood, and could make it interest-
ing for the field in the V.A.T.C.
Oakleigh Plate. She may also
contest the V.R.C. Newmarket.
Her stylish win in fast time,
I.24—jSec. outside the race-
record—earned her the trip to
Melbourne, but she will strike
tougher opposition there.
Improving on prior efforts, two-
year-old Clear Call, a 900gns.
yearling, ’ opened his winning
account in the Rosehill Maiden
for his age-group. On his close
second to Nilo Boy at his
previous start at Randwick Clear
Call looked a winner, but he
wasn’t favorite, Star Realm being
the elect at odds-on. Star Realm
showed abundant pace for most
of the journey, but stopped
almost to a walk in the final
stages, and Clear Call got up in
the last stride to beat Insulin and
Gay Hunter. '
Brisbane trainer F. Best
brought two - year - old Big
Wonder to Sydney some weeks
ago, but did no good with the
filly. She showed pace, but
lacked stamina. However, soon
after returning home she won a
five-furlong Doomben Juvenile,
starting favorite and winning
by four lengths in 60sec. Another
of the speedy Newtown Wonder
(imp.) progeny, she is from
Praesum by The Verderer (imp.).
Consistent Melbourne two-
year-old colt, Golden Doubles,
winner at two of his last four
starts and in minor places at the
other two, was bought for a
modest 140gns. at the Randwick
Easter sales last year.
There are too - frequent
instances in Sydney of horses
competing in restricted events
for which they are not eligible.
The trouble is that the onus is
placed on nominators to declare
the class the horse is eligible for
and mistakes are made innocently
by trainers. Some of them are
not fully aware of the race con-
ditions. A closer examination
of nomination-papers should be
made by stewards before a
horse’s name appears in a
graduation or other 'restricted
race, and errors should be
corrected before weights reach
newpapers.
* • • •
The one-time Brisbane galloper
Gallipoli turned up at Tweed
races (N.S.W.) the other Satur-
day. First race: Gallipoli 1,
Uncle Remus 2, Beau Style 3,
three starters. Second race: No
starters. Third race: Gallipoli
1, Uncle Remus 2, Beau Style 3 ;
only starters. The club gave the
rest of the programme away.
Probably too much for the
handicapper.
A striking second-heat win,
following his recent Auckland
(trotting) Cup victory, has made
Caduceus favorite for the Inter-
Dominion Final on February
26. This stylish four-year-old
by U-Scott (imp.) out of Little
Ada was driven by Jack Litten,
who also drove the first-heat
winner, Our Roger. Another
feature of the meeting was
that Australian representatives
Ribands, Captain Sandy, Ten-
nessee Sky and square-gaiter
Para Rip all failed.
Star of this year’s two-year-
old crop of trotters, Joe Raid,
raced his opposition the hard
way by leading throughout the
£lOOO Youthful Stakes Final at
Harold Park last Friday night.
The win was his fifth on end,
and makes his alley good for the
forthcoming Sapling Stakes.
Rising Fast is the natural
Sydney Cup favorite, with Prince
Delville pressing him closely.
In some places they are sharing
favoritism. , Rising Fast has
plenty of weight at 9.13, and at
this early stage it would not be
a good idea to put him down as
a certain starter. Punters who
accept the short odds about the
Belbeiys-Rising Fast double are
asking for trouble. Rising Fast,
for instance, has to survive a
fairly tough Melbourne pro-
gramme before going to Sydney.
And the connections had Aus-
tralian backers in a dither over
“Then, after the THIRD fall, you BOTH jump on the
ref's face. Everybody happy?"
last year’s Melbourne Cup. As
the Sydney Cup is several weeks
off there seems ample time for
taking a double.
Only nine horses have won
the Sydney Cup with more than
9st. The outstanding perform-
ance was by The Barb in 1869
with the welterweight of 10.8.
Others to win with heavy weights
included Carbine, 9.9 ; Wakeful,
9.7 ; Eurythmic, 9.8 ; and David,
9.7. Rising Fast has to yield
weight to good ones in Prince
Delville, 8.2, Pride of Egypt, 8.3,
and Belbeiys, 8.2. Prince
Delville appears to overshadow
the other two with his good
fourth in last year’s Melbourne
Cup.
“P.0.M.C.”: Would somebody
please explain why Sydney
stewards regularly castigate
jockeys who have been riding
long enough to know better in
such terms as: “You can’t ride,”
or “You jump about like a wind-
mill,” or “Your finishing effort
was very, very poor,” or “You
seemed to be trying only over
the last thirty yards,” and then
dismiss them, sans suspension or
fine, presumably to repeat their
incompetencies the following
week?
+ +
Victoria’s collapse , for 113
against M.C.C., saved to some
extent by bespectacled spin-
bowler Dick’s 41 and Loxton’s
27 (the two added 53 after it was
6- recalls a strikingly similar
Victorian fall against South
Africa two seasons ago. Then,
on a similar soft pitch, it was
7- when Test spin-bowler
Ring played a hard-hitting
innings of 56, helped mainly by
then ’keeper lan McDonald’s
20, for the total to reach 138.
Ring still skippers Richmond in
pennant-cricket.
“Keima”: Some English Test-
cricketers, too, have uncommon
names (B. 9/2/’55) —Hendren,
Fames, Fishlock, Washbrook,
Verity, Voce, Graveney,
Cowdrey, Statham, Edrich and
Bedser. But the bobby-dazzler
is an English “Test” lassie,
’keeper and opening-batswoman;
she’s Betty Snowball.
“Bosey”: Despite “Sidav,”
Charlie Turner, not “Tibby”
Cotter, is the official “The
Terror” of Australian cricket (B.
9/2/’55). Turner did not earn
the reputation by pace (he was
only medium-fast), but because
of his wicket-taking capacity.
Cotter, on the other hand, got
his title because his speed was
intimidating. In a book I
possess, Cricket on the Brain
(undated, but clearly of 1905
vintage), there are several digs
at Cotter: the illustration on the
inside front-cover is “Field
Arranged for Cotter’s Bowling”
with two hospitals, two
ambulance - stations, five
stretchers, a dispensary, etc., on
or close to the field. Another
drawing is “Prepared for
Cotter’s Bowling,” with ’keeper
visored and batsman totally
encased in armor!
“Mid-on”: “Statham was
faster than Trueman,” Harvey
said on his return from the 1953
English tour, but he rated True-
man the more dangerous bowler
because Statham “bowled too
much at the stumps.” Selected
for Australia, with Trueman
out, poor Statham hasn’t yet
corrected that fault, it seems,
for, in taking 6-3 against South
Australian Country, he must
have been aiming at the pegs
all the time —else how could he
have hit ’em six times in a
couple of overs? In the Tests,
too, he’s been at it —of his 17
victims, seven have been clean-
bowled and what virtually
amounts to the same thing—
four l.b.w. \
“C.A.A.”: For the first time
an Australian cricket team for
overseas contains three Queens-
landers —previous best represen-
tation from the Banana State
was two. One of the three,
Lindwall, is, of course, a Queens-
lander only by adoption.
On their return, home the
Huttons will encounter the
Cheethams. Cheetham and his
deputy, McGlew, led the Spring-
boks to Australia in 1952-53.
Eight of the side, including
Cheetham and McGlew, were in
England with Nourse’s ’5l side,
and 11 (including those eight)
came here. There are three
’keepers—Waite and Endean, the
two who were here (though
Endean, a solid bat, is so bril-
liant in the field that South
Africa prefers not to waste him
behind the sticks) ant? Duck-
worth, a newcomer to inter-
national cricket, who, with that
name, has something to live up
to.
* * *
“Jack High”: Wives of old,
new and serving Diggers will
soon know where some of them'
are at weekends. N.S.W. branch
of the R.S.L. is forming a
bowling-club, with three greens
and a clubhouse, at the Dowling-
street and Dacey-avenue corner,
Moore Park (Sydney). Head-
office has all the gen. about it.
* * *
The tennis tourists this year
are Hoad and Rosewall
(N.S.W.), Hartwig, Fraser and
Cooper (Vic.). The same five,
with Rose and Emerson, went
away last year. Rose is going,
too, but under his own steam.
He is taking his wife, and wives
are taboo on official sporting
tours. Which means a new
doubles-partner for Hartwig:
probably Fraser, another left-
hander. Main missioh of the
tour is to regain the Davis Cup.
♦* . *
“Tom”: Two experiments
designed to correct one of the
most unsatisfactory features of
the Rugby League game, play-
ing the ball after a tackle, will
be made by English clubs.
Bradford-Northern and Leeds
will play an exhibition game,
using a variation of the present
play-the-ball rule. After a
tackle the procedure will be as
at present, except that the man
in possession will have the right
to play the ball without inter-
ference from the opposition. If
that player is in an immediate
further tackle the ball is to be
left on the ground and the other
side will play it without inter-
ference. The second experi-
ment, less complicated, will be
tried in a game between Wigan
and Leigh. The Rugby Union
play-the-ball routine will be fol-
lowed—this provides that the
tackled player release the ball
immediately, then either side
can bring it into play with the
foot. The English League’s
rules committee will recommend
that the Rugby Union custom
be followed at the scrum break.
* * #
“Kay”: Newcastle pole-
vaulter Peter Rose (B. 9/2/’55)
owns one of the three bamboo
vaulting-poles in Australia-
former Australian champion
Peter Denton has one of the
other two. Rose, holder of the
N.S.W. country pole-vault title,
wouldn’t come to Sydney this
year to defend his title because
he’d have had to use the drawn-
aluminium pole—now commonly
used in Australia. Aluminium is
used because bamboo poles, pro-
duced only in Japan, are almost
unobtainable.
* * •
Light-heavies headlined the
Leichhardt slug bill when Owen
Moase (12.0) met Pedro Aquista
(11.9) in what was scheduled to
go 12 two-minute rounds, but
only went four, Moase getting a
t.k.o. verdict because of
Aquista’s bleeding eyebrow. In
the first two rounds Aquista
landed plenty of power-laden
rights to head and body. Moase
frequently rocked the Spanish
scrapper with heavy rights in the
third, however, and it might
have been another right, or an
accidental head - punch, that
opened Aquista’s left eyebrow
early in the fourth. Referee
Jack Burns refused to recognise
Aquista’s surrender when the
towel was thrown in, but, after
examining his gashed eyebrow
at corners, Burns promptly
declared Moase the winner.
Rudolph Valentino might not
be as good a boxer as his late
namesake was a movie actor, but
Valentino (8.5) stopped Jimmy
Grainger (8.6) in the second of a
four-round prelim., and he might
become a first-class fighting man
later on.


FULLY EQUIPPED
WITH FACILITIES AND EXPERIENCE
TO HANDLE ALL CONTRACTS
FOB STEAM-RAISING PLANT
This hydraulic press for bending steel plates
up to 5" thick is one of the many items
of equipment recently installed at Regents
Park Works for the production of fusion-
welded boiler drums and pressure vessels.
The installed capacity of Babcock boilers has reached a
total of approximately 4,000,000,000 lb. of steam per hour.
This represents thousands of installations in central power
stations and industrial steam plants throughout the world,
providing economical steam generation with all types of
fuels of widely varying characteristics, from coal and oil to
bagasse and sunflower seeds. This wealth of experience
gained, plus intensive and continuous research work, is
embodied in all Babcock boilers and auxiliary equipment.
Babcock has maintained its pre-eminence in the field of
steam engineering and is proud of being entrusted with the
manufacture and supply of the steam-raising plant for the
first atomic power station at Calder Hall in the U.K., which
is now under course of construction. Extensive and superbly
equipped works at Renfrew, Scotland, and Regents Park,
N.S.W., provide unrivalled facilities for the manufacture of
boiler units and all the additional equipment, such as coal
and ash handling plant, which is used in the modern boiler
house.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
From Hand-pumping to Electronics
Concert and Church Organs
By ADRIAN WINTLE
EARLY Australian organs
were designed, naturally,
after the English style.
From the latter half of
the 19th century to the begin-
ning of the 20th, organ-design
involved the mechanical action
known as “tracker-system.”
This action was at first depend-
ent on a strong man, who pro-
vided wind by exerting force on
a large wooden bar connected to
the bellows. *
It was hard work; and fre-
quently, in the middle of a ser-
vice, the perspiring blower would
hear an urgent summons from
the organist: “Pump harder!”
Electricity superseded man-
power in providing wind for
organ music at the beginning of
the 20th century. Organs were
still primarily mechanical, but
electric-current worked motors,
which in turn motivated the
bellows. Electricity was satis-
factory, but costly—in the
opinion of churchmen too
expensive for many churches,
taking into consideration finance
available and other needs. Con-
sequently there are still quite a
few old hand-blown instruments
around.
The transitional stage may be
. observed in the organ at Holy
Trinity Church, Dulwich Hill,
Sydney. The original hand-
pump is still there. Round be-
hind the keyboard, through a
maze of pipes, dust and cob-
webs, one can see the thick
wooden bar set by the large
bellows. It’s mighty hard going
to supply even a little air-
pressure from it. The organ
there now has a five-horse-
power electric-motor.
Nowadays most Australian
church-organs are much alike,
variations in design being
largely dependent on sizes of
buildings and parish mortgages.
Organ-design changed radi-
cally when electricity superseded
human effort; it changed again
with another action, known as
the tubular pneumatic.
Briefly, this action required an
immense quantity of copper-
tubing, the main idea being to
attach the metal-tubing to the
air-reservoirs, thereby connect-
ing the keys to the pipes: in
effect, providing actual air-
contact between keyboard and
pipes. One of the advantages
of this system was that key-
action was lightened; that is,
the organist’s fingers depressed
the notes quite easily, whereas
in the tracker-system consider-
able strength was required to
play the notes. Organ-playing
had been an athletic sort of
occupation.
+ +
Another advantage of the
tubular-pneumatic action was
the introduction of numerous
devices such as pistons, which
were known as “aids to the
organist.” But there were
disadvantages: metal - tubing
was expensive, and invariably
developed faults. Minor ones,
such as leaks of bending in the
tubing, or major faults, such as
a gradual falling-apart. Not
many of this type of instrument
are to be found in Australia,
but in England they’re fairly
common.
In England running water is
sometimes used to provide
hydroelectricity for power for
the organ-motors. These organs
run cheaply: the problem is to
find the stream in the right
place. As far as I know, there
are no water-powered organs in
Australia.
Sydney’s best-known organ is,
of course, the great instrument
in Sydney Town Hall. It was
made in England by the notable
builders Thomas Hill and Sons,
and then shipped to Australia —
understandably, in small
separate parts. Pipes, motors,
mechanical fittings, air-reservoirs
and bellows all arrived safely at
Sydney towards the end of the
19th Century.
After installation, a process
which in length of time may be
compared to the building of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge, the cost
was £20,000 —quite a large sum
in those days. The result was
something really impressive: an
instrument which, then, out-
ranked in variety and quality of
tone anything of the sort in the
Southern Hemisphere and
possibly still does.
A remarkable feature of this
organ is the renowned bass stop,
Contra Trombone. Its largest
pipe is 64ft. long; the smallest
pipe goes only fin. Six large
motors supply the wind, and the
organ’s tone ranges from deli-
cate “violins” to an almost over-
whelming outburst of sound.
The tale that the lowest note
on the instrument, if played,
would cause vibrations sufficient
to destroy the Town Hall is a
furphy. The tone of this par-
ticular note is merely a dull,
rumbling noise, and its total
damage seems to be the vibrat-
ing Of the northern- and
southern-gallery seats nearest
the organ.
4- “+■
This instrument falls into a
specific class known as concert-
type. A concert-organ serves a
dual purpose: firstly, to be used
as a solo instrument by visiting
or local artists at recitals;
secondly, to be played with the
orchestra. Much controversy
has raged over the years on the
standard of pitch—that is to
say, the number of musical
vibrations per note per second.
Robert Illing, in his Dictionary
of Music, writes:
Since the middle of the 19th cen-
tury, a number of attempts have been
made to standardise pitch. As the
result of a commission in 1859, the
standard of A = 435 was adopted
generally in France; but well into the
20th century an unsatisfactory state ot
affairs continued to exist in England.
In 1909 A = 452.4 was made the
official pitch for bands of the British
Army and to this standard other wind-
bands generally conformed. Apart
from these uses of the high pitch, the
Continental standard was gradually
accepted throughout the country. The
high and low pitches were commonly
known as old and new Philharmonic
pitches. In 1939 an international
pitch was at last agreed of A = 440..
This necessitated altering the
pitch of all instruments with a
standard higher or lower than
A = 440. The Sydney Town
Hall’s organ-pitch was soon
altered to meet the new require-
ments.
Concert-organs are numerous
in England; every town of note
possesses a large hall with one
in it. Australia is short of both
fine organs and halls large
enough to accommodate them.
A big organ takes some stabling.
The Sydney Town Hall organ
is set in a tier 120 ft. long by
80ft. wide!
Cathedral organs—and their
design and manufacture—come
into another category. The
principal difference between a
cathedral organ and a concert
organ is that the former is used
as an accompanying instrument
to voices, while the latter is
played for solo-work or for
concerti with orchestra.
Australia has few large
.cathedrals—those of Sydney,
Melbourne, Newcastle and Bris-
bane are among the largest. Yet
these are mere parish churches
when compared with England’s
great church buildings St.
Paul’s, Westminster Abbey,
Essex, Worcester and Notting-
ham ; leaving aside large and
beautiful cathedrals elsewhere in
the British Isles, and in Europe.
These tradition-mortared stones
and marching spires have music
—i.e., organs —in keeping with
their fame.
The organ in St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, was originally
an instrument of charming
quality, possessing some won-
derful stops of slender tone.
Built by Hill, it was, unfor-
tunately, made to suit a cool
English climate. It cracked up;
became sluggish and developed
all sorts of aches and wheezings.
At length another organ, built
by the firm of Whiteley, was
installed opposite the Hill. This
was a powerful instrument, and
for a time behaved well. But it,
too, developed much the same
sickness. There is a legend
of organ-students carefully
plugging leaks in its air-bellows
with chewing-gum before prac-
tising.
The Cathedral authorities
realised that something had to
be done. Proposals were made
and rejected. Finally an am-
bitious scheme was put forward:
to join the two organs.
Hugh Bancroft, organist of
the Cathedral at the time, drew
up a specification in which the
Hill and the Whiteley were to
be joined together and played
from a large console with four
keyboards. This plan was
approved, and the firm of Hill,
Norman and Beard engaged to
carry out the work.
After two years, the recon-
ditioned organ was completed
at a cost of £45,000. In some
ways it is a grand instrument,
and worthy of the expenditure;
but in my opinion it lacks both
the splendor and finesse of its
neighbor in the Town Hall.
Admitted, St. Andrew’s was a
tremendous job. New pipework
had to be brought from Eng-
land, old pipes replaced in more
advantageous # positions, and a
maze of complicated electrical
machinery assembled and in-
stalled. The latest musical con-
trivances were fitted to the new
console, and no pains were
spared to make a good job of it.
Despite the trend in recent
years to new styles of organ-
design, particularly of electro-
pneumatic types, many lovers
of the instrument believe that
the older organs, hand-made and
of simple, sturdy construction,
were equal or even superior to
their modern counterparts.
An interesting argument for
enthusiasts, With much of a
semi-technical kind to be said
for both sides. On one hand,
the old organ-builders, crafts-
men. Families with generations
of tradition behind them,
fashioning organs with the lov-
ing skill and scrupulous care
of artists. Not in the game for
the money (if that came, it came
incidentally), but because they
were organ-makers.
Their pride and satisfaction
came from turning out reliable,
long-lived organs of good tonal
quality. And they did just that.
Although many of the old
instruments are today in con-
stant need of repair—one can-
not expect wood and glue to
last for ever —they possess as
pure a tone as when first
installed.
Church authorities are often
reluctant to pay for the regular
services of an organ-tuner “for
the old'organ”: so many a fine
instrument slowly falls to bits.
And the modern organ-builder
(excepting, of course, long-
established firms such as Hill)
doesn’t have the generations of
experience behind him. He
knows all about the latest elec-
trical gadgets, and could tell you
the specifications of every organ
within a 10-mile radius. But his
products are poorer, tonally and
architecturally, than those of the
old makers, who managed nicely
without electricity and other
20th-century aids.
+ +
Apropos recent developments,
the extension-system in organ-
design is worthy of note. In
simple terms, this system means
obtaining, for the lowest pos-
sible expenditure, the maximum
amount of tonal variety from
the minimum number of pipes.
This type of organ is used for
smaller churches.
A recent discovery in elec-
tronics was that small rotating
disks, electronically controlled,
can produce musical notes.
Varying timbre of these notes
is determined by different sizes
and shapes of the disks. Thus
we get the electronic organ. It
is played from an ordinary key-
board, equipped with all the
usual paraphernalia stops,
pistons, pedals.
Major difference from an
ordinary pipe-organ is that there
are no pipes: a wooden con-
tainer, about sft. high and 3ft.
deep, houses the electronic tone-
disks. A long cord, with a
power-plug at one end, passes
from the bottom of the con-
tainer. Simply attach the cord
to the nearest power-point, turn
the switch, and the organ is ready
to play.
Tone is generally felt to be
very organlike in the quieter
registers, but where solid volume
is required it seems to lose much
of its distinctive character.
Apart from this, its main attrac-
tion is its extreme portability;
and it takes up very little space.
Principal disadvantage is its
liability to develop faults.
Faults in electronic organs re-
quire the attentions of highly
skilled engineers, and they aren’t
always on the spot when acci-
dents occur. They may have to
travel many miles to adjust the
fault, during which time the
church has no organ-music.
These, briefly, are the attrac-
tions and shortcomings of the
electronic organ. I believe there
is a definite place for it. It is
likely to be improved techni-
cally, and mass-production in
the future should reduce present
cost, which is high. The modern
organ is not a static object, but,
rather, the result of the gradual
amassing of knowledge and skill
over the centuries.


Research in Industry
No. 10 of a Series
pan
8*
m
m
s
Strength o J
How can one deal with a metal that goes brittle if only a trace
of air is present when it is melted? And how can it be melted if,
in its molten state, it attacks all the usual furnace linings? These
are but two of the complex and difficult problems that have had to
be faced by research workers engaged on finding ways of manu-
facturing the “new” metal, titanium. But their efforts have borne
fruit. Recently, 1.C.1. were able to announce the development of
a method of extracting the metal that had never before been used
on a large scale. Today, an 1.C.1. plant is being built to produce
1,500 tons of raw titanium a year.
Titanium is a prize worth seeking. Its alloys are as strong as
high-tensile steel, yet only half the weight, and they are out-
standingly resistant to corrosion. As the metal becomes more
readily available, it will find many important uses. Already it is
a high-priority material for Britain’s defence effort, for it can give
big improvements in jet engine design and performance.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
■L.668.1310i
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
W
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AUSTRIA
The situation in Germany is
serious but not hopeless; the situa-
tion in Austria is hopeless but not
serious. (Viennese saying.)
The difficulties of Austria
antedate the Russian occupation.
Before the First World War
Austria-Hungary stretched from
the Carpathians to the Adriatic,
and had a population of some
50 million. After that war, the
country was the mere rump of
the old empire—in effect, a new
country, like Yugoslavia, but
without the racial problems-
with a total population a good
deal less than London’s, of which
more than a third lived in
Vienna: a giant’s head on a
midget’s body.
But the strategic importance
of Austria remains. Interviewed
by “U.S. News and World
Report,” Julius Raab, the
Austrian Chancellor, was asked:
“What is the major point, Mr.
Chancellor, still holding-up the
Austrian Treaty?”
A. The Russians do not want
to quit Austria.
Q. What is the main reason
why they do not want to quit
Austria?
A. Strategic.
Q. Rather than economic?
A. It’s a question of power—
power politics.
To which may be added C. L.
Sulzberger’s comment in a “New
York Times” article:
“As long as the Danube flows
and the rail-system built under
the Hapsburgs continues its
present pattern, Austria is a key
to Eastern Europe. For this
reason the Russians wish to
prevent it from being used
against their satrapies militarily,
politically or economically.
There is little chance that
Moscow would risk trying to seal
off the Soviet zone, as in
Germany, or blockading Vienna.
This would involve risk of war,
But continued occupation must
gradually dishearten the popula-
tion and ultimately invite chaos.”
During the “U.S. News and
World Report” interview the
Austrian Chancellor was asked:
“Do the Russians have to get out
of the rest of Eastern Europe
when they leave Austria, or can
some special arrangement, in
your opinion, be made so that
they remain?”
“In the treaties with these
countries —Hungary, Rumania —
in these peace treaties, the
Russians are obliged to evacuate
these countries,” said the Chan-
cellor. “The justification of keep-
ing their troops in these countries
is that they want to protect their
lines-of-supply into Austria.
But even after the evacuation of
Austria, these countries would
remain in the power orbit of
Russia because no one can
control it.”
Q. What is your feeling about
the possibility of “peaceful co-
existence” in Europe?
A. We alone are too small for
that.
Q. Too small for “peaceful co-
existence”?
A. We are between the two big
millstones.
Q. You are worrying about
existence, not “coexistence”
A. In any case, I am of the
opinion one thing is certain:
Weakness does not impress the
Russians.
Q. We’ve been told that people
who are against “peaceful' co-
existence” are afraid that the
people who are now under
occupation will become dis-
couraged
A. Well, I believe that there
is sufficient political maturity to
realise that it represents an
interim state in the constant
onslaught of Communism for
the purpose of achieving a
-stabilisation. It is in the further
developments that we will see
whether of itself Communism
becomes reconstructed or
diminished. That is the question.
But the fact is that “coexistence”
has at least brought Communism
to a halt.
Q. But will the people behind
the Iron Curtain and under
occupation accept the status
quo ? In this country, “peaceful
coexistence” is often criticised as
meaning the status quo
A. I do not think that “co-
existence” is necessarily identical
with the term status quo, but at
present I cannot see what these
people can do.
Q. Then they—the oppressed
peoples—don’t expect us to do
anything to prevent the deeper
and deeper penetration of the
Communists into these terri-
tories. Do they think it means
they cannot resist it ever?
A. You mean within Eastern
European countries?
Q. Or its advance. If you
accept the status quo in Austria,
don’t you accept it for ever?
A. The term “coexistence” is,
as I said before, not identical
with keeping a status quo in
Austria. We have to live side
by side. Otherwise there would
right now be war: “Coexistence”
is, as it were, a pause in interna-
tional relations, and it remains
to be seen whether the contact
"EI Tiempo," Colombia .
CONFERENCE—MOSCOW STYLE
that the Communist world may
gain with the free world will
convert Communism, which may
then lead to a more humane era.
* * *
Q. Do you think that Austria
can establish her autonomy inde-
pendently, or will she be de-
pendent upon some economic
agreements with the rest of
Europe? Will she have to be
integrated into the rest of Europe
on the Eastern side or the
Western side?
A. The economic situation of
Austria today has considerably
improved. We have an active
trade-balance. Of course, since
we formerly lived in the larger
economic sphere of the
Danubian monarchy, we would
welcome it if in the European
economic sphere there would be
a rather far-reaching abandon-
ment of Customs-barriers and
-restrictions.
We do have today a rather
favorable economic situation,
but it is not yet fully exploited,
because at the present time the
export markets in the East —that
is, Hungary, Bulgaria, Rumania,
Czechoslovakia and Poland,
which are of greatest importance
for the Austrian economy—are
not fully accessible to us. But
in the course of future develop-
ments, they would more-or-less
have to be opened up as export
markets for Austrian industry.
• * *
Q. But will the Russians have
any reason to give up anything if
there is no pressure put upon
them?
A. Strength has to be built up
in the Western countries so that
the Russians concede this and
that —in the Austrian Treaty in
the first place, of course. I
think that the ratification of the
Paris and London Agreements
will add great strength to the
Western world.
Q. What kind of pressure can
be brought on the Russians, if
not war?
A. Power has its own weight.
It does not mean that one has
to start a war. With the con-
clusion of these Paris agreements
now, of course, the Russians
must realise that there is a
partner in the agreement who
also possesses power. Up to
now, you see, they were always
confident that Europe would not
unitedly proceed to stop the
advance of Communism. The
very fact of an existence of a
unified Europe forces the
Russians somehow to get into
negotiations with this Power and
that Power and grant certain
concessions.
We are, in spite of everything,
I can assure you, absolute
optimists. We have to be!
Otherwise we might as well hang
ourselves, because otherwise we
would be saying to ourselves that
Communism must inevitably
come. No, we are optimists.
Communism will be overcome.
* * *
Sulzberger thinks that on the
surface there are logical reasons
for Moscow to decide that now
is a good time to leave Austria:
“The Kremlin is skittish about
Western people contaminating its
soldiers. The Soviet system
might gain strategically by with-
drawing units a few miles east-
ward while most United States
troops would undoubtedly have
to return across the Atlantic.
‘German’ assets seized here by
the Russians are now largely
worn out and an economic
liability. Their grip on Austrian
oilfields will last for 25 years
after any treaty.
“The Russians don’t need the
Austrian occupation arrangement
to maintain troops in Hungary
and Rumania. A new Eastern
‘Nato’ would afford an oppor-
tunity for Moscow to station
troops wherever it wants among
the satellites.
“This has occurred already to
Czechoslovakia and Hungary.
They have begged Moscow not
to terminate its Austrian occupa-
tion. The Czechs fear that if
the Russians pull out of this
country they will insist on
garrisoning Czechoslovakia.
They suspect repercussions if a
totally free Austria is established
up against their barbed-wire
borders.
“The Russians unquestionably
fear Austrian integration into
Nato even though the treaty
Army permitted this country is
tiny. And Austria has not been
politically ‘prepared’ by the
U.S.S.R. The Communists have
never gained the backing of
more than 5 per cent, of the
population.
“Moscow intends to use
Austria as a bargaining-point in
the international diplomatic
bazaar, knowing the West par-
ticularly desires a peace treaty.”
Kenya
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “It is
hard to tell what is happening
in Kenya, because of the official
tendency to blow hot and cold.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail ” :
“What’s going on in Kenya?
Or, rather, what’s not going on
in Kenya? They have a
rebellion. They have a terror.
They have a war. They have
discord between people and
Government and between
sections of the Government.
The security forces are not
united. The police are at odds
with the Home Guard, and the
Home Guard have no confidence
in one another. Not only are
the Kikuyu divided among them-
selves ; with the white settlers it
seems like a case of one man’s
hand against another.”
* * *
London “Spectator ” : “Almost
the entire military force in
Kenya is engaged in a sweep
of the Aberdare forest, where
most of the remaining Mau Mau
are said to be in hiding. But
anyone inclined to think of this
comfortably as the ‘final large-
scale military operation’ should
recall how many times during the
past two and a half years the
end of the emergency has been
prophesied to be round the next
corner but one. Once it was said
that the active members of the
Mau Mau had been reduced to
a few hundreds. Now it seems
that there are several thousands
at large. The truth seems to be
that nobody knows.”
• • • •
The same: “The resignation
of Colonel Young [Commis-
sioner of Police in London ; sent
out to reorganise the Kenya
police, after similar, very
successful, missions to Malaya
and the Gold Coast] brought
into the open the quarrel between
the police and the Administra-
tion. There may be good reasons
in Kenya for keeping the police
under political control, but it is
hard to see how grave errors can
be avoided so long as there is
(in Colonel Young’s words) ‘a
badly indexed mass of emergency
legislation, constantly amended,
with which the Supreme Court
judges can hardly keep pace
without the assistance of an
excellent library service.’ Now,
to weaken whatever little con-
fidence remains, comes the news
that General Erskine is to be
replaced. Are things in Kenya
any better than they were a year
ago? In some respects they seem
worse.”
* * •
London “News Chronicle ”:
“In spite of the dreadful crimes
committed by the Mau Mau,
some of Kenya’s white popula-
tion feel qualms about the way
in which justice has been sub-
ordinated to expediency. This
is a war which cannot be fought
in kid-gloves. But it had better
be realised that the eyes of
Africa are on Kenya. Every
time a village is burned and


( I 9 ve checked and
Vm convinced —
s
gives Plus
PEBJTOBMMMCZ
and use ENERGOL the oil
THAT IS RECOMMENDED BY
ROLLS-ROYCE
...the
; V : V'
best yet
It’s a real pleasure to go places with new
higher-octane C.O.R, with BP 08*, and
‘a little something others haven’t got'. You
get ALL the PLUS performance features—
greater pulling power, better acceleration,
more miles per gallon, less engine wear.
* BP 08 is the latest, safest and
most effective solution to the
problem of interior engine care
yet devised.
CAPS OFF TO
To-day’s Most Popular Petrol
the commonwealth oil refineries ltd
C221/81S4
its population compulsorily
evacuated; every time a man or
woman is detained without
proper trial (there are about
50,000 in camps and settlements
at the moment); every time a
wrongdoer is executed (50 a
month has been the average)—
by so much does the white-man
lose Africa’s goodwill.”
* * *
London '‘Daily Telegraph”:
“We tend to regard law and
order as complementary; with-
out law, we think, there can be
no order, and vice versa. Such
assumptions do not always travel
well. In Kenya it is hotly dis-
puted whether the over-rigid
application of laws of doubtful
applicability is not actually
hindering the restoration of
order. The controversy has been
simmering for a long time. It
has been brought to boiling-
point by the acquittal of Mau
Mau suspects on technical
grounds, by judicial criticisms
of the police habit of placing
witnesses in protective custody,
by the prosecution of loyal
Kikuyu for the alleged murder
of prisoners, and by numerous
other issues.”
* * *
London "E c o n o mi s t” :
“The Kikuyu have been cowed
and disillusioned with Mau
Mau, but they have not
been won, ahd perhaps not
yet reached. It is here that the
problem of law and order
becomes so difficult.
“Colonel Young has spoken
up strongly and loyally for the
police against the High Court
judges’ suggestion that they have
been a law to themselves. Their
difficulty, amid the mass of
emergency legislation and
decrees, has been to find out
what the law is ; in a situation of
‘kill or be killed’ it is hard to
enforce legal safeguards that are
taken for granted in Britain. Yet
talk of the merits of ‘rough and
ready’ justice must always cause
uneasiness, and it is evident that
there have been many irregu-
larities among loyalists.
“The Kenya judiciary has done
fine work in upholding British
standards of justice ; it is for the
judiciary, with the police and
the Administration, to work out
processes of law that can meet
the difficulties of the situation
without allowing those standards
to be lowered.”
Press Conference
At a press conference in Ran-
goon Yugoslav Secretary of
Foreign Affairs Popovic was
asked about the “Djilas-Dedijer
affair” (the trial of two
Yugoslav Communists formerly
high in favor, during Tito’s
absence in Burma and India).
Popovic’s reaction was on all-
fours with a general description
of the Yugoslav attitude given
in London “Economist”:
“It is being alleged that a big
campaign to discredit Yugo-
slavia has been launched by
‘some Western circles’ which
are hostile to Yugoslavia and
annoyed by its successful inde-
pendent foreign policy.”
On the conference itself, “The
Nation” (Burma) had this to
say:
“The gathering had all the
outward appearances of a press
conference, but it was a press
conference unlike any other
which has been held in Ran-
goon. It might have come
straight out of 1984, for it was
a good example of Orwell’s
‘double-speak.’
“The Yugoslav Foreign Secre-
tary is, to say the least, not
partial to journalists, at any rate
of the ‘undisciplined’ kind to be
found in democratic countries.
He was visibly irritated by some
of the questions put to him, and
retorted with a biting sarcasm
unusual in visiting diplomats.”
Popovic read a joint-com-
munique by the Governments
of Yugoslavia and Burma,
announcing that the two had
reached “complete unanimity”
on the subject of coexistence
and had agreed to develop closer
relations in the economic field.
It was also announced that the
Yugoslav Government is to
equip one brigade of the Burma
Army, while Burma is to make
a present of rice to Yugoslavia.
“The Nation” reports that thd
press conference then ran as
follows (each journalist had to
identify the paper or agency
which he represented before
putting his question to Popovic):
Q. What type of arms will be
supplied to the brigade by Yugo-
slavia, will training also be
supplied, and how much rice
will Burma send Yugoslavia?
A. I have no details on that.
Regarding the second part of
the question, as I understand
English, there is a difference
between the words “equip” and
“train,” and I think that the
gentleman who asked the ques-
tion should also realise that
difference. As for how much
rice, I think that is a minor
detail which can easily be
worked out.
Q. Mr. Minister, you have
referred in the communique to
Yugoslavia’s belief in coexist-
ence. Can you tell us what is
the strength of Yugoslavia’s
standing Army? And if Yugo-
slavia believes in coexistence,
what is the need for maintain-
ing an Army of that strength?
Can you give us an assurance
that there is no danger of aggres-
sion against Yugoslavia from
the Soviet Union? Is there any
possibility of Yugoslavia rejoin-
ing the Third International?
A. First question: The gentle-
man seems to have forgotten
that I am no longer the Chief
of Staff of the Yugoslav Army,
but the Foreign Minister. In
any case, the answer to the
question is already well known.
The second question: Although
Yugoslavia believes in coexist-
ence, unfortunately, at the pre-
sent time, coexistence has not
yet reached the stage where
there can be a reduction in
armaments. But Yugoslavia be-
lieves that all efforts should be
made to develop coexistence to
a stage where such a reduction
in armaments will be possible.
The third question: I believe
that at the moment there is no
threat of aggression by the
Soviet Union towards Yugo-
slavia or any other country. The
fourth question: There is no
possibility of Yugoslavia rejoin-
ing the Third International for
the simple reason that the Third
International no longer exists.
Q. But the Cominform exists,
does it not?
A. That is a fact wjhich every-
one knows, including, I presume,
the gentleman who put the
question.
Q. In that case, is there any
possibility of Yugoslavia rejoin-
ing the Cominform?
A. No.
Q. Is it true that Yugoslavia
is receiving military aid from
the U.S. and Britain?
A. Yes.
Q. Have these two Govern-
ments been consulted about the
proposal to equip the Burmese
brigade?
A. As far as I know there
have been no such consultations,
and there is no need for them,
since the equipment supplied to
Burma will not be a part of that
received by Yugoslavia from
abroad.
Q. The joint-communique
speaks of the possibility of
coexistence. Yet the Yugoslav
Government are believers in
Marxism and Marxism teaches
that conflict between the systems
of Capitalism and Communism
is inevitable. How do you
reconcile this?
A. We claim the right to be
allowed to interpret Marxism in
our own way, and, according to
our interpretation, coexistence is
possible.
Q. Can you tell us briefly what
are the main differences of
opinion which exist between Mr.
Djilas and the Yugoslav
Government?
A. If you have not already
come to the natural conclusions
from the material available on
the subject I do not think there
is any possibility of my explain-
ing the issues to you in a brief
discussion.
Q. You said just now that
your interpretation of Marxism
enabled you to believe that
coexistence is possible. Does
that apply to ether Communist
countries as well?
A. I am not here te engage
in an exposition of the different
interpretations of Marxism, but
I am convinced that the coun-
tries of both Eastern and Wes-
tern blocs are interested in
maintaining peace, and therefore
coexistence should be possible
to them.
Q. Will you then interpret
something of Lenin? Lenin
once said that the shortest foute
to Moscow lay through Peking
and Calcutta. We have now
reached Peking: do you think
that the next step will be an
attempt to reach Calcutta?
Second, do you believe that for
underdeveloped countries like
Burma and India, authoritarian
regimes would be better, be-
cause they could get things done
more quickly than democratic
regimes?
A. For the first question, I
would prefer to discuss that with
you some time over a cup of
tea, for I do not think this is
the proper place to consider the
matter. For the second, you are
using your own terminology,
which I may not find acceptable.
I refer to the words “demo-
cratic” and “authoritarian” as
you use them. In any case, I
think that every country should
choose its own form of govern-
ment.
* * *
Q (by U Law Yone). Revert-
ing to the subject of Mr. Djilas,
I wish to speak now, not so much
as an individual newsman, but
as President of the Burma
Journalists’ Association. Mr.
Djilas came here to Burma for
the Asian Socialist Conference,
and is a well-known figure in
this country. I would like to
ask you, therefore, for the edifi-
cation of the whole of the
Burmese press, to state your
views on the Djilas affair. I
would add that these questions
are being put with no intention
of embarrassing you, but be-
cause there is real interest in
the matter in this country.
A. The Yugoslav Government
has already expressed its views
on this matter, and, naturally,
you will understand that any-
thing I say here cannot be in
any way different from those
views. But in order to clear the
matter I would like to state that
the Djilas affair is being given
an importance in the foreign
press which is out of all propor-
tion to its true significance.
Within Yugoslavia itself the
Djilas affair is not considered
to be of great importance. We
are convinced, furthermore, that
the artificial inflation which is
being given to the matter by
certain sections of the foreign
press is an example of the nega-
tive reaction which is being
shown in these circles to the visit
of Marshal Tito to India and
Burma. When I say negative
reaction I mean that these
circles are trying to influence
Yugoslav foreign policy in the
direction in which they wish it
to go. In this, of course, they
are going to be completely
unsuccessful.
That is one reason why I am
unwilling to discuss the Djilas-
Dedijer affair here, because,
naturally, as Foreign Secretary,
I do not wish to be a party to
this negative reaction or to
encourage it in any way.
Q. Your country, although a
signatory to the Balkan Pact,
took the side of Britain against
Greece over the Cyprus issue.
Why?
A. The attitude of Yugoslavia
over Cyprus was an objective
one.
Q. Mr. Minister, you have
several times in the course of
this press conference pointed to
the fact of our ignoranee
Popovic: I did not use that
word.
Nevertheless, it is pos-
sible that we are ignorant of
many things. I should like to
ask, therefore, whether I am
in ignorance when I say that the
ultimate idea of world Commun-
ism is to destroy the Capitalist
system, abolish the international
bourgeoisie and establish a
dictatorship of the proletariat
under Soviet domination?
A. I am willing to believe
that that is a description which
is not inexact, as you see it.
Q. Apart from the joint
communique, can you tell us
whether anything concrete has
come out of the visit by Marshal
Tito to Burma?
A. We think that the joint
communique in itself is quite
concrete enough. And we be-
lieve that the discussion of inter-
national affairs, and the agree-
ment which has been found
between the leaders of the two
countries on the principle of
coexistence, is a most important
step.
Q (by representative of official
Yugoslav news-agency Tanjug).
Your Excellency, is it correct to
say that there has been a
tendency on the part of certain
sections of the foreign press to
belittle the visit of Marshal Tito
to India and Burma, and would
you care to comment on this?
A. Yes, I think that is quite
correct, and I would say that
there have been attempts to
undermine the closer relations
which are being built up between
these countries by people.
Q (by Reuter’s representative).
I would like some specific
examples of how,, and in what
papers, Marshal Tito’s visit has
been belittled. Speaking as a
foreign correspondent, I assert
that the visit has been covered
fully for its own news-value.
A. I am glad to see that the
gentleman does not agree that
the visit has been belittled. , It
means that he for one has given
it full coverage, and I hope he
will continue to do so in the
future also.
Various Voices
Field - Marshal Viscount
Montgomery : “So far as we can
see today we are not justified in
depending on air-bombardment
alone, even with nuclear
weapons, to bring a world war to
a successful conclusion: still
less a local war or disturbance.
Wars today can be won only by
fighting, and, in a hot war, fight-
ing will continue in the air, at
sea and on land until one side
loses the will to fight on.”
U.S. Secretary of Agriculture
Ezra Benson: “I think we [the
U.S.] ought to be willing to trade
with Iron Curtain countries,
whether in butter or anything
else, so long as the trade is in
our favor.”
Sir Thomas Sopwith, chairman
Hawker-Siddeley group: “The
one sure way to invite disaster is
for this country [Britain] to
pursue a policy of weakness.
Our potential enemies only
understand strength, and our sole
hope of survival lies in so build-
ing our strength and our air-
power that no one will dare
attack us.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..,
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
long. Go on, we need it quickly
to give it a chance to help the
drug along.”
Wishart rose with an
exaggeratedly resigned expres-
sion. “He’ll have to have it,” he
said. “Come on, Marjorie, I’ll
help you get it.”
And Mrs. Rossell immediately
got up and preceded him into the
kitchen. Rossell stared after
them, surprised and quite dis-
concerted. For the first time he
appeared really to get his blood-
pressure out ,of his mind. He
looked at me with a deadly-
earnest manner and said with
much deliberation.
“I don’t like that fellow! By
hell I don’t like him. Did you
notice the sneering way he’s been
behaving ever since we came in?
And that nasty jab of his about
getting Marjorie to go out in his
car with him. And now this
trick to get alone with her even
when I’m here.”
He stopped and listened with
his head inclined towards the
kitchen. He stiffened, tense with
anger, to hear merry laughter.
Then they were talking
animatedly; Rossell straining
himself, anguished in his eager-
ness to know what they were
speaking about.
Then there was absolute
silence for a long time; not even
a rattle of tea-cups or a tinkle
of cutlery. Rossell began to bite
at his fingernails. , Not much
chance, I thought, of his blood-
pressure going down with him
in that state of tension.
I felt convinced now, after
what I’d heard and what I’d seen
that night, that there really was
something going on between
Wishart and Rossell’s wife. And
Rossell, too, I was sure, was
beginning to feel enough of it
for his preoccupation with his
blood-pressure to cease to
dominate his thoughts. That
dead silence in the kitchen
seemed to strike him, as it did
me, as abominably significant.
Then we heard their voices
again, and presently they came
in with the tea-tray and plates
of cakes and things.
“Here you are, Rossell,”
Wishart said cheerfully. “Hop
in and ingest a meal. See how
much it will stimulate the
hypotensive action.”
T>UT Rossell would not reply,
and though he ate and drank
as a duty to his pentapyroli-
dinium bitartrate, he refused to
join in any conversation. He
read steadily of his booklet,
returning to the beginning again
when he had finished it, and re-
reading the whole of it.
When he had eaten his meal
and had checked the time with
his watch, he went to his table
and went through his routine of
taking his blood-pressure; not
even looking to his wife for
assistance with the awkward
business, but avoiding her
glances deliberately.
“There you are,” he said,
without his previous enthusiasm,
but full of solid assurance, “it’s
only one-forty now. How’s that
for a result?”
“It’s quite wonderful,” I said,
genuinely impressed. Then,
thinking I’d do him a good turn
and ease the situation generally,
I went on, “Now I think that
both of us visitors ought to go
home so that you can go to bed.
You might be feeling a bit upset
after such a big drop in your
blood-pressure.”
“Oh, no,” Rossell protested
with, what seemed at the time,
to be unnecessary emphasis.
“Doesn’t upset me in the least.
I feel splendid.”
Then Wishart, who could have
taken my hint and* gone off home
without doing any more harm,
started to make a positive pest
of himself.
“How do we know it’s dropped
so much? You said before that
a man can’t be sure of taking an
accurate reading of his own
blood-pressure.”
“You could ask Mrs. Rossell
to check it for you, if you doubt
me,” Rossell said, so angry that
his voice shook.
“Good-oh, then, you check it,
Marjorie,” Wishart said, deliber-
ately rejecting Rossell’s direction
for a more formal attitude
towards his wife. t
But Mrs. Rossell’s reading was
virtually the same as her
husband’s.
“I haven’t much confidence in
that instrument of yours,”
Wishart said, with quite idiotic
perversity. “It looks like an
antiquated model you picked up
somewhere in a pawnshop.”
Rossell jumped up and stood
over Wishart.
“It’s a perfectly good, new
instrument, but if you must have
everything double-checked, you
go down to Doc. Stewart’s and
borrow his. It won’t take you
more than five minutes to get to
his place in that flying meteor of
yours.”
“All right, I’ll go and get it.”
Wishart played down a smug
grin. “You come with me for the
run, Marjorie.”
He took Mrs. Rossell by the
arm in a quite inexcusably
familiar manner. Rossell stared
at him, incredulous of his
audacity. For a moment I
thought he was going to knock
him down; but he suddenly
relaxed and spoke with surprising
calm.
“Look,” he said; “you’ve
forgotten something. You want
everything to be double-checked,
but you’ve forgotten that we’ve
tried it on only one man. To be
really certain we ought to have
at least two patients. We’ll take
your pressure and give you an
injection, too.”
TTE took hold of Wishart with
-*"*■ a very determined manner.
“Oh, no, you don’t!”
Wishart tried to shake off
Rossell’s grip, but Rossell
wouldn’t let him go. Rossell
was a much bigger and stronger
man than Wishart, and for the
first time that night he asserted
himself strongly against him.
“Come on,” he demanded;
“off with your coat. Here, I’ll
help you.” He pushed Wishart
down into the chair beside the
instruments.
Wishart was distinctly unwill-
ing, but we all knew unmistak-
ably that if he had resisted
Rossell would have used
violence. It became apparent
now that while Wishart was apt
and eager in verbal conflict, it
was quite another matter when
it came to even a threat of the
physical.
Wishart’s pressure was two-
fifty. It made Rossell all the
more angry to be eclipsed like
that by a man who had never
mentioned his condition previ-
ously.
“Now for the injection,” he
said quite viciously.
“Get out of it,” Wishart pro-
tested, trying to rise from the
chair, “you can’t presume to
act as my physician.”
“It’s for your own good,”
Rossell said, holding him down
“ Careful! Might gettum blackwater-fever!”
with a sort of rough playfulness ;
“it might save you from a serious
collapse. X might be your greatest
benefactor if you only knew it.”
We all watched him filling the
syringe, knowing that nothing
could turn him from his plan.
“Isn’t that a bigger dose than
you gave yourself?” Mrs.
Rossell asked him suspiciously.
“No, no,” Rossell replied.
“The same dope and the same
dose. X know what I’m doing.
It wouldn’t matter anyway if it
were bigger ; it would only bring
his pressure down a bit lower;
and you can see how much he
needs to have his lowered.”
He took Wishart’s arm and
pushed up the sleeve, but
Wishart jerked it away at the
first prick of the needle.
“Can’t take it, hey?” Rossell
sneered.
He took another grip, pressed
the arm on to the table with all
his weight and pushed the needle
in to its limit.
“Now, see how long it takes
you to get Doc. Stewart’s
sphygmomanometer,” Rossell
said, releasing him contemptu-
ously. “Say it takes you five
minutes to get there, five minutes
to borrow the thing and,another
five to get back. I’ll bet you a
pound you can’t be here with
it in fifteen minutes.”
“I’ll take you on. But make
it a fiver.”
Wishart was full of bounce
again as soon as it was a. matter
of talking or car-driving. No
doubt he wanted to reassert
himself in Mrs. Rossell’s eyes.
He looked at her deliberately,
but Rossell took her by the arm.
“She’s not going with you,”
he said firmly, “I don’t mind if
you break your own neck, but I
don’t want you to break hers.”
“All right,” Wishart agreed of
necessity. “Now, look at your
watch. Nine-thirty. I’ll be back
with you again at nine-forty-
five.”
And the door banged behind
him.
WHILE we waited for
Wishart’s return Rossell
did not relax; he kept walking
to and fro across the room. I
didn’t expect that he’d worry
unduly about |the chance of
losing a fiver; but I recognised
that there had been enough in
Wishart’s behavior to keep him
tense.
After ten minutes we went out
on to the veranda so we’d have
a good view down the street
where Wishart would be doing
his finishing dash.
We had no trouble in identify-
ing his car when it appeared ; his
pair of headlights overhauled the
few others that were abroad at
that hour, so rapidly that he
made them appear as if they
were going backwards. He swept
round them at such spectacular
speed that Mrs. Rossell
exclaimed in alarm.
But when he was within a
couple of blocks I couldn’t help
giving a yell myself. For no
apparent reason, except that he
might have guessed that we
would be watching him, he made
a couple of absurdly wild
swerves; all the way across the
wrong side of the road and then
back, until he must have been
brushing the kerb. He seemed to
bounce off, out into the middle
of the street again, barely missing
an approaching car, then diving
at the kerb again. One after the
other, three of the municipality’s
sturdy young ornamental trees
loomed up in front of his head-
lights to go smashing down;
then an appalling crash as the
car plunged headlong into a solid
electric-light pole.
Mrs. Rossell and I ran wildly
towards the accident,, but Rossell,
with admirable coolness, dashed
into the house to phone the
ambulance, doctor and police.
AT the inquest no one men-
tioned the injection Wishart
had received before he went for
his reckless, fatal drive.
Since neither Rossell nor his
wife had thought fit to bring it
up, I concluded that they were
satisfied that it could not be
significant. So I didn’t want to
complicate things by talking
about it. Anyhow, everyone was
so familiar with Wishart’s
manner of driving that there was
no surprise at his end. The only
wonder of it was, as all the
citizens agreed, that it hadn’t
happened to him much sooner.
I wouldn’t have thought any more
about it myself, if I hadn’t
decided to give Rossell’s treat-
ment a try on myself. After the
first few cautious doses had had
no apparent effect, I increased
it by .5 c.c. determined to get
the spectacular result Rossell had
achieved.
It happened that almost
immediately after I had taken the
injection, I had a phone-call
which obliged me to get out
my car and drive to the other
side of the town. Having
finished my business in a com-
paratively short time, I got into
my car again to drive back home.
I’d only started up when I was
astonished to find the sunlight
becoming dazzlingly bright; then
a kind of pink fog obscured
everything but a few of the
darkest objects ‘ and their
shadows. A dreadful feeling of
giddiness and nausea came over
me; I was only just able to pull
up my car before I fell helplessly
over the steering-wheel, then
tumbled down on to the seat.
After a while I recovered
somewhat, though I felt terrible
when I sat up. I drove home in
low gear at five miles an hour to
the astonishment of the locals.
I fell down again on my way into
the house. I was trembling,
partly from the drug, I suppose,
but also from the narrowness of
my escape.
Now, I was thinking, what if
I’d been travelling at sixty miles
an hour, instead of just starting
up? What mightn’t have hap-
pened to me? I didn’t dare call
a doctor, or even tell my wife
about it because of what had
happened to Wishart. It just
needed a word from me, and
everyone would be connecting
my misadventure with his death.
Things get talked about so
remorselessly in a country town.
A few hours and conjecture
would have established that
Wishart had taken the same
drug; that Rossell had given it
to him because of his relations
with Mrs. Rossell; not for a
moment would they doubt that
he knew the possible effect of the
injection. Personally, I didn't
think he could have, or he would
have mentioned it to me some
time that night at the Rotary
dinner when he talked about it
so much. He wasn’t holding any-
thing back at that stage with a
view to establishing his
innocence, I was sure, because
he only began to suspect
Wishart after we got to his house.
Still, the fact that he hadn’t
mentioned the injection at the
inquest would be held against
him.
I got hold of the booklet as
soon as my eyes had recovered
sufficiently to read, to see if
there wasn’t something there. In
one place I saw; “In some cases
of extreme susceptibility the
effects of too large a dose may
be disconcertingly sudden.” I
could certainly vouch for that.
But it didn’t say what effects, so
although Rossell had
undoubtedly read the pamphlet
•thoroughly, he still might not
have realised just what could
happen.
Lower down there was another
paragraph headed, “Side
Effects.” There I read: “Too
great or too rapid a reduction
in the blood-pressure, particu-
larly when the patient is
physically active, may, result in
light - headedness, dizziness,
nausea, dimness of vision or
even syncope.”
“Syncope,” I found in my
dictionary, meant “fainting.”
The thing worried me so much
I felt that I should make an
opportunity to test Rossell. I
didn’t lay any elaborate trap, I
I just said to him suddenly:
“By the way, Rossell, do you
know exactly what the word
‘syncope’ means?”
He stared at me, sombre and
suspicious.
“No, no. Of course not. What
in hell does it mean?”
As I’ve said before, Rossell is
a big, powerful, dominating
man, and I’d never been made to
feel it so positively before. I
didn’t pursue the matter any
further. I still go to his place
sometimes, at his invitation, to
talk about our arterial hyper-
tension, but not as frequently as
I used to. And when I do, just
to be on the safe side, I’m always
careful not to appear to be pay-
ing any undue attentions to his
wife.


1
m
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.156.12A
oMTt LlA u*
%
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. La wry,
Manager.
Missing Friends
SCOTT, EFFIE
WOULD the children of JOHN DAVID-
SON SCOTT and MARY ANN SCOTT,
nee BAILEY, who were married in Perth,
Western Australia, on Bth November,
1863, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
EDWARD PETER PETERSON, son of
THOMAS PHILLIP PETERSON, formerly
of Timboon but late, of Balranald, N.S.W.,
laborer, deceased. If the abovenamed,
who once resided at Irvine’s Hotel, Peter-
borough, and 65 Charles Street, FootseTay
West, contacts MESSRS. GARDEN AND
GREEN, Solicitors, Swan Hill, he will
hear something to his advantage.
THE FINEST AUTOMOBILE HIRE SERVICE
to Britain and the Continent
s&r —?
it:::it
'
UNUNimO
iailejvge
at an all-in rate
Full 5/6 Seaters
Radio
\jr Conditioned
and MANY other EXTRA
VAUXHALL CARS
Here’s a luxury self-drive hire-
car at economy rates. Itig car
comfort, speed and amenities at
one all-in charge. A week’s
travel wherever, whenever you
like for £2O (Stg.). Whatever
the mileage there are NO
EXTRA CHARGES. Vauxhall
5/6 seater cars backed by
General Motors service in
Europe, ensures economic,
trouble-free travel. Book
GOLDENWAY for faultless
service throughout your stay.
Write, phone, cable or call
NOW for details.
WE EXCLUSIVELY
USE and RECOMMEND
GOLDENWAY
AUTOMOBILE HIRE COMPANY LIMITED
(fsso)
XJEXTRAX
PETROL
(Aust. Div.) St. John’s Wood Roundabout, London, N.W.B
’Phone: PRIMROSE 6412. Cables: GOLWAYEIRE, LONDON.
’Grams: GOLWAYHIRE, NORPHONE, LONDON.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Newcastle
Packets and the Hunter Valley, by
J- H. M. Abbott.—s99B.
Words of poem “The Fox Hunter’s
Dream.”— 5997.
Words of poem “Only a Penny
Stamp.”—s996.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —s99s.
To buy The Children’s Book in
Colour, No. 1 and 2, also any Tiger
Tim’s Annual from 1934 to 1942. —
5999.
Information Sought
How can Sturt’s desert-pea be
grown in Sydney suburban gardens?
This native trailing-plant (Clianthus
dampierii) requires careful handling.
It needs dry conditions, and there
must be no manure or fertiliser in the
soil. Leave the plants severely alone,
after they germinate. Results are
often obtained by soaking the seed
in hot water for ten minutes before
sowing and then burning leaves,
grass or brambles over the bed, the
ashes supplying potash.
* * * *
A method of treating canvas
veranda-blinds so as to protect them
from the weather?
Soak the material in a hot soap
solution (3oz. soap to each gallon of
water). Drain off excess liquid and
immerse, before dry, in a copper-
sulphate solution (Boz. copper
sulphate to each gallon water) for
several hours. Iron or galvanised
vessels must not be used as con-
tainers. The process both rotproofs
and waterproofs canvas. It will turn
the material a very pale green.
* * * *
One or two quotations from Sir
Winston Churchill on ( 1 ) Socialism,
(2) the British Labor Government of
1945-51 ?
(1) The following quotations are
mainly from speeches made towards
the end of or just after World War
11. In a broadcast on June 4, 1945,
he said “Socialism is inseparably
interwoven with totalitarianism and
the abject worship of the State. Look
how even today they [the Socialists]
hunger for controls of every kind as
if these were delectable foods instead
of war-time inflictions No Social-
ist system can be established without
a political police. They would have
to fall back on some form of Gestapo
—no doubt very humanely directed
in the first instance.” In an earlier
period he said (speech in the House
of Commons, May 19, 1927): “If
you strike at savings you at once
propagate the idea of ‘Let us eat,
drink and be merry, for tomorrow we
die.’ That is at once the inspiration
and the mortal disease by which the
Socialist philosophy is affected.” (2)
In a speech on Oct. 21, 1945,
Churchill said “The Socialist Govern-
ment is committed to a series of poli-
tical and social experiments, a far
more drastic departure from our
traditional way of life than the nation
has yet realised. The [Labor] Govern-
ment’s action in obtaining powers
from Parliament to prolong the exist-
ing war-time controls for at least a
further five years is an unmistakable
warning. The Conservative Opposi-
tion’s duty is clearly defined. We shall
criticise where criticism is needed,
seek to amend where amendment will
improve, and we shall strenuously
oppose every effort, whether undis-
guised or camouflaged, to whittle
away our individual liberties.” In
the same speech Churchill said ‘T
share with many people deep unease
about the future. The next few years
may well decide our place in the
world.” (Words justified by the
actions of the British Labor Govern-
ment, the worst effects of whose rule
have been counteracted by the policy
of the present Conservative Govern-
ment.) On Dec. 6, 1945, Churchill
asked why the Government should
“raise this system of militant Social-
ism and divide us [the people of
Britain] with what must involve
increasing bitterness.” And he rightly
charged the Labor Government with
“deliberately encouraging partisan
and faction interests at rtfae cost of
national unity and of Britain’s recov-
ery and vital interests.”
* * * *
Are objects seen through the eye-
piece of a theodolite meant to appear
upside-down ? If so, why ?
The simplest form of telescope in
common use consists of only two
lenses, an objective and an eyepiece.
This arrangement produces an upside-
down image. If it is desired to
see objects the right way up, as in
a sailor’s telescope, it is necessary to
use two more lenses in the middle of
the instrument to invert the image
again. This means that the instru-
ment has to be longer and heavier
than before, For some purposes it
does not matter if the image is upside-
down, as in astronomy or surveying.
Hence the theodolite shows an
inverted image.
* * * *
How to handle gladioli corms?
When the foliage has died dig the
gladioli, and store them in a dry
room to ripen, carefully labelling out-
standing colors. The dead foliage
should be broken off after about two
months; then separate the corms
from last season’s withered portion
and baby corms which are attached.
The latter should be sown in a corner
to make mature bulbs, and in two
years they will have grown large
enough to place in the open garden.
All stored bulbs will require sprink-
ling with naphthalene or lime to ward
off pests.
• * * *
Analysis of causes of persons killed
and injured on N.S.W. roads in any
recent year classified according to
driver, road-user, defect of vehicle,
etc. ?
For 1952-53, in accidents known
to the police which occurred in
N.S.W. public thoroughfares, the
cause has been attributed to: Drivers
of motor-vehicles, 302 persons killed,
5719 injured (to an extent requiring
medical or surgical treatment); riders
of motor-cycles, 81, 1172; drivers of
trams, 3, 94; riders of pedal cycles,
20, 445; drivers of animal-drawn
vehicles and riders of animals, 1, 12;
defects in mo tor-vehicles, 38, 914;
defects in motor-cycles, 7, 145; tram
defects, nil, 17; defects in pedal
cycles, 7, 93; defects in animal-drawn
vehicles, nil, 4; pedestrians (including
accidents attributed to billycarts,
tricycles, scooters, etc.), 118, 1858;
passengers, 21, 329; animals, 12, 163;
road conditions, 41, 1128; weather,
7, 92; parties not involved in acci-
dent, 4, 264; other factors, 1, 10.
Total, 663 killed; 12,459 injured.
* * * *
Some information on and addresses
of scientists (7) Werner Heisenberg
and (2) Louis de Broglie ?
(1) Born Dec. 5, 1901, he was edu-
cated at Miinchen and Gottingen
Universities. He was lektor at the
University of Copenhagen (1926) and
professor at Leipzig Uni. (1927-41).
He was professor at Berlin Uni. and
director of the Max Planck Institute
for Physics in Berlin (1942-45). He
is now director of the Max Planck
Institute for Physics at Gottingen. He
has written numerous papers on
atomic physics, quantum theory, etc.
Address (according to Who's Who,
1954) is Gottingen, Merkelstir, 18, Ger-
many, (2) Louis Victor 'de Broglie
was bom at Dieppe, Aug. 15, 1892,
brother of Due de Broglie (a well-
known physicist and member of the
French Academy). Louis de Broglie
won the Nobel Prize for Physics in
1929. He has been a member of the
Institut de France and the Academie
Frangaise since 1944, professor of the
Facultd des Sciences, Paris, since 1932,
permanent secretary of the Acaddmie
des Sciences, Paris, since 1942 and
Foreign Member of the Royal Society
(London) since 1953. He has written
several theses on the quantum theory,
etc. Address (Who's Who, 1954),
94 Rue Perrone, Neuilly-sur-Seine.
Brief Answers
V. 8.: Write Mrs. L. Rees, Sec-
retary, Canberra Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers, 50 Booroondara-
street, Reid, Canberra, A.C.T
P.T.G.: Write Australian Irrigation
Development Association, City
Mutual Building, 60 Hunter-street,
Sydney... .W.C.: Write the Regent
Institute, Regent House, Palace Gate,
London, W. 8... .W.M.S.: Write C.
B. Berckelman, Hon. Sec., Book Col-
lectors’ Society of Australia, Box
905, G.P.0., Sydney... .S.W.M.:
Russell Cowan Pty., Ltd., 352 Kent-
street, Sydney, for white clay, and
Ferro Enamels, 17 Bermill-street,
Rockdale (N-S.W.), for red clay
M.L.: The article was by John
Brennan and appeared in The
Bulletin of August 15, 1945
C. : The Making of a Senti-
mental Bloke by Alec H. Chisholm,
published by Georgian House, Mel-
bourne, 1946, and Down the Years
by Margaret Herron, published by
Hallcraft Publishing Co., Melbourne,
1953 A. 8.: (1) The estate would
be divided between the sister and
the nephews, assuming the nephews
are not the children of the sister. If
they are she would take the
Federal Estate Duty, approximately
9 per cent. Victorian and New
South Wales duties cannot be esti-
mated without full details of location
of companies, etc., but would exceed
the Federal duty substantially....
B.B.: The gift would be effective,
though there might at some stage be
difficulty in establishing the identity
of the person named with the person
intended to take S.G.: State
death-duty on an estate of £2OOO
passing to a widow would be some-
thing like £3O and Federal estate
duty would be nil provided the total
estate did not exceed £2OOO. Costs
for the solicitor should not exceed
£25 or £3O P.G.: Your niece will
be able to give a notice to quit to
her tenant provided she can give
alternative accommodation: e.g., the
house she is living iff herself. Or if
her husband is a military-pensioner
or had very lengthy service before
August 15, 1945, she may not need
to provide alternative accommodation.
In either case, the local Petty Sessions
Court has to decide whether the hard-
ship of your niece or the tenant is the
greater. She should see a local
solicitor to get more specific advice.
P.L.: The Melbourne University
Press, University of Melbourne,
Carlton, N. 3 (Vic.), is prepared to
consider works of academic, scholastic
or cultural interest, educational text-
books and books of reference. Terms
of publication are royalty, commis-
sion or profit-sharing agreements,
according to the nature of the work.
A.M.L.: It is an infringement to
perform any substantial part of a copy-
right work in public and to permit any
theatre or place of entertainment to
be used for private profit for such a
performance. A performance is in
public unless it is purely private and
domestic. It is not necessary that
every member of the public shall have
access or that a charge shall be made
for admission. Performances at
clubs or institutes with limited mem-
bership are therefore generally in
public for this purpose A.L.R.:
Under an amendment of the N.S.W.
Crimes Act enacted in 1951, where
any person is killed as a result of
drunken or dangerous driving, the
driver will be held guilty of “culpable
driving” and will be liable to im-
prisonment for five years. Where
injury is caused by such driving, the
penalty is three years’ imprisonment.
J.O’N.: You are right. There
was a Nobel Prize award for litera-
ture in 1949, to the American author
William Faulkner W.C.T.: By
legislation passed by Federal Parlia-
ment on Dec. 2-3, 1953, the Blue
Ensign has been proclaimed as the
Australian national flag; the Red
Ensign is flown by the merchant navy.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.G.: Exactly what do you mean
by
Quivering, murmuring, the shivering
breezes blow
Aeross the waters like a shrilling bunyip
weep 1
... .L.S.: Miles too long and much
too prosy M.S.: “Men throw their
bait to fish —a-crippling.” A-what?
A-why? Except that you need a
rhyme for the waters “a-rippling”
M.N.: Christmas and New Year
verses would be interesting only if
you had something fresh to say,...
8.T.: Whenever you decide to
rhyme “tree” and “free” remember
that a child can also do it
H.G.: Chewed over “Peanuts” but
found it indigestible T.Y.:
Christmas-card verse.... U.0.P.:
“Oddly enough, this is the first poem
I have ever written.” Oddly enough,
we thought so F.D.C.: Your
thoughts escape you into an inde-
scribable vacuum 0.W.Q.: Pro-
mising if you are under three
W.E.: Paterson and water
L.8.V.: “Under the spreading blue-
gum tree I love to sit and yarn.” To
the village blacksmith, no doubt....
1.5.: Read the annual anthology of
Australian Poetry; you’re two cen-
turies out-of-date H.H.: “My
love, my love, my love, my love, my
love.” Well, that’s clear at any rate.
... .Peter: Piffle, Peter.... .F.K.:
Better hang “The Harp” on a weep-
ing-willow tree Z.K.: Mangel-
wurzels may rhyme moderately well
with measles, but it’s a very odd
mixture D.A.0.: “The Bird” got
it... .W.G.8.: “My heart doth sing
when I behold thee, my dainty little
fay.” For goodness’ sake send it to
the fay U.T.: “Tropic North”
might as well have been the frozen
South for all the local color in it....
V.N.: Free-verse went out 30 years
ago F.F.: An interesting essay
but we prefer Australian themes....
L.M.: “Thus Far” got no further.
A.A.P.: Verse not verse and
humor not funny... .Albert: Much
too rude... .C.A.Q.: A glimmer in
all three. Come again G.K.: So
you think you’ll “take up poetry.”
One doesn’t pick it up like an
umbrella, you know... .N.F.C.Your
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
fine Italian hand is growing a little
calloused L.N.T.: Could hardly
suppress a shout of delight when your
“Holiday” came to an end....
R.T.0.: Girls like that don’t do
things like that A.G.: Your out-
back is out-of-date L.N.S.: “Sum-
mer Orchard” was past all bear-
ing 1.F.0’G.: The broken-English
doesn’t ring true N.: What is
this “fun” everyone is always having?
C.B.T.: Wouldn’t mind a short
story about a visiting American
crooner, but it’d have to be good to
be better than their publicity
P.T.8.: Extremely artistic and
obscure F. 0.: There’s no harm in
feeling superior except the smell
F.D.A.: It seems a bit too coinci-
dental that he should return after ten
years to rob the bank he used to
work in and, on getting the safe open,
find that he was just in time to save a
stenographer, his former sweetheart,
who had been shut in by mistake,
from suffocation.,. .C.Y.: Beware of
the dog-story S.L.: Dreadfully
beautiful H.R.: How do you
manage to write like that? Reefeis?
C.G.M.: Reminds one of Case,
of the New York pub Algonquin,
meeting Faulkner, whose writing he
disliked, in a passageway. Faulkner
complained of a stomach-ache.
“Something you wrote, perhaps?”
sadi Case solicitously.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.wl Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS '
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
Ihe Valley, Srishane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.. 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or W,m. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuekey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Best
Mineral
V
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30%' phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
os
VS
H "
M.OO*
BOH*
r*» v *
liM**
b 5%
‘Dii&rfGs.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: GAO. toe 358 J.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • GAO.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • GAO. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE;
• GAO. 80. 888. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
'DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS'
TRAIN DROVERS
A MAJOR factor contributing
to death and suffering among
stock trucked by rail is the lack
of train-drovers. Many of those
who owe their livelihood to live-
stock show complete indifference
to the suffering of animals in
railway-trucks. They truck them
and forget them.
The N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment provides every facility for
train-drovers allowing free
passes, including one dog for
each man, giving them the sole
use of the passenger compart-
ments of brake-vans on stock-
trains, stopping trains at
platforms and suchlike places to
facilitate inspection, providing
free boiling-water at railway
refreshment - rooms or from
engines, and instructing guards
to assist in the care of the stock
when required.
In fact, guards are supposed
to see that proper inspection and
suitable action is carried out by
drovers, and if this isn’t done
they should do it themselves
But this is often impossible,
owing to the priority of safe-
working duties.
As often as not, with stock
being hauled long distances and
left to take their chance, one or
more animals will go down, to
die slowly and painfully,
trampled by the others. Once
down, in the crowded space of
a sheep- or cattle-truck, an
animal hasn’t much hope of get-
ting back on its feet without
human aid.
Stock trucked from country
sales suffer most. Drovers are
prominent in yarding, drafting
and trucking, but there their
operations end. Only in isolated
cases does a man travel with the
stock by rail, where the danger
of casualties is much greater
than in the saleyards. And,
often, stock are knocked about
more in saleyards than they
should be.
Agents say it is difficult to get
train-drovers, as the work almost
always involves night-work, and
very few have the training to
do a good job. Surprising, too,
the number of stock-owners who
demur at paying a train-drover.
They’re often penny-wise—the
loss of one or two head is
generally a good deal more than
the man’s wages.
It isn’t likely that men of
the stamp of “Gunnedah Jack”
(John Hayes), doyen of pre-war
train-drovers, will be found
nowadays. Jack travelled from
north-west N.S.W. towns to
Flemington (Sydney) for 27
years, and had the reputation of
not one avoidable loss. But, no
doubt, at the right wages, men
would offer as train-drovers.
Given experience, a sufficient
number of them should become
good ones.
The responsibility of providing
adequate protection for stock on
rail is primarily that of the
owner or agent. At present little
or no effort is being made to do
anything about it.
ABONDROIT.
Goats
“Warrakoo”: “Sackfair’s”
reference to social-climbing goats
(B. 5/1/’55) is a testimonial to
the efforts of the Goat Breeders’
Society of Australia.
Fifty years ago large herds
of goats roamed the outback
country in Queensland, notably
at such places as Herberton and
other northern mining-centres.
Goats also went with the railway-
construction gangs as a source of
supply of meat and milk, and
the goats of Longreach have been
absorbed into the legendary
history of Queensland’s west.
When it was once suggested
that a celebrated Queensland
Parliamentarian, who had
worked well and consistently for
the western district, should be
honored with a statue, that
worthy himself suggested that a
more suitable monument might
be raised to a nanny-goat and a
kerosene-tin; his point being
that animal and container,
between them, had done more to
aid outback development than
had Parliamentary legislation.
Those early goats were of
typically British type, with a
sprinkling of Nubian, which
probably accounts for the black-
and-tan, floppy-eared specimens
sometimes seen today. It was not
until 1913 that the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture
imported the first Saanen goats
from Europe, establishing the
Nyngan Stud.
The stud was disbanded in
"If this hot Weather keeps up We'll have to get a
bigger teapot."
1933. X could never understand
why.
The Goat Society of Australia
was formed in 1933 ‘, goat-classes
had been provided at the Sydney
Show in 1925, ’26 and ’27, then
abandoned until 1938.
The society has as its main
objects the maintenance of purity
and promotion of the improve-
ment of all breeds of goats in
Australia. Its record over the
past 20 years proves that it has
pursued its objectives with
diligence.
From the pint-a-day scrubber
of the Herberton and Longreach
days has been evolved the high-
producing over-a-gallon-a-day
doe which is now gaining recog-
nition as an economic factor in
the daily lives of many
Australians. This has been
achieved by skilful application
of practical knowledge of
genetics and rigorous enforce-
ment of rules of registration.
When you buy a pedigreed
goat from a registered breeder,
you know that the animal is as
purely bred to type as is possible.
The regulations are such that it
is possible for a doe with 31/32
pure-blood to attain the
numbered section, but as the
years advance this possibility
naturally diminishes.
Suppose, for instance, you own
a doe (any doe if it is white or
biscuit and conforms in general
to the Saanen type) you may
mate it to a registered Saanen
buck; after completing certain
formalities, you can register its
female progeny as an “Appendix
D” animal. Forget its male
progeny the society won’t
consider it.
An “Appendix D” doe mated
to a registered buck can have its
female kids on “Appendix C,”
and the pattern follows until you
have bred an animal up to
“Appendix A.” This doe, mated
to a registered buck, may have
its female progeny admitted to
the numbered section of the
herd-book.
With luck and good manage-
ment, the expenditure of about
£lO in stud-fees, and a whale of
a lot of patience, you can breed
a herd-book doe in about six or
seven years, starting from
scratch.
You’ll learn a lot about goats
while you’re doing it.
A herd-book buck must have
herd-book parents. That rule is
inflexible ; the laws of the Medes
and Persians are sissy in com-
parison. You can take it as read
that a herd-book buck is as pure
as purity can Jbe assessed.
The results of this care and
attention to the “humble” goat
can be judged by the following
figures, taken at random from
recent recordings made under
Government supervision in
N.S.W.:
Average
Age, Total Days Pro-
Years-Milk Under duc-
Days. Lb. Record, tion.
Doe “A”.. 4-51 2212 305 7.25
Doe“B”.. 2-344 3723 270 13.74
Doe “C”.. 1-5 930 120 7.75
Doe “D”.. * 372 30 12.40
Doe “E”.. 2-344 900 60 15.00
* Not recorded.
Doe “E” returned 161 b. of
milk at 3.4 butterfat in one day
recorded.
These figures fully justify the
care and attention spent on the
improvement of the breed since
the foundation of the society.
The economics of goatkeep-
ing? Let’s get down to essentials.
You buy a reasonably well-bred
goat from a reputable breeder
and pay £2O for it. With even
moderate care and attention it
will yield four pints of milk a
day for a lactation period of nine
months after kidding.
With milk at 9d. a pint (as it
is in N.Q.) that’s 21s. a week, or
£4O 19s. over the nine months.
Feed takes about 10s. a week,
so Nanny is producing 11s. a
week over her keep, a net return
of £2l 9s. —slightly more than
her initial cost. Of course you
have to build her a shed, and
fence a suitable quarter- to half-
acre paddock for her, but she’ll
pay for herself on her first lacta-
tion, even costing on 51b. of
milk a day, which is low for a
purebred Saanen.
She’ll do better second time
up, and the two-guineas paid to
a stud for service has a better
than two-to-one chance of pro-
ducing you another doe to
follow-up.
More and more suburbanites
are realising that fresh milk on
tap is far more economical than
the bottled variety, and with the
increased demand for good.
goats, the prices have risen
accordingly.
Although in North Queens-
land, I send to a New South
Wales stud whenever I buy an
improvement for my herd.
Queensland has not as yet
established Government record-
ing for goats, and a breeder
cannot afford to buy from any
but a recorded stud. My last doe
cost £35 landed on the farm, and
was the first goat to fly direct
from Sydney to Far North
Queensland. It was money well
spent, and the bucket has proved
the value of the investment,
although she kidded at an early
age.
Goat-breeding has advanced a
long way since the days of the
western herds, when does were
mated at four months and pro-
duced inbred, low-producing
stock indiscriminately.
I would like “Sackfair” to
know that between the months of
November and February the
buck has no odor. The charac-
teristic scent of the male is
definitely a part of its sexual
attraction to the female (I’ll
admit there’s no accounting for
tastes), and in the “off” season
this simply vanishes.
Goats have certainly risen in
the Social Register. My last
communication from the
Federal Council of the. Goat
Breeders’ Society informs me
that Lieut.-General Sir Frank
Berryman, K.C.V.O., C.B.,
C.B.E., D.S.O., has taken over
the duties of secretary to the
organisation, and I have no
doubts that under his adminis-
tration the society will attain
even greater success than it has
done in the past.
Cattle on Desert
Country
“A.C.T.”: Experiments are
about to begin with cattle-
raising on country long regarded
as desert. Northern Territory
Administrator F. J. S. Wise and
Director of Animal Industry L.
Rose have selected land between
the North-South Highway and
the W.A. border for the project
—to determine if the country will
carry cattle.
The Administrator proposes to
fence a block of 50 square miles,
and run 100 steers there for two
or three years. Their progress
will be watched, as well as the
response of the country to
various treatments.
It is felt that the spinifex-
country in this huge desert-area
includes large tracts capable of
carrying cattle, and it is believed
that there’s water at compara-
tively shallow depths.
Territories Minister Paul
Hasluck, announcing the project,
said that if the experiment proved


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
■pi . TH E PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
went illus-
trated is the
world.
fam o u s
“FARMERS'
BOY”
ROTARY
SCYTHE
Stott* T)Zt ■ t ? le P flone your nearest
Urs but . or for free particu-
the. attasl° r leeI ee demonstration of
the attachments that interest yon:
4 «7°™S St. Sydney. BU 1511
vie.; Lrazcos Co-operative Ltd., 9(
St., Melbourne. MU 8551
; Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.
del^ ld ® St > Brisbane. FA. 2631
v : , U ®meron & Sutherland Ltd.
lio York St.. Launceston. S. Aust.
& Sons Ltd.. 200-204
Grenfell St, Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824
irTT»i!Ld usiraWan Agents:
Hubert stokes & co.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
'Phanovtt*«— Brand of Phenothfazlna
c
rm
fK
d
have now made available
ENOVIS
m
POWDER
and
LIQUID
Research has proven the value of fine
particle size.
1.C.1. Production has made fine particle
size available in both
‘PHENOVIS’ POWDER and LIQUID
The most efficient drench
FOR WORMS IN SHEEP
*
9v#s
9U
t o
ICI
w&
B Ef E H DJ_B L E_ UN] MJ L
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
ICI
PROjrEmojL pypjcjf
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
PHE.32X.4975
that hopes were well-founded, it
was believed that 100,000 square
miles of country could be con-
verted to conditions enabling the
carrying of 250,000 cattle.
If the desert could produce
cattle under economic conditions,
the next step would be to classify
the land and make it available
for leasehold in suitable
economic areas. “In a country
like the Northern Territory,”
Hasluck added, “we have to keep
on challenging the impossible,
and turning it first into the
possible and then into the
reality.”
Giant Plough
Note from P. A. Yeomans
on a plough, believed to be the
world’s largest, operated by
Harry Kauter, of Kuyura, 35
miles west of Dalby (Q.). The
plough was manufactured by
Yeomans Pty., Ltd.:
“Hough width is 52ft. Mr.
Kauter cultivates 2500 acres of
wheat. His largest paddock is
500 acres. The largest plough
previously known to us was a
45ft. Graham operating in Texas
in 1952.
“The plough is made of
standard 16ft. and 18ft. frame-
assemblies coupled to a common
drawbar. The shanks and
digging-points are standard,
being the same as those used in
the smallest plough. It is being
hauled by a TD24 tractor.
“Mr. Kauter did most of the
work assembling the big fellow.”
Eight Frames or Nine?
“0.T.8.”: As an old-time bee-
keeper who doesn’t migrate I
haven’t had to have frames in
supers tightly held: so I have
always used eight frames in the
supers when extracting. Eight
in the supers and 10 in the brood-
chamber.
Migratory beekeepers nail a
half-inch cleat to space the
frames from the wall in both
supers and brood-chamber, and
use nine frames in each. This
gives more space in the outside
frames, and is, perhaps, an
advantage in the brood-chamber.
But in the supers nine frames
are good only for moving: when
moving, the “nines” don’t shift
from side to side.; thus they
don’t shake off the bees.
But more than what is gained
in moving is lost at extracting-
time. When extracting, having
nine frames in a 10-frame super
makes uncapping hard and slow.
Even when such combs are full
the cappings are only just outside
the edges of top- and bottom-
bars, and most combs have cap-
pings below these edges. This
means that the uncapping-knife
has to be the old-type short-
bladed sort that can cut “inside”
the top- and bottom-bars, instead
of the later long, straight knife
that is simply laid against the
top- and bottom-bars to slice a
flat face on the comb.
A big improvement would be
made by carrying extra empty
supers and using them to take
the spare combs gained by reduc-
ing the nine frames to eight
when the moving was over.
One extra empty super for each
eight supers is all that is needed.
The economy angle is worth
thinking about. The average
apiary of 100 colonies has 200
supers with nine frames in each.
Taking one frame from each of
them to use in extra supers
would give 25 extra supers for
the extracting. This extra space
could mean another 20 tins in
the crop. And the uncapping
would be cheaper, because it
would be quicker;
English Farm Wages
From a letter to the “Times”:
The average wage of a farm-
worker for the 12 months ended
March, 1954, was £7 2s. This is
only 225. above the minimum of £6
and includes all overtime, piecework,
and bonuses, and also the wages of
foremen, managers and bailiffs. It is
therefore clear that bonuses can only
be very small for the general farm-
worker, and that very few farmers are
paying above the minimum which is
sufficient to attract a man with family
responsibilities. If they could have got
a decent wage from agriculture the
10,400 regular male workers who left
the industry in the last year might not'
have done so.
«
A natural query by an Aus-
tralian reader is: How far are
these English conditions likely
to influence a flow (or trickle)
of that rarest, type of migrant, an
experienced farmworker, to this
country? But another letter to
the “Times” presents a some-
what different viewpoint:
Sir —I have not observed among the
letters on farm wages published in
your columns any mention of skill. I
make bold to say that a skilled farm-
worker is worth £7 or more today.
The National Union of Agricultural
Workers has failed, as other unions
have failed, to insist that its would-be
members begin as apprentices. The
cpnsequence is that we are burdened
with a percentage of men who do not
know their trade. If it were not for
that fact, there could be no argument
whatsoever against raising the agricul-
tural wage to compare favorably with
the industrial.
Annual Pasture
“Ninda”: Autumn is the best
time to sow irrigated annual-
pasture in districts with low
water-rights. Sow on graded
land. Use 41b. to 81b. of
Wimmera-rye and lib. to 31b. of
sub.-clover per acre.
Mt. Barker, Bacchus Marsh
and Tallarook sub.-clovers are
suitable. You’ll get most winter-
feed from Mt. Barker and
Bacchus Marsh. Use a cover-
crop of oats or barley if you
wish.
Apply a bag of super, per acre
at seeding-time and the same
amount in late autumn or early
spring, every year afterwards.
If there aren’t any good rains
in February, irrigate at the end
of the month to germinate the
seed. According to conditions,
irrigate once or twice more in the
autumn, and once or twice in
the spring. Give the last watering
about mid-October.
Graze the older annual
pastures as soon as the perennials
dwindle, and continue until the
Wimmera-rye is well seeded. But
cut for hay in the spring before
Wimmera-rye has seeded much.
Care with Trace-
elements
“Big Billy”: A timely warn-
ing on the use of trace-elements
by individual farmers has been
issued by Victoria’s Department
of Agriculture.
While experimentation with
various fertilisers is warranted if
the soil is not producing as
expected, the department advises
the use of small test-plots first.
For instance, it has been found
that some farmers have been
using a super-molybdenum dress-
ing in successive years, when the
pasture could have been sustained
over several years with one
application of molybdenum.
The same applies to copper.
And once an excess dressing has
been added to the soil it cannot
be taken away.
Look Down
“Mid West”: During a dry
spell it’s more profitable to look
down at the plants than to scan
the sky for that rain-cloud which
always seems to be just over the
horizon.
During the drought in the
United States last year Dr. W. A.
Albrecht, Missouri University
Professor of Soils, noticed that
good soil-fertility reduced the
effects of poor moisture.
He stressed the need for getting
fertility deeper into the soil.
When there isn’t much moisture
in the surface-layers, plants send
their roots downwards, where
they sometimes find moisture but
little food.
By “looking down,” Dr.
Albrecht noticed that the growing
tip told the story of the plants’
needs. If lack of moisture was
the trouble, the tip was withered.
If lack of fertility was the
trouble the tip was not withered.
These findings might help to
explain the green tinge which
appeared after recent Victorian
grassfires—even though no rain
had fallen for several weeks.
Having been under clover for
many years, most of the devas-
tated area had built up high
fertility to reduce the effect of
the dryness.
Crosscuts
U.K. High Commissioner’s
office reports that more than
1200 overseas visitors, from 60
countries, saw the exhibits of
agricultural machinery at the
Smithfield (Eng.) Show. The sort
of orders to warm a salesman’s
heart —for instance, one to
Argentina for 250 tractors,
50h.p.
Ferguson - Massey Harris
reports that, at the above, buyers
were chiefly interested in the
smaller types of tractors and
equipment.
Among the novelties at Smith-
field: a fertiliser - distributor
which can be stripped for clean-
ing “with the ease of a kitchen
mincing-machine”; a potato-
harvester with caterpillar-tracks
and rubber “fingers”; and an
automatic “gardener” which,
with attachments, is capable of
(a) rotary cultivation, ( b)
ploughing and hoeing, (c) cutting
and trimming lawns and hedges,
(i d) spraying paints and insecti-
cides, ( e ) filling and emptying
ponds, and (f) washing the car.
* * *
“Billjim”: Dry spell in Vic-
toria, Tasmania, S.A. and W.A.
has brought greater loss of
potatoes through grub-infesta-
tion. Greatest damage has been
caused in plots of self-sown
tubers. Continued dry weather
in these States could mean a con-
siderable drop in production of
potatoes later in the year.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: Cows that have
an annual holiday give the most
milk and fat. For maximum pro-
duction, dry cows off six to eight
weeks before they are due to
calve. This spell allows them to
recuperate and build up their
condition ready for their next
lactation. After drying-off, feed
adequately to ensure tjiat they
are in their best condition for
calving.
“Big Billy”: Companion-
cropping is a valuable method of
making the maximum use of
limited areas in the home vege-
table-plot. Cabbages, lettuces
and radishes may be sown to-
gether, the lettuces between the
rows of cabbages and the cab-
bage:plants in the rows. Turnips
can be sown between rows of
peas, and lettuces can be planted
on the sides of the ridges formed
by digging-out celery-trenches,
or on newly-formed asparagus-
beds. Broad-beans may be sown
between early potatoes. Catch-
cropping is also valuable. As a
well-manured piece of ground is
maturing, radishes or turnips
may be sown. Space the rows as
for the main crop, so that sow-
ing may not be interfered with
if the radishes have not been
picked. Inter-planting, with
quick-maturing vegetables placed
between those which take longer
to mature, also uses to the full
all the land available.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Apart from scattered showers and light rain, there
seems little prospect of relief from the present generally dry
conditions, although there is a possibility that the Single
cycle may give good rains towards the close of the month.
The Uranian cycle would have given a very good year, but
this is a very unreliable cycle and only proves effective with
strong sunspot support.
Light to moderate rains may occur during March, with
very good general rains during April.
Some relief rains may come to Victoria and South Aus-
tralia just after the middle of February, but the year
generally should be below average.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Overseas Publicity
To say, as “Waddlin’ Willie” does
(B. 19/1/’55), that nowadays the Aus-
tralian News and Information Bureau
does little more than send out “releases”
to the overseas press and distribute
documentary films is not fair.
Take films. The bureau both makes
and distributes documentaries dealing
with aspects of Australian life. Periodic-
ally overseas distributors take the films
and sonietimes pay for them. They are
shown widely in cinemas and on TV,
particularly in the U.K. and the U.S.A.
One of the bureau’s star jobs was
making “The Queen in Australia,” the
Commonwealth Government’s official
film of the Royal visit. Shown through-
out Britain and many other countries,
this picture was acclaimed as one of the
best of its kind ever made.
The bureau’s commemorative volume
of the Royal visit, put out by a leading
Australian publishing-house, sold 60,000
copies— sold, not given away.
Kent Hughes, Ministerial head of the
bureau, recently canned “South West
Pacific,” a periodical which the D. of I.
started during the war ; but new publica-
tions are helping to fill the gap. Here are
some:
Australia —Portrait of a Nation, first-
class pictorial booklet; About Australia,
a brochure designed for Asian students
in this country; Australia in Brief, a
pocket-booklet dealing with bread-and-
butter aspects of this country (more than
1| million copies distributed since the
war); “Facts and Figures,” a quarterly
giving a factual account of Australian
policy, economy and administration
(most valuable booklet of reference);
and “Information on Australia,” a folder
with many reference-papers on angles of
the national life.
All go in large numbers to press- and
radio-editors in English-speaking and
other countries, and to Australian diplo-
mats and Trade Commissioners abroad.
For obvious reasons the bureau is con-
centrating on Australian publicity in
Asian countries. The booklet for Asian
students in this country is a case in point.
Copies go to the countries concerned
and to students when they arrive here.
There is regular publicity for migrants
after their arrival. “The Good Neigh-
bor,” a monthly of news, information
and pictures for New Australians, goes
all over the Commonwealth.
The bureau also produces in booklet-
form a digest of the proceedings of the
annual Australian Citizenship Conven-
tion.
The bureau is actively helping the 1956
Olympic Games committee in preparation
of overseas publicity. It has jusf pro-
duced a brochure containing the official
programme, descriptions, pictures, and
maps of the venues of the events, and
information about Melbourne. Thousands
of copies are going to international
sporting-federations, travel-agents, trans-
portation-offices and Australian diplo-
“I cant stand it—I cant stand it! Either I'm nuts or I don't know) what!"
mats in 72 countries. Two of the
bureau’s journalists are on loan to the
Games organisation, which is also being
helped by the bureau’s artists and camera-
men.
Add to all this the excellent work of
the Australian National Travel Associa-
tion and the short-wave broadcasts of
news and features from Radio Australia,
through the A.B.C. —jobs which deserve
chapters to themselves —and it seems this
country is blowing its own trumpet very
well —largely through the A.N.1.8.
Bulls wool (Vic.).
The A.L.P.
The Australian Labor Party suffers
from two cardinal defects. It is a sec-
tional organisation, dominated by
parochially minded trade-unions con-
cerned solely with furthering their own
advantage. Such a party cannot provide
a broad national policy. Only one that
seeks to mirror the community can hope
to do so.
Labor’s second defect is the basic
character of its personnel. Most Labor
members are professional politicians. A
large proportion would have no prospect
of attaining, in private life, the standing
and remuneration they attain as legisla-
tors. Hence they tend to favor a hotch-
potch of vote-catching schemes rather
than either practical Socialism or the
allowing of full scope to private enter-
prise.—Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Queensland Liquor Act
In the last stages of the pre-Christmas
session the Queensland Labor Govern-
ment pushed through its Liquor Acts
Amendment Bill. Made up of 94 sections,
with over 22,000 words, the Act is an
attack upon individual liberty and com-
munity enterprise.
The main victims of the legislation are
the clubs. No club in the city of Brisbane
or in any provincial city will qualify for
a licence unless it conforms with a host
of regulations, including minimum
membership of 500. The same conditions
apply to other clubs throughout Queens-
land except that the minimum membership
is set at 150.
The effect of the minimum-member-
ship provision will be that clubs below
the prescribed strength must either open
their membership-list or shut down. Many
of the clubs, if they decide to increase
their membership to maintain their
licences, will defeat their own purpose
and destroy their character simply by
admitting members whose qualifications
and interests are not compatible with
the club’s principles of association. The
only section of the community in Queens-
land likely to benefit .from the Liquor
Amendment Act is the brewery interests. —
D.J.K. (Q.).
Life Ends at Forty
A man was fined in Perth for stealing
money left out for the milkman. His
plea was that he had searched for work,
but employers had told him he was too
old at 54. Quite apart from the merits
or otherwise of this particular plea,
it is true that a man of 40 is’ classed
as too old when seeking new employ-
ment. Some big concerns won’t engage
men over 30. One has only to study the
“situations-vacant” columns of the
dailies to realise just how young a man
must be to be eligible for a job with
any responsibility.
In pre-war days a man wasn’t con-
sidered experienced enough for an
executive position unless he had reached
40. Now the 40-year-olders are back-
numbers and must take orders from men
10 years younger. The Westralian Rail-
ways, when advertising fof “snake-
charmers” (fettlers), stipulate “not over
45.” And railway-cleaners must be <iri
the not-over-40 group.
This prejudice towards age is hard to
understand, for I’ll wager a man of 40
has a higher productive-rate than one of
30, though the former may not seem to
work as fast. The younger man may
speed for a time, but, like a seven-
furlong horse, he cracks up at the mile
and allows the old-stager to beat him.
When a Government has suggested the
lowering of the age-group for pensioners
there has always been bitter opposition
on the ground that a man of 60 still has
years of useful work left in him. - If the
present partiality for youth continues it
may be found necessary to drop the age-
minimum for pensioners to 40. —C. A. L.
(W.A.). ' •
Modem Bread
I often wonder how we old-stagers
survived all these years after being reared
on bread and butter produced in our
childhood without any of the scientific
aids now given to the production of these
basic foodstuffs.
In England in the late ’eighties of last
century bread and butter were produced
under what would now be considered
primeval conditions. Even in the large
cities home-milled flour and farm-butter
were available, and the varying qualifies
were well known to the housewife. It
used to be said that most of the wheat
brought to Britain from Australia in sail-
ing-ships went to make the biscuits for
which Britain was famous everywhere.
But our bread-wheat came frorn Russia,
Canada and other places, and our
common baker’s bread cost a shade
over a penny a pound.
We had many varieties of bread,
the Nevilis loaf being one of the
favorites. This cottage-shaped loaf
of very white and floury bread cost
threepence the half-quartern (or
21b.). Every baker’s; shop had : its
own bakery, and many, of the
bakers were Germans who baked
during the night and left hot-rolls
on your doorstep at 6 a.m. in the
morning. There was no Govern-
ment or trade-union interference to
prevent the baker from doing his
job as it suited him and his
customers. The only rule was that
the customer bought a certain
weight of bread in 21b. units. If
the loaf were short a' small roll
or cake was put on the sckles as
“make-weight.” And we kids
knew where you got the cakes.
In light of this old experience it seems
incredible that so much science has to
be called into service in this great wheat-
producing land to provide an edible loaf.
Some of the old skills appear to have
been mislaid. Still more incredible is the
fact that, despite all the modern milling-
techniques and bread-making arrange-
merits, mass-production, etc., a 21b. loaf
of indifferent quality costs more than 6d.
a pound.
One thing seems certain—good bread
cannot be made from the wrong kind of
flour. If we cannot produce the wheat to
make that flour, we should try to obtain
enough of it from elsewhere to blend
with our own and improve it.
And, to take a page out of the past,
we might consider some encouragement
to bakers to make their own bread at their
own time. It is plain enough that we
cannot get the good bread we expect by
Acts of Parliament or other stultifying
interferences. Science cannot cure any
of these obstacles to the production of
good bread.
The octogenarians of today, who were
fed on bread and butter as children,
never suffered from the . endeavors of
science to create perfection out of im-
perfection. The good health of. most of
us now living testifies to that. —H. J. A.
(N.S.W.).
Both Ways
As “Narumee” pointed out (B.
22/12/’54), if plastic adhesive-tape is
used on a registered parcel, such parcel
is held by the P.M.G. to be unsealed ana
must be fastened in some other way.
On the other hand, if~it is used on an
airmail parcel, that parcel is “sealed” and
full letter-rate is charged!
The Victorian Licensing Act is just as
silly. If a Victorian licensee holds a
permit for liquor with meals after 6 p.m.,
the outer door of the hotel and all doors
leading to the dining-room must remain
unlocked while the meal is being served.
The Act also says that after 6 p.m. all
doors leading into the bar-room must be
locked. If a “Yale”-type lock is fastened
on the dining-room doors, those doors are
held to be “locked” and the licensee is
fined. If the same type of lock fastens the
bar-room doors those doors are held to be
“unlocked” and the licensee is fined
again !— Casey (Vic.).
Graded Lodgings
We went to Sydney for our Christmas
holidays. For £l5 15s. a week, plus 15s.
a week for electricity and a cleaning-fee
of 305., we enjoyed the undisturbed
occupation of a flat which was no
cleaner than it should have been.
The bedding, although it looked fine,
taught us the significance of that hack-
neyed .phrase “protesting springs.” There
was a shower, but no bath; and no
garage. The radio gave out nothing but
static, and sometimes very little of that.
We had to pay the whole amount due
for the period of our stay before we got
the key. When, we were leaving an
inventory had to be taken (and breakages
paid for), although there’d been no
mention of inventory when we went in.
We had a very nice holiday despite
these conditions, because the flat was
close to the beach —a fact which was
exploited to the hilt.
It seems to me that a system of grading
such places is called for. The local coun-
cils, to which the holiday-trade is an
important source of revenue, could well
undertake the grading. It might stop
people asking 10, 12 and 15 guineas a
week for places worth nothing like that
—A. W. F. (A.C.T.).


Antarctic Ships
Before Australia builds her own ship
tor Antarctic work she can learn much
from a study of the Bowdoin, the
specially built schooner 'in which Captain
Donald B. MacMillan has for years con-
ducted Arctic explorations.
MacMillan himself worked out her
design during the Crocker Land expedi-
tion, about 40 years ago, when he spent
four years in North Greenland. Two
rescue-ships sent for him failed to get
through the icefields in Melville Bay, so,
while waiting in an igloo “at the top of
the world” for a third to break through,
MacMillan had ample time, as his wife
records, to plan “nail by nail and plank
hy plank” a schooner ideal for Arctic
conditions.
The Bowdoin is small —only 60 tons
gross, 88ft. long and 21ft. wide —so she
can be jammed in a niche in the rocks
if ice comes piling down on her. She is
double-timbered with Maine white-oak
and sheathed with a 65in. belt of Ion.
Australian ironwood, so she can wedge
through pack-ice. This sheathing saved
her when a “growler,” or fragment of
iceberg, scraped off her paint apd gouged
away a big section of ironwood —but for
the sheathing the “growler” would
probably have holed and sunk her.
To cope with heavy weather the
Bowdoin is short-rigged, without topmast
or bowsprit. Whatever the weather, sail
-can be furled without risk of a man
falling from aloft or being washed
overboard. Her exceptionally large
rudder enables her to turn easily and
quickly to work through leads to open
water. Her propeller is too deep under
water to suffer damage when the engine
is reversed.
Two watertight bulkheads will keep her
afloat even if she is damaged at bow or
stern. Her spoon-shaped bow, when she
can no longer push through broken ice,
enables her to rise up on icepans and
crush them under her forefoot. Her
dead-rise is so designed that she rises
bodily up out of ice that threatens to
nip her.
In heavy weather she is kept stable
by 21 tons of mixed cement and boiler-
punchings moulded into her bottom.
Even if a plank were ripped from, her
bottom this ballast could keep water out.
Shrouds and stays are steel, masts and
booms of Oregon-pine. Two large
wrecking-pumps lead well amidships to
cope with any serious leaks caused by
ice-pressure. Moulded into her bilges
are two steel fuel-tanks with a capacity
of 2200 gallons of oil.
After naval service in World War 11,
the Bowdoin was, to all appearance, just
a hulk. But so sound was her construc-
tion that, cleaned, painted and refitted,
she has again worked safely amidst
Arctic ice, doing the job she was specially
designed for. — Ymar (Vic.).
N.S.W. Opera House
Once again Sydney parkland and an
historic building are in danger, this time
because somebody wants to build a
National Opera House.
There is ample open space on the out-
skirts of the city for an opera-house,
possibly in the vicinity of Parramatta,
Castle Hill, Liverpool or some such area.
It is time planners realised that Sydney
must expand, and there is no reason
whatever for sticking to the city area
for future public buildings. That only
adds to traffic congestion.
Somebody will say that an opera-house
must be handy to transport, but in these
days the greater number of patrons
would, if possible, drive their cars to the
opera, and be glad to do it if parking-
space were available. For those who
prefer trams, trains or buses it takes no
longer to travel five miles this way or
that.
I would go further and build a new
N.S.W. Parliament House somewhere
outside the congested Sydney city-area,
possibly between Parramatta and the
Blue Mountains, or even on the Moun-
tains. Large blocks of new Govern-
ment offices could go out there, too,
inducing public servants to move to the
open spaces and reduce travelling-time
and -expense to and from work.
That a big Government department
can operate well away from the scene
of active operations is proved at Lap-
stone, on the Blue Mountains, where
R.A.A.F. headquarters has been estab-
lished in the old Lapstone Hotel. It
would not be possible to land an aero-
“Your salary as valet will be twenty pounds a Week. By the Way,
old chap, could you lend me ten-bob?”
plane within miles, but this apparently
is no handicap.
When television comes I’m afraid some
historic building will be endangered and
possibly a lump of Centennial Park
threatened to make way for its studios
and offices. —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Cheque-exchange
This business of adding exchange to
cheques sent to city firms in payment of
accounts (B. 12/1/’55) results in quite a
nice little bit of extra profit for the firms
concerned, if they are in a big way of
business.
To illustrate: A large city store doing
business with customers scattered
throughout the State would receive each
month quite a batch of cheques from
the various centres. The bulk of these
would have added to them the appropriate
exchange. When the city store proceeds
to bank them, all the cheques drawn on
one town are totalled together and ex-
change paid on the aggregate amount
for each town. That’s where the extra
bit of profit comes in.
Incidentally, the charge made by a bank
for collecting cheques drawn on places
within Australia is not really “exchange”
at all —it is commission. Exchange can
broadly be defined as the difference in
value of one country’s currency when
expressed in terms of another’s.
I am reminded of a Greek cafe-
proprietor in a large country town who,
in the days when shops opened on
Saturday afternoons (and the banks
closed), did a thriving business cashing
cheques for country people in town for
the weekend shopping. Although the
different banks in the town were all within
a couple of hundred yards of his cafe, he
always deducted 6d. for the service. He,
also, called it “exchange.”— Ceg (Vic.).
Earth’s Balance
In reply to “Tidbinbilla” (B. 19/l/’55),
I know of no geophysical literature deal-
ing with the possible results of an exces-
sive accumulation of ice at the Poles
causing an upset of the earth’s axis of
rotation. But we know that there are
large deposits of coal in Greenland and
other Arctic islands, and in Antarctica,
and we also know that there are many
indications of an Ice Age in many parts
of the world.
These phenomena can be accounted
for in only one of two ways: either that,
at vast intervals of time, owing to the
accumulation of ice at the Poles, the
earth’s axis is altered, or that the sun’s
radiation increases and decreases over the
ages, sometimes getting so hot that
tropical vegetation flourishes at the Poles
and sometimes so cold that the whole
earth freezes.
But astronomers feel very confident
of the constancy of the sun’s radiation,
so an occasional upset of the earth’s
axis appears to be the solution. —A. E. H.
(N.S.W.).
Literary Bans
Queensland’s Literature Board of
Review has shown its teeth for the first
time. Just a little nibble this time, but
it was a success from the board’s point
of view, so the next bite could be a big
one.
When the State Government instituted
the board there was an immediate outcry
from people who realised just how damag-
ing its powers would be. Much of the
opposition evaporated under the claim
that the powers would only be used to
prevent entry into the State of “comics”
with an overemphasis on horror, crime or
sex. For a time the board concentrated
on this particular type of literature and
banned some of the worst offenders.
Then the teeth appeared. A firm dis-
tributing motor-accessories produced a
calendar for 1955 with a somewhat im-
probable and definitely scantily dressed
young lady as the centrepiece. The
board acted, and the firm’s Queensland
clients went without their calendars this
year.
The question is not one of the good
taste of this particular calendar—it is a
question of whether this board should
dictate what adults in the State should
or should not read. The next step is
obvious. Books passed by the Com-
monwealth Customs as fit for distribu-
tion will receive another combing from
the board to see if they are pure enough
for Queensland consumption.
Government control of the board pro-
vides grounds for dangerous implications.
I wonder how far the board’s powers will
be used in an election-year?
Fortunately State Government legisla-
tion on liquor, s.p. and other contentious
subjects means that, in spite of the pocket-
boroughs, Queensland should at last have
a change of Government in 1956, and
then, we hope, Queensland will see the
last of the censor. — Oscar (Q.).
Educating Migrants
A speaker at the Victorian Teachers’
Conference said that the attention given
migrant children in primary schools was
negligible. The speaker urged specialised
teaching in all-migrant classes. He held
that it is too much to expect teachers to
take time off from the ordinary class-
lesson to give individual teaching to
migrant children —particularly as the
classes are large, with an average com-
plement of about 40 pupils.
Theoretically and academically these
children should benefit more by
specialised teaching in all-migrant
classes, but with migrants the academic
part of their learning is less important
than the need for quick assimilation. The
children have to learn to fit in, to feel
at home and be at one with Australian
kids, and how better can they do that
than by attending an Australian school
and mixing with their Aussie counter-
parts in work and play?— Vermouth
(Vic.).
Paris
“Hist.” (B. 29/12/’54) seems to believe
in the tourist-literature about Paris.
Paris is dingy and second-rate. The
gardens, the lawns, the trees and the
streets of Paris are not as well kept as their
counterparts in many Australian towns,
nor as well designed. Think of the acres
of bare gravel in Paris, the unpaved streets
and walks, and the winds that make Paris
duststorms rival those of a Mallee town!
Then there are the cobbled streets,
which must rival the roughest in Europe,
and which, with a sprinkle of rain, send
motorists slithering dangerously all over
the place. And how often do they wash
those streets down?
Those “tall apartment buildings” are
no better than the Glasgow tenements,
except for their coat of soot; and of
course they stink. One cannot expect
anything else with medieval sewerage and
peasant habits. Nor is Paris architecture
of any note —almost every piece of it is
classified as “neo” something-or-other.
Ever since the war tens of thousands of
Australians have been gadding about
Europe and finding the Old World not
up to expectations. They are always
being told, “It’s just after the war, you
know. You can’t expect things to be
normal.” But it doesn’t wash, and I’m
glad that the Red Page has confirmed
that Paris is “dingy and second-rate.” —
J.J.A. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 317
Across
I—Sailor1 —Sailor artist defrauds with fibs.
(12)
8— Pop against none but a number
like a peacock. (8)
9 Revised twin boys around it.
(6)
11 — Openings for perspiring in prose.
(5)
12 — Ancients in the U.S. Marines.
(9)
14 —Want was in the van stung with
a hypodermic. (7)
<6—American soldier or the same to
duck George in Italy. (7)
18 — One-time stage personality who
mulcts? (7)
19— Perpetually a weight to turn inside
out on a West Indies cricketer
named Weekes. (7)
20 — This makes a tightwad pelt
lighter equipment. (9)
22 — Rather short trees herein. (5)
23 — Conserve that distant abyss. (6)
24 — Dray footballer to measure. (8)
26 —Bob rulers are not too much for a
demagogue. (6-6)
Down
1 — Jack Hill bowls such boys with
revolutionary toys. (3-8)
2 Hollow sounds about a part of
speech with the Queen at Idriess’s
place. (14)
3 The second Mrs. David Copper-
field. (5)
4 Tavern. (3)
5 Bourtree presbyter. (5)
6 A pest is often seen after this
Abbott. (3)
7 1-down defines such honest
billiard scores. (8, 6)
10 —The most complacent G.M.’s
guest is disorderly. (8)
12 — A non-impartial one to sicken
the device from which some
electric trains take their power.
(4-4)
13 — Kiss and cuddle a bib who
nourishes the helpless? (11)
15—Fired. (3)
17 —Ring before we are in debt. (3)
21 — A Boldrewood upset plants. (5)
22 — Centre of Oriental population
taking to Kentucky with love. (5)
23 — Who steers for the oarsmen with
a firm kiss? (3)
25 —Hail saves the middle only. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 316


1111111
in
lilli
Hr
I i :
' ' /
' ' ■
.■II
HHMI
ip
'■ .V:
lliliill
■ »
m a
IMi
.
i
■
sv<- ; : 1
Mt • Jr ■ o
V’*
|r t |gglP < _ i x Sf
( 11 I M
r; |f #p!
**)***'£s'* -
Syg* « /rig , « £5? f
S« : s:
>»l| . it .1
»3S| jh: * 1
l£ a | *
8 lii |S r
,
i* ; «..'•
I•• ‘
iiltjfj
is»Mßaattiiiag i
I|K fl
I" l ;gp? lip
.. Mi-mu ,-’n,
•“■■■iill?
Mb • .... ■-*-
C *<•<
' "" •■■■■ ■ ■ ■ "'■■■■
gSiS
S»Ws;*a33j:iSi:
•5 HTI
■ s
Hill
*nvii
, M?## l ’& 1
*“ | I
tigpiiMg
KMHSip
’• .
Meet..
THE OAW UNIVERSAL MILLER
PROPUCEP IN AUSTRALIA
b if Australian/
Craftsmen
NO IMPORT
PRODUCTION
MARS No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
★ ANSWERS AUSTRALIA’S DEFENCE NEEDS ★
Modern Design. Rapid Power Traverse—all Movements. Wide Range of feeds and speeds. Built-in electrics. Supplied under written guarantee.
Complete with all accessories. Built to guaranteed standards—Schlesinger or Acceptance Tests for Machine Tools, Ist Grade, as required.
★ ASSIST OUR OVERSEAS TRADE BALANCE - INSIST ON AUSTRALIAN BUILT MACHINE TOOLS
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
m
m
1
3
1
0
£
~, . -p, wt , »» l • c-_ | Pprtli SA • W H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. Vic.: Herbert Osborne
Pty Ltd e 567-369 n Little Street,’Melbourne. N.S.W. and Queensland: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd., Brisbane.
Tas • Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street, Hobart. India, Bombay Province: R. S. Mehta & Co., Ah Chambers, Fort Bombay.
Philippines: The Earnshaw Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
