

"C -
IS
m
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
BUTTERFLY - MAD I -page zi
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3928
Wednesday, May 25, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 241: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
BANGOR CATHEDRAL CLEARLY SHOWS IT'S ANCIENT ORIGINS.
THE historic Cathedral City and market-town of Bangor lies beside the
Menai Straits in North Wales, and for fourteen hundred years it has
been a centre of religion and learning. Like Llandaff and St. Asaph, it had
its early beginnings as a small community which grew up around a monastic
establishment, which, at Bangor, was founded early in the sixth century by
St. Deiniol. In later years it grew in wealth and influence and became the
centre of a large diocese in North Wales.
In 1071 the church that had succeeded St. Deiniol’s original building was
destroyed by the Normans who, later, replaced it by a church in which
Archbishop Baldwin, of Canterbury, preached the Crusade on his tour through
Wales in 1188. A hundred years later this building was in turn ruined
during the wars of Edward I. Rebuilt, burnt down and rebuilt again time
after time, the cathedral has had a chequered history. King John destroyed
it in 1210, but later repented and helped towards its restoration. After its
further destruction by the followers of Owen Glendower in 1404, the struc-
ture lay in ruins for almost a century. It was rebuilt during the period
1496-1532, and in 1866-70 it was thoroughly restored by Sir George Gilbert
Scott when £30,000 was spent on the restoration.
Several details of the Norman church are still visible on the external
face of the south side of the chancel. Among the many monuments withm
the Cathedral is one commemorating Owain Gwynedd, King of Gwynedd,
who died in 1169. A curious relic of earlier days is a pair of tongs which
were used for removing stray dogs from church, and which are now kept at
the west end of the north aisle.
Another prominent feature of Bangor, and shown in the background of
this illustration, is the fine modern block of buildings which houses the Arts
Departments, the Administrative offices, the Library and Common Rooms of
the University College of North Wales, one of the four constituent colleges
forming the University of Wales. At Bangor can also be seen the Museum
of Welsh Antiquities, which contains exhibits designed to illustrate the life
and culture of Wales from prehistoric times to the present day.


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from • country or inter-State
invited.
iIHSCELOUW
THE KINGSWAY,
ROSEVILLE, N.S.W. JYII3I
BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
select, and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
SINGING LIZARDS
It must be confessed that there are
times when, confronted with another
animal-book, one says —“Not another!' 5
Whether it is the love-life of a salmon,
the hunted existence of an otter or
the misadventures of a dingo they do
amount in the end to so very much the
same thing: an author spoiling a good
nature-book, which should be based on
observation, by projecting himself into
the mind of a creature whose mental
processes he really knows nothing
about and shedding tears over the
sufferings inflicted upon it by man —
who. after all, must eat.
What an enormous relief it is then
to discover that Henry G. Lamond’s
Towser (Faber), in spite of the ominous
title, is not just another animal-book,
not just an author’s impersonation of
a dog, but is a rich and vital picture
of life on an outback Queensland
sheep-station, everywhere firmly based
on the observation of Nature, never
stepping beyond the bounds of what
Mr. Lamond himself has seen and
known, and often quite astonishing in
its lore of wild-life, even to one
reasonably well-read in Australian
natural-history. For instance: —
A new call sounded —one fairly
common near watercourses during
the flush of the season. It com-
menced as a bell-like gurgle which
was sweet in its melody and purity
of tone. It rose in trills and scales
until it reached its highest note.
Then, breaking on that note, it fell
in a jumbled waterfall of music.
“What’s that, Mr. Lake?” asks the
drover, as well he might. The over-
seer doesn’t know. Next day they see
a lizard—of a type which Mr. Lamond
calls the “carney” and which, by his
description, seems to be the one this
commentator knows as the “bicycle-
lizard”—which has been mangled by a
python:—
Painfully, slowly, trembling in
its efforts as it rose, it reared its
front feet on the stone and held its
head high ... A call came from
the carney ; a swan-song, a love-
call, a challenge, perhaps a
message. It commenced with a
bell-like gurgle, sweet in its melody
and purity of tone, and it rose in
trills and scales until it reached its
highest note. Then it broke, and
that call fell in a jumbled water-
fall of music! The men rode on.
They had solved the secret of one
mysterious call of the night.
Would the other mysterious call
mentioned in this chapter, a noise of
“Oom-ooom” sounded continuously in
the night and said to have boomed
right alongside the drover sleeping on
a bare patch of gravel, be the tawny-
frogmouth? Even in regions so un-
adventurous as French’s Forest in
Sydney the frogmouth does say
“Oom-ooom” in a most unreasonable
way through the night and, sitting on a
dead tree, looks so like a piece of timber
you would never know it was there.
And what was the harsh, high, eldritch
cry, half like the bark of a dog and
half like nothing on earth, which one
lately heard up on Kelly’s Plains near
Kiandra, fishing with the poet David
Campbell? Surely not the swan-song
of a goanna?
Which brings one back to Mr.
Lamond. As well as thus revealing
the unsuspected lyricism of lizards, his
book is about falcons stooping on quail
in front of the travelling sheep, and
fish appearing from nowhere in isolated
ponds, and shags tossing fish in the air
to swallow them head-first, and nesting
plover attacking dogs and horsemen
and supremely, for these ridiculous
birds awaken Mr. Lamond’s amused
observation at its keenest, it is about
the love-life, the tender paternal care
and the wonderful stupidity of emus:—
The nine, with the old bird in the
centre, spread fan-shape; they
advanced nervously, drawn by a
curiosity against which they had
no defence. It was the Law. Emus
must observe strange objects ....
Lake rose to his feet as he went to
the fire to select a coal to light his
pipe. The birds spread as if blown
apart from a central explosion.
They bounded, hit the ground,
dodged their own shadows, raced
in confusion till the order of their
going was decided: the cock led,
threw distance behind him with
giant strides; his clutch of
chickens stretched in a line as they
followed him.
And precisely because it is thus based
on the intimate observation of Nature
—and because Mr. Lamond has humor
—“Towser” is also an excellent book
about a dog: the best, in fact, that this
commentator has read.
One should have known of course
from “Big Red,” his kangaroo-book,
and from his stort-stories in “The
Bulletin” that Mr. Lamond would
always season his dish of animal-story
with accurate and fascinating obser-
vations of wild-life. But what one
could hardly guess was that he would
observe his dog exactly as he observes
his emus. He is a tough, humorous,
intensely sincere observer of all Nature,
here observing a dog. Towser is. in
his way, a super-dog; he does tre-
mendous feats of mustering; but he is
also a comic creature with, as most
dogs have, just about the mentality of
a small boy.
Anybody who ever owned a dog will
instantly, and with amusement, recog-
nise the fidelity of Mr. Lamond’s de-
scription of the inglorious day Towser
had to spend when he was sent away
from the yards and retreated to the
dam to amuse himself and then came
hopefully sneaking back:—-
Those water-beetles might have
been entertaining at any other
time. He could not lower himself
to such childish degradation with
the noise of sheep-work in the
near distance. He returned to the
yards ; he went stealthily, slinking
from tree to tree, crouched and
slid forward. He quivered with
excitement as he thrilled to the
pleasure of work when he lay a
short hundred yards distant. He
pricked his ears suddenly, went
forward confidently. There was
work for him to do!
A lamb, a weak-legged totterer,
had wriggled through a gap in the
stubs. It wandered forlornly,
bleated piteously. It saw the dog
approach and in the manner of
all young things, it went to the
first moving object in sight.
Towser tried to work that lamb
in the same manner in which he
had previously worked chickens.
The lamb did not understand. It
followed the dog.
Towser trotted ahead, his tail
high, a foolish grin on his face, at
a loss to know how to shake off a
thing which should run from him
instead of follow.
The lamb proceeds to embarrass
Towser beyond measure by mistaking
him for its mother.
One of the things which has helped
to distinguish this book from the
general run of animal-stories is that,
besides being a naturalist, Mr. Lamond
writes as a sheepman. So instead of
running through the usual routine of
the pup’s advance to doghood through
fighting and mating, he gives you what
the sheepman sees of him, from droving
chickens to learning to control sheep.
About the only fight Towser has in
the book is on an occasion when his
master has been involved in a brawl
and, the dog, once again acting like
a small boy under the pressure of
puzzling and unbearable excitement,
turns on an innocent bystander-dog
and chases him round the pub out of
sight.
So you have this entirely fresh pic-
ture of a dog from the sheepman’s
point of view and, with it, an ex-
cellent excuse not only for Nature
observations but for all kinds of sheep-
lore, dog-lore and pictures of the life
of the great Queensland stations of 40
years ago when “managers were local
kings; overseers were of the blood-
royal; and any property less than
about 1000 square miles, and carry-
ing fewer than 100.000 sheep, was not
worth considering as a real station.’
Delinquent Parents
In his discursive diary, Nature’s
Second Sun (Heinemann), Donald
McLean, the Sydney State-school
headmaster, continues the theme
announced in the title of one of his
previous books, “The Education of the
Personality”:—
I tell thee Love is Nature’s second
sun
Causing a spring of virtues where
he shines.
N. S. Wales State schools have been
for some time aware of the main differ-
ence between the State school and the
private school. The private school is
generally a church school; and whereas
“education of the personality” has been
the main aim of such schools since they
were given form and direction by
Thomas Arnold, of Rugby, education
and education only has been provided
by State schools.
The odds are against the State
schoolmasters. Even the private schools
will say that they can do little for a
boy unless he has a good home; and
in the nature of things, private schools
may expect and demand pupils from
good homes, while State schools must
take the rest, of whatever kind. And
Mr. McLean’s book is an endless com-
plaint. not against pupils, but against
parents.
His picture of school life is set in an
imaginary school around Wooloo-
mooloo; but, says Mr. McLean, “every
city school is, more-or-less, a St.
Erskine’s.” Certainly, because of his
concentration of anecdotes, there is
never a dull moment there: Chinese
restaurateurs complaining of being
called names; the headmaster invoking
the law on a man who kicked one of
his scholars seeking a strayed ball
(fined £3); a series of backdrop
cameos of the disgraceful goings-on
of parents; and a climax in the death
of the doctor’s son, who joins a gang,
is caught trying to rob a shop and
shoots himself dead.
To all of this Mr. McLean opposes
new methods of teaching, substituting a
card-index for a cane; and, one sus-
pects, “projects” for handwriting.
There seems to be only one law of
survival in this best or worst of pos-
sible worlds: those who are saved are
saved, and those who are lost are lost.
Nevertheless, Mr. McLean’s protest
against the nature' of things is part of
the eternal battle which prevents the
bad from becoming worse; and his
book, being full of life, is full of
amusement for its own sake.
New Poems by Burns
While it is hardly likely that any
poems of Burns’s finest quality remain
to be discovered, even the tiniest frag-
ment with the true fire in it would be a
treasure; so naturally one is intrigued
by the publishers’ statement in the new
Collins’ Classics Poems and Songs of
Robert Burns, edited by James Barke,
that:—
Over 60 poems, some of which
have never before been published,
appear for the first time in a col-
lected edition, while poems now
known to be spurious, or the work
of others, have been deleted from
the text.
. There are 610 poems in the Oxford
“Poetical Works” of Burns (1939 edi-
tion) and, if one’s arithmetic is not
wrong as usual, only 562 in this Collins
collection; so Mr. Barke must have
been doing a good deal of putting-in
and taking-out. Unfortunately he gives
no clue as to what he has added or sub-
tracted nor as to where he found the
new poems. The volume is printed
without the usual appendix of notes;
and there is nothing in the arrangement
of the poems or the table-of-contents
to indicate which are the new works.
, Consequently the reader who wishes
to turn to the discoveries, and who is
not familiar with every stray fragment
of Burns’s writing, is in for a consider-
able labor of research. One piece which
appears in the Collins volume and
which this reviewer has been unable to
locate in the Oxford is “O. An Ye Were
Dead. Guidman”: —
Sing, round about the fire wi’ a
rung she ran,
An round about the fire wi’ a rung
she ran :
“Your horns shall tie you to the
staw,
An’ I shall bang your hide, guid-
man !
O, an’ ye were dead, guidman,
A green turf on your head, guid-
man!
I wad bestow my widowhood
Upon a rantin’ Highlandman.
There’s sax eggs in the pan, guid-
man.
There’s sax eggs in the pan, guid-
man:
There’s ane to you, and twa to me.
And three to our John Highland-
man !
A sheep.-head’s in the pot, guid-
man,
A sheep-head’s in the pot, guid-
man :
The flesh to him, the broo to gae,
An’ the horns become your brow,
guidman!
So this may be one of Mr. Barke’s dis-
coveries. Obviously it is folk-song rand,
lacking notes, the reader must guess for
himself to what extent Burns may have
touched it up.
As well as, this unsatisfactory pre-
sentation of the contents, thp book has
several other disadvantages which set
it below the high standard of most
of the fine volumes in this library;
though of course the compact format
and clear typography (marred by a dis-
tracting marginal glossary) remain.
Introduced by a set of tourist-photo-
graphs of the poet’s cottage, the farm
at Mossgiel and various Burns monu-
ments, it is rather like those “books of
the film” which are published to make
a best-seller of a classic after it has
been a success in Hollywood; and it is.
no doubt, a “book of the novel,” in-
tended to follow-up the popular success
of Mr. Barke’s fictional biography of
the poet in five lush volumes.
Mr. Barke contributes an extra-
ordinary introduction in which he
asserts that Burns “belongs to the com-
pany of the supremely great —Beet-
hoven, Shakspeare, Rembrandt”; that
“the Chinese have suggested that he
[Burns!] was of their race”; that Burns
was “in no sense a libertine”; that “Of
no other man is it recorded that he
looked upon the children he fathered
in or out of wedlock as his, and not the
mother’s responsibility”—really a most
astonishing statement; that “by having
some good friends ‘in court’ ” the poet
“escaped being sent to Botany Bay for
treason, sedition and sympathy with the
British Reform movement”; and finally,
by some extravagant turn of reasoning,
that “in a pecular [sic] sense” the poet
“isn’t a poet at all.”
A new edition of Wuthering Heights
has been added to Everyman’s Library
with a fine introduction by Margaret
Lane in which she says —with more
wisdom than Somerset Maugham, who
recently tried to explain-away by psy-
choanalysis the supreme power of this
novel —“It is as though one drank in
some great tragic poem at one draught,
making one vulnerable for ever to
poetry and tragedy.... Critics never
tire of trying to account for it. They
do not succeed: genius is not a phe-
nomenon that can be explained.”
* * * *
The latest set of Fontana-books
from Collins comprises five of C. S.
Lewis’s well-known and excellently
written studies in religion, sociology
and surprisingly for so serious a
writer —space-travel. It is hard to
separate his adventures in space, with
their “sorns” and “hrosses” and other
improbable fauna, from the lighter
adventures of other writers in the same
field; yet Voyage to Venus and Out of
the Silent Planet are, besides being
entertaining and imaginative adventure-
stories, based on profound thought
about good and evil. That Hideous
Strength, The Screwtape Letters and
Mere Christianity are the remaining
titles.


Three great names
j
in sporting rifles
Anthony Hordern’s can offer an unparalleled service for rifles and
shooters’ accessories. Here are just three of the great names in
rifles which we stock. SAKO 7 x 33mm. Rifle has a mauser type
bolt, 3 shot box magazine with aperture, or open sight, walnut stock and
check piece. Price £53/19/6. Ammunition £5/15/- per hundred. The
BRNO Hornet Rifle, 4 shot magazine double triggers, mauser type bolt,
V
£43/17/6. Hornet cartridges 85/- per hundred. The GREENEER single barrel
shot gun, Martine action 2f inch chamber, full choke barrel, priced at £29/10/. Super
£>.D. Cartridges, metal case, 23/4 head. Shot sizes 4 & 6. Special Price 20/- box of 25.
mt
ill
;
mm
m
mmmm
: xSSpi
■Mmmm
i ili
Kmwijyy!
+ V '
Hill
Quality Accessories
<< - CLOCKWISE
12 gauge, Cleaning Rod. Parker Hale, 3 piece complete
with jag, mop and brush. Priced at 27/6.
Combination stag handle knife one 2fin. knife on
5 inch blade complete in sheath. Priced at 39/6.
Sheath knives, complete in leather sheath, 4in. blade.
Price 21/9. Bowie knife, complete in sheath. Sin. blade.
Price 25/-.
Cartridge Belt for Hornet rifle. 303, 7 x 33M.M.
Harness leather. Priced at 16/6.
12 gauge, cartridge belt. Harness leather felt lined
with stopper. Priced at 29/6.
Cartridge Belt, harness leather. .22 calibre. Price
12/6. Double belt, 23/6.
r— - *r - :; *:™ ~
'RvT?'
If
Is?
II
Shooter's
Jacket
Waterproof, fleecy-
lined. 4 pocket,
chest sizes 40, 42,
44 inches. Priced at
£6/10/-.
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns'
2712 G.P.O. Sydney. Telephone 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 25, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3928
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man*’
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 fj
-Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
FOUR-POWER TALKS
THE position in Europe is marked by much that
is likely to produce hope of peace, but much also
which in the minds of those who understand Soviet
and Communist tactics gives ground for
foreboding.
Everything that is happening in regard to
Middle Europe is illogical save when considered
in the light of Stalin’s dictum that it is sometimes
necessary to retreat to deceive an enemy.
Surface indications would seem to imply
that the Kremlin has suddenly become
soft and yielding. It has given way in Austria on
points which have been at issue for years. Yet at
the same time its police in the Austrian zone have
been behaving with their usual brutality and
illegality. The sudden desire for a pact with Yugo-
slavia which will restore “normal relationships” is,
it is stated, “dictated by a common interest.” The
situation there has a remarkable resemblance to
the one which operated with Germany in the spring
of 1939.
For years Tito and his Government have been
blood-drunk tools of the United States, aggressors
against the Kremlin and its press—according to
Moscow. But Belgrade has suddenly become a
friendly capital. The Soviet Union feels no desire,
it says, to bring pressure on Tito to alter his foreign
policy or relationships. All that motivates Mr.
Khrushchev and his band is brotherly love for the
workers and peasants of the Danubian States,
though it is somewhat curious that the direction
in which this feeling should exert itself is along the
normal strategic Danubian invasion-route of
southern Europe; the route, in fact, which Russia
and Asia for centuries have used to drive to the
Mediterranean.
Accompanying the overtures to former satellites
and victims is a “religious revival” in Russia right
under the eyes of visiting delegations and a new
tone on the Soviet press, which has, however, all
the old undercurrents of hatred of the West and
determination that Communism shall carry out its
mission of world revolution. And there is, of course,
the crowning concession embodied in the agreement
to take part in the four-Power conference.
Looking at the matter from the other side, it
has its peculiar aspects. There is nothing very
hopeful in actual events as compared with words
and promises behind the Iron Curtain. The defence
armies of Russia and the European satellite
countries have been consolidated into a single whole
under command of Marshal Koniev. The effect
of this has been to bring about a de facto integra-
tion of the countries concerned within the structure
of the Soviet Union, even though this accomplish-
ment is not formally acknowledged. None of the
countries concerned, other than Russia, can now
lay claim to have a separate military organisation
from that of the U.S.S.R. Moreover, past Russian
statements of policy in opposition to a rearmed
and independent Western Germany have not been
withdrawn. And the denunciation of the war-time
•treaties of defence and alliance between the Soviet
Union and Britain and France have not a very
hopeful implication. The timing of the whole
development is suspicious, coming as it does when
an election is being fought in Britain, when United
Kingdom policy may be in the melting-pot and
when it is in the interests of aggressive China and
those behind its policies to divert attention as much
as possible from the grim events which are forcing
the Western Powers to strengthen their defences in
Malaya and in the whole of the Pacific area, as
Australia knows to its cost.
The estimation of the true facts of the position
is doubly difficult because election conditions are
apt to make British leaders walk very warily in
expressing opinions, whatever their private thoughts.
And the same applies in the United States, where
foreign-policy statements are being stage-managed
with care with the forthcoming House elections
and the next Presidential election in view. Western
statesmen, with the constituencies in their thoughts,
are naturally only too ready to take credit for the
apparent yielding attitude of the Russians.
At the same time there is no question that the
forthcoming meetings with the Russians should be
approached in a spirit of hope, if not of confidence,
and every step should be taken to see that the issues
are simplified in such a way as to make it clear
whether Russia is or is not ready to talk disarma-
ment on a practical plan, together with the resump-
tion of associations with the Western world in a
civilised basis of travel and commerce.
There can be no policy of peace without
association, none without the ending of a world
policy of Communist penetration and undermining
of so-called capitalist Governments. Any settle-
ment must involve freedom of travel for Soviet
citizens who at present live confined in a country
which is virtually a huge slave-camp. It must also
involve the opening of the borders of the countries
of Eastern Europe—Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria,
Albania—and of China and a ceasing of attacks
on the countries in South-East Asia.
No peace-settlement can be regional; it must,
in the light of the nature of modern war-potential,
be global. Therefore local settlements have little
significance and so far appear to mean nothing
beyond a shifting of the main area of pressure
which is now in Asia.
It is a pity that Red China cannot be drawn
directly into the discussion of the problems which
the four-Power conference is to consider, and it
seems wrong that Chiang Kai-shek’s existence,
representing as he does nobody but himself and
his exiles, should be a bar to the entry of the
Peking Government into the discussion.
Ultimately there will have to ,be a debate with
the Chinese Communists, menacing as they are,
and it might just as well be now.
Victorian Election
IF the Victorian electors go to the polls on
Saturday with a clear understanding of the issues
involved in choosing themselves a new Parliament
it will be due more to instinct or native intelligence
than to the expositions of policy made by the five
parties and sundry assorted groups seeking their
support. The five policy-speeches held as
tempting a bunch of promises as have ever been
trotted out in one week, but, once they were
delivered, broad outlooks narrowed and the field
of controversy widened until, at the present
moment, with three days to polling-day, no elector
could be blamed for thinking he is being asked to
vote for or against a counter-Reformation or to
decide whether or not Australian -troops should be
sent to Malaya.
The manner in which the old Parliament ended
last month made it likely that the campaign would
be the bitterest for many years. It has been.
Meetings have been rowdy and violent, and it
would be necessary to go back to the days of the
last big “Labor” split to match the catcalls, boos,
jeers, cries of “Chuck ’im out” (with resultant
sequels when ’im gets chucked out), interjections,
fights, challenges, name-calling—with liar, Com-
munist, Fascist, mongrel, jackal and rat competing
as most favored terms of endearment.
A typical sample of the exchange of compli-
ments between the two “Labor” parties was the
description by Mr. Barry, leader of the breakaway
“Labor” party, of his opponent Dinny Lovegrove,
who was secretary of the “old” Victorian executive,
but changed horses and is now secretary of the
“new” executive and Cain “Labor” candidate for
Barry’s seat (Carlton). Barry said that Lovegrove
was “a former Communist who ‘ratted’ on the
Corns, ratted on the Labor party and ratted on
his mates.” Lovegrove replied that 23 years ago,
when Barry was trying to get into Parliament, he
told “Labor” voters to give their second prefer-
ences to Dr. O’Dea, his Communist opponent.
“Things Barry has said about me make him the
king of the political underworld ... a despicable
liar.”
The five Victorian parties could probably have
managed to run their election campaigns with
sufficient venom and invective to satisfy all but the
most exacting, but their neighbors decided the
opportunity for practice was too good to miss.
All parties at Canberra sent representatives to lend
their names and voices, but Mr. Cain’s elite corps
of shock-troops from Canberra and other capital
cities were the most numerous and most impressive,
though not necessarily the most willing or single-
minded.
Evatt has had only two themes: the betrayal
of “Labor” by the “Santamaria faction” and the
betrayal of Australia by the Federal Government’s
decision to send troops to Malaya. Ward has been
echoing him, with Wardian variations, but Calwell,
as comfortable as a man walking through quick-
sand on stilts, has followed a line of his own. The
only alternative to the Cain Government, he told
an audience at North Melbourne, was a Liberal
Government “with people of the type that brought
Victoria to near-bankruptcy in the past,” and
Australia needed “Labor” Governments in all six
States to “resist attempts to lower the workers’
standard of living and also prevent galloping
inflation.” In almost the same breath he was warn-
ing that if wool dropped “a few million pounds”
Australia would be on the edge of a precipice, and
“unemployment would then show its ugly head.”
Three years ago Calwell and his colleagues were
seeing the ugly head of unemployment around
every comer; this time the spectre is to clamber up
over a precipice—unless Mr. Cain is returned to
stop the price of wool from falling.
The intrusion of Evatt and Co. into the
campaign is not so much an attempt to keep
“Labor” in power in Victoria as to keep the Evatt
faction in power in the “Labor” party. If the Cain
party takes a bad beating, if the Barry group holds
or gains more than a few seats —it now has 11
against Cain’s 26 —Evatt’s own leadership will
again be in question, and the sitters-on-the-fence in
New South Wales may change their minds again.
But although in theory the “Labor” split and
“Labor’s” policy on Australian defence should
not be the main issues next Saturday, there is no
doubt that they will be. By virtually handing over
his campaign to Evatt, Cain accepted the policy
foisted upon the A.L.P. by the half-baked Hobart
conference, and made virtually impossible a
post-election compromise between the two “Labor”
parties. The Cain Government came to power in
1952 because the people of Victoria were fed up
with the squabbles and intrigues of the anti-
“ Labor” parties and turned to “Labor” as the only
party then able to hold out a hope of stable
government. That condition no longer exists.
Neither Cain nor Barry can hope to win sufficient
seats to form a Government. Any gains either
faction makes will only be at the expense of the
other, and it is more likely that both will drop
marginal seats to the Liberals.
Mr. Bolte’s Liberal-Country party is running
59 candidates, and is holding itself out as the only
party sufficiently strong to form a Government
on its own —as “Labor” was in 1952. For a party
which at present holds only 11 seats in a House
of 65, this may seem rather optimistic. The L.C.P.
would have to gain eight seats from Cain to become
the biggest party in the Assembly and 24 more
than its present strength to have control of the
House. That’s a pretty big task, although many of
the seats lost to “Labor” in 1952 could reasonably
be expected to swing back even without the split
in the “Labor” camp. If the L.C.P. finds itself the
biggest party, but without sufficient numbers to
“go it alone,” a coalition L.C.P.-Country party
Government seems likely. There was no pre-
election pact between the two parties, but the
policies they are presenting contain no insuperable
obstacles to a partnership. A third alternative
would be a minority L.C.P. Government, supported
in general terms by the Country party or the
Hollway party, or both.
Eden's Chances
WHILE respectable Victorians have been deploring
the rowdiness and general low tone of election
meetings in Melbourne, old-timers in Britain have
been talking in nostalgic terms of the days when
elections were elections. Nowadays, they complain,
the typical meeting is one to which the audience just
doesn’t come; television, it seems, has completed
a process which radio started.
Britain votes tomorrow, after an election-
campaign generally described as the dullest and
quietest on record. A calm pre-election atmosphere
is usually regarded as favorable to the party in
power; a big swing against the Government seldom
occurs without fairly noisy forewarnings. But the
thing that engenders caution in the Conservative
camp this week is that no great swing is needed to
put the Eden Government out —a one-per-cent,
switch would do it.
No big issue capable of causing a landslide
has arisen in the course of the campaign. On
foreign affairs there is little divergence between
the two major parties —at least in the public view.
The “warmonger” charge unfairly hurled at
Churchill in 1951 —which must have cost the Con-
servatives many votes —could not be used against
his successor, with the German and Austrian settle-
ments just signed and four-Power talks imminent.
On the home front Attlee’s programme has nothing
that is likely to make an overwhelming appeal to
the floating vote, however much his return to
“completely free” medicine may appeal to his
faithful followers. Steel-nationalisation, rejected
four years ago, should not be any more popular
with the “swingers” this time.
Public-opinion polls, admittedly less accurate
under the British system of voluntary voting and
first-past-the-post than under Australian conditions,
give the Government a slight edge on Labor, and
the recent local-government elections also
encourage the Conservatives to hope for an
increased majority. Despite the apparent apathy
of the electorate, tomorrow’s poll is a vital one
for Britain. A win for the Government would give
Eden, Macmillan and Butler another five years in
which to build on the solid performances of the
past four. A win for Labor means a return to the
Socialist programme of nationalised industry and
State control which in the early post-war years
placed in jeopardy both the stability of the nation
and the freedom of its people.


JET-PROPELLED


PLAIN ENGLISH
Overseas Freights
Whoever is to blame for the rise m
overseas shipping-freights proposed by
the 21 lines concerned, of which 14 are
British, there is no doubt where the
burden will fall. The shipping-companies
concerned place the probable impost o
Australian exporters at million p.a.,
to importers it will be about £5 million.
Other authorities are prepared to place
the burden on the Australian economy
at £l5 million, and within the “Labor
party the sky is the limit in settling the
figure. _
Mr. Leunig, of the Australian Over-
seas Shipping Representatives’ Associa-
tion, says that wheat, other cereals and
timber, being bulk-cargoes which have
no contract-rates, but which pay accord-
ing to the availability of world tonnage,
will not suffer, but that every 41b. of
wool shipped will rate another penny
and there will be a penny extra on every
41b. beef, 2doz. eggs, 51b. cheese, 41b.
apples, 121 b. raisins or sultanas, 10 12oz.
tins of jam.
The shipowners blame rising costs and
provide statistics to show that Australia
has been in a favorable position us to
rates beside other routes —that while, for
example, the Europe-North Pacific route
has seen an increase in rates of 67 per
cent, and all routes between Europe and
the Indian sub-continent of 60 per cent,
since 1946, the Europe-to-Australia rate
has increased only 37 per cent, and the
Australia-Europe by only 36 per cent, in
the same period. New Zealand, outward
rate increased by only 26 per cent, and
inward by only 22 per cent.
The companies point out that Australian
coastal freight-increases have been from
192 per cent, to 343 per cent, in the
same period. By way of justification for
their own increase, they instance the facts
that replacement ships which would have
cost £400,000 in 1939 now cost about four
times that amount, and when built have
less accommodation with earning-power,
and that the turn-round time of vessels
in Australian ports is steadily increasing.
It increased by three-four days within the
past year.
Against this it is obvious that all over-
seas companies, passenger and freight,
are making large profits, and increasing
profits, and each year pay dividends
which seem substantial, though they may
not be so substantial when regarded
from a shareholder’s viewpoint. In any
case, shipping is a long-term business
with huge future commitments for
replacements always before the eyes of
directors, together with the moral
certainty of further rising costs. And the
issue as far as Australia is concerned is
not what the overall profits of the com-
panies are on a world basis, but what
the position is as regards Australian
trade.
Under present conditions, with two
Communist unions clustering round the
shipping and transport business like a
clump of greedy bull-ants, the Common-
wealth seems to have little to offer in the
way of attraction to overseas carriers.
The attitude of the overseas shipping-
companies is not exhibited merely
through increases in freight-rates.
Only a few weeks ago it was announced
that conditions at Brisbane were such
that the P. & O. Company would with-
draw its last ships from the Queensland
run in September—the Orient Company
withdrew its last, the Ormonde, several
months ago. At one time, immediately
before World War 11, eleven vessels of
the two companies were calling at
Brisbane.
The reasons for the desertion of the
port lie in labor conditions and the
hold-up of dredging operations in the
approach-channels through absenteeism,
apparently Communist-organised.
It is only two years since the last
freight-rises were proposed by overseas
companies— \2\ per cent. There was
then some negotiation with the Com-
monwealth Government, as the result
of which the companies accepted per
cent. There certainly should and will be
negotiation again, but the matter should
be taken further.
The sea- and wharf-industries are part
of our defence facilities. That, in fact,
is why the Communists’ effort to disrupt
them is so strong and persistent. It is
an effort in which they are aided by a
fatalistic attitude on the part of harassed
companies and by the semi-socialistic
method under which wharf-labor is
controlled.
The time has surely come when there
should be a showdown. The country is
very much in the hands of the overseas
shipping-companies. As Mr. McEwen,
Minister for Commerce, declared, they
“could be quite capable of dictating” but
so far they have not, in which they are
pleasantly different in their habits from
Mr. Healy and his myrmidons.
"Made in Australia"
The “rural committee” of the N.S.W.
Liberals has asked the Department of
Commerce not to advertise overseas
Australian farm-products which are not
up to overseas buyers’ standards, but to
go ahead with advertising those farm-
products which have “established them-
selves on the world market.” Further, it
wants such advertising concentrated on
those goods “which Australia can pro-
duce in large quantities at competitive
prices.”
This sort of talk does no good either
here or overseas. About the only thing we
produce in large quantities to sell over-
seas at “competitive prices” is wool, and
that only because we are the world’s
biggest wool-producer and have nothing
to fear from other wool-producers.
Most other land-products for export
have to be bolstered by subsidies, fixed
home-prices, market-controls and a
variety of “equalisation” and “stabilisa-
tion” schemes. As for standards of
quality, Government marketing-officials,
export-agents, agricultural-writers and
others have for more than 30 years been
trying to persuade farmers and processors
that near-enough is not good enough.
The harm done in this regard by the con-
tinuation of Government-to-Government
marketing after the war lies heavy on
both producers and shippers.
If there is money for advertising, as
this rural committee apparently believes,
a lot of it should be spent here in a cam-
paign aimed at showing farmers and
processors where the goods fall short of
overseas standards. Officials trying to
advertise our goods overseas might then
be given goods worth advertising.
American Warning
Four fighter aeroplanes, jet-propelled,
soared into the air from an aerodrome in
Tokio (Japan) last Wednesday. Just over
12 hours later they landed near New-
castle (N.S.W.). They took off at 5.30
a.m. and landed at 5.40 p.m. the same
day.
The planes flew mostly at 40,000 ft.
altitude, which would make them pretty
hard to see from the ground on the
clearest day.' Radar, of course, would
pick them up and follow their flight. They
flew at an average cruising-speed of 420
knots an hour. Waiting for them over
Guam, Manus Island and Townsville
were big tanker-planes from which the
fighters took on fuel while still in the
air, only slowing down a little to do it.
Lieutenant-General R. M. Ramey,
Commander of the U.S. Fifth Air Force,
subsequently told reporters that the flight
had proved that a “full air tactical force
of hard-hitting fighter-bombers could be
flown to Australia in a little more than
12 hours in an emergency.... it serves
to demonstrate how we can swiftly move
combat aircraft in the Eastern Hemis-
phere to preserve peace.”
Which is very comforting—until the
thought intrudes that what these Ameri-
cans did others could do, and from bases
likely to be much nearer than Tokio, and
that in the “emergency” American air-
forces could be too busy elsewhere to
come just when wanted. In other words,
the flight should wake us up.
It ought, at least, to make a lot more
people anxious to read Federal “Han-
sard’s” report of the recent Foreign
Affairs debate.
Target No. 1
No word has so far come of votes of
thanks being passed to Australian
authorities by the Peking and Moscow
Communists for the obliging manner in
which targets are being organised for
atomic attack.
It appears to be a main objective both
with industry and with the Governments
to collect together as many attractions
for bombers as they can think of and to
place them where, if blown up, a maxi-
mum number of Australian citizens and
defence facilities would go with them.
What has happened in Sydney during
the past few years is a prime example of
this policy. When a naval dock was
needed it was placed in the very centre
of the city, where it could not be attacked
from the air without the business centre
only half-a-mile away coming in for ill-
aimed projectiles—even with the most
modern sighting, bombs do not always
hit a pin-point. Many big defence fac-
tories which could have gone to country
towns or have been scattered round the
wide area of the coalfields have been set
down in thickly populated cities. Within
the past two or three years Sydney has
accumulated a vast oil-refinery in its
southern suburbs and is to have an atomic
plant almost next door. And now a
reorganised £23,000,000 munition-plant
is being organised for St. Mary’s —23
miles from the centre of the city and in
a position in which a blast might easily
wipe out whole suburbs. It is idle to say
that munition-plants do not blow up.
They have done so in spite of all pre-
cautions. Some of the material dealt
with is so sensitive that even cats are not
allowed within reach of the premises lest
they show a tendency to spark. And
when munition-plants blow, they blow
with a vengeance.
In the great Picatinny blast at the Army
Arsenal in Dover, New Jersey, in 1926,
5i million lb. of T.N.T. went up and
damage to military property alone was
valued at about £25,000,000. New Jersey
industrial centres have been rocked again
and again by explosions, nearly all caused
by mishaps beyond human precaution —
at Picatinny the great blast of 1926 was
set off by a flash of lightning which struck
a powder-magazine.
Australia has plenty of vacant land
and it certainly would be safer and more
sensible to use some a goodly distance
from large centres of population and to
set the work of developing the new factory
in hand with a maximum dispersal of its
units and also a maximum of silence
about its location and objects.
Fitness and Finance
“Mugga Way” : Any organisation wholly
or largely financed by Government can
always put up a convincing case on paper
for more funds. Like the heads of Gov-
ernment departments preparing their first
estimates for the Budget, they usually
think anything worth trying.
One such organisation is the National
Fitness Council, which is really a States
show, with the Commonwealth “co-
ordinating” on the sidelines, and contri-
buting an annual amount which has risen
from £20,000 in 1939 to £72,500 at
present. The council recently asked for
£27,500 more, to make the nice round
figure (financially, not. physically) of
£lOO,OOO, on the ground that “there has
been no increase in the Commonwealth
grant commensurate with the constantly
rising costs to maintain even existing
services.” An increase of nearly 300 per
cent, might seem to many people the
answer to this plaint, and in fact Cabinet
in Canberra has now decided that no
increase is justified, “having regard to the
relative responsibilities of the Common-
wealth and the States in this field.”
A lot of people doing admirable work
in one or other of the National Fitness
activities will be disappointed, but the
real approach should surely be to do a
great deal more for themselves. Child-
health, the training of recreation-leaders,
grants for school-camping are all head-
ings in the council’s reports, and there is
some indication of overlapping but little
sign of self-help. The council is properly
concerned at the absence of adequate
planning to meet the increased leisure of
people due to shorter working-hours “and
the high standard of living, particularly as
it affects the leisure-time activity of young
people,” but its suggested solution is a
national recreation-scheme involving fin-
ancial assistance for the development of
facilities —the assistance to come, of
course, from the Commonwealth, the
States, and local-government.
The council’s idea for a national recre-
ation-scheme is all right, but why
shouldn’t those who are going to benefit
contribute towards it at some inconveni-
ence to themselves in time and pocket?
If the young people in a town or
suburb, for example, want a sports-area
fully equipped, they should set to work
themselves to raise the funds and to build
what they can themselves. They’ll value
it a lot more that way, take better care
of it, continue to improve it—and pro-
bably be a whole lot fitter into the bargain.
Has the Bear Changed His
Spots?
“In the ACT” : There are no obvious
civil-defence precautions in Moscow,
except the new tube-railway, perhaps be-
cause the Soviet won’t risk the public
reaction ; but all heavy industry has been
well decentralised behind the Urals, and
the huge fighting-services are kept at top
pitch. These facets of the background
should be remembered in assessing the
present Russian mood of greater “reason-
ableness.” The Russian technique of
warming-up the cold-war, and then cool-
ing it, should be pretty familiar by now,
but it is always impossible to avoid a
wave of world relief when a sudden shift
suggests that the Western policy of nego-
tiation from increasing strength has borne
more fruit. The Austrian peace-treaty,
the agreement on four-Power talks are
highly important straws in the winds
carrying atomic particles around the
atmosphere, but some relief from tension
must not mean relaxed vigilance—and has
not had that result in either the U.S. or
Britain.
It is not easy to be sure what the top-
level conference would discuss. Points
of friction like the unification of Ger-
many, the two arms-groups in Europe,
Formosa, and so on could be tossed into
the ring with no one getting any benefit,
perhaps, except the Red propagandists.
Neither Eisenhower nor Eden has been
very optimistic about results, while rightly
welcoming the new Soviet approach to
talks and to plans for disarmament.
Eisenhower has said he would welcome
a personal opportunity of sensing the
atmosphere prevailing among heads of
Governments, and that he’d go anywhere,
although he would prefer a neutral
country. He has agreed that the situation
in Russia has changed since Stalin’s death,
and that additional evidence of this is
the still-tentative agreement to confer
with the U.S., Britain and France for the
first time since Potsdam ten years ago.
Obviously the initial feelers on the
meeting will go out with the utmost cau-
tion on all sides. The Russians under-
stand and respect toughness, and they are
playing a clever hand in the moves to
secure a barrier of neutral States around
their European frontiers. No one is going
to give much away in a poker-game in
which the chips may be the world’s popu-
lations, but at least the game may be a
little less tense for a while. Whether the
relaxing will continue depends entirely
on the group in the Kremlin which is
undoubtedly still witnessing some kind
of struggle for supreme power. Everyone
in the West wants things to be brighter,
but no one knows whether the latest
Soviet moves are part of a genuine change
of heart or merely a planned and tempor-
ary aspect of a long and hard campaign.
What Cooks in Bankstown?
Bankstown is a large and growing Sydney
suburb on the road to Liverpool, for many
years the political home of former
Premier McGirr, and now represented
in the N. S. Wales Parliament by A. T.
Powell. On the Federal electoral map it
falls into two electorates, Reid and Banks,
held by C. A. Morgan and D. E. Costa,
both. “Labor” men. To outward appear-
ances Bankstown is a prosperous, go-
ahead suburb, peopled with normal citi-
zens occupied with normal pursuits, but
in the past 18 months its name has been
associated with several quite abnormal
happenings.
In March last year, after stormy council
meetings and allegations of misdemeanors
against J. Fitzpatrick, chief assistant elec-
trical engineer of the municipality, the
Bankstown Council was dismissed and
the Chief Inspector of Local Government,
H. W. Dane, was appointed administra-
tor. After an inquiry into council affairs
Fitzpatrick was dismissed by the adminis-
trator. The report of the Local Govern-
ment Commissioner, Mr. R. Soiling,
S.M., said that he “had tried to mislead
the council and its officers in reports
about purchases of electric motors and
that no reliance could be placed on his
reports.” Fitzpatrick appealed, but the
State Industrial Commission rejected his
appeal.
Bankstown’s municipal affairs are still
being run by the administrator; a recent
inquiry as to how long this was to con-
tinue brought the reply that the time was
not yet ripe for a return to normal regime.
Bankstown has two newspapers. On
April 11, the premises of one, the
“Torch,” were wrecked by an explosion
and fire and the editor, P. Engisch, said
“a gang” had caused the explosion be-
cause his paper had campaigned against
civil malpractices. Two days later
Morgan, M.P., and Powell, M.L.A., spoke
of a “gang which had controlled Banks-
town civic affairs by terror and bribery.
In the House of Representatives on April
29, Morgan complained that the Banks-
town “Observer” had impugned his in-
tegrity without foundation in the course
of an article headed “M.H.R. and Immi-
gration Racket —Investigation Necessary.
He sought an inquiry by the House ot
Representatives Committee of Privilege.
This was granted and the committee began
its investigation last week. Subsequent
developments have been references by
{Continued, on next page )


THE Ul-BRITISH
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
Prices from
25/- to 90'-
Gives Character
Co your Writing
e 0 * f'lf "s I £ W I R T & CO. I TO- 10«00»
AN HISTORIC
DOUBLE-SIZE
WOOL ISSUE
of
frJ&uUtta i
WILL BE PUBLISHED
ON JUNE 1.
Ninepence, as usual .
YOUR de-luxe
Winter Holiday
with
realistic economy!
wmg
LIVE IN AUSTRALIA'S FRIENDLIEST HOTEL
PERSONAL ATTENTION IS OUR HALLMARK!
Swim, play tennis, dance every night, ski
(1 hrs. run) —Live in luxury—walk in glorious
surroundings. Hobart boasts 5.8 hrs. sunshine
daily—annual rainfall below Sydney or
Melbourne. Room and Breakfast from 40/-.
Inclusive terms from 57/6 daily—May to Sept.
Special rates for conferences up to 150.
Write for Free Booklet.
WREST POINT
RIVIERA HOTa
HOBART, TASMANIA.
Morgan to “war-time racketeers,” includ-
ing “my old friend, Mr. Big Fitzpatrick.”
These people, he said, were “trying to get
their sticky fingers into N. S. Wales Hous-
ing Commission contracts.” To this R. E.
Fitzpatrick (a brother of the former chief
assistant electrical engineer of Bankstown
council) commented that “Morgan has
been attacking people under privilege
from the coward’s castle at Canberra for
the last 10 years.”
On Thursday officers of the Common-
wealth Investigation Service raided the
office of the “Observer,” R. E. Fitzpat-
rick’s home and business premises. R. W.
Whitrod, director of the C. 1.5., said the
raid was connected with a leakage of in-
formation from a Commonwealth file
years ago. Some documents were seized.
The raid brought from Clive Evatt, for-
mer Housing Minister in the Cahill Gov-
ernment, the comment that “we have
become almost overnight a police State.”
To outward appearance Bankstown is
still a normal Sydney suburb.
POLITICAL POINTS
Does the fact that a Loan Council
meeting and Premiers’ Conference is to
be held in Canberra on June 20, at the
coldest period of the year, mean there is
at last some prospect of a Budget not
too long after accounts close on June 30?
A little optimism on that score may be
justified, but not too much.
• •
When the leaders and deputy-leaders of
“Labor” from all over Australia sat to-
gether on the platform listening to Cain
delivering his policy-speech, it is pro-
bable that the only feeling common to
all of them was one of intense relief not
to be standing in Cain’s shoes. And when,
as the campaign progressed, Cain and
his followers heard their Canberra allies
speaking in their support, they must have
found themselves wondering whether
their intention was to help or hinder.
• e
All Victorian parties are placing the
Communists last on their “How-to-vote”
cards, the Evatt-Cains in their public
statements being just as definite as the
rest on this point. But the Reds don’t
bear them any ill-will for that. Their
supporters are being told to give their
second prefs. to the Cain “Labor” candi-
date. It’s called “the kiss of death.”
• •
Which side is Cal well on? He told a
Cain “Labor” meeting at Prahran that
he did not know why the split in the party
should have occurred because up to the
time of the split “every ‘Labor’ Minister
and member had done a good job.” Yet
according to Evatt the Barry-Coleman
group were working against the party for
a long time before the showdown.
• •
The Conservatives’ last-minute fears in
Britain are that overconfidence may
keep some of their supporters away from
the polls. Labor’s worry is that impend-
ing strikes will swing eleventh-hour
waverers against it.
• V
When N. S. Wales Mines Minister
Gollan appointed the senior vice-presi-
dent of the State A.L.P. as employees’
representative on the State Coal Mines
Authority last month without consulting
the miners, there was a storm of protest,
his nominee resigned and Gollan
remarked that, anyway, the job “was
almost in the nature of a sinecure.” A
ballot for the post is now to be held on
June 3. Ten candidates have nominated
for the sinecure,
• •
Liberal Whip Gullett told Parliament
that “a terrible waste of public money
had occurred in Canberra.” Ah, if only
we could believe in that past tense!
• •
A couple of weeks ago, after sundry
people had fallen to death and injury
from his trains, N.S.W. Transport Minis-
ter Wetherell said they’d build an “experi-
mental train” with automatically-closing
doors, see how it went, and if it were
successful, would equip all suburban
trains with the doors. Now he says the
“experimental train” won’t be ready till
Christmas. Let’s see, that’s seven months
for one train, multiplied by the number
of trains, allowing for the inevitable
delays—Cripes, will they still be using
trains in those days?
• •
Commenting on the proposed mental-
hospitals subsidy a government spokes-
man in the Senate said that the State
Premiers were “looking the Prime Minis-
ter’s gift horse in the face.” Preparatory,
no doubt, to pulling the wool over the
ears of the old cow that lays the golden
eggs. # #
S.A.' Temperance Alliance has been
making comparisons between convictions
for drunkenness in Westralia, under
9-o’clock closing and in South Australia
under 6-o’clock. The figures—W.A., 101
per 10,000 of the population ; S.A., 78 —
probably convince the converted, but to
be fair the Alliance should include com-
parative figures for Tasmania where the
pubs close at 10 p.m. and the drunkenness
rate is about 25 per 10,000.
"HEY! SLEEPWALKING AGAIN!"
TO INDUSTRIAL
GROUPS.
There’s nothing like an election to
speed-up good works. Camp Pell
emergency-housing settlement, an eye-
sore and a disgrace to Melbourne, has
been under criticism for years. In elec-
tion speeches three parties pledged
themselves to have it demolished. Cain
got in first; last week, with ten days to
polling-day, the first two huts were
knocked down and their tenants trans-
ferred to commission homes.
• •
J. T. Ryan, Coleman-Barry “Labor”
candidate for Sandringham, should re-
ceive a few sentimental votes as a result
of a present his wife gave him last week —
triplets, two boys and a girl.
• •
Queensland Government wants Can-
berra to weigh-in towards the cost of a
3500-mile dingo-proof fence round the
wool country. Whether this is to stop the
dingoes outside the area getting in, or
those inside from getting out, isn’t clear,
but if a mere fence would clear all the
dingoes out of Queensland it would be
worth it. But some of the blighters would
be bound to plead Section 92.
• •
Foreign travel is expensive. Costs of
recent Ministerial trips as reported to the
Reps.:
Menzies: Prime Ministers’ Conference in
London, plus visits to Ceylon, Pakistan,
Greece, France, Canada and U.S.A.,
£22,000.
McEwen (Commerce) and O’Sullivan
(Trade and Customs): Geneva conference
on GATT, £21,800.
Fadden: International Monetary Fund
meeting in Washington, £9OOO.
Casey: Geneva talks on Indo China
settlement and Bangkok meeting of Foreign
Ministers, £5836.
McLeay (Shipping and Transport):
London for trade investigations, £3510.
Kent Hughes (Interior): Korea and Far
East to inspect war-graves, £2600.
Holt (Labor and National Service): New
Zealand, £174.
The obvious lesson is that more con-
ferences should be held in New Zealand.
• 9
Only real interest in the Cook
by-election on Saturday was how much
“Labor” would win by. On Monday
J. F. Cope (“Labor”) was leading by
21,297 to Independent Somerville Smith’s
3232. At the general election last year
the late T. Sheehan polled 26,841,
Independent P. Staines 2868 and
Communist Hatfield 2465.
• •
Cahill’s Transport Commissioner has
announced that the trams will be out of
Pitt- and Castlereagh-streets by 1958 and
that orders have been placed for 250
modern buses. If the buses are as long
in materialising as the 250 modem trams
that were promised back in 1947, trams
will still be rattling up Pitt-street and down
Castlereagh-street for many years after
1958.
• •
Easy-terms money for homes has been
one of the election-baits of the Victorian
campaign. As vote-catchers the rival
offers more-or-less cancel each other out,
but whichever party forms the Govern-
ment will find itself committed on the
subject. This may sound good news for
home-seekers, but it doesn’t mean much.
The major problem in the building-indus-
try is not finance, but men and materials.
• •
Stranger things may have happened,
but it hardly seems likely. The Federal
Treasurer has received £lO, with an
anonymous note: “Conscience money,
ten pounds, Army blankets and clothing! ”
For a night or two this may make a few
scroungers toss uneasily in their army-
blanket-clad cots.
• •
“Honest Frank”: It will be interesting
to see how much Queensland’s new
Racing and Betting law will be enforced
in small country-towns. The law provides
for petitions to be recognised for refer-
enda in any of the State’s four electoral
zones on whether s.p. betting should be
legalised. This may take months, and
with the Act declared meanwhile, books
and punters will face heavy fines and
clink for illegal betting. In the interim,
will the Gair Government order immedi-
ate implementation of its policy “out
there,” or will it continue to regard the
existing state of s.p. as an “amenity” to
the community?
• •
U.S. Secretary for Agriculture says the
Government stocks of surplus butter
there have been reduced from 466 million
pounds to 219 million. He added that
stocks were moving “into consumption
and not drying-up in warehouses.” The
figures should convince Australian butter-
producer pressure-groups that it’s not
much use screaming to Canberra to do
something about the Americans and their
butter. To help them get rid of it would
be far better than trying to stop them
doing so.
• •
N.S.W. Egg Board announced last week
that “rationing of eggs to retailers” would
probably last another three weeks, adding
that the retail price (6s. 3d. a dozen)
“would not come down until a surplus
was available for export.” This might
make sense if the export price was above
the home price. It isn’t.
• •
“G. Elburg”: There will be fun and
games in the Reps, if Speaker Cameron
sticks to his dictum that when a mem-
ber is charged audibly with being drunk
the House shall determine whether the
allegation is true or not. What will be the
procedure? Will the Sergeant-at-Arms
draw chalk lines and strew the floor with
pins for tests normally applied in the
police lock-up? Will the blood-test be
used? If so, the Government side with
the only two doctors in the House would
have an unfair advantage.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
MELBOURNE’S Lud Mayor Selleck,
who previously said the Yarraside
Olympiad would be the best this century,
now says it will be the greatest Olympiad
ever staged on this earth. It will have to
go some. I haven’t the athletic records by
me, though they were kept from 776 B.C.
to A.D. 394, but on the cultural side,
which is regarded as most important,
there are plenty. Sophocles won first-
prize in the dramatic contests many times
and Aischylus more than 20. Euripides
won it five times; Aristophanes, the
greatest classical writer of comedies, also
won it. Pindar, the greatest of the lyric
poets, wrote 44 odes celebrating the vic-
tors in the Games, and Demosthenes won
the oratorical award more than once. All
the immortal names in Greek art, sculp-
ture, music, etc., got into the programme
at one time or another, but at the time
of writing no Significant artist, overseas
or in Australia, seems to be taking the
slightest interest in the Selleck project.—
“Melbn.”
“ Cripes , Parliament’s more exciting than ‘Superman since the anti-Comm.
Labor got started.”
“Clyde”: At the annual conference of
the Federated Taxpayers’ Association,
Queensland president Mr. Sholto Douglas
described pay-roll tax as “not moral.”
Accordingly, it is suggested that
employers hopeful of getting the tax
banned altogether should in future sub-
mit their monthly assessments to the
Literature Board instead of to the
Taxation Department.
£4 £4 £♦
“K.A.”: Recently Commonwealth
public-service clerks asked the P.S. Board
to extend the “marriage-allowance” to
include temporary service. This allow-
ance, or gratuity, is approximately one
month’s salary for every year of perman-
ent service paid to female officers on re-
tirement for marriage, and is generally
believed to be a “good-wishes” gesture on
the part of a grateful Government. It
is interesting to find set out in a Public
Service Board letter (23/3/’55) that it is.
“designed to compensate female officers
for their compulsory retirement and con-
sequent loss of career-opportunity on
marriage.” A fund should be created
to pay to every woman entering marriage
a compensation sum, and multiple mar-
riages as indulged in by film-stars should
be based on a rising scale, as appropriate
to one deprived of more and more career-
opportunity. Men should not be excluded.
TLe earning-potential of a wife who in-
sists on staying home after marriage
should be assessed and the amount paid
to the husband who indubitably is de-
prived of many pleasures and comforts
not possible on one income but easily
obtainable on two.
♦> £4 £4
“Stromlo”: Who says Mother’s Day
isn’t a commercial proposition? It
boosted normal Sunday trunk-calls by
59 per cent., with 37,123 trunk-calls in
capital-city networks on the day. Over-
seas calls totalled 251, compared with the
average Sunday load of 94 calls. “Good
old Mum,” said the P.M.G., in effect,
announcing the figures.
£4 £► £►
“Jock”: Among the winners of major
prizes in N.S.W. State Lottery No. 3335
were: First, Emil Sydorczuk; third, Miss
V. Weissflog; fifth, R. Ammellino. In
the next (3336) lottery M. Anastaia was
among the money. That R. Clancy won
£lOOO may be put down to the luck of
the Irish.
❖ * ❖
“Narumee”: Which, irrespective of
meaning, are the most hideous words in
the English language? Excluding onoma-
topoeia such as “cackle” and “bumble”
and imports like “lubritorium,” I’d sug-
gest “gubernatorial,” “incumbent,” “lo-
quacity,” “sufficient” and “relict” for
high ranking on the horror-list, with
“opprobrium” and “conjugal” finishing
strongly.
“Fitz”: Commenting on an “S.M.
Herald” interview with former London
criminal Billy Hill, who was not allowed
to land in this country, the writer of that
paper’s “Column 8” revealed that the
reporter who interviewed Billy Hill
was told that in England a “spieler”
is “the man in the gambling-joint
who kids them into the game.”
In Australia, of course, the term
is applied to a variety of swindlers and
crooks who live by their wits. In America
“Perhaps We should dust him — he’s part of the furniture now.”
a “spieler” is the bloke who does the talk-
ing outside a sideshow to rally patronage,
corresponding to our “spruiker.”
“Spieler” has been in use in Australia
for at least 60 years, probably much
longer. On December 17, 1898, its use
was noted in a Bulletin “Red Page”
article on Australian slang. Joshua Lake
listed the word in a special supplement
devoted to Australian expressions added
to the 1898 edition of Webster’s Inter-
national Dictionary. Henry Lawson used
the word over and over in In the Days
When the World was Wide and While
the Billy Boils. It crops up in Louis
Stone’s Jonah, Edward Dyson’s Fact’ry
’Ands and innumerable other Australian
prose works. In W. T. Goodge’s “The
Great Australian Slanguage,” first pub-
lished in The Bulletin and reprinted in
Goodge’s Hits! Skits! and Jingles! we
read:
A conviction’s known as “trouble,”
And a gaol is called a “jug,”
And a sharper is a “spieler,”
And a simpleton’s a “tug.”
❖ ♦> £♦
“L.R.M.”: Out of school we “chalkies”
get some painful shocks. When the lass
behind the store-counter used a ready-
reckoner to work out my bill, I thought
of the expensive arithmetic-lessons she
had been given. Over a thousand hours —
all wasted! Just the same, her gadget
worked out what I owed in half the time
that I took.
& *
“Moorapi”: To draw their first “light-
ning” lottery, comprising only 100,000
tickets instead of the usual 200,000,
Tatt.’s have brought to Melbourne from
Hobart the original blackwood barrel out
of which the lucky marbles were coaxed
in the first Van Diemen’s Land Lottery
in 1896. Prizes in that sweep were assets
in the Bank of Van Diemen’s Land —
assets which would be worth more than
a handy sum in terms of today’s currency.
£► £4 £•
“Mugga Way”: There’s a thought for
Australian Bungs and bar-loungers in an
outing enjoyed by 26 regular customers
of the Sir Walter Tyrell, a nice little pub
at Canterton, in the New Forest, England.
The landlord and the customers boarded
a Dakota at Eastleigh airport on the first
stage of their annual outing, which this
year was a week’s holiday in Paris. The
landlord said, “Usually we have a day in
London, but we thought we’d try some-
thing more ambitious this year, and
chartered a plane.” An airport spokes-
man said it was the first time a plane had
been hired for a “pub outing.”
♦*4 £4 £♦
“R.W.”: Monkey hanging (B.
27/4/’55) wasn’t the only thing which
gave England’s east-coast Hartlepudlians
a reputation. Legend has it that just a
little more than 100 years ago a beacon
erected near the harbor-entrance by pri-
vate citizens to warn strange sailors of
the perils of Longscar Reef, a mile or
so to the south, caused so much confusion
that the Brethren of Trinity House wrote
to Hartlepool’s mayor requesting that
there be “no more firing of the beacon.”
According to east-coast historians, the
mayor, unable to read, appealed to one
of his aldermen, who, after much effort,
interpreted the message as saying that
there was to be “no more frying of the
bacon.” The dutiful mayor immediately
issued instructions forbidding the cook-
ing of fried bacon and enforced the edict
by having the citizens’ frying-pans col-
lected and buried in the local churchyard.
Hartlepudlians later protested that this
story, like the monkey-hanging legend,
was pure fiction, but a few years after-
wards, while renovations were being made
to St. Hilda’s Church, workmen came
across a large pile of rusty old frying-
pans!
❖ ❖ £♦
“Bo”: She and her friend were waiting
for the lift, and she was most indignant.
“It was while I was waiting for you out-
side the shoe-window,” she said. “I just
happened to glance along the street and
I saw Amy coming along. You know
what she is—never knows when to stop
talking once she starts, and we’ve got a
lot of shopping to get through. So I
pretended to be engrossed in the shoes.
She stopped and looked at them, and she
simply couldn’t help noticing me, but she
kidded she didn’t see me and walked
straight on! You could have knocked
me over, it was so pointed, so deliberate.
And I suppose when I see her next time
she’ll be as nice as pie.”
❖ ❖ £♦
“Spuds”: We were driving through one
of the salad-bowl suburbs of Brisbane.
There were stalls by the road; there were
notices on almost every gate or front-
veranda : Tomatoes For Sale, Fresh Eggs,
Lettuce, Day-old Chicks, Honey, Chokos,
Custard Apples, Pawpaws. There was one
stately old home of the bungalow-type
which had been erected long before the
Bikini-house had evolved. A drive led
up to the front-steps. There was a large
notice over the gate: Private. Nothing
For Sale.
£• £4 £t
“Doynest”: My neighbor, a Common-
wealth public servant, frequently recited
the wrongs so long endured by employees
of our parsimonious Government, so
that I fully believed he and his fellow-
slaves were finding it hard to make ends
meet; but after the recent substantial
marginal rises his pre-war car was
replaced by a brand-new saloon-model in
the twelve-hundred-pounds class. My
neighbor was quite frank about it; his
rise just covered the instalment payments.
It doesn’t make me any happier when I
tinker with my twenty-year-old bus.
£4 £4 £4
“Moorapi”: Experts prophecy a reduc-
tion in the mouse-population in house-
holds with television-receivers. The
Linescan time-base —the rate at which
TV cathode-ray tubes are scanned by
electronic impulses —causes vibration in
the transformer which to a mouse’s ear
is an unbearable screech. Houses in
England and the U.S. are claimed to be
free from mice since installation. Here s
hoping!
PARIS-BY -THE-PARISH-PUMP
“Sydney will go all Parisian in March, 1956,
when the French Government will stage a
French national exhibition in Sydney and
Sydney will be gaily decorated in French style.”
When Paris comes to Sydney —
It seems it’s on the books —
The pie of steak-and-kidney
Will be pate-de-luxe;
The girls will all cry "Ooh la-la!”
But those who’ve been abroad
Will say, “How wrong! How insular!”
And look remote and bored.
It’s hard on those who’ve paid the fare
For overseas to come
To such as didn’t know or care
And calmly stayed at home;
Our Sydney vanguard artists
Will also rue the day
When, like old Bonapartists,
They’ll all become passe.
Our showgirls, on the other hand,
Those Galatean vamps,
Will welcome Paris’s command
To move, and ease their cramps;
And, talking about moving,
The best result of all
Concerns not art or loving —
It’s more political:
The “Labor” boys, we’ve had ’em
Since just about about
The fall of Eve and Adam —
We cannot get them out;
And if the Paris models sent
Are not prepared to make
A change or two of Government,
We’ll know it’s all a fake.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
It does not harm the inexpressible
If you make it inaccessible;
So Sydney’s operatic joint
Will always be beside the Point.
' N.S.W,
NUNK.


CjURELY the sweeping at Wynyard
(Sydney) Station is unique! I can
recall no other railway-station where it
takes place so adequately. Hefty damsels,
three abreast at the end of large brooms,
launch their attacks any hour of the day
upon the travellers trying to fight their
way up the ramp. The brooms charge
down, or, it may be, they converge from
three directions. Old ladies in their efforts
to avoid them do the splits; dignified
gents leap as the hart or like the nimble
chamois on his journey from Alp to Alp.
Do the ones at the right end of the
“ Yoo-hoo! Are you there , Captain ?”
brooms cut notches in the broomsticks to
register the number they have laid low?
—“Maitri.”
“Bumpk”: Photos of Melbourne’s first
prefabricated house and the first brick
house to be moved bodily to a new site
in Victoria got mixed on the front page
of Melbourne “Herald,” the prefab,
appearing as the modern brick erection
and vice versa, to the mystification of the
paper’s readers. The contrast between
the beauty of the old wooden house—lo 3
years of age—and the commonplaceness
of the modem villa, however, throws a
glaring light on “progress.” The prefab.
so fine that it ought to be preserved as
an example—arrived in separate parts in
the sailer Windermere in 1853 from
Boston, Mass., to the order of Andrew
Newell, a fanatical Yankee who hoisted
the Stars and Stripes over his bit of
U.S. every morning.
♦♦♦ *t+ ❖
“Dareb”: A word misused would still
appear at times to make sense witness
the lady in an Adelaide court who com-
plained of her husband s repeated in-
sistence on his “congenial’' rights.
* ❖
“Norque”: That spring window-
blind which the rector’s wife toyed
with in Ethel Anderson’s story
“Slugabeds” (B. 4/5/’55) seems to
me to be an anachronism for the
period when blokes worked 26
hours a day and the lady of the
house wore a bustle —pre-1890
at least. One of the bugbears of
the old-time blind was the nice
adjustment of the blindcord which
ran over a pulley at the end of the roller
down to another smaller pulley at hand-
level ; and the blind did not go up with a
click but unrolled quickly if the cord
was slack. Still, what do you know?
❖ ❖ <*
“Pigi”: In the unhappy event of tele-
phonists having had to answer calls with
“Hello honey [Full-stop, question or ex-
clamation mark?]” as part of the honey-
week drive, I only hope they were able to
sound less self-conscious than the unfortu-
nate A.B.C. news-commentator who had
to proclaim the fatal words without in-
flexion or revulsion.
❖ * ❖
“Ex-Registrar”: “Tas” (B. 11/5/’55)
writes that when he was a kid in Hobart,
about 60 years ago, there were at
least two Bastards there, one a tailor, and
the other Diocesan Registrar (Church of
England). The first Registrar was John
Harrison (1838-1875), who was followed
by the Very Rev. H. B. Bromby (1876-
1883), the Rev. Canon J. B. H. Bailey
(1884-5), the Rev. H. Heineken Marten
(1885-8), R. Shirley Hales (1889-96),
George H. Bailey (1896-1926), Major G.
F. W Echlin (1927-47), C. G. Hardman
(1947-1950) and L. N. Partington (1950).
It would therefore appear that “Tas”
has muddled his story because the C. of E.
in Tasmania has never had a Registrar
with such an inappropriate name as he
claims.
♦J'- »
“Pawang”: The latest world’s oldest
human being has been discovered in
Xavier Pereira, a member of the Zenu
tribe, living in the Sinu River area of
Colombia, who claims to be 150, and
who, according to a Colombian professor,
is at least 120. He is 4ft. high., blind, but
lively, and laughs a lot and talks about
the Colombian War of Independence,
which happened when Napoleon was
dominating the planet. Just living a long
time doesn’t seem very interesting to me
—it’s what people do with their lives that
is important. Bertrand Russell said that
what kept Shaw alive so long was con-
troversy ; certainly what kept Titian alive
was painting pictures—when he became
simple at 99 he painted the walls of his
room with a brush and a bucket of white-
wash. Recently-dead Liberty Hyde
Bailey, the American horticulturist who
all on his own produced a book on plants
which rivals the Royal Horticultural So-
ciety’s standard work, was another sticker.
“Okay! I'll lake a week’s notice, providing you give me a good
reference, see!”
Admirers gave Bailey a birthday-party in
New York on his 93rd birthday, but he
turned up two years late —he was in the
forests of Brazil collecting more plants.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metax”: On the retiring-list after
serving the Launceston Tramways since
they began in 1911, Inspector “Rube”
Waddle told the Launceston “Examiner”:
At first there were no lunch-breaks and
we worked seven days a week. Then they
gave us one Sunday off a fortnight, and we
thought we were made.
<£♦
“Sister Ellell”: A cricket-loving medico
employed a Sister in his rooms who hadn’t
a clue on cricket. He instructed her not
to make any appointments for a certain
date some time ahead—unbeknown to
her, the first day of a Test —and surrep-
titiously he wrote-in a few names for that
day. Came the day, and his wife rang
and said he would not be in, and would
Sister please apologise to the patients, and
renew the appointments? When the doc-
tor arrived next a.m. he was met by a per-
plexed lass, who said, “Funny thing, not
one of those patients turned up yester-
day.” “That’s odd,” quoth he. “Let’s
see their names again, Sister. Mr. Lind-
wall, Mr. Hutton, Mr. Miller—oh, well,
they must have recovered, or else had
something better to do! ”
»*♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Alma”: Looking Europe over, my
cobber and I, walking through the plea-
sant streets of Innsbruck with a group of
young people, mostly Austrians and
Germans, enjoyed their tuneful singing,
a natural thing in the streets of Innsbruck
on a summer evening. Then one lad
turned politely to us and said, “Now
you sing us some of your songs.” What
else was there to sing except “Waltzing
Matilda?” Thinking over it, perhaps our
environment isn’t suited to folk-songs
and such. Can anyone imagine a group
of six or eight girls and boys strolling
arm-in-arm along George-street, carolling
in harmony as they taJke in the sights, and
with nobody taking any notice, except,
maybe, to pick up the tune and hum it
themselves as they walk past?
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Tos”: How ingenuous were our
Victorian armament-producers. Have-
lock Ellis told how he and others stood
around Maxim as he explained his new
gun. “But will not this make war
terrible?” asked Ellis. “No,” replied
Maxim confidently, “it will make war
impossible.” Ellis wrote this remini-
scence on the day when Maxim’s death
was announced, November 30, 1916, and
added: —
Even the brilliant inventor, who, in the
dawn of the Metal Age, first elongated the
useful dagger-like knife into the dangerous
sword, was doubtless convinced that he
had made war impossible.
I wonder what Maxim would think of
the H-bomb!
isr
“Maitri”: An old sea-captain friend
of mine from the Scottish Hebrides
assures me that when he used to swear in
Gaelic at the Arabs they understood him
perfectly. I know there is supposed to be
a relationship between Celtic and Sans-
krit, but whether there is a close affinity
between the former and Arabic I have
my doubts. Is the old boy right?
NEW DEAL FOR INFANTS
“A doctor, writing in the British Dietetic
Association’s journal, says babies should be
fed meat, fish and other adult foods within a
few weeks of birth. Urey should be fed what
they like when they like.”
You will have noted, not a doubt,
How baby spits the nipple out
After a bare half-hour of guzzling
His lacteal fluid. To me and you
Here's proof he wants food he can CHEW.
Now, why his Ma can’t see this, too,
Is really frightening and puzzling.
Also, to her, convention-proud,
There couldn’t seem a thing much
odder
Than that her babe should be allowed
To be selector of his fodder.
Surely he’s better than his Mummy
At judging what should suit his tummy !
When baby, sick of sucking “dums,"
Bites on your finger with his gums
Is it to get the digit working ?
Of course not! he knows it is meat,
And that it should be good to eat.
Although the cherub looks so sweet
Cannibalism in him’s lurking.
Red-blooded steak is what he needs,
Or chump chops fr,om the griller
sizzling.
His craving for a slap-up feed’s
So strong he can’t refrain from grizzling.
Milk and the like can’t get him sated;
He’s just meat-hungry—and frustrated.
Father, you could assist the mite
To satisfy his appetite.
So if he gets it in his napper
That all this mush is not his dish
And that he’d like some hot fried-fish,
Well, that’s his right; give him his wish.
Recall, though, there are bones in snapper.
If he’s uncertain of his food,
Then let him ’mong the foodstuffs
forage.
Should he cry “Goo!” with certitude
Don’t think, that he is wanting porridge.
In baby-talk interpretation
This simply means a cold collation.
N.s.w.
S. W. K.
WORDS for EXPORT?
'T'HE gentleman can be found only in
A English-speaking countries. This
means no offence to foreign friends. The
reflection does not reflect on them. It
is merely in the way of speaking and not
in the art of living.
A gentleman has been defined in numer-
ous ways. Shaw saw in him a man who
puts more into life than he gets out of
it. Others described him as “the first to
thank and the last to complain,” a man
who uses a butter-knife even when he is
dining alone. Yet, however multiple his
definition, a gentleman remains a gentle-
man wherever he goes. Any other
language has just to accept him as he is—
literally! He cannot be translated, just
as only British people know of playing
the game and all that is “cricket.”
Fascinating indeed is the study of words
untranslatable into any other language.
They are a phenomenon found in every
tongue. Psychology of language asserts
that the uniqueness of words is not acci-
dental. It reveals a people’s character.
So to speak, we can say to any nation,
“Tell us your vocabulary and we shall
tell you who you are! ”
A Frenchman knows best of all how to
please our palate. He indeed is the chief
of chefs. No wonder therefore that his
nomenclature of food—the menu —itself
remains French internationally. All the
nations’ vocabularies taste of the French
tongue.
Germany’s Weltanschauung is untrans-
latable: a philosophy of life only the
Germans possess. Introduced into any
other country, it remains something
foreign, however much you study Kant’s
Critique of Pure Reason or Nietzsche’s
“Superman.” The German vocabulary,
too, is unique in its Schadenfreude —a
word (and attitude) non-existent any-
where else. Schaden means damage, in-
jury, wrong and Freude is joy. Schaden-
freude therefore is joy taken in damage,
injury or wrong—done to others. It is a
malicious delight in the suffering of some-
one else. Most people laugh when they
are happy, but Schadenfreude describes a
mood of joy when someone else is
unhappy.
Yet, all of us like and envy German
Gemutlichkeit: a mood of happy atmos-
phere ; beergarden, conviviality and
familiarity all in one. It is cosy and
comfortable, homely and happy. No
accumulation of words can adequately
convey the feeling. Untranslatable, it
must be experienced to be understood.
Of Russian origin and patent is the
pogrom— the organised massacre of a
whole body and class of people.
Any one studying the Old Testament
in its original Hebrew will come across
numerous words which just defy trans-
lation. Equivalents in any other tongue
are out of the question. All translation,
therefore, is merely approximation. Most
typical is mitsvah : one word for two
ideas, simultaneously meaning benevo-
lence and order. To the Hebrew spirit
social justice was a commandment. Not
a voluntary gesture, indulged in hap-
hazardly, with condescension and self-
righteousness, it was considered a sacred
duty, to be obeyed constantly and im-
plicitly.
Cynics believe that words are made to
conceal thought. Yet, for once, these
unique words give much food for
thought.
REV. DR. R. BRASCH.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Deputy-head of Armidale West Prac-
tice School (N.S.W.) when War II broke
out, Ivan Dougherty was then also lieut-
colonel commanding the 33rd Militia
Battalion. He joined the Second A.1.F.,
commanded the 2/4th through Bardia,
Tobruk, Derna and Benghazi, earning
D.S.O. He added Bar to it at Sanananda
Road. Shaggy Ridge was captured by his
men, he was at the Morotai landing, led
one ’of the two assault-brigades at the
Balikpapan entry. He came back to civil
life in 1945, district inspector of schools
in the Sutherland (N.S.W.) division, and
in 1952 took over command of the Second
Division, C.M.F., major-general. A handy
man to have as the first, newly appointed
r-k- + f -i in NS W hk
Director of Civil Defence in N.S.W., his
job to prepare for a possible atomic
attack
• •
„ . , c
Smoking a preparatory pipe betore
divesting himself of his everyday aspect
and donning greasepaint at the Princess,
Pkbsrrknn An
Melbourne—Sir Ralph Richardson. An
artist himself, given to sketching in his
offstage moments (his first acquaintance
with thp tViMtrp qq a scenG-o&intcr)
with the theatre was as a scene painter)
he was interested in the operation on his
visage, and insisted that his eyes were
more piglike, his nose more of a snout,
hk month Qtrniffhfpr and hk chin far less
his mouth straignter and nis cmn tar le
determined than The Bulletin artist
(feminine) had made ’em. At the
rnneliisirm of the interview the
conclusion or me interview me
artist discovered that she had told
him more about herself than he
had told her about himself — like H. G.
Wells, who, when caught by a posse of
ARTISTRY
reporters in Melbourne, learnt more about
Australia than they learnt about
Wells. Sir Ralph is like that as an actor.
He has mirrored more diverse characters
than probably any other living actor, and
what he is himself doesn’t come into the
picture. He is what might be called an
actor’s actor.
• •
Anchoring in Sydney, after 44 years
at sea, J. S. D. McGuffogg, chief-engineer
—he had to be an engineer—of the inter-
state Kanimbla, breaks a long associa-
tion with the ship. Sent to England by
Mcllwraith McEacharn to help build her
he sailed as her chief-engineer on her
delivery voyage to Australia, in 1936.
His sea-service (mostly under the M.M.
house-flag)* included 11 years in the
R.A.N., nine of them in Kanimbla after
the Navy took the ship over at the begin-
ning of War II for invasion work.
McGuffogg ended the war-part of his
service with rank of engineer-commander,
a “mention” for good work to the north
of Japan, and 0.8. E. awarded for the
outstanding job he did during the attack
on Bander Shapur, Iran, in 1941.
• •
“Macnell”: Captain Victor Alfred
Trumper Smith, D.S.C., R.A.N., has been
concerned with the aerial Navy for most
of his quarter-century of sea-time, and,
though launched in the Sydney suburb
of Chatswood, has been mainly with the
Mother Navy. A qualified observer (the
Service’s flying-navigator), he went first
to British carrier Glorious (sunk in action
with Scharnhorst off Norway in 1940),
then to Ark Royal (torpedoed under him
east of Gibraltar the next year), then to
cruiser Canberra (torpedoed under him in
the Pacific the next year). A bit of time
in cruiser Shropshire, and he was back
in carriers, this time H.M.S. Tracker, one
of those converted merchantmen that
hunted U-boats in the Atlantic with their
aircraft and sooled destroyers on to what
they’d found. An enlivening time on the
staff of the flag-officer responsible for
covering the area British forces were
assaulting on the Normandy beaches;
and, after the war, back to air, executive
officer (2 i/c) of the Sydney. Lately he’s
been Director of Air Warfare at Navy
Office, and had much to do with the com-
paratively recent introduction of the Fleet
Air Arm into the R.A.N. Now he’s due
for quite a change —appointed to anti-
submarine frigate Quadrant, in command,
and captain of the First Frigate Squadron.
• •
From “Ek Dum”:
Sydney Imperial Service Club will miss the
friendly figure of Lieut .-Colonel Fred Kindon,
who has passed on after having been for many
years almost as much part of the club as the
chairs. More than once he was acting-
secretary and loved to forgather there with
the host of old and gallant military friends of
all vintages dating back to the South African
war, in which he saw his first active-service.
Gallipoli, however, was Kindon’s great war.
A West Australian legal man, he was second-
in-command of the Ist Battalion, A.1.F., at the
Landing, and it was he who, meeting Drake-
Brockman in falling back as he climbed the
western fork of Monash Valley, rushed to the
aid of his co-Stater with a shout of, “Come
on, boys! WAVs in trouble!”
He, too, it was who, with a gallant charge,
established the line on the inland slope of
Baby 700 and held it while other positions
crumbled, with machine-gups on the flank and
shrapnel coming in from the front through a
curtain of rifle-fire.
Bean wrote that “Kindon lay there, puffing
his pipe, an example to his men” through the
fag-end of the shot-torn morning, only with-
drawing a few yards in the afternoon to make
alignment with some N-Z. machine-guns.
Eventually he handed the position intact to the
Maorilanders.
His was an historic action *of the fight of
April 25, 1915. It would have been a bold
wagerer who would have bet during the morning
of that day on his survival till nightfall, but
it was just over 40 years later that he died
quietly in his sleep in Sydney.
« •
A. Gordon Robb, appointed managing-
director of 1.C.1. (N.Z.), is an engineering
graduate of the University of New Zea-
land who joined 1.C.1. in England in
1933. Two years later he transferred to
1.C.1.A.N.Z., manager of the Deer Park
sporting-ammunition factory (Melbourne)
and in 1939 was appointed manager of
the newly-constructed ammonia synthesis
plant. Next posting, head of the develop-
ment department of 1.C.1.A.N.Z.; at
present personnel-controller.
• •
“Glycol”: Only p.-0.-w. from the raid
on Mohne and Eder dams among the 15
survivors who saw the film “The Dam-
busters” in London was Sydney-born
Anthony Fisher Burcher. He was also the
only survivor of the eight aircraft which
crashed on that job, and already at the
time was the sole survivor from a crash
during the preparation for the raid. He
was appointed to Guy Gibson’s 617
Special Duties Squadron after bombing
widely over Europe, mining the Baltic,
flying in the first Lancaster daylight-raid
and in the first 1000-bomber carpeting of
the Ruhr. In the big show he was tail-
gunner in the second aircraft to go in,
after Gibson had wakened the defending
Germans with his dambuster. Burcher’s
bomb overshot, hit the power-house,
exploded and blew his aircraft out of
action. The gunner bailed-out —his back
broken by the tail-plane—and landed
above the dam. He watched it go, and
saw the lights of cars in the valley below
turn a glowing watery green before they
went abruptly out. In hiding for three
days, he was collared by a 16-year-old
member of the Hitler Youth Movement,
who jabbed a Luger into his back. Short
of plaster-of-Paris, the Germans set his
spine in cement. After persistent ques-
tioning by the Gestapo as to the names
of men in his squadron, he finally gave
in, and rattled off the names of his school
cricket-team. That satisfied ’em. He was
liberated at Lubeck, farmed for a bit in
southern N.S.W., then joined the R.A.F.
• o
Frank C. Edmondson, Old Digger,
general-manager of the Westralian Elec-
tricity and Gas Department and first
chairman of the State Electricity Commis-
sion, is headed overseas on a fact-finding
tour of the U.K., Europe and the U.S.,
getting the score on development and
use of atomic energy for generation and
transmission of power. He will also
confer with those engaged on establish-
ment of a 60,000 kilowatt atomic station.
On a previous overseas assignment—this
is his second within five years—he in-
spected equipment ordered for the Fre-
mantle powerhouse and looked into
methods of gasification of coal of the
type produced at Collie. A qualified elec-
trical-engineer, he is also a member of
Perth Legacy and Rotary Clubs, and a
keen rifle-shot and tennis-player.
Elected a Fellow of the Royal Aero-
nautical Society, John L. Watkins, direc-
tor of engineering for T.A.A. He shares
this honor wtih Nevil Shute, who piled-up
a brilliant record as an aircraft-designer
before he started piling-up novels.
Watkins gets the award for his astute
advice in recommending B.C.P.A. to buy
DC-6B aircraft before they were in use
in America, and for subsequently recom-
mending the purchase of Convairs and
Viscounts for T.A.A.
• •
“Cauboy”: Melbourne is to have an
“Oscar” —or rather, “Eric” —and a panel
of dramatic critics has been collected to
award it. They make their choice from
resident-in-Australia actors and actresses
they have seen performing on the amateur
and professional stages during the cur-
rent year. I understand the Hollywood
“Oscar” got its name from the Hammer-
stein of that name; Melbourne’s “Eric”
gets its name from Eric Kuttner, a really
fine Germ an-Jewish actor who came to
Australia to escape the notice of Hitler.
He played mainly in Yiddish, but one
didn’t need to know the language to under-
stand him—he was a master of mime.
The trophy has been made by sculptor
Julius Kuhn, and replicas will be awarded
each year—this year’s by Sybil Thorndike,
to Melbourne actor (now radioing in
Sydney) Stewart Ginn.
• •
Charles Gamba, the Westralian Univer-
sity graduate appointed arbitrator in the
dispute which caused the Singapore riots,
has been lecturing in economics in the
University of Malaya for the past five
years. Westralian by birth, Gamba was
one of the first ex-servicemen to take his
M.A. degree at the Perth university under
the Commonwealth Reconstruction
Training Scheme.
• •
“J.F.” on a hardworking case:
Psychiatrist and Bulletin contributor S. J.
Minogue is quick in his movement. In Sydney
G.P.S. Rugby Union some few years back his
position was in the middle of the front-row,
where hard knocks are rather more frequent
than opportunities for personal glory; still, as
Rugby men know, it’s a key-position and, for
those with a taste for mud and leather, a
satisfying one.
He’s shown an inclination for the heart ot
the fray since; in brushes with departmental
authority when he was superintendent of a
mental hospital; in efforts —long before the
Stoller Report—to interest Governments and
politicians in the basic causes of the muddle
in the institutional treatment of the mentally
sick (he’s a bit bitter about the results); in
early struggles to establish Alcoholics
Anonymous in Australia; and in his habits
of work, which are intensive.
Most mornings he’s to be found at his desk
(presented to him by the staff of Rydalmere
on retirement) before 8 a.m.; he lunches in his
rooms and works through till after dark. But
that’s only part of it: hospitals, and other
calls, take up a fair bit of day and night. Which,
no doubt, applies in the life of many hard-
working physicians and surgeons. But, on top
of this, there is the enormous amount of work
(naturally, buckshee) he does for Alcoholics
Anonymous. Buckshee work, in fact, takes
up a lot of his time. Writer made his acquain-
tance when working at the Legal Service
Bureau, from which Ted Roberts, boss of the
rehabilitation section, referred a good many
cases for Minogue’s opinion.
A preliminary conversation over the phone
often following a ritual: details, then: “Er—
a ‘Love of God’ case, of course, Doctor.” “Of
course,” echoing amiably from the other end
of the line.
He graduated in Medicine in 1922, sharing
the Hinder Prize for Surgery; was in the Mental
Hospitals Department for 25 years, working,
for a time, with Dr. Evan Jones, first super-
PSYCHIATRY
intendent of Broughton Hall, whom he con-
siders a genius; when he was superintendent at
Rydalmere, Minogue introduced the open-ward
system and other reforms. The first meeting
of Alcoholics Anonymous in Australia, and the
first of its kind outside America, was held at
Rydalmere in 1945. He resigned from the
Mental Hospitals Department in 1947, and is
now exploring the possibilities of starting clinics
for acute alcoholics in general hospitals (as in
the U.S.). Honorary at St. Vincent’s and
South Sydney hospitals, and Repatriation
Department consultant, he’s off to Istanbul
next year to attend a world conference on
alcoholism.
Alex Bruce (see under) was born m
Newcastle-on-Tyne, educated at Durham
University, and has been moving pretty
well ever since. A sort of arch-negotiator
of the British Board of Trade—answer-
ing questions from U.K. firms with an eye
to overseas expansion ; negotiating deals
in materials ranging from coa *
to tungsten, hemp to cotton; from
Ottawa and Montreal (his tour
daughters were born in Canada), to
Madrid and Whitehall, and, as from
DIPLOMACY
recently, Sydney. In short, U.K. Trade
Commissioner. From his Martin Place
window he can spot his house (present
domicile) at Vaucluse. An approachable,
helpful sort of chap; diplomacy, as well
as trade —learned from long negotiating
with Spaniards, Italians, Swiss and Portu-
guese. Geordie accent toned down almost
to unrecognisability from a dozen years
of Canadian mix. An 0.8. E. of 1948
vintage, he takes over from John Adams,
in Sydney in the same capacity for
donkey’s years.
• e
“P.0.M.C.”: Just completed 50 years
with the P.M.G., Jack Hotson climbed
from the traditional messenger to super-
vising engineer, metropolitan district
works. Short, stocky what he lacks in
bulk he makes up in scrupulous fair-
dealing with public and staff alike, geni-
ality, kindliness and competence. Stick-
ler to the letter of departmental law,
nevertheless no P.M.G. executive has
been more approachable to rank-and-file
with grievance or suggestion. When he
metaphorically hangs-up shortly he’ll be
personally missed.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Haruhikio Nishi did
not face an easy task when he came to
Australia more than two years ago as
Japan’s first post-war Ambassador. He
and his family performed the necessary
duties quietly and effectively. Transferring
now to London, the Ambassador sought
and received advice here in many quar-
ters. His health suffered from his exer-
tions, but the calibre of his work in
Australia is indicated by his new
appointment.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Christchurch (N.Z.), Thomas William
Woodrofie, civil-engineer and architect. Horn
in England, he became private-secretary to Sir
Thomas Cook, of tourist fame, and for him
designed The Hall, in Sennowe Park. Arriving
in Mew Zealand some 40 years ago to design
and supervise the erection of Sullivan Dam, m
Otago, he stayed to build up a solid practice
in his professions.
In Melbourne, at 85, Very Rev. John Mac-
Kenzie, M.A. (New Zealand), D.D. (Glasgow),
and for 30 years, till he retired in 1944, Presby-
terian minister of Toorak, Melbourne. In the
late ’thirties he was Moderator-General.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 90, Sir John Ranken
Reed, for a time Acting Chief Justice. Born
in Ipswich (Q.), he was a son of the Rev. G. M.
Reed 7 who crossed to New Zealand to become
leader-writer on the “Herald,” Auckland. A
Cambridge man, Sir John was admitted to the
Bar in 1887, became head of the legal firm or
Reed, Towle, Hellaby and Cooper, was made
KC. in 1913, and sat on the Supreme Court
Bench from 1921-36. He retired in 1939.
In Sydney, Camilla Wedgwood, a Cambridge
graduate, daughter of Lord Wedgwood, for
nine years to 1944 principal of the Women s
College, Sydney University. An anthropologist
of considerable experience in New Guinea, she
was, at the end, lecturer in native education at
the Mosman (Sydney) School of Pacific
Administration. A girls’ school to be built at
Goroka, New Guinea, is to be named after n •
At Port Noarlunga (S.A.), at 78, Frederick
Bieth Wilson. Owner of a large farming ana
currant-growing property at McLaren Vale, h
did much good public work—-at one time. n
was chairman of both adjoining distrn
councils of Willunga and Noarlunga.
In Canberra, John Thomas Pinner, one of
Australia’s best-known public servants when
he retired two years ago. A commi ; £ioner ot
the Public Service Board from 1947, alter hav-
ing served on the board’s staff for y&ars,
had been accountant to the now defunct
Federal Capital Commission, and in Worth
War I was in the Army Pay Corps. In Canberra
he was auditor of St. Andrews Presbyterian
church, and was a Fellow of the Commonwealth
Institute of Accountants, its A.C.T. branch s
first chairman.


WAR AND PEACE


ABORIGINALITIES
TTS7E didn’t think Macquarie, the half-
tame kookaburra, had any friends
in his own tribe. He came alone for his
daily handout, sat around looking ruffled
and surly, and would be silent and morose
on the roof while down the gully other
kookas got together in the big box-tree
and swapped chuckles and roars of laugh-
ter. Lately we’ve acquired a black cat.
The other day Macquarie sat on the low
brick-fence, waiting. Somebody threw
him a bit of meat. It fell outside thef
fence. Macquarie dropped over the fence
to get it. The black cat, which had had
an eye on Mac. for some time, streaked
from a bush, went over the fence and
fell on Macquarie. Instantly, from a
thick banksia, a kooka. dive-bombed the
cat; its beak clacked like a rifle-shot.
The cat came back over the fence and
streaked for home and mother. Mac-
quarie, a bit dazed, managed to get air-
borne and staggered off, the rescuer
swooping above and behind, laughing fit
to burst. Next day Macquarie was back,
looking ruffled and surly. Down in the
gully the bunch of kookas held a noisy
meeting. But whether they laughed at
Macquarie, or the cat, or Macquarie’s
guard, there was no way of knowing.—
“Old-timer.”
* * * #
“Morayda”: During a long drought on
our Centralian cattle-station I took a
team out in the mulga, cutting posts.
When we came back to the truck for
dinner I noticed that a furry growth of
grass had sprung up where the water-bags
had been dripping. I made a test by
pouring a few* pannikins of water on the
bare ground. Within a few minutes a
green mosslike fuzz of germinating grass
appeared.
♦ * * *
“Mansom”: Watched a couple of
emus in Whalan billabong, off the Bog-
gabilla-road (N.S.W.). Decks awash and
periscopes in operation, they crossed it
in single file as if water were their natural
element. Curiously, they were only about
40yds. from a shallow crossing. Do emus
take so easily to water, or has their educa-
tion undergone revision to keep pace with
the flood-epidemics of late years?
* * * •
“Quo Vadis”: In the shadow of a big
coolibah-tree in the main business-centre
of Winton (C.Q.), when the little town-
ship lately held a gala week, the first sod
was turned on the spot where a statue
in bronze of “Banjo” Paterson, creator
of “Waltzing Matilda” at Winton in
1895, will be erected. The festivities also
included the opening of the new North
Gregory Hotel, which cost over £220,000
to build. It’s claimed (there’s been some
dispute about it) that it was at the original
hostelry of that name 60 years ago that
the words of Australia’s marching-song
were first put to music.
* * * *
“Jas”: Surrounded by a swarm of small
birds, the nankeen-kestrel perched on a
dry tree in a grassy paddock. About 30
sparrows chorused a spadger din
and fluttered around ineffectively, but
four willie-wagtails kept up a continuous
attack on the chestnut-backed little
hawk. Steeped in Buddha-like calm the
kestrel at first ignored his tormentors ;
but, as I watched, he suddenly started to
tear sticks from the tree and drop them
to the ground. Whether he was working
himself into a rage or simply trying to
impress the mob with his strength I don’t
know, but the spadgers didn’t like the
look of it and left in a body. The wag-
tails, too, became irresolute, and finally
broke off the attack.
“HoW Would I get underneath to grease it ?”
“8.A.K.”: Although agreeing in
general with the eulogy on cedar (B.
20/4/’55), I can give one instance of
borers attacking first-quality red-cedar.
The job was an old-fashioned double-seat
similar to those used in schools years
ago, the back shaped to a scroll made up
of lin. by l|in. white-pine and red-cedar
battens placed alternately. It had been
thrown out because of borer-infestation,
and the holes showed in the cedar as well
as in the pine. I kept a portion for obser-
vation. Gradually the pine was eaten
“Mine tinkit Jackie bin goin' Walkabout .”
away to powder, but the cedar remained
practically untouched; which suggested
that the borers did not like the cedar and
merely bored through it to reach the next
piece of pine.
* * * *
“Kate”: The beautiful English elms
lining my street are again busy laying
their autumn-leaf-patterned carpet. But
for many weeks after its yellow com-
ponents are blown away and forgotten
there will still be a handful of green
leaves clinging to the branches nearest
the street lights."" Perhaps it is that heat
from the lamps keeps the growth going,
often well into winter. This applies to
all deciduous trees.
* * * *
'‘F.J.”: The parent standing guard
over the praying-mantis babies, as
observed by “Quo Vadis” (B. 4/6/’55)
was undoubtedly Ma. Papa Mantis would
some time before have furnished a one-
course meal for his bride.
* * * *
“Motuku”: The black-snakes that
“H.E.” found in the Speck’s button-grass
(B. 27/4/’55) aren’t the black-snakes re-
ferred to in A. Holmes’s article. Tas-
mania has “black-snakes,” “goannas” and
“death-adders,” but no mainlander would
recognise them by these names. Copper-
heads and tiger-snakes are common in
the island, but are subject to much more
color-variation than those on the main-
land. There is a very fine collection of
skins in the Launceston Museum showing
a great range of coloration, from a bright
copper-red copperhead to an almost jet-
black tiger-snake. I knew owners or a
berry-farm in Lenah Valley who had an
Alsatian which they tried to keep out or
the surrounding beca.use the
goannas might bite him.” The “goannas
were harmless blue-tongued lizards. A
so-called “death-adder” is a glass-snake,
or legless lizard. In some parts the name
“death-adder” is also applied to a wood-
gecko.
“Kerba”: My memory is not word-
perfect when it stretches over 25 to 30
years, but I recall Conan Doyle’s use of
those horseshoes designed by Border
cattle-thieves to leave hoofprints similar
to a cow’s (B. 4/5/’55). They were relics
kept in a private museum in an ancestral
home on the moors. Dirty work occurred,
and there were no traces of the dark-
doer. Sherlock was called in. After con-
siderable observation and deliberation he
gathered bread-crumbs on his breakfast-
plate and arranged them in patterns, ex-
plaining to Watson that some prints left
by the cows at the scene of the crime
were “thus,” while others were “so.”
The ones “so” could only have been
made by an animal moving with a gallop-
ing action completely alien to the gait
of a cow. Result: Culprit apprehended
and another case nicely wound-up.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: During World War I the
Westralian Government brought in the
suggestion-box scheme on the railways,
with rewards. I worked in the Perth
goods-sheds, galvanised buildings which
snaked their way over acres of sand.
High up and bolted to roof-bearers were
the gas-pipes of other days, and, piping
being practically unprocurable, I wrote
in suggesting that these relics be converted
into profit. I received £2, which was
money in those days. One day, when
the shed was at its busiest, a Government
plumber arrived, with chain-tongs, foot-
prints and a long, wobbly ladder. He
was a game bloke, because the heat was
terrific up against the iron roof, while
below trucks were being shunted and
bashed about, and the building was in a
constant quiver. Then an engine backed
in and belched volumes of black smoke
and steam which hit the roof in clouds.
Unable to take it any longer, down came
the furious plumber, his face red with
heat and eyes streaming with rust-chips.
“I’d like to get me hands on the so-an’-
so who suggested this! ”he roared. “The
dam’ silly department took it on when
they could get hundreds of feet of the
same stuff lyin’ doin’ nothin’ behind the
car-barn.” I didn’t hesitate a moment..
In record time my new suggestion that
the department sell the piping which was
lying idle behind the car-barn was in the
box.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: There were four of them
in the flying-gang rebuilding the railway-
line after the N.Q. floods. Crossing the
big bridge, fully-clothed, in single-file,
the second man shoved the first off into
the deep muddy water; No. 3 pushed
No. 2 over; No. 4 did likewise to No. 3.
What followed? Curses and abuse?
Threats‘of revenge, of blackballing by
the union? No. Just laughter from the
three swimmers and their mate on the
decking above. The quartet were South
Sea Islanders.
THE FLOODS AT MOONDABRI
The frequent Kempsey floods had made us
sad;
And now the news from Singleton was bad.
Mum sighed: “Poor souls! It’s happening
again.
But all that lovely water down the drain!
While our poor little oreek is running dry.
Why can’t we have a bit in Moondabri?”
Here, in the North-west, in the black-soil plains,
We’ve heat and dust and frost. But when it
rains,
It’s just like Christmas—sort of holy mirth,
With bubbles bouncing on the hard old earth,
Till it relents. Jazz-drumming on the roots,
And Nellie prancing on soft-springing hoots.
We looked up at the dazzling, cloudless sky,
And laughed, to think of floods at Moondabri.
But sadder, nearer, came the news each day.
Manilla was flooded, Wee Waa and Binnaway.
Then those old men who’d bragged of their
days’ droughts,
Recalled forgotten floods —till we had doubts.
But when the rain came sliding, soft and sweet,
We welcomed it as savior of the wheat,
Until the radio warned us of our doom;
When we stood round in dumb, despairing
gloom.
The men, then, worked like mad, without a
break,
With tractor, plough, with billy-cart and rake.
Then, while they viewed their levee-bank with
pride,
Behind them hissed a dirty, stinking tide,
That crept out, like a great snake, greedy, sly,
From the Namoi all the way to Moondabri.
At home, we’d worked, preparing to decamp:
We packed; we freed the fowls; we made a
ramp,
Got Nellie hoisted on the barn-roof ridge;
Then, while we wondered how to lilt the frig.,
A dead goanna floated through the door —
And Winnie dropped the lantern on the floor!
That night, while waves slapped rounds ana
through our house,
We weren’t heroic, we could only grouse.
Rain on the roof has not the same sweet sound
When you’re up top, with snakes and spiders
round.
Young Timmie coughed, Win had a tummy-
pain.
Dad cursed the Governments, the Reds, tne
rain.
Now, that’s the height of blasphemy, thought 1.
Imagine cursing rain in Moondabri!
Next day, a strange thing chugged up, with a
lurch —
An Army duck, to take us to the church.
(Dad said: “Me going to church three times—
what luck!
By pram, by wedding-coach, and now by
duck!”)
Cooking in vestry, wet boots in the nave,
And, in dry spells, nappies from grave to grave;
Ma Haystack dropping billycans and lids,
With “Oh! Me weddin’-photos —and the
kids! ”
Poor Mrs. Wheat hysterical to find
She’d brought her gloves, but left her teeth
behind;
A mother watching out to see her brood
Had all the best bits of our rationed food —
These are the things that made me laugh and
cry
In those strange, anxious days in Moondabri.
And other things I’ll think of all my life:
The face of Jim Burke, come to tell his wife
The fine new home they’d worked and waited
for
Was side-on, with a tree stuck through the
floor;
The way the men came stumbling in for tea,
Too tired to eat, with black mud to the knee,
From clearing fences, propping up a wall,
Putting the roof back on the local hall;
Bert Hawkins, missing five days in his jeep,
Now back with milk, bread, mail —and one
lost sheep;
And Bluey Thomas and his dog, both drowned,
But which was saving which we never
found . . .
It’s over now. We’re home, and fairly dry,
But things aren’t quite the same in Moondabri:
There’s poor old Nellie strangled, when she
slipped;
Our lucerne buried and the sorghum stripped;
I think how Mum, so cheerful through the
flood,
Cracked-up to find the piano full of mud.
But some things made it almost seem
worth while:
The way we shared our bedding with a smile;
Our Bill protecting little Tim, and how
The teacher swam to free a tangled cow;
The plane that dropped warm clothes,
mosquito-spray;
And all the help from people far away.
It’s strange, we work and plan. We’ve hopes
and fears,
But the greatest thing that’s happened through
the years,
The thing we’ll think of till the day we die,
Is how they helped us up in Moondabri.
-n.s.w.
AGMES MILLROSE.


HOW MANY CHILDREN
DO YOU WANT?
SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY 1
The humanitarian scientists, Dr. Knaus, and Dr. Ogino, have
discovered a means of determining with certainty the exact
time of fertility and sterility in the individual woman. Therefore
from now on one can dispense with poisonous chemicals and harmful
appliances—with all contraceptives as being unethical, unreliable
and opposed by health authorities and religious principles.
A NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
and Family Planning. It is easy to follow and absolutely reliable.
This Natural System enables people to whom children have been
denied for years to calculate accurately the woman’s fertile times
and thus know when conception may be fostered. On the other
hand, it encourages young couples to marry early by enabling them
to settle down properly before assuming the responsibilities of
parenthood. Then when both are fittest, they can fix the date for
conception and the birth of their first child and later, according
to circumstances.
THE ELIMINATION OF RISK
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she had to take a big
risk. Now, with the Natural System she can know with certainty.
Thousands of clinical tests have proved it.
CHURCH SANCTIONS NATURAL METHOD
World medical authorities highly recommend it. Dr. Alexandre’s
“MARITAD ADJUSTMENT COURSE” gives complete guidance for
the happy and successful regulation of the marital relationship
in all its aspects. It contains the ‘‘WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCULA-
TOR,” invented by DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc. The information
is guaranteed reliable and enables you to plan your family with
certainty.
Price of FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR £3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. 8.N.3, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney.
MAIL NOW—DON’T WAIT—AND BE SORRY
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc.,
DEPT. 8.N.3, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
(12 Alan St., North Sydney. Phone XY 6789.)
Please send me, under plain, sealed cover:—
Further information re both. I enclose addressed, stamped envelope.
The FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR I enclose £3
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS ...
8.N.3, 25/5/’55
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
/
$y
..LET YOUR TRACTOR
PUMP ITS OWN TYRES
Mobilco
TRACTOR-MOUNTED
COMPRESSOR
PUMPS, POWER GREASES, SPRAYS
There's a lot less hard work for
you when you fit a Mobilco Com-
pressor to your tractor power
greasing, fuelling, tyre pumping,
paint spraying, tree spraying come
easily to this inexpensive little
farm aid. And by a quick piston
and cylinder change-over you can
convert to a really effective boom
spray. That's a lot to get from
m
iil
m
one compressor and you're buying quality as well. —
a first class article built and finished to perfection
and guaranteed for six months. Post the coupon
below for fuller details.
REMEMBER, IT FITS ALL TRACTORS AND ALL
MOBILCO CIRCULAR SAWS
* 'QuiciTTikvicE “coupon "~
Please send me straight away, and without obligation,
all details of the MOBILCO COMPRESSOR/
Name
Address ________________________________
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
50-54 Silverwater Rd., Auburn. YX1244-5. 'Grams: Mobilco, Sydney
Head Office - - 410-416 Whitehorse Road, Mitcham, Victoria
Phone: WU 1081 (9 lines) - Branches: Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
Tasmania - Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., Launceston and Hobart
INTERVIEWED a tall, thin, wiry, fit-
A as-a-fiddle lad of 82 years of age and
asked him how come he was still in his
prime. The real thing, he said, was sleep.
When other people , are tossing and twist-
ing in a Marble Bar heat he gets off like
a top. You read until you’ve had enough,
then have a cold shower. Wet and naked
slip straight in between sheets, and don’t
start thinking. You’ll be cool until the
sheets are dry, and by that time you’ll be
asleep. It is, of course, a heat-wave
recipe ; and if anybody tries it I hope
he wakes up every morning.—“H. E. R.”
* * * *
“Moorapi”: Color-changing trout (B.
6/4/’55)? Some cave-explorers who
netted pne in torchlight in a flooded cave
in the Coolaman (A.C.T.) district saw its
body switch from white to a cream hue.
Its eyes were very small and without
pigment. Experts are wondering how the
fish lived in pitch-darkness, as trout de-
pend on sight for their food-hunting. The
fish has been preserved for examination
at Sydney Museum.
* * * *
“Woolclasser”: I was on Burrawang
when the boss o’ the board had to have
a buggy-and-pair to drive up and down
the board (B. 9/3/’55). In those days
the wool-room was in the centre of the
board. There were two bosses, one in
charge of the southern half, the other the
northern half. It was an ideal set-up.
When you got the bullet from one boss
all you had to do was make your way
down the other end —you’d easily do it
in half a day—and get a job there.
* * * *
“Jaydee”: Watched a chicken-hawk
being chivvied by two mobs of starlings.
The tactics were for one group to swoop
towards the hawk, with the other bunch
following a second later. The breakaway
would be the same, each group starting
the movement with every bird in unison.
The splitting of forces obviously confused
the hawk, though the groups could have
been separate units ganging-up on a
common enemy. The split-second sig-
nalling system employed would make any
Army general envious.
* * * *
“Woody B.”: Thea Harker’s method
of raising dents in cedar (or any wood,
come to that) by “gently pressing with a
hot iron over thick brown-paper (B.
20/4/’55) can be improved upon by dam-
pening the paper, thus bringing steam to
the depressed pores. I once had a hammer
fall on an inlaid job when it was sanded
and ready for polishing. To remove the
dented piece was impossible, and it seemed
that 10 day’s work was ruined. Then
memory stirred. Twenty minutes saw the
job restored.
* * * *
“Trafalg”: In Alice Springs, and on
some Centralian stations, there are many
stone buildings dating back to the ’eighties
and still in excellent condition, the
mortar used in them consisting solely of
powdered termite-mounds and water.
When this dried it set as hard as the
original anthills. Antbed-mortar is still
used to make bottoms for steel-sided
bore-tanks. When the sides are up, ant-
hills are thrown inside, smashed up to fine
particles, moistened, and then tamped
with flat wooden blocks.
THE BLACK BIRDS
In Lewisham paddock the two crows live
at the top of a gum that is twisted tall,
for the bark goes roundabout in a spiral
up to their black call.
Ebony springs from the swirling tree,
transmitting a raucous ruffian-spiel
to the listening ivory day until
love and the light seem imbecile.
They are flying to find the man who died
of a draught of dust in a dream of water,
and they’ll come closer to eye and ear
than ever did his lover.
O I would not be his flesh and bone
not even in a crows’ fable,
for they are as mad as a cracked bell
in the skull of a black steeple.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.
SURVEYED SURVEYORS
PERHAPS because something of a
picnic spirit pervaded it, the second
annual conference of the Institution of
Surveyors, Australia, held in Sydney in
the third week of April, passed unnoticed
by the press.
Surveyors-General of the Common-
wealth and several States attended ; and
delegates from interstate divisions, with
their wives, grilled steak at Warragamba
Dam or politely twiddled glasses at
parties. Between outings, however, some
solid work was accomplished at council
and general meetings.
Some of the State surveyors’ institutions
—now divisions within a Federal frame-
work —go back into last century; but
the Australian institution is a new crea-
tion, envisaged a little nebulously for many
years, then abruptly condensed into fact,
largely by the untiring efforts of the first
president, J. G. Gillespie, of Victoria.
Mr. Gillespie retired at this session and
was succeeded by A. J. Lines, a promin-
ent Sydney surveyor, three times presi-
dent of the superseded N.S.W. institution.
Rooted solidly and a bit unmovedly
in this country’s background, surveyors
tend to be inarticulate and conservative.
If they talk at all of the achievements of
their profession it is usually only to point
to early pioneers and explorers—gener-
ally anonymous because, unlike many of
the more prominent explorers, they were
well-organised and successful and brought
their expeditions back intact.
Work and achievements of surveyors
of today are often unnoticed, even by
themselves, because similarly successful
and unspectacular. But it was in modern
times (during the war) tha,), in the space
of months, the north-south road to Dar-
win was explored, located and set-out
immediately ahead of construction-gangs;
and some self-effacing surveyors of the
Main Roads Departments of several
“We must strike while the iron's hot!”
States probably escaped knighthoods only
because nobody ever heard of them.
At the present time the whole Snowy
River Scheme rests and relies on the work
of its surveyors, as indeed do all major
and minor engineering projects. The
mapping of this continent, going on
slowly all the time and essential to our
vast, developing air-transport systems,
constitutes a highly scientific and speci-
alised branch of the same work.
Up to the present, such specialised
branches have not been fully recognised
by the surveyors themselves, whose insti-
tutions early closed their door against
persons not practising and qualified in
the work of defining and setting-out
boundaries and similar real-property
activities
That leaves out in the cold the Navy
hydrographers, the brains of the Army’s
Survey Corps, highly qualified engineer-
ing-surveyors, and cartographers gener-
ally, to the dismay of some members of
the profession who regard the work of
such as coming within their province and
have already seen town-planning, properly
regarded as the surveyors’ own business,
snatched from their fingers by architects.’
At the recent conference the door was
very softly set a little ajar. Perhaps the
most important decision made was a
motion carried within the last five minutes
of the general meeting instructing the in-
coming council to push the door open
wide enough to admit members from all
allied fields and to take steps to amend
the constitution accordingly.
The diehards look askance. Some very
sober radicals, on the other hand, believe
that the only way in which the institution
can properly safeguard its members and
the public is by multiplying its strength
and influence; that now, as a unified
body throughout Australia, it could well
do so, and eventually take over the entire
functions of the various Surveyors
Boards including the control, examina-
don and registration of all members of
branches of the profession,
The annual conferences do a little to
open the eyes of that incurable conserva-
tive, whom you will see with his theodo-
lite at the comer of the street, who finds
it difficult to believe that changing times
and changing conditions will ever affect
him very seriously. He remembers so
well that his services were called upon
for the building of the Pyramids,
R. D. F.


m
rSSZ'
wav'.
/'A
■ ,//'
•S'.-ss.-ss.-s,
Hi %/"?i
ct£
% f: ,
&p tM 'r
ssssA'- - -• * r Z'-'SS"*
m
J?:
-
Now on display the new
10 CWT.
COUPE
23.44 h.p. 6 cylinder O.H.V.
With a handsome new front end . . .
improved driving vision ... new interior
comfort and beauty in the roomy (56f"
wide) three-seater driving compartment
—this new Vauxhall Coupe Utility is a
smart, after-hours companion ... a
hardworking business partner.
Other new features include a re-designed
instrument panel, flexible-coupled steer-
ing ... and flashing direction indicators.
The powerful 23.44 h.p. ‘over-square’
Velox engine now has thicker compress-
ion rings—the top ring being chrome
plated for longer engine life.
The steel-panelled load compartment on
its sturdy chassis frame handles tough,
capacity-load work with ease.
For truly outstanding value ... See this
new Vauxhall Utility soon.
G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire Purchase
arrangements are available for your con-
venience. Ask your dealer. Ask, too,
about the built-for-Vauxhall ‘Air Chief’
Radio.
front end styling with a new,
lower bonnet silhouette.
interior finish—new instru-
ment panel and interior trim.
electrical system control . . .
with ‘interruptor’ unit.
flashing direction indicators
for extra safety.
longer-life piston rings.
steering and handling ease.
Vauxhall 10 cwt. Coupe- Utility is priced at £950 plus Sales Tax
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
Radiators—
cosy
comfy
convenient!
★ NO SMOKE-NO SMELL.'
★ SIMPLE AND SAFE TO USE-CANNOT SPILL
★ TAKE IT WHERE YOU WANT IT-
WHEN YOU WANT IT
★ BURNS FOR 12 HOURS ON ONLY
|i PINTS KEROSENE.
★ 100% BRITISH MADE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of nearest Stockist to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Not Plain Sailing
WITH the end of the financial
year a matter of five weeks
off, it can now be said to have
been a pretty good term for
most industries. There have been
cases where individual concerns
have wilted under the effect of
increasing competition. But
these have been exceptions to
the general rule, and represent a
weeding-out more than anything
else.
In most instances the year
has been one of consolidation of
the profit-earning and dividend-
paying position achieved in the
previous term. But in some
others this has been the year of
dividend-increment —B.H.P. and
C.S.R., to quote two outstand-
ing cases. Wien final figures are
available for 1954-55 there may
be other div.-lifts; but mostly
they will come from companies
which did not raise their rates
in 1953-54.
Beyond June 30 the position
is not clear. The wool-cheque
for the year will be down by
more than £6O million, and the
adverse trade-balance will be as
bad as was expected earlier.
The bank-credit position is still
very tight when compared with
the position 12 months ago. The
National Bank of Australasia
nas commented that the stabil-
ising of bank-credit because of
the decline in our overseas
liquidity has not exerted “any
marked downward pressure on
business and industrial activity,”
and for the remaining months
of 1955, the bank says, any
great change from the present
situation appears unlikely. But
bank-credit is almost certain;
to be held in check.
Probably indicating a trend
that will show up in other cases,
Macßobertson (Australia), Ltd.,
has not increased its dividend
for the year to December 31
last because of the more string-
ent credit outlook, new plant
commitments and increased in-
vestments in stocks. Net profit
was up slightly, and the usual
8 p.c. distribution is well cov-
ered.
Variable economic winds will
blow in 1955-56 —that is a cer-
tainty. Import-restrictions are
having anomalous effects in the
merchandising trades, and in
the building industry there are
already some casualties. Worst
of all, various pressures are
causing costs to rise again. Aus-
tralia may be able to insulate
itself to an extent from external
factors, but internal costs-infla-
tion is a menace that cannot be
side-stepped.
St. Mary’s Ammunition
Federal Government has de-
cided to build a £23 mil-
lion ammunition-filling factory
at St. Mary’s, near Penrith
(N.S.W.). The factory will be
the biggest single defence pro-
ject undertaken by the Common-
wealth Government on its own.
St. Mary’s was the centre of
considerable munitions activity
during the last war, and subse-
quently became the headquarters
of a number of post-war indus-
tries. Defence authorities claim
that the new factory will be
similar to the war-time one —it
will be used for the manufacture
of explosives and for the filling
and final assembly of all kinds
of ammunition. Electrification
of the suburban railway system
now extends to Blacktown, on
the Penrith line, and is later to
be carried on to Wallerawang.
It will facilitate travel by em-
ployees to the St. Mary’s factory.
Some Government back-
benchers have criticised the con-
centration of munition-activity
at St. Mary’s. They consider
that dispersal would be more
in order.
Coal Board Mines
From F. W. Barrett, manag-
ing-director, F. W. Barrett and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney:—ln
B. 27/4/’55, under the Reading
of “Coal Output and Shares, 5 ’
there is justifiable puzzlement
about production - figures for
1953-54 as shown in the Joint
Coal Board’s report.
On the information in this
report, anybody would conclude
that private - enterprise had
fallen down and the Joint Coal
Board had shown the owners
how collieries should be worked.
The simple fact is that the
Joint Coal Board has only two
collieries, both of which are
new, and the board has huge
resources to equip them. The
groups are made to show the
Joint Coal Board’s pits in a
favorable light by comparing
them with old collieries and
omitting to mention that among
“all others” there are, at least,
two collieries which have an
output per man-shift of practi-
cally double that of the Joint
Coal Board’s pits. I refer to
Liddell Collieries’ mine at
Liddell (N.S.W.) and Wollon-
dilly Collieries’ at Burragorang,
and there may be others.
Also, the Joint Coal Board
was able to mechanise from the
start of operations, whereas the
others had to convert their pits
from hand- to mechanised-
mining with all the disadvan-
tages of established customs and
conditions to surmount.
Nylon-spinning
The ninety-two acre site in
the eastern suburbs of Mel-
bourne, Victoria, bought by
British Nylon Spinners Pty.,
Ltd., for the future establish-
ment of a nylon-spinning plant
in Australia, will ultimately have
spent on it between two and
three million pounds sterling.
British Nylon Spinners, of
Pontypool, Monmouthshire,
United Kingdom, are the sole
suppliers of nylon yarn and
nylon staple fibre to all British
Commonwealth countries ex-
cept Canada.
The co. was formed in 1940
with capital subscribed in equal
proportions by Courtaulds, Ltd.,
and 1.C.1., Ltd. For the first
five years, however, British
Nylon Spinners had only one
customer, the Ministry of Air-
craft Production. Urgent war-
time demands absorbed the
whole of British nylon produc-
tion.
It is just about fifteen months
since the Australian subsidiary
company commenced its work
for British Nylon Spinners in
Australia, and British Nylon
Spinners (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
already maintains in Australia
a team of experts to provide a
background of information on
nylon and to sort out technical
problems for manufacturers.
It may be two years before
the plant commences operation.
A Common Malady
Oddly, Malenkov was overtly
removed from office in the
U.S.S.R. for a state of economic
affairs which has lately made
itself noticeable both in Britain
and Australia —undue emphasis
on consumer - goods production.
In both Britain and Australia the
pinch has come most noticeably
in the export-import position.
Each country has been buying
abroad more than it can pay
for abroad out of current
earnings.
“An expanding economy such
as ours,” said the Chancellor of
the Exchequer recently, “is
bound to consume more imports.
But a growing .import-bill,
whether it arises from a
deterioration in terms of trade,
or from more imports, or as at
present from both these things,
cannot be afforded unless we
can look for a corresponding
increase in export earnings.”
The remarks apply even more
forcefully to Australia. The
Commonwealth’s economy is
probably expanding at a rate
even greater than in Britain.
And in this country import-
restrictions closely followed the
sharp rise in the bank-rate in
London.
During the five months to the
end of February, Britain’s im-
ports rose 12 p.c. compared
with a year earlier ; exports rose
only 2\ p.c.; and, as a result,
the slip in trade amounted to
£l3l million. The main causes
were higher import-prices, higher
import-volume, and little change
in exports.
On the import side, the cost
of goods brought into Britain
averaged 6 p.c. higher in January
this year than it did in
January, 1954. Food was up
nearly 9} p.c., in spite of the
drop in wheat; manufactured
goods rose by 6 p.c.; basic
materials 3 p.c.; and fuel 1 p.c.
Significantly for Australia,
wool-imports into Britain during
the five months were lower both
in volume and price. The U.K.
is importing more wheat because
of the failure of the grain-
harvest in last year’s wet
summer.
Summarising the position, the
British Treasury says that the
trade-gap has been widening
because, to support high produc-
tion and consumption, more
materials and foodstuffs have
been coming in. Export-prices
meanwhile are being held down
by the need to get orders
in increasingly competitive
markets ; and while exporters in
other countries have got increases
Britain has not. But, the
Treasury says hopefully, higher
import - prices bring with
them buoyant markets over-
seas, and altogether 1955
is looked on as a year of export
opportunities. But “the key
question for industry in 1955 is
how far and how fast it can
convert the opportunities into
higher export figures.”
As in Australia, Britain's
output of steel has been growing,
but it is not enough to meet
demand. There was renewed
expansion in the metal-using in-
dustries, especially in the output
of cars and consumer-goods.
The boom in “durables” covered
a wide range of products, and
was particularly marked in
domestic electrical appliances,
radio and television. The growth
in output of capital-goods was
less obvious, but investment in
basic industries has been
growing.
All very similar to conditions
in Australia. As here, too, man-
power is also short in Britain.
The rise in industrial production
by 6 p.c. in 1954 resulted two-
thirds from greater output per
(Continued on next page)


: : : :■
Wl
!
Gyprock wall in living room of The Australian
Women's Weekly's "House of the Future," at Syd-
ney Town Hall's Architectural Exhibition, May,
1954. Architect: H. Seidler, M.Arch., A.R.A.I.A.
GYPROCK builds beautiful piaster-smooth
walls and ceilings in HALF THE TIME!
The smoothest, most up-to-the-minute walls and ceilings can
now be built and decorated in days instead of weeks. No mess.
No fuss. First the big Gyprock panels are applied, covering
wall and ceiling areas. Then with the special Gyprock joint-
cementing treatment, the panels are welded into one smooth,
seam-less surface ideal for any type of decoration.
Sold by hardware stores and timber merchants
GYPROCK PLASTER WALLBOARD
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division:
Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide
V
There's a wonderful sense of convenience
in a Bank of New South Wales cheque
book. Payment of bills is so easy and
safe, for a cheque in the post saves
much time and trouble. Once cashed,
your cheque is proof of payment, and
cheque butts and bank statement pro-
vide a convenient and accurate record
of expenditure. Finally, you won't need
to carry large sums of money when you
have a cheque book in your pocket.
Why not put one there today?
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
:^ASSIIC
LAVINA
Cr
r
6.
m
Perfect craftsmanship which the particular will
appreciate ... Beauty in design the discriminat-
ing demand . . • Faithful reliability based on
Swiss Chronometer standards . . . Priced to
suit keen judges of value.
Here are illustrated two new Lavina models in
the modern trend of larger watches for men and
daintier watches for ladies.
Lavina prices range from—
Men’s: £l4/5/-. Ladies’: £l4/10/-
LAVINA
Since 1892
L 30.62
head, and one-third from an in-
crease in employment.
Britain’s man-hours worked
are very different from the Aus-
tralian experience. In the U.K.
manufacturing industry 46.3
hours were worked each week
last October, compared with
45.9 a year earlier. Though
they obviously include some
overtime, those figures show that
there is no 40-hour week in
Britain that works out at 35
hours or less in practice. But
with something like 46 hours
being averaged by each man and
woman each week, and without
much in the way of labor surplus
available, it is clear that further
increases in British production
must come f rom higher output
P« man - hour - Wh,ch means
new methods of increasing
efficiency and production with-
out increasing demands on
scarce labor-supplies.
With Britain as Australia’s
best customer, as well as its
chief competitor in the Empire
market for manufactured Poods
the presL “S
Britain have an intimate bearing
on the Australian economy. One
thing stands out like a light—the
British are working much harder
than Australians are.
London Aiunail
From Herbert Holman
PARTY sales-talk, varying con-
siderably in degree of mis-
leading exhortations though not
in intensity, is nearly over. Three
wordy manifestos, pompous,
mock-solicitous and flabby with
platitudes, have been dangled
before a public which has neither
time nor inclination to wade
through them. (It is even
doubtful whether those of the
two main parties will have
received any more attention than
that of the hapless Liberals
whose fumbling quixotism must
be unparalleled in political
history.)
The two main party-organisa-
tions, knowing that the hustings
are no longer centred in the
public meeting, have sedulously
studied camera-angles and the
technique of photogenic urbanity
which is held to appeal to the
4,500,000 television-screens.
The Conservatives’s very real
confidence has been undermined
by the fear that their opponents
would produce some devastating
jack-in-the-box at the last
minute. And the Socialists, with
neither a positive policy nor even
a vague, abstract conviction,
have subconsciously groped for
such a bogy.
No old-hand would dare say
outright that the Tories must win
by an increased majority, per-
haps of as many as 80 seats. It
is usual for public opinion to
swing against the party in power,
Yet the odds are strongly
on the side of the Tories for
three main reasons: The general
prosperity (ignoring, for the
moment, the “creeping” inflation
which neither party has the poli-
tical courage to tackle firmly);
the arithmetical fact that,
becau.se of the concentration of
industrial workers in safe con-
stituencies, Labor needs to poll
about 2 p.c. more votes than the
Conservatives to capture the same
number of seats ; and the surpris-
ingly large proportion of the so-
called working-class that chooses
to vote Tory.
It is this last circumstance,
rather than the “floating” voter,
which will probably govern the
result. A whispering-campaign
over the H-bomb or the period
of National Service or some
other heart-fluttering scarifier
constitutes the one serious threat
to Conservative chances.
Cottoning-on
Neither the Conservative
leader nor his first-lieutenant has
emerged from the campaign with
reputation untarnished. Both
have laid themselves open to a
charge of flagrant vote-catching.
There’s no doubt that Mr.
Butler, as the person most
directly concerned, has an
uneasy and embarrassed political
conscience.
In his Budget he reduced
purchase-tax on quality cotton
textiles by half. Lancashire, so
far from showing gratitude, was
incensed. The Chancellor then
affirmed in the Commons that
he could make no further con-
cession. But when the reduc-
tion of the Indian tariff was
announced he, allegedly under
pressure from the constituencies
and influenced by an unfavor-
able swing in the Gallup poll,
removed the tax altogether.
Lancashire still cried out in
anger,* for the further concession
was of doubtful value, since it
did not go far enough. The £6
million relief will affect no more
than about a sixth of the cotton-
goods liable to tax. The “Man-
chester Guardian,” which is not
always able to extend its
renowned objectivity to its own
county, affirmed that the Gov-
ernment was “trying to swindle
Lancashire and win seats on
false pretences,” and suggested
that the Prime Minister had been
outsmarted by the Board of
Trade and the Treasury.
The wool trade, left in the
cold, was not disinterested, and
telegrams soon began to fly.
Wool textiles were now the only
piecegoods not relieved of
purchase-tax, and a mere' £1
million would help. Bradford
“Wool Record” indignantly de-
scribed the concession as “one of
the most stupid and discriminat-
ing acts of the present adminis-
tration,” and appealed for
“some deep-breathing exercises
in readiness for the next round
of the shouting-match.”
It would rather seem that
Eden and Butler have let their
anxiety run away with their sense
of perspective. The cotton
industry, easy to panic, not the
most efficient and always jealous
of its rights to protection, is able
to play upon the susceptibilities
of its sensitive M.P.’s, forming
the most powerful pressure-
group in British politics.
But the industry is a dwindling
one, and Lancashire is no longer
wholly dependent upon it. Para-
doxically, the Conservatives may
not only have stirred up a
hornet’s-nest, but they may also
have acted in needless panic, for
it is by no means certain that
the average Lancastrian voter is
much concerned with the vagaries
of cotton.
Mild Oats
The scene is always a sump-
tuous apartment with a day-
bed, two doors, a table packed
with hard liquor, a telephone
that’s going to be very busy, and
a balcony which may or may
not lead to interesting exchanges
above, but which invariably
opens on to the New York
skyline.
Inevitably, the occupant is a
married man temporarily parted
from his wife and progeny back
home in Concord, Indianapolis
or Chattanooga. Domestic life’s
0.K., the wife’s dandy and the
kids are swell. Sure! But .. .
a guy kinder gets too much of it
after a time. Wants a break in
the routine. Marriage makes you
stodgy. You gotter step out,
pal, or you’ll go crazy . . .
He doesn’t give these senti-
ments their literal meaning, for
that would leave an empty stage
—and no chronicles of amusing
dalliance. Instead, someone
steps in. She is invariably young,
impressionable, naive and un-
worldly. They clash embarras-
singly, but the recoil lays open
an exciting field of adventure
with a hint of a bite or two of
forbidden fruit. Then some-
thing happens (just in time, as
you knew it would). The girl,
sweetly enriched in memory,
returns unharmed to her
innocuous former life. And the
man, chastened and not a little
shocked at his folly, glances at
his wrist-watch and hurries off
to catch the three-o’clock plane
to Concord, Indianapolis or
Chattanooga.
“The Tender Trap” (Saville
Theatre) rings several changes
on this overworked theme. It is
business (a cold-cure pill) that
brings the husband (Phil Brown)
downtown. His bachelor
associate (Brian Reece) is the
apartment-owner, and there is
not one charmer but fourr a
gushing flaxen popsy (Pamela
Marmont), a simpering Scarlet
O’Hara (Peggy Simpson), a
frowning, soft-hearted violinist
(Daphne Anderson), and a
googly ingenue (Geraldine
McEwan) of strange charm and
stranger diction.
The pace and artifice of the
writing and production make for
plenty of laughs and entertain-
ment, but the ideas have worked
themselves out long before the
end. Notwithstanding Mr.
Reece’s attack, 64-dollar accent
and all his charm, it is Mr.
Brown who commands most in-
terest. Of the camp-followers,
Miss Anderson alone achieves a
depth of focus. Her avoidance
of an American accent and the
others’ simulation of one prove
effectively that, lacking verisimi-
litude, such refinements are best
left unattempted.


Cape Yarf
\
QUEENSLAND
\
* A
new South wales
\ *
"V
VICTORIA
"From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson. C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairmani; The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning. K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); Byrne Hart; Cecil Brenan;
A. E. Axon, M.E., M.I.E. (Aust.); W. Hamilton Hart.
Manager: C. E. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst. v
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charlevihe.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
/"\F recent years the energetic C.M., one
of Australia’s big five mutual life
offices, has developed the habit of annu-
ally breaking its own record. And the
latest accounts provide fresh evidence of
continued progress in all those things
which matter most so far as bonuses to
policyholders—there are no shareholders
—progress and soundness are concerned.
A record amount of new business was
put on the books. The actuarial valua-
tion of liabilities to policyholders, made
on a stringent 2\ p.c. basis, disclosed a
bigger surplus available for distribution,
which covered a further substantial in-
crease in bonus-rates with a comfortable
margin to spare. There was also a
marked and pleasing increase in the rate
of interest earned, which, taken in con-
junction with the stringent rate assumed
in the valuation, reveals an ample margin,
and augurs well for the future. And so
do a reduction in the expense-rate, or cost
of handling the business, and the strength
of the actuarial and other reserves. It is
all the outcome of efficient management
of the business and wise investment of
the funds.
The amount of new business written
was £13,976,467 (up £1,112,746), and the
average amount per policy was £1407
(up £236) as against £7OO in 1949,
which can be taken as evidence
of public recognition of the need
for greater life-cover under the
altered conditions of today. The co.’s
policies are designed to meet a multi-
plicity of future needs of the assured and
his dependants, and are sold primarily
on the fairness of the contract, including
the prospect of future benefits com-
mensurate with what is given up mean-
time to obtain therp. One benefit, for
which there is no Substitute, is a full
measure of capital-protection long before
it is ever paid for.
Excluding a windfall of £106,172 in
respect of tax refunds (£85,607) and in-
terest earned in prior periods (£20,565),
the growth in the year’s income was
£582,293. The following table shows the
sources from which income was gathered,
and what was done with it:
Income— 1953. 1954.
Premiums, etc £3,006,287 £3,373,864
Interest, divs., etc 1,025,620 1,192,852
Surplus sale assets, etc. .. 25,897 73,881
Total £4,057,804 £4,640,097
Outgo and charges—
Paid to policyholders .. 1,128,257 1,245,472
Expenses* 672,851 697,368
Increased actuarial liability 1,583,252 1,749,045.
Total £3,384,360 £3,691,885
Surplus .. 673,444 948,212
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes, and providing for increased actuarial
liabilities, the surplus available for dis-
tribution was £274,768 stronger at
£948,212.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on the mean life fund (after deducting
income tax) was £4 9s. lOd. p.c., an in-
crease of 6s. 9d. p.c., making the total
increase over the last four years 18s. sd.
p.c. The growth is due to the strength-
ening of interest- and dividend-rates, or
the more advantageous terms on
which new money has been invested. The
margin of nearly 2 p.c. between the net
rate earned and that assumed in the valu-
ation is well in excess of what is usually
considered adequate for maintenance of
bonus rates. Another pleasing feature was
the drop of 1.1 p.c. in the ratio of exes, to
total income (12.6 p.c.). And the mor-
tality experience continues to be well
below that allowed for.
To the surplus earned was added the
two windfalls already mentioned and the
amount brought forward, making the
total available for distribution £1,092,645
(up £316,253), which was dealt with in
this way:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Surplus earned* .. £560,180 £673,444 £948,212
Interest prior year .. 20,565
Tax refund .. .. 85,607
Brought forward .. 34,788 62,948 38,261
Total surplus .. £594,968 £736,392 £1,092,645
Bonuses to policyholders! 482,020 588,131 767,249
To write down assets 50,000 50,000 70,000
To reserve .. .. 60,000 200,000
To deferred repairs .. 15,000
To carry forward .. 62,948 38,261 40,396
* Includes surplus on realisation assets. + Includes
provision for interim bonuses.
After strengthening visible reserves by
£200,000, using £70,000 to write down the
book-value of assets and earmarking
£15,000 for deferred repairs, £767,249 (up
£179,118) was distributed among policy-
holders in reversionary bonuses on a
“substantially increased scale,” which was
still well within the society’s current
earning-rate and which compares favor-
ably with those of other offices.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the invest-
ment portfolio:
1953. p.c. 1954. p.c.
Com’wealth stock £8,811,526 34.2 £10,461,261 36.6
Local-govt. stock 655,405 2.4 683,394 2.4
Shares and debs. 5,082,473 19.8 6,269,282 18.4
Mortgages .. 8,868,055 34.5 9,732,896 34.0
Loans on policies 876,643 3.4 922,808 3.2
Book debts, etc... 429,591 1.7 500,467 1.7
Cash, etc. . . 180,719 0.7 230,516 0.8
Properties ~ 843,167 3.3 818,155 2.9
Total .. .£25,747,579 £28,613,779
Of last year’s growth of £2,866,200 in
total assets, £1,649,735 was in respect of
Government securities, which now offer
a much better return than they did a
couple of years ago, £864,841 mortgages,
largely in connection with home-pur-
chases, which are very helpful so far as
new business is concerned, and £186,809
shares debentures.
General Industries, Ltd.
THIS firmly-established group consists
of parent holding co. and two operat-
ing subsidiaries, Metters, Ltd. (Sydney)
and Metters K.F.B. Pty. (Melbourne),
with an associate co. in New Zealand.
The factories at Sydney, Melbourne
Adelaide and Perth turn out a variety of
stoves —the line on which the business
grew up —baths, gas-heaters, builders’
hardware, enamel-goods, radiators and
other household electrical appliances, etc.
Earnings thus depend largely upon
activity in the building trade, and the
operating cos. have a firm grip upon the
Commonwealth-wide market for their
products.
Expansion of output and earnings, held
in check by shortages of materials,
skilled-labor and plant capacity, has been
the feature of the co.’s post-war history.
The difficulties mentioned have now
passed their most acute stage, and, with
the emphasis in public policy upon horhe-
building and immigration, the outlook
for the group remains bright.
Recognising that a first-class way of
increasing business is to widen the market,
the board entered into agreements last
term with Myttons, Ltd. (Melbourne), for
manufacture of steel-stamped porcelain-
enamelled baths, and with Admiral Inter-
national Corp. (U.S.) for production of
radio- and television-receivers. A new
jointly-owned co., Admiral of Australia
Pty., will presently erect a factory at
Bankstown (N.S.W.) for the purpose. In
addition the new co. is to distribute
refrigerators of Admiral design, to be
turned out by a recently-acquired sub-
sidiary, Rotafrig Pty., from a factory
also about to be put up at Bankstown.
The board is old-fashioned when it
comes to disclosing details of the business
to shareholders. However, vigorous
growth of the undertaking, in which plant
is finding difficulty in keeping abreast of
the order-book, is plain from the trends
of the co.’s own published figures and
public statistics. Last term bigger sales
and steadier costs pushed declared net
earnings up by £66,450:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends — s
Pref. * To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1052 274,352 20,851 10p.c~128,500 125,001 466,142
Depreciation written back, £42,380 .. 608,522
1953 239,080 20,851 10p.c.=150,921 67,308 575,830
Tax overprovided, £BO,OOO .. ..655,830
Unexplained reduction, £18,913 . . 636,197
1954 340,624 20,851 10p.c.=188,271 131,502 768,419
Unexplained reduction, £4397 .. 764,022
1955 407,074 33,278 10p.c.=188,270 185,526 949,548
The £407,074 of profit claimed was
written after making unspecified provis-
ions for depreciation and taxation, etc. It
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 19.8 p.c. pn ord. capital as against
18.1, 14.4, 19.7, 17.8 and 18.8 p.c. back to
1950. The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
has been since 1943. The board gives no
hint when more might be expected.
Fixed capital is well geared from the
equity point of view. To help finance
further additions to plant, etc., £500,000
of 6 p.c. notes were put out in 1953, and
last term 368,126 new £1 7 p.c. prefs.
were issued at par, raising paid capital
to £2,548,717, of which £666,000 carries
a fixed cumulative 7 p.c. Both the note
and pref. moneys are earning more, than
their keep. Next table shows how the
new pref. capital, together with £442,533
from the bank and an extra £195,143 from
sundry creditors, and more besides, was
employed:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref. .. .. £297,874 £297,874 £666,000
Ord 1,882,717 1,882,717 1,882,717
Reserves .. .. 575,830 768,419 949,548
Registered notes .. 511,397 510,000
Overdraft .. .. 442,533
Creditors . . .. 248,708 299,298 494,441
Tax reserve .. 720,774 419,658 504,327
Staff fund .. 50,000 50,000 50,000
Final div. .. 92,111 104,561 116,987
£3,868,014 £4,333,924 £5,616,553
Freeholds .. .. 835,222 874,217 1,020,323
Plant .. .. 835,273 1,001,661 1,351,729
Shares other c 0... 24,630 24,630 24,630
Stocks .. .. 1,686,638 1,612,791 2,086,593
Book debts .. 475,699 706,411 1,070,733
Cash .. .. 10,552 114,214 62,545
£3,868,014 £4,333,924 £5,616,553
Plant, chief earning asset, increased by
£350,068 net, while £146,106 was added
to freeholds, £473,802 to stocks and
£364,323 to book-debts. The more-or-less
liquid surplus, or net working capital
(£1,151,583), increased by £53,080, despite
the heavy outlay on fixed assets.
Nominal capital is to be increased to
£6,000,000 by the creation of 3,000,000
new £1 shares, of which a million is to
be under the control and allotted at the
discretion of the board. The market has
lengthened its bid for the f.-p. £1 ords.
from 345. 3d. to 475. over the last two
years. The immediate return at 475. is
4.2 p.c. The prefs., which are entitled
to participate in new share-issues, are
priced at 275. to yield 5.2 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover is £5 ss. prefs. and 30s. 4d.
ords.
Western Stores & Edgleys, Ltd.
/''OUTSTANDING features of the
accounts of this energetic country-
store organisation over the last decade
are rapid expansion, by additions to the
chain and otherwise, and lush returns to
old shareholders. The co. kicked off in
1928 as an amalgamation of two busi-
nesses in the central-west of N. S. Wales
—Western Stores and Edgleys—which got
together to centralise and cheapen buying
and reduce overhead. The group now
consists of headquarters at Dubbo, eight
branches in other towns and three old-
established retail businesses, which are
now wholly-owned subsidiaries —P. G.
Smith and Co. and Regans at Tamworth
and James Douglas and Co. at Orange.
A controlling interest was bought in
P. G. Smith and Co. in 1950, and the
remainder of the issued capital in 1953,
when the Regan business was also
acquired. The hardware and timber mer-
chandising business of James Douglas
and Co. was bought last year at an un-
stated figure for cash.
The ord. div., which had climbed from
10 p.c. in 1947 to 15 p.c. in 1951 and
remained steady until the close of
accounts in 1954, was lowered 13} p.c.
last term. Meanwhile, £143,200 of bonus-
scrip had been handed out in 1951, fol-
lowed in November last by a further gift
scrip-issue of £282,000, one for two, and
a cash issue at par of 130,100 new £1
ords., one for five. Both the bonus share-
issues were made from reserves created
by writing-up the book-value of freeholds
by like amounts. And the said book-
values are still “considerably below that
shown by the valuation figure,” the
chairman says.
Last term’s final div. —in which the
bonus-shares participated —was at the
rate of 12} p.c. p.a., which is equal to
18i p.c. on ord. capital as it stood a
year ago, or 26} p.c. on the figure before
the 1951 gift. Paid capital now stands at
£1,051,100, of which £175,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 6 p.c. The pref. div.
and 12} p.c. to the ords. on that lot would
call for £132,500, or £86,781 less profit
than was claimed last term, and £52,026
less than average net earnings over the
last four years.
Under existing conditions, the market
therefore doesn’t think the gift-giving has
been overdone, and prices the ords. at
50s. 3d. to return 4.8 p.c. on a 12} p.c.
div. basis, or 5.7 p.c. on a 15
p.c. distribution, comfortably covered
by the 1955 profit. The prefs. at 21s.
yield 5.7 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £9 17 Bd. prefs. and 31s. lOd.
ords.
Last term’s earnings got little benefit
from the James Douglas purchase, or the
new cash-paid capital. But turnover
gathered momentum as the year
advanced, and, after writing-off “heavy”
but undisclosed stock losses on account
of flood damage at the Dubbo and Gil-
gandra branches against the year’s earn-
ings, the board was able to show £18,959
more profit:
Parent 00.
r- 2 Dividends —,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 92,430 10,500 ISJp.c. = 48,125 33,805 274,224
Assets revalued, £143,200 .. .. 417,424
Reserves capitalised, £143,200 .. 274,224
1951.. 126.206 10,500 15 p.c. = 64,440 51,266 325,49 C
Parent and Subsidiary.f
1952.. 158.154 10,500 15 p.c. = 75,180 72,474 408,498
1953.. 10,500 15 „ „ 75,180 74,669 483,167
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 513,167
1954.. 322 10,500 15 p.c. = 84,600 105,222 618,389
Assets revalued, £282,000 .. .. 900,389
Reserves capitalised, £282,000 .. 618,389
1955.. 281 10,500 13|p.c.=103,306 105,475 723,864
* Subject to intangibles, now £44,984.
t After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
The £219,281 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 21.4 p.c. on ord. capital
as it now stands, compared with 33.7, 29.9
and 29.4 p.c. for the three preceding
years. Only 52.8 p.c. of the year’s net
earnings was distributed; the £105,476
ploughed back into the business lifted
reserves to £723,864, subject to £44,984
of intangibles. There are also said to be
substantial but undisclosed reserves
against stocks and book-debts.
A comfortable financial position, recent
business purchases, growth in the capital
account and buoyant trading again show
up in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord 501,200 564,000 976,100
Reserves .. .. 483,167 618,389 723,864
Outside interests.. 43,926 - 25,000 26,250
Staff funds . . 2,325
Overdraft . . .. 5,397 192,966 142,429
Creditors 125,231 147,884 149,635
Tax provision .. 305,463 241,693 246,371
Final divs. .. 42,84 0 47,550 66,256
£1,684,549 £2,012,382 £2,505,905
Freeholds, leaseholds 524,316 582,754 907,890
Plant, fittings, etc. 111,149 158,967 189,689
Shares .. .. 14,286 14,286 15,422
Stock .. .. 601,355 815,307 879,765
Debtors .. . . 316,199 372,843 445,667
Cash, Govt, bonds 77,664 32,056 22,488
Goodwill, etc. .. 39,580 36,169 44,984
£1,684,549 £2,012,382 £2,506,905
Of the year’s net addition of £325,136 to
freeholds, etc., £282,000 was on account


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ACTS
Circular Chart* for all type*
of Recording Instruments
for any class of HtcMnm
or Equipmsnt
METER CHARTS • SpocUH y
JACK®?O r s¥aj VAN^Uf.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
2
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.1268.12C
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
The LYSAGHT
500 BUSHEL GRAIN SILO
saves you money and worry
Prefabricated from heavy
gauge galvanized iron.
Rodent and weatherproof.
Simple to erect.
Permanent asset.
Generous depreciation
allowance for taxation.
Steel floor is part of each
500 Bushel Silo Set.
Ready to erect on Earth
Ring or other Base installed
by the Owner.
Write for Data Sheet on
Foundations and Bases.
Enjoy freedom from
• HIGH BAG COSTS
• RATS AND MICE
• DETERIORATION OF
GRAIN IN BAGS
¥ * #
m
f ft \
s ft \
. A
WB3S&
smsm^mm
.->. -
>
GW***
PRICE £76 (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
PRICES OF OTHER LYSAGHT SILOS
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Lysaght Augers are avail-
able for all LYSAGHT
SILOS.
Write for further information and Agents' Names to: —
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED.
NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSA6HT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. CAPITAL CITIES
547
of the writing-up already re-
ferred to ; the balance, or most
of it, was in respect of the James
Douglas deal, which is further
reflected in the addition of
£BBl5 to intangibles. Plant in-
creased by £30,722, stocks by
£64,458 and book-debts by
£72,824. To do all this and clip
£50,537 off the overdraft, only
£1751 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors.
Lowe’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
THE lift in the div. from Yl%
p.c. to 20 p.c. surprised the
market, which lengthened its bid
for the f.-p. ss. shares from
16s. 6d. to 18s. 6d. following
publication of the latest ac-
counts. The return at the higher
figure is only 5.4 p.c. on the 20
p.c. distribution, of which 2\
p.c. is called special bonus. So
the investor who looks for 6.7
p.c. on his money counts on, say,
a one-for-two bonus share-issue
and a 12| p.c. div., which would
then call for £43,689. And at
no time since the public became
interested in 1948 has the busi-
ness failed to earn more profit
than that.
Trading largely on a cash
basis from a chain of 11 stores
—nine in and around Sydney
and one each in the busy in-
dustrial centres of Newcastle and
Wollongong—the co. special-
ises in men’s and boys’ tailoring
and outfitting. It has strong re-
serves, sound finances and a
management with a flair for
this class of trade.
At January 31 last there were
reserves of £330,037 to support
and assist the £227,677 of paid
capital. In addition there were
72,310 workers’ shares, which
have no capital value or voting
rights, but rank pari passu with
subscribed capital for dividends
—they are the basis of a
profit-sharing scheme. Divs.
averaged 17| p.c. for the de-
cade to 1948, and 17.1 p.c. for
the seven years to the close of
last accounts; and the 17.1
p.c. was sweetened with £85,379
of bonus-scrip, issued in 1949
and charged against share-
premium account.
Last term turnover increased,
wage and other costs were rela-
tively steady, and the board
wrote net earnings at the record
figure of £77,561 (up £14,959):
Re-
Jan., Profit, t Dividends—> —, serves.
£ £ £
1950..46,127 15 p.c. = 36,234 237,917
1951..65,339 17J „ ~42,272 260,984
Net reduction res., £3038.. 257,946
1952..47,126 15 p.e. = 37,008 268,064
1953.. 44,412 15 „ ~36,968 275,50 S
Tax overprovided, £6500 .. 282,008
Unexplained addition, £32.. 282,040
1954.. 62,602 p.c. = 43,037 301,605
1955..77,561 20 „ ~49,129 330,037
The £77,561 of profit was
equal to 31.5 p.c. on subscribed
capital and workers’ shares com-
bined, compared with 25.4, 18,
19.1, 27 and 19.1 p.c. back to
1950. So the increased distribu-
tion created no strain; it left
nearly one-third of the year’s
profit to plough back into the
business.
Finances are comfortable,
and movements in balance-sheet
figures encouraging:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital £227,677 £227,677 £227,677
Reserves .. 275,508 301,605 330,037
Overdraft .. 19,386 2,036
Creditors .. 126,277 120,112 112,781
Provision for
tax, etc... 67,844 61,334 84,717
Staff funds . 22,112 27,112 32,112
Final dividend 21,555 24,573 27,640
£760,359 £762,413 £817,000
Freeholds .. 260,756 260,756 270,180
Plant, etc... 38,889 29,511 41,061
Stock .. 375,772 353,411 408,344
Debtors . . 30,072 25,946 39,528
Cash, shares,
etc. .. 54,870 92,574 57,881
£760,359 £762,413 £817,000
Further improvement of shop-
ping facilities sent the book-
value of fixed assets up by
£20,765, and the inventory build-
up (stocks increased by £54,933)
and growth in debtors’ balances
(up £13,582) might be taken as
an expression of the board s
confidence in the outlook, and
partly as a hedge against
import-restrictions and creeping
inflation in price-levels. Despite
the outlay on fixed assets, the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£246,457) was £7663 stronger.
Interstate Oil, Ltd.
Sponsored by Consolidated
Zinc Corp. in order to give the
public and those on the Con-
solidated co.’s ord. register a
more direct interest in the hunt
for oil in Australia by Frome-
Broken Hill Co. Pty., this
Interstate Oil co. has been
launched in Melbourne. It has
a nominal capital of £1,000,000
in ss. shares, of which Consoli-
dated Zinc Corp. has taken
1,020,000 contribs. for cash and
980,000 contribs. are offered —
up to 490,000 to those on the
Consolidated co.’s ord. register
and the rest to the public.
All the contributing shares are
payable Is. on application and
allotment and the balance as re-
quired. The new issue (980,000)
has been underwritten free of
charge by Consolidated Zinc
Pty., a subsidiary of Consoli-
dated Zinc Corp.
Frome-Broken Hill, formed in
1947, was jointly-owned by
Zinc Corp., Ltd. (another sub-
sidiary of Consolidated Zinc
Corp.), D’Arcy Exploration (a
prospecting offshoot of Anglo-
Iranian Oil) and Vacuum Oil
(which took over the British in-
terests of the American Vacuum
Oil co. over 50 years ago).
Frome now has an issued
capital of £210,000 in £1 shares.
The Zinc Corp. has sold 69,900
of its 70,000 shareholding to
this Interstate co. at cost, thus
giving it practically a one-third
interest in the Frome co.
Directly, and indirectly
through its shareholdings in
other cos., Frome-Broken Hill
holds, or is interested in, oil-pros-
pecting rights, etc., covering large
areas in Gippsland (Vic.), the
Mt. Gambier Sunklands (S.A.
and Vic.) and the eastern (Q.)
side of the Gulf of Carpentaria
—it has also applied for similar
rights on the opposite or Terri-
tory side of the gulf.
Immediate interest centres in
the Gippsland area, where ex-
orable structure exists at the
work have indicated that a fav-
ourable structure exists at the
southern end, in the Darriman
locality. Here a test-hole is to be
drilled, and further exploratory
work in the area will largely de-
pend upon the results.
In the past a number of fairly
shallow holes have been put
down in the Gippsland basin, and
small quantities of oil have been
found in a glauconitic sand-
stone at the base of the tertiary
section, which is not expected
to exceed a depth of about
7000 ft. Hopes are that wider and
better-directed exploration, and
more scientifically located drill-
ing sites, will produce results
which earlier work, largely
handicapped for both technical
and financial reasons, failed to
achieve.
Longreach No. 4 Fails
Following a drill-stem test
which produced an emulsion of
oil and water at the rate of 100
gallons an hour from the 3225 ft.
level, Longreach Oil, Ltd.,
has abandoned its No. 4 well
because the emulsion cannot pro-
duce oil in commercial quanti-
ties. The test, isolated oil-bear-
ing sands from the artesian-
water flow. At almost precisely
the same depth (3227 ft.) oil-
traces were found in a well bored
in 1929-31 about 500 ft. away.
Further drilling by Longreach
Oil will depend on the results
of pending geophysical surveys.
Westland Oil, next-door, is
already making a survey, and
operations might be combined
with advantages.
The Longreach board is to be
congratulated on the prompt
announcement of its findings
and decisions.
Golden Plateau, Cracow
(Q.), has met with lioz. values
over a width of 15ft. in the
western stope on No. 5 level.
It is too early yet to say just
how much of this high-grade
stuff is available, but it should
prove a nice sweetener to the
mill feed, which rose from an
average of s.odwt. in 1950 to
10.28dwt. for the 12 months to
June 30, 1954. For the latter
period the co. netted £84,200, or
a shade over 2s. per share, and
the div. was jacked up from
Is. 3d. to 2s. In the 42 weeks
to April 30 last 23,430 tons were
treated for 12,3400 z. fine gold,
compared with 21,516 tons for
10,8170 z. in the first 43 weeks
of the last financial period.
Measured ore-reserves (69,150
tons, averaging 9.Bdwt., at June
30, 1954) have never been more
than a few years ahead of the
mill. Profits have fluctuated
mainly with variations in the
grade as development proceeded,
and with the level of costs. The
scrip, which has dropped as low
as 13s. 6d. in 1954, recently
fetched 18s. The £114,083 of
paid capital is in 212,000 f.-p.
3s. 4d. shares and 630,000 paid
to 2s. 6d. each.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The week has not been one of great
social activity, probably because of the
school holidays. It is noticeable that
when any committee is fixing a date for a
function, as soon as someone says, “Oh,
we can’t have it that week —that’s the
school holidays,” everyone agrees that
that week is quite impossible, believing
probably that any parents who are not
out of town for the holidays will be too
exhausted with entertaining the children
to think of any other kind of entertain-
ing. The result is, therefore, a nice quiet
week for those who don’t have any
children.
# # #
Miss Daisy Bridges, executive-secretary
of the International Council of Nurses,
during her three days in Sydney kept up
the reputation of the nursing profession
for energy and activity in a striking
manner. Miss Bridges, who had been to
the Australian Nursing Congress in Mel-
bourne, attended a reception by the Lady
Mayoress (when she met representatives
of women’s organisations), a dinner in her
honor given by the A.T.N.A. and the
Florence Nightingale memorial commit-
tee at the Pickwick, addressed an audience
at the B.M.A. Hall on “Human Relation-
ship in Nursing,” visited three of our
main hospitals, and presented the certifi-
cates to graduating Sisters at Sydney Hos-
pital. On her way home to headquarters
in London Miss Bridges will visit Iran,
Beirut and Damascus to se£ the work of
the nursing profession there.
* ☆ ☆,
Miss May Hollinworth has made a
welcome return to repertory theatre,
after an absence of nearly five years, as
producer of “The Love of Four Colonels,”
at the Independent. Ail who are inter-
ested in plays remember the stimulating
effect of her work both at the Sydney
University Dramatic Society, which she
directed for 10 years, and for the Metro-
politan Theatre, which she founded.
Remembered, too, will be her produc-
tion of “Murder in the Cathedral” at the
Town Hall, when, she says, the audience
paid her the greatest compliment she has
ever received in the theatre by walking
from the hall at the end of the play in
complete silence, overawed by the tragedy.
Miss Hollinworth believes strongly in
the value of plays by Australian writers,
and while directing the Metropolitan in-
cluded at least one Australian play each
year, among them Douglas Stewart’s
“Ned Kelly,” with Guy Manton, Kevin
Brennan and lan Maxwell, and “Ship-
wreck,” with Kevin Brennan as Cornelius.
A person of great originality, Miss
Hollinworth prefers to produce plays
which she has not seen performed, so
that her interpretation is quite free from
the influence of other producers. “When
I was thinking about ‘The Love of
Four Colonels,’ ” she said, “I got to push-
ing pieces round a chessboard, until I saw
the pattern of the play emerging and I
saw the pieces forming into triangles;
then I was ready to go ahead.” Let us
hope that much more of Miss Hollin-
worth!s work will be seen and that her
influence will be as great in the future
as it has been in the past.
☆ ☆ ☆
Twelve pretty debs, were received by
Lady Hallstrom at the ball held during
the week to celebrate the centenary of
the world Y.W.C.A. They were Pamela
Cooper, Helen Ainsworth, Beverley Wes-
ton, Meryl Rodda, Fay Bailey, Pamela
Ryan, Carol Hughes, Elaine Barkley,
Judith Scobie, Heather Warren and
Valerie Forrest. Lady Hallstrom wore a
bouffant gown of dark red organza with
a platinum-mink stole and a tiara in her
hair. Mrs. Neville Harding presented the
debs., and was assisted in receiving the
guests by Mrs. D. G. Jamieson, Mrs. D.
Utz, Mrs. C. E. Dent and Miss Meysie
Law. The ball was held at the “Y” Hall,
and all the debs, were members of
Y.W.C.A. clubs in Sydney.
# # V
Lady Butters, who has had a long
illness, is ever so much better, and is
enjoying meeting her friends again.
Sr * ☆
Mrs. Charles Chauvel, who is one of
Sydney’s most fluent and interesting
women speakers, gave a delightful address
to members of the Royal Empire Society
Women’s Auxiliary on Wednesday after-
noon. She spoke of her experiences in
the Northern Territory while helping her
film-producer husband with the making
of the picture “Jedda” (now showing in
Sydney), and drew a vivid word-picture
of the country where it was sometimes
114 degrees in the shade and one literally
“shivered with the heat.”
It was interesting to hear of the pre-
cautions taken to keep the film from
buckling in the heat—storing it in zinc-
lined boxes, which were placed in caves
and covered with wet hessian-cloths, these
constantly replaced by a boy who sat in
attendance on them all day.
In the jeep, too, travelling across the
buffalo plains in the burning heat, the
only umbrella was held over the tin of
film currently in use. “If there is any-
thing in reincarnation,” says Mrs.
Chauvel, “I think I would like to come
back as a tin of Charlie Chauvel’s color-
film!” Mrs. Chauvel pointed out the
great power possessed by Australian films
to advertise this country abroad, and said
that she and her husband believed the best
type of boys to encourage to come here
were those who loved adventure.
Hostesses greeting Mrs. Chauvel at the
meeting were Lady Berryman, Mrs.
Garnet Halloran and Mrs. David Lindsay.
Robin Young, whose engagement was
recently announced, is the younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Alex Young,
of Balmoral. Her fiance is Ronald Hall,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. M. T. Hall,
of Willow Tree. The marriage is planned
for the end of the year. Photo by Dayne.
Empire Day was celebrated by the
Royal Empire Society, the Victoria
League and the Overseas League with a
reception at the Trocadero, at which a
vivid entertainment, “Cavalcade of Com-
m6nwealth,” was presented in national
dress by members representative of all
components of the British Common-
wealth of Nations. Australia was repre-
sented by the Police Choir of 25 voices
singing “Waltzing Matilda,” with the
action of the song illustrated by the Inde-
pendent Theatre Workshop.
The Governor, Sir John Northcott, was
present, and the Acting High Commis-
sioner for the United Kingdom, Mr. G.
W. Tory, and Mrs. Tory. Others were
Mr. J. A. Martenz (Ceylon), Mr. and
Mrs. W. A. Irwin (Canada), Mr. P.
Ratnam (India), Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward and Mrs. Woodward, Rear-
Admiral H. J. Buchanan and Mrs.
Buchanan, Air-Vice-Marshal A. L.
Walters and Mrs. Walters, and Mr. J. K.
Lavett (president of the Royal Society of
St. George) and Mrs. Lavett.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Carrington, V.C.,” starring David
Niven, is to have its gala preview at Hoyts’
Double Bay Theatre on Wednesday, June
8, all proceeds to go to the Red Cross
Society. Tickets are 10s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.,
so there should be a full house for a
good cause and an interesting picture.
Bookings can be made either at the
theatre or at Red C/oss House, Jamieson-
street.
☆ ☆ ☆
Seats for the opening night of “Seven
Little Foys” at the Prince Edward, when
Bob Hope will make a personal appear-
ance, are to be £lO, £5, £3, £2 and £1
each. This may seem rather high, but all
the proceeds are going to the Spastic
Centre, so the price of the seats can be
regarded as a donation to the wonderful
work done there—and it’s a tax-deduction,
too. The premiere is on June 1, and
tickets are available now.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Great Hall of the University was
the setting for a really beautiful ceremony
when Fellows and Members of the
Royal Australasian College of Physi-
cians were admitted by the president,
Dr. C. G. Macdonald. The Governor-
General, Sir William Slim, Prime Minis-
ter Menzies, and Sir Russell Brain, presi-
dent of the Royal College of Physicians
in London, were the first to be admitted,
and in their robes, standing against the
mellow stone and rich portraits of the
hall, they made a picture worthy to be
painted by a great artist.
Three women were among those to be
admitted —Dr. Alice Bush and Dr. Mary
Heseltme as Fellows, Dr. Claire Weekes
as a Member. Distinguished members of
the church, the judiciary and the three
Services were present, mostly in robes and
decorations. Lady Brain wore grey with
a soft-grey tulle stole, Dame Pattie
Menzies wore her D.B.E. on her pale-blue
chiffon dress, Mrs. Nigel Frazer (daugh-
ter of the Governor-General; she depu-
tised for her mother) wore green-and-
gold-shot taffeta.
MELBOURNE
An air of Victorian elegance invested
the Royale Ballroom when the Victoria
League held its Empire dinner-ball, at
which there were 500 guests. Lady
Brookes, chairman of the ball-committee,
lent some of her lovely pieces of furni-
ture for the foyer, which was dressed as
a drawing-room. Floral decorations
included green and blue hydrangeas,
pastel chrysanthemums, red holly, poin-
settias and autumn-foliage. The vice-
regal enclosure also represented a
drawing-room, the gilt chairs and couches
covered with plum silk-damask.
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
received by the league president, Lady
Brookes, and senior vice-president Mrs.
lan Connell. The Governor’s lady wore
a bouffant gown of pale-pink tulle, which
had a fitting bodice; white lace dotted
with sequins were appliqued on the full
skirt; with it she wore a white Arctic-
fox stole. Lady Brookes’s gown was of
eau-de-Nil brocade, the neckline out-
lined with flowers of the material, the
skirt full and graceful. Mrs. Connell’s
grey slipper-satin gown featured a strap-
less bodice and bouffant skirt.
The large official party included
Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund Herring
and Lady Herring, Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. R. R. Dowling, Air-Marshal Sir
John McCauley and Lady McCauley,
Mrs. Robert Hamilton, Mrs. Walter
C arnegie, and Mrs. R. J. Staughton,
whose pretty gown was of orchid-pink
chiffon.
Ticket-secretaries were Marjorie Tat-
nall (who wore white organza) and
Adrienne Maxwell (also in white and
with a gold tiara in her hair). Other
pretty girls were Marian Gengoult Smith,
who wore pink tulle; Gillian Collins, in
white with a large bustle-bow of apple-
green taffeta; Vivienne Knox Knight,
her chiffons in green and white stripes ;
and Alison May, whose coral-pink
organza frock had a harem-hemline and
white beading on the strapless bodice. ,
V V V
One of the outstanding ensembles
noticed in the foyer of the Princess
Theatre for the opening night of
“Separate Tables” was that worn by Mrs.
Garnet Carroll. She topped her full-
length white evening-gown with a sweep-
ing theatre-coat of vivid scarlet satin.
Mrs. Graham Nathan was also a striking
figure in scarlet-velvet gown and a white-
fox stole. Mrs. Charles Burge chose
ruby-red velvet, Mrs. John Teague a
flowing black-velvet coat with the high
collar heavily encrusted with jet. Mrs.
Alfred Fowler’s black velvets were
studded with white iridescent beads.
V V *
The French Consul, M. Cyril Le Bas
de Plumetot, and his wife entertained
at their Kooyong home members of the
French community, of the Musica Viva
Society, and, as guests-of-honor, the
visiting Pascal String Quartet, who will
tour here under the auspices of the M.V.
Society. The hostess wore a cocktail-
frock of deep-brown velvet which had an
unusual swathing of brown-fringed
jersey at the hipline and was caught in a
knotted bow in front. Guests included
Mrs. Harold Holt (in tweed frock and
matching coat with beaver-fur trimming),
Colonel and Mrs. F. H. Wright, Madame
A. Gay and her daughter Lillianne,
Prof. A. Chisholm, Chinese Consul A.
Liu, Mrs. Desmond Deasey (whose
graceful frock was of grey flowered-silk)
and Miss Kathleen Deasey.
This John Warlow study is of Mrs.
Dorothy McNaughtan entrant in the
“Loveliest Mother” Quest organised for
the Prince Henry’s Hospital Appeal; she
represents the Leather Footwear and
Allied Trades. Mrs. McNaught, who was
educated at St. Columba’s Convent,
Essendon, is a well-known photographer’s
model. A war-time worker for Red Cross,
she is the mother of three sons, the
youngest five months old.
Many lovely gowns were worn to the
Comedy Theatre for the opening night of
Terence Rattigan’s “The Deep Blue Sea,”
which stars Googie Withers and John
McCallum. Mrs. Garnet Carroll added to
her short white guipure-lace frock a
theatre-coat of Ming-blue satin. Mrs. D.
J. S. McKinnon’s choice was a gown
of emerald-green chiffon. Mrs. Robert
Haisman wore a cape of cocoa-brown
fox with her short, full frock of coral-
pink satin. Mrs. James McGauran’s short
bouffant frock was of silver-grey satin,
the skirt featuring inset-panels beautifully
embroidered in white and blue rhine-
stones.
Judy Spry, who was with fiance Bruce
Matear, chose a gown of Ming-blue satin
and chiffon. Mrs. Keith Krohn’s cape
was white ermine, her gown black velvet.
Mrs. Alfred Fowler’s black-velvet gown
had a striking flower-design in pearls and
brilliants at one side of the deep, square
neckline. A theatre-coat of pastel-pink
corded-velvet was worn by Mrs. Ronald
Marriott over a short white-lace frock.
Mrs. Carrick Wilson (Sydney) chose a
short frock of white-and-gold brocade.
Mrs. Eric Rogers’s off-the-shoulder frock
was of royal-blue crepe with an all-over
pattern in gold.
☆ * ☆
The Governor and Lady Brooks,
accompanied by Colonel R. W. Spraggett
and Mrs. Spraggett, attended the Tivoli
Theatre for the opening of the Winifred
Atwell show. Lady Brooks wore a
gown of white satin with furs. Dressing
which also caught the eye included Mrs.
David Martin’s short teal-blue satin frock
under an ermine coat; Mrs. Frank Mar-
tin’s black frock and dyed-ermine cape;
Mrs. Roy den Honeyman’s full black skirt
corded at the hem and worn with a
black embroidered sweater; Mrs. W.
Moore’s gown combining black lace and
nylon tulle; Mrs, Norman Lynch’s gun-
metal-satin frock ; Mrs. Gordon Cooper s
beige-lace gown ; and Mrs. Bill Dooley’s
black ensemble and tiny white theatre-hat.
☆ ☆
At the Australia Mrs. Constance Day
and Mrs. Sue Cain gave a luncheon at
which Mrs. Norman Lynch, who leaves
early next month with her husband for
the U.S., was guest-of-honor. Mrs. Day
wore a grey suit with a white velvet cap;
Mrs. Cain, also in a grey suit, contrasted
hers with a Ming-blue velour cap. Mrs.
Lynch’s beige wool-frock was worn
under a blue mink-jacket; her wide-
brimmed pink felt hat was trimmed with
pale-grey chiffon. Among the guests were
Mrs. Lou Green, whose pheasant-trimmed
emerald-green velvet pillbox topped a
black Persian-lamb coat; her daughter
Lucille, in red coat and black velvet cap ,
Mrs. Norman Strange, her choice a white-
flecked grey wool-suit and dark-green
cloche; Mrs. Arnold Levy, whose suit
was black-and-white-check, her velvet
beret black ; and Mrs. John Newton, who
wore a beige-and-white-patterned suit and
a winter-white melusine cloche.


This Investment Opportunity
Closes next Saturday!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£4'ls'-%
CASH AND CONVERSION
LOAN
THE PREMIER N.S.W. SECURITY
Make your savings pull their weight—invest in this Loan and have
interest at 4 3 A % per annum credited to your bank account every six
months. You gain complete security, too. The Board’s annual income
secures your investment and the N.S.W. Government unconditionally
guarantees principal and interest.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN N.S.W.,
QUEENSLAND, TASMANIA AND WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Subscriptions (£5O minimum), half-yearly interest and repayment of
principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
Instalments are accepted.
START MAKING MORE MONEY TODAY!
Apply at the nearest Commonwealth Trading Bank, the Sydney Water
Board, or through a Stockbroker. Or post the coupon to-day and a
Prospectus and application form will be forwarded.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD,
341 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me full details of your Loan.
NAME
ADDRESS 1
WBL37-55
Issued at par for 10 or 20 years, Loan No. 134 closes next Saturday, 28th May, 1955, and is
underwritten by Charles A. Ord & Minnett, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
“The Deep Blue Sea”
Terence Rattigan is as sur-
prisingly serious in this play (at
Melbourne Comedy) as Noel
Coward was in “Brief En-
counter,” and it is the same old
problem they are both describ-
ing—the problem of the lover
and the loved.
The loved in this case is a
young Air Force hero whom
peace has ruined and who is
saddled with a mistress he no
longer loves although when
their affair was all excitement
she left her husband, an emin-
ent English judge, to throw in
her lot with her out-of-work
airman.
The airman has been offered
his old job as a test-pilot, but
dare not take it because his
nerves have failed him. In his
inability to feel what he believes
he ought to feel towards his mis-
tress he solaces himself with
drihking. She used to paint, but
she has sacrificed that, too, on
love’s altar. In her inability to
make him feel what he can’t
feel she solaces herself by nag-
ging at him and finally putting
her head in a gas-oven.
Although these gestures are
designed to get his concern back,
they only serve to make it more
difficult than ever for him to
feel concern, and in despair he
goes off to his test-pilot job in
South America.
Rattigan has given a vivid
description of the situation, and
Googie Withers, hitherto known
as a light-comedy actress, iden-
tified herself with the feelings of
the deserted mistress. John Mc-
Callum played the part of the
bewildered airman very well,
William Lloyd was a dignified
husband, and William Rees had
the only wisdom in the play as
the doctor. It was all very living.
♦J* £4
‘The Love of Four Colonels”
After several years away from
the stage May Hollinworth
makes a welcome and delightful
return to producing with this
Ustinov comedy at the Inde-
pendent Theatre, North Syd-
ney.
Ustinov makes the usual
familiar fun out of the national
idiosyncrasies of his four col-
onels—a Briton, a Russian, an
American and a Frenchman —
in an occupied zone of Europe,
and then rambles into a more
brilliant kind of humor when
the four of them* with aid of
a good fairy and a wicked fairy,
penetrate the impenetrable forest
surrounding the castle where
sleeps the Sleeping Beauty.
Each sees the Beauty differ-
ently, and each, with the aid
of the fairies, is allowed to play
out with her his favorite and
secret idea of himself. Ustinov
has a whale of a time here, and
his playlets, hovering between
burlesque and satire of Chek-
hov, Moliere, Shakspeare,
O’Neill, Hollywood and what-
have-you, are immensely enter-
taining fragments.
Ustinov also indulges in some
elevated argle-bargle which
might or might not pass for a
philosophy of a kind; this is
dull stuff, but there’s enough wit
and ingenuity to carry it.
Miss Hollinworth’s produc-
tion makes a complicated affair
look smooth and simple, and the
way in which she stages the
playlets is pretty to see and
gives Ustinov his money’s worth
and a bit over. She has a tip-
top cast working for her: Diana
Perryman catching the mood
nicely in each of the Sleeping
Beauty’s roles ; Kevin Brennan
making a wonderfully bad boy
out of the wicked fairy; Ruth
Cracknell making the good fairy
as worrying as one’s conscience ;
and James Workman, Brian Bar-
rie, Peter Williams and Norman
Bushman giving very able and
entertaining versions of the
colonels.
■*2* ♦♦♦
“Pink Elephants”
Hugh Hastings’s new play at
Sydney’s Metropolitan follows
the stock recipe for domestic
farce for a while: the men of
the house in bed with hang-
overs, and so on. Things look
up when it transpires that there’s
an elephant browsing in the
backyard. It seems the men rode
it home last night, having won
it at cards.
Unfortunately, the author
mounts only squibs of humor
on this ample, if implausible,
subject. Elephants are an
awkward detail, more easily
coped with on the films.
Nobody expects the Metro-
politan to produce a live
elephant, but might we not be
given more tangible proof of its
presence than a couple of blasts
from a tuba in the wings? A
wall pushed in, say.
On the serious side (presum-
ably) there’s a couple whose
marriage is a failure. Wisely,
however, they spend five minutes
psychoanalysing each other,
and in consequence live happily
ever afterwards.
Ken McCarron made the
most of what humor is scattered
through the play. Most of the
youngsters in the cast did pretty
well with what they had. Young
Alan Dearth announced the
elephant with a nice take-it-or-
leave-it air.
**♦
The Barbirollis
If any of the once-formidable
race of husband-tyrants were in
the audience at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night they
must have grunted approval at
a rare spectacle—that of a wife
responding instantly and with-
out question to her husband’s
masterful directions. . The net
result of this was \ nicely
integrated reading of
Castelnuovo - Tedesco’s Oboe
Concerto, in which Evelyn Roth-
well (Lady Barbirolli) was soloist
with the Symphony Orchestra
conducted by Sir John
Barbirolli.
Not that this work is any great
shakes, though its thematic
organisation is compact enough
and there are some respectable
harmonies. But melodically
there are too many gaps. The
soloist conjured a tone which
brought out to the full the instru-
ment’s peculiarly plaintive
qualities.
Another contemporary work
—also, like the Concerto, getting
a first hearing in Australia—
was Moeran’s Serenade in G.
Vastly superior to his only
symphony, this music is remark-
able for the extensive use of the
percussion-section. Here is no
mincing lover in powdered wig,
but an aggressive swain striding
into his inamorata’s boudoir
banging a drum. The writing
for the strings is fine.
Through the rest of the pro-
gramme Beethoven strode like a
colossus. There was the power-
fully projected drama of the
“Egmont” Overture, a glowing
tribute to the heroism of a great
soldier, and the “Eroica”
Symphony, that great jutting
promontory in the coastline of
music.
The Symphony was the best
Beethoven heard from the
orchestra for a long time. The
emotional impact was always
strong, and strongest where it
was most called for —in the
wonderful threnody of the
second movement. The scherzo
was crisp and nimble, and had
a fair measure of the cosmic
laughter which Beethoven used j
here to counteract the deep
gloom of the previous section.
Barbirolli gained his effects
without fuss, but his vitality and
purpose were never in doubt,
least of all to the forces under
him.
❖ *
With Harpsichord
Sydney University's Pro
Musica Society concert on Fri-
day celebrated the return from
London of Professor Peart with
the harpsichord on whose be-
half Mr. Peter Platt made-such
moving appeals last year.
The harpsichord, a light-toned
Dolmetsch, made its debut in a
Bach concerto in F Minor. Pro-
fessor Peart had to make the
tiny Bach orchestra whisper to
allow the harpsichord to be
heard, and then it developed a
clacking of the jacks or some
illness of the keys which added
a kind of tap-dance to even
Miss Amy Moran’s rendering of
the exquisite decorations to the
“Air for a G String” which
forms the slow movement of the
concerto.
The 13th - century Perotin
motet “Sederunt Principes” was
more sedately and roundly given
under Mr. Platt than it was last
year, and at a second hearing,
rising on the wings of his fine
conducting and learned notes,
one was disturbed by doubts
whether he should have substi-
tuted orchestral playing for the
singing of the plainsong—just as,
at a second hearing of the Brit-
ten Santa Claus-cantata “St.
Nicolas,” rather less energetic
than when Professor Peart con-
ducted it two years ago, the
really noble effort of adding
ten close pages of all the words
to the plentiful programme-
notes merely enabled one to see
the work’s limitations —it has a
good storm at sea, a charming
birthday-chorus, but no really
memorable tune. Mr. Archie
Hamilton sang, as before, the
arbitrary notes with assurance
and clarity.
The “Prague” symphony
and a Boyce “Symphony No. 5
for trumpets, oboes, strings and
continuo” reminded one that one
was listening to an amateur
orchestra, but an enthusiastic
and learned one; Professor
.Peart made much of a brisk
handling of the Mozart andante
section; while his minuetto in
the Boyce work would have ex-
hausted any performer less
nimble than Nijinsky.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Cavalleria” and
“Pagliacci”
Those two one-opera-men (or
half - an - opera - men) Mascagni
and Leoncavallo did better than
they knew. They wrote operas
which, for concentration and
sustained interest, both musical
and dramatic, beat most long
operas to a frazzlq, and they
thereby provided the company
at present packing ’em into Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, with a
vehicle so thoroughly within the
compass of its various talents
that an evening of intense excite-
ment is provided.
From the moment that Con-
chita Flores, as Santuzza,
waltzes upon the floor and starts
her passionate dialogue with
Turiddu Umberto Borso there
is no lull in the proceedings.
One love cools-off and another
warms-up, ears are bitten and
jealousies and hatreds sprout like
mushrooms, and Mascagni’s
music leaps from Afro Poli to
Signor Borsi and is picked-up by
Dora Minarchi —a fetching
Lola —and never misses the
mood of the moment.
There is the same hurly-burly
of animal moods and passions in
“Pagliacci,” through which
Umberto Borso, as Canio, picks
his way with the same astute-
ness as he does in the previous
opus, his lamenting tenor con-
trasting with the big baritone of
Giulio Mastrangelo, as the self-
pitying clown, while Gabrielle
Tucci laughs and cries har-
moniously in the background.
»> ♦> *
“The Barber”
Subsequently, the company
gave Rossini’s gayest opera the
the gayest presentation on local
record.
Everything was gay about it.
Afro Poli imported some ex-
traneous good-humor into the
part of Basilio the music-master ;
Ferdinando li Donni gave Fig-
aro, the universal muddle-maker,
a lighter touch than usual; Aug-
usto Pedroni put his tongue in
the cheek of Count Almaviva ;
and Ginetta la Bianca provided
Rosina with a sparkling presence
and a top-note which was under
better control than on previous
occasions. Even the scenery
seemed to be having a joke with
the period it was supposed to be
exemplifying.
Partisans of an older com-
poser jealous of Rossini are said
to have completely wrecked the
premiere of the opera in Rome
in 1815. They whistled through-
out the proceedings as one
critic said, all the whistlers of
Italy seemed to have given them-
selves a rendezvous for the per-
formance. There was plenty of
laughter at the first-night in
Melbourne, and most of it was
in the right places.
❖ ❖
Vitalia Boursouk
Frail-looking, this girl, but
there was certainly no frailty
about her assault on the giant
tonal-structure of the Bach-
Busoni “Chaconne” with which
she began her Sydney Con.
recital. The left-hand chords
were punched with vigor and
considerable weight in the open-
ing and closing phases, and in
between, with the exception of
some indifferent phrasing, she
wove her way through the maze
{Continued on page 22)


The Tank
by John Hourner
"7" HE tank was the most
/ prized of all Ellen Thom-
L j son’s simple possessions.
For years her ambitious
dreams had centred on it, and
then, suddenly it seemed, it was
hers—a large tank full of water
that gushed, crystal-clear, from
the polished brass tap —and
there was no longer need to
carry the heavy kerosene-tins
from the deep gully.
Ownership of the tank had
brightened her whole life.
Trudging home in the evening
with the fiat-hoe over her
shoulder she would be aware of
a rosy glow along the edges of
her consciousness, and, concen-
trating upon it, she would find it
crystallise into the joyful reality
of the waiting tank.
For years it had been like
that. Only lately had she found
her pleasure in the tank fading,
and for that she blamed Rita,
her daughter-in-law.
She bent low, and from the
picking-tin tied round her waist
shot a crimson cascade of rasp-
berries into the painted kero-
sene-tin. As she straightened
her gaunt, muscular body her
eyes swept disdainfully over the
shady straw hat and long rubber
gloves of her daughter-in-law,
and the bitter puckers round her
mouth deepened as the daughter-
in-law moved with swinging
strides towards the bush she had
left.
“You’d think she was got up
for church instead of raspberry-
picking,” she muttered to her-
self. “These town girls!”
Her four-year-old grandson
was racing up and down be-
tween the rows of canes.
“Don’t do that, Darryl,” she
shouted. “You’ll be upsetting
the cans.”
His mother looked up from
beneath the wide brim of her
hat.
“Come over here, Darryl, and
help Mummy pick.”
The mother-in-law took a tin
from the pile near the end of
the row and tied it deftly round
the little boy’s waist.
“You come with Granny,”
she said wheedlingly, “and help
me.” She took his hand and
went back to her place. “There’s
a cane with a lot on it. You
pick them all off and put them
in your tin. 'You’re Granny’s
boy, aren’t you?”
The child began to pick the
raspberries and put them into
the tin.
“I’ve finished that one,
Granny,” he called presently.
She pretended delighted sur-
prise.
“Finished already! What a
smart boy! Pick this one now
and see if you can be as smart
as you were before.”
Old Ivy Brown, busily pick-
ing in the next row, smiled to
herself. Ellen Thomson couldn’t
bear to see idle hands. Ah, well,
she thought, Ellen didn’t ask
anyone to do what she hadn’t
done herself. After her hus-
band had died and left her with
her small son, Jack, she’d
worked the farm on her own,
toiling from dawn till dark, in
all weathers.
The neighbors admired her,
but she made no close friends.
She was a woman who kept her-
self to herself, asking nothing
of anyone, always quick to stand
up for her rights. It was a pity
about Rita, Mrs. Brown thought,
but it wasn’t her fault that she
was so different from Ellen.
Ellen Thomson worked
steadily round the bush, her
stained, strong fingers racing up-
wards along the heavily laden
canes. She could pick her
hundred pounds a day with the
best of them, but it meant start-
ing early and working till dusk.
It annoyed her to see Rita
wandering along to work half-
way through the morning. She
didn’t look upon her daughter-
in-law’s eternal dusting and
polishing as work.
TIER thoughts raced with her
busy fingers, brooding, self-
righteous thoughts whose bitter-
ness hid the truth from her.
She’d done her duty as a mother-
in-law just as she’d done it as
a mother, even though it had
been a bitter disappointment to
her when Jack, for whom she’d
worked early and late, had
insisted on marrying this useless
town girl. Nevertheless, she’d
tried to make the best of things,
had tried to show Rita what was
expected of a farmer’s wife.
Not that it had done much
good.
Rita just wasn’t interested,
and Jack didn’t seem to care
whether she helped on the farm
or not. It made Ellen’s blood
boil to see Jack still bedazzled
by Rita’s painted face, and her
fripperies, and her high heels
mincing about the farmyard as
though it would kill her to get
a bit of muck on her shoes.
Still, she’d kept her peace, never
complaining, trying to be
pleasant to Rita for Jack’s sake,
waiting for the day when he’d
realise what he’d burdened
himself with.
It was only partly true. Ellen
Thomson had never complained
of Rita’s incompetence, but in a
hundred ways she’d made clear
to her daughter-in-law her
opinion of her —the impatient
lifting of a bucket that Rita was
struggling with, the grim haste
with which she corrected each
of Rita’s many mistakes, the
taut sneer on her thin lips when
Rita discusssed any farm pro-
cedure with Jack. Rita had no
illusions about Ellen’s regard for
her, but accepted it as natural
from the type of woman that
Ellen was. In a way she ad-
mired Ellen, without having the
least desire to be anything like
her, and, intuitively, Ellen knew
this, and the knowledge in-
creased the bitterness with
which she regarded her
daughter-in-law.
The mother-in-law’s darting
fingers continued to strip cane
after cane, pausing momentarily
to shake down the fruit in the
picking-tin so that she wouldn’t
have to make unnecessary trips
to empty it into the larger cans.
Presently she . found herself
back-to-back with Ivy Brown,
who was working along the
neighboring row. She nudged
her and indicated her grandson,
who was still picking busily,
squatting in the shade of the
bush.
“As good as gold, he is, if
he’s handled right,” she said.
“His mother spoils him, though,
and his dad’s just as bad. One
word from his mother and he
does as he likes.”
“They’re all the same today,
as far as I can see, Ellen. Kids
are not what they were in our
young day.”
“You’re right there. But I
always say it’s the way they’re
brought up. Rita gives Darryl
everything he asks for. Even
got Jack to buy him a tommy-
hawk for his birthday. I’ve been
scared stiff ever since, especially
for my tank. I’ve threatened
him with murder if he touches
that. I suppose, by rights, I
should have told him to cut a
hole in it. That’s about the best
way of getting kids to do what
you want them to nowadays.”
Mrs. Brown laughed.
“You’re a caution, Ellen.
He’s a fine little chap, though.
The dead ring of his dad.”
“Yes, he’s all right. I wanted
him called Ezra after his grand-
dad, but, of course, that wasn’t
fancy enough for Rita.”
Mrs. Brown said nothing. She
liked Rita, and she thought
Ezra was a terrible name for a
child, anyhow.
A BOUT eleven o’clock Rita
took off her picking-tin and
approached her mother-in-law.
“I’m going back now,
Mother.”
“Going back! Why?” The
surprise in Ellen Thomson’s
voice was subtly tinged with
indignation.
“I’ll put on a bit of dinner.
Jack will be home soon.”
“It’d be a lot quicker to have
dinner here, like we always used
to.”
“Jack likes a hot meal.”
“No doubt he does. But it
takes time when the fruit’s
falling off the bushes.”
Rita laughed easily. “What
I’d pick in an hour wouldn’t
make all that difference, any-
how.”
Ellen drew her lips into a
thin line of disapproval. That
was the trouble with Rita. She
knew she was no good on the
farm and wasn’t ashamed of it.
It made her annoyingly invul-
nerable.
“Dinner about twelve,
Mother,” Rita said as she
turned to go. “Are you coming
with me, Darryl?”
The child trotted towards
her.
“You stay with Granny,
Darryl. You help Granny pick
the raspberries.” The soft,
coaxing tones contrasted oddly
with the brusque forthrightness
of the voice that had spoken to
her daughter-in-law.
The child clutched his
mother’s skirt, ignoring his
grand mother’s outstretched
hand. Rita took his small hand
in hers.
“You want to come with
Mummy. Come along, then.”
They set off down between
the rows' of tall canes.
“You watch him with that
tommyhawk, Rita! ” Ellen called
after them, and Rita lifted her
hand to indicate that she had
heard.
“Well, I must say she’s easy
enough to get on with,” Ivy
Brown remarked as mother and
son made their way to the
house. “You’re lucky there.”
“She ought to be. She always
gets her own way,” was Ellen’s
short reply. “It makes me mad
to see the way that Jack gives
in to her.” She moved off to
empty her picking-tin.
“I’ll bet it makes her mad,”
Ivy Brown thought. Ellen
Thomson was not the woman to
enjoy playing second-fiddle to
anyone.
"IV'EARLY an hour later they
' were startled by a cry from
Rita. She was running towards
them calling “Mother! Mother!
Come quick!” and the urgency
in her voice made Ellen hastily
untie her picking-tin and start
running, too, calling as she ran
“Whatever’s the matter?”
They met at the gate, Rita
panting and obviously upset.
“Oh, Mother, quick! The
tank! ”
“The tank? What’s wrong
with the tank?” There was a
note of awful accusation in
Ellen’s voice. They were run-
ning side-by-side now, towards
the house.
“Darryl’s cut a hole in it. The
water’s running away.”
Ellen Thomson’s voice rose,
harsh and breathless. “What are
you running to me for, then?
Run, girl! Block it with rag.
Run, Rita! Run!”
The sudden fierceness of her
voice startled Rita, who raced
on ahead. The mother-in-law
stopped running, following with
long, indignant strides.
“Fool,” she muttered. “Fool.
It’ll serve her right if she has
to carry water from the creek.”
Even in the midst of her
perturbation the last thought
gave her a grim satisfaction. She
strode up the sandy path, the
lift and swing of her firm
buttocks expressing more elo-
quently than her flushed face
the emotions that surged
through her.
When she reached the back-
yard she found Rita trying, with
pitiful inadequacy, to push a
soaked tea-towel into one of
half a dozen long gashes around
the base of the tank, from
which the water now limped
half-heartedly. The tank was
obviously nearly empty.
Ellen Thomson surveyed the
ruined tank with grim and
ominous calmness.
“You might just as well let it
run,” she said. “That’s as good
as nothing.”
Rita stood back helplessly,
water from the towel which she
still held dripping to the ground
beside her. For a few minutes
there was silence as the last of
the water trickled away. The
mother-in-law was the first to
speak.
“That wasn’t done just before
you came running to me. It
couldn’t have run away in that
time.”
Rita answered miserably. “I
don’t know. Mother. He must
have done it when I was down
at the shed getting potatoes. I
was busy inside after that and
when I came out there was water
everywhere. He’s a naughty
boy.”
The elder woman deliberately
let slip the self-control that she’d
maintained for so long. A great
bubble of anger swelled within
her and she felt a fierce desire to
strip with her bitter tongue the
smug complacency from her
daughter-in-law, to leave her
revealed as the feeble incom-
petent that she was. Yet words,
when they came, seemed disap-
pointingly inadequate.
“Naughty! Of course he’s
naughty. He takes a delight in
doing what he’s told not to do.
And it’s your fault, Rita. It’s
the way you’ve brought him
up.”
“It’s hard to watch him all
the time.”
“It shouldn’t be hard. You’ve
got nothing much else to do. I
told you to watch him with that
tommyhawk.”
“I’m sorry, Mother.”
“Sorry! Being sorry won’t
help. It won’t mend the tank.”
She sat down on a box near the
back door, wringing her hands,
her voice rising in a thin,
pathetic wail.
“Twenty years I waited for
that tank. Twenty years of lug-
ging water out of that creek.
And now it’s ruined. And it’s
your fault, Rita. It’s no use
blaming Darryl.” Tears of self-
pity trickled slowly down her
lined face.
“Don’t cry, Mother. Let me
make you a cup of tea.” Rita
put her arm gently round the
heavy, heaving shoulders of the
elder woman. “It’s lucky I
filled the kettle as soon as I got
home,” she added, half-
jokingly.
The mother-in-law rose with
suddenly renewed anger and
brushed her aside.
“That’s right. Laugh about
it. You just don’t care, Rita. It
doesn’t matter to* you.”
SHE strode inside and sat
down, staring grimly into the
empty fireplace, while Rita,
without replying, began to
make a pot of tea. She had
nearly finished when Jack
arrived back with the lorry from
the factory, where he’d taken a
load of fruit.
His mother continued to gaze
into the fireplace when he
entered so that her unnatural
quietness was obvious to him.
“What’s the matter?” he
asked.
“Ask Rita,” she replied, thin-
lipped.
He looked inquiringly at his
wife and she told him briefly
what had happened.
“The young devil,” he said.
“That’s the last he’ll see of that
tomahawk.”
The mildness of his reaction
infuriated his mother. “I told
Rita just a while before to
watch him with it,” she said,
accusingly.
“That probably put the idea
into his head,” said Rita.
Ellen Thomson sprang to her
feet. “Don’t try to blame me,
Rita. There’s no one to blame
but yourself.”
“I wasn’t blaming anyone,
Mother. I didn’t mean it that
way at all.”
“If you’d looked after Darryl
as you should have done it
wouldn’t have happened.”
Jack stood irresolute between
the quiet tenseness of his wife
and the blustering anger of his
mother. “Well, the water’s
gone,” he said, trying to smooth
things over. “The point is,
what’s to be done now?”
“Someone will have to carry
water, that’s all,” replied his
mother. “Who’s to do it, that’s
what I want to know? I’ve had
my share of carrying water.”
“That’s all right, Mum. Per-
haps Rita will get a drop.”
Rita turned quickly from
where she was pouring the tea.
“No, Jack. I won’t be carry-
ing any water.”
“Well, I don’t see why I
should have to do it,” Ellen said
angrily.
“Couldn’t you manage to get
a drop to keep us going this
afternoon, Rita?” he asked, coax-
ingly, more to appease his mother
than because he cared who got
the water.
Rita was surprisingly
obstinate. “No, Jack. You can
get the water.”
“Jack’s got no time to be carry-
ing water,” the mother inter-
rupted shortly. “He’s got to
get that second load to the
factory.”
“It won’t take him long to get
it before he goes,” Rita said
quietly. “Carrying water from
fliat creek’s not woman’s work.”
“Not woman’s work!” Ellen
Thomson snorted. “It was my
work for twenty years.”
“It’s not going to be mine.”
“All right, you two, break it
down. I’m hungry. What about
some dinner?” Jack broke in
with a heavy attempt at
jocularity.
Dinner was an uncomfortable
meal, eaten for the most part in


What does
average Australian
look, like ?
: -
Old ideas die hard, but few people
to-day think of the so-cailled “ average ”
Austrahan as a lean, sunburnt, slow-
moving, purple-tongued fellow who
rides a horse (like it was part of him)
.. . has trouble with his “h’s” .. . and
who thinks only of the horse sports on
Saturday and ways of beating the
English at cricket. And yet many
people DID think like that—in much
the same way as titfey thought of
Australia itself as one vast hot plain
with sheep raising its only industry.
To-day both our people and our
industries are much too diversified to
make such a picture valid. Industrially,
for instance, organisations like General
Motors-Holden’s have done much to
change the face of Australia. In fact,
Australia has become one of the most
highly industrialised countries in the
world, with a vast future potential as
a workshop and supply centre of the
South Pacific.
General Motors-Holden’s contribu-
tion to this changing picture of
industrial diversification commenced
less than 30 years ago. To-day, GMH
employ more than 14,000 people in
seven plants in five States. An eighth
plant is now in course of construction
as GMH swing into their third
expansion programme in less than a
decade.
General Motors-Holden’s have
made Australia one of the few
countries in the world capable of
producing, in volume, a complete
motor vehicle. Their other activities
include production, assembly or
distribution of cars, utilities, trucks
and buses of overseas origin, spare
parts and accessories, power and
industrial equipment, household and
commercial refrigeration. Completion
of the latest expansion programme
will enable GMH to step up produc-
tivity and increase the range of their
operations.
The vehicle and pro-
duction of General Motors-Holden’s
form an increasingly important part of
our industrial effort. The fact that
GMH are prepared to plough back
great sums of money into developing
their business is a sign not only of
their confidence in the future of our
country but an indication, too, of how
they have helped change the face
of Australia.
■ JH,
Ulf-mg.'
m
i
Ld
m
v lJ
a link in the chain of Australia’s progress
... a partner in Australia’s future
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
0143
silence, although Jack tried to
act as though nothing had hap-
pened. After dinner Ellen
Thomson took the two kerosene-
buckets from the back porch and
into one dropped a piece of clean
cloth. Jack came to her as she
was going out the back door.
“I’ll get the water, Mum.
Don’t you bother.”
“You’ve got your work to do,
son. I’ll get it.”
“I’d rather you didn’t. It
won’t take me long.”
She was afraid that he was
going to insist on getting it, and
knew suddenly that that was not
what she wanted at all.
“Every minute counts just
now, Jack. I’ll do it. It won’t be
the first time.”
“It doesn’t seem right, Mumf’
he said, wavering before her
determination.
“It’s all right,” she said with
finality, pushing past him.
“Someone’s got to think of the
farm.”
'T'HE path to the creek was
steep and sandy, and long
years of use had worn it hollow
so that here and there rocks
protruded. The bracken had
grown tall beside it, and as she
brushed against them bits broke
off and fell into the buckets.
This, she thought, should show
Jack. He might be able to make
excuses for Rita when she
couldn’t milk a cow or was
frightened of the pigs, but you
didn’t need to have been brought
up in the country to be able to
carry a drop of water.
When she arrived at the water-
hole, which was just a slight
enlargement of the creek-bed,
she turned the buckets upside-
down to empty out the bits of
bracken. The water trickled in
through a clump of man-ferns
and bracken and an old musk-
tree with a mossy trunk, and
pale, furry leaves hung over the
pool. She had always left the
dipper hanging on this tree and
now she remembered, with an
exclamation of annoyance, that
she had forgotten to bring one.
She’d have to do without it,
that was all.
She placed one bucket firmly
on the bank, and, taking the
other, squatted on the flat stone
at the edge of the pool, tucking
up her skirt so that it wouldn't
trail in the water. Then, very
carefully, she began to dip the
water with the second bucket.
It was slow work. If she dipped
too deeply and stirred up the
mud at the bottom of the shallow
pool, she would have to wait
until the water settled again.
The position in which she was
squatting made her legs ache,
and it was with a feeling of
relief that she dipped in the
bucket for the last time. She
lifted it too carelessly, and the
bottom of the bucket stirred up
the black mud. She sighed in
vexed disgust. Now she’d have
to wait till the mud settled before
she filled the second bucket. She
stood and watched the long,
writhing streams of black water
spread along the bottom of the
pool.
Rita, she supposed, would have
brought home mud and all. It
was quiet and pleasant in the
gully and she found that her
anger had cooled. She whetted
her self-pity with thoughts of her
ruined tank. How she had
looked forward to getting that
tank! So often it had nearly
been hers, and then she’d found
that the money was needed more
urgently for something else. But
at last she’d got it, a good second-
hand one from Taylor’s when
they’d put in their pumping-
plant.
She remembered the excite-
ment with which she’d helped
Jack put it on the stand and the
thrill with which she’d heard, as
she lay in bed, the water
rumbling into it. The trouble
with Rita was that she didn’t
know what hardships were. It
was high-time that she did, Ellen
Thomson decided. She wouldn’t
give in so easily about the water,
tomorrow. She’d have Rita
carrying it, if it was the last thing
she did. No one was going to
come the fine lady at Ellen
Thomson’s expense.
The water had cleared at last.
She squatted on the rock, and
slowly pushed the bottom of the
e ni p t v bucket corner-wise into
the pool It stirred up a little
mud when it touched the bottom,
but it was downstream from her.
Then she gently lowered the top
of the bucket until the water ran
in slowly. When as much water
as possible had run into the
bucket she pulled it up sharply
and lifted it to the bank. It was
three-parts full of clear water,
She took the piece of cloth she
had brought, and using this as a
pad for one hand and the
bottom of her apron as a pad for
the other she lifted the buckets
by their wire-handles and began
to climb the rough track.
As she came in sight of the
house she stooped and let her
steps drag a little, while her face
assumed an expression of long-
suffering martyrdom. The
gesture was wasted, for Jack had
gone, and she could see Rita’s
floppy hat among the raspberry-
canes. She placed the buckets
side by side in the kitchen and
covered them with a clean cloth,
~„ . .
Thats that, she muttered,
and the next lot her ladyship
can get.”
ELLEN returned to her work
among the raspberries, taking
the bush next to Ivy Brown’s,
although it was not the next in
her row. She needed someone
to talk to, and was chagrined to
find that Rita had forestalled her.
She thought she detected a faint
amusement beneath Ivy Brown’s
concern.
“It’s a rare go, isn’t it, Ellen,”
she said. “Especially after what
you said this morning. I was
just telling Rita about it.”
So that’s what they’ve been
laughing about, Ellen Thomson
thought. Probably they blamed
her for the whole thing. She
suddenly saw Mrs. Brown as an
enemy.
“What did Rita say?” she
asked.
“Rita? Oh, she just laughed
and said ‘Poor Mother.’ She’s
got a sense of humor, I must
say.”
Ellen Thomson’s dislike of her
daughter-in-law came then closer
to hatred than it had ever been.
She’ll need her sense of humor,
she thought. She’ll be laughing
on the other side of her face
tomorrow.
The mother-in-law’s fingers
moved with savage energy for
the rest of the afternoon, while
she indulged in a silent orgy of
self-pity. Rita went home early,
but the elder woman picked on
until long after the shadow of the
hills had fallen across the gully
and a chilliness had crept into
the air.
Jack drove up just as she
arrived back at the house, and
she saw, with unreasoning fury
and frustration, that he had a
new tank on the back of the
lorry. He greeted her jubilantly.
“This will put an end to your
water-carrying, Mum.”
“But, Jack, that’s a wicked
waste. We can’t afford a new
tank.”
“We’ll just have to afford it.
If we waited, you might be carry-
ing water all your life.”
“It wouldn’t have hurt to wait
till the fruit cheque was in,
anyway.”
“It’ll be all right, Mum. Rita
and I talked it over and decided
we couldn’t have you carrying
water at your age. Rita’s not
keen on the idea of drinking
creek water, anyway.”
“What’s wrong with the creek
water?”
“She reckons it’s got too many
dead things in it,” Jack laughed.
“It was good enough for us
for twenty years.”
“I know, Mum. But it’s
different for Rita, coming from
the city.”
“Tank or no tank, she’ll have
to get used to it. The thing
could be empty for weeks at this
time of the year.”
“It’s my guess we’re going to
get some rain tonight. Will you
give us a hand to get it up
straight away?”
She wanted to tell him to get
his precious Rita to help him,
but couldn’t deny herself the
pleasure of being his right-hand
man. The old tank was pulled
down and rolled away, and the
new was hoisted into position.
Ellen noticed that the tap did
not have a removable key as the
old one had had.
“You’ll need to watch Darryl
with that,” she said, “or he’ll be
turning it on and letting all the
water go. When there is any
water.”
“Whatever we do we mustn’t
put the idea into his head,” Rita
urged. “You know what he is.”
“He’s just got to be trained,
that’s all,” Ellen replied, sourly.
“We can’t spend our lives not
(Continued on page 34)


FuiUi in the
Future
mm
Men’s lives are a study. And the most
inspiring, to me, are those that are lived in an
atmosphere of quiet, steadfast duty.
Such a life was that of Lord Gowrie, who died
at his Gloucestershire home this month.
As our tall, dignified Governor-General he
developed a great love of this country, and proved
it by his firm Faith in Australia to the end of his
days.
Behind the glint of his formal office among us
was a very human person; one who knew grief and
bore it bravely; one who had tasted danger and
took it fearlessly; one who was a distinguished
soldier and the consul of his King, and with it all
was a simple Christian character.
Whenever I saw Lord Gowrie and had lunch
with him at 71 Comhill in London my mind threw
back to a 25-year-old subaltern winning the
Victoria Cross by saving the life of an Egyptian
soldier under close fire in the Soudan campaign in
1898.
I thought of a father bereft of his only son —
a boy with the soul and pen of a poet, who died a
soldier in Libya in 1942.
It is in their reaction to the tests of life that
men find their common level, however high or
humble their station.
Lord Gowrie knew that, and it made his
meeting with all men easy. It explains why the
first reception he gave as Governor-General was
to the workmen who had redecorated the Vice-
Regal residence.
He had a sense of the real values in men, and
I have often wondered what a force he would have
been in this country if he had come here in his
youth this “pattern of a man” as the Prime
Minister described him in a tribute in the national
Parliament.
// 9
Divorce Notices
TO WILLIAM ROBERT HOY late of 617
High Road Tottenham London England.
—A Petition for Nullity of Marriage has
been filed against you Upon an applica-
tion by letter to The Registrar Divorce
Registry Somerset House Strand London
England a copy of the Petition will be
sent If within 69 days hereafter no
application has been made nor appear-
ance entered the Court may hear the Peti-
tion and pronounce judgment.—B. LONG,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction.,
TO GEORGE GORDON CLAYTON late of
c/o of Petrie Paper Works Brisbane
Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
CLAYTON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2629 of 1954 (Federal Matrimonial
Cause) under Queensland Law on the
ground of desertion without just cause
continuously for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
6th day of July 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
JOHN G. MCDONALD, Solicitor, Mur-
willumbah Street, Murwillumbah. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH LEWIN SMITH—TAKE
NOTICE that PHYLLIS JOY SMITH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1558 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you yrish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 2nd August 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. S. J. BULL, SON &
SCHMIDT, Solicitors, of 34 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
WILL any person knowing the where-
abouts of RONALD RAYMOND POWELL,
formerly of Horsham and Ballarat, but
now of parts unknown, Labourer, please
communicate with ALISON JOYCE
POWELL, of Mair Street East, Ballarat,
or her Solicitors, MESSRS. W. H.
HEINZ & CO., 22 Lydiard Street South,
Ballarat.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VIC-
TORIA — In Divorce.
TO EDWARD WILLIAM GEORGE
LITTLE formerly of 19 David Street East
Brunswick in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife VIC-
TORENE MARIE LITTLE has instituted
Divorce proceedings against you on the
ground of your desertion Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothono-
tary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 21st July
1955 and file an answer on or before
the Ist August 1955 the suit may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.—FREDK. W.
ROBSON, LL.M., 403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(. Incorporated in England )
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
with assurance and a marked
feeling for the work’s sweeping
bigness.
The Symphonic Studies of
Schumann were only moderately
successful; the 12 variations on
a lyric theme which comprise it
are most subtly wrought, and
often the original theme is only
faintly suggested. The young
pianist, concerned primarily
with the rich embellishments,
found difficulty in differentiat-
ing between the wide range of
moods it embraced; but she
wound it up with a good touch
of pomp and forthrightness.
Three Intermezzi of Brahms,
Op. 119—the first poetical in
spirit, the second as delicate a
love-song as has been entrusted
to the keyboard, the third blithe
and romping were given
something not far short of their
just due. The splendid F Major
Ballade and the C Sharp Minor
Mazurka were Chopin without
too much sugar, and Miss
Boursouk finished the proceed-
ings with a lively account of
Liszt’s “Dante Lecture”
Fantasie.
%
“Bell, Book and Candle”
Plays about witches are likely
t Q seem tame these days unless
the author is sorcerer enough
himself to put as much witch-
craft j n to his dialogue as he puts
into h is plot. John Van
Druten’s “Bell, Book and
Candle,” presented by Brisbane
Repertory, does not have much
dramatic magic in it, but it has
sufficient to remain pleasantly
diverting for most of its three
acts.
Underneath all the hocus-
pocus there lurks a plot of the
“she-got-her-man” variety
though with an original broom-
stick-twist in it. The girl turns
out to be a most sophisticated
modern witch with powers that
give her a decided advantage
over her sisters, in the struggle
for husbands. Moreover, she
is equipped with a sumptuous
flat and cocktails, rather more
useful for seduction than cave
and cauldron.
Gwen Wheeler was too
languid for a witch, though she
probably took the view that
polite society would take the
sting out of the brightest of
witches. Her will being much
stronger than that of ordinary
mortals, she found it simple to
trap an unwary publisher, more
interested in books on witches
than the real thing. John
Barker’s picture of the publisher
would not have pleased that
fraternity, but it made work
easier for the assembled witches.
Jean Jarrott was a senior
witch who played tricks with
people’s telephones and stalked
on and off the set in an extra-
ordinary get-up, which included
a pair of electric ear-rings. Also
worth mentioning is Franklyn
Evans, who seemed as surprised
as the audience at finding him-
self in the company of witches,
though his part made him an
expert on native witchery.
Terry Paltridge, who pro-
duced, mixed the Van Druten
potion smoothly enough and
made it palatable, but he could
not stop it from running a little
thin towards the end.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
Modern Australian Art
The 31 “contemporary paint-
ings” at the N. S. Wales National
Gallery are a mild and odd lot to
be going about from State to
State representing, presumably,
the earth-shaking new move-
ments now changing the face of
Australian art; and, isolated and
entombed in the vault where they
are showing, seem to be looking
wildly at each other for moral
support.
However, there are some excel-
lent paintings among them,
notably Desiderius Orban’s
“The Terrace,” Drysdale’s
“Evensong,” Arthur Boyd’s
“Burning Wheat-stubble,” John
Passmore’s “The Argument” and
Scott Pendlebury’s “Towards the
City” ; and it is always interest-
ing thus to be offered a bird’s-
eye view of what goes on, both
in buying and in painting, all
over the Commonwealth. The
works were selected from
“recent purchases” (some going
back as far as 1940) by the
national galleries in all States.
Quite a few obviously repre-
sent the mistakes made by
trustees or directors under the
illusion that contemporary art
is different from all other art
that has come down the ages,
and is to be valued simply for its
novelty or does not require any
sound basis of technique: a
huge, crude “National Land-
scape” from the W.A. gallery,
for example, done in a montage
resembling aboriginal art; the
over-lush color and vacuous
composition of a Michael Kmit;
a couple of grubby oils by
Wallace Thornton (a painter who
may be groping his way towards
something); the Frank Hinder
semi - abstract “Flight into
Egypt,” clever enough as it is
in its mechanical way; Justin
O’Brien’s red and blue boys skip-
ping about by the rainbow-hued
sea; and “Engineers” by Edwin
Tanner, from the Tasmanian
gallery, which again is clever
enough, but hardly more than
an exceedingly enlarged joke-
block.
Some of these, and others,
demonstrate, too, the disadvan-
tages, or the undue haste, of the
various national galleries, who
tend to take what is put in front
of them at exhibitions instead of
waiting to buy the artists at their
best. What on earth was the use
of the N. S. Wales gallery’s
acquiring its very thin Orban,
when he can paint as well as in
“The Terrace”? Surely Queens-
land could have got itself a better
Nolan than the amorphous
“Darling River”; and Arthur
Boyd’s “Burning Wheat-stubble”
is so much better than his other
contribution that the latter
should clearly never have been
bought.
Paintings of some quality by
Max Angus, Ludmilla Meilerts,
Murray Griffin, Donald Friend,
George Duncan, Guy Grey-
Smith, Jean Belette and Elaine
Haxton help to lift the general
standard, and, with the Passmore
and the Drysdale, provoke the
question: Why does this par-
ticular exhibition exist?
No doubt it is to boost the
new styles and to display new
names ; but if you look on these
works simply as good or toler-
ably good paintings there are
many other living painters with
equal and sometimes much more
impressive claims to be repre-
sented in an Australia-wide
survey of “recent purchases.”
How very odd it is, for example,
to see the admirable little water-
color of fishing-boats by Max
Angus and not to see a G. K.
Townshend.
<* *l* *
Contemporaries
Most of the abstractionists
represented at the annual ex-
hibition of the Contemporary
Art Society of Australia at
Preston Motors, Melbourne,
seem to follow a pattern as
rigidly controlled by a fashion-
able convention as any academic
painting, though in “Virginity”
Roy Opie shows Picasso a few
points, and Peter Miller shows
Nature a few points in
“Landscape.”
Laurence Hope has another
of his couples in bed with looks
of horror on their faces, and
G. Grey-Smith has a landscape
with cow, and a landscape with
bull, which do those animals
rough justice. Charles Blackman
suggests “Reverie” by a face
with two mouths lying in a bed
of flowers. Erica McGilchrist’s
“Paddling” at first gives the
impression that the hanging com-
mittee has hung her picture
upside-down—an easy mistake
in a show of this sort —but it
hasn’t; the girl’s legs are
reflected in a pool.
Mary McLeish’s “The Con-
ductor” has some vigor, but
practically everything else in the
exhibition looks crude, uncrafts-
manlike, passe and misdirected.
Talkies
“The Racers” (Sydney Plaza):
Those who like high speed on
four wheels should lap this up.
It is refreshingly different in
that the usual dastardly doings
on the track, springing from
jealousy, are replaced by bon-
homie among the racing-
drivers. The film also gains
from having two of the screen’s
most likely-looking fellows as
truck-daredevils —Gilbert Roland
and Kirk Douglas. The Cinema-
scope scenery on the road from
Brescia to Rome is worth
seeing.
♦ * * *
“The Man Who Watched
Trains Go By” (Sydney Vic-
tory): In this Simenon story a
middle-aged Dutch clerk, a
respected family man, timid and
sycophantic towards his boss,
catches that haughty tyrant red-
handed in the act of embezzle-
ment ; in the ensuing scuffle for
the money the trump topples
into the harbor and is drowned,
and, fearing indictment for
murder, the clerk lights-out for
Paris, and also for, quite
illogically, his ex-boss’s im-
proper girl-friend.
Good materials, these, and in
parts they are moulded into good
drama. But too often tension is
allowed to slacken, and the
denouement, which could have
been a corker, is left madden-
ingly obscure. Claude Rains, as
the clerk, draws a neat picture
of the reactions of a man who
suddenly acquires wealth and the
urge to shed lifelong repressions.
Marius Goring’s icily efficient
but human detective is also a
good character-study.
* 1C * *
“The Wages of Fear”
(Sydney Savoy): A quartet of
assorted nationals, all human
flotsam in a small central
American town, volunteer to
drive two trucks carrying nitro-
glycerine over 300 miles of
shocking roads to ah oilwel]
fire. Speed is the essence of the
contract —and one bad jolt will
settle their hash. The first half
of this French-made film is a
pungent portrayal of low-life
in the decaying, primitive town;
the death-journey itself is
crammed with suspense almost
painful in its intensity.
* * * *
“Forbidden Games” (Hoyts
theatres): This beautiful French
film, telling of two children who
take the war-time deaths around
them as the natural order of
things and play with the crosses
on graves as other youngsters
play with toys, is informed by
rare insight into the child-mind.
Side by side are the pathos of a
little girl wandering with, in her
arms, the dog which had been
victim to the same strafing
plane’s bullets that had killed her
parents, and the grim humor of
the feud between a peasant
family which she drifts)
and their neighbors.
The adult characters are
drawn with razor-keenness, but
the film’s charm comes from the
naturalness of the children and
the imaginative directing.


—For the Air fare
to London!
Fly Kangaroo Route for variety!
m
S'mqapo
turn
mm
&
m
3 **fc - , - •- *- , vv
I*s
w
QV
mn
Beirut
msoi
rankf
£5
n
M
STOPOVER STORY
For Value-wise Globetrotters!
You can “holiday’' all the way to
London on the fascinating, variety
packed “Kangaroo” Route —breaking
your journey wherever you wish, at no
extra air fare. You can see exotic
Singapore and Bangkok, beautiful
Colombo and Bombay, ancient Beirut
or Cairo, historic Rome —and your
choice from amongst 26 cities on the
tourist welcoming Continent.
Flying in modem “pressurized” Super
Constellations and Constellations, you
can take your choice of alternative
routes through the East, the Mediter-
ranean and Europe.
Exclusively all-first-class “Connoisseur”
Service, at no extra fare—regular First
Class Service—and Tourist Class (at
20% lower fare).
Ask your Travel Agent to plan your
itinerary so you will see most for your
money in one perfect trip.
mi
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. (inc. in Q’land) in parallel with 8.0.A.C .
35 YEARS OF FLYING EXPERIENCE
Chance Eneounter
BY
Salamon
Demlitzer
I ASKED the commissionaire
at the hotel cafe whether he
knew of a guide who could
show me the sights of that
beautiful old town.
The uniformed commis-
sionaire, a stout, experienced
man, thought a minute. He
looked at me out of the corner
of his eye a little wickedly, and
spoke with hesitation.
“Would a lady- guide meet the
case?”
“It is quite immaterial to me,”
I replied seriously. “But could
one expect a woman to run
around in this cold?”
He said, yes, in this instance
one could . . . This was a young
girl in poor circumstances; she
would be glad to earn a few
kronen . . .
I waited that evening in a
certain cafe, displaying an
identification-mark suggested by
the commissionaire. Punctually
to the minute, a frail, dark girl
approached me. She bowed, and
inquired if I were the foreign
gentleman . . . who had . . .
I asked her to sit down, and
looked at her closely. She was
abopt twfenty-two; a n,arrow
little face, showing signs of
privation; imperfect teeth;
brown eyes, dreamy and shy; a
trim little figure, dressed in worn
and cheap clothes. The coat past
wearing . . . She made an agree-
able impression—a little pathetic,
and so shy that she did not dare
open her mouth. When she
spoke it was humbly—short and
clipped, as if she were afraid to
let fall a word that might dis-
please me. She never addressed
me, except in the third person.
“What is your name?”
“Fritzi.”
“Do you know this town well
enough to show me around
properly?”
“Indeed I do. I shall try very
hard to show the gentleman
everything worth seeing...”
“How long have you lived
here?”
“Two years.”
“Is that all?” I was surprised.
“Have you parents living?”
“No.”
“Brothers or sisters?”
“Also not.”
I discovered presently that she
came from a small German-
Bohemian township. She was all
alone in the world. She had at
one time had a position as
governess, but was now out of
work. She earned a little money
occasionally with part-time jobs.
The commissionaire at the hotel
helped her along a bit * whenever
any of the guests wanted some
little errands done, he sent for
her . . .
A N hour later we were already
*fast friends.
She was talking more freely
by this time, but she still would
not betray to me the secret
behind her young life, and kept
leading the conversation into
general topics. We had warmed
up quite a lot in the few short
hours of our acquaintance and
I asked her, “Miss Fritzi, do you
know of a spot out of this freez-
ing cold, where one could pass
some time pleasantly?”
Well ... she was afraid she
might not know the gentleman’s
taste . . . Would the gentleman
(she still referred to my unworthy
self in that way)—would the
gentleman prefer some bar, or
would he rather sit and talk in
a simple room, that was warm
and homelike . . . ?
“Is there such a place?” I
asked surprised.
Embarrassed, she stammered
and hesitated ... It would not
have to be a very smart room ...
she only meant a simple, cosy
little one . . . but you could
heat it ,
Well, then, where was it?
The gentleman might think it a
little funny, and even get the
wrong idea . . . What she meant
to say was she had such a room
herself, and she would be pre-
pared to bear him company on
one condition . . .
“And what is the condition?”
The gentleman would have to
promise her to behave quite
properly, and not to be familiar
in any way .. . She had
every confidence in him, that is
why she had made the
suggestion . . .
“Agreed, Miss Fritzi.”
We walked on, arm in arm,
only because of the cold, of
course. X was wondering what
was behind all this: surely she
was not more purposeful and
subtle than those city prostitutes?
What was she driving at?
THE little room turned out to
be anything but cosy. It was
a long, bare hole of an attic, and
there was nothing in it except a
bed, a small table and two
chairs. The electric light was
dim and ghostly, and it was even
colder in there than outside.
What is she aiming at? I
wondered. I was curious, but
decided to wait, so as to watch
her closely.
She said then, a little
apologetically, that the gentle-
man must not be angry if the
room was not really as nice as she
would like it to be . . . nor quite
what the gentleman may have
expected, but...
She interrupted herself to ask
suddenly, Would the gentleman
care for tea —she could make
some? She kept a spirit-stove on
the window-ledge . . . One could
sit on the bed, it would certainly
be much warmer there . . .
Well, yes, we did sit down on
the bed. I was almost sure I
could see what she was after. We
know all about that, Miss Fritzi,
I thought . . . But that won’t
cut any ice with me; on the
contrary ... I come from a
city, the most horrifying and
subtle, and the greediest city in
the world —from Berlin, where
people wear masks and try in
every imaginable way to delude
one another ... so I know all
that off by heart.
Suddenly Fritzi asked would
I mind if she were to lie down
on the bed, dressed, and pull the
blanket up over herself.
No, I would not mind, not
even if she got undressed. I
thought, Miss Fritzi is not even,
playing her hand very well . . .
not even that. . .
She lay down on the bed, and
shivered with the cold ; I covered
her up, and said,
“Do you want to go to sleep?
I can go now.”
No! Goodness gracious, she
certainly did not want me to
do that. She was only a little
tired. She had not slept the
night before. She had had a
casual job as waitress at a
wedding.
Then she lay still, looking up
at the rafters; she seemed to
be considering something . . .
At last I broke the uncom-
fortable silence saying, “What
is wrong with you?” She jumped
up startled, and for a moment
did not know where she was.
Then she said, she was sure
the gentleman was an educated
person; perhaps he could tell her
whether there is a life after
death?
Why did she ask?
Oh, well, for her it would be
better, if there were none. She
only wanted to be left in peace
at last.
“But, Miss Fritzi,” I said
amazed, “you have been
crying . . . now don’t pretend . .
there . . . well now . . . just what
is the trouble? Tell me ...”
She turned over a couple of
times, and then whispered, the
gentleman is a very kind man,
not a bit like other people . . >
That is why she has asked him
to come up here with her . . .
No, she couldn’t tell him about
it . . . And now she began to
cry in real earnest ... I was
desperate, but curious, too; I
pressed her to tell ..me what was
wrong—l might be able to help
in some way ...
Ah, no, she would most likely
never do that—she could not
expect it of me . . . I’d never
understand . . . But, just in
case she had been wrong about
me after all . . . in case I was
more understanding than she’d
given me credit for ... yes .. .
she would tell me . . . and so . . .
It was not anything so very
special . . . But she had a little
bottle of morphia hidden away
under her pillow.
CJHE had wanted to take it for
a long time, but when she
was alone, she was afraid,
especially as she had heard it was
not always quite effective . . .
but if someone else were there,
then she really would do it at
last . . . and she would be ever
so grateful if I would help her
put an end to her senseless,
wretched life . . .
I was stunned at first. Then
I tried to pat her . . . But she
reminded I had given my word
to behave . . . she hoped I was
a true gentleman ... I might
pat her, of course, but, nothing
more . . .
I tried to discover the reason
for her suicidal intentions. I
could only elicit from her that
in her twenty-two years she was
sick to death of life; that she
had no one and wanted no one;
if I should refuse to help her
now, she would still do it sooner
or later, alone.
I groped about under her
pillow; sure enough, there was
the little bottle, and I took charge
of it. In conventional terms I
set about trying to convince her
of the futility of her intentions.
I told her there would be plenty
of time for that after twenty
years. In any case, she would
not escape the grave. She still
had hope of great happiness. If
it came to that, I would be glad
to help her out with a suitable
sum . . . She could buy herself
some new clothes, may be get
another position.
She made no answer, only
looked up at the rafters, and
smiled a little . . .
Suddenly, she stroked my face
and said, “The gentleman really
is a kind man.” Was he
tired . . . ? He was . . . ? In
that case he could lie down for
a little nap. She was warm now,
and would lie down on the floor,
so the gentleman could have the
bed . . .
“No, Miss Fritzi, you stay
where you are. I’ll take a chair
and lean my head against the
foot of the bed.”
T DROPPED straight into a
deep, healthy sleep. When I
awoke, I could not immediately
remember where I was. Daylight
was peeping in at the window, a
snow-laden winter day. Gradu-
ally the situation took shape in
my mind. I looked across at my
companion.
.She was lying quite still. Then
I noticed the small bottle beside
her. I rummaged through my
pockets—nothing! I jumped up,
began shaking the girl where
she lay; then I realised that she
was dead.


4
-4
w
4
4
4
a
r e
m
2
NOIIVIAV
SERVICE,
S'."'
ill II '>/.
11l till/
; "u/
''ll
' i n. .1
*?"i , ,y,<
<2>
#/ tt
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
I/SB
Missing Friend
CATT. —WILL anybody knowing the
whereabouts or death of PERCY HER-
BERT CATT, formerly of England, please
communicate with the undernamed, the
information being required in connec-
tion with the estate of BERTRAM
WILLIAM CATT, Deceased. —BARKER,
JONES & LIVINGSTON, Solicitors, Per-
petual Trustee Chambers, 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Aus-
tralia.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oiy 4
OSUMJrVAW
; Av WKUa ...,
Trade
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The Murray River, a
journal of the voyage of the Lady
Augusta steamer from Goolwa
to Gannewara, published in 1853.
—6071.
To buy copies of Bush Studies
(1902), Human Toll (1907) and
Cobbers (1917) by Barbara Baynton.
—6070.
To buy copy of the play “The
Rose Without A Thorn” by Clifford
Bax. —6069.
To buy copy of “Radio Pictorial”
for September 1, 1938. —6068.
To buy copy of The Australian
Encyclopaedia (2 vols.), published by
Angus and Robertson (1925). —6066.
To buy copy of Judgment and
Appreciation of Literature by Pro-
fessor Tucker. —6065.
Copies of Australian newspapers
containing photographs of 1955
Anzac Day Service at Gallipoli
attended by Australian and Turkish
ex-servicemen. (Reply direct to
D. Peake, 50 Grove Walk, Norwich,
Norfolk, England.)
Information Sought
Some information on Lake Eyre?
In the north-east of South Aus-
tralia, Lake Eyre covers an area of
about 3700 sq. miles, and if filled up
to sea-level would be enlarged to 5000
sq. miles. (Its shore-line is 40ft. to
60ft. below sea-level —the only part
of Australia which is.) The Lake
Eyre district is the driest known part
of Australia, with an average annual
rainfall between 4in. and 6in., and
the maximum rarely greater than
lOin. The eastern side of the lake is
a vast alluvial delta, into which
“flow” the Diamantina and Cooper’s
Creek and other rivers. The channels
of these rivers are long stretches of
white sand, apparently dry, though
there may be water under the sand;
heavy downpours produce visible
streams. Sir Douglas Mawson, in
an article in “Nature” (Oct., 1950),
points out that all the lakes in the
area have been dry since white
occupation, or at most have had
rare and ephemeral contributions of
water; though the Lake Dieri of
geological times thereabouts had full
and abundant water to a depth of
several hundred feet. Mawson also
noted that “in the floods of several
years ago the dry channels of the
Diamantina, etc., poured water into
Eyre,” which became a vast sheet of
water, with a depth of 12ft., “fresh
and muddy where the rivers entered,
salt elsewhere.” C. T. Madigan
found that there was “17in. of salt
on the muds of Lake Eyre.”
* * * *
Origin of the Davis Cup?
In 1900 Dwight F. Davis, of St.
Louis, then an undergraduate at
Harvard University and a leading
U.S. tennis-player, presented the
Cup for international competition in
lawn-tennis. Conditions for the
competition were submitted by the
U.S. Lawn Tennis Association to
the British association in London on
Jan. 16, 1900; the regulations have
since been somewhat revised. It’s
a “knock-out” men’s tennis-tourna-
ment between the nations, with the
final played against the holder in its
own country. U.S.A., with Davis
himself a member of the team, won
the first play-off, in 1900, from
Britain.
* * * *
What is being done by the
C.S.I.R O. and other bodies to com-
bat malaria-carrying mosquitoes in
Australia ?
During World War II the Division
of Entomology (Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research
Organisation) carried out an exten-
sive research-programme in collabora-
tion with the Armed Services on the
destruction of malaria-carrying mos-
quitoes. In peace-time, however, it is
not the function of C.5.1.R.0. to
engage in matters relating to public
health, and at the moment no work
is being carried on by the division,
directed towards mosquito-control.
We understand that the Queensland
Department of Health has carried
on an intensive campaign in Brisbane,
and for details we suggest you con-
tact Dr. I. M. Mackerras, Queens-
land Institute of Medical Research,
Herston-road, Valley, Brisbane. In
Sydney, the School of Public Health
and Tropical Medicine has taken an
interest in the problems you mention,
and you could obtain details of their
work from Mr. D. J. Lee, School of
Public Health and Tropical Medicine,
University Grounds, Sydney. Mr.
Lee could also advise you on the best
method of destroying mosquitoes
under the particular conditions with
which you are concerned.
* * * *
Is the venom of the taipan more
poisonous than that of the tiger-
snake or death-adder ? Which of the
three snakes is the deadliest ?
Given the same quantity of venom
from each of the snakes mentioned,
and injecting that into three animals
of the same species and weight, there
would be little difference in the
result. It is possible that the tiger-
snake venom might be a little more
potent. The fact is that each qf these
snakes ejects different quantities of
venom and there is a difference in
the length of their fangs. A taipan
would inject more venom and at a
greater depth than either the death-
adder or tiger-snake. This would
indicate that the taipan was more
deadly than the others, but it does
not indicate that the venom, weight
for weight, is more potent. Experi-
ments along these lines are not yet
conclusive.
• * * *
How to remove oil-stains from a
concrete driveway ?
As oil penetrates concrete readily
it should be mopped off immediately
by covering the spots with Fuller’s
Earth or other dry powdered-
material, such as hydrated-lime,
or dry Portland cement. If treated
soon enough there will be no stain.
However, if the oil has remained for
some time other methods will be
necessary. One is to saturate white
flannel in a mixture of equal parts of
acetone and amyl-acetate and place
over the stain. Cover with a slab of
concrete or a pane of glass. If the
stain tends to spread, a larger
quantity should be used. Covering
with glass dries the stain into the
concrete; a dry slab of concrete
draws some oil out into it. Alterna-
tively, scrubbing with petrol will
often remove oil-stains.
* * * *
An account of the Dog-on-the
Tucker-Box monument at Gundagai ?
The statue of the Dog on the
Tucker Box was unveiled by the then
Prime Minister, Mr. J. A. Lyons, on
Monday, Nov. 28, 1932, before 3000
people; the memorial is intended as
a tribute to the pioneers of Australia.
A local resident, one Rusconi, cast
the statue. The exact origin of the
Dog is unknown; possibly it was a
purely imaginary dog whose story
was related in the crude outback
“poetry” of the early days. it
appeared in prose and poetry long
before Jack Moses wrote his famous
poem “Nine Miles from Gundagai,
but to Moses goes main credit tor
keeping the legend alive. (The
memorial is set at the five-mile
post.)
Brief Answers
S.L.A.: The Mayfair Colour Centre
is a paint advisory bureau sponsored
by the Berger group of companies.
Their address is lie Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .R.A.M.: Write
South Australian Fabian Society,
90 Tenth-avenue, Joslin, Payneham
(S.A.) E.W.: Write Tyrrell’s
Bookshop, 281 George-Street, Syd-
ney A.A.: (1) There is no method
by which you can allow the land to
revert to the Crown. (2) Presum-
ably you refer to leases of Crown
lands at the Glebe (Sydney) granted
during the years 1847 to 1855. These
leases, known as Church and School
Lands Leases, were for periods of 99
years, at the expiration of which the
land reverted to the Crown
R.L.W.: (1) Names on the panel sub-
mitted by the Australian Wool
Bureau for consideration by the
International Wool Publicity and
Research Executive for appointment
as Director-General of the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat are con-
fidential. (2) The International Wool
Secretariat is concerned with the
promotion of the use of wool and
is in no way associated with the
marketing of wool A.8.C.: Make
up a solution of one-part washing-
soda to three-parts water. Pour it
into a tall tin or glass, and suspend
the brushes in it, so that they are
about 2in. from the bottom of the
vessel. Leave for 12 hours to 24
hours, but the temperature of the
solution must be kept at 140 deg. F.
to 158 deg. F. and not higher. If the
heat is higher the bristles will be
injured and spoiled. , A small oil-
stove set in a safe place could be
used. Another treatment is to clean
the brushes in hot vinegar. Some of
the modern paints cannot be treated
by any amateur method and such
brushes may have to be discarded.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.T.: That earthquake didn’t
happen in vain if it freed Milton
from drink S.M.A.: Trust you
are still young enough for someone
to break you of the habit of writ-
ing artificial flamboyancies E.V.:
Can’t believe that there is a narrow
pool in Springwood (or anywhere
else) where “each gentle zephyr
lingers long and faintly murmurs
‘Beauty’” F.A.: We question the
existence of any market in Austra-
lia for what you call “this sort of
thing” P.R.G.: That coincidental
meeting after many years is a tempt-
ing plot. It tempts thousands every
year L.S.: “A Modern Sermon”
so befogged that the Religious
Editor got lost in it. Search-parties,
with ten bottles of provisions, are
out S.E.J.: Can’t quite swallow
the man who mistook Queanbeyan
for Sydney. Not that we wish to
cast any reflection on Queanbeyan.
M.T.: There should be a law to
prevent childhood lovers meeting
after 30 years; it’s fatal F.R.:
One of these days a writer will dis-
cover a curate who is not a secret
drinker W.G.: Too many
boulders in “The Bubbling Brook.”
J.H.: You versify with all the
joyous abandon of a man breaking
stones... .P.D.: We got rather tired
of the lonely grave in the shade of
the coolibah-patch after struggling
through to the end of your 10,000-
word short-story A.W.: Beyond
having 14 lines it bears no resem-
blance whatever to a sonnet
0.J.: Your writing takes some
deciphering, even if we could get
the hang of what you are writing
about P.L.H.: That plot with
slight variations is one of our most
frequent visitors H. 8.: It misses.
Plot rather harks back to the missing
heir with the strawberry mark on his
left arm R.C.W.; A plague upon
your ghosts that turn out to be galahs.
R.J.H.: Your touch is only a trifle
lighter than a sledge-hammer....
F.E.K.: Beer-bowsers would prob-
ably be a very popular innovation,
but we require a more humorous
yarn than yours before we consent
to bring the idea before the public.
P.S.: Feel better now? E.C.:
Try it out on Daisy if you think
she deserves it... .8.8. W.: “The
Alchemist” failed to turn our
accountant’s stony heart to gold
F.C.8.: Seems a pity to waste good
thought in that sort of substitute for
verse G.M.T.: Andy’s experience
at Snaky Joe’s shanty was very little
different from that of other stockmen
at other shanties 5.8. H.: Drunks
in fishing-boat sunk without trace.
.... D.R.: No use for the verse
which begins by asking a question
and ends without answering it
V. : You certainly believe in mak-
ing your villains bad and your
heroines g00d... .F.F.: It shows a
cheery optimism, but it isn’t a yarn.
. ...M.McG.: Convict No. 65,781
leaves us without a stain on his
character A.C.H.: Riley spits in
the fire, and Malone gets drunk on
the last of the rum—neither feat is
new....R.M.: Great country this,
judged by the poets—spring all the
year round H.J.: Worst fault is
that it’s neither good nor bad, but
just ordinary T.E.M.: We’ve
chased that tramp away many times.
C.W.: Story about the poisoned
damper saw print when we were very
young F.N.: “The swallows
swooped across the sward unseen”
reveals remarkable observing powers.
8.C.L.: Atmosphere is quite good,
but the tidal-wave of fortune at the
finish washes-out any chance it might
have had... .P.L.A.: Joins all the
other poor swagmen lying dead in
countless pages of unpublished verse.
H.M.W.: No space for 120-lines
of rhymed lament about the deadli-
ness of boardinghouse stew....
W. : “Can some of your staff
touch-up a libretto I have written in
which the Spirit of the Desert falls
in love with the Siren of the Surf,
and in which swagmen, aboriginals,
beach-beauties and spear-fishermen
praise the lovers in song and dance?”
No, we haven’t anyone who would
undertake that job.


Selling Them Their Craft
The Yachtsmen of Dunkirk
By MARGARET CLARKE
FOR the first couple of
years after I went to
London I worked for a
yachtbroker with an office
in the “City,” that square mile
east of Temple Bar where three
million people were employed
and almost no one lived. Thus
I found my way into the heart
of the most secret part of the
world’s most reticent city.
Yachtbroking is an occupation
in the caviare-and-champagne
class. You do not meet among
your clients ordinary humble
men who live ordinary humble
lives. You meet men who went
to Eton and who live “county”
lives, eccentric sportsmen,
impoverished noblemen and
“gentry,” often living beyond
their means, and a few of those
wealthy industrialists whom men
like my boss regarded as upstarts
and not worthy of a lunch in the
West End.
I remember a handsome
Jewish clothing - manufacturer
who lived in Hampstead Garden
City and who bought a yacht.
My boss despised him and left
him to me while he entertained
the poverty-stricken Marquis of
Sligo.
The Marquis of Sligo owned
a steel-hulled French craft, the
kind of yacht Englishmen dis-
trust, and he wanted to sell her
because he couldn’t afford her
upkeep. My boss (I shall call
him Mr. Hackett) took endless
pains to dispose of Je Reviens
(I think she was called), though
he knew full well there was no
market for her.
Mr. Hackett lived in Straw-
berry Hill (it was easy to asso-
ciate him with Alexander Pope
and Horace Walpole). He had
been a gay young man-about-
town in Edwardian days, had
soaked up culture from a family
that had been well-to-do for
generations, took for granted
.vintage wines and collecting
china and clothes bought in
Jermyn-street.
His one-man business had
grown out of his pastime, yacht-
ing. He knew every yachting
name from Brightlingsea and
Poole to Bandol and Cannes.
He used to come to the office
at noon, take lunch from one
until three, and catch his train
at Waterloo at something before
five. Punctually at 10.30 every
morning he used to ring me to
see what was in the mail and
give me any necessary directives.
In the summer he would go
off on his yacht, and the morn-
ing telephone-calls would come
from a succession of ports
between London and Ramsgate.
As his was a motor-launch (in
English yachting parlance they,
too, are called yachts), his
Mecca was Ramsgate, not
Cowes, and the big event of his
year was the Ramsgate Rally.
In June, 1940, when I was
working in another place, and
the greatest Ramsgate Rally in
history was organised, I won-
dered how many of the yachts
I had known were gathering
there. Most of them, I daresay,
and no doubt some were among
the little craft that were sunk
on that grand and terrible occa-
sion in Dunkirk Harbor.
Our office was in an old build-
ing that ran between Great
Winchester-street and London
Wall, with entrances from both
streets. It was typical City of
London: dark and crowded,
with bundles of letters lying
about in the dust, piles of
yachting - magazines, rolls of
blueprints—and a general air of
confusion. Yet as soon as you
were initiated you could lay
your hand on anything you
wanted in an instant.
The office furniture mostly
belonged to a Mr. Jones with
whom we shared the office. He
had been at one time in charge
of a large office, as secretary of
a number of American brewery
companies. As these were in a
state of liquidation and he was
engaged in “winding-up” (he
wound for the whole time I was
there), I kept my files, specifica-
tions, stationery, etc., in his
Next Monday, May 30, is the fifteenth anniversary of the
evacuation of Dunkirk, begun on that date by the gallant fleet
of “little boats” and completed on June 3, with, all told,
over 337,000 troops carried safely back to England—to fight to
victory later.
In the 1930’s the writer of the article on this page, getting
a job in an old-world London yachtbroker’s office, no doubt
there personally sold a number of those same little boats. Now
back in Australia, she recalls typical examples of the trans-
actions, with glimpses of the types of men who sailed over in
that great “Ramsgate Rally.”
now-unused series of black-
japanned cabinets bearing such
legends -as “San Francisco,”
“St. Louis,” “Chicago,” “New
Orleans,” and so on.
Shortly after I began working
with Mr. Hackett we received a
visit from the Dutch yacht-
designer and -builder De Vogt:
he designed the yacht the Dutch
nation gave Queen (then
Princess) Juliana and Prince
Bernhard for a wedding-present.
We had several of De Vogt’s
plans in which Mr. Hackett was
trying to interest a wealthy
businessman in Scotland named
Peter Crerar. De Vogt asked to
see one of them, and looked a
little startled when Mr. Hackett
said to me: “That’s in ‘Mil”
waukee’; will you get it?”
It must have been about this
time that a Themistocles Papa-
theodoro wrote from Athens
asking for a 200-ton luxury,
ocean-going cruiser. There was
nothing in “Milwaukee” that
seemed likely to meet his some-
what exacting requirements, so
I looked through Lloyd’s
Register of Yachts to see who
owned any suitable craft.
Atlanta, owned by Loel
Guinness, seemed likely to fill
the bill.
To my great surprise, when I
rang Guinness’s London address
he answered the telephone him-
self. That took my breath away
for a second, but he seemed a
nice man, with a melancholy
voice, and we had a long and
friendly conversation. Yes, he
would sell: £25,000 cash;
another thousand for terms.
“I bought her for a song,” he
told me, “and spent a packet
refitting her.”
Mr. Hackett told me later
that the “song” was £12,000.
Loel Guiness told me about
the engines, about the stateroom
carpet, the alabaster bath and
the bronze water-taps bought in
Florence. He mentioned in
passing his friends the Vander-
bilts —he used to cruise over to
the United States to visit them.
Mr. Hackett was delighted
about this. He said: “Papa-
theodoro is a big man in oil;
he’ll buy.” But after protracted
negotiations (during which I
made a fine collection of
postage-stamps) Mr. P. wrote to
say he had decided on a French
yacht—but not the Marquis of
Sligo’s. *
“I knew he’d never buy,” Mr.
Hackett said, trying to conceal
his bitter disappointment. “You
can’t trust Greeks. I shouldn’t
doubt but that he’s a
humble fisherman who’s been
indulging in a little folie de
grandeur at our expense. But
never mind, I’m seeing Smith St.
Aubyn today ; he might buy that
French countess’s boat.”
But he did not; and Lord
Stanley of Alderley failed to
come up to Mr. Hackett’s
expectations also.
Indeed, during my term of
office we did not have any
success with these luxury craft;
all our actual business eventu-
ated from inquiries about sailing-
or racing-yachts or small
Thames cruisers. These were
usually left to me, while Mr.
Hackett entertained, at the
luxurious Ecu de France
restaurant in Jermyn-street, men
whom he thought he might
persuade, and whose company,
meantime, he enjoyed.
My first client was Major
Hazell, who lived in Tipperary.
We had advertised in a yachting-
journal a Swedish skerry lying
at St. Malo, in France. The first
response came with a telephone-
ring and a girl’s voice saying:
“Is that London? Tipperary
calling. Hold the line, please.”
(Shivers of delight down my
spine; I never became blase
about these long-distance calls.)
Major Hazell announced him-
self as interested in skerries, but
success with these luxury craft,
all our actual business eventu-
ated from inquiries about sailing-
or racing-yachts or small
Thames cruisers. These were
usually left to me, while Mr.
Hackett entertained, at the
luxurious Ecu de France
restaurant in Jermyn-street, men
whom he thought he might
persuade, and whose company,
meantime, he enjoyed.
My first client was Major
Hazell, who lived in Tipperary,
We had advertised in a yachting-
journal a Swedish skerry lying
at St. Malo, in France. The first
response came with a telephone-
ring and a girl’s voice saying:
“Is that London? Tipperary
calling. Hold the line, please,
(Shivers of delight down my
spine; I never became blase
about tbese long-distance calls.)
Major Hazell announced him-
interested in skerries, but
unwilling to go as far as France
to inspect one. Had we a
skerry in England?
I said I was sorry, that the
only other skerries I knew of
were in Sweden. I was about to
hang up, all hopes of a sale
having, presumably, been
dashed.
Major Hazell bristled a little.
What was wrong with a trip to
Sweden? Nothing could suit
him better. He would leave the
following day.
Assuming that he did not
know where Sweden was and
that when he found out he
would write to say he had
changed his mind about buying
a skerry, I put Major Hazell out
of my mind and got on with
something else.
However, about ten days
later Knud Reimers, designer of
and agent for skerries, rang
from Stockholm to say he had
with him a Major Hazell of
Tipperary, etc. And there and
then the deal was clinched.
The yacht Major Hazell
bought was nearly twice the
price of that we had advertised,
which he had complained was
too dear, and it was to prove
expensive to ship her from Gefle,
in Sweden, to Limerick, in Eire,
where Major Hazell wanted her.
Yet he expressed himself
delighted with the whole deal.
“Irishmen are like that,” Mr.
Hackett explained, as he gave
me a cheque for a percentage of
his commission. Always after-
wards he recognised my efforts
in this way when I achieved a
sale on my own account.
My next foreign yacht led
me, indirectly, into a proper
pickle. She was a Norwegian
pilot-boat, converted into a
pleasure-craft, and lying in
Oslo. The purchaser, who
might have been one of the
younger Forsytes in Galworthy’s
Saga, decided to spend his
summer holidays sailing her
home to England. In this way
he would be able to avoid pay-
ing duty. A yacht shipped into
England as cargo was, in those
days, liable to 10 per cent. duty.
When a buyer planned to sail
his newly-purchased craft home
the routine for the agent was to
send the specifications to the
Customs Department with a
covering letter explaining under
what conditions she was being
sailed to England. Eventually
a letter would come back to us
stating that, as Mr. “X” was
sailing yacht “Y” to England on
her own bottom, he would be
exempt from paying duty. The
client then took the letter, or a
copy of it, with him.
As this routine never varied,
I concluded that anyone who
bought a yacht in a foreign
country and sailed her home was,
in fact, freed from duty-
charges.
After I had done this simple
sum it happened that we adver-
tised an auxiliary ketch lying at
Antwerp. A letter came in
from Bath, from a man named
Noel Knee, saying that a friend
of his had seen the craft in
Belgium and that he would like
to buy her, provided that our
quoted price of £220 included
duty.
Anxious to make the sale, I
told him about the Forsyte Saga
man and the pilot-boat and
others. He seemed satisfied.
“If that’s the case,” he said,
“we’ll pop over to Belgium in
the weekend and bring her
home.”
The sale was finalised, and off
he popped.
On the following Monday I
returned from lunch to find a
scarlet-faced man rampaging up
and down the passage outside
the locked door of our office.
Quite confident that I knew
better than the Customs officer;
at Dover I rang the Customs
Department.
They were not very nice. Who
did I think I was to tell a man
he need not pay duty on his
yacht? Resolutely I mentioned
the pilot-boat, but was brushed
aside. It turned out that by
regulation all foreign yachts pur-
chased by buyers living in Eng-
land were dutiable, but that the
practice had grown up of ex-
empting those sailed over by
individual yachtsmen in pursuit
of their own pleasures. Each
case was decided beforehand
and on its own merits; hence
the constant application to the
Customs Department and the
receipt of letters that had seemed
to me so superfluous.
We had to pay the duty, of
course, and I expected to be
sacked. But Mr. Hackett, as
humanly illogical as the Customs
people, not only gave me my
usual commission but a rise as
well . . .
As most of our business was
done with firms in Europe the
uneasy international situation of
1937 and 1938 did not help us.
After the Germans marched
into Vienna in March, 1938—it
was a glorious spring day in
London —our business began to
fall off. All through the summer
Mr. Hackett worried, and tried
to build up business with Eng-
lish firms. But nobody felt like
buying yachts that they might
have to lay up indefinitely, and
in September, when Chamber-
lain went to Munich, Mr.
Hackett decided to close his
doors.
He talked about starting again
“when things straighten out,”
but he was an old man, nearing
70, and he knew quite well that
this was the end of his yacht-
broking career. There were
tears in his eyes when he said
goodbye to me; he loved his
little business conducted in so
leisurely a fashion, never
ruffling his rich enjoyment of
the pleasures of life.
There was such a lump in my
throat that I could barely say
goodbye audibly; it had been a
unique experience for me, and
I had a feeling that nothing like
it would ever happen again.
Not only had I had tremendous
fun and scope to use plenty of
initiative; I had stayed a while
in a world that has no counter-
part in Australia, and had talked
with those highminded, pre-
judiced, seemingly frivolous
people whose forebears, in pur-
suit of private aims and interests
and without realising just what
they were doing, laid the founda-
tions of the greatest Empire the
world has ever seen, and when
that Empire outlived its time,
turned it into a Commonwealth
of self-governing nations.
Their yachts they bought for
pleasure and spent enormous
sums keeping them up in a
country where the weather put
them out of commission for half
the year. And when there
was a trapped and defeated
Army to be brought home, well,
they helped bring it home.


m '
m
fee
; asss»
SsS&SsS
•'s*s
££.4
gplggij
--•-l-=S3
-■••-rsaa
RTSS : ■ -
Hi
3«
Hospital »
if? m
Im
!i k: -
•V- .
m
i i
i «»*•:
1
m-m
fim
EAUTi
k#
RA
Wi
V/A.
wmU,
sss
W~KZ
First in Quality
First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distinction
A Product of The
House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
Wholesale Spirit Merchants since 1838
SPORTING NOTIONS
Storm Glow was the first
three-year-old winner of the
Adelaide Cup since 1915 and the
first Adelaide-owned winner for
eight years. By Sun Storm, he
was bought for 1000 gns. by
J. M. Cummings (yes, the Comic
Court Cummings), who sold him
to his son, P. Cummings. Storm
Glow then became a cripple
through a bad toe on his off-
side front hoof. Seven months’
patient work by a. farrier got the
hoof right; he had his first race
about a year ago, and in nine
starts has strung-up four wins,
a second and two thirds. In
the S.A. St. Leger he was
beaten by Maghera (scratched
from the Cup), but a drop
from 8.10 to 7.0 and a heavy
track which left the race to the
feather-weighted three-year-olds
let Storm Glow roll home —at
20 to 1.
••• . . •
Apart from Fire Dust (third),
horses which finished behind
Liquid Fire and Joy Lad in the
Warwick Farm Flying (if the
race is taken as a trial of N.S.W.
horses for the Stradbroke) may
just as well stay at home. Fire
Dust, having his first jun since
winning the Doncaster, was in
need of a strong hit-out, and
his third was impressive. With
a little more than a furlong to
go he was one of the leaders
until Liquid Fire swooped on
the field and, racing wide out
over the last half-furlong, won
easily.
The .smart two-year-old filly
Rahuti, who followed two
seconds by winning her first race
at Warwick Farm, won well and
could go on to success in much
better company. Rahuti is by
Hua from Recitative, who
didn’t race and was by Beau
Pere (imp.) from Contata (imp.)
by Concerto.
Bookmakers told newshawks
at Warwick Farm that they had
to borrow money! This was
because six favorites and an
equal-favorite won the seven
races on the card. Since when
have books allowed favorites
to break them? Anyway, a lot
of punters, holding money when
the last race at Moonee Valley
came up, had a crack at it. The
winner, Le Triomphe, was 50 to
1, so plenty of the Warwick Farm
winnings went to bookies oper-
ating on the Valley fixture.
New Zealanders continue to,,
cut deeply into Australian stake-
money. Last Saturday it was
Mainlander, winner of the prin-
cipal event at Warwick Farm.
Three more arrived last week,
two two-year-olds in charge of
A. D. Webster, and sprinter
Gold Drive. Webster’s young-
sters are Columbus, who has
raced once, and Luckydale, who
has shown promising form. Col-
umbus is by Marco Polo II from
Tira by Tweed II (imp.) and
is related to Fast Passage and
Conclusion, two winners of the
New Zealand Cup. Waterline,
who won 11 races—in one of
them beating Phar Lap also
figures in the pedigree. Lucky-
dale is by Lucky Bag (imp.)
from Scottish Dale by Foxbridge
(imp.) and was bred by Ken
Austin.
W. T. Rayner, a Mudgee
grazier, and his trainer, Wheeler,
are doing well. Two Saturdays
ago Rillsdale won at Canterbury,
then Durabay won at Hawkes-
bury last Wednesday, and at
Warwick Farm on Saturday
Blazeaway landed the Encour-
age. In the final Warwick event,
the Mooreland Handicap, Dura-
bay just missed a place after
being near the lead all the
way. Rayner bred them from
the Closing Time mare Bay
Ann. Blazeaway and Rillsdale
are brothers and Durabay is a
half-brother to them. Ann’s Port
and Baysander are others from
the same mare that have been
successful, and Bay Ann has a
yearling by Portfolio (sire of
Blazeaway) and is in foal to that
sire.
The Wash, one of Brisbane’s
best stayers, and an early pick
for the Brisbane Cup, will need
to improve if he is to trouble
the southern and New Zealand
opposition. He has failed in
recent starts and was easily
beaten into second place in the
Winter Handicap, \\ mile, at the
Eagle Farm meeting. Though
The Wash was an odds-on fav-
orite there was plenty of money
for the winner, Cool Gent, at 7
to 2. Arab Legion was a good
third. All three are in the Bris-
bane Cup, in which The Wash
drops from the 8.8 to 7.12. Cool
Gent’s 7.8 was 31b. more than
his Cup impost, while Arab
Legion drops from 7.7 to 7.3.
Grand Topic, winner of the Fly-
ing Handicap at Eagle Farm, has
8.3 in the Stradbroke, 61b. less
than he carried on Saturday.
Though Le Triomphe had won
at two of his three prior starts
nobody wanted him for the Kiata
Handicap at Moonee Valley and
he was a forlorn 50 to 1. Ridden
by R. Faux, who is doing well in
Melbourne, the gelding had an
easy task. He beat favorite
“I just couldn't get anyone to look after baby.”
Court Lock and 100-to-l Beau
Enghien. The gelding’s owner
declined a handsome offer for
him about three months ago.
Le Triomphe is by Billet (imp.)
from Anna Witan by Law Maker
(imp.) and is related to The
Trump (Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups).
New Zealand trainer A. D.
Webster, here for the Brisbane
carnival, is remembered as men-
tor of First Acre, who raced so
frequently and in so many
places and over varying dis-
tances that he was dubbed an
“iron horse.” First Acre won
many races and finished third to
Denis Boy in the 1931 Caulfield
Cup.
• • • •
Snowstream’s first progeny
are showing promising form.
One of them, Lake’s Entrance,
won well recently at Hawkes-
bury (N.S.W.), starting favorite.
He cost 800gns. as a yearling
and is from the family which
produced Cathmar, a winner of
the Epsom, as well as Benvolo
and Mont Clair. Lady Moya, his
dam, is by Buoyant Bachelor
(imp.) from Moyarta by Three
from Malbay by Multiform.
Grand Copy, Moonee Valley
Laluma Handicap winner, with
two wins and two seconds at last
four starts, is a good ad-
vertisement for Carbon Copy
as a sire. Darling, dam of
Grand Copy, is a daughter of Le
Grand Due (imp.) and Angel
by Double Remove (imp.).
Aristocrat and Apelle (a. high-
class stayer in Italy and in Eng-
land) figure in Grand Copy's
pedigree.
The English Derby is run at
Epsom Downs to-day (Wednes-
day). Australian interest mainly
is centred on Australian
jockeys W. R. Johnstone, on
Hugh Lupus, Edgar Britt, on
Tippecanoe, A. Breasley, on
National Anthem, and E. Crack-
nell, on Kookaburra—an Aus-
tralian tip. Kookaburra won at
his last two starts. Britt’s mount
has been successful at last three
outings, while Hugh Lupus ran
away with the Irish Derby.
Thirty-two horses have accepted,
with Acropolis as the favorite.
• * • •
Morphettville (Adelaide) stew-
ards pulled W. Attrill off Thun-
dering Legion when the odds
tumbled from 33’s to 7’s.
AttriU’s whip contained a bat-
tery ; he got 10 years. D. Cole-
man was put on Thundering
Legion. The horse won and
was swabbed. The owner said
he had £lOO to £l2 and £BO to
£lO. and a friend of his said
he had £lOOO to £5O.
“P.0.M.C.”: In the Adelaide
case it is said the whip-battery
was exposed by a steward acci-
dentally receiving a sharp shock
while searching the hoop’s gear.
As human skin is several times
more resistant to electricity than
that of horses the power of this
particular “buzzer,” applied dur-
ing a race, would have been too
obvious; the extreme distress of
the “stabbed” horse would have
caught the trained official eye.
Batteries expertly designed to
hustle rather than to stampede
nags (and there is a real if dark
traffic in them) pack a high cur-
rent punched at a pressure of
less than three volts.
With the £1250 Grafton Cup
as star event, the Clarence River
big racing carnival goes to the
barrier on June 25. Racing will
be continued on July 2,9, 13,
14, 16, 20 and 23. All sorts of
reasons for being there are given,
including “An 18-hole golf
course for the golfer.”
* * *
Trot punters are faithful folk.
Finley’s Air, six times runner-
up in the Harold Park (Sydney)
Qualifying Stakes, again went
out at odds-on last Saturday
night. Three lengths clear at the
flat turn, he was unable to hold
off a strong challenge from
second-favorite Golden Van and
went under by a neck.
The stock of N.Z. sire Con-
flagrate was given a boost when
Malniri scored well in the Three-
year-old Stakes. This handsome-
looking colt won a race as a
two-year-old at Harold Park,
but hadn’t done much since.
Superbly handled by A. Picken,
Malniri shot away at the flat to
be a length and a half to the
good of Frisco Sky at the finish.
Bannalagh again ran on well fpr
third money.
Speculation is rife over the
N.S.W.T.C.’s decision to stage a
midweek meeting at Menangle.
The club started off at the course
with all-tote betting, drew big
crowds to early meetings and
then lost them. They then 1 fell
back on the necessary evil —the
bookies. However, crowds of
2000-odd aren’t really satis-
factory, and not much can be
lost by the experiment.
The Roy Redmond-Helen of
Troy mare Gathering Gold led
all the way in the Harold Park
Trotters’ Handicap. Backed
from 4’s to be equal favorite at
7-to-4, she lived up to her best
provincial form in Victoria, and
took the large field of 18 rather
by surprise. With the blood of
Roy Redmond showing out in
her lusty strides, the long, lean,
chestnut four-year-old promises
to gather much gold.
Filzroy, superior in rucks,
centre and air all day, beat
Footscray by eight points (10.6-
8.10) in the V.F.L. round last
Saturday. ’Scray, who missed
Collins at the spearhead, have
been playing without last year’s
pugnacity. In the match of the
day Collingwood, with Bobby
Rose back and roving brilliantly,
kept Essendon scoreless in the
first quarter while they piled on
4.4, and stayed in front the rest
of the way—ls.ll-6.11. In the
other games Melbourne main-
tained its unbeaten run, against
Hawthorn, which, however,
may still come into the reckon-
ing, 11.5-6.8; St. Kilda main-
tained its losing run, this time
under obligation to Geelong,
6.12-4.5; South Melbourne, after
last week’s orgy against St.
Kilda, found Carlton much more
indigestible, yet were able to
dine off the Blues, 12.11-11.9;
and North, after breaking the
ice last week, beat Richmond
Tigers, who badly need reclaw-
ing, 10.14-7.10.
When South Melbourne went
out to play St. Kilda last Sat-
urday week the team was on £1
for every point by which they
beat the Saints. They kicked 25
goals' 16 behinds (166 points)
to 4.8 (32). The donor, Bob
Henderson, cheerfully coughed
up £134 and promised the
players £2 a point if they beat
Carlton last Saturday. They did,
by eight points.
♦ * *
Two Queensland Rugby
teams —League and Union —
were beaten by N.S.W. teams
on Saturday. In the League
game Queensland almost forced
a draw, when Flannery crossed
for a try, but the Queensland
fullback, Pope, failed to convert
from an awkward angle. So
N.S.W. won, 17-15.
In the Brisbane Rugby Union
game N.S.W. won 25-19, after
trailing 14-16. The lighter
Queensland pack did very well,
winning lineouts 24-22 and
scrums 13-7.
In R.U. club-games in Syd-
ney, University and St. George
finished even (8-8), Manly beat
Drummoyne, 15-6, Gordon
beat Parramatta, 26-6, Eastern
Suburbs beat Northern Suburbs,
11-6, and Eastwood beat Rand-
wick, 22-14.
“Honest Frank”: In a R.L.
match in Queensland between
Witjton and Barcaldine at Bar-
caldine the home team defeated
the visitors by 85 to nil. One
player scored 40 points!
* * *
With the fourth Test in the
West Indies drawn, Australia’s
team of “crocks” and “has-
beens” has won the rubber. With-
out having to make use of the
wheelchairs, crutches, etc., earlier
prescribed for them, they won
the first and third Tests, and
had the better of the two drawn
ones. They’ve piled-up such
scores as 9-515 (first Test), 9-600
(second) and 668 (fourth), and
their bowlers, except at certain
times, have had the measure of
most of the W-L bats.
* * * *
Spanish middleweight Ric-
ardo Marcos (11.7) met Clar-
rie Grogan (11.2£), an Australian
aborigine from North Queens-
land, at Leichhardt Stadium.
Grogan might develop into an-
other Jerry Jerome, but he has
not had many contests, and his
inexperience had plenty to do
with his being beaten on points.
Slightly taller and longer in
reach, Grogan was always ready
to mix matters, leading to plenty
of toe-to-toe rallies, and specta-
tors cheered both boxers during,
and at the end of, every round.
Marcos gave Grogan plenty of
punishment with double-barrelled
blows to the body, and it looked
like C'larrie would cave in more
than once. But he’s as game as
they come and fought at his
best to the end. The decision for
Marcos was .the only one pos-
sible.


Talk About Troppo!
Butterfly Mad
By LES SUCH
"7" HREE of us took on a
/ grubbing-contract in North
y j Queensland. Twenty-
pounds an acre. It looked
a pushover. Twenty acres of
light - forest country; a nice
lucrative slack job between cane-
seasons.
The first day’s work disillu-
sioned us. Years before some-
one had been there with an axe ;
every other sapling on the place
had grown up from a hefty
stump.
Still, we were in, and the choice
was either walking away from it
or making the best of it. We’d
give it a fly. We bought tools
and some gelignite, built a
humpy, started to hoe into it.
We did it the hard way, with
mattock, shovel and axe; not
even a jack. And gelly was hard
to get at the time so we had very
little of that.
We were camped near an inlet
full of mangroves and crocodiles,
not far from civilisation, but off
the beaten track. Stores came
once a week.
It was the wet season, so we
seldom got dried out. We rigged
a fish-trap by blocking the
creek with stakes driven into the
mud close together and a wire-
mesh gate in the middle; and
caught very few fish.
We tried to catch crocs, for
diversion and skins with a
hefty iron hook and 6ft. of wire-
rope, but had no success in this,
either, although we often heard
the scalies barking at night and
saw their tracks.
We toiled for a month in the
mud, and you could hardly see
where we’d been. We made one-
stringed fiddles from cigar-boxes
and squeaked away at them
when the rain was too heavy to
go out, and one day Sting went
to town and came back with an
accordion, so we had a band.
Anything to stop going mad.
There was no radio ; this was
some years back.
Then, one day, when the rain
eased-up, I caught a butterfly.
I caught it with my hat. It
measured llin. across. Next
day we saw others—-and before
we knew it we were butterfly
mad!
We made nets from mosquito-
netting and started out after a
collection in keen competition
with one another. We learned
how to peg them out on boards
with a groove down the centre
for the insect’s body; how to
gut the big ones and stuff them
with cottonwool. And very
soon the inside of the hut was a
blaze of color, with rows of
gorgeous tropical butterflies
spreadeagled on pine -boards
hanging from the rafters on wire
hooks that passed through the
necks of bottles filled with water
—the old bush method of
tricking the ants.
We each had a glass-case
made, and every weekend were
to be seen bolting through the
scrub in only hats, trunks and
sandshoes, pursuing the quarry
with large nets on long poles.
I always did maintain that there’s
nothing so silly-looking as a
professor with a butterfly-net.
But he’s certainly no sillier-
looking than three husky cane-
cutters chasing high-flying butter-
flies with nets on 12ft. poles.
We’d all done our share of
huntin’, fishin’, and shootin’;
now we found out that butter-
fly-hunting becomes such an
obsession that when you get
your eye on the quarry you go
after him through swamps,
creeks and thickets with no
regard whatever for your own
hide.
The madness has got you.
You’re butterfly crazy.
One day we were all three
after the same butterfly and
burst out of the scrub onto the
main road, where a bus from
town had broken down. We
knew all the passengers well,
but we didn’t see them. We
tore straight across the road into
the lantana on the other side
without taking our eyes off the
butterfly, leaving them to take
the news into town that we’d
gone off our rockers through
being too long in the bush.
Another time, returning from
the chase one soaking afternoon
and hearing a voice in a near-by
swamp, I found Nugget up to
his knees in water and frothing
at the mouth, pouring forth a
stream of invective at a tree.
I knew what had happened.
He’d lost a Blue Mountain (it’s
a rare and very high-flying
butterfly).
Then I knew it was getting
serious!
So it went on, and the collec-
tions grew. We talked butterflies,
thought butterflies, dreamed
butterflies. We took our nets to
work with us, and all downed
tbols as soon as a butterfly was
sighted.
We started bartering and
exchanging butterflies. One day
I bagged an Orontes day-moth,
the first one we’d seen. Gray and
green and gold, it was a beauty.
Sting swapped me three highly-
treasured Blue Mountains for it,
and kicked himself next day
when the bush was swarming
with Orontes!
Said Nugget one Saturday :
“I’m sick of going after the big
stuff. A man wants variety.
Today I’m after the small ones—
the smaller the better!”
We saw him coming through
the trees just before dark, loping
along with net in one hand and
the finger and thumb of the other
held together as if holding some-
thing extra-precious.
We didn’t say a word as he
passed us at the door with the
silly stare of the bug-hunter and
stood his net in the comer. We
could see he had nothing in his
hand. What he’d caught was
so small he didn’t know he’d
lost it.
At the end of about three
months we had the job finished
and found we’d averaged three-
pounds-ten a week and tucker.
Very poor after twenty- to thirty-
quid a week in the season . . .
but we’d had a lot of fun.
Nugget was offered a hundred-
quid for his collection when he
took it home to Tasmania. I
don’t know how Sting got on
with his, but as for mine . . .
Deciding against the glass-
case, I pinned each butterfly
gently and firmly on the six
insides of a butter-box, and
sealed it up. For years it was
carted around on trains, cars,
cane-trucks and lorries, until
eventually, being married and
fairly settled, we opened the
butterfly-butterbox with great
ceremony, wife and child mad
with excitement after being fed
for years on tales of the great
collection and how it had been
acquired.
At the bottom of the box was
a small heap of dust. Nothing
else..


By Appointment
\to H. M. King *
frederik IX
By Appointment.
to the lata
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adult
By Appointment!
to H. M. the
Queen of the
Netherlands
mm
cs
Sir
rirl
2 U
I!
Cherry
1 Heering
Sine* 1818 Denmark's. .
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
Chp*'
guO-^
AUSTRALIAN
1. ITD.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2
.... £2/10/-
Foreign
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. AID FOR ASIA
Commenting on President
Eisenhower’s request to Congress
for $3530 million for aid to
overseas countries, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” notes with approval
the President’s opinion that no
further economic aid is needed
for the original Marshall-plan
countries in Western Europe:
“This is a most encouraging
statement and a tribute to the
success of the plan as well as to
the efforts of European countries
of the Western persuasion to
recover their economic legs.”
Most of the money for which
the President has asked is to be
directed to the Far East, where
(the “Scotsman” continues) it is
hoped that “the almighty dollar
might even talk the new
nationalisms of Asia out of some
of their predilections for Com-
munism, while at the same time
encouraging those countries not
attracted by Communist theory
or practice to resist more strongly
Communist infiltration and
propaganda”:
“The new American aid-
programme is to some extent at
least a retort to the Bandoeng
Conference. At Bandoeng the
leader of the Iraki delegation said
that Communism was a new
colonialism, with this difference,
that under the old colonialism
there was some chance of hear-
ing the Cries of pain of the
subjugated peoples, but under
Communist domination no such
cries were permitted to be heard.
“It may be that the dollar will
talk effectively when the
countries of the East see the
supply of capital and other forms
of aid beginning to strengthen
their economic position.”
It seems, however, that there
will be more problems in aiding
Asia than there were with
Europe, and, as London
“Economist” notes, “the
President recognises that the
situation [in Asia] is much more
complex than it was in Europe,
and that greater diversity and
flexibility are needed to deal
with it”:
“He suggests that he should be
given a special fund, of $2OO
million, for Asian economic
development with only broad
rules governing its use. This will
enable the United States to take
advantage of constructive oppor-
tunities as they arise over a
number of years.
“Another sign that foreign aid
is now being put on a compara-
tively permanent basis is that it
is in future to be handled through
the Department of State instead
of by an independent agency.
The new International Co-opera-
tion Administration within the
department will deal with all
aspects of foreign aid except the
purely military.
“A large part of the funds for
the latter purpose is to be devoted
to building and maintaining the
military forces of America’s allies
in Asia, including a substantial
contribution to the defences of
the Nationalist Government of
China. Asia is also to receive
much of the money for ‘defence
support,’ which helps allied
countries to make military efforts
that are beyond their economic
capacity.”
Setting down some of the com-
plexities in aiding the Far East,
“New York Timas” commentator
C. L. Sulzberger points out that
where Communism advanced
westward into Europe it
brought with it a reduced
standard of living, but, “both
before and after the Revolution,
where Russia expanded south-
ward and eastward it brought
more rather than less civilisa-
tion. Methods employed were
often brutal. But ultimately
living and educational condi-
tions improved for various
Central Asian and Siberian
peoples.
‘This trend has been accen-
tuated by the ideological con-
quest of China. A vast new
force —still inchoate, but gather-
ing strength—has been added
to Communism’s Asian
momentum.”
The essential problem that
faces Uncle Sam in Asia,
Sulzberger adds, is psychological
and economic rather than
military. There are tremendous
food-deficiencies which cannot
be solved simply by the export
of America’s surpluses, and there
is an urgent need for “technical
instruction, dams, roads and
factories”:
“That we [the U.S.] should
seek to help Asia comes within
the realm of what President
Eisenhower terms ‘enlightened
self-interest.’ It is no business
deal, Canada’s Lester Pearson
warns against ‘any false idea that
we can or should purchase allies.’
But by making capital available
we can ensure Asia’s ability to
stand alone.
“The capital we furnish is in
money, technical assistance and
specific resources for immediate
translation into living-standards.
The capital of Communism is
primarily manpower. The Com-
munists spend men for railways,
roads, mines and fabricated
equipment just as they spent men
recklessly at Dienbienphu. By
this crude translation of energy
into capital-results the Russians
have impressed the peoples of
Asia.
“For the first time we [the
U.S.] will now supply our kind
of answer on a large scale.”
Soviet Farming
In its effort to increase farm-
production the Soviet is to train
some 30,000 “urbanites”—party
and Government officials,
economists, engineers, etc.*—in
—Providence ( U.S.A .) “Journal”
A PLAGUE ON BOTH YOUR HOUSES!
agricultural matters, give them
two months’ experience on
farms, and then set them up as
chairmen of one-third of all the
Soviet collective-farms.
“There is more than a small
suggestion of desperation” in
this move, suggests the “New
York Times” in an editorial
comment: 1
“The Soviet decision, as
‘Pravda’ notes, is derived from
an analagous move made a
quarter of a century ago at the
beginning of the great struggle
over .collectivisation. Then
25,000 trusted Communists were
sent out from the cities tp lead
the campaign to force the
peasants into the collectives.
“That campaign succeeded,
but only at enormous cost; for,
before collectivisation had won
out, roughly half of the agricul-
tural capital of the Soviet Union
was destroyed by the recalcitrant
peasants, some of whom were
killed and many others of whom
were sent to slave-labor.
Moscow presumably does not
anticipate paying a similar price
this time, but the precedent is a
grim one.
“Presumably Khrushchev and
his associates feel they hate little
to lose from this gamble. The
farms, which are to be forced to
accept these barely trained city
folk, are poor farms in any case
and any change on them,
Khushchev seems to reason,
must be a change for the better.
“Yet outside observers can
hardly be blamed if they wonder
whether further chaos and con-
fusion will not be the result of
putting agricultural ignoramuses
at the head of these farms. Only
time can tell how this experiment
will turn out, but at least we
know by official Soviet admission
that one-third of all Soviet col-
lectives are so badly off that a
desperate move is called for.”
London “Economist” places
much the same interpretation on
the move, adding that “the aim
of this change is evidently to
strengthen control over the farm-
ing community”:
“Experts and ‘outsiders’ can
be relied on to resist, with greater
determination, the traditional
local pressure to cut down
supplies to the State in favor of
sales on the more profitable ‘free’
market.
“There is always the risk,
however, of losing on the swings
what may be gained on the
roundabout. Men trusted by the
State will tend to be mistrusted
by the farmers, and the latter’s
passive resistance may outweigh
the expected advantages of the
new system. This has always
been the leaders’ dilemma and
Soviet policy has usually oscil-
lated between the two extremes.
“If Mr. Khrushchev has now
decided in favor of closer
control, it is largely due to the
planners’ disappointment with
food-supplies; at the recent
Parliamentary session of the
Russian Republic, for instance,
it was revealed that in 1954 both
meat and dairy-produce had
fallen far short of expectations.
“Mr. Khrushchev may rely on
other concessions to please the
peasant. But he will need
watchful and expert supervisors
to run the farms and to go on
seeing that the State gets its
planned share of agricultural
output.”
U.N. Contribution
Answering suggestions that
American participation in the
United Nations is costing the
U.S. citizen dearly, the
“Christian Science Monitor”
points out that for the current
year the U.S. contribution to the
U.N. Budget is $13,407,290,
plus $10,894,300 for related
agencies, and $68,354,871 for
technical assistance, Korean
relief, Palestine relief, Children’s
Fund, and other U.N. special
programmes. This totals
$92,656,461:
“Yet it comes out of a Federal
Budget calculated in billions.
When the cost is spread over
more than 150,000,000 persons,
the American Association for
the U.N. figures that an average
citizen’s share of the direct cost
of United States membership in
the U.N.—the contribution to
the U.N. Budget—is only about
8 cents a year. And that when
all the U.N. agencies and pro-
grammes are added the total
cost to the average American is
about 56 cents a year.
“By comparison, the
‘A.A.U.N. News’ remarks that
‘the United States military
Budget is nearly $4OO per year
per person.’
“Out o f approximately
$63,000 million of estimated
total expenditures in next year’s
Federal Budget, $34,000 million
is allocated to the armed ser-
vices, not counting military-aid
abroad. That represents nearly
54 per cent, of each tax-dollar.
“As against the Budget total,
the $92 million or more for
U.N. purposes represents just
about one-seventh of one per
cent, of the American tax-
dollar.
In other words, whatever your
tax-bill (if you are an American),
you can figure that, out of each
$lOO you pay, approximately
$54 goes to preserve peace
through national armament and
defence organisation, while
approximately. 14 cents goes to
promote peace through inter-
national co-operation and
humanitarianism.”
Freedom of the Seas?
The claims by Chile, Peru
and Ecuador to sovereignty
over a strip of the Pacific Ocean
200 miles wide and running
down practically the whole west
coast of South America have
accentuated the fact that the
traditional “three-mile-limit” is
being nibbled-at or openly
flouted in several parts of the
globe.
Britain, the U.S. and Scan-
dinavia have protested against
the claims, which are not recog-
nised by the world’s maritime
nations, but the claimants have
stuck to their guns and, only a
while ago, Peruvian bombers
and warships attacked and seized
some of Mr. Onassis’s whaling-
fleet.
Considering those and other
incidents, London “Economist”
comments that “not for years
has the freedom of the seas
been so imperilled in time of
peace.” The paper adds that
“international anarchy is a
fungus that spreads swiftly, and
the Pacific seaboard is by no
means the only breeding-ground
that offers it attractive
conditions”:
“In this year’s Antarctic
whaling-season 19 fleets, three
of them British, have been
operating in waters parts of
which are already subject to
claims and counter-claims. One
of the claimants is Chile, whose
Foreign Ministry has declared
the 200-mile limit to apply to all
its territories, including the
Antarctic sector which it insists
is Chilean.
“What if the new contagion
spreads to this far south?
Whalermen are not a meek race
at the best of times, and it is
not hard to imagine fresh con-


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman).
P. W RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
-»r T\ATTfIT ACy
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOTTGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JJ, E. MANION, Manager.
Brandies in all States
Agencies in all Country Centres
m
mm
w&
m
mm
-
m
m m
E
V
Y A
LTD
B B
R A
FALL
0 R D
A MESSAGE
WORTH REMEMBERING
into every inch of Yarra
Falls Worsted goes
something more than
Australia’s purest virgin,
wool supreme crafts-
manship and an insistence
on quality which gives
these fine suitings a
character all their own.
The Hall Mark of Quality
m
W/
VICTORIA
flicts arising. Nor need one go
as far afield as Antarctica to find
possibilities of trouble. Several
of the Central American States
have espoused the 200-mile
doctrine as enthusiastically as
Chile and Peru. The Philip-
pines has defined its territorial
waters so as to embrace vast
areas of sea, and South Korea
has used armed force against
Japanese fishermen who
appeared within the arbitrarily-
drawn ‘Rhee-line,’ which lies
many miles from the coast.
“In recent years, Scandinavian
fishermen have painfully learnt
that Russia’s claim to 12 miles
of territorial waters now bars
them from nearly all the south-
eastern shore of the Baltic ; and
Norway and Iceland themselves
have stiffened their claims to
exclude foreign fishing-vessels
from certain well-stocked
coastal waters. Meanwhile the
doctrine of the ‘continental
shelf’ has been proclaimed not
only by the United States but
also in areas ranging from
Latin America to the Persian
Gulf.”
There are, as the “Economist”
notes, considerable differences
between many of these claims.
Those, for instance, who claim
full sovereignty over great areas
of the high seas are to be dis-
tinguished from those who,
claiming the “continental shelf,”
confine themselves only to the
resources of the seabed “without
prejudice to the legal status of
the waters above them.”
But “the general trend
remains ominous”: while
“international law on the free-
dom of the seas has never been
doctrinaire or absolute, it has
survived in the past, with local
quirks and minor variations,
because it seemed clearly to
serve the general good.” Now,
however, “some countries have
come to the conclusion that they
have more to gain than to lose
by breaking the established
customs.”
Looking for a solution, the
“Economist” discounts sugges-
tions “that an international con-
ference might settle all these
disputes once and for all, or
even that the United Nations
might take on the task of
policing the high seas.” It sees,
rather, the hope that United
Nation technical conferences on
the conservation of the living
resources of the seas —like that
which opened in Rome last
month—might “prepare the
ground for agreements between
the various Governments
involved in some of the out-
standing disputes”:
“If stubbornness persists, it
may be worth recalling that the
International Court still carries
considerable moral weight.
Admittedly, the court has no
powers of enforcement, and will
not easily find firm ground on
which to base a ruling. But at
the moment nothing is easier
than to mark off huge volumes
of ocean. It might at least be
worth trying to make these pro-
ceedings legally tiresome and
morally embarrassing for the
encroachers.”
French Elections
The first elections in France
(for departmental councils) since
French Parliamentary approval
of the Paris agreements on
Germany were taken as a pointer
to French public feeling on that
subject, particularly so because
of the participation in the elec-
tions of the principal members
of the Government which
pushed the pacts through to final
approval.
“It is therefore significant,”
comments “New York Times,”
“that in terms of popular votes
the largest gainers in these elec-
tions were the centrist, moderate
and conservative parties which
form the backbone of French
political and economic life and
were also the principal exponents
of either the European Defence
Community or the Paris pacts.
“In contrast, the Communists,
who still emerged as the biggest
party in France in the elections
of 1951, showed a substantial loss
which dropped them to second-
place.
“The largest losers, however,
—Frankfurt ( Germany ) “Frankfurter Rundschau"
THE CHOICE
were the Gaullists, who fought
hardest against the European
Defence Community even
though the majority of them did
vote finally for the Paris pacts.
They dropped from a high level
of 25 per cent, of the total vote
in 1949 to barely 5.5 per cent.,
and in effect disintegrated as a
political movement.”
Argentine Troubles
Two recent developments in
the six-months’ battle between
the R.C. Church and the State
in Argentina were the stopping
of the teaching of Catholic
doctrine and morals in Govern-
ment-supported schools and, at
the same time, the resignation of
President Peron’s Minister of
Trade, Dr. Antonio Cafiero—an
active spokesman for Argentine
Catholicism.
The standing of the R.C.
Church in Argentina is prac-
tically as influential as that of
Peron himself and, as London
“Economist” comments, it is
difficult to see why the President
should make himself such a
powerful antagonist.
While political tyranny in
Argentina has been worsening,
the “Economist” adds, the
Church has watched with tacit
disapproval, but without using
“its great spiritual influence to
bring about a change”:
“Nevertheless, certain Catholic
universities and priests, particu-
larly in the province of Cordoba
were beginning to look beyond
the end of Peronismo and were
penetrating certain of the more
intellectual centres in the trade-
unions. This appears to have
been the signal for the Peronista
attack on ‘ecclesiastical sub-
version,’ and it is in the nature
of a Police State that such attacks
turn swiftly into campaigns of
mass suppression.”
President Peron’s problems
aren’t confined to the one front;
there are other difficulties which
the “Economist” describes as
“grave economic troubles”:
“The working-class cost-of-
living index, whose basic figure
of 100 is equated with 1943,
stood at 644 in the first quarter
of this year. There have been
grave budgetary deficits in every
year of the Peronista regime with
the exception of 1950-51.
“Argentina is showing the
classical symptoms of a funda-
mentally wealthy agricultural
nation in which autocratic plan-
ning and rapid overindus-
trialisation have undermined the
monetary system. Output per
man-hour has declined and the
costs of production have risen
steadily. The supposed ‘social
revolution’ has had some mean-
ing only in so far as the poorest
strata of Argentine society are
concerned.
“Despite recent trade-pacts
with the United Kingdom and
Spain and efforts to attract
foreign capital by a liberalisation
of exchange controls, foreign
investors have been wary of
entering a country in which con-
fiscation and hopeless, State-
initiated litigation have been
frequent. In fact, it has largely
been support given by the United
States Government for rather
confused political and strategic
reasons that has held Peronismo
suspended over its fiscal abyss.”
“New York Times,” for its
part, is not at all confused on its
attitude towards U.S. financial
support of Peron’s Government.
After stating editorially that
“Peronismo cannot last because
it is a one-man show ; when time
eliminates the man the show is
over,” it adds:
“This year American firms
interested in building a steel-mill
for Argentina have been
delighted by a new export-import
credit of $6O million to the
Government-controlled mixed
company that is handling the
project for Peron.
“While the position of these
firms is understandable, so must
also be the sense of disquiet,
protest and even outrage among
some other Americans—from
Washington to Buenos Aires—
at what amounts to economic aid
to the Peron regime. Washington
has never been able to steer a
happy course between those who
want this country to underwrite
their business with Peron and
those who want to shun him as
an unprincipled dictator.”
U.S. Prosperity
The first quarter of this year
was a remarkably prosperous
one for Uncle Sam ; indeed “New
York Times” comments that “all
but the most optimistic of
prophets must confess to a sense
of pleased amazement”:
“Automobile-production dur-
ing the first quarter set a new
record in excess of 2,125,000
cars, and automobile-dealers sold
more cars in March than in any
month in history. Steel-
production Has for some time
been appreciably above 90 per
cent, of capacity, while in
copper, aluminum and other
materials the pressure of demand
has even forced prices up.
“Behind these and similar
statistics that could be cited are
the more basic facts about
human activities these data
reflect. The overwhelming
majority of us who want jobs
have jobs; millions of us are
enjoying new automobiles, new
television-sets and other con-
veniences purchased these past
three months; with money in
our pockets and confidence in
the future, we are thronging to
the stores to buy the infinite
variety of goods we desire and
with which our fantastically pro-
ductive economy supplies us.
“At the same time we have
enough margin to maintain an
expensive defence-effort and
provide aid to our friends abroad.
We have literally both guns and
butter, a phenomenon made
possible only by the industry and
ingenuity of our people in every
area of economic life.”
Various Voices
Professor Hermann Muller
(the geneticist ); “Each indi-
vidual harmful mutation is an
evil, and we have no right to dis-
miss it lightly. Therefore we
must base our case for the con-
tinuation of the [atomic] tests
squarely on the fact that they
are at the present stage neces-
sary to prevent our being put at
a military disadvantage. Only
from a position of strength, I
think, can we finally reach a
situation where general disarma-
ment is feasible.”
Lord Samuel, paying a broad-
cast tribute to Sir Winston : “It
would not be just to say that he
is variable ; but he is certainly
various—almost as various as
Shakspeare himself. Sometimes
he is Hamlet or Jacques, reflect-
ing on the qualities and fortunes
of men and the destinies of
nations. But most truly and
most deeply he is Henry V:
1940 was his Agincourt —the
nation’s finest hour, and his
own.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Road Engineering
“Peter Simple” (B. 27/4/’55) is wide of
the mark in his article on road-mainten-
ance. In the first place, there is no
“Main Roads Board” now ; it is the Main
Roads Department, and in each State
this department is a big concern with
big responsibilities. What is more im-
portant, it does something about them —
in W.A., anyway.
The operation “P.S.” describes is simply
that of looking after the shoulders of a
bitumen-road, and is necessary because of
the falling-away from the bitumen-edge
of the gravel or natural formation which
forms the base of the bitumen-seal. This
seal rarely extends the full width of the
earthworks except in built-up areas. If
this work is not done regularly, a danger-
ous ledge presents itself to traffic on
either side. The fact that rain sometimes
renders this newly-worked shoulder soft
is not only inevitable but quite irrelevant.
One might as well complain about wet
paint.
“P.S.” is under a popular misapprehen-
sion regarding sealing of roads when he
suggests the “sale of heavy road-plant”
so that funds may be provided for “seal-
ing of roads.”
It is not the actual sealing that costs
money, but the earthworks; or, to be
precise, it is the latter that involves the
heavy dough. Before any road can be
successfully sealed it must be brought up
to correct “vertical alignment,” and this
itself follows the construction of correct
horizontal alignment. Although the two
terms are more-or-less self-explanatory, a
short description may not be amiss:
Horizontal alignment : The construc-
tion of the road-alignment so that as
much straight as is consistent with a
maximum grade of 6.25 per cent, is
obtained, and all curves are either circu-
lar with a minimum radius of 1500 ft. to
2000 ft. or transition curves designed to
accommodate road-speeds of 60 m.p.h.
on major roads.
Vertical alignment : The bringing-up of
the longitudinal section of the road to
required grade-line, with all changes of
grade joined by vertical parabolic curves.
Contrary to general belief, that isn’t
done for peanuts, and the cost of earth-
works far exceeds the cost of sealing,
being (say) £3500 out of £5OOO per mile,
or more. Further, the actual sealing is
part of two separate operations—that of
priming and sealing.
Before the primer-coat—of tar and
“The way tay's gone up, boays, us cant afford to drink ’ un ."
sand, usually—the water-binding must be
done. Although, with full plant and
expert team, this can be done for as low
as £l5O per mile, the capital cost of the
plant is an eye-opener. It consists of
heavy-medium or heavy grader (prefer-
ably heavy-medium), light grader, steel
diesel-roller, multiwheel roller and water-
trucks with pumping-gear, plus, of
course, a full team of experienced men,
camping-gear, transport and the rest.
Often, this gang does the priming, too.
This primer is then left for suitable
weather, as application of bitumen re-
quires high temperatures (it is heated to
300 degrees F.) and is generally done in
mid-summer.
The sealing-gang is preferably of expert
hands, and the usual tanker-run is in
800 ft. sections. This is followed at once
by the metal dressing, and steel- and
multiwheel-rolling.
The whole point is that the priming
and sealing must be on absolutely perfect
earthworks, to true grade-line, properly
drained. The construction of these
requires the full complement of road-
plant: ’dozers, heavy graders, loaders,
trucks, plus experienced foremen. In the
van of all this circus, of course, is the
engineering-surveyor, without whose pre-
liminary work not even a start could be
made.
The whole complex organisation of
road-making, from original location-sur-
vey, pegging-out and estimating, to final
construction, involves so many factors
that a full book could be written on the
subject, and many have been, although
none deals with every aspect (there are
too many).
Anyone who talks of “selling” any
road-plant in order to “seal roads,” is
talking nonsense. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
Wild Ducks
Forty years ago in our part of Vic-
toria practically every man who owned
or could borrow a gun went duck-shoot-
ing at the autumn opening of the season.
Usually all found good sport and reason-
ably good bags.
These days, although comparatively
fewer guns are out for the opening day,
the ducks shot are still fewer, and that in
spite of a strict nine-months’ close season
and the sanctuaries —still too few —that
have been established.
Certainly, in the years 1951-53, there
were plenty of ducks in Victoria, but by
no means all were bred there. Bands on
many ducks shot proved that, driven by
droughts elsewhere, they had come to Vic-
toria from Kalgoorlie (W.A.), Townsville
(Q.), Hobart (Tas.) and areas in between.
The last two open seasons, with no
droughts in other States, showed how fast
Victoria’s own ducks are disappearing.
Advances in agricultural methods have
brought under cultivation land formerly
thought waste and useless, and this has
to some extent limited duck-breeding
areas. More sanctuaries are needed,
though there are still enough waterholes,
swamps and lakes which, if properly
managed, would maintain a fair supply
of ducks for the present three-months’
open season. Sportsmen themselves must
decide whether the extra effort to pre-
serve our ducks is worth their while.
Agriculture being more important than
duck-shooting, swamps that will provide
good agricultural land should be drained,
But why drain those that can never pro-
duce satisfactory crops? When, after
several disappointing years these inevit-
ably revert to marsh again, the ducks
driven from that district are unlikely to
return.
Clearing around waterholes, and the
trampling by stock watered there, removes
the natural cover necessary on even per-
manent water if are to breed suc-
cessfully. Surely enough bushes, reeds
and grasses could be fenced-off to protect
nesting ducks and, later, their young
broods from hawks and other enemies.
Much has been done by the Victorian
Fisheries and Game Department, especi-
ally in strict policing to control the poor
sports who anticipate the opening day of
the season. This department bands as
many young ducks as possible in an
attempt to trace their later movements,
and collects, in sanctuaries and with the
help of interested members of the public,
scientific data on the feeding- and breed-
ing-requirements of ducks. Its aim is to
provide more safe breeding-spots, to
attract ducks there and to increase their
numbers.
And the ducks respond to this help.
At one swamp, when a box masked with
branches was placed in a tea-tree fork, it
“Well, sir, you cant say I lack road courtesy.”
was found a few days later that three
different species had laid eggs in it. More
of these protected nesting-boxes would
relieve the duck-nesting shortage due to
the growing scarcity of suitable hollow
trees. Natural cover, of course, is still
essential.
Victorians, then, can earn good wild-
duck shooting if they take the trouble to
provide the right conditions for breeding.
—Ymar (Vic.).
Furniture
Joyce Brown is off the beam in stating
(B. 27/4/’55) that “the public neither
wants nor appreciates good furniture.”
The fact is that it cannot pay the imperi-
ous prices.
Furniture-prices today have risen be-
yond reasonable proportions to wages and
other manufacturing-costs. Also, public
taste in home-furnishings and design has
never been higher ; you seldom find jerry-
built furniture in families that can afford
the best. But unless they have a com-
fortable bank-balance young couples can-
not furnish decently now without both
working for something like three years
after marriage.—P. M. (N.S.W.).
Production Costs
It is no wonder many industries are
feeling the pinch of oversea competition
when managements admit that actual
working-time of employees is only 36
hours. In addition, such industries as
coalmining and bricklaying carry the
heavy burden of official restriction of
output. In other industries unofficial re-
strictions are imposed. It all leads to
higher production-costs over the whole
field of industry.
Inefficient transport is another potent
cause of high costs. With railway-gangs,
the usual sight is a dozen or more men get-
ting in each other’s way. Our wharfies are
far too often on strike, and much too slow
when they are at work. Much the same
applies to our seamen, who are also over-
paid. In all these units of production,
costs could be lowered by a little more
effort and working full time.
When he delivered the 40-hour-week
judgment in 1947 Mr. Justice Foster said
employers could approach the court if it
didn’t work. The onus is on employers
to put before the court any facts regard-
ing employees working only 36 hours,
and also to reveal to the court any limi-
tations on output and instances of go-
slow tactics. The Tariff Board should
also be told about these things when man-
agements seek the easy way out of their
difficulties by excluding competition.
If employers became more resolute,
spongers on industry would eventually
learn that only by increasing production
could they hold their jobs. The motto
should be: “More work, more pay.”—
K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Extravagance
Children and adolescents of today are
often criticised for their extravagance
and careless regard for possessions.
Much of the criticism is true, but the
fault does not lie with the children.
The modem parent is responsible for
the reckless spending by our young people
In many homes both parents are earning
good money, but are showing poor judg-
ment in their use of it. Their children,
as daily witnesses of extravagance and
improvidence, can scarcely be expected
to develop thrift and caution in money-
matters.
Many modern parents are far too
generous to their youngsters, buying them
toys, clothes and all manner of useless
goods with no attempt to impress their
value upon the recipients. It is no
wonder that youngsters show a “couldn’t-
care-less” attitude when it comes to spend-
ing their own earnings. They simply
have not been taught how to use and
save money or to safeguard their posses-
sions ; they have never known hard times
in the home, and therefore cannot realise
the need to set something aside for a
rainy day.
The times may be prosperous, but that
is no excuse for parents failing to en-
courage thrift in their children. —D. J. G.
(Vic.).
Thirty-party Insurance
It would be for the benefit of all con-
cerned if some limit were placed on com-
pulsory third-party insurance. A car-
owner should be able to cover himself
only to a limited extent—-say, £lO,OOO-
- him personally liable for any
amount awarded by a court above that.
The effect of this would be that com-
panies accepting third-party insurance
would know there was a maximum
amount for which they could be liable.
That would allow premiums to be con-
siderably reduced without denying a
victim an award of any amount —any-
thing in excess of the maximum insurance
would be recovered from the motorist
held responsible.
There would be a sobering effect on
motorists if they knew they still had to
face financial obligations beyond those
covered by third-party insurance. At
present the careful motorist rightly kicks
against having to foot the bill for the
careless, who suffers no financial loss,
because his third-party insurance covers
him to the full extent. —W.P.T. (N.S.W.).


Have you tried
* ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
ality, Claire Bloom, to
smoke—and to offer
X— these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
m
m
ssm
m
llilli
mm
««
Cl
m
lllilii:
m
m
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street*
London, W.l,
AS FULL OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
PROGRESS and PROFITS
THE BANK'S SERVICE
TO INDUSTRY
AND COMMERCE
P rogress and profits are tributes to man’s enterprise and
wisdom. Men who build businesses, and conduct them successfully
for the good of themselves and the Nation, provide better prospects
for us all.
This Bank has rendered an important banking service—
efficient, friendly and helpful, to many such men over the past
120 years. Our resources have helped them to start and expand
their activities.
To-day, we are Bankers to some of Australia’s largest
businesses and to thousands of smaller ones.
At Head Office, or our branch nearest to you, our officers will gladly
give particulars of our service to competent men who wish to undertake
schemes of sound development.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD-
West Germany
West Germany’s resumption of full
sovereignty has been greeted throughout
the Western world as the achievement of
a great objective and as the happy pre-
lude to the re-establishment of a United
German Reptiblic that will form the
main bastion of Western freedom against
threatened aggression from the East.
To those with long memories this
type of jubilation smacks of political
expediency. Moreover, it is showing the
neo-Nazis and their camp-followers what
a tremendous amount of bargaining-
power their country will hold when unity
is accomplished and a free and united
Deutschland has risen, phoenix-like, out
of the ashes and rubble of their last holo-
caust. For, by comparison with its re-
covery from the defeat of 1918—and
remember that Germany was not invaded
during that conflict —what has been done
to rehabilitate the economic life of the
country is a marvel in the eyes of all
who have seen it.
During this past decade of Allied occu-
pation and restricted activities, West
Germany has managed to reach second
place in the list of world shipbuilders
and second in European steel-production.
It has also so revived its export-industries
that competitors are already beginning to
shake in their shoes. Germany has re-
entered the international airways-traffic
and the Lufthansa is all ready to enter
the transatlantic trade.
Of course, all of these things are com-
patible with the resurgence of a virile and
efficient people, who are to be admired
for their enterprise and tenacity. No
blame is attachable to them for using
every effort to achieve their national
freedom and independence. But the ques-
tion arises as to where this rapid recovery
from the most awful devastation that any
nation has suffered can lead. Are events
going to be always true to the blueprint
of Western policy? Are the promises
made in good faith by Dr. Adenauer
regarding nuclear weapons, etc., any
better than those made by the Weimar
Republic?
As matters stand today in West Ger-
many, Dr. Adenauer’s position is no
sinecure, and people in touch with the
Zeitgeist of this Germany are asking, not
whether he will be able to bring about
German unity, but whether he will be
there long enough to make a move to-
wards that end.
As for reuniting of Germany: Before
Bismark bashed the unwilling States into
a Federation under Prussian hegemony,
Europe and the world were free from the
menace of German aggression, while
the independent States of pre-Bismark
Germany had plenty to offer in cultural
achievement.
If there is danger to the stability of
Europe and the world through the
absence of a unified Germany, or if the
“Heard anything over the grapevine ?”
Red menace can only be held in check
by deliberately fostering and encouraging
a nation which has produced the worst
brands of war-criminals since Attila or
Tamerlaine, then we had better tear up
our history-books and take refuge in
some form of fatalism. —F. A. (N.S.W.).
Relieving the Burden
The announcement by the Federal
Minister for Social Services that the
rehabilitation and re-employment of
invalid pensioners added' more than
£1 million to the national income is wel-
come news to the Australian community,
particularly to the taxpaying section.
Nobody begrudges aid to those in need,
through no fault of their own, but the
growing burden of pensions paid from
the national purse is assuming ominous
proportions, and anything that can be
done to reduce the cost without depriving
the sick, aged or destitute of necessary
help is a step in the right direction.
Australia, like other countries with a
steadily decreasing death-rate, is faced
with the tremendous problem of an ageing
population. Year by year the percentage
of persons above normal working-age is
increasing, which means that the money
for pensions must be found by a declin-
ing percentage of the population—the
income-earners. Raising the school-leav-
ing age has, of course, aggravated the
position, and it would appear that we
must revise our entire approach to the
problem of pensions and attempt to aug-
ment the proportion of income-earners.
The Minister stated that the re-employ-
ment of 2700 invalid pensioners saved
more than half-a-million pounds in pen-
sions and dependants’ allowances, and a
further saving was made by reducing the
recovery-time of persons receiving sick-
ness-benefits. The figures quoted show that
something has been achieved in the way
of restoring health, and the ability to
earn a livelihood to those receiving
invalid pensions and the like.
A further move—which seems obvious
enough to the taxpayer, at least—would
be to encourage those fit to work on after
the qualifying age for pensions to remain
in employment. That would have a
double benefit. It would help to relieve
the heavy drain on pension funds, and it
would raise the national income.
A further advantage would be that it
would increase the numbers in employ-
ment. At the present time, with many
employers at their wits’ end to find
adequate staff, that would be an impor-
tant consideration.
What is needed is a thorough survey of
the entire pensions position, not with the
object of depriving anyone of his rights,
but with the idea of making adequate
provision for those in need and enabling
all who are fit and willing to continue
in employment to do so as long as they
desire.— Doynest (Vic.).
Electric Mowers
Since 1950, seven people in Queens-
land have died by electrocution while
using electric-mowers.
In no case was the mower to blame.
Two people died as a result of faulty
flex-leads, two when the mower cut the
flex and three from faulty amateur main-
tenance.
In that little word “flex” we find the
real killer. A long flex is needed for a
power-mower and the insulation is in-
clined to deteriorate pretty quickly be-
cause of moisture, exposure and kinking.
The average man is seldom able to tell
if the flex is in a dangerous condition.
Often it is a two-wire cable, and, in the
event of a short-circuit, there is no third
(or earth) wire to take the excess current
safely to earth. When the user’s body
substitutes for that third wire the result is
electrocution.
Compulsory registration of electric-
lawnmowers may be the solution. It
would call for a small annual licence-fee
from the owner, and for renewal-aplica-
tions to be accompanied by a qualified
electrician’s certificate covering both
motor and flex. —Quo Vadis (Q.).


unior
Melbourne
THE LOWEST-
PRICED
GEAR-
DRIVEN
SWING
SAW
Can be bought for only £6B Deposit
Smaller brother to the Mobilco Bush King
and Model B Saws, the "Junior" is the
ideal lightweight for the farmer, grazier,
contractor or even the man who clears land
on a week-end basis.
Ytiu get "the lot" - LOW PRICE plus VALUE plus MOBILCO'S 6 MONTHS'
GUARANTEE plus these MOBILCO SUPER FEATURES:
In-built gear reduction
Finger-tip control Easy
positioning for cutting at any
angle Drives up to 36“ blade
Spindle mounted on ball
bearings Undercarriage gives
ample clearance for ripping on
ground 5.2 h.p. Mobilco
engine. Runs 4Vz hours on one
gallon of petrol.
POST NOW FOR
DEMONSTRATION
I would like to see a demonstration of
the Mobilco "Junior" as soon as possible.
Name
Address
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONES: YX1244-5 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBIICO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
TASMANIA CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., HOBART AND LAUNCESTON
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc^
The attachment
trated is the
“ FARMERS ,
BOY»
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State
Ulus
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd-.
46 Young St., Sydney. BO 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
William St., Melbourne. MU Boai.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q land) LM-,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston.
Sole Australian Agents: _
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WOOL SPECIAL
AMONG the contributions to
next week’s special Wool
Issue of The Bulletin,
M. H. Ellis, F.R.H.S. (Eng.),
F.R.A.H.S., has a notable, com-
prehensive article on John Mac-
arthur and his Royal Merinos.
It is based on the Macarthur
Papers. Also to be included as
a contributor, in a sense, is Sir
William Macarthur, son of John
Macarthur, represented by a very
interesting letter on just how the
Camden sheep were bred.
M. H. Ellis writes in his
capacity as historian, from
research on unpublished material
—something outstanding and
unique in wool-issues.
W. L. Hindmarsh, who writes
on veterinary research in Aus-
tralia, won’t have much time to
read the special issue before he
goes to Uruguay ; The Bulletin
comes out on Wednesday, and
he catches a plane on Thursday.
His job in Uruguay will be with
United Nations, on veterinary
matters for the Government.
Since retiring from the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture two
years ago, he’s had another such
chore —being sent by U.N.O. to
Ceylon for six months.
Over the years, W. L. Hind-
marsh has had some solid experi-
ence to back his comments.
Immediately on graduation
(B.V.Sc.) in 1914 he was
appointed the first Walter and
Eliza Hall Veterinary Research
Fellow. However, he joined the
A.1.F., sailing in November,
1915. As a member of the
Veterinary Corps, he served in
Egypt and France, collected a
“mention,” and finished as C.O.
of an Australian veterinary base
hospital.
After the war, more veterinary
W. L. HINDMARSH
education in England;
M.R.C.V.S. and diploma of
Veterinary Hygiene (Liverpool);
then back to Australia, where he
took up duty with the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture; a
short period at h.q. in Sydney
before going out as the depart-
ment’s first district veterinary
officer —to Armidale, a district
then taking in about quarter of
the State.
After that, Glenfield Veterinary
Research Station for 18 years,
for 12 of which he was in charge.
In 1947 he went back to head-
office, and was chief of Division
of Animal Industry on retire-
ment.
Between wars, he was Assistant
Director of Veterinary
Services, Ist Cavalry
Division, for many years.
Pre-war members of the
S.U.R. will remember him
as the bloke on a horse
who came over to inspect
the mobile vets, when they
were in camp with the
regiment. Vet.-students
and graduates will know
all about him, too.
E. O. Schlunke, who
writes from the point of
view of the man who runs
sheep, is already well
known to Bulletin
readers.
Mac Falkiner the
names are Otway Mc-
Laurin, but he’s generally
known as “Mac” to avoid
confusion with his father,
Otway Rothwell Falkiner
—is also representative
of the practical side of.
sheep-breeding, from the highly
specialised field of stud-breeding.
An M.L.C., he’s a director of
F. S. Falkiner and Sons and of
several companies, and a former
president of N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association. He writes
about his observations of the
Merino in other countries.
Professor P. R. McMahon is
head of the School of Wool
Technology, N.S.W. University
of Technology. J. S. Boardman
is head-teacher, Sheep and Wool
Department, Sydney Technical
College. Edgar Ford teaches
geography and is co-author of
textbooks on the subject. F. C.
Stfone is manager of the stud-
stock department of a big W.A.
concern; Gilbert Smith is a
Westralian wool-expert.
Molybdenum
“Tiberoo”: As little as 2oz. of
a molybdenum salt (worth about
3s. 6d.) an acre could transform
the carrying-capacity of a large
area of Victoria’s central high-
lands and north-east country
from a sheep to two-to-four
acres to well over a sheep to the
MAC FALKINER
acre, H. A. Mullett (Vic. Direc-
tor of Agriculture) told the
Chamber of Agriculture’s recent
Portland convention.
Such a small dose of molyb-
denum could change the herb-
age from a thin cover of wal-
laby-, kangaroo- and silver-
grasses to heavy mixed swards
containing lush sub.-clover.
This conclusion arose from
comprehensive work in a series
of plots during the last seven
years.
Spectacular Victorian re-
sponses to molybdenum occurred
at Elmhurst, Maryborough,
Stawell, Bendigo, Yea, Yarck,
Merton, Mansfield, Seymour,
Benalla, Wodonga and Avenel,
on soils derived from slates and
shales, and good responses had
been obtained on red volcanic
soil at Learmonth, and on red
soil in hill-country near Warra-
gul.
Mr. Mullett pointed out that
in some areas, in addition to
liberal dressings of super., copper
was necessary as well as molyb-
denum. Good responses to this
combination had occurred at
Benworden, Lindenow South,
Glenaladale, Mt. Taylor, Stock-
dale and Wairewa.
He added that in the Far
Western district of Victoria on
extensive areas of light soils rang-
ing from acid - peats to lime-
sands and ironstone-soils,, the
response was to copper not
molybdenum.
Such soils occurred at Caster-
ton, Dartmoor, Nelson, Heath-
mere, Cashmore, Peterborough,
Tyrendarra and Pt. Fairy. Lime
was also essential where soils
were acid.
All soils in the above-
mentioned molybdenum- and
copper- deficient areas also
lacked phosphate; satisfactory
pasture-growth could only fol-
low generous dressings of super.
—such as 2cwt. an acre for a
start. Better still, add another
2cwt. an acre during that sea-
son, or in the following year.
Subsequently, lcwt. of super,
a year would suffice. No further
application of molybdenum was
necessary. Copper - dressings
should be repeated every seven
years.
Rye
“Sandy”: Tell “Blackleaf”
(B. 4/5/’55) that rye is called
rye-corn to distinguish it from
rye-grass. Its popularity in
northern Europe is due to its
resistance to severe cold and
ability to grow in poor soil.
Its straw is tough, and makes a
good watershed in thatched
roofs or haystacks.
Victoria has regular crops,
and sometimes an exportable
surplus. Over 31,000 acres of it
was sown in the Victorian
Mallee in 1952-53, primarily to
assist in the control of soil-
erosion. The crop yielded
257,409 bushels.
The grain is harder, thinner
and longer than wheat. Tests
have shown that it is about
equal to wheat in food-value.
But it has laxative properties,
and should be fed sparingly to
stock at first. It’s hard, too,
so it’s best to grind it before
giving it to stock. This isn’t
necessary for fowls, but it
shouldn’t be fed —either ground
or whole —to chickens under
eight weeks’ old.
Planned Dairy Rotation
“Billjim”: Discussing winter-
rotation of dry stock on the
dairyfarm, E. M. Bates, N.Z.
agricultural expert, cites the
advantages of a planned rotation
as follows:
Even hoof-cultivation; no
overtrampling by high concen-
trations of stock during short
periods of grazing.
Pastures are open and
vigorous; not tight, dense
swards.
Rough feed (left as a residue
of the dairying season)
eliminated.
A bite of fresh food,
periodically, for dry stock.
Eventually—uniform pasture.
Weeds and undesirable
pasture-species such as York-
shire Fog, can be hardest hit by
heavy, short-term stocking dur-
ing winter, when they are most
susceptible.
Sufficient spelling between
grazings allows for plant-
recovery and -growth.
With the feeding-out of hay,
silage and roots, heavy dressings
of animal-manure are applied to
each paddock in turn. This not
only promotes plant-growth, but
stimulates worm- and bacterial-
activity below the surface.
Bates says nobody would
contest the need for planned
manipulation of cattle round the
farm during the milking-season
to achieve high per-acre produc-
tion, but the value of using dry
stock during winter for the same
purpose is not so readily
perceived.
Bluestone
“Keokuk” : There can hardly
be a more versatile chemical on
the farm than bluestone (copper-
sulphate). On the sheepraising
property it is used to destroy
the host-snails of the liver-
fluke. Spread bluestone as a
powder (201 b. per acre) or spray
(lib. to 5 gals, of water) over
and around areas of swamp,
springs or small gullies which
harbor snails. Treat larger
pools by dragging a bag contain-
ing bluestone-crystals through
the water until it is faintly blue.
Do these jobs in mid-winter or
early summer.
When controlling footrot, use
a foot-bath containing lib. to
31b. of bluestone per gallon.
Lumpy wool can be prevented
by dipping sheep in a very weak
solution of copper-sulphate
of bluestone to 25 gals, ot
water) in late autumn.
When sheep get “steely-
wool,” or ataxia (symptoms ot


SYSTEM
For all unsewered areas
HHI
III!
H
■
£
Wmm
ppnpi
mmm
: :
m
m
Even if you live in an unsewered area where there is no water supply,
you can still enjoy modern sanitation.
No more odours, flies, or the risk of germs and infection. No more
unpleasant emptying! Hygeia Dissolvenator is a self-contained
sanitary system that chemically transforms sewerage quite auto-
matically into a sterile solution. This passes to an underground sump
and is absorbed into the soil.
GUARANTEED. Strongly constructed with all -over enamelled
finish. Any handyman can install—write now for free illus-
trated pamphlet. Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS. :
DARWIN:
Singapore:
N.Z.:
‘DISTRIB UTORS
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne ;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart; also Launceston,
Tasmania.
C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services, Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place, Singapore.
Smith & Chisholm Ltd., Custom St., Auckland, N.Z.
-6
3' -1
b
vv:
X
1 :
■ ■
*. 6
'//‘S J%
//'P a» ~(S^
- 9 '"/ y -6 «’->'f/
'S-9 /'<s- x .
5 '^ 0 s^'9 -S'. vA"
Additions
take care of themselves
■» > CONTEX
Adding Machine
Yes, you can relax and know that your figure
problems are a thing of the past when you
own a speedy, accurate Contex.
So simple to operate you can master your new
Contex in 5 minutes.
Contex adds in whole numbers, £s. d.,
decimals, weights and measures. Investigate
this essential personal, portable adding machine
to-day.
£23'io'-
Handsome
carrying
case,
55/- extra
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
PHONE M 0425
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Contex.
NAME
ADDRESS C 029.16
copper-deficiency), they can be
drenched with bluestone: lib.
of bluestone contains enough
copper for 22,700 doses.
Bluestone is used widely, in
the drench nicotine-sulphate, for
controlling internal - parasites.
After an operation has been per-
formed for sheath-rot, the
wound can be swabbed with
5 per cent, bluestone-solution
to mention one of its applica-
tions in the field of treatment of
wounds.
Bluestone is also valuable in
orchards as a major constituent
of Bordeaux-solution. Spray at
leaf-fall with 15:15:100 blue-
stone to prevent “shot-hole” of
apricots.
Warning: Concentrations of
bluestone stain wool. Too
much copper can cause
“yellows.”
Never store bluestone-solution
in metal containers. Always
use wooden, glass or porcelain
vessels.
Glasshouse Tomatoes
“Sandman”: Here in Victoria
May or early June is the best
time to plant-out seedlings of
glasshouse tomatoes. Most
popular and best variety is
Burwood Wonder —known also
as South Australian Dwarf.
Essential requirements of a good
variety are ability to grow in a
small space (700 plants to
1500 sq. ft.), and to produce
heavy crops under cool or
fluctuating weather-conditions.
Use only new soil in seed-
beds. Seed can be disinfected
by dipping in hot water
(122 deg. F.) for 25 minutes.
Also dry-dust with £oz. of
“Cuprox” to lib. of seed. Sow
seed in drills rather than
broadcast it.
Use well-rotted animal-
manure, plus about 4cwt. of a
mixture of six-parts super-
phosphate, four-parts blood-and-
bone and one-part potash, to
1500 sq. ft. Work this mixture
well into the soil. .
When plants have set their
first two bunches, fill a kerosene-
tin with two-parts sulphate-of-
ammonia to one of super-
phosphate and topdress.
Crotalaria
“Raven”: Most types of
crotalaria are tropical or sub-
tropical plants. They are
perennial in the absence of frosts
or low temperatures, but are
generally treated as summer-
growing annuals.
Five different types are grown
in the southern States of the U.S.,
chiefly as summer cover-crops
for soil-improvement. A warm
climate and good summer rain-
fall, or irrigation, are therefore
required. They make good
growth on poor sandy land, and
are among the few plants on the
roots of which eelworm will not
live. Alternated with winter rye,
which is also resistent to eel-
worm, a succession of such crop-
pings starve this pest out of
infested land.
Although the early growth is
leafy, crotalanas soon develop
very woody stems, and are
generally not palatable to stock.
Very thick broadcast sowing,
desirable*’ for a cover-crop,
reduces the woodiness to some
extent. It should be noted that
some species of crotalaria are
poisonous to stock.
Trees as a Crop
“8.J.”: Trees are just as much
a crop that will benefit the
pocket of the farmer and the land
he occupies as anything else he
grows, although the usual con-
ception of tree-planting is some-
thing that will be reaped by
children or grandchildren.
Apart from the national aspect
of growing timber on farms to
reduce the call on State resources,
wood is constantly required on
holdings for new buildings and
repairs and for firewood.
This consideration applies with
particular force to the land-
holder who is far from a
distribution-centre: timber is
costly to transport a distance.
In the usual close-spaced
plantation, thinnings should be
made when the stand is between
10 and 15 years old.
This first thinning will, accord-
ing to the species, provide fire-
wood, rails, props and some
posts. A second thinning a
decade later will furnish fire-
wood, posts, some strainers and
poles, and even a little saw-
timber.
Later, all needs can be
supplied. Thinnings may be
organised so that after the 10th
year work may be carried out
annually in some part of the
plantation.
Wool and Moths
“B.”: Wool-fibres, and other
proteins such as fur and feathers,
are attacked by moth-lame, and
the damage done, although reli-
able estimates of it are not.
obtainable, is enormous.
One female moth can lay
between 50 and 100 eggs, and
the larvae hatch out and become
adult moths very quickly. In
fact, the whole life-cycle can be
repeated every 90 days. It has
been stated that, based on the
average consumption of a single
larva, the progeny of one moth
could eat 1001 b. of wool in a
year. But this does not happen,
because breeding-conditions are
not ideal.
All materials can, and should
be, mothproofed. This is
especially important with
materials used for industrial
purposes, where a breakdown
would cause serious loss or
impair the working of the
apparatus—such as felts used in
scientific instruments, parts of
telephone-exchanges and felts in
pianos. It is certainly worth
while to mothproof materials
which have a long life, such as
carpets, dress clothes, blankets
and furs. These materials
should be mothproofed to last
their lifetime.
It cannot be too strongly
emphasised that in protecting
materials from attack by clothes-
moths cleanliness is of utmost
importance. A garment soiled
by dirt, grease and sweat is
more palatable to the grub than
a clean one, and garments and
carpets which are frequently
cleaned by means of a vacuum-
cleaner and beaten outside in the
sun are not likely to be attacked.
Methods of protecting wool
from damage by moth include:
1. —The wool and its storage-
place may be sprayed with a
fluid- or dust-insecticide.
2. —Volatile repellants: the at-
mosphere in which wool is
stored may be permeated by
a substance harmful to
moth-life.
3. —F umigation with a
poisonous gas, e.g., hydro-
cyanic acid.
4. —Addition of insecticide to
the wool.
5. —Spraying: D.D.T. should be
included in any spray used,
ensuring a measure of
permanent protection.
6. —Volatile repellants: the
obvious disadvantage here is
that protection only lasts
while the concentration of
the volatile substance is in
the air. The store or con-
tainer must be efficiently
closed. Naphthalene is not
very efficient. Para-dichlor-
benzene is more effective,
but it is not so cheap.
7. —The most effective fumigant
is hydrogen - cyanide. It
destroys grubs and moths,
but it is dangerous to use
and calls for specialist
handling.
8. —Addition of insecticide to
the wool involves the appli-
cation of a chemical dye —
originally Martius Yellow,
but now colorless dye-stuffs
are used. This is the most
satisfactory method, as it
gives some degree of per-
manent protection. It com-
bines with wool without the
aid of any other chemical,
and it can be applied to
wool during a normal dye-
ing process. It becomes
firmly attached to the wool
and acts as an insecticide,
since it is a stomach-
poison. Moth-larvae take
one bite at the wool and
then leave it severely alone.
Tests have shown that the
damage done by these pests
to a wool-fabric so treated
is infinitesimal.
Crosscuts
Nimrod”; W.A.’s longest
building, the new wheat-storage
silo at Bellevue, is nearly full.
It’s 1000 ft. long, cost £520,000
and holds 5,000,000 bushels.
* * •
President of Graziers’ Federal
Council T. C. C. Sanger, on the
proposed shipping-freight rise of
10 per cent.: “Negotiation of
these freight-rates has always
been unsatisfactory from the
producer’s point of view, as the
increases are negotiated by the
exporters or shippers and then
passed on to the producers. Pro-
ducers are, however, represented
on the Overseas Transport Asso-
ciation, which has the responsi-
bility of ratifying any freight-
adjustments. It is important that
this body insist on obtaining de-
tailed accounts of the increased
costs on which the application is
based.
• • • •
“Assurances should also be
obtained from the shipowners
that the rates finally applicable
to Australia do not perpetuate
the disadvantageous position
our country has suffered in com-
parison with competitors such as
New Zealand and South Africa
since the last freight-increase of
7\ per cent, in 1953, which was
applicable only to Australia.”
• • • •
In general, it is “regretted”
that the move for a rise in
freights should come at a time
when exports, such as meat, are
“experiencing severe marketing
difficulties and Australia is faced
with a severe balance-of-pay-
ments problem.”
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(15/5/’55)
Under the Single cycle further rain should 1 fall this
month throughout N.S.W.; a heavy rain-grouping is indi-
cated between May 26 and the end of the month. Moderate
falls on the coast, Riverina and portion of the north-west
slopes and plains indicated for June.
Victoria and South Australia should also receive
further rains this month, but in South Australia the winter
rains should be below normal.
Should the Main cycle become operative, then heavier
rains are anticipated; but this does not appear the case at
the present time.
LENNOX WALKER.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
saying anything* just because a
child might do what he should
have been taught not to do.”
Jack looked at his mother,
puzzled and disappointed. He
had expected her to be delighted
with the new tank.
TACK’S forecast of rain was
right. Lying sleepless, the
mother heard the first heavy
drops patter on the roof. They
increased rapidly, and presently
there was the thunder of water
pouring into the empty tank.
She lay rigid, listening to the
rattle of the rain and the dull
rumble of the filling tank, while
the bitter tears coursed down her
weather-beaten cheeks. Every-
thing was against her, she
thought, Rita, Jack, Ivy Brown,
even the weather. Her old tank
had been spoilt and rolled aside
and this shiny, unfriendly thing
had been put in its place. Twenty
years she’d waited for her tank,
and now Rita just had to lift her
little finger and she got one on
tick. She imagined, with help-
less anger, the pleasure with
which Rita would be listening to
the rain. My turn will come, she
thought before the monotonous
roar of the rain lulled her to
sleep.
She awoke to a shining,
freshly washed world. Rita and
Jack were jubilant because the
new tank was overflowing.
“What a good job we got it
last night,” Rita said. “It prob-
ably won’t rain again for weeks.”
Jack put his arm round his
mother’s shoulders, as she stood
before the kitchen stove. “Well,
there you are, Mum. You’ve
got a new tank and its full of
water. There’s no harm done,
after all.”
She moved away from him.
“We’ve got a new tank, but we
haven’t got the bill for it, and
goodness knows how much fruit
this rain has ruined. We should
have had more pickers.”
“You’re looking on the black
side, Mum.”
“I like to see things as they
are,” she answered shortly, and
Jack let the subject drop.
Ellen Thomson was angered
by their casual acceptance of the
idea that it was for her benefit
that the new tank had been
bought, that she was the one
who’d been spared the carrying
of water. She remembered the
bitter hours she’d spent the night
before listening to the rain, and
felt violently opposed to agreeing
that everything was just as it had
been.
In that she was right. Things
never would be the same again
until Ellen Thomson could rid
herself of the feeling that Rita
had defeated her. Though she
did not recognise it and Rita and
Jack did not suspect it, the
scornful dislike which she had
previously felt for Rita had
turned into a hard, vindictive
hatred.
Outwardly things went on
much the same as usual. They
could not pick while the fruit
was wet, so they had an early
dinner and prepared to spend a
long afternoon among the rasp-
berries. When the dinner dishes
were cleared away, Ellen called
her grandson to her.
“You help Granny carry the
cups and billy. We’ll have a
picnic in the paddock.” Then,
turning to the others, she added,
“You two can go on, if you like.
I’ll cut a bit of afternoon-tea.
It’ll be a long afternoon.”
Jack and Rita left.
■pLLEN packed some food in
a basket and put four handle-
less cups into the billy. Then
she went out into the backyard
where Darryl was playing.
“Look, Darryl,” she said, and
turned the tap full on so that the
water gushed out and splashed
over her shoes before it ran
away in a shallow stream across
the yard.
“Naughty,” she said. “Mustn’t
touch.”
She turned off the tap and
went inside, leaving the boy in
the yard. She picked up the billy
and basket and went out through
the front door and down the side
path towards the raspberry
garden. She was half-way there
when Jack called out to her.
“Where’s Darryl?”
“I didn’t see him,” she
shouted. “I thought he must
have changed his mind and gone
with you.”
“He didn’t come with us.”
She went a little way back up
the path and called out to him.
The child came running to her,
and she took his hand and
hurried with him towards the
others.
Ellen picked steadily all the
afternoon, but her mind was a
tumult of doubt and indecision.
Time had never seemed to pass
so slowly. At last the sun
reached the tops of the trees and
Rita left to put the tea on.
After she had gone, her mother-
in-law kept her attention fixed
on the house, but nearly an hour
went by and nothing happened.
Ellen’s fluttering expectancy
gradually faded and was replaced
by a dull bleakness.
“I think we’ll call it a day,
Jack,” she said at last, and they
packed up and went back to the
house.
T> ITA was huddled in an arm-
chair weeping, and there was
no sign of any tea.
“It’s Darryl,” she explained
tearfully. “He must have turned
the tap on and all the water’s
gone.”
“Water gone! ” Ellen Thomson
simulated shocked concern.
“It’s time you took a hand with
that child, Jack.”
She took up the two kerosene-
buckets and set out towards the
creek. Her face wore an expres-
sion of helpless resignation
which the jaunty swagger of her
buttocks somehow belied.
A MATTER OF ALARM
66 G OOD " MORNING ’” said
the salesman. “Can I
help you?”
“You certainly can, and,
under the circumstances you
had better,” I replied. “Were
I to help myself the store detec-
tive would be bound to take a
dim view of it. I am looking
for an alarm-clock.”
“Funny things, alarm-clocks,”
remarked the salesman medita-
tively. “Rather like women —-
when they’re wound-up there’s
no stopping them, and when
they get run-down they want to
get away somewhere for a
change. Why not go in for a
new one? I can show you quite
a big range.”
I shook my head. “I have
absolutely no intention of being
talked into buying such an
expensive item,” I replied firmly.
“The old gas-stove we have is
efficient and still in reasonably
good order, though I admit the
griller has become so eroded and
shrunken in size that we now
have to grill chops one on top
of the other instead of side-by-
side. Besides, the wife has a
prejudice against cooking by
electricity. I am here for the
specific object of purchasing an
alarm-clock, so it will be a waste
of time for you to try and come
at the high-pressure sales-stuff.
Next you’ll be wanting to sell
me a deep-freeze unit or a grand
piano! All I want is a plain
common-or-garden variety of
clock that will waken me when I
wish to be awakened.”
“But that will be difficult,”
protested the salesman. “You
see, you will still be awake at
the time that you are wishing to
be awakened at a specific time
some hours hence. We haven’t
a clock able to do that. But I
can show you several that will
ring after you have gone to
sleep. Now, in selecting an
alarm-clock,” he went on sen-
tentiously, “the question of the
type of bell is important. Are
you a deep sleeper?”
“I come of a long line of par-
ticularly heavy sleepers,” I
replied proudly. “One of my
ancestors was Sir Bloodsworth
Botling, who fought with Nelson
at Trafalgar, or rather would
have, had he not fortunately
slept soundly throughout the
cannonading. Also, my grand-
father used to work —well, any-
way, spend his time —in a boiler-
maker’s shop, and he never had
any difficulty in taking a nap
inside a boiler while his mates
outside were belting rivets into
it. So you will appreciate that
a potent sort of bell is called for.
It also has to be sufficiently
sensitive to stop ringing immedi-
ately the object I throw at it
connects.”
The salesman took an alarm-
clock from the shelf behind him.
“We guarantee this Swiss-
movement one of the most
sensitive on the market,” he
said confidently. “Why, the
alarm switches itself off even
with a near-miss! ”
“But would it resume ringing,
say, five minutes after I had
dropped off to sleep again?” I
asked anxiously. “After all,
what would be the object in hav-
ing an alarm-clock if one
couldn’t smother its importunate
call and then resume, at least
temporarily, one’s slumbers?”
“We have a range of clocks,”
pursued the salesman steadily,
“which contain such a device in
varying calls, from a minute
after the set time to exactly
twenty-four hours later, in case
the sleeper happens to be the
extra-tired sort. Now this one
here” —he produced a miniature
affair—“reproduces exactly the
chimes of Big Ben, both in tone
and volume”
“But that’s ridiculous,” I
interrupted impatiently. “How
could a thing that size
possibly”
“Quite simply, sir,” the sales-
man cut in. “You see, this
model is adapted for connecting-
up with a shortwave radio. It
is merely a matter of working
out the difference between
Greenwich mean time and our
own and setting it accordingly.
Of course, it is effective only
when London is chiming on the
hour, but then you will concede
that that could be only a trifling
objection.”
“I would really like a self-
propelling clock,” I said ; “some-
thing that would automatically
become perambulatory after I
had ignored several times its
urgent call for me to rise—one
that, for preference, would be
able to find its way until it cast
right up against my ear, and
then step up the volume con-
siderably. Surely the art of
clockmaking hasn’t been allowed
to fall into such a state of
desuetude that a simple device
like that is beyond the inventive
powers of the trade!”
“Not at all!” he defended
spiritedly. “We could have
such a one made, but it might
be so large that were it to walk
a few inches too far it might
push your face in.” He gave
me a long, searching look.
“Shall I order one for you, sir?”
“It is the type of bell I am
primarily concerned with,” I
said. “You see, my wife is as
light a sleeper as I am a heavy
one. 1 want a clock which has
a bell that could be heard dis-
t jnctly by me but not by her.”
«j t m } g h t be easier to plug
your missus > s ears up » he
sug g este d.
“That’s what you think’” I
remarked “ If that i s the best
thing you can suggest rll take
my patronage elsewhere.”
“j was only trying to be help-
ful „ he protested
« Xhen do SQ . concentrating
on the prob i em ,” I replied
sternl « You must haye heard
that it is possible for * whistle
to be made that is inaudible to
a human, but which can be heard
d i s ti nc tly by a pooch Surely
y p
the possibility must have struck
clockmakers that human ears
may have different wave-
lengths, and that a note, prob-
ably supersonic like that which
a dog alone may hear, could be
struck which could be heard by
me and not my wife?”
“My dear fellow,” said the
salesman, “do you possibly
imagine that any inventor’s wife
would allow him to invent a
thing w hi c h would cut a woman
out of hearing something her
husband could ? . . . Now
listen ;> he went on smoothly,
“ do you keep fowls?”
“A few scraggy-looking white
Leghorns,” I replied. “But
what” -
“Why bother about an alarm-
clock then, when you have right
at your hand an old, well-tried
and inexpensive method of
being matutinally aroused?” he
asked. “Just stick with a blob
of gum to your nose a seed of
wheat before you retire for the
night, after having laid a trail
of wheat out the open back-
door to the fowlhouse. A chook
pecking at your bugle is as
efficient a method of being
awakened as any other, and look
what you’ll save!”
After all, why not? The
thirty-bob I’d save would get a
dozen of the best!
BO.
STONE-FACES
Star-like bluebell, iris and
orchid rise from rock and sand
where the ridges, parallel spaced,
end in scrub-hung, falcon-faced,
chimera-headed cliffs that lower
out on ocean’s orchid-flower.
There those faces, locked in
stone,
hold each frozen scream and
groan
of the metamorphic word
uttered once, by stricken bird,
reptilian and beast-headed Man,
when the myth of earth began.
n.s.w. Roland E. Robinson.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 331
Across
I—Who1 —Who have blood just like thine
ink when spilt? (3)
3 —Astronomic figures developed
from the south-east physical
training by the Italian carni-
vores. (11)
B—Girl8 —Girl to see a clown which might
be eaten with salad? (5-4, 4)
10 — One is secretive about this age.
(3)
11— Wrath. (3)
13 —Current furniture can be put
effectively upon a stage. (7)
16 — Remote half-score cubed a
yeoman’s address. (4)
17— Timber lesson on missing with
no residue from combustion.
(7)
18— Cheek turned by the cold and
forbidding character from which
progress might be expected. (7)
19 — One characteristic of a skeleton
number by a dashing young
man-about-town. (2, 5)
20 — Longer? (7)
22 Popular German tenor has the
Negro hat with neat omissions.
„ (4)
23 — The puffed-up cannot exhibit
this fashion pen. (7)
25 — Tierra del Fuego Indian scores
one to the legside. (3)
26 Sun like this right-a/igle illustra-
tion, (3)
28 —A messing oiler knocked about
the top brass. (13)
30 — Australian electorate business
telephoned a very little creature.
(ID
31 — This makes gossip droop the
wrong way. (3)
Down
1 — Piano in a prison for South
Korea’s captives suggests one of
the police to the first person in
the French hill at the Cape. (5)
2 Promptly check the Japanese
upon whom the comedian named
Abbott has practised cannibal-
ism. (3, 2,3, 3)
3 Where the swine might be shut
up with a long-term prisoner and
ring America with long, pointed
shafts. (11)
4 Batting with the doctor and a
Hindu god of the clear sky. (5)
5 Love to the French Lion. (3)
6 It finds the way up to be quite
a bore. (3)
7 Daylight to be semi-American
contender for purple, blue, and
red certificates in an Australian
comic paper. (9)
9 —Thoroughly experienced on the
East when turned inside out. (7)
12 —Artist’s vizier in Abyssinia. (3)
14— Lofty one has to spot capital in
Florida. (11)
15 — Flier resting a hobby which
doesn’t let fliers rest. (11)
17 —An aid to memory, but is
nobody nicking no king marked
by loss of memory? (9)
18—The wage bill is to talk up and
stagger. (7)
21—Time an accompaniment for Sim,
Gid, and Napol. (3)
24—Dress up Melbourne’s drain. (5)
27—A Prime Minister setting by the
Rhone and Saone. (5)
28—Student’s prank upset fish. (3)
29—Joshua was son of this sister. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 330


GOVT. DISPOSAL DEALERS
CORRUGATED ROOFING IRON
Corrugated iron, not black.
Two sizes only, 6ft. x 7ft.
ideal for sheds, walls, etc.
Price, 1/- per ft.
Black corrugated iron, size
Bft., condition not perfect.
Handy for rough jobs. To
convince yourself send for
sample sheets, or inspect at
8 Castlereagh St., Rodfern.
GYPROCK
WALL AND CEILING
BOARDS
: :
V (
6ft long by 2ft wide. PRICE 8/6 PER SHEET.
New Ex-Army Release. Unlimited Stocks Available.
In crates of 15 or 50 sheets. Packed ready for despatch.
Country Orders.
CORRUGATED
m.
Corrugated Fibro
Booting. Big corru-
gation, Sin. Has
been used but is in
extra good condi-
tion. Normal size
Bft. x 3ft. flla.
sheets. This must
be inspected before
purchase. Price
u pou con dition.
Select your own at
this address:
173-78 Castlereagh
St., Bedfern.
PACK
SADDLES
ex-Army.
Price £9/19/6
These are in per-
fect condition and
cannot be pur-
chased anywhere
else.
Military Type
BREAST PLATE
& TRACES
Ideal for bakers,
milk earts, etc.
37/6 set
Trace extensions
7/6 pr. extra.
Military Brichens
Brand new
Price 25/- each
New and used collars, all sizes. Price on
application
Second-hand, renovated, repaired where necessary,
Spring Cart and Sulky Harness
Price £l3 per set
Tip Dray Harness, repaired and in perfect con-
dition. "Ex A.J.O. and Council harness
Price £l4 per set
BOYS&ffmS
SADDLE,
s' & Girls'
Saddles
.'land new, fully mounted.
Price £l3/10/- ea.
A PERFECT CHRISTMAS
PRESENT
The cheapest saddles in
Australia. Full size. Brand
new stock or poley. Steel
tree, fully mounted.
£2O
A first-class buy.
Also better quality stoclt
or poley saddle, fully
mounted. From
£2O to £2B/10/-
I’LKASK NOTE: There is no rise in price of our
saddles due to the foresight of our buyers. S.H.
ti ding Saddles fully repaired and reconditioned
From £l2/10/- to £2O
Ex-army SPURS
BRAND NED
/—/
J
Complete* with straps
(Dummies).
Post 2/6 extra
Price 12/6 each
LEATHER STRAPS
Size 30 x %, with
brass buckle, 15/-
doz. Size 42 x 12,
buckle, £1 doz.
Size 40 x If, 10/- d.
Post 2/6 extra doz.
BRAND NEW
Ex-American
Army Boots
1
S " ede %J^ Ruhbcr and Leather
Soles. Sizes 10, 11, 12,
Price 40/- pair
Post 3/6 extra.
Ex-Army All-leather
SADDLE BAGS
Price 12/6 pair
Post 3/6 extra.
EX-ARMY TROUSERS
Brand new in sizes 4a, 40 x 34, 32
Waist. 30/- pr. Terrific value
Ex-army khaki drill trousers in
mens & small mens sizes, used
but have been laundered, in per
feet condition 12/6 pr. Ideal for
work and garden, etc. Post 3/-
Ex-army Battle Jackets
Khaki, in perfect condition
Price 27/6 each
All sizes to 40in. Post 2/6 extra.
Ex-army S. D. Jackets
Woollen and in perfect condition.
Ideal for work, fishing-, and ideal
winter jacket. Don’t delay.
Price 39/6 each
Post 2/6 extra.
Ex-army Drill Jackets
(Khaki.)
Men’s and small men’s sizes in
excellent condition.
Price 17/6 each
Post 1/6 extra.
Ex-army Khaki Pullovers
V neck, long sleeves. Men and
small men’s sizes;
Price 22/6 each
Square Rig Shirts
k
'j
White (laundered), fieavy duty
An ideal work shirt. All sizes.
Price 10/- each
Post 2/6 extra.
Ex-Army Slouch Hats
Used. Good
condition.
Renovated.
Post 2/6 extra
HORSE RUGS
m
Brand new. Heavy-duty canvas
lined with ex-army blankets.
All sizes, and complete with
fittings. The cheapest, best-
quality horse rug in Australia.
Price, all sizes,
£5
Cottage Type Tent
(8 man). Wil stand any weather,
made from Olive Canvas and in
perfect condition. All ropes
attached.
Price £l6 each
Brand
Mew
WOMEN'S
ALL-WOOL
CARDIGANS
Size S.W.
only, in
colours
green and
navy blue.
Price 32/6
each. Post
2/6 extra.
WOMEN’S
SHOWER-
PROOF
GABERDINE
RAINCOATS
Single-
breasted
Shoulder
pads*
complete
with belt.
Women’s
size only.
Price
39'6
Post 3/6
extra.
Ex-army khak'
woollen over-
coats.
Price
£3/17/6
Men’s and S.
Men’s sizes.
Post 3/6 extra.
Ex-Army ANTI-GAS HAVERSACKS
• •
Final Release. Ideal for school bags,
lunch baas, fishing gear, etc. Perfect
condition.
5/6 each
Post 2/- extra.
Special quote for Quantity.
Kif Bags
Heavy Duty
Canvas
14/6 each.
Post 3/- extra.
Ex-Military
LEGGINGS
(leather).
Medium size
only.
Price
10/6
pair.
FISHERMAN’S
DREAM
Spring: hand
scale, will weigh
up to 161 b.
Brand new.
Price
10/.
Post 2/6 extra.
Canvas Folding Chairs
>•:
pr/.-v-Tr.-. •
»
S:
nj
Arm-rest type. Condition Per-
fect. Ideal for week - enders,
ramping leisure.
Price 30/- each.
p
25
R
j©!
EX-ARMY BLANKETS
Pure wool, laundered, perfect condition. Single-bed size.
25/- each.
Ex-army pillows,
4/11 ea.
FOLDING STRETCHERS
TUBULAR STEEL
IS ii jta!) I e for residentials,
shearers’ sheds. Diamond wire
Every bed guaranteed.
Priced at £2/10/- each
GOOD CONDITION.
WOODEN DROP-SIDE
BABY COTS.
Sizi* 4ft. x 3ft. and 4ft. 6in. x
3tt. Gin. p r i ce £4/5/- each.
Limited stocks.
UNLIMITED STOCKS
TABLES EX-ARMV
Good condition. Mess type, with
stools attached. Ideal for large
families, shearers, caterers, etc.
Incomparable value.
Size 7ft. x 3ft.
Price £4/10/-
6ft. x 3ft. Folding Tables, £3
Ex-Army Web Gaiters
Good condition, ideal for busli
walkers, muddy work, etc.
WALK IN CQMFQ#*
*mesr
Price 3/6 pair
Post 1/- extra.
2-HOLE COOKER
deal for camping. Can be
sed with primus stoves or
pen fire.
Price 10/- each.
RIFLE SPECIAL
Including gnn buck-
et 30/- (new),
Cleaner 3/6, Rifle
Oil 5/6, bandolier
3/11.
LOT 37/6
Only Mail Order with this line.
EX-ARMY DAMAGED
SHEETS
that have been repaired.
Price 12/6 pair.
Post 2/6 extra.
MATTRESS
Ex-Army heavy-duty Fibre Mat-
tresses with brand new Desoutl
Mattress Cover to suit. Single-
bed size only. Price the two,
39/6
XXX SPECIAL
1 Folding Bed.
1 pr. repaired Sheets.
1 pr. Blankets.
1 Mattress with Com.
1 Pillow.
Take advantage of oar ea
stocks.
£7/10/- the lot
SKID CHAINS
BRAND NEW
AIX SIZES
1050 x 20
1000 x 20
900 x 20
825 x 20
750 x 20
700 x 20
600 x 20
£B/10/-
SET
AMMUNITION BOXES
STEEL
Ideally suited for tool boxes
Price 10/- each In excellent
condition.
AMMUNITION CASES
WOODEN
Sizes 36in. x 15in. x 9in., 15/- ea.
21in. x 15in. x llin., 10/- ea.
22in. x Bin. x 7in., 6/6 ea.
m
BRAND NEW FORD CYLINDER
HEADS
24 stud holes, cast iron. FORD
Price £l2/10/* each
Including Sales Tax.
Jhev. Cylinder Block, Chev. Radi
itors. New price on application.
OIL PAINT
HMm
OIL paihU
OIL
_ base.
Black oil paint (Berger’s), in
5 gall, drums only. A genuine
oil-base paint. Will mix with
white and make a beautiful grey.
Price 30/- drum.
Khaki green oil-base paint. In
5 gall, drums 60/- drum.
All well-known brands including
Berger’s, Slier win Williams, etc.
PLEASE WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS
NO C.O.D. MAIL, PHONE, OR CALL NO C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding please add Freight.
KINGS
LEATHER GOODS-TYRES
122-124 Devonshire St.
£addle/uf
GENERAL MERCHANTS
Sydney
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station
Phones: FA 7691—MX 3954. After hours only: MX 1269
CAR OR LIGHT UTE TOOL
Containing Tool Roll, Pump, .Jack, Tyre Levers,
Spanners, Open-ended Spanners, Grease Gun,
Brace, Screwdriver, etc.
Price £2/19/6 each.
KIT
Tube
Wheel


I li u no cm an nun
l H u an an an an i j
I ii ii an an an ® ! ['
i b^sSS"’
. BBones;!!
ii
®“|: ||
il
(111
li
im it
BOARD OF
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
W. J. McCRISTAL,
M.R.A.CP.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins, 8.A.,
LL.M., Dip. Ed.
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.A.S.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers, Q.C., LL.B., M.P.
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke, LL.B.
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry, F.C.A. (Aust.)
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
<lncorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1954:
NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 9.937
Policies assuring £13,976,467.
1 .
L /
ASSETS INCREASED BY £2.866,200 after providing £19,918
for Depreciation, and now total £28,613,779.
q Policies in Force exceed 132,000, assuring
over £93,000,000
I Premium Income amounted to £3,364,864
«l Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1954,
totalled £1,063,463, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£16,800,000
q Special Additional Reserves amount to
£1,000,000
q Bonuses substantially increased
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
