

■ih
t
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
SNAKES! —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3919
Wednesday, March 23, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
ARMAGH’S
ST. PATRICK’S CATHEDRAL,
A GOTHIC MASTERPIECE
ALTHOUGH Armagh is the small-
est of the counties of Northern
Ireland it is one of the richest
in agriculture, for here is the
chief fruit-growing district in Ulster and
here, too, are produced some of the love-
liest roses in the British Isles. Capital of
the county is the city of Armagh, which
is also the ecclesiastical capital of Ireland.
St. Patrick founded his church in Armagh
in A.D. 432, and today from the summits
of twin hills the Roman Catholic Cathe-
dral and the Protestant Cathedral face
each other across the roof-tops of the city,
The twin spires of St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, the national cathedral of the
Roman Catholic Church, is a prominent
landmark for miles around. Its founda-
tion stone was laid on St. Patrick’s Day,
1840, but its building was delayed by the
disastrous years of the famine and by
the lack of funds. Collections were made
all over Britain, large sums were contri-
buted in the United States and gifts were
received from His Holiness the Pope, the
Emperor of Austria and the French
Emperor. Work on the building, which
is in the Gothic style, was finally com-
pleted in 1873 and the Cathedral was
opened in that year. It has an imposing
situation and is reached by a long flight
of steps.
The internal decorations and furnish-
ings of this great edifice —its marbles,
mosaics and stained glass—are extremely
rich and magnificent and its carilion of
bells is one of the finest in the world.
The marble sculptures are by Italian
craftsmen and the mosaics include medal-
lions of the Saints of Ireland. On the
terrace in the front of the Cathedral are
statues of the two archbishops who began
and finished the building.
Nearby is St. Patrick’s College which
was founded by Primate Crolly in 1835
and where many of the clergy of the
Roman Catholic Church have been
educated. In Armagh can also be seen
one of the largest telescopes in Ireland.
No. 238: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you—any book from any-
where Quick service moderate charges
Write to BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
The Red Page
STONE AGE TO ATOM AGE
In his Conquest by Man (Hamish
Hamilton) Paul Herrmann has collated
in a lucid narrative all that archeolo-
gists and pre-historians have dug up in
relation to the conditions under which
Stone Age and Bronze Age man
existed. From that genesis of our pre-
sent episode of civilisation he has
carried his narrative on into historically
recorded periods, covering all explora-
tions of the known earth in antiquity.
From the start he demolishes the
conventional concept of Stone Age
man as a prognathous-jawed, beetle-
browed savage clad in skins and con-
testing existence with the mammoth
and the cave-bear. In the early stages
of his progression from small tribal
units to a more-or-less ordered state of
intertribal communion, he did use
caves for the practice of religious
ritual, and for the exercise of an
inherited sense for plastic art, but that
he ever was the primordial creature
created by archaeological fantasy-
mongering must be denied.
We date Stone Age man from the
discovery of Cro-Magnon man of
about 20,000 years ago, whose skulls
are precisely those of modern man.
From that date, archaeology has been
able to dig up data which presents
Stone Age man as living under the
same basic procedure as modern man,
which is that of organised industry and
the merchandising of its products.
Flint-mining was the industry which
changed Stone Age life from tribal
wanderings into social organisation.
The mining centres were mainly in
England, Belgium and Sweden. Where
flint was mined it was also manufac-
tured into the axes, daggers, knives,
hammers, saws, sickles, lance- and
arrow-heads and needles which all
flintless people had to have, or be
defeated in the struggle for existence.
For flint implements they bartered
whatever products they excelled in or
possessed, food, woven fabrics, gold
ornamentation from Ireland, amber
from the Baltic, ivory from Africa, and,
most of all, salt from the salt
monopolies of southern Europe. Pottery
was another medium of exchange. Also
precious stones. Neolithic men and
women were just as concerned over
stylism in appearance as their present-
day posterity ...
All this made inevitable the
economic penetration by trade of all
known countries and peoples. Wars
there may have been between those
peoples, but existence depended on
protecting and respecting the trade-
routes. And those covered the whole
of Europe, from the Baltic to the
Mediterranean, from the Atlantic to
the Black Sea. Along them Stone Age
merchants established their depots,
which were also trading-centres, from
which caravans set out to carry goods
into backblock communities.
The discovery of bronze found
an established system of economic
penetration prepared for it. And it
boosted that system up into a tremen-
dous state of activity, cultural as well
as industrial. The bronze smelteries
must have hummed with a phenomenal
industry, for their products soon
covered all known spaces of the earth.
It turned tribal peoples into nations,
and by it power-politics were born.
It reaches, with the discovery of
iron, into the era of recorded history,
into which Herrmann qarries his narra-
tive. The need for raw materials
covered the Mediterranean with ships.
Phoenician and Carthaginian ships
risked the Atlantic, trading with
Britain, the Baltic peoples and the
Atlantic islands. Egyptian sailors cir-
cumnavigated Africa and traded with
the mysterious land of Punt, only
recently discovered to be Rhodesia, by,
of all things, a chemical analysis of an
Egyptian lady’s box of rouge. The
analysis discovered antimony to be a
constituent of her rouge, and antimony
is only discovered in the Transvaal and
Southern Rhodesia.
From Africa merchants sent their
ships across the Indian Ocean to trade
with India _and China. Vikings crossed
the Atlantic and discovered America.
They are known to have landed in
Massachusetts, and controversy is not
sure that they did not voyage as far as
Florida. At least there can be little
doubt that from their intermixture with
the natives came the white-skinned
and blond-haired tribes which were
discovered by 18th- and 19th-century
travellers into the interior of North
America. Hence also, perhaps, Thor
Heyerdahl’s red-haired voyagers of the
Kon-Tiki—a theme on which, sup-
porting Heyerdahl, Herrmann has a
good deal to say.
The salient significance that emerges
from Herrmann’s presentation of Neo-
lithic man is that he is not the begin-
ning of a civilisation, but the tail-end
of one. He is a leak-over, a continuity,
a recurrence in the procedure which
makes civilisation a temporary episode,
and not a progressive movement.
Nothing has so bedevilled clear
thinking as to try to pin down first-
causes in time and space. Life in all
forms is a continuum, but in its pro-
cedure it is subjected to the incessant
attack of disruption. Recorded history
has given us examples enough. Peoples
have risen, become powerful, created
a culture, dominated other peoples, and
have gone back into the sand, leaving
hardly a trace behind them of what
must have seemed to them a system
of existence designed to last for millen-
niums. This is a stale theme; a
panoramic spectacle of the past which
we read complacently in libraries,
blandly unaware that we are as much
the creatures of an illusion of security
and stability as those countless mil-
lions of whom nothing remains but a
few graves, pots, stone images and the
foundations of their lost cities dug up
by the ant-like industry of archae-
ologists. By their activities we are
able to trace something of the process
which destroyed those civilisations;
war, mainly, with internal conflict,
economic disruption, pestilence, or a
general collapse of moral energy. These
constitute what we may call the minor
episodes of civilisation, whereby a
certain continuity is maintained by the
rise and fall of nations. But only uni-
versal cataclysm can destroy the whole
mass of an earth-civilisation . . .
The myth-memory of that cataclysm
is common to all peoples. But more
important evidence of the civilisation
which preceded it is in the submerged
memories of Neolithic man. Those
memories, transferred from factuality to
folklore, from folklore to legend, and
finally into myth, were the basis on
which our present civilisation was
built. From them, the conscious con-
cept of man was put into a transferable
form-imagery by art; by the written
word and the plastic image.
Myths are not invented by a people
without a pre-history. Any other
assumption is fatuous. Neolithic man
carried in his memory-cells the memory
of a civilisation whose cities had been
levelled by earthquake, destroyed by
fire, overwhelmed by volcanic erup-
tions and flooded by tidal waves.
Possibly those ice-ages recorded by
geology were the effect of cataclysm.
In any case, every vestige of that
lost civilisation save a few monolithic
stones would have been long since
absorbed into the earth and become
substance of its strata. The few
peoples that survived a universal
cataclysm would have been thrown
back to grubbing in the earth
for roots and on the sea-shores for
shellfish, or to killing such animals for
food as might be disabled by stones
and clubs. In one generation they
would have become Stone Age man.
In two generations a Stone Age tradi-
tion of existence would be established.
And that tradition becomes the con-
tinuity in which we are existing at this
moment.
But Neolithic man carried in his
memory-cells more tangible evidence
of his lost civilisation than its trans-
ference to myth. He carried, in short,
some memory of its technological
achievements, notably that in which
he was able to play about with vast
masses of cut stone as building-
material. That secret survived down
to the Egyptian civilisation, and was
then lost. Unlimited supply of slave-
labor may account for the transport of
monoliths, but not for their begetting.
No application of manual labor could
lift a monolith 80ft. long and 15ft
square out of a trench 30ft. deep.
What we call knowledge is not dis-
covery but recovery. Three times in
antiquity the Suez Canal was con-
structed and three times it went back
to the desert. When Napoleon pro-
posed to redig it the scientific fatheads
of his retinue assured him that the
Red Sea was at a higher level than
the Mediterranean, and that if the
canal was dug it would flood Egypt, so
the proposal was abandoned.
Even the principle of atomic energy
was known to the Greeks, but they
were too wise and civilised to meddle
with it. That it must have been known
to the lost civilisation which precedec
our present one is evidenced by that
quest for the Philosopher’s Ston
which so obsessed manjdnd througi
all the ages of recorded history. A
evil quest, for it sought to solve th
struggle for existence without effort
Now its quest has achieved an infinitely
greater evil, power to destroy finally
the struggle for existence itself. Do
not let us be deceived by the scientifi
mask of innocence. A mentality tha
sets out deliberately to evolve
destructive mechanism wishes to
destroy with it .
At that crisis mankind stands today
at the threat of universal cataclysm
which will destroy a major episode o
civilisation, and when time ha
abolished all evidence of it, a slow
and laborious emergence from chao
as Stone Age man again ...
These are not the conclusions
arrived at by Paul Herrmann. They
are rational inferences drawn from his
presentation of Neolithic man, who
is, in effect, modem man. Herrmann
ends his book on a queer note o;:
optimism. After picturing the black
despair into which man sank during
the Middle Ages, when all civil order
was at the mercy of anarchy, when
robber-baron aristocracy and an auto-
cratic hierarchy trampled all resistance
out of the people at large, when death
by violence and pestilence decimated
whole peoples, when what little art
existed could only picture life as Dance
of Death, and the image of a grinning
skeleton armed with a scythe hovered
over every death-bed, Herrmann pauses
to write:—
How familiar it all is. We have
experienced it all ourselves, and
how deep our own gods lie buried.
And yet humanity will no more
perish today than it did 500 years
ago. For while the whole world
was staring fascinated into the
abyss of Last Things, overcome by
horror and delighting in it, the
gates of a new age were slowly
opening. Imperceptibly at first,
growing gradually brighter and
brighter, and finally dazzling and
sparkling, light flooded into the
prison gloom ... A few decades
later Ulrich von Hutten, tormented
by a loathsome disease and
racked by festering sores, ex-
claimed with glowing enthusiasm:
“The spirits are awake, it is a joy
to be alive.”
Is this message perhaps directed
to us as well? Have we not
always recognised ourselves in the
portrayal of men and events which
has unrolled before our eyes?
And are we, who have already
been summoned by the Last
Trump, perhaps standing beside a
door that is slowly beginning to
open?
Are we to grin sardonically at this
query of hope, coming from a German?
For myself, I prefer not to indulge in
the vice of prophetic optimism. In
any case, I and my generation will not
be here to see whether our episode of
civilisation is going to emerge into
another Renaissance, or be exploded
back again to a Stone Age.— Norman
Lindsay.
(“Red Page 1 ’ continued on page 35)
VARIOUS VERSE
SUMMER COMES WITH
COLOR
Summer comes with color:
The wheat turns yellow
And in globes of light
Hares lope through the stubble
Where in shimmer to the knees
The trees cut their losses
And forgetting cold reason
Strip as gold as goddesses.
Give us such ease. O
My blue-eyed lover,
Why should your beauty
Alone hide in coverings?
Here by the riverside
The weedbines invite you,
And what more do you need
Than this light about you?
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
THE FURRIER
By centring on freaks the trade achieved
its rarer strains, and bred to keep them
pure—
tonal varieties and misconceived
mixtures of genes pride of the furrier.
The same with fruit and beasts—each
accident
of sheet’s confusion carefully studied for
interest and profit, hailed as heaven-sent,
knowledge, variety, wrenched from
natural law.
Different with men, where each aspires to
keep
pace with his neighbor and uphold the
norm,
hating the personal, preferring sheep:
even the furrier struggles to conform.
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.
BIRD IN THE WATTLE
‘'Always, always,” sang the bird,
and his joy came down like rain.
“I was always—O most clearly!
Do not guess my origin
“For I have none. Out of a cloud
springs a fire, and from a shell
the fledgling struggles; violently
leaps the leaf inside the tree.
And time will break them one by one.
But since the Father and the Son
And I, who of the three go third,
are called the fire, the bud and bird—
I sing in the flame of a wattle-tree
of time contained in mystery.”
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.
TAGGERTY
I remember the table and the room
And Taggerty discoursing in the gloom:
There is the face that seemed suspended
in the air
And the crop of straight and ageing hair.
I’ll go back into that house,
For a moment, as furtive as a mouse—
Peer through chinks and talk with him,
An old head on its special stem . . .
Converse with pictures on the wall,
Chairs and plates, a door that' leads into a
hall:
Taggerty will yawn, perhaps, and then
asleep
He will sprawl like books thrown in a
heap.
Again I see the Bibles and the diction-
aries,
And on the floor the “Ancient Histories.”
Though I know that Taggerty is dead
He will go on reading in my head.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.


m
Sife3S
mi
mm
mm
m
m
m
mmm
A
fm
■m
J>
m
wm&
-:. :
Imvi
*sf§>
-
pecially selected for you!
our favourite mail order customers!
ontemporary design lounge suite!
to you comfort* with the quality you wunt
3-Piece Lounge Suite
Lounge suite, 3-piece, maple
coloured timber, spring filled
cushions and platform. Choice
of 4 colours in pattern illustrated.
Yellow, green, cherry and grey.
Priced at £5l/7/6.
or 5/8 weekly
Maple Coloured
Lounge Suite
A 3-piece lounge suite of maple
colour wood, rubber seat cushions,
flock filled and buttoned back
cushions, depending on cover
selected. Priced from £69/13/6
or 7/8 weekly
Modern or
Reproduction
Cintique Chair
The Cintique chair, modern or
reproduction, the perfect com-
bination of a wonderful new four
point suspension springing tech-
nique and texfoam, super soft
latex depending on cover chosen.
Priced from £29/19/6
or 4/8 weekly
■—
Wmmm
H
mm
Wb ' m /
:■;,:
wmmmmm
m
m
am
iW&% y* _
% B
iiiii
■ 5
% *
*
-
H
w&iw:
m
mm
•amm
'WimiM
STORE OPENS 8.30 A.M. Breakfast in our 2nd Floor Dining Room.
LOUNGES AND FURNITURE, THIRD FLOOR. ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday , March 23, 1955
Vol 76—No. 3919
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521
‘Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
FISSION AT HOBART
MOST “Labor” men, even those who violently
disagree with each other on general issues, would
unanimously answer “Yes” to a single question if
it could be posed to them in dead secrecy. The
question is : “Aren’t you sorry the ‘Labor’ move-
ment ever heard of Dr. Evatt?”
His speech at the Hobart conference, with its
assaults on enemies of Communism, put the final
touch to the chaos in the movement. It lacked
every ingredient that should characterise the
speech of a leader on such an occasion when
warring factions must be brought together and
tempers must be soothed. As usual it was raficous,
and savage in its intolerance of those who opposed
him.
The “Labor” party, so united save for that
Leftist element which linked itself with the Com-
munist party’s ideals and which Dr. Evatt led when
John Curtin and J. B. Chifley held office, has been
torn to shreds under his leadership. All its sores
and wounds, its hates and dissensions, its pettiness
and its careerism, have been bared naked to public
sight in the last few months since the Doctor, in
pursuance of his normal practice, rushed to the
rescue of the Communist party before the Petrov
Commission, on the excuse of a loyalty to his
secretaries which now seems to have abated
considerably.
The disastrous result of his interference with
the proceedings of the commission, the utter
discrediting of his wanton and baseless charges,
the calm and patient exposure of their emptiness
' by the judges, were certainly enough to send most
men who suffered it a little off-balance. Most in
the position of Dr. Evatt would have slunk out of
the leadership to hide. Most parties with any sense
of self-respect would have tried to beat him to the
post to expel him before he had a chance to slink.
But it seems that both with the kind of junta that
now controls “Labor” and with the kind of “leader”
it has got, anything goes. The first consideration
is self-preservation, and any weapon is good enough
for defence.
The result is apparent. The party conference
looks like the scene at a shipwreck in which many
passengers are fighting tooth-and-claw for one two-
man raft. Every section of the party is rent
to pieces by the action of Dr. Evatt and his
followers, and the only thing for which the party
can be thankful is that Mr. Menzies has been
kind enough to postpone the meeting of the
Commonwealth Parliament three months beyond
its normal time.
So far as the delegations at the so-called
Federal Conference are concerned, the position is
as follows. The Victorian executive has been
purged by force, and a new one thick with Leftists
and associates of Communism has replaced it,
with Dr. Evatt’s blessing. The N. S. Wales
Executive is split off from the Federal Executive
and the Federal leadership—its president has openly
committed himself to the slogan “Evatt must go”—
and all six delegates turned their backs on the
conference. The Federal Executive is to “investi-
gate” the branch.
The N. S. Wales State party is split;
the fight for endorsement for the next elections
will be a Donnybrook, with forces nearly equally
divided among present members of the Legislative
Assembly on sectarian lines. The Queensland
party found itself with five rebels, including the
Premier, on its hands, all determined not to carry out
the instructions of their branch issued to them by
the totalitarian A.W.U. group which has controlled
northern politics for years with an iron hand. South
Australia is solid for Evatt—Leftist to a man—but
four delegates from W.A. repudiated their orders
from the branch, while the Tasmanians look like
a bundle of cats and rats tied together, two being
rebels.
The Federal party is in a similar confusion.
If the Caucus is to maintain order and obedience
or to prevent the walls of the Caucus-room splitting
with the uproar, it will have to discipline enough
members to make the docile remnant look like the
mere- rag of a party. If the Federal Executive
authority is to be maintained it will certainly have
to discipline the deputy-leaders of both the House
of Representatives and the Senate. It will have
to expel four or five Victorian members, the
Federal Whip and four or five other N.S.W. M.P.’s,
though some of them seem to have been auto-
matically expelled already by redistribution.
The Premier in Queensland will have to be
sacked. The Premier of N. S. Wales may have to
be sacked —logically, Mr. Dougherty and his rough-
necks must go after him or he will go after them.
To add to the difficulties and dangers, there is
a Senate election due next year, though only
half the Senate goes up and, thanks to Dr. Evatt’s
precautions to prevent the party being wiped out
at any time, proportional-representation will save
it if the election system is not altered in the mean-
time. “Labor” faces the danger that the Govern-
ment may this year bring forward a
proposal to reform the Senate and end the present
frustrating and expensive system of piecemeal polls
and then decide to have a general election next
year so as to bring the election dates of both houses
into line.
Should that happen, the result to “Labor”'
will be disastrous indeed. It will be thrown to the
mercies of the electors in both Houses ; and with
the bloc-vote in the electorates which has done most
to keep it in power over the past few decades com-
pletely antagonised by its leaders, small mercy will
it get. After an election tomorrow that part of
“Labor” which claims to be “anti-Movement”
would find itself little better than an appendage of
the Communist-led unions and the A.W.U.—if the
A.W.U. can stand up to the internal stresses which
are being put -upon it by the adherence of its
leadership to a section in Federal politics which
has rarely failed to be on the side of the Com-
munist party when that party has needed aid.
In all the circumstances, there seems no chance
of bringing the warring sections together without
dismissing from the leadership the man who has
produced all the trouble obviously for the
purpose of providing a red-herring to divert
the chase from himself after his bad break before
the Petrov Commission. But to sack Dr. Evatt
is one thing, and to find another leader is another.
The galaxy of “talent” offering is uninspiring,
save for those candidates who are completely
frightening to most “Labor” men. In fact, about
the only members who would accept the leadership
with any eagerness are probably Eddie Ward and
Dan Curtin (of Watson). They would be
equally unacceptable to 90 per cent, of the party,
or what will remain of the party after the Federal
A.L.P. Executive has finished with it.
However, such is the condition of “Labor” at
the moment that the question of future leadership
is only academic. It has yet to be determined
whether there will be a party to be led in six months’
time. Perhaps if in the end there is, Mr. Aneurin
Bevan might be induced to take over.
From Higgins to Cahill
IT is over 50 years since the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court was established, and over 30
since its most famous president, Henry Bournes
Higgins, published “A New Province of Law and
Order,” based on his 14 years’ experience with the
court. Compulsory arbitration for the settlement
of industrial disputes goes back even further in
some of the States. The New South Wales Act
was passed in 1901 ; Westralia applied the principle
in 1900 and Victoria—to Wages Board legislation-
in 1896. New Zealand was earlier still—its Act
has been on the books since 1896 —and in 1890
Charles Cameron Kingston in South Australia and
Samuel Griffith in Queensland unsuccessfully
attempted to persuade the Parliaments of their
respective States to adopt an arbitration system.
The half-century has seen considerable changes
in the industrial legislation both of the Common-
wealth and the States. Much of the Federal court’s
power has been delegated to conciliation commis-
sioners, each dealing with a particular industry
or group of industries ; the court retains exclusive
jurisdiction over fundamental matters such as
standard hours, basic wage, annual leave, sick-
leave and long-service leave. The proclaimed
purpose of the 1947 amendments which effected
this change was to “streamline” industrial legisla-
tion and to shift the emphasis from arbitration to
conciliation in the settling of disputes. It cannot
be said that the purpose has been achieved. The
secretary of the Department of Labor and National
Service wrote in the N. S. Wales Industrial Gazette
in June, 1953: —
While the number of consent awards has
been great, that has been rather the produce of
over-full employment than the exercise of real
conciliation functions. Although their official title
is Conciliation Commissioner, it has been the
arbitral function that has been really exercised.
No provision was made in the 1947 Act for any
appeal against the award of a conciliation com-
missioner, and as each one was a law unto himself
in his particular industry it was not long before the
Federal wage-structure was full of glaring
anomalies. This situation has been to some extent
remedied by the Menzies Government’s enactment
permitting appeals in certain circumstances. Of
this, Minister for Labor Holt said:—
The bill does not give an unlimited right of
appeal But we do believe that the court
'should decide the major issues of industrial
principle and issues which are likely to recur in
proceedings before a number of conciliation com-
missioners. By this means we aim to get some real
consistency in the handling by individual concilia-
tion commissioners of the same issues arising in
comparable situations.
Industrial tribunals exist in every State and
exercise authority over unions and callings covered
by State awards. In New South Wales the con-
trolling authority is the Industrial Commission,
consisting of a president and five other judges, with
various subsidiary tribunals such as conciliation
committees and apprenticeship councils from the
decisions of which appeals may be made to the
Industrial Commission. The Queensland Industrial
Court consists of a judge and three lay members,
and the Westralian Court of Arbitration is presided
over by a judge, with two lay members, one
elected by the employers and one by the trade-
unions. Westralia also has industrial boards,
conciliation committees and a conciliation com-
missioner. South Australia’s Industrial Court is
composed of a president—who must be “a person
eligible for appointment as a judge of the Supreme
Court”—who may be joined by two assessors
employed in the industry concerned. There is also
a Board of Industry, consisting of the president or
deputy-president of the Industrial Court and four
commissioners. Victoria and Tasmania do not have
arbitration courts ; wages and conditions are fixed
by Wages Boards for the various industries, each
board having a chairman and equal representatives
of employers and employees.
With all this paraphernalia for the fixing of
wages and conditions and for the settling of indus-
trial disputes it might be thought that the various
courts, commissioners and boards would by now
be reaching the stage where they have worked
themselves out of a job. But that is far from being
the case. Every wage-fixing authority in Australia
has a backlog of cases long enough to last it
through several law terms, and Justice Higgins’s
New Province seems a long way from realisation.
This is not so much the fault of the arbitration
system as of vote-chasing politicians and popularity-
seeking trade-union officials who lack the courage
to tell their followers and members that when a
court speaks of margins for skill, the word skill
does not include unskill. The years since the war
have been difficult ones for the wage-fixing
authorities.
All the old standards have gone, and they
have had to contend with changed money-values
and vastly altered conditions in industry; in
addition, some of the State authorities have had to
put up with interference and dictation from
“Labor” Governments yielding to the pressure of
powerful unions. As a result of this the unskilled
worker is probably better off in relation to
the skilled worker than at any time in the history of
arbitration. This is very fine indeed for the un-
skilled worker, and very fine for the Trades Hall
politicians who depend on his vote, but in the
long view it is no good for the country. The Federal
Arbitration Court has shown that it is well aware
of the significance of this and has so far resisted
attempts by the “Labor” movement to use the
margins-issue as a cover for an all-round wage-
increase which the court has already said the
economy of the country cannot at present afford.
Although the Federal Arbitration Court,
especially in its more recent judgments, appears
to make the welfare of the whole community its
paramount consideration, the same cannot be said
of N. S. Wales Premier Cahill. For that reason
a bill he has in mind to amend the Act governing
the State Industrial Commission will need careful
watching. To overcome the backlog of marginal-
payments applications awaiting hearing, he intends
to appoint extra judges to the commission. He
hasn’t yet decided how many are needed. That,
apparently, is not very important as the number
of appointments is to be decided by “the amount
of court space available.” Whether the size of the
new judges will be determined by the size of the
chairs available in the courts has not been stated.
But if size qualifications are not mentioned
in the bill, other qualifications are. At present, only
practising barristers or solicitors are eligible for
appointment to the Industrial Commission ; Cahill
intends to amend this so as to enable the appoint-
ment of non-practising barristers or solicitors. His
reason for increasing the number of judges is the
necessity for clearing up the accumulated list of
cases. No real reason has been advanced for
altering the qualifications of appointees and with
the past record of the Cahill Government for
appointing favorite sons to high positions, the change
must be viewed with the utmost suspicion.


RETREAT FROM HOBART


PLAIN ENGLISH
World Policy Reorientated
Important developments have been
taking place in the last three months in
international politics, marking a definite
stage in world relationships.
The discussions which took place at
the Prime Ministers’ conference in
January in England have obviously led
to careful negotiation about how the
services of each nation are to fit into
world strategy. And with the putting
into operation of the new plans conson-
ant with the re-weaponing of the
defences of the West and consequent
changes in overall tactics, Australia is
concerned, and deeply concerned.
But the salient facts about the world
situation at the moment need to be
summed up under several heads. One
is concerned with politics in Britain,
where it seems almost certain that
Mr. Churchill is on the point of
retirement. He has been more seriously
ill over the past two years than most
people realise. He was struck down at
one stage by a stroke which paralysed
his speech. His recovery has been
marvellous, but it can be only temporary.
He is going on holidays at Easter, and
will be away when the Budget speech
is made on April 19, which, in an
important year like the present, tells it
own story.
With the advent of Sir Anthony Eden
as Prime Minister, which seems certain,
there is sure to be a change of policy
and atmosphere. His is a mind not built
for stern action. He has no genius for
war or organisation. A change in
the Prime Ministership must mean an
early election.
In Europe the dominant factor at the
moment is the resurgence of Western
Germany, which in three or four years
will be a position to write its own ticket
for a rapidly declining France and an
Italy that does not matter much.
In the United States loins are already
being girded up for the next Presidential
election —the first specific shots in
preparation for the campaign will be
fired in a few months’ time, though the
poll is nearly two years away. The
release of the details of the Yalta agree-
ment last week was obviously a blow
at the Democrats, and a very powerful
one. There was a great deal in it to
shock public , opinion. The nearer the
election comes the more it will affect
world policies—if world policies are
not dictated by enemy action, as they
may be entirely by the end of next year.
Meanwhile, following the beginnings
of rearmament, the London and Seato
Conferences, and the change in Indian
attitudes which apparently are beginning
to be influenced by fear, there appears
to be developing a concentration of effort
which is likely in the next few months to
revolutionise international relationships
in defence and reorient the outlook of
the great Powers completely. The essen-
tial outcome of this will be that instead
of there being three or four improvised
regional expedients in defence, the ideal
which Mr. Paul Hasluck has so sensibly
publicised will become a matter of fact.
Hitherto in Europe, while Germany
was an occupied wreck and Britain fight-
ing to regain its feet, it has been neces-
sary to concentrate on Europe even if
the Far East were temporarily sacrificed.
The necessity has been the greater
because the Atlantic is the basin round
which invention mainly operates and
industry goes through world revolutions.
Now that the theoretic period of rearma-
ment-modernisation has passed and
there are sufficient resources to strike
anywhere the outlook has become
broader; and, to add to this factor, the
pressure of Russia and China south-
wards in Asia has tended to move the
main danger-point from Europe, or at
least to create new danger-points suffi-
ciently, and imminently, important
enough to justify their being placed on a
defence parity with Europe.
In the present phase military strategy
is being revised, military weaponry and
tactics are being revolutionised both on
land and sea, military tactics are chang-
ing with the other innovations, and mili-
tary geography is being rewritten with
some new emphasis on Australia.
This continent in the new scheme of
things has become a most important gun-
platform for the free world. It is too
remote to be attacked suddenly. It is
so situated in regard to Asia that strikes
from its soil can be made very conveni-
ently—much more conveniently than
from the U.S. or the U.K. over the seas
which lead from the Atlantic to the Far
East. It is not easy to explain its posi-
tion briefly. But it is an ideal rear
main-base in an overall plan for world
defence. It is on that basis that the
Australian Government is being inten-
sively consulted just now by the Govern-
ments of the great Powers which hold
the main force for the defence of
civilisation in their hands. It is on that
basis that its own defence programmes
must be considered.
To Censor and Suppress
The fact that scarcely a voice outside
the N.S.W. Government has been heard
approving its “Obscene Literature Bill,”
against the flood of disapproval (includ-
ing some from “Labor” M.L.A.s), is in
itself enough to arouse public fears as to
the Government’s inspiration and inten-
tion. Then, after Minister for Justice
Downing gave a long list of organisations
which, he declared, had “urged” the
Government to take action against
“horror (and sex) comics,” practically
every one of the organisations promptly
denied doing any such thing.
All this, like the pleas of authors,
publishers and everybody else, leaves the
Government cold. It hasn’t even
answered the charge that the bill was
inspired by “The Movement,” with
which, in the current internecine “Labor”
war, it is so far allied. So it is quite
useless to invite the Government to con-
sider the sensible British attitude to
“obscene literature,” though for people
of less authority and more sense it is
full of interest.
After Seeker & Warburg (publishers)
had been acquitted in an English court
(judge and jury) of a charge of publish-
ing “an obscene libel” in the form of a
novel, the British began examining their
laws on the subject. One result was a
private member’s bill, introduced to the
Commons by a Labor member, which
was drafted by a society of authors. It
was pointed out that five reputable
publishers were indicted in 1954; two
were acquitted, two convicted, and the
fifth, after two jury disagreements, was
given up by the Crown. This meant that
the law was uncertain.
The new bill therefore demands that
a court should be required to consider,
among other things, the dominant effect
of publication (as distinct from the
possible effect on a 14-year-old girl),
evidence of corrupting influence, evidence
of literary or other merit, and the type
of people likely to read the work. The
British Parliament is still debating the
bill.
Meantime, W. and E. E. Ashworth,
in “Books,” the journal of the National
Book League, February issue, make a
survey of children’s periodical? and
comics, and very pertinently suggest that
parents, not Governments, are the best
censors of children’s reading. A summary
of their remarks:
The dangers of flooding the market with
children’s comics have been stressed. What
has not been stressed so firmly is the matter
of intelligent parental participation.
Where parents read children’s literature
and discuss it with their family, children’s
comics are not a problem but a shared
delight.
Comics become a real danger only
when read to the exclusion of everything
else.... It is essential for the parents to
make sure that other, equally attractive
reading is easily available to the child at
all stages of development. In homes where
this is done and where the parents show
catholicity in their own reading tastes and
habits, children themselves become aware
of the true position which periodicals
(comics) should take in juvenile literature
and can correctly assess their worth.
Much has been said and written lately
on the pernicious influence of American
comics... .They create a social problem
which affects some adolescents and young
servicemen, but which should not worry
enlightened parents who, by practice and
precept, have helped their children to an
appreciation of good literature in all its
forms.
But the Cahill Government does not
consider the average N.S.W. parent to
be enlightened, or even adult, and it
is out to suppress, censor and punish
indiscriminately. In this respect its
alleged concern for the young is trans-
parently fraudulent and deceptive, its
motives suspect, and its inspiration is
not Australian, not Labor, and not
candid.
"Indian Philosophy"
From Professor A. D. Hope, Canberra:
My attention has been drawn to an
article under the heading “Indian Philo-
sophy” [contributed by “In the ACT”]
which appeared in The Bulletin
of March 2. I think it only fair to The
Bulletin and its readers to let you have
the facts.
The Indian Philosophy Study Group,
of which I am the president, was formed
in Canberra at the beginning of 1954.
As its name suggests, it exists for the
study of Hindu Philosophy, and for no
other purpose. The meetings, which are
held on the last Monday of each month,
have so far been devoted to the study of
an elementary text-book: Essentials of
Living Hindu Philosophy, by Hans Vreede
(0.U.P.). Meetings are held at the house
of Mr. P. Ratnam, and the discussions
are led by Mrs. Ratnam, who is a student
of Indian Philosophy. Membership of
the group is open to anyone interested,
and includes people from nearly every
section of the Canberra community, in-
cluding several academic philosophers.
The group is entirely non-political, and
no political questions have ever been
raised or discussed at its meetings.
I should like to point out that Professor
Titterton’s address was not 'given to an
ordinary meeting of the group, and that
he was a guest-speaker. Professor Titter-
ton, as a distinguished scientist, had been
invited to address the group on modem
theories of Time and Space, and we hope
to hear him on this subject later in the
year. He offered, in addition, to give a
paper on “Social and Ethical Problems of
Science,” and this offer was accepted. As
it did not fall directly within the scope
of the philosophical studies of the group,
and as it was a matter of general interest,
we decided to make it the occasion of a
public lecture to which other -members of
the Canberra community were invited.
The sneers at Professor Titterton in the
article in The Bulletin were particu-
larly unfortunate, aiming as they do at a
guest-speaker who is not a member of the
group and has no responsibility for its
activities at all.
No Troops for Malaya
As if the speeches of Dr. Evatt, snarling
at the “Santamaria movement,” and Mr.
Calwell, snarling at Dr. Evatt and brand-
ing him as the wrecker of the party, were
not enough, the ill-fated nineteen who were
shipwrecked at the Hobart Conference
bought a little more trouble in the shape
of a couple of resolutions on foreign
affairs perpetrated in the name of
“Labor.”
One flatly opposes the sending of Aus-
tralian troops to Malaya; the other
favored the admission to U.N.O. of Com-
munist China.
In 1942 Labor was full of execration
of the unfortunate British, who had
enough to do to defend themselves with-
out worrying about their colonies, because
Malaya was not in a state of defence and
not packed with British war material.
Nothing, of course, was said about the
fact that “Labor,” led by such great men
as Mr. “Brisbane Line” Ward, had a
year before been shouting in protest
against the sending of the A.I.F. abroad
and Australian militia to New Guinea to
defend the threshold of the Common-
wealth.
However, in this case, “Labor” is con-
sistent, because even towards the end of
the last war, when it was a case of send-
ing troops to defeat Japan, the Curtin
Government, in which Messrs. Ward,
Calwell and Evatt were leading ingredi-
ents, would not even agree to militia
being sent to Singapore to help release
Australian prisoners there. Mr. Calwell
was outraged when it was proposed by
Mr. Curtin to send them to Borneo to
help release the captives of Sandakan.
At the present time Singapore and its
back-country are key territory in Aus-
tralian security. The defence of this
country begins there. Malaya forms
the area from which the north-west
approaches to Australia would be con-
trolled, from which atomic attack would
be made on Indonesia, if Indonesia had
not already fallen into Communist hands.
It must be defended not only in the
interest of Asia but of the world.
It has been an axiom with Dr. Evatt that
Australia is part of South-East Asia, but it
seems to be more and more evident that
what he means is that he believes it is
a natural part of the future Communist
Empire in Asia.
Almost everything that,“Labor” does in
foreign policy under his leadership seems
to be conditioned by whether it will fall
into line with Russian policy. The Com.-
ridden wharfies often dictate the
“Labor” line. Moscow must be
jubilant at the antics of “Labor” during
the last few days, but the rank-and-file
of the party will have small cause to be
pleased when the next election comes
along.
The most recent public-opinion poll
shows that “Labor” popularity is at an
all-time low in forty years. Its leaders
might win an election if they stood in
Moscow. But their chances in Australia
just now would not be worth even a bet.
They seem to be trading with the Com-
munist unions in order to get sufficient
funds to stay afloat at the next poll and
to prevent their opponents getting funds.
The withdrawal of financial support by
the federated Ironworkers’ and the
Federated Clerks’ and other unions might
not absolutely paralyse them financially
by itself, but it will go a long way to-
wards doing it. The withdrawal of union
support of the N.S.W. branch will para-
lyse Mr. Cahill. By their support of
Communist policy the A.L.P. “leaders”
are going the right way to make the split
between themselves and their moderate
supporters permanent.
The body whose behavior is most diffi-
cult to understand in the matter is the
A.W.U. Either its leaders should be cer-
tified or it is playing a double game and
supporting Dr. Evatt and his policies in
the same way that Dr. Evatt’s economic
mentor, Mr. J. S. Garden, once invited
the Communist party to rally round Mr.
Lang. His slogan was: “Support Lang
as the rope supports the hanged man.
When he has served his purpose pull
the lever.”
People Can't Fly
Earth or sky, it’s all the same to these
State Governments. The one in Victoria,
at long last forced to obey Section 92 of
the Australian Constitution and allow
people to use other than railways for
inter-State transport, won’t allow the
Melbourne (Vic.) to 'Balranald (N.S.W.)
air-service to land passengers at Echuca
(Vic.) on the way.
Echuca is on the south bank of the
Murray, 110 air-miles from Melbourne,
flying-time 55 minutes. Balranald is
120 air-miles from Echuca, flying-time 60
minutes. Echuca is just over 150 miles
from Melbourne by rail, train-time just
on five hours. From Echuca there ran,
30 years or so ago, the Moama-Deniliquin
railway, a private show. Under the
Border Railways Agreement Victoria took
over this line and, from Barnes, about ten
miles north of Echuca, ran another line
to Balranald, about 140 miles. Nobody is
quite sure how long it takes to go by
train from Echuca to Balranald, but as
it runs only on Monday anti Thursday it
doesn’t matter much.
Southern Air Lines, Ltd., operating a
Melbourne-Balranald service, wants to
land and pick up passengers at Echuca.
These would be people for Echuca,
Shepparton, Rochester, Moama and
sundry smaller places in the district. The
line holds that the service to Balranald
doesn’t pay without that right. Public
meetings at Echuca and Shepparton
(heart of the populous Goulburn Valley
fruit area) want the airline to have the
right. Victorian Transport Regulation
Board approved a licence for it, but
Mr. Coleman, Minister for Railways,
won’t allow it. He calls it “economic and
unnecessary competition with public
transport, which means large Treasury
deficits or increased fares and freights.”
To avoid this, people must spend five
hours in a train to Echuca.
Anyhow, Mr. Bolte’s Opposition pro-
poses to attack the decision; so do
Mr. McDonald’s Agrarians. There’s talk
of challenging the decision under the free
inter-State provisions of Section 92.
A much simpler solution would be to
persuade Civil Aviation to provide an
aerodrome on the plentiful flat land just
over the river at Moama. The ’drome
would be as close to Echuca as the
present one and, with the Campaspe-
Goulburn district of Victoria to serve, it
could, being in N.S.W., render Vic. Rail-
ways impotent to dictate means of travel
to free Australians.
Who's Next?
“Stromlo” : The Liberal-party president,
W. H. Anderson, put his finger on
the real issue in the A.L.P. uproar —the
likely resurgence of the Communist
party as a result of the “Labor” civil
war. Dr. Evatt’s downfall, when it
does irrevocably occur, will be, in
a roundabout way, the result of the
deep feeling among a large section of
his party about what Mr. Anderson
called Evatt’s “curious identification with
so many issues and causes espoused by
the Communist party,” but it will not
necessarily mean any triumph for the
Right-wing section of “Labor.”
Power, or at least the semblance of
power, in both the A.L.P. and the
Parliamentary “Labor” party may still
be in Left-wing hands, and the selection
of someone to speak in Parliament for
the Opposition may therefore present a
problem of magnitude. The Opposition
itself seems likely to sit in two sections
in both Chambers at Canberra (some-
thing not unique in “Labor” annals),
and it still remains to be seen whether
the strength of the faction which includes
(i Continued on next page) '


Evatt and his recent favorite, Eddie
Ward, is sufficient to permit it to be
recognised as the official Opposition. In
the other camp will be Cal well and Alan
Fraser, whose premature bid for some
sort of office last year may have taught
him a political lesson or two.
In all the welter of speculation by
bemused members still hopefully pro-
claiming their attachment to the party
and its policy (Evatt himself tried this
line in Tasmania), and by equally
bemused political correspondents ring-
ing the changes on a familar story, the
name of Mr. Percy Clarey crops up
regularly. Clarey, whose age and
physical infirmity have hitherto kept
him out of the forefront, is regarded as
a “moderate” whose chief virtue would
be to reassure voters, so that the way
could be paved for peace within the
party and for a show of “unity” under
some virile leader still unknown.
Clarey is believed to be not unwilling
to lend himself to a manoeuvre of this
sort, and it is just conceivable that if
“Doc.” disappears from the table his
place may be taken by Clarey, trying to
make some kind of armistice work and
to convince the public that it could be
permanent. The job would be incred-
ibly difficult, however, and the attempt
would be destined to fail.
Real interest, therefore, will lie in
the selection of the leaders of the two
factions, especially of the Left-wingers
if they are in a majority. It is any-
body’s guess who will emerge, some-
what bedraggled, from the tussle for the
“plums,” such as they are. Many people
will probably shrug their shoulders,
being heartily sick of the smelly dispute,
but unfortunately the situation has
serious implications, at home and abroad,
which cannot be disregarded. The
Leader of her Majesty’s Opposition
receives, by virtue of his office* a fair
amount of publicity in newspapers over-
seas, and his views are sometimes
accepted abroad as being those of nearly
half the Australian people. At the same
time the Opposition-leader has the task
of keeping the Government alertly alive
to its responsibilities. Dr. Evatt has a
feeble record in these two roles.
POLITICAL POINTS
Numerologists will probably find some
significance in the fact that the Hobart
conference split 19-17. “Labor’s” big
Conscription split occurred in 1917.
t • •
America is said to possess a stockpile
of 10,000 atom-bombs. It has been
calculated that if these were placed end-
to-end and detonated, the resultant chain-
reaction would be sufficient to take us
right back to the Dark Ages.
« •
Calwell was reported to have told the
Hobart Nineteen that “Labor” would
never win an election while Evatt
remained leader. There was no mention
of this in his authorised handout to the
press, and the Doc. later said that he was
sure the statement had never been made
because delegates had given him “an
absolute and unequivocal assurance about
that.” In that case the most likely
explanation is that there was a very good
thought-reader in CalweU’s audience.
Queensland Premier Gair was also
reported as commenting critically on
Evatt’s leadership, saying that the pre-
dominant feeling among the delegates in
Hobart was that if Evatt stepped down
from the leadership many of “Labor’s”
difficulties would disappear. The Doc.
replied that Gair’s opinion “could not be
regarded as fair or impartial.”
On Friday Mullens, M.H.R., went
further than Calwell and Gair when,
replying to an Evatt statement that “Mr.
Mullens is now approaching the end of
his career in the Federal Parliament,’’ he
said that he intended to carry the fight
against Evatt’s leadership on to the floor
of the House, and “then we shall see who
lasts longest in Canberra.”
• •
Cheerful smiles brightened Sydney’s
rainy gloom last week as motorist after
motorist read the news-item that a
pedestrian had been ordered to pay a
motorist £145 damages, a jury finding
him guilty of negligerice. It may be the
first step to making third-party insurance
compulsory for all, instead of only for
motorists. In the case recorded, no
insurance company becomes responsible
for the damages.
e •
Churchill’s lion didn’t want his chicken,
and now the British lion is trying to refuse
our meat. What do lions want, anyway?
• •
Voting for the Monash province by-
election for the Victorian Legislative
Council will take place on April 2. Can-
didates: C. Gawith (L.C.P.) and H. J.
Peagram (Lab.). The Liberal man should
have no difficulty in winning the seat,
vacant through the death of Sir Ernest
Clarke, but “Labor’s” score will be
watched with interest, in view of the
present state of the party.
• «
Unnamed “Government members”
have been quoted by “S. M. Herald” as
saying that there will not be a rush of
prosecutions immediately the Obscene
Publications Bill becomes law ; “the first
prosecution might not be launched for
about a month.” Then why the desperate
hurry to gag the bill through the
Assembly?
• •
After the split in Hobart the rump
of the A.L.P. conference held its delibera-
tions behind locked doors. Evatt does
not, however, regard this as a precedent
for all conferences. No Australians
have been invited to the Afro-Asian
conference in Indonesia, but the Evatt
“Labor” party “will take steps to have
its own observers appointed to attend.”
• •
“In the ACT”: See how they squeal!
Annoyed at the inevitable effects of
redistribution in the Sydney area, Evatt
u 1 been reported to be considering a
challenge in the courts if protests in
Parliament do not ensure a just distri-
bution. He has said nothing about the
two States where “Labor” may have
“t'k »^ etter prospects of seats —if
Labor' is assumed to have any prospects
aii at the moment.
The West German Parliament has rati-
fied the Paris treaties providing for West
German membership of the West Euro-
pean Union and the Atlantic Pact. Rati-
fication by France is still awaited.
o *
On again, off again. The U.S. Post-
master-General has released the copy of
Lysistrata (illustrated by Norman
Lindsay) which had been seized and
threatened with destruction. According
to the official statement, post-office
officials still think the drawings are rude
—apparently because they are un-
retouched” —but have decided
not to contest delivery of this single book
to an individual collector. Our real con-
cern is about the great mass of porno-
graphic material being sent through tne
mails into the Homes of American citizens.
• •
The Bard would be
astounded if he read in the Elysian
“Morning Glory” that Stratford-on-Avon
had lost its only pub —beg pardon, inn
and that its unfortunate drinkers now
have to walk seven miles to Maffra or ten
miles to Sale to get a cup of sack or some-
thing. But that is what has happened,
the Vic. Licensing Board having found
the old joint a bad fire hazard and
constructionally dangerous. Stratford
iis indignant. It named itself after
THE RAVENOUS HOUND
“The more I feed that animal the bigger and hungrier it seems to get!”
Shakspeare’s birthplace and the local,
fittingly called the Swan, has been the
life and soul of the village for half a
century.
• •
Redistribution salutation: “Haylen
farewell! ”
0 0
Few of the world’s large cities have a
closer airport than Adelaide’s newly-
opened one, West Beach, with its entrance
only three and a half miles from the
G.P.O. Passengers who spend dreary
hours in coaches between terminals and
airports elsewhere will appreciate the
convenience of the Adelaide aerodrome,
built on a previously waste area for
£1,636,000. '
0 0
“Keyholer”: Is there any connection,
I wonder, between the arrest of a Com-
munist spy-ring in Sweden and the com-
mendations bestowed on Vladimir Petrov
by the chairman of the royal commission
for services Petrov has rendered to the
free world? The Petrovs were stationed
in Sweden before coming to Australia.
• 0
Brisbane’s cost-of-living remained
almost stationary during 1954, according
to the Queensland Statistician ; the retail-
price index rose only 0.1 per cent., com-
pared with 4.2 per cent, in 1953.
• •
There’s too much diplomacy about
“Labor” politics nowadays. At the Labor
Day dinner in Melbourne Town Hall
the customary toasts to the Federal and
State A.L.P.s were omitted, in the in-
terests of harmony. A great pity! Every
year the same old tongue-in-cheek
platitudes are uttered and the same old
back-scratchings indulged-in. This year
promised something quite different, but
those responsible for the progi amme
didn’t relish the prospect, so the toasts
were skipped.
• •
Advt. in a Sydney paper: “Wanted,
rubber chemist; must be under 45.
Above that age, of course, they’re less
resilient.
• •
Dougherty, who seems to act as Evatt’s
mouthpiece these days, said on Radio
2UE on Sunday night that it was now
definite that the N. S. Wales executive
would be dealt with and that the section
representing “the Movement” would be
defeated. He continued, “These people
are anti-Labor and therefore pro-Fas-
cist.” The specious reasoning of the
second statement should interest the
people who voted against “Labor” at the
last election. By Dougherty’s logic they
are all pro-Fascist.
Melbourne “Age” reported an unusual
ceremony at Pentridge when a smoker s-
stand made by prisoners was presented to
the retiring under-secretary, L. L.
Chapman, by Inspector-General What-
more. So that’s why the hacksaws are
smuggled into Pentridge!
• •
Among the decisions arrived at by what
was left of the A.L.P. conference in
Hobart was one advocating the admission
of Red China to U.N.O. and another voic-
ing opposition to the use of Australian
troops in Malaya. A few days before
the resolution was passed Tasmanian
Premier Cosgrove described people who
held such views as “ostriches.”
• •
“Serum”: Victorian hospitals, now pre-
paring to scrub-up for an expected trans-
fusion of £2i million from Tatt.’s blood-
bank, expect much of it to be of “foreign”
extraction ; a sound deduction judging by
the frequent appearance of Enzedders’
names in Tatt.’s top bracket.
• •
The B.R.C. and the Independent Tele-
vision Authority (which will run Britain’s
new commercial TV) have agreed that
TV will go off the air in winter from 6
p.m. to 7 p.m. to allow parents to get
the kids to bed. All TV will go off at
11 p.m. and will not start before 9 a.m.
week-days and 2 p.m. Sundays. These
sensible provisions are a good guide for
Australian TV-authorities.
• •
“Stromlo”: When Eric Harrison spoke
a little movingly about the collapse of
the once-great “Labor” party, in Can-
berra a few observers suspected that Sir
Eric was shedding a crocodile-tear or
two ; but probably his grief was genuine.
He remarked that more than pleas for
unity were needed to restore the party
as “a unified and virulent Opposition in
Parliament,” and thus gave the show
away. Unless there is an enemy on the
opposite benches worthy of his steel
Harrison fears his blade will grow rusty
with disuse. No wonder he regrets
“Labor’s” downfall!
• •
“Honest Frank”: In England five years’
jail for motorists convicted of dangerous
driving causing death is provided for in
a bill now before the Commons. For
damaging a stolen car four men were
recently sent to jail for from nine months
to two and a half years. A few doses of
this strong medicine for guilty Australian
motorists might help reduce the heavy
road-toll.
• •
“When in trouble, invoke the name of
Chifley” seems to be an accepted “Labor”
slogan. The Doc., who for a while went
cold on much of the Chifley doctrine,
has recently been quoting his former
chief to give additional weight to his
charges • against Santamaria and others.
Cain has apparently forgiven Chif. for
losing him the 1947 Victorian election ;
speaking in support,of the “Labor” can-
didate for Monash at the Legislative
Council by-election, he prophesied that
tuberculosis would be wiped out in Vic-
toria within 20 years, and that much of
the credit was due to Chifley for initiat-
ing pensions for patients’ dependants.
• •
Commonwealth Acting - Statistician
Carver says irrigated land in Australia
has nearly doubled since 1939. In N.S.W.
certain gentlemen are waiting to show
that irrigated men have nearly doubled
since 10 p.m. closing.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ renowned
slogan “While I live I’ll grow” seems
to be a lucky one in another sphere. A
Gisborne (N.Z.) penny publication, “Te
Rau Weekly Press,” adopted that motto 33
years ago, and, despite depression, war
and inflation, the paper is still going
strong at its original price. It must be
the oldest living penny paper in the
Southern Hemisphere.—“O.W-W.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“S.”: A guileless statement by a spokes-
man for the solicitor’s office of the U.S.
Postmaster-General about the Lysistrata
banning is a classic example of how
censors burn to interfere with other
people’s reading in the belief that what
won’t contaminate their own morals is
bound to corrupt everybody else’s. “Mr.
Lindsay’s drawings are wonderful,” he
said, “and I would love to have this
edition myself. But the photographic
fidelity with which he draws his males
and females is just a bit too exciting” ;
the edition would be all right for a “cold-
blooded librarian,” but not for a youth.
That’s exactly what will happen in N. S.
Wales —as in Victoria and Queensland —•
under these new State obscenity bills
and anything that might be all right for
you and me, but not, so they think, for
schoolchildren, will be liable to l be banned.
“Mac Hoots”: The attempt by the U.S.
Postmaster-General to ban and burn
the Lysistrata is, of course, exceed-
ingly late in the day as far
as Aristophanes is concerned; and
it’s also a bit late to try to stop Norman
Lindsay. Apart from what copies of the
original Fanfrolico edition may have cir-
culated in the U.S. since it was published
in 1925, a pirated American edition, com-
plete with the Lindsay drawings, has been
selling there for nearly 30 years.
“Viper”: “Murder in the Cathedral”
was set one year for a university-course.
Through U.K. shortages, a bookstore
was forced to order copies from the
U.S.A. This note from the Customs boys
came with them: “Do not waste U.S.
dollars on detective novels.”
>♦+ »j*
“Doric”: Deletion of 20st. heroines
from opera certainly makes this rather
artificial form of entertainment a lot more
realistic. My first recollection of “La
Boheme” was with the rather solid Amy
Castles as the frail, consumptive heroine.
Then I saw Melba in the part; she was
no fairy, but one forgot her appearance
once that heavenly voice got to work.
Next was Hina Spani, also of the battle-
cruiser class. Then came the metamor-
phosis with dainty little Valobra, who,
contrary to all operatic tradition, could
sing, even though she looked like Mimi
was supposed to look. After her was Mala-
trasi, glorious in voice and appearance,
and the good work is continuing with our
own slim and youthful Betty Prentice and
Tais Taras.
“Stoker”: Should you see an approach-
ing car bearing a sign reading “L.P.G.,”
don’t panic. The letters denote that the
car is running on liquid-petroleum-gas,
not for “Lady-driver—Plan Get-away.”
♦x* * +x +
“Lao-dah”: Present travel-hurdles,
yes, “Dee” (B. 9/ 3/’55). Before the
1914 war I started on a journey which
took me through China, Japan, Man-
churia, Siberia, Russia, Finland, Sweden,
Germany and Belgium to England;
thence via France, Spain, Italy and
Egypt back to Australia. I simply rang-
up a shipping-firm and booked a passage.
“ Don't forget, folks, it's Zippo that will brighten your future.
Buy a box today!”
There was no income-tax declaration. I
didn’t have to state my political views
or disclose my financial or matrimonial
position. I didn’t even have to have a
passport, and didn’t have to be inocu-
lated with a mild form of half a dozen
infectious diseases. The only official
document I had to carry was a pass into
Tsarist Russia, and the only infringe-
ment on my freedom was a demand
in Moscow for the camera I carried, which
was duly returned to me when I left the
country. I left the same camera behind
me in a hotel in Berlin. When I got to
London I wrote to the hotel asking for
its return. By that time England was at
war with Germany. A couple of months
later I got my camera back via Sweden,
with my snaps of the Wilhelmstrasse and
Potsdam intact inside it. It was during
the war to end all wars that the restrictions
started, and they were redoubled in the
second war to end all war. If there is a
third war to end war I suppose we will
have to have a passport to get into
Heaven.
♦jt
“Metralia”: Johnny Ray is having
more success as an involuntary strip-
teaser than did Miss Gypsy Rose Lee as
a voluntary one.
♦Jt
“K.A.”: Remarked to a chemist
acquaintance that his new car suggested
prosperity. “Yes,” he grinned ; “Codeine,
caffeine, cosmetics and contraceptives.
And if I could add comics and cigarettes
it would have been a Cadillac.”
♦x* >x*
“Aub.”: The dangling chain as an anti-
dote for car-sickness has become popular
overnight, but the explanation—if it is not
an example of auto-suggestion—is
obscure. Any moving body becomes
statically charged, the degree depending
on the components. Sydney Harbor
Bridge toll-collectors are guarded by
flexible wires in the roadway which dis-
charge the car before the coins are
handed over. Aircraft tyres contain a
conducting ingredient which discharges
the plane on touch-down. So the solution
is simple—manufacture motor-tyres simi-
larly conducting and dispense with the
unsightly and noisy chain.
♦♦♦ ♦♦+ ♦♦♦
“Dee”: About the oddest sight I
noted on a recent trip abroad was a
Tamil working on a water-barge in
Colombo Harbor—naked save for a loin-
cloth, but with an umbrella supplying
everything else. He held it above his head
with his left hand while he tugged and
tied ropes; about 40ft. of slippery rope
would be hauled in with convulsive jerks
of the right hand. What he couldn’t do
with his right hand he seemed determined
not to do at all —though he wasn’t lazy,
for he worked like a beaver with a
schizophrenic division between the um-
brella-gripping left hand and the working
right. If circumstances made the use of
two working hands inescapable, the
umbrella wasn’t discarded; he gripped it
between shoulder and neck, and in some
magical fashion still kept it above his head.
It certainly wasn’t raining, and his mates
didn’t mind the sun, so all one could
conclude was that he was maintaining a
social status under the most trying con-
ditions, and putting all his heart into it.
The watering finished, the barge drew
off, the umbrella still aloft as it dis-
appeared into the jungle of Colombo
shipping.,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tos”: Latest fad in America is aTV
show known as “What’s Your Pain?” It
has interesting possibilities. The panel
was asked to diagnose the complaint of
a contestant who answered questions
about symptoms in minute details. The
panel told him he had a twisted
oesophagus. What he had was a sty on
his eye. His prize was two weeks free
treatment and a year’s supply of carbo-
lated soap!
<X< +x +
“Scorpio”: My friend when young
considered following in the footsteps of
his favorite uncle, a museum taxidermist,
about to retire at 74. The museum was
hard-up, but said the youth could stick
around for a three-weeks’ trial without
pay, and pick up the art. First weeks
picking was the zoo hippo., whose diges-
tion was unequal to a tennis-ball. After
three sunny days the body came to the
museum. After three more days the
apprentice burnt his clothes and cancelled
social engagements. The following week
a whale came ashore on a remote beach,
and the enthusiastic director also needed
it for the museum. A few days later the
museum also needed a probationary taxi-
dermist. He became a taxi-driver.
❖
“Maitri”: An English relative of mine
who had a business in London travelled
by train from his home at Croydon to
the city and back again most working-
days for the best part of 50 years. For
as long as he could remember another
businessman had sat opposite hirn in
the carriage, but neither had as much as
addressed one word to the other, for in
those days it was simply not done
formal introductions were necessary.
Came the day when my relative returned
from his office for the last time, having
decided he was old and comfortable
enough to retire. To his astonishment,
when he prepared to leave the train as it
drew into Croydon, the other passenger
addressed him. “I can’t let you leave,
he said, “until I say good-bye. Today
I have retired, and this will be my last
regular trip to town.” Struck by the co-
incidence, my relative sat down again,
and the two talked until they reached the
other old boy’s destination, some stations
further along the line. Even then the flow
did not cease, for they got off together
and continued the powwow until an up-
train came in and bore my relative home-
wards. From that hour the two were
almost inseparable; they visited one an-
other’s homes, played bowls and chess
together, addressed each other by their
Christian-names. Things are different
nowadays, when the old conservatism is
broken 'down and the average English-
man needs no encouragement to open
conversations with complete strangers in
train, bus or anywhere else.
FEMALE FACTORY,
PARRAMATTA
Within these sun-baked sandstone walls,
Laboring, laboring, day by day,
Are Nellie of Bridewell and Bess of the
Fleet
And Newgate Nan and Cheapside Fay.
Ladies, ladies, stick to the task.
Leave off cursing, you frowsy jades —•
When your time is out will be time enough
To follow again your gallows trades.
Where are the boys of London town ?
Answer, you molls, where’s Galloping
Bob?
The tavern boys and the toby-men,
And the spunky lads of the midnight
job ?
Hanged, all hanged—so says Jack Ketch —
Anatomised, as the saying goes;
The surgeons know where their corpses
went
And the hangman grins as he wears
their clothes.
Ladies, ladies, stick to your work;
Remember, Polly was flogged last week,
And the cat don’t boggle at female blood,
Or the hangman refuse a female neck.
When the Reverend Samuel Marsden
comes
Look penitent, ladies, eyes cast down —
Mumble his prayers and pipe his hymns,
Humor the black-frocked, damn’ old
clown.
Forget old London; London’s a dream,
But Parramatta is real enough —
Like the nine-tailed cat and the hang-
man’s rope
And the soldier’s kick and the warder’s
cuff.
Then work for the Guvnor, work, work,
work —
Work for the King, and eat his bread;
In the blaze of the sun or the dark of the
cell,
Be easy, ladies, you’ll soon be dead.
N.S.W.
IAIN McDOUGALL.


REFERRING to Melbourne’s Moomba
Festival former impresario Nigel Brock
suggested that citizens should get into the
habit of greeting friends with “Moomba”
as they would wish them “Merry Christ-
mas,” and that business and private
letters should close with “Moomba,” or,
better still, “Moomba to you,” instead of
“Yours faithfully,” etc. It seemed a good
idea, so I concluded my regular letter to
my rich aunt in Sydney with the full
“ Don't tell me you're walking out on us, Miss Jones!"
affectionate term. “Moomba to you,” I
wound up ; and now, Mr. Brock, it looks
as if she’s going to cut me off with a
shilling.—“Melbn.”
❖ * *>
“D”: Seems “L.R.M.” (B. 9/3/’55)
has got his Somersetshire towns mixed.
It was in Wells, not Glastonbury, that
I saw the educated swans which pull a
bell-cord when hungry They were quar-
tererl in ' y ? q fu
Rishnn’c Pni sunoundmg the
p Palace. The occupants there
must keep on hand a good supply of
swan-rood, as each tug was rewarded
by scraps thrown out of the window.
“Bo”: Only quick action by close-at-
hand string-players saved Goossens from
a six-foot drop when he collapsed at
Sydney Town Hall while conducting the
Bartok Violin Concerto. I’ve often
pondered on the precariousness of the
podium’s position—barely a few inches
from the platform-edge, and when such
a volatile conductor as (say) Rafael
Kubelik leaps about on it it becomes
a thrilling entertainment on its
own. The old one with the pro-
tecting back- and side-rails was dis-
carded some years ago, apparently
as being too restrictive on the baton-arm
movements of the conductor. In the light
of the Goossens incident (remembering
also that once before Goossens fell off it,
as the world-famous Dr. Otto Klemperer
did off another, with nearly fatal results ;
and as did Dr. Furtwangler), the return
of the railed podium might be an act
of mercy.
❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: Was rather surprised
to learn from the March 2 Bulletin that
Dean Swift was bom at Cashel of the
Kings. It is generally thought he was
born at 7 Hoey’s Court, under the shadow
of Dublin Castle. At six he was sent to
Kilkenny for schooling—then the best in
Ireland. St. Patrick established the
church at Cashel, using it as his head-
quarters for several years. The Round
Tower was built during the Danish in-
vasions, not in the 10th century, when
their use had passed. It was probably
built during the reij|n of Cormac Mac-
Cuileannain, king, poet and bishop (but
not of Cashel). It was he who, amongst
other literary works, finished the Psalter
of Cadhel, the famous Book of Rights,
begun five centuries before. It was the
second Cormac who built the Chapel, the
greatest piece of native Celtic architecture
still in existence. The charge that Gerald,
Earl of Kildare, burnt the Cathedral is
much questioned, as no marks of fire can
be found on the masonry,
* ❖
“Gem”: Australian troops engaged at
the Armistice (B. 9/3/’55)? The R.A.A.
Siege Brigade (Bin. and 9in. howitzers)
was in action at Dottignies (Belgium)
right up to the Armistice and actually sus-
tained casualties on the morning of
November 11, 1918. It was the first Aus-
tralian fighting unit in France (26/2/T6),
and one or both batteries participated in
practically every major battle during
1916, 1917, 1918.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Originally civilians were
those persons who were not clerics in the
ecclesiastical sense (B. 9/3/’55). Like
members of the armed services, policemen,
railway-porters, postmen, messengers
and other Government servants are not
civilians in the strict sense of the term —
when they’re on duty in uniform. Neither
are legislators when in the House while
Parliament is in session. Incidentally,
policemen, parsons and politicians are the
only persons automatically immune from
conscription in war-time.
“Jock’: The little widow who runs a
grocery across the:road from our suburban
f re ' s j at 10 1? f°^ nd a SI^ al ,
laundry s dashed over and ask ? d lf d
come along with an extinguisher. No,
lady, they didn’t do things like that. The
s j ren was SO unded, firemen came from
everywhere, put on their helmets and
uniforms, and all was ready. The big
engine was revved-up and, with siren
screaming, it lumbered across the road.
A panel was knocked out of the next-door
fence and a hose run round the back of
the shop. But the hose wasn’t long enough
and so they dashed round the other side
(the shop is on a corner) and tried to get
at the outbreak that way. There was the
same hose difficulty; "but you can’t dash
our firemen They scooted back to the
station for an extinguisher!
♦>
South Australian numis-
matist J. H. Deacon notes in the London
“He’s an awful type —sits there all day dressing you with his eyes."
“Numismatic Circular” that S.A.’s
National Gallery has the largest and
most representative coin-collection in
Australasia. The collection, established
in 1863, includes some 30,000 coins—
some of them very rare. It is the only
one of its kind in Australia open to the
public and under the charge of a fully-
qualified numismatist.
“Maleesh”: Nothing new about
plunging necklines and pony-tail hair-dos.
Half a century ago Mark Twain, in a
“Fashion Item,” recorded:
She had on a pearl necklace, which
glinted lonely, high up the midst of that
barren waste of neck and shoulders. Her
hair was frizzled into a tangled chapparal,
forward of her ears; aft it was drawn
together, and compactly bound and plaited
into a stump like a pony’s tail, and
furthermore was canted upward at a sharp
angle, and ingeniously supported by a red-
velvet crupper, whose forward extremity
was made fast with a half-hitch around a
hairpin on the top of her head.
And the pony-tail can be seen in ancient
Greek sculpture, so it wasn’t new even
when Mark Twain noted it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bioko’s Niece”: Would this be a
record for continuous association with
The Bulletin? I was bom into a home
in 1902 where the paper played a pro-
minent part in the household literature.
After my father’s death in 1937 my
mother continued to be a subscriber until
she died in 1951. An uncle with whom
I was closely associated during his life
was a subscriber from 1900 or earlier
till his death in 1952. I married a man
in 1933 who has been a subscriber since
he was 18.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Jocko”: Women! The bride-to-be
came into the office and selected a most
expensive type of card —the wedding to
be held about a month ahead. The cards
were duly printed and account for same
rendered. A few days later the lady
called with the account. “You can send
this damn’ bill to Mr. X” (the bride-
groom to be —or, rather, to was). “I
won’t pay it and I never want to see the
so-and-so again!” We explained that as
she incurred the expense, we looked to her
to foot the bill; but she was adamant and,
leaving the account on the desk, swept
out. She had hung on to the cards,
though. A week later she came back,
and quietly said, “I want to pay my
account, please.” Wonder what the argu-
ment was about?
❖ ❖
“Uramao”: My young nephew Kevin
attended Sunday-school, and to test his
knowledge of Christian doctrine I asked
what he had learned. “A lot of stories,”
was the reply. “Well,” I asked, “can
you tell me who was swallowed by
the whale?” Kevin looked incredulously
at me. “Of course I can, Uncle,” was the
reply. “I saw it at the pictures last
Tuesday.” “At the pictures!” I ex-
claimed. “Too right the whale
swallowed Donald Duck, and spewed
him up again. It was funny!”
* *l*
“Fizzick”: A New Australian dentist
now practising in Melbourne’s Collins-
street, when applying for a permit to
practise, was asked by the examiners
whether he had any inkling of a specified
textbook. His answer: “What would
you like me to tell vou about it, sir? I
wrote it.”
THE INSATIABLES
At the banquet which ended the N.S.W.
ly»yster Farmers Association’s convention the
Z ~ > ' J members consumed 14,000 oysters.”
Rabbit-trappers having met,
Over problems wagged their chins,
On these factors you could bet:
When the junketing begins
The furs worn by their wives will
not be bunny ;
And if some were to suggest
That the banquet should include
Lashins of the long-eared pest,
Whether it were baked or stewed,
You’d find that that would raise much
acrimony.
Those who outsize Berkshires raise,
Or backfatters bring to prime,
Though their produce they may praise
As comestible sublime,
At powwow feeds they don’t lash
into pork.
To the grazier, festive scran
Isn’t deemed delectable
If, before demise, it ran
Around in overcoat of wool —
He loves red-blooded steak on end
of fork.
But wherever oyster coves
Meet to yap and celebrate
They will have, lined-up in droves,
In the shell or on the plate,
The bivalves which they’ve lovingly
been breeding.
It’s their favorite scent and fruit,
Oh, a fodder without peer,
One with many an attribute,
Far superior to beer.
Oysters, as pets or food, they’re
always needing.
As each downed his fifty-six
Nary a bone he had to chew.
Cost ? Why, that was simply nix;
Though it seems, to me and you,
’Twould break a film tycoon or
belted earl
At the prices that they charge.
But perhaps the reason is
Why their appetites’ so large,
Not to advertise their biz
So much as hope their teeth crunch
on a pearl.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
HE OUTPACED THE SHARKS
IN his article on three newspaper
executives (B. 9/3/’55), M. F. Dixon
referred to the “tenacity” of “S. M.
Herald” executive Rupert Henderson in
borrowing a suit to get his story after he
had fallen from a launch into the ocean.
For the sake of the record, it should be
explained that the “story” (notes on copy-
paper) had already been obtained and
was jutting out of Henderson’s hip-pocket
as he raced the sharks to Corunna Beach,
Narooma.
The “story” was about the wrecked
iron-ore ship Auginish, which struck an
uncharted rock off Montague Island
35 years ago. An oil-launch from Berma-
gui had conveyed three journalists from
the wrecked vessel to a rock-ledge south
of Narooma, and had made off to Ber-
magui before the three had realised that
they had an almost inaccessible cliff-face
in front of them, the ocean to their left,
ocean to their right and New Zealand
behind them.
Being the featherweight of the trio,
Henderson decided to clamber up the
cliff-face, d la the domestic fly on the
wall, and get assistance for the two
heavyweights. When he was within
inches of his objective he slipped back-
wards into the ocean and in jig-time had
headed for Corunna Beach, with the
deep-sea marlin and sharks finishing as
tote-bets.
A dismounted policeman had begun to
lower a set of buggy-reins over the cliff-
top when a small boy located a bridle-
track (or maybe a fisherman’s track) down
to where the other two reporters were
waiting.
When the party arrived at Gourlay’s
Hotel, Cobargo, Henderson was put to
bed while his suit was stretched in front
of a log-fire for 24 hours to dry. After
the other two reporters had finished
dinner, one went to bed and loaned his
14st.-size suit to the 7st. Henderson, so
that the latter could also have dinner.
On the following morning Henderson
was again offered the o.s. suit to have
breakfast, but he said he did not feel like
having any. After the other pair had
finished breakfast, however, he changed
his mind and once again borrowed the
suit while the 14st. suit-owner went back
to bed.
After breakfast Henderson borrowed
auctioneer Jack O’Reilly’s pony to ramble
round the Cobargo district while the
owner of the suit was still left in the
blankets to ruminate about tenacity, per-
tinacity and impertinacity of an “S.M.H.”
reporter.
When rejoining the Merimbula at Ber-
magui for the return journey to Sydney
Henderson saw an obstinate cow being
pushed on to the deck of the vessel. It
went on deck with such force that it
disappeared over the other side and was
torn to pieces by sharks in a matter of
seconds. Once again Henderson didn’t
feel like having any breakfast.
AUGINISH.


PERSONAL ITEMS
It was rather fitting that one of the
last of Victoria’s full-blooded abos,
Laurie Moffatt, should make the big hit
at the opening of the Moomba FestivaL
in Melbourne. Taking policemen and
officials completely by surprise, he made
his way through the barricades at the
opening and approached Sir Dallas
Brooks to announce that he brought
greetings from his people. After shaking
the Governor’s hand, with a broad grin
on his face he turned on his heel and
started on the return leg of his 210-mile
walkabout. He had come from the reser-
vation at Lake Tyers.
• •
Back in Westralia to revisit Cockbum
Sound, G. H. Coxon, retired director of
planning for Anglo-Iranian (now British
Petroleum). On his last visit, in October,
1951, he selected the Kwinana site for the
£4O-million-refinery. Before deciding on
Kwinana, he, with other experts, looked
over prospective sites in other parts of
Australia and New Zealand. This time
he’s on a holiday trip, but will take in
what’s been accomplished at Kwinana.
e •
Memories of Ruhleben, notorious
German internment-camp in the 1914-
18 War, were revived by the death in
Melbourne of Richard Stark, Ship Sur-
veyor and Examiner of Engineers with the
Marine Branch of the Commonwealth
Navigation Department for many years.
Stark was chief-engineer on the Frank-
dale, which had the misfortune to be
alongside the wharf in Hamburg when the
Kaiser tore up the scrap of paper. With
the rest of the ship’s company he was
interned at Ruhleben for the duration. A
man of great charm and tact, he did much
to keep up the spirits and morale of his
fellow-prisoners, both in a general way
and as tutor of engineering at the camp
school. After the Armistice he came to
Australia and took an appointment with
the Victorian Marine Board, later trans-
ferring to the Commonwealth service. A
member of the Institute of Naval Archi-
tects and the Institute of Marine
Engineers, he was 73 at the end.
• •
“G.M.”: Item on nonagenarian Arch-
bishop Mannix (B. 16/3/’55) very in-
teresting, but whatever his present peram-
bulations are, I doubt if his Grace ever
“indulged in a daily walk from his palace
in Kew to St. Peter’s, in Melbourne.'’
The present incumbent of St. Peter’s, Rev.
Canon F. E. Maynard, has the greatest
respect for “the gentleman over the road,”
but it seems unlikely that the venerable
Archbishop would visit St. Peter’s Church
and vicarage daily. Shades of St. Patrick!
• •
G.O.C. Northern Command, Major-
General H. G. F. Harlock, C.8.E., is a
Duntrooner who graduated with the 1921
crop and chose gunnery. First posted to
the Coast Artillery in Sydney, he later
spent twelve months in India with the
R.A., then did the rounds of regimental
duty in N.S.W., Victoria and the N.T.,
at Darwin, and instructional work at the
School of Artillery. When war came in
1939 he was GSO 2 (Ops.) at Southern
Command and sailed with the Seventh
Div. as brigade-major, R.A.A. Promoted
lieut.-colonel in March, 1941, he went
G.O.C.
through the Greek campaign as C.O. of
the 2/1 Regiment, was captured in the
final stages, spent four years p.-0.-w., but
was back in Australia before the Pacific
War finished, to become Commandant of
the L.H.Q. Arty. School. Colonel. 1948,
and brigadier, 1949, he was Australian
Army Representative in the U.K. for
over three years. The Queensland com-
mand dates from last April.
It is 31 years since James Arthur
Prescott came to Australia to take over
the Chair Of Agricultural Chemistry at
Adelaide University; Lancashire-born,
he had been eight years in Egypt as
superintendent of field-experiments at
Bahtim Experimental Station. In Adel-
aide he doubled the Uni. job with soils-
research at the Waite Institute, became
chief of the soils-division of C.5.1.R.0.
and, in 1938, succeeded Professor A. E.
V. Richardson as Director of “the
Waite.” Prescott and the staff he has
trained in Adelaide have been largely
responsible for very valuable contribu-
tions made by soils-chemistry to Austra-
lian agriculture. He will retire from his
official posts this year, but will continue
his research-work.
9 9
Geoffrey Cheshire, V.C., intends visit-
ing Australia next summer. His old
colleague and bomb-aimer, Keith Ast-
bury, now an auctioneer and estate-agent
at Avoca (Vic.), learning that he had just
been discharged from a T.B. sanatorium,
invited him to take “a bit of Australian
sunshine.” Cheshire is to arrive in
December. One of the most decorated
pilots of the R.A.F. —in addition to his
Cross he won a D. 5.0., with two Bars,
and a D.F.C. —Cheshire played an out-
standing part in the bombing of Germany.
Later he was on H.Q., Eastern Air Com-
mand, South-East Asia, and was a member
of the British Joint Staff Mission in
Washington. He was the official British
observer at the dropping of the atomic
bomb on Nagasaki.
• •
This year’s award of the Australian
Medal of Agricultural Science goes to
C. R. Milligan, M.Agr.Sc., D.Sc., of the
Victorian Department of Agriculture.
The medal is awarded annually for
meritorious contributions in any field of
agricultural activity. In the course of his
24 years with the department Milligan
has many times earned —though not
necessarily received —the thanks of the
Australian agricultural community. His
successes include work on flag-smut in
wheat, the effect of zinc-deficiency in
Wimmera soils, identification and control
of flax-diseases. In 1953 he spent eight
months in America on a Fulbright Fellow-
ship and did research-work on subter-
ranean-clover.
• •
Melbourne Uni.’s newly established
Chairs of Medicine and Surgery will soon
have their first occupants. Dr. Richard
Robert Lovell, who has been lecturer in
medicine at St. Mary’s Hospital Medical
School in London since 1950, has been
appointed Professor of Medicine; he
got his own training at St. Mary’s and
specialises in rheumatic research. The
Professor of Surgery is Maurice Rossi
Ewing, senior lecturer in the subject at
the London Postgraduate Medical School.
An authority on mouth- and skin-cancers,
he is a product of Edinburgh University
and a winner of the Cunningham Medal
for anatomy and the Mouat Prize for
Practice of Physic. Both men are com-
paratively young for jobs of the prof,
variety—Lovell, 35 ; Ewing, 42.
O •
“C.L.”: Arthur Ernest Lavis, who has
passed on in Brisbane at 77, was political
roundsman of the old “Daily Mail” ; he
was the friend and confidant of a succes-
sion of Queensland Premiers, including
William Kidston, Digby F. Denham and
T. J. Ryan, who founded Labor’s politi-
cal dynasty in Brisbane with his land-
slide victory in 1915. A foundation-
member of the Queensland district of
the A.J.A., he became associate-editor
of the “Daily Mail,” and when that
journal was merged with the “Courier”
in 1933, he remained as editor of the
“Sunday Mail” until his retirement. His
son, K. A. Lavis, is president of the
Queensland Chamber of Manufactures.
• •
“Cauboy”: Brett Randall, that old
theatrical warrior who gave up legit, to
start a little-theatre in the tiny St. Chad’s
church in Melbourne’s South Yarra, must
be pleased with himself these days. He
struggled on for 20 years putting on plays
(sometimes really good ones ; seldom pot-
boilers), with small audiences of the
faithful, but now he is to build an up-
to-date modem theatre on the old site,
the first new “live” theatre to be built
in Melbourne for 23 years. He has in
hand £lB,OOO of the £25,000 debenture-
issue, and the new home of the drama
will be opened early in 1956. His son,
Peter Randall, who has his Dad’s per-
sistence, will be director. To show they
are serious about it, the co. will continue
its schedule of plays in the National and
Arrow theatres.
• o
A long chain of events was behind Dr.
Jack Gregory’s absence when his name
was called at the degree-conferring cere-
mony at Melbourne University for one
of its highest awards —Doctor of Science.
A Wesley College and Melbourne Tech,
boy, he graduated into C.5.1.R.0. as a
junior assistant in the forests division in
1938. He gained his M.Sc. with first-
class honors and won a Kernot Research
Scholarship five years later while work-
ing on problems of lubrication, research
into which led him to the use of radio-
active tracers, and thence, via chemical
research, into atomic energy. Since 1949
he has been working at the U.K. atomic-
research establishment at Harwell. .
• •
Percy Lennox Black, who retires from
the Methodist ministry next month, was
born on the Manning River, N.S.W. North
Coast, 71 years ago. Son of a sailing-
ship captain, he worked first on farms
and in sawmills, but was still a young
man when he entered the Church, later
to preach in most parts of the State. For
12 years editor of “The Methodist,”
official organ of his Church in N. S.
Wales, he was convenor in 1932 of the
Methodist Hymn Book Revision Com-
mittee, and appealed through The
Bulletin for hymns written by Austra-
lians. What’s more, he got ’em. Black’s
lifetime hobby has been reading and
writing verse. He has published two col-
lections —Spindrift (1926) and, last year,
a small volume of hymns and religious
verse.
• •
For its 17th president, South Australia’s
R.S.L. has chosen, in Arthur James
(“Mert”) Lee, a man of action, a man of
business, a sportsman, and a firm but
R.S.L.
smiling diplomat. On the action front,
he won M.C. with the 2/27 Infantry Bat-
talion in Syria and Bar to it in New
Guinea. He rose from lieutenant to
lieutenant-colonel, and commanded a
battalion for the invasion of Borneo;
crossed the Owen Stanleys twice, once
with, his old battalion, and again as a
member of Char Force, a special unit
organised to get behind the Jap lines and
generally raise hell. As for business, he
directs the activities of seven large hotels
in association with brothers Bob and
Jack. Sport? Races horses, again with
his brothers, their string including the
now-retired Comic Court. He plays golf
off a handicap of 12, and toys with
tennis. As a diplomat he firmly refuses
to discuss all controversial questions—
including himself.
• •
Gone to full admiral in her Majesty’s
Fleet, Sir Charles Mark Pizey, K.8.E.,
C. 8., D.S.O. and Bar. A midshipman
in battleship Revenge in War I, he was
chief-of-staff to the C.-in-C., Home Fleet,
at the end of War 11. At the beginning
of Hitler’s show he was in command of a
repair-ship, but a prompt appointment
got him to sea proper, in charge of the
famed 21st Destroyer Flotilla, which he
worked in the Channel and North Sea, in
the years when Luftwaffe and U-boat
assaults on the Island were at their most
savage. Later he was chief staff-officer
to the flag-officer commanding destroyers
of the Home Fleet, part of his duties
routing destroyers on convoy-escort up
to Murmansk. He had a year in Australia
after the war —head of the U.K. Services
liaison-staff here.
P. A. Yeomans (herewith) is a mining-
engineer who turned to agriculture as a
business activity, with a strong dash of
idealism. Readers of “Man on the Land”
will be familiar with the main ideas
expressed in his Keyiine Plan, and with
a 0 f courteous warfare he and E. 0.
Schlunke have been waging on that page,
An article is in the current issue. Bora
at Harden (N.S.W.) 50 years ago, the
a uthor is blue-eyed, square-jawed, and
K.E.Y.
gives the impression of activity, physical
and mental. Through the ’thirties he
specialised in alluvial gold and tin,
valuating properties in three States—
work which fed a lively curiosity con-
cerning land problems. Mrs. Yeomans,
who takes an active interest in her hus-
band’s agricultural work, also comes from
Harden—a daughter of James Bames,
grazier, and owner of the old Harden
Mine, at which one of the earliest
successful treatments of complex ores
(sulphide zone) took place.
Various but related Yeomans interests
range from mining-engineering, to earth-
moving contracts (he was a pioneer in the
large-scale use of bulldozers) and open-
cut mining. Then, almost accidentally,
the purchase of a property at North Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) and the application of
certain engineering principles to land-
use ; closer study, modification of some
early ideas, and the manufacture of
agricultural machinery. Lately he has
bought other properties, and has one or
two agricultural-aid projects in mind.
The South Pacific brewery at Port
Moresby, of which he is chairman, is
another interest.
• •
Clarence George Tasker, of the Westra-
lian Public Trustee Department, who has
never followed racing and never bets, has
been appointed secretary of the Westra-
lian Betting Control Board. Forty-six,
he has spent 14 years in the Crown Law
Department, 12 of them in the Public
Trustee’s office, handling the estates of
deceased persons. Qualifications include
associateship of the Chartered Institute
of Secretaries, and of the Australian
Society of Accountants. He admits hav-
ing been to the trots once or twice.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 71, Captain Cad Frederick
Douglas, who was skipper of the tug Wyola,
of Fremantle, for 36 years. He commanded
the tug when it operated with the R.N. in the
Mediterranean during World War I and in
many successful salvage-operations off the
Westralian coast.
In Melbourne, Nelson Hardy Oliver,
J.C.W.’s leader-conductor for many years and
for eight years their musical-director. His
chamber-music on violin and viola was a
feature of the musical life of Melbourne, a
foundation-member of Alberto Zelman s Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra, he was in more
recent times associated with the A.b.C.s
Victorian Symphony Orchestra. Oliver was
craftsman as well as a musician; he made mos
of the instruments which he played.
At Rotorua (N.Z.), at 67, Owen Jones,
forester. Studied his subject in Germany,
France and Switzerland; practised it m
Ceylon, Victoria and New Zealand, where h
became consulting forester to N.Z. Fore
Products and administrator of plantations
the Tokoroa district. Royal Flying Corps,
War I; 14th N-Z. Forestry Co., War 11.
In Adelaide, at 67, Percival Francis Cherry,
former secretary of the S.A. Railways,
State bowls champion on three occasions.
In London, at 62, Captain M. Bennett,
R.D., R.N.R., master of the Shaw Savdl hner
Waipawa, from which he was taken ash
sick at Gravesend in January. In his tnne
served in sail, submarines, steam and •
A War II Commodore of Convoys, with
R.N.R. rank of captain.
In Melbourne, Les Watson, props-master at
Her Majesty’s Theatre, where he spent
whole life since he began as call-boy Outsid,
the theatre he was known as the dead spu
of Mr. Melbourne, the character Jimmy Bancg
created many years ago for his daily
in “Sun-Pix. Had he lived, he would have
been seen at the Moomba Festival representi g
the same Mr. Melbourne.


, rtf # •
" At lo C’v '®* r
NATURAL CAUSES


ABORIGINAHTIES
Night Voices Over the Floods
HEARD in the night during the recent
tragic N.S.W. floods:
On 2 BS: “Repeat, will you come in,
2 TU? Repeat, will you come in, 2 TU?
Am ready to receive. Am ready to
receive ...
“Your request for bread, milk, fresh-
fruit and babies’-food received. Am on
your wavelength. Will you repeat? . . .
“Yes, we are getting you, 2 TU. Bread,
milk, fresh-fruit, potatoes. O.K. Yes, we
have received your request, 2TU.
“We will stay tuned to you, 2 TU.”
Turn radio-dial a few degrees ;
On 2 NZ: “Two Army-ducks will be
in, in about twenty-minutes. Baby-food
and babies’ napkins required, also bread.
So far, have fifty loaves to load. If any
of our chemists are listening, will you see
about baby-food? Also, any bakers
listening, Moree wants about three-
hundred loaves of bread.”
On 2\HD (portion of late news):
“Two-hundred people are stranded on
Singleton railway-station . . .
“Two Army boats are leaving Cessnock
now with bread, pies and cigarettes.”
2HD : “Calling 2NM Muswellbrook.
Calling 2NM Muswellbrook. Conditions
are unchanged. Overcast but not rain-
ing.” (Message repeated.)
2 TM: “Calling 2 MO. Calling 2MO
Gunnedah. Have you had any news of
the R.A.A.F. sandbag-drop? Have you
had any news of the R.A.A.F. sandbag-
drop?”
2 NZ : “Anyone listening Gravesend or
Biniguy way? Will you please pass on
to responsible authorities? It is reported
there is a man sitting on top of a utility,
four degrees north of west, about five
miles out of Biniguy.” (Message
repeated.)
2HD : “The river is rising at Mait-
land and the peak of the flood is expected
between 4 a.m and 7 a.m.”
2 NZ: “The time is 2 a.m. and here
is Burl Ives with ‘Noah and His Ark.’ ”
2 HD : “The Hunter River at Single-
ton is reported to be at fifty-eight-feet.”
Other reports coming in: “Moree is
awash . . . The water is a foot higher . . .
There are about one-hundred people in
trees and another fifty people are clinging
to a bridge.”
From Boggabri: “The water is reported
to be nine-feet above the previous record
and the small boats are useless in the
strong current . . .
“Warren wants more sandbags
dropped.”
2 TU : “Dubbo to Gilgandra—Dubbo
to Gilgandra. The river is rising at one-
foot per hour.”
From Moree: “The Wee Waa Road is
untraffickable. There is seven-feet of water
over the bridge. A young man was bitten
by a brown-snake and is now in hospital.”
2 NZ: “Are you listening, Moree?
Are you listening, Moree? An Auster
plane will land on the bitumen road,
Moree to Warialda, in the morning.”
The “strip” was a bare 250yds. long
next morning.
M. de Folk.
* * * *
“Mahommed”: The game was a bit
on the slow side. The fast-bowler of the
One Tree Hill team rapped the
batsman from Reedy Creek on
the only pad he wore while he was
dead in front of the off-stump. No
appeal. The lackadaisical six-
footer fielding at first-slip put in
his mouth the cigarette he had
just rolled, and asked second-slip
for a match. As he caught the
tossed box with one hand he yelled
a mock “Owzat?” The umpire
raised his right index-finger,
looked at the batsman, and said
“Out!”
* * * *
“No Sirrah”: The now often-
heard claim that the tractor, the
Jeep, the Land-Rover and the
motor-bike will put the horse out of
a job in cattle- and sheep-country
certainly doesn’t seem to be en-
dorsed by Queensland’s Govern-
ment Statistician. His latest figures
show that, while the draught-horse
population of the State has fallen
by almost half in five years—from
113,031 to 63,110 —other horses
have actually risen in number by
5000, to 127,540.
“Uramao”: Tuataras, which crawled
about the world some 100,000,000 years
ago (more or less), and are now found
only off the coast of New Zealand, have
survived under protection. Lately, six
of these Mesozoic Age lizards were sent
from their homes on Stephens Island,
Cook Strait (N.Z.), one for Zurich Zoo
(Switzerland), another for the California
Academy of Sciences, another for an
aquarium at Christchurch (N.Z.), and
three to find a home in Wellington's Zoo.
W. H. Dawbin, the authority on them,
says the colony of tuataras on Stephens
Island is flourishing.
* * * *
“Ecilat”: That disciplined co-ordina-
tion which a human choir achieves only
after much diligent practice is an easy
accomplishment for a seemingly leader-
less paddockful of turkeys. Let a dog
bark and every turk. will raise its head
and gobble in perfect unison with the
others.
* * * *
“Palaver”: That George has enthusi-
asm for beer is unquestioned. When
Bung simultaneously pushed across the
bar his last schooner and the sad tidings
that his cheque had cut out George hit
“From Broken 'Ill, load? 'N’ what chapel did 'ee b'long up there?"
the dusty road. Three hours later he
felt like having some scran. When he
went to open his pocket-knife to cut
the dodger he noticed a deener stuck in
the knife-blade. He picked up his swag
and walked the 10 miles back to Coon-
amble for another beer.
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: Can’t agree with “Kelms”
that a man who intends to make a fight
of it never “shapes-up” (B. 23/2/’55). To
shape-up —or adopt his stance —is the first
thing an embryo fighter is taught in the
gym., and it is dinned into him until it
becomes as automatic as flicking the head
out of the way of a straight-left. Even
in the flurry of throwing his first punch
in a brawl the trained fighter automatic-
ally and instantaneously shapes-up, ready
“Your girth's a bit tight , Gladys."
to block, counter, step in or back-move.
As for there being no preliminaries in the
bull-paddock, isn’t “shirts off” a prelim-
inary that would take much longer than
shaping-up? And I’ve never seen a
really good fighter get straight into it
when the opponent is a stranger to him.
He shapes-up, moves around smartly,
balks or stabs a left out to discover the
antagonist’s reaction, and if the other
fellow betrays himself as a mug—and that
is impossible to hide from a trained pug
—the fight generally ends about two
punches later.
* * * *
“A.F.”: Ararat (Vic.) was once a lively
community of 60,000. The Ararat Hotel,
just sold, was originally owned by James
Tuson, goldminer and baker, when the
hills and gullies around it swarmed with
diggers. Tuson founded the municipal
museum with historical documents and
mineral specimens he had collected in
his mining days. He was thrice mayor ;
but by old-timers he was more noted for
another reason: he sired the first twins
born on the goldfields of western
Victoria.
* * * *
“Clyde”: No wonder the joints of that
old cedar writing-desk (B. 16/2/’55) didn’t
loosen. Warm water would have the
effect of swelling the timber —especially
a porous timber such as cedar —thus
making the joints tighter. Glue 40 years
old, being hard and brittle as glass, would
scarcely be affected by water used in the
manner described, in any case. Methy-
lated-spirit poured around old glued
joints, then a series of sharp taps with a
mallet —the job itself being protected by
a flat piece of waste-wood —generally
meets with success. As for the theory
that milk stewed into animal-glue would
make it waterproof—never. The water-
resisting agent in the more common casein
glues is calcium hydroxide (slaked lime).
Actually, casein-glues are of ancient
origin ; industrial-science, in recent years,
perfected the process. A simple method
of rendering animal-glue water-resistant
is to add a little powdered-alum during
the heating process, though nothing is
to be gained by using a glue of such type
on furniture.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: We were renovating one
of those houses generally known as “a
good class of old home.” The plumber
had dispatched his apprentice under the
floor to wangle the other end of a pipe.
Minutes passed—plenty of time for a
lad to have wriggled through a trap cut
in the floor and crawled to the required
position. The plumber became impatient;
he stamped on the floor to guide the
young fellow to the spot. But no wigg-
lings of the pipe gave any indication that
the apprentice was on the job. Finally
the plumber’s patience gave out; he
dropped on his knees, put his mouth to
the hole in the floor and roared: “Where
the hell are y’?” The answer came back
in even more wrathful tones: “Here—
and blasted lucky that I am! ” The voice
came from behind the plumber. The
young fellow was standing there soaking
wet. Our grandfathers often built well;
but they didn’t believe in spending good
money on filling-in old wells that hap-
pened to be on a building-site, when a
rough cover made of old boards would
make ’em safe —for a few years, anyway.
* * * *
“Sackville”: Dogs and horses have on
many occasions sacrificed their lives to
save those of their mastersnow a
fummy has qualified for posthumous
honors. Its four-year-old mistress was
playing on a high veranda when she fell
over the edge, head-first, to the concrete
path 6ft. below. Horror-stricken, the
girl’s mother rushed down the steps, but
found the child without even a scratch
or bruise. A thoughtful Providence had
arranged for Puss to be purring in
blissful somnolence on the spot where he
would best serve as a shock-absorber,
and his nine lives were expended all at
once in the worthy cause. To carping
critics who would detract from Thomas’s
glory by submitting that this valor was
completely unintentional, I must—
reluctantly, being a dog-lover —point out
that Towser’s heroism often comes close
to the same charge—e.g., the faithful
hound that wakes his master when the
house is on fire could be barking because
he wants to get out of it himself.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Baldy, a bad-tempered
shunter at any time, stood in pouring
rain waving his signal-lamp to the driver
about 40 trucks away. The engine didn t
move. Baldy, ropeable, charged up to the
engine and sarcastically demanded to
know whether the driver was blind, drunk
or just indifferent to the work in hand.
The driver eyed Baldy disdainfully-
“lf y’ lit y’r lamp,” he remarked, “I’d
see y’r signals.” Baldy sullenly noted
the driver was right, then wildly swung
the lamp around his head, and when it
hit the ground he drove the boot into
it; following up with several other place-
kicks. He cooled down after a while,
but at the end of the shift didn’t have
a hat. He’d trampled it to ribbons when
the signalman pulled a wrong lever.
BLACKBIRDS ARE EVERYWHERE
Blackbirds are everywhere,
Eternally they sing
In green, sun-netted gardens
All summer, winter, spring.
Deep in the tea-tree aisles
They whistle each to each
And call above the tumult
Oil waters on the beach.
How brave the broken notes
Down grimy lane and street,
Lifting with joy then muted
Linder the traffic’s beat!
And by old railway-yards
Where the trains come clank-
ing in,
Grumbling and growling,
listen,
When the wheels have ceased
to spin!
Listen and you will hear
Through the silence, strange,
profound,
The blackbirds’ song flung
skywards—
A golden spear of sound!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


Old lush songs
Recorded by John Meredith from the singing of the late
“Hoopiron ,, Jack Lee, Adderly-street, Auburn; Lee was a
native of Booligal, and later lived at Hillston (all in N.S.W.).
Other versions of both tune and words exist, one having been
collected by Dr. Percy Jones. A variant first stanza is printed
here.
npHE startling whip-crack came from a
® big windfall lying amongst a tangle
of bracken-fern and stunted wattle. I
peered along the log; about 20ft. from
where I stood, a pair of whipbirds were
working industriously amongst the rotten
leaves and debris. Above them fluttered
a striated-thornbill, a bird very frequently
found in association with whippies. This
fellow was faring sumptuously on flying
insects disturbed by the larger birds. As
I watched, standing quite still (for whip-
birds are nervous chaps), the thornbill
flew out of the undergrowth, perched on
a low wattle and looked around chatter-
ing continuously. His bright beady §yes
turned towards me just as a sudden gust
of wind fluttered my white shirt-sleeves.
The tiny bird’s voice sharpened only
slightly, but it was enough—the whip-
birds were gone. And so another avian
pact was confirmed. As his payment for
performing the same duty as the “cocka-
too” of a swy-school Thorny l gets the
surplus insects uncovered by the noisy
foragers.—“Saaedi.”
* * * »
“2 M.”: Regarding that St. Patrick’s
Day item (B. 16/3/’55), in the early days
of the Wolfram Camp (N.Q.) mining-field
sports were held on the great day in the
town’s only street, which was about
100yds. long, with four pubs on one side
and one on the other. The day’s pro-
ceedings would end with the Long Beer
Race, up and down the street, calling at
the five pubs and downing a pint at each.
Entry was free and the prize ten-bob
plus the beers. Casualties were as great
as in the Grand National, but if Paddy
Kelly hadn’t had too much practice
during the day he was always a cert.
m * * #
“Bass”: Balladonia, mentioned by
Peter Bladen in the W.A. part of his
“Walkabout,” was originally the native
Ballajuinya. The word has a soft musical
cadence in the native dialect, but it
bluffed officialdom, and was dropped in
favor of Balladonia. A great pity. The
native name referred to a particular
granite-rockhole of choice fresh water.
In naming their treasures the natives used
a poetry that’s quite unknown and un-
suspected in official circles.
* * * *
“M.A.W.”: The electrical enlighten-
ment supplied by “K.A.” (B. 16/2/’55)
is defective. The self-starter is noted for
its voracious appetite and the storage-
battery for its amazing competence to
satisfy it. The ordinary starter takes from
100 to 400 amperes, according to the size
of the engine, its compression and the
temperature and viscosity of the lubri-
cating-oil. The best battery will run-
down not after six hours, but after six
or ten minutes of constant “grinding,” as
many of us know from experience.
“K.A.’s” 15 amps from a 6v.-battery
would about cover the ladylike needs of
a sewing-machine. It has been my lot
to handle multicylinder marine diesel-
engines which four men —two each end —
were powerless to swing over against
compression. Four 6v.-batteries in series
started the engine readily, the self-starter
drawing about 300 amps, at 24v.: that is,
7200 watts, almost 10 h.p. of electrical
energy.
THE OLD MAN KANGAROO.
My brother Bill and myself one time
Got bushed in the Mallee scrub,
For two long days and two long nights
We hadn’t tasted grub.
But on the third, my blessed word,
When things looked awful blue,
Bill espied with joyful pride
An old-man kangaroo.
Now this old man majestically
Sat upright on his tail,
He looked at us contemptuously
Without a shake or quail,
As much as to say, to come this way
What business, friends, have you?
By cripes, says Bill, I’d like to kill
That old-man kangaroo.
So without another word he rushed
With waddy in his hand
To quell that bold kangaroo
That undauntedly did stand.
He made a blow, his hairy foe
Upon poor William flew;
As sure as fate he grabbed my mate,
That old-man kangaroo.
He grabbed him tightly round the waist
And Bill began to roar,
And such an awful struggle, boys,
I never saw before.
Old Bill he cries, “Now blow my eyes,
He’ll break my back in two;
Oh Mick be quick and fetch a stick,
I’ll kill this kangaroo.”
So sneaking ’ up behind the brute
My bag I opened wide;
I drew it right down on his head,
And then the string I tied
Around his neck, which seemed to checlc
His progress; then I drew
My dover out and with a shout
I tailed that kangaroo.
Now a kangaroo without a tail
Can’t run, and that you know,
So finding his dependent gone
He let poor William go.
He gave a wail for the hairy tail,
The tale I tell you true;
He gave a jump but sank a lump,
A lifeless kangaroo.
My mate was not much knocked about,
For scarcely was he freed
When turning round to me he said,
“Now Mick we’ll have a feed.”
So Bill he got the billy-pot
And made some splendid stew,
The sweetest meat I ever eat
Was the tail of that kangaroo.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each .week.]
CONSTABULARY ENCOUNTERS
I FIRST noticed the impact of the Force
in person when I was a member of
a boys’ brass-band.
Coming home after practice one night
we pulled the cork out of youthful
exuberance and stopped outside a num-
ber of houses, half the band playing
“Colonel Bogey” and the other half “In
the Shade of the Old Apple Tree,” all off-
key and everyone blowing and banging
double-fortissimo.
The squawking of awakened infants
was reinforced by the imprecations of
the citizenry, hut their combined efforts
couldn’t get above the din we were mak-
ing—at least until the kids on the brasses
found that you' can’t blow and laugh at
the same time.
We were still rolling helplessly around
"Anyway, we proved ourselves superior when We Won the Ashes."
as we sat on the kerbstone when Stinker
Farrell yelled, “Nit! Here’s the John!”
Burdened as I was with the big, drum,
my speed was severely impaired, so that
I’d gone only a short distance before a
aiant hand spun me round, and I looked
into the large red face of Sergeant
O’Hoolihan
“So you’re one o’ the little hooligans
that have bin mairkin’ all the row they’ve
bin complairnin’ of!” he said heavily.
“What’s your name—niver moind, you’ll
pr abb ably tell me somethin’ different,
anvhow Were you barngin’ this
dthrum?”
“No, constable,” I said, “blowing it —
you can’t get enough noise out of it
just using the stick.”
“Oi’ve a good moind to run y’ in fer
bein’ cheeky, y’ little brat!” said Ser-
geant O’Hoolihan. “Now git out o’ this
roight away, or I’ll give y’ such a boot in
the rear it’ll jar the bawnes o’ your
gr-randchildren. ”
“You do ” I said, “and I’ll tell me big
brother, and by the time he’s finished
with you”
At that instant a violin filled with
cement brought up violently against my
stern and propelled me along quite a bit.
A few months later I had my next
encounter with the law, following indul-
gence in the current sport of tying the
end of a reel of strong cotton on to a
door-knocker, slinging the reel over the
telegraph-wires and, having taken up a
position behind the thick telegraph-post
on the. other side of the street, enjoying
the interesting language as the summoned
householder rushed out for the umpteenth
time trying to catch the pestiferous
knocker.
I’d work about half a dozen places
and was just taking up my position for
the next, confident that the gathering dusk
masked my activities, when, with that
low cunning which the Force employs in
trapping boys, a blue-uniformed figure,
coming down a side-street, sneaked up
behind me. Once again a giant hand spun
me round. Once again the red face above
it belonged to Sergeant O’Hoolihan.
“Caught you red-handed, me foine
lad!” he exulted. “Ye’re cornin’ along
we’ve had enough oOistenin’ to com-
plairnts from people "‘"annoyed by y’r
goin’s-on. What’s your nairm?”
I thought fast. “Terence O’Cassidy,” I
replied.
He looked at me, and his grip relaxed
from my shoulder. “Not Tim O’Cassidy’s
bhiy?” he asked.
I nodded.
“Well, well! Tim’s as good a felly as
ever come out of County Cork,” said
Sergeant O’Hoolihan heartily. “And he’s
got a foine upshtandin’ lad. A bit high-
spirited, perhaps, but thin Tim himself’s
a bit of a lad. Remember me to your
Aunt Molly. Now you run along. Oi’ll
give old Jonesy over the road a twist
about wairstin’ the police’s toime gettin’
us out on woild-goose chairses.”
It wasn’t until I had acquired a car
that I next trod —well, almost —on the
law’s corns. It was peak-hour at the inter-
section, and I had indicated that I wanted
to make a right-hand turn.
The cop on point-duty barked, “Along-
side here, driver!” and pointed near his
foot. My front offside-wheel stopped
about 4ft. away from him.
Apparently his temper had become
frayed by an hour or so of sorting out the
traffic-tangles, for he snarled: “I said
alongside here, not stuck out there! Why
couldn’t y’ get in closer?”
His wasn’t the only temper that wanted
half-soling and heeling. “Of course I
could! ” I snapped back. “But if I’d got
any closer I’d run over your feet.”
At these words a friendly smile broke
over his phiz, and he came over to the
door and let the traffic look after itself.
“You do think I’ve got outsize feet?”
he asked earnestly.
“They’re the most gigantic hoofs I’ve
seen,” I replied frankly.
I could feel the wife tugging at my
coat warningly. The cop, however, smiled
even broader.
“They are?” he beamed, “My young
brother takes twelves, and he’s always
slinging-off at what he calls my small
ones —I take eleven-and-a-half. But you
think they’re a respectable size?”
“A couple of rowlocks in the sides of
one of ’em,” I assured him, “and my
kid could use it as a boat.”
He held his hand out, shook, then went
back to his possie, held his hand up, and
motioned me around.
“Thanks a lot,” he said. “You’ve re-
lieved my mind greatly. I’d been chewing
over whether I should resign. But I’m
right now.”
A charming fellow.
BO.


m
v d.
:
jUQk
* -■*7V. a
ftrf
zsa
m
SSr&S
RS
/■v& —'- - .« - ■.
£
SSrar*
t.:,i2>,?S!C S l
*4X
W>
fi*S«
';:w2sf*
.
H&jF3$E
%.:£*;•: Vi*:
iifts
SPITZBERGEN, 1924-
A seaplane braves the Arctic
The Polar Bjorn , 150 tons, noses her way
through the ice to anchor off Green Har-
bour, Spitzbergen, nearly a thousand
miles within the Arctic Circle. The year
is 1924.
The Oxford University Arctic Expedi-
tion disembark. Crates are unloaded,
unpacked. In the bitter cold an Avro
Lynx seaplane is assembled.
In a matter of hours the ’plane is ready
for the take-off. In a matter of days it is
playing a valuable part in the exploration
of desolate North East Island, adjoining
Spitzbergen, reaching Lat. 80° 15'N.—
the farthest North any aircraft had
flown.
Flying in temperatures far below zero
demands a fuel of outstanding quality.
The Oxford University Expedition of
1924 used BP aviation spirit exclusively.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to
provide aviation fuels speedily and effi-
ciently.
VfIVIATIDN
SEHVICE^
3/54
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
Marketers for the British Petroleum Company,
Ltd.
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Ides of March
'-TRADITIONALLY, with the
coming of the middle
of March there was a
weakening in support for Aus-
tralian industrial shares. The
Commonwealth-loan operation
may have been an influence, or
else the aggregation of “bear”
factors enumerated in last week’s
Bulletin may at last have had
an effect, contra the heavy buy-
ing of unit-trusts which has been
in evidence since 1955 opened.
Also, income-tax assessments are
falling due.
Good types of shares that are
weaker are Australian Paper
Manufacturers (215.), F. J.
Walker (245. 3d.), R. B. Davies
(245. 6d.), John Mcllwraith
(225. 6d.), Australian Woollen
Mills (345. 6d.) and Patons and
Baldwins (235.).
Papuan Oil Prospects
From L. Owen: The sudden
fall in the price of Oil Search
shares to around 10s. (B.
16/3/’55) is an indication of the
jittery condition of the Stock
Exchange rather than a pointer
to Papuan oil-prospects. Violent
fluctuations, however illogical,
are to be anticipated, of course,
as an inevitable reaction to a
boom built up, in the form of an
inverted pyramid, on an oil-
strike (which most experienced
oilmen recognised as being of
very questionable commercial
value) in Western Australia.
Looking at the question quite
dispassionately, Oil Search (with
its 10 per cent, interest in the
Omati drilling) should, at no
time, have been subject to violent
market fluctuations. The work
done by the operating companies
has, in fact, been steadfastly and
consistently directed towards the
goal of oil-discovery. It is true
that the path has been difficult
and sometimes erratic, but always
getting a little closer to possible
success.
Firstly, after a long series of
bores in punishing strata and
difficult terrain, it was proved
by using every possible
geological and geophysical aid
that the western portion of
Papua offered better prospects of
commercial oil than the east.
Secondly, the Wana well, in strik-
ing salt-water, proved the exist-
ence, at depth, of porous and
permeable strata. Thirdly, the
strike of high-pressure gas
(known to be, but not announced
as, “wef”) in Omati No. 1
inspired legitimate hopes of oil
underlying the area. The
collapse of the well at 13,740 ft.
can only be described as sheer
bad luck. It may be questioned
whether the cost, in time and
money, of the attempt to salvage
Omati No. 1 well has been
justified, but the superb technical
skill exhibited in that operation
must be admired.
It is now obvious that the
strata, even at the 14,000 ft.-level,
is of the “heaving” variety which
has made drilling in Papua, at all
depths, so difficult except at very
carefully chosen locations, and
>to this heaving quality can be
ascribed, with a high degree of
probability, the production of
only small quantities of gas at
the horizon at which a prolific
flow had been noted when it was
first tapped.
Not far away, Omati No. 2
well is making consistent and
largely trouble-free progress; it
should have passed the 9000 ft-
. by the time these notes
appear in print. This steady
advance must be credited to the
experience, and data as to the
properties of the strata pene-
trated, obtained during the drill-
ing of Omati No. 1 well. Fore-
warned is forearmed!
The outlook, therefore, in
spite of pessimists and scare-
mongers, is by no means as black
as the recent slump in share-
prices would suggest, and it is
not far from the truth to state
that the prospects of striking
commercial oil in Omati No. 2
and other locations further west
are equal to those in any other
part of the Commonwealth.
£4O-million Loan
The new Commonwealth £4O
million loan is, as usual, in two
classes of securities —3 p.c.
bonds at £99 55., repayable April
15, 1957, and 4\ p.c. bonds
at par, repayable Nov. 15, 1968
Interest is subject to a 25.-in-
the-£ rebate of Commonwealth
income-tax.
Proceeds may be used for
redeeming securities maturing
April 15 next (£199 million of
2 p.c.’s) and for State public
works.
“We don't object to you using the firm's stock, Mullins,
but PLEASE not in the firm's time."
The Wheat Position
Although, during the six
months to December 31, Aus-
tralia exported 862,000 tons of
wheat, against 579,000 tons in
the corresponding period of the
preceding year, receipts were
only £22 million, compared with
£19.5 million in the earlier
period. The small increase of
13 p.c. for a volume of exports
nearly 50 p.c. higher gives some
indication of the effect of the
fall in world prices on the income
of the Australian wheatgrower.
Fortunately, during the 1954
season the wheat harvest was a
near-record at 198 million
bushels, and that tended to
maintain total income through
the considerably larger volume
sold.
For 1954-55 the total harvest
is estimated at 155 million
bushels (down 43 million
bushels). Annual internal con-
sumption is about 75-80 million
bushels. There looks like being
an export surplus of about 80
million bushels, and if overseas
sales continue at the rate estab-
lished during the first half of
1954-55 there may be no addi-
tion to stocks at the end of June.
At the end of 1953-54 Australia’s
unsold wheat stocks totalled 95
million bushels.
To deal with the situation
brought about by the fall in
world wheat prices, the Com-
monwealth and State Govern-
ments legislated for a five-year
stabilisation plan, which was
approved overwhelmingly by
growers. The plan applies to
the crops of the 1953-54 to
1957-58 seasons inclusive. The
Australian Wheat Board is the
sole authority for marketing
wheat in Australia and wheat
and flour for export. The
Commonwealth Government
guarantees growers a return
equal to the ascertained cost of
production in respect of up to
100 million bushels exported
from each of the five seasons’
crops. A stabilisation fund is to
be set up by means of an export-
tax of Is. 6d. a bushel when
export-realisations exceed cost
of production, the maximum
amount to be held by the fund
being £2O million.
The home-consumption price
under the plan is 14s. a bushel
bulk f.o.r. ports or the ruling
I.W.A. price at the beginning of
the year (if this is below 145.).
The home-consumptiion price,
however, will not be lower than
the cost of production.
The export price of wheat has
been 14s. 6d. a bushel for some
time, so that the grower is get-
ting somewhere about 14s. a
bushel for all wheat at the
present time.
There has been a drop in Aus-
tralia’s flour exports. During the
first half of 1954-55 shipments
totalled 528 million pounds,
compared with 809 million
pounds in the preceding period.
Values have been cut in halves —
£8,449,000 for the later period
compared with £16,898,000.
Maoriland' Money Inquiry
Maoriland Finance Minister
J. Watts has announced the
names of members of a royal
commission to investigate
monetary affairs in the Dominion
and has also given the commis-
sion’s terms of reference.
The members are Arbitration
Court Judge Tyndall (chairman),
G. G. Watson (a barrister), E. D.
Wilkinson (public accountant),
C. G. Trotter (Hawera business-
man), W. G. Fernie (Christ-
church businessman) and R. M.
Hutton Potts (Invercargill news-
paper-editor).
The commission’s terms of
reference are:
With a view to fostering a greater
degree of stability in prices, main-
taining full employment of labor,
ensuring healthy development of
natural resources and promoting
generally the economic, financial and
social welfare of the people of New
Zealand, the commission shall
receive, inquire into and report upon
representations regarding:
(a) Any monetary, banking and
credit proposals that may be
suggested as suitable for application
in New Zealand;
(by The present monetary bank-
ing- and credit-system of New
Zealand and the advisability or
otherwise of any changes’ in that
system;
(c) Any associated matters which
should be deemed by the commission
to be relevant to the general objects
of the inquiry.
No doubt a witness to be
heard before the commission
will be Harry J. Kelliher, head
man in Dominion Breweries and
formerly a director of the Bank
of New Zealand. Mr. Kelliher
has been campaigning for stable
money. He says that “Unstable
money is dishonest money. A
sound money-system is the indis-
pensable foundation of justice,
efficiency and plenty ; the pre-
requisite of any reform. It is
fundamental to everything else
that is worth having.” He is
opposed to New Zealand becom-
ing a signatory to the Bretton
Woods Agreement because, of its
inflexibility.
Part of his plan for stable
money is to confine trading-bank
lending and investment to the
amount of New Zealand money
accumulated in “loanable funds
accounts.” These accounts
would be repositories for borrow-
ings, repayment of loans and
other acquisitions of Maoriland
money, and from which loans,
investments and other payments
would be made. It would thus
not be possible, says Mr.
Kelliher, for the trading banks
to create new money any more
than it would be possible for
them to destroy money by
securing repayment of loans or
by sale of investments.
In short, Mr. Kelliher contends
that trading banks should lend
only from the existing stockpile
of money to the limit of credit-
worthy borrowing without
expanding the money-supply.
Maoriland is very currency-
conscious, and unstable money
was a factor in the last election,
which the Nationalist party won
with a reduced majority. Before
the election the Government
promised, if re-elected, to set up
a commission.


NO OTHER
INVESTMENT
OFFERS
ALL THESE
m
ADVANTAGES
V is SECUM
YOUR *"
is ©« AR
PAY LE SS
««p TAX
* m i ..
I^gßeW*
$ r '•
A
§»M
There is no more absolutely secure investment
on the market today than the Commonwealth
Security Loan now open. Repayment of capital
in full at maturity is unconditionally guaranteed
by the Commonwealth Government.
Also unconditionally guaranteed by the Common-
wealth Government is the payment of interest on
Commonwealth Securities, each six months, at a
fixed rate for the full duration of your investment.
When you complete your Income Tax Return,
you deduct from the amount you would expect
to pay a sum equal to 2/- in each £1 of the
interest received on your Commonwealth Loan
investment. This Income Tax Rebate of 2/- in
the £1 of interest, applying /to Commonwealth
Securities, puts extra money directly into your
pocket.
Money invested in the Commonwealth Security
Loan now open will go to work at once on public
work -projects designed to speed Australia’s
development and improve and extend basic and
community services upon which the national
economy depends. You will make a very real
contribution to the building of a Greater Australia
by investing to the greatest possible extent in this
Commonwealth Security Loan.
INVEST 'f&t a (jftedtek, AuSttaluv
IN THE £40,000,000
COMMONWEALTH
Security LOAN
NOW OPEN
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury,
INVESTORS MAY SELECT
1. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
4i%
per annum, issued at par
and maturing on Novem-
ber 15, 1968, or
2. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stod? bearing
interest at
3%
per annum, issued at
£99/5/- per cent, and
maturing on April 15,
1957.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 2/- in each £1 of interest
increases the effective interest yield.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION is £lO for long-term and £l,OOO for
short-term Securities.
APPLICATIONS may be lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank
or Stockbroker.
CONVERSION of Maturing 2% Securities
2% Commonwealth Bonds and Inscribed Stock, issued
in March-April, 1952, will mature on April 15, 1955.
Holders are invited to convert them into new
Commonwealth Bonds or Inscribed Stock on the
terms offered for the Security Loan now open.
225L6.107
THE HUNTER —"MAITLAND'S SORROW"!
(By M. F. DIXON, former editor of the Maitland “Daily Mercury.”)
'T'RULY, the Hunter River
“*■ (N.S.W.) i s Maitland’s
sorrow. Away back in 1820, in
the very early days of settle-
ment in the Hunter Valley, the
Coal River, as it was then
known, overflowed its banks
and sent fleeing for their lives
the few people living where the
city now stands. But as soon
as the water subsided they went
back again to rebuild what had
been destroyed. And that has
been more or less the history of
.Maitland ever since.
It isn’t as if the river is now
an asset to Maitland. It isn’t
a stream to be proud of.
Grafton, on the Clarence, is
often flooded too; but the
people of Grafton are proud of
their river. It is a noble stream ;
and I don’t think they would
move the city even if they
could. But with Maitland it is
different. The Hunter is a
shallow, narrow, winding water-
course, and in the upper reaches
in dry weather is little better
than a string of waterholes. The
river could still serve as a
source of irrigation for farmers
on its banks in dry times pro-
vided the business and residen-
tial portions were moved to
higher ground. That is about
the only use it now has.
Early files of the Maitland
“Mercury,” which was estab-
lished in 1843, throw little light
on why Maitland was built on
its present site. One reference
says the Government which
gazetted the area “could not or
would not give building-sites on
the higher ground at East
Maitland, nor would the Clise
family sell land on the heights
of Morpeth.” Consequently,
says the paper, people who
settled there had to take the
low-lying lands of The Camp,
as it was originally known, for
habitation. Droughts also
invariably followed floods in
those days, and the river
provided a handy source of
water at all times.
Earl/ settlers built their huts
along the winding banks of the
river, and bullock-drays bring-
ing supplies from Green Hills,
as Morpeth was then known,
laid the foundation of what was
later to become Maitland’s main
business thoroughfare, High-
street.
There were numerous floods
in the Hunter between 1832 and
1840, but the river at Maitland
then was wider and deeper than
it is now and the damage, in the
sparsely - populated settlement,
was never very great. There
were no fewer than five floods
in Maitland in 1864, and in one
of them two two-story houses
in High-street slipped into the
river and were swept away with
the loss of four lives. But it
was the great flood of 1893
which really showed what the
Hunter, in angry mood, could
do to the rapidly-’growing town
which had been established on
its banks.
On the afternoon of March 8
vivid flashes of lightning and
loud peals of thunder heralded
the approach of a violent storm
which turned the early-after-
noon almost into night.
Gutters were soon overflowing,
and water rushed along the
main-street to a depth of three
or four feet. Alarmed by reports
of similar downpours higher up
the river, mounted-police and
civilians paraded the streets
warning people in low-lying
areas to leave their homes while
there was still time.
Private rain-registrations
showed that Maitland had more
than 14 inches of rain in 24
hours, Morpeth 12 inches, and
Singleton nine inches. Back-
waters from Mulbring caused
Wallis Creek to overflow, and
the water swept into the town.
To add to the peril, Cummins’s
Dam and the tunnel at Hall’s
Creek collapsed, releasing further
great volumes of water.
The raging torrent from Oak-
hampton swept along the foot of
Campbell’s Hill, over the Long
Bridge and across the railway-
line to join the backwaters
surging into the lower parts of
the town. Homes, farms and
market-gardens were wrecked,
and about a third of the Long
Bridge, which had been built by
convicts in 1838, was lifted
bodily from its piles and carried
more than 100yds. into farm-
lands on the eastern side. It is
a coincidence that the same
bridge was again extensively
damaged in the recent flood.
On the opposite side of the
river a large area of land was
swept away, the fertile Bolwarra
flats were submerged, and a
great sea of water stretched as
far as Hexham. The water rose
to 37|ft. at Belmore Bridge,
near the centre of the town, and
for a time it appeared as if the
bridge would be swept away by
the great masses of logs and
debris which came tearing down
the river. Fortunately a gang
of men with long poles kept the
rubbish moving and almost
certainly saved the bridge.
In the latest flood the water
covered the decking of Belmore
Bridge for the first time in
history. Eight people were
drowned in the 1893 flood ; the
toll in the recent one was
unfortunately heavier. In many
other respects, however, it was
a case of history repeating
itself ; but the rapid growth of
the city in recent years inevit-
ably meant there was much
greater destruction of public and
private property.
I spent seven years in Mait-
land in the early ’thirties, and,
knowing the spirit of the
people, I should say the first
inclination of most of them,
after the initial shock of the
disaster is over, will be to
rebuild again on the ruins of
their former possessions. But
as population increases and the
river becomes shallower through
silting, losses from future floods
will become heavier.
Nature cannot always be
fought successfully, but she can
often be outmanoeuvred; and I
think the time has come for the
people of Maitland to forsake
their “sorrow” and move to
higher ground. It will be a long,
costly and heartbreaking task,
but in the long run, in terms of
human-suffering and material-
loss, it will probably pay hand-
somely. If a start is made soon
I should say that ten years
hence the people of Maitland
will be free of the haunting fear
which now afflicts them every
time they hear a flood-warning
broadcast for the Hunter
Valley. '


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit.
V'«2
'^’V*>
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman ).
A. E. Bond. /. R. Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: IS. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: Chief Trust Officer i
P. H. Andrews. M. A. Foulcher.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.90.18
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Moran & Cato, Ltd.
FROM a small shop at Fitzroy (Vic.),
set up by T. E. Moran in 1876 —he
was joined six years later by F. J. Cato
—has grown what is now the largest
retail grocery-chain organisation in the
Commonwealth. The business was con-
verted to a proprietary co. in 1912, with
a paid capital of £43,700. Meanwhile,
operations had been extended to Sydney,
where Moran and Cato (N.S.W.) Pty. was
formed in 1909. In 1924 offshoots were
established in the wholesale field to do
the bulk-buying for the retail chain—
they were Sydney Grocery Pty. (Sydney)
and Australian Wholesale Grocery Pty.
(Melbourne), which also manufactures a
number of proprietary lines.
The public became interested in 1950,
when the Melbourne parent co. (paid
capital, £425,000) offered for subscription
223,600 new 10s. shares at a premium
of 100 p.c. At the same time the parent
co. acquired all the issued shares in the
other three associated cos. for £463,000,
paying in its own scrip. Paid capital thus
became £1,000,000, and has remained
steady since. There are now some 220
grocery stores in the chain, mostly in
Victoria and N. S. Wales, with four in
Tasmania and one in South Australia.
For the five years to 1949 average
annual net earnings of the group on a
public-co. basis was £134,544. For the
three years to the close of last accounts
the average figure was £221,407. The im-
provement has been due mainly to in-
creased turnover, and partly to reduction
in the rate of co. tax, as well as judicious
buying of stock and a tight hold upon
controllable outgoings.
It has been a creditable performance
considering that dry-goods have
always been one of the most difficult
fields in which to win satisfactory returns.
Though the trade usually holds well
in all economic climates, competition is
very keen, which means price-cutting and
narrow gross margins. Net results
therefore depend largely upon the volume
of turnover.
Last term sales continued to increase,
but there was further contraction in
margins, due to price-cutting. So, after
allowing £30,232 (up £156) for deprecia-
tion and £132,850 (down £81,850) for
taxation, there was a slip of £21,031 in
combined net earnings of the group:
July To Re- Re-
-31. Profit. t Dividends serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Stock price adjustment provision,
£30,000 .. 313,819
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,351 .. 324,170
Tax underprovided, £229 .. 1. 323,941
1952.. 231,596 10 p.c. = 100,000 131,596 455,537
Profit sale fixed assets, £11,570 .. 467,107
Tax underprovided, £3788 .. .. 463,319
1953.. 226,831 10 p.c. = 100,000 126,831 590,150
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,481 .. 600,631
1954.. 205,794 10 p.c. = 100,000 105,794 706,425
* Subject to intangibles, £76,669, 31/7/’54.
Still, the £205,796 of profit, which leaves
out of the reckoning a capital gain of
£10,481 on sale of assets, was 20.5 p.c.
on capital as against 22.6 p.c. and 23.1
p.c. for the two preceding periods. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was 12 p.c.,
which is a high rate of earning for this
class of business, and suggests, among
other things, that assets are well worth
their book-value. The div. was kept at
10 p.c. and might remain there until the
board can see more clearly what lies
ahead in the trade.
Finances are comfortable:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. . . 455,537 590,150 706,425
Overdraft .. 89,233
Creditors, etc. . . 357,814 320,579 301,918
Long service leave 17,000 20,000 54,396
Tax provision .. 203,090 138,775 125,020
Dividends .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
£2,222,674 £2,169,504 £2,287,759
Freehold .. .. 641,064 662,144 681,785
Plant .. . . 117,924 107,381 112,839
Shares other cos... 666 678 678
Stocks .. .. 1,073,014 838,305 922,323
Debtors, etc. .. 261,352 245,239 276,692
Cash, bonds .. 51,985 239,088 216,773
Goodwill . . .. 76,669 76,669 76,669
£2,222,674 £2,169,504 £2,287,759
The growth in freeholds (up £19,641)
and plant (up £5458) was on account of
modernisation of stores. The net addi-
tions of £84,018 to stocks (in at not
exceeding cost) and of £31,453 to book-
debts reflect the growth in turnover. The
net increase in working capital, or more-
or-less liquid surplus (£834,454), was
£100,176.
To help counter the effects of price-
cutting, etc., the co. has, since the close
of accounts, opened two self-service
stores —one in Sydney and the other in
Melbourne —and results have been so
encouraging that more of the old-style
service-from-behind-the-counter shops are
to be converted to the new type. Self-
service means elimination of personal
service, credit and delivery to the custo-
mer, which reduces labor costs greatly.
It also means convenience to the custo-
mer, who can shop much faster, and that
the store can handle more customers per
hour per day, which is an important con-
sideration in this class of business. In the
U.S. it is estimated that self-service stores
now handle all but about 20 p.c. of the
national food and grocery business, and
the principle is being extended to a
widening field of merchandise.
The market, which likes the way the
business is shaping and is prepared to
wait for its benefits, prices the f.-p. 10s.
shares at 225. 3d. (21s. a few months
ago), to return 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-value) is
16s. 3d.
Rosella Preserving
A NTICIPATION of a new share-issue
and/or other benefits sent the price
of the co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares up to 31s. in
1953. In the succeeding year the figure
had fallen to 21s. 9d.; it shot up to
275. 3d. following publication of the latest
accounts and a lift in the rate of distri-
bution from 12| P-c. to 17! P-c., of which
5 p.c. is called bonus. The return at
275. 3d. is 6.5 p.c. on a 17! p.c. distribu-
tion, which suggests the market
expects the rate to be maintained at that
level. Net tangible cover is visibly 235. 2d.
—both fixed and trading assets are
believed to be worth a lot more than their
book-value.
The sharp drop in the price was due to
a combination of trade and other factors,
chief of which was collapse of the Aus-
tralian export market (mainly U.K.) for
jams. This in turn was due largely to
the price-factor, in which high and rising
wage-rates and the cost of sugar were
the villains of the piece. Some of the
benefits anticipated in 1953 were thus
pushed into the background, and at the
moment it is difficult to say when they
are likely to ■ re-emerge.
The loss of overseas trade in jams has
been recently offset by a pronounced
growth in export of canned-fruits, and
by continued expansion of the home
market for all the co.’s products. The
value of Australian exports for the year
to June 30, 1954, fell by 43 p.c. for jams
and rose by 52 p.c. in respect of canned-
fruits. The increase in the volume of
the canned-fruit pack was 33 p.c., so
selling-prices were obviously satisfactory.
In the home market demand
strengthened for most lines, pro-
duction of jams was curtailed,
and the co. again substantially
reduced the aggregate book-value of its
inventory. At the same time wage-rates
and other costs were steadier. So, after
setting aside £57,139 (up £25,831) for
depreciation and whatever was considered
necessary for taxation, there was a spring
of £38,774 (25.9 p.c.) in declared net
earnings:
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1950.. 91,566 12} p.c. = 62,500 29.066 386.375
Share premiums, £50,000 .. .. 436,375
1951.. 131,683 12} p.c. = 63,542 68,141 504,516
Share premiums, £425 .. .. 504,941
1952.. 154,089 12} p.c. = 75,000 79,089 584,030
1953.. 149,376 12} „ „ 75,000 74,376 658,406
1954.. 188,150 17J .. ~105,000 83,150 741,556
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at Sept. 30, 1954.
The record £188,150 of profit was 31.3
p.c. on capital as against 24.9, 25.6, 25.9,
18.3, 20.5 and 16.5 p.c. back to 1948.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) the year’s profit was 14
p.c. The ratio of profits to capital alone
thus owes much to the size of reserves,
which were visibly heaped £141,556
higher than the £600,000 of paid capital
at September 30 last.
From three factories in Victoria, two
in N. S. Wales and one each in South
Australia and Tasmania, the co. turns out
high-grade jams, canned-fruits, condi-
ments and a variety of other tinned-foods,
etc. And over the last 35 years share-
holders have never failed to receive a
div., the average being 11.3 p.c., highest
17! p.c. for the three years to 1927 and
again last term and the lowest 6 p.c. in
1931. Another encouraging feature is
that the co. has provided its operatives
with the most modern plant and equip-
ment available, thus minimising the high-
cost labor-content of its products and
ensuring—so far as management is able
to do so—efficient and economical pro-
duction. Over the last five years allow-
ances for depreciation total £185,754,
which is equal to 76.2 p.c. of the amount
spent on plant, etc., over the same period.
Finances are snug:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
„ , , 1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Reserves .. .. 584,030 658,406 741,555
Overdraft .. .. 556,590 286,059
Creditors .. .. 128,659 155,504 261,240
Staff fund .. 15,000
lax provision .. 216,484 96,334 171,680
Final div. .. 75,000 75,000 105,000
£2,160,763 £1,871,303 £1,894,475
Property .. .. 330,359 336,798 338,324
Plant, etc. .. 137,105 134,185 183,819
Stocks . . .. 1,456,436 1,150,101 848,865
Debtors .. .. 205,635 219,064 211,592
Cash, etc. .. 720 647 281,367
Goodwill, etc. .. 30,508 30,508 30,508
£2,160,763 £1,871,303 £1,894,475
The year’s reduction of £301,236 in stocks
(in at cost or lower), together with sur-
plus earnings and an extra £105,736 from
sundry creditors, enabled the overdraft
(£286,095 at previous balance) to be
wiped out and the holding of cash, etc.,
to be strengthened by £280,720. The net
addition of £49,634 to plant, etc., was
mainly on account of modernisation.
As for the current term, the immediate
outlook in the home market is bright
enough. In the export field canned-fruit
is to return to a trader-to-trader basis
after 15 years of bulk-buying in the U.K.,
and the chairman says the future is grim.
Much will depend upon what happens in
connection with the quantity of American
canned-fruits admitted to the U.K.
market. Of the co.’s total sales, however,
exports at present account for no more
than about 2 p.c.
Appleton Industries, Ltd.
CTNCE the present holding co. took over
the louvre - window - manufacturing
business of N. V. Appleton Pty. and its
distributing subsidiary in Brisbane six
years ago, the undertaking has enjoyed
very favorable trading-conditions, and
the management has made the most of
its opportunities. Attractive results have
been won from expanding operations, a
steady 10 p.c. div. has been paid for the
last five years, and more of the profit was
ploughed back into the business than
was distributed.
However, with the growth in volume
and range of factory-output and the
widening of its markets —they now in-
clude the southern Australian States and
some centres outside the Commonwealth
—the co. is beginning to meet keener
competition, which promises to become
keener still in the years ahead. Among
other things this will mean increased sales-
effort, with finer margins than in the
years when output rather than demand
was the problem. Still, there is nothing
to suggest that the 10 p.c. div. is in any
immediate danger, though the trend of
profits over the last three years has been
downward. To meet the pref. div. and
10 p.c. on ord. capital as it now stands,
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) need turn in only 5.3 p.c.,
whereas last term’s profit was 10.5 p.c. on
these funds.
Early in the piece larger premises and
18 acres of freehold were bought at
Hendra, near Brisbane, and the range
of manufactures was extended to include
an electric hot-water service, electric-
stoves, plastic-combination sinks, spin-
driers, rotary clothes-hoists and other
domestic appliances. Also branches were
opened at Sydney, Melbourne and Adel-
aide, where' freeholds were bought. To
help finance the expanding trade and pro-
perty purchase, £40,000 of fresh capital
was gathered in 1950, and another £50,000
was got in last term, when the manufac-
turing subsidiary also issued £50,000 of
6 p.c. prefs., redeemable by instalments
over the next seven years.
Last term turnover increased in both
home and overseas markets, but a “more
competitive market led to a proportion-
ately greater lift in costs.” So, after setting
aside £22,769 (up £2350) for depreciation
and £37,250 (down £3556) for taxation,
there was a slip of £13,933 in declared net
earnings:—
Appleton Industries and Subsidiaries.
<— Dividends •,
Pref. Re- De-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. tained. ficit*
£ £ £ £
1949.. 22,217 8 p.c. = 12,800 9,417 13,676
Surplus on sale of assets, £586 .. 13,090
Re-
serves.*
1950.. 48,178 10 p.c. = 16,000 32,178 19,088
Surplus on sale of assets, £l2 .. 19,100
1951.. 98,959 10 p.c. = 18,497 80,462 99,562
1952.. 62,766 10 „ „ 20,000 42,766 142,328
Surplus on sale of assets, £341 .. 142,669
1953.. 69,497 10 p.c. = 20,000 49,497 192,166
1954.. 55,564 2,194 10 „ „ 20,833 32,537 224,703
* After deducting intangibles, now £18,383.
The £55,564 was sufficient to meet the
pref. requirements and show 25.6 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 34.7, 31.3,
53.3, 30.1 and 13.8 p.c. back to 1949.
Maintenance of the 10 p.c. div. was thus
a comfortable matter, and the £32,537
of the year’s profit that remained lifted
reserves to £224,703 in excess of
intangibles (£18,383).
The business continues to expand and
the financial position has strengthened:
1952 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £200,000 £200,000 £300,000*
Reserves .. .. 160,711 210,549 243,086
Mortgage .. .. 4,000
Overdraft . . . . 247,662 155,691 179,258
Creditors .. .. 180,309 175,111 211,728
Tax provision . . 155,000 40,000 34,900
Final div. .. 20,000 10,000 10,833
£967,682 £791,351 £979,805
Freeholds .. . . 75,428 68,312 110,595
Plant, etc. . . 138,192 158,077 165,Q22
Stocks . . .. 577,515 373,361 516,091
Debtors . . . . 157,990 173,044 169,399
Cash . . .. 174 174 315
Intangibles .. 18,383 18,383 18,383
£967,682 £791,351 £979,805
* Includes £50,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. redeemable at
par in seven yearly instalments to 31/12/’6O.
The year’s £lOO,OOO of fresh share-
capital, together with surplus earnings,
an extra £23,567 from the bank and a
further £36,617 from sundry creditors,
went mainly into -stocks (up £142,730)


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
WM:/'.
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C.. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Enters, Steam Valves,
etc.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAEKEBE
j No Pads —
| No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You 'will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAKREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3k), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
DUPLICATOR
Has al) the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built tntiiely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
*fEkßOUßNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
££ELA IDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PUtTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Aunt.)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
GOLD MINING
MALAYA
Applications are invited by the Raub
Australian Gold Mining Co. Limited for
the position of GENERAL MANAGER of
the Company’s Mine at Raub, Pahang,
Malaya. Applicants should possess a
University Mining Degree or Diploma
from a recognised School of Mines, and
a sound practical experience in the mining
and treatment of gold bearing ores.
Applicants should have also had a sound
administrative experience. A liberal
salary will be paid to the right man,
and, in addition, the Company pays a
Cost of Living allowance and provides
free furnished accommodation. An
entertaining allowance will also be given.
Fares and reasonable travelling expenses
of the successful applicant and wife will
be paid to the Mine. Term of initial
engagement three years with six months’
leave and return fares to port of embar-
kation on completion. Rates of Income
Tax in Malaya are comparatively low.
Applications closing on the 30th April,
1955, with original references aiid par-
ticulars of age, marital state and experi-
ence —accompanied by Medical Certificate
regarding health—should be addressed to
The Secretaries, Clarke & Son,
Box 277 D, G.P.0., Brisbane,
Queensland, Australia.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
and fixed assets (up £49,228),
the new warehouse in Adelaide
being partly responsible for the
growth. The addition to stocks
(they appear at a figure not ex-
ceeding cost) was mainly in
finished goods. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£249,678) was £83,801.
The market notes the con-
tinued growth of the business,
the size of reserves and the
comfortable margins between
earnings and distributions and
prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at 9s. 7d.
(Bs. 3d. a year ago) to return
5.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 9s. 6d.
Sirngei Bidor Tin
QINCE it got back into com-
mercial production in
March, 1947, the co.’s big all-
electric dredge, operating some
15 miles from Kampar (F.M.S.),
has given a very good account of
itself, and continues to do so.
Certainly there was a drop l of
£20,755 in last term’s profit, and
the div. was cut in half, reducing
it to 100 p.c. But that was due
entirely to the fall in the price
of tin. The dredge handled more
slightly higher-grade ground at
less cost, for a bigger output of
tin concentrates and gold, as the
following table shows:
Treated,,^-Recoveries— N ® iv ”
c.y. t.o.* Goldf Profit.t 60 p.c.
Jne.,’ooo. Tons. Oz. £ £
’5O 3679 636.3 533.5 123,385 72,000
180 p.c.
’5l 3720 847.2 1259.7 389,809 216,000
225 p.c.
’52 3103 534.6 599.3 180,820 270,000
200 p.c.
’53 3387 560.8 648.2 160,989 240,000
100 p.c.
’54.. 3599 622.4 1354.8 140,234 120,000
* Assay approx. 75 p.c. metallic tin.
t Smelted gold, t After deducting taxa-
tion and provision for depreciation, etc.
Last term the average grade of
dirt dug was 0.391 b. per c.y. as
against 0.371 b. for the previous
year, and the assay was 75.37 p.c.
In terms of metallic tin, output
was thus 469.1 tons (up 53.6
tons), but average price realised
was only £667.1 (down £238) per
ton.
All-in costs (excluding taxa-
tion) were‘pulled back by £76,
reducing them to £300.7 per ton
(metallic), thanks largely to
lower cost of materials and
reduction in dredge-insurance
premiums. Bullion and other
receipts (£23,417, up £10,768)
helped to cushion the bump, too.
After allowing £55,000 (down
£15,000) for Malayan taxation,
the net result was £140,234,
equal to 116.8 p.c. on the
£120,000 of paid capital, com-
pared with 134.1 p.c. and
150.8 p.c. for the two preceding
years, when more was distri-
buted than was earned, thanks
to the flush state of the co.’s
finances. The div. was lowered
from 200 p.c. to 100 p.c. last
term, thus bringing it within the
limit of net earnings. Since the
close of accounts two dividends
totalling 50 p.c. (£60,000) have
been paid.
For the first half of the current
term (to December 31 last) the
London average spot-price of
tin per ton was £5747.6; last
week the figure was around
£S7OB, all of which augurs well
for the showing at June 30 next.
Under the proposed interna-
tional tin agreement, yet to be
ratified, the aim is to keep price-
fluctuations within the £S6SO-
- bracket. The world out-
look for tin is one of surplus
production. To date American
Government buying has removed
the threat.
A couple of months ago three
producer - countries (Malaya,
Nigeria and Bolivia) and five
consumer - countries (U.K.,
Canada, Australia, Denmark and
India) had ratified the draft
agreement. But before the agree-
ment can be brought into force
two more producing countries
need to come in. Belgium is
expected to do so at an early
date, both in respect of Belgium
as a consumer and the Congo as
a producer, and so is Indonesia,
whose long-term contract for
sale of tin concentrates to U.S.
runs out at the end of this month.
When the books were last
ruled off the co. had current
assets (excluding stores, £49,211)
totalling £275,718 to meet
current liabilities of £150,854,
of which £138,351 was provision
for taxation.
The market prices the f.-p. 10s.
shares at 465. as against 455. a
year ago.
Ravenshoe Tin Dredging
Announcement that the co.’s
big dredge at Battle Creek, Mt.
Garnet (N.Q.), will not be able
to commence digging before the
end of 1956 is a disappointment,
and likely to be a costly one, to
shareholders.
When the co. was formed in
March, 1953, the declared inten-
tion was to have the dredge in
commercial production before
the end of 1955. Failure in this
respect is due to nothing that
can be laid on the doorstep of
the management, but to inability
of the Queensland Government
to make hydroelectric power
from the Tully Falls scheme
available at or about the date
originally promised.
“Serious delay in construction-
work” is the cryptic official
explanation, and the co.'s request
that power be made available
from other sources has met with
refusal because it would be
“uneconomic.” Meanwhile share-
holders in this Ravenshoe venture
are obliged to carry an
“uneconomic” baby for a further
12 months or more.
To help conserve its funds the
co. has retrenched staff and
“drastically” curtailed further
construction-work. The delay,
however, will further increase
capital expenditure on equipment
and development, which has
already exceeded original esti-
mates, owing to rises in wage-
rates and cost of materials.
Mine-buildings, roads, slimes
dams, spillways, etc., have been
completed, and so have the
waterpipe-line from the Her-
berton River and the pontoon
for the dredge, and a start had
been made on erection of the
superstructure and assembly of
mechanical ' and electrical
equipment.
At June 30 last capital outlay
on the work just mentioned and
some other items totalled
£358,947. Leases stood at
£55,845, book-debts and cash
at £8984 and preliminary exes,
at £13,539. Shareholders had
put up £199,708 on 400,000 £1
shares, the bank had advanced
£84,190 and sundry creditors
figured for £153,426, mainly
purchase money owing on leases
and the dredge.
The co.’s leases are estimated
to contain 31,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 10|oz. t. 0., assaying
72 p.c. metallic tin. An 85 p.c.
recovery is anticipated, and the
dredge is expected to handle
about 3,000,000 c.y. per annum.
With tin at £ABOO per ton,
estimated profit (subject to tax)
was put at £172,500 p.a. in the
prospectus.
Too much importance should
not be attached to the announce-
ment by N.A.U.C. on March 16
last that ore-reserves already
“proved” by diamond- and
wagon-drilling at No. 4 exposure,
on the Sleisbeck area, contain
72,0001 b. uranium-oxide in “pay-
able ore,” with a further prob-
able 70,0001 b. uranium-oxide in
ore which occurs in an extension
of the line of mineralisation for
another 150 ft. The lot
(142,0001 b. uranium-oxide) is
estimated to be worth approxi-
mately £700,000. Old hands will
wonder whether they really are
naive in believing that diamond-
drilling indicates the existence
of ore, but does not prove the
tonnage available, or the average
assay-value. When ore reserves
are said to be proved, it is
usually taken to mean that they
have been blocked out on four
sides. And systematic and exten-
sive sampling needs to be carried
out to arrive at true average
value of a block. Also, from the
investor’s point of view, the
statement that the ore indicated
is estimated to be worth £700,000
doesn’t mean all that it might.
It’s no good producing £700,000
worth of uranium-oxide if it is
going to cost, say, £BOO,OOO to
get and market it.
Faith In the
Future
Movement, as I have said before, is a
governing principle in life. When you cease to
move, you cease to live.
The truth of this, as applied to national
progress, is brought home by statistics showing the
rate at which Americans migrate within their own
country.
In a year, more than 30 million Americans —
about one-fifth of the population of the United
States—shifted their place of residence. Within
that figure again, one-third made major moves
to other countries or States.
More than 58 per cent, of the people living
in California were found to have been born else-
where, for instance.
Now it appears to me that, territorially at
least, there is a basis for comparison between the
United States and Australia. They are about
identical size.
In length and breadth and depth, the oppor-
tunity would be about the same—but relating it to
population, the advantage should be very much
in favor of the Australian who has the courage to
go out and seek it.
It was the movement of the Leslie Brothers
up to the Darling Downs that opened the future
State of Queensland to pastoral settlement in 1840.
The drove of cattle by the Durack and other
families to the Northern Territory in the early
’eighties brought rich settlement to the Kimberleys,
in our north-west.
These examples could be multiplied if we
cared to search the record. They all trace back
to the one thing—the urge to movement, combined
with the will to live and to work, and a firm Faith
in what lies in reward for it all at the journey’s end.
It is not given to all of us to change the place
where our living is set, nor is it always advisable.
But I do say, particularly to the young, that it
would be a bad day if the spirit that draws men
on and across to new horizons were ever to be
quenched in the Australian character.
H. Hastings Deening


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
In brilliant sunshine and with the
weather almost high summer, the Gover-
nor, Sir Dallas Brooks, entertained about
4000 guests from city and country at the
garden-party at Government House. Mrs.
Robin Byrne, daughter of the Governor
and Lady Brooks, deputised for her
mother, who was still in hospital. She
wore a cream tie-silk jacket-frock which
featured a pleated skirt and was patterned
in a small design in beige outlined with
black ; her wide-brimmed hat and acces-
sories were, white.
Also in the vice-regal party were the
Lieut.-Governor, Sir Edmund Herring,
and Lady Herring, the Premier (Mr. John
Cain) and Mrs. Cain (she in grey organza
with black tulle hat), the Governor’s
private-secretary, Col. R. W. Spraggett,
Mrs. Spraggett (in grey silk frock pat-
terned in a floral design in pale-green and
bronze and a picture-hat of black tulle),
and their daughter Anne (who wore white
flower-printed silk, a deep-coral-pink
cummerbund and a tiny cap of white
flowers).
Mrs. Leo Guest’s frock of deep-
emerald-green organza had the hemline
scalloped to show a pleated frill, and
her wide black hat was swathed with
green organza; Mrs. Guy Bakewell’s
frock was of pale-cinnamon-brown silk-
shantung, the skirt finely pleated ; Mrs.
A. A. Lord wore pale-pink silk with a
white hat; Mrs. L. R. Buxton added to a
flared coat a black, flower-printed faille
and a grey-straw platter-hat.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s lovely frock was
of white Swiss-muslin printed wth muted
bouquets of flowers, matched by a
bandeau of tiny flowers worn in her hair ;
Mrs. Ronald Nott’s choice was navy silk-
taffeta and a watermelon-pink velvet
pillbox-hat. Mrs. Frank Herman’s navy
silk-taffeta frock had the skirt intricately
quilted; Mrs. Norman Bennett’s frock
was of grey silk-shantung; Mrs. Lionel
Newton’s of black silk-romaine; Mrs.
Maurice Nathan’s silver-grey faille frock
had draping across the hips, and she wore
a tiny white flower-hat.
ft ft ft
Cocktail- and party-frocks, short and
formal and featuring the A- and H-lines
in modified form, were shown in the
Edinburgh Room at Scott’s Hotel by
Charlotte Fifth Avenue Gowns. This
collection proved that the Paris-line in its
less extreme form is kind to the normal
figure and slimming to the more mature.
One of the loveliest gowns was a
creation for the grand evening-occasion.
Of palest pink pure-silk, the strapless
bodice moulded the figure to the hipline
and was completely gathered in soft
folds ; the very full skirt had many under-
layers of net and poult, plus its own built-
in stiffened petticoat. The only trimming
was the one shoulder-strap made from a
large spray of matching French-roses.
Another evening-gown was of heavy
duchesse-satin in Ming-blue. The bodice
was moulded to the hipline, and the full
skirt had wide, unpressed pleats. Dia-
mente shoulder-straps matched the chate-
laine set on one hip. In direct contrast
was a short evening-gown in pale-gold
pure-silk threaded with silver. A soft
swathe of plain yellow silk draped the
hipline and finished in a floating-panel
caught with a diamente-buckle.
Not all the gowns featured the new
Paris-lines. Classic simplicity was shown
in a white, fine corded-silk gown fash-
ioned with a deep V-collar and flared
skirt. Dramatic contrast was the single
red rose at the neckline. Another short
gown showed a harem-skirt and a sym-
metrical neckline trimmed with a velvet
collar to match the velvet belt. 'The
harem-hemline could be easily converted
into a more conventional flare. Fabrics
featured were Sekers-brocades and
duchesse-satin, pure-silks, plain and pat-
terned, very fine, crisp shot taffetas, net,
nylon and velvet. Colors ranged from
brilliant-reds, peacock-blue, gold and
copper-bronze to the palest pinks, soft
yellows, grey and silver.
ft ft ft
Lady Latham and Mrs. G. I. Steven-
son entertained many guests at a lun-
cheon to launch the University’s appeal
for £1,000,000. The Governor’s wife,
Lady Brooks, who is patroness-in-chief
of the women’s executive-committee, was
unable to attend, being in hospital
recovering from an operation. Lady
Latham is president of the committee and
Mrs. G. I, Stevenson is deputy-president.
Patronesses also include the wife of the
Premier (Mrs. John Cain), Lady Herring,
Lady Lowe, and the Lady Mayoress
(Mrs. F. P. Selleck).
Lady Latham wore a black ensemble,
whilst Mrs. Stevenson’s choice was a steel-
grey faille frock and small flower-covered
white boater. Lady Herring wore a
dark-grey suit with a bright-navy straw-
hat ; Lady Lowe was in white-spotted grey
coat and white straw-hat; Lady Grim-
wade matched her angora frock with a
beret; Mrs. F. P. Selleck’s black-pat-
terned white jacket-suit was worn with a
tiny white pillbox-hat trimmed with red
berries and green leaves.
The South Yana branch of Y.W.C.A.
and the Blackburn Home for the Deaf
and Dumb will miss committee-member
Mrs. John Carrodus when, with ner nus-
band, who is general-manager of Chevron
hotel, she leaves shortly for a 10-weeks
trip abroad. Mr. Carrodus is also
interested in the deaf and dumb
organisation, and both he and his wife
were guests-of-honor at a small cocktail-
party given by the executive in their
honor. John Warlow photo.
Bowls of colorful hydrangeas decorated
the reception-room of Mrs. Ada Colman’s
St. Kilda-road flat when she entertained
at a luncheon in honor of Mrs. Jack
Steele (Hastings), who, with her husband,
leaves shortly for - overseas. Deep-red
dahlias and white roses decorated the
luncheon-table. The hostess wore a frock
of black-spotted, pastel-blue tie-silk, the
guest-of-honor a blue cotton frock pat-
terned in a flower-motif which featured
the H-line. Assisting the hostess was her
daughter, Mrs. Ralph Freedman, who
added to her pastel-pink tie-silk frock,
spotted in white, a tiny white-feather
calot.
ft ft ft
A most successful dinner-dance resulted
from the efforts of the self-styled “seven
characters” who organised it. They were
Winton Gillespie, lan Miller, Bruce Rose,
Bill Gluth, John Yencken, Bruce Matear
and Baillieu Myer. Proceeds will go to
the Thornbury Opportunity Club and
Kindergarten.
Original and attractive were the three
bars used. Maitland Levy and Tony Keep
were in charge of the Sheik bar, which
was draped with rose-pink hangings to
simulate the interior of a luxurious tent,
with tall palms outside the bar adding to
the “local color.” Mrs. Lionel Grim-
wade was in charge of the American bar,
where pictured skyscrapers formed a
background. Assisting Mrs. Grimwade
were her daughter Mrs. Keble Johnston,
Mrs. Harold Coldham, Mrs. Geoffrey
Grimwade, Mrs. Albert Atkinson and
Mrs. Fred Moore. The third was C’est Si
Bon, where a large cardboard French-
poodle stood guard, and which was gay
with red-and-white awnings. Judy Spry,
in charge of this bar, wore a strapless
gown of white tulle; helping her were
Mrs. Douglas Bowden, in black Chan-
tilly lace, and Mrs. Hedley Ladd, who
wore pale-pink tulle, accordion-pleated.
ft ft ft
For the Newmarket meeting at Fleming-
ton Lady Manifold, wife of the V.R.C.
chairman, chose a frock of white pique
with appliqued flowers on bodice and
skirt; her picture-hat was of black straw.
Her daughter Mary also wore a black
picture-hat with her strawberry-pink
frock; her other daughter, Sally, chose a
simple frock of white, patterned with
bands of blue flowers and green leaves,
her hat also white. Mrs. D. J. S. Mac-
kinnon wore over her printed-silk frock
a white coolie-type jacket. Mrs. Frank
Watts wore an eyelet-embroidered cinna-
mon-brown corday frock and a small
white melusine hat. Mrs. Trevor Clarke
chose a cinnamon-and-navy-patterned
draped frock with a large cinnamon-
brown straw-hat swathed with navy
chiffon.
SYDNEY
The rain is still with us, intermittent
now but steady enough to create a record
—the wettest two-and-a-half months for
65 years. Some people say, “It’s just as
well to get it over now before Easter,”
as if it were the measles. But mostly
people are fed-up with it and are even
planning trips to Melbourne or Dunedin
(N.Z.) to catch a bit of sunshine.
Before people rushed off to Canberra
for the Picnic Races they had a week of
entertaining by distinguished members of
the Italian community and of viewing
Italian films in quick succession. It was
all very brilliant and the only thing
lacking was Gina Lollobrigida, who many
privately hoped might come.
The French Ministry of Commerce
arranged an exhibition of accessories
from nine of the leading designers in
Paris, and more than 700 people came to
the opening by the French Ambassador,
M. Louis Roche. There were elbow-
length gloves shown with birds poised on
them ; many long, slender umbrellas and
parasols (£2O and upwards); hand-made
flowers with the fashionably “wilted”
look; diaphanous evening-stoles, miles
long and loaded with cabbage-roses;
drop-pearl embroidery even on belts ; and
handbags of the softest, most delicate
leather.
Mrs. H. J. Buchanan, wife of Rear-
Admiral H. J. Buchanan, who is the
newly-appointed Flag-Officer-in-Charge,
Eastern Australian Area, is a charming
addition to Sydney society from Mel-
bourne, where the family has been living
for the past 18 months. Photo by Dayne.
Opening of the Italian Film Festival
at the Paris Theatre, the brightest event
of the week, brought color and glamor
—and parking problems—to a part of
Sydney that probably has never seen
anything like it before. Where Oxford-
street begins there were crowds of
Italians and others to watch the arrival
of women in lovely evening-gowns and
men in formal-dress, all guests of the
Consul-General for Italy, Signor Silvio
Daneo, and Signora Daneo at the Aus-
tralian premiere of “Carosello Napole-
tano” (“Neapolitan Fantasy”).
The Diplomatic Corps was prominent,
and several Federal Cabinet Ministers
and their wives were among the guests.
It was a gaily-lit, well-dressed spectacle,
with a throng of animated, chatting first-
nighters in the small foyer after the
show waiting for their cars to pick them
up. The picture itself was charming,
rich in color, symbolism and song,
though probably too subtle at times to
be popular film-food for average film-
fans.
ft ft ft
The ex-students of Loreto (Kirribilli)
opened the season for school-dances
during the week, when their ball in aid
of the school bursary-fund drew over
700 friends to the Trocadero. Debutantes
were presented to Rear-Admiral H. J.
Buchanan by matron-of-honor, Mrs.
J. T. Ritchard, whose daughter Louise
was among the debs. President Miss
Eileen Crews, assisted by Dr. Tess
Carmichael and Mrs. Tom Bateman,
vice-presidents, received the guests.
Official guests included Mr. Justice de
Baun and Mrs. de Batin, Mr. Justice
Clancy and Mrs. Clancy, Mr. and Mrs.
J. L. Kelly, Mr. and Mrs. St. Clair, Mr.
Tony Crowe (vSt. Aloysius) with Miss
Shirley Colless, Miss Therese Storman
(Monte Sant’ Angelo), Mr. and Mrs.
Birrell Brewer (Rose Bay), Miss V.
Hoban (St. Vincent’s), Miss Marea Sten-
mark (Dominicans), Mrs. B. Hatfield
(Ursulines), Miss Barbara Hallett (Brigi-
dines), Miss Marie Rubie (St. Scholas-
ticas), Mrs. A. F. O’Rourke
(Parramatta).
* ft ft
The Red Cross Easter Ball, which is
scheduled for the Trocadero on April 14,
should give people a happy opportunity
of doing something for the organisation
which has done such wonderful work
during the flood-disasters. The ball
promises to be something very glamorous.
The Governor will be there, and decora-
tions are to be worn. There are to be
prizes for the most beautifully-
decorated tables, either with flowers or
along some original lines, and there is
to be an attractive floor-show, including
Miss Magda Neild singing her “Cooee”
song. Mrs. A. L. Walters is president
of the committee, and tickets are avail-
able from Mrs. E. Pointing, of Point
Piper.
☆ ft ☆
Another important social function at
Easter-time is the Town and Country Ball
to be held on Wednesday, April 6, in
the Rainbow Room of the Hotel Aus-
tralia. The proceeds of this ball are in
aid of the Smith Family and tickets are
obtainable from Mrs. F. S. Lynch
at two-guineas each.
ft ft ☆
Country towns have a treat in store
for them with the forthcoming tour of
the Independent Theatre’s “Pygmalion,”
which starts with a first-performance at
Canberra on March 31 in the presence of
the Governor-General and Lady Slim,
at which Miss Doris Fitton, 0.8. E., and
Miss Dorothy Helmrich, president of the
Arts Council, will be present. The tour
is being conducted under the auspices of
the Arts Council, whose Travelling
Theatre Unit, enlarged and improved, will
be used by the company.
ft ft ft
A glance around any dance-floor, even
early in the season as it is, indicates that
the 1920’5-trend is gaining favor in
dance-wear. Hair-styles are reminiscent
of the “bob” and the “shingle,” dangling
ear-rings and ropes of beads are once
more the fashion, and there are quite a
number of knee-high dresses to be seen
(though these mostly stand out stiffly
instead of hanging limp as in the
’twenties). “Camisole - tops” and
“slipped-waistlines” are not infrequent;
so probably, before the season is out, we
will see armlets with handkerchiefs
stuck through them, bandeaux round the
forehead, and even that weird fashion
of 1928 of a floor-length transparent
skirt over a slip which stops short at the
knee.
ft ft ft
One of the things to be looked for-
ward to eagerly this year is the tour of the
Old Vic Company, with principals
Katharine Hepburn and Robert Help-
mann. They are to arrive in Sydney on
May 6 and start their tour at the Tivoli
on May 14 with “The Merchant of
Venice.” Other plays in the repertoire
will be “The Taming of the Shrew” and
“Measure for Measure.”
ft ft ft
One heart at least leapt up when it
beheld a news-item stating that the price
of tea may fall because of a drop in the
market in Ceylon. However, it leapt
down again when it remembered that the
last predicted fall in the price of a com-
modity (i.e., electricity) was swiftly fol-
lowed by a retraction by its purveyors
(i.e., the Sydney County Council) as soon
as an excuse offered (i.e., the increased
margin-payments). And so it proved.
Coffee is to fall in price but not tea.
ft ft ft
Whether the majority of people who
view it are approving or not, there is no
doubt that the Blake Prize for Religious
Art Exhibition is one of the most con-
sistently popular shows in Sydney.
Mark Foy’s Gallery was never without
a goodly crowd of visitors every day the
exhibition was on, and all seemed very
interested in the pictures. One notable
feature this year was the absence of
paintings of “The Flight into Egypt,”
formerly one of the most consistently
popular themes. Several of the paintings
have been sold, including first-prize
winner “St. John and Scenes from the
Apocalypse,” by Donald Friend, which
the Queensland Art Gallery has bought.


the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Prices from
25'- to 90'-
Gives Character
to your Writing
C 0 * w * » STEWART ft CO. LTD. lOROOW
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ATHOL GEORGE TAYLOR formerly
of Rozelle in the State of New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that GWENDO-
LINE AGNES TAYLOR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3610 of 1954
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and your adultery and is asking
the Court to exercise its discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on the 15th April 1955
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from A. R. M. GIBSON &
MACPHILLAMY, Solicitors, 43 Phillip
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ssyott
/fast/
0
&a»
S
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
KB-IS7-1S
SUNDRY
SHOWS
MELBOURNE MOOMBA
The lawns and paths of the
Melbourne Botanic Gardens
were packed with 110,000
people infected with the
Moomba fever for the special
Moomba Festival presentation
of Music for the People.
Even the ducks on the lake
were awed into silence when
Virginia Paris, the contralto of
“South Pacific,” raised her
robust voice in four negro
spirituals, which had to be
several times repeated.
Demanding encores appar-
ently is a manifestation of the
Moomba spirit, and at the free
concert at the Town Hall there
were loud expressions of regret
that pianist Henri Penn, the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
and the Royal Philharmonics
didn’t have the decency, or
stamina, to play Beethoven’s
Choral Fantasia twice over.
Sylvia Fisher gave a glorious
account of herself in “Dove
Sono,” from the “Marriage of
Figaro,” and “Softly Sighs” from
“Der Freischutz.”
At about the same time,
Henley-on-the-Yarra was ablaze
with fireworks and the Treasury
Gardens were more-or-less
ablaze with pictures. Earlier in
the day, Flemington staged a
Moomba Handicap, over which
some punters lost a lot of
money and others made some,
and on the Swan-street bridge
swimming-champs., taking their
lives in their hands, were making
Moomba dives into the Yarra.
Moomba decorations were
darling along the tramlines,
and the trams were pouring into
the city even more
tightly than ever with human
sardines.
Moomba dancing in the
streets and on the river-banks
continued until after midnight
and in some places until day-
light, and upwards of 300,000
people watched in silence the
Moomba float-parade, which
included Spike Jones and his
band of City Slickers in three
cars and an old firecart, and
Miss Beverley Stewart, the
Queen of Moomba, looking the
epitome of beauty in an
enormous petal drawn by a
white swan.
Lud Mayor Selleck said that
Moomba had brought Mel-
bourne something that had
never been experienced before,
and he wasn’t referring to the
120 drunks in the city watch-
house on Monday morning—a
watchhouse record.
♦l* <* ❖
On the intellectual side of the
Moomba business Australian
writers got a look-in with the
Book Fair at the Town Hall. It
was a well-managed parade of
Australian books and authors,
with writers from Henry Lawson
to Nevil Shute looking down on
their works from their portraits ;
Australian authors talked about
themselves and one another from
a rostrum to crowds of kids
and their parents, and small girls
ran around collecting the auto-
graphs of anybody who looked
like a literary lion.
A remarkable array of pro-
ductions from Australian
publishing-houses, aboriginal art
from Arnhem Land and the back
of Alice, and original MSS. in
Henry Handel Richardson’s
handwriting were intermingled
with books and documents from
the Canberra National Library
and priceless treasures from the
collection of the Public Library
in Melbourne. No fewer than
240 Australian authors were
represented.
The National Gallery did its
bit with a collection of contem-
porary paintings from the
National Galleries of Australia,
all of which seem to have pur-
chased the same sort of pictures.
Three Dobells, half a dozen
Russell Drysdales and two
delicate landscapes by Arthur
Boyd were the most distin-
guished.
Artbursts
Landscapes
Two practitioners of the
straightforward landscape, H. A.
Hanke and Rufus Morris, are
showing at David Jones’s,
Sydney.
Despite all that has been
written against it, there never
has been anything wrong with
painting the countryside as it is
and as everyone sees it, the
eternal appeal of the red earth
and the green gumtrees. And if
one does look for something
more more intense, more
dramatic, more lyrical, more
personal—than what everybody
sees, it is still better to paint
honestly and painstakingly as
these artists do than, for the sake
of fashion, fake a personality
that pretends to see everything
upside-down.
Hanke’s exhibit, as usual, is
wide and varied, with flower-
pieces, a nude, city landscapes
and reminiscences of his trip to
Spain ; but he seems at his best
—probably because he is paint
ing what he likes best —in the
unpretentious landscapes of gum-
trees, rivers and bush roads, such
as “The Winding Road,” “The
Road to Talbingo” and “Tumut
River.”
Rufus Morris’s watercolors
continue to be so exceedingly
competent in drawing and in
handling of wash and so appeal-
ing in choice of subject-matter
that one wonders, as before, why
they do not evoke a warmer
response: the answer must be
that art and life are something
more than this bright, brisk
dexterity.
Still, they are all very pleasant
up to a point; and in a group of
snow-scenes, particularly “The
Perisher” and “Snow Storm from
Grey Mare Hut” with its ragged
heath struggling through the
white earth and the pebbly creek
winding down through the drifts
from the heights, Morris has
gone a long way beyond that
point. It is a pity that the N. S.
Wales National Gallery did not
acquire this latter painting
instead of leaving it to be
snapped-up by a private buyer.
Gallery Purchases
It is good to see the old
familiars of Australian art,
Streeton and Tom Roberts, out
for an airing at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery’s exhibition of
its purchases and acquisitions
for the year; the more so as in
the next court are a dozen
Gruners lent by the family of
the late Saul Symonds.
None of the three “old
masters” looks any the worse
for time. The Gruners, among
a standard set of lateish land-
scapes, include an unusual
stretch of Harbor water glimmer-
ing in misty morning light, an
exquisite flowerpiece of trans-
lucent cream roses, and another,
almost equally fine and richer
in color, of pansies and daffo-
dils. The best Tom Roberts is
a strongly-painted “Holiday
Sketch at Coogee”; and the
Streeton is from his first and
best period when there was no
suspicion of formula —a very
lovely seapiece with its figures
in red-and-grey against the dark-
blue silky breakers.
If there is a modern work to
compare with the enduring
quality of these, the likeliest
candidate is Arthur Murch’s
gentle lyric of women and a
child on the white sands; and
there is also a Lance Solomon
with much of his typical force
and feeling in its ragged, time-
beaten gumtree.
Other worth-while, if not
outstanding, purchases are
John Baird’s faithful and solid
bit of summery landscape, Hay-
ward Veal’s view of foreign
parts in which he has escaped
into a pleasant blue sky from
his previous monotones, a
flowerpiece by Alison Reh-
fisch, a Fijian girl by Mary
Edwards and two Dobells from
New Guinea —though a much
better choice might have been
made from Dobell’s exhibition.
There are also a graceful
Bonnington, a wishy-washy
Bunny, and various oddments
of abstraction.
Stage and Music
Sylvia Fisher
After eight years’ absence,
soprano Sylvia Fisher returned
to the Melbourne Town Hall
platform the other evening. In
a programme of Italian operatic
excerpts, panels of songs by
Wolf and Schubert and an excit-
ing series of old American songs
by Aaron Copland, she gave a
convincing demonstration that
there was plenty of justification
for overseas critics calling her
another Lotte Lehmann.
The width of Miss Fisher’s
vocal range, her lovely voice,
the extraordinary ease with
which she produced it and the
warm sensitiveness of her feel-
ing had such a deep effect on
the half-empty house that its
spontaneous applause made it
sound like a full one.
The soprano was particularly
impressive in her Schubert. The
delicacy of her touch in “Love
Has Lied to Me” was only
equalled by the way she treated
“The Harp” of Wolf.
There was the same quality in
the playing of Henri Penn on the
piano.
❖ ❖ »J
“Der Rosenkavalier”
Bereft of all action and acting
and lacking the assistance of
period-costume and -scenery,
concert-versions of opera are at
best pale reflections of their
originals ; in the case of Richard
Strauss’s opera about love and
infidelity in 18th-century Vienna,
performed by the Sydney
Orchestra under Joseph Post,
with Sylvia Fisher in the role of
the Marschallin, abridgment of
the score was a further dis-
advantage.
This comedy of manners leans
heavily on visual appeal. It is
one of the rare cases where a
composer had a superb libretto
to yvork on, with a spate of
romantic situations in settings to
match. But the writing for the
solo voice is often too dry,
though there are compensations
in other directions: there are
lovely harmonic effects as back-
ground to concerted numbers,
and the orchestral color is rich,
as may be expected of Strauss.
One of the best things in the
work is the trio for dramatic-,
lyric- and coloratura-soprano in
the third act —a piece of strik-
ing originality in conception and.
execution.
Sylvia Fisher, as the mildly
naughty wife of the absent field-
marshal, used her dramatic-
soprano with artistry, unleashing
it to full power only when the
exigency of orchestral weight
demanded it.
Miss Fisher must have been
agreeably surprised at the
support in feminine voices given
her. Margaret Elkins nicely
held her own in such good
company, and her high-quality
mezzo stood up well to the heavy
work allotted her as Octavian.
Betty Prentice sang spiritedly and
accurately the songs of Sophie,
and Iris Moxley made full use
of the only good aria allotted to
Annina.
Raymond Beatty, overstriving
for comedy-effect as the Baron
Ochs, succeeded only in making
a series of staccato barkings
which quite vitiated any reson-
ance and too often spoiled his
diction.
Talkies
“Return to Paradise” (May-
fair) : Gary Cooper can still
make a fair fist of the role of he-
man lover, the girl in this case
being a Polynesian, The popula-
tion of the tropic isle on which
she lives, and on which the
roamer Cooper casts-up, is
cursed with a puritanical
missionary with dictatorial ten-
dencies ; Cooper’s manhandling
of two of the tough boys seeking
to discipline him inevitably steers
him into the role of the island’s
deliverer. For the rest, hips
oscillate more violently than do
the p,alms, and the lovely sun-
drenched atoll on which the
scenes were shot is itself a
heavenly sight for the rain-
drenched dweller along Aus-
tralia’s eastern littoral.


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
Now in South Australia on his
trip from Perth to Adelaide per
pushbike, “lifts,” bus-rides and
other means, Peter Bladen
engagingly describes the places
he visits, setting the present-day
scene and its people against the
historical background, and tell-
ing of what many of these places
once were and of the more
picturesque of their old-time
characters, and always with a
warm affection for this “timeless
land.” Bearded on the trip, he is
taken for anything from an ogre
(by small nippers) to Henry
Lawson (this because of his
poetry).
STREAKY BAY TO PORT
LINCOLN (continued)
THERE were ranges grey in
the distance, and the
country was improving. At
Mt. Drummond we passed
a homestead attractive with red
paint and firs, the timber changed
to thick-boled eucalypts, a hill
shaped like Fujiyama developed
into a mountain-ridge beyond
Lake Greenly, and the Marble
Range lay ahead.
Warrow (“loud voice of the
storm,” the sound of spirits rush-
ing down the gullies) appears in
large print on the map, but
consists of a post-office at the
crossroads and several home-
steads in green paddocks, while
near-by Coulta, in small print,
is larger, with quite a cluster of
homes, pleasant vines and a
triangle of firs about a water-
pump.
Past beautiful groves of trees,
we came to the fine old buildings
of Warrow homestead, and the
road wound on through bush
scarred by fire, with nestling
farmhouses.
The ranges rose before us, and
at the coast we could see a net-
work of bays and inlets. From
Wangary (a place of corroborees,
preserving the meaning of two
native words, “to talk” and “a
place of crows”) we looked over
to Coffin Bay, which some people
contend is shaped like a coffin,
and others that it was where a
shipload of coffins sank, but
which was named less romanti-
cally by Flinders after Vice-
Admiral Sir Isaac Coffin.
Over the ranges, and back to
bitumen road, we passed the
Wanilla forest-reserve, and Big
Swamp, Coomunga and Little
Swamp, where a distant convent
became a golf clubhouse, and
beyond the Duck Ponds, through
pleasant countryside, climbed to
the summit of Winter’s Hill.
There is a lookout on the
summit, from which can be seen
the township below, and the bay
fringed with islands, like flat,
roughly rounded cakes dotted
about on a silver tray—one of
the world’s finest harbors it is
claimed, despite Colonel Light’s
contention that it was “decidedly
no place for merchant ships”—
the peninsulas, and the lakes, the
Duck Ponds, and Sleaford
Mere, and, towards the interior,
landscapes of patchwork plains
and distant ranges, with a fore-
ground of rugged rocks.
It is usually windy on the
summit, but the views are so
glorious that one can only
surmise Lady Franklin must
have been a little out of breath
through walking when she com-
mented on “the tapne but not
ugly country,” though Dr.
Harvey, who accompanied her
on the walk up Winter’s Hill,
was in high spirits and
descended “in antique minuet
style.”
The natives had long known
Port Lincoln as Colyaneela (or
Kallinyalla, “a place of beautiful
fresh water”—it is still noted for
its spa-waters), and the French
navigators were to name it
Champagny, but the name
bestowed by Flinders has
survived.
Flinders is said not only to
have first pleaded, in his book
A Voyage to Terra Australis,
for the adoption of the name
“Australia,” but also to have
added 240 names to the Aus-
tralian map. They commemorate
famous people, natural features,
or, as in the case of Backstairs
Passage leading to the Pages in
Antechamber Bay, /display his
sense of humor, but he was so
impressed with Port Lincolh on
his visit in 1802 in the “deplor-
able, crazy vessel” the Investi-
gator that he honored this region
with names dear to his childhood.
Lincoln, appropriately enough
a hybrid word meaning “deep
pool,” commemorates his native
Lincolnshire. Sleaford Bay, the
islands of Sibsey, Stickney and
Spilsby, Kirkby, Reevesby,
Boston and Bicker, Surfleet
Point and Stamford Hill were
named after Lincolnshire towns,
Cape Donnington after his birth-
place, and there are many others.
Thorny Passage and Cape
Catastrophe and several of the
islands were named from more
tragic circumstances. Mr. John
Thistle (the master of Flinders’s
ship), Midshipman Taylor and
six able-seamen were sent ashore
for water, but failed to return.
A search-party found the cutter
upturned, but no trace of
survivors. An inscription on a
sheet of copper was left at
Memory Cove, and islands were
named in honor of the men who
perished.
It was on this occasion that
the British Flag was first
unfurled in these unknown
waters. The searchers had each
been provided with a flag with
which to signal any sign of the
tragedy. To young Midshipman
Franklin was entrusted the Union
Jack, and it is said that he was
so keen to be the first to unfurl
the flag that he mistook a crack
in a distant rock for a floating
corpse.
Thistle Island has had an
interesting history. Early
whalprs residing there are said
to have sighted the ruins of an
old hut, and a stone apparently
marked with a date in the 1790’5.
There had been early residents
on Kangaroo Island, and sealers
and whalers are said to have lived
on the islands near Port Lincoln
about the year 1810.
A report by Captain Hart, in
1831, told of various lonely
inhabitants of Thistle Island and
the islands of Spencer’s Gulf.
One of these was a man reputed
to be a murderer, who was living
with two native wives in a com-
fortable stone house with his own
gardens and crops, pigs and goats
and poultry.
Perhaps the visitations of such
characters, and outrages com-
mitted by them against the
natives, would explain the later
animosity when white men
settled on the mainland.
There are two nameless graves
on Boston Island, marking the
resting-places of Dr. Harvey and
his wife. Dr. Harvey was store-
keeper, harbormaster, treasurer
and magistrate in the first few
years of the settlement. His
young wife, a gentle and unselfish
woman and a gifted musician,
had been brought to the colony
for the sake of her health. On
an excursion to Boston Island in
1842 she expressed the wish to
be buried there when she died.
It was only a few weeks before
her wish was carried out, and her
husband did not long survive
her. He is remembered because
the Bettongia lesueur harveyi,
“a variety of bandicoot,” was
named after him.
Port Lincoln was one of the
places to be con-
sidered as the site
for a capital when
the first settlement
of South Aus-
tralia was being
undertaken.
Colonel Light
submitted a report
which upset its
chances, but,
although Adelaide
was selected, a settlement was
begun at Port Lincoln in the
following year.
Lady Franklin, whose husband
had advanced from the rank of
midshipman under Flinders to
become the Governor of Tas-
mania, later to be lost in the
Polar wastes, must have followed
with interest the settling of the
coast along which her husband
had journeyed with the great
navigator. She was an energetic
woman, having been the first
white woman to climb Mount
Wellington, and to journey over-
land from Melbourne to Sydney.
She had travelled the world and
was to leave to posterity 200
journals of her journeys, and
2000 letters.
Lady Franklin, whose journal
is in the Commonwealth
National Library at Canberra,
visited Port Lincoln, and left
an interesting account. The
only ship available provided
uncomfortable accommodation.
“It was intolerable, the more
so as the captain did not pretend
to deny it was infested with
bugs.” The hold was fitted-up
as her bedroom, and she had to
endure not only its “wide and
breezy gaps,” the smell of cock-
roaches and fustiness, and things
which walked across her in the
night, but also toothache.
At Port Lincoln she found a
cluster of 20 or 30 houses, and
one all-purpose public-building.
The harbormaster fired a salute,
breaking his gun-carriage in the
process.
An idea which had entered
Lady Franklin’s mind became the
object of her mission. She
wanted to erect a monument to
Flinders on the spot from which
he had made his original observa-
tions. With a small party she
climbed Stamford Hill (the native
Kaityaiba), through wild and
rugged bush, and after a great
deal of trouble the exact site was
calculated.
A white rag was needed to be
tied to a post marking the posi-
tion, and Lady Franklin, without
turning, addressing her com-
panion Eleanour, said: “Give me
your handkerchief, my dear,”
extending her hand, but it was
Mrs. Blackburn, the young bride
of the captain, and not Eleanour
who was standing behind her,
and the wrong handkerchief was
seized in error.
When everyone tittered she
turned, to discover her mistake.
But Mrs. Blackburn was covered
with “blushes and pleased looks”
over the little affair, and on
returning to Hobart Lady Jane
sent her another, “of surpassing
fineness.... in room of the one
which she so obligingly allowed
to be raised upon Stamford
Hill.”
A memorial bearing a plaque
was later erected, and for many
years the townspeople made an
annual pilgrimage to Stamford
Hill, with shortwinded speeches
on the summit, but nowadays the
pilgrimage has lapsed. Many
migrants have commented on our
lack of demonstration of any-
thing concerning national spirit.
We are not prone to gather at
front-fences to chat in the even-
ings, and only inebriates and
youngsters walk along the streets
singing. Most of our entertain-
ment is organised; and it seems
a pity that a natural enthusiasm
for such occasions as this has
not survived the years.
Port Lincoln is now a busy
and prosperous settlement, with
a pleasant shopping-centre facing
the bay, children’s playgrounds,
a fish-cannery with a machine
for scaling fish, and even a
factory equipped with a plant
which sucks eggs, and there are
feet-warmers in one of the
picture-theatres.
The town also has an interest
in its past, and the local archives,
established for many years, hold
invaluable records of the early
days. I was so excited at finding
a facsimile of Lady Franklin’s
Journal that I became confused
and told someone I had been
reading Lady Hamilton’s Diary
—but that would have been a
different story.
One day I came across an
article in “Our Pioneer Column,”
with a misprint typical of many
in our small-town publications:
.... and then the Gold Rush came,
suddenly, excitingly, over night. Mr.
Spalding left with many others, witn
hopes high, and visions of a fortune
somewhere in the distance. Fat was
against it, however.
A Port Lincoln relic of interest
is a coach which once belonged
to Byron, and which was brought
to Australia by Lady Charlotte
Bacon. It was bought at auction
by a local resident, and used as
a hen-rest, later to be sold as
junk. The springs are now
incorporated in a carrier’s lorry,
while other fragments rust,
forgotten, in backyards—parts of
the coach which carried Lord
Byron and the lady he addressed
in his verses “To lanthe.”
The waterworks-office is on
the site of the old jail, and you
can still see traces of walls topped
with broken glass. Tourist-buses
run out to many of the beauty
spots, passing the old home-
steads, the ruins of early forts, a
memorial on the site where
Flinders dug the first well, and
where turnips weighing 171 b. are
now grown, and at Sleaford
beach, the wreck of the Mary
Ellen, only the ribs of her stays
left now, like whalebones stick-
ing up from the sand.
There are beautiful bracing


mornings, with scattered clouds,
and grey-winged seagulls taking
their ease on the green lawns by
the bay, and at sunset the hills
are aflame.
One of my visits was to the
Church of England Rectory. The
rector, reading through old
registers in the lumber-room, had
discovered that the church was
approaching its centenary. We
looked through the records
together. The main occupations
listed in the early days seemed
to be those of “shepherd” and
“gentleman.” The rector sug-
gested that I should accompany
him to Cummins over the week-
end. He said that the Cummins
records were interesting. At
first, out there, deaths from
“natural circumstances” averaged
about one in ten.
So at the weekend we went to
Cummins, following the turn-off
near the Wanilla forest-reserve,
through Edilillie (“two springs
close together”) and beyond
Cummins, north through Yee-
lanna and Kaldow to Karkoo.
These are farming communities
and the settlements are small. At
Karkoo there are only the home-
steads and a hall. I was told:
“No one else has been to
Karkoo,” and was asked to put
it on the map.
There is little to see when you
go there, but the people are very
friendly, and I re-
member the flagons
of wine, wonderful
meals and cheery
fires, the gracious
homes, vases of
beautiful red roses,
and our kindly hosts
of a day. These
alone make ICarkoo
worthy of being on
the map.
Cummins is more
of a township. One
of the shop-fronts
bore a notice, “Closed —firm
gone bung,” but the rest of the
town looked fairly prosperous.
Another visit was to the home
of Jim Veitch the fisherman.
Zane Grey and many other
notables have fished in these
waters, and Mr. Veitch has
broken world-records with some
of his catches. His “den” is
almost a museum, with books
and papers and photos, the jaws
of sharks, and crab-claws, star-
fish, and many drawers of shells,
and even 18 specimens of
nautilus on one of the shelves.
He has found many shells
while dredging, and has aimed at
a “museum collection.” It is
probably the best collection of
South Australian shells in exist-
ence, except in the seas.
There are many rare and
beautiful specimens, the Pervi-
cocia helence, a small minaret
named after his own daughter;
beautifully patterned chitons;
the pink spendrillia ; the world’s
largest clancalus; and cowries
found nowhere else, including
“the living fossil.”
There are beautiful “painted
ladies,” Calanaitis dijecta, the
finest of the cockles, Panopea
australis, Ephippodonte mc-
dougalli, with a lash-fine serrated
edge, -like a tiny lace doily, as
small as a white-winged moth,
all illustrating the artistry of
humble creatures.
There are magnificent hinged
shells, the hammer-oyster and
razor-fish, Austroglyphis lincoln-
ensis, like a coolie-hat with a
hole at the top, and
Belchlamys aktinos,
“the painter’s scallop,”
with etchings of tiny
Fujiyamas, white on
a purple background.
We talked about the
ghost-shark, with its
strange iridescent
beauty, and about the
breeding habits of the
white-pointer. Reversing the
usual aim, Mr. Veitch said that it
was his ambition to catch not the
largest white-pointer yet but the
smallest, since no one has yet
caught one in an early stage of
growth.
His wife, apologising because
it had been her golf-day, pre-
pared us a feast for supper. Mr.
Veitch’s role is that of a fisher-
man. and the shells are a sideline.
but his work is of great scientific
value.
On the drive home, perhaps
because it was a beautiful night
and because we had been marvel-
ling at wonders of Nature
peculiar to our waters, we ended-
up agreeing that Australia is a
wonderful place.
I wondered what Lady Jane
and some of the other pioneers
would have thought of it all if
they had had the same transport-
facilities, and if they could see
what changes we have wrought
in their wilderness.
PORT LINCOLN TO
WHYALLA
Ghosts in plenty about the world
Step lightly here and there ;
They take a trip in the chimney-
smoke,
They cough in an empty chair .
—John Shaw Neilson.
ONE day I went for a drive
with Colin Thiele, the Port
Lincoln poet, to Kir ton Point
(Punnu Mudla). We went look-
ing for the grave of Frank
Hawson, the first white settler to
die at the hands of the natives
in this district. Originally he
was buried at a spot where a road
had been surveyed, and the body
was later re-interred in a square
overlooking the harbor. An
obelisk bears an inscription to
his memory, closing with the
words: “Although only a lad he
died a hero.”
Early visitors had commented
on the friendliness of the natives,
but there seems little doubt that
many injustices were committed
against them. Eyre, their friend
and upholder, who arrived in
Port Lincoln three days before
the murder, and camped not far
from where it took place, wrote
that the position of the natives
placed them under so many dis-
advantages, subjected them to so
many injuries, and tempted them
with so many provocations, that
it was a matter of surprise, not
that they sometimes were guilty
of crime, but that they committed
it so rarely.
It was said that the greatest sin
of the West Coast natives was
that they did not discriminate
betwfeen the whites who had
treated them well and those who
treated them badly. Francis
Tapley Hawson, a boy of 12,
was camped at Little Swamp
with one of his brothers, mind-
ing sheep. In those days children
were often shepherds at the age
of eigh # t, and their schoolroom
was the shade of a gum, roofed
with the heavens, and carpeted
with grass, while kindly
neighbors were their teachers.
On October 5, 1840, while
alone in this “schoolroom of
nature,” the lad was surrounded
by natives demanding food, and
when they endeavored to force
their way into the hut he was
speared.
His death did not take place
for several days, but the natives
learned that, contrary to one of
their superstitions, the white
people were not immortal, and
other victims followed . . .
On another occasion I went to
Stinking Creek looking for shells.
At one of the tourist-agencies I
asked how I would recognise the
outlet of the creek along the
beach, and was told: “By the
smell!” The road winds along
the sea-front cliffs to the turn-
off to Happy Valley (the native
“Wartha”).
Tod, the surveyor, after whom
the Tod River was named, lead-
ing the party which explored the
area prior to settlement, in
March, 1839, wrote: “We landed
on a mountain in front of a
beautiful vale, which we named
Happy Valley, and hoisted the
British flag under a salute from
the vessel.” The gunner who
fired the salute blew out one of
his eyes and removed one of his
fingers.
In the early days the Hawsons
sold the Happy Valley estate
for a cow, which they are
reported to have lost on the way
home. There are old-established
farmhouses there now, and
market-gardens, with little
runnels of water and green hill-
sides, haunts dear to the children
bred there, and in a sheltered
place there is the quiet cemetery.
There were early schemes for
the education of the natives, but
in 1850, disturbed at the prevail-
ing state of tension between
whites and natives, and the
relapse of native children, once
educated, into the habits and
customs of their tribes, Arch-
deacon Hale, an officiating
minister in Adelaide, decided to
devote himself, without personal
remuneration, to the superin-
tendence of a training-institution
for the aborigines at Port
Lincoln.
The first clergyman solicited
to remain at Port Lincoln had
declared: Ex nihil nihil fit
(“You can’t make anything out
of nothing”), but Hale was made
of sterner stuff. He sought Gov-
ernment aid for his project, and
gathered a number of natives on
Boston Island. When there was
trouble ,in securing drinking-
water, he requested that an area
to the north should be declared
a native-reserve for the establish-
ment of a farming and village
settlement.
Oh, think, Sir [he wrote to the
Colonial Secretary], that a few years
ago these poor expatriated natives
walked as free and unfettered as the
winds over this noble country which
we now dwell in: and called it all
their own. Think of the vast amount
of Treasure which had already been
poured into the Government coffers
from the sale of these lands from
which they have been driven and cast
out. Surely, Sir, when you weigh
these considerations in your mind you
cannot for a moment grudge to throw
back again to these miserable poverty-
stricken beings the small pittance now
prayed for from the vast spoils which
Her Majesty’s Government have
become possessed of at their expense.
The request was granted, and
Mr. Spalding [referred to earlier],
making bricks by hand, is said
to have built the church, and 50
to 60 natives’ cottages. Within
18 months there were 46 natives
at the mission, undertaking
brick-making and pastoral
pursuits. A visitor in 1856
wrote:
When I saw the adult members of
your flock pursuing the avocations of
the farm, conscious of the self-respect
which a man owes to himself as a
rational being, well clothed, by means
of their own earnings, quiet, orderly,
deferential, but not servile, supplying
the place of my own countrymen
(without their vices) in shearing, with
the plough, with the sickle, as
shepherds, standing out in strong
relief from the wild tribes around
them, I then felt that the objection
was for ever silenced that the
aboriginal is not to be reclaimed. He
stood before me as an example of a
good and useful member of society.
The little church is still stand-
ing, with its old bell and wooden
cross, and a loft where the clergy-
man is said to have lived, built
with a double-chimney serving
fireplaces both in the loft and
the hall below.
One day, borrowing the key
from the tourist-agency, I rode
out along the coast road, through
the little township of North
Shields, to the site of the
Poonindie Mission. There are a
few cottages there now, sur-
rounded by farmlands, with
various ruined buildings near by,
but the chapel is still used for
services.
Over the main door is
inscribed: “Natives Institution
founded Sept. 10, 1850.” It is a
quaint building, with iron bands
about the stonework, holding it
together, and the chimney, of
course, is the only church-
chimney in Australia.
I climbed the narrow stairs to
the loft. The townspeople still
tell of a schoolmaster who is
supposed to have suicided in the
loft, and of a young girl disap-
pointed in love who drowned
herself near by. I entered the
loft with an appropriate feeling
of awe, and, sure enough, there
were skeletons on the old floor-
boards, but they were the bones
of pigeons which had lived and
died there.
The windows were clouded or
boarded over, and the loft was
deserted, save for a musty smell
and its little skeletons.
While dreaming of the past I
nearly fell through the sagging
floorboards to the chapel below.
At times, apart from being used
as living-quarters, the loft had
been used as a granary. It
is an eerie place, with creakings
which sound like footsteps, and
I didn’t feel brave enough not
to breathe deeply when I later
returned to the sunlight.
Archdeacon Hale left the
mission in 1856, to return to
England on the death of his
father, but he was later to be
Bishop of Brisbane and Perth,
and to be a founder of
secondary-education in Western
Australia: his memory is per-
petuated there in the name of
Hale School.
The mission was not a station
on which the natives did nothing
but “show the whites of their
eyes and sing hymns.” It
flourished for many years,
though the establishment was
bitterly attacked by outsiders.
Good management had resulted
in the production of such
splendid crops of wheat and
yields of wool that people
thought the land must be
extremely rich, and wouldn’t be
satisfied until it had been
resumed for farm-settlement.
It had been self-supporting for
30 years, and the unsuccessful
attempts to spoil it had included
a plan for the making of a race-
course in the middle of the
station, but at last, in 1895, the
board agreed to surrender the
lease to the Government.
It is sad to think that Bishop
Hale, who had returned to
England, lived to hear of the
surrender. He died in the same
year, as a tablet in the parish
church at Alderley, in Wiltshire,
records. He was Bishop of the
Church in Australia for nearly
30 years ; but people who visit
the little church with a chimney
remember that he also devoted
himself to an endeavor which
made possible a better way of life
for his dark-skinned brethren in
a locality which had become
notorious for the lack of
harmony between the settlers
and the original inhabitants.
At Port Lincoln I could have
caught a boat and arrived in
Adelaide overnight, but, even
though I felt lazy, I had not yet
completed my walkabout, and a
long road lay before me, along
the west coast to Whyalla.
It was a lonely road, and
another mail-bus was leaving.
The temptation proved too
strong for me, and once again
the bicycle was packed on the
roof of the bus, and I said good-
bye to Port Lincoln and the
little world it has gathered to
itself, a world that echoes in its
street-names the vast world
beyond the horizons, paying
homage to Dublin and London,
Liverpool, Edinburgh,
Gloucester, Dorset and Oxford,
and Washington, Boston and
Baltimore, and to such men as
Napoleon, Thackeray, Lytton
and Scott.
There were quite a few
passengers on the bus. The
road wound along the shore, up
and down the low cliffs, past
Happy Valley and on towards
misty headlands. At North
Shields we passed the old Wheat-
sheaf Hotel. The water was
shining and the hillslopes were
green. By rich, ploughed
paddocks, nestling homesteads
and rumpled hills flecked with
trees, we journeyed to Louth, a
quiet bay with a jetty and grain-
stores, and on to Tumby Bay.
The approaches to Tumby Bay
are swampy and the buildings are
scattered, some in ruins, but
there are large stores and two
substantial hotels, a war
memorial, and another memorial,
the only one in Australia with a
“Bratteniser” on it. It com-
memorates Robert Bratten, an
Overseer of Works, who
originated the Brattenising
system of road-making. The
Bratteniser, slightly resembling
a small hand-plough, has rusted
with the weather.
A few miles further jn we
deviated to Lipson, a settlement
with a hall and store, an old
stone church, and several home-
steads. In the locality is a mine
with glistening white walls. I
believe the hands of the miners
are velvet-soft, and they are
liable to fall on their faces on
the slippery floors. It is a talc-
mine.
The road led on through
Warratta Vale, by paddocks
where piles of stones had been
combed from the soil, and where
eight-horse teams are still in
use ... the Lady Kinnaird Tanks;
the tank-sheds built from timbers
of the barque Lady Kinnaird,
wrecked off Cape Burr in
1880 . . . Arno Bay . . . Cleve,
well laid-out, with centre-
oContinued on next page )


Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Al! types of General Insurance
Directors:
sm VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman).
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman).
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE.
A. C. MAITLAND,
Managing Director.
N. E. MANIOiN
Manager.
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
Research in Industry
No. 11 of a Series
The Qlne of Qolour
When a drop of ink falls on a piece of blotting paper, the pigment
stays near the centre while the solvent spreads out in a paler ring.
The blotting paper has, in fact, separated the solvent from the
pigment, as the rings of colour show. This simple fact is the basis
of a technique now widely used throughout 1.C.1.’s research labora-
tories, where complex mixtures of different chemicals must be
analysed quickly and accurately. The process of separation, however,
is done not by blotting paper, but by a column of special absorbent
material.
Chromatography—as scientists call this method of separation—
means “colour writing”. But today colour seldom plays any part in
it. Completely automatic devices in 1.C.1. laboratories can take a few
drops of a complex mixture—and draw a graph that gives the chemist
the analysis at a glance. With such equipment, what was once a
week’s work can now be done in half-an-hour or so —an invaluable
service to research workers, upon whose discoveries and achievements
so much of our future well-being rests.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AMD NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
'L.678.1302'
gardens in the main streets, and
with bitumen roads ; the town-
ship named after the county seat
in Devon of one of the private-
secretaries of Governor Jervois.
Eyre explored the coasts of
the peninsula, but it was John
Charles Darke who penetrated
into the interior, opening the way
for later settlement. He had
arrived from England in 1823
at the age of 18, and went to
Tasmania, where he helped in
the capture of a notorious
constable who “levanted” with
three of his convict charges.
Later Darke assisted in the
surveying of the city of Mel-
bourne, and in August, 1844,
with a small party, he set out
from Port Lincoln for the
unknown interior.
An entry in his journal, dated
October 22, recorded that the
natives had helped the party
when water was running low:
“I gave them all I could spare for
taking us to the water. They
seemed very friendly disposed.”
It was to be his last entry.
Three of the natives whom he
had treated with kindness
speared him on the following
day.
The tragedy occurred at
Waddikee Rocks, and the
explorer expressed the wish that
he might reach civilisation alive,
not wishing to be buried in the
wilderness, but he died before
the party had journeyed far, and
was buried at the foot of the
eminence now known as Darke
Peak.
Charles Christian Dutton was
another explorer who lost his life
in these regions. During the
prevalence of native attacks, in
1842, he left Port Lincoln plan-
ning to take a mob of cattle over-
land to Adelaide. There were
five men in the party, and it is
said that they had a dray and
200-head of cattle. The first
night out, Dutton, a tall, wild-
looking chap, dressed himself in
a blanket, and, masquerading
and chanting a native war-
melody, was nearly shot by
another member of the party.
No more was heard of the
expedition.
We waited for a long while for
the bus, until we found that we
had been waiting on the wrong
corner, and that the bus was
nearly ready to leave without us.
We kept thinking that the people
along this road would have
crumb x -custard for tea, the way
the driver hurled the bread from
his cabin, without slackening
speed or bothering where it
landed.
At last, having travelled not
far short of 200 miles, along the
horizon we could see the lights
of. Whyalla twinkling.
Some places are memorable
for the charm of their lights at
night, and the first glimpse of
Whyalla, with its impression of
beauty, joined my memories of
Warburton in the dusk, Laun-
ceston from the hills, and Perth
from King’s Park, Gundagai,
and the Harbor Bridge, and the
lights of Adelaide seen from
Mount Lofty.
WHYALLA TO PORT
AUGUSTA
r T''HE visitor to Whyalla does
not arrive at its doorstep
with a mouthful of unanswered
questions. At the main inter-
section opposite the bus-terminal
there is a large map, fenced-in
and floodlit at night, indicating
the main features of the town:
the hotels and the fishing-places,
the shopping-centres, theatres and
schools, the Memorial Oval and
golf-course, Water Tank Hill
and other lookouts, and the
entrance to the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Company’s works.
The map, donated by various
business people, is surmounted
by the title: “Whyalla, A Youth
Town,” and it is recorded that
in 1938 the population was
1200, while by 1951 it had
increased to 8000. The unique
municipal governing body, estab-
lished in 1945 under special Act
of Parliament, and known as
the Whyalla Town Commission,
consists of three members elected
by the ratepayers, three by the
B.H.P. company, and a chairman
elected by the State Government.
Many have called Whyalla the
most remarkable town in
Australia.
Flinders, in 1802, reported
that the soil was “argillaceous,
reddish, smooth, close-grained
and rather heavy,” little envision-
ing the great ships which would
be built here, putting to shame
the leaky Investigator. Until the
close of the century there was
only the saltbush desert, with
scattered sheep-stations inland.
During the 1890’s three men
from Broken Hill sank a shaft
34 miles from the coast, in
country which reminded them
of “The Barrier.” The assayer’s
report read: “Iron but no silver,”
and the syndicate disbanded. In
1897 B.H.P. secured a lease over
360 acres, seeking ironstone as
flux for the Port Pirie smelters
across the gulf. So began work
at the spot now known as Iron
Knob.
On January 10, 1901, 30 work-
men landed at Hummock Hill on
the coast, a desolate place of
saltbush and wild-dogs, to begin
the construction of a railway for
transporting the ore for ship-
ment. They camped on the
seaweed and awoke in a panic
when the tide came in, to find
their horses standing in water.
It took some years before the
value of the ore was realised.
Australia had imported millions
of pounds’ worth of steel
annually ; during the First World
War, when the demand increased,
it was discovered that the ore
from Iron Knob was suitable for
the production of steel.
The first load of ore for this
purpose was dispatched to New-
castle in 1915 on a steamer called
Emerald Wings, later to be
renamed the Iron Baron. Hand-
quarrying methods were used
until 1919, when two steam-
shovels were introduced. There
were setbacks due to overseas
competition, increased costs,
shorter hours and higher wages,
but a few years later, with the
electrification of the plant at
Iron Knob, production
increased.
A town had been proclaimed
at Hummock Hill in 1914, and
the name was changed in 1920
to Whyalla (said to mean “a
windy place”). B.H.P. had
secured the Iron Monarch lease
at Iron Knob, and further south,
the Iron Baron, Iron Prince and
Iron Queen, the more isolated
Iron Warrior, and the Iron
Knight, Iron Duke and Iron
Duchess, but most of the ore so
far obtained has come from the
Iron Monarch.
Originally more coal was
required than ore for the produc-
tion of steel, but by the 1930’5,
with new methods of fuel-
conservation, it was found
practical to bring the coal to
Whyalla, and just before the
Second World War, 8.H.P.,
severing its connections with the
town of its origin, courageously
switching from silver to steel,
decided to build a blast-furnace
at Whyalla.
Work was begun in 1938 with
the reclamation of land, and the
dredging and construction of
harbor and wharves. As the
work was nearing completion
war broke out. When the Navy
requested B.H.P. to undertake
the construction of patrol-vessels
the company agreed to establish
shipyards at Whyalla, and the
transformation was under way.
Many men from the agricultural
areas, who had never even seen
the sea. helped in the building of
those first ships.
It is difficult to realise that
only about 20 years ago Whyalla
was merely a port for the ship-
ment of ore. Water was brought
to the town by ship as ballast,
and amenities were few. Today
a pipeline brings water 223 miles
from Morgan on the Murray,
and there are green lawns and
gardens through the town.
There was a historical society
at Whyalla, which is said to have
gone out of being when the town
ran out of history, but the open-
ing of the pipeline is one occasion
which has been recorded. It is
said that when the eventful
moment arrived the taps were
turned on, and nothing
happened. A policeman,
shepherding the children who
had gathered from near and far,
went forward to look, and was
bowled head-over-heels by the
sudden gush.
The company fathered the
town, providing even an all-
denominational church, and a
model - dairy with irrigated
pastures and wind-machines for
dusting the cows. There are
first-class hotels, sports-grounds
and schools, including the
modern technical school, and a
90-bed hospital, while the police-
station is as elegant as a block of
flats.
The company Inis a, nursery,
and has carried out a tree-plant-
ing and beautification policy
from the start. Walking along
the streets of pleasant homes,
bright with their shrubs and
garden-plots, puts one in mind of
a visit to Utopia, and nowhere
are there any shanties or derelict
tenements. >
Everyone seemed friendly and
efficient. “The Whyalla News’
advertises that it circulates “in
the most progressive industrial
centre in South Australia.” And
the people are proud of their
town. I was taken for a drive
to the various places of interest,
including the lookout on the
heights above the technical
school, where a tablet records
that Matthew Flinders was off-
shore at midday on March 8,
1802, and named Point Lowly,
Hummock Hill, Mount Young,
Middle Mount and Middle Back
Mount.
At night I climbed Hummock
Hill, to find myself on the
fortified summit of a peninsula,
looking over the twinkling town-
ship, and the works beyond, and
the rows of colored lights strung
out along the jetty.
In the morning I toured the
works with a friend who was
formerly manager at Cockatoo
Island in Western Australia. We
visited the storage-bins, and saw
the conveyor-belts which carry
the ore along the double-decked
jetty. Everything and everyone
were coated with dull red dust.
Only the seagulls were white.
Near by are the workshops,
where railway-trucks are made
and repaired and engineering
orders executed ; and the ship-
yards, with ships in their cradles,
pillowed on sleepers, with tall
metal arms towering about them.
The Yampi-class freighters of
12,500 tons, the largest ships yet
built in Australia, were cradled
here.
Whyalla has been the birth-
place of more than 20 ships.
There were three vessels on the
slips during my visit. I had often
wondered how ships could
remain upright at the wharves at
such places as Broome when the
tides went out and left them
stranded, and now, walking
beneath the steel hull of a ship
in the building, I realised how
flat they are underneath. The
Iron Whyalla, launched a few
weeks earlier, a steel skeleton,
was at a near-by wharf being
furnished and fitted out.
But the most exciting spectacle
of the day was the blast-furnace.
I thought, if I were an artist I
would want to paint it, the great
mechanical monster, not without
a kind of powerful beauty. It
was a man-made volcano, an
insatiable creature which must
be fed with the trainloads of ore,
spilling its larva into the chains
of pig-iron moulds.
We watched the man whose
job it was to prise the pig-iron
out of the moulds on the long


m
i
J
11
- i PH
■
; '•
IBBlil
ill
■
HraHiMl
-: .
11
H mlk
H
inpl
.
mm
5iS«
*
S "
'
m
g*
-
■&&&
-ST
1
• • •
The right to pick and choose
One of the advantages of living in a democratic community
is your right to pick and choose. That right applies not only
to the people you elect to represent you. It is a right you—
as a customer —exercise every day in the products you buy.
What IS a customer? Well, customers come in all shapes
and sizes. They have different habits, different needs, different
tastes. You could say a customer is the housewife buying a
pound of tea at the corner store. Or young Johnny investing
his pennies in some shapeless, sticky substance. Or General
Motors-Holden’s buying the things they need to make their
motor vehicles, their Nasco spare parts and accessories,
their Frigidaire refrigerators, their power and industrial
equipment.
To meet those needs GMH purchase something like
30,000 different materials, products or parts each year—
products that range from iron, steel, leather, paint, rubber-
down to tiny screws. Whether the things they buy are in
the raw state, semi or fully processed, General Motors-
Holden’s shop at a market that is as large as Australia
itself—for the products they buy come from almost every
corner of the Commonwealth.
In fact—in the post-war years, GMH have spent more
than 60 per cent of their entire income on buying things to
keep their business going. That adds up to a lot of money
circulating among a lot of Australian industries—a lot of
fellow Australians.
So—it can be said that like the housewife or young Johnny,
GMH are customers too—customers, who, in exercising
their right to “pick and choose ” have done much to stimulate
activity and improve quality in a wide field of supporting
industry.
General Motors-Holden’s are customers in a big way,
because GMH is such a big business—doing big things
for Australia.
3
... o link in the chain of Australia's progress ... a partner in Australia's future
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.—BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
conveyor-belts, and my friend
remarked: “He’s what they call
a pig-sticker! ”
Whyalla is the showplace.
Visitors come to marvel at the
launching of the ships, to admire
the precision-machines and
plants, and to be amazed at the
town which has flourished in the
desert, with a standard of living
unsurpassed anywhere in
Australia.
But if you ask about Iron
Knob, whose resources have
made all this possible, it is likely
you will be told: “There is
nothing there, nothing at all,
except the Knob, and it isn’t
worth the visit!”
I liked Whyalla, and hope that
it may never grow old and weary,
but I became stubborn when
people dissuaded me from
seeing Iron Knob and I was
prepared to like the place in
advance.
The railway between Whyalla
and Iron Knob is a private one.
Since the Government runs the
railways, this line is known as
the “Hummock Hill to Iron
Knob Tramway.” Having
secured a pass, akin to the sign-
ing of a death-warrant I was
told, I was permitted to travel
up on one of the returning ore-
trains.
It was a slow journey, through
country similar to the drier
regions south of the Nullarbor,
but it was exciting to see in the
distance the Iron Monarch rising
over 600 ft. from the surrounding
plain, and 1153 ft. above sea-
level, a sudden range surmounted
by a pointed thumb.
The township is spread at the
foot of the range, scattering from
the workers’-quarters, with their
near-by groves of trees, the
gardens and the swimming-pool,
past the store and over the
railway-line, by several streets
of houses to the hotel, “the silver
place” at the far end of the settle-
ment. It is a beautifully-kept
hotel, with shining corridors and
a smiling host.
For a while everyone I met
seemed to be a Perkins brother.
One of the brothers asked :
“What do you think of the
Knob?”
I replied: “So far I’ve seen
only the pub! ” and he com-
mented: “That’s all there is!”
Fhe theme-song of the men in the
bar was: “Why did I ever leave
home?” They said the town
should have been better laid out,
because it was well and truly
dead. One or two nights a week
films were shown, and on the
other nights all they could do
was to go to bed with a book.
Later somebody else, not a
Perkins brother, described the
other side of the picture. It was,
he said, a “fool’s paradise,” with
good wages and very cheap
board, the swimming-pool with
its own filtration-plant, weekly
dances and films.
Everyone at Iron Knob is there
for a purpose, but there are no
nuggets where iron-ore is con-
cerned, with opportunities for
making easy fortunes. Hard
work is called for. There is a
tough and genuine atmosphere
about the place which appealed
to me, and walking at night, seek-
ing out the Southern Cross, I
saw the Iron Monarch, a lonely
figure in the moonlight, brooding
over his crumbling empire, and
marvelled at the changes made
by man to this mountain of iron.
The ore is sliced away from the
mountain at different levels.
Once the Monarch, a crude
figure in the rock-formation,
surveyed the towering mount, but
slowly the levels are being eaten
away, and one day the Monarch
will himself be doomed, his
kingdom scattered far and wide,
incorporated in bridges and ships
and buildings, and even pocket-
knives. So far, over 50 million
tons of ore have been removed.
In the morning, with a permit
to visit the quarries, I climbed
the footpath beyond the town to
the “benches” where work was
in progress. The youngest chap
on “the hill,” a lad of 14, wearing
enormous boots, was given to me
as a guide. He said he had been
there only a few months, but he
was able to point out the places
of interest, slopes where men had
fallen to their death or been
struck by rocks, outlet-pipes
where one man had smothered,
and the crusher into which
another had stumbled.
A hundred-feet above us, like
mountaineers on the steep walls,
we would see men knocking
down treacherous spurs of rock,
or “bulling” in preparation for
the midday blasting.
At the foot of the quarry-faces
electric-shovels were at work,
with their great steel teeth biting
into the heaps of ore, loading the
trucks which the electric-trains
would haul to the crushers.
We saw the crushers and the
conveyor-belts, heard the boom
of crashing rocks, the pneumatic-
drills and engines, and every-
where we turned found a heavy
coating of red dust.
Below us toy trains set off
across the plain, and there were
hill-slopes green with bushes,
an d distant station-homesteads
with tiny white buildings, no
doubt many miles away, though
you could imagine that a stone
would hit them.
1 thought of the man I had met
i n Norseman [who composed a
symphony of industry]. Here
would be the place for a
symphony, with the stage
already hewn out of the
mountain, and the plains a
silent audience, the life-force of
men at work a mighty crescendo,
engulfing the mountain, while
the Iron Monarch, the sombre
composer, brooded in the back-
ground over the relentless forces
unleashed at his inspiration.
I could have swum in the
waters of the Murray at the local
swimming-pool, but there were
44 miles to cover to Port
Augusta. Companies have little
sentiment, and it was sad to
think that one day the mountain
of iron may be levelled down,
and Iron Knob may vanish as
entirely as the little goldmining
towns of the West. But the
day is still far removed.
The road travelled over dark
miles towards the distant ranges,
with dust-trails rising ahead in
the wake of speeding cars. I left
before noon, and some miles out,
turning to look at the mountain,
saw the Iron Monarch smoking
his after-dinner pipe, the column
of dust from the blasting rising
high to dissolve in the blue air,
and I cycled on, thinking about
Whyalla, the showplace, and the
pig-stickers at the blast-furnace,
and Iron Knob, the quarry, and
the powder-monkeys who were
helping slowly to disintegrate the
mountain of iron.
it was a lonely trip. One of
the few vehicles I saw was a
steamroller, and the only
scenery the distant ranges.
Eight miles out of Port
Augusta a carrier stonned and
» earner stopped and
' ~ ~ ~
1 UUI
cel ore ciosing-nme, ana it was
10-to-ax when we crossed the
bridge over the gulf—practically
speaking, the only link by road
° ver which traffic between the
east a nd west must travel—and
we were m Port Augusta.
■ . TT^TTe^A
rUKI AUGUMA 1U
QUORN
T HAVE stayed at homely
places before, where pay-
ment is m advance, and everyone
is voluble, but few could
be homelier than “Crazy
Cottage,” as it is affectionately
known.
A lady was examining the
inside of her throat in the lounge-
room mirror when I arrived.
And at the table an Italian, mis-
taking me for a countryman,
poured out a lengthy oration
which apparently expressed his
belief that fish should be fried
in oil, before discovering that I
couldn’t understand a word of
what he had said,
My hunger was still so great
that I went through the menu
and stopped eating only because
fee|ing
rather like Eyre’s native [who
stowed away an almost incredible
feed> described in j ast week ’ s
topped the meal off
]ater witb severa i g i asses G f milk
at a store j should have been
and surprised to dis-
CoV g r my reflection looked rather
haggard.
After a hot bath, only enough
strength remained to flop on to
the bed, and it was then that I
heard the violin. The violin is
a beautiful instrument, though
few mus j c j ans cm do j t justice,
Q n j y on rare occas j ons wd [ you
bear a v j o ii n s j ng wdb suc h
pur j ty D f tone and effortless grace
tbat for tbe time notb j ng e j se j n
the wor i d j s D f any importance,
Perhaps because I was tired
(Continued on page 27)


r
\V
<?
\
m
ms
■
a
Suited foY
the
Occasion...
• • • in a Dinner Suit by Siamirux
Your “Special-Occasion” suit has to be
special. . . comfortable, yet smoothly-fitted; smart,
yet styled with careful good-taste; durable, to
give you years and years of wear.
Stamina Dinner Suits are tailored .. .
from top-grade Crusader Pure Wool Cloth
selected, styled, cut by specialists . . . for men of
dis crimination.
A Stamina Dinner Suit is pre-tailoring
at its superb best. . .
CLDTHES
ASK FOR
Stamina
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
D 51.113
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.C.: Take away that ardent
but impractical reformer S.H.A.:
The old fellow is mumbling away to
himself in the basket... .JJ.: On the
outer E.G.: Lucy might be the
sort of girl “to give a b'loke hysterics,”
or make him “about her start writing
lyrics,” but she is not entering our
pages.... J.N.: No pedestal for
“Pygmalion”... .8.R.: The answer to
that question, so far as we are con-
cerned, is in the negative 8.L.:
Missing Friend
MRS. EILEEN NORA
daughter of NORA ELIZABETH STEVEN,
or anyone knowing her whereabouts, is
asked to communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Waipukurau, New
Zealand.
ENGLISH
“UNIPORN” PUMPING SETS
consist of a 30 H.P. horizontal
DIESEL ENGINE running at 1000
R.P.M. driving a Centrifugal Pump
(6m. Suction). CAPACITY: 400
GALL, p.m, against a head of 40 FT.
—and up to 600 GALL. p.m. against
a head of 30 FT. Net weight 1850
lbs. PRICE £320.
“UNIPORN” DIESEL ENGINES
(less Centrifugal Pump) are avail-
able m TWO SIZES: 10 B.H.P. at
1000 R.P.M., £225. 12 B.H.P. at 1000
R.P.M., £245.
All Spares Available.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS
PTY. LIMITED
53 North George Street, SYDNEY.
Established in 1906.
ealablisneil 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOM*
OSUIIXV'VV
TJ»S BR's.s®'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Ply. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of recitation “The Two
Crossing Sweepers.”—6ol9.
To buy copy of a rhyming
dictionary.—6olB.
Words of poem “Wedding at
Willaroo” by J. W. Gordon (“Jim
Grahame”). —6017.
Married couple with three children;
wife (Australian), ex-W.A.A.A.F.;
husband, ex-R.N., now bricklayer;
arriving Sydney on April 26, want
furnished cottage, preferably on
Illawarra or Cronulla suburban
line. —6020.
Information Sought
Particulars of the Commonwealth
Government’s assisted-passage
migration-policy in relation to a
British family wishing to migrate ?
Every assistance is given to any-
one in the United Kingdom wishing
to migrate to Australia. There are
two methods by which a British
family-unit may be considered for
migration under the assisted-
passage scheme. The first and best
method is by personal nomination
whereby someone ip Australia is pre-
pared and in a position to provide
his nominees with suitable accom-
modation. Personal nominees are
under no obligation to the Common-
wealth Government other than to
remain in Australia for two years,
or, if they leave before the ena of
two years, to repay the amount
provided towards cost of passage.
Health and character are the only
requirements, and the breadwinner
need have no special trade or other
qualification. The second method is
by “group” nomination, by which
selection is carried out on an occupa-
tional basis by migration-selection
officers of the Department of Immi-
gration stationed in Britain; success-
ful applicants are housed in Govern-
ment hostels or, perhaps, in accom-
modation provided by their
employers until other accommoda-
tion can be found. (Most, though
not all, of such migrants are skilled
workers.)
* * * *
List of N. S. Wales Rhodes
Scholars ?
1904, W. A. Barton; ’O5, P. Halse
Rogers; ’O6, M. L. MacCullum; ’O7,
G. V. Portus; ’OB, R. G. Waddy;
’O9, Howard Bullock; TO, J. R.
Hooton; ’ll, H. K. Ward; T 2, A. J.
Robson; T 3, E. A. Southee; T 4,
H. A. Henry; T 5, W. F. Crawford;
’l6, L. C. Robson; T 7, no award;
18, R. N. Kershaw; T 9, A. W.
Wheen; ’2O, V. H. Treatt; ’2l, A. S.
Watt; ’22, A. C. Wallace; ’23, R. L.
Raymond; ’24, A. J. Foote; ’25,
A. R. Callaghan; ’26, R. N. McCul-
loch ; ’27, V. J. Flynn; ’2B, R. Ash-
burner; ’29, I. M. Edwards; ’3O,
N. K. Lamport; ’3l, D. A. Garnsey;
’32, W. A. W. Wood; ’33, J. M.
McShane; ’34, H. C. Barry; ’35,
K N. E. Bradfield; ’36, L. E. King;
37 I. G. Esplin; ’3B, T. G.
Glasheen; ’39, W. L. Hughes; ’4O,
B. H. Travers; ’4l, E. B. J. Smith;
42-45, no award; ’46, L. S. Wil-
liams, W. W. Woodward; ’47, D. R.
Stewart; ’4B, L. W. Davies; ’49,
R. C. Robertson-Cunninghame; ’5O,
no award; ’5l, A. P. W. Henchman;
52, F. R. Dalrymple; ’53, J. G.
McLeod; ’54, D. K. Stout; ’55, R. J.
Solomon.
* * * *
What territories are under the
/control of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment ?
The Northern Territory; the Aus-
tralian Capital Territory; Norfolk
Island; Papua (formerly British New
Guinea); the Territory of New
Guinea (under trusteeship agreement
with the United Nations); Heard and
McDonald Islands and Macquarie
Island; the Australian Antarctic
Territory; and the Territory of Ash-
more and Cartier Islands.
* * * *
Recipe for a simple ginger-beer
easily made by a person far removed
from shops?
Assemble 4oz. white sugar, 4oz.
honey, soz. whole ginger bruised
with a hammer, juice of sufficient
lemons to suit taste of maker, 4£
gallons water. Boil the ginger in 3
quarts of the water for half an hour,
then add sugar, lemon-juice, honey
and remainder of water. Mix well
to dissolve sugar, then strain through
a fine white cloth. When cold, add
the quarter of the white of an egg
beaten, and a teaspoon of essence of
lemon. Let stand for four days, then
bottle. Make half the quantity first
for experiment. Keep in a cool place.
* * * *
/ have some oil paintings framed
without glass which have become dark
and dingy: how can 1 clean them
without risk of damage?
For cleaning they should be
removed from their frames, but this
is not necessary if cleaned carefully
up to the edges of frames. Over
each painting, lay a soft cloth wrung
out of fresh, clean rainwater, and
leave for a while to take up loose
dirt. Then wipe the picture carefully
and gently with a tuft of cotton-
wool moistened with artists’ linseed-
oil. Repeat with oil if necessary;
wipe dry with a clean cloth and
restore to frame.
* * * *
Is there a railway across the
southern Andes between Chile and
Argentina ?
Yes. In spite of their narrow width
there, the Andes offer serious
obstacles, and there are few routes
across. One route is the Trans-
andine railway between Santiago,
the capital of Chile, and Men-
doza (Argentina). This railway was
closed for a time after a landslide
in the winter of 1933, but has since
been open for passenger- and freight-
traffic. At present there is a fast
passenger-service by modern, stream-
lined expresses, five or six trains a
week each way, between Santiago
and Buenos Aires.
Brief Answers
J.D.: They are made in Belgium
and a few have been imported for
use in the Murray Valley to protect
fig-trees from birds. Carbide is
loaded into the machine, which is set
to cause the turning of the carbide
into acetylene gas, to explode with
a loud noise at intervals. The explo-
sions become intolerable to most
people after a time, and the birds
soon learn that the machines are
harmless. They have been in use
in Britain for several years, .and fruit
experts there are doubtful of their
value as bird-scarers E.T.: Publi-
cations issued by the Commonwealth
Bureau of .Census and Statistics, Can-
berra, are obtainable by purchase
from the Government Printer, Can-
berra, or the Commonwealth Sub-
Treasury, in each capital city. They
may also be ordered through the
leading booksellers in the principal
cities of Australia. In addition to
printed publications a number of
mimeographed publications also are
issued, particulars of which may be
obtained on application to the
Commonwealth Statistician, Canberra.
. ...A.C.8.: Write the Australian
Institute of Management (Sydney
Division), 149 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .A.A.: Elizabeth Lam-
bert’s book of verse, The Map, with
decorations by Bessie Mitchell, was
published by the Viking Press, Syd-
ney* 1940 G.L.P.: A caricature of
Alec Chisholm, author and natural-
ist, with an accompanying para-
graph, appeared in The Bulletin of
April 29, 1953.... G.W.: Write
Frank Howard, Honorary Secretary,
Sydney Film Society, Box 2159,
Blackbutts-road, French’s Forest
(N.5.W.)... .H.FJ.: Write R. G.
Dun and Co., the Mercantile
Agency, 181 Clarence-street, Sydney.
.. ..W.W.: Try either Cowles and
P^ nn \Jl King-street, or Sil Rohu,
143 Ehzabeth-street—boih Sydney.
•• • -R-J.C.: The poem is called
Lost ’ and was written by “Banjo”
Paterson L.F.S.: Write H. Gor-
aon Coleman, District Secretary,
Australian Journalists’ Association
(N. S. Wales District), Federation
Plouse, 166 Phillip-street, Sydney
L.P.: Poseidon, No Liability, Laub-
man and Pank Building, 62 Gawler-
place, Adelaide FJ.M.: Write
Standards Association of Australia,
Science House, 157 Gloucester-street,
Sydney... .E.G.: (1) “The Author,”
84 Drayton-gardens, London, S.W.
10; “The Writer,” 11 Stratford-place,
London, W.l. (2) See The Writers
and Artists’ Year Book published by
A. and C. Black, London....
F.R.: Unable to trace the scientists,
or discover anything of their visit to
the locality named.
Not much different from 457 other*
on the same theme already received
this year... .D.P.: That dove hasn’t
a feather to fly with A. 8.: Its
title is an apt one A.E.: Now
sheltering in the basket... .C.O’D.:
Perhaps, instead of tea, a beer or two
would he1p....H.T.M.: We shed no
tears for the boundaryrider.... J.H.:
It missed the bus D.G.C.: We let
that taxi go by....5.C.: Better lines
nave been written about Lawson
F.M.W.: The Religious Editor is
escorting that red-haired barmaid
home... .K.E.R.: You have an
unusual talent for misapplying long
words... .H.D.: Found Susan,
despite all your elaborate praise,
an uninteresting character... .S.N.:
That curate seems to have been
borrowed from Norman Lindsay’s
A Curate in Bohemia K.L.M.:
That sort of haziness may mean
something to the perpetrator, but it
means nothing to the reader....
S.F.M.: Doesn’t that young man do
anything else but stand “gazing,
rapt in admiration”? H.G.: We
got a little tired of being told over
and over again that the hero needed
a haircut.. . .E.S.G.: You make the
simple business of killing a fowl as
momentous as the assassination of a
monarch... .S.C.J.: Those homely
phrases used by your outback
characters are not heard in Australia;
they are confined to America....
S.H W.: A mere description of a
bush steeplechase doesn’t make a
story.... W.J.: No accommodation
for your spaceship R.C.8.: “The
Caledonians and the Hibernians”
will have to stage their fight else-
where. ' ’-J h).G.: For a start, get
rid of such archaisms as “methinks,”
.yclept,” “saith,” “verily,” and
“kine”... .E. 8.: Never have we met
so many battered similes in one
story. For instance, in the first page
you tell us that Bill was “as tough
as leather,” could “roar like a bull,”
was “as bold as brass” and “as keen
as mustard.” He was also “as good
a , s Sold” and “as honest as the
day’... .FJ.F.: “High Jinks in the
Dormitory” is not a Bulletin story.


Know Your Reptiles?
SNAKES
Fact and Fiction
By A. HOLMES
IT is astonishing how even
people of high scientific
standing, and practical
observers of wild-life, go
completely off the beam on the
subject of snakes, and will, in
their published statements, per-
petuate many of the legends and
plain unvarnished tripe that
have been retailed about them
since Adam and Eve first offered
notes on the ophidiofauna of
Eden.
Let’s take a few of these ghosts
apart and see what makes them
tick.
The stark fear that the average
person has of snakes is such a
strong and long - standing
emotion, fostered by legend and
ignorance of the animals, that it
is almost an inherent sense.
In strict honesty I must confess
that, although I have handled
and studied reptiles for many
years, I still experience a
momentary chilling of the spine
when suddenly confronted by a
tiger or a brown, even though I
am actually hunting them and
anticipate their presence.
This is not because of
At noon to my Lord Crew’s, where one Mr. Templer
(an ingenious man and a person of honor he seems
to be) dined ; and, discoursing of the nature of serpents,
he told us some that in the waste places of Lancashire
do grow to a great bigness, and that they do feed upon
larks, which they take thus: They observe when the
lark is soared to the highest, and do crawl till they come
to be just underneath them ; and there they place them-
selves with their mouths uppermost, and there, as is
conceived, they do eject poyson up to the bird; for the
bird do suddenly come down again in its course of a
circle, and falls directly into the mouth of the serpent;
which is very strange. — Diary of Samuel Pepys, February
4, 1661. {Footnoted by Lord Braybrooke: “Probably
Benjamin Templer, rector of Ashby, in Northamptonshire. )
unfamiliarity. Very much to the
contrary, it is because I know
well their lethal capabilities. A
bite from either of these, even if
not fatal, can leave very tragic
permanent after-effects.
On the other hand, because I
also know their limitations of
speed and accuracy, and that
they rarely attack, when the
initial thrill has passed I am
prepared to deal with them. And
because of this knowledge the
chance-meeting with a wild
black-snake registers no other
emotion than admiration for a
really beautiful creature. They
are so common and so infinitely
less dangerous than the tiger or
the brown that some snake-men
are actually bored stiff when they
realise that a certain territory is
almost exclusively “black
country.”
In other words, a really serious
study of snakes brings them into
a true perspective, and if this
does nothing more than reduce
the shock-effect of snakebite it
will considerably reduce the
chances of a fatal ending thereto.
In view of all this horror of
reptiles it seems strange that the
most benign profession in the
field of human endeavor —
medicine and surgery —should
have chosen the serpent as its
emblem. Medical men have even
turned the venom to practical use
in the control of bleeding in
surgical practice. And so to our
fairy-tales . . .
A very prevalent belief is that
a bite from the common blue-
tongue lizard or the goanna (and
I believe the diamond-snake has
also been so stigmatised) will
leave a “running sore” which will
recur every year thereafter,
almost to the exact minute. Both
herpetologists (snake - fanciers)
and medical men have tried to
trace a single authentic instance
of this strange malady to its
source for many years, but, as
far as I know, without success.
There are plenty of people who
know of other people who know
• —and so on.
In point of fact, goanna-bites
must be very rare, so it is difficult
to imagine how such a story
originated. There is one very
real danger from the bite of a
monitor lizard (the Australian
“goanna” is not an iguana) other
than the mere pain of having a
set of extremely sharp teeth
penetrating one’s hide. The
goanna is not above feeding on
carrion, and because of decayed
foodstuff which may be lodged
at the base of its teeth a serious
secondary infection of blood-
poisoning may arise, and may
even prove fatal.
As for the inoffensive and
gentle blue-tongue, to try to
convince sceptics who have
queried my statements I have
many times allowed one to bite
my finger to prove that it wasn’t
toxic. And if you would like to
know the immediate effects of a
bite from a large blue-tongue
without risking alleged after-
effects, you need only open a
door, place your finger beside the
hinge and slam the door. The
result is very similar.
The blue-tongue is completely
harmless; in Victoria it is pro-
tected for. the sterling work it
does in keeping down slugs and
snails. A blue-tongue amongst a
herd of snails acts and sounds
just like a small boy with a bag
of peanuts. As my eight-year-
old male issue would express it,
“Crunch, crunch.”
In every part of Australia you
will find members of the lizard-
tribe known technically as the
geckonidoe. These geckos assume
many strange and rather frighten-
ing forms, but they are all com-
paratively small, usually with
very large eyes (indicating their
nocturnal existence) and tails of
almost infinite variety, some fat,
some sharp-pointed, some mere
round knobs and others like a
leaf.
When you get to know them,
there is no more gentle and lov-
able creature on earth than the
gecko. But they, too, have been
condemned because of their
warty pelt and reptilian features,
and even seasoned bushmen will
stoutly declare that the “rock-
adder” or “tree-adder” is a very
deadly creature.
I make a point of taking speci-
mens of the gecko home to
liberate in my garden in the hope
that they will stay and multiply.
Evidence that my hopes were
being fulfilled came recently
when my immediate neighbor—a
bloke of over 6ft., mostly muscle,
who endured the New Guinea
campaigns with apparent
equanimity—came knocking at
my door in alarm to tell me that
a venomous “rock-adder” was
infesting his bedroom.
His description indicated that
it was one of my leaf-tailed
geckos in search of flies and
cockroaches. My youngest
daughter, too, recognised it
from his description and offered
to bring it to a haven of safety,
but even that did nothing to
reassure the vanquisher of the
Dai Nippon. He was convinced
that he was in grave peril, and
still thinks the lass had some
occult power over venomous
reptiles.
And how often have I been
told about the leaping powers of
the death-adder, and its facility
for “stinging” with its tail?
Hundreds of times, and doubtless
there will be hundreds more.
Again I can only say that no
unbiased observer has ever seen
the death-adder leave the ground
for more than a fraction of an
inch, even when it is prodded
into activity and attack.
Yet I know of one prominent
person in Sydney, who knows
wild animals backwards and has
travelled all over the world in
their pursuit and capture, who
swears that D.A. can leap and
bite a man on horseback! Just
why it should leap at the man
and not the horse remains
unexplained.
As for the tail of Acanthophis
—it is just a leaflike development
of the tail-tip, just as is the
“rattle” of the American rattle-
snake. It is quite soft, and
incapable of penetrating the skin.
It is thought to be of some use in
luring prey within striking-
distance by being waved and
waggled about.
One of the prettiest creatures
is the Australian bandy-bandy
snake. With regular bands of
black and white about half an
inch wide the entire length of its
body, it is a really beautiful
thing, and in motion somewhat
dazzling to the eye. Although
the longest I have seen was 26in.
it is said to grow to about 3ft.
And that is about the kindest
thing that is said about it. On
every hand one can hear it
.damned as being the most
dangerous of snakes. Its disposi-
tion and behavior completely
deny this.
Technically the bandy is a
venomous species, but its fangs
are so small that they would
hardly penetrate the human skin,
and if they did the result would
certainly be no worse than a bee-
sting. The fact is that it seems
impossible to get the bandy to
bite at all. I have actually tried
to force my finger into its mouth,
to experience the reaction, with-
out success. I can find no record
of a bite.
I once caught a large bandy at
Kurnell, near Sydney. As I had
to catch a train to the country
that night I decided to fill in an
hour at a news-theatrette. Some
time after the train had left
Sydney I thought I would have
a quiet gloat over my prize, and
pulled the calico bag out of my
pocket. I was horrified to find
that the string had become"
loosened and the snake had gone.
It could have escaped only in
the theatre, so on arrival at my
destination I phoned to tell the
management that there was a
snake at large, but that it was
completely harmless, and there
need be no alarm if it was dis-
covered. It took some time to
convince the manager that I
wasn’t a practical-joker, but,
having done so, he assured me
that there would be no panic on
his part because he wouldn’t go
into the sanguinary theatre
before the cleaners had done
their job next day.
For a couple of weeks I waited
for the newspaper announcement
that a “dangerous snake” had
terrified the patrons of a Sydney
theatre (with suitable comment
by some expert). But the bandy
was never discovered, and may
still be curled up in a quiet spot
in George-street.
I can think of two possible
explanations for the bandy's
terrible reputation. In color it
resembles the Indian krait, one
of the world’s most dangerous
snakes, which accounts for
literally thousands of deaths
every year in India. In the days
of Australia’s youth, and especi-
ally during the gold-rushes, when
settlers came from all parts of
the earth, it is probable that
some fossicker who had been in
India and had seen the krait
happened to uncover a bandy
and immediately branded it as
deadly. And it is just as prob-
able that Furina annulata will
never live down its reputation.
Another possible error could
have been made in confusing the
bandy with a young brown-
snake. The latter, when juvenile,
and sometimes for a couple of
years, is banded with narrow
brown stripes on a light ground-
color, and would be capable of
killing a dog. The likeness is
very superficial, but would be
sufficient identification for the
average person.
Whatever the cause of the
fable, the effect is that the bandy
is condemned to instant annihila-
tion whenever it is seen. A
great pity, when it is so beautiful
and quite gentle. A point of
interest is that it appears to be so
highly selective that it will eat
nothing but blind snakes
( Typhlops ).
The sloughing of a snake's
skin is little understood by most
people. It is generally assumed
that the skin is cast at regular
intervals during the year. The
act is probably governed by the
snake’s rate of growth and can
occur at almost any time,
although more frequently in
warm weather. I know of one
instance of a death-adder slough-
ing three times in a week. It
“That silly coot at the pub reckoned a mouth-organ
attracted snakes
seems a general rule that new-
born snakes will complete their
first slough within an hour of
birth.
On the subject of sloughing,
I once read a really amazing
story in a book which would
doubtless be accepted as authori-
tative. It appeared that the
author, an Englishman, was on
a bush trip to Tasmania when he
and his guide, a man well versed
in bushcraft, came across a large
black-snake.
The bushman assured his
partner that it was quite impos-
sible to completely kill a snake,
but with the aid of suitable
weapons they managed to
reduce the unfortunate serpent
to a sufficiently moribund state
to permit them to skin it.
As a memento of a thrilling
and hazardous episode the
Englishman had the skin tanned
and sent home to be hung on
the baronial walls of his country
seat. And now the really
astonishing part of the tale.
Regularly every year in the
spring the snake-skin shed its
outer layer of skin! What a
beaut.! The black-snake, by the
way, is not found in Tasmania.
This story brings to mind
another often-told furphy. This
is to the effect that a snake will
never die till sunset, however
thoroughly it is battered.
A snake’s muscular and
nervous reflexes will be evident
a long time after actual death,
just as the Christmas chook will
dash around for a while with its
head chopped off. I have seen a
shark’s heart beating in a man’s
hand for a quarter of an hour
after it had been cut out of the
body. But that shark was
definitely dead, and you can rest
assured that a snake can be
killed as readily and swiftly as
any other animal if the right
methods are used.
Incidentally, I have noticed
that whenever a snake is killed,
even though he may be in a
dozen wriggling pieces, the
avenger gives the head a final
enthusiastic battering “just to
make sure.” And to make
doubly certain of avoiding any
possible ill-effects the stick with
which it was dispatched is
burned.
A most disgusting habit
attributed to snakes is that of
“sliming” their prey all over
before swallowing. If you take a
close look at the tongue of a
snake (a dead one, if you insist)
you will immediately realise that
such a slender, forked organ
would take hours to cover a
body with “slime,” even if there
was the necessity for doing so,
which there isn’t.
No, a snake flickers its tongue
out constantly to pick up “taste-
waves” or odors, it is thought.
And, by the way, the tongue
which you see flashing in and
out of its mouth is not the
“sting.” It has nothing to do
with the venom-apparatus other
than that it happens to be in the
same mouth. The two large
fangs in the upper jaw are the
conductors of the poison.
If you kill a snake, will its
mate pursue you for the rest of
your life till either one of you
is dead? No. If you do happen,
rarely, to find two snakes
together, by the time you have
killed one the other will be put-
ting as much territory behind it
as possible in the shortest time,
hoping (if snakes know such an
emotion) that you will have
enough difficulty in killing his
mate to give him plenty of time
to retire.
{Continued on page 27)


qOA I,tY
WATCH
act ocj£
'bargains
w.vi±vwhmmw.
* >
Firm
y///lnnn7r.
Dainty 9-ct. gold ladies' 17-jewelled
lever watch. Although quite tiny, the
figures are raised gilt and easily seen.
Black cordette band.
|£BQ
t>^r x \s33iS ><£■,
A preffy and most durable ladies'
wetch. 15-jewe!!ed lever movement.
Chrome case, filigree lugs. Black
cordettc band.
CALENDAR WATCH. Slim Calendar
,Watch. Two windows show day and
month, A arrow date. 15-jeweiled lever
movement, raised giit figures.
Chrome ... _ £l4/10/0
Gold £l6/0/0
The latest Continental fashion the
SKELETON. The back is transparent.
You do not have to remove back to
see the movement. Jewelled lever
escapement in assortment of colours
and rolled gold centrepiece. With
small second .... .... £l2/0/0
iWith sweep second £l3/0/0
,'(lncludes leather band.)
ONLY
€6
MUSICAL ALARM CLOCK. Awakens
you to the tinkle of delightful music.
Really fine clocks' in assortment of
colours or plain chrome finish. Cases
are square, round or octagonal. Stats
your preference. About 3| in. x 2f in. 1
Luminous hands and figures. Price
only £6/0/0
Write us for all types of
watches, rings and
jewellery
710 George St., Sydney.
All prices include registered post, but
not C.O.D. charges.
Cut out this adrf., mark the items you
want, attach p.n., m. 0., or cheque, or
order C.O.D. and post NOW.
NAME w.
ADDRESS
B 2
The name is
(O c CdlUim’s
(TTCaUum's
Scots CUhisky
J*M fit,'
Wnoily distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807.
MC 22/3.2
the whisky is
ANNUAL EASTER SALES OF BLOODSTOCK
will be held at
NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDWICK
779
as follows
THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS
12th, 14th, 15th and 18th APRIL, 1955
commencing at 10 a.m. each day
BROOD MARES
THURSDAY, 21st APRIL, 1955
The Catalogue will include particulars of :—
120 WELL-BRED BROOD MARES, some with foals at foot by well-known
sires and served again.
Further entries invited
STALLIONS, UNTRIED STOCK AND
RACEHORSES-IN-TRAININ G
FRIDAY, 22nd APRIL, 1955
Particulars have already been received of the following: —
STALLIONS: HUNTER’S MOON (imp.), GOLDEN CHANCE (imp.),
PRECOTANT (Fr., imp.), ROYAL TROPHY (imp.), CALABAR (imp.),
ESTES (Fr., imp.), CAPTAIN THEO, FRONTAL ATTACK, CANUTE,
ARTOIS, TEA TOWEL, SURMISE, PITT, etc.
RACEHORSES: ROYAL FOREST, FRENCH’S FOREST, EL ZIET (imp.).
VANITY BOX, SAFANAD, GREEN CHEESE, SHINING MOON,
IIATHOR, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, BLONDE LASS, FIRST CHAPTER,
CHINCHANTA, COCKLE, PATLAJOHN, PLAY SWEETLY, AMBER
GEM, FIDELMA, CURZOLA, GREY TULIP, DELISTA, PALASSA,
TONI TOUT, FRENCH FORT, PUBLIC STAR, STAR SHON,
TEMPESTO, etc.
Also a number of UNTRIED STOCK
Further entries invited
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON Pty. Ltd.
Bloodstock Salesmen,
28 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE 8L2411-8L2412
SPORTING NOTIONS
Prince Cortauld was Too good
for Rising Fast in the Fleming-
ton test on Saturday, becomes
the current champion, and has
joined a select band of 11
horses each of which won
between £35,000 and £40,000
during their turf career. A
handsome four-year-old horse,
Prince Cortauld has time to add
a few more thousands. The run
from behind in the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes won’t be for-
gotten for a while—the last two
furlongs was one of the most
glorious gallops ever seen.
The Newmarket was an all-
Victorian affair, and the 14-to-l
Swynphilos scored cleverly from
50-to-l Great Saint and the
Oakleigh Plate winner, Dicast.
Swynphilos, a four-year-old
gelding by Pamp'hilos (imp.) from
Bower by Caithness (imp.), had
good country form, but lost
caste following poor efforts at
Moonee Valley and Caulfield.
After the win the connections
decla.cd that they had set the
horse for the Newmarket last
spring.
Randwick is almost certain to
be heavy for the Easter racing,
which somewhat alters pro-
phecies. Prince Cortauld’s two
fine wins in Melbourne made
him clear favorite for the Don-
caster. Connaught ran much
below form in Warwick Farm’s
Denham Court Handicap, but
the heavy track didn’t suit him
or others. Connaught, Karendi,
Prince Morvi follow Prince
Cortauld. Compound has
firmed, but Belbeiys has gone
right out of favor.
The Sydney Cup market
favors Eight Bells, Prince Del-
ville, Rising Fast, Finito, and
Earldom.
• V
A smart two-year-old, Main
Court cleared away from
opponents in Warwjick Farm
Juvenile Handicap. It was a
moderate field, but Main Court’s
winning style impressed the
crowd. As a yearling he was
passed in at a modest 170gns.
He’s by Agincourt (imp.); his
dam is Main Maggie by Brazen
Main, a son of Brazen (imp.).
Royal Radiant, beaten a head
by Sunish last year, may win
the Australian Cup from Com-
modore and Gay Helios. They
haven’t much to beat.
The 4200gns. Empire Link
won at first race-start in maiden
two-year-old company at Syd-
ney’s Rosehill. The colt is by
Helios (imp.) from Wynunda by
Portofino (imp.) from Mercian
Queen by King Offa (imp.) ana
is a three-quarter brother to
Cromis.
• • • «
Tasmanian Racing Club is
staging its 35th Doncaster meet-
ing at Elwick this Saturday, and
the programme includes the
Tasmanian Breeders’ Plate, a
seven-furlong handicap for two-,
three- and four-year-olds which
were foaled in Tasmania,
although not necessarily the
progeny of a sire located in that
State. Another condition is
that horses are eligible- which
were foaled outside Tasmania
but were bred by a person who
is a bona-fide resident of
Tasmania.
Randwick yearling-sales (con-
ducted by W. Inglis and Son)
will be held on April 12, 14, 15,
and 18, when 779 youngsters
will be offered. Close relatives
to some of the best performers
in Australia are catalogued,
including brothers to Delta,
Hydrogen, Columnist, Prince
Morvi, Forest Beau, and a
sister to Pride of Egypt. Top
price of the 1954 sales was
6500gns. The progeny of
imported sires Star Kingdom,
Delville Wood and Nilo should
excite keen bidding, and the
only Gabador (imp.) yearling
is sure to create interest —a colt
from Olive Fox (a sister to
Rizzio) by Foxbridge (imp.).
Represented for the first time
at the forthcoming Randwick
yearling-sales is Australian-bred
Achilles, winner of £14,494 in
stakes. His best performances
were up to 10 furlongs and he
won, among other races, the
Epsom with topweight, 9.2, the
All-Aged Stakes, and Batman
Stakes. He is a son of Ajax
(£40,275) and on the racetrack
was a handsome individual. The
first Achilles’ to come into the
ring will be a colt from Merry
Step by Royal Step, from the
family which produced Victory
Lad and The Trump.
* * *
W. Picken produced a
champion from cold - storage
when he stole the Sydney
Sapling Stakes with the U-Scott
(imp.)-Certior colt, Nick Scott.
Apart from a few promising
gymkhana-runs the colt had
started only twice at registered
meetings. Leaving the winner
of nine on end, Joe Raid, strag-
gling in their wake in heat,
Delvyn Ringer and Lady Wex-
ford went out favorites. Both
were out of it early, and Nick
Scott went neck and neck with
Chief Spring from the Leger to
win by a half-head. Delvyn
Ringer third.
Patsy's Gift took the £2OOO
Italian Cup in her stride at
Melbourne Showground. R.
Parker, who sometimes finds
himself in the dreaded punters’
“frying-pan,” drove the mare a
perfect race. N.S.W. breeders
“ I'm of duck-shooting, Bill”
patronising her sire will be
pouting their chests. The former
Tasmanian, Raiarmargh, is now
standing at Prestonville stud,
Windsor (N.S.W.).
Melbourne’s £l5OO Autumn
(Pacing) Handipap went to
former N.Z. performer
Romanesque, from another
Maorilander in Mighty Globe.
Both are showing better form
than they did in Sydney.
Parker ran into third place with
Shire’s Shadow, whom he with-
drew from sale when he did not
consider the price suitable.
+ +
“Mid-on”: Add to famous
last-wicket stands that which
gave Kangaroo Island 97 in
23min. to score 252 after chasing
Charlton Ramblers’ 244. It
was during the S. Aust. country
cricket carnival—if you could
call cricket a carnival.
The Huttons walloped N.Z.
in the first Test in Dunedin
despite two whole days out of
five being rained out. As in
Australia, it was the bowlers,
mainly Tyson and Statham
(Tyson clean-bowled six of his
seven wickets), who cleaned-up
the Enzedders.
Left-hander Bert Sutcliffe,
top-scorer in each innings for
N.Z. (74 out of 125, 35 run-out
out of 132), is among the world’s
best batsmen. New Zealanders
believe he’d have rivalled
Bradman’s record given greater
opportunities. Here are the
figures for the first 166 innings
of the two, as quoted by Ray
Robinson in Green Sprigs :
Bradman (1927-34), 9728 runs,
35 centuries, av. 64.4; Sutcliffe
(1944-54), 9540 runs, 29 cen-
turies, av. 61.1. Bradman (2960
in 1930) and Sutcliffe (2627 in
1949) have made the two
highest tallies on record for a
tour of England.
West Australia has never had
a direct Test representative ; the
only ’Groper to play Test-cricket,
left - hand batsman Ernie
Bromley, made the grade from
Victoria. Westralia has, of
course, generally been pretty
weak at cricket; all the same
the Australian selectors should
keep in mind that W.A. is part
of Australia, and if a Westralian
like Rutherford or (a year or two
back) the left-hander Langdon
really deserves a place in a Test
side he should get it.
Tasmania has had several
Test-players. K. E. Burn, now
nearly 92, went to England in
1890, and played in the two
Tests that year; C. J. Eady
(holder of the record grade-score
in Australia, 566) went in 1896 —
he played in one Test that year
and one in 1901-02. Both were
picked direct from Tasmania.
Jack Badcock, on the contrary,
had gon.e to S.A. before being
picked for a Test (two in 1936,
four in 1938 —not the Test-
success he promised to be).
Finally, there’s fast-bowler (and
star Aussie Rules forward)
Laurie Nash, who gained a place
from Tasmania in one Test
against South Africa in 1931-32,
but was living in Victoria
(though he’d then only played
one game for Victoria, against
the M.C.C.) when chosen for
the fifth Test against England
in 1936-37.
* * *
“C.S.”: The larger American-
type golf-ball—it is one-sixteenth
of an inch more in diameter —is
being pushed in Australia on the
ground that it is easier to hit.
Pros, are being quoted on its
alleged superiority in this respect
over the standard ball. Most
golfers don’t find it hard to hit
the standard ball—the trouble is
to hit it straight and true. My
answer to the claims for the
bigger ball is that if it’s easier to
hit (which I doubt) it’ll be all
tjie easier to hook, slice, duff,
foozle and fluff. The Yanks
have a pathetic belief that
mechanical aids can chop strokes
off your handicap. They can’t.
Only practice and concentration
will do that, and —with both —a
man with four rusty irons and a
wooden-handled brassey will
clean up an opponent who has
everything from a caddie to a
piano-accordion.
Australia’s Norman von Nida
is to play the S’African champ..
Bobby Locke, in a series of
matches throughout Australia.
Von Nida has beaten Locke
every time they’ve met in Aus-
tralia, but took a licking from
the big fellow once in S’Africa—
-9 and 8.
* * *
It’s only 21 miles from
Sydney, on a good road, to
2 Base Ordnance Depot, Moore-
bank, near Liverpool, where the
annual inter-Service boxing
championships will be held on
March 25, 26 and 28. The best
glove-slingers of Army, Navy,
and Air Force will be in action
and proceeds go to Legacy.
* * *
With less than half the experi-
ence of his opponent, Australian
George Barnes (lOst. 6flb.) gave
American Ramon Fuentes
(lOst. 7|lb.) a great argument at
Sydney’s White City, but
Fuentes finished well in front
on points, and was awarded a
not-too-popular decision. Barnes
seemed likely to win by a
knockout when his right to the
chin floored Fuentes in the
seventh. The U.S. scrapper did
not wait for a count, however,
and was back on his feet fling-
ing punches from everywhere to
anywhere, before referee Art
Mawson could commence his
knockout-chant. Numerous
kidney-punches weakened
Barnes from then on, and as
the fight progressed Fuentes
forged further ahead on points,
although he lost all of round
nine on account of being
cautioned for crashing rights
on the kidneys. Ringsiders
remarked about Barnes’s
ability to assimilate punishment
in the last three rounds, although
he was somewhat feeble at the
final bell. Fuentes was then so
far in front on points that a
decision for him was the only
one possible, though many
Barnes supporters appeared to
think their man was entitled to
a draw at least.


reality became confused with
dreaming, but that performance
was as enchanting as any I have
ever heard.
The musicians at “Crazy
Cottage” are sisters, and it is
said that it is nothing for them
suddenly to stop serving beer,
and to give an impromptu
concert in the lounge. Despite
the name given to the establish-
ment, they are talented. One
of their pupils, a niece, has
played with the London Phil-
harmonic Orchestra.
These regions were known to
the natives as Kurdnatta, “a
place of drifting sand,” and the
name Port Augusta was given
in honor of the Governor’s wife,
Lady Augusta Sophia Young,
who was a daughter of Captain
Marryat, the author of Midship-
man Easy. In addition to the
streets named after Beer and
Dingo, and other local associa-
tions, there is a Marryat-street
in Port Augusta.
Since the first settlement, 100
years ago, Port Augusta has been
the subject of many dreams, not
all of which have been realised.
The first was a dream of pros-
perity, based on the hope of an
inland sea, which faded after
Babbage’s expedition in 1857.
Others called the port pro-
phetically the “Liverpool of the
South,” and some foresaw it as
the site for a Federal Capital,
but the politicians were too busy
arguing about the rival merits of
locations in New South Wales
and Victoria to bother about
Port Augusta.
“Nature, in her inscrutable
designing and handiwork, has
cleft the southern shores, and
deposed the waters of Spencer's
Gulf in their present bed, to
allow an avenue of intercourse
to a capital within the island
continent of Australia,” it was
written; but the eloquence and
Nature’s handiwork were both
wasted, as far as tiie site for a
Federal Capital was concerned.
Nevertheless not all the dreams
were doomed to disappointment.
On October 1, 1870, the first
pole was set up at Port Augusta
in connection with the Overland
Telegraph route to Darwin, and
two years later the first message
was received. The cities of Aus-
tralia. were linked by land- and
sea-lines with the outside world.
In 1878 the construction was
begun of a railway to Govern-
ment Gums, later to be extended
to Alice Springs, on the main
road north, and in 1912 the first
shipment of sleepers arrived for
the transcontinental railway, and
over a thousand miles of line
were laid down, most of it
through waterless country
inhabited only by wandering
tribes of aborigines, in one
section running for 329 miles
without a curve, the largest
straight section of railway-line in
the world, the east and the west
connected by the great “zip-
fastener of the Nullarbor.”
The surveyors led the way
with camels carrying their gear,
and the clearing- and earthwork-
gangs, the track-layers, lifters
and packers followed, working
under hardships no statistics can
reveal, in temperatures of up to
130 degrees in the shade, while
the “Tea and Sugar” train fol-
lowed with supplies as the rails
were laid.
War interrupted the work, but
the first through passenger-train
left Port Augusta in October,
1917.
The East-West Highway also
runs through Port Augusta. Thus
it is the vital link between east
and west, and it is an outlet-port
for a rich and extensive area
stretching even as far as out-
back New South Wales and the
Queensland border.
It was hoped that the port
would boom when gold was dis-
covered at Tarcoola, but the
’fields were short-lived. And
for 30 years an ostrich-farm was
run a few miles from the town.
Stray birds can still be seen on
the surrounding plains.
Nowadays Port Augusta
depends on more substantial
schemes. With the development
of the Leigh Creek coalfields to
the north, it has been chosen as
the site for a new powerhouse to
feed not only the Murray River
pumping-stations, which supply
these western regions with
water, but also Adelaide and a
large surrounding area.
Work at the great salt-lakes
is also to be resumed. It is
hoped to interest overseas
capital, and to compete on the
world markets. During my visit
it was reported that the Japanese
Consul had arrived in town, in
connection with such matters.
One woman, thinking no doubt
of the Ford Consul, asked at
which garage it would be on
exhibition.
There are many monuments in
the local gardens and reserves,
some of them to people who
will be remembered only as
names on water-fountains which
have become too dirty to be
used. The most memorable of
the monuments is a gateway
recording the visit of Flinders.
In the distance across the plains,
framed by the gateway, are the
southern heights of the Flinders
Ranges.
There are many hills around
Port Augusta, and only a few
miles to the north there are
scenes of grandeur comparable
with those of the Red Centre,
the colorings and majesty por-
trayed byNamatjira. It is not very
far to the Hills or Arkaba, and
the justly famous Wilpena Pound.
The Big Tent and the near-by
Little Tent were pointed out to
me, and I knew the location of
the Devil’s Peak, but when I
asked about the Dutchman’s
Stern, people seemed vague. The
librarian s&id that it could be
“anywhere between here and
anywhere else,” and everyone
within earshot seemed amused at
our attempts to pinpoint the
Dutchman’s Stern.
When we began conjecturing
about the name, someone said
that mountains are usually not
named for down-to-earth reasons,
and probably the range resembled
a Dutch merchant-ship.
The assistant town-clerk, a
young chap called Harry, was
going by car to Quorn with
friends on the Saturday, and
invited me, too. I was promised
at least a closer glimpse of the
Flinders Ranges.
From Woolshed Flat, now
only a railway-siding, we could
see Devil’s Peak, which, like its
namesake, seems to crop up
everywhere, changing appearance
when seen from different posi-
tions, at times like Washington’s
profile and usually some sort of
a nose. It rises at one side of
Pichi Richi Pass, a quiet spot
where once there were many
houses, and where we saw the
tumbling walls of a brewery, a
hotel and bougainvillea climbing
around a chimney.
After 24 miles we were at
Quorn.
Quorn is an attractive town,
In^the past it has been an
i mpor tant railway-centre, but a
new is to be constructed
f rom p or t Augusta to the Leigh
Creek coalfields, going round
i ns tead of through the ranges,
and Q UO rn will be bypassed. As
a i arge jjercentage of the towns-
£olk on ffie railways and
the works hops for a living, the
loss be seV ere, but Quorn is
a j so cen tre of rich wheat-
districts and large sheep- apd
cattle-sales are held there. There
are three hotels. Yet despite all
this, it is small enough for the
local undertaker to be also the
carpenter and plumber.
Apart from the publicity
which states that “Faced with
the loss of one of the two main-
stays of its existence, the gallant
and pretty little town of Quorn
(population 1500) is fighting
gamely back to preserve its
happy existence in an amphi-
theatre of the Flinders Ranges,”
Quorn is known in advance to
many tourists as the home of
“Old Jack” Hodge. He is»
famous for the making of orna-
ments in wood, inlaid and
varnished, and often of very
complicated design.
It is his belief that there is no
piece of timber grown that is not
beautiful. Apart from candle-
sticks, bowls, stands and con-
tainers, he has created a master-
piece, “The Woodman’s Vision,”
which he saw during an illness
in a delirious dream.
It contains 3242 pieces of
wood, “a glorious urn or a vase”
(as Ruby Ackland has described
it in a commemorative verse),
with “the fragrance of wattle
and gum and spires pointing
skywards.” Nobody is sure what
it is, the “form with a soul in
most colorful wood,” but many
have seen and admired the com-
plicated and mystical object.
It is, to say the least, a tribute
to its creator’s industry and the
beauty of our native timbers.
Quorn was named after the
town of Quorndon in Leicester-
shire, the home of some of the
most famous hounds in England.
A drive out to Warren’s Gorge
was arranged. Near the Old
Arden Vale station we came face
to face with the Dutchman,
framed by tall gums, the whole
range looking rather stern
because of the dull day. The
range does resemble a merchant-
man, but when we had
approached more closely, there
on the slopes at the stern was a
large patch, for all the world like
the patch on a Dutchman’s pants.
(To be continued next week)
The fact that there are two
snakes together in a small area
does not indicate any long-
established sentimental interest
in each other. They may be
mating; there may be an
abundance of their food in that
area ; or it is just coincidence.
The “hoop - snake,” that
astounding creature which
allegedly takes its tail in its
mouth, when threatened, and
rolls away downhill like a
motor-tyre, is another evergreen.
I have never yet heard what hap-
pened if the hoop is pursued until
it loses momentum.
A variation of the story is that
the snake rolls at its victim and
lashes it with its tail. It is
difficult to find a reasonable
explanation for this ridiculous
story. It is a physical impossi-
bility for a snake to achieve such
a feat, and I know of nothing in
reptilian behavior to suggest that
it could. The bandy-bandy pre-
viously mentioned raises its body
from the ground in a series of
loops as an intimidatory gesture,
but they don’t even remotely
resemble a hoop.
Bushmen frequently advise
campers to place a piece of rope
or a trail of ashes around their
tent and sleep soundly in the
knowledge that no snake will
dare to cross these barriers.
In an American book by two
of the world’s greatest authorities
on snakes there is a photograph
of a camper in a sleeping-bag
encircled by a piece of large-
diameter rope. A big rattle-
snake is crossing the rope with-
out any apparent discomfort.
As for the ashes, snakes have
on occasion been found in the
grateful warmth of the ashes of
campfires in the early morning.
The best place to pitch your
tent if you wished to be certain
that snakes would not attempt to
share your bed would be on the
upper slopes of an iceberg in the
Antarctic. Don’t even trust a
patch of Irish soil. A snake was
killed at Wentworth House,
Sydney, last year, and it is said
that loads of Irish soil were
specially imported to surround
this historic residence.
The glass-snake, which is said
to break in halves when touched,
each half wriggling off in a
different direction, is another
example of mistaken identity and
faulty observation.
Practically everyone knows the
habit of the common garden
lizard of dropping its tail under
duress. Well, there is a group of
lizards, known as legless lizards,
which, because of the absence of
limbs, look exactly like a snake.
They are, nevertheless, just
harmless lizards, and they can
detach almost two-thirds of their
body without hurt. A new tail
will grow again. Sometimes it
is imperfect and deformed. Very
frequently the new member is so
perfect that there is no break in
the body-contour to indicate that
it is a “retread,” but an examina-
tion of the color-pattern will
show a sharp line around the
body where the original tail was
dropped.
The occasional double-tailed
lizards which have been reported
may be explained by the fact that
the original act of dropping the
tail was not a complete fracture,
and the replacement has grown
out beside it.
A complete and absolute cure
for the bite of venomous snakes
has exercised the brains and
abilities of some of our best
research-workers for many years,
but as yet no universal antivenine
effective for all species of sna.kes
has been developed. According,
though, to many less-academic
opinions the goanna has solved
the problem. It appears that,
having been bitten in combat by
a snake, the go. dashes off into
the bush and chews the leaves of
some magic plant, which
prevents any ill-effects.
The various species of the
genus Varanus, of which the
goanna is a member, are widely
distributed oyer Australia in
areas to which no species of plant
is common. So it would appear
that the unfortunate monitors in
those areas rfot endowed with
this valuable vegetation are con-
demned to death when bitten by
a snake.
It is significant that the pro-
tagonists of the goanna’s sagacity
have never been able to track
him down and find out just what
species of plant possesses
qualities which have eluded
scientific experiment for so long.
Should it ever be found I shall
be happy to supply an enthusi-
astic copperhead or tiger-snake
to any martyr who has sufficient
faith in the infallibility of the
“goanna-bush” to allow the
snake to bite him and then
chews the cud. But I shall have
a supply of tiger-snake anti-
venine handy as a reserve
defence and to elude a conviction
on a charge of being accessory
to suicide.
As a matter of fact I would be
interested to hear a reliable
account of a hostile engagement
between a snake and a goanna.
I can imagine no probable
circumstances in which it would
occur. Australia’s great bard
“Banjo” Paterson has dealt
hilariously with this “plant
sublime” in his poem “John-
stone’s Antidote.”
I recall reading with consider-
able amusement many years ago
an account of a big-game
hunting - expedition written
by the brilliant humorist, the
late Lennie Lower. He de-
scribed an enormous snake
which blocked his path through
the jungle, and which was so
long that he was forced to camp
for three days while it passed.
This diverting piece of exaggera-
tion is mild compared with some
of the stories of large snakes that
have been written and spoken
and accepted as authentic.
The boa-constrictor generally
conjures up a vision of the
ultimate in reptilian gigantism in
the average mind. Really the
boa is a comparatively small-
potato in this field. It would
rarely, if ever, exceed 14ft. In
North Queensland the
Amethystine python has been
recorded up to 22ft. I am
inclined to doubt claims of 30ft.
for it.
Many years ago the American
Museum of Natural History
offered a reward of orie-thousand
dollars for a specimen or unques-
tionable proof of a snake of
40ft. or more in length. It has
not yet been claimed.
To give well-authenticated
figures, the largest snake ever
measured was a Regal python
from the Malay Peninsula 33ft.
long. The largest venomous
snake in the world is the
hamadryad or king cobra of
India (record, 18ft. 3in.).
The Australian taipan has
been recorded to 13ft. It corpes
close to claiming the title of
being the most dangerous animal
on earth.
The ability to “charm” snakes
with music is given absolute
credence by practically every-
body. The fact that snakes have
no ears should be an adequate
answer to this one.
The classic instance of “charm-
ing” is that of the Indian fakir
and his cobra dancing to the wail
of the pipes. This “dance” may
be explained by the fact that the
cobra habitually rears its body
up to strike, and as the charmer
sways his body the serpent also
sways in altering the aim of his
strike. It is perhaps fortunate
for the piper that the snake is
unable to hear the tuneless noise
produced by his instrument or it
might press its attack home with
more determination.
The snake that has only to
drive its tail into a tree to cause
the tree to wither and die ; the
one that milks cows by suckling
them; the one that cracks
itself like a whip, are just a few
of the dozens of snake-stories
whose origin is obscure, but
which would have found a fitting
place in the fantasies of Lewis
Carroll and Dean Swift.
THE WHIRLWIND
I watch the whirlwind twist
The rags of life so neatly;
And mark the withered leaves
That, rattling, lift so lightly;
But now I know it well,
That should I step within
And with the debris rise,
I would not see at all—
At last I have grown wise.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
mwe
Brandy Crusta (For the Cocktail Hour )
Moisten rim of glass with lemon juice and dip in
castor sugar; line inside of glass with peel of k
fresh lemon thinly cut in spiral fashion. Place
tablespoon of fine cracked ice in mixing glass, add:
1 teaspoon Maraschino
3 teaspoons Curacao (white or orange)
A dash of Angostura bitters
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy
Stir well and pour into the prepared glass (4 ozs.)
and add \ slice orange.
L-o-n-g Brandy (Serve in 6-7 oz. glass)
1 or 2 ozs. of Chateau Tanunda Brandy,
cubes of ice, 1 oz. lime or lemon
cordial; fill with soda-water or
water —or 1 or 2 ozs. Chateau
Tanunda Brandy, cubes of ice;
fill with Dry Ginger Ale.
“Good brandy is a healthy drink”
61ATEAU TANUNDA
The Brandy of Distinction
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY. AGENTS
* Write for free Brochure with selected recipes by famous Bartender.
WauTjnun
BRANDY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THIRTY SQUARE RULES
This year’s British White Paper
on Defence looks to the posses-
sion of a “powerful nuclear
deterrent” —i.e., the hydrogen-
bomb —as Britain’s best defence
against aggression.
Public opinion, going by the
press, seems to agree, and there’s
a touch of irony in the fact that,
when the U.S. announced a
rather similar policy—of “instant
and massive retaliation” —about
a year ago a good section of
public opinion in Britain, as
represented by the press, was
roundly critical of Uncle Sam
for “waving the big stick.”
As the following sampling
indicates, British press opinion
now seems to agree with that
aspect of American policy, and
is only critical of the effective-
ness of the British means of
waving it.
The comments of Air-Marshal
Saundby and Lord Hailsham in
Londoji “Spectator” were pub-
lished a shade ahead of the
White Paper, although that in no
way affects their relevance to
the subject.
“The Emerging Pattern”
Air - Marshal Sir Robert
Saundby, in London “Spec-
tator” : “According to the report
of a Civil Defence Study, pub-
lished in the United States on
November 29, 1954, the H-bomb,
if it is detonated at the optimum
height above the target, would
cause complete annihilation
within a circle of five miles radius
from the point immediately
beneath the explosion. If the
bomb is detonated in contact
with the ground, the damage and
loss of life caused by the blast
and heat would be considerably
less than that caused by an air-
burst. The bomb, according to
a Home Office Paper published
on August 20, 1954, would cause
a crater one mile in diameter
and 170 ft. deep.”
The same: “From that point of
view [Britain alone] our situation
does indeed appear desperate.
But, in fact, thanks to the North
Atlantic Treaty Alliance, it is
no more, and no less, desperate
than that of any other great
Power. If a surprise air-attack
were to be made on this country,
within a few hours the whole
air-power of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation would be
hurled against the aggressor.
From hundreds of bases the
bombers would rise, loaded with
H-bombs, and in a short while
the main centres of administra-
tion, production and communica-
tion in the enemy country would
Have been similarly pulverised.
Provided that everybody knows
this, and that no shadow of
doubt exists as to the determina-
tion of the Western World to
retaliate in overwhelming
strength, or our ability to do so,
then the surprise attack will
never come.
“We have at last reached the
point, which many people have
thought we had reached before,
when full-scale global war has
become unthinkable, so long as
both West and East have the
power simultaneously to destroy
each other. And the more clearly
the peoples of the world under-
stand the nature of thermo-
nuclear warfare, the more
quickly shall we reach the stage
at which all nations will realise
that they must renounce war as
an instrument of policy, or
accept the probability of the
extinction of the human race.”
* * * *
Lord Hailsham, in London
“Spectator”: “The fashionable
theory that wars may be pre-
vented or human beings deterred
from a dangerous course of
conduct by fears for the planet,
or for the human race as such,
can be discounted as absurd. If
men are not deterred by the
prospect of losing their own
families or cities which they have
seen, they will not be deterred by
fears for humanity or other
countries which they have not
seen.
“The true psychological lesson
to be learned is that, contrary to
what at first sight appears to be
the probability, a threat of
retaliation to a potential
aggressor is a more potent
element in the psychological field
than the threat of aggression to
a potential victim.”
* * * *
“Spectator” comment: “Given
the Russian capacity to sustain
a good deal of waste in the
process, the elimination from a
war of Britain and the rest of
Western Europe by nuclear
bombardment is a perfectly
feasible enterprise. Our protec-
tion against this threat consists
simply but overwhelmingly in the
fact that American industrial-
and air-supremacy is great
enough to inflict a devastating
reprisal on the Russians. It is
the prospect of this which has so
London “Daily Mail"
SEATS OF THE MIGHTY
far prevented them from striking
the first blow.
“For the moment, however,
the fact must be faced that a
major war would almost certainly
be a hydrogen-war. Survival
depends on our known readiness
to fight, if need be, as nations
faced with the threat of extinc-
tion must fight, without counting
the cost.”
* * * »
London “News Chronicle”:
“Britain can make hydrogen-
bombs, is going to make them,
and intends to use them if a
major war should ever be
brought on by an attack on the
free nations.”
* * * *
London “Sunday Times”
editorial: “[The White Paper
faces the fact] that in the
presence of an aggressive Soviet
bloc, wedded to the doctrine of
inevitable conflict, heavily
armed and possessing nuclear
weapons, the only security
against total world war —the only
means to peace and eventual
disarmament —is both the power
and the will to hit back and win.
“Secondly, that this readiness
to fight with all the weapons
we command should be instant
upon attack on ourselves or our
allies, and not conditional upon
our being already devastated by
Soviet nuclear power. Thirdly,
that all this enjoins a complete
review of the roles and character
of all the Armed Services—a
review which the White Paper
carries only to an initial stage.
“Fourthly, that nevertheless we
also need conventional arms and
forces, suitably deployed, to
resist other forms of coercion
than total war. And, finally, that
the threat to use nuclear
weapons if we are attacked is
empty unless a potential enemy
can see that we are able to
survive such a war and survive to
win.”
* * * *
London “Financial Times” :
“The whole White Paper reveals
the dilemma that is posed by the
contrasted need for thermo-
nuclear-defence and -reprisal,
and for conventional forces of
the most modem kind. The
same contrast appears between
the demands of a possible total
war —that is, the need to prepare
for what might happen—and the
demands of the existing cold
war —the need to prepare for
what is happening already.
“Two sentences from the
White Paper put the position
most clearly. The first is the
statement that ‘our defence-
policy will continue to be based
primarily upon the maintenance
of the nuclear deterrent to
aggression.’ The second is that
‘there are many military situa-
tions in which the use of nuclear
weapons would be unsound, and
it is still necessary for us to
maintain our effort in the
development of other weapons.’ ”
* * * *
London “Economist”: “The
strategic revolution that has
occurred in little more than 12
months is this: so long as it was
the original A-bombs that were
in question, a small island might
conceivably be defended, while
it would take a massive bomb-
ing effort to provide an effective
deterrent to a large and remote
country. Defence and offence
were still in some sort of balance.
But with H-bombs, there is little
or no defence, and the deterrent
is overwhelming. Attack has
become much the best part of
defence, and by the same token
the readiness to attack has
become much more likely to
succeed in its main objective of
preventing the war from ever
happening. The new doctrine is
not easy to assimilate. But it is
cast-iron in its logic.”
• • • •
The same: “Two new tech-
nologies have wrought a revolu-
tion in the design of weapons
that has not been equalled since
the appearance of gunpowder.
They have crammed as' much
technical progress into a decade
as the world once took two and
a half centuries to assimilate,
and it is small wonder that the
military planners are breathless
from trying to keep their strategy
abreast of the scientists. The
two technologies are those of
electronics and nuclear-physics ;
the White Paper makes no
attempt to minimise their impact
on warfare. They mean the end
of military strategy as the world
has known it; the end of con-
ventional air-defence; of vast
movements of armies ; of battles
at sea. But what they mean in
positive terms is still far from
clear.
“The thermonuclear bomb,
with its ability to pulverise areas
of 30 square miles or more and
to spread destruction over 200
miles with a single explosion, has
dwarfed all other concepts of
warfare.”
The same: “This, then, is the
emerging pattern: deadly serious
preparations for a fantastically
destructive war of weeks or days,
as the best means of ensuring
that it will not happen; pre-
paredness to fight peripheral
limited wars and police wars that
well may happen and prove
costly in men, production and
money over the next five or 10
years until a new atomic situa-
tion emerges—as it may with the
ballistic-rocket, or when several
Powers have nuclear weapons.
It is not a happy prospect, but
it could be worse: a nuclear war
that does not happen is still
better than a conventional one
that does.”
* * * *
London “Daily Mail” : “This
is the devilish paradox of our
times: that the one hope of
escaping world-wide death is the
mutual possession of weapons so
frightful that we are all terrified
to use them.”
The Navy
Cyril Falls, in London “Spec-
tator” : “The United States has
largely reversed recent naval
policy. The carriers are going
forward again. They assume the
role of atomic-bomb bases roam-
ing at large. Airmen have said
they represented too many eggs
in a basket. The Navy asks if
they represent as many eggs as
New York and if, in the foggy
northern Atlantic, * they ■ are
likely to be found, or indeed as
likely as atomic-bomb bases on
land. A good deal can be said
for a form of attack coming
from unknown directions.
Britain should participate.”
* * *
The White Paper: “The Navy
makes its contribution of heavy
carriers to the allied striking-
fleet whose great mobility and
offensive power, to be augmented
by guided-missiles and by other
modern equipment which is
under development, will add
powerfully to our ability to hit
the enemy either independently
or in support of allied land-forces
and land-based forces.”
* * * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“Their Lordships [of the
Admiralty] have too little money
and not enough sailors to do
what they would like to do.
They must also live, these days,
in the company of scientists who
invent new weapons and new
ways of countering new weapons
a good deal faster than shipyards
can construct new ships. It is an
awkward world in which the
weapon that can be decisive has
not yet been invented, but the
ship that has to carry it must be
laid down now. The problems
are admittedly difficult, but it is
open to question whether their
Lordships have realised their
magnitude or have found a way
of solving them.”
* * * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “Mr.
Thomas [First Lord of the
Admiralty] describes as revolu-
tionary the decision, which has
already been announced, to
develop guided-missile ships.
These will replace cruisers, and
provide anti-aircraft protection
for the carriers.”
* * * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“If there is anything to criticise,
it is vagueness about dates.
When are all these fine things
going to happen? Will it take
as long to get the new aircraft
into service as the Wyvern took?
How long will it be before the
Tiger-class cruisers, still to be
completed, are displaced by the
guided-weapon cruisers? There
is no disguising the fact that the
Royal Navy’s health has been at
low ebb.”
* * * *
London “Daily Express”: “It
has long been the Navy’s proud
boast that it could pick and


arra
m
WORSTED SUITINGS. You are assured of the
finest cloth made in Australia, from pure Australian virgin
wool, when you see the famous Yarra Falls name on
worsted suitings
The Hall Mark of Quality
YARRA FALLS LTD., ABBOTSFORD. N. 9.
m
m
VI CTO RiA
choose its men. How come, then,
that the Service runs short just
when the spread of naval flying
and other new weapons makes
life on the ocean-wave more
glamorous than ever? Are
living-conditions afloat behind
the times? Are recruits put off
by an exaggerated veneration for
sailing - ship traditions? Is
promotion too slow and too
restricted? Or is the trouble just
that more than half the Navy’s
men stay ashore?”
The Army
London “Economist”: “In
some respects, the thermo-
nuclear bomb has simplified the
problem of making the Army
into a dual-purpose force, able
to deal with hot and cold war.
The tactical nuclear weapon
means that armies must be dis-
persed, highly mobile, free of
undue dependence on roads, able
to operate in self-contained units
of the minimum effective size—
which is certainly less than that
of the reduced size of
a British division. This, however,
is also approximately what is
wanted in most of the cold-war
terrain. It is certainly the
requirement in Malaya and it
was so in Indo-China. The
Army’s tactical problem is to
design a force large enough to
be effective, and mobile enough
to be able to concentrate rapidly
for attack, and to disperse as
rapidly if threatened with nuclear
bombardment.
“No less plainly, nuclear tactics
require that dispersal must be
the characteristic of the ‘infra-
structure’ in Europe. Obvious
targets must be avoided ; every-
thing must be stored in dispersed
dumps. ‘Pipelines’ (convoys on
roads, build-ups in railway-
yards) invite paralysing blows.
The long tails of divisions as at
present organised must be cut
down or right off. The Army,
besides air-support and com-
munications, needs its air-supply
lift. Independence of elaborate
supply-trains involves simpler
and fewer weapons-—certainly
less artillery, other than anti-
aircraft guns. (At present British
formations in Europe are
covered by U.S. atomic cannon.)
The White Paper, however, offers
little promise of this streamlin-
ing. The list of new equipment
is rather meagre.”
* * * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“One may be comforted to learn
that ‘studies and experiments in
all aspects of these problems are
being conducted in close touch
with other armies of the Com-
monwealth.’ But the comfort
would be less chilly if one were
assured that these studies had
eventuated in the issue of the
appropriate arms.
“Some of the equipment, we
know, is reaching the troops.
Specimens of the much-delayed
FN self-loading rifle and the new
sub-machine-gun are now in use
in Kenya. The Conqueror
heavy tank and an improved
light anti-aircraft gun (useful if
enemy aircraft happen to fly
low) have been introduced.
“But there is no sign of the
emergence of a surface-to-air
guided-weapon and only a hint
of our acquiring a presumably
American surface - to - surface
guided-weapon.”
The Air Force
“Manchester Guardian”:
“The White Paper on the supply
of military aircraft finishes with
a foolish piece of boasting. ‘This
country,’ it says, ‘has an effective
air-defence against what any
potential enemy is at present able
to bring against us.’
“What have we at present to
stop them? The Hunter fighter,
as the White Paper admits,
cannot yet fire its guns at high
altitude without upsetting its
engine, and anyway there "are
only three or four squadrons of
Hunters in service. The early
versions of the Swift fighter, in
the words of the White Paper,
‘cannot be brought to an accept-
able operational standard,’ and
the later model is nowhere near
service. The Venom, Vampire
and Meteor fighters are modifica-
tions of 1945-46 aircraft and can
themselves travel at only 500 to
600 miles per hour.
“In other words, they have
no margin of speed with which
to overtake and attack the
Russian twin-jet bomber. The
North American Sabres, bought
for the R.A.F. to help it over its
present weakness (and oddly not
mentioned anywhere in the
White Paper), may have some
margin of speed, but not enough
for safety.
“As for British medium-
bombers which might attack
enemy bases, although work was
begun in 1947 on the Victor and
Vulcan not one is in service.
The Valiant, ordered because of
the Korean crisis, will become
available only this year. How,
then, can the Ministry of Supply
justify its boasting and its
camouflage?”
* * * *
London “Economist ” ; “The
Swift and the Hunter fighters are
on the way to becoming classic
examples of how aircraft-
development should not be
handled. Their arrival in
squadron service has been so
long delayed that, except for
reasons of prestige, no one much
minds whether in fact they ever
do arrive. Strenuous efforts have
been made to salvage the Swift
aircraft because it would have
been a useful stepping-stone to
the introduction of guided-
missiles. This hardly seems good
enough. Why should men and
resources still be diverted to
testing and further developing
aircraft for which —to give one
example—ll different designs of
tail have been proposed?
“The Hunter, which is going
into service, is an elegant and
beautiful aircraft likely to earn
high praise from its pilots, but,
like Ferdinand, it has shown no
disposition to fight. Apart from
the succession of mechanical
troubles that prevent the firing
of its guns (what use are its four
30mm. cannon, even though they
may deliver 10 times the fire of
the MIG?), the Hunter’s per-
formance is not up to the
standard originally demanded by
the R.A.F.”
* * * *
Air-Chief-Marshal Sir Hugh
Lloyd, in London “Daily Tele-
graph’’ : “We are attempting too
much. We cannot build
Britannias, Comets, Viscounts,
Elizabethans —as well as
Hunters, Javelins, Victors,
Valiants and Vulcans and all the
rest. It is impossible. The
industry is not sufficiently robust
to stand the strain.”
* * * *
London “Spectator” : “In any
case, the real danger lies less
from bombers than from guided-
missiles, against which night-
fighters are useless. Can anybody
seriously believe that now, a
decade after the V 2 began to
work its carnage in London, the
Russians have not evolved a
V 22, capable of far greater de-
struction from a far greater
distance? Against such weapons
there is at present no defence,
except in the capacity —and the
determination —of the West to
strike back even harder.”
Civil Defence
London “Economist” : “What
has never been made brutally
clear to the public at large
[about the H-bomb] is that the
heavy casualties certain among
civilians and Civil Defence units
does not obviate the need for
the survivors to deal with the
situation as they find it, stirrup-
pumps and all, and to be
organised to do so. The White
Paper is rather more realistic in
its forecasts and plans, but to
say ‘public morale would be
most severely tested’ is a triumph
of understatement. The trouble
is that the public still have no
real idea what lies behind a state-
ment like ‘it would be a struggle
for survival of the grimmest
kind.’ There is no human
precedent; but mix the Lisbon
earthquake with the Black Death
and the Bengal famine in equal
parts, and history, though no
guide, may give some idea of the
steadiness of nerve demanded.”
Krupps
With the Allied occupation of
Germany, Alfred Krupp, head
of the family, was ordered to
sell his ironmines and coalmines
in West Germany and never
again to acquire control of any
basic steel-, iron- or coal-
industry there.
Krupp interests, however, still
control steel-fabricating and
-finishing plants, shipbuilding-
yards, and machinery-, loco-
motive- and truck-factories in
West Germany. And in “U.S.
News and World Report’s” view,
the name of Krupp “is emerg-
ing as the spearhead of the
German drive for export
markets and industrial toeholds
overseas”:
“Krupp methods produce
results; Krupp salesmen don’t
just sell Krupp products, such as
machinery, locomotives and
fabricated steel; they sell long-
term financing and even invest-
ment partnerships. They sell
technical services—the use of
Krupp engineers—to customers,
and they are in no hurry to close
a deal —with typical German
thoroughness they often take six
months or a year to tie something
down.”
Listing the extent of Krupp
interests, the same publication
notes that “steel-plant under con-
struction in India uses Krupp
steel and equipment and Krupp
technicians, and Krupp is buying
part of the company. A similar
investment-deal has just been
made with Pakistan on a steel-
mill. Krupp is also putting up
a new steelworks in Egypt, and
Krupp negotiators are discussing
with the Peron Government the
buying of a share of the projected
Argentine steel-industry.
“The House of Krupp seems
to regard its export-sales depart-
ment as the thin edge of the
wedge for expanding investments.
Krupp is always looking around
for ‘likely situations’ to invest in.
Some other German firms show
a s i m ii ar interest, but not quite
the same boldness and geo-
graphic sweep as Krupp.”
D.Sc. (Har.)
Britain’s Atomic Energy
Authority is currently employ-
ing 5000 highly trained engineers
and scientists, and expects that it
will need twice that number
within 10 years. Added to which,
industry is taking more and more
scientific manpower for its part
in the U.K.’s nuclear-power
programme.
Training-facilities to meet this
demand will have to be consider-
ably expanded, notes the U.K.
Information Service, and,
already, Birmingham and Man-
chester Universities have
announced new “atomic
courses”; the Queen Mary
College of London University
“has accepted nuclear energy as
an optional subject for the
engineering degree since 1952,
with a lecture-course supported
by work done in a specially
equipped atomic laboratory”:
“The Atomic Energy
Authority has its own training-
scheme. This is a five-year
apprentice-course in which hand-
picked youngsters are given the
opportunity of practical and
theoretical training at no cost
to their parents. This is to be
extended in the immediate
future.
“At Harwell, too, there is the
Reactor School, where engineers
and scientists from industry are
taught the basic facts of atomic
energy. This is to be expanded
in the near future and will
eventually be extended to include
foreign scientists as part of the
Anglo-American plan for widen-
ing the world’s scope of atomic
learning.
“Harwell, in fact, may well
become the world’s principal —
and first—Atomic University.”
Out, Damned Pot!
Describing tea-prices in
Britain as “a hotter subject than
foreign policy,” the Louisville
(U.S.A.) “Courier - Journal”
suggests a method of bringing
’em down:
“Let ’em drink coffee for a
while, and tea-prices will simmer
down. A similar switch worked
wonders for the American house-
wife. She cut down American
coffee-consumption by 15 to 20
per cent., switching over to the
hardships of more tea and the
instant-coffee saver. Her reward,
in time: coffee still too high,
but steadily descending below
the old pre-boom price of 85
cents.
“Englishmen may gag at the
suggested remedy, true enough.
And restaurants whose reputa-
tion depends on the tea and not
the food they offer may quake
at the thought, reverencing their
ancient conspiracy since Clive of
India’s day to transform a nation
of coffee-drinkers into a nation
of tea-drinkers by the simple
expedient of never offering
coffee.
“We [Americans] could take
it or leave it before World War I
and prohibition came along.
Indeed, though the British Isles
and Tsarist Russia were at the
top of the tea-importing list,
Europe in these days consumed
more than half of the world s
coffee-crops, the United States
less than one-third. We reversed
those figures almost the moment
whisky was outlawed, and then,
happily habituated despite
repeal, pushed our per capita
consumption each year to better
than 131 b.
“Lest the British reject our
coffee remedy as too-too
American, let us remind them
that the Swedes (at about 171 b.)
and the Danes and the Nor-
wegians still heavily outdrink
us.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Bigger Than Ever
Four years ago The Bulletin printed
an article of mine entitled “Bigger and
Bigger.” It drew attention to the para-
doxical situation in which, with shortages
of capital equipment, labor and essential
goods, our country was being forced to
carry the burden of a public service
swollen to intolerable proportions.
Since then the only appreciable
improvement has been in the supply of
essential commodities, although some of
these are still scarce. We are still suffer-
ing from a shortage of skilled labor, the
capital requirements of industry are far
from being satisfied, and the Federal and
State programmes of public works are
far behind schedule.
In one respect only have we kept pace
with the rise of population—in
the expansion of the public service. In
fact, we have advanced ahead of the
population-increase. Expenditure on
Government departments has grown out
of all proportion and, if it were not for
the irrefutable evidence of our income-
tax assessments, beyond all belief.
The Victorian Public Service Act, as
displayed in the State public offices,
requires:
Whenever the head of any department
shall find that the number of officers under
his control is greater than is reasonably
necessary to perform the current work of
the department, he shall report the circum-
stances to the commissioner. Officers in
sub-charge will report to the permanent
head any reduction in staff that may be
made on account of reduction in the
amount of work or rearrangement of
duties.
Despite the drop in our real national
income through the decline in export
prices, and the heavy added burden of
substantial increases in the wages of
public servants, I’ve not heard of any
action being taken by public-service
heads, State or Federal, to reduce staffs.
The executive officer in private employ-
ment who overloaded his department
would find himself out on his ear in no
time.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Sharks
Now that a third shark-tragedy has
occurred in N.S.W. waters people are
starting to think about it. Some people
will always prefer to swim away from
crowds on beaches within and outside the
harbor. This leaves them exposed to
mortal danger.
Bondi, a popular beach for Sydney’s
sun-worshippers, has now become a shark
danger, because Waverley Council has
forbidden the landing of sharks within
the municipality on the ground that the
“It's something pretty new—tall men can Walk under the wings.”
shops along the beach-front are losing
trade, as Bondi has earned notoriety
through sharks being caught in large
numbers. Now sharks will be free to
breed and endanger the lives of the surfing
public.
Bounties are paid for destruction of
rabbits, dingoes, etc. Why couldn’t this
apply to sharks! I agree that sharks
could never be exterminated, but
organised killing would do a great
deal towards a safer swim.—P. G. R.
(N.S.W.).
Sea-borne Trade
No economist has yet come forward
with plain figures on just how much extra
the people of Australia pay for imports
and exports because of the power of the
unions handling shipping and the water-
front.
Federal Ministers may suggest that
Australia needs more or better
shipping-facilities, but they must
know that the shipping coming
here from overseas is among the
best in the world today. They
must know that millions of tons
of the most expensive shipping
can be, and is, too often held-up
by the Australian working com-
munity for the flimsiest reasons.
Freight-rates today are based
upon the costs that have to be
met by shipping companies, and
those costs are far higher than
they ought to be, because of
strikes and other unnecessary
delays. One way or another, the
public pays these higher costs.
The wine-trade may deplore the
falling-off of exports to Britain,
but here, too, the higher freight-
and handling-charges for the
12,000-mile voyage can make all
the difference —as it does for
everything else shipped overseas
from Australian ports. Incom-
ing cargo is similarly affected.
How long these militant water-
front unions will be permitted to
hobble the national economy
is anybody’s guess, but the ques-
tion is an urgent one. The preva-
lent idea that an employer has no right
to have anything to do with his own
employees is fantastic. To put it mildly,
the labor that presumes to dictate condi-
tions is, in the main, unskilled labor.
Even the modern seaman is no longer an
expert.
The day will have to come when the
waterfront will be thrown open to any
adult and physically-fit man who cares
to work on it under expert foremen
employed under some authority. The
same with shipping—all that modern
shipping needs is the officers and petty-
officers, with tradesmen in the engine-
room. The crew —the men who wash
decks and clean brasswork —can be bus-
conductors.
If the union stranglehold can be
broken there will be no lack of appli-
cants for shipping or the waterfront.
There is arbitration-machinery in plenty
to see to it that labor gets a square deal.
Why should Australia have such a bad
name in shipping-circles when it has some
of the best ports in the world? —
Shellback (N.S.W.).
Dried Fruits
a stabilisation plan, similar to those
enjoyed by many other primary indus-
tries, could well be given to that of Aus-
tralian dried-fruits, now facing very
tough competition by heavily subsidised
foreign exporters,
Unless a guaranteed floor-price, based
on current costs of production, is given
the industry under a stabilisation-fund,
many dried-fruit growers will reduce their
crops and take up other, more lucrative
agriculture ; they threaten to do so.
A guaranteed floor-production is sound,
provided the balance, if any, is paid back
into the fund. It could easily be adminis-
tered by the Commonwealth Dried Fruits
Export Control Board. If prices dropped,
the Government could pay producers
from the fund, or, if that were insufficient,
from the Treasury.
Since the war, costs in the industry
have risen by more than 200 per cent.
One estimate by the Australian Dried
Fruits Association places it at 233 per
cent. At present 80 per cent, of the dried-
fruit production in Australia is exported,
but oversea prices are falling, and costs
are not being met by many farmers with-
out an alternative income.
The Commonwealth Government could
well survey this industry before it is too
late.-— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Married Women in Jobs
One contribution to the high cost of
living is the number of married women
in jobs.
Take the case of a man on £l6 whose
wife, because of family ties or other
reasons, stays at home and is occupied
with normal domestic duties. The man
on the next bench, on the same wage,
whose wife does work, does not live on
£l6 a week, but on £26, or thereabouts.
It’s easy to see that this second couple
will be prepared, as a rule, to pay much
more for their needs than is within the
compass of the first man.
Which means that the genuine family-
man is having so much the harder battle.
He can try to even-up only by getting a
second job— not always as easy as it
sounds.
Married women shouldn’t be allowed
to work, excepting, of course, widows,
women with invalid husbands, and such
cases.
To the only point against that argument
—that the withdrawal of wives from in-
dustry will reduce the labor-force —the
answer is longer hours for the genuine
labor-force. And that mightn’t be a bad
habit to develop.— Kejokada (Vic.).
Lawrence of Arabia
My own right to an opinion on
Lawrence (B. 2/3/’55) is derived not
from personal acquaintance, but from
having travelled over the same ground
and from having lived among the Arabs
who had been part of his “Army.”
I never found reason to doubt
Lawrence’s personal honesty and sin-
cerity, but, on the other hand, there was
overwhelming evidence to prove that he
was a poseur who, like so many other
actors, deceived himself much more than
he did his audience. His costume-play
as a “Prince of Mecca” convinced the
Arab rabble —whom he occasionally led,
but more often cajoled and followed —
that he enjoyed the favor of kings, but it
was considered nauseous and almost a
blasphemous role by the educated and
devout Muslims in his party.
What most influenced both rabble and
gentry was the fact that he commanded
apparently unlimited supplies of golden
sovereigns (still the basis of all values in
Saudi Arabia), which he showered on all
and sundry.
He was equally prolific with promises
as to Britain’s post-war action in the
Middle East. These promises (as nearly
all but Lawrence and his Arab hordes
realised) were quite unjustified and
could not be implemented, but he made
them in good faith and in the belief that
they would be fulfilled, and he asked
nothing and accepted nothing for himself.
Mistakes were many and he wrongly
chose to back Abdullah against Ibn Saud
(who at that time could have been bought
more cheaply), but he defended, and
suffered for, his mistakes with admirable
courage.
Lawrence was a visionary with an over-
weening, though not boastful, belief in his
own influence and capabilities, and he was
the slave of his visions to the point of
death. Had he been denied unlimited
funds —the principal cause of his initial
minor successes and ultimate major
failure —and had he been a better judge
of men, he might have carved for him-
self an unassailable and unquestioned
niche in history.
His progress can be likened far more
to that of a Don Quixote than to a true
Prince of Mecca, and the cost of his
exploits to the British Empire was far
beyond that of his lavish almsgiving. —
Abdul Assiz (N.S.W.).
Road-safety
Last week I saw a dead child on a
stretcher, bare feet resting in the dust
at the side of the road. As I drove by I
saw the ambulance-officers cover the body
with a blanket, but not before I had seen
too much.
I felt shocked, as did the other three
men travelling with me. For the rest of
the journey we drove cautiously. Our
usual lighthearted chatter became sober
and thoughtful. We thought of his age;
of his parents. We were all parents our-
selves.
But today the tragedy seems less
dramatic. It wasn’t my child, and a few
days have blanketed the shock. And so
I drive with a little less caution and a
little more confidence that I won’t kill
a man.
I like speed. I have a good car. I am
confident in a reckless but understand-
able fashion, considering the mechanical
excellence of the modern car, that I won’t
lose a wheel or have a blowout, that my
brakes won’t fail in an emergency, that
neither my car nor I will fail in any way
that could result in death.
Having examined my conscience, f am
forced to conclude that the present pre-
ventive measures have little effect on
me. “Death is so permanent” and the
other messages of the Road Safety Coun-
cil don’t impress me, and knowledge that
a police-car may be skulking up a side-
street has taught me to drive instinctively
with one eye on the rear-vision mirror.
But the sight of death or a bad accident
robs me of confidence in my car and my-
self every time—temporarily. I believe
it is that way with nearly every man.
What, then, is the solution?
It should be possible to leave behind a
reminder of these tragedies. If the money
now spent on advertising the dangers of
the roads were used for the manufacture
of metal disks, painted white and display-
ing a black cross in the centre, and if these
disks were set up close to scenes of death
—one disk for every death —the effect on
drivers, I believe, would be immediate.
Motorists would soon learn the signifi-
cance of the black crosses, which would
have the added advantage of marking the
danger-spots. The sight, too, of police on
the side of the road, instead of in hiding,
would make for more-cautious driving.—
Willpar (N.S.W.).


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, as a Proprietary
Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
628,455
577,045
300,000
1,505,500
494,500
2,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
Ordinary Shares of £l each /
New Ordinary Shares of £1 each)
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
New Ordinary Shares of £l each. . .. ..
HELD IN RESERVE
Shares of £1 each . .
£1,205,500
300,000
£1,505,500
494,500
£2,000,000
• •
• •
• •
• «
300,000 NEW ORDINARY SHAR
OF 20/- EACH, PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
CAPITAL REQUIRED to Operate Valuable "Caterpillar" ★
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
The extra funds sought by this issue are necessary for additional working capital to secure the
greatest possible returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of the valuable
franchises held by the Company and its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS PEERING (QUEENSLAND) PTY.
LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria, U.S.A., owning CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD n
'’Caterpillar" Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment for
STATE OF QUEENSLAND
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA
NEW GUINEA AND PAPUA
SOUTH-WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS
DEERE AND COMPANY of Illinois, U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima, Ohio, U.S.A. Lima Cranes. Shovels and Draglines tor The
whole of Australia.
TRACKS
ON
1904-1954
"CATERPILLAR'S" WORLD STATUS!
• Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on tracks is
"Caterpillar."
• In Australia, too, "Caterpillar” Tractors enjoy by far the
highest user preference, as every year more "Caterpillars"
are sold than any similar type.
.i, Caterpillar is a registered name in U.S.A.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
Ordinary
Net Profit Dividends
Year ended 31st August, 1951 •• .. £11,790 9.2%
Year ended 31st August, 1952 •• .. £48,779 39.0%
Year ended 31st August, 1953 .. •• £58,870 12.5%
Year ended 31st August, 1954 .. • £111,398 12.5%
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS’ REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of valuable franchises
augurs well for the future development and profits of the Company.
Intending shareholders have this opportunity to participate in returns and dividends
from the expanded future operations of Hastings Diesels Ltd. with the increased
working capital.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of new Ordinary Shares are proposed to be applied as
working capital for the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompanying the Prospectus,
dated 28th February, 1955, and must be lodged direct with the Company’s Office.
Copies of the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained upon application
to the Company’s Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Deering Limited will be given absolute priority of
allotment of shares applied for not later than the 31st March, 1955. Any shares not
then applied for by such shareholders will be dealt with as the Directors may
determine. The Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without
notice, whether the issue be then fully subscribed or otherwise. In the event of
applications being received for more than 300,000 New Ordinary Shares, the Directors
reserve the right to allot additional shares ranking pari passu in all respects with
the New Ordinary Shares oSered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such
additional shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing further working
capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must be raised by the
issue of shares offered for subscription by this Prospectus is £20,000, being required
solely as working capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 77 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W., Chairman and
Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General Manager.
LESLIE EUGENE BRANDON, 61 Seventh Avenue, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Qld., Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W., Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney Street, Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
JOHN DUDLEY LOBB, Lum Road, Wheeler’s' Hill, Victoria, Architect.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN PEARSON, Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Manager.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES, F.C.1.5..
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s Registered Office.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been
information only and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe,
advertisement, is dated 28th February, 1955, and copies thereof have been Hied respectively
Wales (who takes no responsibility as to its contents), the Registrar of Companies in
Australia and Tasmania and the Registrar-General in Victoria.
Applications will be received only upon one of the forms of applications referred to
of the Prospectus.
fully complied with) is published for
The Prospectus, of which this is an
with the Registrar-General in New South
Queensland, South Australia, Western
in and endorsed upon a printed copy
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M., ON 30th JUNE. 1955. CONSIDERATION WILL BE
GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED. PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT
THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Ltd.,
The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Sts., Sydney, N.b.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name.
Address
State


PHENOVIS Brand of phenothiazine
tine
ii
is PHENOVIS
r
u.
m
n
'
li
%r
m
v
li
FINE stuff this ‘PHENOVIS’ . . . yes “fine” is the right word. No ready-
to-use worm drench on sale in Australia contains phenothiazine more finely
ground than ‘PHENOVIS.’ For the treatment of gastro-intestinal worms in
livestock, there is nothing as good as ‘PHENOVIS,’ containing extremely fine
ground phenothiazine particles.
ORDER
'PHENOVIS'
LIQUID or POWDER
from your supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDU
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
TRIES
IMITED
-PHE.34X.1168-
ICI
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
‘'FARMERS' |
BOY”
ROTARY
SCYTHE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you :
N.S.W.: Urazeos Co-operative Ltd-
-46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
YIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8561.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS”
PRACTICAL RESULTS OF KEYLINE
COME time back I invited
E. O. Schlunke, who, on first
reading my book, The Keyline
Plan, was inclined to think
poorly of the idea (with certain
qualifications), to visit Nevallan
[the writer’s North Richmond,
N.S.W., property] and see the
plan in operation. He did. And
his report on this visit has
appeared in “Man on the Land”
(B. 9/2/’55).
Both sides commonly learn
from such encounters. I learnt
something about Mr. Schlunke.
For one thing, that he is a farmer
and grazier with years of prac-
tical experience behind him, born
on the land, and one who has a
thorough knowledge of conven-
tional soil-conservation. He has
been awarded prizes by the Soil
Conservation Department for his
work in this field. And in his
article he remarks that he has a
fairly large area of poor land (as
Nevallan was) which he would
“gladly forget if the rabbit-
inspector would let him.”
To my mind, the combination
of these facts is significant.
Here we have a man with a
sound knowledge of modern
agriculture and soil-conservation
methods who regards his poor
country as a nuisance. Because
conventional methods of soil-
conservation have little to offer
him, for his particular problem.
But his poor land (provided only
that it isn’t solid rock) is repre-
sentative of millions of acres
within the better-rainfall area of
Australia. It is of tremendous
national importance. And it’s
important to Mr. Schlunke. I
think he is sitting on a very
valuable potential asset.
Mr. Schlunke told me he had
read The Keyline Plan quickly,
but now, after seeing the work
on Nevallan, he would certainly
study it carefully. I firmly
believe that if he looks at his
poor country with the keyline-
plan in mind he will not be able
to resist the urge to develop it.
I appreciate his compliment in
saying that I have achieved the
cheapest water-storage he has
ever seen. He has, however, left
the reader “in the air” as to the
purpose of the dams ; he has also
given the impression that
“money was no object” in the
development of our properties.
If I appear to, and sometimes
do, spend more money than the
average farmer for soil-improve-
ment, it is not only for the
purpose of improving my own
property, but to find out how to
develop and improve all agri-
cultural land cheaply and
quickly. As a businessman, I
insist that this be done as
economically and profitably as
possible.
In mentioning the friendliness
shown by the “numerous farm
staff” he may, again, have given
the impression of unnecessary
expenditure. Mr. Schlunke met
my project - manager, two
keyline-cadets, and a contractor
and his man who were working
on the “two huge dams.” But
the contractor has finished and
gone, the project-manager’s work
is completed, and the two
keyline-cadets are now searching
for a property to buy and “go
and do likewise.” Our permanent
staff consists of a manager, a
married couple and one man.
All our dams have outlet-
pipes, as Mr. Schlunke mentions,
but to say the water-pipes
“seem to run all over the farm,
acting as a sort of super top-rail
for many of the fences,” gives a
somewhat exaggerated idea of
how much these are employed.
The one 2in. pipeline was
placed along the top of a fence,
instead of being buried in the
usual way, for the purpose of
watering stock on close rota-
tional grazing.
But these pipes are second-
hand, and have been stored on
the property for some years. At
the moment, however, I would
not recommend their use to other
farmers. Perhaps in 12 months’
time we will have a better idea
as to their value—whether they
would be worth while buying
new.
As for the use of the relatively
large water - storage, Mr.
Schlunke’s ideas and mine do
not quite coincide.
His view is that the possession
of deep rich soil is necessary
before water-storage and irriga-
tion are contemplated.
My view is that, given our
type of country and our favor-
able location with respect to
markets, spray-irrigation will not
only be highly profitable but
will, by the use of increased
quantities of water in conjunc-
tion with the keyline-method of
soil-development, produce deep
rich soils faster than it is possible
with these methods plus rain
only. Water is not only the
limiting factor in production,
but, with proper soil-aeration,
the only limiting factor in the
rapid development of deeper and
more fertile soil. We are building
deep rich soil all over the farm
now.
Mr. Schlunke had a brief view
of my earlier soil-conservation
work, completed over 10 years
ago. These were mining-
engineering ideas applied to agri-
cultural land-problems and,
logically enough, they give the
impression of orthodox soil-
conservation procedures. They
were really the same except for a
few original ideas of our own.
Our “soil-conservation works”
were put in at a time when the
Soil Conservation Department
had few experienced men, little
money and no equipment. That
has been altered now. When
Mr. Schlunke says that “poor,
denuded, desertlike patches of
soil may be restored to fertility
by standard soil-conservation
practices of pasture-furrowing,
contour-cultivation and run-off
control,” I am in entire agree-
ment with him, but it is entirely
a matter of cost and time. These
methods are too slow.
To take a single illustration
on a grazing property requiring
some measure of run-off control;
two Soil Conservationists with
level and staff will rarely
complete the necessary levelling
work for 40 acres of pasture-
furrows in one day. The same
two men would complete not less
than 600 acres per day of the
necessary instrument - levelling
work for the keyline improve-
ment of the area.
So much for that section of the
work. The construction of the
pasture-furrows usually requires
a special tractor and implement
supplied by an outside contractor
or the Soil Conservation Depart-
ment. The keyline improvement
of the same area, accomplished
with the farmer’s own tractor-
power and the Graham-plough,
will not only hold more water
but will, by even absorption of
moisture, start a cycle of soil-
improvement over all the area.
I do not agree with Mr.
Schlunke that my practices could
lead me into head-on collision
with Soil Conservation officers,
who, as he says, should be my
best friends. Perhaps he doesn’t
believe so himself, as he says a
little further on in his article
“there is not much in the
[keyline] plan that orthodox con-
servationists can object to, and
what there is, isn’t so vital after
all.” It isn’t necessary for one
to be overawed with the work of
the Soil Conservationists to
appreciate the work that they
have done.
We know that the original
American soil - conservation
scheme followed high-pressure
selling by the Americans of
“soil-erosion.” When dust from
the western prairie-land seeped
into houses and skyscrapers alike
in New York in 1934, the soil-
conservationists had a spec-
tacular boost to their soil-
erosion campaign. The approach
then of these agriculturalists-
turned - amateur - engineers
resulted in the employment of
fantastic amounts of machinery
—bulldozers, graders, rippers,
giant shovels, trucks, dragline
excavators and even dynamite—
to stop the whole process of soil-
erosion at once.
No doubt these earlier soil-
conservationists were somewhat
fascinated by the giant machines
and the great problems they felt
they were undertaking. Gradu-
ally, however, the whole
approach has become more
rational, as the soil-conserva-
tionist has turned back to his
original profession of agri-
culturalist.
The emphasis nowadays is on
proper land-use —soil-fertility as
a follow-up to the soil-conserva-
tion structures. As time goes on,
less and less of the soil-conserva-
tionist’s structures will be
employed on farms, while more
and more emphasis will be placed
on a much more important struc-
ture—the structure of the soil
and improvement of soil-
fertility.
Mr. Schlunke thinks that an
appreciable time will be neces-
sary to test the methods of key-
line soil-improvement. But
fertile soil can be seen and
examined. It even has a dis-
tinctive smell. When one has
fertile soil, one knows it! Then,
of course, there are the cattle;
if they are in fine condition this
is some further confirmation of
the fertile condition of the soil.
Since Mr. Schlunke’s visit, Mr.
Jack Shute, chairman of the
Australian Meat Board, inspected
our property. Of the cattle,
Mr. Shute said “All your cattle
are in wonderful condition” ; of
the soil, “What amazes me most
is the depth and obvious fertility
of your soil here on Nevallan.”
Apart from being, in a general
way, an authority, Mr. Shute has
a particular knowledge of my
soil. He knew it before I did,
and he confirms my description
of it as being characteristically
poor.
Mr. Schlunke mentions that if,
and when, we have really deep,
fertile soil, a period of abnormal
rain might slide it into the valley.
He still has in mind the old—
and very wrong—view that soil
is something that sits on sub-
soil, which, in turn, is something
that sits on rock ; with a definite
break or line of demarcation
between them.
With the keyline methods, the
whole land is knitted together as
a complete unit, without these
false lines of definite change.
These lines are not at all natural;
they are the attributes of a poor
agriculture. With the earth in a
united condition there is no
chance of slipping or sliding, and
with our tree-strips further
reinforcing this unity, such a
thing as Mr. Schlunke envisages
will not happen.
He seeks to divorce the keyline
techniques from the development
of soil-fertility. That’s impos-
sible. It is the keyline cultivation-
technique which controls the
fundamentals —the maximum
absorption of water and air—
which supply the base for all
other elements of fertility-
development. Mr. Schlunke still
doesn’t understand the keyline-
plan. When he says that on
certain levels I have decided that
here water run-off should be
stopped, he is confused.
I don’t believe there is any
ambiguity in the book, as he
suggests, but I have noticed that
some people understand the
basic idea immediately, and, for
no apparent reason, others find
it a little difficult to grasp
quickly. Again, he is incorrect
when he writes that “in order to
plot the keyline it is necessary to
survey and contour-map the
whole of the farm.” I state in
the book that the keyline can
form the basis of a farm-
mapping technique which would
be cheap and practical.
Mr. Schlunke saw our contour-
map and an aerial picture of the
property on the same scale. I
want to assure him that this is
in conformity with my own train-
ing as an engineer who would
rarely think of undertaking a job
of any magnitude where such
maps are called for without first
putting his job on paper.
Contour-maps are not neces-
sary for keyline, but they are of
such value in training agricul-
turalists to appreciate and under-
stand their own land that I am
all for them. They are valued
so highly in America that some
Soil Conservation Districts not
only supply farmers with free


THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
Ist to 12th April, 1955—10 days 8 nights
FOR SALE AUSTRALIAN COPYRIGHT
Annual Publication
The Proprietors wish to dispose of the Australian rights of a Farm Publication
which has a wide and successful circulation in New Zealand. Would suit active
retired Farmer or Business Executive prepared to travel. Bank references required.
Reply to Publication, care of this paper.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by H.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
mwt\
►■j rr v
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.: ,
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore
N.Z.:
- DISTRIBUTORS 1
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome 9t„
Auckland.
THE FACTS ABOUT THE
AGA COOKER
Regd. Trade Mark
are so remarkable they seem
almost too good to be true . . •
AGA burns continuously, day and night! Cooks by itself
. . . unwatched and unaided!
AGA provides hot water, too; all you could reasonably want
for kitchen, laundry and bathroom.
AGA is more economical ... its fuel consumption is
guaranteed never to exceed a definite, and very
modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor
how long you cook!
AGA's insulation is amazing . . . cool to work with, the
Cooker helps to “air condition” the kitchen.
AGA's refuelling takes only approximately ten minutes
per day, that’s all the attention AGA asks.
AGA is scientifically planned . . . temperatures are auto-
matically adjusted by thermostat . . . always “just
right” to cook immediately.
¥ The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
LEVIN AND CO. LTD.
{Established In 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
POST TO-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
N. S. WALES: 51-57 Goulburn St., Sydney
VICTORIA: 432 Bourke St., Melbourne
Q’LAND : Cnr. Margaret & Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: 113 Grenfell St., Adelaide
West Aust. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
T’MANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart
Sole AGA Agents for W.A.
XFI
FOR f
a 9ainsf f £
g f . H ' of foic
Br 'hm f 0
Learn ALL the facts klAlir
NAME
about AGA, including
the details of other ADDRESS.
outstanding models
contour-maps of their properties,
but also with aerial photographs.
Mr. Schlunke has something
to say of the city businessman’s
purchases of agricultural land.
On a recent trip of many
hundreds of miles I saw two
outstanding evidences of rapid
soil-improvement, and one of the
properties belonged to a well-
known city man. It is my view
that we do not have nearly
enough city men as landowners.
True, some of them merely play
with agriculture: a few will lose
money, but many of them, with
their undoubted ability and
financial resources, and a
possibly new approach, are doing
an excellent job in the develop-
ment of the country. The more
of these men that take up land
the better.
At the same time, there is no
doubt that the progressive farmer
—I have spoken to thousands of
them in the last few years—has
a greater all-round breadth of
knowledge than the successful
commercial executive. Many of
these progressive farmers have
invaded city business.
In these two types of men,
however, we have the most
powerful force in the rapid
development of Australia.
P. A. Yeomans.
Wool Technology
The establishment of
a School of Wool Technology
at Darlinghurst, Sydney, as a
part of the N.S.W. University
of Technology, is comparatively
recent. As Professor P. R.
McMahon remarked (B.
23/2/’55), there is a tendency
to associate the word “techno-
logy” with machines and
secondary industry. But wool-
technology really means the
application of science to every
phase of the industry, from
growing the wool to the end-
products, the textiles.
In the past, research-workers,
teachers, valuers and other pro-
fessional workers for the
pastoral-industry have come
from the universities, as gradu-
ates in science, engineering,
veterinary-science and agricul-
ture, or from technical colleges.
Or they have been practical
men who have had to gain a
specialised education over many
years ; especially true in wool-
commerce. Men aspiring to the
highest positions in woolbroking
and woolbuying get most of
their training outside of formal
instruction, and usually need a
year or so overseas.
The aim of the wool-
technology course is to provide
a pool of graduates with a
scientific training, who will
also be good practical wool-
men.
The training of men for the
wool-industry at university level
is, in part, a reaction to the
threat of synthetics. It is a
reflection of a general tighten-
ing and consolidation through-
out the industry: an increasing
emphasis on research, extension-
work, and liaison between the
various parts.
The school organised a series
of lectures at the Wool Sale
Room, Sydney, last year, and
published the full texts in a
review, Wool Technology. Sale
is by subscription, and copies
(10s.) can be obtained on appli-
cation to the School of Wool
Technology, Forbes - street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney. The aim
of the lectures —and the book —
has been to pass on to the
industry, for practical applica-
tion, the results of recent
research. Lecturers were experts
from various organisations —
C.5.1.R.0.; Bureau of Agricul-
tural Economics, Canberra;
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture and the University of
Technology.
Wool Technologist
“Bullswool”: Development of
Si-Ro-Mark as a totally scour-
able branding-fluid for sheep is
a reminder that, judged by
practical results, Dr. M. Lipson,
head of C.5.1.R.0.’s Wool Tex-
tile Research Laboratories, Bel-
mont, Geelong (Vic.), is one of
the world’s leading wool-
scientists.
No one knows how much
the use of non-scourable or
partially-scourable fluids has
cost the Australian wool-
industry, or the manufacturers;
but violent and frequent pro-
tests by British and other over-
seas manufacturers indicate that
it must be large.
Lipson and others had been
engaged on the problem for
many years. It was a tough one.
Many growers have always
insisted on branding their sheep
for identification purposes, and
some of them carried the
practice to excess.
In an industry noted for its
conservatism, it was hard to
induce some growers to give
the branding-iron an occasional
rest or to cease using tar or
compounds certain to cause
trouble. But the biggest prob-
lem was to evolve a fluid which
would stay on the sheep’s back
as long as the grower wanted it
to, and which would scour out
completely during manufacture.
Early on, Lipson and another
scientist developed the Freney-
Lipson process—a fluid which,
after long tests on sheep at
various stations, proved to be
good, but not good enough.
Then Lipson and his
C.5.1.R.0. associates developed
it still further. “L.8.E.” (lano-
line-base-emulsion) fluid was
the result. Better, but still not
good enough. Then came a new
L.B.E. fluid.
In the last few years this
fluid has been widely used in
Australia and in overseas coun-
tries. The manufacturers O.K.’d
it; they found it would scour
out satisfactorily. But the
growers wanted something even
better.
Applied to the sheep in dry
weather the fluid stayed put, but
applied during rain or shortly
after rain it streaked and ran.
Si-Ro-Mark is a further
development. Apparently it
satisfies everybody. So Dr. Lip-
son and his associates have done
what seemed, 10 years ago, to
be impossible.
Next step will be to induce
growers to use only the new
fluid for branding. It is to be
hoped that their response to the
promptings by the Australian
Wool Bureau will be better than
their reactions to advice by the
old Wool Board in regard to the
use of the Modified Mules
operation as a precaution
against blowfly-strike.
If experience is a guide, some
growers will use the new fluid
and some won’t —unless they
are compelled by law to do so.
In fact, spokesmen for the
buyers quite recently advocated
{Continued on next page )
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(13/3/’55)
Under the Single cycle, reasonably good rains should
fall throughout the coast of N.S.W. during April, with light
to moderate falls on the Tablelands and in the Riverina.
Light to moderate rains indicated for Victoria, but
these should be well below average, with good general relief
rains commencing during May. South Australia should be
very similar, with general rains commencing in May.
In N.S.W. [see date of writing, above] further showers
should fall between March 15 and March 18, with a heavy
rain-group towards the close of the month, and these
should be confirmed by the reappearance of a good sunspot-
group about March 21.
The Uranian cycle also indicates heavy rains between
the 15th and 18th, though this has proved an unreliable
cycle.
LENNOX WALKER.


illlll
tm
\
Moiiqow
Double Protection for Your Engine Why accept anything less?
1
Double - strength cleaning
agent keeps valves, rings and
pistons far freer of harmful
deposits and varnish than
formerly possible.
New engines operate longer
at top power—old engines
take on new life!
You get smoother engine
performance—more power—
improved mileage.
Twice the Protection Against Wear!
Increased ability to cut friction—by
reaching and protecting tight-fitting
engine parts more quickly and com-
pletely than ever before.
New additives in Mobiloil effectively
reduce corrosive wear in stop-and-go
driving.
YOU add years to engine life—reduce
overhauls and repairs—assure top
economy!
Mobilubrjcotio
MObilgos
'
dCD
M 557
a law banning the use of
unscourable fluids.
Another achievement of Lip-
son’s (as a member of a team)
was the development of a new
process making wool socks
unshrinkable. He’ll probably
break out in a new direction in
the near future.
Early Lambs
“Indigo”: Mating the flock in
mid-November instead of the
usual mid-December is profit-
able, according to progress-
results of an experiment with
comeback and crossbred ewes
and Southdown and Dorset
Horn rams at Rutherglen
research-station in north-east
Victoria.
The big advantage is in being
able to market the early lambs
before prices fall to export
parity.
Results of the experiment with
these breeds under Rutherglen
conditions indicate to date
that:
1. The Dorset Horn and
Southdown are both capable of
siring early lambs. No differ-
ence in their working-times has
been noticed.
2. Only small differences have
been noticed in the times the
ewes will accept the rams. The
comebacks have a slight advan-
tage in this regard.
3. Lambs from crossbreds
have matured faster and have
been heavier than those from
the comebacks. Crossbreds also
produce more twins. However,
the value of wool from come-
back ewes offsets the lower
value of the lambs.
4. The Dorset Horn is a
more profitable sire of early
lambs than the Southdown. The
chief reason: Better early
growth by the D.H.’s lambs.
Autumn Topdressing
“Sundowner”: Consider
carefully the best time to make
that autumn topdressing. Don’t
apply it so early that it lies for
long periods unused on dry and
hard surfaces, or so late that
the cold weather holds back
pasture-growth.
On dairyfarms 3cwt. per acre
of phosphates is an ideal single-
dressing, but if this operation is
done twice a year 2cwt. at each
dressing is recommended. On
new and partially developed
areas, particularly scrub-land,
4cwt. is best.
If the soil is deemed deficient
in potash, apply lcwt. per acre
initially, thereafter maintain the
yearly dressings at between
icwt. and lcwt.
Smutty Grain
“Gnarr”: Ball-smut—a 1 s o
known as stinking-smut and
bunt—used to be Victoria’s
worst wheat-disease, but there’s
no excuse for it now that cheap
and efficient methods of control
have been discovered.
Nevertheless, the appearance
of smutty grain—even in crop-
competition entries —indicates
that a lot of seed isn’t pickled
at all or isn’t pickled thoroughly.
A lot of the trouble is due
to trying to pickle too fast —
particularly when contractors
do the job. Watch them closely.
Every grain must get a good
coating of the powder.
Best pickles to use are l|oz.
to 2oz. copper- or mercury-
compound a bushel, or 2oz.
powder containing not less than
10 per cent, of hexachloro-
benzene.
If you find loose smut in
your crop—it blows away to
leave the wheat-ear looking like
the skeleton of a backbone —
use clean seed next year.
The only way to control flag-
smut (it turns the leaves black)
is to use a resistant variety.
Here’s the classification for
Victorian wheats:
Resistant: Insignia, Pinnacle,
“ Yairs , mate, you’re about fifty miles West
o’ th’ main track.”
Diadem, Quadrat, Ghurka, Pin-
dar, Bencubbin, Sherpa.
Susceptible: Bobin, Ranee
4H, Gabo.
Very Susceptible: Baldmin,
Magnet, Regalia.
Mules Operation
“C.A.A.”: Autumn crutching
provides an excellent opportun-
ity to carry out the Mules-
operation, apart from the fact
that March is usually a bad
month for fly-strike.
Operate on weaners straight
off-shears. Sheep not done at
that stage can be treated within
10 days of a good crutching.
For adult sheep, a cradle will
be necessary. By removing a
piece of skin from each side of
the tail, a freshly-crutched or
-shorn sheep can be rendered
almost immune to crutch-strike.
If combined with correct tail-
docking at marking-time and
one crutching per year, the
Mules-operation is now regarded
as being 99 per cent, effective.
Cattle-yards
“Morayda”: Many cattle-
yards have a wing leading to a
corner-gate. A better plan is to
place the gate in the centre of
the side, with no wing. This
saves time in building, posts,
wire or rails, and the cattle
don’t crush themselves as they
do when pouring through a
wing.
Wires used for binding rails
to yards are twitched from the
outside. Leave some ends long
and bend them upwards in a
U-shape and you have handy
hitching-posts right on the yard.
Crosscuts
“A.C.T.”: Federal Cabinet
has decided to grant 2d. a pound
on airlifted beef in W.A. this
year if final report from the
Air Beef Panel concurs. This
replaces the withdrawn W.A.
subsidy of Hd. a pound, which
was supplemented by a Federal
subsidy of Id.
* * *
Standard method of control-
ling drift-sand in S.A. mallee
has been to sow with cereal-rye.
But strong winds often scatter
it before rye gets established.
At Wanbi Research Centre
experiments have been going on
over the last couple of years to
see what difference sulphate-of-
ammonia makes; the idea being
that early growth will hold the
sand.
In 1953 281 b. sulphate-of-
ammonia and lcwt. of super,
per acre were sown in a series
of strips along a long sandhill —
partly on blown-out land, partly
on piled-up drift. Rest of the
hill was sown with super, at
lcwt. an acre. Result demon-
strated the value of s.-of-a. In
1954 trials concentrated on
optimum fate; it was 281 b.
Cost (including cost of mixing
with super.), 10s. Cheap, com-
pared with the cost of resowing.
* * •
“Southern Stock and Station
Recorder” reports that about
3000 people are expected in
Wagga (N.S.W.) for the Farmers
and Settlers’ convention and
field-day (today, Wednesday).
* * *
Agronomist C. B. Palmer, in
an article in “Wesfarmers’ News”
(W.A.), discusses liquid-manure.
There’s terrific wastage, of
course, on dairyfarms, and it
isn’t difficult to arrange drain-
age to a sump in a low corner
of the yards. As has been noted
here before, some New Aus-
tralian farmers in N.S.W. have
already' started the practice,
which is common enough in
Europe. Considering the cost of
fertiliser, it’s surprising more
dairyfarmers haven’t imitated
them.
• • • •
Palmer continues: “The
liquid-manure can be pumped
from the sump up to a tank
mounted on a truck or cart and
so transported to the field. The
tank should have a wide tap, and
it is a relatively easy matter to
construct a boom to distribute
the liquid. No need for jets
to make a fine spray ; all that is
required is a piece of large pip-
ing with holes at intervals. The
holes can be made larger
towards the end of the boom to
ensure equality of output.”
* * »
Grafton (North Coast,
N.S.W.) “Daily Examiner”
on the floods: “The lesson
to be learned is that
equally swift action [as flood-
relief] in flood-control measures
would be of far greater value.
The flood-warning system can
hardly be awarded full marks,
either. Officially, it is reported,
no rain fell on the Macleay
catchment-area. Yet Kempsey
experienced a minor flood of
15ft.”
Same: “It seems that for days
the vital communications of a
mighty land were dependent
almost on a single wire. Bris-
bane, for example, could
apparently only contact the
south via Darwin. Many tele-
grams had to go by plane. The
amateur radiooperators actu-
ally had to come to the rescue
of the professionals. This is a
bad business in days of peace.
In time of war it would be a
national calamity.”
“Gippsland Times” (Vic.)
reports that a conference of
responsible organisations has
worked out a system of warnings
for the Thomson and Macalister
Rivers. This will be incorpor-
ated into a plan for the Latrobe
along the same lines.
The “Herbert River Express”
(Ingham, N.Q.), commenting on
recent rises of the Herbert, and
floods in general, points out that
the district’s worst flood, in
1927, came late in February.


Now on Sale at All Bookshops
NEVER VICTORIOUS, NEVER DEFEATED
by TAYLOR CALDWELL
Author of “Dynasty of Death,” “This Side of Innocence,” etc.
COLLINS :: PUBLISHERS
YOU’LL DIE IN SINGAPORE
by Charles McCormac
A factual and unadorned account of the
author’s imprisonment by the Japanese, and
of his escape with sixteen others, of whom
only one, an Australian, survived to be
rescued with McCormac. “McCormac writes
his book as an Englishman would talk of
these things—in a smooth, steady phrasing
that never jars no flag-waving, no embel-
lishing adjectives. Cold facts are enough,
anyway.” (Sunday Telegraph.)
15/6 (post lid.)
AND ALL THE TRUMPETS
by Donald Smith
This book was written by a Scotsman who
was taken prisoner on Singapore, and who
spent some time working on the notorious
Siam railway. “ a book which is a
truer picture of the prisoner’s life, as so
many knew it, than a lot of flamboyant tales
that” have been told.... His picture, is the
most graphic yet presented... .a memorable,
humble account of great suffering.”
(Glasgow Evening News.)
'* 20/- (post lid.)
You’ll find all the books you want at
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
NO MAN IS AN ISLAND
Donald McLean
An engrossing story of the early days of Broken Hill.
At all booksellers - - - 13/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
Kenneth Mackenzie
Kenneth (Seaforth) Mackenzie, poet
and novelist, was the subject of many
opinions ; but not many of his reviewers
or readers would know that he was
very largely a man of the land, with a
philosophy based on things rural and
fundamental.
He was a native writer, almost an
automatic writer. He could knock-out
a perfectly balanced sonnet in 25
minutes after working all day in the
garden, and his novels were written
unhaltingly in his minute longhand
and typed almost without revision.
Only a few days before his death he
had received a request from one of
these fashionable “workshop” maga-
zines for some progressive MSS. show-
ing his technique of building-up a piece
of verse, and he was quite genuinely
embarrassed by the request, as he simply
had no such stages in his creative work.
The secret was, I think, that, in the
hours of peace in the remote and hidden
garden where he worked, the words
patterned themselves out perfectly
and were promptly committed to paper
on his going inside.
Mackenzie was a member of a group
of idealists which set up a colony at
Kurrajong in the N. S. Wales Blue
Mountains some years back to prove
the truth and the beauty of subsistence-
farming. Like most such colonies it
suffered from * its disputes and
recessions, but he remained, and at
the > time of his death was one of the
last survivors, apart from one couple
whose family has grown so large as
to prevent them from ever moving
anywhere . . . And so amidst the wild
vine-choked scrub Mackenzie and the
others worked the small areas of
gardens according to the time-tested
formulae of the Hunza Indians and the
Francincensian recipes of Albert
Howard and May Bruce and Lady Eve
Balfour and other enthusiastic
optimists who believe that the human
race is worth feeding properly.
He was as much a craftsman in
the making of compost as in the com-
posing of verse, as careful with his
rows of beet as with his scansion, and
although his requirements in the Man-
chester and furniture line would shame
the proudest of professional ascetics
his garden was usually gravidly
luxurious.
As Yeats threatened and Thoreau
did, Mackenzie built his cabin and
raised his nine bean-rows, and had his
hive of honey-bees (until it rained),
and certainly the air was scented and
humming in his glades. He was, like
most genuine artists, contemptuous of
modem conveniences and inventions
and was quite sincerely enamored of
the primitive. In his last novel the
farm cited as the retreat for the fated
One was undoubtedly his own
domicile.
Mackenzie insisted on the impossi-
bility of any propositions or creed ever
overcoming the brute fact of human
individuality, and for this reason wrote
always in wide universal, which is why
some reviewers with closer focus are
looking for content in his work,
looking for theorem, instruction,
direction . . . from a man who, while,
and perhaps because, he was a master
of words, did not believe that the word
had any such supernatural power
whatever.
But we know how excited he was to
find the organic-farming theories being
proved more and more widely each
year as the farm extended, and we
know that he was slowly shaping facts
for a book on the subject of life from
the soil; but, confident of many years
ahead of him, he was giving this vital
subject its full term. His fine pen
turned to this earthy theme would
have given us reading more important
than politics and philosophies, for it
is food finally which speaks all
languages, not money, not bullets, not
ideologies, just fresh garden produce,
as from the garden beside his cabin:
for from garden we came and unto
garden must return, and the poets
know that we must keep our fingers
green if we are not to lose ourselves
in the morass of moralities.—
J. McG.
Negritos and Fairies
In their little book for children, The
First Walkabout (Longmans), N. B.
Tindale and H. A. Lindsay go back
some 100,000 years to describe how
the negritos journeyed from south-east
Asia to Tasmania, where the surge of
waters after the last Ice Age afterwards
isolated them with Bass Strait.
Mr. Tindale is ethnologist at the
South Australian Museum; and if you
don’t think the characters were called
Gunju, Ug, Nilka, etc., you will have
to argue with him. The story is of
little Gunju, the negrito, and how he
made friends with the prehistoric
giant-man, Ug; how the giants set fire
to the jungle and the negritos escaped
on rafts to an island, where they
resumed life in tree-dwellings until,
hunted by migrating giants, they
escaped again by raft to Australia.
Here they found crocodiles and
kangaroos; and little Wadna, Gunju’s
son, had the honor of being pecked
by the huge, extinct bird, the giant
emu, twice as high as a man, the
genyornis newtoni; and the tribe went
hunting the diprotodon with spears.
All these events are pictured by
Madeleine Boyce; and no doubt
children tired of Mr. Disney ? s modern
menagerie will find giant emus and
diprotodons a welcome change,
especially since there is something
extra-fairylike about extinct animals,
while the negritos, having been killed-
off or having died-off within a hundred
years of the arrival of white men in
Tasmania, are now almost real fairies.
Bright Boys
Every now and then a novel is pub-
lished which, without making any
claims to being great literature or to
expounding an important message,
succeeds in telling a story with an
original slant in conception and writ-
ing. Hugh McGraw’s Rough Island
Story (Arthur Barker) is one of the
kind.
The main story is told in the first-
person by a boy of 13, the period being
some few years before 1914. The
boy, Jimmy Fitzsimmonds, is out of
touch with his pompous father, his
mother and two dignified grown-up
sisters who live at home. His particu-
lar cronies are two Irish lads, Neil and
Tim Mahoney, whom he introduces to
a delightful estate whose owners are
almost permanently absent. The lads
are trespassers, but trespassing is worth
while because in the grounds is an
ornamental lake with an overgrown
island in it, and on the island is a
ruined building which they variously
suppose to be a fort or a temple, and
in or near which Jimmy is sure there is
buried treasure.
A typical situation is when Jimmy
copies some hieroglyphics from the
stone-work of the temple, and the
curator of the local museum has them
translated by a puzzled Egyptologist
who longs to know their source. One
of the charms of the book is this
credible humor of situation allied to a
nicely calculated irony.
Reviewed Briefly
Miss Pym Disposes: Josephine Tey
(Peter Davies). Miss Pym is a writer
of treatises on “popular psychology”;
invited to lecture at the girls’ school
run by an old friend, a training-college
for teachers, she observes all the moves
that lead up to the unpopular-girl being
removed to die from a broken head as
a result of someone monkeying with
the gymnasium-fixtures. Miss Tey,
who is the detective-side of the play-
wright “Gordon Daviot,” makes a
good job of the college and its feminine
undercurrents, and leads the reader up
the garden-path to a seemingly easy
solution which she caps with a surprise
in the last few pages —whether the
last-minute surprise is put there to
save the work seeming obvious is for
the reader to decide. There is an
enchanting South American girl known
to the rude students as “The Tart.”
* * * *
Who Was Changed and Who Was
Dead: Barbara Comyns (Bodley
Head). A grim little tale of an Eng-
lish village mysteriously overtaken by
madness and death, apparently based
on a case that happened a few years
back in France. The novel opens with
ducks swimming into the drawing-
room of the strange Willoweed house-
hold, the sun shining on a flood on
which drowned birds and animals float
sadly, and Ebin Willoweed rowing his
daughters inquisitively around the
submerged garden. After the flood
comes the mysterious sickness; mad-
ness; and, as a climax of horror, the
burning alive of an old man by the
villagers. The novel does not quite
succeed in making the impact —the
clean cutting-edge of art—such a sub-
ject, and such treatment, demand.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 322
Across
I—Pig1—Pig is a very good one. (7)
4 —Who might be expected to stop a
very good one? (6)
7—Some droning noise by the
unmanned German is a very
good one, too. (3-6)
10 — A very good one in a tube. (5)
11— A very good one might make a
copper blind, temporarily. (5-7)
14—Judah’s first-born English ruler is
the third person in Germany. (2)
17—Tradesman who puts a neat
edge on a very good one. (7)
19— Persian apple to turn into a tell-
tale damsel who is a very good
one, at least in point of “looks.”
(5)
20— A crossword-maker makes a dis-
tribution which is best of all the
very good ones? (5)
21 — Its fern arrangement is a very
good one, too. (7)
22 Keynote act. (2)
24—Childhood activity of the
Menuhins when I interrupt tie
thew’s children. (5, 7)
26 — Solomon plays this boy in the
post-office. (5)
27 — A supremely good one is thus
giving April none but Nile apron,
too. (9)
30 —A legal document, held by a
third party conditionally, makes
Esmond imitate the rooster. (6)
31—Don’t let the last man have an
innings with this piece of wood.
(6)
Down
1 — This is an occasion devoted to
the composer of the “Unfinished
Symphony,” butcher said slyly.
(ID
2 Unit of electrical resistance is
nothing to her Majesty. (3)
3 Warmer? (3)
5 What might be bought from the
stationer’s stomach vat for
caoutchouc. (6, 3)
6 Wake up, for you are in flower.
(5)
8— Creeper. (3)
9 Bird account which was much
more likely to be rendered to
Delilah than to Samson. (5-4)
12 — One of the results of churning a
goat. (6)
13 — An acknowledgment of some
charge made by publicity on a
centre for spreading Christianity.
(9)
15— Lend an ear once again to a
girl’s preparations for a show.
(10)
16 — Rio had altered the coiffure.
(4-2)
18—Condition of the cross Illinois
drone and our wit with a
temperature. (3-6)
23 —Chemical poetry about a cricket
team. (5)
25 —Will (old-fashioned) and South
stop together. (5)
28— Cop. (3)
29 — Woolgrower. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 321


u
THE UNIT OF ENERGY
BATTERIES
Z-.I
mm I mk i |im n m i r
»1 I .|l r I »
- 'V-?'!- V iUll H i if
MMWHHtiIMri tel
&1& \ :t " .H ■V,, > ‘ - i.
?v ’V iS
f.-ri
>• | g§isj
i'y*
iW.-I
?. r;i
!PSM&*s:s!y
M&
Y.:: ■
. .j ; A |, g
‘i i,r
V ’ V '*" '"'vV|
VJ
>jV
r ’ V'i v -
f ,• 1 jvi i -'pji
1 #1 Hfll
UP MH
iiilifcs® fei
:*:i
Kg
• i ’, -< -
s&sj:
ii
| I. -
•i | • ,
. ’ r. ' I , tr* ’ L
m
e : . : S •?
- »* , .■(ifrjLlJf* Jjl llv ..
* t'' ,^'i
, *• ’’ 1
IMNH
i 'i * 1 V»*» _ ’
M(' •'' ‘ s ‘ '’ti&ji'iv
r i. ■ .
, - » , •: W-i ‘Ci
j ' 1 K I Vi k « ~*m
> • •$• jl L j: j . •’*
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON}
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
