

I
e
SWEET OR
D R
The Bulletin
THE JET —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3916
Wednesday, March 2, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
THE ROCK OF CASHEL, TIPPERARY, EIRE
No. 235: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
Courtesy Irish Tourist Association Inc .
THE ancient town of Cashel, twelve miles from Tipperary, was for many
centuries the stronghold and capital of the kings of Munster and has
been a famous shrine in Irish history ever since that period. Today it is a
town of three thousand inhabitants and is the seat of a Protestant bishop.
It was there that Dean Swift, author of “Gulliver’s Travels,” was born.
Dominating the “city of Kings” is the Rock of Cashel, a limestone rock
rising three hundred feet above the plain and is crowned by the ruins of a
splendid cathedral. From earliest times there has been a fortification on
Cashel rock, and during the 10th century it was a stronghold of Brian Boru
(926-1014). Before that time, however, a church was established there by
St. Declan, a disciple of St. Patrick. The Bishopric, founded soon afterwards,
is now united with Waterford, Emly and Lismore. It was there in 1171
that Henry II received the homage of Donal O’Brien, King of Thomond,
and his chieftains. One hundred and forty-four years later, in 1315, Edward
Bruce held a Parliament at Cashel.
The first cathedral was founded on Cashel Rock in 1169 but no trace
of this building remains today; the present cathedral was built in the 13th
century. In 1495 it was damaged by fire started by Gerald, Earl of Kildare,
who excused himself to King Henry VII for this deed by saying “he thought
the archbishop was in it.” This honest and candid explanation so pleased
the king that he re-appointed the Earl in the office of Lord Deputy.
The roofless cathedral is strongly defensive in character with embattled
parapets and is entered through a Gothic doorway. In the north transept
is a series of sculptures representing the Apostles and other saints. Adjoin-
ing the north transept is a perfect Round Tower, eighty feet high and dating
from the 10th century. It could be reached from within the Cathedral by
a staircase turret which ascends the central tower. From the top of the
central tower the view extends far aoross the rich Vale of Tipperary to the
lofty heights of the Galty Mountains and b'eyond to Slievefelim.
A remarkable building on the south side of the Cathedral is Cormac’s
Chapel, founded in 1124, by Connac MacCarthy, King of Desmond. It is a
unique example of Rich Romanesque architecture —a style which entirely
disappeared after the Anglo-Norman invasion of the 12th century.


t&aw-foriS 1
HOME
. bave th e urge to write and the
ernJvnmu? ex P ress Jour thoughts on paper,
bIOJ.I S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
lalks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
from my writing total almost
t<o. (Les. ll.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
I list hereunder my acceptances to the
(i amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
‘ r r^)Vi ’ our T ’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting. The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.” 1
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— .
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS . ...........
(S.B. 555) AGE
Let BOOKHUNTER select and buy your
books for you. Write now to BOOK-
HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney. Quick
service moderate charges.
The Red Page
ACADEMISM AND POETRY
A decade or more ago an essay by
A. D. Hope on an ambitiously modern-
istic book by an Adelaide author
startled the small Australian literary
world with its brilliance of destructive
analysis; the impression was reinforced
with the appearance of two poetical
pieces of tearing satire in a neo-
Augustan style, “Byron in Hell” and
“The Return to the Freudian Islands”:
if such things are done with the
musical-saw, people, said, what may he
do with a grand-piano? The years
which have brought him the professor-
ship of English at the Canberra Uni-
versity College have provided more
examples of his incisive wit, but of
nothing else.
The melancholy grind of the week-
to-week reviewer familiarises him with
the young man of talent anxious to
have a go at criticism: most often
anxious to work off some idea of his
own at the expense of his author; for
him a book on the quantum theory will
do as well as any other for an expres-
sion of his opinions on contemporary
art. The result can be enlivening and
entertaining; but in the course of time
the young reviewer should gain an
ability to say what is in the book. A
book represents anything from three
months’ to thirty years’ work and
study: what the author has to say
should take precedence over a
reviewer’s opinion based upon a few
minutes’ or a few days’ perusal. When
the reviewer is a professor of English,
this is doubly so.
It is true that in his review in the
“Sydney Morning Herald” of Aus-
tralian Poetry, 1954, Mr. Hope prints,
in the course of a disquisition,
one example; the first stanza of lan
Healy’s “Love Song”:—
Me fella lonely ;
Big white wamba
Shine across the plain.
Him gibbit sadness,
Tidjili, lubra ;
Tidjili, come again....
but only to damn it:—
.... one of those synthetic
aboriginal masterpieces which I
thought had passed with the
extinction of the last Old Man
Jindyworobak.
Yet it is hard to believe that he has
read even this poem; for as a professor
of English he must realise that it is not
a fake-aboriginal song, but a use of
pidgin-English as a little-language, that
it has an exquisite cadence very far
from anything Jindyworobak pro-
duced, and that it is as little an effort
to copy, as a Beerbohm parody would
be to reproduce, its original. Why
should Professor Hope so misrepre-
sent Mr. Healy’s poem? I went back
several years through “The Bulletin”
files to get it; I feel that it is my fault
that Mr. Healy has been exposed to
so boorish and undeserved an affront.
The rest of Professor Hope’s remarks
on the anthology is comprised in half
a sentence:—
....except for Donothy Auchter-
lonie’s magnificent poem “The
Tree,” the rest is the charming
and tidy undergrowth of poetry
mixed with a few pretty weeds....
This suave summary of 37 poems
is affixed to some half-yard of remarks
on an English anthology, with statis-
tics of the ages and professions of
authors which Professor Hope offers
to “people able to interpret them,” and
a lament over the condition of poetry:
All the great forms have fallen
into desuetude; the epic, the
verse-epistle, the ode, the fable,
the formal satire, the narrative .
tale....
Now what gave me especial pleasure
in compiling this anthology was the
knowledge that I could rely on a narra-
tive tale of the first water by David
Campbell. As Professor Hope says, the
narrative tale is rare in modern poetry;
and rarer still in poetry that combines
a diamond-like glitter with the
freshness of early-morning air:—
So while the eucharistic bell
Tinkled like frost on Mullion Hill
And Glory, glory, God on High!
Rose to the green and luminous
sky
On tongue of bird and tongue of
man,
This sabbath-breaker, Hanrahan,
Shouldered his lean short-handled
axe
Stained with the blood of chicken-
necks,
And set to work. Quite soon the
air
Was thick with chips; and if
sweet prayer
And cries of “Timber!” do not
mix,
What’s that to him? Why, less
than nix....
Why is this superb story-telling
merely “charming and tidy under-
growth,” while Miss Auchterlonie’s
“The Tree” is a “magnificent poem?”
He watched them as they walked
towards the tree,
Through the green garden when
the leaves stood still.
He saw his scarlet fruit hang
tremulously ;
He whispered, “Eat it if you
will.”
Why, if Professor Hope bewails the
lack of narrative poetry, does he not
rejoice when he discovers such a
masterpiece as David Campbell’s? The
answer, I think, might have been given
but for Professor Hope’s extreme
modesty: Miss Auchterlonie’s beautiful
and witty poem about Adam and Eve
is an academic poem: it reminds the
professor of the only other academic
poem in the book, “The Return of
Persephone,” by A. D. Hope:—
She left her majesty ; she loosed
the zone
Of darkness and put by the rod of
dread.
Standing, she turned her back upon
the throne
Where, well she knew, the Ruler
of the Dead,
Lord of her body and being, sat
like stone ;
Stared with his ravenous eyes to
see her shake
The midnight drifting from her
loosened hair,
The girl 'once more in all her
actions wake,
The blush of color in her cheeks
appear
Lost with her flowers that day
beside the lake....
A beautiful thing; I sought it and
I printed it. Its static, or academic,
quality, its formalised scenery and
properties, do not appeal to me so
much as the open-air atmosphere of
Mr. Campbell’s poem; and we have
had the midnight and the raven hair
done better in a poem of Chris
Brennan’s; but the last two lines of
my quotation, and the wit of the whole
piece, please me immensely.
But even to appreciate both Mr.
Campbell and Professor Hope is not
enough; and I think it likely that my
anthology has caused pain because it
is an anthology rather than because it
fails to print the best poems of the
year: for the first time in many years
I have looked for simple folk-poetry
and for humor. The anthologist of the
year’s poetry of a nation should be able
to appreciate all varieties of poetry,
remembering the guiding rule of the
father of English poetry, and the master
of us all: The best in its kind.
And so should a professor of English.
That neo-Augusfffi and neo-Miltonic
poetry should be practised in Australia
at this time may seem merely incon-
gruous; that they should be held up to
a young 20th-century nation as the
mould into which her poetry should
be poured may appear a little silly;
but that a professor of English should
use his wit and authority to suppress
all other forms in favor of these
academic forms is rather disturbing.
This is especially so when the professor
is a born journalist, looking in the
mirror for his hero, a schoolmaster
brandishing a cane, triumphant over
all, a form of journalism which must
be fed month by month with wilder
and wilder statements. Ronald
McCuaig.
Bower-birds
Dr. A. J. Marshall’s Bower-birds,
Their Displays and Breeding Cycles
(Oxford University Press) is severely
scientific in its approach to these
enchanting architects, decorators,
painters and dancers of the bush, and
the general reader must not expect to
find in it anything like “a lot of anthro-
pomorphic nonsense of the kind that
pleases bird-fanciers.”
The first page of the introduction
does indeed contain a paragraph which,
without being anthropomorphic non-
sehse, may please the bird-fancier:—
In comparatively recent years
it has become known that members
of three genera paint the walls of
their bowers with fruit-pulp, or
wet powdered charcoal, or com-
minuted dry grass mixed with
saliva. One species, the satin
bower-bird, manufactures a tool
to help it apply the paint.
Another species, the Queensland
gardener bower-bird, builds a
bower which may reach a height
of about nine feet. This it
decorates with living orchids . . .
And the intrepid explorer may find in
subsequent chapters a bird, living near
a country hotel, which stole 30 blue-
bags; another which, in captivity, slew
three blue finches for its decorations ;
some amusing accounts of male bower-
birds sneaking through the bush to
wreck the bowers of their rivals; and a
delightful description, quoted from
Beccari, of the gardener bower-bird of
New Guinea, which plants “a meadow
of moss” before the waterproof hut it
builds from the stems of an orchid:—
On this green, flowers and fruits
of pretty color are placed so as to
form an elegant little garden....
it would appear that the husband
offers there his daily gifts to the
wife. The objects are very numer-
ous, but always a vivid color.
There were some fruits of a
garcinia like a small-sized apple.
Others were the fruits of gardenias
of a deep yellow color in the
interior. I also saw small rosy
f ruits... . and beautiful rosy
flowers.
But to reach these beautiful rosy
flowers the reader must be prepared to
plunge through some very strange
blossoms of English prose:—
In the young bird the inactive
tubule contents are free of lipids.
The interstitium contains juvenile
Leydig cells that exhibit
cholesterol-positive lipid globules
from which are probably manufac-
tured the male sex hormone. ...
There is a difference of opinion
concerning the relative function of
the lipid and the fuchsinophil cell.
Sluiter and van Oordt call the
latter (which also has a vacuo-
lated form) the “secretory cell,”
and declare that it manufactures
the sex hormone. I, on the other
hand, believe the lipid cell to be
the site of hormone production,
and consider that the fuchsinophil
cell is a lipid cell that is complet-
ing its cycle and is about to
disintegrate or to give rise to
another generation of juvenile
Leydig cells . . .
Dr. Marshall, in short, is chiefly
interested in the mechanism which
makes the bower-birds tick; and his
book is largely devoted to proving that
the building and decorating of the
bower are essentially a display for
mating purposes. When the bird
chooses blues and yellows and greens
in his decorations he is, says Dr.
Marshall, matching the colors of his
mate; when he paints the bower he
is performing “an extension of,
and possibly a substitution for, the
courtship-feeding that is practised by so
many birds during the sexual season”;
and when he tosses bones and shells
about during the display he is having a
sham battle with a rival. At the risk
of being a shade anthropomorphic,
Dr. Marshall admits that the bird
“enjoys” these activities, and also that
it returns to play in the bower after
mating is completed . . . which seems
to suggest that there may, after all, be
more in heaven and earth than
cholesterol-positive lipid globules.
The book is full of precise, clinical
observation on this controversial ques-
tion, and is obviously of the first
importance in its field.
For New Australians
Something simple and a trifle naive
in the style of The First Hundred
Years, by Helen Palmer and Jessie
McLeod (Longmans)-—“This book is
about the people who once lived where
we now live. They were the makers of
the first hundred years of Australia’s
history. Among them may be your
grandparents and ours” —suggests that
it is. chiefly intended for children; but
then a glossary at the end, explaining
what a “bluey” is, seems to indicate,
even though their grandparents could
hardly have been Australian pioneers,
that it is meant for New Australians.
It would, in any case, be suitable for
both; and even the adult reader, though
most of the story must be familiar, will
find it a pleasing survey of the first 100
years of our history with here and there
a patch of something unfamiliar; if
not in the general outline, such as the
fact that once there were bullockies on
the road, then in the details which the
authors have reprinted from writers
and diarists of the period:—
Presently the horns of a pair of
monstrous bullocks appeared,
straining solemnly at their yokes;
then another and another followed,
until I counted five pairs of
elephantine beasts, drawing a rude
cart.... upon which was [sic]
packed and piled bales of wool
full 14 feet in height. Close to
the wheel stalked the driver, a tall,
broad-shouldered, sunburnt, care-
worn man, with long shaggy hair
falling from beneath a sugarloaf-
shaped grass hat and a month’s
beard on his dusty chin.... .In his
hands he carried a whip, at least
20 feet long, with the thong of
which, with perfect ease, he every
now and then laid into his leaders,
accompanying each stroke with a
tremendous oath.
The authors have not altogether
avoided the dangers of generalisation,
almost inevitable in so compact a
survey, so that the officers of the Rum
Corps appear as villains one and all,
too much credit is given to the con-
victs as pioneers and explorers, and
the account of Eureka states that “over
100 diggers were taken prisoner,” not
going on to mention that all but 13 of
these were speedily discharged. But
on the whole the history is both
temperate and reasonably accurate.
The book is admirably and ingeni-
ously made-up from period documents,
linked by the simple commentary and
covering such salient features of
colonial life as the convicts, the first
settlers, the overlanders, the aborigines,
the pioneer squatters, the diggers and
the first trade-unionists. It is illus-
trated with some stiff but informative
pen-drawings by Harold Freedman.
Suicide Excepted: Cyril Hare
(Faber). Mr. Hare has made himself
a reputation for the contemporary
middle-class English portraits and
backgrounds of his detective-novels,
and with that, this one will have to
rest. The crime is English middle-
class, but the denouement stretches
credibility so far as to be out-of-
keeping.


m
HI
WP.
■
m
mi
mb
mm
mm
V
O
?
i
«
I
l
Their hearts belong to us
They’re homemakers and happy they’ve chosen ANTHONY HORDERNS’ to furnish
their new home. Buying drapes, curtains, shower curtains and bedspreads in our famous
Third Floor Furnishing Drapery Department. Carpets, rugs and kitchen furniture from
the Fourth Floor. Lounge, dining and bedroom furniture from the Third Floor. . Their
P.C. items from the Lower Ground Floor, and their electrical goods all came from the
Electrical Centre on the Ground Floor, Pitt Street. And they’re all on
f
IN SYDNEY!
Our terms are all arranged to suit the individual budget. Why don’t you call in and see j
our friendly Credit Manager, who will be only too happy to discuss terms with you to suit
your own convenience. Country customers, too, may take advantage of this easy system.
All you have to do is write to our Credit Manager, who will immediately give the matter
his full and careful consideration.
THE
EASIEST TERMS
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING "
cthonv Horderns’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2 7 12, G. P. 0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: 8095 1


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 2,195 S
Vol. 76—No. 3916
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 h
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
INFLATION AND PARLIAMENT
THE award of equitable margins times the 1937
amount) to skilled workers in the metal trades has
started a chain of events which may upset the
Australian economy. It has produced in almost
every industry in the country a rush for spoils by
the skilled, the half-skilled and the completely
unskilled—by those who have already “had their
cut” as well as those who haven’t. The cry for
margins for knowledge and aptitude has given way
to the cry for margins for all.
The most unpleasant feature of the affair has
been the stampede by the civil-service higher-ranks,
whose cases have little affinity to those of the metal-
workers. These services have for years used the
pressure of their numbers politically to blackmail
out of the community more pay for less work. The
elections, Federal and State, have been made the
occasions of questionnaires, threats and pressure
on candidates. And the Public Service Boards and
Arbitrators have been continually importuned in
chorus by the representatives of the huge blocs of
public employees who are able to determine the
fate of the Governments which employ and pay
them. To such an extent have these rackets gone
that the wisdom of the old-time statesmen who
denied public servants votes has become apparent,
though government has now reached the stage at
which there are electorates in which, if public
servants and their dependants were omitted, there
would be scarcely anybody left to vote.
Most of these bodies, before the margins award
of the metal-workers was publicised, appeared to be
satisfied with the results of their earlier grabs
(especially by Commonwealth employees), which
placed them generally on a higher plane than most
other white-collar workers both as to hours and
remuneration. But they now insist on increases.
Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia
have all surrendered without firing a shot. The
N. S. Wales Public Service Board, assailed by the
Teachers’ Federation, the Public Service Associa-
tion and the State Professional Officers’ Association,
last week offered employees earning less than £2OOO
a year 30 per cent, marginal increases, those between
£2OOO and £3OOO a year 25 per cent, and those over
£3OOO an average of 20 per cent. But the associa-
tions have protested against this generosity. They
claim that the increases are “well below the margins
granted to Commonwealth public servants,” with
which they—4o,ooo seem to be affected—want “at
least parity.”
The Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator
in the matter seems to have a lot to answer for,
and the Commonwealth Public Service Board and
the Cabinet all the more in that they have shown
dilatoriness in dealing with the situation.
Their attitude seems to have changed only
when the action of the Auditor-General and the
Clerk to the House of Representatives refused to
take the latest increases of £lOOO or so which were
being so gaily given away (without any legal
authority whatever) on the ground that they must
have Parliamentary authority. These two officials
have earned the thanks of the country for their
stand even at this stage, for there never was a more
wanton or glaring disregard of the rights of the
taxpayers and of Parliament itself than this
arrangement, which has not even a semblance of
legality. , *
Parliament, and Parliament alone, has the right
to grant Estimates. It granted increases only four
months ago without a word of protest against the
scale of rates from the people who a few weeks later,
when the metal-trades-margins award came out,
began to demand rises of up to 30 per cent, and
more on their already-increased wages. But nobody
made any move to resist until it was too late, and
the Government found itself faced with the approval
by its arbitrator of second-stage increases in
thousands of pay-envelopes, the greatest accretion
being £1854 a year.
The first set of rises was granted in December,
and nobody did anything about them at all. They
had no Parliamentary sanction, and they added
£B| million to the paybill. The new award given
since will mean another million. And this
and the increases to State civil servants and others
have been granted in spite of the warning of Sir
Raymond Kelly that the metal-trades award, which
started the rush, “might not be appropriate for
fixing salaries for career and professional
occupations.”
The appeal to the Arbitration Court apparently
will not affect the increases awarded in December
immediately after the year’s Estimates had been
passed by Parliament. Those and their results, both
directly economically and as a precedent, must
stand.
“The Bulletin’s” attitude to margins in general
is that real skill is not paid for highly in Australia.
But each case has to be considered on its merits.
It is an unfortunate fact that where one really
skilled man is awarded a just and due increase,
perhaps two others not so justly entitled get it also
because of grading, “precedent” or some other
such fortuitous circumstances. This is particu-
larly so in the civil service, where the really skilled
man often gets no more than the politically
appointed job-filler—often, in fact, less.
But for many white-collar workers higher
margins are long overdue. Since 1930 the middle-
classes have been subsidising the unskilled workers’
increasing income and leisure. Salaried men have
not maintained their “real-wages” in the contest
with inflation. Unhappily, marginal increases this
year are -not in any way warranted by the produc-
tivity of the Australian economy. Australia cannot,
on its present level of productivity, afford wholesale
marginal increases. Where they are justifiable on
the grounds of fair-play, they are simply an attempt
to rectify an injustice. But unless, through stimu-
lating production-incentives, they do increase pro-
duction, the economy is in danger of going into
another inflationary spin.
It is difficult to see how the all-round adjust-
ment of wages and salaries which is going on can
fail to produce greater inflation within measurable
time and to send the cost of living higher. It is, a
kind of bloat that is cumulative in its impacts, it
has the same outcome as the continuously increased
adjustments of the basic wage under the Harvester
award, which are, in the main, responsible for the
present position. The more margins—so called—
are increased, the more industrial costs and the costs
of goods, government and defence must rise. And
the more they rise the more not only margins but
wages in general must rise.
It is time that a full inquiry was held into
the whole question of wages by some tribunal which
is not hidebound by the conventions of automat-
ism which govern arbitration theory. It is also
time that Governments realised that Parliament is
the master of the nation’s finance and ceased their
habit of spending tens of millions without authority
and getting authorisation afterwards under the
cloak of supplementary Estimates which are never
debated. It is time, again, that the old system under
which proper opportunity was granted for the
debate of ordinary Estimates was restored. It would
be healthy if the Federal Government set aside the
whole of the spring session this year to go over Aus-
tralian finance, rake it fore and aft and give mem-
bers and the press a chance to see where we are
going. The habit —introduced by “Labor”-trained
Treasurers —has developed of passing the Budget
furtively and hurriedly as if Parliamentary finance
were something shameful, to be got out of the way
as quickly and quietly as possible.
Unwanted Compulsions
SECTIONS of . the “Labor” movement have been
arguing as to who was responsible for the Cahill
Government’s introduction of compulsory unionism,
now seen to be not so popular as it might have
been. This is really a case where names don’t matter
much; the truth is that, whatever its origin, the Dog-
collar Act fits into the Socialist pattern of compul-
sions which is being foisted bn the Australian
people and which, through indolence or apathy,
they are coming to accept.
In any community there must be some com-
pulsions—there is the obligation to observe the law,
to keep the peace, to pay taxes and to conform
generally with accepted standards of morals. The
test of all compulsions should be whether they are
for the good of the whole community or only for
the benefit of a class of section. By this criterion
compulsory education has long been accepted by
all parties in Australia, and although the methods
employed or the results achieved are often criticised,
the principle is not. Compulsory military-training is
another obligation generally accepted.
Insofar as compulsions are imposed by Gov-
ernments elected by the people, they can continue
only so long as they have the approval of the
people. Without that they must sooner or later
disappear, either through a change of Government,
a change of outlook on the part of the Government
or by being disregarded by a community which
treats them with contempt. In the United States
prohibition was the law of the land for 14 years,
• yet it was so far out of touch with the real desires
of the people that it was flouted on the grand scale
and to a large extent defeated its own purpose.
Religious compulsions, enforced at one time
or another in most countries and usually with the
approval of the mass of the population, have now
largely disappeared, but our own generation has
seen several examples of a recrudescence, with
orthodox religion replaced by adulation of the State
or its head.
Australians accepted war-time compulsions
and limitations on their freedom because they
deemed them a necessary evil if the war was to be
won. In this spirit direction of manpower, ration-
ing of essential commodities, price- and wage-
control, restrictions on credit, on factory-output,
on home-building, on freedom of movement and
many other activities were accepted on the double
understanding that they were necessary and that
they were temporary. When Federal “Labor,”
with Dr. Evatt as its law-maker, tried to make the
war-time controls permanent by writing them into
the Constitution, the electors three times rejected
referenda designed for the purpose. But despite
that, the “Labor”-Socialists in both State and
Federal Parliaments yielded up their war-time
controls veiy tardily and most unwillingly ; in most
cases only when forced to it by legal process or
the pressure of public opinion.
Most of the war-time compulsions have gone,
but there are many other restrictions which should
pot be tolerated by a community jealous of its free-
doms. At the Summer School of Political Science
Professor Bland questioned the wisdom of compul-
sory voting. He is not alone in doubting this. There
is no disputing that the system produces a heavier
poll, but it does not produce a more-informed vote.
Political parties are able to swell their figures with
the votes of those who through laziness, apathy or
disgust would not trouble to vote unless compelled
to, but how the community can possibly benefit
from these dragooned votes is yet to be explained.
The vote, like most freedoms, had to be fought for.
Once it becomes an obligation there is a tendency to
regard it as a nuisance instead of. a right or a privi-
lege. The compulsory vote should be- abolished
and with it should go that insult to the intelligence,
the “How-to-vote” card.
Not all compulsions are positive; nowadays the
restrictive influence of the “musts” is probably
exceeded by the compulsions of the “must-nots.”
In this category fall the limitations on trading-
hours to which Professor Downing of Melbourne
University referred in another paper read at the
Summer School of Political Science. The professor
rightly said that small shopkeepers were capable of
arranging their own hours, and that the service they
were prepared to give was a real convenience to
the public. “Convenience to the public” is a
•thought far from the minds of the framers and
upholders of restrictive shopping-laws, especially
in New South Wales, where Mr. O’Dea’s Shop
Assistants’ Union stoutly resists all attempts to
have the law relaxed and proudly pockets its share
of the fines collected through the activities of its
paid informers. ' /
The law which makes it a crime for the comer-
shop to sell a packet of tea after Six-o’clock is only
one of several similar rules penalising enterprise
and initiative. Because one union doesn’t approve
of it, no baker in New South Wales is allowed to
commit the heinous offence of night-baking.
Because of another union-rule that has become law
no milkman may begin his deliveries before a
certain hour. Yet another piece of union-legislation
forbids a man to work in his own factory at week-
ends —a ban which would have cut Edison’s output
of inventions by 50 per cent. All these restrictions
are policed by trade-union officials, and trade-
union funds benefit from g.ll finds imposed. No
doubt it is the duty of trade-unions to look after
the interests of their members, but by what line of
reasoning is that duty expanded to preventing a
man from baking in his own oven, delivering his
own bread or milk or working on his own premises?
Past civilisations have been criticised for com-
pelling people to work against their will, but surely
it is going to the other extreme when people are
penalised for working?
Eight months ago, when the Cahill Govern-
ment, on the recommendation of the N. S. Wales
Industrial Commission, was considering changes in
the petrol-selling hours and it became known that
there was a move to pass over to local-government
authorities the responsibility of fixing trading-hours
for shops, the A.L.P. conference reminded Cahill
that it was the duty of a “Labor” Government to
carry out the policy determined by the conference,
and that it was contrary to that policy to give any
other authority “the right to make laws and regula-
tions that are at present covered by the Industrial
Arbitration Act, the Factories and Shops Act or
the Sunday Observance Act.”
To make its meaning quite clear and to show
where it considered authority should lie, conference
instructed Cahill to legislate
to allow all unions to have the unrestricted right
to police and prosecute for breaches of the Acts
concerning their calling.
New South Wales Opposition parties have
promised to repeal compulsory-unionism if returned
to power at the next election. There are many other
repugnant compulsions to which they might also
direct their attention.


“HE PUT IN HIS THUMB AND PULLED OUT A PLUM..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Flood Lessons
The sympathy of every Australian will
go out to those who have suffered so
terribly within the area of the disastrous
floods which struck N. S. Wales suddenly
and unexpectedly last week.
New South Wales was not alone in
its suffering. For several days Europe
had been torn by blizzards. Roads there
were snowbound, houses wrecked, trans-
port stopped, property damaged. In
the United Kingdom alone there were 68
deaths in a few days. As this was written
the icy blast in Europe had moved down
to Morocco. The whole of western
Europe, from Denmark, round whose
coasts the seas were frozen, to Gibraltar,
was in the grip of the cold and tempest.
The New South Wales floods are the
worst anywhere in Australia since 1890.
They affect every town of the Mac-
quarie River and allied basins, of the
Hunter and its sister-rivers. In the west
they are the more horrible because, like
the ’Ninety flood, they have come down
across the countryside 50 miles wide on
bright, hot days. The refugees on the
housetops have scorched in the sun.
Amid the death and wholesale destruc-
tion and of the slime and decay succeed-
ing it, there is, however, room for pride.
There is about the average Australian in
his moments of prosperity an appearance
of “softness” which in times of disaster
proves itself to have been very deceptive.
In peril and suffering the Australian
people prove themselves staunch, resi-
lient, uncomplaining. And what seems
stranger, in view of their everyday atti-
tudes, they respond to leadership.
Throughout the flooded area in which so
many lives have been lost, so many
injured, in which half the population is
exhausted by fatigue endured in process
of trying to fend off flood-waters from
towns and rescue those in danger, there
has been an orderly, disciplined behavior,
a cheerfulness born of the sort of natural
courage for which the British races have
always been noted.
The loss has yet to be counted fully.
When this was written the floods had
not ended, rain was still falling or pre-
dicted in some places, and in the far
west the wall of water was still rolling
over the plains. But it is certain that
damage will be counted in millions in
actual capital-destruction of property
and stock, and in many millions more in
the check on production and the dislo-
cation while the flooded towns and pas-
toral properties are being rehabilitated.
The Commonwealth will suffer in finance
through rescue expenses, and even more
so through the need to rebuild telephone-
and telegraph-lines. The almost bank-
rupt N.S.W. Railways are saddled with
fresh burdens.
In the case of the Commonwealth the
damage is to widespread installations
which are largely new, having been
erected to replace those ruined by the
last series of floods. Other parts of the
State, particularly the Riverina, have
gone short of much-needed extensions of
telephone and other services while the
urgent needs in the north were attended
to. They have been looking forward to
having their need supplied, but now they
must wait again, perhaps only to see
their hopes dashed next time Maitland
and other northern cities go once more
under water.
There have been so many floods in
recent years that there seems to be no
security for towns like Maitland. After
each disaster, however, the inhabitants
scrape off the mud, repaint their
dwellings (if a dwelling is left to them),
restock their businesses and settle down
once more on the river-banks to wait
the next rise of the tide with optimism.
There are at least a dozen substantial
centres of population which are in per-
petual danger even from moderate floods,
but no experience is sufficient to drive
the population to higher ground. It
seems to be an age-old national charac-
teristic —Governor Macquarie in vain
gave the inhabitants of the Hawkesbury
free land and dwellings on the heights
above flood-level. They insisted on stay-
ing within reach of turbulent waters
which every few years washed away their
stock and stacked crops.
At the same time, the whole question
of protection from flood should now be
dealt with as a national matter. With
the heavy equipment now available, a
good deal could be done by the clean-
ing-out of rivers and by the removal of
well-populated cities to higher ground
than the river-banks on which they
lodged in the early days, when the water-
ways provided their main transport-
routes to markets and the outside world.
Victorian A.L.P. Confusion
Developments in Victoria last week can
scarcely have brought much joy to the
souk of the leaders of “Labor.” The
Federal Executive certainly staved off
legal interference with the conference
which it ordered to be held, but the
affair was only half a conference, and
it must have proceeded in an uneasy
atmosphere.
The “old” executive, which has been
excommunicated, was still in possession
of the party offices in the Melbourne
Trades Hall by dint of armed guards and
changed locks.
The meeting itself had an unreal air.
One of the new vice-presidents, a Mr.
McNolty, is Federal secretary of the
Sheetmetal Workers, in which for many
years the ruling dictator has been Com-
rade Tom Wright, head of the financial
organisation of the Communist party of
Australia and a Moscow delegate. Mr.
McNolty sits on the new controlling
body with the Premier, Mr. Cain, the
Deputy Premier, Mr. Galvin, Mr. P. J.
Clarey, M.P., the president of the
A.C.T.U. (Mr. Kennelly), Mr. A. E.
Monk and a mixed lot of others.
It was Mr. McNolty who was chosen
to make the grand attack on Catholic
Action and to reveal facts about the
“capture of the N. S. Wales public
service” by that body, which, if they are
true, must have been known all along
to everybody in the party from Dr. Evatt
downwards, but which caused them no
concern until Dr. Evatt needed a red-
herring to pull him out of his mess in
the Petrov Commission when it was dis-
covered that, after all, Dr. Bialoguski
was not a Communist-party witness.
Mr. McNolty was supported by a
cloud of witnesses all eager to bear testi-
mony to the turpitude of “The Move-
ment,” but the most pertinent remarks
came in the still, small voice of senior
vice-president R. Cameron, who said
“Labor-leaders should ask themselves
what they had done for Socialism. Each
day they should attempt something that
would bring them closer to their goal.”
The meeting was so engaged in fox-
hunting, however, that it scarcely noticed
this interruption to the tenor of its
thought.
The acting Federal president, Mr.
Chamberlain, installed the officers of the
Victorian branch, and the new presi-
dent, Mr. Stout, with the light of truth
in his eye, said, according to the daily
press, that he “had not thought he would
ever hold an official position in the
Labor party again because he considered
it had become so rotten that everyone
was finished with it.” Some “of the most
disgraceful things that had ever hap-
pened in the trade-union movement had
happened over the past two years!” The
Cain Labor Government (he said) had
“behaved in the dispute in a way in
which a Conservative Government of
1900 would not have behaved.”
He added wistfully that “the Labor
movement would be a great movement
if it was kept clean.”
There are now two “Labor” parties in
Victoria, one determined to hang Dr.
Evatt politically and the other half, a
mixed bag of ex-Communists, near-
Communists, opportunists and careerists,
who are prepared to hang with him.
Logically the “new” executive, sup-
ported by the Federal Executive which
inducted it into office, must oust Mr.
Arthur Calwell from the leadership, sack
all the members who have defied or
criticised the “leader” and fight all-
comers in the industrial-groups and
those sections of the party which are
definitely anti-Communist. There can
be no half-measures, and there can be
no coming-together of the factions.
The “new” officially recognised party
is at the disadvantage that it has the
Communists hung round its neck as
ardent supporters and allies of its leader,
and that it has antagonised a united and
powerful political influence which
supports the industrial-groups.
On present indications the coming
Federal session should be good—but not
clean—fun on the “Labor” side of the
Chamber from a spectator’s point of
view.
O-
Indian Philosophy
“In the ACT”: Members of the Diplo-
matic Corps, an Anglican bishop, and
staff members of the National University
are among those reported to be studying
“Indian philosophy” in a group set up
some time ago in the national capital by
the first-secretary in the Indian High
Commissioner’s office, Mr. P. Ratnam,
and his wife.
At a gathering attended by 25 members
and 50 guests, a professor (an atomic
scientist) was stated to have said that
scientific and technical advances had led
the world to unexpected dangers and
difficulties, and “the solution must be
achieved by all men working in concert
—not just the scientists alone.” The pre-
sident of the group, another professor,
praised Mrs. Ratnam’s guidance, and
remarked that Indian philosophy could
only be understood by, as it were, “sitting
at the feet of the teacher.” He added that
Australians should come to know more
about the basic ideas of our Asian
neighbors.
On this latter point it is to be presumed
that the group is not unaware of the bitter
attacks which the present Indian High
Commissioner, General Cariappa, has
seen fit to make on sundry occasions on
the White Australia policy. And has it
studied Nehru’s general foreign policy,
which, from Australia’s viewpoint,
creates a dangerous vacuum in some vital
areas of Asia? It could be that these
subjects have not been raised at all, and
that the group has merely been ascer-
taining how Indians reconcile philosophy,
science and religion.
But to an observer it seems a deliberate
and well-planned campaign is being
waged by India on Australian thinking,
and in at least one instance on Australian
policy. The High Commissioner has bebn
talking frequently at Rotary Clubs and
other gatherings in city and country, and
he has just opened an Indian Information
Service in Sydney. Indian films have been
shown to invited guests in Canberra
(film-nights seem a popular institution
among diplomats and hangers-on in the
capital), and some lavish parties are given
during the year.
Australia, of course, is still a free
country, and people can discuss philo-
sophy or politics as they wish. Even
atomic scientists may be able to have
useful views on these subjects, although
there is a growing tendency everywhere
in the world for these gentry to imagine
that their technical brilliance in one re-
stricted field equips them for the task of
settling all mankind’s troubles. But
“Indian philosophy”—particularly “poli-
tical philosophy—needs to be taken by
Australians in the mass with a grain of
curry-powder.
CSyhs Become Pubs
Under the new Queensland Liquor Acts
Amendment Act as applied to member-
ship of clubs holding or seeking a liquor
licence, an extraordinary requirement is
forced upon the clubs. They must, when
refusing an application for membership,
give “just reasons” for so doing. They
can no longer—as has been the custom
—merely reject the- application.
It is hard to see why this provision is
made—unless it be the “Labor” theory
of levelling-down. It amounts, in sub-
stance, to dictating to a club-member
whom he shall or shall not' share mem-
bership with, for the necessity to give a
reason for non-acceptance means that
an authority outside the club may refuse
to accept the reason.
Apart from the threat to the long-
established freedom of a club to choose
its own members without reference to
outside authority, which is tantamount
to ordering a man to accept as friends
anyone the Government chooses, there is
the danger of litigation for defamation
where a club gives its reasons for refus-
ing admission to someone.
’Twas said at a meeting of Brisbane’s
Tattersall’s Club that, under the new law,
an applicant could not be rejected because
of his political or religious beliefs. If
this is so it is going to be mighty interest-
ing as soon as the more militant political
and religious organisations discover it.
The spectacle of Tatt.’s being forced to
admit a crusading clergyman, or of an
A.L.P. club having to accept'a rampag-
ing Liberal, might make a cat laugh—but
it doesn’t alter the fact that the new law
virtually makes public houses out of
clubs.
In North Queensland
The population of North Queensland,
except in the sugar areas, is falling. The
fact has been discovered again, this time
by Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” which
quotes from a survey “compiled for Can-
berra.” N.Q., for the purpose, is taken
as the area of the State north of the
Tropic of Capricorn.
The area’s 360,000 square miles is
50,000 square miles larger than Southern
Queensland, but against the South’s
1,072,000 people (including Brisbane),
the North has only 244,933. Since 1939
Brisbane’s population has risen -from
326,000 to 501,871, the State population
from 1,013,327 to 1,317,633, but the
North only from 206,774 to 244,933.
Though some sugar centres in the North
have increased population since 1939,
the whole of the North has lost about
600. The development of Mt. Isa has
stopped it being more.
Sundry N.Q. citizens were asked to
comment on this. A summary of their
comments boils down to this: N.Q.
should have at least two million people,
but it will never get them without special
incentives, amenities, roads, townships,
transport, finance and plenty of
encouragement.
To which it can be added that any-
thing N.Q. gets in that line from the
Brisbane Government will have to be
dragged out of it. Nobody is quicker to
give lip-service to the idea of filling-up
and developing the North than Brisbane
politicians, but they’ll do no more than
they’re forced to do. Besides, Queens-
land finances under the present type of
Government are such that there isn’t even
enough money for the South.
The North’s only hope is self-govern-
ment. It has a population almost as big
as that of Tasmania, with a vastly greater
area and vastly greater natural resources
in coal, minerals, fisheries, cattle, and
agriculture (its sugar-yield is an import-
ant Commonwealth economic factor).
As a State, with its own Parliament and
Administration, drawing its just share
from the Commonwealth tax-pool, in this
age of ready money for practical schemes
and ever-growing demand for foodstuffs
and minerals, it couldn’t miss.
But if it waits for Brisbane to set
it free it will wither while waiting.
Bialoguski v. Rodgers
At the Petrov inquiry:
Tfie most interesting witness before the Royal
Commission on Communism last week was
John Rodgers, formerly Director of Australia-
Soviet House (Melbourne), who figured in 1948
as a lecturer on the Soviet Union and its
system under the auspices of 17 sponsors. The
Melbourne City Council on that occasion refused
to hire him the Town Hall, it apparently .being
quite clear that he intended to use it for Com-
munist propaganda. The Supreme Court refused
Rodgers and his supporters an interlocutory
judgment against the council. He afterwards
was given use of the Unitarian Church, and
“branded Mr. Menzies’s picture of the U.S.S.R.
as a police State, in which the people lived
in misery and hunger and as an aggressor that
had invaded a number of Eastern European
States and committed acts of war against
Britain over Berlin” as “completely false.
He made some vituperative remarks about the
disillusioned Mr. Maloney, who was in Moscow
as D'r. Evatt’s Australian Ambassador and dis-
appointed that statesman by returning horrified
at what he had found in the Workers’ Only
Fatherland.
Mr. Rodgers, who at that time found the
Soviet Union’s record “the noblest achievement
in modern history,” refused to say in the
witness-box last week whether he was a Com-
munist, though he admitted that he had told
the Victorian Royal Commission of 1949 that
he was not. He said he thought it was “an
improper question,” and refused to answer,;
in fact, “personally would prefer to go to jail”
rather than answer.
He admitted that he had met Dr. Bialoguski
at the Adria Restaurant, and Mr. Windeyer,
Q.C., then referred to evidence previously given
by the doctor that he had on that occasion,,
and other occasions a recording-instrument
concealed about him. He asked Rodgers:
Did you say this, “It seems to be that
one of the most important things of the lot
from my point of view, and the people
involved’s point of view, is the destruction
of this bloke’s [i.e., Petrov’s] credit”?
Rodgers Replied: “If you have it on the
tape it could be. I should say it would prob-
ably be right.” He admitted it was possible
that he said, “He’s got to be made appear a
person of no credit,” though he didn’t remem-
ber saying it. He declared that he looked on
the whole Petrov affair as “something to win
elections, as a political conspiracy in which
he believed Petrov had been got at an
attack on Australian-Soviet relations which
would gravely harm Australia.” He admitted
that he had previously known- Petrov well,
liked him, and at that stage had nothing against
him. Petrov has given evidence of Rodgers s
friendliness with him, and of occasions on
which he made use of him in attempts to
secure information for the Russian Embassy.
Mr. Justice Owen asked Rodgers why, w
view of their friendliness, he seemed to have
been at considerable pains to see how best
to attack Petrov?
Rodgers replied that it was “because I
thought he had done a dastardly thing.” He
denied that he said to Dr. Bialoguski: “We
must proceed as we did against Sharpley ■
the same kind of accusations of drunkenness
and loose moral associations were alleged
against Sharpley, the witness before the 194 v
Victorian commission, as it was alleged that
Rodgers sought to procure Dr. Bialoguski to
prove against Petrov.
Dr. Bialoguski gave evidence under cross-
examination by Rodgers:
Q.: Do you still maintain that I tried to
influence your evidence by threats and by
hint of blackmail?
A.: Yes; that is true.
Did I ask you to invent stories about
Petrov?
Yes. You asked me to invent. I would
be happy to give you an example.
He said that Rodgers had asked hhn about
Petrov’s association with women. He asked
if he (the Doctor) had driven Petrov to an
address in Palmer-street, Woolloomooloo, and
when the reply was “No,” had remarked,
“Well, you could say you did.” Bialoguski
swore he replied that he could, but he would
o Continued, on next, page).


be cross-examined and would have to supply
evidence.
Rodgers asked: “If I threatened you a month
earlier, why did you not record me on the
third occasion we met?”
Bialoguski answered: “For all you know I
might have recorded you.” He told Mr. Justice
Owen that at their second meeting Rodgers
had definitely asked him to invent the story
about driving Petrov to a house in Palmer-
street, Sydney.
Later in the week Rex Chiplin, the Canberra
correspondent of the “Tribune,” gave evidence
that material printed in the “Tribune” in
August, 1952, and in a pamphlet which bore
his signature, was based on the text of the
draft of a proposed treaty between Australia
and the United States. He confirmed his state-
ment made in print that a highly placed Govern-
ment official had given him the information
about what was in the secret draft of the
treaty, but he refused to give the name of the
official, declaring that it would be an infringe-
ment of the ethics code of the Australian
Journalists’ Association.
Mr. Justice Philp said: “We have evidence
that Mr. Chiplin was giving information to
a Russian agent and that this information was
being sent to Moscow. It is relevant to inquire
who the person was who gave the information
to Chiplin.”
Chiplin refused to answer, and declared that
he thought it quite proper to publish “top-
secret” information of the kind if he received
it. He said he was approached in the Parlia-
mentary Library by his informant, who was
not connected with the External Affairs Depart-
ment, and who had said: “This will be some-
thing of interest to you.”
POLITICAL POINTS
While the French President, Mr. Coty,
was still waiting for someone to bring
him a Prime Minister, who should drop
in but our Mr. Menzies? Mr. Menzies
knows one man who’s busting to be a
Prime Minister, but as he is already
busted it was hardly worth mentioning
him.
• •
The terrible floods are Nature’s
grim answer to the long and sorry neglect
of river-control in the State. More than
25 years ago observant men saw the
silting of streams on the eastern water-
shed, and year by year, flood by flood,
Sydney Governments have been urged
to build control-works. The string of
promises, tied together and concreted,
would nearly make a big dam themselves,
but beyond the dreadfully slow construc-
tion of the Glenbawn and one or two
minor weirs, nothing has ever been done.
The present disaster has put the problem
into the national, rather than the State,
sphere.
• •
After Black (Lib.) had had a go at
him over the many uncompleted public
works in N.S.W., Premier Cahill admitted
that too many had been started, so “we
decided to concentrate on some of the
major works until they were completed
and then move the men and machinery to
other works.” But how can men on
machinery possibly last that long?
Incidentally, if some of Cahill’s uncom-
pleted dams had been finished, the calam-
itous floods in northern N.S.W. might not
have occurred.
• •
Those suffering grief and loss of pro-
perty in the floods couldn’t fail to be
heartened by the generous response of
aid from others. A move now to instal
an adequate flood-prevention scheme —
and quickly—would have the support of
all Australia.
• •
Over all the vast N.S.W. area suffering
from floods, with dreadful loss of life
and incalculable damage to livestock and
property, both local folk and those who
rushed to help them displayed once more
that courage and endurance which always
distinguish our people in such disasters.
Amongst those who flew to see what
could be done was Abe Landa, the
Sydney Government’s Minister for
Labor. Perhaps he was looking for his
predecessor in office, Frank Finnan,
whose vast knowledge of the waters got
him made chairman of the Hunter Water
Board when N.S.W. electors got sick, of
him,
• •
Calwell says the Victorian section of
Federal “Labor” is unanimous that unity
must be maintained. But how maintain
what doesn’t exist?
• •
A point worth noting in the current
excitement about the rises in public-
service salaries is that the Federal Govern-
ment is appealing against them because
of the effects on the national economy.
Which simply means that Australia now
has so many Government employees that
it can no longer afford to pay them. Yet
anybody who advocates a suspension of
recruiting for the public service risks
being shot with a memo or something.
' • o
A lot of people are suspicious of the
need for a lot of public servants. But
there is need for men like Auditor-
General Brophy and Clerk of the Repre-
sentatives Green, both of whom refused
to accept salary-rises until the rises were
approved by the Federal Parliament.
Those who thought this merely straw-
splitting, in the belief that Parliament
would approve anyhow, must have appre-
ciated Messrs. Brophy and Green keep-
ing the thing on right lines when the
Government announced an appeal against
the salary-rises.
• e
It’s pretty clear now that the lopping
of four hours off the working-week has
resulted in an inordinate increase in
Government employees, all departments
complaining of staff shortages. The plain
truth is .that the work can’t be done in
the time allotted, and in addition to vast
increases in numbers a multitude of
Government employees draw overtime-
pay almost every week.
• •
“New York Times” reports that Aus-
tralia, at the Seato conference in Bang-
kok, wanted to know precisely what help
the U.S. would give her in the event of
war. But the U.S. is “reluctant to make
promises” and “its tacticians opposed giv-
ing definite assurances about what forces
would be used in the area.” This has
always been the American attitude, and
it is realistic. It acted from Australia in
the last war not because its commanders
loved us, but because it was the most
convenient base from which to defend
the U.S. on this side of the Pacific. It
all goes to show the wisdom of a united
front in the British Commonwealth,
which, as a whole, has a bargaining-
strength that Australia or any other
single component lacks.
• •
The British official report on the treat-
ment of p.-0.-w. captured in Korea by
the Communists names half a dozen forms
of brutality and declares that “torture
was the normal fate of a prisoner who
refused to co-operate.” The report might
with advantage be read in the churches
of the many soft-shell clergy who are
"WHO’S NEXT?"
giving aid and comfort to the country’s
enemies by co-operating in their “peace”
and other movements.
• •
As one paper put it, Australia will
“reluctantly” stay in the General Agree-
ment on Tariffs and Trade. Commerce
Department has reported to Menzies in
London that the G.A.T.T. nations will
probably reach agreement shortly, where-
after Federal Cabinet will decide whether
we’re in or out. The thing is full of traps.
For instance, Australia couldn’t get
U.S.A. to agree not to dump surplus
foodstuffs and had to fight a move to set
up an international monetary fund which
would, in effect, have the right to prevent
any signatory nation from imposing
import-restrictions without the fund’s
approval.
• •
N.S.W ft Transport Minister Wetherell
said that an Opposition suggestion that
N.S.W. passenger-trains were dirty and
dilapidated was an insult to the people
responsible for the maintenance of the
carriages. Well, here goes: N.S.W. trains
are dirty and dilapidated—and their roofs
leaked like sieves during the rain last
week.
• •
As published in “S. M. Herald”: “The
Minister for Transport, Mr. Wetherell,
said yesterday that the N.S.W. railway
system, with two exceptions, was the best
in Australia.” What an admission!
• •
When a shipping company’s “spokes-
man” heard that the Seamen’s Union
had banned the carrying of munitions
and troops to Malaya he offhandedly
remarked that it wouldn’t interfere with
shipping for Malaya —or something like
that. But the union wasn’t telling him—
it was telling Australia that, as far as it
is concerned, the murderers m the
Malayan jungle can have an open go.
• •
With the imminent final payment for
wheat sent to No. 16 pool (1952-53 crop)
the yield will be just on 15s. a bushel for
bulk and a fraction over 16s. for bagged,
less freights in both cases. Total amount
delivered to the pool was 179,809,848
bushels, for which gross payments to
growers reached £137,718,899. Thats a
long way short of the annual wool cheque,
but it still makes wheat big business.
• •
N.S.W. Liberals have picked Douglas
Cross, builder and ex-M.L.A., for
Georges River, and lan R. Griffiths,
bank-officer, for Sutherland, for the 1956
elections. The seats are now held by
Frank O’Neill and T. W. Dalton respec-
tively, each representing one or other of
the “Labor” factions now cluttering the
political landscape.
• •
“Personal differences between top exe-
cutives” has been discovered to have
existed in the Bell Bay aluminium project
by the Parliamentary’ Joint Committee on
Public Accounts. Must have thought for
the moment they’d got among the A.L.P.
heads.
• •
“Stromlo”: Just as the Bell Bay (Tas.)
project is about to produce its first
aluminium ingot it is announced that a
contract for more than 250 miles of alu-
minium cable for the new electricity
grid-system in Tasmania had been placed
with an English company. It was ex-
plained that “early delivery is required.”
Oh, well!
• •
'Twas joyfully announced last week
that the first Snowy Mountains power
had been fed from the Munyang station
on Guthega Dam to the N.S.W. Elec-
tricity Commission’s new sub-station at
Cooma, “and from there to Sydney via
Yass, Goulburn, Cullawarra and Home-
bush.” But whereabouts in eastern or
southern Riverina is this place, Sydney?
• •
From one day’s sentences in Perth
(W.A.) courts recently, most of the
recipients being men in their twenties:
two young men, each three-years’ jail on
three counts (including attempted rob-
bery) ; another, three-years’ for car-steal-
ing ; six burglars, sentences of from
seven-years’ down to four-months’; two-
years’ for theft of diamond-rings; six-
months’ for illegally and dangerously
firing a rifle. Deterrent sentences all,
helping to give the West its generally
clean crime-sheet. In Sydney life is a
lot easier for their kind —especially
bashers.
o «
The Corns, are going to no end of
trouble to prove that Comrade Sharkey
did not receive that 25,000 dollars. At
the end of two letterbox-leaflets of alibi,
they make a brazen plea for donations to
“party sfunds.”
• •
One of the chief reasons fofmer Lud-
Mayor Connelly gave why Melbourne
should have the Olympic Games' was
that it would be a magnificent advertise-
ment for the southern city. S. N. Mercer,
director of a big travel-agency, doesn’t
think so. According to him, hundreds of
wealthy Americans have cancelled their
1956 trips because even they can’t book
accommodation in Melbourne. One ray
of hope is that many travel companies
are planning to anchor their ships in the
bay and let Olympic visitors stay on them.
• •
“Maros”: The dropping of Westralian
Senator Agnes Robertson from the Gov-
ernment ticket for the next Federal elec-
tions, and her replacement by a much
younger male, has exploded a battle of
the sexes in the West, with the womenfolk
on the attack. In actual fact the lady
was dropped for no other reason than
advanced age, but the embattled amazons
are insinuating all sorts of dark plots.
• •
N.S.W. Government has instructed its
lottery office to open 45 minutes earlier
for the sale of tickets. But it won’t allow
food-shops to open earlier or close later
for the sale of food to people who, like
the lucky blottery-ticket buyers, can’t
get off from work to buy food during
existing opening hours.
• •
As expected, the N.S.W. Transport
Regulation Act rushed forth after the
Privy Council invalidated the old one
has been challenged in the High Court
—by the same’ people who successfully
challenged the old law. Victoria and
Queensland have joined the respondents 1 .
• •
Tamati Peehikuru has applied to the
Maori Land Court at Whangarei (N.Z.)
for Maori trusteeship of 63,986,000
square miles of the Pacific Ocean. The
application was adjourned, Judge Clarke
remarking that although the M.L.C. was
“unique among judicial bodies” he did
not know its powers extended beyond
N.Z. territorial waters.
• •
“S. M. Herald” must have sent an Eng-
lish reporter to N.S.W. Parliament the
other day, and his copy must have gone
through an English sub-editor. How
else could Darby, M.L.A., have got him-
self spelt Derby all through the story?.
• •
N.S.W. Liberals are at the Cahills to
cough up more money for universities
and agricultural scientists. They say the
Cahill Government “has plenty of money.
At June 30 last its cash resources, stand-
ing at £2B million, were the highest in
history, while it had £3,209,000 of un-
spent loan funds for works lying idle.”
Lying idle is right.
• •
N.S.W. Government, following the
British precedent, now orders all motor-
vehicles except solo motor-bikes to carry
two red reflectors at the rear in addition
to the tail-lights. Very good. Now, what
about cracking-down on glaring head-
lights, which are responsible for many
more accidents than failed tail-lights?


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
WE hear quite a bit about our manu-
facturers pricing themselves out of
world-markets. Went shopping for an
overcoat and pounced on one that seemed
to stand out from the rest. English, cash-
mere, v. warm. Price? £7B 10s. —
“Viper.”
(?4
“L.R.M.”: Listening to a newsboy, I
counted nine variations in his call. They
wete, “Paper, peeper, piper, peepah, pipah,
papah, pipo, papo, peepo.” 1 also noted
that he changed the sequence in each
fresh series. The mathematical conse-
quences I will, leave to one more com-
petent ; to me it was a proof that paper-
boys deliberately l make the noise they do,
either to annoy, attract attention, or
break the monotony; and not because
they don’t know any better, as pedants
have supposed.
-S*
“G.W.S.” : Just what should we expect
a taxi-driver to know? Someone has
been complaining of the ignorance of
some Melbourne taxi-drivers of the city
and its surrounding districts. Although
London is the biggest town on earth
there is hardly a street, or crescent, or
port of call whatsoever that a London
taxi-driver doesn’t know about. He
doesn’t learn all this by obtaining a
licence and then acquiring his informa-
tion by experience. Before he gets his
licence he has to study the geography of
London for a year. After that he must
pass a series of stiff examinations. Only
then is he issued with his licence.
❖ ❖ *
“Benbow”: Mention of the Koran
in Mena Kashmiri Abdullah’s poem
(B. 2/2/’55) makes one wonder
just who keeps a Koran handy these
days. I have one in the office
bookcase because my shipping work
sometimes makes it necessary to put a
person on oath and he could be a Lascar
sailor. But I’d be up against it if a
Chinese fireman offered to swear by
Buddha or not at all. As a rule
I’ve found that a Chinaman’s
word can be trusted provided he
thinks you know what you are
talking about. Otherwise you
deserve to be told lies. The
average European Christian
seafaring person’s oath is worth
about fourpence, if anything.
❖ ❖ ❖
“L.R.M.”: . The book-shop
window told the whole sad
story. Demurely first in the
row Came Vestal Fires; then,
more blase, After Many a
Summer. Final and irrevocable
was All Passion Spent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: Further to
“Russell’s” remarks on the
Coronation ornament adorning
the Corso at Manly (N.S.W.).
Having recently gazed upon this
piece of ironmongery and
returned to Melbourne unim-
pressed by its beauty or use-
fulness, I read a newspaper
report saying that Manly
wished to bestow the thing on
this city to the tune of £5OO.
I’ve kept my fingers crossed since
reading this, and now trust that
“Russell’s” statement about dis-
posal was derived from a
“reliable source.” If Melbourne
pays £5OO for Sydney’s old iron it should
be the Bridge or nothing.
❖ ❖ ❖
“B. A. Ker”: The “Political Point”
scribe who, dismayed at the foreign-
sounding surnames in our political scene,
asked “What has become of *all the
blokes named Smith and Brown?” would
no doubt find many a sporting echoer in
Valhalla. Wonder just what Joe God-
dard, Dave Smith, Les Darcy, George
Cook, Ted Nelson, Fred Kay, Jim Donald
and all the rest of the old Aussie pugs
were saying as they glared down at the two
contestants for the middleweight cham-
pionship of Australia—Pran Mikus and
Carlo Marchini!
<4 <4 *s.
“Mullum”: She might have stepped
straight from an advertisement in a glossy
American magazine ; she might have come
direct from the pages of a fashion-cata-
logue. Certainly she was the smoothest
creature to walk on the footpath of our
country town for many years. There
was not a man who did not stop and
turn his head for a third look as she
passed. She must be a traveller for a
cosmetic firm, someone suggested. An-
other guessed that she might be a famous
model come for a quiet, country holiday.
She could not be a film-star: we would
all recognise her if she was. Finally our
curiosity was satisfied ; she was a travel-
ling demonstrator of washing-machines.
“What makes you think that I'm a wicked woman?"
“Clyde”: The result of British tests—
that the housewife walks scarcely more
than a mile during the course of her
day’s work (B. 2/2/’5 s)—contrasts
sharply with that of a similar test held in
America. The figures given are 9 to 11
miles per day, four miles of that in the
kitchen alone. Inconsistent, maybe, but
these surveys tend to make the female of
the species conscious of their relative
mileage. Consequently, it wouldn’t sur-
prise me in the least to see an ad.: “Want
meet gent., view mat. Divorcee, good as
new, only done 2000 miles.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bindaroo”: There is a great battle for
circulation between two Melbourne
“If you re so jealous, Maggie, marry me and take me away from all this."
papers. “Sunpic” started a daily competi-
tion to decipher a jumble of the letters of
three Australian towns. The family spend
hours each night unjumbling the letters,
and send in the result to win the big prizes
offered. Imagine the family’s consterna-
tion when word got round that the
following items were appearing daily in
the “Missing Friends” column of the
“Argus”:
ANNA. —Yesterday’s untangled towns could
have been Porcupine Flat, Tooan and Durdid-
warrah. —Love, FRANK.
The next item but one reads:
FRANK. —Thanks. Mighty job. Keep it up.
—Love, CLAY.
There are all kinds of speculations
upon the authorship of these cribs; but
the family, far from being grateful,
gnash their teeth and wonder how the
battle will end.
“Metralia”: Like Christmas after-
thoughts, Sydney pubs are sprouting lights
galore. Unexpected beneficiaries of 10
p.m. closing are the neon-sign boys.
“Baggyduds”: Another late-closing
repercussion: Army babblers now glare
balefully at what the majority of the com-
munity consider a heaven-sent privilege.
Inured during the past few years to pre-
paring a light repast on leave-nights and
having the pleasure of watching the
regular customers scattering like startled
rabbits across the donga, they now find
that leave-nights are no different from
any other. Troops prefer to dress
leisurely, have the evening meal, then
away for what may be in the offing. On
a recent leave-night noticed our fattest
food-spoiler sweating over the stew-pot,
muttering repeatedly, “And I voted for
ten-o’clock closing!”
❖ ♦♦♦ *l*
“Melbn”: On one of Melbourne’s
most humid days, when the air seemed
positively fluid, a cloudburst flooded the
cellar of a hostelry in Fitzroy. The fire-
brigade came along and started pumping
out the water. It had nearly finished
when a machine on the hotel premises
caught fire ; and to put it out the brigade
had to refill the cellar with w^ter.
❖ ♦> *
“Sackville”: What a wonderful world
this would be if all radio-advertisers said
their pieces so concisely, completely and
with such mercy on ear-tortured listeners
as the Commonwealth Bank’s “Ten-
o’clock ; and the Commonwealth Bank is
now open for business! ” The limitations
to the idea, however, seemed to be that it
confined advertising to working-days.
But I had underrated the banking brains.
Happened to be listening-in one holiday,
and heard: “Ten-o’clock ; and the Com-
monwealth Bank is not open for busi-
ness.” Reminds me of Rory O’Moore
and the way he altered the tombstone to
comply with the wishes of the bereaved
who didn’t like the wording “Pray for the
soul,” etc. The amended legend read:
“Don’t pray,” etc.
4*4 *X* <4
“T. McNark”: Any of you writers
want to make some dough? Go and
climb a mountain, then write about it.
So far the British expedition which
climbed Everest has made £lOO,OOO
profit from books, films and lectures,
and, according to London “Daily Mail,”
the cash is still rolling in. The Mount
Everest Foundation has been formed
to hold the accumulating funds and
devote them to supporting mountain-
exploration. By the time the old ones
wear out they’ll be able to put up new
ones.
❖ ❖ »+♦
“Aban”: When the British railways
were nationalised, it was thought that
they would become ultra-generous with
cash; and this may have proved true
with wages and compensation - for-
injuries. But it is certainly not so in all
cases. The “Manchester Guardian”
reports:
British Railways has sent a letter of
appreciation and a postal-order for £1 to a
68-year-old railway-man who warned station
staff when an express train was approach-
ing debris which had fallen on the line at
Thornaby-on-Tees, Yorkshire.
•ijjf
“Hallcraft”: Our company had just
opened a new branch. The day before
the opening a young man in a steaming
lather, hatless, coatless and gasping,
rushed straight into the manager’s office.
In a choking voice he asked: “Have you
. . . have you a fire ... a fire-extin-
guisher?” Sorry, no, but where was the
fire? The young man calmed down
abruptly and, like the enterprising sales-
man he was, left with an order for three
extinguishers—just in case.
♦X* <s» £4
“Ceg”: Much of the work of sign-
writers is superfluous. I noticed a huge
sign plastered on a building in course of
erection: “These new, modem premises
are being erected here for the Blank
Bank.” Obviously the building was new,
so “new” wasn’t necessary. Being new
they would qualify as modern, so
“modern” wasn’t needed. No need to
inform the world at large that they were
premises—a battleship wasn’t being built.
As the workmen were going up and down
the scaffolding carrying bricks and the
place was not half finished, “being
erected” seemed unnecessary. And “here”
was redundant —the site was not miles
away. The railway companies in England
woke up years ago to the saving that
could be effected by cutting down the
signs on their rolling-stock. Instead of
such a sign as “The London and South
Western Railway Company Limited”
carefully done in blue and gold on their
carriages, the company reduced it to
“L.S.W.” Everybody knew it was a
railway.
DUTCH BACHELORS
“Dutch migrant bachelors who buy powerful
motor-cycles because they cannot find girl-
friends in Australia are worrying Holland’s
immigration authorities.”
The Dutchmen in Australia
Are living lonely lives;
Dutch girls are found, but they won’t
go round,
And nobody courts Dutch wives;
It’s an end to trackin’ double
As a single Dutchman likes,
So they all get into trouble
With dangerous motor-bikes.
When a Dutchman’s in Australia
It’s a pity he must be
Australian, new, and living too,
So temporarily;
For no matter if any such men
Who die on cycles are
Double-double-double-double-Dutchmen,
Their lives are singular.
So, Dutch girls, see Australia :
Why must you stay apart
While an engine steals with a pair of
wheels
The Dutchman’s life and heart ?
For our roads can be appalling,
And cycles fray the nerves,
And it’s time the Dutch were falling
For a gentler set of curves.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TXOLIDAYING in Sydney, a chap
AA from up Queensland way decided to
take in the Petrov inquiry. A burly
police-sergeant barred his way: “Can’t
come in here; no tie.” The bloke was
just about to do his turn concerning
public courts and democratic rights when
the sarge went on, “Come in here, I’ll
lend you one.” When the northerner
returned the quiet grey-and-white neck-
wear, the sarge said with a grin, “Bet you
wouldn’t have been game to wear it if
it’d been red.” —“Wunin.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Remus”: “The Angel of Peace
is three times lifesize” —so says
the description of the Wellington
Arch on the February 9 Bulletin
cover. Measurements with my ruler
indicated that the Angel is about 18ft.
high, which is not very high for an
ordinary Angel. They usually go around
"Why, Henry! I didn't cared!"
the 40ft. to 50ft. mark, though there is
a numerous species, kept for odd jobs,
whose members average 30ft. or so.
Archangels are considerably bigger,
about 80ft.
<* ❖
“Ceg”: One step from some Northern
European ghetto, he was now established
in his own small, but growing, clothing
factory. He paid his hands on Friday in
each week, coming, himself, to the bank
with his cheque for the money. One week
he was paid by the teller £lO short and
he failed to notice the mistake. Later
in the day, the teller in making up his
cash found he was a tenner over and
traced it to the cheque of our friend,
whom he phoned to ask whether his
wages-money was correct. A quick check
disclosed the error. The proprietor was
round to the bank like a shot for his
£lO, amazed that the teller had been so
honest. Thereafter, for about two months,
he rang the bank every Friday about
4 p.m. and inquired if the teller was, by
any chance, over in his cash. In the end
we told him not to bother ringing, but
he assured *us that it was no bother at
all—that he was only glad to help.
❖ * ❖
“Narumee”: I once asked the manager
of one of a chain of super-cinemas why
the foyers of such moneyed magnificence
were garnished with palms and aspidis-
tras in containers of such brazen
hideousness. “Why not flowers and
flowering plants?” I inquired. He grinned
and, indicating the jungle with a wave
of his arm, replied: “No one’d want to
pinch that junk—or if they did they
couldn’t get away with it!” From the
item on souveniring from cinemas (B.
26/1 /’55) it seems he was wrong.
♦l* ♦♦♦
“Clunesman”: The article (B. 9/2/’55)
about police-rounds on Sydney papers
reminded me of my cadet days.
Far from the police-rounds car
arriving soon after the police, it
sometimes beat them to it! Un-
fortunately, a knowledge of the code
where numbers are used for different
crimes was of little use. As soon as
the police reckoned we had worked them
out,* they changed the code! Some of
the cadets used to delight in blowing
raspberries at one another over the mike
when things were slack —which was
seldom. After one cove gave a burst
one night, the chief-of-staff, who had
been listening at home, called and asked
whether the paper-set was suffering much
from interference. We didn’t reveal the
reason, but this stopped the raspberries.
♦> *i*
“Stanford”: Current outcry against
the inhumanity of Melbourne tramway
authorities in acknowledging summer
only insofar as the upper halves of their
crews are concerned, leaving their lower
extremities to swelter in heavy winter
trousers (or skirts), prompts one to inquire
who devised the extraordinary Foreign
Legion caps adorning the heads of Bris-
bane’s trammies. They must be hot;
they’re certainly hideous. Worn at all
sorts of unconventional angles, they im-
part a most raffish air; a group of tram-
men congregated at a street-comer is
reminiscent of a crowd-scene in one of
Hollywood’s desert dramas.
❖ *> *t*
“Mullum”: A witness at the hearing of
applications for television-licences stated
that “soap-operas” would not be pro-
duced. Surprising that anyone thought
they would be. The morning serials are
listened-to with half an ear while the
housewife is working; nor do the even-
ing serials stop the washing-up. Pro-
ducers realise this. Any important part
of the story which may be missed one day
is repeated in the next two or three
episodes. ‘But TV demands much closer
attention, and that makes us more critical.
Obviously the radio “soap-opera” would
be considered poor entertainment by
viewers if transferred to TV.
❖ ♦> *t*
“Phil Anthus”: The cricket scribes
have let us down rather badly this season.
Maybe the trouble is that when the South
Africans were here (1952-53) the penmen
exhausted themselves exuding lyricism
which simply couldn’t be sustained. It
was then the visitors’ field was spread
wide, like King Farouk’s waistline.” It
was then a ball was smitten to the fence
“like a flash from Sir Horace Robertson’s
monocle.” And so on. This time I have
encountered only one flash, and that was
dimmed by peevishness —a complaint that
the Australians allowed Statham and
Tyson to “howl menacingly like hungry
werewolves outside the timid fold of a
flock of helpless sheep.” On the whole,
“My hubby simply adores your Work."
the indications are that the cricket-critics,
like the players of whom they complain,
have become a trifle Washed-up. Another
possibility is that their style has beeh
cramped by their obligation, self-imposed,
to instruct the selectors. In. this they
have not only been kept very busy but,
consequent on their advice being ungrate-
fully disregarded, they have often been
thrown out of tune by what they term
“shocks.” Sporting scribblers generally,
in common with crime-reporters, are, of
course, very delicate-minded, and so the
two species frequently suffer (in print)
severe “shocks” from occurrences that
leave us lesser mortals unmoved. Indeed,
a particularly susceptible sporting genius
recently put his pen on one of these soul-
disturbances well before it happened,
thereby, alas, taking the element of
“shock” out of the “shock” before we
really had a chance to be “shocked.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Muskeen”: Don’t know about Tas-
mania (B. 16/2/’55), but in Victoria every
receipt, whether a duplicate or not, must
bear the appropriate duty-stamp. This
applies also to cheques when endorse-
ment constitutes a receipt. No one is
bound to give a receipt, unless asked for
it, and there is no onus on the payer to
insist on a duty-stamp, the receipt being
valid without it. That piano-tuner would
be safe in not affixing duty-stamps on
receipts given to private persons, unless
reported by one of his customers. The
Comptrbller of Stamps finds his delin-
quents by going through the files of firms
that issue a large volume of cheques. It
cost me 10s. last year for inadvertently
failing to stick a duty-stamp on a receipt
I gave to The Bulletin.
❖ ❖ *
“Tos”: “When I was a boy it was
considered not only safe but honorable
to create an estate, so that almost all men
of standing wished to add to their pos-
sessions and felt a certain dignified
honor in prospering; but now we must
apologise for any success in business as
if it were utter violation of the moral
law, so that today it is worse to seem to
prosper than to be an open criminal.”
No, this is not a speech by Mr. Menzies
nor an editorial from The Bulletin—
it was voiced by Socrates, 400 b.c.
❖ ❖ ❖
“X.S.”: A 16-year-old boy who had
two cars on the time-payment system,
and who borrowed another, without
asking, to take him and his girl-friend
from Bendigo to Melbourne turned up
in court recently.
“Stanford”: It is certainly time
Bananaland’s rolling-stock received a
face-lift. In a recent journey from
Townsville I covered the final over-
night-stage to Brisbane in the atrocity
known, not without reason, as the “Rocky
Mail.” Our sleeper was minus just about
everything—no ladder, no blinds, no
ashtrays, no cupboards, no ledges—in
fact, its only concession to the traveller
comprised two clothes-hooks, cleverly
arranged so that when anything was
hung upon them the mirror was corn-
pletely obliterated. A tap over the wash-
basin was labelled: “This water fit for
drinking.” Unfortunately, I couldn’t
agree. In any case, there was nothing
wherefrom to drink it. We left Rock-
hampton at 7.5 p.m., reached Brisbane
at 10.50 a.m. Diner? Buffet-car?
Certainly not! Breakfast-stop? Un-
thinkable! The Q.R. should erect on all
country stations a notice: Travellers
entraining not equipped with a hamper
do so at their own risk.
♦!+
“Notaword”: I don’t know exactly
what a year’s typing-course in the schools
run by the S.A. Education Department
includes, but, having a new typist fresh
from such instruction, I’m beginning to
learn what it leaves out. Finding she was
too slow on the machine to take dictation,
I scribbled out two letters for typing,
and left them on her desk. Half an hour
later she came to me. “Excuse me, Mr.
Notaword,” she said, “but did you mean
me to type these out or just to sign them
for you?” A couple of hours later, not
having had them brought to me for
checking, I asked her where they were,
only to be told brightly that they had
been posted. When I protested that I
hadn’t signed them she gave me a beam-
ing smile. “But you didn’t say anything
about your having to sign them.”
❖ ❖
TTHE Commonwealth was fast becoming
one big motor-car, said the hon.
member for Seed, Fred Carraway, in the
House last night. What was needed, he
said, was some positive action before the
situation became out of hand. The time
was fast approaching when all motor-
vehicles would have to be driven back-
wards. This was not so absurd as it
might sound. It would have numerous
advantages, and might very well be the
answer to the high toll of road-accidents.
A motor-car going backwards would
provide its driver with the advantage of
having seen where he had come from,
instead of, as at present, where he was
going. Pedestrians, too, might play their
part. What more dignified sight, said the
hon. member for Seed, than to see pedes-
trians walking backwards to their offices
and to their homes. It is high time that
we face up to the problem that everybody
seems to take great delight in avoiding.
Walking backwards provided excellent
directional training, and the sooner it was
universally adopted the better for all
concerned. It would not be a scrap of
good, the hon. member continued, passing
a bill making motorists drive backwards
if pedestrians continued walking for-
wards, One would circumvent the other
and the result would be chaotic.
“What about Bucharest?” interjected
the member for Salem.
The House then adjourned, and the
Minister for Support was seen walking
backwards to the refreshment-room, his
portfolio pushed away behind him as a
guide. He was later heard to comment,
“Walking backwards is nothing new,
just look up Thug and Warren.” —■
“J.G.W.”
HOLLYWOODEN PHENOMENA
I’ve no desire for film-fame, such
As is enjoyed by Errol Flynn,
But I do envy, very much,
The healing nature of his skin.
Fighting in manner carefree, gay,
A Taureg’s scimitar, long and curved,
Had nicked his cheek, and yet next day
No sign of hurt could be observed!
0 i
Rock Hudson is a real tough guy;
In Westerns he knows all the twists;
Almost invariably he’ll rely,
Not on a gun, but on his fists.
Full twenty times he crashed them on
The frontispiece of “Iron-Jaw” Dolan :
But here’s what puzzled me —anon
His knuckles weren’t the least bit
swollen.
It was, in very truth, a farce!
Dick Powell, the playboy, ceaselessly
Pulled at his outsize brandy-glass
Over some ninety minutes. He
Was superhuman, not a doubt:
I’d have been underneath the table;
Yet soberly to walk about
Dick, after that, was clearly able.
Hopalong Cassidy Bill Boyd
Was headin’-off the Big Stampede.
You might have thought he’d be annoyed,
Having to overwork, his steed,
But nary a once had William cussed!
Also, from where the longhorns surged
In billowing clouds of thick red dust,
In bandbox-neatness, Bill emerged.
George Raft, the ruthless crime-tsar, was
At his lootenant pretty mad.
He had a right to be, because
His loot had messed things up, real bad.
George, nine-stone-ten, a backhand
flipped —
You’d say he wasn’t really trying;
But so complete is George equipped
He sent that 16-stoner flying!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
According to the recent British Govern-
ment’s White Paper on air-defences, J.
Bull has the world’s best night-time-
fighter defence —three operational squad-
rons of Britain’s latest jet, the Hunter.
About 150 m.p.h. faster than the Meteor,
capable of delivering (from four 30mm.
cannon) ten times as much h.-e. a second
as the Russian MIG, these tidy craft are
now commanded by Group-Captain
Hughie Idwal Edwards, erstwhile pupil
of the White Gum Valley school in Wes-
tralia, and Fremantle shipping-clerk. He
is also the second Australian to have won
the V.C. in War 11, and, with 0.8. E.,
D.S.O. and Bar and D.F.C. added, is one
of the most decorated Servicemen in the
British Commonwealth. His V.C. came
for leading a particularly audacious day-
light bomber-raid ’on Bremen in 1941.
Beginning in the Australian Regular
Army in-1934, he crossed to the R.A.A.F.
the following year, and was one of seven
Australians selected to go to England for
further training with the R.A.F., to which
he transferred permanently. Since 1953
he’s commanded the R.A.F. station at
Wattisham (Suffolk); his job, with his
Hunters, is to protect Nato’s big atom-
bomber base at the near-by U.S. Scul-
thorpe station.
DAN CASEY, leading Brisbane criminal-
lawyer; son of a Queensland policeman,
brother of an Ipswich (Q.) barrister.
Selected to replace Senator Agnes
Robertson in the Westralian L.C.L. team
in the next Senate election, George
Branson, 37, has been farming in the
Babukin district since his return from
Japanese p.-0.-w. camps.. Taken at
Singapore with the 2/4th M.G. Battalion
in 1941, he spent his time in Thailand
and on the Burma railway. Now active
in R.S.L. doings and in the W.A.
Farmers’ Union.
• •
If Clare E. Lowe, American oil-driller
in Melbourne on an investigatory visit
for Lakes Entrance Oil Co., should take
a ticket in Tatt.’s ... ! His record is four
strikes in every five drillings, and he has
sunk over 1000 of them. He thinks there
is a big source of oil somewhere under
Gippsland. The drilling-rig he is import-
ing will go down 10,000 ft. —6000 ft.
deeper than the previous best in Gipps-
land.
• ©
“Waddlin’ Willie”: Passed his four-
score-years-and-ten, Harry Tompkins,
doyen of Melbourne’s architects, still
practising in East Melbourne overlooking
the city’s skyline he did so much to
change in the first three decades of the
century. Joining the Westralian Public
Works Department last century, he won
in 1898 the competition for a new Com-
mercial Travellers’ Association building
in Melbourne. Since then he’s put up the
Myers, London Stores, Centreway and
Melbourne “Herald” buildings. His first,
Austral Chambers in Queen-street, still
stands. He drew the plans for it in 1888,
when he was 23.
• •
“M.”: Sighted at a Brisbane wharf
in khaki shorts, battered once-white hat,
bare for the rest, Ray Parer, engineer
of the Gladstone - Heron Island (Q.)
tourist-launch Capre, in for refit. Tender
of the boat’s twin diesels for the past
three months, the 60-year-old rates a
sizeable entry in Who’s Who. A Xavier
College (Melbourne) product, in War I,
he flew with the Australian Flying Corps
(he owns A.F.C.), and in 1920 flew with
Mclntosh to Australia in an old war-wise
two-seater bomber, taking 206 days —an
epic of reckless daring. In 1934 he was
in the Melbourne Centenary Air Race.
In 1927 he pioneered New Guinea com-
mercial aviation, and founded three
companies up there —Bulolo Goldfields
Aeroplane Service (headquartered in
Sydney), Morlae Airlines (Moresby), and
Pacific Aerial Transport Co. (Wau). The
occupying Japs collared all his aircraft,
stores and mining machinery, so he
joined the R.A.A.F., flying-instructor.
That was a bit tame (at a trifle over 50),
so he signed-on as engineer in a small
craft operating round Jap-held waters
up New Guinea way. Jap aircraft
removed his address from under him, and
he anchored in Sydney for the rest of
the war, running a grocery business.
Back in New Guinea after the cease-fire,
he got into several business-ventures;
he sold his interests in them last year
to drive Capre round the Reef.
• ©
Harry Ross Anderson, Westralian
Rhodes Scholar for 1938, has added a
Nuffield Foundation fellowship in social
sciences to his score. This will take him
to the London School of Economics for
12 months. He’s been on the teaching-
staff of Queensland University’s law-
school since 1948.
• •
“Cauboy”: Melbourne actor Frank
Thring is apparently one of those
prophets, etc. After losing, in the Arrow
Theatre at Albert Park, Melbourne,
a considerable quantity of the money
his father left him, he went to London,
hired a theatre, and made a hit
with his flamboyant performance of
of King Herod in “Salome,” a role
with which he stonkered the critics
before the Arrow shot its bolt in Mel-
bourne. Promptly offered a West End
theatre, the always-unpredictable Frank
drqpped “Salome” and returned to Mel-
bourne, where he has been raising the dust
as guest-critic of the “Argus.” The other
day he got a cable from Anthony Quayle
asking him if he would play Emperor
Saturninus in Peter Brooks’s “Titus
Andronicus.” I always understood that
play was written by William Shakspeare,
but perhaps this is another version.
Thring accepted, and will co-star with
Vivien Leigh and Sir Laurence.
• •
Appointed U.S. Ambassador to New
Zealand, Robert C. Hendrickson repre-
sented New Jersey as a Republican
Senator in the last Congress, but did
not stand for re-election. Juvenile
delinquency, a problem that has kept,
the Dominion awake o’ nights of late, is
a special interest of The Ambassador;
he took an active part in the campaign
against youthful vices in his own country.
© •
“Pip Tok”: A six-year odyssey ended
for Piotr Danielsk, 40-year-old Polish
motor-mechanic, when he recently
landed in Australia. His adventures began
in his own country—sentenced to death
for underground work against the Reds.
Fie escaped from a Polish port while
waiting for transport by sea to Russia,
crossed the Baltic in a rowing-boat, and
worked as a docker in Sweden till he
could build a 21ft. auxiliary ketch, in
which he sailed to Canada. Unable to
find suitable work there, he returned to
Sweden, then, on the advice of friends,
shaped his course for Australia via
Gibraltar and Suez. At Port Said he
was refused permission to go through
the canal in a one-man craft. He then
made his way back through the Medi-
terranean and down the African coast
to Liberia. There he was imprisoned as a
person without papers, but the combined
offices of the French, Italian, Spanish,
German and Lebanese Consulates pro-
cured his release, after which fortune
began to smile. The Polish Association
in Australia raised funds for his passage,
ancl the Federal Government granted
him permission to land in Australia. He
flew to Genoa, and was given a con-
cession on his fare by the owner of an
Italian line. He hopes to work in Sydney.
• •
“C.R.C.”: That 41-year-old Seventh
Divvy man (B. 9/2/’55) who went back
to school and passed the entrance-exam,
for the Commonwealth Public Service
had little on an Old Digger in Westralia.
George Shaw, of Perth, a C.M.F. major
who served with an engineer unit in War
I, recently took his degree in the Westra-
lian University, at the age of 60; thus
adding B.Sc. to the M.C. he already owned.
He’s well-known as an Agricultural De-
partment poultry expert and A.B.C.
broadcaster on chook-lore.
From No. 82 Bomber Wing at Amber-
ley (Q.) to command of No. 1 Bomber
Squadron in Malaya flies Wing-Com-
mander C. H. Spurgeon, back to familiar
country. Enlisting the day war broke out,
at 19, he flew with No. 8 Squadron in
Malaya till a Jap Zero sent him down in
1942. The following four years he spent
behind bamboo.
• •
“Pip Tok”: The air-sea operation
which rescued the 17 crew-members of
the crayfish-process boat Shelley Boy,
wrecked off Fremantle, provided A.B.C.
sports-commentator Bert Oliver with an
unexpected scoop. Oliver happened to
be aboard H.M.A. corvette Fremantle,
waiting for the finish of the Fremantle-
Bunbury yacht-race, when the corvette,
with her consort, H.M.A.S. Junee, pro-
ceeded with all dispatch to the rescue.
By a teamwork link-up with the Navy,
the P.M.G.’s Department and the A.8.C.,
Oliver was able to broadcast an on-the-
spot description of the rescue and radio-
interviews with the skipper and members
of the Shelley Boy’s crew. Oliver himself
has had experience at sea, having served
as an R.A.N. stoker in Hitler’s stoush.
A square-built athlete with a preference
for Rugby, he is a younger brother of
former swimming champion Percy Oliver.
• •
Appointed chairman of the Westralian
Electricity Commission, Ernest Hearn
has already put in a few years as a
chairman —of Westralia’s Chamber of
Manufactures. A burly 63, he came to
W.A. from England in 1911, and with
his brother built up a big furniture-
making firm. In Hitler’s affair he was
on camp-comforts and Red Cross work,
besides advising the Government on local
manufactures. He works hard for the
Braille Society.
• •
“C.Q.”: Hardly known at all in his
own land, sculptor William Ricketts now
has an international reputation. A New
York gallery has bought some of his abo.
sculptures, and they have been spoken
highly of in Europe. Ricketts is,an idealist
who some years ago got the notion of
establishing a vast native reservation in
Gippsland where Binghi could be brought
back to his native art, crafts and culture,
as well as gradually led into the European
tradition. In his studio in the Dandenongs
he carved colossal figures out of the
natural rock, occasionally holding metro-
politan exhibitions of his smaller works,
which were always allegorical and abo-
riginal. His voice was not heard, so he
moved to a spot beyond Alice Springs,
with the idea of establishing his sanctuary
there, but this time among the more-or-
less unsophisticated Arunta. No doubt
he has been exchanging notes with Albert
Namatjira.
• •
The benign visage herewith appended
belongs to George Henry Pitt, retired
after just on half a century in Adelaide’s
public book-barn, the past seven years as
principal librarian. Immediately after
World War I he was put in charge of the
State’s archives; first to hold that post,
ADELAIDE BOOKS
in his 29 years in it he surfaced, gathered
or bound close on 400,000 documents.
Incarceration in the archaic vaults re-
sulted in a book of his own, The Press in
South Australia, a history of the State’s
newspapers, on one of which, the
“Advertiser,” his grandfather was chief-
printer. Pitt owns B.A. from Adelaide
University, has been noted for his willing
help to research-workers, and in his spare
time reads.
An impression of casual efficiency
about him, Malcolm Arnott (here
pictured) for years worked Merriwa, a
grazing property out from Muswellbrook,
on the upper-Hunter (N.S.W.). The
Food and Agricultural Organisation of
U.N. wanted a man with more practical
than university experience to hop over
to Libya; Arnott, owning both, took
the job. He’s been finishing off a spot
of leave in Sydney after two years of
LIBYAN SHEEP
bringing nomadic Arab shepherds up to
date.
Over that way earlier —corporal, 7th
Div. Cavalry in Syria and parts adjacent
—Arnott has about two-million hardy
Barbary fat-tailed sheep in his area,
which takes in Tripolitania, Cyrenaica
and Sudan; and something like 40,000
acres of minefields, the charts of which
have been lost, and through which he
and his team travel along cleared lanes
fenced with barbed-wire.
Now and then a camel gets off-course
and goes up. The mines don’t play
favorites —there are as many of Monty’s
as Rommel’s. There is little other indica-
tion of those violent days; for some
time after the war export of scrap-iron
was one of the country’s biggest
industries.
Arnott found his pupils, at shearing-
time, tying the sheep’s legs together,
in the best poddy-branding style, and
de-woolling with what looked like a
long pair of tailor’s shears. It took about
45 minutes per sheep. The U.N. man
brought in portable mechanical shearing-
machines, and after two months’ training
the nomads got up to 100 a day; not
bad compared with the Australian
average of between 120 and 150.
As well as a coarse wool tiptop for
carpet-making, the Barbaries loaded lice.
Arnott had a problem there. An earlier
team had used arsenic-and-bran for
locusts; it didn’t do the grazing sheep
much good. But he persuaded one
patriarch to let him dip 100. Word got
round, and now his portable 100-gallon
dipping-tanks are fully employed.
Indication of U.N.’s long - range
helping plan, an Arab youth from
Arnott’s territory is now at the Veterinary
School at Queensland University,
alternating between there and the
Department of Agriculture. He’ll go
back and spread the gospel.
• •
Senior lecturer in civil-engineering at
Sydney University, C. A. M. Gray shifts
shortly to the Chair of Engineering in the
University of Malaya. A product of
Sydney High, science-graduate of Sydney
Uni., the new prof, is in Malaya now,
organising his new department.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 62, Father Thomas Hehir,
between 1939-43 Rector of St. Aloysius College,
Milson’s Point, Sydney. He was coach of
several of the school’s football teams.
At 75, James Crockett, till last year chair-
man of the N.S.W. Plywood Distributors’
Association. A Scot migrant who arrived ia
Sydney in 1910, he built up a healthy plywcxad-
distdbution business, as well as importing
timber. At the beginning of War II he pub-
lished his first book, The English Spirit, and
donated the £5OOO-odd proceeds to the Spitfire
Fund. He wrote three more books.
In Perth, at 88, Denis Fitzgerald, one of the
earliest prospectors on the Hannan’s (now
Kalgoorlie) goldfield. Arriving in Coolgardie
shortly after Bailey and Ford made their strike,
he was one of the early owners of Hannan’s
Reward.
At Watervale (S.A.), at 85, Ernest William
Castine, former Legislative Councillor and
well-known pastoralist. M.L.C. in 1933-1947,
he was one-time managing-director of the
Mid-North Electricity Co., and the Andamooka
Pastoral Co. A wide public-affairs interest
took in posts of chairman of the Upper Wake-
field District Council, secretary of the Northern
Agriculture Society, member of the Clare
Hospital Board and member of the Synod of
the Church of England.


BEACH PESTS


ABORIGINAHTIES
IN the Victorian Grampians kangaroos
have taken to raiding apple-orchards,
and after eating their fill they’ve packed
their pouches with the fruit. Orchardists
are narked, but should they be? If a
’roo can be trained as a boxer he should
pick up efficient fruit-picking easily
enough, and the few he’d eat on the job
would be nothing to the cheap labor and
everlasting . holding-bag he’d supply
gratis.—“Emel.”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Twenty-five years ago a
stone church was being built in . . .
well, perhaps it would be discreet to say
a well-known town in N.S.W. . . . when
the corner was knocked off an elaborate
plinth. To replace the broken stone would
have cost hundreds of pounds, since the
work above would have had to be pulled
down and then built up again. On the
other hand, to leave a broken plinth in
such a prominent position was unthink-
able. The foreman-mason didn’t make
any decision that day ; at knock-off time
he was holding the broken-off fragment
in his hand and looking at the ragged
gap in the plinth. In the morning the
stone was intact again. Recently I was
passing that church when curiosity com-
bined with memory to halt me. The piece
is still stuck there. And what was the
“About this design for a 1960 multi-atom super-light-speed space-ship —
We feel you're in a groove, Smythe!”
secret substance that time and the elements
hadn’t been able to shift? White-of-egg!
* * * *
“Ibars”: Came across the following ad.
in a journal devoted to country interests:
Family unit wants work, father carpenter,
handyman, mother cook, daughter 19 assist
housework, governess, son 16 some experi-
ence station work, daughter, aged 6,
mascot.
Good luck to New Australians with a
sense of humor.
“Nonnel”: You can have your opium,
hashish and the rest —I’ll settle for a
lottery-ticket when I want to indulge in
a spot of pipe-dreaming. Within a quar-
ter of an hour from posting the applica-
tion-form I’ve started on the orgy by
giving £1000 to my pet charity. During
the following week or so I’ve disposed
of the old bomb, and after much con-
sideration am the owner of a shining big
bus more in keeping with the kind of
bloke I am ; have had the wash in the top
paddock graded-out and contoured; can
almost see the crop of lucerne poking
its way through; and have that new
header in the shed. Those broken-
rpouthed old crackers which have been
the joke of the district for so long are on
their way to the boiling-down works, and
have been replaced with the outstanding
line of maiden ewes I have so long
wanted. The new tractor ticks away 1 down
the paddock, while I am getting some
real joy out of anticipating my act of
applying the match to the old one. I
slip down the paddock and talk con-
descendingly to the blokes who are clear-
ing and fencing the mint-weed patch that
I am going to put down to improved
pasture . . . And what if I do find, when
I get the result-slip, that I was 76 off a
fiver? It’s not much worse than a hang-
over!
* * * *
“Cedar Party”: The morning after
the polo carnival and ball old Barney,
the wood-and-water joey at the pub, was'
looking puzzled. “I dunno,” he said,
“one o’ them polo-players got me to
put these winkers on his pony, but
damned if / know how y’ git ’em on!”
—and he held up the “winkers.” Which
is why “Barney’s winkers” is now the
local name for a bra.
* * * *
“Narumee”: Melbourne housewives,
mystified to find their milk-bottle caps
punctured and the milk minus even its
meagre summer cream, complained to
the milk-oh, who maintained that he and
his bottle-capping machine were innocent.
The thief, a wily starling, was eventually
caught, white-beaked, in the act of perch-
ing on one bottle while he pecked at, and
drank from, the other; his nefarious
purpose was defeated by the milk-oh’s
placing of the bottles too far apart for
the bird to reach from one to the other.
Some years back when there was a simi-
lar epidemic of milk-filching in London
suburbs the culprits were blue-tits, tiny
and agile enough to cling to single bottles,
fluttering their wings to maintain their
equilibrium while they pecked at the caps.
Such havoc did these miniature hijackers
cause that the problem reached Ministerial
level, and experiments were set afoot to
perfect beak-proof bottle-caps. In our
Cornish village use of foil caps had not
penetrated, and our milk was still de-
livered in wide-mouthed bottles with thick
cardboard circles inset; these resisted all
onslaughts by the many greedy blue-tits
in our garden, giving rise to local com-
ment that “City folks, with they new-
fangled notions, aren’t alius so blasted
clever, after all!”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Westralian vermin-
inspector says the influx of ’roos around
some south W.A. townships is a result
of bush-feed being scarce; he blames
this on there not having been a fire
through much of the country for years,
the bush consequently becoming dirty
and overgrown. Could be. Before white
settlement there was probably a fire
through most of the bush every few
years, burning off dry shrubs and leading
to new growth. That’s what the ’roos
“It seems to be unanimous, old boy!”
lived on. Let a grass-tree grow unchecked
for a few years and the fronds are like
matchsticks. In fact, an attempt was
once made to use them for that purpose,
and the main complaint was that they
were too brittle. Burn them off ahd the
young leaves shoot through in a matter
of days, and they’re tasty even to the
human palate. Much the same applies
to the other natural shrubs and grasses.
They spring to life immediately, without
rain, as though a fire in moderation is
actually a part of their lives and they
relish it. Also, quite a lot of seeds,
notably the wattles, don’t germinate to
any extent until they’ve been subjected
to heat. Trouble is our fire-prevention
policy checks this tendency towards light,
frequent fires and allows a dangerous
accumulation of dry undergrowth and
dead timber. Then when a fire does come
through it generates enough heat to
destroy the forest.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: Nature often effects
strange come-by-chance growths. At
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) Agricultural
College grapevine prunings were placed
lengthwise in the rut of a track used by
a horse-drawn dray. Next spring the
prunings, despite daily traffic over them,
sprouted at every joint. In 1940 a mud
“boob” was erected by the 2nd A.I.F.
at Barbara, in Palestine. Immediately
after the first rains in November the
whole caboodle was covered in
luxuriant emerald-green grass. It was a
most attractive sight—from the outside,
of course.
* * * *
“Ben Ari”: W. Charnley’s excellent
research on the early Westralian native
leader Yagan, in “Swan River Chieftain”
(B. 5/1/’55), particularly interested me,
because Chamley stated that Midgerooroo
(chief of the Bibbulmun) was arrested
on the Peninsula, a bend in the Swan
just above Perth, and I happen to be a
resident of the Peninsula. I think I’m
right in saying that a part of the area
had at that time been selected by George
Joseph Hardey, whose homestead, Tranby
Park, still stands. Hardey is noted as
having sailed to the colony, in his 120-
ton ship Skern, equipped for a
farming venture —a fact worthy of
record. Another facet of history—
according to ancient title-deeds, present-
day owners of waterside blocks on the
Peninsula still appear to have the right
to fence their land to mid-river.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Bayside residents of Mel-
bourne were lately warned by the
Fisheries and Game Department not to
effect on humans who eat the infected
fish. Said to have been destroying the
fish at an estimated rate of 100,000 a day,
Dino has spread from Sandringham to
Dromana and further, a distance of over
20 miles. Failing a strong northerly,
like the one which dispelled a former
visitation, the entire fish-life of the bay
would be threatened.
eat dying or dopey fish they might pick
up about beaches. Reason was Dino
flagellates, a minute marine organism
which floats around in the ocean in vast
sheets. Biologists have discovered that
Dino secretes a poisonous chemical in
infinitesimal quantities, but in the mass
this has been sufficiently potent to lay
low the piscine population of Port Phillip
in enormous numbers, with probable ill-
THE CAMEL-DRIVER’S
DAUGHTER
Where wide- plains are sweeping
Outstretched before the eyes,
Yasmin lies sleeping
Under gentle skies/
The trees that surround her
Once saw her running fleet,
Hair spread around her,
On brown naked feet.
The black magpie, throbbing, v
Would hear each liquid note
In echo sobbing
From her tender throat.
And all her days would gather
To ride, in childhood’s dream,
Beside her father
With the camel team.
Now there is no yearning
For unfulfilled delights,
Or sad tears burning
In the lonely nights.
For where winds are weeping
The tired years to rest,
Yasmin lies sleeping
In the earth’s warm breast.
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.
THIS IS ISOSTASY
JOHN S. DENCE.
A NYONE who imagines that the
accumulation of ice on Antarctica
would affect the stability of the Poles has
not studied the force known as isostasy.
In the universe it is an axiom that when
a star is formed it also rotates, and if it
is of a certain size must become a sphere.
But not quite; the force of its rotation
causes it to become a more-or-less oblate
spheroid. And the universal force of
gravity ordains that every part of that
spheroid shall bear with equal force on to
its centre. Any variations in the surface-
level of the Spheroid cause an adjustment
of the force to equalise the general
pressure.
As an example, the delta of the Missis-
sippi River is constantly extending by the
detritus brought down by the river. But
the surface of the new-forming land does
not increase in area as quickly as it would
if on a stable surface. It sinks, and it is
well known that on the upper reaches
the river-bed, deprived of the silt washed
down, rises slightly, compensating the
surface so that the average general sur-
face presses equally on to the centre.
That is isostasy.
In ancient times, when the Northern
Hemisphere was bound in an Ice Age,
the weight of ice depressed the underlying
land, but caused earth-tremors elsewhere,
as the general surface adjusted itself to the
unequal stresses.
Under the vast Asiatic mountains is
a deep root of sial, or rocks of surface-
density. The deeper rocks are much
heavier*, but, being plastic through heat,
they yield to the weight of the mountain-
ranges, which float on the sima as a
loaded ship floats on water.
No better simile can be used than the
fact that a loaded ship displaces more
water than an empty one, and the water
displaced adjusts itself to the general
level of the ocean. In like manner the
earth’s surface adjusts itself to all tem-
porary alterations in level. This is a
cause of most earthquakes.
N.B. —Sial is the name of the surface
rocks, which average about 2% to 2\ times
the weight of water. Sima is the name
of the deeper rocks, mainly basalts, under-
lying the surface rocks and weighing
about 3i times the weight of water.


THE DANDELION
He greats me with a cheerful shout,
This yellow sun in miniature.
I should, I know, have pulled him up
Have spaded him and sliced him out.
The flower-beds in their cultured rows
Turn up a smug, collective nose
That I, an unenlightened ninny,
Cherish that spurious golden guinea.
N - z * M. C. Higgs.
* * * *
HPHE peewees are rearing a suburban
A family, and the house- and street-
lawns are favorite schools and diniqg-
rooms. I have watched the parent birds
douse their catch in a gutter-pool before
stuffing it down an eager, clamoring
throat. Is the dipping intended to make
the titbit cleaner, tastier or easier to
swallow? And if there had been no
water, would that particular item on the
menu have been rejected, or fed to the
youngster willy-nilly?—“Wunin.”
* * * *
“M’Lou”: Foxes are decidedly on
the losing end, according to figures re-
leased by the ’Wimmera (Vic.) Shire
Council. Whereas in 1953 the council
paid bonuses on 893 skins, in 1954 they
had only 483 bonus-claims to settle.
Cheered by this good news, graziers,
with spotlight, gun and dog, are pressing
after the red bloke in preparation for
the lambs expected in April and May.
* <5 * *
“M.K.”: Any water which has been
converted into vapor by heat and then
condensed to a liquid by cooling can be
called “distilled” water. The most widely
observed example is rain, which is suitable
for use in batteries if collected directly
into a glass or porcelain vessel. However,
both rainwater and water which has been
single-distilled from a boiler (the vapor
being led off directly through a tube to
the condenser) will be far from pure, as
it contains carbon-dioxide, ammonia,
traces of hydrochloric-acid and other
contaminants. Such water may be quite
suitable for garage use, but no chemist
would use it to prepare an injection. For
this purpose further purification must be
effected by multiple-distillation. In
addition, the first and last
portions of the distillate
are rejected each time, as
they contain the greater
part of the impurities ; a
splash-trap is employed to
prevent small particles of
water flung from the
surface of the boiling
liquid from being carried
over in the vapor-stream
into the receiver. “K.A.’s”
“heavily mineralised water
from Central Australia”
(B. 9/2/’55) if distilled
once in simple apparatus
would be “distilled” water,
but it would be far from
pure.
* * *
“Ped-Ant”: May I
correct “Cayman (B.
9/2/’55)? True croco-
diles are distributed more
widely than is generally
supposed. In addition, to
the blunt-nosed alligators
or caymans of the
Americas and China, and
the long-nosed ga vials
of India and Burma, there are no fewer
than 10 listed genuine crocodiles found
in Australia, Malaysia, Central America
and Cuba, also in the Niger, the Congo,
the Nile, the Ganges and (he Orinoco,
Rivers: So the Polish doctor when in
the jungles of Brazil was in a region
contiguous to, and zoologically , similar
to, the habitat of the last-named species.
Still, he could have mistaken a cayman
for a genuine croc.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Every Sunday, this weather,
a fishing-convoy of 10 cars and 40 loco.-
blokes assembles outside the local
engine-shed. Forty anxious faces watch
the hat as 10 unfortunates are condemned
by ballot to stay dry. Several gallons
of lubrication are loaded aboard. Four
young caller-ups are recruited, and the
convoy moves off. Out at the lake the
caller-ups bait hooks at the flat-rate of
two-bob a head, while at the other end
of the rods 30 well-oiled boiler-busters
argue the toss on any set of words that
may form a sentence. After a while the
bait-boys give up baiting 30 hooks. The
sober 10 catch a feed of fish, and the
other 30 can’t quite make out what the
trip is all about. The following day the
sober 10 get roaring drunk and the other
30 stoutly declare the fish bit well on
yabbies and worms. The four caller-ups
get an extra two-bob to keep their mouths
shut.
* # * *
“Pheasant’s Nest”: It seems more
likely that “coo-ee” (B. 9/2/’55) was
introduced to Australia by American
miners in the gold-rush days. Zane Grey,
in his book Betty Zane, a story of early
settlements in the U.S., mentions the
Redskin’s cry of “Coo-ee” as they
attacked the block-houses. Another Red-
skin call was made by blowing into their
clasped hands, producing two notes
resembling “Coo-ee.” Forty years ago
every Australian boy could do it, but I
haven’t seen it done for years.
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: There was a big-’un
down there in the choppy water. The
first time he hooked himself and dived
under a shelf I broke the nylon trying
to drag him out. Obviously heavy stuff
was needed. I tried a cord with an 181 b.
breaking-strain, got a strike, and in the
subsequent tug-o’-war the line broke.
Another hook, another try. With the
line near breaking-point we cluqg to our
respective ends. Strategy seemed the only
thing; I allowed the line to fall limp.
After some time the? line began to move
—he’d come out from under. I brought
him in. And that was the biggest dis-
appointment in a fishing career full of
dismal disappointments —that little rock-
cod could not have weighed half a pound.
What sort of bollard-system do rock-
fish employ to give ’emselves purchase
under shelves?
Old lush songs
TVTEXT week The Bulletin will begin
publishing a series of old bush songs,
words and music. One will be printed
on this page each week.
There are songs of the convict days,
songs of bushranging, songs of pioneer
selectors, songs of stockmen and
shearers. The words of a few of them
are to be found in the volume of Old
Bush Songs which “Banjo”\ Paterson
published ; but in most cases both words
and music will be entirely new except
to the handful of collectors specialising
in Australian folk-song and to the old-
timers who may happen to remember
them.
It didn’t need an American —Burl
Ives —to awaken Australians to the vigor
and naive charm of these old songs, which
were really the first stirring of a native
literature in this country, for such
enthusasts as Dr. Percy Jones and Hugh
Anderson in Melbourne, Russel Ward
in Canberra and the Australian Folklore
Society in Sydney were well in the field
when Burl arrived. But Burl did demon-
strate to a wide audience how captivating
the songs can be; and so did the more
"I'd hate to live in the city. I'd feel too boxed-in."
recent broadcast by the A.B.C. of the
Bushwhackers’ Band in a programme of
bushranger - songs arranged by Nancy
Keesing.
The words of the songs have an appeal
of their own for anybody with a liking
for an earthy simplicity; but it takes
the music as well fully to bring them
to life; and that is why—and in the
expectation that there will come, as in
America, a revival of interest in these
songs, both for themselves and as a
basis for opera and other musical
compositions— The Bulletin is printing
both words and music.
The words in The Bulletin series
come from a variety of sources. The
music has been supplied in all cases by
John Meredith, president of the Australian
Folklore Society and leading-spirit of the
Bushwhackers’ Band, who has collected
it all at first-hand from old-timers.
The Australian Folklore Society is one
of those things that just happened—
because the time was ripe for them;
over-ripe, if the old bush songs were not
to be forgotten. A dispenser by pro-
fession, working for Drug Houses of
Australia, Ltd., John
Meredith was bom
at Holbrook, in the
Riverina, in 1920.
His father used to
play the accordion at
bush dances, and
John, who also plays
that noble instru-
ment, gradually
grew interested in
collect in g bush
music.
He began by inter-
viewing old-timers
and doing research
at the Mitchell
Library. Then he
met other young men
interested in the sub-
ject: John Way, who
plays the guitar and
is an engineer in the
P.M.G. Department;
Edgar Waters, who
used to work at
the N. S. Wales
Public Library and is now in England
looking into English folk-songs, after
having helped Alan Lomax compile a
Penguin anthology of U.S. folk-songs.
These three were the nucleus of the
Folklore Society, which, originally a
meeting-ground where members could
exchange information, has grown to a
membership of 30 and publishes a
quarterly magazine, “Speewa” (in which
have been printed one or two of the
songs which will appear in The
Bulletin).
The Bushwhackers’ Band is separate
from the Folklore Society, but grew out
of it. It started at a party at Heathcote
(N.S.W.) when John Meredith and a
few of his cobbers dressed in bush clothes
and sang bush songs. Now it has regu-
larly six members, who have performed
for the A.8.C., for 2LT Lithgow, at
History House in Sydney, at the Lithgow
Workmen’s Club, at Corrimal on the
South Coast, at the Sydney Showground
when the Smith Family entertained 4000
children, and at innumerable socials,
barbecues and parties.
Wherever they go, from interested
members of the audience, the Bush-
whackers collect new songs. When they
went to Lithgow lately a dozen-or-so
old-timers gave them no fewer than 72
items to record in the way of songs,
recitations, ballads and bush-yarns, in-
cluding a hitherto-unknown song on that
most popular of subjects the death of
Ben Hall, and a story about the son of
Coobung Mick, the aborigine who be-
trayed the bushranger, to the effect that
his offspring, then unborn, developed 32
spots on his skin to match the 32 bullet-
wounds in Ben, and subsequently toured
Australia as the Leopard Boy. An old
lady at Lithgow had known Ben Hall’s
brother when he was a captain in the
Salvation Army at Forbes.
Altogether the Bushwhackers have
preserved on their tape-recorder over
4GO items of folklore; these including,
of course, many variants of the same
piece. There are, for example, as many
as seven versions of Paterson’s
“Travelling Down the Castlereagh” or
“The Old Jig-jog”—of which, largely
because of these variants, John Meredith
queries Paterson’s authorship, though,
like the equally doubtful “Waltzing
Matilda,” it was included in his Collected
Verses.
The Bushwhackers play an extra-
ordinary variety of instruments: the
button-accordion ; the mouth-organ ; the
guitar ; the bones ; sometimes the fiddle ;
sometimes the magic-flute, which is a
nose-instrument similar to the putorino of
the ancient Maoris; the lagerphone,
which is an old hair-broom with bottle-
tops loosely nailed all over it, caressed
Bush songster,
JOHN MEREDITH
with a serrated rattle-stick and based on
an instrument used in the British Army
called the Jingling Johnny, which in
turn was based on a medieval instru-
ment called the Turkish Crescent, with
brass crescents and' little bells replacing
the modern bottle-tops ; and the bush-
bass, which is a tea-chest with a double-
bass string that has to be slapped with
a stick, and which has affinities with the
upturned tub or oil-drum popular on
small ships and with the oildrum-drum
of the New Guinea natives, which John
Meredith says is best recorded at a
distance of 30ft., if not altogether out of
ear-shot. The band also wants to include
the gum-leaf but finds it curiously
difficult to master.
So anybody who follows the songs in
The Bulletin and can lay hands on an
old broom or a tea-chest will be able,
if he can bear the uproar, to recapture
exactly the noise and the atmosphere
of the songs as they were sung in way-
back shanties and drovers’ camps in the
brave days of old.


c
m
The amazing Contex Adding Machine ends
“after-office-hours figuring,” leaves you and
your wife free to enjoy a normal family life.
Contex will do your figure work swiftly and
accurately. You can master it in 5 minutes.
Contex adds in whole numbers, £.s.d., decimals,
weights and measures. Over 15,000 Contex
machines are now in use. Investigate Contex
to-day and start living again.
£23'io'-
Handsome carrying
case, 55/- extra.
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE M 0425
POST THIS TO-DAY„„.
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Contex.
NAM E
C 029.16
ADDRESS.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING —INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business, Rollery, Etc
B.H.P,
A NOTHER div.-distribution is
not due from B.H.P. until
May. The best part of two
months must elapse before share-
holders know whether the 8| p.c.
div.-rate will alter during the
remainder of 1954-55.
Questions were asked at the
last annual meeting (August 20,
1954) as to why an increase in
the div. was not forthcoming.
The chairman, C. York Syme,
covered the situation with the
following explanation:
With shareholders’ funds now
standing: at, nearly £3B million, the
net profit from all sources repre-
sents a return of approximately
62 p.c., which is a slight improve-
ment on last year. Part of the
reason for the low return lies in
the fact that our unprecedented
rate of capital expenditure, particu-
larly at Port Kembla, has meant
that at any given time an
abnormally large amount of money
is invested in capital projects which
have not reached the production-
stage.
This situation should change for
the better when capital expenditure
settles down to a more normal
level, and we are hopeful that share-
holders will see some improvement
after ' the hot-strip mill at Port
Kembla comes into operation • next
year.
Since Mr. Syme made those
remarks there has been another
lift in the price of steel. There
has also been an increase in the
rates of marginal pay for some
skilled and semi-skilled workers.
And so fair there has been no
move by the Commonwealth
Treasury to allow depreciation
as a tax-free deduction on the
basis of asset-replacement cost.
This makes operations particu-
larly difficult for companies,
such as 8.H.P., which are in
process of extending their
activities on a large scale.
Last year B.H.P.’s rate of net
earnings in relation to share-
holders’ capital was 10.2 p.c.
Since then an issue of. 4,993,815
new shares has been made at a
10s. premium. When all the new
money is in paid capital will be
around £3O million. The new
money is likely to slow-down the
overall rate of earning until it is
profitably employed, and an
increase in the div. this year
looks as though it could only
be made at the expense of pro-
vision for depreciation, or unless
the year’s earnings are more fully
distributed.
Custom Credit Corp.
A one-for-one issue of six
million new ss. ord. shares will
double the paid capital of
Custom Credit Corporation,
carrying it up to £3 million. The
new money is required for
general expansion. The National
Bank of Australasia, which owns
40 p.c. of the capital and whose
branches act as agencies for
Custom Credit, will take up its
full quota of the issue.
Custom Credit Corp. started
off on July 9, 1953. At the end
of its initial trading term (to
June 30, 1954) its paid capital
was £500,000, and its unsecured-
note liabilities, mostly short-term
and carrying up to 4 p.c. interest,
amounted to. £2,764,260. It owed
very little else. The high gearing
of borrowed money to capital
helped to explain the high rate
(25 p.c.) of earnings to capital
during the period. (H.-p.
advances amounted to £3,495,750
at balance-day, while reserves
were negligible.) A 10 p.c.
dividend was paid for the year.
The board in July last
announced that it was going to
remould the finances of the co.
by a substantial increase in paid-
up capital, which was soon after
trebled. Then £1,645,562 of first-
mortgage debenture-stock was
issued carrying 5 p.c. for two
years, 6 p.c. for four years and
over. On October 31 the total
of debenture-stock and unsecured
notes was £3,731,498. Then, in
December, another £3 million of
first-mortgage stock was issued —
two years, 5 p.c.; three years,
5| p.c.; four years and upwards,
6 p.c.
Assuming that debenture
and unsecured-note commit-
ments are now of the order
of £6j million, with a paid
capital of £3 million the gearing
of capital to borrowed money
drops from around one-to-five at
June 30 last to about one-to-two.
Which means that earnings in
relation to capital may fall dur-
ing the present term, especially
since the co. has had little time
in which to accumulate reserves.
But the board’s assurance that
the 10 p.c. div. is expected to
be maintained on the increased
capital is quite understandable.
The boom in consumer-credit
facilities goes on. On September
30 the balances outstanding
under hire-purchase agreements
issued by Australian finance
companies totalled £142.7
million, an increase from £94
million a year earlier. The
expansion in consumer-credit
advances has been much more
rapid than in the case of bank
advances to industry.
Bank finance has not been
freely available to hire-purchase
cos. over the past half-year. The
central bank has discouraged
advances for time-payment pur-
poses. And only last month the
National Bank itself said that
“in the months ahead bank-
advances are certain to remain
severely restricted owing to the
decline in the banks’ liquid
position, and only in the
unlikely event of the sudden
appearance of a serious business
recession would a material
change from the present in the
granting of bank-accommodation
be at all likely.”
Foy and Gibson
The G. J. Coles offer for Foy
and Gibson, Ltd., shares is 1|
G. J. Coles ss. ords. and 18s. in
cash for each £1 ord. in Foy and
Gibson. Foy and Gibson
directors are considering alterna-
tive proposals which “appeared
to be more advantageous to
shareholders.” The Coles offer
is conditional on acceptance by
51 p.c. of the ord. capital within
two months.
Foy and Gibson’s main
interests are Foy and Gibson
(Stores) Pty., Ltd., controlling
department-stores in Melbourne,
Fitzroy, Prahran and Adelaide;
Eagley Mills Pty., Ltd.; and
investment income from Foy and
Gibson (W.A.), Ltd.
Associated Pulp*
Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills has lifted its interim div.
from 3| p.c. to 4 p.c. It looks
like 8 p.c. for the year. Condi-
tions in the paper-trade have
altered very much in favor of
Australian manufacturers over
the pasr year, and A.P* and P.
has a full order-book, with a
long ln order to be
sure of supplies from Burnie,
paper-merchants are now obliged
to enter into two-year contracts
with A.P. and P.
The Tariff Board compli-
mented the co. on its efficiency
in a report on the industry. Out-
put at Burnie has been expand-
ing gradually, and the increased
capacity now coincides with
growing demand and better
prices. Two new machines
should come into operation in
1955, making six units altogether.
Capacity should be increased to
between 45,000 tons and 50,000
tons a year.
Capital of the co. has grown
to £6,448,680. There are 836,804
£1 ords. at present paid to ss.
Since announcement of the
increased interim the price of the
fully-paids has jumped to 275. 3d.
The Gadsden Companies
High activity in the packing-
container business has been
reported here previously.
Gadsden-Hughes Holdings, one
of the largest in the business, has
just announced an increase from
p.c. to 4j p.c. in its interim
div. (3| p.c. tax-free), suggesting
9 p.c. for the year.
An interim should shortly be
announced from J. Gadsden
(Aust.), Ltd., payable in April.
This is a bigger concern .than
Gadsden-Hughes, operating in a
wider field. It paid 7 p.c. in its
last year; an increase is quite
possible, though tax - free
reserves may condition div.-
policy.
J. Gadsden 10s. shares have
been available at 13s. 9d. in
Melbourne.
R. B. Davies Industries
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.,
is to acquire all the issued
capital in the long-established M.
Persin, Ltd., of Clifton Hill, Mel-
bourne, on an exchange-of-shares
basis. The Persin business is of
a type similar to that of R. B.
Davies, and it will provide
further manufacturing facilities
in Victoria. Consideration for
the purchase will be 50,000 £1
fully-paid R.B.D. shares.
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.,
has its headquarters in Marrick-
ville, Sydney, where it is the
largest mass - producer of
builders’ hardware in Australia.
It bought out W. H. Wells Pty.,
Ltd., in Melbourne about four
years ago in order to expand its
operations in Victoria. Later it
put up half the capital in York-
shire Fittings, (Australia), Ltd.,
makers of copper and brass
plumbing fittings which dispense
with threaded joints. This
offshoot is now beginning to
earn something.
R. B. Davies Industries and
its several subsidiaries are at
present very busy, in keeping
with activity in the building-
trades. The div. has been kept
at 8 p.c. for the past four years,
which has disappointed the share-
market. When the issue of shares
is made to M. Persin, Ltd., share-
holders, paid capital of R.B.D.
will stand at £701,682. The £1
shares last week sold at 245. 9d.,
to yield 6.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis.
John Mcllwraith Industries
Sales and profits of John Mc-
llwraith Industries, which makes
plumbers’ supplies and other
hardware in Melbourne, were
“substantially higher” for the
first half of the current term, and
the interim has been maintained
at the previous year’s rate of
12i p.c. p.a.
Earnings for 1953-54 were
equal to 22.5 p.c. on capital,
leaving ample margin over the
12j p.c. div. The 10s. shares are
one of the most stable stocks on
’Change, varying, as a rule, only
between 20s. and 235. Last week
they were quoted at 225. 6d.
Oil-drilling in Queensland
On February 22 Longreach
Oil, Ltd., struck trouble in its
second well, Racecourse No. 1.
At below 3170 ft. the coring-bit
collapsed, leaving roller cones at
the bottom of the hole. Opera-
tions were then suspended pend-
ing arrival of a fishing-tool.
Drilling at Reid’s Dome, near
Springsure, Australasian Oil
Exploration reports that the well
is now down to 7739 ft. —well
below the usual “basement”
encountered in Queensland, and
a fractured carbonaceous shale
zone was encountered in the
core. Oil-slick and mud, it is
announced, were discovered in
the core, but the well will be
reamed before testing.
Westland Oil, drilling at
Warbreccan, has reported a
number of oil-traces at below
4000 ft., but nothing of much
significance has yet been proven.
This is the co.’s first well.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON A
OSIIIJIVAV
t -V FTEUD. ,
M P
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPH'S AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR •
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN PATRICK WILKES late of
24 Cooma Road Queanbeyan New South
Wales.—TAElE NOTICE that URSULA
FRANCES WILKES has filed a Petition
No. 1857 of 1954 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the 4th day of May 1955 A
copy of the Petition filed herein may
be obtained free of charge from
DEGOTARDI & PAYK, Solicitors, 263
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS WILLIAM CALLINAN
late of Port Kembla.—TAKE NOTICE
that LORNA CALLINAN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 160 of 1955 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance by the 6th day of
May 1955 at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor, of Hunter
Street, Newcastle West, or his Sydney
Agent, Mr. J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, of
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
in The supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD GEORGE SCHLIEBS late
of Perry Street Albury New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARIE ALMA
SCHLIEBS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4326 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 10th May
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. HERON,
ROBERTSON, PARKHILL, ROFE &
MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PATRICK HAROLD WALES.
TAKE NOTICE that AMELIA MARY
WALES has filed a petition for divorce
No. 4071 of 1954 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 11th May 1955 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. S. J. BULL, SON & SCHMIDT,
Solicitors, of 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Driller dissects balance sheet
These hands spent twelve months operating a pneu-
matic drill in the copper mines of Japan. They also
toiled for fifteen months on the notorious Burma'
Thailand railway.
Today, this former prisoner-of-war is Clerk to
the Manager of a branch of the Bank of New South
Wales. His “dissection” of a customer’s balance sheet
helps to keep the Manager informed on the customer’s
progress and prospects.
Over 8,000 pairs of hands work in the “Wales”,
enabling the Bank to provide modern banking services
to all types of trade and industry. They are willing
to work for you, too.
V .V
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5442C
THE FINEST AUTOMOBILE HIRE SERVICE
to Britain and the Continent
m
/-v
'
UNLIWIT*®
PAILEAGE
at an all-in rate
Foil 5/6 Sealers
Radio
Air Conditiooed
i and MANY other EXT
VAUXHALL CARS
Here’s a luxury self-drive hire-
car at economy rates. IJig car
comfort, speed and amenities at
one all-in charge. A week’s
travel wherever, whenever you
like for £2O (Stg.). Whatever
the mileage there are NO
EXTRA CHARGES. Vauxhall
5/0 seater cars backed by
General Motors service in
Europe, ensures economic,
trouble-free travel. Book
GOEDENWAY for faultless
service throughout your stay.
Write, phone, cable or call
NOW for details.
WE EXCLUSIVELY
USE and RECOMMEND
(£sso)
PETROL
GOLDENWAY
AUTOMOBILE HIRE COMPANY LIMITED
(Aust. Div.) St. John’s Wood Roundabout, London, N.W.B
’Phone: PRIMROSE 6412. Cables: GOLIVAYHIRE, LONDON.
’Grams: GOLWAYHIRE, NORPHONE, LONDON.
London Oiunail
From Herbert Holman
IyfANY political observers and
some Conservative back-
benchers have decided, by ah
ingenious process of elimination,
not only the month of the general
election but the precise date.
They argue that, although June
might be a good month for a
surprise decision, the constitu-
ency organisations would then
still be tired after their efforts
during the local elections. The
holiday season rules out the next
three months, and bad weather
(a potent factor in deterring the
none-too-enthusiastic electorate
from visiting the polling-booths)
excludes November' and
December. Campaigning takes
up the best part of a month,
leaving a few days at the end
of October. Thursday, October
27, therefore is fancied as the
earliest convenient date before
the opening of Parliament, five
days later.
The Prime Minister, of course,
may snap his fingers at such
coldly scientific predetermination
and refuse to allow his tactics to
be governed by the exigencies of
smooth administration. But the
hard fact is that he is no longer
an electoral asset to the Tories as
leader-to-be. It is beyond the
capacity of most canvassers to
gainsay the argument that a man
of 80, though his < name be
Churchill, is too old for the job.
And even if, as is expected, the
Prime Minister steps down he
must let his successor take the
initiative. Neither Eden nor,
failing him, Butler is likely to
launch out on unorthodox lines.
They are too preoccupied—the
former particularly —with the
nation’s affairs to relish a side-
show for its own sake. More-
over, if unaccountability is one
Churchill trait, loyalty to his
colleagues is another.
It is a fair assumption then
that, once the Prime Minister
has made his final decision, the
Conservative Central Office will
take over this domestic affair
which, however important in
outcome, is by no means the
most urgent call on the nation’s
Government.
Labored Attentions
It is natural that the Opposi-
tion, free of official responsibility
and anxious to put up a good
show, should be sedulously
wooing the voters, and it is
understandable that the general
election should loom dispro-
portionately before its ken. The
Labor party is striving for a
double objective: to feel, within
itself, a compelling sense of unity
and to find a cat-o’-nine-tails with
which to belabor the Tories.
The first of these is vital for
morale, and is not so much
meant to deceive the audience as
to inculcate a fighting spirit.
• As to the second, some of the
issues that are being trotted out
are worthy, some are not. Mr.
Gaitskell has taken up the
cudgels against the more
doubtful restrictive practices in
big business —price-rings, collec-
tive boycotts, stop-lists, quotas,
too-comfortable profits by
gentlemen’s and other agreements
on certain commodities, and so
on. He is on good ground here,
for there is wide concern about
these devices in all quarters save
the particular industries and,
incongruously enough, certain
trade-unions.
Miss Elaine Burton, M.P., has
launched a campaign, by
pamphlet and in a party-political
telecast, against shoddy goods,
but, though winning sympathy,
has been forced to concede that
manufacturers as a whole share
her anxiety. Furthermore,
Labor organisers have been
quick to learn that the sWeet
approach is the only one suitable
for TV, where success is to be
measured by personal charm
rather than biting destructiveness.
This, at * least, is a welcome
discovery.
What is considerably less
innocuous, especially to foreign
observers, is the way Labor poli-
ticians, Right, Left and Centre,
are making party capital out of
the Government’s policy on
world affairs. Mr. Driberg, a
Bevanite, would deny port
facilities at Hong Kong to
American ships, while his know-
ing chief not only would cede
Hong Kong to China, but also
attributes the fall of Malenkov
to the intransigent policy of the
Tory Government. These are
Leftish murmurs, highly charged
with emotion and anti-
Americanism. But the baiting
of the Foreign Secretary by the
whole Opposition in the debate
over Formosa was a sorry
demonstration of party malice.
And Mr. Attlee’s first-hand
experience of the Far East seems
to have led him into strange
thickets for one who has a near-
even chance of pursuing, as
Prime Minister, a bipartisan
foreign policy.
Home and* Abroad
Our live theatres, already
reduced in number by bombing
and by the superimposition of
luxury cinemas, are now
threatened by “take-over”
bidders. The cavernous “Stoll”
—always something of a white
elephant in theatreland —has the
air of a misfit in the commercial
modernity of trade-marked
Kingsway. A splendid block of
offices in its stead would, no
doubt, enhance both the archi-
tectural fine and the nation's
business.
But to demolish the St. James's
Theatre, which has the ill-
fortune to lie in an area
“scheduled for development,”
would be a grave and irremedi-
able loss to the drama, live and
historical. Here, for 120 years,
leading playwrights, actor-
managers and players have prac-
tised drama almost wholly
“legitimate.” Moreover, seasons
have been short (only three plays
have run for more than 400 perr
formances), so that the St.
James’s has acquired a reputa-
tion for quality that is challenged
only by the Haymarket, which,
like Drury Lane, is protected
as a national monument.
The building is clearly doomed
(shades of Pinero, Archer, Wilde,
Alexander, Mrs. Pat Campbell,
Bancroft, Du Maurier, Olivier
and the rest!) except by power
of veto (i.e., Parliamentary inter-
vention). Despite strong repre-
sentation, such a pardon seems
most unlikely. The freehold is
an asset at once tangible and
immensely valuable. And what
incentive, ask the owners, is there
to scratch along with artistic
ventures which the public doesn’t
support and which the incidence
of ‘ entertainment-tax half-
strangles? More important still,
are the shareholders not to be
considered?
The Stoll Theatre, for all its
vasty severity, has served well as
a temporary home for foreign
productions. Not all of these
have suggested that our own
artistic resources are overspent,
but the Yugoslavs are to be
thanked for their freshness,
vigor and integrity. The
indigenous ballet, “The Devil in
the Village,” though a trifle long,
is pure delight. This simple tale
of a wooer losing his soul to the
Devil and reclaiming it out of
Hell is put over with an aptness
of stagecraft, an economy of
style and a naturalness of
poignancy and humor that some
of our earnest, fuss-making
esoterics would do well to note.


Cape Yarf
\
QUEENSLAND
Tk
N
*
NEW SOUTH WALES
i^*/
Victoria'
jfc
"From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.;
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G.. D. 5.0., V.D. (Chairman),
J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); A. E. Axon, M.E., M.T.E.
(Aust.); W. Hamilton Hart; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
WITH an income of £16,101,018 and
assets totalling £107,708,457 in the
books, and worth more, the National is
second in size among Australia’s big five
mutual life offices. These and other
life cos. have become one of the
most important avenues of personal sav-
ing in the economy. From both the in-
dividual and national points of view it is
difficult to overemphasise the importance
of life assurance as part of our social
and economic set-up.
Real savings are that part of an in-
dividual’s current income which, by thrift,
he sets aside for future enjoyment and
against misfortune. In these respects the
co.’s contracts are designed to meet prac-
tically every need of the individual and
his dependants, and are sold on the fair-
ness of the contract, which creates a
full measure of capital protection long
before it is ever paid for, and keeps on
increasing in capital value by annual
bonus-additions in both good times and
bad. No other investment provides such
a wide and happy combination. More-
over, the association has proved a haven
of financial refuge for many of its policy-
holders in time of urgent need.
The business, which is broadly based,
has more than kept in step with the
growth of population and reduced value
of the currency, thanks to the rise in popu-
larity of group-assurance as a means of
industrial superannuation, and to home-
purchase associated with life-cover.
These two items now account for a big
slice of the total new business put on the
books each year. The amount of new
business written for the 12 months to
September 30 last was £49,502,799 (up
£7,058,869), which was more than double
the 1947 figure. In round figures the
average per policy was £863 (up £156) as
against £4BO in 1947. The figures also
point to the growing recognition of the
need for a greater measure of life-cover
under the altered conditions of today.
Of the year’s total income of
£16,101,018 (up £1,437,929), premiums
accounted for £12,136,736 (up £1,002,792)
and interest, rents, etc., for £3,964,282
(up £435,137):
„ , Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
1951.. 12,297,074 4,929,399 1,658,5321
Written off assets,' £25,345 .. 5,763,371
Exchange adjustment, £25,427.. J *
1952.. 13,599,443 5,412,564 1,691,119'
Written off assets, £155,000 ..( ,
Exchange adjustment, £24,042.. '
To contingencies res., £650,000
1953.. 14,663,089 5,788,347 1,797,657 ‘
Written off assets, £59,346 .. 6,768,163
Exchange adjustment, £249,576
1954.. 16,101,018 6,432,307 1,931,673 :
Written off assets, £47,812 .. 7,341,911
Exchange adjustment, £347,315
* Includes licences, fees and contribution to staff
fund, etc.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., writing £47,812 off the book-value
of assets, and allowing £347,315 for
exchange adjustments, £7,341,911 was
added to the assurance fund, raising it
to £100,436,955. In addition there were
contingency and other reserves totalling
£3,981,392, which also belong to policy-
holders, there being no shareholders.
Claims were well within actuarial ex-
pectation, exes, (excluding contributions
to the staff fund, etc.) took 11.9 p.c. of
total income as against 12.1 p.c., 12.3
p.c. and 12.9 p.c. for the three preceding
years, and the net rate of interest earned
on the assurance fund was 6s. 6d. p.c.
better at £4 6s. 9d. p.c.
The growth in the rate of interest
earned, the favorable mortality ex-
perience, and steady improvement in the
expense-rate, enabled the previous year’s
increased and very satisfactory scale of
bonuses to policyholders to be main-
tained.
Although the actuary makes an annual
overhaul of the business, the board still
clings to the old-fashioned idea of send-
ing out the figures triennially. The actu-
ary values the liability under policies on
a stringent 2\ p.c. basis. The widening
margin between this assumed rate and
the rate actually earned has been the
mainspring behind the lift in bonus-rates,
which look like being further increased
when the triennial review of the position
is made at the end of the current term.
Bonuses are the result of efficient man-
agement and wise investment of the
funds, which are in this form:
/ -1953 N < 1954
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 3,290,085 3.3 3,539,607 3.3
Govt, securities* 47,306,783 47.1 50,375,965 46.8
Debentures . . 3,155,142 3.1 3,478,552 3.2
Mortgages .. 32,894,383 32.7 34,525,763 32.1
Deposits building
society .. 1,613,000 1.6 1,613,000 1.5
Loans on policies 6,235,338 5.2 6,450,136 5.0
Shares other cos. 5,5&3,862 5.6 6,416,591 6.0
Other assets .. 1,392,160 1.4 2,308,843 2.1
Total assets. .100,470,753 100.0 107,708,457 100.0
Liabilities! .. 3,387,206 3,294,110
Net assets .. 97,083,547 104,414,347
* Includes semi-Government loans, etc.
t Excluding liabilities under policies.
The important thing about assets appear-
ing in a balance-sheet is whether they
are worth the figures at which they
appear. On this score policyholders need
have no concern. Of last term’s net growth
of £7,237,704 in total assets, £3,069,182
was on account of Government securities,
£1,631,380 mortgages (largely in con-
nection with home-purchase), £832,729
shareholdings, and £323,410 deben-
tures. It all augurs well for interest
earnings.
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Vic.)
1948 this holding co. has paid a
steady 8 p.c. div., to which a 1 p.c.
bonus was added, from profits earned in
prior years, last term, making 9 p.c. in all.
The bonus, which could be taken as a
hint that the big operating co. might send
along a bit more in future, surprised the
market, which lengthened its bid for the
holding co.’s f.-p. £1 shares from 38s. 9d.
early in 1955 to 41s. following announce-
ment of the final distribution. The return
at 41s. is 4.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. basis. So
the investor who looks for 5.8 p.c. on
his money counts on the distribution
climbing to 12 p.c., or other benefits.
To get the picture into perspective it
first needs to be stated that Australian
Cement (paid capital £947,766) is an equal
partner with Kandos Cement (paid capi-
tal £748,736) in Australian Portland
Cement, Pty. (paid capital £2,500,000).
The proprietary, or operating, co. took
over the two holding co.’s plants at Fyans-
ford (Vic.) and Kandos (N.S.W.) in 1929,
and has given a very good account of
itself since. It is now the largest pro-
ducer of cement in the Commonwealth,
turning out from both plants over 500,000
tons of the stuff annually. That is about
30 p.c. of total Australian cement-pro-
duction for the year to June 30, 1954,
which was 1,717,000 tons (up 278,000
tons). For the five months to November
last, outturn was running at the rate of
2,028,000 tons p.a., and there is no sign
of any let-up in demand at the moment.
From this angle the outlook thus remains
bright, subject, of course, to economic
developments.
The partnership has been successful.
For the five years to 1934 Australian
Cement, Ltd., paid divs. averaging 7.2
p.c., followed by three lots of 10 p.c.,
four of 12£ p.c., one of \\\ p.c., eleven
of 8 p.c. and then 9 p.c. last term, as
already stated. Here is a summary of
the p. and 1. figures, etc., for the last five
years:—
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ , £ £ £
1950.. 66,266 8 p.c. = 60,835 5,431 366,635
Reserves capitalised, £114,065.. .. 252,570
Share premiums, £18,317 .. .. 270,887
Unexplained reduction, £755 .. .. 270,132
1951.. 69,922 8 p.c. = 69,876 46 270,178
Share premiums, £18,317 .. .. 288,495
1952.. 76,773 8 p.c. = 75,821 952 289,447
1953.. 82,580 8 „ „ 75,821 6,759 296.206
1954.. 82,022 9 „ ~ 85,289 293,930
Profits have kept in step with the growth
in capital and increase in output of the
operating co., over whose figures the cur-
tain is kept drawn. Outsiders can, there:
fore, only guess at the real position.
However, since 1943 the operating co.
has sent along a steady 6 p.c., or there-
abouts, as against 9 p.c. for the five years
before that. And of recent years the
margin between its net earnings and dis-
tributions is believed to have been com-
fortable. To enable Australian Cement
to pay 12 p.c. on its capital, the operating
co. would need to send along about 8£
p.c.—the holding co., which acts as agent
for the operating co. in its own State,
earned £10,823 in commissions, etc., last
term.
Over the last five or six years the
operating co. has been committed to a
programme of heavy capital expenditure.
To help meet outlay it increased its own
paid capital by £500,000. To take up its
half of this increase, Australian Cement
put out 73,269 of its £1 shares at a pre-
mium of 10s. each —cash, etc., was drawn
upon for the balance. At the same time
it scattered £114,065 of bonus-scrip, thus
taking the sting out of the premium on
the cash-issue.
Planned expansion, and the heavy capi-
tal expenditure that has accompanied
it, are now practically complete. At
Fyansford, where two big rotary-kilns
have been modernised and third but
smaller unit installed, plant-capacity has
been increased by about 50 p.c., raising
it to over 300,000 tons p.a., which is suf-
ficient to take care of all but a small
fraction of the Victorian market. The
200,000-odd-ton-p.a. works at Kandos,
which shares the N. S. Wales market with
five other producers, has also been
modernised. In addition materials-hand-
ling equipment and other labor-saving
devices have been installed at both
centres, thus increasing efficiency and
reducing operating costs per unit of pro-
duction. Moreover, the two plants are
known to be moderately capitalised per
ton Of output. All this means much when
it comes to profit-earning in a market
which looks like becoming steadily more
competitive in the years ahead.
Squatting Investment Co., Ltd.
THE investment picture presented by
this 71-year-old Melbourne-controlled
pastoral undertaking has undergone two
big changes since the war. Parallel with
Government resumption of the co.’s large
leaseholds in the west of Queensland and
N. S. Wales, and consequent reduction in
the number of livestock on the books,
the boom in wool and livestock prices
has so strengthened the finances that,
after buying some new though smaller
freehold properties in better-rainfall
areas, shareholders could see surplus
liquids totalling £359,058, mainly in Gov-
ernment and other readily-realisable
securities at December 31 last. Paid capi-
tal then stood at £234,338.
Two big western leaseholds, Tonde-
burine (N.S.W.) and Thurulgoona (Q.),
were resumed between 1948 and 1952.
Compensation for improvements on the
two properties exceeded book-value by
£49,978. Early in 1954 large areas of
Quantambone and Teryawynia, both in
western N. S. Wales, were taken over,
and more of each property is due for
resumption this month. After that the
co.’s Quantambone holding will consist
of 49,027 acres of leases in perpetuity,
and Teryawynia of 103,914 acres of leases
expiring in November, 1975. Meanwhile
two freeholds have been taken up; Murat,
. 18,000 acres in the Wimmera (Vic.), for
£119,250 in April, 1952, and Burron-
gong, 22,122 acres in the eastern Riverina
(N.S.W.), for £186,600 in September,
1953. The Riverina holding was stocked
by transfers from Quantambone and
Teryawynia.
In terms of livestock it all meant a
drop in the number of sheep on the co.’s
books from 116,564 at the end of 1948
to 52,150 at December 31, 1954. The
shrinkage over the last 12 months was
27,272, and further contraction can be
expected to follow this month’s resump-
tions. The board is on the hunt for a
new property of “suitable size” and rea-
sonably secure against Government re-
sumption at less than, market-value, but
the price has been the stumbling-block
to-date.
For the last few years financial results
have been thus boosted by abnormal
sales of livestock at high prices, and can-
not therefore be taken as a guide to
future performances. And, until the
total cost and carrying-capacity of the
proposed new property are known, they
will remain uncertain factors in respect
of both earnings and the final financial
position.
Last term 58,707 sheep (down 3962
sheep) were shorn for 1945 bales (down
232 bales) wool, which realised £197,781
(down £62,701). It was the sale of live-
stock, which turned in £150,245 (up
£141,488), that was responsible for the
bulk of the year’s record profit of £159,360
(up £57,478):
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1950.. 274.628 46.6 p.c. == 113,557 161,071 338,365
Loss realisation bonds, £13,692 .. 324,673
Refund wool charge, £35,459 .. .. 360,132
1951. .141,219 46.6 p.c. = 113,557 27,662 387,794
Surplus tax provisions, £13,028 .. 400,822
Surplus sale assets, £22,816 .. .. 423,638
War-time disposals profit, £22,851.. 446,489
1952.. 91,971 33.3 p.c. = 81,112 10,859 457,348
War-time disposals profit, £14,625 .. 471,973
1953. .101,882 33.3 p.c. = 81,113 20,769 492,742
War-time disposals profit, £14,625 .. 507,367
1954. .159,360 33.3 p.c. - 81,112 78,248 585,615
The £159,360, which leaves out of the
reckoning a further windfall of £14,625
on account of J.O. disposals, was 65.5
p.c. on capital as against 41.8 p.c. for the
previous year. The distribution was kept
at 33.3 p.c., of which 20 p.c. is labelled
bonus. Over the last six years divs. aver-
aging 38.3 p.c. have been paid from pro-
fits averaging 64 p.c. on capital.
The sale of livestock shows up again
in a growth of £111,302 in the large
holding of Government securities, etc.:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Reserves .. .. 457,348 492,742 585,615
Liabilities .. .. 5,069 4,682 4,221
Tax reserve .. .. 107,478 86,351 99,104
Final div 64,890 64,890 64,890
£878,123 £892,003 £997,168
Stations, plant, etc. ». 292,762 488,922 469,895
Sheep, cattle, horses .. 22,462 27,568 17,765
Wool unsold ... .. 325 2,320 25,013
Govt, securities, etc. .. 562,574 373,193 484,495
£878,123 £892,003 £997,168
The co. is obviously well-equipped to buy
and stock any suitable new property which
is offered.
As for the current term, the co.’s exist-
ing properties have got away to an excel-
lent start from the seasonal point of view,
and wool prices eased only slightly since
the close of accounts. The market prices
the f.-p. 10s. shares at 325. to give an
immediate return of 10.4 p.c. on a 33.3
p.c. distribution. Net tangible cover is
335. Bd.


Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3446, BU 3446, BU 1409.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone : MX 2208.
Don't feel sorry
for yourself
“I can’t stand my job!” . . .
“Doctor, I’ve no interest in
life” ... “I never have any
luck” What is it makes us
so sorry for ourselves?
In March Reader’s Digest,
A. J. Cronin shows how such
self-pity can cripple our lives;
offers wise advice to help us
escape this destructive habit.
Thirty other stimulating
articles in March Reader’s
Digest, including “Have you
an inferiority complex?”,
“Visit to Disneyland,’.’ “Is
there life on other planets?”,
“World’s biggest dope pedd-
ler,” plus a 17-page book con-
densation of “Yield to the
Night,” gripping story of the
price of murder.
On sale now 1/6 at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
WUMfy W<*tC
4
y
Who says so? Millions of people throughout the world! They
have proved Goodyears suit them best by buying more
Goodyear Tyres than any other tyre on earth!
AND—GETTING BETTER ALL THE TIME
To-day, the “ply-welded” process—a unique Goodyear
process which welds together the plies of rayon in the carcase—
has enabled a new, tougher tread compound to be used.
These improvements have made Goodyear Tyres longer
wearing, safer, better value than ever. Make the world’s favourite
your favourite, too!
ood/year
TYRES
W'
after all—
" More people, the world over, ride on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other tyre!"
K97A
Carrier Air Conditioning
AT no time since this Sydney-
controlled manufacturer of
air-conditioning equipment, etc.,
took over the Australian and
N.Z. rights of the Carrier
Engineering Corp. (U.S.) in 1932
has the outlook for shareholders
been more „encouraging.
The public became interested
in 1937, when 77,000 new £1
shares were issued at a premium
of 1 Is. each ; but the co. failed
to live up to its prospectus
estimates. For the 12| years to
1949, of which three (1937, 1938
and 1946) were dry ones, divs.
averaged only 4.5 p.c., with little
to spare. Meanwhile, branch
factories had been set up at Mel-
bourne and Brisbane, and
agencies were established at
Adelaide and Perth.
However, with the spread of
post-war prosperity, and growth
of the so-called Welfare State,
the provision of public amenities
by traders and others has gained
wide acceptance. In this field,
air-conditioning, especially of
large' shops, factories, hospitals,
public offices, mines, ships, etc.,
which pre-war had been looked
upon to some extent as a luxury,
has now come to be regarded as
essential to the comfort of both
employees and the public by all
who can afford it.
In these circumstances the
co.’s business has thrived.
Net earnings have increased
more than fivefold since
1948, and the div., which
was lifted from 7 p.c, in 1949 to
9 p.c. for the following three
years, was raised to 10 p.c. for
the two years to the close of last
accounts, with widening margins.
For the year to June 30 last a
number of large contracts was
obtained, including one for
approximately' £176,000 at Can-
berra, where the business of
F. M. Higgins, a former
employee of the co., was taken
over at a cost of £3OOO in f.-p. £1
shares. Premises were also
bought near Adelaide at a cost of
£15,000, and a branch factory
was set up. After allowing
£12,130 (down £970) for depre-
ciation and £34,000 (down
£1241) for taxation, net earnings
were £4579 stronger at a record
£52,712:
June Re-
-30. Profit. „ Dividends. x serves. *
5 p.c. Pref. Ord.
£ £ £ £
From plant replacement re-
serve, £1691 .. .. 16,632
Asset revaluation, £54,108 70,740
1950 17,765 2500 9 p.c.=11,340 74,665
Written off goodwill, £l5OO 73,165
Transfer from inner re-
serve, £l5OO .. .. 74,665
Surplus sale assets, £747.. 75,412
1951 20,994 2500 9 p.c.=13,540 80,366
Written off goodwill, £l5OO 78,866
Surplus sale assets, £11,039 89,905
1952 28,827 2500 9 p.c.=15,300 100,932
Written off intangibles,
£l5OO 99,432
Surplus sale assets, £3OOl 102,433
1953 48,133 2500 10 p.c.=17,000 131,066
Written off intangibles,
£11,796 119,270
Surplus sale assets, £329 119,599
1954 52,712 2500 10 p.c.=17,250 152,561
* Subject to intangibles ( £11,796 at
31/6/’53), -which were rubbed out of
the accounts in the 1954 term.
The £52,712 was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 29.1 p.c.
on average' ord. capital as against
26.8, 18.4, 12.2 and 12.1 p.c. back
to 1950. So maintenance of the
div. at 10 p.c. was a comfortable
matter. Of the £32,962 that
remained, £11,796 was used to
rub out intangibles, and the
balance lifted reserves to
£152,561, or more than double
the 1950 figure.
The growth of the business is
further reflected in the following
comparison of balance-sheet
figures: —
Paid capital 1952. 1953. 1954.
• Pref. . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Ord. . . 170,000 170,000 175,000
Reserves . . 100,932 121,807 152,561
Overdraft . . 18,367
Creditors,
etc. . . 65,820 85,617 86,222
Tax pro’sion 26,694 44,767 34,000
Final divs... . 8,500 10,200 8,750
£440,313 £482,391 £506,533
Freeholds . . 107,721 109,792 130,550
Plant, etc. . 50,072 56,152 66,603
Stock . . 144,136 174,299 210,183
Debtors . . 94,903 84,109 79,337
.Cash, etc. .. 30,185 46,243 19,860
Intangibles . 13,296 11,796
£440,313 £482,391 £506,533
To add £20,758 net to the book-
value of freeholds, £10,451 to
plant, carry an extra £35,884 of
stock and reduce tax-commit-
ments by £10,767, the co. drew
upon cash, etc., for £26,383 ;
surplus earnings, etc., provided
the balance. There was a growth
of £16,351 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£180,408) despite
the outlay on fixed assets.
To help finance further expan-
sion, those on the register are
presently (date yet to be
announced) to be offered 87,500
new £1 ords. at par, one for two.
The issue will lift paid capital to
£312,500 in 50,000 5 p.c. prefs.
and 262,500 ords. The pref. div.
and 10 p.c. to the ords. will then
call for £28,750, or £23,962 less
profit than was claimed last
term. In September last enough
orders were in hand to keep the
plant busy until well into the
1955-56 term.
After exercising the rights arrd
allowing for brokerage, the net
cost of the ords. at 355. 6d. is
30s. 7d., at which figure the
return is 6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The rights thus have a
theoretical value of 10s. Id. The
prefs. at 18s. (last recorded sale)
yield 5.5 p.c. Net tangible cover,
including the new issue, is
£9 6s. Od. prefs. and 31s, 7d.
ords.
Wellington Alluvials, Ltd.
It is too early yet to say
exactly to what extent the recent
heavy flooding of the Macquarie
River (N.S.W.) will affect the
co.’s dredging operations and net
earnings for the current term,
which ends on April 30 next. It
will certainly mean a severe
setback to what promised to be
the co.’s best performance since
the machine first began digging
early in 1938.
For the year to April 30, 1954,
3,234,000 c.y. were handled for
17,0300 z. fine gold, an average
of 2.53 grains per yard. Value
and costs per c.y. were 19.77 d.
and 15.67 d. respectively. Includ-
ing £8740 from the sale of borts
(industrial diamonds), the year’s
profit was £51,588, or 20.6 p.c.
on the £250,000 of paid capital,
which is in f.-p. 2s. shares. And
a 3d. div. (121 p.c. = £31,250),
first thing of its kind since 1950,
was sent out.
For the 41 weeks to February
11, 1955, the dredge put through
2,820,000 c.y. <up 284,600 c.y.)
for 14,9850 z. (up 20170 z.) fine
gold, an average of 2.54 grains
per yard. For most of this period
costs were fairly steady at 15|d.
a yard, but had increased to
over 19d. toward the end, due
mainly to reduced dredging-time
on account of repairs.
It is doubtful whether the co.
will be entitled to any benefit
under the Goldmining Industry
Assistance Act, 1954. However,
the Australian official price of
gold was lifted from £l5 9s. lOd.
to £l5 12s. 6d. per fine ounce in
August last.
Test - boring has indicated
values averaging 3 grains a yard,
or a trifle better, in the ground
ahead, which is sufficient to
provide about 10 years’ work for
the dredge. Last week the scrip
fetched 4s. 3d. in the market as
against 4s. a couple of months
ago.
Loloma (Fiji)
The co.’s mine, which adjoins
the Emperor (Fiji), is just about
worked out. There was little
over a year’s feed for the mill
available at June 30 last. Invest-
ment interest now centres mainly
in the co.’s big investment port-
folio and in the possibility of a
new mine being opened up in a
jointly held area adjoining the
eastern boundary of Emperor’s
leases. Here two of four holes
drilled indicate the possible
existence of a good tonnage of
rich ore (core assay loz.) east
of Emperor’s Nos. 8 and 9
levels. The intention is to test
the new ore-zone by cross-
cutting from Emperor’s new
internal shaft, now being sunk.
It might be two years or more
before the ore-zone in the jointly
held property is fully explored
and its value known. Mean-
while Loloma will share the cost
of exploration equally with
Emperor.
Loloma has a paid capital of
£93,375 in ss. shares, of which
180,000 are f.-p. and the balance
paid to Is. 6d. each. For the
year to June 30, 1954, the co.
netted £95,663 (down £81,020),
of which £7752 (down £74,414)
came from mining, and
£87,991 (down £6610), equal to
2s. 4d. a share, from investments.
Divs. totalling 2s. a share
(£82,500) were paid, and another
Is. a share was sent Out on
December 21, 1954, making
total dividends paid to date
£1,189,375, or £1 Bs. lOd. per
share.
When the books closed
current assets totalled
£1,255,491 and current liabilities
£82,672. Investments, which
consist mainly of scrip in sound
Australian industrials, stood in
the books at £1,031,712. Their
market- or realisable value in
November last was put at
£1,249,459.
The market prices the co.’s
scrip at 245. 6d., thus valuing
the entire undertaking at
£1,010,625, or £217,750 less
than the market of the invest-
ments alone.


Womn's Letters
SYDNEY
There has been an atmosphere of sad-
ness in Sydney during the week, for the
rain and the mud and the dreariness of
the weather generally have brought
vividly to our imaginations the sufferings
of the flood-victims to the north and in
the west.
The tail-end of the sales robbed the
shops of their customary glamor. One of
the little shops featured a huge notice
saying “Never again!” which seemed
rather ambiguous.
Committees ran round in circles can-
celling functions because of the rain, and
reorganising them. Plastic-raincoats pro-
vided their owners, in the humidity, with
cheap, • portable Turkish-baths. But
nevertheless there were some bright spots.
☆ ☆ ☆
The wedding of Sue Playfair and John
Atwill drew about 300 guests and as many
sightseers to St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
The bride’s dress was of white faille, with
dhe fullness of the long skirt swept to the
back and a row of tiny buttons running
from the centre of the portrait-neckline to
the hem. Her veil was held in place by a
little hat of white velvet leaves sprinkled
with diamente and she carried a sheaf of
white Madonna-lilies. Her bridesmaids,
Jennifer Chapman, Marcia Moses and
Caroline Anderson, wore short dresses of
heavy white satin, sleeveless and with
wide V-necks. A distinctive feature was
the band of lace at the hipline,
through which was threaded shocking-
pink ribbon. The same colored ribbon
tied their posies of pink and white tiger-
lilies and they wore flat satin bows on
their heads. The two flower-girls, Celia
Atwill and Julia Gollan ? were in white
frilled organdie with shocking-pink
sashes. The color-scheme of pink and
white was evident in the flowers at Royal
Sydney Golf Club, Rose Bay, where the
bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Strathmore
Playfair, received the guests. The groom,
son of Mr. and Mrs. M. S. Atwill, of the
Astor, Macquarie-street, was attended
by Alan Atwill and groomsmen Geoffrey
Fairbairn and Sydney Evans.
☆ ☆ ☆
Every one of the 300 members who
attended the Australian-American Asso-
ciation’s reception in honor of Lady Slim
was presented to her Excellency at
Prince’s Restaurant on Friday afternoon.
Lady Slim wore a close-fitting, rose-
colored hat with her black dress, on
which she pinned a diamond brooch. She
spoke of the friendship that existed be-
tween the English-speaking countries, and
of the happy memories she herself had
of the hospitality of American people.
Mrs. Florence Taylor received the
guest-of-honor with Mrs. Donald Smith,
Mrs. W. R. Hauslaib, Lady Spender,
Mrs. E. S. Scorfield and Mrs. L. Janes.
There was a good representation of dis-
tinguished women in the community, in-
cluding Lady Harrison, Lady Stevens,
Lady McMaster, Mrs. Leland Hazard,
Dame Mary Hughes, Mrs. Roy
McCaughey, Mrs. H. Hedinger, Madame
Regala, Mrs. C. M. Croft, Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan and Mrs. Nancy Walton.
☆ ☆ ☆
The unusual “Hats' and Pets” party,
arranged by the Smith Family’s Town
and Country Ball Committee under the
presidency of Mrs. Clinton Ayers, was to
have been held at the Harborside home
of Mr. and Mrs. Ben Fuller, but had to
be held two days later at the A.C.I. ball-
room because of the rain. Here the hats
and the glamorous society models and
Peter Scriven’s puppets competed for
attention with the pets, but on the whole
it was the pets that won. .
There were Patricia Craig’s golden-
cocker, Csesar, very excited; Diane
Fuller’s miniature poodle Übu, following
her with devoted eyes ; Mrs. L. H. New-
land’s little dachshund, Mickie Mouse;
the Gordon Spencers’ adorable beagle
pup, Rumpus ; beautiful bantam-roosters
belonging to the Max Brunninghausens
and Malcolm Hagon; and one docile
grey-and-white rabbit, Brer, owned by
Marilyn Beavis. Stella Fraenkel provided
the hats, and Aileen Britten (leaving
shortly, by the way, for a two-year trip
abroad) was the compere.
There were more than 900 people at the
Legacy Anniversary Luncheon at the
Trocadero, when the guest-of-honor was
the Lord Mayor, Alderman P. D. Hills,
and the special speaker Major-General
C. A. Osborne. Maj.-Gen. Osborne’s
speech stressed the fact that Australians
were not sufficiently interested or well
enough informed on international affairs.
This ignorance led to such foolish ideas
as that Australia was “part of Asia,” or
that “America was as great a threat to
peace as Russia,” or that “America could
get along without co-operation with
Britain.” He heard people decrying the
White Australia policy, but it was a thor-
oughly Christian policy when wisely
administered. He suggested that people
should join such societies as the Institutes
of International Affairs and of Political
Science, or should at least recommend
membership of such societies to their
families and young people in general.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most pathetic character in the news
during the week seems to be the Italian
bridegroom who said, “No!” when asked
would he take this woman to be his law-
ful wedded wife, but who got married
later in the day. “I wanted to show her
I will not tolerate any nonsense from
her,” he said. It reminds one of the
joke about the Scotsman who was chased
by his wife with a broomstick and took
refuge under the bed. “Come oot!” said
the wife. “I willna come oot!” said the
man from under the bed. “Ye canna
break ma manly speerit!”
☆ ☆ ☆
Next Tuesday (March 8) there will
be an inaugural meeting at the Hotel
Australia Ball Room at for the
formation of a Women’s Auxiliary for
Dr. Barnardo’s Homes. The work of
the Homes, which brings young British
migrants to Australia and fits them to
make excellent citizens in all walks of
life, is especially appealing, and as it is
proposed in the future to make Australia
the chief destination of the children of
these Homes, the new auxiliary should
find much rewarding; work to do.
Judy Ryan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. F. Ryan, of Maroubra, who recently
graduated as Sister at the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, will marry Dr. John
Greenaway, Resident Medical Officer at
the Hospital, later in the year. Dr. Green-
away is the son of Dr. and Mrs. T. M.
Greenaway; of Killara. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
Noted at the opening night of “II
Trovatore”: Mrs. Florence Taylor in
the front row of the stalls with a group
of close friends, Miss Carrie Lanceley,
Mrs. Jane March, Miss Annis Parsons
and singer Florence Taylor. Also pre-
sent were the Count and Countess Pietra-
sante Sauvaigue, Mr. and Mrs. Reg.
Willoughby, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Morris,
Sister Campbell, Mrs. Lyle Buchanan,
Mr. and Mrs. Murray Williams and many
other opera-lovers who braved torrents
of rain to attend the performance. His
Excellency the Governor attended a per-
formance of “Die Fledermaus” during
the week, and it is expected that Mr. and
Mrs. Russell Nash will be present at per-
formances later in the season.
☆ ☆ ☆
The battle of the wash-house is on.
Council members and writers of letters-
to-the-editor have joined issue with the
Local Government Department on the
question of whether washing-machines
should be allowed in the kitchen. The
L.G.D. is adamant, and won’t allow wash-
ing to be done where food is kept, “for
health reasons.” It all seems rather
ironical to those who rmember that in
the 1920’s regulations insisted that laun-
dries accommodate the stove, probably
for health reasons, too.
MELBOURNE
The Parisienne Parade dinner-dance at
Menzies, proceeds to the Kurneh Auxil-
iary of the Queen Victoria Hospital, was
a huge success. The Governor (Sir Dallas
Brooks), Lady Brooks and their daughter,
Mrs. Robin Byrne, were received by the
president of the auxiliary, Mrs. Lindsay
Mildred, who was accompanied by her
husband and her twin daughters, Eliza-
beth and Patricia. In the official party
were Mrs. H. R. Hamer, vice-president
of the hospital (she represented the
president), Mrs. A. D. Wenzel (president
of all the hospital’s auxiliaries) and vice-
president of the auxiliary, Mrs. Reg.
Baillieu.
Lady Brooks’s choice was a gown
of deep aqua-blue faille with a wide-
shoulder treatment embroidered in pearls
and sequins. On arrival she was pre-
sented with a bouquet of deep-red roses
which contrasted beautifully with her
gown. Mrs.. Mildred’s choice was a
cinnamon-toned latee gown with sequin
embroidery on the bodice, and her
daughters were in bouffant frocks of
nylon tulle with guipure-lace bodices.
Elizabeth’s skirt was of pink tulle and
Patricia’s of blue.
Noted there were Mrs. R. Gove, in a
deep-green satin gown embroidered with
an all-over design of black chenille, Mrs.
lan Miller, wearing a strapless gown of
black satin, and Mrs. Neville Palmer in
a tailored gown of black faille with a
large white faille bow across the front
of the bodice. Mrs. Heathcote Wright’s
pastel-pink organza gown was jewelled
on the bodice, Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss
chose a short white guipure-lace frock
with the pattern dotted with rhinestones,
Mrs. Jack Steele (Hastings) wore a short
bouffant frock of deep-grey guipure-lace
with lovely opalescent sequins outlining
the pattern of the lace. The gowns shown
in the parade were from the Le Louvre
salon and included models from Jacques
Fath, Christian Dior and Jean’ Patou.
Hats, which came from the Sydney salon
of Henriette Lamotte, included models
from famous French houses.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Department of Architecture
library at the University was the setting
for a cheery party given by Acting-
Professor Rae Featherstone and Mrs.
Featherstone to welcome home from
abroad Professor and Mrs. Bryan Lewis.
Receiving guests with her husband,
Mrs. Featherstone wore a black-patterned
white organza frock and white straw
sailor-hat banded in grey grosgrain
ribbon. Mrs. Lewis chose a deep-grey
nylon jacket-suit and a small black-velvet
pixie hat. Among the guests were Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Boyce Gibson, she in a
deep-mauve linen suit with a cloche in
lighter-mauve toriings. Mrs. Neil Clere-
han (she was formerly Sonia Cole) wore
an anthracite-grey alpaca suit with a
matching cloche, Mrs. George Sutton’s
choice was a white-frock coin-spotted in
red, with small white hat. With Professor
A. R. P. Amies was his wife, who chose
a mauve linen-brocade suit and topped
it with a rust-red swathed beret.
☆ ☆ ☆
Colonel John Sullivan, U.S. Air-
Attache, and Mrs. Sullivan gave a
delightful late-afternoon party at the
Dorchester. It was to say goodbye,
and to introduce the new Air-Attache,
Colonel C. Ross Greening, and Mrs.
Greening. The Sullivans sail on March
.25 for the U.S.A.
Mrs. Sullivan tucked a spray of real
pink frangipani into the folded hipline of
her carbon-blue taffeta frock, which had
bands of pink trimming, the low-cut
bodice coverted with a tiny bolero. Mrs.
Greening’s choice was a princess-frock
of white linen-lace made over black and
with bands of black-velvet edging the
deep V-neckline. Among the guests were
Sir Sidney and Lady Rowell, Lady Mc-
Cauley and her daughter Anne, Air-
Marshal Sir George and Lady Jones,
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. F. Scherger,
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Blake, Colonel and
Mrs. Rufus Ramey (they will be fellow-
travellers with the Sullivans), U.S
Consul-General Gerald Warner and Mrs
Warner, Mr. and Mrs. Givon Parsons.
Dr. and Mrs. P. Moran and Mr. and
Mrs. “Bing” Molyneux.
☆ ☆ ☆
Stage- and film-star Googie Withers,
wearing a lovely white guipure-lace frock
and black picture-hat, was guest-speaker
at the women’s group of the Australian-
American Association’s afternoon-tea
party at Ciro’s. Mrs. R. G. Casey, presi-
dent of the group, introduced the speaker,
also the new vice-presidents, Mrs. Earl
Daum and Mrs. Keith Rigg. At the
party members were told of the forth-
coming Coral Sea Ball, which will be
held at the Palais, St. Kilda, on May 6.
Seen among the 250 present were Mrs.
Gerald Warner, smart in a black-
patterned white-silk frock and black
picture-hat, Mrs. C. Ross Greening wear-
ing a grey alpaca tailored frock and
tiny navy beret banded in red and white,
and Mrs. J. Sullivan, whose white cotton
frock was finely striped in black and with
white daisies under the brim of her large
black-straw hat.
Mrs. Gethyn Thomas, seen here, is the
widow of Captain G. Thomas, who was
lost in the hospital-ship Centaur during
the last war. Mrs. Thomas has two
children, Peter Gethyn, 13, and Megan,
12. Mrs. Thomas is honorary treasurer
of the War Widows’ Guild, and has been
chosen to be guild representative in the
Loveliest Mother Quest, being organised
by the Prince Henry Hospital. The hos-
pital is being rebuilt and will cost a mil-
lion, to which the State Government will
contribute three-quarters if the Prince
Henry Hospital can raise a quarter. John
Warlow picture.
March is Red Cross month, and at a
Press and Radio luncheon at Red Cross
h.q., Colonel Allan Spowers, chairman
of the Victorian Division, told how Red
Cross expenses had risen. Its wheels-on-
wheels and its emergency housekeeping
service had developed, and convalescent
care of ex-servicemen and -women had
added greatly to the expenses. Sir John
Medley, chairman of the Citizens’ Appeal
Committee, said this year’s appeal is for
£160,000, but it is hoped that much
more will be donated.
☆ ☆ ☆
*Winton Gillespie, lan Miller, Bruce
Rose, Bill Gluth, John Yencken, Bruce
Matear and Bayles Myer are organising
a dinner-dance at the Dorchester for the
Thornbury Opportunity Club and Kin-
dergarten. March 17 is the date.
Gluth (58 Caroline St., South Yarra) and
Myer (62 Clendon Rd., Toorak) are
ticket-secretaries. Of course they co-opted
a number of young women to help them.
Among those who will help are Mrs.
Robert Lane, Mrs. Hedley Ladd, Mrs.
George Derham, Mrs. A. B. McDougall,
Judy Spry and her sister Barbara, and
Mrs. Iris Clarke, who is public-
relations officer for Opportunity Clubs.
☆ ☆ *
The magnificent garden of Cranlana,
Toorak, home of Mrs. S. Baillieu Myer,
was the setting for a fete for Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital. There were 22 stalls,
stocked and staffed by members of the
various auxiliaries. Lady Brooks form-
ally opened the fete. She chose a soft
pink silk frock patterned in white lily-
of-the-valley and black leaves and with
it wore a large black silk-crinoline straw
hat.
Lady Brooks was received by Mrs. Roy
Chambers, president of the auxiliaries,
Mrs. Myer, who wore a pastel-pink linen
tailored frock and fine black straw hat,
and Vivienne Betty Stephens, whose
choice was a pale-grey silk shantung
frock and small grey straw calot finished
with a black-velvet mount.


For Sale
Home for Private Sale
No Agents
KILLARA (Sydney), North-shore Line.
Attractive solid brick family home—B
mins, from station, on outstanding block
in this most select suburb. Vacant
possession. Sewered. Land 80ft. x 201 ft.
—room for tennis court. PRICE £9,000
cash.—MßS. ALICE MENZIES, 47 Green-
gate Road, KILLARA. JX 2214.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
Branches in all States•
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“II Trovatore”
The National Opera Com-
pany’s “II Trovatore” at Sydney
Palladium did not unravel,
naturally enough, this impossible
tangle of improbabilities; and
though the long narration by
Ferrando (Douglas Parnell) and
chorus was sung, and well sung,
in English, the audience was
mercifully spared the need for
understanding much of it.
The opera then proceeded,
scene by scene, like a set of post-
cards : backdrops (done as
though the scene-painter were
restricted to red and black paint
and their mixtures) from which
the cast would detach themselves
to walk out upon the apron-
stage, moving back at the end of
every scene to huddle in mass,
like bas-reliefs, for the descend-
ing curtain. There was almost no
variety in the lighting: day or
night, dungeon or open camp, it
was all the same even glimmer ;
but they did manage to avoid the
lighting-effects which, in a great
many amateur productions, give
a shop-soiled appearance to the
performers—everyone in this
production looked nice and
clean, while the dressing, especi-
ally of Leonora and Inez, left
little to be desired.
The singing was excellent: as
Leonora, Gladys Mawson sang
with musicianship and proved
to have plenty of power, in Peter
Cheyney’s phrase, in the places,
although here one missed the
voluptuous liquid tones that
make such roles almost a
national preserve for Italian
prima donnas. As Azucena,
Margaret Elkins, from her first
few contralto notes of interven-
tion in the chorus around the
gipsy campfire, showed that she
had the electrical force of which
great actresses are made; and
her luscious half-voice singing
was something to write home
about; but in spite of the
vehemence of her acting, she
did not quite convey the impres-
sion of an old gipsy woman:
rather one said, “Some babe!
Some babe! ”
Raymond McDonald sang
fully, easily and almost flawlessly
as the , troubadoring tenor,
though he should study more
varied ways of expressing the
many shocks and surprises that
come the way of operatic tenors
than dropping his hands loosely
to his side and staring at the
dress-circle with his eyes and
mouth wide open. Alan Light
acted Well in his magnificent
dressing as the Count di Luna,
but in one of his arias sang so
poorly as to make one feel that
he was carrying on under an
indisposition.
The “Anvil Chorus” was nicely
subdued ; the men (the women’s
chorus is poorly treated in this
opera) made a good fist of the
soldiers’ chorus; the choral-
singing in the “Miserere” scene
seemed much too far behind-
stage; the finest choral singing
was of the men’s chorus with
Ferrando at the beginning of
Act 111. In all, it was a perform-
ance which did not touch great
heights, but in which, every-
where, could be felt the subduing
and guiding hand of the con-
ductor, Warwick Braithwaite ; a
performance of taste, and well
worth hearing.
♦> »> i*
Fiddlers Four *
On a steamy night, and under
a lamp as red as the “bloody
sun at noon,” the A.B.C. string-
quartet slogged away at an all-
Beethoven menu at Sydney Con-
servatorium. Summer-dress for
quartets is a must, and the same
for male concert-goers might
swell the audience. Sweat or no
sweat, however, the team hoed
into it like Don Athaldos, which
is better than too little pep,
anyhow, especially for Beet-
hoven.
In the “Harp” quartet, Ernest
Llewellyn scooted round cliffs
and cornices with hard-bitten
ease. But, taking three players
to one as fair evidence, he was
often off-pitch in his runs’ higher
reaches. But wrong notes played
the right way are better than
academic mincing; and a
Turkish-bath of a night not only
plays Old Harry with fiddle-
strings but makes critical ear-
drums testy. Also, a good
skipper’s ears are busier with the
playing of his forces than his
own.
Conductorless, string-quartets
steer by musicians’ radar through
complex music. The beefing-out
of beats in the early allegro was
doubtless a way of getting their
bearings. In not even the most
forthright Beethoven should
players seem about to beat time
on one another’s skulls.
Merely being on top suffi-
ciently highlights the uppermost
part. The first-fiddle needn’t
play louder than the rest; Mr.
Llewellyn sometimes very nearly
trumpeted. Yet his pianissimo
is usually his forte!
In the adagio John Painter’s
cello sang the rich, dark song
that only good cellists can sing.
Robert Pikler, too, played a
voluptuous viola. The rhythm
now became perversely flabby,
and the notes of some chords
were played in single-file instead
of abreast. The presto showed
technical expertise, but some of
the duals for gut and horsehair
brought scratches of protest as
phrases were pounced on.
Better played was the cheerful
D Major quartet. The house-
lights flicked briefly on at the
beginning of one movement, and
thereafter tended to do so on
musical accents.
This listener is not one who
holds that only crusty old players
should tackle late Beethoven.
Nonetheless, the Op. 130 quartet
missed the brooding reverence
that should overhang even its
dance-movement.
For the second concert the
foursome was in better fettle.
In the Brahms C Minor allegro
they at once fused easily into
a single instrument. Again there
were oodles of pep and dynamic
contrast; but where crescendoes
had before been applied like
icing to cake, they were now
spontaneous.
The romance dripped
Brahmsian goo and the allegretto
was urbane. They all looked
pleased with themselves at the
end, and settled happily down to
Dohnanyi’s second. This is built
round a curving tune with
tendrils on it; and very nice, too.
The angry dance in the middle
offers both contrast and
gymnastics for bow and fingers.
Harold Taberner here began to
assert his second-fiddle. Prob-
ably he got a better go, since the
first-fiddler had dropped his
earlier savagery. This time, too,
Mr. Llewellyn scored a bull’s-
eye on every note.
Things ended with Bartok’s
Op. 7 No. 1. So far as Bartok
could achieve the benign he
achieved it here, and the players
had a whale of a time. As he
insisted on the squawking pedal-
note, Mr. Llewellyn might well
have had tongue in cheek. The
players grinned as they bowed —
and had a right to.
G.P.
♦♦♦
Beethoven in Melbourne
It is doubtful if any composer
other than Beethoven could
be the subject of a one-man
show of four concerts like the
four presented at Melbourne
Town Hall by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra under its
more-or-less permanent con-
ductor, Bernard Heinze.
Tschaikowsky might, if it
weren’t for the fact that so much
of his music is a magnificent
expression of self-pity. The
man of Bonn gave musical
expression to all moods, and
sometimes did it in the compass
of a single opus, as in the
“Eroica” Symphony, which was
the highlight of the second
concert. In the Seventh
Symphony, which was the prin-
cipal item of the first one, he is
all intoxication, and in the
“Egmont” Overture (the
Festival’s opening number) he is
in turn sorrowful, defiant, joyful
and triumphant.
With its placid second move-
ment, its exuberant first and
its tempestuous finale, the
“Emperor” Concerto is all un-
diluted beauty, and it got a com-
petent exponent in piano soloist
Jascha Spivakovsky. He looked
completely relaxed, was devoid
of affectation, and his soft play-
ing in the first movement was as
pleasant to listen to as his intel-
ligent playing of the slow move-
ment in B Major. Unfortunately,
the City Council having mislaid
its oilcan, his chair creaked.
The other solo performance
was that of Carmel Hakendorf,
the young South Australian
violinist, who played in Beet-
hoven’s only violin concerto.
There was no creaking chair in
her case; she, of course, played
standing. It was one of the most
inspiriting performances of the
work heard in Melbourne for a
long time. The almost breath-
less loveliness of the melodies in
the first and last movements
came effortlessly off her fiddle,
and it was only in some of the
particularly high notes that she
seemed to fall short of a hair’s-
breadth of perfection.
Artbursts
John Flexmore, who seems to
have stepped into the shoes of the
late Harold Herbert, is holding
a show of watercolors at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne, and sell-
ing well. Like Herbert, he has
an eye for the picturesque and
an ability to draw, but not the
same ability to cover up the
marks he has made with a
formula of fluid washes. The
result is pleasant, even if it isn t
Nature. He sees generally what
the man in the street sees, but
he occasionally catches an effect
which is a little deeper. “Pear
Blossom” and “Elwood Canal”
have a richer content, and “Hill-
side” has some atmosphere about
it.
Talkies
“Infidelity” (at the Australia,
Melbourne): Those citizens who
were bitterly disappointed at the
announcement that Miss Gina
Lollobrigida will not be present
in the flesh at the Moomba
Festival in Melbourne can here
assuage their grief by surveying
her celluloid image. She is
certainly a lovely woman, but as
to whether she can act isn't
shown in this film. She sits in
court in all her voluptuous
beauty, and smiles and smiles
while facing a charge of having
murdered her mother-in-law, and
with having a very catholic taste
in lovers —so many that the ante-
room for witnesses is over-
crowded with them. The story
ends with her counsel claiming
that a wise judge would no more
think of removing her by hang-
ing than he would remove Mount
Vesuvius, the second-greatest
tourist-attraction around Naples.
An amusing Decameron-like
satire.
Current Sydney Releases:
“Living It Up” (Prince
Edward): The kind of Great
Daily which takes up a senti-
mental cause with gusto and
then cynically drops it when it
has been squeezed of the last
sob is hilariously lampooned in
this Martin-and-Lewis comedy.
As the first supposed victim of
radioactivity, Lewis is brought
by the rag to N’York, where,
far from dying decently in three
weeks, as the paper expects, he
is, with his doc., still gloriously
living on the fleshpots at the
expense of the paper. Lewis,
less stentorian than usual, strikes
a good vein in a sequence during
which he impersonates three
foreign medical specialists.
• « • •
“Pushover” (G. U. Theatres):
Suspense-drama with Detective
Fred Mac Murray yielding to the
lure of gangster’s gold and team-
ing-up with the big baddy’s
glamorous girl-friend, both de-
termined to prise the ill-gotten
shekels from their temporary
owner. Mac Murray does the
hare-and-hound business effic-
iently enough, and Kim Novak
looks a reasonable excuse for
his lapse.
Faith in the
Future
An American friend, on a recent visit to
Australia, said to me: “What your country needs
is a national ‘Operation Leap-frog.’ ”
He explained the remark by saying that he
believed Australia had developed a tendency to
follow either the American or the British pattern
when it should be looking to what those countries
will be doing ten years from now.
The force of that remark has given me a lot
of thought.
How right it is! Australia has to make its own
way, borrowing the best in ideas, but forming its
own social and economic character.
And in doing so—l agree with my friend—it
has to employ the leap-frog technique in getting
to its goals.
The reward today is going to initiative. It
will be more so in the future. Australia cannot
afford to be content with following on, down the
line, happy in handicap.
Well, where do we take it from the point of
common consent that this country must be
developed —and quickly—by “leaps and bounds,”
to keep to our operational term?
There are ways, if we have the vision and the
will. Take as one example the current lack of
manpower. Tens of thousands of jobs bearing on
development are going unfilled.
That limits our ability to provide roads,
communications, water storage, vital works of every
sort. And the demand for manpower cannot be
satisfied by immigration overnight.
Now, to me, the obvious answer is in a national
policy for intense mechanisation in every field that
will take it. If we cannot get the men, then let us
employ the modern machines to do the job. The
cost would be fractional to the value of extra
production in a single year.
But to do this kind of thing we need the
“operational” approach, for the art of peaceful
progress demands no less in spirit and direction
than the campaigns of war.
Most of all, we have to learn to think clearly
to think of Australia ten, twenty, fifty years from
now _ an d plan our efforts accordingly.
H. Hastings Deening


Lazy Walkabout
by PETER BLADEN
Making his way, per pushbike
and other means, from Perth to
Adelaide in free - and - easy
fashion, Peter Bladen has been
through, and described, the gold-
fields’ centres, and has just been
for a while at the seaside-resprt
of Esperance. As he has written :
“Though I followed no paths
which hadn’t been taken by
thousands before me, my eyes
were opened to worlds their
words had not adequately
revealed.” He is now on his way
back to Norseman from
Esperance.
NORSEMAN AGAIN
(RETURNED towards
Norseman by car with some
charming people who had
been staying in their “week-
end cottage,” a rambling place
rather like a two-story boatshed,
with ramps and trapdoors and
glorious views. The dog rode
with his hind-legs on the back
of the seat, and his forepaws on
the car-window, his face to the
breeze and his tail almost tickling
my nose.
We saw the lakes, the bluey-
grey waters of Warden, and
when we removed our sunglasses,
the Pink Lake, a brilliant pink,
tinged with vermilion. There
were firs at the turn-off to
Ravensthorpe, and to little
Hopetoun, “the last refuge from
civilisation,” and the vanished
mining-towns where the Kundip-
mallee, with its pendulous
fuschia-like fruits, and the pretty
Desmond-mallee, honoring their
native localities, alone perpetuate
their names.
Beyond the aerodrome and
into the sand-plain, stopping to
gather some banksia-sprays, we
glided over the corrugations, to
the hotel at Gibson’s Soak. In
the 1890’s this was one of a chain
of nine watering-places on the
rough track winding through the
scrub between Esperance and
Norseman.
The Soak was discovered by
Billy Gibson, and later a wayside
licence was obtained. At most
of the watering-places condensed
saltwater was the only water
available. Most of the new
arrivals had abandoned their
collars and “hard-hitters” by the
time they reached Gibson’s Soak,
and were down to dungarees.
Today there are “blackboys”
by the road and gay birds, and
the golden-podded nuytsia, and
still the pub, which is one of two
old buildings left on the Cool-
gardie road, once stopping-places
for the coaches of Cobb and Co.
There were beehives in the
bar not so long ago, so we were
told, prophetic, perhaps, of the
reawakened hopes of this “land
of milk and honey.” The Gov-
ernment Research Farm is just
down the road, and its green
acres foretell a happier future
for the district. At Gibson’s
Soak there are neighbors called
Buttons and Bows.
Scaddan is a settlement of
several buildings, in the wheat-
lands. We passed a turn-off to
Dead End Farm, a circular blue
lake, and Traslove, merely a
siding. At Grass Patch we
passed the pub again, incorporat-
ing the post-office, and continued
on to Red Lake siding, where I
believe there is another pink lake
—like the one at Esperance,
unique in Australia.
We passed glorious gums,
sunburnt trunks and limbs, high,
wide-spreading branches and
spare foliage, bright trees filled
with air and sunlight and lightly
speckled shade; then, on to the
township to which they have
given their name Salmon
Gums. By the time we reached
it I was covered with ants from
the banksia-sprays, and washed
by the drooling dog.
In the mining days, when the
pub was a wood-and-iron shanty,
there was a witty
Irishman called
Martin Walsh who
used to make won-
derful soap - box
speeches at Salmon
Gums. I spent an
evening trying to
learn more about
him, but most of the
few townsfolk are
new arrivals. One
of the local
bachelors, I was
told, 'might have
helped me, but he
was “on the dog
act,” and the “chain
had slipped a little.”
I walked through
tea-tree scrub and
spindly saplings, by
wide-mouthed ant-holes, to one
of the farms. My shoes were
covered with dust, but so was the
farmer, all over, his eyes white
pools in the grime, when I met
him in the paddocks. But no
one had known my man.
A native outside the store con-
fided: “This is the miserablest
place you could fin<3,” but I
enjoyed my short stay. The
people at the hotel were friendly.
There is a light outside on a
post, which is visible for miles at
night, symbolic of the welcome
within. It is a one-story build-
ing occupying two quarter-acre
blocks. The windows of the
rooms face inwards, to a sky-
lighted corridor. The yardman
is an old chap, and every time
he bent down I could hear him
mutter, “Blimey!”
In the morning another car
gave me a lift to Norseman.
Dowak (the native “waddy”),
Kumarl (possibly Jummel, “the
possum”), and Beete are railway-,
sidings, and at Danniel there is a
fettler’s'camp. I wondered how
near I was to Chiddle Chiddle
Inia (“where the birds sit in the
bushes and sing”), for I couldn’t
find the name on any map, and
how far from Ilgarrie Woondoo
Budgin Binia (which is “the red-
ant’s home and he will bite you
if you go there”).
THE BALLADONIA
MAIL-RUN
TT had been arranged that I
A should accompany Mort, the
mailman, on his weekly run on
the Eyre Highway. My watch
had gone non-stop since 1946, but
it gave up the ghost just before
our departure, and I found that
the spring was broken. I was
surely setting out to explore a
timeless land, and in my con-
fusion I packed the wrong road-
guide, and soon we were even
off the map.
' The truck was loaded with 44-
gallon drums of petrol, poultry,
some cases of drink, mail and
stores, and bedding, the tucker-
boxes and a keg of water, Mort,
young Mort and myself.
We passed Trig Hill (the native
Jimberlana), and the turn-off to
the old Princess Royal Mine,
shaking our way over the
corrugations, with the load shift-
ing to such an extent that we had
to stop to adjust it, through
spinifex and gimlet country to
Bulldania (Buljania, “where a
man burnt the sinew of his leg
in the campfire”), where once
stood a store and a pub, and now
there is only a rockhole of
greenish water. Mort pulled a
dead ’roo and a dingo out of it
only a month before. It is the
first waterhole on the East-West
road, 18 miles from Norseman,
but we didn’t call there for a
drink.
At Bedonia rockhole the stars
were beginning to twinkle, and
at Smithane Rocks we came to
the turn-off to Southern Hills
station. After 62 miles came the
gate at the boundary of Fraser’s
Range.
Eyre was the first to see this
country, in 1841, and he saw it
in a bad season. He didn’t know
what was before him, and found
little water or feed for his horses.
Luck was against him. He found
a miserable country, parched
with drought. Thirty years later
Forrest struck a good season,
with water in the rockholes and
a sea of waving grass—grass so
tall that it could tickle his
horses’ stomachs.
Like Eyre, we saw little grass
—only the trees, mostly spindly,
and the endless stretches of salt-
bush and bluebush.
Six years before Forrest’s
journey the Dempsters had set
off from Northam in search of
sheep - country. They had
journeyed beyond Israelite Bay
(so named because natives in the
area practised customs akin to
the Jewish) as far as Port Culver,
70 miles east, before returning to
Esperance. Eventually they
established a run at
Fraser’s Range; and
others, encouraged by
Forrest’s glowing reports,
joined them in establishing
a little empire of sheep.
To the south is Mount
Ragged, later the scene of
a gold-rush. The men at
Fraser’s Range and Balla-
donia used to sell meat to
the goldfields people, re-
ceiving gold in exchange.
The gold was shipped
away, secured in bales of
wool, from Israelite Bay
and Port Malcolm. The
shipping-clerks in Albany
noted the fact and rumors
spread. Prospectors looked
at their maps, and, concluding
that the gold must come from
Mount Ragged, started a new
rush. Fresh water was found in
one of the rockholes, but
nothing else.
The first gate on the highway
has achieved some fame. It was
erected to protect the property
from the ravages of dingoes. A
sign “Please shut this gate” had
little effect, and was replaced by
another, more forcefully worded.
Many comments were added by
passers-by, in pencil, such as:
“Don’t be so rude!” and “We
shut your gate, so what!”
and someone erased the offend-
ing word, while another re-
inserted it, with lipstick.
The sign became such a
display of wit that somebody
souvenired it. The present sign
bears the injunction: “Shut this
bloody gate—and don’t pinch
this one.”
Fraser’s Range is a place of
gentle hills and valleys. The
headlamps revealed a tinge of
green against the dark-red soil.
Beyond the gate we came
to Slaver’s Pass, and, later,
Dugan’s Lookout. Slaver
and Dugan were foremen
on the gangs which con-
structed the road. Mort
said that Dugan used to sit
on the lookout which bears
his name, and with a pair
of binoculars could see
for 10 miles in each
direction from the hilltop.
A tree had fallen across the
road, and we dragged it to one
side, and lit a fire under it. A
branch snapped in the wrong
place while I was trying to break
off a limb, and I nearly lost one
ear. Fires don’t get out of hand
in these sparser regions, and are
welcomed, because they
encourage growth.
Most of the landmarks, like
Mary’s Hill, have local names,
but few remember their deriva-
tion. Few, indeed, remember
anything of the early pioneers.
Their history has not been
written, and lives only in the
scattered memories of those still
—lllustrations by UNK WHITE
in these regions. Yet theirs was
a story of hardship and courage,
and deserves to be recorded.
Amongst the pioneers whose
lives are almost forgotten was
the family called Brooks. Mrs.
Brooks arrived from England in
the early days, with a boy of
two, and a daughter born at sea.
In 1874, when the daughter was
16, the little family arrived in
Albany from Victoria, setting out
with a cart and two horses for
the little-known coastal country
to the east.
They were gentlefolk, unsuited
to a venture into such harsh,
waterless country. For 50 years
they held a sheep-run, 25 miles
north of the towering Mount
Ragged, their pride and inde-
pendence keeping them aloof,
and above outside assistance.
Their name is legend to the few
who knew them, and the secrets
of their past went with them to
the grave.
The son died alone in the bush
of cold and exposure, at the age
of 83. The daughter was a
gifted woman, who could read
her Bible in Greek, and people
south of the Nullarbor still tell
of the beautiful landscapes which
she painted. A letter written by
her in 1894 has been preserved, a
pathetic illustration of her
austere gentility:
Miss Brooks presents her compli-
ments to the proprietor of the camel
train and would feel much obliged
if he would kindly cause their re-
moval from the vicinity of her resi-
dence.
When, in her later years, she
lay ill in the Norseman hospital,
she was visited by the Premier of
the State, she commented: “I
suppose you have come to see
the last of the dinotheriums.”
A sign indicated the turn-off
to Newman Rocks (Coolarina,
“a permanent watering-place”),
and at the “94-mile” we came to
a long, slow hill, awash with
sand. Recent rains had worn
miniature gullies across the road.
I had stared so intently at the
track ahead that I was beginning
to see things, ’roos in the
shadows, and cars coming
towards us without any head-
lights.
It was after 10 when we pulled
up at Tragedy Gate, the third
gate, to prepare our camp. The
present gate is badly buckled. It
nearly went west, some time ago,
when a car from the east didn’t
see it in time to pull up.
Three roads come together at
Tragedy Gate, and as most of


the passers-by have beer on
board, chance meetings call for
a celebration. Once a truck,
after such an encounter, arrived
at Balladonia with Tragedy Gate
hooked to its bumpers.
There was no shortage of
wood, and under the stars by a
blazing campfire we made dinner
of turkey, topped off by a few
other things which had gone
squashy in our packs.
Four shearers from Rock-
hampton came along to boil their
billy before we had finished.
They were very pleased to meet
us. They mistook our water-
cask for a keg of beer.
One was a dark, curly-haired
Irishman, with a rich vocabulary.
“Penong?” he said, when I men-
tioned it as one of my stopping-
places. “Ah, what a forest it is,
and all the trees are
rocks! ”
We compared the roads we
had travelled. Mort said: “The
old truck is getting more rattles
than a millionaire’s baby! ”
We slept by the truck, and
after an early breakfast, with the
butcher-birds whistling around
us, continued to Balladonia.
For the £rst time since leaving
Norseman we sighted the old
overland line. Where it crossed
the road, a sign read:
Please watch out for overhead
telegraph-line. Do not break it,
your life may depend upon it.
Balladonia (or Balladunia, “a
red rock away by itself”) is a
miracle low granite outcrop set
in a weary expanse of limestone
saltbush plains. The rocks form
natural reservoirs which were
known to the natives and kept
secret.
John Sharpe and Steve
Ponton discovered water there
by chance in 1879. They had
noticed a pinkish reflection in
low clouds one evening. On
investigating, they found a fine
expanse of water.
“This is worth diamonds to
us,” one of them commented,
and the location was known as
Diamond Rocks for a number of
years.
Ponton and Sharpe came
overland from Albany, follow-
ing the footsteps of Forrest,
gradually moving inland from
the districts of poorer grass, to
Pine Hill and later to Balladonia.
The gold-rush and the com-
pletion of the overland telegraph-
line eased the isolation, but a
feudal system operated, with the
natives willing, although not
always reliable, workers. Kind-
ness and a firm hand secured
their co-operation in building
dams and shepherding the sheep.
Until recent years camel-teams
were still used for carting stores
and wool.
The old stone buildings of the
telegraph-station are near the
road, partly in ruins, surrounded
by a low stone-wall. The build-
ings have lately been converted
into one of Australia’s lonelier
petrol-stations. A bowser has
been installed near a pepper-
tree, one of the few trees in sight.
We met the Paynes, who came
out from Great Britain a year
ago to take over the petrol-
depot, and their daughter
Bubbles, an elfin child with
pretty plaits, who was shy at
first, but was soon clambering
all over us, and Jessie, the collie-
dog, who also wanted to be
friendly, in a timid sort of way.
Tne cats also acted as though
h f d been longing to see us,
.While the petrol-drums were
being emptied, we went to see
Mrs. Crocker. Balladonia home-
stead is beyond the granite out-
crop not far from the old
telegraph-station. It is a ramb-
ling brick building, built in the
days of generous hospitality.
Mrs. Crocker is a granddaughter
of the pioneer Steve Ponton, and
was brought to Balladonia when
only three weeks old. It is said
that the natives came from miles
around, queuing-up to see the
first white baby in the district.
There were paintings around
the walls of the dining-room,
and I was interested, having
heard that Mrs. Crocker was
an artist of merit. But Mort
said: “You haven’t seen anything
yet! ”
Mrs. Crocker was coaxed into
showing us her studio. She is a
self-taught artist, and has dedi-
cated herself to the accurate
portrayal of the unusual beauty
/Of the regions she knows so well.
The paintings, in oils, adorn
the walls of an extensive studio,
and are stacked in cupboards
and against their easels. Her,
art is living, not merely photo-
graphic, preserving for posterity
plants and insects and animals,
some unnamed and nowhere else
recorded, as well as scenery few
have ever beheld.
“You could knock them off
with your finger,” said Mort,
and young Mort endeavored to
do so, the insects were so
realistic. One bardee - beetle,
in particular, had been pinned
to the collection, I felt convinced,
to deceive visitors. Bets are often
laid, but the insects prove to be
only miracle mixtures of paint.
There were scenes of camel-
teams at night, an early home-
stead sheltered by a gigantic
rock, the razorbacked ridge and
sprawling arms of Mount
Ragged, and the bluebush, not
the dull grey that we had seen,
but after rain when the dust had
been washed clear, and it seemed
a lavender-blue mist over the
earth.
There were wombats, and pet
cows and favorite dogs with
patient and faithful eyes; the
heads of emus' and eagles;
puppies, so warm and appealing
that they had to be stroked;
horses, with muscles rippling
beneath dark shining coats; and
all manner of beetles and spiders,
moths and butterflies, lizards and
mountain-devils, a spiney-tailed
gecko, curly-tailed miniature
possums, and qualup-bells, and
the Sturt-pea and pretty nameless
creepers.
Each painting has its own
story, like that of the death-
adder, or the sea-dragon with a
snout like an old cigarette-holder
and a reddish-white body similar
to a gnarled turnip-root, with
strips of seaweed attached; and
there was even one painting
which seemed surrealistic,
portraying formations in Pirates’
Cave, 90 miles away in the
coastal cliffs.
From the work of many of our
modern artists it seems likely
that future generations
will be able to con-
clude only that we must
have been a lot of luna-
tics, but in such paint-
ings as these, despised
by the members of
many cliques, they will
be able to see, in por-
trayal more beautiful
and living than cameras
could record, something
of the unusual beauty
of our present-day out-
back.
There were other
treasures besides :
cowries and other shells, and
the pearly nautilus, more frail
than the finest china. Bubbles
wanted to hold one shell which
was at the bottom of a jar, so
we were able to examine theip
all.
We could have stayed there for
hours, but we had to say good-
bye, to the artist who captures
beauty as though by magic, to
Bubbles, holding young Mort by
the neck, unwilling to let him
go, and the Paynes and Jessie,
and the affectionate cats, and the
old stone buildings with their
echoes of the vanished telegraph-
days.
For 16 miles, away from the
highway, our road led, for the
most part along a winding earth-
track, past Boomer Rocks and
White Elephant Dam to Noon-
dooriia station, and the home-
stead of the Cook brothers.
Balladonia and Noondoonia
once bred many horses, which
thrived on the limestone growth,
but sheep have been the mainstay
at Noondoonia for nearly 50
years. The foundation flock of
700 sheep was brought overland
by the brothers in 1905, the 470-
mile journey taking three months
to complete.
The brothers are nephews of
Larry Sinclair, one of the
founders of Norseman. Unaided,
under the most primitive
of conditions, they constructed
the stone-walled homestead,
woolsheds and dams and
shearers’-quarters, 150 miles of
netting and five-wire fences and
even their own wagons.
Noondoonia (Nundoonia, “the
home camp”), unlike Balladonia,
is a homestead set among trees.
It is out-of-the-way and sees few
visitors. We were most hospit-
ably received. We stayed the
night, and I liked my white-
washed room with its candlelight
and the narrow window, and
slept so soundly that I didn’t
awake until our hostess brought
a morning cup of tea.
There were many things to be
seen before we left: the pet
bicycle-lizards in the clean-swept
yard, folding their forelegs like
a ’roo when they run; shell-
fossils still visible in the stones
of the homestead walls; the shed
built of flattened kerosene-tins
with a bush-timber frame ; teeth
and fossil bones of the “Aus-
tralia deprodent” and the
“marsupial lion,” which had been
found in near-by excavations ; a
home-made blast-furnace with a
sft. bellows; and the solid carts
used by the camel-teams until
four or five years ago, giant
constructions with shoulder-
height wheels, which could carry
a weight of 14 tons.
We heard of a local native who
had “a foal from his piebald”
for sale, the price being raised as
his debts increased. The sum
had reached £l5. And we were
told of a chap who roused his
“hands” with a stock-
whip. “You have to be
tough in the outback,”
said Mr. Cook.
Once again it was
good-bye, and we were
on our way back to
Norseman. Before
reaching Tragedy Gate
and the highway we
stopped at Afghan
Rocks. The native
name for the place
was Worganinia (“an old man
walking round in circles”). The
popular name commemorates a
tragic event.
In the early days the Ponton
brothers had a store on the
Kurnalpi goldfields, importing
camels from South Australia to
transport their goods from the
coast along the track by the
various rockholes, to the ’fields.
The chief driver of the team was
a man called Ted Knowles. On
one occasion, arriving at
Worganinia, he met another team
of 100 camels with a gang of 20
Afghan drivers, also en route to
the ’fields.
It was a dry season, and water
was scarce along the track.
When he went to fill his billy at
the pool reserved for drinking
water he was dismayed to find
two of the Afghans in the middle
of a foot-washing ceremony. A
fight ensued, in which one
Afghan was shot dead, while
another died later. Knowles was
overpowered, and would have
been killed only for the timely
intervention of Mr. Ponton. He
was later on trial at Albany, but
was acquitted.
For many years the Afghans
used to visit the grave of their
comrade, a lonely mound in the
bush not far from the rocks
where he was killed. We had a
look at the waterhole, which is
large enough for a swimming-
pool, though fairly shallow, and
scared a few wild-ducks, much to
the mortification of young Mort,
who had left his rifle in the truck.
There is a legend that the
Afghan’s gold was buried with
the body. We wondered whether
there had ever been a goldrush
to Afghan Rocks.
We had lunch near the 80-
mile gate, at Brown’s Dam, which
someone correctly noted was
“damn’ brown.” A sign by the
road said that baits had been
laid for dingoes, and at the grids
near the gates there were rows of
old tin-cans, which rattle in the
wind, scaring the marauders.
The tree we had fired had
burned itself out, and we stopped
to remove the debris. There were
few cars on the road. One passed
us, looking like a startled rabbit,
with two waterbags sticking out
from the sides of the windshield
in the breeze, like ears.
It was warm, driving, with
the sun beating down on the cab,
and we had to stop often for
water. I started dozing again
and Mort was dozing, too.
Young Mort fell silent, and I
racked my brains for something
to say, for fear that Mort would
fall asleep at the wheel. I was
feeling, and no doubt looking,
as though I had crawled across
the desert.
ALONE TO FRASER’S
RANGE *
What’s the use of talking
When you’re stony-broke and
walking,
When your toes is through the
uppers
And your feet is on the
ground, .. ..
—Anon.
X>ACK in town, Big Bob had
arranged for me to stay with
his friend Pop, in lieu of being
his own guest, because “the little
lady” was unwell. Big Bob gave
me a golf-stick to carry, intro-
ducing me to some more of his
many friends as “the chap who
is driving round Australia.”
We found Pop in the bar
having his evening porter-gaff.
A sign in the bar reads simply
“WYBMADIITY.” The unwary
visitor asks its meaning, and the
barmaid replies: “Will you buy
me a drink if I tell you?” The •
answer is invariably “Yes!”
“Now I’ll tell you what the
initials stand for, the other way
round,” says the barmaid, reach-
ing for the largest glass avail-
able: “You thought I intended
drinking a ‘minor’ but you’re
wrong!”
Pop is a little chap and full of
tricks. He’s as lively as a circus,
and it wasn’t surprising to learn
that he was once a clown with
Barnum and Bailey’s in Europe.
“Pass a whisky-bottle,” said
Big Bob to the barmaid, and
turning to me: “That’s one of
his tricks. He can break a
whisky-bottle over his head any
time you like and never get a
scratch. Come on,” he coaxed
the barmaid, “a whisky-bottle!”
“We haven’t got a mop and
bucket handy,” she said with a
smile, “and I’m blowed if I
know where the bandages are.”
Big Bob snorted, and Pop
assured me that he could not
only break whisky-bottles over
his head, and had once been
bashed by a thug who was more
amazed than he was at the result,
but he could fall down flights of
stairs, speak • Spanish, German
and French and perform many
other feats. In Japan a houseboy
had taught him ju-jitsu in return
for lessons in driving a car;
he had fought in the Boxer
Rebellions, the Boer War and
the First World War, and had
even married and raised a family.
In between times he had been at
sea, managed a goldmine and had
carried his swag through outback
Queensland, over tracks that
most men didn’t know to exist.
A lot of men have thought
they could take a rise out of
Pop, but they have all come off
second-best. He lives in a
cottage with bag-walls papered
over, a sagging
ceiling and
cement floor. It
is shaded by
trees, and at night
looks like a cabin
in the woods. It
is a humble cot-
tage, but it is
“home” to Pop,
and, for as long
as I wished to
stay. Pop said,
“This is your
home!”
I wasn’t his
first guest. There
had been many
others, men on
sick - leave from
the mines and
others down on their luck, or
stranded as I myself was soon
to be.
After tea, when the pots and
pans were shining and while Pop
played patience—a good pastime,
he said, which let your thoughts
wander . where your feet no
longer could—it seemed most
appropriate that the book he
gave me to read was one by
Dickens, and when I was ready
for bed, I murmured: “I don’t
need rocking tonight! ” “There’s
a couple of bricks outside if you
do!” said Pop.
The following days were days
of waiting. I wanted a lift to
the eastern States. There were
hundreds of miles of bad roads
ahead, where many of the rock-
holes were tainted and the tanks
were bullet-holed, where over-
laiiders . were not always
welcomed at the scattered home-
steads, because of troubles
caused in the past —mile upon
mile of dust and heat and flies
and loneliness. So I asked at the
hotels and the garages about
trucks going east and waited.
To break the monotony of
waiting, I visited the School of
Mines and saw the rock-fossils.
Some, I was told, had waited
{Continued on next page)


\\ \ /
/ /\ \ v
irons
smoother
faster!
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT IN OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY *rd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
/
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl
20 million years to be brought to
light again. And I watched the
bulldozer at work on the new
swimming-pool; climbed the hill
behind the Central Norseman,
and saw the town nestling below,
with far views of lakes, hills and
islands, but didn’t find any
nuggets on my rambles; went to
a football-match which had
to be cancelled, and
motored out to look for
ducks on a salt-lake, scaring
them away just as another
hunter had walked to the
far side of the lake to
“spot” them.
One day I was on tour
with the ambulance-driver,
a chap who lives to a strict
routine so that others will
always know his where-
abouts, and on another
occasion would have made
“the world’s cheapest tele-
phone-call,” 400 miles to
Euc 1 a, for twopence,
but the line was out of
order. And I talked to
people. It would take all
afternoon to walk down
the street, I had made so many
new friends.
Many people wait for lifts
in Norseman. A few like myself
want to see the country, but
many are men out of work seek-
ing greener fields, or confidence-
men and rogues avoiding the
better-policed modes of trans-
port. Some of them wait on the
road with some tea and a tin
of jam, or a bottle of water, and
the police will pick them up on
vagrancy charges unless
transport-drivers will feed them
until they arrive in South
Australia.
One man, given a lift,
demanded the cabin to sleep in
when the driver halted for the
night. Another made off with
some borrowed blankets. There
have been cases of overlanders
giving lifts to strangers, and hav-
ing to pay their bills when they
stayed for the night at Madura
or one of the other stopping-
places. And an old man in a
jeep, who had given a lift to a
youth, was robbed and murdered
before they reached Port
Augusta. Hitch-hikers are no
longer popular on the East-West
highway.
The best place to wait for a
lift is on one of the benches in
the main street. There you will
see most of the overland traffic
and all manner of interesting
people. It is a recognised
waiting-place, and a man will
rarely sit long before some
“rough diamond,” taking him for
a brother out of luck, will invite
him in for a drink.
I met Super, one of Jack’s
friends in Across the Nullarbor,
making another trip to the West
in his shining “Go-go.” There
were four ladies going overland
alone by car, and two New Aus-
tralians (or, as they are known
when riding motor - cycles,
Temporary Australians) covered
in dust and sweat, and an old
chap who owns a near-by copper-
mine, who told me that there are
manganese-deposits out from
Norseman, but prospectors are
not encouraged by the station
people.
One day some politicians came
down to make policy speeches,
spending the day in the bar, and
cursing their opponents on the
street-corner at night, a brilliant
display of the beauties of Party
Politics.
Sometimes I had lunch at the
bandstand in the park, where the
road leads into town from the
highway, and then I would return
to the street-bench to wait for
news of the transports. One old-
timer, looking battered and a bit
of a truant, confided in a friendly
aside: “You want to watch out
if you’re heading through Cool-
gardie, mate. The Johns are on
the go up there. I was picked
up meself the other day and I
wasn’t doing a thing!”
Several times I saw one of the
local policemen on his way. to
the railway-station, Perth-bound
with a law-breaking visitor in
tow. One little boy cried when
he saw my beard and another
ran for his mother. Pop’s
neighbor’s dog barked at me,
and the neighbor said the dog
thought I was a burglar.
In the meantime I stayed with
Pop in the little cottage with
bumpy walls, a sagging ceiling
and floors that were a trifle
uneven. During the day he
would go out to do a little
gardening, leaving the house in
my care.
“You might as well learn at
once if you can trust a man,”
said Pop, “if you’re ever going
to trust him.”
One day it rained and Pop
couldn’t go gardening. Little
children were sent home muddy
from school, drains overflowed,
and there had to be special meet-
ings of the Roads Board. Some
houses had mud and silt where
there once were carpets, and one
chap was amazed to see dozens
of tennis-balls floating out from
beneath his veranda.
I was out and Pop had to
place my trunk on the bed. The
floors were under water. “Saves
washing them,” was all he said.
He gave me a few of his
“wrinkles” on how to stop thirst
with a pebble in the mouth, to
keep smoke out of tea with a
green stick across the billy, and
to mix a damper in a piece of
plastic cloth when there wasn’t a
basin.
He came home one evening
and said: “Just met a bloke
down the road—very down-
hearted! ‘Work’s a ,’ he
said. ‘When d’ you start?’ I
asked him. ‘Next week!’ he
said.”
Pop could always spin a tale.
“He’s a real no-hoper,” he said,
of one local character. “He’d
share anything with you, even if
it was your last two-bob! ”
One of the inter-State
furniture-vans was due through
Norseman on the way east. No
other trucks had shown up in the
meantime, and after a week of
waiting, with my luggage packed
all the time, the van arrived early
one Sunday morning. But the
driver of the van refused to
take me or even my luggage.
The decision to travel “under
my own steam” was a sudden
one, and once my mind was
made up, and I had bought a
few supplies, including a 71b. bag
of flour for emergency-rations,
I was soon on the road. There
were fond farewells, and friends
came to wave good-bye.
Pop said I was welcome at
any time. “You’re not in the city
now!” I could scarcely have
found a more pleasant host.
Our neighbor had been to
Esperance, fishing, and apart
from fish-meals for several days
I had fish to take with me, and
sandwiches which Pop had
brought home from a lodge
meeting the night before.
Not far out of town is the
sign: “1274 miles to Adelaide.”
March-flies flocked to the water-
bag, and a bobtail on the road
poked out his tongue at me.
There were some weird vehicles
heading west, one like a con-
verted bus, and another chuf-
fing along at the pace of a steam-
roller.
At the sign: “Bulldania—
water,” I walked in 100yds. or
so from the road, and found an
isolated rocky outcrop where
there were a few stagnant pools,
the two largest covered with
wooden p'osts. The water looked
like iodine, but the mosquitoes
and March-flies seemed to like it.
Thirty-two miles out was a
dam with a little muddy water
in it, but through the trees some-
where I could hear frogs and
ducks. There was a dead
mountain-devil on the road, one
of the most harmless of
creatures. It was a lonely road,
and I found myself singing “Auld
Lang Syne,” , and “Old Friends
Are the Best Friends, After All.”
That night I camped by a
cheery fire, and ate spaghetti and
bread-and-dripping, with cold
spaghetti for breakfast in the
morning. I lay awake for a long
while, looking at the stars. The
fire burnt down, and I had no
idea what time it was until the
stars grew fainter. No traffic had
passed during the night. It was
just after sunrise when I left, only
a few ashes remaining to mark
my camp.
Birds were my companions,
but I could not sing with them
because I had developed a cold.
My water was getting low. Dead
timber, grey twigs and leaves
littered the ground. One rabbit
crossed the road ahead.
Near the 55-mile peg, feeling
tired and hot and hungry, I
passed the turn-off to Southern
Hills station, and a sign:
“Smithania Rocks—Water— i\
miles,” and another mountain-
devil, this one very much alive,
with his tail up when he saw me.
When I went to pick him up,
he was off in a flash.
At long last I came to the gate
which says what its owner him-
self w r ould no doubt say if he
were near by when someone left
the gate open. There were many
autographs on the new sign,
including those of the members
of the “Caves Expedition,” and
people from all the States, and
even Switzerland and Singapore.
One overlander had written:
“Fix your bloody gate.”
There had been a headwind
and I was weary. At Fraser’s
Range I had to call in for water.
It seemed miles from the turn-
off to the homestead, but I
survived to see sheep in pad-
docks of short green grass, the
shearing-shed and, sheltered in a
gully, the substantial stone build-
ings of the homestead. My face
was rimmed with salt. I was very
dry, and it took my voice half
an hour or more to regain its
normal pitch.
Once there were gay times at
Fraser’s Range, with crowds of
young people out from Norse-
man to swim in the big tank and
make merry, but the family has
grown up and drought has hit
the place. The big tank was
empty and the lawn and the
gardens had suffered. When the
drought broke and the paddocks
were green again, plagues of
caterpillars came.
The kitchen has substantial
rafters and gas-lights supplied
from a home-made plant. My
hostess gave me an ample lunch,
and told me about life on the
lonely station.
Once the road had gone past
the homestead, but when the
new road was put through, it
was shifted by request.
Travellers had been permitted
to put up at the shearing-shed,
but, especially during the depres-
sion, hordes used to come,
usually in broken-down cars,
determined to stay on the
property either until they starved
to death or Until the station-
manager had provided them with
sufficient food, water and petrol
to carry them to their next
stopping-place.
Recently someone cut a length
of wire-netting from the fence
near the gate, but away from the
road so that the theft wouldn’t
be noticed; gates were left open
and the dingoes gained entrance ;
taps were left on and the tanks
drained. In one of the windows
of the old telegraph-station at
Balladonia there is a notice:
This building is the Property of
Balladonia Station NOT Government
Property. Overlanders are requested
not to prise open windows or doors.
There is nothing inside that would
be of interest to even the most in-
quisitive person. Please remember
that quite a number of cars BBEAK
DOWN and appeal to us for help.
Spoiling our property does not in-
crease our sympathy—YOU may be
the next one In need of help.
In the years of hardship and
struggle, of “boiled mutton an,d
damper,” flies, heat, isolation
and drought, the burdens they
had borne because of the over-
landers had been almost insup-
portable. It isn’t any wonder
if they have become embittered.
They were noted once for their
hospitality, and it is a pity that
such experiences should spoil the
old traditions.
Many are the types who have
travelled this highway. Killers
have visited the station, on the
run from the police, threatening
and abusive ; once a young man
on honeymoon, whose bride was
lying unconscious near their
smashed vehicle ; old chaps with
two beer-bottles tied by string
about their necks ; one man, on
foot, with a suitcase filled not
with food and camping-gear but
walking trophies ; and the man
who thought that Christ was to
be found between the East and
the West.
He was a vegetarian, and made
an annual pilgrimage on foot,
depending on the hospitality of
station people for supplies.
When cautioned, he would reply
that his God would not let him
down.
Once he had called at one of
the stations for food, and had
held a party at Afghan Rocks,
returning to the station for
further supplies. The station
people were annoyed. The
pilgrim set out again, and some
time elapsed before a native
brought word that his clothes
had been found, and a note to
the effect that he was perishing.
Later his body was located by a
party from one of the stations.
After lunch, feeling much
more like a civilised human
being, and with some magazines
and the largest pear I have ever
seen to make my wait more
pleasant, I returned to the high-
way, not feeling so happy about
tackling the long journey ahead
on only two wheels, and intend-
ing to wait where water was
available, in the hope that there
would soon be a truck going
east.
I had plenty of stores remain-
ing, including spaghetti, dripping
and stale bread, raisins, potatoes
and the 71b. bag of floiy. My
camp was on the road not far
from the shearing-shed, with
plenty of wood around. Once
again I lay at night and watched
the stars, listening in vain for
traffic. In the morning my cold
was worse and I had lost my
voice.
I packed before sunrise, and
was afraid to make damper,
dreading the mess in my kitbag
once the 71b. flour-bag had been
broached. So • I fried chips,
including a couple of wooden
ones which had fallen into the
pan and a brown beetle.
Even the smoke from my fire
seemed lonely, and followed me
around whenever I shifted posi-
tion. At times I suddenly burst
out laughing, it seemed so odd
to be sitting alone out there, and
I wondered how many of the
prophets who had spent their 40
days in the wilderness had ever
laughed at themselves.
I watched the ants at work
shifting eggs and wondered
whether they foretold another
(i Continued on page 27)


THAN
TRADING CO.
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
Our Inter-State coverage saves you freight charges
and ensures SPEEDY DELIVERY.
96 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
* /
ALSO AT: 319-321 SWANSTON ST. (Head Office).
393 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE
IN OUR EXTENSIVE RANGE OF GOVERNMENT EX-SERVICE EQUIPMENT WE M AY HAVE THE VERY ARTICLE FOR WHICH YOU ARE SEARCHING, OBTAINABLE
AT A FRACTION OF THE ORIGINAL COST. j
IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO MAKE A PERSONAL CALL, WRITE US YOUR SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS, OR WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT
TABLE MODEL
m
A
~ A'/
oouat^'i.
B£^s 4e >/
V
Boil
6/j
**o
■^WvV
v^v9>
t» G
r»e*
Army Field Telephones
TYPE “F”
(As illustrated on left)
Table model. This is the best type of
Telephone used by H.M; Forces in
every theatre of war, including the
recent Korean campaign. Entirely self-
contained unit, with in-built battery
compartment, double-action loud ring-
ing bells, and three-bar crank gene-
rator. Fitted with standard P.M.G.
handset. Can be used successfully over
distances up to 25 miles. Sturdily con-
structed to withstand rough usage and
all types of climate.
Price £B/10/- ea.
Telephone Switchboards
For the benefit of our customers who
require two or more telephones with
independent operation, we have avail-
able brand new telephone switch-
boards, six line, magneto operated,
with drop indicating shutters, P.M.G.
type handset, complete with cords and
inbuilt batteries. Very
simple in operation. Price
■/QI/83
WALL-TYPE TELEPHONES
WALL TYPE TELEPHONES
(as illustrated on right )
This is a wall type Telephone built into a polished
wooden box. Dimensions, 92in. x 7in. x 32in. Externally
mounted double-action loud ringing bells, fitted with'
standard P.M.G. handset and latest type generator.
This Telephone can be used efficiently for communica-
tions over distances up to 20 miles.
Price £6/10/- ea.
ss
//
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
Hydraulic three-
stage. 6001bs. per
square inch.
PRICE
£7/10/-
12001bs. per square inch. This model
ideally suitable for operating fork lifts,
or other similar equipment.
Price £lO
Postage and Packing 6/-. Interstate 8/6.
R.A.A.F. ASTRONOMICAL
INSTRUMENTS
Build Your Own
DUMPY LEVEL
With the “A stro
Compass” (illustrated
on right). This instru-
ment originally used
for! finding
direction and
bearing of a
aircraft can he
made, with slight
modification, into
an accurate dumpy
level. The modification
would be the addition
of a light tripod and a
peep sight (or, for even
greater accuracy, a
telescopic sight). The
instrument' co n t ains
declination scale
with micrometer adjustment, azimuth
circle, cross levels, adjustable turntable
mountings. All scales PRICE
are calibrated in de-
grees.
£2/19/6
Postage and Packing 6/-. Interstate 8/6
PRISMATIC TELESCOPIC SIGHTS
Can be converted as rifle sight, surveyors’
sighting telescope, and many other uses
where first-class lenses are required.
Length sin. Eye*piece lens lin. Front
lens -3in. Eye relief 3in. Weight 15oz.
Price £3/10/-
Reg. Post. & Packing 5/-. Interstate 6/-.
Our Prismatic Telescopic Sight can be
adapted for use as a sighting tube with
the Astro Compass.
TOOL
v.
"TUNEERO" MULTI-PURPOSE
The engineering tool
that should he in
every home or work-
shop. It will cut
metal strip, angle-
iron or rod to any
desired measurement.
It will punch metal
strip and angle-iron
for bolting and rivet-
ting. It will bend metal
strip and rod as re-
quired. Repair and con-
structive jobs can be
carried out quickly
and efficiently.!
Price
Postage & Packing:
3/6. Interstate: 4/6.
9/11
CAMP STRETCHERS
An excellent standby for that unexpected
guest, and an essential piece of equipment
to ensure comfort in your camping holi-
day. Sturdily built, folding wooden
frames.
With Jute covers
With heavy duty Canvas covers
45/-
39/6
Packing: 5/•
MOTOR-DRIVEN PUMPS
Brand new. Manufac-
tured by Thompson of
America, the foremost
manufacturer of this
type of pump, and is
suitable for pumping
water or any other
liquid. Ideal for drain-
ing flooded cellars,
bilges, or for use with
fish ponds and smail
irrigation systems.
Capacity 400 gallons
per hour. Complete
with 24 volt Motor ready for
immediate use on 24 or 32
volt D.C. supply. PRICE
Pump only £3/10/-
£l2/10/-
Larger model, capacity 700 gals, per hour, complete with 24v. Motor.
PRICE £l4/10/-
Combined Motor and Pump. English made, cap’ty 400 gals, per hour.
PRICE: 24 volt model, £3/10/-, 12 volt model, £5.
Postage and Packing 6/-. Interstate 8/6.
The famous DEICO-REMY AIRCRAFT GENERATOR,
TYPE P.l
When connected as a welder this unit will deliver 200 amps for a
sustained period and 250 amps for interinittent service. This
Generator is widely used for shop built port-
able welders. Rated 200 amps 28 volt, 2500.
r.p.m., using 10 h.p. Dimensions 15in. long
by 6in. diameter. Weight 511bs.
£37/10/-
SPECIAL
CLEARANCE OFFER
TYPE “A” 12 VOLT 500 WATT
A.M. AIRCRAFT GENERATOR.
Suitable for use with trucks,
tractors, road machinery and
P
home lighting battery plants.
Stock must be cleared to make
room for further shipments.
Price 45/- ea,
REGULATOR
AND CUT-OUT
American made by Bendix. 30
volt. Brand new. Ideally suit-
able for use with 24 or 32 volt
home lighting plants, or as spar*
cut-out for tractors.
Price £3/10/-
Postage and Packing 5/-.
state 6/-.
Inter-
TELESCOPES
5 to 15 POWER ADJUSTABLE HIGH ANGLE TELE-
SCOPE. (As illustrated on left.). Suitable for RIFLE-
MEN, BIRD WATCHERS, AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS,
is undoubtedly the finest Telescope bargain we
ver offered. Sturdily constructed. Originally
T the Armed Forces for aircraft spotting. This
model has two adjustments, one for altering the
magnification, and one for focusing. Dimensions,
2ft. long by 2hin. diameter. Made by W. OTT-
WAY, ENGLAND. PRICE: £l5.
This
have ei
used by
SIX-POWER ELBOW TELESCOPE
(As illustrated on right )
Ideal for use as a spotting Telescope, or whenever high or right-angle viewing is
desired. Also adaptable for telephoto work. It makes looking up or down easy, cuts
down eye-strain and fatigue. Can be easily mounted by means of tttree bolt holes in
the mounting place. Posting and Packing: 5/-. Interstate: 6/6. PRICE
£5
"THE ANGLER'S DREAM"
Three-piece Whip Aerials, the bigger brother of the two-piece
of which we have sold several thousand. These Whip
Aerials were originally manufactured as fishing rods, and
are so strong and pliable that the Government requisitioned
the whole output for use with radio equipment during the
war. Three 4ft. sections give 12ft. of super tempered tubular
steel. Two types available: —
American made, screw-in type, brand new. Per set
English slotted type. Per set
Can also be used for car or truck aerials.
Two-piece model, English slotted type
Packing and freight, all States, 5/- extra.
35/-
22/6
15/-
SPOTLIGHTS
R.A.A.T'. Signalling
Lamps. Ideal light-
weight spotlight. Com-
plete with twin
handles and
trigger operated
switch. sin. re-
flector. Can be
adapted for 6,
12 or 24 volts.
Price 30/-
Interstate S/6.
AX
D.C.—
CONVERTERS
Use standard electrical equipment wherever
you are. Rotary Converters will give you
230 volt A.C. from a 12 or 24 volt D.C. supply.
24/32 volt D.C. —
Output 240 volt A.C.; 85 watts
12 volt D.C. —
Output 240 volt A.C.; 85 watts
£lO/19/6
£l4/19/6
BATTERIES
Lightweight model (as
illustrated). 2 volt 20 amp.
hours. In bakelite case
7in. by 3in. by 2i|in.
Weight 321 b. Ideal for
model aeroplanes.
Price 10/- ea.
Larger model, suitable for
caravan lighting, etc. In
a sturdy metal case.
American made. 24 volt
11 ■ amp. hours.'
Price £l/19/6
FLYING GOGGLES
These Goggles
were manufac-
tured to a par-
ticularly high
standard re-
quired by the
Air Forces.
Type Mark
IVB. Complete
with adjust-
able sun visor. Ideally suitable for motor
cyclists, tractor and truck drivers and
racing motorists.
PRICE 17/6 pr.
Postage and Packing-4/-. Interstate 6/6.
STOP PRESS BARGAINS!!
$
$
5»
SHAVER CONVERTERS. Use your electric razor every-
where, in caravans, car or launch, by means of a Waltham
Shaver Converter. Will operate from 12, 24 or 32 volts,
giving an output of 230 volts. Neatly constructed self-
contained unit in metal case, fitted with flush mounted
standard three-pin socket. These are also ideally suitable
for use on outback stations where 24 or 32 volt home
lighting plants operate. Posting and Packing; 6/-.
.Interstate: 8/6.
“MORSE” BUZZER SETS. Consisting of buzzer and
lamp. Fitted into a compact wooden box, dimensions Bin.
by sin. by 2in. Can he operated by Morse Key from two
torch batteries. Ideal for Scout Troops and amateur radio
enthusiasts. Postage and Packing: 3/-. Interstate: 4/-.
MOTOR GENERATORS. Hand crank Motor Generator.
American made, Type GN-35. Can be used to_ operate as
a 6 to 12 volt Electric Motor without alteration. Final
drive through reduction gear 200 r.p.m., drawing 5 amps
approx. Ideally suitable as driving motor for trawling
in small boats on rivers or lakes, duck shooting, etc.
Generator rating output: 10 volts at 1.25 amps; 400 volt
at 0.7 amps.
STETHOSCOPES. Engine Knock Stethoscopes,_ for locat-
ing engine knocks and faults by sound. Amplifies sound
for locating faulty valves, piston slap, bearing knocks ana
other engine faults. Postage and Packing: 4/-.
Interstate: 6/-.
£5/19/6
19/6
£2/10/-
£2/10/
WHEN
COVER
GOODS ARE TO BE FORWARDED BY RAID PLEASE ADD 5/- TO
PACKING AND DELIVERY TO RAILHEAD. PLEASE ADVISE
NEAREST ATTENDED STATION. SORRY, NO C.O.D.
OPEN SATURDAY MORNING D TILE 13 NOON.
Prismatic Pocket
COMPASSES
Ideal for hikers and Boy
Scouts. Not a toy, but a
precision instrument and
thoroughly reliable. These
Compasses have been
standard Army equipment
for the past fifty years.
They are also suitable for
Surveyors, for fishermen
and for taking bearings.
Sturdily built in solid
brass case, fitted with a
specially ground viewing
prism and hair line. Cali-
brated in 3CO degrees. Can
be supplied in two types
—either liquid damped or
dry card.
DRY CARD MODEL:
Price £6/10/-
LIQUID DAMPED:'
Price £l4/10/-
Postage & Packing: 3/6.
Interstate: 4/6.
m


©
POST-HOLE DIGGER
twii wp’mm
hy
WESTERN IMPLEMENT CO. LTD.
The Company is well known to you all as a pioneer in
the field of rock-boring post-hole diggers. By its sincere
efforts, truth in advertising and its service, the Company
has made popular post-hole diggers capable of penetrat-
ing rock and concrere. It has always acted on the guaran-
tee that the purchaser will get his money back if the
implement will not do what is claimed for it. Our slogan
6 No bore—No buy 9
The Company now presents without hesitation, and under
the same guarantee
The ei ßochtnaster"
ROCK-BORING POST-HOLE DIGGERS.
A Digger so far advanced that it
could only have been designed by a
Company with experience and prac-
tical knowledge gained over years.
® GEARS RUN IN SEPARATE OIL BATH.
• SELF-OILING MAIN SHAFT.
9 2-STAGE AND 8-POINT CUTTER TO
OFFSET SHOCK.
9 FRICTION RELEASE CLUTCH—MEANS
SAFETY FIRST.
• DESIGNED TO MINIMISE BREAKAGES
AND WEAR.
Sole Distributors:
WESTERN IMPLEMENT
CO., LTD.
The “Rockmaster” has no connection with any
other make of post-hole digger.
974 PORT ROAD, WQODVILLE, S.A.
Business hours,
Phone:
M 6258.
After hours,
C. H. Lines.
ML6357.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCIIOOE situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established J&ux in Reign of,
George 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
( England )
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Irish Oafs from Ugly Gully
by GAVIN
GASEY
Everybody knew there
were lots of Irish up at
Ugly Gully, but nobody
imagined there were so
many until they invaded the
town. Nobody guessed, either,
that, in comparison with the
Ugly Gully Irish, ordinary Irish,
home-bred or overseas, belonged
to a retiring, self-effacing, timid
race of men.
When the Ugly Gully Irish
came down from the north for
the St. Patrick’s Day sports they
were in it to win it, and they
played hell. Before that, they
sent down a small deputation to
lodge their entries, and like the
many who were to follow them
the first few didn’t seem to think
much of our small city or any-
thing in it, except perhaps the
girls.
They arrived in a four-cylinder
car labelled Dodge Brothers, but
it looked far too old for any of
the brothers to have made it, and
it was probably the creation of
some remote Dodge ancestor.
Even while its worn king-pins
were waving its front wheels
along the main street for the first
time the younger Irish among
the ten or so who were crowded
into it seemed impressed by our
girls.
“Didja pipe that one, Pat?”
yelled a ginger-headed youth,
thus proving that at least the
younger Irish spoke Australian.
“What’s wrong with ’er?”
As a matter of fact, it was only
little Mamie Phipps, who works
for one of the chemists, out on
an errand, and there was nothing
wrong with her except that she
had taken the precepts of
Hollywood and the advertise-
ments of foundation-garment
manufacturers too seriously.
Consequently she was wearing a
brassiere which performed its
tasks of uplifting and separating
somewhat too spectacularly.
No doubt this rather
startling to the Ugly Gully Irish,
whose women wore clothes made
out of hessian, old sample-bags
and filterpress cloth. They were
short of women in the Gully,
anyway, because of a habit the
male elders had of shooting guns
at suitors until their daughters
were too old to be much use to
either parent or husband.
To tell the truth, Ugly Gully
was a place where the Irish
stayed on out of sheer obstinacy.
Everybody else had left in disgust
just before the beginning of this
century, so the Irish reckoned
the others were a bunch of squibs
and quitters, and stopped where
they were, just to be different.
In the course of showing their
tenacity and determination in a
place where there was no gold
except in the sky at sunset, they
had hard times, and they
developed some interesting varia-
tions of traditional Irish dishes.
The ancestral stew, they claimed,
was much improved by making
it out of yams, blackboy-hearts,
and prime billygoats, and corned
goanna with saltbush was
reckoned at least as good as any
beef-and-cabbage arrangement.
Down in town we were
inclined to think them backward,
but the deputation soon made it
clear that that was nothing to
what they thought about us.
They came in with their elbows,
knees and chins sticking out, and
while the one who could write
filled-in the entry-forms most of
the others glanced around the
St. Patrick’s Day sports-office
with cold, angry, suspicious eyes
and said nothing.
"OUT after a while a very old
one, who still had some of
the brogue, said to Moriarty,
the St. Patrick’s Day sports-
secretary, “We seen what youse
call d’ shports-ground, cornin’
in.”
“Nice ground, isn’t it?” said
Moriarty. “Be in the pink of
condition by the day, too.”
“Not what we’re used to,”
complained the Ugly w Gully
Irishman.
“I suppose not.”- Moriarty
was proud but not patronising.
“You’re in for a treat, though.
Running on that turf’ll 1 put
new spring in the legs of your
boys, and the cyclists’ll hit real
speed on our banked concrete
track.” *
“Concrete!” the old man
spat. “There’d be no concrete
in th’ world as hard an’ smooth
as th’ naked earth round Ugly
Gully. I’ve seventy-nine worn-
out picks that will vouch for it.”
“Turf!” snorted one of the
younger ones. “We run across
gibber plains and double-gee
flats, at the gully. Our races are
for men with soles to their feet
and muscles in their calves.”
Moriarty loved his sports-
ground, and he turned a little
nasty. “I s’pose you’ve a fine
grandstand up there, too?” he
asked nastily.
The most dangerous-looking
of all the Irish came forward and
placed his nose a quarter of an
inch from the secretary’s. He
ground his teeth, and his eyes
flashed like ice under lightning.
He said, “We don’t need no
grandstand. A natural ample-
theatre, that’s what our ground
is—a natural ample-theatre,
see?”
“We breed men,” said the old
fellow, with a sort of dreamy
ferocity. “We sprang from the
heroes and the poets of Ireland.”
“Bah! ” bawled Moriarty, after
some gulps in search of better
words.
“We’re not ones for the parch-
ment and the quill,” one of the
young ones told him. “We
hammer out our ballads on the
faces of them we hate, with
knuckles as hard as th’ bedrock
in Skinny Mick O’Shannon’s
shaft.”
An ugly situation seemed likely
to develop, for Moriarty himself
is the sort of Irish that would
be likely to be at home at Ugly
Gully, but the one of the visitors
who could read and write had
been examining the forms as he
filled them in, and he let out a
startled bellow.
“Stop, boys!” roared the Ugly
Gully scholar. “It says somethin’
here about abusing or assaulting
an official meanin’ instant dis-
qualification. I think it’d apply
if you killed this feller.”
The Irish held back,
mumbling and snorting, and one
of them snarled at Moriarty,
“Wud that mean jist on th’ day
of the sports, or any day?”
“It means any day, but I’ll
waive me rights,” roared
Moriarty, waving his fists and
jumping up and down. “Come
on outside, y’ mongrels, an’ I’ll
deal with y’ one at a time.”
The Irish became silent, star-
ing at him with bleak suspicion.
As their representative signed the
last of his forms on their behalf
they tugged their cuffs down
around their wrists again,
straightened their green, knitted
neckties and started to file. out.
“The back way! ” Moriarty
seethed at them. “We can’t fight
in the middle of the main street.
Out the back way, you mugs.”
But they continued to file
silently past him, and when the
old man who had first spoken
came level he stopped for a
moment, and gave the secretary
a long, suspicious look.
“We’ll take no rishksh,” he
announced. “How are we to
know it’s no trick? Perhaps
ye’d let us kill yez, just t’ dis-
qualify all our entries, an’ rob
the Gully o’ the rightful honor of
winnin’ ivery event at the sports.
We’ll not risk it, till after.”
When they’d gone Moriarty
sat down and mopped his neck
with his handkerchief. Sacred
land of me ancestors! he
thought. Sprung from the heroes
and poets! he told himself. More
likely descended from the snakes
St. Patrick cleared out of the
place, he concluded.
AFTER that, for the couple of
weeks until St. Patrick’s Day,
he forgot about the Ugly Gully
Irish. He had more to do than
think about them, with training
in full swing on the sports-
ground, and the taxation people
on his back, as usual, and the
ground-stall demanding more
money, as usual, and all the rest
of it much as usual. Moriarty
enjoyed it, really, but he felt
that he could not have enjoyed it
more than once a year, and he
had to concentrate pretty hard
on what fun it was even to do
that.
When, at last, he sent the pro-
gramme to the printer, he remem-
bered the Ugly Gully Irish for a
few moments because there were
so. many entries from there, and
their first-names all seemed to be
Patrick Joseph or Michael
Patrick. With so many Kelly’s
and O’Flaherty’s and Murphy’s
in the district this was con-
fusing, and he shuddered a
little when he found Michael
Patrick O’Shaunessy in the
professional cycle - race, the
under - ten twenty - five yards,
the married-women’s race and the
event for old-timers more than
seventy.
Moriarty, being Irish enough
for an Australian himself, quite
understood that at Ugly Gully
there would be Big Mick and
Little Mick O’Shaunessy, and
probably Fat Mick and Bellow-
ing Mick and Fighting Mick and
Singing Mick and Mick the
Gouger. But none, he thought,
would be eligible for the married-
wonFien’s race.
After some thought he
cautiously inserted the title
“Mrs.” in front of this entry,'
and he turned out to be right, the
Ugly Gully scribe having for-
gotten the formality when fill-
ing-in the form for the spouse of
Frogfoot Mick O’Shaunessy, the
man with no toes who said he*
didn’t need them as long as he f
had knuckles.
Anyway, a few days before St.
Patrick’s the Ugly Gully Irish
started to drift into town in
earnest, and after the first lot
arrived in a camel-wagon that
had proved faster than any of the
Ugly Gully automobiles the
police-inspector sent an urgent
telegram to the city for
emergency reinforcements. Not
that Inspector O’Doyle was
unsympathetic to the Irish, or
anything less than a great patron
of the St. Patrick’s Day sports.
But this sort of Irish was a new
sort, to him. Maybe their eyes
could twinkle,, as Irish eyes
should often, but they never did
at a policeman and almost never,
it seemed, at anybody of the male
sex.
The Ugly Gully influx pro-
duced crime-wave to a pattern.
Nothing nasty or sordid, just
good, clean fighting, and it was
nothing more than bad luck if a
few plateglass shop-windows
were broken in the process, or if
occasionally a man dazed
through repeated blows about
the head and ears from the
clenched fists of an opponent
staggered out of a mob and mis-
takenly flattened an innocent
bystander.
Inspector O’Doyle understood
all theSe things, but he felt
heavily the responsibility to
preserve some traces of the town,
even if only enough for the
archaeologists of the future. He
got his reinforcements, and told
them feelingly that the only way
to deal with any Irish when they
were in anger was to hit them
hard with something heavy, and
the only way to handle the Ugly
Gully Irish was to hit them
repeatedly, until not even an
eyelid flickered.
I\/fORIARTY had “waived his
■*■*-*- rights” as an official often
enough after a stirring couple of
days to have a limp, a shiner,
and a top-lip that stuck out
(<Continued on page 30)


Aviation-medicine's Protective Job
The Man In the Jet
By JACK LUSBY
Jet-pilots breathe it from the
ground up. There’s a problem
when a pilot bails-out a long
way above life-level —even with
his ’chute closed he can only
fall at about 120 m.p.h. But
there’s an ejection device now
that feeds him oxygen during
his fall, and automatically opens
his ’chute at a safe level.
As protection against “G”
there have been G-suits since the
last big war, and they’ve been
improved. G-suits restrict the
flow of blood away from the
head in manoeuvring, enabling
the pilot to retain his vision. A
better G-suit enables a pilot to
turn in a smaller radius-
important in air-fighting.
Another way to beat “G” is to
seat the pilot in a more nearly
prone position. A man can
withstand a very great amount
of “G” if he can fly his plane
lying down. Then the blood
tries to move across his body,
and doesn’t get far. They’re
having a crack at solving it that
way. Some English fighters
used to have “G-pedals” a few
inches above the normal rudder-
pedals, so that the pilot could
raise his legs a bit and take a
little more “G.”
To help-up in low pressures
there’s a “semi-pressure” suit
designed to keep some of a
man’s normal atmosphere with
him. This is in case enemy fire
holes his plane and unpressurises
it.
But protective clothing carries
its own problems. It’s bulky and
uncomfortable. A pilot leaves
the ground in a lather of pers-
piration, which makes him un-
comfortable ; discomfort affects
efficiency. This isn’t advocating
an armchair ride ; no jet-fighter
pilot’s going to get that. But if
unnecessary distractions can be
removed, his mind will be more
on the job.
To dispense altogether with
the pilot’s unwieldy wardrobe
of undersuit, G-suit, pressure-
suit, oxygen-mask, Mae West
and parachute, he would have
to fly in a bubble or capsule of
his natural atmosphere and
climate. He would fly in a
nearly prone attitude and have
slight G-protection. Though
forming the cockpit of his plane,
the capsule could be ejected in
emergency, pilot, atmosphere
and all. Its own ’chute would
bring it down. The capsule
would float should it land on
the sea, and would carry pro-
visions for the pilot’s survival.
The atmosphere-capsule is
considered the ideal in protec-
tion and comfort. Both
M.Os. and pilots at William-
town are aviation - medicine
enthusiasts, from different view-
points—protector and protectee.
Both feel that the capsule is the
answer, until now-unknown
factors come into aviation.
Critics say “If a bullet pierces
the capsule the pilot will die.”
The answer to that is that the
pilot must look on the capsule
as his own skin. If it’s hit, he’s
hit. In any case, a cannon-shell
piercing the capsule would prob-
ably strike the pilot. When
somebody discovers a means of
absolute protection there’ll be no
more wars.
Regarding discomfort caused
on the ground by hanging about
in heavy G-suits and the like:
in Darwin during the Jap war,
pilots on stand-by waited in an
air-conditioned room to prevent
them melting to grease-spots
before take-off when using
G-suits.
A G-medicine conversation-
piece at Williamtown:
Medical student: Why not
THESE notes are the result
of talks at Williamtown
R.A.A.F. Station with the
Senior Medical Officer and
experienced jet-fighter pilots,
and by getting the reactions of
pilots comparatively new to jet-
flying.
Necessarily, aviation-medicine
trails behind the evolution of the
aeroplane: until man’s reaction
to greater speeds, heights and
manoeuvrability is observed,
medicine can’t take steps to pro-
tect him. Protection is the big
problem, and with jets it’s a
tough one.
No matter how much faster
and higher planes may go, and
no matter how much greater
become the strains they impose,
the human element is constant,
and can’t be improved. Man,
by and large, hasn’t altered
much over a few thousands of
years. The aeroplane has come
from ground to sound in a mere
50. And it’s headed immensely
higher and faster.
During World War II it was
discovered pretty exactly what
a fighter-pilot could “take” un-
protected against lack of oxygen,
against “bends” at heights of
37,000 ft. to 40,000 ft., and against
“G,” or centrifugal force,
during severe manoeuvring.
Decompression-chambers, in
which pilots were accustomed to
height conditions, proved that
man dies fairly quickly without
oxygen above 25,000 ft. It was
discovered that about 25 per
cent, of air-crew were not dis-
tressed by “bends” above
37,000 ft. and could carry on
efficiently for a reasonable time.
Another 25 per cent, could carry
on with diljiculty. “Bends”
made the other 50 per cent,
ineffective.
“Bends” are cramps caused
by the forming of nitrogen
bubbles in the bloodstream in
low atmospheric pressures above
about 37,000 ft. Breathing arti-
ficial oxygen doesn’t prevent
this. Matter of pressure. Deep-
sea the same trouble.
+ 4-
Swinging a billy of tea
around explains “G.” The tea
stays in. If you could swing
hard enough the bottom of the
billy would fly out and you’d
lose the brew. These days pilots
can be swung hard enough.
That’s the “G” problem—how
can the pilot swung round
hard and still keep his tea, or
blood, up around his eyes so he
doesn’t black-out.
It’s known that a pilot blacks-
out at about 4G, when he’s
pressing on his seat with four
times his normal weight. He’s
conscious, but blind, so
temporarily ineffective.
The opposite effect, when he’s
swung with his head on the out-
side of the turn, is a red-out, or
rush of blood to the head, and
does him no good whatever.
Fortunately, this doesn’t happen
often.
All these human limitations
are known. But the pilot now
must operate far beyond these
limits. He’s got to be kept in
business under increasing strains.
So long as he’s protected against
them, he and his jet are protect-
ing their country. So aviation-
medicine’s on its toes. With a
furrowed brow.
The matter of oxygen is
pretty straightforward: the pilot
must simply carry enough, like
engine-fuel. In the air it’s his
life-blood. And he’s got to use
plenty of it. Keeps him warm,
alert, and keeps his vision up to
scratch.
devise a collar which during a
steep turn would press on the
carotid artery [in the throat] for
four or five seconds, thus keep-
ing the pilot’s blood in his head
and enabling him to see during
the turn?
M. 0.: That would also pre-
vent oxygen reaching the blood
in his head. Nitrogen would
quickly predominate he’d
really pass out.
+ +
Ejection-seats impose violent
“G” on the pilot. At speeds
where, an ordinary bale-out is
impossible the pilot releases his
seat from the plane and is
rocketed, seat and all, far
enough out of the cockpit to
miss being plastered against the
jet’s characteristic high tail. This
at several hundred m.p.h. Head
held back and spine straight, he
should be able to take it. Head
forward when it happens, he’ll
most likely break his neck.
One pilot now at Williamtown
has been “ejected.” There have
been cases where pilots have
accidentally ejected themselves
on the ground and been flung
40ft. into the air with unfor-
tunate results. It’s not a thing
to be used carelessly. Lessons
learned during ejection-seat
research may well come in
handy in determining how fast
a human-being can be acceler-
ated —outer space being the next
target.
In air-fighting the increasing
speed of jets and the limited
speed of human reflexes have
already forced changes in tac-
tics. Head-on attacks are out;
with the combined speeds a
pilot’s target would be approach-
ing at something over 1000
m.p.h. He’d be lucky to see it,
let alone get a shot in! Almost
the same goes for front-quarter
attacks, even fighter v. bomber.
Jets can’t break away after
an attack like Spits or P.4o’s.
And even those doughty antiques
attacked head-on mainly as a
scare-and-scatter tactic. A pilot’s
reflexes are only on top now
in a rear-quarter or astern
attack, where the closing speed
can be reduced to something
reasonable.
The cockpit of a jet in flight
is, on first experience, uncannily
quiet. There seems to be no
noise-problem so far as the pilot
is concerned. There is a definite
noise-problem with ground-staff,
continually exposed to the pierc*
ing whine of jet-motors revving
up, and the medical men are
working on it.
Diet is an important factor in
high-altitude flying. If a man
has gas in his tummy at low
external pressures he’ll swell up
like a poisoned pup. Variations
in diet are being tried out, and
results noted.
Asked an experienced medical
man if he had noted signs of
increasing strain in pilots as
the speed- and height-graphs
climbed the wall.
“Yes,” he said.
“Then a limit must be
reached?”
“Aviation-medicine, by pro-
tecting the pilot, as fast as it
solves new problems, hopes to
extend that limit as far as
possible.”
Asked the same question, an
experienced jet-pilot, who has
commanded a jet-squadron in
action, was noncommittal.
Asked about the qualities
required in a jet-pilot, a senior
officer said: “Because of the
very great cost of his equipment,
the traditional dash and arro-
gance of the fighter-pilot should
be tempered with greater quali-
ties of responsibility when he’s
entrusted with a jet.”
The experienced jet-pilot
said: “But we still want the
dash and arrogance.”
+ ■ +
“We love flying ’em!” said
the youngsters who were learn-
ing to fight in the jets.
So there you are. To use a
phrase from the English radio-
show, “Life moves too fast, Jim
Edwards! ”
THE ATMOSPHERE-CAPSULE IDEA


THE
, UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. 4- VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROSS STUART formerly of 3 Byrnes
Avenue Neutral Bay. —TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY FLORENCE STUART has
filed a Petition No. 1362 of 1953 for
Divorce on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 4th day of May 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN WARREN BINNEA,
Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO COLIN VINCENT ROSS JOSEPH-
SON formerly of 48 Montgomery Street
Kogarah. TAKE NOTICE that
ELEANOR CORAL JOSEPHSON has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 1093 of
1954 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 4th day of May 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN WARREN BINNEY,
Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
was called upon to concede 481 b.
to the speedy Davout Hua, who
led all the way. Probably
Carioca is “over the hill,” as far
as big weights are concerned.
Despite his failure the stable
intends to bring Carioca to
Sydney for the autumn meetings.
He will have to improve sharply
to down the younger and
stronger opposition. Carioca
was the “glamor horse” of
Sydney a short white ago, but
there comes a time, there comes
a time.
• • • •
Beni Mazar, winner of the
Doomben Juvenile, was the first
progeny of Nilo (imp.) paraded
at Randwick yearling-sales last
Easter and was bought by Bris-
bane owner S, D. C. Rushbrook
for 550gns. The filly was one
of the cheaper Nilos at the sate,
but has proved a bargain. She
is a half-sister to Magic Swell,
a good winner on Brisbane
tracks. Her dam, Victrix, was
a speedy two-year-old and won
races at Randwick and Moore-
field. Victrix is by Denis Boy
(imp.) from Leila Vale, a well-
performed mare by Heroic.
Leila Vale, won, among other
races, the AJ.C. Gimcrack
Stakes and the Adrian Knox
Stakes. As Beni Mazar traces
back to Machine Gun she has a
speedy background.
Prince Nilo, stylish winner of
a Canterbury Two-year-old, for
which he was backed down from
12’s to 9 to 2, and earned a
£427 stake, failed to reach the
reserve at the Randwick year-
ling-sales last year and was passed
in. Mrs. A. C. Nagel subse-
quently paid the best part of
3000 gns. for him. Prince Nilo’s
first win was on a heavy track.
A brother to Lovely Day and
half-brother to Commendable,
the Nilo (imp.) youngster is
related to Trivalve, who won
both Derbies and the Melbourne
Cup in 1927. Prince Nilo’s dam,
Laudable, is by Law Maker
(imp.) from Lovable (half-sister
to Trivalve) by Gilt Edge.
Maiden horses will have better
chances of breaking into the
winning-list under the S.T.C.
revised conditions for Gradua-
tion Stakes. The new weights
will be: Transition horses 8.9,
novices 8.3, maidens (as before)
7.7. Existing 51b. allowance to
fillies and mares will remain.
Some owners and trainers favor
replacement of these races with
races as staged by former A!R.C.
clubs, when horses raced first in
maiden company and progressive
wins took them through novice,
encourage, trial and apprdved
class. But apart from nobody
wanting the bad old days back,
the fact is the S.T.C. is out to
help the small men and the
growlers mostly growl for growl-
ing’s sake.
Interest will centre in the per-
formance of the grey three-year-
old colt El Carretero in the Lud-
denham Graduation Stakes at
Warwick Farm this Saturday
because he is one of the popular
picks for the Doncaster and has
had a little backing for the
Sydney Cup. El Carretero has
7.11 in the big mile and 7.7 in
the Cup. He doesn’t at this stage
look a likely Cup prospect,
because the two-miles might be
beyond him. Still, his breeding-
lines reveal close relationship to
San Martin, a winner of the
V.R.C. Derby. He hasn’t done
much racing, but at two years
Sydney punters, when J.
Pluvius scratched all Sydney rac-
ing, turned to Moonee Valley. It
was still a washout. After the
first winner, Chetnik, had started
favorite at 7 to 4, five outsiders
won in a row at from 12’s to
40’s.
Prince Cortauld, going out hot
favorite for the Alister Clark
Stakes at the Valley, could run
only sixth. Sunday writers
rushed for their “alibi-books,”
but the jockey, Sellwood,
wouldn’t descend to excuses,
except to say that P.C. has run
badly only twice —and both
times at Moonee Valley. Since
horses are as sensitive as humans
to influences, who knows but
that something on the course or
its surroundings upset this one?
He couldn’t tell anyone about
it; but he won easily at Flem-
ington a week earlier. .
In winning his first racp at
Moonee Valley two-year-old
Crassus returned some of the
1200gns. paid for him as a
yearling. He’s another of the
successful progeny of Nilo (imp.)
and was foaled at Garden Reach
stud, at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.),
the property of the Cricks.
Crassus is a half-brother to
several winners, including Ben
Crag, Fair Vista and Fair Peter.
His dam, Fair Melanie, is by
Melfort (imp.) from Lady
Garloch by Mountain King.
Sasanof, 1916 Melbourne Cup
winner, figures in the pedigree ;
Sasanof won £20,770 in stakes
from 20 firsts and minor platings.
• • • *
Melbourne’s autumn racing is
in its stride. On Saturday is the
opening of the Caulfield carnival,
when the principal races are the
£3OOO Oakleigh Plate, the £2500
St. George Stakes (w.f.a.), and
the Teppo and Trenton Stakes.
Lastnamed are for two-year-olds,
the Teppo for fillies and the
Trenton for colts and geldings.
Oakleigh Plate acceptors were
not declared when this was
written. Gay Vista’s with-
drawal makes the race more
open. Sydney’s prospects of
lifting the big money appear
reasonably bright with Indian
Empire ready to show best
sprinting-form. On 8.2 he seems
nicely placed and will be ridden
by N. Sellwood. Coulper, who
formerly raced in Sydney but
has done well in Melbourne,
should take beating despite his
9.5. Other Melbourne-trained
gallopers likely to figure in the
finish include Beau Chief, Sir
Isfahan, Clear Springs, and
Cowboy Bill.
• • • •
Sir Isfahan, having his third
crack at the Oakleigh Plate, was
second in 1953 and last year.
This year he has 8.12. When
second to Birdwood last year
he carried 8.10 and two years
ago had 8.6 when runner-up to
Winlake. Pamelus won the 1938
Oakleigh with 9.11 and in the
following two years was second
to Aurie’s Star and Unishak
respectively. Winlake was run-
ner-up to Regal Scout in 1951
and won in 1953.
Despite his welter weight of
10.7 Carioca was made a short-
priced favorite for the Doomben
Flying, but weight stops the best
and he missed a place. Carioca
won at Rosehill and was runner-
up to Pride of Egypt in the Can-
terbury Guineas this season. He
then failed in the Rosehill
Guineas and in the A.J.C. Derby.
In Sydney from New Zealand
is the throe-year-old colt Magic
Charm, to be trained at Rand-
wick by M. McCarten. He was
a 1200gns. yearling and is by
Pherozshah (imp.) from Eastern
Charm by Nizami (imp.). A
winner of the Dunedin Guineas,
he is raced by John Grigg, a
committeeman of the Canterbury
(N.Z.) Jockey Club. Eastern
Charm is a half-sister to Dalray,
a winner of the Melbourne Cup
and £39,329 in stakes. Magic
Carpet is a half-brother jby
Gabador (imp.) to Brisbane
youngster French Charm.
In the Australian Cup, Vic-
toria’s “bush chafnpion” Cristoni
has only 7.4 to carry, lib. above
the limit. Cristoni’s win in
Moonee Valley’s Sydenham Trial
(13 furlongs) with 8.7 points to
him being a real prospect,
because he had also won at his
prior half-dozen starts in the
country. He went to the front
half a mile from the winning-post
“ Bull's-eye , Bert.”
at the Valley and gave nothing
else a chance.
First, second and fourth place-
getters in the Inter-Dominion
final in Auckland (N.Z.) have
accepted £5OO to race at Sydney's
Easter trotting carnival. They
are Tactician, Johnnie Globe
and Caduceus. Taking the lead
when Caduceus broke under
pressure, Tactician won the
final by a head from fast-
finishing Johnnie Globe. The
latter had a hard run and
appeared unlucky. He ran a
scintillating last half of 57f.
Ribands against lost ground at
the mark and finished eighth.
-I- 4-
“Glum”: Pity, no cricket!
How Charles Fortune would
have revelled in the conditions
.... “a flock of seagulls float
serenely through the troubled
skies and now take comfortable
recess in the outer ground, their
raucous cries a fitting orchestra-
tion to the scene. Lovely,
Arthur?” “Rather!”
“Bosey”: In Cricket on the
Brain (B. 16/2/’55) there’s also
a sling-off at the expense of
Lancashire, which around that
time (1905) was apparently
“importing” quite a few players.
“Lancashire County Club: home
of foreign refugees ; only quali-
fication for membership, birth
in another country than Eng-
land ; motto, lei on parle
frangais,” etc. Nowadays there’s
still an influx to the Lancashire
League, but there’s only one
“foreigner” in the county side —
former N.S.W. State all-rounder
and Soccer goalkeeper Ken
Grieves, who’s been with Lan-
cashire since 1949. In 1953 he
topped the county’s batting
averages.
“Keima”:. The selectors did
unaccountable things in the old
days, too. When the 1890 side
for England was being picked, so
the story goes, there was a dead-
lock as to who should be sent as
second wicketkeeper. So K. E.
Burn, of Tasmania (still not-out,
92), was picked, because he was
“a good bat and not without skill
behind the stumps.” Half-way to
England and it came out that
Burn had never ’kept in his life!
N.S.W.’s win over the M.C.C.
was meritorious, but it should be
remembered that, for most of
N.S.W.’s second innings, the
M.C.C. had only two bowlers,
Bedser and Wardle, and that
Cowdrey was a sick lad when
he batted. Also meritorious was
Miller’s “aggressive” captaincy,
praised by the critics. On this
score, Miller’s “daring” closure
may not have been so highly
commended had N.S.W. lost the
game; a captain’s decisions, as
Hutton, for one, well knows, are
right and applauded only when
his team wins.
* • • *
“C.A.A.”: Geff Noblet
(former S. Australian and Test
lefthand bowler), Jack Wilson
(S.A. lefthander) and youngsters
Philpott and Crawford (N.S.W.)
are the latest recruits to
Lancashire League cricket.
Noblet was never selected
for an English tour, although
deemed good enough to go
to South Africa in 1949,
and was mainly responsible for
his State winning the Sheffield
Shield in 1952-53. Twenty Aus-
tralian players have gone to
English professional cricket in
the past 10 years, of which seven
(Lindwall, McCool, K. Archer,
Tribe, Dooland, Noblet and
Burke) had reached Test status.
Almost every touring bunch of
cricketers has at least one player
who fails completely. One or
two of the present English
trippers haven’t done much, but
the complete flop has been the
burly Yorkshire left-hander,
Wilson, who made 72 against the
“Combined XI” in Perth last
October and has hardly reached
double-figures since. The 1952-
53 S’Africans likewise “carried”
Norton. Yet such batsmen, to
have been chosen in a represen-
tative side, must rank among the
best eight or nine in their
country!
Some prolific wicket-takers in
England have often failed in
Australia. Seems to apply in
particular to spin-bowlers—
“Tich” Freeman (1924-25 and
1928-29), Mitchell (1932-33) and
Hollies (1950-51) all failed to
repeat their English successes out
here. Hutton’s attack, based on
speed, not spin, has had no
noticeable failures except,
perhaps, McConnon, who was
afflicted by injuries and ills.
Such as Tyson and Statham have
turned out top-notchers.
“Mid-on”: On the third day
of the M.C.C.-N.S.W. game, the
Englishman Wilson, fielding on
the fence in front of the Hill, was
called on to settle an argument
whether or not Archie Jackson
had ever faced Larwood in Tests.
(He had, of course; Larwood
bowled in the four Tests, two in
1928-29 and two in 1930, in
which Jackson played against
England.)
• • • •
“Dalyston”: The Saturday
before Victorian country-week
cricket began, Gerry Parker, of
Wonthaggi, made 225 not-out in
a local game. He was duly
picked to represent Wonthaggi
district in the country matches—
as a bowler!
♦ * *
Some noteworthy efforts at
the Australian swimming cham-
pionships in Adelaide: Murray
Rose winning four titles from
four starts —two of them, 110yds.
junior freestyle and the senior
440yds. freestyle, within an hour
(added to which he set a new
Australian 880yds. time); Jon
Henricks taking-out his third
Australian 110yds. freestyle title,
and also winning the 440yds.
medley ; Terry Gathercole, from
West Wyalong (N.S.W.), twice
(in a heat and in the final) break-
ing his own Australian record for
the 220yds. breaststroke —and in
the process setting new time for
the 110yds. as well; and Aus-
tralian junior surf-champion
Gary Winram winning the
1650yds. freestyle.
Among the girls, Victorian 13-
year-old Faith Leech became the
youngest ever to win the
women’s 110yds. freestyle (one
of her three title - wins);
Brisbane girl Jan Munro
broke the Australian record to
win the 110yds. butterfly (one of
her three wins); and another 13-
year-older, Pam Barton, of
N.S.W., entered for the event
“by accident,” made a new Aus-
tralian record for the 110yds.
junior butterfly.
• • • *
From the diving events, two
items: 16 - year - old Beverley
Tickle, of Sydney, youngest ever
to win the women’s high-tower
diving championship, chalking-
up the highest points tally ever
recorded in the event; and Vic-
torian Arthur Winther, winning
the junior men’s springboard in
such form (111 points; previous
record, 88) that he could develop
into a world-beater.
* * •
Out in the howling wilds
of Leichhardt Bert Hornby
(10.6!) met U.S. Negro Marshall
Clayton (10.4!) in a scheduled
12-rounder. It couldn’t be
called a classy scrap. Clayton
seemed to go easy early, and
then knocked Hornby for the full
count in round 10. Hornby has
won many fights at Leichhardt,
and is just back from a some-
what successful run in New
Zealand. These performances
should have readied him for
Clayton, and so it seemed for
six rounds. Then Clayton
released the brakes, Hornby was
sent floundering around the ring,
did not seem able to defend him-
self and Clayton connected with
almost every punch he let go.
The imported boxer did not exert
himself again until early in the
tenth, when a flurry of fists
knocked Hornby for the full
count.


storm. The sky was getting
overcast.
After lunch a utility going west
pulled up near by. I was feeling
shy after not having spoken to
anyone for a day, but the two
men in the utility stopped for a
chat. They said that Mr. Gurney,
from Eucla, would be bringing
some cattle in to Norseman in a
day or two, ans offered me some
buns which they had bought at
Ceduna, no doubt thinking I
looked hungry, and a glass of
wine from the Barossa vineyards.
When they had gone I became
restless ; and sat gazing sorrow-
fully at the fire, dropping round
stones on it now and then to hear
them crack, and I thought of all
those who had preceded me on
this road.
There is a story that in 1835
two boys accompanying a party
of sealers along the southern
coast, becoming disgusted with
the depravity and barbarity of
their companions, had managed
to get ashore, making their way
overland with the help of friendly
natives, as the report in the
“Perth Gazette” stated, appar-
ently oyer a distance of 1300
miles in 47 days to King
George’s Sound.
In the days of the goldrush
many men made the long journey
with bicycles, having to haul
their machines up cliff-faces at
times, and wheel them over
trackless sands, while many came
on foot, with their gear stowed
in wheelbarrows, or on their
backs —so many, in fact, that
their ranks came to be known
as “The Hobnailed Express.”
It seemed a whole lifetime
before a truck came in sight. It
was the Madura petrol-truck,
heading back to Perth, and driven
by a chap who lived in the street
next to my home in Subiaco.
He said that he would be return-
ing to Madura in a couple of
days, and suggested that I
should return with him to Norse-
man and wait for him there.
So I returned to Norseman,
and the people who had said
“Good-bye! ” said “Hullo! ”
again. This time I was
invited to stay with two
teachers from the local school,
in a flat which they shared with
Timmy, a battered dog. We
opened my 71b. bag of flour one
day to make pancakes, and
found that it contained more
weevils, moths in cocoons, cob-
webs and even grubs, than flour.
Once again my hosts were
pleasant, but once again I was
waiting.
There had been an accident in
one of the mines. A charge had
exploded several fracture-cases.
One man was killed and several
badly injured. The accident cast
gloom over the township.
One of the injured chaps was
talking to me. He said: “Funny
thing, only a few days before I
was saying to someone, every
time you go down, you take your
life in your hands. I said: ‘lf
anything happens to me, don’t
dig me too deep, I’ve spent
enough time underground. Just
leave a vent on top, and drop a
pipe down and keep me supplied
with beer and I’ll be happy.’ ”
There was a lot of drinking
after the accident, and men
toasted their less fortunate
comrades, and forgot their own
risks. But, then, there had been
a lot of drinking. before the
accident.
One of the pastimes in the bar
was the dart-game of “Hit this!’’
in which one player holds his
fingers on the dart-board while
the others aim at them.
One of my new acquaintances
was a chap from Newfoundland
who had just left his job on the
mine. He lived in a place
with filthy walls to greet
him in the morning, and
a worn suit and an old frying-
pan in his wardrobe. He was
going to Bullfinch to try his luck
and wanted me to go with him
for company.
Whenever I chanced to meet
him he was drunk, and several
times he missed the train he had
intended to catch. He didn’t
seem to care very much, and
once when I would have given
him a friendly lecture he closed
the subject: “What’s the use of
talking when you’re stony-broke
and walking!”
There are many like him in
mining-towns, with little to look
forward to when they are work-
ing and less when they are not.
When he had finished drinking
his train-fare I pretended for a
moment that I was Canon Collick
from the Old Camp, and said
good-bye to a pair of shoes,
slightly less battered than the
ones my friend was wearing,
enough to cover the train-fare
to Bullfinch for a cobber who
looked for once slightly sober.
I could not trace his quota-
tion. I have heard the words
echoed by men from farflung
places outback, but it isn’t known
to our University staffs and
librarians, and leaves me with
the rather sad feeling that those
who at times most aptly express
the thoughts of ordinary people
are not the “recognised poets.”
(To be continued)
Busybodies of Sundry Sorts
Beware of Experts!
By DOROTHY AUCHTERLONIE
THIS, we are constantly
being told, is the Age of
Experts. If we need docu-
mentary evidence, we
have only to glance round the
nearest magazine-stall.
We have experts to tell us how
to breathe, what to eat, how to
develop our muscles, what to
wear, what kind of houses we
ought to live in, how to furnish
them, how to make love, bring
up children, get on with our in-
laws, stay married, relax, live
longer, sleep better, clean our
teeth, our bowels, entertain our
friends and save our souls.
+ . +
In America, where expertry
is all-embracing, you can now
be certain of being buried by
experts, or so an advertisement
in a fashionable magazine
assured its readers recently.
The starkness of the advertise-
ment was mitigated by the usual
pleasing picture of the usual
beautiful girl, who was, oddly
enough, hurrying through a
graveyard ; it was raining heavily
in the picture and the girl—in a
very smart raincoat —was smiling
anxiously. There was a lot about
drainage in the caption, so it was
easy to see what she was anxious
about. . .
To be sure, we haven’t yet
seen a book on “How to Enjoy
Your Honeymoon,” but, no
doubt, that will come. There
is already one on how to enjoy
your baby.
Babies, of course, are a god-
send to the expert —they are so
satisfyingly unable to argue the
point. This inability probably
accounts in some degree for the
rich variety of opinions about
infant-welfare among experts in
this field.
Consider, for example, the
heresy that has infected the
austere doctrine of Sir Truby
King in the last few years. His
most sacred slogan, “Feed by the
clock,” has been brought into
some disrepute as a result of
daring experiments in England
and America. Indeed, one
expert openly stated that
mothers ought to be allowed
to feed their babi&s whenever
they cried in the night, and even
spoke tolerantly about the
practice of rocking infants to
sleep! This sounds suspiciously
like grandmother, though, of
course, she had only 11 children
and wasn’t an expert. ..
The question is, where do we
go from here? Back to the
clock, or forward to grand-
mother? It’s very puzzling for
mothers coming fresh to the
game.
Even more awe-inspiring than
the baby-expert, however, is the
popular psychologist.- And, if
anything, rather more dangerous.
For babies are notoriously tough
and resistant to propaganda,
while the defenceless adult, after
20 years of listening to radio-
serials and reading comic-strips,
is just so much clay in the hands.
+ +
This situation psychologists
have in gre&t measure helped to
bring about, and, as a profession,
they are not slow to follow up
its advantages. Not that other
professions are backward in
doing so ; but we are so used to
being treated as rather feeble-
minded children by the medical
profession that we hardly notice
it; and the world now regards it
as axiomatic that the peaceful
activities of ordinary people,
especially colored ones, should
not be allowed to interfere with
the experiments of a handful of
nuclear physicists. -
Most of us, however, need
doctors only occasionally, and
few of us ever meet nuclear
physicists face to face, whereas
it is becoming increasingly
difficult to avoid the ministrations
of the psychologist in everyday
life, particularly if we or our
children enjoy the privileges of
free,' secular and compulsory
education. Decisions are made
in this sphere which can and do
alter the whole course of a child’s
life.
Responsible people in Eng-
land and America are alive to
the dangers of this situation, but
in this country the prestige of the
educational psychologist is still
undisputed. Any attempt to
dispute it meets with speedy
resentment, summed-up in the
assertion (to quote one of these
experts) that “no one has any
right to comment on psychology
unless he is a professional student
of it, and has read the latest
books on the subject.”
The more one ponders this
astonishing statement, the more
it seems to be symptomatic of' a
growing and sinister mental
attitude all round. The statement
itself, moreover,- is based on a
large number of unwarrantable
assumptions. To mention only a
few of them:
(a) Only the specialist has the
right to comment on a given
subject.
(b) Only the specialist can
make a useful comment on a
given subject.
(c) One’s opinions, valid or
otherwise, depend on the read-
ing of books.
(d) A book written in 1954 is
ipso facto better than one written
in 1911, and both are better than
one composed but not written
down in, say, a.d. 29.
The first assumption is easily
disposed of by a reference to
history, which seems to show
that progress in any field has
usually been made by questioning
well-established opinions, often
those held by experts. The ques-
tions have not invariably been
asked by other experts. A
carpenter’s Son, for example,
paid heavily for challenging the
professional solidarity of a
certain group of religious experts.
On the whole, history has vindi-
cated His right to do so. Even
sceptics would hesitate to
maintain that He ought to have
left religion to the specialists.
Reference to history also
demonstrates the weakness of
the second assumption. Bertrand
Russell tells an anecdote which
illustrates it admirably. He
recalls that two famous
mathematicians he knew were
struggling one day with a
calculating - machine which
refused to work. After watching
the battle rage for some time,
the wife of one of them
remarked: “All it wants is a little
sewing-machine oil.” And it did.
Even housewives occasionally
have their uses.
The third assumption can be
countered with a question: Did
Freud formulate his contribu-
tion to psychology on the read-
ing of books, or on direct clinical
observation of his patients? To
bring the argument closer home,
is it altogether inconceivable that
aborigines, who have read few,
if any, books about Natural
Science, might have useful contri-
butions to make to the subject?
As for the fourth assumption,
it would appear from the more
recent writings of Jung and his
disciples that ancient; wisdom
is in for a new lease of life.
Religion now has the blessing of
the most up-to-date experts,
instead of being merely a matter
of atavism or infantile regression.
And not only religion in a vague
ethical sense, but some form of
orthodoxy is recommended:
“because going to church is good
for you.”
This is not the place to examine
the logical foundation of these
views, but it is interesting to
reflect that much the same
opinion was held more than 300
years ago by the eminent Dean
of St. Paul’s, Dr. Donne. He,
of course, was a mere clergyman,
and not entitled to hold views
about psychology.
Similar parallels can be found
further back still: it is not
impossible, for example, to
sum-up the whole of Adler’s
psychological position in one
phrase from the New Testament.
History is a chastening study.
One indeed suspects at times
that the experts are so busy
nowadays with the trees that they
have lost sight of the wood. In
which case the duty of keeping
the wood firmly in view is laid
upon the layman. It is his duty
to defend his right to comment
to the last breath, and the need
for defending it grows more
obvious every day. For, at every
point, the layman is becoming
more and more uncertain of
himself - a state of mind
certainly not discouraged by
those with vested interests in
uncertain states of mind.
Too often, when the layman
ventures an opinion he prefaces
it with an apologetic: “Of
course, you chaps know more
about it than I .do, but I still
think....” In the end, it is
hoped, he will cease to think, and
then life will be so much easier
for everybody, particularly for
the expert.
There will then be a select,
imposing and expensive
hierarchy of experts, supported
by a disciplined and docile laity.
The end of it all is intellectual
Fascism.
+ -F
The tendency is particularly
noticeable in this country in the
educational field, from which
parents, unfortunately, and the
rest of the laity have long ago
withdrawn. Every day a new
educational expert back from a
trip abroad trumpets a new
theory from the housetops and
a new batch of defenceless
children is mentally vivisected in
consequence.
Unhappily, the results become
apparent too long after the
experiment for the millstone to
be hung round, the appropriate
neck. Educational experts should
be required to wear a badge
bearing Montaigne’s famous
“Que sais-je ?" in large scarlet
letters.
The specialist is no doubt
clamoring at this point to state
that the comments of laymen are
for the most part based on misin-
formation and prejudice. This
is quite true, but is the layman
entirely to blame?
Too often, when he looks for
light, he finds a dark chaos.
When he asks for established
facts, relevant to his life as a
whole, in terms he can under-
stand, he finds too often that the
experts are offering him a set of
“facts” about which they are
constantly in dispute themselves,
or that what is not in dispute is
irrelevant, or so badly expressed
in such mysterious jargon that it
stands in need of further explana-
tion befoYe it can be used.
A cynic may be forgiven for
supposing that many specialists
have a vested interest in preserv-
ing their own mumbo-jumbo. It
can be used for two purposes:
to conceal the deficiencies in the
thinking of the man who uses it,
and to impress and mystify out-
siders in order to keep them in
a state of respectful awe, after
the fashion of the tribal
medicine-man.
No one will deny that great
areas of modem knowledge can
be understood only in technical
terms, but where the conclusions
of specialists impinge on the
thinking - processes of non-
specialists, it is vital to state
them in simple, unambiguous
terms, or to make an honest
attempt to do so.
Psychologists possess in a
marked degree all the defects
here mentioned, and two more
that are peculiarly their own.
The intimate and unholy alliance
between the psychologist and the
“educator” makes these two
defects even more dangerous
than they would otherwise be.
One is a_ missioning tendency
which distracts attention from
the most important business of
an activity claiming to be
scientific—the business of find-
ing facts and the testing of them
by experiment.
The second is bound qp with
the first, and consists in a certain
inability to continue questioning
with relentless objectivity what
appear to be the bases of their
thinking.
Hosts of psychologists are busy
eradicating neuroses and making
everybody nice and normal, or
“well-adjusted” to society, as the
phrase goes. Only a very few,
and those not the most vocal,
pause to consider what would
happen if nobody had any
neuroses. Only a few ask what
kind of society it is they are
inviting people to be well-
adjusted to, or whether it is
worth adjusting oneself to.
Were Christ and Buddha,
Socrates or St. Francis nice and
normal, or well-adjusted to the
society they lived in?
Psychology, like many other
branches of modern knowledge,
has too many technicians in pro-
portion to the number of its
philosophers. Philosophy, it
must be admitted, is not a
popular study nowadays, and
for the average person the
philosopher is rather a figure of
fun: an aged gentleman who
argues interminably about ques-
tions remote from life, who dis-
agrees with everyone else and
solves none of the problems he
raises. But we may yet have
reason to be grateful to the
philosopher. We may come
indeed to the stage when his
cracked voice will be the only
one raised in the wilderness.
As long as a philosopher exists
on earth, there will still be some-
one to call out “Yes, but ”
from the back of the hall. Or so
it seems to me. Though lam no
expert, least of all in philosophy.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months* subscription to “Tbe Bulletin,” to
be posted-weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or, N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
For Sale
TAIHOA, MT. IRVINE
ONE of the healthiest, most beautiful
spots in the Blue Mountains. Very quietly
situated 65 miles from Sydney. (Now
in use as a Guest House.) Beautiful
country home with solid woodwork in all
rooms: sewered. Abundant spring water.
Separate cottage (now in use as a
children’s holiday resort) and 54 acres
of fertile volcanic soil, with avenues of
walnuts, chestnuts, poplars, suitable fat
lambs’ nursery, apples. Or will sell with
10 acres. 1 Price £15,000. Terms may
be arranged. Apply H. HAMILTON
MOORE & CO., Solicitors, 7 Wynyard
Street, Sydney. BX 3144.
CRONULLA (By the Sea)
THE “WESTELLA”
Perfect holiday accom. for 80 Guests. All
Rms. H. & C. and Inner-sprung Mattresses.
LICENSED DINING ROOM. Golf, Bowls,
Ballroom. Very near Surf and Electric
Trains. FISHING PARTIES AND PLEA-
SURE TRIPS IN OUR OWN LUXURY
CRUISER. IDEAL FOR HONEYMOONS.
Write for free and post free
Illustrated Booklet.
KINGSWAY, CRONULLA,
LB 5922.
Circular Chart! for ail typtt
of Recording Instruments
tor «np (Iw of MtcMiury
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • SpocUky
S
’»>« I
u J
,
jxamWs o'siiuwhf^u
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FORMOSA
Press comment on a Far East
nerve-point:
London “Spectator”: “Com-
munist China’s policy, reiterated
daily in terms of the utmost
violence by the Peking
propaganda-machine, is still to
reject with contempt the idea of
a de jure cease-fire, to continue
its bombardment of the off-shore
islands, and to threaten an assault
on Formosa itself. America’s
policy, developed by the treaty
with Chiang Kai-shek, clarified
by President Eisenhower, and
confirmed by subsequent resolu-
tions and official interpretations,
is to isolate Formosa and the
neighboring Pescadores from the
mainland, leave the question of
their future in abeyance, and
defend them against Communist
aggression. Not all the countries
of the British Commonwealth
will agree that this is a correct
policy, but there should be no
doubt about Britain’s support
of it.”
♦ * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “The claim
[by Peking, that the U.S. is an
aggressor against China, and that
any attempt to prevent the
Chinese Communist from eject-
ing Chiang Kai-shek from
Formosa is an interference in
China’s own internal affairs]
has no legal justification. It is
true that in the Cairo declara-
tion of 1943 the Powers said
that Formosa should be taken
away from Japan and returned
to China. After the war General
Chiang Kai-shek, who was theq
ruler of China, took de facto
possession of the island; but
under the Japanese Peace Treaty
of 1951, which deprived Japan
of Formosa, it was not given to
China. Since the Cairo declara-
tion was simply an announce-
ment of intent, conditional on the
circumstances of the time, and
since those circumstances had
radically changed before the
Peace Treaty was signed, the
declaration was not regarded as
binding in international law.
Today Formosa has not been
assigned to anyone by inter-
national treaty.”
* * *
Edinburgh "Scotsman”:
“While American firmness over
Formosa may save the peace,
wild ideas that war with Com-
munist China would be a picnic
are exceedingly dangerous,
because they tend to diminish
caution and restraint.”
* * *
Hanson W. Baldwin in "New
York Times”: “Prestige is
involved in the whole Formosa
picture, and to the Asian,
prestige, or ‘face,’ is of
tremendous importance! If
Chou En-lai were a Communist
but not an Asian, his blistering
speech promising the conquest of
Formosa might be dismissed as
propaganda. But coming from
a Chinese such threats cannot be
wholly ignored; they can
portend danger.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The Chinese Communists and
their friends in Moscow cannot
abandon their claim to Formosa
now without suffering a moral
defeat. But they are under no
obligation whatsoever to take
action to further their claim.
Their choice of action is clear.
They could, if they wished,
accept the status quo in
Formosa, agree to a truce be-
tween their forces and those of
Chiang Kai-shek, and hope that
in the course of time they might
come to terms with the
Nationalist regime or its
successor. Or they can, by
propaganda and continual
sniping-raids on the islands, keep
the whole situation at fever-pitch.
This is the path they have chosen.
It is the one least likely to bring
them nearer to possession of
Formosa. But it serves admir-
ably the ends of anti-American
propagajjda and keeps the inter-
national situation at that state of
tension which is meat and drink
to people like Mr. Molotov and
Mr. Chou En-lai.”
* * *
‘‘New York Times’ ’ staff
correspondent in London, Drew
Middleton : “Western j Europe’s
reaction to developments in the
Far East and in Washington
range from Britain’s concern to
Germany’s disinterest in any
problem that does not affect the
basic issue of reunification of
the country. There is a good deal
of anxiety in the foreign
Ministries of France and Italy,
but events have not touched the
public directly. Everywhere,
however, Communist propa-
ganda is trying to make the most
of the situation.”
« V $
London “Daily Telegraph”:
There is no chance of a
Formosan settlement by negotia-
tion. It is equally evident that
there is no possibility of a settle-
ment by force. So long as the
Chinese Communists do not
actually desire war with the
United States —which seems
inconceivable —and assuming the
United States intends to minimise
accidents by restraining Chiang,
then there is an even chance that
the present military deadlock will
ensure at least an uneasy peace
of necessity.”
* * ♦
London “Economist ” : “There
remains the puzzle of finding a
permanent solution for Formosa
that could be made to look even
remotely consistent with present
political realities in both the
United States and China. When
16 th CENTRTY...
...CONTROLLED BY
ABORIGINKL HEA[?]HUNTERS.
1661..
...ADHERENTS OF MING
DINASTY, OUSTED FROM CHINA
BY MANCHUS, TAKE FORMOS
MASCHU DYNASTY DAKES
OVER.
(ABOUT 1700)
1895 ...
JAPAN TAKES ISAND
IN WARMTH CHINA.
WORID WARI...
ALLIED POWERS TAKE FORMOSA FROM JAPAN.
ULTIMATE CONTROL OF ISLAND ST[?] LINDECIDED.
I CAN'T SEE WHERE YOU HAVE
A LEGAL CLAIM.
1549
CHIANG KAI-SHEK,
OUSTED FROM CHINA
BY REDS, ARRIVES.
1955
CHINESE REDS
THREATEN
TO TAHE FORM[?]
—Baltimore ( U.S.A .) “Sun”
FORMOSA-
POTTED HISTORY
Mr. Attlee and others get Up and
say that the Chiang Kai-shek
regime must go, they are talking
irresponsibly and in terms that
they must know are unacceptable.
It would have been far wiser to
refrain from public statement
about final solutions. The best
that can be hoped for is to move
in stages from a very dangerous
position of explosive deadlock
to one in which two utterly
incompatible points of view can
at least be discussed out of the
shadow of the guns. That move
must now be the main object of
the United Nations and of
America’s allies. The present
should be the pace at
which it is made rather than the
final point it is going to reach.”
Realism in Defence
From a London “Times”
letter by B. H. Liddell Hart:
“Several letters have concen-
trated on the need for larger
measures in Civil Defence. I
fully agree about the need, and
have argued for years that the
steps taken, or contemplated, by
the Government were utterly
inadequate to meet attack with
even a small number of bombs
of Hiroshima scale.
“The development of the
hydrogen-bomb has obviously
made the need much greater.
But it has also made the need
so much greater that the
measures now required, besides
involving expenditure vastly
heavier than any national
economy could bear, would
demand such a tremendous
alteration of the whole structure
of Western civilisation as to be,
in a practical sense, impossible.
One cannot see our people, or
any people, changing their habits
and way of life fo the extent
required. Measures that are
basically inadequate merely tend
to foster fatal illusions.
“The oft-proved truth of
experience applies to all forms
of defence. I have a strong pre-
disposition to agree with the
president of the Navy League
about the importance of sea-
power, since I have for many
years taken that as the basis of
my writings on strategy, particu-
larly for the ‘British way of war-
fare.’ But there is nothing more
fatal than to cling to a theory
when conditions fundamentally
change.
“The basic facts of the situa-
tion now are: (a) Some 10
hydrogen-bombs could destroy
all this country’s main centres
of industry and chief seaports,
thus paralysing its organic exist-
ence—and even five might
suffice; ( b ) air-defence would
have to attain nearly 100 per
cent, effectiveness of interception
to prevent such a fatal issue,
and no such ratio can be ex-
pected ; (c) even if it could, there
is no means available or likely
of intercepting atomic missiles,
whereas this country is already
within the range of such a
bombardment.”
Captain Liddell Hart’s mili-
tary writings have been criticised
and defended, with roughly
equal fervor, over the years. It
is worth noting, however, that
before World War II he had put
forward plans of mobile war-
fare, involving small bodies of
highly trained men. Within the
last year or so quite a fuss has
been made about this “new”
strategy.
In the next day’s “Times” Air-
Chief-Marshal R. A. Cochrane
referred to earlier special articles
by Jules Menken:
“Let us consider first the sug-
gestion that the power of defence
is improving relative to offence.
Surely the reverse is true, for,
apart from the revolution in
striking-power brought about by
the hydrogen-bomb,"“present-day
developments continue to favor
the offence. In a period of rapid
advance in aeronautical science
and its attendant technology it
is easier for the offence, which
has the initiative, to spring a
technical surprise than 'it is for
the defence to build up an
answer. Moreover, as we have
seen in this country [Britain]
even with normal progress a new
type of bomber may be expected
to be in service some time before
the contemporary fighter has
been fully incorporated in the
defence.
“Thus, when Mr: Menken
calls for 1000 fully modern
fighters, one must ask how long
will it take from the first specifi-
cation until the full number are
in front-line units, and how
modern will they be by that
time? Will they be any more
modern in relation to what the
offence has by then produced
than the Meteor was to the Can-
berra, or even the new genera-
tion of fighters in relation to the
‘V’-bombers? And with hydro
gen-bombs only a handful of
aircraft need penetrate the
defences.”
Lawrence of Arabia
Aldington’s “controversial”
book isn’t, perhaps, exciting
such red-hot controversy in Eng-
land as might be supposed. This
is from a “Times” review:
“The title of the French edi-
tion of Mr. Aldington’s book—
Lawrence I’lmposteur more
frankly acknowledges its charac-
ter than the sub-title of the
English: a ‘biographical in-
quiry.’ He has, with vast
industry, searched the already-
published literature by and
about Lawrence for every scrap
of material that can by any
means be turned to his victim’s
discredit.”
Lawrence, the reviewer writes,
“is vulnerable to this kind of
attack!” He was the hero of a
popular legend:
“In truth, vanity, of the kind
that ‘backed into the limelight,’
was Lawrence’s besetting weak-
ness ; some of his warmest
admirers have acknowledged it;
he himself was conscious of it,
castigated himself for it, and
could not escape from it. But
no one who ever sat up into the
small hours while Lawrence
piled up tales of fantastic adven-
ture, and noticed the look of
slight disdain that came into his
eyes if the listener seemed to be
accepting the improbabilities too
literally, will turn to the Seven
Pillars of Wisdom for a precise
record of the course of the
desert campaign.”
But “It does not follow that
the military value of the Arab
revolt was insignificant” or that
Lawrence stole credit due to
other men. Colonel Stirling,
staff officer with* the Arab forces,
is quoted:
“Lawrence took the limelight
from those of us professional
soldiers who were fortunate
enough to serve with him, but
never once have I heard a
whisper of jealousy. We sensed
that we were serving with a man
immeasurably our superior.”
On Lawrence’s illegitimacy:
“Mr. Aldington opens with an


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
Si’RUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Brandies in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SHEEP OH
need
VITAMIN A
HIGH POTENCY
/
\
TRADE MARKI
—easily given by drench is the
most economical, accurate
and convenient method of
supplying vitamins A & D
Sheep subjected to dry feeding are liable to suffer vitamin A
deficiency. Vitamin A is essential for top fertility, good
condition generally, and the healthy growth and development
in young stock. One gallon of High Potency 'VETEMUL'
(£13.13.0) is sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep
(rams, ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs—only 1 /3d. each for
sheep or lOd. each for lambs. Each dose supplies total vita-
min A requirements for 3 MONTHS. High Potency 'VETE-
MUL' contains 25,000 i.u. vitamin A and 2,500 i.u. vitamin
D per gramme.
im
?0D&
High Potency 'VETEMUL' is obtainable from your Pastoral
House or usual Station Supplier. Write for brochure ( )
for full information. Vl/55
'ltichoiaA fiiif. J%cC.
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swanston St., Melbourne, Australia
elaborate chapter designed to
prove, by what he chooses to
call ‘research,’ that Lawrence
was born out of wedlock —a fact
any of Lawrence’s friends, or
Lawrence himself in his lifetime,
would have given him for the
asking.”
On Aldington’s presentation
of evidence: “Lawrence is
accused of unjustified bragging
about the great positions he had
declined after the war, and much
play is made with the evidence
that he was not offered the
appointment of High Commis-
sioner to Egypt in 1925. Atten-
tion is thus diverted from the
very strong evidence (not de-
pending upon Lawrence’s word)
that he was sounded about
taking the same office in 1922
by Mr. Winston Churchill, under
was then serving in
the Colonial Office.” Again,
when Mr. Aldington admits that
“he was offered by a banker,
and refused, a position in the
City of London, is it not a
little disingenuous not to men-
tion that the banker was
Montagu Norman, and the
position that of secretary of the
Bank of England?”
To these instances of “equivo-
cal handling of evidence,” the
“Times” reviewer adds examples
of error of fact —“for instance,
Mr. Aldington misunderstands
such minor matters as the
examination for the Honor
School of Modern History,
in which Lawrence took
a First Class, and the terms of
tenure of his fellowship at All
Souls. The slips are numerous
enough to warn readers not to
assume that, when there is con-
tradiction on a point of detail,
it is always Lawrence and not
Mr. Aldington who is wrong.
“But, as has been said,
Lawrence’s greatness is not to
be assessed by details. To Mr.
Aldington it is a myth manu-
, factured by the ‘Lawrence
Bureau.’ We have to consider
who the Lawrence Bureau were.
The Arab Revolt was, as
Lawrence said, only the side-
show of a sideshow. Yet,
for its great importance to the
larger campaign the witness is
Allenby, the commander-in-
chief ; for Lawrence’s unique
leadership and fitness for the
highest command, Wavell; for
his capacity for the greatest
civilian offices, Sir Winston
Churchill ; for his scholarship,
Hogarth, Sir Leonard Woolley,
and Sir Ernest Barker; for his
literary skill, Wells and Sir
Winston Churchill again ; for his
paladin quality as an adversary,
Clemenceau. It is permissible to
prefer the judgment of the
Lawrence Bureau to Mr.
Aldington’s.”
Further to the “Lawrence con-
troversy,” it is interesting to turn
back to Sir Ronald Storrs’s
admirable Orientations. Storrs
had extensive experience in the
Middle East from 1904 to 1917,
when he was appointed Military
Governor of Jerusalem, a post
he held until 1920. Subsequently
he was appointed Civil Governor
of Jerusalem and Judea, and later
(1926-32) was Governor and
C.-in-C. of Cyprus.
“As one of Lawrence’s closest
friends,” Storrs wrote of him in
Orientations:
“He hated public attention save
when impersonal enough for him
to appear not to notice it, but
was not disappointed when, as
nearly always, his incognito
broke down. One day he offered
to take my wife and me to the
Imperial War Museum ‘to see the
Orpens.’ When we came to his
portrait by James Mcßey, I
asked him to stand in front so
that we might for a minute see
him against Mcßey’s vision.
“In a flash the word went
round the staff that Lawrence
was here, and for the rest of our
visit we were accompanied by
the rhythmic beat of a dozen
martial heels. Lawrence was
clearly not displeased, yet when
on our departure I remarked
upon the number of our escort,
‘Really?’ he said, ‘I didn’t notice
anyone.’
“He was indeed a mass ot
contradictions: shy and retiring,
yet he positively enjoyed sitting
for, and criticising, his portrait.”
And later:
“Lawrence suffered acutely
from public exaggeration in all
directions. His reputation when
alive, and even after, has been
subjected by some to a steady
dribble of depreciation. There
was a lack of understanding from
moral as well as intellectual
inferiors, who had occupied
higher offices than his, but had
perhaps distinguished themselves
less therein. And it was from
such that he knew the bitterness,
the contemptuous bitterness of
irrefutable calumny.
“We are told that his military
operations were on a small scale.
So were those of Thermopylae
and of Agincourt. We are told
that anybody could have done
what he did, with Allenby behind
him, backed by the golden
sovereigns of the British
Treasury. But Paladins of the
stamp and stature of an Allenby
do not accord themselves, nor
the resources of the British
Treasury, to an ‘anybody.’
“He [Lawrence] was actually
accused of a publicity engineered
by intentional mystification ; and
indeed it must have irritated
some other public servants to find
a man without a handle before
his name or letters after it, with-
out a dress-suit and with an
income of under a hundred a
year, nevertheless pursued and
chronicled by an eager limelight
which seemed in comparison to
black-out their particular merits.
“I have even heard his strong
columns of English belittled as
having been built, as he said
himself, upon the foundation of
Doughty; and true it is that
Doughty was no less his literary
ancestor than Gibbon
Macaulay’s. Dante gloried in
‘taking his fine style from his
master,’ Virgil. If Lawrence lit
his candle from Doughty’s flame,
was the candle any less his
own?”
Turco-Braki Agreement
Two U.K. editorial comments
on the defensive; treaty between
Turkey and Irak:
London “Times”: “The
announcement that a Turco-
Iraki treaty is shortly to be
signed can be welcomed without
reservation. In some respects,
of course, it hardly alters the
strategic situation. The North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
would not allow Irak or Turkey
to be attacked by the Soviet
Union, and so long as the
present regime is in power in
Irak it could hardly wish to see
Russia in occupation of Turkey.
“What it may, however, be
expected to do is to make it clear
that Irak would be involved
from the beginning if any attack
were made on Turkey and that
Turkey would be involved from
the beginning in any attack on
Irak. This, considering the
ramifications of the alliances of
both countries, must be thought
a considerable deterrent to
Russian action.
“Nevertheless, there may be
a number of practical difficulties.
The Iraki Prime Minister may
find opposition to the treaty in
his own capital. The combined
voices of all anti-Western Arabs
in Irak will be raised against it.
No doubt Nuri es-Said has con-
sidered this. But the noisy hub-
bub and indiscriminate violence
of the Levantine mob will make
itself heard, and may well, if
the circumstances are unpro-
pitious and statesmen weak,
undermine the power of other
States to make decisions.
“The treaty will be valuable
by itself. But it must be ad-
mitted that, by itself and because
of the character of Turkey, it
may well provide an obstacle to
the development of an all-
embracing Middle East Defence
Organisation.”
London “Economist”: “Mr.
Adnan Menderes [Turkish Prime
Minister] seems to have achieved
what many a pundit judged to
be impossible —a bilateral pact
of mutual defence with one of
Turkey’s Arab League neigh-
bors, and a strengthening of
security on Turkey’s eastern
flank.
“Mr. Menderes’s visit to
Baghdad was only the first stage
of an energetic diplomatic
offensive in the Middle East
designed to put some stuffing
into the region’s-flaccid defence-
planning. His activity stems
from Turkey’s conclusion —
which seems to have been the
right one that the better
atmosphere created by the settle-
ment of the Suez Canal and
Iranian oil disputes offered a
chance of persuading Arab
neighbors that defence pacts
unsupported by strongly armed
allies were no match for the
only form of aggression that
threatens the oil-areas of the
Middle East.
“Before setting out on his tour
[which included Egypt] Mr.
Menderes had prepared the
ground still further by deliver-
ing himself of some home-
truths about Middle East de-
fence. In a broadcast delivered
in both Turkish and Arabic, he
said that peace was indivisible,
that what security the region at
present enjoyed was solely due
to the establishment of Nato,
and that it was an illusion to
imagine that any regional de-
fence organisation, however per-
fect and complete, was in itself
enough without close co-opera-
tion with Nato —‘the real shield
against danger.’
“He must have known that his
words would not be music to all
Arab League ears. The weak
Governments of the Middle East
live under a curse which dooms
them to pander to uninformed
opinion, and some Egyptian
leaders have been proclaiming
that no alliances outside the
Arab League can be entertained,
and that Israel is the only enemy.
It would be as much as an Iraki
Government’s life was worth to
deny this last point, but many
responsible Irakis now see it in
a wider perspective. [lrak broke
off diplomatic relations with
Russia.]
“The situation leaves the Arab
League in a dilemma; either its
members must decide, each for
itself, whether or not to fol-
low Irak’s lead and to take sides
in the cold war, or else the
League will fall into two halves
—the ‘have’ States, who sense
danger from Russia, and the
‘have-nots,’ who prefer to strike
old-fashioned attitudes.”
Various Voices
Lord Ismay, Secretary-General
of Nato : “We must be fully pre-
pared for civil defence, and then
say a prayer each night that our
efficiency will not be put to the
test.”
Sir Anthony Eden: “Surely
the lesson of this century is that
wars break out when there is a
great inequality of military
strength. Here, I am speaking
also from my experience as
Foreign Secretary in the 1930’5.
If we could have had then an
effective system of collective
defence, such as we are creating
today, I believe we might have
been spared the agony of the last
world war.”
Mr. Dulles: “The hard fact is
that while throughout the ages
men have longed for peace, they
have seldom worked for it in a
serious, intelligent and sustained
way. It is indeed shocking to
contrast what men do in time of
war, to win victory, and what
they do, in time of peace, to
prevent new war.”


Can you tell a ‘big*
Scotch from a
6 small ? Scotch?
I •
Jti * > ¥>r*y 9° \
m *---
1/fi
BELtS
e**-!SL?S
1001 SCOTCH WHISK!'*
DISTILLED AND BLEND**'
'j IN'SCOTLAND -
D| stillers mm SCO
B*’„.
►RODucr Of
" ,T COMTIMT* -I fl
We don’t mean the differ-
ence between a double and
a single. We mean the dif-
ference between the ordin-
ary run of whiskies—and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are independ-
ent distillers. The output
is not huge, but to those
who know it, it is very,
very precious. Try Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky—and
you will acknowledge its
magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur BelltSs Sons Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are yon
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUEUO
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
further than his nose, and he was
growing mortally offended be-
cause the Ugly Gully Irish
seemed to hide their wounded
somewhere.
Those who walked the streets
did so with weather-beaten
features unmarked, trailing their
coats, balancing chips on their
shoulders, and criticising every-
thing from the chimes of the
town clock to what they con-
sidered the meagre form and
small ability of their opponents
in the forthcoming contests.
On St. Patrick’s Day it was
Moriarty’s habit to leave the
cares of ticket-boxes and other
business matters to volunteer
labor, and to become the starter
for the main events of the sports ;
and on this occasion he called
an early-morning rally of the
Irish from Ugly Gully. He
showed them a pistol.
“This is the starter’s pistol,”
he roared. “It fires point-four-
five-calibre blanks.”
The Irish looked at him with
stolid resentment, and he knew
what was in their minds. He
held up another, similar pistol.
“This ain’t the starter’s pistol,”
he bellowed. “It fires point-four-
five-calibre live ammunition, an’
so help me, if any of you cows
take a step out of turn, I’ll plug
him fair in the guts.”
The bush-lawyer of the Ugly
Gully Irish stroked his long chin,
and then said, “Now, is that a
way to be encouragin’ neighborli-
ness, fair-dealin’ and good
sportsmanship, Mr. Moriarty,
sir?”
“It’s the only way I know to
encourage anything, with you
mob,” Moriarty said firmly. “So
don’t forget it. If I gotter hang,
I’d rather hang for one of you
than for anybody I can think of.”
The Ugly Gully Irish went
away, thoughtfully, just as the
pipes started to wail for the
Irish and Highland dancing.
When they heard the pipes they
scuttled, and sure enough their
entrants won seventy-five per
cent, of the dancing events. They
might have been beaten for grace
and precision, but they were so
active their legs were just blurs
to the watching judges.
When Eager Mick O’Shaunessy
beat the Scots at their own
game, and won the sword-dance,
he made the platform vibrate so
much* that there was a fall of
earth on the Tartan Consols
mine, three miles away. He
opened up a crack three inches
wide in the wall of the hospital,
two blocks the other side of the
railway-line, and the piper who
had been trying to keep up with
him had a stroke as soon as he
stopped, and had to be revived
"Ronnie's just had the honor of editing this year's poetry anthology ."
with Jamieson’s Twelve-Year-
Old.
r T'\HAT elated the Irish —Ugly
1 Gully type, of course, not
ordinary—but after that for a
while they, didn’t do so well.
Pedestrian events were on, and
they could run like rabbits, but
they all had the one fault. They
lifted their feet too high, through
being used to getting over
gibbers, stumps, bits of stick on
the ground and the mouths of
small shafts dug by various
optimists.
They got a lot of places, but
the locals just shaded them in
the running, despite the fact that
Mrs. Mick (F rogf o o t)
O’Shaunessy won her event
smartly, with the aid of a sharp
elbow in an adjacent solar-plexus
in the last three yards. Whenever
the Irish were beaten their bush-
lawyer wept and complained to
the stewards, and the rest of
them just gathered and agreed
that the judges had been wrong,
and on their programmes gave
their people first all the time.
In the cycling, the Ugly Gully
Irish came back into their own,
perhaps because the main event
was a continental scratch-race,
with points for winners of the
sprints held every three laps to
add up the total that would make
the final victor. In such events
the field stands back on its
pedals and watches itself
shrewdly except on the sprint
laps, when it watches more
cunningly than ever and bursts
a G-string over anything from a
quarter of a mile to the last
hundred yards, as the tactics of
rivals make necessary.
But Ear - basher Mick
O’Shaunessy didn’t uriderstand
that idea. He had a bicycle that
might have been the perfect
model for a police-station veloci-
pede, with even little bits of
chain hung between the front
and rear forks, over the tyres,
to remove any double-gees or
thorns that might get stuck in
them before another revolution
of the wheel had forced them
through to puncture the inner
tube.
Ear-basher Mick thought the
only way to win a bike-race was
to go as fast as you could for
the required distance. He set out
to do just that, unaware that it
was the wrong way to win—and
in his case it was the right way.
After three laps the field went
past him, jet-propelled, and he
came nowhere in the first sprint.
Next time it happened again,
but he was fifth over the line,
and when the rest slowed he
kept going. If they’d taken him
seriously Slugger Paul and Seth
Martin and half a dozen others
could have beaten him on his
terms or theirs. But they did
not, and there was some surprise
on the fifth sprint when Seth,
who’d thought he was winning it,
didn’t get the checkered flag.
Old Ear-basher .Mick got the
flag, because by then he’d lapped
the field, and after that they
never caught up. He won the
rest of the sprints, without sprint-
ing, and the jackpot. The day
after St. Patrick’s Day one of
the few judges at the sports who
didn’t have bruises on his face
was the judge of the cycle-
racing.
SOMETHING really nasty
° almost happened in the billy-
goat race.
For this event the Ugly Gully
Irish produced a goat like a
slightly shrunken and very hairy
camel, and a tanned, monkey-
faced driver, sworn to be under
fourteen, who might have been
either according to label or a
dwarf rising sixty. This driver
of theirs chewed all the time,
and spat a good deal, and the
trainer of the local favorite
wanted him swabbed, to find out
if he spat Wrigley’s Spearmint
or tobacco-juice.
When the race got going, the
Ugly Gully Irish roared, but they
looked to be on a loser. Brian
Boru had the strength and the
spirit, but like their human
runners he lifted his feet too
high. He was less to blame than
the humans, for nobody had
explained to him that there
would be no old-man goannas,
dead kangaroos, or empty
kerosene-tins lying on the track.
Whoever was at fault, he looked
like coming second.
Southern Star, the local
champion, got a length ahead,
and though Brian Boru could
keep up he could not gain. His
demon-driver assumed the look
of a dwarf rising eighty, instead
of a mere three-score specimen,
and flogged him hard, using
Ugly Gully language worthy of
a centurion. The great goat beat
sparks and lumps the size of
tennis-balls out of the concrete
track, but he couldn’t gain. The
bookmakers and the Ugly Gully
Irish roared for him, the former
because Southern Star was the
favorite, and the latter from
sheer patriotism and emotion.
But by the back straight Brian
Boru had even lost a few inches.
He had not, however, lost too
much for the quick wit of an
Ugly Gully Irish goat. Without
missing a stride he stretched his
neck a little, and began to eat
the guernsey off Southern Star’s
driver. When a tongue used to
scything off spinifex, saltbush
and quondong trees seared over
his naked back the lad in the lead
faltered, and his goat lost the
rhythmic stride that wins.
Brian Boru drew closer, and
could reach the tyres of the
racing-sulky ahead. As a .gentle
ruminant he had no fangs to bite
a hole in it, but in a hundred
yards the tongue that had braved
a thousand pieces of rusted
mining machinery had stripped
rubber and canvas from it
beyond hope of repair by the
most skilful retreader. The tyre
burst, the rig lurched and Brian
Boru surged to the lead.
At the finishing-line Moriarty,
his face contorted, had his gun
aimed —not at the ground, but
at the leader in the race. Con
Devlin, the mayor, came up
behind, and put a restraining
hand on his shoulder.
“Ye’d not shoot a schoolboy,
Mick Moriarty?” said .Con,
softly.
“I’m aimin’ at the goat,”
snarled Moriarty.
The shot thundered out, but
Brian Boru never faltered, and
Moriarty had his work cut out
to find his other gun in time to
fire it as the goat from Ugly
Gully crossed the line, the
winner.
“You spoiled me aim, you old
clown,” Moriarty bellowed at the
mayor.
Then he changed guns again,
swiftly, and raced forward. At
point-blank range he fired a full
chamber at Brian Boru, who
tossed his curly horns angrily,
while his driver cynically spat
Wrigley’s or tobacco-juice on the
grass. *
“I couldn’t hit a set of flying
haystacks,” Moriarty mourned,
broken in spirit, before he
turned and slunk away from the
scene of his shame and the
joyful outcry of the victorious
Ugly Gully Irish.
What he didn’t know was that
the Ugly Gully bush-lawyer had
changed his guns over. He'd
fired the whole chamberful of
live ammunition into the turf
beside his feet, starting races,*and
what he’d , aimed at Brian Boru
had been merely some felt-pads
and an offensive smell of
exploded gunpowder.
WHEN the Irish went home,
’ ’ with seventy-five per cent,
of the trophies, including the
main cycling-event and the goat-
race, Moriarty was a broken
man. A renegade from the Ugly
Gully Irish told some of us what
had really happened, and we’d
certainly restore Moriarty’s fight-
ing spirit by giving him the truth
if there was any chance that the
invasion from Ugly Gully might
be repeated some other St.
Patrick’s Day.
But it can’t ever happen again.
You see, it seems that those
cold, hostile eyes could twinkle
for anybody it would not be
chivalrous to fight, and during a
few days’ visit the younger Ugly
Gully Irish made quite an
impression on the younger
female element in town. Ever
since they’ve been going north
in ones, twos, threes and mobs
to marry the Irish.
So there simply aren’t any real
Ugly Gully Irish any more. The
blood has been watered down
with new Australian, old Aus-
tralian, middle-aged Australian,
and even Scottish, Welsh and
English, and the population is
rapidly drifting out, having
replaced obstinacy and pride
with commonsense and an eye
to the main chance.
Soon, the only remnant of the
old spirit will be embodied in
Brian Boru, now a very old billy-
goat who, as he chews on the
corroded iron of some old winch-
drum beside an abandoned
shaft, sometimes remembers the
delicate flavor of bike-tyre
rubber, and wonders if he, too,
should not have got out of the
place.


mm
7Q.
m
wf**
* | I If 7 \fl I/ f
I'd I f yfi 1!
Mi i . ,;j f y
MmIAJ * '? I
*
a
sHH
i
mm
’■»
n
- H 1
*
4
m 2
«-
BM
In town or outback the Super Snipe is supreme
A car of immense strength and power yet retaining all the
traditional Humber dignity and luxury— this new Super
Snipe was designed for outback Australia just as much as for
the great cities of the world. The new dynamic O.H.V.
6 cylinder 4 litre engine—so smooth, so silent and so con-
spicuous for its flashing acceleration —is the result of years of
research and testing by Humber engineers.
The massive chassis, with cruciform cross bracing to resist
torsional strain, combines with ultra low pressure tyres,
superb suspension and high capacity shock absorbers to
smooth road roughness away. Light yet absolutely accurate
on the steering, the Humber Super Snipe is rock-steady even
at the highest speeds. You ride in supreme comfort and
safety on the luxurious, soft hide upholstered seats —and arrive
fresh and free from fatigue after the longest journey.
A test drive is yours-without obligation .
price £ 1595 plus sales tax
Confidential terms. Accredited Finance Company
—lndustrial Acceptance Corporation Limited.
DISTRIBUTORS :
QUEENSLAND : John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
324 Wickham Street, The Valley, Brisbane. L 4871.
NEW SOUTH WALES : John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd.
255-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 6838.
VICTORIA : Neal's Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne. FB 3481.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Commerfcial Motor Vehicles Ltd.,
165 Franklin Street. Adelaide. LA 2201.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.,
900 Hay Street, Perth. BA 9361.
TASMANIA : D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd., York and
St. John Streets. Launceston. Tel. 1676.
- V i
BY APPOINTMENT TO THE
MOTOR CAR MANUFACTURERS
St
LATE KING GEORGE VI
HUMBER LIMITED
MUM
SUPER SNIPE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Chinese reader (19) would like to
correspond with young Australians
interested in stamp-collecting, post-
and photography.
UKeply direct to Hung King Lung,
Third Floor, 77 Wongneichong-road,
Flong Kong.)
Words of poem, “The Schoolboy’s
Lament,” beginning:
O call my brother back to ;ne,
cannot play alone.
• l * l ® summer comes with flower and bee
Where has my brother gone?
—6005.
To buy A Drum for Ben Boyd by
Francis Webb.—6oo6.
To buy Australasian Joint-Stock
Ponies’ Year Book, 1913-14,
« i Ed JP R - L - Nash > Fleet-street
<±na D owning-street by Kennedy
Jones and With Northcliffe in Fleet-
street by J. A. Hammerton.—6oo7.
Words of poem, “To My Heart,”
beginning:
heart, what would you cherish,
Tf .i° re and kee P against the years,
11 a % roses . fade and perish
And the joy dissolves in tears.
—6OOB.
Information Sought
(/) When was the Oodnadatta to
Alice Springs railway-line put
through ? (2) Was the extension of
the railway from Oodnadatta to Alice
Springs financed by Douglas Credit?
(1) The Railways (South Australia)
Agreement Act (1926), assented to by
Federal Parliament in Feb., 1926,
ratified the agreement between Com-
monwealth and South Australian
Governments for the building of a
3ft. 6in. gauge railway-line between
Port Augusta and Alice Springs. This
involved the extension of the Port
Augusta to Oodnadatta line. The
first section of 2\\ miles from Oodna-
datta was completed in August, 1927.
The contract for construction of the
rest of the line provided for its com-
pletion by June 30, 1929, but it was
not till Aug. 2 that year that the. line
was taken over for public traffic. (2)
Definitely not. The money was
raised in the usual manner, by public
loan. (Total cost of construction and
equipment of the Central Australian
line for the three years 1927-29 —
1927, £2,854,801; 1928, £2,908,644;
1929, £3,882,006.)
* * * *
Recipe for making horeho'und
beer ?
Assemble 2oz. whole ginger, 21b.
brown sugar, 2£oz. hops, half break-
fast-cup golden syrup, 2 good hand-
fuls horehound sprigs, a dandelion
root —may be omitted —and 10 quarts
water. Boil all together for 1-j-
-hour, strain and cool in a wooden
ornamental tub; add half-cup of
liquid yeast. Let stand for two days;
then skim well and bottle. Tie the
corks down. Ready to use in a week
or. two.
* * * *
(1 ) A method of ridding a house
of silverfish ? The house is old with
papered walls. (2) How to etch on
glass ?.
(1) Strip off the paper by damping
it first. Spray all the walls and
crevices with any good insecticide
containing DDT; spray also under
the floors. Good wallboards are
available at a reasonable price and
might be better than re-papering
where pests are troublesome. Turpen-
tine or floor-polishes containing turps
should be used frequently about floors
and furniture as a deterrent. Com-
plete fumigation of the house would
be effective, but should be carried out
by experts and not attempted by the
amateur. (2) Not an easy job for
the home-worker. The glass is first
coated by brush with warm melted
beeswax or paraffin wax, and the
design is then scratched on the wax
with a finely pointed tool. The glass
is then dipped in hydrofluoric acid;
if a large flat piece of glass is being
done, a small wall of wax should be
raised outside the designed area to
prevent the acid from flowing away,
it being then poured over the design.
After three or four hours the acid
can be washed off with hot water, and
the wax cleaned off with petrol, kero-
sene or turpentine. Experiment with
a small job first, and do the work
outside the house in a shed.
.** * *
Particulars about Margaret Mitchell,
writer of “Gone With the Wind”?
Born in Atlanta, U.S.A., in -1900,
she was educated at Washington
Seminary, Atlanta, and Smith College,
Mass. From 1921 to 1925 she was a
reporter and feature-writer on the
“Atlanta Journal,” retiring soon alter
her marriage, in 1925, to John R.
Marsh, a newspaper editor. She
wrote only the one book, but it ranks
as one of the “best” of modern best-
sellers. Over 100,000 copies were sold
before actual publication, and sales
have since run to around 10,000,000.
The book was begun in 1930 and
completed in 1936. It won the
Pulitzer prize in 1937. Margaret
Mitchell was killed in 1949 in a
motor-car accident.
* * * *
(7) Difference between preference
and cumulative preference shares ?
(2) What are debentures and
'unsecured notes? Which would be
the safer investment? (5) Does The
Bulletin still publish .a financial
journal for the guidance of investors?
(1) Non-cumulative preference
shares only carry right to a fixed
dividend out of the profits of any
year, and if there are insufficient
profits in that year to pay the full
amount of dividend they have no
right to have such arrears made up
out of future profits. Cumulative pre-
ference shares entitle the holders to a
fixed rate of dividend in the same way
as non-cumulative shares, but with the
additional right that any arrears of
dividend shall be made up out of
future profits, in priority to any
dividends on other classes of shares.
(2) Where a company desires to
borrow money, it may do so by the
issue of registered mortgage deben-
tures or registered unsecured notes.
Mortgage debentures carry a specific
fixed or floating charge over some or
all of the company’s assets. Un-
secured notes carry no such security.
In the event of the company winding
up they would rank for repayment
after mortgage debentures. The issue
of notes may, however, be subject to
safeguards which would give a degree
of protection to the lender. The
exact nature of these safeguards, as
of the extent of the charge acquired
over assets in the case of an issue of
debentures, can be found usually in
the prospectus published by the issu-
ing company. (3) Yes, “The Wild
Cat Monthly.” Price 2s. a copy, or
225. 6d. a year post-free.
* * * *
What are the standard points for
judging sweet-peas at shows?
The Royal Horticultural Society of
N.S.W: sets the points down as
follows: Form of flower, one point;
freshness (including correctness of
color of the individual variety and
absence of blemishes), one point;
size of blooms, one point; arrange-
ment of flowers on stems, one point;
number of flowers on stems,
point; length and proportion of
stems, i point. (There should be
not fewer than three flowers on a
stem, and they should be placed
alternately down the stem at approxi-
mately equal intervals.)
# * He *
Is there such a word as "alright”?
Strictly speaking, no. “All right,”
spelt as two distinct words, is the form
which should always be used.
Fowler’s Modern English Usage says
there are no such forms as
“all-right,” “allright,” or “alright,”
though the last-named is common;
Fowler attributes it to confusion
with “already” and “altogether.”
Webster gives “alright” as meaning
“all right,” but adds that it is “not
recognised by authorities as in good
use.”
Brief Answers
W.C.: Bertram Stevens, editor of
An Anthology of Australian Verse
(1906) and The Golden Treasury of
Australian Verse (1909), died suddenly
at Sydney, on February 14, 1922
H.U.S.: The Keyline Plan by P. A.
Yeomans is obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney; price 375. 6d E.L.:
British Drama League (Aust.), 44
Castlereagh-street, Sydney
V.F.M.: Write L. P. Hutchinson,
Hon. Sec., The Henry Lawson
Memorial and Literary Society, 1187
Burke-road, East Kew (Vic.)
R.A.: (1) No information available.
(2) See Information Sought (B.
2/2/’55) A.J.D.: As far as we
know, Horrie Dargie, leader of the
Horrie Dargie Quintet, is still in
London performing for the 8.8. C.
Know of no harmonica school under
his name still being conducted in
Sydney. Write Mr. L. McGuinness,
of 472 George-street, player and
teacher of the harmonica, who may
be prepared to conduct lessons by
correspondence... .E.E.S: Alice
Werner, who wrote the poem
“Bannerman of the Dandenong,”
was born at Trieste (then in Austria)
in 1859. Her mother was English
and her father German. The family
emigrated to New Zealand and lived
in Dunedin. Later she went with her
father to Mexico and then to London,
where she was engaged in journalism.
After a sojourn in South Africa,
where she studied native languages,
she returned to London and became
Professor of Zulu languages at
King’s College in that city. “Ban-
merman of the Dandenong” was
originally published in her book of
verse A Time and Times (1886)....
D.E.W.: Questions too comprehen-
sive to be replied to in any detail.
Briefly the answers are (1) He founded
no religion. (2) They were developed
by different peoples at various stages
of culture in widely separated
regions. (3) The Hebrew religion.
(4) During the Middle Ages (mainly
in the 16th century—at different
times in different countries, with the
reasons similarly differing). Suggest
you consult Encyclopedia Britannica
articles “Religion and Theology,”
“Christianity” and “Jesus Christ.”
M.J.H.: See article on Jennings
Carmichael in “Bohemia” for Febru-
ary, 1955. “Bohemia” is the official
organ of the Bread and Cheese Club,
Melbourne, and is obtainable from
the Secretary, 10 Watkins-street,
North Fitzroy (Vic.).. . .W.M.J.:
The text of Archbishop Eris O’Brien’s
oration at the unveiling of the head-
stone over Roderic Quinn’s grave at
Waverley Cemetery, Sydney, on Sun-
day, December 2, 1951, was printed
in a somewhat condensed form in
The Bulletin of December 19, 1951.
..E.L.P.: Campbell Fields was the
name of Dr. Redfern’s property at
Minto (N.S.W.). It was an 800-acre
grant from Governor Macquarie, and
was named by Dr. Redfern in honor
of Mrs. Macquarie’s family (Camp-
bell) W.G.: There were 16 deaths
during the building of the Sydney
Hfarbor Bridge, eight of which were
due to falls... .A.M.J.: Travelled
Roads by Simon Hickey was pub-
lished by F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd.,
338 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
, will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.P.: We get more dream poems
than we can cope with M.L.L.:
Well, that’s one chicken that will
come home to roost R.C.P.:
Couldn’t find a bunk for Dan from
Flanigan’s Flat L.G.: You bear
the name of a famous poet; alas, you
are miles behind him in achievement.
HJ.H.: It took us days to get
rid of those wild pigs K.P.: You
say nothing new about the moon.
. ...R.G.S.: Four lines then:
The human race, the human race,
The masochistic human race,
It seems to me the human race
Will soon fall flat upon its face.
H.S.: You will have to do better
than that J.G.: They should never
have been allowed to roam from
'Alice Springs C.P.H.: It didn’t
cause a ripple J.P.C.: You are on
the wrong line L.McC.: Sorry,
but we have no nesting-places for
your kookaburras, cockatoos, curlews,
magpies, and willy-wagtails
S.McL.: “The Power of Pelf” earns
no pelf C.A.8.: We will try to
struggle on without your masterpiece
on pyjamas H.M.: “True Con-
fession” seems to belong to a true-
confession magazine C.A.8.: It
seems as if every time it rains several
thousand poets sit down to record the
fact J.E.: We are inclined to
agree with your statement “I quite
admit I am no poet” G.R.S.:
We have an uneasy feeling that you
propose devoting the remainder of
your life to re-writing the one poem
over and over again W.J.L.:
Neither the hand-written nor the
typed version made the grade
J.M.E.: Take that cat away 8.P.:
Always suspicious of pbems with
titles like “'Hoof Beats and Heart-
ache”. .. .C.T.F.N.: After reading
“The Captain Is Dead” the Religious
Editor tied a yard of black crepe to
the knob of his door J.H.:
Poem beginning “Whence came thou,
genus Homo?” was a moral for the
basket M.McD. (“Our youthful
mother o f the Southern sphere”),
L.C. (“Australia! Land of Hope!
Earth’s youngest born”), S.B. (“O
Astral land of space and sun!”),
A.F. (“This land of mine, so vast
and fair”) and E.E.B. (“We hoist
aloft the flag we love”): If we were
to print all the patriotic poems we
receive every week there would be
room for nothing else, and, we think,
even the most patriotic-minded Aus-
tralian would take objection to that.
.. . .J.E.L.: Try it elsewhere
E.M.8.: No feathers for your nest.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
MMMM*
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■
; ■
m
iH
■H
:. V
.•■'-■■
.»
er*
m
' n
* V-; - ■
; ; ,rK
1
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwa]! Pi. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S"
WIRE,
WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
'DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO,
GRAZCOS'
COMBATING CATTLE-TICKS
after the operation. I recently
bought the foundation of a
Polled Hereford stud from the
Rockhampton district. As soon
as they got here (December 9
last) I gave them the pleuro.-
needle, and although I have
dipped the uninoculated cattle
running in the same paddock
twice since that date, I have not
found a tick on the studs.
An old-time drover, one Lane,
told me of a mob from clean
country he took to the Territory.
He inoculated against pleuro.
The mob in the lead were not
inoculated, and they died like
flies from redwater. Lane said
he never lost a beast from the
disease, although he used the
same camps.
I know it sounds absurd, as
the two diseases are entirely
unrelated. . However, X am
reasonably confident that inocu-
lation for pleuro. will keep ticks
off cattle for long periods.
R. Anning.
Potatoes
Edgar Braendler, a potato-
grower at Echunga (S.A.), used
to be satisfied with a crop of 12
tons to the acre ; that was four
years ago. Today a 20-ton crop
is a disappointment. His yields
have climbed to 27 tons.
He is convinced that the secret
of his success lies in the pasture
phase of his crop-rotation.
“More than half the battle,” he
says, “is in the establishment of
a good pasture, followed by
sound pasture-management.”
Soon after the potato-crop is
lifted he sows down to oats,
perennial-rye and sub.-clover.
Overstocking is avoided in the
next three or four years, when
the pasture is being grazed or
cut for meadow-hay. A balance
between clover and grass is
maintained, heavy clover to
build up nitrogen, rye-grass
to provide organic-matter and to
help aerate the soil when
ploughed-in. Thus the soil is
prepared for the hungry potato-
crop.
Once the foundation has been
laid after these years of pasture
correct balance of plant-food is
supplied by the addition of
superphosphate, sulphate -of -
ammonia, potash or organic
matter. If the pasture has pro-
duced a high nitrogen-content
little sulphate-df-ammonia is
needed.
Four years ago Mr. Braendler
pioneered the use of tea- and
cocoa-waste to build up the
organic content. Three or four
weeks before planting 15 to 20
tons an acre are applied. The
cost is £6O an acre, but the
grower says that the waste
pushes yields up by from seven
to nine tons, and cocoa-waste
allows much closer planting.
Although I have been dipping
cattle for 50 years I do not think
there is very much I know about
catfle-ticks.
I know that the redwater-
laden tick came here [Mr.
Anning writes from Reedy
Springs, Pentland, N.Q.] in
1895 and approximately 75 per
cent, of our herd or some 8000
were wiped out. Ticks had been
known here in the earliest days
when we selected this property
in May, 1862, but they didn’t*
carry the redwater germ.
I doubt if the tick is a “killer”
of cattle, as J. F. Doyle says (B.
26/1/’55), but it certainly
reduces condition s 6 greatly that
stock become an easy mark for
dogs and drought. I have never
seen a beast dead from tick-
worry with green grass about,
and ticks are worst where grass
is best.
In common with many
others I switched from arsenic
preparations for dipping; the
cost was terrific, and in my
opinion not worth the candle ;
further, I rather fancy there was
a D.D.T.-resistant tick evolving.
Most of us round here have now
gone back to arsenic, with spray-
ing for fly.
The tick is a very serious
problem, but to talk of getting
rid of it by a system of barriers
and dipping is just moonshine.
Only one pair of ticks has to be
missed in tlie whole of Australia
and they can get right out of
hand again. Getting 95 per cent,
of the t ticks, as they do with
rabbits and prickly-pear, just
wouldn’t do ; 100 per cent, or
nothing will do for the tick.
To attempt eradication by dip-
ping and the formation of
barriers would be an outrageous
waste of money. Only biological
control can be effective. The
tick buries its proboscis in the
bloodstream of a beast and stays
there for the major part of its
life, and I claim that it is in that
bloodstream where we will
eventually find, or plant, the
cure.
Mr. Doyle uses the words
“they succeeded in keeping the
engorged female-ticks off their
breeders.” Mr. Doyle should
know that once the tick is
“engorged” it has finished with
the beast for ever. I suggest it
is the seed-tick that should have
the attention. If the tick was
“held” in 1954 in the Rock-
hampton area, it was not held
round here; in fact, it is still as
bad as ever and will continue
that way whilst the seasons
remain bumper.
Here’s a point that might be
worth investigation. Several
times I have inoculated fairly
substantial numbers of cattle
against pleuro. I have always
found that such cattle after
inoculation have remained free
of tick-infestation for months
Plantings used to be 18in. apart.
Now the plants are set llin.
apart.
Irrigation is another import-
ant feature of this grower’s pro-
gramme. It is not profitable to
grow potatoes in South Aus-
tralia without irrigation, and
Mr. Braendler says that under
normal summer conditions in
his district a crop requires
330,000ga15. per acre. This is
equivalent to Win. of rain, only
three or four of which come
from natural rain.
He uses overhead sprinklers
to give controlled and even
watering, and prefers dam-water
to that from bores, as he uses
“warm water” taken from the
surface of his dams by a floating
inlet-valve.
S. E.
Basic Slag
“Jubilee”: It’s true, as a con-
tributor to “Man on the Land”
has pointed out, that basic-slag
gives good results in New
on New Zealand soils will
decline.
Branding Skins
“Logan”: Two sheepskins,
mutilated by unscourable black
brands, have been returned to
Melbourne from Germany. The
skins have been passed on to
the Australian Wool Bureau,
which recently outlawed the use
of black in branding.
The Melbourne agent from
whom the skins were purchased
said that, in processing, the stain
had spread in two lines the whole
length of the skins. He added
that he might have difficulty in
doing further business with the
German firm which had returned
the skins.
It is believed the pelts were
marred by thoughtless branding
at the Newmarket saleyards, but
such a thing could happen in
any other saleyards or on sheep-
properties. Huge sums of money
are lost each year to the Aus-
“It’s about time I did a bit of ringbarking."
Zealand. But recent work here
in N.Z. raises a few interesting
points.
N.Z. soils known to respond
well to basic-slag have responded
even better to superphosphate
when vanadium and molybdenum
—both components of basic-slag*
—are added.
Vanadium is usually present
in greater quantity in basic-slag
than is molybdenum. Trials
indicate that both super, plus
vanadium and super, plus
molybdenum plus vanadium give
better results than basic-slag.
The possibility of additional
quantities of vanadium giving
improved results on these is being
investigated.
It seems, then, that these two
components of basic-slag are
the vital ones giving basic-slag
a superiority to superphosphate
on certain soils. If results so
far are confirmed by further
tests, the question will boil down
to an economic one —which will
be the cheaper, basic-slag, or
super, with vanadium and
molybdenum? Since basic-slag
is imported from a greater
distance than is super., it seems
likely that the use of basic-slag
tralian wool-trade by the ruin
wrought by bad brands.
The Australian Wool Bureau
has ijow approved “Si-Ro-
Mark,” the new colored brand-
ing-fluid, as a totally scourable
brand, and will campaign
throughout Australia for 100 per
cent, use of it for a totally scour-
able clip. “Si -Ro - Mark”
was developed after long
experimenting by scientists of
the C.5.1.R.0., and the Inter-
national Wool Textile Organisa-
tion recently complimented Aus-
tralia on the development of a
reliable scourable branding-fluid.
Machinery Research
“See”: Both the University of
Melbourne and the New South
Wales University of Technology
are taking practical steps to help
farmers in the understanding of
modern farm-machinery by
inquiry, criticism and advice.
In N.S.W. intensive study is
being made into the. wear of
cultivator-points and the design-
ing of better material for them.
In Melbourne the experts are
investigating problems of disk-
ploughs and hay-machinery
and the performance of
milking-machine parts, along
with testing of tractors on behalf
of both Commonwealth and
State Governments.
The Department of Commerce
and Agriculture is concerned
with the adaptability of over-
seas machines to Australian con-
ditions, and is developing a
technical interest in mechanisa-
tion as a part of Australian
agriculture.
Senior lecturer in agricultural
engineering at Melbourne Uni-
versity G. H. Vasey says that
both sides of the agricultural-
machinery industry—the manu-
facturer’s and the farmer’s—
lack . the stimulus of healthy,
informed criticism, and of inde-
pendent research into the prob-
lems of design, function and
performance.
“Farm-machinery is no longer
something nice to have,” he
says. “For industrial farming,
which we. cannot now escape
this side of peasantry, we must
have an adequate range of power
and machinery. The machines
must do what we expect them
to do.”
Peaches in Straw
“Walpy”: Straw-mulching of
irrigated peaches in the Goul-
burn Valley (Vic.) has given
good results: experimental work
has been going on at the Depart-
ment of Agriculture horticultural
research-station, Tatura.
With peaches at £4O a ton,
an extra 1£ ton an acre is
needed to pay for the straw and
attention to it. This is more
than made-up by the extra 3
tons an acre of fruit harvested
from the standard treatment.
Straw-mulch needs 23 acre-
inches of water a year in eight
applications.
Advantages are:
1. An excellent soil-structure
because of lack of cultivation
and a constant supply of
organic-matter.
2. ’Good water - penetration
because the soil is open.
3. A continuous supply of
nutrients from the decaying
straw.
4. Absence of root-competi-
tion.
5. No damage to roots.
6. An even root-temperature
because of insulation by the
straw.
These factors allow a large
root-system to develop which
extends from the surface to a
depth of 26in. Consequently,
trees are very large and yields
are extremely good.
Surface - rooting gives the
treatment an advantage over
white-clover permanent sod,
which prevents the peaches from
rooting within sin. of the
surface.
Brining Meat
“Sundowner”: The old art
of brining seems to be a bit
neglected in these days of
refrigerators and deep-freeze.
Still, these amenities aren’t
always available (in camps, out-
stations and on the road), and
in such circumstances brined
meat can be very welcome. In


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage m
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER supply necessary
YOU can instal itl
The treated sterile sewerage i»
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26>30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
—... -DISTRIBUTORS: “
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wick-
ham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
nwlv, 1 ' (N.Z.), Wellesley
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
FARMERS
BOY”
ROTARY
HOE
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particulars
and for free demonstrations of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8561.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Does more
jobs of
less cost!
More versatile because it has
more Farm-right Features than
any other tractor
The range of jobs you can do with the Fordson
Major is greater than with any other tractor . . .
because Fordson alone has all the farm-right
features necessary for straight agricultural jobs
and “round-the-farm 55 maintenance and con-
struction work.
And the latest overhead valve, low-friction
engines provide more power for the use of
less fuel .. . mean less work per farmer
and more income ,per acre.
FARM-RIGHT
IN LINKAGE
WORK
“Touch-control” hydraulics and
3-point linkage allow faster, surer
control of mounted implements.
FARM-RIGHT IN
TRAILING WORK
6-Speed transmission, lower centre
of gravity, choice of power-take-off
position with raised or direct drive
and more power at the drawbar
mean new efficiency with broad-
acre implements.
FARM-RIGHT IN
APPLIED WORK
Matched to the efficiency of Ford-
son Major, a versatile range of
implements and equipment means
easy, one-man handling of round-
the-farm maintenance
and construction work.
niMm
l#
Hr
•■V.'vi/,
£9lB
IWITH pneumatic
V TYRES J
Your Fordson Dealer will arrange a
demonstration on your property.
iMtamßcaca
SESSSS3SaSg; I 11 lllimillll 111—111111'HIIHIilWIH ill I'll'l IHIIMI ijHlliUlHMllll'i i 'II
Your local Fordson
will supply further
details.
FM7-40
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 64 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
ar W case, prepared properly, it
can be a tasty change from fresh
meat.
How long the meat can be
stored depends on the curing
method adopted.
A 60 per cent, general-
purpose brine may be made by
dissolving 201 b. salt in lOgals.
water and adding 6oz. of salt-
petre, which first must be dis-
solved in boiling water.
As meat is brined, the strength
of the solution will deteriorate.
To restore strength, add loz.
salt per gal. with a proportionate
amount of saltpetre.
Time of immersion depends
on size of meat and temperature
of brine. Temperature is im-
portant: with too high or too
low a temperature either the
centre of the meat will turn bad
or juices will congeal.
Ideal temperature is 38 to 40
degrees F. Where a good deal
of curing is to be done, it’s best
to have the right sort of pump
to send some brine into the
centre of legs of pork or
mutton (with the bone in)
before immersion in the brine-
tub.
Cut-surfaces of meat quickly
become contaminated in hot
climates: so wash joints in cold
running-water before placing
them in the solution.
Crosscuts
“Californian experience is that
nitrogen applied to peaches
results in increased yield irrespec-
tive of time of application-
normal advice is, ‘Use the most
convenient time in the season.’
The most desirable time from a
tree point of view is three to
five weeks pre-blossom, but it
doesn’t matter as long as there
is an adequate supply of nitrogen
in the root-zone. Immediate pre-
harvest application of nitrogen
in any form, contrary to the
widely held belief among
orchardists in Australia, has little
or no effect on size of fruit at
harvest.” (R. S. Harper, in Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture “Journal.”)
* * *
Gross farm-value of Australian
fruit in 1953-54 was £5O million
—the highest on record.
* * *
“Clunesman”: Although
African boxthorn is a pest in
South Australia (B. 2/2/’55)
Monaro (N.S.W.) graziers reckon
it’s a blessing. At a recent Weeds
conference at Cooma, delegates
said that in some places it was
the only shelter that could be
grown for stock. One of them
recalled that a former district
agronomist had expressed the
hope that no one would declare
it noxious JS -he had a hedge of it
around his house.
* * *
Molybdenum - deficiency has
been reported in Griffith
(N.S.W.) district.
Farm Hints
“CAA.”: Drilling seed is the
most satisfactory method of
sowing in low-rainfall areas.
Avoid a deep thrust; half-an-
inch is ample. Sub-surface
broadcast-coulters which space
at 3iin. are often used to speed-
up the filling of the inter-row
spaces and provide efficient
ground-cover.
“Sep”: The old method of
testing eggs in water is a good
one: staleness is quickly
detected. As an egg gets older
water-content evaporates and
air-space becomes larger; so the
egg floats. A fresh egg, with its
small air-cell, will sink quickly.
“Billabong”: Sheep a long
way from water lose valuable
eating- and resting-time walk-
ing to and fro. And their pads
mean loss of vegetation and, with
heavy rain, danger of gullying.
“G.”: In poultry the eye has
been aptly referred to as the
mirror of stamina and vitality.
Bold, bright eyes with a wide-
awake appearance are indica-
tions of a healthy body and
good production.
“Billjim”: Citrus-trees will
show the benefit of manuring
during the autumn. Quantities
to make 101 b. of a balanced
(inorganic) fertiliser are: Super.,
sulphate of ammonia,
sulphate of potash, lib.
This should be used at the rate
of 41b. to a tree. For organic
manure quantities are: bone-
dust, lflb.; blood-and-bone,
41b.; dried-blood, 3|lb.; muri-
ate of potash, lib. This should
be used at 61b. per tree. These
quantities comprise a third of
the total fertiliser requirements
of a citrus-tree in any year. The
remaining two-thirds should be
applied in the spring.
“8.J.”: Wintering bees?
Each colony needs about 501 b.
of well-ripened honey to sustain
it until early spring. A full-
depth comb holds about 51b. of
honey when sealed. If sufficient
honey is not available, make up
the lack by feeding a heavy solu-
tion of sugar-syrup. Use two
full-depth boxes, removing all
surplus supers above the second
box. For storing boxes of combs,
sort them into three divisions —
empty brood-combs, those con-
taining pollen and new combs.
Store them (no more than eight
to the box) equally spaced. Dis-
courage wax-moth with para-
dichlorobenzene, placing the first
box on a flat cover, a few
crystals on cardboard over the
top bars of the frames. Then
put down a piece of newspaper,
and follow with the next box.
Continue the sequence, and
finally place the hive-lid on the
top. Inspect regularly, and add
more crystals if necessary.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Moderate rain may occur on the coast of N.S.W.
during March, with heavy falls on the North Coast, includ-
ing Dorrigo. Moderate rain should also fall on the N.S.W.
Northern Tablelands and in the Central West and Riverina.
Reasonably good rains should be received in Victoria,
with fairly heavy rains in Melbourne, but rain in the Mallee
*nay be confined mainly to showers.
Apart from some light, scattered rain, South Aus-
tralia should be mainly dry during March.
Further rain may fall during this period and tempera-
tures should be more equable.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Simple English
Governor-General Sir William Slim
gave the Citizenship Convention at
Canberra some homely advice about, the
language in which it should draft a
proposed Charter of Citizenship: “When
you draft this charter please write it in
strong, simple English—not in modern
economic, scientific, civil-service or
commercial English—but in the English of
Pilgrims Progress and the Bible. Then
when it’s read aloud people may
remember it.” Conference deferred the
drafting of the charter, though this
doesn’t mean it felt unequal to the
responsibility the Governor - General
placed upon it.
It is a fact, however, that most public
documents are written in anything but
clear English. The ear cannot take in
long words of obscure meaning, and
the mind certainly cannot remember
them even when one goes over them
many times.
There is a good deal of pretension in
■The choice of high-flown language,
whether it be written or spoken. Many
people who ought to know better believe
that a display of long words and windy
sentences indicates superiority. It doesn’t.
Radio has a good deal to do with the
tendency to use confusing words and
phrases. The only way to ensure good
messages for broadcasting is to dictate
the text to a typist instead of writing
it. An illustration of how hard it can be
to read a written sentence aloud was
provided in America some years ago
when a journalist, describing the first
world peace conference at Stresa, wrote:
“Today delegates walked to their meeting-
place along the soap-scrubbed streets of
Stresa.” The people of Stresa had
actually scrubbed the streets in honor of
the great occasion, and, written thus,
the sentence made a good alliterative
line. But the people of the United States
laughed for days afterwards at the
attempt of a news-reader to repeat it on
the air. He had three tries, became
muddled, swore, and out off the
microphone.
Here’s a different example. A friend
gave a well-dressed aborigine a lift to
the next town. The abo. said he had
left his job in one place and was going
to the other because the “remuneration”
was much better. He could only have
got that from reading or listening.—
M.F.D. (N.S.W.).
Languages
“Snips’s” reasoning (B. 19/1 /’55) does
not seem valid to me. Apart from learn-
ing a language because of residence in a
foreign country, we should distinguish
two main motives for language-study:
Cultural: Here the principal aim is to
understand and appreciate the civilisa-
tion in which a man lives. In spite of
her geographical situation, Australia is
heir to European civilisation, and the
proper study of Australians is still the
classical and modern languages of
Europe. I had to pass examinations in
French, German, Greek, Latin and Old
English merely to satisfy the examiners
that I could be educated to an under-
standing of this European heritage.
Commercial: The important factor is
the business, not the language. Though
considerations such as security may be
paramount in an official service, there is
little point in a businessman’s being
equipped with any Oriental language.
Any legal or commercial document is far
better drawn up or certified by a native
of the country concerned, and,
incidentally, such persons can be
engaged for a fraction of the salary
demanded by an expensively educated
white man with his entourage of servants.
If you think this point of view is
extreme, I should mention that, as a
Consular official some years ago,
although I had a good knowledge of both
spoken and written Chinese, I invariably
left the composition of official docu-
ments to trained Chinese writers, only
intervening when my intentions appeared
to be misconstrued.
Ability in languages is no passport to
a career. Any Australian who wishes
to acquire such ability should view it as
an addition to professional qualifications,
never as a substitute for them. —Jimmy
Woodser (Vic.).
With the exception of Chinese, all the
languages listed by “Snips” (B. 19/1/’55)
would be singularly unrewarding to the
student. Compared with those of Europe
they are poor in literature and philo-
sophy, and are almost devoid of
expressions to describe any but the most
basic states of mind and body. These
remarks apply particularly to “Javanese,”
which, as far as I can gather, is not a
language in its own right, but merely a
dialect of Malayan.
Why should we “forget” French? Even
if one could be Philistine enough to ignore
its wealth of literature and scientific
thought, it still remains the language of
one of our closest and best trading neigh-
bors, New Caledonia. And why flog
Latin? Apart from its value to people
interested in , the foundations of our
society and culture, what would the
medicos and pharmacists substitute so
as to make prescriptions understood all
over the world?
By all means have Chinese taught more
widely, remembering that it is not enough
simply to speak it. Even if you are only
interested in trade, reading and writing
remain essential. But if you want to
learn Urdu, don’t importune school-
teachers and Colombo Plan students. Buy
a reliable self-instructor and teach your-
self at home in your spare time. — John
Abernethy (N.S.W.).
Formosa
I heartily agree with most of what was
written in “Australia and Formosa”
(B. 2/2/’55) regarding the lamentable
mistakes of American diplomacy during
and after the 1939-45 war.
My first point of disagreement is that
the Formosan aborigines are not Chinese
but Malayan. As in Malaya, the
Chinese are comparatively recent addi-
tions to the population. Ethnically,
neither Mao nor Chiang has any more
right to Formosa than the Indonesians
have to New Guinea. But Formosa is
so strategically situated that if Mao is
permitted to oust Chiang and occupy it,
Japan will be outflanked and the forces
of U.N. will sooner or later have to
retire to their homelands, leaving a dis-
armed Japan an easy victim to Chinese
Communist aggression.
If that happens Japan’s population of
“You Were going to catch ME — remember !”
roughly 86,000,000 will be used as
cannon-fodder in Mao’s design to con-
quer all Asia, and Australia. So, while
we may be thankful that “we are not
committed in any way to assist the
United States in any military action it
might take,” we should applaud the firm
stand taken by President Eisenhower,
since this matter is of vital importance to
Australia.
Secondly, I have come to the con-
clusion that the persons most responsible
for the American diplomatic blunders
outlined are: (1) Those who surrounded
“Excuse me, sir.”
both Roosevelt and Truman with advisers
of marked Leftist leanings, such as Pro-
fessor Lattimore and Alger Hiss. The
former was more often in the Far East
than at home ; nevertheless his influence
on President Roosevelt’s actions and
decisions was so disastrous that we will
be paying for it in blood and tears
for years to come. (2) Both Roosevelt
and Truman for their lack of foresight,
in the light of history, in shaping a
U.S. Asiatic policy.
As one who has believed all his life
in the unity of the English-speaking
peoples, I would be the last to advocate
the severahce of ties with the Mother-
land to form a new allegiance with th®<
U.S.A. Nor do I think that the
majority of the papers published in
this country favor such a turncoat
action, even if they do favor support
of General Eisenhower in the Formosa
affair. Rather, I think they favor, as I do,
a still greater and closer unity of the
English-speaking world. “Together we
stand, divided we fall.”
Nor can any man alive to the situation
in England say that England is decadent.
From what I saw in that country a few
months ago I am sure she is showing
more recuperative powers than even the
United States. And that is saying a lot.
As The Bulletin says, and I concur
generally, the U.S.A. has still much to
learn from England in the matter of
diplomacy. My one fear is that the
tolerance shown to the enemy working
openly and unashamed within our midst
may bring the Empire down like a house
of cards. — Pop (S.A.).
Wages
The trouble with wage-determination
is that it is being done piecemeal. One
trade gains an increase ; another immedi-
ately makes its claim. There may be
little comparison between the two trades,
but the feeling is “If they got it, so should
we.”
Up to last November N.S.W. school-
teachers had received, over a period of
several years, increases which placed
them up to £3OO p.a. better off than
bank-clerks. It may not be possible to
compare these two professions, but bank-
clerks claim that their financial position
has suffered as a result of the increases
granted to teachers.
After the judgment in the metal-trades
case the cry went up that the position of
less skilled workers had been worsened.
Though there must be sufficiently large
margins to attract men to skilled trades,
this, judging by statements of union
officials, is not as obvious as it should
be. On the other hand, there is reason
to doubt (or at least question) that any
man’s skill is so great as to be worth 7 %
times the basic wage.
It is time to consider the wages of all
employees and the relation between par-
right up to “heads” of Government
departments and of private enterprise.
It should be possible to find some formula
which could enable all skills (manual or
professional) to be compared' with one
another.
Arbitration courts have no control
over some of the top positions; State
and Federal awards do not always keep
in step ; but if a system could be devised
to compare all types of skills, it is likely
that a fairer and clearer system of
awards would emerge. <
Even if no definite decision were
ticular groups from the unskilled worker
reached on these lines, much valuable
information would be collected for the
benefit of the arbitration system
Mullum (N.S.W.).
Bushfires
Investigations into recent disastrous
fires in western Victoria showed that
heavy losses —eight homesteads were
destroyed—were attributable to the
neglect of owners in not making fire-
breaks around their homes and out-
buildings.
This suggests that thousands of volun-
teer firemen and the State authorities
who try to keep the rolling acres of grass-
and forest-land free from fire might as
well go home. What can you do for
people who won’t do anything for them-
selves?
I attended public meetings in western
Victoria a few years ago, when fires
started by railway-engines were under
discussion. It was surprising to learn
that many landholders refused to plough
adequate fire-breaks early in the season
because of the loss of pasture this would
entail. It seems time to make the
provision of fire-breaks compulsory
during the annual danger-period. — Plain
Australian (Vic.).
A Bad Picture
The other day I bought—intending to
send overseas—a book entitled Our Aus-
tralian Countryside in Pictures. The
dust-jacket depicted a country town;
undoubtedly the buildings would be
found in most country towns, but it
wasn’t at all well done. For example, a
double-story hotel had one window set
where the floor obviously would have
been. While most of the book’s photo-
graphy was good and the scenery com-
mendable, the whole was uninspiring.
One picture entitled “Cattle Kings”
showed a mob of not more than 30 very
average cattle, feeding beside a small
hut. When I thought of the wonderful
cattle in my own district —not cattle
country—l felt against the book, and I
finally decided against sending it when I
saw a picture depicting the average Aus-
tralian housewife ironing without elec-
tricity.
It showed a woman ironing with a
flatiron. Beside her on the chair stood a
little girl. For an iron-stand the woman
was using a tobacco-tin. But what made
me see red was the fact that her frock was
fastened in the front with two very, very
large safety-pins. I’ve been a housewife
without electricity for many years and
I’ve known many other such housewives,
and I feel sure that they, too, would be
upset at the thought of such a picture
finding its way overseas.—E. Lane
(Vic.).


An Unusual Introduction
The early cartoons in the seventy-fifth
anniversary number of The Bulletin
bring to mind my introduction to the
unique journal about 50 years ago. At
that time I was around 14, and had just
landed my first job in a butcher’s shop in
London.
One of my tasks, down in the cellar,
was to separate old newspapers into con-
Venient-sized sheets for wrapping-up
meat. Among several stacks were some
bundles of The Bulletin.
Working thus, curiosity persuaded me
to open and read one of these Bulle-
tins, and there and then I found myself
in a wonderful new world: a world I
hardly knew existed. Absorbed in my
reading, I was quite unaware of the
wrathful approach of the Great Man,
who, catching me in flagrante delicto,
sacked me on the spot.
But The Bulletin had found a new
reader, if not a new subscriber. From
then onwards I was ever on the lookout
for stray copies, until, reaching maturer
years, I found surer means of getting
supplies. Then friends in Australia, on
the outbreak of the last war, kept me
constantly provided. This regular delivery
during the hardships, dangers and dusk-
to-dawn obscurity enfolding our besieged
little island was often a great blessing.
During these years, and those that fol-
lowed, The Bulletin. I think, carried
me over every mile of Australian terri-
tory, presenting to my eye a panoramic
view of the Australian scene and an
understanding and sense of kinship with
the people far more effective in its educa-
tional results than all the “travellers’
tales” and commentaries of returned
visitors put together.
So that, when my life’s partner passed
away, I felt there was but one thing left
to be done, and I did it. I cut all the
strands that bound me to England, and, at
the age of 64, landed in Brisbane five
months ago a brand-new Australian.—
D. A. A. (Q.).
Brazil
“Uncabled Additions” on Brazil’s pro-
gress (B. 19/1/’55) brings to mind another
significant fact —the Brazilian encourage-
ment of the arts.
Brazil encourages native-born artists
to build up the culture of the country,
and also invites foreign-born ones to live
and work there. The encouragement
takes a simple, practical form, based
on the fact that most creative artists
have small and uncertain incomes:
Brazil is the only country in the world
where authors, playwrights, poets, sculp-
tors and painters do not pay any income
tax. — Academico (S.A.).
The Senate
“K.Mc.’s” suggestion (B. 26/l/’55) for
the provision of “elder statesmen”—
that half the Senate comprise ex-Prime
Ministers, ex-Commonwealth Ministers
with 10 years of office, State Premiers
with five years in office, and one or two
representatives of industry from each
State —is undoubtedly better than mine,
but a Senate reconstructed on the lines
he proposes would need a referendum,
and that, on past experience, would be
hard to carry.
The scheme I outlined might be
possible without a referendum, as the
elder statesmen would have no votes.
Their influence would be purely moral,
and would be most effective in determin-
ing the attitude of many electors to
public questions.
In excluding retired members of the
judiciary from his plan, on the ground
that if they had the right of member-
ship Governments would be tempted to
fill judgeships with party-hacks, “K.Mc.”
is unnecessarily apprehensive. A judge
may serve on the Bench for 20 years or
more. In that period his political out-
look may change radically. Pressure
could not be brought to bear by former
political associates once he was in the
Senate. — Morris the Tinker (N.S.W.).
Spear-gun Control
Following three near-fatalities on dis-
trict beaches over the holidays, municipal
councils in the Geelong (Vic.) area are to
ask the State Government to consider
legislation for the control of spear-guns.
It has been suggested that an age-limit
of 17 or 18 years be imposed and licences
“You ought to read this ridiculous article on the possibility of
the existence of flying-saucers.”
be issued as now.obtains with most other
weapons.
The spear-gun can be a dangerous
weapon, and is generally used in the
vicinity of crowded beaches, so a strong
case can be made for some control
over it.
A friend of mine bought a gun as a
Christmas-present for his 14-year-old son.
After the boy had driven a spear through
the boot of his father’s car and nearly
claimed his father as a victim, Dad de-
cided it was time to confiscate the weapon
until further notice. — Plain Australian
(Vic.).
Plainclothes Speed-cops
There is sure to be an outcry from
South Australian drivers and motor-
cyclists at the institution of plainclothes-
police road-patrols there. I’m one driver
who does not welcome it, but who feels
he has no kick.
My driving days did not begin until
after all police-patrols in the State had
been put in uniform, and I’ve had a high-
speed lawbreaking career at the wheel.
I’ve always taken care to keep one eye
on the rear-vision mirror, and to glance
down side-streets in search of Johnhops
waiting to speed after me. Whenever
I’ve seen a uniformed policeman, or
noticed a car that looked as if it had a
uniformed driver, I’ve slowed down to
the safe side of the law, and have care-
fully obeyed all the rules in the book.
But when the law has not been about
I’ve done anything up to seventy, and
have broken all the rules except Thou
shalt not have an accident.
From now on I’m keeping the law.
For, as another motorist remarked the
other day, “What chance will a bloke
have with those cheating b s creeping
round after him disguised as if they’re
harmless?” — Single Spinner (S.A.).
Cut It Down
Speed is one of the big killers of the
road, yet cars are still made with this
lethal quality at as high a level as the
maker can manage. With the exception
of obvious services—ambulance, general-
medical, fire, police and certain news-
cars —why not make all vehicles with
speed-mechanism pegged at, say, 40
m.p.h.? In the city that would even then
be above legal speed, so why consider it
a snail’s-pace on a country road? For
ordinary purposes speed is only a bad
habit, whereas continuing to live is
surely a better one.— Feuer (N.S.W.).
Definitions
Almost any bridge over a road carries
the legend: “Minimum clearance 14ft.”
(or some such figure). This means,
simply, that a load measuring any more
than 14ft. from ground to top won’t
pass under the bridge. But shouldn’t
it be “maximum clearance,” since any-
thing lower than 14ft. will pass?
Part of my daily toil consists of string-
ing telephone-lines around the country-
side, and it is laid down that no wire
across a roadway shall be less than 18ft.
above the crown of the roadway. Or,
putting it another way, the minimum
height of the wire must be 18ft. As in
the case of the bridge, it doesn’t appear
to be correct to say that that wire has
a minimum clearance of 18ft.
It seems as illogical as finding on a
loading-crane the words “Minimum
Load lcwt.” Dammitall! Can you have
a minimum clearance? — Lennie the
Linesman (N.S.W.).
Swoon-culture
Melbourne “Argus,” catering for its
teenage readers, took Sir Arthur Fadden
to task for having said he was “very
perturbed about the influx of overseas
entertainers who are causing a strain on
Australia’s dollar-resources.”
Until I read the “Argus” leader on the
subject I had not realised the tremendous
cultural benefits which have been con-
ferred on us by Johnnie Ray, Louis
Armstrong, Gene Krupa, F. Sinatra and
those two negresses whose names I forget
but whose legs I well remember.
“They have given a tremendous boost
to local music,” said the “Argus,” “by
passing on the latest techniques in the
singing, playing and arranging of modem
jazz.”
Think of that, now !
For the first time in 50 years, the news-
paper went on, Australian record-
collectors and musicians are benefiting
from “live” contact with the acknow-
ledged American “greats.”
This is indeed a stimulating thought.
It doesn’t matter a hoot that these much-
boosted entertainers are making the
nation’s bad dollar-position much worse.
It doesn’t matter that the position of our
balance-of-payments is heading for the
stage when it could be described in non-
economic terms as “up to putty.”
These things don’t matter. The import-
ant things, as the “Argus” says, are that
we should have the benefit of their
culture and the fact that a few words
from J. Ray or Swoonatra “will do us
more good in America than years of
speech-making or article-writing.” I am
now going to have a drink. —J. D. C.
(Vic.).
Loan Failures
The latest Commonwealth Loan failed
to reach the target in both cash and
conversion, and the Federal Treasurer
must ask himself “Why?” Heavy dis-
count of many loans on the market is
one of the major reasons.
Interest-rates were reduced in the
depression days (over 20 years ago), with
shocking falls in market-values of bonds,
and now amended rates have brought
about discounts. It is no wonder good
Australians are nervous and lacking
confidence. Restoration of both nerves
and confidence in this matter is in the
hands of the present Federal Govern-
ment.—G. B. M. (N.S.W.).
More Helicopters
Helicopters have unique value for cer-
tain purposes, yet the R.A.A.F- appears
to be short of them. Principal uses, both
civil and military, could be summarised
as: Rescue work on land and at sea,
transport of troops and equipment,
dropping of supplies in difficult terrain,
medical services, observation.
Most of these jobs can be done more
efficiently by helicopters than by any other
craft, and wide use of them would leave
faster planes free for ordinary travel. A
substantial number of helicopters are
needed to supplement our air-fleets in
special duties and so increase the
effectiveness of all flying-services in
Australia. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 319
Across
I—The1 —The German mother-bird is a skin
complaint. (10)
s—Russian5 —Russian city wave. (4)
9 —Diggers’ version of 1-across
thanks an Austrian tenor. (7)
11 — Undressed Kelly behind the
piano, and went fishing for
Crustacea. (7)
12 — Statement of income by the Army
or the Navy or the Railways
mentions the art of “trumping”
aces. (6, 2,7)
13 — Your French weight is not coming
back. (3)
14 — Spanish boy is to depart twice,
once permanently. (5)
15 — Flier in a crash is a bad chap
who is put away for good. (5)
17— interrupt a one-time Labor
Premier of N.S.W. with a tael.
(5)
18 — See 23-down.
20 —Banter bone. (3)
22 —When we are poor feathers
growing on the part of the foot-
wear where the shoelaces are.
(4, 2,3, 6)
25 Dirty Obadiah reduced part of a
play. (7)
26 I go after a fag for a recent
Italian Premier to asphyxiate a
fairy like lolanthe. (7)
27 — Melbourne newspaper family
backing a genus of marsh
tortoises. (4)
28— Rettaf obeys this pig, but don t
put your money on the slimmer.
(10)
Down
1 — Did the Queen turn to a French
encyclopedist? (7)
2 Land of Hope—and (according
to its inventor, Anthony) some
Glory. (9)
3 Is our article moustache seen on
the Chaldean capital love-affair?
(5)
4 Yours Truly is yore duck laying-
on of pigments. (7)
6 Boredom. (5)
7 Mimi halved a stain on a
Moabite city in June and July.
(3-4)
8— Just a show the umpires are
expected to ensure. (4, 4)
10—Solitary Capone gets enough to
break a duck. (5)
14 —Barker’s admirer to act with a
hand-fitter. (3-5)
16 — The flesh of the police to
compel me at the finish to pro-
vide seasoned mince. (9)
17— Los Angeles bee’s father brigand.
(7) . .
18 — Court me with an artist s
boomerang. (7)
19 —Shoot grips differently with the
odds against the set of sail. (5)
21 —Shadier box-office sportsman at
St. Moritz. (7)
23 and 18-across —Very watery
Chinese laundry solicits business.
(5-5)
24 —Father swallows the ember Turk
of some influence. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 318


WRAPPING UP AUSTRALIA
&2Z
%
■>*&
£<
fZ
££
■ / -v
%
wmM
J
SJ-K
,' „ 'J J v • '
s our export
4? Mi \‘ J '
Our present-day standard of living depends entirely
on our export trade.
The overseas demand for Australian products depends
, to a great extent on the attractiveness of their packs and
the condition on arrival. To ensure that goods arrive
in as sound condition as when they leave, paperboard*
packaging is used extensively.
The paper and paperboard used for wrapping and
packaging Australian goods is nearly all made by A.P.M.
—Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.—who produce
nearly 200,000 tons of it each year. The paper and paper-
board are sold to other manufacturers who make attractive
and strong boxes, cartons and containers that are easy
to handle here and- abroad.
A.P.M. produce 160 kinds- of paper and 140 kinds of
paperboard. These are made by others into a great variety
of finished products that make work easier, or reduce
costs, or make life more pleasant in countless ways.
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard, fibrehoard and other
heavyweight papers. Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W. and Petrie, Qld. (under construction) ,
