

fghfghf
/
m
■
■ a
m
»
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
gh
The Bulletin
TELEVISION WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE -page es
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 76—No. 3926
Wednesday, May 11, 1955
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia* for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
BEAUMARIS CASTLE, EDWARD'S
GREATEST STRONGHOLD
THE remote Isle of Anglesey, in North
Wales, is historically famous as the last
stronghold of the Druids who were attacked
there by Paulinus and his Roman legions in
61 a.d., and who were almost exterminated
seventeen years later by Agricola. The
heather-clad island, with its small whitewashed
farms, cottages and windmills, is separated
from the mainland ,by the Menai Straits. Its
early name was Mona, and because of its
extensive cornfields in the 9th century it was
often referred to as “the mother of Wales."
In 1282, after the defeat of Llewelyn ab
Gruffydd by Edward 1, Anglesey became the
island headquarters of most of the Welsh
chieftains. As this was a menace to Edward’s
plans for the subjugation of the turbulent
Welsh, and since his fortresses at Conway and
Caernarvon were unable to hold them in check,
he decided to build a great stronghold on the
island itself. This was established at the north-
east end of the Menai Straits and was named
Beaumaris, from which the county town near
by takes its name.
Beaumaris was founded in 1295-98, and was
the last and most fully developed castle to be
built by Edward I to subjugate the Princi-
pality. The castle is regarded as a masterpiece
of defensive planning and, unlike earlier
Norman castles, it has no central shell-keep.
For its almost impregnable strength the garri-
son relied on a series of obstacles which would
have to be overcome by the besiegers. First, a
wide moat had to be crossed, then the outer
curtain-wall, defended by fourteen drum-
towers, had to be scaled. The gateway on the
south was the principal entrance, and was
entered from the west —a form of double-
elbowed approach—which was commanded by
loopholes in the adjoining curtain-walls. A
portcullis and rectangular barbican added to
the strength of the castle. If the outer walls
were captured there were still massive curtain-
walls, sixteen feet thick, of the inner defence
which were quite impregnable until the intro-
duction of gunpowder in the 14th century. A
canal leading to the sea was cut, and this
enabled the garrison to receive provisions direct
from ships.
In 1400 Edward IV presented the castle to
Henry Percy (“Hotspur”) in return for services
rendered in placing him upon the throne.
Forty years later William Bulkeley, the first ol
the Baron Hill family, was appointed Con-
stable, and members of this family still figure
prominently in local affairs. During the Civil
Wars of the 17th century the fortress was held
by a Bulkeley for Charles I against Parliament.
No. 245: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppeli.


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit the metropolitan area
and pay cash. Correspondence
from country or inter-State
invited.
BERKELOUW
THE KINGSWAY,
ROSEVILLE, N.S.W. JYII3I
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
will find the book you want—fiction,
snort, history, science, textbooks, classics or
ecclesiastics. Write BOOKHUNTER now.
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN PLAYS
Probably the greatest need in Aus-
tralian playwriting today—apart from
a chain of reasonably large theatres to
put the plays on when they are written
—is for the touch of Synge, Tolstoi and
Chekhov, plays arising from the soil
as naturally and spontaneously as the
gum-trees do.
Light comedy, plays of the city, his-
torical drama, any of the categories of
play-writing are worth doing; but it
still does seem that the first and
greatest need is to see this country, in
its rich and original essence, alive on
the stage as it has been brought to life
in the short-stories of Lawson, Dyson,
Steele Rudd and Brian James, the kind
of thing Louis Esson attempted, at
least once with considerable success.
Henrietta Drake-Brockman’s four
plays in Men Without Wives (Angus
and Robertson) do not quite fulfill this
need. In the title-piece, notable for its
creation of the indomitable Ma Bates,
Mrs. Drake-Brockman makes the mis-
take of adopting —however well she
may know the country and however
frequently her plot may have occurred
in real life —the tourist’s viewpoint.
Life in the far north-west is seen as
it affects the new, young, citified wife
of the station-owner, the visiting
insurance-man and the visiting doctor.
Only at the ends of scenes, after they
have dealt with the reactions of the
newcomer, do the characters begin to
talk about the things that really interest
them and really make up their lives:
“You shut up being funny, Joe, an’
come along with me. I got something
extra to show you. A likely sorter dog
outer that blue bitch you sent me a
coupla years back.”
The other plays, though outsiders
come into most of them to have the
local scene demonstrated to them, move
more securely and unselfconsciously
within their own environment: a gold-
stealing play with one very good scene
in it when the stolen gold is hidden in
a teapot; a pearling play; a light little
one-acter in the pearling territory about
a bishop, a ghost and a ne’er-do-well.
To get the full earthy richness of
Synge they would need tightening in
construction (the final scene of “Hot
Gold” is hardly necessary), a more
poetic and rhythmical use of the Aus-
tralian idiom, and a delving below the
level of popular romance in the plots.
But all these plays, and especially
the title-piece, for in spite of the visit-
ors Ma Bates with her old greenhide
chair remains indomitably Ma Bates,
do contain much of that flavor of the
Australian earth which is so much
needed; and, presented on the stage,
might have more than meets the eye
at a reading. As well as Ma Bates and
her daughters, and the station-hands
and the blacks, the heat and the
spaciousness of the cattle-stations are in
the title-piece; the pearling plays smell
of salt and gin and sin; and you learn
from “Hot Gold” exactly how it feels
and looks to strike a “jeweller’s-shop”
deep underground, and how it feels to
have some of it in the teapot at home
when the police drop in. Interesting
things happen in all the plays; and all
have warmth of feeling.
Prize for Plays
The Playwrights’ Advisory Board
reminds writers that its 1955 competi-
tion closes on May 31.
The prize, donated by Sir Edward
Hallstrom, is of £2OO to be divided
among the prizewinners, the first prize
to be not less than £lOO. It is offered
for a full-length stage-play and is open
to all residents of Australia and New
Zealand. Further details from the
P.A.B. at Box 4220, G.P.0., Sydney.
Tasmanian Copper
Anyone who has felt that the story of
a great industrial undertaking would
make exciting reading without the
romantic trimmings of a saga-novel will
find his faith amply justified in The
Peaks of Lyell, by Geoffrey Blainey
(Melbourne University Press), the story
of the battle for copper in the moun-
tains of western Tasmania.
It begins with goldmining; some
Finns, a storekeeper, a carter, a group
of Irish brothers, and one Irishman in
particular; James Crotty, one-time
student at Trinity College, Dublin.
They drank, sold and transferred for
trifles shares in ground later worth
millions; and some of them ended as
watchmen or caretakers on fields they
had discovered and part-owned.
When another Irishman, Bowes
Kelly, enriched by Broken Hill invest-
ments, came to inspect Mount Lyell
claims, in search of a proposition to
put money in, he found Crotty care-
taking for his little company, the Mt.
Lyell Gold Mining Co., and beat him
down to £5OOO for an interest in the
mine. In 1892 the Mt. Lyell Mining
Co. was formed; the old company got
45,000 shares and the Broken Hill
group* 55,000; the Bowes Kelly group
proceeded to elbow the Crotty group
out of the management.
While the new company was trying
unsuccessfully to get finance in
London, all might have been lost if in
1894 they had not struck a very rich
seam of silver-ore in the old mine,
which yielded £lB,OOO-worth in a fort-
night, and within less than a year,
£106,000.
Soon the Mt. Lyell Valley was plas-
tered with companies edge-to-edge like
postage-stamps, although “we know
today that the ore-bodies buried in
different parts of the Lyell fields are
separated by millions of tons of barren
rock.”* But Crotty, now living in
splendor in Melbourne on his Mt. Lyell
shares, had quarelled with Bowes
Kelly, and set off to interest English
investors in his other Lyell fields, not-
ably North Mount Lyell. Miners here
struck a rich seam of bornite in a
quartz outcrop in 1897: —
All the shareholders who bought
a hundred new shares in the
North Lyell Mining Co. for £lO
in June, 1896, and later paid calls
probably amounting to no more
than £25, held shares worth
£lO2O at Christmas, 1897.
When the Mt. Lyell deposits were
almost worked out, the North Lyell
Co. was sitting, almost unaware of it,
on one of the world’s greatest
coppermines. It was a curious situa-
tion: Mt. Lyell had the technique and
no copper; North Lyell had the copper
and no technique. Both faced losses;
and they amalgamated.
Mr. Blainey traces the company’s
career through to the present day; and
the human part of the story ,has not
been neglected: the mining by the
Blocks syndicate, for instance, of 6000
tons of North Lyell ore; or how J. J.
Long, Esq., was dismissed from the
mine “for being a Labor M.P.”; or the
terrible mine disaster of 1912, in which
42 men died. The book is a gallery of
portraits of men at work, and gives an
insight into the processes of mining,
mine-management and mine-finance
which, for so detailed a disquisition, is
pretty easy for the general reader.
KENNETH MACKENZIE
The magpie and bees and the garden
Of bloodwoods were yours, and these will
harden
Henceforth into realities, now you are
dead.
It will be easy now to praise instead
Of criticise unworthily the work
Performed; calling upon ourselves who
shirk
The carry-over tasks—the poems, unread
Too often, that we must read now. Wed
To our crooked tunes, let 1 it be good
To read one who was always of that blood
That flows straight to its love; wrote deep
Down-river flowing poems that ferried
sleep
Ipto the monotones of night; alert, aware
Of children, love and lyric, mirrored there.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
The Clue of the Cattle
Although several suggestions have
been made as to the identity of “Alex-
ander Harris,” author of “Settlers and
Convicts,” no further evidence has been
offered and the question still remains
open. A possible candidate is
Willoughby Bean, whose life in New
South Wales between 1824 and 1844
closely resembled that of Harris.
There is a singular parallel between
a cattle-stealing in which Bean was
involved and one described with lengthy
animus in “Settlers and Convicts.”
This long-drawn legal donnybrook
revolved, among other things, about
the ownership of the cow “Blindberry.”
The upshot was that in January,
1837, Captain Faunce, the police
magistrate, ordered the arrest of Bean,
his friend Henry Donnison (who then
occupied Bean’s original 2000-acre
grant at Erina) and John Moore of
Avoca, and held them, somewhat
indiscreetly, in the lock-up in irons.
When the case came before a jury
in Sydney the defendants were dis-
charged with little ado. The three men
thereupon took action against Faunce
for false imprisonment and obtained
substantial damages. To further vin-
dicate their names, a 90-page pamphlet
appeared in 1838, entitled, “The Bris-
bane Water Cases,” which sets out the
affair in detail. The similarity of
Harris’s recital to that of “The Bris-
bane Water Cases” is so close as to
make it almost certain that they refer
to the same incident—even Donnison’s
name is barely disguised as “D .”
There is another intriguing chink in
the tightly-drawn cloak of Alexander
Harris’s identity. John Thomas, the
convict bullock-driver whose Welsh
dialect enlivens the pages of Harris’s
“The Emigrant Family,” js described
as “still and sullen as crag on
Plynlymmon.” Plynlymmon rises from
the mountains of Wales about 20 miles
north of Lampeter, where Willoughby
Bean, after he left Australia, studied
for the ministry. Incidentally, the hero
of “The Emigrant Family” is named
Willoughby Bracton.
Besides these points and the
significance of his entry into the
ministry in middle life, corresponding
to the deeply religious tone of Harris’s
repentant “Autobiography” there
are other details in Bean’s experiences
in Australia to suggest a link with
Harris. A young man of good family
and liberal education, Bean arrived in
Sydney in 1824. During the next 20
years he was in turn a large landholder
and first magistrate at Brisbane Water,
cattle-dealer, superintendent on stations
at “Tuggera” and on the Hunter, owner
of a cattle-run in the Wellington
Valley, beyond Bathurst, and with
continuing interests in the Brisbane
Water timber-trade for many years. A
long letter, graced with a felicitous turn
of phrase (published Journ. R.A.H.S.
for 1945), describes his life at Brisbane
Water in 1831 and shows that, in com-
mon with Harris, he had a deep
sympathy for the underdog.
The appearance of Harris’s books
coincides with the period Bean was in
England—he returned to Australia as
a minister in 1847. Low in pocket at
Lampeter, he may well have decided to
make money by writing about his 20
years of colonial experience. But the
richest episodes of those years would
not form a befitting background to the
future cleric; hence, I suggest, his
anonymity.—.
John Earnshaw.
GIRL IN A SUMMER DRESS
I cannot say it’s jtist for me
this tender walking girl
now wears a floral summer dress,
but floating light and flowering trees
reflect the summer of her face,
A sudden season swings her heart,
the aching summer of her flesh;
where rippling flowers bend the breeze
and dance within their points of light
she is the suppEfeness of trees,
the open flower, bud and fruit.
And see this tender walking girl,
this shy and glancing summer girl:
her body’s tall and slender tree
flowers now in a light dress
around the season at her heart,
its fragility and nakedness.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
Marching By the Left
Eric Lambert’s new novel, The
Veterans (Shakespeare Head), follows
the pattern set by Jon Cleary: the
Ninth Division returns from the Middle
East, and after training in jungle-
fighting is sent up to the islands, where
the men of the platoon who form the
centre of the action are practically
wiped out. In the island-fighting the
novel comes into the field of T. A. G.
Hungerford’s “The Ridge and the
River,”
Hungerford’s book was the cleanest,
in a literary sense; Cleary, with such
scenes as the shooting of a sick officer
the men were unable to carry, reached
out for the more popular market; Mr.
Lambert pursues a political line in
which Americans are prima facie
cowards and perverts, Australians
above the rank of sergeant are prima
facie incompetents or plotting
careerists, and Australian civilians —
those who are not factory-workers,
wharf-laborers or Government em-
ployees are black-marketeers or
profiteers.
This crude propagandism is a pity,
because Mr. Lambert, though in this
novel he makes little effort to construct,
has the gift of sustaining interest which
renders his running narrative easy to
read. Returning from the Middle East,
his narrator, Bill Farr, reluctantly
visits the Mosman home of his father,
who is making his fortune as a black-
market operator in league with an
American colonel. He finds his sister
entertaining American lieutenants. In
the city he visits, consciously braving
the color-bar. the mouldy playroom
where American negro servicemen are
innocently and beautifully amusing
themselves and is ordered out by a
Fascist American officer at the head
of an M.P. detachment which treats the
negroes like pigs.
Next, he goes to an American
“section-house” for soldiers on leave,
where he sees American soldiers and
officers acting like pigs themselves.
Then he falls in with a young but not-
too-beautiful girl factory-worker who
becomes his love; and then he is back
to camp for jungle-training.
The subsequent action-scenes are ex-
cellent; the portrait of “Lasher,” the
type of scornful, hard-bitten, laconic,
authority-hating Australian, is first-rate
—if not as much above criticism as Mr.
Lambert makes him, or as admirable as
other Australian types not mentioned
in this book. But if Australia and
America won in the islands because
Americans had “section-houses” in
Sydney and all the soldiers’ fathers
were blackmarketing and profiteering,
that will be news to Australians and
Americans, who thought they were
taking part in a “war-effort.” There is
room for bitterness in criticism of the
conduct of any war; but when that
bitterness presents only the court-
reports as the whole news of the day it
defeats its ends.
Twenty-one Stories: Graham Greene
(Heinemann). A book which renews
one’s doubts, first aroused by Brighton
Rock, as to whether this writer really
has more than a gift of sordidness
which, like that of Simenon and
Sartre, satisfies the ephemeral taste of
the age. The lighter stories, such as
“Alas Poor Mating,” about a man
whose indigestion made noises like an
air-raid siren, are magazine-writing
without any distinctive quality; the
grimmer stories, such as “The Destruc-
tors,” where a gang of boys destroy an
old man’s house out of senseless malice,
repeat the “Brighton Rock” theme of
youths so wrought-upon by the turmoils
of our age that they are beyond either
love or hate —a fantasy which gives
the “kick” of the crime-thriller without
any real effect of profundity.


wmmmm
m
C ; s % s* C . - a-,i -
V ' v \ " \ £$M
' - - MV -. : ; ' 'w y IM^fH
<& MVhS
m
' •• mv
s
Sasss
-*3
VS
gill
Mi
.. ;p "' : : f:|:;, :
■M . .
? P
L'»I:
?*• :SS?;...vS
•■ :
{£■ : »s
its S
zr
■;■■ ;••■
. . m
< :••• :■ - :
s ii
I
m &
■llllplllllllllliilllllll
|
>m
' V
-••>:»
sa
Pi
8? -SSI
m
m
S»l
Swsi
»«
Ml
"SK®
ft <> :
.!? •. •is,' - , *‘£ :
Out-door holidays are grand for the Kiddies
Qiot tenti, /id
Your little boy or girl would love an outdoor holiday during the
May vacation. Apart from being great fun for them it will do
them the world of good. They will go back to school com-
pletely refreshed, their minds full of the wonders of nature.
.■' * i
Anthony Horderns’ offer you a practical service in this regard,
we have a range of tents that will satisfy the need of any size
family arid the car too. For all camping and holiday needs visit-
our Manchester and Kitchenware Departments, Ground Floor.
ARvO • i'\; AOVr9vf-|5 : 'j>iC--
nthony Horderns’
Many types available
Special Marquee Auto Tent. Size 12ft. x 12ft. Costs
only £39/10/- complete. Roof is made of waterproof
N. Quality Birkmyre.
“Super” Marquee Auto Tent, illustrated, is made by
specially selected craftsmen in our own workshop. Size
12ft. x 12ft. priced at £6O/19/6; 15ft. x 15ft. priced at
£B2/7/-.
AUTO Lean-To Tent is the quick camper. Size 6ft. x
9ft. £29/6/9; 7ft. x 9ft. £3O/18/6 complete. Roof is made
of waterproof N. Quality Birkmyre. Prairie Play Tent
is the ideal tent for children. The size is sft. x 4ft. x
4ft. 6in. high. This play tent is priced at £2/12/6
complete with poles.
Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 11, 1955
Vol. 76—No. 3926
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 25211
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
GERMAN REARMAMENT
LAST Thursday the Allied occupation of West
Germany officially ended, and on Monday, as a
sovereign power and by virtue of the Paris Treaties,
the Bonn Government became entitled to begin the
task of setting up a West German force of half a
million men. West Germany is now free to establish
diplomatic relations with all countries, including
those behind the Iron Curtain—but not with East
Germany. The first troops will be volunteers, and
the intention is to raise a cadre army of 150,000
within 18 months. Conscription will probably
be necessary to raise the full 500,000, and Premier
Adenauer has indicated that that is his intention.
Under the Potsdam Agreement of 1945 it was
decided that Germany was to be disarmed and
demilitarised without delay, and accordingly the
occupation forces in the British, French and
American zones immediately pushed ahead with
demilitarisation. But, to quote a British White
Paper presented in the Commons last July,
It soon became clear, however, that the Soviet
Government did not intend to carry out the terms
of the Potsdam Agreement in general, and, despite
attempts by the Western Powers at the meetings
of the Council of Foreign Ministers in 1946-7 to
establish a Four-Power Pact of mutual assistance
against any German aggression’ and for the con-
tinued demilitarisation of Germany, no agreement
proved possible with the Soviet Union.
Subsequent Soviet action “intensified the
division of Germany, disrupted the quadripartite-
control system, and brought about the nullification
of the Potsdam Agreement. In October, 1948,
Russia began to organise para-military forces in the
eastern zone and “proceeded to build up an East
German Army equipped with tanks, guns and
aeroplanes.”
Western reaction to this was by no means
hasty. In May, 1949, the Occupation Statute defin-
ing the relationship between the Western Occupy-
ing Powers and the new Federal Republic of
Western Germany, reserved to the former all
matters connected with disarmament and
demilitarisation. Implicit in this was the under-
standing “for ‘dis-’ and ‘de-’ read ‘re-’” —the real
intention was that the Bonn Government could
only re-arm with the consent of the three Powers.
The first relaxing of disarmament occurred at
the meeting of the three Foreign Ministers in New
York in September, 1950 ; permission was given for
the establishment of a German police-force,
equipped with light arms only. The three Western
Powers were by then committed to action against
the Communist invaders of South Korea, and the
possibility of divided Germany suffering a similar
fate to that of divided Korea was discussed in
New York. The conclusion reached by the three
Ministers was that West Germany must be enabled
to contribute to its own defence and to that of the
West. Acceptance of the principle of German
participation in the defence of Western Europe
thus came almost two years after the Russians had
begun to build up East German military forces.
From acceptance of the principle to its translation
into practice a further four and a half years have
elapsed. And practice is not even yet the real
word ; the first steps are just now being taken.
During most of that period discussions have
centred round the European Defence Community,
described by Churchill as a French plan which
“offered a means of associating Germany politically
as well as militarily with the West, and of creating
a partnership of nations in place of the rivalries
and hatreds which have torn Europe for so many
centuries.”
The signatories to the E.D.C. Treaty, signed in
Brussels in May, 1952, were France, Western
Germany, Italy, Holland, Belgium and Luxem-
bourg ; the agreement was for a supra-national
army to which all six should contribute forces.
Britain was not a party to the agreement, but gave
assurances of , support, as did the United States.
The E.D.C. collapsed through the failure of France
to ratify it despite the earnest endeavors of M.
Mendes-France to persuade the French Parliament
to accept it; but in October last year at a Nine-
Power Conference in London an agreement was
reached which was acceptable to France and the
other E.D.C. countries. The London plan provided
for the admission of Germany and Italy to the
Brussels Treaty Organisation; British, Canadian
and American declarations of support for European
unity were given, and the British Government
pledged itself to keep four divisions in Europe, plus
a tactical air-force. Germany promised to conduct
its policy in accordance with the United Nations
Charter, and not to resort to force to achieve the
reunification of Germany or to change the
Republic’s present frontiers. The London con-
ference and subsequent talks in Paris completed
arrangements for the admission of West Germany
to the Western European Union and to Nato, and
worked out details of German participation in
Western defence.
Under the Paris Agreements German land
forces will be limited to 500,000 men, and the
German Federal Republic contracts not to make
atomic, bacteriological or chemical weapons.
Guided-missiles and long-range missiles are also on
the forbidden-list; so are warships bigger than
3000 tons and submarines bigger than 350 tons.
Restrictions such as these are of dubious value
in the long view. * They recall uneasy memories of
similar impositions after World War I, >yhich were
systematically evaded by German Governments of
all political colors even before they were blatantly
ignored by the Nazis. However, without them
agreement would have been impossible, if not
inconceivable.
Cynics and sentimentalists alike may find it
incongruous that just 10 years after the final
collapse of Hitler’s Germany the countries to which
the Wehrmacht and Luftwaffe brought death,
misery and destruction should be striving to put
arms once again into the hands of their former
foes. The protracted nature of the negotiations is
an index of the awareness of the Western demo-
racies of the risks inherent in such action, and it
is not surprising that France, thrice invaded by
Germany within 70 years, was the most reluctant
party to the agreement. Past history was whisper-
ing loud warnings in French ears. But current
history can teach lessons, too, and the nations of
Western Europe are well aware that the present
threat to their freedom and security comes from
further East than their German frontiers.
There is not the slightest doubt that if at some
time in the future Germany again attempts a career
of conquest there will be plenty of wiseacres to
explain that such a course was inevitable once that
country was allowed to rearm. But the mere asser-
tion of such a view, even after the event, will not
make it right. The problem Europe has to face is
not the possible threat of German aggression at
some time in the future, but the positive menace of
Communist aggression which has been hanging over
the Continent ever since the end of World War 11.
It is this menace which has forced the free world to
stand to its arms; to spend vast sums on armaments
instead of on peaceful development and improved
standards of living. It is this that has been respon-
sible for the building up of NATO and the Western
European Union, to both of which, through the
same menace, Western Germany will now belong.
Finally, it is the menace of Soviet Russia that has
made German rearmament not only desirable, but
essential to the peace of Western Europe.
The choice is not between a disarmed Germany
and a rearmed Germany, but between a Germany
rearmed in co-operation with other countries of
Western Europe or one rearmed in bitterness and
resentment, and ripe for any agreement with Russia
which would ensure a reunion of its East and West
zones.
In all international agreements there is a
conflict* between the long view and the short, and
there must be some compromise. Statesmen have
an obligation to look to the future, but their prime
duty is to grapple with the problems of the present.
It is, indeed, presumptuous in the statesmen of
any generation to think that they can build plans
for much beyond their own lifetime. To do so
assumes two things —that they can foresee future
events with unfailing accuracy and that their -suc-
cessors will not be blessed with intelligence and
ability equal r to their own. Both assumptions are
absurd.
Recognition of a common need has brought
Germany into partnership with other nations of
Western Europe for the first time ia generations.
The problem of making the partnership a lasting
one is a challenge to European statesmanship.
Big Three-Or Four?
(From London)
POLITICAL forecasting has been astonishingly
straightforward during the past weeks. Churchill’s
resignation was obviously on the way. The identity
of his successor was never in doubt. Nor was the
emergence of Butler and Macmillan as lieutenants.
Even the precise date (May 26) of the general elec-
tion was correctly deduced.
Furthermore, commentators do not need
second-sight to predict a return of the Conservatives.
Even if the record of the Churchill Government
becomes swamped by the frivolous issues and spite-
ful wrangling which we have now come to accept as
the natural order in election campaigns, there are
two strong factors in favor of the Tories: the nation
wants the distasteful business over and a return to
normal as soon as possible; and the Labor voice,
inhibited by its own internal embarrassments and
the prosperity of the wage-earners, will have a
hollow Moreover, Labor has nothing to offer
the critical “floating” vote.
Assuming that Sir Anthony Eden’s appoint-
ment is endorsed by the nation, what will be the
form and tone of his Government? Will it be “gov-
ernment by committee,” with the Prime Minister
first among equals? Will the absenoe of an over-
riding personality lead ultimately to stresses and
conflicts among the Big Three, whose temperaments,
in truth, are dissimilar? Will the influence of the
Central Office, sensitive both to the money-bags
and to every flutter of apprehension in the consti-
tuencies, reduce administration to the level of well-
ordered bureaucracy, unimaginative, efficient, coldly
mechanical and quite devoid of color?
These questions are being asked. They owe
their origin to the retirement of a titan who is not
only a popular character but also a world statesman,
a histoiy-maker and one of the great Englishmen of
history. Who would envy his successor? Not
only does his passing from the political scene
amount to anticlimax, but the man who steps into
his shoes, no matter who he may be, is so much the
lesser character as to be a virtual nonentity. Thus
runs the underlying argument.
It is fallacious, at least in application, Eden has
made a good start and a firm one. He gives no sign
of being overshadowed by his great colleague and
friend.
The essential difference between the two men
is not of individual stature but of political back-
ground. Churchill has gathered fame in many fields,
and has never been a natural party-man. Eden has
earned distinction (and no small measure of fame) as
a Conservative Foreign Secretary, and he is a very
good party-man. Because the handling of foreign
affairs demands a non-party approach this latter
circumstance is liable to be obscured. But Eden
is known to have taken the debacle of 1945
seriously to heart, and to have been a protagonist of
“democratic” (or, more bluntly, “pink”) Toryism.
He is as alive as any other to the political future of
his party.
So it may be well not to pay too much attention
to the legend: the debonair, blue-eyed boy of high
promise who resigned from the Chamberlain Gov-
ernment and whose reputation as a statesman is
second only to that of his late chief. That is to say,
his approach will be one of application, not person-
ality. The appointments he quickly made to some
of the minor posts bear this out. For good or ill,
the up-and-coming Tories are largely proteges of
the Central Office, the new type of professional poli-
ticians who earn while they learn. By recognising
so soon the promising ones among them the new
Prime Minister’s action is realistic, shrewd and
encouraging to back-benchers.
Such discomforts and minor troubles as he is
likely to find disturbing are those which arise from
his very qualities. Unlike Butler or Macmillan, he
has too thin a skin for the hurly-burly of irrespon-
sible debate, does not suffer political buffoons
gladly and cannot trot out the facile blather that
goes with vote-catching. And his conscientious
application to work, with attendant worries, tends to
take a lot out of him. But his influence on foreign
policy is likely to be felt more than ever it was
finder Churchill, for he now becomes master. This
will, most likely, mean painstaking realism by ortho-
dox diplomacy—not “conference at the summit.”
A much closer accord between Prime Minister and
Chancellor of the Exchequer is more probable than
in the past. Churchill was so preoccupied with big
issues that, it is said, he had little time to spare for
home and economic affairs.
There is much talk and conjecture about the
so-called triumvirate, with suggestions that so
diverse a trio must ultimately come to grips because
of conflicting personalities and rivalries. It is too
early in the day for these surmises to be anything
but chatter. Uniquely gentle, able and tough, Butler
presents himself automatically as next in line for
the Premiership, but it is as hard to imagine his
intriguing for power as it is to imagine Eden’s
plotting to get rid of him.
Of the three, Harold Macmillan undoubtedly
has the liveliest personality. He is also the best
debater among them, and an asset to the party
because of the skill and relish with which he lays
about the Opposition. As Minister in North Africa
during the war he showed a natural ability for
diplomacy and, latterly, a tremendous drive as
Minister for Housing. His short tenure as Minister
of Defence has neither diminished nor enhanced his
prestige. He certainly has dynamism and talent,
but some considerable time must pass before he
ceases to be a “new boy” at the Foreign Office.
A fourth personality, more important than
Macmillan, tends to be overlooked. He is to be
found both as Conservative leader in the Lords and
as a power in the party counsels. Lord Salisbury
might well become (if he has not already) the most
influential of the party elders —in experience, that
is. He shares a long association and identity of
outlook with Eden (as Viscount Cranbome he, too,
resigned over the “appeasement” of Mussolini).


THE NEW ORCHID


PLAIN ENGLISH
The A.L.P. and Malaya
“Labor’s” complete recklessness in
regard to foreign policy and defence has
never been so clearly manifested as in
last week’s debate on the proposal to
send troops to Malaya. With Dr.
Evatt, who was cither the author or the
publisher of the Hobart declaration, still
in the saddle, it was inevitable that the
proposal should, be opposed, but it might
have been thought that some construc-
tive alternative suggestions would be put
forward in support of “Labor s view,
yet the only arguments advanced were
about as constructive as the professional
activities of Whelan the Wrecker. Haylen,
who moved that the proposals be
rejected, and who feels that “the Govern-
ment must give up this expeditionary-
force attitude to modern war,” suggested
that “we could well do with a couple of
battalions stationed on our own native
northern coastline.”
Haylen’s mind seems to be in a maze
on the whole subject. Almost in the
same breath he sees Australia as
possibly “the target for the first
onslaught,” and asks whether history will
repeat itself in Malaya and our troops
be prevented from getting home. He
asks whether it is a crime to defend our
own country, but he dismisses the advice
of the best military experts that Aus-
tralian defence can best be served by
assisting in the defence of Malaya.
“Labor’s” other military expert,
Ward, describes Malaya as a police
State and says Australian troops are not
needed there. His argument is that
“just as there was a Brisbane Line in the
last war, so there is a Singapore Line
now, and in the event of a third World
War nothing below Singapore would be
defended.” Ward apparently has his
own lines-of-communication. This sort
of talk is the Paddington Line, and also
the Communist Line.
“Labor’s” whole policy on Malaya is
arrant hypocrisy. Evatt pledges his
party to “complete self-government” for
Malaya and his followers applaud with
loud “hear-hears.” What utter non-
sense! Britain has already pledged self-
government to Malaya, and has for six
years been trying to' expel the Communist
infiltrators who would tie the peninsula
on to Mao’s Asiatic empire. If British
troops were withdrawn Malaya’s hopes
of ultimate self-government would go
too, except for the knowledge that the
Malayans would have the goodwill -but
nothing else —of Haylen’s two battalions
on “our own northern native coastline”
and of Ward, rejoicing from behind the
safely of his Paddington Line at their
escape from colonialism. And, of course,
“Labor’s” pledge to do anything that
talking can do to help them.
■
H-bomb Rabbit
The position of the A.L.P. is as yet very
far from stabilised, whatever wishful
thinking there may be.
The alleged compromise in N. S. Wales
means exactly and the only thing
both sides are really agreed on is that a
couple of human sacrifices could be made
at the altar of expediency without any-
body losing very much.
The overall trend which is emerging
seems to be somewhat as follows. Both
sides are afraid to explode the political
H-bomb, which 1 each has ready to place
under the opposing side, for fear of chain-
reaction. Both hope that by conducting
the cold war within the party they may
be able to purge opponents and get
control.
Both also seem agreed that it would be
a good thing to have a test of public
opinion, and therefore Dr. Evatt has been
pushed into the Victorian election cam-
paign, where he will virtually replace the
luckless Cain as State leader for a brief
period to see what happens to him. He
is being dressed up with a programme
for the test like the rabbits at Monte-
bello, and on whether the campaign
destroys him and those arrayed under
him, or merely removes their political
trousers or vomits them out of the smoke
intact and triumphant, will depend what
happens later.
The campaign should produce a
very sound test of public reaction to
what has been going on. After that will
come the deluge before and at the
N. S. Wales annual conference, at the
next ensuing Federal Executive, and
N. S. Wales executive meetings after the
event, and in Federal Parliament.
There are fully 20 members among Dr.
Evatt’s faithful caucus followers who are
said to have the air, within Parliamentary
precincts, of men living with a carpet-
snake they distrust and fear, but which
they have agreed to take in to board and
lodge in order to have a livelihood. Some
have sworn to high Heaven that what-
ever happens they will never desert the
party —Mr. Allan Fraser is supposed to
be one of these, but Mr. Daly, Whip of
the party, and his group are not nearly
so staunch. They stay “in” presumably
because it is colder outside.
Mr. Calwell has the look of one who
is staying because he wishes to be kicked,
out. Martyrdom and a clear view from
a back bench would suit him down to the
ground. But the party is deadly (almost
pathetically) eager to retain him, partly
because he would be a tower of strength
to the Joshua party, partly because what
he would do with his knowledge of
“Labor’s” inner secrets would make the
castigations of official “Labor” by J. T.
Lang sound like the chirping of a wet
sparrow. Partly, also, because the alter-
native to Mr. Calwell in the deputy-
leadership is obviously Eddie Ward, who
has developed, along with a new sar-
torial elegance, an acquired talent as a
glad-hander.
Whatever happens, the prospect for the
leadership is bleak and becomes bleaker
as the Communist party every day be-
comes fonder of “Labor’s” leader and
policies.
It is symptomatic of the times that the
Qommunist official bookshop in Sydney
is exhibiting for sale as many new
A.L.P. pamphlets as Communist ones.
Dr. Evatt’s followers, apart from saving
Communist throats and tongues, are
certainly keeping down the Com.’s
printing-bill.
Plumbers at Work and Play
In discussing their internal troubles,
members of the Federal “Labor” caucus
don’t seem to be able to get away from
plumbing terms. At every meeting there
are complaints of “leaks” and allegations
that the Government parties have con-
trived to get pipelines into the “Labor”
fortress, while Eddie Ward and Clyde
Cameron have long maintained that
their phone-conversations are being
tapped. The trend is really not surpris-
ing ; one would need a very heavy cold
indeed not to suspect that something
was wrong with “Labor’s” domestic
drainage. „
The move by. Whitlam, M.H.R. for
Werriwa, to bring about a “spill” was
quite in line with the general pattern.
The idea of a “spill” is that all official
positions in the party are declared vacant
and ballots are held to fill them. Master-
plumber Evatt’s position was not in
question at discussions last week on the
Whitlam “spill” motion, the Doc having
jumped the gun by offering his resigna-
tion a fortnight before and being con-
firmed in his leadership —a restoration
job of doubtful permanence, with the
putty showing badly.
Journeyman - plumber Whitlam —rela-
tively new to the trade and not yet a
member of the Shadow Cabinet, though
with ambitions to get at least into the
penumbra —had given notice of the
“spill” motion at the time of his leader’s
resignation, but delays by no means
unusual in the plumbing game, held it
back until last Wednesday. Whitlam
explained that although his motion pro-
posed that all party-positions except those
of leader and secretary should be
declared vacant, it was really aimed at
only three officials —Deputy-leader Cal-
well ; Deputy-leader in the Senate, Senator
Armstrong ; and Party Whip Daly. These
three, he claimed, had worked against the
best interests of the party.
At a show-of-hands vote the motion
was deadlocked, voting 35 all. The
master-plumber, appealed to f°r a
casting-vote, looked for a moment like
handing-in his soldering-iron. Then he
rallied and ordered a division, at which
the motion was defeated 39-33. The
discrepancy between the two counts is
probably covered by gasket-cement, but
for the moment the offices remain
unspilt, with the assistant-master-plumber
threatening to make a splash of his own
“at the appropriate time,” which
apparently means after the Victorian
election.
Uranium Future?
“In the ACT’: Uncertainty concerning
the Government’s plans for treatment of
uranium ore, and recent statements that
the U.S. had enough uranium for all
military and industrial needs, plus many
undeveloped deposits of ore in western
States of the U.S.A., have caused con-
cern to investors in Australian mining
and to those engaged in prospecting.
There have also been complaints that
prices were unknown and uncertain as
a result of needless secrecy by the Govern-
ment, that prospects after the end of the
ten-year agreement with the Combined
Development Agency were uncertain, and
that there had been unnecessary delay in
providing for the industrial use'of nuclear
energy in Australia, especially in places
remote from other sources of power.
Some of these complaints were
answered in the report which Supply
Minister Beale tabled in the Housp of
Reps., and in the statement which he
made at the same time. He disclosed, for
example, that Australia might expect
£lO,OOO a ton for uranium oxide exported
in future, although this was less than the
amount now being received. He declared
that private capital had been assisted to
develop uranium-mining, and that con-
struction of more treatment plants was
possible in the Northern Territory and
elsewhere by private companies. He said
that buying-stations in other areas might
be established by the Government, but
warned that Australia had to move with
some caution in view of the immense out-
lays necessary for the purchase of ore or
oxide. The policy was not inflexible and
could be modified. It was difficult, in the
absence of freely-disclosed facts of world
production, to form any infallible judg-
ment as to what the future held. Military
demand was now dominant, but the U.K.
programme of nearly £2OO million for
generation of power from nuclear sources
was also an important factor.
The Minister said that future industrial
needs in Australia for uranium were
being watched, Australia had access to
the British research results,, and would
share the burden through the proposed
research reactor near Sydney. This por-
tion of the statement, however, failed to
indicate either how soon Australia might
expect some industrial use to be made in
this country of its own uranium-ores, or
what considerations would determine the
siting of nuclear powerhouses. The
Atomic Energy Commission’s report also
ignored this point, which is a vital one
in view of the need for expanded produc-
tion, and for population in areas now
sparsely settled. Nuclear power may not
be cheaper than other power for many
years, but it will be available in new
areas. The sooner it is used for these
purposes in such places the better.
Paid Larrikins
“In the ACT’’: Politics is a tough busi-
ness, and drawing-room behavior can
hardly be expected in Parliament at all
times. Scenes in the House of Represen-
tatives lately, however, suggest that some
means should be found to punish those
members of the type whose actions last
week caused Mr. Speaker Cameron to
take the almost unprecedented step of
leaving the Chair. Suspension of a mem-
ber may upset his dignity a little, but it
may even inflate his ego when he is
pointed out by lesser men as a “tough
guy” who stood up to the Chair. It
leaves his emoluments as a “representa-
tive” of his constituents quite untouched,
and its is perhaps in this field that the
Parliament might discover an effective
way of restoring its own dignity. Sus-
pended .members should lose their pay
while they are unable, through their own
fault, to perform their Parliamentary
duties. A reminder in the pocket would
really hurt.
One of the difficulties about these recur-
rent scenes is that so few voters fully
realise what has occurred. To read
remarks and statements in cold print is
to miss the true impact of studied insol-
ence and arrogance which characterise
so much of what has been happening
recently. Even the listeners to the Parlia-
mentary broadcasts cannot get the full
picture, because they miss the facial
expressions, the gestures which provoke
and build-up the type of mob hysteria
that in other surroundings encourages the
cowardly kicking of a prostrate con-
stable. Fortunately, Mr. Speaker is not
prostrate. He is capable of dealing most
effectively with larrikin defiance, and he
was upheld last week by the House,
although eleven Government back-
benchers, on a matter of principle, had
earlier taken exception by their votes to
his claim that he and not the House could
and should decide when a point of order
was involved.
The cynical attempt by Evatt and
Ward to suggest that the latter had not
transgressed the rules was a perfect illus-
tration of how a quiet repetition of vio-
lent remarks, made originally with all the
inflections of vituperation, all the accents
of the gutter, could mislead the unwary
reader. What Ward said may or may not
have been unparliamentary. The manner
in which he said it was undoubtedly com-
pletely out of order. As the Prime
Minister said later, moving the motion
of approval of the Speaker’s action, Ward
had submitted the Chair to “outright in-
solence, designed deliberately to weaken
its authority and bring it into disrepute.
From the public point of view, Mr.
Menzies said, this was of first-class im-
portance. The people should know
where the House stood in the matter.
After other members had spoken (one
Government member referred to “dis-
graceful exhibition of hooliganism”) the
House then made its attitude quite plain.
The Anti-Communist “Labor” group
voted with the “Labor” party against the
Prime Minister’s motion, but not out of
any sympathy with Ward and Co.
This incident is closed, and the House
has asserted its authority, but im the
present state of tension there will pro-
bably be other scenes. Before they become
too frequent and too degrading the Com-
mittee of Privileges should meet to
consider the best deterrents.
"Labor" Loses Brisbane
While the Evatts, the Cains, the Cahills,
the Calwells and the rest of the “Labor”
boys down south are still sorting them-
selves out, the Gairs in Brisbane have
taken a solid electoral punch. In a big
swing Brisbane voters returned an anti-
“ Labor” City Council and an anti-
“ Labor” Lord Mayor.
Citizens’ Municipal Organisation held
seven seats in the old council, “Labor”
17, the one Independent being the retiring
Lord Mayor. In the new Council the
C.M.O. is certain of 14 (may have 15),
with a C.M.O. Lord Mayor. “Labor”
will be scratching to hold 11 seats.
The swing is even more significant
when it is realised that this is the first
time in the electoral history of Greater
Brisbane that an administration has failed
to survive one term in office. How much
effect the ructions down south had on the
vote isn’t clear. What is clear is that the
C.M.O. now has what it has persistently
asked for —a chance to clean-up the elec-
toral rolls. If, as the C.M.O. and its
political affiliates in the Queensland
Parliament (the anti-“ Labor” Opposition)
have always maintained, Queensland State
and local-government rolls deed cleaning-
up, the C.M.O. victory will bounce right
up into the State Parliament.
What is not so clear is whether Bris-
bane citizens, having sharply discredited
and thrown out the city’s “Labor” ad-
ministration, are waiting to turn on the
Gairs, whose position, by virtue of cock-
eyed electoral boundaries and first-past-
the-post voting, is hard to shake.
I \
* /
The Shape of "Labor's"
Future
“Dick Turpin” : The two Federal
“Labor” parties, led by Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Joshua respectively, have as little
chance of retaining their numbers in an
election as they have of reconciling their
differences.
“Labor,” as it existed from 1921
onwards, is finished, just as surely as the
old Labor party of Watson, Fisher
and Hughes died during the 1914-18 war
in the disreputable ashes of the conscrip-
tion issue.
A new “Labor” party will certainly
arise, phoenix-like, from the ashes of the
Evatt-Santamaria conflagration. It will
either be a strong, united party with a
national outlook or a Left-wing stalking-
horse for Communism, with a hostile
sectarian rump formed into a second
party.
For the good of Australia it is to be
hoped that a completely new party, not
dominated by the present' professional
politicians, union officials, sports-
promoters and power-chasing place-
seekers who have dragged the party to
its doom, will eventuate.
The more altruistic souls of the party
need not fear the disorganisation and
heart-burning involved; after all, the
present Liberal party, so successful in the
Federal sphere, grew from the ruins of
the U.A.P., and while many of the old-
guard politicians remain, and perhaps
dominate the political scene, the control
of the party itself is vastly different, and
its policy as well.
Two things a new Labor party win
need above all others —the abandonment
of the out-dated Socialist plank from
its platform and an influx, on both the
executive and political sides, of men too
big for class-consciousness, and free
from the taints of booze, betting and the
other rackets.
In the early days of its existence the
Australian Labor movement attracted
the support of some splendid intellects,
men and women whose efforts introduced
the reforms, scarcely realised by this
(i Continued on next page\


generation, that changed so vastly the
conditions of life for the average Aus-
tralian at the turn of the century, and
throughout the decade that followed.
Moreover, Labor in those days,
strongly supported by Edmond of The
Bulletin, was healthily nationalistic in
its outlook. The Royal Australian Navy
and compulsory military training were
both Labor innovations, and the rising
prestige *of Australia overseas immedi-
ately after Federation was due more to
the sane principles of Labor politicians
than any other single factor.
These achievements were not wrought
by men lacking brains, or whose prin-
ciples were sullied by association with
rackets, or men who thought reform
consisted of confiscating the property of
others; or men who looked for inspira-
tion to foreign countries.
The conscription issue wrecked the old
A.L.P. Its best brains left it to the
racketeers and demagogues, and in 1921,
when it adopted the Socialist plank, it
was transformed from an instrument of
reform and progress into an instrument
of class-warfare, Communist sympathies
and ruthless personal exploitation.
Today the party is reaping the harvest
of the seeds sown since 1921. For too
long A.L.P. members and Communists
walked hand-in-hand for their association
to be glibly denied in a press-release or
a radio-script. “Jock” Garden’s long-
ago trip to Moscow, Donald Grant’s
I.W.W. activities ; these ghosts are not
yet laid, any more than Dr. Evatt’s fre-
quent court appearances for the Com-
munist cause.
The names of other prominent A.L.P.
members who have actively supported the
Communists at some time or another are
legion. Some have gone their ways to
dusty death, some claim they have
renounced their old enthusiasm for the
Red Flag and world revolution ; some
remain enigmas.
But had the Chifley Government been
re-elected, and had the banks been
nationalised, where would the limit of
Socialism have been set, and how far
would Australia be from Communism
today? It is an interesting question.
The average Australian worker is
against Socialism and the morass to which
it leads —the morass into which Hitler
led the German people, and in which
the Russian people lost their freedom.
A new Labor party is essential to
healthy democracy in Australia. The
groups following Evatt and Joshua can
never combine, and, in their separate
directions, are marching further and
further away from the democratic ideals
of the old pre-conscription party.
The pattern for a new party is clear.
It must be strongly nationalistic, it must
be democratically controlled, and it
must throw overboard the pledge of
Socialism, which no sane man will sign
in good faith. Such a party, offering a
constructive policy appealing to the trade-
union, business and farming sections of
the community, would certainly occupy
the Treasury benches in Canberra.
POLITICAL POINTS
“The Caine Mutiny Court-martial”
finished its run in Sydney on Saturday,
* but in Melbourne the Cain mutiny post-
mortem is still being conducted at an
open public hearing.
Calwell has announced his intention of
resigning the deputy-leadership of Federal
“Labor” “at an appropriate time.” Next
step should be a caucus vote to decide
what time is most appropriate.
• •
According to a United Nations survey
“under-developed countries too often set
standards of development that are too
high to achieve with available resources
of capital.” Anyone who doubts this
should take a peek at some of the Diplo-
matic Corps cars on view in Sydney
streets.
• •
Symptomatic of the mess in which the
N. S. Wales railways have floundered for
years is the current battle of protocol
between Cabinet and commissioner.
Winsor was first requested, then in-
structed, to appoint McCusker as “First
Deputy to the Railways Commissioner.”
Reason for this unusual title is that
amendments to the Transport Act some
time ago abolished the post of assistant-
commissioner. Winsor apparently doesn’t
want either an assistant or a first deputy ;
or perhaps he doesn’t want McCusker.
After taking legal advice he has pro-
tested that neither post is permissible
under the Act.
When Winsor went on sick-leave some
months ago McCusker was appointed
acting-commissioner over the heads of
two senior officers and against the advice
of Winsor. Cabinet is reported to have
been very impressed with the way he
cleaned-up after the floods. By the look
of some of the Sydney rolling-stock it
hasn’t been cleaned-up since the original
Flood.
• •
Winsor himself was a whiteheaded boy
with the Cahills a few years ago. They
took him away from the Railways Depart-
ment in 1949 and made him Commis-
sioner for Road Transport and Tram-
ways. A year later he was Director of
Transport and Highways. Then they
put Railways Commissioner Garside’s
shoes on him almost before their original
owner had time to unlace them. Now
they seem to think the man they put in
the shoes has tied ’em up too tightly.
• •
London cables report an eight-year-old
boy who is devoid of any sense of feeling
or touch. What a recruit he’d make for
the N. S. Wales “Labor” caucus!
• •
Nominations for the Victorian election
closed on Friday, with a record list of
206 candidates for the 66 Assembly seats.
Only one member of the present Parlia-
ment is unopposed—Country-party leader
Hyland, M.L.A. for Gippsland South.
The L.C.P. is contesting all but seven
seats ; Cain’s “Labor” party is trying for
49 and the Coleman-Barry “Labor” party
44. Hollway’s Victorian Liberals have
nominated nine candidates and the Coun-
try party 18. Communists, Henry George
party and Independents make up the rest
of the field.
• •
It’s rapidly getting to the point where
you can’t go crook to the bloke in the
train or the stranger in the bar about fhe *
public service. It’s only 3 to 1 against his
being a member of it.
• o
Queensland Opposition-leader Nicklin,
rejoicing over “Labor” reverses in muni-
cipal elections, forecast that the Gair
Government would attempt a. redistribu-
tion before the next attempt in an effort
to save its political hide. But the
“Courier-Mail” quotes a “high Govern-
ment official” as saying that a redistribu-
tion before *the election is “almost out of
the question.”
• •
More likely than a redistribution in
Queensland is a return to preferential
voting, which was abolished by “Labor”
because first-past-the-post gave it a better
chance of beating the divided Opposition
parties. But the Liberals and Country-
party have learnt their lesson and nowa-
days avoid three-cornered contests, so
that what was formerly an advantage to
“Labor” could be quite the reverse if the
faction-fight led to a splinter “Labor”
group running candidates against the
official card.
• •
After taking 30 years to construct a
hundred yards of subway from Flinders-
street station to Degraves-street to
relieve congestion the Melbourne City
Council has now crammed into it eleven
shops and newspaper- and tobacco-
kiosks, presumably to increase
congestion.
• •
Ward’s speech on the occasion when,
largely through his conduct, the sitting
of the House was suspended for only
the second time in over half a century,
began, “It is good to see, Mr. Speaker,
that you recognised this nondescript body
in the corner is not an Opposition-party.”
He was, of course, referring to the
Joshua group; he had apparently for-
gotten that in the early years of his
Parliamentary career he was himself a
member of a breakaway “Labor” group
to which the same phrase could well have
been applied.
The actual incident that brought about
the suspension was a wild outburst of
jeering and booing that came from the
“Labor” benches when the Speaker gave
Territories Minister Hasluck the call
while Ward was on his feet. Ward had
SAFE TO COME OUT NOW!
bedh asked to withdraw the word
“treachery” which he had applied to the
previous speaker, Keon. He replied,
“All right, I’ll withdraw, but I don’t
want you to interrupt too often.” It
was then that the Speaker called Hasluck
and the bedlam began.
• •
On May 3 the name of R. G. Winsor,
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner, headed
the list of State Government salary-
increases with a lift from £5OOO to £5875.
On May 4, by an act of God, a railway
parcel-van was struck by lightning at the
Sydney suburb of Tempe, and overhead
wires were struck at Beecroft. Then, fol-
lowing the striking of a 22,000-volt
power-cable at Ashfield, “the whole
street seemed to explode in a ball of
red fire.” Thereafter the signalling-
system broke down and the sub-
urban electric-train service degener-
ated into chaos. It has been in a state of
near-chaos for several years, and raising
Mr. Talk-too-much Winsor’s fat salary
won’t improve it.
• •
JBrisbane’s defeated Lord Mayor
Roberts, who is also State Assembly
member for Nundah, has announced that
he has no intention of retiring from that
seat at the end of the present Parliament.
Elected as a “Labor” man, he resigned
from the party shortly after the 1953
election and subsequently sought re-
admission, without success. Roberts says
he will nominate as a member of a poli-
tical party, but he doesn’t say which one.
• •
A London neuro-surgical specialist said
that in “heavily-motorised countries”
there would soon be a time when nobody
would escape injuries on the road. Next
day the chairman of the Australian Road
Safety Council said one of every two
pedestrians killed by a car had only him-
self to blame. It seems to be a case of
getting where we’re sure to go a bit sooner
than we expected.
I
• #
“Stromlo”': There’s a move in Can-
berra for some sort of memorial to the
Chicago architect, Walter Burley Griffin,
who laid out the plan of the Federal
Capital on paper and then came to Aus-
tralia to argue its merits with obstinate
officials. There have been some changes
in the plan, and one of its major features,
the lakes, are still missing, but it still
pleases most of the locals and be-mazes
unwary visitors. An unofficial suggestion
for a monument is something modernistic
in the way of intertwining circles and
crisscrossing lines, with an entangled
motorist and a politician rampant. It’s
certainly time something was done to per-
petuate Griffin’s name.
• •
If the young Italian who broke his
back in a fall gets back to Italy with the
£36,485 awarded him by a N.S.W. jury,
he’ll have something over 40 million lira
when he gets there. Though ten times the
amount would never compensate him for
his lost youth, he would be just about
able to buy any fair-sized Italian village
with 40 million lira.
• •
Criticism of the alleged slowness of
the Federal health authorities in getting
supplies of the Salk vaccine ceased
abruptly when American cables brought
news of the unfortunate sequel to the
first inoculations in some of the Western
States of America. Use of the vaccine
produced at the Cutter Laboratories, Cali-
fornia, has been suspended pending inves-
tigation of its safety. California is the
nearest State to Australia and if this
country had obtained supplies in a hurry
they might well - have come from the
Cutter Labs.
• •
U.S. Army engineers are to dig a
tunnel under Greenland’s ice-cap for an
underground electric-railway. If any-
body gets frozen they can bung ’em
down into Sydney 'Wynyard tunnel during
the usual train hold-up. That’ll thaw ’em
out.
• •
At several levels civil servants have
become the orchids of the Australian
economy—living in a hothouse, and fed
on a special diet of tax-money. There
are many deserving civil servants as well
as other kinds, and even at present
bumped-up salaries there will be men who
are underpaid in relation to the work
they do. But the pressure-tactics that
are applied by civil servants as a body
are what'rankle most in public feelings.
More particularly demands for a 35-hour
week and the like.
• •
Haylen speaking: “There is what the
Japanese call a ‘green breeze’ blowing
over Asia today.” Is the man color-
blind?
• •
Pensioners in 1953-4 averaged seven
instances each of medical attention, and
the amount paid to doctors for those ser-
vices was £2,084,232. Has any enterpris-
ing Tasmanian ever suggested a free
supply of apples for all pensioners?
Sydney’s wild west: Winsor won’t
swear-in new deputy; Billy Hill locked in
corral.
• ' •
“Mugga Way”: Nuclear reactors seem
like jails and mental hospitals. Everyone
agrees they’re necessary, but no one wants
to live next door to one. Argument about
the Menai site, 17 miles from Sydney,
selected by the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion for its £5-million job, includes fears
that its activities and residues will be
harmful (this is vigorously denied by
officials), and that it will make Sydney an
' even more juicy target for H-bombs or
A-bombs, or whatever alphabetical form
of fearful and widespread destruction is
discovered next. The selected site includes
no private property, it is close to the sea
and it has assured water and power. The
job could be built in Central Australia —
but it will be better on a spot which has
some facilities ready-made, and where it
can be of use.
• •
“In the ACT”: Australian airports
subject to fog-closure will be interested
in the invention by Sir Arnold Hall,
director of the Royal Aircraft Establish-
ment, of a more efficient form of
“FIDO.” The original device, which
burned great quantities of petrol to make
landings and take-offs possible in fog,
was extremely expensive, but the new
form is not only comparatively smoke-
less, but has flame jets which can be
switched on and off as required, resulting
in substantial saving.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
New Australian tenor only five years out
from Jerusalem.
❖ ❖
“Melbn”: Having lost its picturesque
old verandas, Melbourne is getting them
back with a vengeance. Myer’s propose
to spend £lOO,OOO on a 200 ft. eyelid on
their Bourke-street frontage, With huge
stage-windows of the largest sheets of
plate-glass that have ever tempted a
window-smasher in Australia. Buckley
and Nunn intend to emulate them. Obvi-
ously shopkeepers must cope with the
increasing tendency for eyes to be bigger
than bellies.
* * ❖
“Yair”: Crime committed and re-
ported! How’s it always worded, when
the name alone would give the clue?
“. . . .by a New Australian, Hekcleusz
Braumzowskigy . . .” or so forth. Hardly
fair. Why not even it up by reporting
other crimes thus: “. . . .by an Old
Australian, Herb Smith. Or can
we only hand it out?
+> ♦>
“Stanford”: Surely women have been
members of the professions for long
enough now to render obsolete the ridicu-
lous and redundant remark still fre-
quently heard: “She is a lady doctor”
(or dentist, or solicitor). The pronoun
makes the gender plain, and the posses-
sion of a degree doesn’t make her a lady.
Nobody talks about a “lady” violinist or
a “lady” accountant. And what on earth
is an “usherette”? The nearest transla-
tion I can achieve is a “little usher,” which
obviously isn’t what’s meant. Shouldn’t
she be an usheress, along with her sisters
the conductress and the porteress?
“Metralia”: “Australian men beat
their wives,” claims pianist Hephzibah
Menuhin. Asked two married men about
this. Same answer both times: just a
wry smile. Gained impression Miss
Menuhin flying in face of popular opin-
ion. Press comments ditto. Says one lady:
“We know how to take care of ourselves.”
Somehow her quiet answer sends a
shiver down a man’s spine.
“H.E.R.”: “None of your modem
papersellers could equal an old shrivelled
woman of Perth many years ago. It
was a wonder how her dried-up body
could produce such a piercing voice. She
had a competitor on the same corner,
a little fat man; but she made no objec-
tion, although she could have run him
off the job with her sharp tongue. As she
shrilled out the headlines he croaked
like a frog in a swamp: “’Ere y’are—
same as ’ers.”
»j* ♦>
“Irving”: I was shown recently some
pictures of Japanese war-criminals due
for the last drop in Changi prison. The
TPHE good old selling-technique of
giving things away is not entirely
dead. A cooked-prawn stall at Sydney’s
Circular Quay still displays a notice,
“Taste & Try,” which to my knowledge,
has characterised the little street-side
stall for the past 15 years. According to
Joe Dorson, in charge, the stall gives
away about 21b. of prawns a day to
tasters. Said Joe: “Two-bob or a dollar
a pound, our selling-slogan is always
‘try one.’ “Kune.”
❖ *X* ❖
“Nunk”: When I was a child, one of
England’s old and unfashionable popu-
lar songs, often sung in the suburban
settings of short stories and novels to
emphasise the out-of-date atmosphere,
was “Where is My Wandering Boy To-
night?” Then, around the early ’twenties,
it lived only as a literary reference ; and
I never expected to hear it, and still less
to hear it for the first time in 1955, in a
Davey quiz, sung by a sweet and throaty
“I might be down a bit longer this mornin ', Alf.'
man who showed me the pictures told
me that a group of men and their officer,
all scheduled for execution, were, as was
usual, supplied with sake, extra food and
cigarettes on the last evening of their
lives, the officer being charged with the
responsibility for discipline. At the end
of the celebration the officer was paraded
to the commandant, to whom he
addressed a respectful request that the
execution of two of the party should be
deferred several days until they had been
punished for indiscipline during the ban-
quet. He also signified his willingness
to remain alive long enough to see that
the offenders paid the penalty if this
“He makes love in a different car every night — he’s a motor-mechanic.”
would help the authorities, but, if they
could manage without him, he would
prefer to take the drop on the morrow as
scheduled.
❖ ❖
“DJ.G.”: Commenting that ticket
No. 101075 won two prizes, a fiver and
a tenner, in a lottery, a Melbourne news-
paper explained that every ticket in that
consultation has not one chance, but
seven, of winning prizes, as the lucky
marble is returned to the barrel after
each draw. Consequently, it is possible
for a ticket-holder to collect, in addition
to one of the ten major prizes, further
amounts of £lOO, £5O, £3O, £2O, £lO and
£5. If there are 200,000 tickets, the odds
are 200,000 to the seventh power to one
against one ticket winning seven prizes;
that is, one chance in 128 followed by 35
noughts. It doesn’t seem likely; but the
chances of four bridge-players being
dealt a complete suit each are statistically
absurdly small, and yet the cards have
so been dealt not once, but several times.
❖ ❖
“Nedrium”: Here in Queensland no
S.M. can sock the drunk-in-charge for
the M.O.’s fee for certifying him incap-
able of being behind the wheel (as in
“Bolton’s” story of a Lancashire Beak,
B. 20/4/’55). At Cairns, Senior-Sgt. Con-
way asked for payment for a doctor who
had been called in to do the job in the
absence of the Government M. 0., and
Smart, S.M., told him it just couldn’t be
done under the Act. Damages, yes, but
not medical-fees. Defendant, a publican
celebrating sale of pub with buyer, fined
£3O and licence suspended for six months.
* ❖ ❖
“Recla”: Because I object to the word
“siltation,” “Mullum” (B. 20/4/’55) sus-
pects me of requesting the Water Board
to replace its filtration-plants with filter-
ing-plants in order to preserve the well
of English undefiled. It just happens that
there is a verb to filter and a verb to
filtrate. Unfortunately for “Mullum,”
there are no verbs to silter or siltate, and
I see no reason to wilt, wilter or wiltate
under his attack. After weeks of slopping
and shopping around Maitland in gum-
boots I consider myself an authority on
the sound, sight, smell and feel of silt.
“Motuku”: Mullum’s preposition “up,”
in “setting-up” (B. 20/4/’55), is really
one of a large group of adverbs, includ-
ing “off,” “on,” “out,” “in,” etc., that
have a wide variety of meanings. Hie
best example I have heard of the appar-
ently contradictory use of these short
adverbs was in the garden of one of those
long-legged Queensland bungalows, when
Dad told his small son to “go on off up in
and out of the rain.”
“Cauboy”: One of Australian baritone
Peter Dawson’s stories in a farewell
appearance on British television before
his departure for Australia told of the
time Melba had sung “They Call Me
Mimi,” and Caruso, as Rodolfo, rushed
up, began his aria, “Thy Tiny Hand is
Frozen,” and put a hot grilled-sausage
into her hand. According to Dawson, it
was his jealousy of the diva which made
him do it—though it parallels the story
of how Caruso put a hardboiled egg into
the hand of his friend Scotti, as bcotti
outstretched his arms at the passionate
moment of an aria. When Alfred Frith,
the comedian, was making a farewell
appearance at Melbourne Royal, at one
point in the proceedings he had to rush
on, pick up a tray containing glasses or
beer, and return to the footlights A
rival comedian had securely nailed the
tray to the floorboards ; and, pulling hard,
all Frith could get away with was the
handles. Being a brilliant improvisor, he
made the tray live in the minds of the
audience by the sheer force of his
imagination.
$ * ❖
“Honest Frank”: Queensland barbers
want the tonsorial efforts of Dad and
Mum on the kids’ craniums made a pun-
ishable offence. This will bring the cul-
prits into line with those other wbite-
anters of unionism the blokes who put a
new washer in the kitchen-tap after hours
or mend the front-steps during holidays.
Newscasters are working for a ban on
people reading their own newspapers.
•Ijjf 454
“Tas.”: Talking about Bastards, with
the capital “B” (B. 27/4/’55), when I
was a kid in Hobart, round about 60
years ago, there were at least two
Bastards there —one was a posh tailor
(out from London, you know!) and the
other was Diocesan Registrar (Church
of England). There is no Bastard in
either the Victorian telephone-directory
or the same State’s P.O. directory, and it
seems a pity that here in the State not
inaptly called the Cabbage Garden the
great old name should die—for want of
direct descendants, no doubt.
“Soc”: Of course the most notable of
the name that we have had came here
when The Bastard himself arrived. In
England he had been known by that
name in the very highest circles, but
Authority here roared (in effect):
What’s this that’s come among us, and
wants to join the push,
Why, strike me up a gumtree! . . *
And so, not to offend the delicate ears
of those whose main literature is race-
books and sporting results, he duly went
to stud in Queensland as The Buzzard,
lived to a grand old age, and sired some
of the greatest horses of his recent time.
* +:♦ ❖ ❖
SO far no one knows how much a tele-
vision-licence will cost. Today if
costs a couple of pounds to listen, so one
can reckon on at least a fiver to look.
In this free land of ours one needs a
licence to do everything but breathe. Off-
hand I can bring to mind in our home a
car-driving - licence ; car - registration,
which is really a licence to own a car; a
trout-fishing-licence; a marriage-licence;
and when our son wished'to start work
he needed a licence to show that he was
bom.
These modern days you can dispense
with a marriage-licence without fear of
penalty, but if you forget to renew your
dog-licence you are apt to be fined at
least three-quid. We need a licence to
water the lawn, and if I wish to sell boot-
laces from door to door I have to obtain
a hawker’s licence. •
If I want to shoot myself and save the
trouble of renewing all these licences, I
must first get a licence to carry a revol-
ver, so it seems a man will just have to
go on living.
W.P.T.
THE RIDDLE
“The Milk and Ice Carters’ and Dairymen’s
Employees Union prints additional copies of
its award in Greek, Italian and German for its
450 New Australian members.” v
“Ah, why those tears, poor Signor
Hans?”
Young Angelo implored—
“l find no man who unnerstan’s
A vord of der avard.
I knOw of ‘scab’ and ‘strike-down-sit’;
But such avards like this,
Der Greeks, dey haff a vord for it,
I not know vot her is.”
“O sole mio,” Angelo
Remarked to Nick the Greek,
“My German friend and I would know
Your word for what we seek.”
“I have him printed here,” said he,
“Plain as da pork-a-bean,
But while he’s all-a Greek to me,
I know not what he mean.”
They asked an Old Australian what
Awards were all about.
He scratched his head: “You see, I’ve
not
Much time to nut it out —
Well, first we put it on the boss, %
And, if he 'still won’t budge
We give up arguing the toss
And put it on the judge.”
And so they took their quest to court.
The judge, when asked, replied:
“It’s complex, but it means, in short,
That all are satisfied;
The formula is sought with wit
And toil and midnight fret:
The Greeks may have the word for it —
I’ve never found it yet.”
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


content with alluding to Mr. X as
“short and balding” and Mr. Y as
“tall and greying,” the press-boys show
“The groom designed it himself. He's an architect."
an increasing tendency to describe their
victims as “bespectacled:” And why
bespectacled,” if not behatted, becoated,
and begloved? Since so common an
appendage as a pair of specs, is worthy
of comment, any day now some unfor-
tunate will appear in print as “be-hearing-
aided.”—“Stanford.”
❖ ❖ ♦
The illustration supporting
Peter Bladen’s remarks on Dennis (B.
13/4/’55) will bring back memories to
many of Melbourne’s bohemians of 40
years ago. The original on which Unk
White based his sketch is one of
Hal Gye’s in Glugs of Gosh. Its
location is just outside a studio
once used by'Percy Leason; it was
over a tailor’s shop opposite the
Public Library in Swanston-street.
The studio was a haven for any
artist or writer who for devious
reasons did not wish to go home for
a few hours —or even days. There
was a mattress —on the floor—and
plenty of “nap” in the shape of old
coats, etc. To obtain admission one
pulled a wire which protruded from
the fence. By a series of Heath
Robinson gadgets this lifted a beer-
bottle, which, when the wire was
released, dropped on a frying-pan.
Percy then answered the door.
*** ❖ ❖
“Criticuss”': There is at first
sight much to be said for the theory
of “Bubba” (B. 4/5/’55) that the
critic of the child-mind of the artist
should be a child. However,
Kribble’s Driflenninine Test has
established that the correct age
for an art-critic in 1955 is 43.
Next year it will be 44. That this
happens to be my own age is
beside the point, as is “Bubba’s”
suggestion that the two-year-old
Splutch, a German whose debt to
Hieronymous Bosch puts him out
of court, has superseded the three-
year-old Czechoslovakian genius
Adranian Stilf. Stilf is dead; it
remains for the Sydney painter,
Kronbuhn Kilmutchgiwilf, to equal
and surpass his accomplishments.
Admittedly, as “Bubba” says, Kilmutch-
giwilf’s great old age of 29 years militates
against him; but Kilmutchgiwilf is a
street-sweeper —that is an artistic advan-
tage Stilf never knew. True, other Sydney
artists are cleaners, lavatory-attendants
and housepainters, but in point of utter
wretchedness Kilmutchgiwilf outshines
all.
♦> »!♦ ♦Jt
“Poor Ann”: Prahran (Vic.), men-
tioned as celebrating its centenary (B.
4/5/’55), seems to have derived its name
from the abo. “Pur-ra-ran,” meaning a
place nearly surrounded by water. The
present spelling appeared on the first
title-deeds for land in the district. Few
other cities can have had such a rapid
rise as Prahran. Twenty-five years after
its recognition as a municipal district, it
was a city. In the time the pioneers
developed the district from swamp-land to
a thriving community. In 1854, in a little
chapel which was surrounded in wet
weather by water from a swamp (where
there is now a thriving market), the
people of Prahran took the first formal
steps towards local government. From
that start it became the first suburban
city in Australia—a speedy rise for a
locality which, almost from the first
settlement, bore the undignified title of
“Swampy Poor Ann.”
• • • ••
“Doynest”: At Prahran’s centenary
council meeting it was proudly announced
that the city rate had increased only
2s. 2d. from the original rate of Is. in
the pound struck in 1855. One point
which appears to have been overlooked in
“And he's also a member of the Medical Benefits Fund , Doctor.”
other aspects of the celebrations is that
Australia’s two greatest national leaders
were both educated at Wesley College,
which is within the Prahran boundaries
—Mr. Menzies, and lan Johnson, present
captain of the Australian XL
❖ ❖ ❖
“Chevroford”: Only 24 hours after
Melbourne parking-meters began business
motorists had found that by putting in
sixpence after a half-hour parker had
pulled out they got 45 instead of 30
minutes out of the perkakas. Two small
boys of my acquaintance doubled-up a
used tram-ticket and thrust it halfway
into the machine and were surprised to
hear it ticking. Being careless, they were
unable to profit from their discovery, but
came home with delight to tell their car-
owner father,, an executive with a five-
figure income.
♦> ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.” Could some mathema-
tician calculate the odds against such an
appropriate coincidence? On Anzac
morning my bus-conductor handed me
ticket No. 61423 —my A.I.F. regimental
number in World War I. I happened to
have my discharge-certificate in my
wallet and produced it to convince the
conductor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Harden”: Was at the receiving-end
of a nasty prang when a lout, speeding
across an intersection against the red
traffic-lights, collected my bus. Subsequent
inquiries for names and addresses from
witnesses at the adjacent tram-stop were
only mildly productive. The most sting-
ing knock-back came from a suavely-
attired gent., who willingly supplied all
the details as to what he had seen of the
incident, make of car, who was to blame,
etc. But at the crucial query of “May I
have your name and address, please?”
there was a pause that was shattering.
Then eyebrows elevated in a pair of in-
verted parenthesis signs, and a voice,
chilly with hauteur replied, “Name?
Address? I, sir, am a public servant, and
my people don’t like that sort of thing.”
Public servant?
•!$»
“Sam”: The sight of males dad only
in shorts and, perhaps, hat, gardening on
hot weekends, is commonplace in suburbia
nowadays, but it was a surprise to en-
counter, during a stroll on Anzac Day
afternoon, a householder cutting his
front lawn and wearing as his sole item
of clothing, other than his shorts, a very
loud tie.
❖ ❖
“Shamuseen”: Thirty years ago I met
a successful grazier who refused to buy
petrol from newfangled bowsers because
he did not get the tins that way; those
being the days when there was no charge
for tins. I now hand the palm to a sub-
urbanite who, when I asked why he was
laboriously inserting a long pane of glass
in the side of a sleepout which never
gets direct sunlight, pointed to a street-
light outside his back fence and declared:
“I’ve got to pay for that light in my
rates, so I might as well get the benefit of
it by using it for reading while I’m in
bed.’’ When I suggested that he might
pay more in oculist’s fees than he saved
in light-consumption, he produced a pair
of steel-rimmed spectacles and an-
nounced: “Those sharks will never take
me down! I got these at a chain-store
twenty-five years ago for one-and-six,
and I’m quite satisfied with ’em. I
picked pairs out of a tray till I got one
to suit me.”
•
V
“Ecilat”: Canberra’s Australian-Ameri-
can memorial is very impressive—until
it is examined at close hand. Scratched
and pencilled on the aluminium column,
less than a year old, are dozens of testi-
monials of base vandalism. The designer
forgot to include a sharp-spiked rail-fence
in the plans. Such destruction should be
regarded a criminal offence. Those
who have left their names and addresses
should be prosecuted.
San Rafael, California, is the home-
address of the writer of the letter here
printed by way of explaining why the
cover-color of this issue blusheth a
shade deeper : —
Hearty congratulations to The
Bulletin on its 75th Anniversary
Number —my Bible these many years,
and the handmaiden of civilised
thought amidst a world of madness
The Bulletin first came within my
view whilst I was practising beach-
combing in the South Seas in 1905.
Since then 1 have seldom been without
it and its ever-interesting contents and
the entertainment I derive from its
pages: art, letters, humor, human
interest, in the brightest array.
In my home and stacked near by
my Australian Room, where many
Australians come every year, 1 believe
there is not less than a thirty-years’
file of your most respectable and
worthy journal. Were I a young man
1 would, with every prospect of
success, put The Bulletin into the
hands of hundreds of news-vendors
throughout the US.A. so that our
strange and curious Homo sapiens
over here who are English-speaking
with a “few” exceptions might look
into the fascinating departments of
varying attraction that The Bulletin
affords and see what they are missing.
How wonderful to have Tammany
politicians buying The Bulletin in
Times Square, New York, and Holly-
wood being edified by “Aboriginali-
ties” whilst sipping ices under The
Divorce Palm.
Long may The Bulletin live.
PROGRESS
If there should be a soft white track
With shadow-lace,
Cover it up with tar!
(Less wear on the shock-absorbers,
Less dust in the seat-covers —
Who wants a lovers'
Lane ?)
And if there be soft rolling dunes of sand
With grey-green ribbon-grass ablow
Beneath the breeze, and the sea
Rolls to the shore incessantly
In the undisturbed rhythm of the tides,
Leaving behind
Trail upon trail of treasured shells.
And an occasional crab peers from his
hole,
And the gulls wheel overhead
Or swoop upon fish
And the small tern runs merrily along,
And in the rock-pools wave
The anemones and weeds,
And if the breeze
Now grown to an unchastened wind
Whips up white horses, and ripples creamy
sand
Which barely knows the print of man . . .
If there be all of this
Then —build a new road!
Open it up !
Ladies and Gents!
Two shillings parking-fee !
Hot-water, ice-cream and bottle-tops,
Empties and paper and orange-peel.
This is progress!
This is progress!
Give me a block of land
(To build my home, for lam a family
man)
And I shall guarantee to skittle every tree,
Bulldoze the soil from every unsuspect-
ing root
Of banksia, rose, boronia,
And most effectively
To put to flight
All birds arid bees,
Native bears, lizards and wallabies,
And the rather retiring bandicoot.
And this reed-fringed lagoon
Would look the better for
An ornamental wall of stone:
Bury the reeds and the bottle-brush
And the tailor’s-eggs with soil.
Grow a fine weed-filled lawn
With little wooden shelter-sheds
And more
Ladies and Gents !
And an occasional refuse-bin
To put the overflowing garbage in.
And as for that flotilla-like array of wild
black swans—
Well feed ’em cake !
What is a feather or two ?
They must eventually learn
The benefits of most modern trends,
For
This is progress !
This is progress!
N.S.W.
L. E. A. WRIGHT.


■ess*
tAA)
INTRODUCE
NEW ERA OF AIR TRAVEL
fg
The four Rolls-Royce propeller-turbine engines run
so smoothly that a pencil may be stood upright on
the arm of your chair. Research has proved that
vibration causes air travel fatigue. That’s why you
feel so fresh when you step off your TAA Viscount
the smoothest, fastest, most comfortable airliner
in Australia.
TAA
Bookings : 119 Phillip Street, Sydney. Phone B 0526
or any authorised Travel Agent.
| NI»V1g»
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ted Heath sums it all up, pretty suc-
cinctly, like this: “When I was 17 I
played outside the Savoy Hotel. Thirty-
five years later I played inside —
on Coronation night.” The trom-
bonist in the wintry gutter out-
side the Savoy, London, in 1920
was heard by a young pianist, Jack
Hylton, also then far from heading his
world-known band. “There’s a job inside
for a trombonist,” he told Heath. The
MUSICAL AGENT
busker stumbled in—he was numb with
cold —and landed the vacancy. In 1948,
and again last year, Heath’s band was
called on to give Royal Command per-
formances; his “inside” Savoy job on
Coronation night was requested by the
Duke of Edinburgh.
There’s much between the outside and
inside jobs, of course —long years (he’s
now 52) of playing in other leaders’
bands ; a stranding in Vienna, moneyless ;
a welcome bank-balance jolt from
royalties of two songs he wrote; and,
finally, the long-thought-over decision to
cut loose and form his own band. His
musical team, recognised as one of the
finest in the world, now makes something
upwards of £2500* a week, and has sold
12 million records.
One of the top entertainers’-agents in
England also, while playing at. Sydney
Stadium recently Heath filled-in with
local entertainers during the period his
band was resting. One of these was a
fiery-headed, mobile-faced comedian-
singer who rated some fame in Australia
as Red. Moore, late of the record-break-
ing Kiwis. Heath heard the applause, saw
Moore brought back for more to the
ring from the dressing-room passage.
Result —a contract drawn-up for the Kiwi
to have a shot at the big-time in London,
under Heath cegis, via several weeks in
Singapore on the way over. Here (see
above) Moore has drawn-up Heath.
• •
A man to whom just about every work-
ing person in N.S.W. has addressed an
envelope retires to netting tennis-balls
after 13 years of netting a share of every
pay-envelope. 'Joseph William Hughes
has had 34 years in the Taxation Depart-
ment, successively assessor, examiner,
chief-assessor and deputy-commissioner.
Written about it, too —The Law of Income
Tax. A day under 65 when he called it a
day.
• •
Russell M. Allison, biochemist at
Lincoln Agricultural College, Christ-
church (N.Z.), has been chasing know-
ledge in the U.S. under a Rockefeller
research-scholarship and a Fulbright
travelling-bursary for the past two years.
Caught up with it the other day-
awarded a Doctorate of Philosophy by
the University of Wisconsin.
Probably the most successful editor
in Australia has retired. He took over
the job 15 years ago, issues of his publi-
cation steadily increased, its size has
doubled, and it is the most-frequently
consulted book in the Commonwealth.
In the latest issue there were 37 errors,
but few readers ’detected them, and E.
Cummins, handing over the telephone-
directory to another editor, may retire in
peace.
• •
Tall, and always impeccably accoutred,
Alexander Gore Arkwright Hore-Ruthven
had his first experience of Australia in
1908, military secretary to the Governor-
General. In 1942, by then Lord Gowrie,
he had his own term as Governor-General
extended for the third time. He had been
in vice-regal posts for so long in this
country that he became as much-a part
of the landscape as the most respected
gumtree —South Australia, Governor,
1928-34; N.S.W., Governor, 1935-36 ;
G.-G., 1936-44. He had commanded a
camel-corps detachment at the battle of
Gedaref in the Sudan (1898), and won
V.C. for rescuing a wounded Egyptian
officer; served for the whole of War I,
winning D.S.O. on Gallipoli, a Bar to it
in France. Also, five “mentions,” and
severely wounded. Before taking up the
South Australian post he had com-
manded the Welsh Guards. His son,
Major A. H. P. Hore-Ruthven, in that
toughest branch of all tough branches of
the fighting services the paratroop com-
mandos, was wounded in 1943, taken
prisoner and died of his wounds in an
Italian hospital in Libya. Lord Gowrie
was 82 at the end, in Gloucestershire.
His heir is his grandson, an Eton school-
boy.
• •
Here with her husband, and a ’cello
worth £2OOO, Peers Croetmore will lead
the ’cellists in the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra. She met her husband, Major
C. H. Haswell, in Tripoli at the end of
the Libyan desert campaign; a common
interest in music led on to marriage: she
had been touring the battlefields with
other class-musicians, giving concerts for
the troops. While in Australia Major
Haswell hopes to publish a book, Greece
Was Painted Red— an eyewitness story of
the atrocities he saw committed by Greek
Communists on their fellow-countrymen.
• •
“C.S.”: What! Harold Sarina resigned
from N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society?
They might just as well pull down the big
clock-tower over the members’-stand!
Sarina was just as much a part of the
show as the tower. He’s been registrar for
the last hundred years or so —anyway,
he joined back in Monty Somer s time,
just after World War I. That’s the war
that gave H.S. his husky voice; got it
from a dose of gas on the old Western
Front. Came back, took up with the
R.A.S., and helped it grow to the colossal
business it is today. As registrar he kept
tabs on all the animals, birds artd insects
registered in the 33 or more breed-societies
affiliated with the R.A.S.; hurtled all over
N.S.W.—“hurtled” is right; he hardly
had time to change trains sometimes—
and over most of Australia and a fair bit
of the world, too, on R.A.S. and breed-
society business, and if he wasn’t burn-
ing everybody with enthusiasm for
stock and agricultural displays and con-
tests it was only because he had to sleep
now and then. He started on a dairy-
farm, calculated to cure any you th of
wanting to mix with animals. But not
Hal. A blocky little bloke who could
bulldog his way through the thousand-
and-one problems (even to keeping
travelling journalists happy) which R A.S.-
work creates, it’s impossible* to visualise
him twiddling his thumbs in some back-
water. They’d tetter watch out that he
doesn’t start an R.A.S. on his own.
J. Leaker becomes new secretary of
Adelaide Stock Exchange. W. G. McCul-
loch, in the post since 1949, shifts to a
sharebroking firm in the city.
• •
“C. 8.”: Dr. Percival Landon Bazely,
0.8. E., stepped out of an aeroplane at
Essendon (Melbourne) to take up his job
as director of the new anti-polio centre
at the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories, with the cheerful prophecy that
within six months the five-to-nine group
of possible polio victims (and within two
years the entire population) will have
been immunised with Australian vaccine.
It is' hoped the dreadful spectacle of
crippled children being wheeled about
the cities will then be relegated to the
Dark Ages before Salk. Dr. Salk’s prin-
cipal assistant, working with him on the
vaccine, Bazeley has specialised on pro-
duction methods. He is no stranger to
mass-production in preventive medicine.
In World War II he tore official red-tape
to pieces to get penicillin manufactured
in Australia, giving himself three months
to do it. Hence the 0.8. E. He has given
himself four to five months to get the
polio-vaccine into full production. He
vaccinated his own two nippers long
before the mass Salk-inoculation of
2,000,000, and was perfectly confident
about it. He’ll go back to the U.S. to
fetch his family and buy equipment.
• •
A visitor of parts:
When Sir (Cedric) Stanton Hicks blew into
writer’s office at The Bulletin, occupant had
a swift thought for his desk; which, unexplain-
edly, had achieved a monumental stale of
untidiness. The visitor took in the horrid pile
of books, pamphlets, handouts, proofs, letters
and cigarette-ash in a glance; and said, “Ah,
this brings back memories. Newspaper offices
. . .” By which time he was in the room.
It was, of course, exactly the right thing to
say—putting everyone at ease immediately.
And, as it turned out, his father had run the
Patea County Press in New Zealand. But one
might have expected a different reaction from
a man raised on scientific method; and a
and a brigadier to boot.
Professor of Human Physiology and Pharma-
cology at Adelaide University since 1920;
knighted 1936; M.Sc. (Ist Class Hons.), M. 8.,
Ch.B. (N.Z.); M.D. (Adelaide); Ph.D.
(Cantab.); F.R.I.C. (Lond.), F.C.S. (Lond.)
... So the record runs over seven inches of
wide-column fine type in the English Who’s
Who. Reading, one comes upon oddities of
dates—which are explained by his earlier habit
of taking leave (without pay) from his
teaching-post, working his way to Europe as a
ship’s-doctor, and there engaging in research-
work at various centres: Vienna, Freiburg,
Zurich, and in England. Earlier (1920-23) he
and A. M. Drennan had initiated research into
endemic goitre in N.Z.; also other research,
MEDICAL MIX
over a number of years, with various
distinguished co-workers.
But he is best-known, generally, to Austra-
lians for his work on nutrition in War 11. He
started, among other things, the Army Cater-
ing Corps. He still takes an official interest
in what soldiers eat, recently visiting the
jungle-training school at Canungra. Served
with N.Z.E.F. in War I; worked his way
through medicine while practising as an indus-
trial chemist. Among various “firsts,” he
erected and operated the first wireless-telegraph
in New Zealand in 1908.
A man, as is evident, of wide and lively
interests. And with a personality to match.
Barrel-chested (as one expects a bass
singer to be), the rest of Douglas Parnell
is high and hefty—necessary to have been
a high-marker in (South Australian)
Aussie Rules. Here sketched, Parnell,
whose article on television appears on
Page 25 of this issue, was for 20 years a
schoolie in Adelaide, and as well as play-
ing Aussie Rules wrote a handbook on it
which, adopted by the Football Council,
has now gone to upwards of 25,000
copies. His singing experience began at
25 (Adelaide, Melbourne and Perth Town
TV TROUPER
Halls, A.B.C. broadcasts), his television
appearances in 1948, when, in London to
further his studies, he gave recitals on
the 8.8. C. and had six TV showings.
Starting in England with concert-parties,
he graduated into the Imperial Opera
Company, sang leading bass-roles therein
for two years, and when he left to join
the National Opera Company of Aus-
tralia was singing in the Royal Opera
House, Covent Garden. In the two years
he’s been home he has sung in eight
operas. Domiciled in Sydney, he’s now
running,' off-stage, a grocery-business in
pleasant Cammeray.
• •
To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the
expulsion of the Germans from Austria
by ; the Allied forces, Austrian Consul F.
L. Berger threw a party at St. Kilda
which had a touch of. Viennese gaiety
about it —there was a young man playing
“The Blue Danube” on a zither, Tyro-
lean dancers, and girls in national cos-
tume serving Melbourne beer and Aus-
trian comestibles. The Consul —no
relation to his namesake Ema
—has a dream of bringing the
Vienna State Opera to Australia;
local impressarios are interested, but it
would cost a lot of money: one seat for
this year’s season in the State Opera’s
home-town costs 200 guineas and up-
wards. Its drawing-power is claimed to
be such that American opera-addicts send
open cheques along and ask the man-
agement to fill them in to their own fancy.
• •
Into the Silence:
In a road-accident in Perth, Clyde McKechnie,
known on the land throughout Australia as
pastoral-inspector for the Australian Mercan-
tile, Land and Finance Co. He joined the
firm from Geelong College in 1913 as a jackeroo,
and, except for service with the Light Horse in
War I, had been with it ever since.
In Sydney, at 56, Carman Milward Croft,
senior Canadian Trade Commissioner and
Commercial Counsellor in Australia, known tar
and wide as “Croftie.” He was one ol
Sydney’s best-known personalities and hosts,
and an able representative of his country. Son
of a Nova Scotian clergyman, he came to Aus-
tralia in 1946 after a career in the Canadian
Government service which had already taken
him to New Zealand (where he married) ana
Japan. He was a B.Sc. (McGill University),
and his first job was with the Abitibi Power
and Paper Co.
At a May Day rally in Leicester (Eng.), at
64, Arthur Deakin, called “The Hammer oi
the Reds”; secretary of Britain’s I,3oo,oW-
strong Transport and General Workers’ Union.
In 1949 he was created a Companion of Honor.
In Sydney, Roy McGovern, who jomed
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd., in 1910, left,
rejoined in 1919, and was managing-director
and editor at the end. The term away was
spent in France —17th Battalion: Pozieres,
Bullecourt, Villers Bretonneux, Mont St.
Quentin, Ypres. One time he was bunea
alive. A shell caved-in his trench, and nis
helmet, forced right down over his no* s - saved
him long enough for his crowd to find nim
and dig him out. Private then, he was secre-
tary of his battalion’s associatipn for 22 years,
and worked solidly to get its history printed m
1945.


THE PRETTY (EXPENSIVE) RINGTIME


ABORIGINALITIES
A N ideal wildflower garden on the high-
way in the Grampians district (Vic.)
prompted local naturalists to have it de-
clared a sanctuary. Consequently it was
fenced, and a sign put up to advise
travellers of the spot. The sign drew the
pea-rifle and shotgun addicts, and soon it
was splattered with pellets, the first step to
further vandalism. There’s another spot
which attracts nature-lovers. It’s near a
speed-stretch of the road. The naturalists
are more canny with this: they keep their
mouths shut and let the traffic speed on.
—“J.P.C.”
* * * *
“Derwent”: An unexpected turn of
spectacle happened at a demonstration by
Tasmania’s Aeronautical Association at
Evandale, where 40 members were flying
about 120 model-planes. A couple of
hawks swooped down viciously on one
model just as it was getting into action.
Putting up a nice display of dive-bomb-
ing, they knocked the plane to the ground
badly damaged.
# * # *
“Wunin”: Queensland Education Min-
ister Devries, opening Winton’s new, air-
conditioned £200,000 North Gregory
Hotel, knocked three times on the door.
He was admitted. It’s an old bush custom
in time of need.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Travellers on the *N.S.W.
South Coast wonder why little Wyndham
has a police-station and court-house
which seem out of all proportion to its
size. Unlike some ghost-towns that once
had a population of thousands, Wynd-
ham was never much bigger than it is
today. The buildings were the result of
an error in town-names. At the time
both Wyndham and Wingham (North
Coast) needed” police-stations, and some-
where along the line of red-tape the names
became confused, and Wyndham got
what was intended for the bigger centre.
As it was of brick, it stayed put.
* * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: While a search was
on for a youth lost in the bush near a
Westralian mining township, it was re-
ported that another youth, with a bike,
was lost in the same locality. The
searchers spotted of the bike
and followed them in the dark, using
torches. When they caught up with him
both searches ended, because the youths
had already found each other. The mine-
whistle had been sounding and they
could hear it, but they couldn’t determine
its direction. You have to be in a posi-
tion like that to appreciate the peculiar
acoustics of the Australian bush, particu-
larly in hilly or rocky country. An in-
termittent whistle, with regular half-
minute intervals, might be more easily
tracked.
• * * *
“Moorapi”: An important stage in
New Guinea’s development is the open-
ing of 100 miles of road through the
Sepik area, which contains some of the
Territory’s tough country. Australians
planned and supervised, and natives built
if. It crosses the Minjim River by a 66ft.
single-span bridge resting on colossal
hardwood bearers, itself a monument to
engineering genius and solid work. The
road links Wewak and the mining and
farming districts in the interior.
• * * *
“Konmak”: A 14ft. N.Q. python found
the pup—brought in for safety—chained
to the„foot of my niece’s bed. The wee
chap made no, outcry, for the snake had
evidently folded itself round his neck
before he woke. Fortunately, the pooch
sleeps with his head stretched out on his
paws, and one leg got inside the coils.
This apparently saved him from choking
in their grip. He wakened his mistress
by his bumping movements. She tried in
vain to drag the brute’s coils oft with her
jpare hands, then battered it with a chair,
while I roused the man of the house and
found a weapon for him. The python
uncoiled, but its attempt to escape was
frustrated by swipes from a butcher’s
knife. In refutation of a Bulletin writer’s
recent contention, the pup’s body had
been slimed for easier swallowing: I
know, for I helped in his sponging.
* * * *
“Mosuku’ 1 ’: “H.A.L.’s” tilt at Henry
Lamond (B. 20/4/’55) re the identity of
Kelly the Crow and his cobbers, isn’t
supported by my bird-books, which list
three species: “the little crow” (white-
eyed), “the hazel-eyed crow,” and “the
Australian raven” (white-eyed). Though
charges of lamb-killing against either of
the crows are still “not proven,” the
raven being the only definitely-known
offender, and though all three species eat
countless millions of destructive insects
and their larvae, the majority of sheep-
farmers regard them all as vermin and
kill them indiscriminately. On the old
Palms plantation near Mackay (N.Q.)
hundreds of crows roosted and nested in
the tall gumtrees in our paddock, and
lived largely on scraps from the cook-
houses, and cane-grubs which they got
“Look out f'r th' flies when y' linger on the high notes.”
by following the ploughs. The sight and
sound of the whole flock, following in
the multiple furrows of the old rattle-trap,
cable-drawn steam-plough, were the
manager’s ideals of beauty and music.
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: How lucky can a fisherman
be? A New Australian at Lake Lear-
month (Vic.) landed a 41b. trout. He
baited and cast again, but in the excite-
ment of showing his catch to a friend his
rod-and-line disappeared. After a vain
search he departed to get more gear. In
“Come outside and say that !”
the meantime another angler came to the
same spot and cast out. He felt a strike,
played it and hauled in the missing rod
and line, this time with a 51b. trout on it.
* * * *
“ ’herd”: Peter Bladen may have been
wrong in thinking a South Australian
church with a chimney was the only one
of its kind, but I don’t reckon I’ll stand
a chance of being corrected when I set
on record that the little old church on the
wind-swept hill at Silver Spur, east of
Texas (Q.), Is the only church in this
country that has a holey window mended
with a slab of carton bearing the legend
for all to read: “Foster’s Lager.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Don’t know another
native who, waiting for a tucker handout,
indicates impatience as elaborately as a
kookaburra (B. 20/4/55), but there’s one
that does it more graciously. As the days
shortened Mum used to put a bit of
butter on a low branch of the big vibur-
num by the veranda, and the grey thrush
never gave anything else the chance of
first beakful. About feeding-time he’d
give that clear single note from some-
where in the garden ; then, if Mum wasn’t
running to time he’d hop on to the dining-
branch and give us all the melody he
knew, with pauses here and there to tilt
the head sideways, turn that large lus-
trous eye on the kitchen-door, and per-
haps hop across the veranda-floor if he
thought he hadn’t been noticed. The
recital was so good you were tempted to
make him do it; but there was really no
need, for if you fed him promptly the
concert followed soon after, by way of
thanksgiving.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: “Gravelsnatcher’s” Baini-
gan Day (B. 27/4/’55) is simply the
Navy’s Banyan Day slightly mangled in
its passage from the lower-deck to an
English public school. “Banyan” days
occurred weekly—sometimes more fre-
quently, depending on the purser’s
avarice or the state of the ship’s stores —
and were the days when neither iron-
hard salt-horse nor the rancid grease the
then wind-powered • Navy called butter
was served with the rations for the
messes.' On these occasions, weevily
biscuit formed the main course, with a
chew of tobacco and grumbling for
dessert, and only the purser looking
cheerful, as he totted-up the amount of
food thus saved for sale, to his own
profit, as surplus at the end of the voyage.
Of its origin I know nothing, but for
proof of its antiquity I quote Smollet’s
use of the term when Roderick Random’s
uncle, fallen on lean times, complains,
“It’s been banyan day with me a long
while.” The term has fallen into disuse
with the passing of the windjammers —
and of the purser’s “perks.”
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Don’t know the phrase
precisely as “By the Hokey Fly!” (B.
30/3/ ’55), but 50 years ago in Central
Queensland “By the Holy Flyback” was
in popular use. What it was that flew
back, why it did so, or whence it re-
turned I never knew. The word “holy”
savoring of blasphemy, it was probably
changed to “Hokey” to soften the im-
pact upon sensitive ears. The “back”
was perhaps dropped for the sake of
brevity, since “J. 8.” tells us (B. 20/4/’55)
that in N.Q. they have even brushed away
the fly—blue-tailed or otherwise —and
now simply say “By the Hokey! ”
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: A non-drinker friend who
asked me to buy him a bottle of whisky
a year ago repeated the order recently.
“I shake a few drops in my heavy boots
every morning,” he said. “Best cure for
sore feet if you’re on hard-going all day.”
* * * *
“C.P.G.”: Two chaps out after rabbits
in this part of Victoria, found, just on
dark, that their dog had fallen down a
disused mine-shaft about 30ft. deep.
Having no rope, and the spot being
isolated, they couldn’t get back till
early next day with the necessary equip-
ment. Then, just as one of them was
about to go down on the rope, they saw
a snake with the dog on the 6ft. by 4ft.
shaft-bottom. The rescuer took the
rifle with him, his mate lowering him
down. It is no mean feat to shoot an
alarmed snake, even if only 6ft. above it,
while swaying about on a rope, but he
did it with the second shot. The dog
was hoisted up none the worse for its fall
or the company it had been keeping.
* * * *
“A.R.”: He was a “new” New Zea-
lander, and the foreman told him to ‘ be
at work five to eight.” He turned-up the
first morning at 5 a.m. and patiently
waited till just before 8 a.m., when the
foreman arrived. It was then all carefully
explained.
* * * *
“Quo Vatjis: ” Transport of Queensland
cattle by sea from the Cape York Penin-
sula area is proving a success, A Cairns
firm has fitted an L.S.T. barge of 375
tons to carry 200-head with a minimum
of bruising, and has established a loading-
base at Marina Plains on the Annie River
and an unloading-base on Skeleton Creek
near Queerah Meatworks, Cairns. Other
loading-bases are at strategic points on
the Endeavour and Starcke Rivers and at
Port Stewart. The trip from Port Stewart
to Cairns takes about 36 hours; Irom
the Endeavour River, 14 hours, ine
shallow-draft barge (6ft. 6in.) can nego-
tiate rivers not navigable by orthodox
vessels. Its downward-opening bow is
ideal for quick, trouble-free loading, l ®
vessel also operates between Cairns an
Thursday, Island.
ADAM’S ALE
I woke. My thirst had made me crave
for water dripping in a cave,
splashing to its rock-pool there
fringed with spangled maiden-hair;
or else a soakage, brackish, cool,
boronia-petals on its pool,
where the dulcet wren day-long
betrays the water in his song.
So, cursing thirst and dreams that sent
me crawling, groping from the tent,
I took the billycan to find
a waterhole I had in mind.
To its ridge the horned moon
set, but all the star-folk soon
gave me light through scrub and round
huge boulders where, deep underground,
I heard the water’s constant voicing
through the roots of earth rejoicing.
It was the wallaby who told
me where the still, star-glinting, cold
soakage hid itself. I stooped,
plunged the billy in and scooped
up stars and Adam’s Ale and all.
Soakage, creek and waterfall,
rainbow, song of wren, and rain,
rocks and earth I drank again;
pledged my triumphs, pledged my scars,
body, breath and all the stars.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


THE tune of “Another Fall of Rain,”
in the “Old Bush Songs” series, was
said to be a variant of an old Irish song,
“The Tittle Old Log Cabin in the Dell”
or “. . . On the Hill.”
Someone has got his songs mixed.
“The Old Log Cabin in the Dell” isn’t
an Irish song but a once-popular darkie’s
“plantation” song. It was written by C.
A. White, who also wrote “I’se Gwine
Back to Dixie” and other well-known
songs.
In Christy Minstrel days the singer,
made-up as an ancient negro, would
totter on the stage leaning heavily on
a stick, and sing “I’se gwine . . . gwine
. . . back to de home I lub so well . . .
But now I’se gwine to lib an’ die in de
old log cabin in de dell.”
The words of “Another Fall of Rain”
indicate that it is a variant of yet an-
other plantation-melody, “The Little Old
Log Cabin in the Lane,” the refrain of
which goes, “De chimney’s falling down,
an’ de roof is caving in; An’ I aint got
long around here to remain,” which is
not vastly different from “For the boss
is getting rusty, and the ringer’s caving-
in. For his bandaged wrist is aching with
the pain.”
Spinifex.
* * * *
“Jarrah”: Magpies haven’t as indiffer-
ent an instinct of self-preservation as
“Saapdi” (B. 30/3/’55) seems to suppose.
One with a crippled wing has Sought
sanctuary in a friend’s garden, and has
developed a run as swift and nimble as
any domestic chook. It seldom ventures
very far from the shelter of the house.
There is no cat or dog to worry the
invalid, but the sound of another magpie’s
fluting, or even a passably whistled imi-
tation, produces a frenzy of agitation,
and, if prolonged, sends the cripple
scurrying underneath the house for
safety.
* * * *
“J.L.”: The largest beer-garden in
Queensland is being planned for the
Surfers’ Paradise Hotel, down towards the
N.S.W. border. The architects are also
planning a swimming-pool and a chil-
dren’s playground. The garden will
enable patrons to disport themselves in
tropical surroundings, and the effect will
be completed by a zoo at the back of the
hotel.
* if * *
‘Tug”: The grog he’d soaked-up in
Narromine (N.S.W.) before he and the
big bloke snatched the train for Peak
Hill must have got “Mat’s Mate” (B.
20/4/’55) more mixed than the train.
Mickibri, where he reckons the large
family joined the train, is 10 miles beyond
Peak Hill.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: A bit more about the
Kamilroi and “a big series of tribes in
south-east Queensland and northern
N.S.W. whose name meant ‘no’ ” (“Brief
Answers,” B. 20/4/’55). Throughout
eastern Australia each tribe gave itself
a name in its own language meaning
“men” or “we are men.” Other tribes
were referred to by a name consisting of
or embodying their own word for “no.”
So the Kamilroi and other tribes men-
tioned are known today not by their
own name for themselves, but by one
given by outsiders.
* * * *
“Jas”: That dolorous character the
fantailed cuckoo turns on a vocal per-
formance that would be hard to beat for
sheer sorrow; poets who have rhapso-
dised about the cuckoo’s joyous call can’t
have heard this fellow’s voice. And it
isn’t only his call. Too lazy to take up a
tidy pastime, he mostly sits with wings
sagging down by his side, the picture of
misery. So much so that you get a striking
sense of incongruity when you glimpse
the bird’s brightly-colored breast. Like
most of their tribe, these cuckoos are
solitary fowl, yet, when they move from
one region to another, they act in so con-
certed a fashion as to suggest avian
telepathy
* * * *
“Sackville”: Interesting to read in
‘Personal Items” (B. 13/4/’55) that one
man hand-forged practically all the axes
used in woodchopping events at the recent
Sydney Show. But if I know axemen
the real handwork came in after the
axeheads were bought. Every axeman
has his own ideas about the way an
axe should be ground to get just that
litfle bit extra out "of it which makes the
difference between a winner and a mere
competitor. One will grind the edge back
in a slightly concave taper; another con-
tends that there should be a little more
thickness about an inch and a half back
from the edge, to absorb the shock and
prevent the blade from “flying” ; a third
aims at a slight convexity to throw the
chips out. Some groove the wedge-shaped
part of the blade, arguing that the grooves
take air into the cut and keep the axe
“free.” Most agree that the heel, or
underside, of the blade should be rounded-
off so that there Will be no pinching in
the bottom of the scarf during an under-
hand chop.
# # * *
“Old-timer”: Sausage, our half-grown
greyhound pup, was all legs, feet and a
big, silly grin. He was the most enthusi-
astic welcomer, chaser, and investigator
on the place. One of his outstanding
efforts occurred the day he went sniffing
among a heap of spilled chaff and old
bags and a mouse fastened itself on his
bottom lip and, probably out of terror,
hung on. Sausage ki-yiked and raced out
of the shed among the farm chooks,
whereupon an 'old brown Minorca with
chickens went for him. Sausage and the
hen fell over in a cloud of dust, the
mouse got loose and' bolted, Sausage
somehow shook the hen off and also
bolted. But he ran head-on into a netting-
fence, rebounded, and landed among the
other dogs, which, as dogs will, had all
rushed up to see what was doing. This
started the best all-in dog fight we ever
saw, what time Sausage lay in the near-by
dam, lapping water and rapidly getting
his happiness back.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: I’ve caught, on the N.Q.
coast, the multicolored parrot-fish
described by “Sebak” (B. 13/4/’55), and
the flesh is palatable. If “Sebak” had
cleaned, cooked, or eaten the one he
caught down south he would have noted
its strangest characteristic—its bones are
blue.
Old lush songs
Written by “Banjo” Paterson and titled “A Bushman’s Song,” this
has had several different tunes attached to it. Two of them are
settings by well-known composers Louis Lavater and Ernest P. Truman.
Traditional tunes have been recorded by John Meredith from the singing of
the late “Hoopiron” Jack Lee and Mr. Chas. Ayger, Alien-street, Glebe (Sydney).
Mr. Jeff Way and Mr. Edgar Waters, of the Australian Folklore Society, have
recorded another version sung by Mr. Joe Cashmere, of Sylvania (N.S.W.). Most
old hands refer to the song as “The Old Jig Jog.”
TRAVELLING DOWN THE CASTLEREAGH.
I’m travellin’ down the Castlereagh, and
I’m a station-hand,
I’m handy with the rapin’ pole, I’m handy
with the brand, '
And I can ride a rowdy colt, or swing
the axe all day,
But there’s no demand for a station-hand
along the Castlereagh.
So it’s shift, boys, shift, for there isn’t
the slightest doubt
That we’ve got to make a shift to the
stations further out,
With the pack-horse runnin ’ after, he
follows me like a dog,
We must strike across the country at the
old , jig-jog.
\
This old black horse I’m riding—if you’
notice what’s his brand,
He wears the crooked R, you see —none
better in the land.
He takes a lot of beatin’, and the other
day we tried,
For a bit of a joke, with a racing bloke,
for twenty-pounds a-side.
It was shift, boys, shift, for there wasn’t
the slightest doubt
That I had to make him shift, for the
money was further out;
But he cantered home a winner, with the
other one at the flog —
He’s a red-hot sort to ,pick up with his
old jig-jog.
I asked a cove for shearin’ once along
the Marthaguy :
“We shear non-union here,” says he. “I
call it scab,” says I.
I looked along the shearin’ floor before
I turned to go—
There were eight or ten dashed Chinamen
a-shearin’ in a row.
It was shift, boys, shift, for there wasn’t
the slightest doubt
It was time to make a shift with the
leprosy about. *
So I saddled up my horses, and l whistled
to my dog,
And I left his scabby station at the old
jig-jog.
I went to Illawarra, where my brother’s
got a farm;
He has to ask the landlord’s leave before
he lifts his arm;
The landlord owns the countryside—man,
woman, dog, and cat,
They haven’t the cheek to dare to speak
without they touch their hat.
It was shift, boys, shift, for there wasn’t
the slightest doubt
Their little landlord god and I would soon
have fallen out;
Was I to touch my hat to him ?—was I
his bloomin’ dog?
So l makes for up the country at the old
jig-jog.
But it’s time that I was movin’, I’ve a
mighty way to go
Till I drink artesian water from a thou-
sand feet below;
Till I meet the overlanders with the cattle
cornin’ down —
And I’ll work a while till I makes a pile,
then have a spree in town.
So, it’s shift, boys, shift, for there isn’t
the slightest doubt
We’ve got to make a shift to the stations
further out:
The pack-horse runs behind us, for he
follows like a dog,
And we cross a lot of country at the old
jig-jog.
[This series of Old Bush Songs with Music will be continued each week.]
SPEAKING OF MOUNTAINS
U ALP THE ADRiAN” (B. 27/4/’55)
is barking up the wrong tree on
the wrong mountain. Mount Superbus
(4493 ft.) is the highest point in Southern
Queensland. As a member of the
National Parks Association (Q.), I’ve
taken part in field-outings and camped
at the head of the Condamine, a little
over a mile as the crow flies from the
actual mount. It can be visited by an old
timber-track from a short distance down
the Condamine Valley.
Certainly most of the peaks in the
main range here show up in prominent
grandeur, whilst Superbus appears only
as a gentle rise in this high part of the
general skyline. Only comparatively
recently has it been found to be the
highest part. Here rise the headwaters
of Emu Creek, Farm Creek and the
Condamine.
“Alp” is wrong again in saying that
“Dumaresq and Sturt are the only two
‘mountains’ within the limits indicated.”
What about Cordeaux (4100 ft.) and
Mitchell (3757 ft.) on each side of
Cunningham’s Gap, through which runs
the motor-road from Warwick to Bris-
bane? Not to mention Spicer (4004 ft.),
Huntley, Roberts and Wilson’s Peak, all
somewhat over 4000 ft. high. *
Wilson’s Peak, only about three miles
south of Superbus, is at the junction of
the McPherson Range and the Great
Dividing Range on the border of N.S.W.
'and Queensland. Here rise the head-
waters of three great rivers—‘the Con-
damine, the Clarence (Koreelah Creek)
and the Logan (Teviot Brook), all flowing
in widely different directions.
Dumaresq and Sturt, “two historic
names,” are the two flat-topped hills
which showed up so prominently to
Allan Cunningham when he crossed the
Darling Downs in 1827. They constitute
the two terminals of the lateral ridges
running westerly from the main range.
Motorists through Cunningham’s Gap
pass by the base of Dumaresq.
R. C. H.


I'm convinced C4MI4N
is better tobacco!'
“I have tried many tobaccos but none to
compare with Capstan for true smoking
enjoyment.
“ Capstan’s own blend of fine Virginia
tobaccos is consistently maintained; you
can always be sure of its flavour and fine
smoking qualities.”
:c. v .
m
m
r m
'f'v
•J 4
CAPSTAN
-better tobacco
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT
VIRGINIA TOBACCO
204D.10.M
*lf\ t-6 />',
;•*« ? :9
XX /:<■*
3 - g „ _ n
t
* W
/. A s> r
S'
H'
'9-
X
OSSXZZ
M
t; Additions
take care of themselves
w»h a CONTEX
Adding Machine
Yes, you can relax and know that your figure
problems are a thing of the past when you
own a speedy, accurate Contex.
So simple to operate you can master your new
Contex in 5 minutes.
Contex adds in whole numbers, £s. d.,
decimals, weights and measures. Investigate
this essential personal, portable adding machine
to-day.
m
£23'io'-
Handsome
carrying
case,
55/- extra
CHARTRES LTD.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE M 0425
TO: CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St., Sydney.
Please send me more details of the Contex.
NAME
ADDRESS.
...C029.16
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Tasman Pulp and Paper
THE first section of the £A2O
million plant of Tasman Pulp
and Paper Co., Ltd., at
Kawerau (N.Z.) is about to go
into production. The pulp-and-
paper mill-buildings are almost
completed, and installation of
plant is well advanced. Wood-
preparation and chemical-pulp
production will begin first; paper
production will start about three
months afterwards.
When working to capacity the
plant will turn out 75,000 tons
of newsprint a year, Which will
just about match the present
capacity of the Boyer (Tas.) plant
of Australian Newsprint Mills.
Tasman will also produce,
annually, 36,800 tons of sulphate
pulp for other papermakers, and
72 million board-feet of sawn
timber.
Tasman Pulp and Paper was
formed in May, 1952, with the
object of utilising the pine-trees
of the N.Z. Government’s forest
at Kaingaroa, near Lake Taupo
and Lake Rotorua. Tasman has
agreed to buy, each year for 25
years, 23 million cubic feet of
radiata pine, Douglas fir,
Corsican pine and other soft-
woods, with the right of exten-
sion for two further periods of
25 years. Logging will be done
by the Kaingaroa Logging Co.,
in which the N.Z. Government
will have equal shares.
The mills have been designed
by Sandwell and Co., Ltd., of
Vancouver, who are consultants
with wide experience in Canada
and the U.S.A. The construc-
tion of the mills is being carried
out by a joint enterprise formed
by Fletcher Construction Co.
(Auckland), Merritt-Chapman
and Scott Overseas, Inc. (New
York), and Raymond Concrete
Pile Co. (Delaware).
Initial capital (all in £1
ordinaries) was provided as
follows (Maoriland currency):
N.Z. Government, £2,000,000;
Fletcher Trust and Investment,
£1,000,000; public issue,
£1,000,000; Albert E. Reed and
Co., Ltd. (London), £1,500,000;
Commonwealth Development
Finance Co., Ltd., £500,000.
The total of £NZ6 million in
share-capital has been, or is
about to be, supplemented by £2
million of 5 p.c. debentures issued
ip August, 1954, £2\ million in
5| p.c. debentures about to be
issued to the Commonwealth
Development Finance Co., and
£1 million of 5 p.c. debentures at
present being offered in New
Zealand, half taken firm by
underwriters, and the rest
available to the public.
Up to March 31, 1955, over
£NZIO million had been spent
on the project. Total capital
outlay is expected to be not less
than £NZIS million.
The association with Albert E.
Reed and Co. is considered by
Tasman to be of great help. The
Reeds group produces in the
U.K. 374,000 tons of newsprint
and other papers and paperboard
a year. It should help Tasman
with manufacturing research,
development and market
information.
The Abitibi Power and Paper
Co., of Canada, has contracted
to supervise and control the
start-up of the mill. A team of
executives and technicians is
already a?t Kawerau.
The Export-Import Bank,
Washington, has granted a dollar
loan which will cover hard-
currency purchases relative to the
venture. A N.Z. Government
loan of £lO million raised in
London in December, 1953, will
cover sterling requirements,
apart from the £2\ million on
debenture and £500,000 in ord.
shares to be taken up by the
Commonwealth Development
Finance Co. (This organisation
was formed a few years back
with British Government
approval and the backing of the
Bank of England to help the
financing of development by
private enterprise to strengthen
the balance-of-payments of the
sterling area.)
The existence of geothermal
steam adjacent to the mill-site at
Kawerau was not allowed for
in assessing the economics of
the project, though geologists
believe that “substantial
resources will be available” ; if
they are, economies in operating
should accrue. As it is, during
the first five Years of full pro-
duction and sales, an average
annual profit (before interest,
depreciation and taxes) of
£4,100,000 is estimated. On
lower prices for paper a profit
of £2,400,000 a year is similarly
calculated. Annual charge for
interest and depreciation is put
at £2,268,000 for the first five
years. In the sixth year these
charges on the original capital
outlay should drop to about
£1,000,000, according to the co.’s
consultants.
Sandwell and Co. say: “Our
studies show good prospects of
profits available for dividends of
the order of 8 p.c. p.a. on share :
capital after providing for fixed
charges, debt-retirement and
income-taxes.” Sales of news-
print have already been arranged
with Australian and N.Z.
newspaper - proprietors and
merchants, and output should be
taken firm up to 1960 on the
basis of world prices. The prin-
cipal market for sulphate pulp
will be Australia, where there are
three different papermaking
organisations in the market for
long-fibre pulp. There will be
customers for pulp in Maoriland
also. Timber will be sold both
on the Australian and N.Z.
markets.
Tasman ord. shares paid to
10s. are currently changing hands
in Maoriland at 12s. 6d.
Davis Gelatine Consolidated
Though the paid capitals of the
old controlling proprietaries,
Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
and Davis Gelatine Pty., Ltd.,
are not disclosed in the pros-
pectus of the new Consolidated
public co., it is explained that:
In the past this large organisa-
tion has been developed through
the shareholders allowing the
profits to accumulate year by year
and receiving for their investment
a comparatively small return by
way of dividend. No directors’
fees as such were ever paid.
It is now felt that with the high
cost of building, the purchase of
and erection of new plant and
the increased working capital re-
quired, further expansion should
be financed as a public company.
The proceeds of the proposed
issue which, is now being made
will be used to finance the
immediate expansion contemplated.
Davis Gelatine Consolidated,
Ltd., was registered in February
this year and bought the capital
of the two abovementioned
controlling cos. for £1,200,000,
taken out in shares in the new
co. Net assets acquired had a
book-value of £1,417,677. All
the fixed assets were taken in at
original cost, or cost less depre-
ciation. The present-day value
of the assets greatly exceeds the
book-values.
After the present issue of
300,000 £1 ords. is made at par,
net tangible backing •< for the
1,500,000 £1 ords. will be
225. lid. each.
Adjusted net profits over the
past five years have averaged
9.8 p.c. on the proposed new
capital; over the past three the
average has been 12.9 p.c.; the
average for 1953-54 wa's just
under 20 p.c. Profits for 1949-50
and 1950-51 were affected by
many adverse factors.
“After making reasonable
reserves, it is anticipated that
dividends at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
will be possible, portion of which
will be exempt from taxation
until the fund of approximately
£184,000 has been exhausted,”
the directors say.
Fixed assets, less depreciation,
figured at £960,477 at. June 30
last. The co.’s position was then
quite liquid, and it held £216,201
in Consols and deposits.
The £300,000 issue has been
heavily over-applied for.
Burns Philp
The Burns Philp new million-
pound issue, one for three at
par, was not what the market
expected when it sent the price
of the scrip up 9s. in a few
weeks. After reaching 665. the
shares fell ss. 6d. the day after
the announcement, and showed
further slight weakness later.
Possibly the market was expect-
ing something in the nature of a
bonus. But at least there is no
premium on the shares; there
was none, either, in the case of
the last million-pound issue,
which was in 1950. In that
respect at least Burns Philp has
differed from the C.S.R., the
Bank of N.S.W., 8.H.P., Edwards
Dunlop and the National Bank
(to mention only a few cases) in
its capital-raising policy. Of
course, it is an affluent company;
but so are the others. It seems
to be bad politics to charge
premiums on shares in these days
when socialisation is by no means
a dead-letter on the “Labor” side
of politics, and B.P.’s are wise
not to indulge in the practice,
which puts a false emphasis on
earning-power.


are
§
S® D in ir
* 5-
LSJS t.r »
Kjr bi r
Sj
m
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY
Offices at
TAM WORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST 'AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000.
A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES . . .
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
may find that you have been appointed as Executor
1 and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities, to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” be posted free to you.
■ DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. B. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
•yLTITH the dissensions in the boardroom
’ ’ of a year or so ago out of the way,
there has been a complete change in the
personnel of the directorate, with the
Howard-Smith family interests remaining
in control. And the new board has decided
to steer a safe course financially. To com-
memorate the centenary of the foundation
of the business by Capt. William Howard-
Smith —in association with S. B. Skinner,
he bought a small schooner-rigged steamer
and set up in trade between Geelong and
Melbourne in 1854—a 1 p.c. bonus was
added to the 7 p.c. div. last term, making
8 p.c. for the year, which was more than
twice covered by declared net earnings
of H.-S. and its subsidiaries.
This conservative treatment of profit,
together with continued growth of earn-
ings and strengthening of the finances,
enhance the attractions of the parent co.’s
scrip as a holding proposition. At 335.
the f.-p. £1 ords., which had dropped as
low as 275. in 1954, return 4.8 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. distribution. The investor who
looks for 6 p.c. on his money counts
on a 10 p.c. div., which has been well
covered with widening margins for
the last three years. The 6 p.c. prefs.
at 21s. yield 5.7 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £l6 10s. Bd. prefs. and
38s. lOd. ords.
The larger part of the profits of the
Howard-Smith group comes from a wide-
spread investment portfolio, and the lesser
part from the parent’s own merchandising
and other activities as tug-owner, steve-
dore, and managing-agent for subsidiary
and associated cos. Principal sharehold-
ings are:
Subscribed H.S.’s 9
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 158,291
„. , . . f 464,295 pref. 322,215 pref.
Caledonian Collieries. j 1i028>699 £ rd . 8 69,654 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,891
8.11. P. .. .. 24,969,074 472,240
Southern Port Cement f 210,004 pref. 96,809 pref.
boutnern 1 ort. cement 03 9 ,885 ord. 250,701 ord.
A. Goninan & Cos. .. 298,841 61,263
First four are subsidiaries, and the cur-
tain is kept drawn over the accounts of
the first two of them. The general experi-
ence in shipping and sugar last term was
one of improved earnings. During the
year the shipping co. bought one of the
N.C.S.N. Co.’s vessels (1075 tons) and has
two cargo-ships on order —one of 3500
tons, expected to be at work before the end
of 1955, and the other of 550 tons, due for
delivery early in 1956.
Caledonian Collieries, which netted
£320,087 (up £57,778) last year, has paid
pref. divs. totalling 20 p.c. for each of
the last three years, reducing arrears to
£92,859 at December 31 last. So, after
quarter of a century in the wilderness,
prospects for the ord. are now bright. In-
vincible has paid 10 p.c. for each of past
three years ; its last previous distribution
was 2i p.c. in 1947.
8.H.P., which paid 8| p.c. since 1948,
has lifted its div. for the year to May
31, 1955, to 9.6 p.c., the final being at
the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. A. Goninan has
hoisted its distribution from 15 p.c. to
20 p.c., and Southern Portland continues
to pay a steady 8 p.c., with widening
margins.
After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, combined net earnings of the
group have shot up from £125,674 in
1949 to a record £669,064 last term, when
the improvement was £195,950, thanks
largely to the revival in the coal and
shipping trades:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
f Dividends —^
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 200,089 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 65,089 1,800,154
Profit sale assets, £128,659 net .. 1,928,813
Written off colliery, £28,342 .. 1,900,471
1951.. 257,473 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 122,473 2,022,944
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,783.. 2,035,727
Added reserves subsids., £447 .. 2,036,174
1952.. 380,307 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 155,000 225,307 2,261,481
Unexplained addition net, £14,771 2,276,252
To special tax reserve, £165,000 2,121,252
1953.. 473,114 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 165,000 318,114 2,439,366
To special tax reserve, £112,516.. 2,326,850
Unexplained addition, £61,991 ~2,388,841
1954.. 669,064 6 p-c. 8 p.c. 175,000 494,064 2,882,905
* After deducting outside interests.
Of last term’s profit £112,516 (£155,000
previous year) was earmarked for “future
income-tax,” mainly in connection with
colliery interests. The ordinary provision
for taxation was £335,640 (up £154,041),
and the allowance for depreciation, etc.,
£316,210 (up £37,692).
The £669,064 of profit, which excludes
a net unexplained addition of £61,991 to
reserves, covered the pref. div. (£15,000)
and 32.7 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 22.9, 18.3, 12.1 and 9.2 p.c. back to
1950. Profit claimed by the board was
£571,264 (up £158,150), or enough to
cover the pref. div. and show 18.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, and the chairman says
the co. is “continuing to build up its inter-
nal strength.”
Finances are healthy, as the following
table shows:
1952. 1968. 1954.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Reserves .. .. 2,261,481 2,439,306 2,882,905
Outside capital*.. 514,739 541,530 579,325
Deposits .. . . 23,205 21,008 21,887
Sundry creditors 1,162,766 1,210,082 1,134,665
Workers’ compensation 31,506 37,431 53,731
Tax provision .. 488,270 517,412 761,638
Pinal divs. .. 83,750 83,750 103,750
£6,816,717 £7,100,529 £7,786,901
Freeholds, etc. .. 582,262 616,843 629,892
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. . . 2,152,721 2,450,256 2,840,773
Shares other cos... 1,148,258 1,144,047 1,144,047
Stocks, etc. .. 581,883 623,811 740,981
Debtors .. .. 1,200,407 1,140,361 1,358,245
Qovt. securities and
, cash, etc. ' .. 1,150,686 1,125,211 1,072,963
£6,815,717 £7,100,529 £7,786,901
* Including proportion of reserves.
Mechanisation of the collieries, expansion
of the sugar-mill and the small addition
to the shipping fleet sent the book-value
of assets concerned up by £390,517, while
debtors’ balances increased by £217,884
and stocks by £117,170. At the same time
£75,367 was snipped off the creditors’
item, and the large holding of cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £52,248 net.
Fairymead Sugar Cos., Ltd. (Q.)
AIET earnings of growers and millers
' have advanced briskly over the last
few years, thanks to bigger production
following the lift in Australia’s annual
export quota from 400,000 tons to
600,000 tons raws under the U.K.-
Commonwealth sugar pact, and to the
strengthening of prices, especially in the
home market. The improvement, how-
ever, now appears to have reached its
peak, owing to high costs and world-
wide overproduction, which is pressing
heavily on the open-market price for
raws, which in turn reacts on the average
price for Australia’s export surplus.
Here are production figures for the
Australian industry as a whole:
( Production Raw Sugar >,
Home Export
Market, Market. Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1952 .. .. 477,000 471,000 948,000
1953 . . . . 517,000 740,000 1,257,000
1954* . • • • 540,000 787,000 1,327,000
* Estimates; final figures not yet available.
A good season, and therefore high yield
of sugar per acre, and the coming into
production of additional canelands
helped to bump up the 1954 figures.
The price-structure of the industry is
based upon three types of sales: (1)
Home consumption under the Australian
sugar agreement; (2) negotiated exports
(up to 324,000 tons) at a price fixed annu-
ally with the British Government; (3)
open-market exports, which are that por-
tion of the export surplus in excess of the
negotiated tonnage sold in competition
with other suppliers.
The next table shows average home-
consumption and export prices and the
overall figure :
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1951 .. £33 14 0 £B6 15 6 £34 7 6
1952 .. 44 3 0 41 2 0 42 12 8
1953 .. 47 18 6 39 18 0 42 7 11
1954* .. 47 0 0 37 10 0
* Estimates, subject to adjustment.
Last season the negotiated price was
£S4I (down 265.) a ton, and the open-
market price about £S3I, approximately
the same as for the previous season. The
negotiated price for 1955 has been fixed
at £S4O 15s. per ton, and no improve-
ment in the open-market figure is
expected.
Last year Fairymead began to reap
the benefits, both in respect of income
and costs, of its £250,000 cane-farm
project at Moore Park, near Bundaberg.
Cane from the new farms has replaced
cdne transferred to the Isis mill. The co.
doesn’t broadcast its milling figures, but
its allotted mill peak stepped up from
29,500 tons raws in 1952 to 37,500 tons
last season. Also, returns from its
rehabilitated copra-plantation in the
Solomon Islands yielded an “excellent”
but unstated profit. So, after setting
aside £53,492 (up £15,062) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation, net
earnings took a leap of £47,400, reach-
ing a record £185,018:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 11,547 8 p.c. = 40,000 781,913
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 906,913
Added replacement reserve, £36,432 .. 943,345
Insurance reserve, £2600 .. .. 946,845
1952.. 89,422 10 p.c. = 70,833 18,589 964,434
Added replacement reserve, £37,628.. 1,002,062
To insurance reserve, £2500 .. 1,004,562
1953.. 137,618 12 p.c. = 90,000 47,618 1,052,180
Added replacement reserve £51,316,. 1,103,496
To insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 1,105,996
1954.. 185,018 14 p.c. = 105,000 80,018 1,186,014
•Includes replacement reserve, £625,007 at
31/12/’54.
The £185,018 was 24.6 p.c. on capital as
against 18.3,* 12.6, 2.3, 20.6 and 21.7 p.c.
back to 1949. And a 2 p.c. bonus was
added to the 12 p.c. div., making 14 p.c.
for the year.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the bigger
crushing and progress of the island and
Moore Park ventures:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital . . £750,000 £750,000-
Reserves . . .. 1,052,180 1,186,014
Creditors, etc.* .. 513,474 720,951
Pinal div. .. 45,000 60,000
£!5,360,654 £2,716,965
Estates .. .. ' 501,425 464,121
Factories, etc. .. 1,095,739 1,158,666
Livestock . . .. 56,988 64,173
Stocks, etc. .. 250,000 230,948
Book debts .. 432,46 3 796,070
Cash, etc. .. 25,031 12,987
£2,360,654 £2,716,965
* Includes provision for taxation.
Of the growth of £363,607 in book-debts,
£227,105 was in respect of sugar sales
and the balance mainly on account of
sales of Moore Park farms, etc. Fac-
tories and plant increased by £62,927
net, and only £207,477 was added to the
outside debt, including provision for
taxation.
Subject to seasonal conditions, it is
doubtful whether much, if any, further
improvement in returns from sugar need
be expected. Long-term prospects for
the industry depend largely upon stability
of costs.
The f.-p. £1 shares recently sold at
50s. cum. Is. 7d. final div. and bonus.
At the net price of 48s. sd. (41s. a year
ago) the return is 5.8 p.c. on a 14 p.c.
distribution. Including the replacement
reserve (£525,007), net tangible cover is
51s. 7d.
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
SINCE 1947, when the public became
interested in this then-51-year-old
business, Australian imports of petroleum
and petroleum products have more than
quadrupled in value, and war-at-the-
petrol-pump has livened, and promises to
become livelier still. Sleighs has given a
good account of itself in the struggle, and
looks like continuing to do so.
It has all called for heavy outlay on
additions to seaboard terminals, and city
and country distributing facilities, includ-
ing kerbside electric-pumps, bulk road-
and rail-waggons, and other equipment,
as well as for more working capital to
carry bigger stocks and book-debts. For
these and other purposes, including pur-
chase of 12,600-ton tanker, and acquisi-
tion of the N. S. Wales and Queensland
subsidiaries of Purr Pull Oil Industries,
Ltd., the co. added £2,000,000 to its
issued share capital over the four years
to the close of last accounts ; and it might
not be very long before those on the
register are asked for more, unless the
board decides to raise some other form
of fixed capital.
In November, 1953, 412,000 new £1
shares were issued for cash at par, one
for four, and profitable employment was
quickly found for the money. Then, in
June, 1954, 740,000 fully-paids were
issued at a premium of 6s. 6d. each,
plus £100,000 cash, for purchase of the
two Purr Pull cos. The price paid for
the Purr Pull businesses was thus
£1,080,000, and the net cost to the pur-
chaser £840,000.
The difference (£240,000) represented
share-premiums, from which £168,901
has been deducted on account of
excess cost over book-value of net
tangible assets acquired (which
included £65,306 of pre-acquisition
profits), thus leaving £71,599 net to add
to reserves through the share-premium
account. The shares involved rank for
dividends as from July 1, 1954.
Assets acquired included marine
terminals at Brisbane and Caims,
to which additions have since been
made, a number of country bulk
depots and a large delivery fleet,
etc., in each State. Purr Pull’s marine
terminal at Sydney was not included in
the deal. Although the pre-acquisition
profit suggests net earnings of around
8 p.c. on cost, the assets taken over have
made possible acceptance of new con-
tracts which will boost turnover and
improve earnings, and savings in over-
head are expected, too.
The deal had no effect worth men-
tioning on Sleigh’s 1954 profits, which
shot up by £127,570, reaching £317,636,
thanks to bigger trading following intro-
duction of new capital and completion of
new terminals at Matraville (Sydney) and
Hobart. The ship - chartering and
import-export divisions of the business
gave a satisfactory account of
themselves: —
Parent Co. Only.
t Divs. ,
Pref. To Be- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£* £> £,£>£*
’51..108,679 16,250 10 p.C.= 55,841 36,589 251,630
To staff fund, £5000 246,630
Sale assets, £101,422 .. .. .. 348,052
Share expenses, £8000 .. .. .. 340,052
Unexplained addition, £1568 .. .. 341,620
’52..116,113 30,000 10 p.c.= 82,925 3,188 344,808
To staff fund, £5000 339,808
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Profit sale assets, £55,010 ..
’53.. 190,066 30,000 10 p.c.=704,800 55,266 ... ni
To staff fund, £5000 .. .. .. f
W/off share exes., £6110 .. ...
Share premiums, £71,599 net
Profit sale assets, £7646
Unexplained addition, £6240.. .. I «76 923
’64..317,636 30,000 10 p.c.=121,954 165,682
To staff fund, £8000 .. .
W/off share exes., £7358 .. ...
•Subject to intangibles (now £121,227),^ and ex-
cluding staff contingency reserve (£27,431).
The £317,636, which leaves out of the
figuring the pre-acquisition profit, a sur-
plus of £7646 on sale of assets and un-
explained addition to reserves of £6240,
covered the pref. div. and 23.5 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 21.6 p.c.
for the previous year. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c. and the size of the outside
debt might stand in the way of an early
lift in the rate. The £676,923 of
reserves excludes the staff contingency
fund (£27,431), and is subject to £121,227
of goodwill, etc.
Continued growth of the business and


KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
Read.
wmmm
oKfrxffli-x
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON I* PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
YOUR de-luxe
Winter Holiday
with
SwMroaiptmn,,
tK.
realistic economy!
LIVE IN AUSTRALIA'S FRIENDLIEST HOTEL
PERSONAL ATTENTION IS OUR HALLMARK!
Bwim, play tennis, dance every night, ski
(1 hrs. run) —Live in luxury—walk in glorious
surroundings. Hobart boasts 5.8 hrs. sunshine
daily—annual rainfall below Sydney or
Melbourne. Room and Breakfast from 40/-.
Inclusive terms from 57/6 daily—May to Sept.
Special rotes for conferences up to 150.
Write for Free Booklet.
WREST POINT
RIVIERA HOTEL .
HOBART, TASMANIA.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States • Agencies in all Country Centres
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
CASH AND CONVERSION
LOAN
GUARANTEES EVERY INVESTOR
£4.15.0%
ANNUALLY
FOR 10 OR 20 YEARS
# Principal and interest are guaranteed by the New South Wales
Government.
O This £1,775,000 Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia.
# Subscriptions, interest, and repayment of principal at maturity
are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
D Half-yearly interest may be credited to your bank account. Instal-
ments are accepted, and the minimum subscription is £5O.
CONVERSION OF LOAN No. 40 (maturing Ist June, 1955). Stock and
Debenture holders who convert to the new Loan not only maintain continuity
of income, but gain higher interest from Ist June.
INVEST TODAY IN THE PREMIER N.S.W. SECURITY
Apply at your nearest Commonwealth Trading Bank, the Sydney Water Board Office,
or through your Stockbroker. Ask for a Prospectus and application form.
Issued at par, I.o ail No. 134 will close NOT LATER THAN 28th may, 1955.
Underwritten by Charles A. Ord & Minnett, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney, Members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
Landan airmail
From Herbert Holman
IF a snap general-election were
to be held now the Conserva-
tives would probably be returned
with a majority of up to 50
seats. But, despite their present
psychological advantage, it is
to be expected that the odds
will harden against them as
polling-date approaches. This
happened in 1951 when the Con-
servative lead, as revealed by a
Gallup poll, fell from 10 p.c. to
3£ p.c. in four weeks. The
results showed, in fact, that the
eve-of-poll sample of 3| p.c. was
a considerable overstatement.
The truth is that the straw
poll is liable to be inaccurate or
fallacious when applied to the
forecasting of elections. (The
fiasco in the last American
Presidential election but one is
not forgotten.) Why, for
example, is the Conservative
lead now only 3 p.c. when, at a
similar time in 1951, it was
10 p.c.? Labor prestige has
declined since then and Con-
servative prestige has grown.
The answer would seem to lie
in the fact that so many of the
“samples” are dispossessed
Liberals, “don’t - knows” or
“won’t-says.” A writer in “The
Economist” states that the pro-
portion of these unpredictables
“varies from 3 to 15 p.c.—
depending on the time the p'oll
is taken.” What follows is that
the pollsters have to make an
adjustment, which must be some-
thing of a guess and which may
prove to be fallacious.
Past experience proves, not
without a shudder of apprehen-
sion, that the narrowing of the
lead is the outcome of the
frenzied efforts of both parties
to round-up the stragglers. With
this intent, appeal invariably is
made to the baser emotions:
grudges against life, the boss,
the landlord, the Army, and so
on. In 1951 the scarifying cry
was “Whose finger on the
trigger?” with the infamous
warmongering calumny against
Churchill.
What will it be this time?
Butler’s Budget
The bold simplicity of the
Budget, which is to distribute
approximately one-half of the
estimated above-the-line surplus
of £282 million by way of a 6d.
reduction in income-tax and a
slight extension of the reliefs, is
faithfully in line with Conserva-
tive policy. It is, in fact, the
kind of Budget that might have
been expected even if no general
election were imminent.
While the long-term view
pointed to a step-by-step reduc-
tion of direct taxation, there is
mild surprise (and not a little
dismay) at the Chancellor’s
extrovert optimism. The City,
in particular, is rosy-cheeked, for
not only will dividends be
larger but equities will rise, come
what may. And everybody,
more or less, will have slightly
more money to spend or, as the
Chancellor would have it, to
save.
But will this extra money (of
which about three months’
arrears will swell one pay-
packet in July) really be put by?
Those who choose to spend will
not heed the Chancellor’s expres-
sions of faith; they will have a
better holiday or enter into
another hire-purchase contract
and the inflationary trend will
have another mild fillip.
The absence of any qualifica-
tions to his generosity suggests
that the Chancellor may have
something up his sleeve. It
would rather seem that he must,
for a balance-of-payments crisis
is looming up—-a factor that
Gaitskell has shrewdly turned
into propaganda. One sentence
in the Budget speech, “It will be
for the next Government to con-
sider whether any further fiscal
legislation is necessary later in
the year,” suggests another
economic stocktaking in the
autumn. It may also be the
expression of Conservative self-
confidence in a stronger return
at the polls. •
Infants Errant
Two new plays, though far
apart in mood and effect, both
share the same central situation
—the misadventures of
a problem child.
“The Bad Seed” (Aldwych
Theatre) is based on William
March’s bestselling novel. It
concerns a little girl of nine
who, with her prim, old-
fashioned ways and doll-like
prettiness, might have stepped
out of the pages of “Alice in
Wonderland.” She is a grown-
ups’ darling, the very life and
substance of her soldier-daddy,
and a dab hand at getting round
mummy. Until mummy, with
understandable reluctance, gets
suspicious.
For sweet little Rhoda,
despite her nice manners, has a
mind of her own. If she can’t
get what she wants she’ll stop
at _ nothing. The old lady at
Baltimore promised her a pretty
jewel; Claude, her school-
playmate, won the prize that
ought to have been hers; and
the moronic odd-job man knew
too much about her. So she
murders them all. Calculated
murder, too, with not a vestige
•of pity nor a twinge of remorse.
She can’t help it. For it turns
out that mummy, an adopted
child, is the daughter of a
notorious murderess who fled
“the States” for Australia, never
to be heard of again.
As the damning evidence
mounts, mummy grows frantic.
There is only one way out. After
some soothing bed-time readings
from “Little Women” she gives
the child an overdose of
sleeping-tablets and then blows
her own brains out.
This monstrous - sounding
analysis is, perhaps, unfair to a
play which in performance is
gripping and of terrifying
impact, a kind of intellectual
Grand Guignol. Maxwell
Anderson’s adaptation, a model
of scientific dramaturgy, leaves
nothing unsaid, unpredicted or
undone. Even the shattering
twist of irony at the end—an
obvious histrionic device —is so
skilfully worked out that it is
quite unexpected.
The Rhoda of 15-year-old
Carol Wolveridge is well
sustained and the dual person-
ality comes over with breath-
taking effect. Except for one
scene of transpontine agony,
Diana Wynyard runs the gamut
of a good soul reduced to
despair with fetching convic-
tion. Out of an excellent sup-
porting cast, two add substanti-
ally to the “creeps”: Miriam
Karlin, as the dead boy’s
dipsomaniac-turned mother, and
Jon Farrell as the lumbering
half-wit.
“The Bad Seed” is far-fetched
yet credible on the Stage.
Charlotte Hasting’s “Uncertain
Joy” (Royal Court Theatre),
although its characters and situa-
tions belong essentially to our
life and times, does not quite
ring true, perhaps because of its
“women’s-magazine” veneer and
unsoftened cliches. The play
concerns a solicitous school-
master’s (Roger Livesey) attempt
to convert a wild young boy
(Michael Brooke) into a gentle
citizen. A double conflict
springs effectively from the
repressed jealousy of the wife
(Ursula Jeans), and the fact
that the boy’s father (Richard
Leech) is an overblown rogue.
As a social document it mis-.
fires, but there is a generous
content of kindliness and hope.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
7
ENVELOPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACEWINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5g ins. x 3j ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
hfg
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [ft
. Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
*
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages to be gained
by placing your Insurance in the care
of an experienced Firm of Insurance
Brokers and Supervisors. .
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for thi3
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445.
i
• m m
&
■ • ■\-.\--w
his future is
assured:
It costs so little to assure your
child's life, and he can continue
the policy
himself
later on.
Protection
from
Babyhood to Retirement.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
Ml
tHE METROPOLITAN BUILDING.
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh St*.. Sydney
Fatth in the
Future
m
s
The fantasy of today is the fact of tomorrow.
Or so it seems to me, looking at the modem story
unfolding.
The United States Navy Department has made
available to the British Admiralty the results of
test cruises by the atomic submarine Nautilus.
Much of what the trials brought out is still
secret. But it has been made known that Nautilus
could circle the earth without stopping, and still
not nearly reach its limit of endurance.
So amazing was the general performance, that
a British naval authority is convinced that atomic
power will bring to the Fleet a change as great as
that which was wrought by the conversion from
sail to steam.
Now, nuclear power that draws a warship, will
*also carry the cargoes of a friendly trade. The
force contained in a warhead can also be used to
open a continent.
Do we fully realise what this new concept of
energy will mean for Australia?
In this country we have coal deposits in
abundant supply. We are developing hydro-
electricity, within the limits of our river systems.
We have yet to find commercial oil.
But we have uranium. And that puts a new
weight into the world’s values of fuel for the future.
I believe that young Australians will live to
see farms and pastures watered, mines worked,
factories run, out of the power held in a piece of
radio-active rock.
But I also believe we should have balance in
our forward thinking. The atomic age is still infant.
Until it grows, in all its revealing splendours, we’ve
to build our existing resources so that Australia’s
development will be powered through,the bridging
years.
For one of the sharpest lessons of history is
that when the rest of the world is marching on, no
nation can afford to mark-time.
hf
—— -
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
the Purr Pull deal bumped up
both assets and liabilities:
Parent and Subsids.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954-
Preference .. £600,000 £600,000
Ordinary . • 1,048,000 2,184,480
Reserves .. . . 441,114 676,923
Outside interests.. 3,171 3,413
Mortgages . . 562,500 508,800
Long-term loan .. 139,645 447,410
Overdraft .. 512,876 213,092
Creditors .. .. 1,206,297 1,890,888
Tax provision . . 376,694 461,718
Staff funds .. 19,756 27,431
Final divs. .. 119,800 136,954
£5,029,853 £7,141,109
Freeholds .. .. 571,978 981,474
Leaseholds .. 128,895 227,960
Plant, etc. . . 2,208,993 3,208,267
Shares other cos. 2,751 3,052
Stocks . . .. 1,082,879 1,444,471
Debtors, etc. .. 923,568 1,108,625
Cash .. .. 11,159 46,033
Intangibles .. .99,630 121,227
£5,029,859 £7,141,109
To meet net additions totalling
£1,507,835 to fixed assets, carry
an extra £361,592 of stocks and
a further £185,057 of book-debts,
as well as clip £299,784 off the
overdraft and £53,700 off
mortgages, £1,136,480 was
added to share-capital, £684,591
to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., and £307,765 to
long-term loans. When the
books closed there was 17s. sd. of
outside money in the business for
every £1 belonging to share-
holders, including £15,520 of
capital yet to come in.
The immediate outlook for the
undertaking is bright. The co.
has secured large Government
contracts, with delivery as from
July 1 last, for: (1) aviation fuel
for the forces and long-range
weapon project, expected to
amount to about 27 million
gallons over the next two and a
half years; (2) lubricating oils
for piston-engined aircraft of the
R.A.A.F. for three years;
(3) heavy-duty motor oils for
vehicles of the three services.
This will call for erection of
more large storage tanks, and
additions to the delivery fleet and
other equipment.
At 335. (335. 9d. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 6 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The 5 p.c.
prefs at 17s yield. 5.9 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £5 12s 9d. prefs.
and 255. 3d. ords.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
TpHE co.’s factory at Rose-
bery (Sydney) turns out
sheep-shearing and milking-
machines, petrol and diesel
engines, lighting - equipment
and spraying-plants, etc. Returns
from these sources are supple-
mented by sales of agency lines,
including Electrolux refrigerators
and Chamberlain, and Steyr-
Daimler tractors.
After a run of profits averag-
ing £42,212 for the five years .to
December 31, 1952, a loss of
£9823 showed up in 1953, and
those on the ord. register, who
had received divs. averaging
9.4 p.c. for the preceding five
years were passed by:
„ Dividends Ke-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
1951.. 55.485 8 10 27,180 216,013
1952.. 31.047 8 8 22,144 224,916
Net loss by subsid, £7364.. 217,552
From tax reserves, £2500.. 220,052
Loss.
I»£S.. 9,823 8 Nil 2,000 208,229
Profit sale assets, £505 .. 208,734
Net loss by subsid., £8831.. 199,903
Profit.
1954.. 11,166 8 8,295 202,774
* Subject to £4878 goodwill.
Turnover brightened a little last
term, but margins had to be kept
fine in order to win and hold
business. The £11,166 of profit
came mainly from savings
in Cxes., following an overhaul
of the organisation. It ( was
enough to pay the pref. * div.
(£2000) and show 3.5 p.c. on the
£251,799 of ord. capital, and
shareholders came back into the
picture with 2% p.c. That leaves
out of the reckoning a capital
profit of £505 on sale of assets,
and a net trading-loss of £BB3l
in respect of the Queensland
subsidiary, whose £15,000 of
paid capital and £1195 besides,
was represented by accumulated
trading losses at the end of 1954.
Prospects of continued
improvement in net earnings are
encouraging. New lines have
been introduced, Dalgety and
Co. has undertaken distribution
of M.V.’s machinery products
in southern Queensland and
sales of the co.’s products in
New Zealand are also expected
to strengthen.
There was little change in the
overall financial position:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £276,799 £276,799 £276,799
Reserves .. 224,916 208,229 202,774
Mortgages . . 115,198 122,166 108,166
Overdraft .. 136,553 114,363 174,435
Creditors, etc.* 174,463 168,663 113,033
Final div... 2,144 .1,000 7,295
£949,063 £881,220 £882,602
Freehold .. 207,044 208,737 208,947
Plant . . 78,274 76,882 75,840
Shares subsid 15,000 15,000 15,000
Stock . . 449,467 354,115 881,465
Debtors . . 194,400 221,608 196,372
Goodwill .. 4,878 4,878 4,878
£949,063 £881,220 £882,502
* Includes provision for 'taxation.
To carry an extra £27,350 of
stocks and reduce the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
by £55,630 the co. went to its
bankers for a further £60,072
and reduced book debts by
£25,236. When the books closed
there was 16s. 4d. of outside
money in the business for every
£1 belonging to shareholders.
The sharemarket, which
expected better, shortened its
bid for the f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords
from 11s. 6d. to 9s. 6d. over the
last 12 months. The immediate
return at 9s. 6d. is 3.3 p.c. on a
2\ p.c. div., or 6,5 p.c. on a
5 p.c. distribution. Net tangible
cover is 225. 4d. The prefs.
seldom appear on ’Change.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
Since it got its two big
dredges in the Taiping Valley
(Malaya) going again in 1947.
Larut’s net rate of dividend
(after deducting Malayan
income tax) climbed from 16 p.c.
in 1948 to 56 p.c. in 1951, eased
to 42 p.c. in 1952, and then fell
abruptly to 14 p.c. in 1953, when
rising costs bit into attenuated
earnings following a sharp con-
traction in the price of the metal.
Last year the div. was
lifted to 42 p.c. (net) again,
thanks to a moderate strengthen-
ing of metal prices and treatment
of more slightly-richer virgin
ground, plus middlings, at lower
cost:
Recovered
Year, Treated, t.o. Costs.* Profit.
Dec., ’OOO c.y. Tons. c.y. &
1950 . . 3873 854.11 8.42 d. 145,222
1951 . . 4062 881.84 10.42 d. 225,472
1952 .. 4095 713.75 11.32 d. 126,159
1953' ..-3660 684.29 12.16 d. 48,057
1954 .. 3978 939.94 11.78 d. 138.682
* Treatment.
In addition 267.7 tons concen-
trates were recovered from
accumulated middlings, and a
further 1.78 tons from fine-
grinding coarse residual ore,
making total production for
1954 1209.4 tons (up 525.1 tons)
tin concentrates (assay 72.9 p.c.),
containing 881.42 tons (up
374.64 tons) metallic tin.
Average price realised per ton
metallic was £697.5 (up £19.3).
Excluding income tax (£74,000,
up £61,000), costs were £464.5
(down £109.5) per ton, leaving a
mine operating profit of £241 per
ton metallic. Net profit was
£138,682 (up £90,625), equal to
46.2 p.c. on the £300,000 of
capital, compared with 16, 42 and
75.1 p.c. back to 1951.
During the year a worked-out
lease of 40 acres expired, and
13 acres, of no further use, were
surrendered. However, toward
the close of accounts 23 lots,
being part of the mining scheme
in respect of the central area of
Taiping township, were acquired,
At December 31 last current
assets totalled £618,989, of which
stores and spares accounted for
£119,936, and cash £467,434.
Current liabilities, including final
div., amounted to £97,636.
Average London spot-price of
tin for January, 1955, was
£5693, and for the next two
months £5712.5: on May 4 it
stood at £S7O9.
Larut’s f.-p. ss. shares have
been fairly steady around 14s. 6d.
on Sydney ’Change for some
time.
Gippsland Oil
Nowadays oil technologists
claim that it is possible to deter-
mine by modem radio-active
tests the age of a sample of crude
oil; that is to say, the stuff can
be dated roughly within
geological limits to, say, the
tertiary or pre-tertiary periods.
From the Gippsland (Vic.) field
a few hundred thousand gallons
of flow oil were produced and
marketed a few years ago. It
has been pretty generally
assumed that this oil was of
tertiary origin, and therefore
occurred in the tertiary beds of
the' Lakes Entrance area.
No public statement of the
age of this oil has yet appeared.
But it is reasonable to imagine
that samples might have been
examined before this to deter-
mine whether they originated in
the glauconitic sandstones of the
Lakes Entrance tertiary beds. If
they did, this would not preclude
other oils being found at lower
horizons, but would probably
mean that very deep drilling was
not necessary, since the tertiary
sediments in the area are not
considered to go deeper than
6000 ft. to 7000 ft.
The two big cos. interested in
this field —Frome and Woodside
—are due to commence drilling
on their holdings within the next
couple of months, when the
search there will be on in earnest.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
There are so many celebrities round
town these days that at any moment one
might sight a film-star, or a world-fam-
ous conductor, or maybe Anna Russell.
It is as well to keep one’s eyes open, just
in case . . .
☆ ☆ ■A
If you meet Katharine Hepburn you’ll
see a person who’s swift and lithe and
smaller than you expected, probably
dressed in a tailored slack-suit of sand-
shantung with a white cotton pullover,
mens’ shoes, no hat, no make-up, plenty
of freckles, eyebrows “au natural,” hair
no longer red but shining with the washed-
every-day look and the face that is
Katharine Hepburn’s and no one else’s.
If you talk to her you will find that she
has a mind like a fencer’s, turning and
springing swiftly and precisely on every
word, every opinion, deftly avoiding the
controversial, expanding a question to a
sparkling anecdote, or twisting it back
oh the questioner. A vital person. You’ll
recognise her when you meet her.
☆ ☆ ☆
And you’ll certainly know Robert
Helpmann if you run into him. He’s
like a sprite, born old and still young.
When he makes a remark (which he does
all the time) every muscle of his body
seems to go into it. He must be, quite
exhausted at the end of a conversation!
His memory excels the elephant’s (“I don’t
think the Tivoli was in Castlereagh-street,
I know it was.”). The expressiveness of
his face is extraordinary, his animation
and humor quite catching. The Old Vic
Shakspearian season, which begins on
Saturday, certainly promises to be some-
thing original and enlivening, with
Hepburn and Helpmann to set the key.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a first-class idea on the part of
the Elizabethan Ball committee to have
a cocktail-party at the Majestic Theatre,
Newtown, which is to become the
Elizabethan Theatre in July, when the
Ralph Richardsons open there. For the
theatre itself has great charm, with its
old-world spaciousness.
'There were about 450 at the party last
Sunday evening, with Anna Russell
guest-of-honor in glittering hat and shoes
and platinum mink, Lady Braddon as
hostess, and, as speakers, Dr. H. C.
Coombs, Mr. Hugh Hunt, Mr. Ernest
Burbridge and Mr. Charles Chauvel (who
also won the lucky bottle of champagne,
by the way).
First-nighters were well represented:
the Marcel Deky veres, the Victor
Dekyveres, the B. F. Macfarlans (she
wearing a perfectly nostalgic hat of pink
roses), Miss Margaret Gillespie, Mrs.
Margaret Fountain, Mrs. C. M. Guiney.
The singers Mr. and Mrs. Raymond
Beatty were there, Mr. and Mrs. John
Dudley, Miss Doris F’itton,' Miss Ida
Newton, Robin Lovejoy, Noel Pelly, Mrs.
Helpmann and Sheila (Robert was
rehearsing), Sir Colin and Lady Grayson
(visitors from Engiand), Madame Dora
Scott and Madame Marotta.
In fact, it seemed nearly everyone was
there, and all were enchanted with the
theatre and the possibilities it offers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney had a 10-day visit from Auck-
land’s poet and short-story writer Gloria
Rawlinson before she set off on the
Orcades for England last Friday. Much
of Miss Rawlinson’s work is familiar to
Bulletin readers, who will be interested
to hear that a selection of her poems, The
Islands Where l Was Born, is shortly to
be published in the “Poems in Pamphlet”
series. Her previous book of verses, The
Perfume Vendor, incorporated some of
the poems which she published when she
was 14 years old. Sydney seemed to her
a very interesting place—“wonderfully
stimulating” was her verdict —but she was
rather shocked to find no Namatjira
paintings in the Art Gallery. “They
would be the first thing a New Zealander
would look for in the Sydney Gallery,”
she said. Miss Rawlinson is travelling
with her mother, Mrs. R. Rawlinson, and
her uncle, Mr. W. R. Edge, who will
attend the legal conference in London.
They plan a return to Sydney about
Christmas-time on their way home.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Bush Book Club continues to
flourish, as witnessed by the report pre-
sented at the 45th annual meeting during
the week. Membership of this valuable
club is open to anyone who lives more
than 50 miles from Sydney and who is
out of reach of a public library. The
subscription is ss. a year and the
freight on the books must be paid, but
only about one in 20 of the books needs
to be returned to the club; the rest are
passed on to others in the district.
Speakers at this year’s meeting were Mr.
Hugh Hunt and Miss Marjorie Barnard,
who made some interesting observations
(enlightening to many) on the valuable
part played by The Bulletin in the
development of Australian literature.
Miss Barbara Knox was in the chair.
<r ☆ ☆
Hugh Hastings, author of “Seagulls
Over Sorrento,” has taken over the
Metropolitan Theatre and is presenting
there another of his comedies, “Pink
Elephants,” starring Minnie Love. The
play is very good fun, lighthearted and
amusing—“somewhere to go for a
laugh,” which is often an urgent need
these days. Mr. Hastings doesn’t intend,
however, to show only comedies at the
theatre ; several dramas are included in
his repertoire. “Pink Elephants” is on
five nights a week, Tuesday to Saturday ;
bookings are at Palings or the theatre.
☆ ☆ ☆
Distinguished women doctors who will
attend the meeting arranged by the
Royal Australasian College of Physicians
in Sydney from May 11 to May 14
include Dr. Alice Bush, from Auckland,
who is assistant - physician at the
Children’s Hospital. She will be accom-
panied by her father, Mr. Justice Stanton.
Dr. Kate Mackay, hon. physician of
in-patients of the Queen Victoria Hospi-
tal, Melbourne, will be present; also
from Melbourne will come Dr. Lucy
Brice, a pathologist and hon. director of
the Blood Transfusion Service. A ladies’
committee, with Mrs. C. G. MacDonald
as president, has arranged a programme
of functions to entertain delegates and
wives of Fellows and members.
Sueanna Bath, daughter of Commander
and Mrs. J. L. Bath, of Woollahra, leaves
in July for an extended tour of England
and the Continent, stopping-off at New
Zealand, Hawaii and America en route,
She will be travelling with her aunt, Dr.
Margaret Holroyde, who has been holi-
daying for the past four months in
Sydney, and who will be returning to her
home in England. Sueanna is a textile-
designer and has just finished her course
at Sydney Technical College. She expects
to get experience in her work and to catch
up with the very latest trends both in
America and Europe. Her photograph is
by Dayne.
This is Honey Week, and there are
bees to be seen in the, windows of some
grocers. It is said that the organisers
rejected the suggestion that a theme-
song, “I’m In Love With You, Honey,”
should be used to stimulate sales.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 300 members who attended the
inaugural meeting of the Teamakers’ Club
did, not concern themselves much with
correct methods of producing a good cup
of tea, but all those consulted agreed
that the essential and indispensable factor
was that the water must be boiling. The
club, which is under the patronage of
Miss Doris Fitton, 0.8. E., was founded
to help the Crippled Children’s Society.
The subscription is 55., and every mem-
ber must introduce two new members to
the club.
Guests-of-honor at the first tea-party,
which was held in the A.W.A. Auditorium
under the guidance of Mrs. Gregory Kater.
and Miss Del Cartwright, were pianist
Winifred Atwell and actresses Lynne
Lyons and Lola Brookes. The pleasant-
ness of the gathering seemed to endorse
the belief that tea produces the cup that
cheers and not inebriates, and the anxious
matter of which way the price will jump
was left, for the afternoon, undebated.
MELBOURNE
First of the functions highlighting Coral
Sea Week was the luncheon at the Royale
Ballroom arranged by the Australian-
American Association, at which Lieut.-
Gen. Bruce C. Clarke, Commander of
U.S. Forces in the Pacific, was guest-of-
honor with his wife. To each guest was
delivered an addressed envelope with the
first-day issue of 'the U.S. memorial
postage-stamp. Guests were received by
Sir John Latham, president of the
A.-A.A., and Lady Latham (she wearing
a black ensemble). Mrs. Clarke added to
her mist-blue tailored suit a small close-
fitting. blue cap wreathed with flowers.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. F. P. Selleck,
wore a grey tailored suit and a toque of
matching felt and velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the civic reception to Lieut.-General
and Mrs. Bruce Clarke the Lady Mayoress
chose a black tailored suit and peacock-
blue feather-toque. Mrs. Clarke’s tweed
suit was rust-red, her velvet cloche black.
Guests included Cr. Maurice Nathan
and Mrs. Nathan, Cr. G. Hume and
Mrs. Hume, Minister for the Army J.
Francis and Mrs. Francis, Air-Marshal
Sir John McCauley, Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. R. R. Dowling, Lieut.-General and
Mrs. A. R. Garrett, Capt. R. Macpherson
(U.S. Navy and. Mrs. Macpher-
son, Col. Ross Greening (U.S. Air Force
Attache) and Mrs. 'Greening, and Col.
Walker Milner (U.S. Army and
Mrs. Milner.
☆ ☆ ☆
Climax to the celebrations was the
Coral Sea Bali at the Palais de Danse,
organised by the women’s group of the
Australian-American Association, and at
which the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
was present. Unusual decorations in-
cluded a stage-setting representing an
underwater scene. Behind green-blue
gauze was a figure of King Neptune,
seated on a coral throne and surrounded
by mermaids and tropical fish. On the
tables were cardboard models of fish,
seaweed and shells, and on the walls were
figures of mermaids with glittering beads
in their hair and tails. Two pretty girls
dressed in sarongs showed guests to their
tables. The official enclosure was
arranged to suggest the deck of a ship
decorated with gay cushions and colored
awnings. It was backed with tropical
palms, and on the tables were poinsettias
flown from Queensland.
In the vice-regal party were Lieut.-
Gen. Clarke and Mrs. Clarke (she wear-
ing delphinium-blue nylon-tulle over
faille) and Mrs. Amos J. Peaslee (wife
of the U.S. Ambassador), her strapless
gown of Nile-green - satin embroidered
with rhinestones. The official guests were
greeted by Sir John and Lady Latham
(she wore brown lace mounted on cham-
pagne taffeta) and Mr. and Mrs. R. G.
Casey (she in a gown of silver and gold
brocade). Lady McCauley’s grey nylon
tulles were apliqued with matching lace.
Mrs. R. W. Spraggett wore magnolia
satins, Mrs, Earl Daum a white faille
gown with a bonecf bodice and very
full skirt.
☆☆ ■ *
Making her first apearance since her
recent illness, Lady Brooks accompanied
the Governor and their daughter, Mrs.
Robin Byrne, to the premiere of “The
Sleeping Prince” at the Princess. In the
vice-regal party were U.S. Ambassador
Amos Peaslee and Mrs. Peaslee and
Lieut.-General Bruce C, Clarke and Mrs.
Clarke. Lady Brooks wore a charming
full-skirted gown of silver * and gold
brocade. Coral-pink chiffons were the
choice of Mrs. Peaslee. Mrs. Clarke’s
satins were sea-blue, Mrs. Byrne’s white,
the skirt featuring an apron-front.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted at the “Cav.-Pag.”' double-bill
at Her Majesty’s the full-skirted gown of
teal-blue chiffon worn by Lady Mayoress
Mrs. F. P. Selleck; Mrs, Frank Tait’s
royal-blue chiffons; Mary Tait’s sea-
green satin brocades ; the crimson bro-
cade mandarin-coat which went with Cecil
Tait’s aqua-blue gown ; Madame Mario
Vigano’s combination of black velvet
gown and white ermine stole; Mrs. Don
O’Donnell’s short bouffant frock of emer-
ald-green taffetas; Mrs. Ray Joseph’s
white Arctic-fox cape-stole, worn
with a slim black velvet gown;
Mrs. Simon Warrender’s alliance of slim
black skirt and short coat of pearl-and-
sequin lame; Mrs. Glady’s Myer’s short
brown taffeta frock and natural mink
stole.
Meriel Forbes ( Lady Richardson ) is
slim, has grey eyes with sweeping lashes
and ash-blonde hair brushed into a sleek
Cap with soft curls at the nape of the
neck. She comes from a famous
theatrical family (she is the daughter of
Frank Forbes Robertson ), and went
straight from school to the stage. She
and Sir Ralph have one son, Charles, who
is now at boarding-school, but who will
fly out to join his parents for the long
vacation.
At the press-reception Lady Richardson
wore several pieces from her collection of
Georgian jewellery, including a ring in
rubies and sapphires in the form of a
coronet; the ring dates from 1700. She
also collects Battersea boxes and Stafford-
shire china. Lady Richardson met her
husband seven years before they were
married. She was his leading lady in
“The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse. ”
The Harold Grigg collection of frocks
for next spring and summer was notable
for delightful cottons in many new and
exciting designs, including unusual
wallpaper-designs. These were shown
at a luncheon at the Hotel Australia by
well-known mannequins. Although each
frock had its own fashion-appeal, none
was too extreme for the average young
woman to wear ; also they were reason-
ably priced. Many of the styles were
based on the long-torso H-line. Wherever
the waist was dropped, June (the Grigg
designer) had given it a feminine look,
shaping the frock to the figure and accent-
ing the hipline by a stand-up band and
buckled bows.
In other cases the natural waistline was
retained, but good designing of restrained
bodice and original skirt-treatment drew
attention to hips and waist. Necklines
were interesting. Some with a high
collar were caught with black velvet to
tie at the back in a bow and finish in
long ends. Others were simple little
Puritan collars or were softly gathered
into a camisole-top.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the gala premiere of “Separate
Tables” at the Princess (with Sir Ralph
Richardson and his wife, Meriel Forbes)
capped and gowned University students
sold programmes, proceeds from the
night’s performance going to the Univer-
sity Centenary Appeal. Also a
programme-seller was Joy Mitchell, who
recently starred with Melvyn Douglas
in “Time Out For Ginger,” and who was
attractively frocked- in white tulle.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. F. P. Selleck,
who wore a finely-pleated gown of gre>
French-organza and a mink stole, was
received by Lady Latham, president o
the women’s auxiliary of the Appeals
Committee, and Mrs. Arthur Dean, wile
of the Chancellor of the University, Mr.
Justice Dean. Mrs. Selleck’s daughter,
Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, chose a bouffant
gown of pearl-grey organza embroidered
with moonlight beads and sequins. Lady
Latham wore grey satin brocade
patterned with pink flowers; Mrs. Dean
chose clover-pink chiffon.


Kt
&
nv/osv
Travel Royal - Fly British
on 8.0.A.C. Services across the world
All first class Services
on the 8.0.A.C. International
network. The name is a symbol
of luxury air travel at its superlative *
best, backed by extra
attention and impeccable service in
the finest British tradition.
Low-fare Tourist Services
on 8.0.A.C. world-wide routes.
Complete comfort; plenty of leg
room ; appetising meals ; bar ser-
vice, courteous attentive cabin
service; all make Coronet the
finest in economical international
Tourist air travel.
Fly on any of the 1,000 Speedbird routes across the world. Four-engined,
fully-pressurized, air-conditioned airliners. Stop-overs at no extra air fare.
See your Travel Agent for complete trip-planning help—no charge.
gh
FI HM
Reservations end information from ell Travel Agents and Qsntas Empire Airways Ltd.
(MA.C. Ceneral Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH Q ANT AS,
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Separate Tables”
Asked what the reality was
that the actor has to deal with,
Sir Ralph Richardson said,
“Coughing” —if an actor can’t
stop his audience coughing he
isn’t a good actor.
There was no coughing at Mel-
bourne Princess once Sir Ralph
got into his stride in Terence
Rattigan’s “Separate Tables.”
He lost himself in his part and
the packed house lost itself in
him, and for a couple of hours
it would have been easy to hear a
pin drop.
Terence Rattigan had some-
thing to do with that. In this
play he is a sharp observer—
whether or not' he understands
what he .is observing is another
matter—and he has drawn a
living picture of a once-
distinguished Socialist politician
who has become a drunken no-
hoper,,has done a term in prison
for assaulting his first wife, and
has done the same thing with his
second. When he accidentally
runs up against his first wife the
stage is set for a repetition.
Mr. Rattigan spares his
audience a fresh clash, and comes
to the comforting conclusion that
everything is going to be all
right this time, which indicates
that, he hasn’t a clue as to what
is biting either of them.
Richardson probably hasn’t a
clue, either; but he is such a
perfect mirror—which is, one
supposes, what an actor should
be- —that from the moment he
first walks into the lounge of the
Beauregard Private Hotel,
Bournemouth, populated by a
lot of trivial people, you feel that
here is an individual dominated
by something awful. He main-
tains this impression all through
the trivial incidents and the
unspiritual chatter of the dismal
dining-room with complete
absorption.
There are actually two plays,
both set in the same intellectual
slum and with some of the same
characters appearing, but having
no connection with one another,
and Rattigan brings off this
theatrical experiment with great
wit and brilliance. In the second
of them Richardson is another
no-hoper, a pseudo-major who is
terrified of women and is brazen-
ing it out with the pose of a
foraier war-hero. He is good in
this, too, and so is his wife,
Meriel Forbes, as a timid little
mouse tyrannised over by a
possessive mother.
The major is caught doing
what he shouldn’t do next to
girls in a darkened cinema
theatre and it appears that he
can only do this with strangers
—when it comes to a girl of his
own set he is helpless. Mr.
Rattigan draws no conclusions
from this, either, except the
singularly inept one that one
timid creature can give another
timid creature courage, and that
they will both go over the top
together.
Never before were so many
established stars collected on the
boards of an Australian theatre.
Besides Sir Ralph, there were
Dame Sybil Thorndike, Sir Lewis
Casson, Meriel Forbes, Lily
Moore and Daphne Newton.
They all did well—Dame Sybil
extraordinarily well as a double-
dyed snob of an English lady.
* ❖ *
“Madame Butterfly”
Puccini’s musical and dramatic
essay on the difficulties of mis-
cegenation has joined the grand-
opera procession at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, and is
being well done in parts and not
so well done in others, but never-
theless floats into popular appre-
ciation on the wave of Puccini’s
lovely music.
How well Puccini did it is
indicated by the fact that no
amount of indifferent acting or
indifferent singing or the
inconsistencies within the play
itself can altogether spoil it.
Rina Malatrasi carried the.
evening along on her expressive
shoulders. An unusually deter-
mined Cho-cho-san, she sang
“One Fine Day” so beautifully
as to make it easy to forget that
she was representing romantic
Western ideals of love rather
than Oriental, just as the garden
of wistaria, roses and cherry-
blossoms on the height overlook-
ing the Bay of Nagasaki sug-
gested Victorian Housing Com-
mission, rather than Japanese,
ideas of decorations.
The Malatrasi brought the
house down with her singing, and
after it had been hastily re-
erected she brought it down
again by repeating the item. This
offence against the dramatic
unities, however, only served to
deepen the sense of impending
doom and frustration, and Maria
Huder, as Suzuki, and Ferdin-
ando li Donni gave valuable
assistance in that direction.
Unfortunately, Lieutenant
Pinkerton, U.S.N., brought their
efforts to naught at the final
curtain.
Agosto Pedrpni gave that
arch-villain the voice he deserved
—it was loud enough but singu-
larly devoid of feeling ; and when
he attempted to express his
remorse for his perfidious deser-
tion of his Japanese beloved for
an American wife by throwing
himself on Butterfly’s dead body
nobody believed him.
Artbursts
John S. Loxton
There is a pleasant nostalgic
flavor about the art of John S.
Loxton, whose annual show of
oils and watercolors is hanging at
the Athenaeum Gallery, Mel-
bourne. He has been painting his
picturesque snow-scenes and
bush-roads for quite a long time,
and periodically he holds an
exhibition, to be sniffed at by
latterday critics.
What criterion do they bring
to them? They seem to think
that Mr. Loxton’s art belongs to
a fashion that went out with the
“modern” movement. Nowadays
abstractions and distortions
happen to ]?e in fashion, and at
least one genius a week is dis-
covered by the critics.
However, whether he is in or
out of fashion, Mr. Loxton sells
a lot of pictures, far more than
the genius of last week, so there
must be somebody who likes
them.
* ❖ ❖
Herbert Kemble
Herbert Kemble, a painter of
considerable ability at David
Jones’, Sydney, paints com-
petently in so many contem-
porary styles that the problem is
to find Herbert Kemble.
There are the guitars and the
negroes ; there are tubular ladies
like Henry Moore’s and con-
voluted nudes like Picasso’s;
there is a juggler with his head
floating in space like a Dali and
a red bull like Marc’s red horses;
there are end-of-the-world land-
scapes and men in cages sur-
rounded by the inevitable float-
ing hands; there are genuine
autumn leaves lacquered on to
one of the paintings and there
are cubist jigsaw puzzles.
The artist’s technical ability
is obviously limited. When he
courageously attempts a straight-
forward still-life of a loaf of
bread or a bowl of magnolias in
each case he fails to get his
textures right. The creamy
magnolia looks grubby, the
bread looks like plaster-of-paris.
But he does work cleverly
within his limitations, and when
—as in his “Eve” done as a
woodland nymph with dark trees
behind her, or in the surprisingly-
effective blue nude of “Dance
Movement”—he gets either depth
or movement into the paintings,
he escapes from the pervading
effect of shallowness. In the
simple “Boy with Apple” there
is not only some depth in the
background of sky, buildings and
trees but a touch of warmth and
life: perhaps the only moment
in the exhibition when the artist
is really expressing his own
feelings.
♦♦♦
Oddments
Viewing the rest of the week’s
art in Sydney is like collecting
oddments for a scrapbook.
lan Fairweather’s skeletal
sketches at the Macquarie
Galleries, done somewhat after
the manner of aboriginal X-ray
art with a dash of Picasso,
might be taken with immense
seriousness as an outburst from
the primitive depths ; and then
again they might be regarded as
the finger-paintings of a child.
Some, like the galloping bony
horses of “Racing” of the seated
bony squaw of “Mother and
Child” have a certain kick;
others are of some interest as
curiosities; but it all is too
obviously art-made-easy for
more serious consideration.
Jon Molvig, at the same
address, shows such elementary
forms as dead tree-stumps,
triangular sails and squat-headed
children, with a few very blank
abstracts: a slight run-through
of contemporary formulae.
It is rather a relief to turn from
these to the paintings of
Francis D. Ellis at the Bissietta
Gallery, for Miss Ellis has at
least attempted, if seldom with
success, to work as a craftsman
in both oils and watercolors.
Most of the results remain
amateurish, but “Sydney Harbor”
is a pleasant hot bit of suburb
and water —for once not too
uncompromisingly blue arid
there is a touch of quality in the
watercolors “On the Beach,
Collaroy,” “Steve” and “Late
Afternoon.”
Talkies
“Jedda” (Sydney Lyceum):
The problem of a young and
cultured aboriginal girl living on
a Northern Territory cattle-
station and torn between the
influence of her environment and
the call of tribal ways, sharpened
when a handsome buck comes to
the station on walkabout
handled with an understanding
which gives this a fair claim to
being the best Australian-made
film to date. When the buck, an
escaped murderer, abducts the
fascinated girl the chase by a
police-trooper and the girl’s abo.-
stockman lover ranges through
typical Namatjira country, the
beauty of which is splendidly
captured in Gevacolor.
There were only two excursions
into fatuity: the inevitable fight,
phony and confused, with an
outsize crocodile, and the hidden
choruses of female “angels”
which stud the proceedings at
odd—very odd—times. But the
film’s maker, Charles Chauvel,
has built up to a gripping climax
which makes no concession to
either happy-ending demanders
or false sentiment.
As Marduk, the abductor,
Robert Tudawali, a full-blooded
aboriginal; has an easy assur-
ance, a splendid figure, and an
awareness of the role’s require-
ments. Ngarla Kunoth, the girl,
is, emotionally, surprisingly
mature in a creditable perform-
ance.
“Twopenny Worth of Hope’’
(Australia, Melbourne): A rapid
and continuous series of
explosions of animal emotions
among the half-starved popula-
tion of a village on the slopes of
Vesuvius.
Maria Fiore, well nicknamed
“Fiery,” pursues (with intent to
marry) Vincenza Musolino, a
returned soldier, who is looking
for a job to provide his sister
with a dowry so that she will be
eligible to marry the moderately
wealthy landowner who has
seduced her. He finds a job past-
ing Communist posters on the
walls of Naples.
Mothers scream and fathers
bellow at their various offspring,
and the next minute smother
them with kisses; feuds are
started in which everybody wants
to kill everybody else, and in
which nobody gets killed. The
neighbors all take sides, but come
happily together whenever a
fiesta happens. The fat old priest
dominates the heads, if not the
hearts, of his parishioners; and
not a word of sense is spoken
from start to finish.
It all collapses at the altar.
The producer wisely refrained
from including an eruption of the
volcano—it would have been an
anticlimax.
* * »
“The Belles of St. Trinians”
(Sydney Esquire): The diaboli-
cal small girls who infest the
college of the Ronald Searle car-
toon dong hockey-umpires with
their clubs, manufacture gin in
the lab., and generally shriek
their way through this English
film. But the unremittingly
high-pressure juvenile humor
tends to cloy after a while. A
bright spot is the good double
cracked by Alastair Sim: as the
softly-spoken headmistress of
unusual ideas, and Clarence, her
twin brother, who uses his moon-
faced brat at the school to
further his Turf machinations.


Retuin to Buima
by John Homer
n T first light the Chindwin,
a pewter streak through
I the blackness of the
jungle, slid beneath thp
wing of the Dakota. Hooker,
the navigator, left the second-
pilot’s seat.
“Just time for a last one,” he
said, leaning over towards Green,
the pilot. “Keep her steady.”
In the semi-darkness he saw
Green grin and signal “thumbs-
up,” and then he walked to the
rear of the aircraft. The supply-
dropping planes—the biscuit-
bombers —flew with the door off,
and an oblong of grey light
showed on the port side.
There was a urinal in the small
compartment in the tail, but
Hooker preferred the doorway.
It was a ritual. He stood, his
hands firmly clutching the door-
frame above his head, his feet
a few inches from the edge of
the opening, his body braced.
Looking down he could just
discern the tops of the jungle
trees, five-thousand-feet below.
He returned to his seat beside
Green.
“There’s no one else in the
world who’s done that to so
much of Burma from such a
great height,” he said. “It’ll be
my one claim to fame when I
get back to Aussie.”
Green laughed. “I’m glad
you’ve finished without fallipg
out, anyhow.”
“You can’t fall out,” Hooker
asserted. “Not if you brace
yourself. The old kite could do
slow-rolls and it wouldn’t shift
you.”
They flew on into the growing
light. Presently the Imphal
Valley with its beacon, flashing
in the dawn like a pale ghost of
itself, became visible on their
starboard beam. The mountains
and valleys of Burma were
behind them.
Hooker slapped his bare leg
in the exuberance of his well-
being. “Burma for the
Burmese,” he shouted across at
Green. “Roll on that boat!”
They crossed the rugged
Manipur Hills and came out
above the tree-dotted plain of
Lower Assam. The sun. had risen
now, and they could see before
them the white concrete runway.
When they landed, the air was
cool and fresh, for at this time
of the year the early morning
was the best part of the day.
After Green had switched-off the
engines, he and Hooker remained
in their seats waiting for the
truck to pick them up.
“Well, that’s that,” said
Hooker.
“That’s that, Happy. To-
morrow you’ll be on your way.”
Hooker had completed two
operational tours and was due
to leave the next day for
Bombay, where he was to
embark for Australia. He . had
been Green’s navigator for nearly
six months and both, now that
they had flown together for the
last time, experienced a senti-
mental desire to say something
that fitted the occasion. Neither,
however, could put his feelings
into words, and while they sat
and gazed out across the quiet
runway, each busy with his own
thoughts, the truck arrived.
They followed Allen, the
wireless-operator who had come
out from England with Green,
into the truck which took them
to the operations-room and then
dropped them at the mess for
breakfast. By now it was getting
unpleasantly warm, and the eggs
and bacon served up were greasy
and unpalatable. Hooker toyed
with his for a few moments and
then pushed them aside. He was
tired and slightly dispirited.
Instead of the exhilarating glow
that he had expected, he felt
curiously flat after his last flight.
“I’m off to bed, Grassy,” he
said, “before the crows get
going.”
TTE went to his hut, stripped
to the skin, pulled a sheet
over himself and tucked in the
mosquito-net. Ten minutes later
when Green and Allen arrived,
Hooker was fast asleep and the
first crow was cawing on the
roof of the hut.
“All the crows in India
wouldn’t keep Happy awake this
morning,” Allen remarked softly
to Green.
Hooker awoke at midday to
find Green and Allen already up.
After a shower and shave he’
joined a group chatting desul-
torily on the shady veranda. It
was very hot and humid, and
aWay to the north gleaming
cumulo-nimbus clouds were
piling up, for the monsoon was
daily expected to break over
Assam.
“Look out! Here’s Homesick
Hooker.”
“No room! No room!”
“Tons of room,” said Hooker,
and upended the stool on which
Allen was sitting. He didn’t
attempt to use the stool, but
squatted down on the brick floor
of the veranda.-
“Tell us how you did it,
Happy. Who do you know at
headquarters?”
“Headquarters! Hell !”
exclaimed Hooker. “You don’t
go about it like that. You get
your native servant to organise
it for you. Nobody at head-
quarters knows anything.”
“You’ll probably be on a
charge when you get back to
Australia, for deserting in the
face of the enemy.”
“Enemy! ” Hooker snorted.
“Do you know, that’s the only
thing that worries me. I’d like
to have seen just one Jap before
I got back to Aussie.”
“You’ll have plenty of time
on the boat to'invent a few.”
“You could do a deal with
Smithy, to le't you use his experi-
ences. It’d be quite safe, Smithy
being a Kiwi.”
There was a general laugh.
Smith and his crew had landed
at night on one of the strips
behind the Jap lines, and a party
of Nips had darted out of the
jungle and blown up their kite
with hand-grenades.
“Now that’s an idea,” said
Hooker. “What do you say,
Smithy? How much would it be
worth to you?”
“Well, to begin with, you could
let us into the secret of how to
get a boat-ticket.”
“That’s easy. In the first place
you’ve got to have served with
distinction in four theatres of
war, over a period of not less
than three years.”
“Ah-h-h . . . ” There was a
howl of derision, and with one
accord they pounced on him.
“What a line to shoot!”
“Can’t you hear him when he
gets back!”
“What a line! ”
“Under the shower with him.
Let’s show him what the
monsoon’s like before he goes.’’
Half a dozen of them grabbed
the struggling- Hooker by the
arms and legs and carried him
towards the showers. They
turned the water full on and
flung him under.
“You rotters,” he grinned as
he dried himself vigorously a
few minutes later. “It won’t be
worth while any Aussies get-
ting home, after this. I’ll have
put your weights up.”
“Listen to the cocky blighter.
Do you reckon we ought to cool
him down again?”
“Let’s leave it till we get back
tonight. We’ll pull him out of
bed and pop him under then.”
“That’s right,” said Hooker.
“You chaps have to. go to Burma
again tonight. I’ll think of you
when I’m getting stinko in the
mess.”
“Wouldn’t it be a joke if
Hooker got tight and was called
out on a do! ”
“You’d see big headlines in
the papers, ‘Drunken Australian
Navigator Lands at Bombay.’
‘Happy Hooker Heads Home-
ward ! ’ ”
“They’d probably think it was
a genuine mistake.”
“It probably would be, the way
I aim to get tonight.”
AFTER dinner Green, Allen
and Hooker sat on the
mess veranda watching the
first three crews pile their,
flying-gear into the waiting truck.
Hooker was aware of a faint
nostalgia, a sense of no longer
belonging to the purposeful life
of the squadron.
He’d enjoyed the last few
months. It had been interesting
work, and just sufficiently
dangerous to make it feel like
operational and not mere stooge-
flying. He’d be sorry to leave
the squadron, but not so sorry
that he’d trade his chance of
getting back to Aussie for it. He
sighed happily. Life was good.
Something to look back on,
something to look forward to.
Smith and his crew were
climbing into the truck.
“See you tomorrow, Smithy,”
Hooker called.
“Tomorrow hell. You’ll see
us tonight, Happy.”
“That’s right, Happy,” added
Smith’s wireless-operator. “If
you’re not sodden when we get
back, you will be soon after-
wards.”
The truck moved off, and
Hooker chatted to the others on
the veranda while the quick
darkness thickened. In the
distance they could hear the
planes running up, and presently
there was a sustained whining
roar and Hooker instinctively
looked at his watch. “First one
airborne,” he said.
Within a few minutes they
heard the other two take off.
circle and fade away to east-
ward. It was almost dark now,
and in a slight hollow in front
of them a myriad fireflies were
flitting round a bush, making it
look like an animated Christmas-
tree.
They moved into the mess,
ordered drinks and settled down
in a corner. Hooker felt a bit
flat. It was the almost empty
mess, he supposed, and the fact
that these things were never the
same as you’d imagined they
would be in the long years of
looking forward to them.
“Bottoms up, Happy,” Green
said. “Here’s to a lot more
before the evening’s out.”
The telephone on the bar rang,
and all eyes werq turned towards
it as the barman lifted the
receiver.
“Flying-Officer Green?” he
said. “Yes, sir. He’s here, sir.”
He held the receiver in his
hand and looked at Green. “For
you, sir,” he said.
ri REEN walked across and
took the phone, Hooker and
Allen watching him intently,
thought and emotion tempor-
arily suspended. They could
make nothing of Green’s part
of the conversation which
consisted solely of a repetition
of “Yes, sir.” Green put down
the receiver and, obviously
puzzled, walked back to the
others.
“You know,” he said, “I
don’t know whether we’re being
ragged or not.”
“What’s happened?”
“We’re wanted at the ops-
room.”
“Flying?”
“I’m not sure. I didn’t want
to say too much in case it was a
hoax.”.
“Who was it supposed to be?”
“The C. 0.”
“Did it sound like old Bill?”
“Yes. It did. That’s what’s
got me puzzled. Anyhow, we’ll
know in a few minutes. There’s
a truck coming to pick us up.”
They went back to their
unfinished drinks, Hooker, at
least, feeling convinced that
someone was having them on.
They had just finished the first
round when a truck pulled up
outside. Green went out on to
the veranda.
“F/O Green and crew?” the
driver asked.
“Yes,” replied Green. “Where
are you from?”
“Operations-room.”
The truck dropped them at the
operations-room, and within a
few seconds of entering all
doubts concerning the genuine-
ness of the phone-call were dis-
pelled. The Commanding Officer
was sitting at the table, obviously
waiting for them.
“Ah, Green,” he said. “Here
you are. Sorry to do this to you
tonight, but I’m afraid I’ve got a
job for you.”
Green’s “Yes, sir,” showed no
emotion.
“It’s an urgent signal from
Group. They want an aircraft
to land at Broadway. I can’t
send an inexperienced crew and
there’s no one else except you
left.”
“Very well, sir. What time do
we take off?” v
“Not for a while yet. Nearly
midnight, I think. Where’s the
signal, Don?” he asked the
operations-officer. “Ah, yes, here
we are. 2345 hours. 0.K.?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Sorry, Green. I wouldn’t
send you tonight if I could help
it.”
“It’s quite all right, sir.”
“What about you, Hooker?
O.K. with you?”
“O.K. by me, sir. Keep me
off the grog.”
“I guess it will at that. Sorry
about that, too, tonight. I’ll
break a rule and have one with
you before you leave in the
morning.”
“I’ll keep you up to that, sir.”
The telephone rang and the
C.O. answered it. The three
were about to move out quietly
when he motioned them to stay.
They waited, trying to gather
something from his non-
committal grunts. He put the
receiver down and looked at
them.
“That was Group. You’re to
wear side-arms.”
Their faces registered the
strangeness of the order.
“We always do wear side-
arms,” said Hooker. “It’s an
order from Group.”
“You wouldn’t expect Group
to know that,” was the C.O.’s
dry reply.
“What’s the idea, sir?”
“I think you’re to have a very
important passenger.”
“Passenger! It doesn’t make
sense, sir.”
“It will.” There was both
finality and faint amusement in
the C.O.’s voice.
“Yes, sir. Very good, sir,”
replied Green, and they moved
out to the waiting truck.
T OOKING at the empty door-
way through which they’d
disappeared, the C.O. said:
“I’d feel jolly uncomfortable
if anything happened to Hooker
tonight,” he said to the ops-
officer. “He’s earned that boat-
ticket if ever a chap has.”
“It can’t be helped, sir. They
know the ropes, anyhow.”
“Yes, I guess they do. I’ll be
happier when I’m having that
drink with Hooker in the
morning.”
“Hooker will be there.
Haven’t you heard him boast
that he’s airtight, watertight and
fireproof?”
“Most of the chaps believe
something like that. It’s what
keeps them going.”
The C.O. returned to his
papers. He himself was due to
fly in an hour’s time.
The truck was taking the crew
back to their quarters.
“Well, wouldn’t it,” said
Hooker. “You wouldn’t read
about it!”
“This’ll, be the end of our grog
session,” Paddy Allen remarked,
a little wistfully.
Hooker was volubly indignant.
“The rotten, stinking, lousy
wasters! Fancy springing a thing
like that on a chap on his last
night in India.”
Green laughed quietly,
intrigued by the note in Hooker’s
voice. Queer cow, he thought,
he’s really getting a kick out of
this, underneath.
“Why the hell are they anxious
about our six-shooters? They
don’t seriously believe we could
hit anything with them, do
they?”
o Continued on page 22)


PRODUCTS OF THE
RooteS
CROUP
' V ' • '.,' , ''■' S
tfir© nj li®ii;t
■—
C J
w
w
m
s;
v
m
co
m i
m
A
Hi
i
w
a
JU
£
mmsm
U *
v> "> s-A r v
.■ ■■.’■ ■■■■
/■-
: v..-...' ■ 1r ”
>.?v
.:
COMMER & KARRIER TRUCKS
You’ll find the yellow and blue sign displayed by Rootes Group distributors and dealers
throughout the length and breadth of Australia. This sign of efficient service is
backed by the resources of Australia’s Friendliest Factory the big plant of Rootes
(Australia) Limited at Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria.
You’ll find genuine factory-made parts and
factory trained service specialists always ready to help
you, and keen to maintain the spirit of courtesy and
friendliness which is traditional in the Rootes organ-
isation. If you own a Rootes Group product, get your
service where you see this sign. You’ll find it pays.
9
*+Af
c O*r
G^/y
7 ~'* £&
or
Over a million pounds
yvorjh of genuine replacement parts
are at your service throughout Australia.
'
~ x m
i
■‘fß
,r.
m
This large area at the Rootes Croup factory is
devoted to replacement parts for your service.
ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
FISHERMEN'S BEND, PORT MELBOURNE
Service is the Creation and Maintenance of Customer Goodwill


All the aircrews had been
issued with ungainly Smith and
Wesson revolvers, and Group
had, to the amusement of every-
one, ordered that they were to be
worn on all operational flying,
presumably for use if a plane
were forced to land in hostile
territory.
They got off at the mess.
“What’s to do?” asked Green.
“A couple of drinks and turn
in?”
“I guess that’s the ticket,” said
Hooker. Somehow he felt more
like a beano now than he had
earlier in the evening. The sensa-*
tion of flatness had gone. There
was something dramatic in this
way of spending his last night
with the squadron that appealed
to him.
“Rain, mud, muck or blood,
Hooker flies again!” he said, as
they started another round.
They had a few drinks and
then, although it was still very
warm and none of them felt like
sleeping, went off to bed. Each
lay on his stretcher without
undressing and tucked in his
mosquito-net. They chatted
quietly for a while and then
lapsed into silence. Now and
then on the distant ’drome they
could hear the drone of an air-
craft taking off, and occasionally
one would pass, with reverberat-
ing rOar, overhead.
'T'HEY were all asleep when
the truck called for them at
ten-thirty. The aircraft, when
they reached it, was already
loaded with bamboo crates and
coils of barbed-wire. There was
no passenger for the outward
trip. 9
“Curiouser and curiouser,”
said Allen. “Don’t tell me we’re
bringing the group-captain or the
general back with us.”
They taxied to the take-off
point, and a few minutes later
were climbing steadily eastwards.
The Manipur Hills slid beneath
them, and away to port the
Imphal beacon . flashed its
friendly red signal.
It was from Imphal, Hooker
remembered, that they’d first
taken off for Broadway, the
landing-strip in the heart of
Japanese territory. They'd
waited with mixed feelings, that
night, for their first experience
of this completely unorthodox
type of warfare. Looking back
on it now, though, he remem-
bered most clearly the sense of
wonder with which, lying on the
grass and looking along the line
of aircraft, he’d discovered the
perfect shape of a Dakota’s
fuselage.
They crossed the Chindwin
and the long miles of jungle east
of it, a seemingly dead world
which hid, in all probability,
thousands of Japs. The great
bend of the Irrawaddy near
Bhamo showed up and Hooker
moved back to the navigator’s
table.
“Alter course three fifty-six,”
he said to Green, when the great
river lay beneath them. “Six
minutes to go.”
Green swung the aircraft
sharply to port and settled it on
to its new course. Ahead lay
nothing but black jungle and
starlit sky. Presently Hooker
nudged Green and pointed ahead
at a faint row of tiny lights. The
lights became more clearly
visible, and they caught the
green flash of an Aldis-lamp.
There was another aircraft in
the circuit. They could see its
green and red navigation-lights
and downward identification-
light, like fireflies in slow
motion.
. Damned ridiculous, Hooker
thought, this flare-path and
planes lit up like Christmas-
trees, great, slow, unarmed
things buzzing round within a
few miles of the Japs’ main
communication-lines. Someone
will cop an awful packet one
day.
A few minutes later they had
bumped to a standstill on the
rough strip.
The first night they had landed
here Hooker had picked up a
handful of earth. Enemy terri-
tory, he’d thought, and won-
dered if he shouldn’t take it
back with him. In the end he’d
thrown it away. It wasn’t any
different from any other earth
once you had it in your hand.
The cargo was quickly un-
loaded and carried away by
infantry, for there was no
mechanical transport here. When
they had almost finished an
Army captain, at the head of a
group carrying a stretcher,
approached out of the darkness.
“We’ve got a passenger for
you,” the captain said to Green,
indicating the stretcher.
“No one else?” Green was
puzzled.
“This one will do. He’s a
Jap captain.”
“A Jap! What do we do
with him?”
“Just take him back. You’ll
be met at the aerodrome.
You’re armed, aren’t you?”
“Yes, but you’re sending an
escort, aren’t you?”
“We would normally, but to-
night we haven’t a man to spare.
We’re expecting the Japs to
attack at any time. He’ll give
you no trouble. He’s been
wounded and is pretty dopey.”
“I hope you’re right,” Green
said, as the stretcher with the
inert body was slid forward into
the plane.
“We’ll deliver him,” said
Hooker as he stepped into the
aircraft. “This is no place for
us if' there are Japs around,
Grassy. One was all I wanted
to see.”.
his eyes closed, the
** Jap lay breathing almost
imperceptibly, a white bandage
round his head. They looked
curiously, distastefully at him as
they passed to their seats. The
blanket which covered him had
slipped to one sideband the upper
part of his massive body was
naked.
The Dakota taxied to the end
of the runway. Green opened
the throttles, the brakes hard
on, the control column fulled
hard into his stomach. He
released the brakes and the
machine shot forward. The tall
trees at the end of the runway
rushed towards them and slid
underneath as the plane lifted.
They set course for home,
climbing on track, all three
crew-members conscious of a
feeling of relief.
When they were well clear of
the landing-strip all lights
except the small shaded ones at
the radio and the navigator’s
table were switched off. There
was just sufficient light for them
to be able to distinguish the
stretcher and the motionless
Jap.
Green called Allen to him.
“The Jap will be your pigeon,
Paddy. Keep an eye on him and
don’t let him get off the
stretcher.”
“0.K., Grassy.” Allen slapped
the revolver at his side. “He
doesn’t look as if he’ll move *till
we get back, anyhow. I guess
the captain was right.”
He returned to his seat at the
radio, from where he could
watch the stretcher. A few
minutes later Hooker left the
navigator’s table and slid into
the second-pilot’s seat. He was
gazing down at the blackness
beneath them when Allen tapped
him excitedly on the' shoulder.
“We just got away in time,”
he shouted. “Put on your ear-
phones.”
Hooker and Green both
slipped on their earphones. Allen
had the set on R.T. and the air
was full of a babble of excited
American voices calling base,
calling ground-control, calling
one another. “Bandits,” the
code-name for enemy fighters,
crqpped up continuously. The
Japs had jumped Broadway at
last!
“It’s a miracle it hasn’t hap-
pened sooner,” Hooker said to
Green. “Thank God they didn’t
do it ten minutes earlier. We’d
have copped it nicely.”
“You’d better give me another
course, Happy,” Green replied.
“We’ll get off the regular track.
You never know how intelligent
the Japs might have got sud-
denly. They could have fighters
waiting for us over the Chind-
win or somewhere.”
Hooker was about to leave
his seat when he was startled by
a short, muffled cry from the
radio-compartment. He sprang
to his feet, but was stopped in
the semi-darkness by the Jap
jabbing the hard barrel of a
revolver into his stomach.
TN the gangway between the
1 radio-compartment and the
pilot’s seat Hooker stood
momentarily dazed.
The Jap barked an order at
him, incomprehensible but
obviously threatening, and
Hooker put his hands above his
head. The barrel of the revolver
prodded harder into his stomach
as the Jap leaned forward and
pulled the weapon from his
holster. Then, with another
threatening bark, the Jap
forced him backwards, moving
forwards himself so that he
stood between Hooker and
Green.
Green still had the earphones
over his head and seemed
Salon ale Beaute
unaware of what had been going
on. In the semi-darkness
Hooker could just see Allen
rising from the floor near the
radio-operator’s seat. Green,
awake at last to the situation,
threw the aircraft violently side-
ways.
The Jap was thrown momen-
tarily off-balance, but did not
fall completely. Revolver in
each hand, he braced himself
between the two seats and with
a snarl turned one revolver
towards Green. There was a
report, a flash and a neat hole
appeared in the window beside
the pilot’s seat. Green righted
the plane and held it steady.
The Jap, Hooker noticed for
the first time, was completely
naked. He placed one revolver
on the floor, put a foot on it
and then, covering Green with
the. other, felt at his waist for his
weapon. Green, however, was
not wearing his revolver. It got
in his way when he was flying
and he always left it in his
parachute-bag at the rear of the
aircraft.
For a time the four remained
motionless, Green flying steadily
homeward, the Jap again with a
a revolver still gripped in either
body gleaming in the half-light,
He turned to Hooker, bared his
teeth in a harsh command and
forced him back to where the
map was spread on the navi-
gator’s table. He looked intently
at the map for a few moments,
then, tapping the area east of
the Irrawaddy, made an un-
mistakable semicircular motion
'with the barrel of the revolver.
Hooker slapped ruler and pro-
tractor on the map and indi-
cated to the Jap that he wanted
to go forward to Green. The
right-hand revolver sprang into
threatening readiness again as
the Jap pointed to Hooker’s
pencil;
Hooker took a slip of paper,
printed on it in block letters HE
WANTS TO GO BACK TO
BURMA and handed it to the
Jap, who, after giving it a close
and suspicious scrutiny, moved
back, covering them carefully,
till he could pass the paper to
Green. Green swung the air-
craft in a tight turn to port and
their late prisoner signified the
correctness of his action.
From where he stood Hooker
could see the illuminated needle
of the navigator’s compass. It
swung through 180 degrees and
kept moving. Hooker all but
held his breath while the needle
swung through 360 degrees and
came to rest. Green had made a
complete turn and they were
back on their original course.
Good old Grassy, thought
Hooker. The Jap, apparently
unaware of what had happened,
stood against the radio, covering
the three of them while the
plane held steadily to its course,
Hope began to replace the help-
less frustration which had previ-
ously gripped Hooker. If only
they could get to Imphal and
land before the coming light
became too strong,
The beacon!'thought Hooker
with sudden alarm. That might
give them away. He wondered
what the Jap would do if he
found he’d been tricked. They
could do nothing but trust to
luck and the Jap’s apparent
unfamiliarity with air-naviga-
tion. The thought of Green’s
revolver lying in the parachute-
bag at the rear of the aircraft
nagged at his mind, but at his
slightest move the Jap’s revolver
moved threateningly towards
him. >
npHROUGH the window beside
A him Hooker caught a fleet-
ing glimpse of the Chindwin. It
was growing perceptibly lighter,
God, thought Hooker, if we can
go on for another half-hour we’ll
be at Imphal. Plans, possible and
impossible, for dealing with the
Jap when they landed surged
through his head. He’ll still
have the revolvers, he thought,
but he won’t have much time,
He noticed the Nip looking
uncertainly at something to-
wards the tail, and wondered
what it could be. Allen still
stood in the same position,
beside the transmitter. Hooker
imagined himself in the Jap’s
position beside the radio, and
realised suddenly that from
there the open door was in full
view. He’s just noticed it, now
that the light’s getting stronger,
he thought. Then, with a
sickening sense of despair, the
truth struck him. The Jap
could see the dawn sky in the
east, or, if he hadn’t seen it yet,
he soon would!
Hooker moved so as to stand
between the Jap and the door-
way. There was an angry
exclamation and the revolver
moved towards him. The Jap
came closer and he again felt
the barrel against his ribs. He
was being forced back towards
the open doorway!
As he moved slowly back
before the pressure of the
revolver, he heard Allen shout
to Green. The Jap turned
swiftly and a shot crashed some-
where into the radio-set. At the
same time Hooker felt the air-
craft begin to turn. The Jap
stopped for a moment and then,
apparently realising what was
happening, continued to force
Hooker towards the doorway.
When they were opposite it
the Jap stepped behind him and
forced him to within a few
inches of the edge, the barrel of
the revolver pressing hard into
the small of his back. Through
the window in the pilot’s com-
partment the grey sky of early
dawn was clearly visible. Hooker
was being held as hostage to
their eastward flight.
TN the doorway, his hands
above his head, Hooker
thought bitterly: I stood here,
like this, yesterday morning, but
we weren’t heading for Burma
then.
His fingers clutched the frame
of the doorway, and glancing
up he saw, near his right hand,
the two lights and the switch.
The switch was to let the pilot
know that they had a load ready
to push through the doorway,
and the lights were for the pilot
to signal the chuckers-out when
to push out the parachute-fitted
packs, the red to be ready, the
green to let them go.
Hooker’s hand moved slowly
towards the switch, touched it
and pressed it down. He could
imagine the light shining sud-
denly on Green’s dashboard,
and he hoped with a sudden
fierceness that Grassy would
understand. ■
For a few long moments noth-
ing happened, and then the red
light glowed suddenly over his
head in the dimness.
He felt the barrel press harder
against his back just as the green
light shone out. The plane
dipped violently to port as
Hooker, his hands clutching the
door-frame, flung himself
against the side of the fuselage
beside the door. He saw the
Jap stagger backwards and
heard the report of the revolver.
Then the plane was flung with
even greater violence to star-
board, and Hooker saw the Jap
shoot past him through the open
doorway into nothingness, his
arms grotesquely outstretched,
a revolver still gripped in either
hand.
ttOOKER sat for a few
moments on the floor. He
saw Allen move quickly towards
Green and felt the aircraft begin
to turn. When it had levelled-
out he got up and went back to
his seat beside Green. Allen,
uttering incoherent shouts ol
joy, thumped their backs simul-
taneously. Green looked at
Hooker, took a deep breath
exhaled slowly and then grinned
with fiendish glee.
“Well, he wanted to go back
to Burma,” Hooker said.
The Chindwin, shining in the
dawn, appeared before them.
Hooker got up from his seat.
“There’s still time,
“Keep her steady, Grassy.
He moved towards the tan.


MM
/ /
*
a
r/if
/ //
///
/ //
•lit
nil
fo.
m
%
n
I'V
&
I •••//>.
!•< I'l
t'!'n
i •<
Mu
Wtt
6
<s>
;>:• > '
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
Biqqer than all
the world
By H.C.morton
PAWPAW was big. Bigger
than the world, wide in
the sunburnt shoulders,
reddened and brown,
white in singlet strips that
frustrated the sun, flat in the
nose, thick in the ears.
We were thirteen, Gilly and
I, he was twenty-six, but much
further than twice as far away
in time.
He had no woman. We
wanted none.
He had a dog.
Black-and-white dog, unlovely
lean and long. So long it took
a while to walk past. Not a dog
meant to love. A business dog.
Stalker of wallabies, killer of
wild pigs. Only a useful dog.
Boys are shocked by the
obscenity of bare usefulness in
dogs. We hated this one with a
small hate, built of an offshoot
of our fear of Pawpaw.
We took courageous snippets
of our fear and carried them to
our hate of the dog, subjecting
him to little secret indignities like
stones on the rump and sand in
the eyes. Thus we came nearer
to the size of Pawpaw.'
We, too, had a dog. A pre-
cocious white bitch, with no
usefulness in her, but good for
getting sticks out of water and
chasing cars. While we kept for
Pawpaw’s dog our small hate,
our stones and our sand, he held
for ours only a sneer. It was a
bitter and empty exchange.
There came to our little white
bitch those certain delicate and
inevitable changes. We did what
we could and should. At the first
gathering of solemn, anxious
dogs, we tied her atop of the
stable roof, and made for her,
with great skill and patience from
the end of a cheese-box, a little
wooden lap-lap reverse, pierced
with many nails, sharp ends
showing through. Thus with the
stable-roof and the lap-lap, we
gave her double indemnity, for
we placed great faith in those
days on Virtue untarnished.
The regiment of solemn dogs
watched all these things with
great interest, then howled con-
sistently for three nights. It is
difficult to sleep .against the
howling of dogs.
And the howler of greatest
volume was the unlovely hound
of Pawpaw’s.
Wo were alone in the house on
the fourth night. We sat in the
kitchen ; willing a kerosene
refrigerator colder, so the ice-
blocks we made when the family
left us to ourselves would freeze.
We were alone with our little
white bitch, a full moon and
twenty-two howling dogs.
ILLY looked at the shotgun
standing in the corner with
great longing, for his elder
brother had taught us by example
the usefulness of shotguns and
saltpetre in the dispersal of howl-
ing dogs, and the shifting of
small boys from watermelon-
patches.
Gilly gazed into the middle
distance.
“Why has there got to be a
war?” he asked. “That makes
brothers go into the Army and
butchers have no saltpetre?” /
Just outside the window, on
the flour dust of the road, the
unlovely hound flung a quaver-
ing line of howls at the moon.
We shuddered.
“I wonder how sugar would
go?” I said.
The dog howled again.
“We’ll have to try something,”
Gilly put in firmly.
Out came the shotgun
cartridges. Out of the cartridges
came pellets and wadding. In
went the sugar.
And out in the dust howling,
loudest, Pawpaw’s dog.
We had no choice. Nor experi-
ence to know that the range was
too close. All we had was the
crash and the flash, and the dead
dog of Pawpaw’s. Dead in the
dust with the froth on his mouth
and the sugar through his ribs.
“Gripes!” yelped Gilly.
“That’s ripped it.”
I looked with horror on the
stiffening heap and a prophetic
vision came to me.
“Pawpaw will kill us when he
finds out,” I said. “He’ll tear
us apart limb by limb.”
“Then he won’t find out.”
“But how?”
“Bury it in a drill of cane.
He’ll never know.”
Even in the burial of a dog
there is a-certain sombre delicacy
about the final rite. Way up
the sugarcane-drill, leaning on
our shovels, with the moonlight
filtering down through the cane-
leaves above, little cadences of
sadness and regret touched us.
Gilly was suddenly stricken with
that openhanded benevolence
common to mourners.
“He wasn’t such a bad bloody
old dog,” he murmured . . .
ON the afternoon of the fifth
day of the period of much
howling, Pawpaw came in search
of his dog.
We were sitting on the old
wooden bridge at the cutting,
.smoking banana-leaf in home-
made corncob pipes, when he
drove down the hill. It was
unfortunate he drove so fast
through the cutting. We had no
time to hide our pipes, and were
forced to drop them in the creek.
We dived for three days after-
wards looking for them, but the
mud on the bottom claimed them
as its own. We were very upset.
They were the best pipes we had
ever made.
Pawpaw pulled up beside us.
His car-engine purred over so
softly it sneered. He leaned his
arm on the car window. Big
arm.
“Have you seen me dawg?”
he asked.
I said nothing. I always over-
did the innocence. Gilly, whose
beautifully balanced perform-
ances on such occasions were an
education, rose to his feet.
“Gee, Pawpaw,” he inquired,
with the exact blend of natural
interest; “have you gone and
lost your dog?”
Pawpaw muttered something
half-way between a grunt and a
snarl and drove off. I sighed.
“That’s the last we’ll hear
about the dog,” claimed Gilly
with conviction.
Oh, the infinite variety of
possibility! Why did the fire-
man on the loco, throw that
shovelful of red-hot coal beside
the railway-line?
Why was the grass dry where
it landed? Why did the fire
sweep down the creek and up
high into the branches of a
paperbark tea-tree? Why did
a burning sliver of bark drift
with the wind, away from the
parent tree, and land still alight
in the dry sugarcane of Gilly’s
father?
Everyone agreed it was a
wonderful fire. It burnt forty
acres, a thousand tons, two push-
bikes and eleven carpet-snakes
before it stopped. Even Pawpaw
came up next day with the rest
of the neighbors to help cut the
cane. Pawpaw was a good cane-
cutter. Gilly’s father welcomed
him warmly, than eyed us with
distaste.
“Pawpaw,” he suggested,
“why don’t you take these two
young wasters, and make them
give you a hand?” Pawpaw
grinned. Just like a Grey Nurse.
“Work the living aitch out of
them,” Gilly’s father advised.
“I will,” promised Pawpaw.
HE did.
He put us ahead of him in
the cane-rows and kept closing
the distance between us. We
snicked at the stalks of cane like
two machines out of synchronisa-
tion. We snicked till our back-
bones knotted, our arms sung
and our hands were raw where
they gripped the cane-knives.
Of course we did not give in.
Working was fashionable in
those days, pride a part of it,
and teenage loafing not yet a
national and desirable accom-
plishment.
Gilly saw the danger first.
“We’re getting close to where
we buried die dog,” he
whispered.
“But he can’t see it,” I
countered.
“Might stink.”
“Go on, go on, put up the big
wheel,” bellowed Pawpaw behind
us. “What d’ you think this is?
A picnic?”
We went on. On another two
drills. The dogs were only three
drills away. I glanced across.
Glanced at a black-and-white
foot sticking three inches out of
the ground. Nudged Gilly as he
drew alongside. “Pawpaw will
see it if he cuts the outside drill
when we come back,” I moaned.
“Beat him to it,” ordered Gilly.
“Come on, cut like blazes.”
“Go on, go on,” bellowed
Pawpaw. “Put up the big wheel;
all you blokes do is yap.”
We put up the big wheel.
Biggest wheel you ever saw.
Beat Pawpaw to the end by ten-
feet. Ran to the outside drill.
Snick, snick.
Down went the cane.
“Go on, go on,” bellowed
Pawpaw. “What’s holding you
back?” He drew level. His
cane-knife was a live thing, flick-
ing at the cane-stalks like a snake.
“You’re no good, Pawpaw,”
Gilly yelled. “I could outcut
you myself.”
Pawpaw stood up. Surprise
chased anger round his
blackened face. Gilly cut six
sticks before the shock passed.
Down went Pawpaw’s head. Up
came his cane-knife, over fell the
cane. All his eyes saw was the
cane-drill in front of him and
Gilly cutting blindly away.
Didn’t see me. Didn’t see the
foot of the black-and-white dog
as he passed it. And afterwards
it didn’t matter. By then I had
had time to cut off the foot as I
passed, throw it into some
unburnt cane and kick tnore
earth over the grave.
Pawpaw passed Gilly with a
flashing blade and a sneer; beat
him to the other end by thirty-
feet.
“Go on, go on,” he bellowed.
“What’s holding you back?”
AT the end of the day Gilly’s
father came to us.
“How’d they go?” he asked
Pawpaw.
“Aw,” Pawpaw complained.
“They put up a bit of a spurt
there for a while, but they loafed
most of the time.”
Gilly’s father sighed.
“Yair, that’s the trouble with
this generation, they don’t know
what hard work is.” He bowed
his head in respect for the
memory of industrious forebears.
Recollection proved too painful
for him. He dragged his thoughts
away to another subject.
“Did you find your dog yet,
Pawpaw?”
“Naw, I’ve given up looking,
one of those black niggers from
the mission must have picked
him up on the road and taken
him back with him ...”
were sitting on the bridge
* * and the black syrupy veneer
of burnt cane still covered our
faces and hands. There was real
tobacco in our newly made
pipes, and the ache in our backs
grew less. The sun reluctantly
stole away from the deserted
paddocks and slid down behind
the mountain, leaving a little
forgotten light afnong the
shadows of the gaunt dead blue-
gum behind us. Gilly screwed
up his face. „
“One of those black niggers
from the mission must have
picked him up,” he mimicked.
We giggled. Giggled, then rolled
on the bridge as great gusts of
laughter tore at us, and the full
impact of our triumph over
Pawpaw came to us.
“We beat him,” Gilly chortled.
“Beat him all along the way,
even when he was outcutting us,
we were still beating him.”
His laughter floated up to the
highest branches of the shadow-
flecked trees. It was a golden
moment. For a little while we
were bigger than the dying sun,
and the fading trees, and the
vanishing day. Bigger than a
dog in a hole in the ground.
Bigger than Pawpaw. Bigger
than the world ...


CHATEAU TANUNDA
mmm
im
CCVAtVf SJ/cV
mm
ms
Edward Hammond
Hargraves .•
THE DISCOVERY OF GOLD
Between 1851 and to-day, Australia has earned '
some £800,000,000 from gold production. To the
discoverers who unlocked this immense source
of wealth last century, however, Australia’s debt
cannot be measured in terms of hard cash alone.
[• By discovering gold west of the Blue Mountains, in
• the Ballarat district of Victoria, in Mount Morgan in
" Queensland and Kalgoorlie in Western Australia,
they helped spread Australia’s population over wide
areas of our continent.
Although other men are known to have found small
t deposits of gold in Australia before 1850, Edward <
Hammond Hargraves was officially awarded £5OO for
the first discovery of payable gold near Bathurst on
April 3, 1851. Hargraves, an Englishman, had been
sheep-farming for many years in Australia before he
went to the rich diggings of the Sacramento Valley in
California. He was greatly impressed by the similarity
between the gold-bearing country he saw in America
and certain areas he knew in Australia. Within a few
days of his return to N.S.W. in 1851, he found gold
at the junction of Summerhill and Lewis Ponds creeks.
In Victoria, the Hon. W. Campbell had discovered gold
near Clunes in March, 1850, but he did not disclose
the find until July, 1851. Thomas Hancock found
gold in Ballarat in August, 1851, and three months
later Henry Frenchman found the Bendigo field.
In Queensland, gold was first found in 1853 by Samuel
Stutchbury, but the first' big discovery was not until
1867, when James Nash located gold where Gympie
now stands.
In Western Australia, Arthur Bayley and John Ford
found the Coolgardie field in 1892 ; the following year,
Paddy Hannan and his partner Flannigan found gold
on what was to become the world-famous "Golden-
Mile" at Kalgoorlie.
* Print courtesy of the Mitchell Library.
CHATEAU TAHUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W
TUCKER AND COMPANY PTY. LTD. EST. 1838
r-fc „ G 1
*
ast Kleagle
NARK
By F.L. Lomls
VOU may be mildly curious
about Art Kleagle. Here
he comes down the main
street. He pauses
saturninely to inspect the new
annexe of the Town Hall. He is
no friend to progress, so-called;
moreover, what is this same
annexe butia point yielded to the
lax morals of the times, a point
that should have been defended
sturdily if patriarchal rule were
to survive in Ngatipatiki. We
all know what goes on at social
functions when you have
annexes, and Art, as you find
when you get to know him well,
is nothing if not moral.
Art is dressed in a greening
claw-hammer and baggy saddle-
tweed pants. He is a tall man,
with a scrawny neck; he is
shaved except for a ragged
moustache, but never clean-
shaved. . His lineaments are
deeply lined. His skin? Stitch
always says, “What I like least
about Art is his dirty hide.”
Now he pauses again at the
chemist’s. Ah! Just as he
thought. Last night’s jollification
at the Cri. was a bit too much for
Ferdy, and his wife, an ex-
dispenser, is acting as locum-
tenens.
Art’s goal in the gathering
dusk is Burgoyne’s Livery and
Bait Stables, a decaying and also
odoriferous enterprise, hard hit
by Messrs. Buick, Chrysler,
Willys-Knight and Ford. You
should hear Art’s opinions of
benzine transport, as viewed
against a background of what
was good enough for the men
who founded Paka Puki . . .
To my mind, socially, Art
Kleagle v exudes a slow poison,
but he is a good conversationalist.
He is a great chastener of
innocent and enthusiastic minds,
and has a vast store of backstairs-
history about all the families in
the district. He is also well-
posted on the latest doings,
whether illicit or surreptitious,
of our leading people—ah, it
comes to mind just as I was
about to scribble on, he has the
inside dope.
'T'HE group outside Burgoyne’s
-*■ are discussing the new head
of the school, whom there is
reason to think is subversive. At
least, his standpoint in the 1913
strike was disloyal. Far from
being prepared to ride down to
the port, axe-handle at his side,
to help to get the wool away,
he “hoped that no breadwinner
of a family would be laid out
cold.”
Art pnjoys a name as an
educated man ; he writes a good
hand and reads Hall Caine,
Marie Corelli and other serious
fiction. The few males who seek
leisure-time reading at the library
often consult him, and his
appraisals of literature are clear
and definite. He is definite about
the new teacher. He does not
merely run him down on general
principles; he detests him.
“Him!” he says with scorn.
“You should see the kids
homework-books since he took
over. The little devils don’t
care how they do their work
now. We lost a good man when
old George” George
Weather by, the new man’s pre-
decessor—“went. They didn’t
play the fool with George.”
“But, Art,” says Sim
Burgoyne, too indolently good-
natured to qualify as a real
gossip, let alone a backbiter,
“Hoskins”—the new head—“has
his points. All the kids like him.”
“They do, and that’s just how
the harm’s done,” retorts Art.
“What kids wouldn’t like a man
that lets them read penny-
dreadfuls in class half the day?”
(This is an allusion to Treasure
Island and King Solomon’s
Mines.)
“They do that, my Ellen says,
after they’ve done their other
work,” replies the equable
Burgoyne.
“Do they?” sneers Art, not
prepared to gainsay a statement
of fact, but ruthless in keeping
on the scent of a tainted reputa-
tion. He sneers, and who can
refute a sneer? Certainly no one
in Paka Puki one of Art
Kleagle’s.
“Do they? Well, judging by
the report the committee read at
last meeting, they don’t do it
any too well. Fred Rossiter told
me be was real,worried about the
school.” This is a straight-
forward falsehood. Fred
Rossiter, though a committee-
man, is quite incapable of worry-
ing about anything to do with
4he school, except to see that his
indigent relative, Mrs.
is not beaten on the annual
tender for the cleaning. All the
group at the stables feel pretty
sure it is a falsehood, but
common politeness prevents
them from saying so.
“We don’t want - Hoskins's
kind in this township,” continues
Art. “We know whaPs what
without him trying to telT us. If
he is so keen on waterfront
loafers let him go and join them.
He is not even loyal. How was
it the school-flag wasn’t hoisted
last King’s Birthday? Tell me
that.”
“I can tell you, Art,” says
George Hopkins, whose opinion
is that, if we all ate little pieces
of Art, we would all die. “It’s
because your friend Weatherby,
who hadn’t hoisted it for five
years, took it to wrap up his
hollow-ware in when he was
packing it. And by the way, I
see that the school got ninety
per cent, of passes in the pro-
ficiency.” (An historic and for-
gotten ordeal of all N.Z. primary
schools until comparatively
recently.)
“And you believe it?”
“Yes, seeing that I was shown
the list '' of passes by Scrap
Leicester just as he was phoning
the names through to the ‘Star.’ ”
pROMISE of a vigorous alter-
-1 cation is nipped in the bud
by the arrival of Tip McNickle
on a hack. Tip is one of the few
who still sometimes ride into
Paka Puki.
“What’s this I hear about
Will Beswick starting up for him-
self?” he remarks.
“It’s true,” says George
Hopkins. “I had it from Will
himself. Winnington and
Company are backing him.”
“There’s a man without a
spark of gratitude in him,” says
Art Kieagle. “I ( picked him to
be all out for number-one the
first day he came to the town.
After all the emporium’s done
for him, too. A steady job for
10 years and four rises. Yet he
walks out on the business when
it’s having a difficult time, and
hopes to take half the goodwill
on the grocery side with him.
Not but what the selfish hound
will find he’s badly mistaken.”
“Go easy on the rises, Art,”
says Sim Burgoyne. “Will told
me himself that he’s only had
one, the second year he was with
the firm, and that was only five
shillings.”
“You can believe what Beswick
says, Burgoyne,” says Art, “but
I haven’t got to. Him a master-
grocer! Left to himself
Beswick couldn’t run a pie-cart.
He’ll live and die a counter-
jumper.”
“You don’t like him, Art?”
says Tip McNickle, not really
interested, but angling for bites.
“No, I don’t like him, nor any
other damned underhand radical
that comes here trying to subvert
public opinion.”
This last phrase surely marks
a man of education, and every-
_ one knows that, if too hard up
today to buy himself pipe-
cleaners, Art’s upbringing was
genteel.
The desultory discussion now
turns in the direction of the
mayoralty.
“I hope there’ll be a contest
this time; we need a change
once in a while. What about
Sam Turton’s chances?” says
Hopkins.
“What do you think, Art?”
says Tip.
“Sam Turton would make us
a laughing-stock. Fancy him
put up to speak on Pioneers’
Day! The position calls for
some dignity, even if Paka Puki
is a little place. And what about
policy? Do you think Turton
could frame a policy?”
“Have we got a policy with
Am Mills?” (the sitting mayor).
“Yes. Am Mills keeps the
rates down, and he’s the best
man-of-affairs this side of
Waipoko, and I don’t care who
hears me say it.”
“It’s strange to hear the way
you always stick up for Arn
Mills, Art; but I admire you
for it,” says Sim Burgoyne.
(It is strange—unless you
remember that a ruthless back-
biter can also be an out-and-out
toady.)
A RT KLEAGLE expands with
generous warmth. “Yes, I
do stick up for him, and some
day people will admit what this
borough owes to Am Mills —a
man who, if he looked solely to
his own affairs, would be- worth
a quarter of a million today.”
“I don’t think he neglects
them, Art,” says Burgoyne;
knocking out the ashes of his
pipe over the midden-heap near
the door —one of the landmarks,
this, of Paka Puki.
“And why should he neglect
them, only to be called a mug
for his pains? Give me men
with a stake in the country at’
the head of affairs, men who
know how to run their own
shows. They’re the men that
can be trusted to administer a
borough.”
“Mightn’t they sometimes
mistake the borough for their
own show, Art?” says George
Hopkins. “What about that
roofing-contract for the Town
Hall?”
“Arn saw that an old friend,
a man whose family for three
generations had lived in the
township, got it. That’s what I
like about him. He sticks to his
own. He’s not like these
Socialistic b s who have no
feeling for personal ties.
Besides, another thing he did was
to keep the money for that job
in the borough, and he was
right; I don’t care who hears me
say it.”
“I don’t mind you saying it,
Art,” says Burgoyne amiably.
“Would you only give the vote
to people of property, Art?”
asks Tip.
“I would keep the right to rule
in the.hands of people fit to rule.
How will your universal
franchise end up? With Beswick
mayor of this township.”
“Why not?” says George
Hopkins. He and Tip may be
inclined to tease Art a little.
“Didn’t Will Beswick the
Lower Bank project under
way?”
This is too much for Art.
“Him, my God!” he sputters.
“Some day I’ll tell you what
Arn Mills told me in confidence
about that damned protection-
works agitation, and you’ll be
surprised at what goes on behind
the scenes, and the pestiferous
slanders that are spread about
public men.”
“The roofing-contract was
kept rather quiet, Art,” says Tip
McNickle.
AND then, as Mrs. Golightl
passes on the other side o:
the main street, and being tirec
of Paka Puki’s virtuous mayo
as a topic, “That’s a little woman
that knows how to keep hersel
smart and trim. She don’t 100
a day over thirty.”
Art knows for a positive fac
that Mrs. G. is forty-two, and
has a boy twelve years old sh
takes fine care never shows up ii
Paka Puki. In this role o
censor he then turns and rend
what we all term Mrs. Golightly'
song-and-dance.
“Half the young women
the district half-naked on th
public stage,” says he wit]
righteous anger. “And sh
herself! What she wore in tha
‘Maud’ song wouldn’t fill
handbag.”
“You must haye had a good
look at her, Art,” says George
Hopkins.
“Me, I was put on the door by
the Rev. McStickle, or I’d hav
been home at my own fireside
where every decent married man
in the place ought to have been
I tell you, this craze for amuse
ment is getting us on the road to
ruin. Dances tonight, concert
tomorrow night, the pictures fou
nights a week, the “Cricke
Ball” —with great scorn —the
“Golf Ball”—with greater scorn
“In the old days we had the Odd
fellows’ picnic and the schoo
concert, and we were stumping
those paddocks where these
idlers clout a lump of rubber
round for want of something
better to do.”
“Arn Mills likes a round oJ
golf, Art,” says the unruffiec
Burgoyne. Kleagle turns on him
fiercely, and has no difficulty in
making out a special case for the
hardest-worked man in the
district.
Thus the colloquy at Sim
Burgoyne’s stables doodles along
till nine-thirty, when Sim, reluct-
antly rising, remarks that he’ll
have to be up to shift that heap
before 7 a.m. tomorrow. It
would be good to hear Art
Kleagle on that heap, but with
Sim Burgoyne himself present it
is a topic that might mar
fellowship.
Art moves, stiff of joint, to
the shack where he baches.
might share my wonder,
-*■ felt on first coming to Paka
Puki, how the little place endures
Kleagle, as it has had to endure
him for nearly thirty years. I
think I can explain.
In the first place, Paka Puki
has become used to him, as it
has become used to Sim
Burgoyne’s midden-heap, and is,
though unwillingly, becoming
used to Will Beswick’s radicalism
(not that that will ever get him
on the council).
In the second place, Art is
down. No man could be more
down. His odd-jobs may bring
him in a pound a week. In this
world, when you are going up
you excite envy, dislike and
detraction. When you are down,
you excite something like pity,
even if you are an Art Kleagle
with half a dozen bad breaks in
your record. «
“Art’s got his own ways. He’s
his own worst enemy,” says the
tolerant Stitch. “He’ll never
change, and he’s pretty harm-
less.”
In the third place, that art of
picking one’s mental teeth,
called scandal, is not without its
relish for us Paka Pukians. Is it
elsewhere?
My fourthly is curious. Art
does little to sustain his claim
to a genteel origin, but the fact
is admitted. There is, too, his
handwriting, and his taste in
books. Some vestige of a hang-
over from British feudalism
causes this to count in his favor ;
and isn’t his present position
pretty hard on a man brought up
as he was?
So he makes his way up and
down the main street, preaching
his diehard Toryism, and subject-
ing all things and people to a
merciless moral scrutiny, which
is at its most severe when he has
spent the whole afternoon in the
Cri.


A TV Artist Sums-up
Bebind the Scenes of Television
By DOUGLAS PARNELL
50 at last television is on
the way to being launched
here in Australia. And,
from personal experience
of it in England, both as an
artist and as an owner of a set
for three years, I can assure
you of one thing—it will change
your life; add something to it.
Because of . our intended
return to Australia we decided
to rent a set rather than pay
from £6O to £BO for one. This
television rental-system is very
popular in England. It also
returns a very profitable divi-
dend to the company that
established it.
We began by paying £2 15s.
a month. This amount was
reduced pvery three months,
until, at the time of our de-
parture, it was only 17s. a
month. When the set required
attention, it was always quickly
and effectively serviced without
charge. In regard to this, I
can warn you that there is one
technical term you will later
learn to utter with awe when
you possess a TV-set. It is
cathode-ray tube. This vital
and expensive part can be
broken in a flash—either by bad
luck or by faulty dial-manipula-
tion. The bill for replacement
can be up to £25.
The H-aerial now familiar
throughout urban and rural
England costs about £7. In some
parts of a few English towns
quite a number of householders
erect the H-aerial before they
buy a set —like building the
garage before buying the car.
A recent licence-investigation
revealed this in some suburbs
of Oxford.
•The TV-viewer’s worst enemy
is the passing car, the motor of
which causes obliterating white
lines on the picture. A low-
flying plane or even a neighbor’s
vacuum-cleaner o r electric-
lawnmower will do the same.
This happened to me once
when I was watching Sedgman
playing in a Wimbledon
final. I got oyer' the diffi-
culty by inviting the neighbor
to come in and see the match.
The passing-car nuisance is
being overcome, in England, by
an intensive campaign “to
persuade all motorists to insert
a two-and-sixpenny suppressor
in the distributor. By law, new
cars must have this suppressor
fitted.
On the whole, the clarity of
the TV picture is wonderful.
The art behind this lies in the
frequent and skilful use of the
close-up. In presentation of
ballet the close-up is on the
ballerina —her feet, her hands,
her facial expression. In the
violin concerto jt is on Menuhin,
then on the conductor, then, in
their turn, on the various sec-
tions of the orchestra. But
mostly it is on Menuhin’s
brilliant bowing and fingering
and the expression on his face.
When London’s famous chef,
Philip Harben, demonstrates in
his transparent oven the art of
cooking, the close-up reveals, as
Harben says, .“Just the right
degree of golden brown.” And
finally, when the evening is
over, you ‘can see near by the
charming little smile of the lady
announcer when, in one of the
many dazzling gowns supplied
by the 8.8.C.’s wardrobe, she
bids you “a very good night.”
In England TV programmes
begin with a daily fifteen-
minute newsreel of outstanding
events. Television is admirably
suited to the showing of docu-
mentaries, in which graphs,
charts and models are used.
However, the outstanding
programme for three years was
the half-hour session “In the
News,” in which current
problems were discussed by five
well-known members of Parlia-
ment. Two of these were Labor,
two were Conservatives, while
an Independent acted as chair-
man. With such dynamic per-
sonalities as Michael Foot and
Robert Boothby stirring things
up, this programme fairly
sizzled and often attracted a lot
of press comment. The subjects
ranged from “Should Germany
Be Rearmed?” down to “The
Price of Tea.”
Another popular programme
was My Line?” In this,
a panel of four stage-celebrities,
kept in order by a strong chair-
man, tried to find out a competi-
tor’s occupation by asking him
a limited number of questions,
A competitor might be a judge
or a ratcatcher.
Television comedians have to
change their style from that used
Scene in a piece televised by the B.B.C. The writer of the article on this page figures in the scene as the Cannibal King.
on radio and stage. On TV it
is not so much what they say
but what they do. Popular
comedians have learned to
develop twitching lips and noses,
rolling eyes, raised eyebrows
and so on.
Opera was presented once a
month. Some of the outdoor
scenes were filmed beforehand,
and were dubbed-in during the
actual performance. This
proved to be particularly effec-
tive in the barge-scene of
“Tabarro” and in some of the
scenes of “The Consul.” An
outstanding operatic perform-
ance was that of Verdi’s rarely-
performed “Macbeth,” which
was televised direct from a per-
formance in the rustic setting of
Glyndebourne.
Occasionally a leading West
End play or show was televised
direct from the theatre. I
remember seeing half of
“Reluctant Heroes,” which TV
viewers enjoyed so much that
box-office receipts went up, as
people flocked to the theatre to
see the actual performance.
In televised films of historic
houses you were taken to all
parts of England, with features
pointed out and explained. The
most popular commentator of
this kind was the plump Richard
Dimbleby. His “London Town”
took you to all manner of
haunts, such as the fishmarket
at Billingsgate or the Stock
Exchange in Threadneedle-
street.
Sporting events are most suit-
able for television. Athletics,
boxing, football and racing’can
be seen in clear detail with great
enjoyment. With tennis, vision
is so perfect that the flying
chalk from smashing ace can
be clearly seen.
But of all the various types of
programmes, the play is the per-
feet medium for television. On
an average there were two good
plays a week. So you can see
that during our three years of
television we saw nearly 300
plays. Sunday evening was
always reserved as a special
play-night, the plays ranging
from Shaw’s “Back to Methuse-
lah” and Ibsen’s “An Enemy
of the People” down to an
Edgar Wallace thriller. These
Sunday plays, in which leading
stage- and film-artists were
starred, created so much public
interest that they were regularly
reviewed by the great London
dailies.
In TV production mishaps are
always liable to occur. I remem-
ber seeing a Very intimate love-
scene in one play. As scenes
are set very together for
camera-control purposes, it is
necessary for stage-hands to be
working only a foot or so away
from the actual scene, while they
are preparing for another, and
in the midst of this scene we
were amazed to see a stage-
hand strolling by carrying a
piece of wood. A few seconds
later he returned carrying a
ladder.
Jo sing on television is almost
a nightmare. Once selected by
searching preliminary audition,
you are fi a ble to be called before
p an els interested in opera,
musical-comedy or children’s
programmes.
0 • nrnr i llrt ; nn t h e bie
~ . £ , ’• ht t
£ ~ ' . v irtuallv
k t L ~nnt’ throunhout—a
K e r ddea few
f H f „ pcond too late
~ ’ y
*
1 v sets are v £ r y confined, and
tfieretore much refiearsmg is
necessary. It resembles tne
filming of a picture to some
degree, but the big difference is
fi} at “ a scene is not right m a
Il: be u . 11
satisfies, but in TV there is only
? ne chance—and the audience
ls watching it!
Working under the powerful
lights is like" working in an
oven. The performer is sur-
rounded by cords, overhead
microphones and cameras,
Usually there are three or four
cameras to enable the shooting
from different angles and eletfa-
tions. The overhead one is the
most disconcerting as it zooms
down at you.
Speaking of heat reminds me
of “Faust,” in which I was per-
forming on TV. After a long
scene in front of the cameras
we had an “exit” while we
waited for a moment for our
reappearance. As we came off
the set we were surprised and
somewhat delighted to have the
perspiration wiped from our
brows by young maidens
dabbing gently with damp
cloths. This was*to prevent it
from showing in the TV
picture.
In “La Boheme” we had more
difficult problems to overcome,
In the fortnight’s preparation
the cast worked about six hours
daily. Ever before us was the
producer, who constantly pre-
tended to be a camera tracking
towards us. At last we came to
the day of the performance and
the dress-rehearsal.
The schedule for this began at
11 a.m.; make-up call. On TV
no artist is trusted with his own
make-up. In fact, apart from a
very light tan and a few of the
very lightest of lines, very little
make-up is used. A too-heavy
black line will stand out like a
weal, making the face look
ludicrous. Great care has also
to be taken with beards and
wigs.
With our make-up on and our
beards fixed, we were then vir-
tually prisoners inside the build-
ing until the conclusion of the
performance at 11 p.m. It was
a case °f lunch at the studio-
canteen - After lunch, three-
hours’ rehearsal under the
After our tea ‘break, a
bit of “tidying-up” for a couple
of hours under the li % hts -
Durm g these final rehearsals
we did not see our producer,
He was watching the rehearsal
on his monitor-set in the control-
room From there, he gave us
our instructions through the
stud i Q a ddress-system. Camera-
men rece j ve d their orders direct
f rom . fii m through their head-
p h on es, the same method of
control being used in the actual
performance. The orders might
“Come in, Camera Number-
one,” “Start tracking, Number-
two,” and so on.
In any circumstances, the
music of “La Boheme” is diffi-
cult; in this TV performance it
was very much so—because the
orchestra was not even on the
set. It was not even in the
building—it was in a hall two
blocks away. The music was
relayed back to the studio. The
conductor not only watched his
score, he watched his monitor-
set. He knew that the singer
was on the dot if he saw him
open his mouth at the right
time.
Yes, performing opera on TV,
is hard work,
English children were given a
wonderful daily hour. They
had their own newsreel, child-
announcer and a wide variety
of interesting programmes,
Three good plays were given
weekly. Occasionally one by
Shakspeare or a Dickens piece
was included. In these and
others, first-class adult actors
and actresses appeared.-
. Also, famous musicians gave
performances. Eminent people
gave talks. Leading athletes
gave hints and demonstrations.
As well, the children’s session
provided lessons in painting and
craft-work. The children’s own
clubs gave them chances to per-
form before cameras. The
camera also took them to fac-
tories, farms and other places of
interest, to widen their outlook,
The instructional side was always
cleverly disguised, and children
swallowed the educational-pill
without even a TV blink,
At the beginning of this
article I declared that the advent
of TV would change our way of
life. To the bedridden, the
aged and to parents tied to the
home with young children tele-
vision brings in the world,
l n our own case, we received
tremendous stimulation in the
way of general knowledge,
cultural values and wider inter-
ests. You find yourself becom-
ing interested in things you are
not normally interested in. My
wife had never been to a cricket-
match, a tennis-tournament or a
boxing - match. But what
happened when these came
bright into our home? She
began to understand and appre-
date their finer points and
skills. In fact, eventually she
could pick the winner better
than her sport - enthusiastic
husband could. She could
recognise a well-executed upper-
cut; whereas her husband, who
had never taken any interest in
cooking, could, after gazing
into Philip Harben’s trans-
parent oven, recognise a well-
done undercut.


a
$
•V
m
wbs&m
iCl 1 - - iggg
Ictyer*
ssyo#
/fa#/
Tooth's
KB
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY JOOIH & CO. LIMITED
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO FRANCIS THOMAS MARCHANT late
of Camden. —TAKE NOTICE that VERA
BERYL MARCHANT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 904 of 1955 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
20th July 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J.
BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES. Solicitors-
-117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME* COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO WILLIAM GEORGE STANFORD late
of Orange.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
OLGA STANFORD has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 620 of 1955 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three (3) years and upwards The
Petitioner has asked for the Court’s dis-
cretion to be exercised in her favour
under Section 19 (2) (a) If you desire
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce -Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th of June
1955. You may obtain a copy of tne
Petition without charge from
L. D. SERISIER & CO., Solicitors, WS-
-195 Summer Street, Orange; or their
Town Agents, MESSRS. PETER ■
KEARNEY & CO., Solicitors, 60 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO JOHN HENRt ALEXANDER late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that KATH-
LEEN EDITH ALEXANDER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1999 ° f t i
on the ground of desertion without j
cause of excuse for three years 9
wards If you wish to defend J mvnree
enter an appearance in the D
Registry Supreme Court Sydney
before the 25th day .of July 185 £
copy of the Petition filed her ® FFREY
obtained free of charge from GEOFFKE*
SEE, GILLIS & CO., Solicitor,, of M
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Bride To Be, an attractive
daughter of Timanova (imp.)
and Affinity, was top-priced filly
at the New Zealand yearling sales
in January, 1954. She was
bought by Sir James and J. C.
Fletcher, who sent her to Sydney
to be trained by F. Dalton. She
won her first race, a Rosehill
Two-year-old for fillies, with
something in reserve, and three
days later confirmed the form by
scoring in open company at
Canterbury Park, where she gave
stable apprentice Ray Paananen
his first win.
New Zealander Mainlander
easily beat Sundisc in a Rand-
wick trial two days before the
running of the Canterbury Park
Handicap, but Sundisc was too
solid in the race and downed
Mainlander a neck, after Main-
lander tried to lead all the way.
Tranquil Hero, winner of “the
larst” at Canterbury, is a half-
brother to Tranquil Lass, a
double Randwick winner. T.
Hero was a surprise for punters,
who ignored his prior-start win
at Kembla.
The lightly raced two-year-old
Delville Wood (imp.) colt Palo
Alto, raced by Norman Wheeler,
director-manager of Kia-Ora
stud, Scone (N.S.W.), won the
Rosehill Maiden for colts and
geldings in tradesmanlike style.
Bred by his owner, the colt was
catalogued at the Randwick sales
last year, but was not submitted.
His dam, Gaetane, is by Enfield
(imp.) from Lancegay by Spear-
head (imp.), and he has Carbine
blood on both sides of his
pedigree.
Beresford Hope, who scored
his first win at Rosehill, has an
interesting pedigree. He cost
F. Christie 1350gns. as a
yearling, being the only repre-
sentative of the English Pearl
Diver catalogued at the, 1953
Randwick sales. Pearl Diver
won the English Derby and is a
son of Vatellor, the sire of My
Love, another Derby winner.
Dam of Beresford Hope,
Doubtful Pleasure, foaled
the colt here. She is cleverly
named, as she is by His
Highness from Fast Affair by
Mr. Jinks from Passed Out by
Solario.
Gay Helios improved to win
the Flemington Cardinia Handi-
cap, If mile with 7.6, leading
all the way, and thus earns a
start in the Adelaide Cup, ruu
on May 18. He is nicely placed
in the Cup with 7.7. He was a
rank outsider when third in the
Melbourne Cup to Rising Fast
and Hellion, and, until Satur-
day, had not done anything to
get himself out of that class. He
was capably ridden a front race
on Saturday by apprentice G.
Lane, who earlier had won
the Ferndale Handicap on Sir
Brutus. Lane is likely to pilot
Gay Helios in the Adelaide
Cup.
■ • • •
Sir Brutus, bred at Glen Devon
stud, Werribee (Vic.), atoned for
recent disappointments when
he won Remington’s mile
Ferndale Handicap (two-year-
olds) in good style. He had a
nice pull in the weights. Sir
Brutus is a son of Carbon Copy,
from Tuneful by Harinero
(imp.), and% traces back to
Poseidon. Family lines include
Gallant Gentleman, a smart
winner on Melbourne tracks,
and Dark Chief, a winner of the
A.J.C. Summer Cup and the
Moonee Valley Cup.
Peerless Fox humped 10.6
over the Flemington hurdle
course (17fur. 110yds.) to win
at 7’s, while Boanerges (9.6) took
the steeple (16ffur.) at 10’s.
’Twas Boanerges first win over
the big timber —he ran third in
the G. N. Steeple last year—
and he jumped well and cantered
in.
* * •
Winner of a Doomben (Q.)
Two-year-old, French Charih
is a son of Gabador (imp.), and
was bred in New Zealand. His
dam, Eastern Charm, by Nizami
(imp.), is also dam of the grey
three-year-old Magic Carpet II.
The family line goes back to the
famous Cutty Sark —a long way.
Valajax, winner of the other
Doomben Two-year-old, is a son
of Valognes (imp.) and Fury by
Ajax from Magi by Brueghel
(imp.).
Three New Zealanders racing
here and worth watching are
Hutton, Magic Carpet II and
Mainlander. All shaped well
enough in minor places at Can-
terbury. Hutton, a stayer, had
last-minute support < for the
Welter, shortening from 16’s to
7’s. He finished strongly in
second place and was followed
home by Magic Carpet 11, who
started second-favorite. Main-
lander has raced over hurdles and
on the flat in New Zealand, and
is a versatile six-year-old Royal
Chief gelding from Goody Two
Shoes by Robin Goodfellow
(imp.).
“Chestnut”: The Queensland
horse Macgrew was in the news
last week, but not in the head-
lines, as he was several months
“My breakfast Was THAT big!”
ago. Macgrew cost a record
3200gns. at auction, was dis-
qualified for 12 months, and later
met with a near-fatal accident.
Last week he was up for sale.
He didn’t bring a bid.
Former crack Brisbane
sprinter Beau Falcon —1 races
from 77 starts —has been retired
and presented to Miss Kruger,
daughter of one of the co-owners
of City View Stud, Bundamba,
for use as a hack. He was best
known as a Doomben specialist,
winning 10£ times on the course.
* * *
First Variety raced past the
post one of the Sydney Derby's
most brilliant winners at Harold
Park trots. Passing his entire
field in one incredible burst he
showed determination and
brilliance. N.Z.-bred, by Attack
out of Variety Girl, the colt came
here as a “boom” horse, but his
early efforts belied it. This was
mainly because he was so
chancy. One who recognised his
brilliance, L. C. Weekes, paid
£3750 for him after his third
to Sky Charter in March.
Though slow away in the Derby,
he wss allowed to coast behind
his field by driver Wilkins until
asked for his effort in the last
lap. The bookies called 3’s.
Westralian Marine Dealer
firmed to 6-to-4 favorite in the
Derby. He broke in the straight
the first time, was pushed fast
through the ruck again, only to
meet further trouble and cut up
badly at the finish. Mighty
Warrior ran a game second,
which stamps him a good colt.
McKay’s other charge, Explicit,
faded on her run and finished
seventh. Pacemaker Frisco Sky
set the false pace responsible for
the slow 3.19 f, but hung on well
for third money. A promising
pacer, Sky Charter was a solid
fourth, and the #bush” horse,
Fettle, is an improver.
The brown in the outsize
hopples, Bruce Hall, was back to
his best at Harold Park. He
convincingly won the Flying
Mile in 2.61 from Brucus and
Blue Gamble. The field in-
cluded class pacers Recovered,
Kissing Cup, Young Wexford
and Andi. Notorious for the
gigs he has smashed, Bruce Hall
now does his preliminary with
his tail tied to the shaft. Driver
Hall sets his tail free at the mark.
He found his 24yds. no pro-
hibition and, moving fast from
the jump, went all the way in the
style that has won him many
races.
Getting over the toughest
hurdle—the Qualifying Stakes—
in a 2-10 gait, Historic Crown
made the Simpson Stakes his
second in two weeks in Mel-
bourne. Though not rated one
of this year’s best three-year-
olds this colt is more than hold-
ing his own with the older
horses. When he returned his
2-10 rate two weeks ago it was
the fastest of the night On
Saturday he won by 15yds.
+ +
Some dignified person in the
Victorian Football Association
suggested that players should be
taught to speak properly and
more courteously to each other.
It must have affected the heroes
of the Victorian Football League,
for when traditional rivals
Footscray and Essendon met
they were so busy being polite
to each other, or something, that
they got only six goals between
them; ’Scray 4.12, Essendon,
2.11. It dropped the Dons to
low down in “the four,” just
ahead of the up i -and-coming
Hawthorn, who downed the
mighty Collingwood Magpies by
12.12 to 12.3, and Geelong, who
got anelluva-shock from the
despised Fitzroy, just holding
’Roy out by 11.17 to 10.13. Mel-
bourne out-booted North, 10.14-
9.7, and remain undefeated, while
Carlton galloped all over St.
Kilda for 15.9 to 7.22, and Rich-
mond Tigers, having got a new
set of teeth after being de-
toothed by Geelong, tore “good
old Sowth” to pieces for 15.20-
7.10, Richmond’s Poulter boot-
ing six goals.
• • • *
“C.S.”: Poor old “K.R.” (B.
4/5/’55) must be getting on if
colors confuse him in Melbourne
football. There thi teams are
clearly distinguished—one side
in black shorts, the other in
white.
* * *
The annual North and South
of the Harbor game (players
picked from clubs on both sides)
is the first big game of the
Rugby Union season in Sydney
and, as such, is a pointer to
international teams. This year
the Australian team goes to New
Zealand in July. Played at North
Sydney, South won by 19 to 14.
Soon after half-time South
seemed to be wilting, dropping
an 8-3 lead, and then trailing
14-8. But South forwards, ably
led by Mac Hughes, closed up
play in the later stages.
• • • •
Combined Country beat New-
castle 14-9 in the early R.U.
game at North Sydney, despite
a brilliant game by Newcastle
and international half Cyril
Burke.
9 * •
“A.L.D.”: This year looks
like being* a successful one for
Soccer football in N.S.W., with
visits from two international
sides —South Africa and Sweden.
In 1948 a dozen teams competed
in the N.S.W. Football Associa-
tion’s Inter-City Competition ;
this year 24 clubs are playing for
the State premiership. The
number of teams in the associa-
tion is 44. Crowds are growing
in number. The code has been
gaining in Sydney schools, where
the number of players has
quadrupled since 1950, and this
year nine high schools will play
a Soccer competition.
* * *
“Sam”: The third Test be-
tween West Indies and Aus-
tralia at Georgetown (British
Guiana) was notable for one
thing. For the first time in the
history of Test cricket two
Chinese umpires Officiated—Lee
Kow, of Trinidad, and Wing
Gilette, of British Guiana.
* * •
One of the most exciting ring
contests seen in Sydney for some
time happened at Leichhardt
Stadium when Bruce Blake (9.9)
and Max Simpson (9.3|) met.
Blake, a southpaw, hailed as the
Riverina lightweight champion,
won the first six rounds by a
wide margin of points, but
Simpson fought fiercely in the
final rounds, and referee Jack
Burns’s draw decision was
unanimously endorsed by the
handful of spectators.'


Pump-cars and Push-and-pulls
Vigorous
Vehicles
By LES SUCH
SINCE Stevenson’s Rocket
an amazing variety of
vehicles have run on train-
lines—but none so weird
and clumsy, yet economic and
efficient, as the hand-powered
pump-cars and push-and-pulls
or the various contraptions on
three or four wheels driven by
small petrol-engines.
Take, first of all, the pump-
car. Some city-dwellers may
never have set eyes on one,
though most have at least
noticed them on the movies at
some time or other.
The pump-car is that square
piece of decking mounted on
four wheels with a triangular
arrangement sticking up in the
middle, supporting a beam
running fore and aft with a
crosspiece on each end. A crowd
of fettlers or others stand on
the thing in a bunch, all at least
putting a finger on the cross-
bars and helping to pump tne
beam, which, by a system of
rods, cogs and cams, drives the
pump-car merrily along the steel
track.
When these chaps don’t want
the pump-car for a while —that
is, if they’ve reached their
destination, or seen a train
coming—they hop down and
carry the thing bodily off the
line.
That’s the, pump-car. I don’t
know who invented it, but, apart
from a bit of grease, it costs
nothing to run, wear-and-tear is
negligible, and eight strong
arms can belt it along at 40 miles
an hour on the level track. It’s
quite safe to travel on, provided
the ganger has his foot near the
brake and keeps his eyes skinned
for stray cows or trains, and
provided you’re sober enough to
hang on round the bends.
I’ve known many men to fall
off pump-cars. One dark night,
on the way back to camp with
a telegraph-gang after a longer
than usual session at the pub,
we encountered a train coming
full-speed out of a cutting
towards us. We had no light,
and in any case no business on
the line at that late hour. There
was no time to do anything
about it but jump. So eight
of us hit the burrs on each side
of the line simultaneously.
The pump-car was smashed
to smithereens, and I don’t think
the engine-driver knew he’d hit
anything.
Another night at this particu-
lar period, Nugget, the strong
man of the gang, who was a
temperate drinker, became
impatient of the “ones for the
road” and sneaked off to where
the pumper was parked at the
level-crossing. Single-handed he
got it on to the track (no mean
feat), pumped it seven miles
back to camp, then heaved it
off the line and let it roll down
the embankment.
We walked home.
Pump-cars can be used for
freight. or passengers. We
carried tools and crossbars and
even telegraph-poles on ours,
and on gala occasions picked up
ladies and gave them a speedy,
if uncomfortable, lift into town.
Just as familiar on the
railway-line is the fettler’s-
trike —a contraption as unwieldy,
but as practical, as a motor-
bike-and-sidecar or a cata-
maran. These are push-and-
pulls ; that is to say, the .motive-
power is the same, except that
you pump fore-and-aft instead
of up-and-down. This is a one-
man vehicle, and sometimes is
powered by a small petrol-motor
which putt-putts you along at
quite a reasonable bat. Though
made for one, it can take a
passenger riding pillion and
quite a comprehensive kit of
heavy tools. It’s so manoeuvrable
that you can heave it off the
line, turn it around and shoot
off in the reverse direction in
the wink of an eye. „
The funniest ones I ever saw
were in a cane-district in North
Queensland where it never
stopped raining and there were
no roads to speak of. The
necessity engendered by these
conditions ' mothered many
inventions (these contrivances,
of course, were not used on the
general railway-line, but on the
narrow line which took the cane
to the mill).
For £2O you could buy a small
four-wheeled, four-seater push-
and-pull which one man could
handle easily, but which at a
pinch carried eight.
To see Mr. and Mrs. Cane-
cocky with the kids on the way
to town sitting up like Jacky on
one of these little pumpers not
much bigger than a kid’s toy
was something indeed.
So was the spectacle of a
couple of elevated cane-cutters,
primed to prodigious effort,
racing back from the pub with
a loco, right on their tail —
bashing past points and through
cuttings, the loco, belching
smoke and with whistle scream-
ing, and the cutters howling
defiance.
Many a cockie made his own
rail-motor* with a bogie and a
motorbike-engine, and rode in
state through the rain to town
while cars were being dug out
of mud over the axles.
If you got injured in the cane-
paddock it was wise to go in to
the doctor on one of these con-
traptions, because the ambu-
lance might take a couple of
days to reach you by road. But
they were terrifying to ride in,'
for, without exception, there
was never a device to save you
from falling off when you
whizzed down a grade through
a cutting and suddenly careered
out on to a transom bridge 50ft.
above a river.
At night you’d strain your
eyes through the gloom expect-
ing every minute to bash into
a loco, or some
other obstacle. It
was useless strain-
ing your ears,
because of the
roar of the wheels
and cogs, or, if
you had power,
the splutter of the
engine.
So scarce was
efficient transport
in that wet district
that it was wise
for owners of
these vehicles to
carry, like some
pushbike - owners,
a strong chain
and padlock to
discourage
pumper - thieves,
who would prowl
along the line in
the mill-yards in
the hope of find-
ing a small
conveyance
parked in the
burrs to carry them back to the
cane-camp.
Finally, as the most original
of all these contraptions the
one made by a rugged individual-
ist, who built an outrigger on
to a pushbike without tyres,
might be nominated.
Was it any good? No.
“J.P.C.”: These push-and-
pull contraptions of the railway-
repairers have their moments.
Mike and Splinter laboriously
worked the crossbar of theirs,
with only 100 yds. to go to top
the steep grade. They were
heading for home and very
thirsty.
Suddenly Mike stopped and
pointed to the billow of smoke
ahead. “Struth, mus’ be a
special on the line!” he yelled.
But Mike had forgotten to
fix the brake. The trolley
gathered speed back down the
grade; with the crossbar
whizzing to and fro like a
thrashing-machine.
Mike made a grab at the
crossbar. He got it all right,
but it dragged him out of his
seat and spreadeagled him on
the side of the line.
Splinter hung on and rode her
to the finish.
As the special came over the
rise .the driver slammed on the
brakes. “Are you jake?” he
asked anxiously.
Mike eyed him sourly. “Yair,
I’m orright, but there’s a trike
an’ an argument down th’
bottom of th’ hill. Jus’ turn the
trike off the line. Tell the
argument t’ start walkin’, an
I’ll meet ’im arf way with a
couple of bottles.”
The special steamed on.
Mike headed for the pub.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
How Russia
hopes to win
the Olympics
Russia has already grabbed
world titles by the fistful.
Now it’s consoripting athletes,
giving life pensions to champs
and vowing it will beat all-
comers, sweep the ’56 Olym-
pics in Melbourne. Read in
May Reader’s Digest Russia’s
plans for showing the world
it’s a nation of supermen.
Dozens of other stimulating
articles in May Reader’s
Digest, including “The facts
about your weight,” “How to
get along with others,” plus a
21-page book condensation of
“Madami My 8 Years With
Congo Pygmies.” On sale now
1/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
keiv mom saw
SANDERS
(^FILES
Correspondence. I o *ol c • ».
statement*. etc.. Gled In the
"Sanders'" can be securely
bound and converted a
perleci book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period. -
Jackson & o’Suu.ivan Pty. to
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents — . ~
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Lta.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd-
PERTH .. . .Docket Book Co. (Aust.j
r •. ..
price*
Cher nl»rtil«*«
»pon Mptmti*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A-BOMB EFFECTS
Of all the terrifying imponder-
ables of nuclear weapons, one of
the worst —and one that has been
receiving a good deal of publicity
—is the possible effect on future
generations whose parents were
exposed to radiation.
Quoting “the man who knows
most about the effect of radia-
tion on human beings,” “U.S.
News and World Report” lists
the following findings:
“Children of Japanese
survivors of atomic bombs are
normal, healthy, happy. That’s
the verdict based on study of
70,000 babies, including 50,000
born to parents caught in atomic
blasts.
“There is no evidence that
future generations of A-bomb
survivors will produce deformed
or retarded children.
“Among 31,000 survivors of
the A-bomb at Hiroshima who
were exposed to the heaviest
doses of radiation, only 44 have
shown up with leukaemia, or
cancer of the blood. This is a
higher rate of leukaemia than
among non-exposed people.
But there hasn’t been a great
increase in cancer of all kinds,
such as many scientists feared
might accompany radiation
exposure.
“Of 4400 children hit by
heavy radiation in the Hiroshima
blast of nearly 10 years ago, only
29 now show any sign of injury
other than well-healed scars from
blast-damage or burns.”
“The man who knows most”
is Dr. Robert N. Holmes,
director of the U.S. Atomic
Bomb Casualty Commission,
physicians and scientists of which
have been making an intensive
study for the U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission of radiation effects
among survivors of Nagasaki
and Hiroshima. They report
“only facts; no theories or
guesses.”
Of the 31,000 survivors
studied, only 6000 showed
symptoms of radiation effects.
On what has actually developed
over the years, in these people
and their children, Dr. Holmes
says:
“Examinations have revealed
that more of the persons exposed
to heavy irradiation have
developed leukaemia. The rate
was 16 times higher among those
within the mile-and-a-quarter
radius. Although this rate may
seem quite high, it actually
involves only 44 persons in
Hiroshima within this distance
[of the bomb-blast].
“Most cataracts also have
occurred in those persons heavily
exposed. For the most part, these
have been minor cataracts and
have not interfered with vision.
About 41 per cent, of those
persons studied within the mile-
and-a-quarter radius showed
small spots in the lens of their
eyes. By way of comparison,
only about 8 per cent, of a non-
exposed group showed a similar
defect. There have been no cases
of established blindness related to
the A-bomb.
“Now, what about the effect
of radiation upon future genera-
tions? I know there has been
considerable discussion of this
subject.
“Let us begin with mothers
who were carrying unborn
children at the timg of the
explosion. In Hiroshima, there
were 185 such mothers who
survived within the mile-and-a-
quarter radius. Of all the
children bom of such mothers,
there were only eight that showed
a significant defect which could
be attributed to radiation.
“We have noted in a study
including 70,000 babies that there
has been a slight reduction in
the number of male births. This
finding, however, may be related
to other environmental factors.
“Some infertility was observed
in individuals immediately fol-
lowing heavy exposure. But
as their general health returned,
these cases recovered.
“As for an increase in mal-
formations among * the future
generations of A-bomb survivors,
I must frankly state that we have
no evidence that this will occur.
The families that we have seen
have given no indication. The
offspring of the exposed genera-
tion up to now appear to be
normal, healthy and happy.
What the future will show is a
problem for further investigation.
“It is just as important to
establish negative as positive
findings. Our studies are con-
tinuing. Significant leads have
been obtained from Dr. Jacob
Furth and others at Oak Ridge
who exposed a large population
of mice to radiation and fol-
lowed them until their natural
death.
“There was an increase of
leukemia and cataracts among
these mice, just as we have
observed among the A-bomb
survivors. The mice also showed
a significant shortening of their
life-span and an increase in
cancer.
“These questions, of course,
are before us. Will there be a
shortening of the life-span among
the people of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki? Will there be an
increase in the number .of
tumors? We do not know.
Ten years have not been long
enough, and only the passage of
time can reveal these secrets.”
Regarding the unknown
factors, London “Economist”
notes that the “chorus of public
disquiet and scientific doubt has
been growing louder”:
“Scientists at the University
of Chicago, at Brandeis Uni-
versity and in California have
issued warnings that present pre-
cautions against radiation are
based on insufficient knowledge,
and that ‘disease, malformation
and mental disability’ might be
the fruit of unchecked nuclear
explosions. *
“At the same time, the [U.S.]
Defence Department grudgingly
admitted that past tests in the
Nevada desert had caused injuries
to at least four men. Sheep-
farmers in Utah, moreover, have
filed claims against the Govern-
ment for the death of animals
allegedly exposed to passing
atomic clouds, and there have
been rather disturbing variations
in recent statistics for leukaemia
in human beings.
“In view of these develop-
ments, the A.E.C. had to agree
to co-operate fully with a pro-
jected study of the effects of
radiation to be undertaken by the
National Academy of Sciences.
This is the most powerful and
respected scientific body in the
United States, and is far above
political suspicion. Dr. Bronk,
president of the academy, has
stated frankly that biologists and
geneticists are in frequent dis-
agreement on the subject of
radiation, and that far too little
is knbwn about atomic fallout
to justify any complacency about
the explosions that have been
taking place since 1945 in various
parts of the world.
“Meanwhile, the latest series
of tests in Nevada is continu-
ing, and is now being watched by
Sir William Penny and a group
of British and Canadian scientists.
Among the weapons detonated
have been a fantastic atomic
missile fired from a plane and
exploding six miles above the
earth, and several small ‘trigger’
devices. It is against a back-
ground of multicolored flashes
in the western sky, and of a trip
to America for plastic surgery of
20 disfigured ‘Hiroshima
maidens,’ that the scientists must
decide vtfiether the nuclear arms-
race or the potential genetic
threat takes first priority.”
U.S.A. and Japan
When U.S. Secretary of State
Dulles asked the Japanese
Foreign Minister to postpone his
proposed visit to Washington
until a preliminary understand-
ing had been reached, the poli-
tical Opposition in Japan tried
to make capital out of the
request by treating it as an
American rebuff to their country.
“It is nothing of the kind,”
comments “New York Times.”
“The large amount of aid
extended to Japan since the war,
the mutual-defence treaty signed
with Japan as part of the Pacific
security-system and Secretary
Dulles’s own repeated assurances
are proof that the United States
values Japan as an important
partner in the defence against
Communist aggression in Asia.”
The paper adds, however, that
the fact that a postponement was
considered necessary does
indicate that “differences of some
importance have in fact arisen
between the United States and
Japan” differences resulting
mainly from “the multifaceted
policy propagated by the
Hatoyama - Shigemitsu alliance
against former Premier Yoshida’s
Liberals.”
Some of the many facets of the
new Japanese Government’s
policy are:
“To * the Nationalists it
promises a more ‘independent’
foreign policy; to the pro-
American Liberals it pledges a
‘dynamic working partnership’
with the United States, of which
Mr. Shigemitsu’s visit was to be
a symbol; to the Leftists it
promises a political rapproche-
ment with the Communist world,
and to the business circles an
expanding trade with that world ;
to patriots concerned with
Japan’s safety it holds out the
prospect of a revision of the anti-
armament clause of the Con-
stitution and a six-year rearma-
ment programme ; finally, to the
nation at large it promises a cut
in taxes and increased social
benefits and housing.
“Added to all this are further
pledges to seek a return of the
Kuriles and southern Sakhalin
from Soviet Russia, and of the
Ryukyu and Bonin Islands from
the United States.”
That programme, as the “N. Y.
Times” notes, seems to be too
ambitious to be realised at once,
and, because of that, it raises
“some vital questions for the
United States”:
“One is the question of
emphasis and priority in Japan’s
relations with the United States
and the Communist Powers.
Another deals with Japan’s con-
tribution to its own defence, now
borne largely by the United
States.
“This country [the U.S.] has
already promised to contribute
up to one-half of the cost of
Japan’s armament expansion,
and to reduce Japan’s contribu-
tion to American military
expenses in Japan as Japan
increases its own armament pro-
gramme. But the Hatoyama
Government wants the United
New York “Herald Tribune”
HOW WILL THEY HANDLE THIS ONE?
States not only to finance all the
armament expansion, but also
to reduce Japan’s contribution
to our own military expenditures
in Japan for the benefit of the
Government’s social-welfare pro-
gramme. Even then the Govern-
ment feels able to promise only
a very ‘modest’ armament expan-
sion which seems inadequate to
the situation.
“These are obviously ques-
tions which must be clarified in
order to make a Japanese top-
level visit to Washington a
success and to avert a failure
which would be worse than no
visit at all.”
Europe in Good Fettle
The sixth report of the
Organisation for European
Economic Co-operation finds the
western part of the Continent in
good financial shape, and no one
could gainsay that Uncle Sam’s
financial contribution has had
a lot to do with it.
Since 1948 Europe has had
about $35,000 million from the
U.S. for economic and military
aid under the Marshall Plan and
its successors. Some U.S. critics
of this aid have described the
$20,000 million of it which went
to economic aid as “money down
the drain,” but “New York
Times” considers that “the drain,
if such it was, emptied into
fertile soil”:
“During the period covered by
our enormous gifts and loans,
production, trade and standards
of living inside Western Europe
have greatly increased. For the
17 members of the O.E.E.C. the
increase in trade among them-
selves since 1948 has been 128
per cent., and the figure thus
reached was 69 per cent, above
that of the last whole pre-war
year, 1938.
“Since 1948 imports from the
outside world into the O.E.E.C.
area, measured in volume, have
gone up by 24 per cent., but
exports have gone up by 83
per cent. Consumption per capita
in the O.E.E.C. countries, again
measured in volume, regained
the 1938 level in 1950 and now is
about 12 per cent, above the 1938
figure.
“One could go on playing with
figures, but the essential fact is
that Western Europe has
recovered rapidly since the first
Marshall Plan dollars began to
pour in, and that the threat of
a Communist revolution in Ifaly
and France, the great danger
points, has disappeared.
“On the basis of today’s show-
ing civilisation in Western
Europe has been saved and some
surplus has been accumulated to
be used if necessary in defence
against attack. It is too bad that
any money at all has to be spent
on military equipment and any
labor has to be devoted to
soldiering, but since defence is
necessary it is a healthy symptom,
that some surplus for this
emergency can be found.”
Also commenting on the
O.E.E.C. report, London
“Economist” adds that “the
most striking thing about the
report, and the most refreshing,
is its ebullience”:
“Although the hard facts of
the progress reported are impres-
sive, it is the tone of voice in
which successes are described
and the fact that short-falls are
simply admitted without pages
of apology, that gives this report
its remarkable air of confidence
and well-being.
“Looking backwards, the
O.E.E.C. finds that the ambitious
targets drawn up in 1948 for


AN EXCAVATING TASK FORCE
M
m
im
M
n
i
< H
'
•X '- : <:•••:
.
The Nuffield
Universal Tractor
shown excavating
with a front-mounted
loader, hydraulically
operated from the
internal hydraulics.
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR t
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
> '• ' *
The Nuffield Universal is a thoroughly
efficient, reliable and easy-to-handle tractor.
It is a Task Force in itself and, combined
with the comprehensive range of "approved-
after-test” matched implements, speeds up
your work . . . makes it easier.
DO YOU KNOW THESE MONEY-SAVING FACTS?
The Nuffield Universal Tractor (kerosene-
powered), equipped with 13.50 x 24 rear
and 6.00 x 16 front tyres, sells at only
£l,ol s'lB'-
F.0.R., F. 0.8. Capital Cities.
(Plus Sales Tax only where applicable.)
At this price your Nuffield tractor is ready to go
to work, and includes the following equipment!
Hydraulic lift, 3-point linkage and power take-off,
belt pulley, drawbar, drawbar extension, seat
cushion, canvas tractor cover, electric starter,
electric horn, headlight, agricultural rear light,
tail light, side lights, heat gauge, hour meter, foot
plates, chaff screens and radiator shutters,
ZZ2S
s BMC
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
T.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
NT29.32
accomplishment by 1952-53 were
met, and sometimes exceeded, in
1953. As compared with the
pre-war year 1938, the volume
of Western Europe’s exports
increased some 70 per cent,
between 1938 and 1954, while the
rise in imports was held to 12
per cent. Industrial production
increased by more than 50 per
cent., agricultural production
by about 30 per cent. The
increase in intra-European trade
was particularly striking; in
1953 it was half again as large
as in 1938, and in 1954 it
increased by another 10 per cent.
“Reviewing in more detail the
record of the last two years, the
report contrasts the strong expan-
sion in production in 1953 and
1954 with the stagnation of 1952.
In 1953 industrial production in
member-countries increased by
5 per cent., and is provisionally
estimated to have risen another
8 per cent, in 1954 ; the real gross
national product is estimated to
have risen by 5 per cent, in each
year.
“The O.E.E.C. countries hope
that these trends will continue,
but they are not blind to the
problems ahead. The report
points out that there is much less
slack in the European economy
than there was at the beginning
of 1953, and shortages of both
productive-capacity and trained
manpower are developing in
those branches of production
where demand is strong.
“For the long run, the need
to improve productivity in both
agriculture and industry is
heavily underlined: ‘ln the
1930’s the great common
problem was unemployment, and
in the post-war years it was re-
construction ; today, however,
the problem of raising produc-
tivity has pre-eminence.’ Any
possible smugness at the fact
that productivity in Western
Europe is now 15-20 per cent,
above pre-war. is punctured by
contrasting this change with the
rate of change in the United
States (about double the
European rate) and by illuminat-
ing descriptions of some of the
reasons for the difference.”
Nato's Six Years
The North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation has just passed its
sixth year ; reviewing its record,
the Denver (U.S.) “Post” notes:
“Six years ago the United
States, Canada and 10 Western
European nations signed a North
Atlantic Defence Pact agreeing
that ‘an attack against one or
more of them shall be considered
an attack against all.’ It was a
bold step, in those days, for the
countries of Nato had little in
the way of military power, and
nothing of integration of their
few forces.
“In its struggling, formative
years, Nato existed mostly on
paper—promises to contribute
forces that never seemed to
materialise. But the mere idea
of Nato, while it infuriated the
Soviets and they never ceased
trying to frustrate it, did dis-
courage any more Russian forays
to take over the West piecemeal.
“Nato grew. In 1950 the
treaty - members requested
General Eisenhower to take over
as commander. From head-
quarters near Versailles, he
‘tackled with inspired faith and
courage what many thought to be
an impossible task.’
“Now, four years later, Nato
has four times the strength it had
then, including Greek and
Turkish forces who joined in
1952. It had, and still has, its
headaches. Should the U.S.S.R.
attack now, Nato might not
prevent Western Europe from
being overrun, but it would not
be so easy for the Reds. With
the prospect of 12 German
divisions being added in the j
next three or four years, and with
our [U.S.] superiority in atomic
weapons, x we should soon have
an effective defence established
in Europe.
“ Already .we [the U.S.] have
129 operating airfields in the
Nato area, with 31 more to be
added this year. This doesn’t
include British national fields,
nor those we have built in Spain
and North Africa.
“Nato’s worst problems seem
to have been solved. It has
much yet to accomplish,
numerous inadequacies and
frictions to overcome. But the
Reds have their troubles and
weaknesses, too. Give Nato
another six years and its members
should be able to breathe much
easier than they did back in
those appalling days when the
alliance was conceived, not
without some sense of
desperation.”
Arming Germany
The shape of the new German
Army, as outlined by “U.S.
News and World Report”:
“Ten years of debate about
the wisdom of arming the Ger-
mans is over. Even the French
have accepted the idea. The
job now is to build the kind of
German Army which will help
to defend Europe, not try to
conquer Europe.
“No ‘crash’ programme to
arm Germans in a hurry is con-
templated. It will take four
years, at least, before a German
Army is ready. Germany is to
be taken out of the post-war
limbo of defeat and occupation
by May or June. By that time
the last formalities of ratifica-
tion and the formal deposit of
signed agreements are to b,e
completed. The North Atlantic
Treaty and the Western Euro-
pean Union Treaty are to be
amended to permit entry of a
sovereign West Germany into
both alliances. No hitch is
expected.
“The first phase of creating a
German Army involves the
passage of laws for the creation
of armed forces in a country
which has had none for 10 years.
Reoruiting offices must be set
up. Volunteers must be
screened. All that will take at
least six months.
“The next phase will begin, at
the earliest, in November, when
the first volunteers are taken
into the armed forces. These
will be the professionals, the
skeleton force of men who want
to make a career of soldiering.
There will be 150,000 of them,
and it is to take at least 18
months to get them ready.
“The last phase involves the
whole procedure of taking in
conscripts, the civilians liable for
18 months of military service.
In this phase, too, comes the
complex business of integrating
the German units with the forces
of other countries now under
Nato command in Europe.
“U.S., British and French
troops now in Germany will
stay there. But the status of
these troops is changed. They
will no longer be ‘occupation’
troops, nor will the Germans be
billed for their maintenance.
They will, instead, be the troops
of Powers allied with Germany
who, with the Germans, are
assisting in the defence of all
Europe.
“The new German Army will
be built to operate in an era of
atomic warfare. The Germans
will not be permitted to make
atomic weapons of their own,
but their armed forces will be
organised around the atomic
weapons which the U.S. will
make available to Nato forces
in the event of a Soviet Russian
attack on Western Europe.
“The Army as now planned
will total 380,000 men. About
150,000 of these will be organ-
ised into 12 combat divisions,
all to be placed under the
Supreme Commander of Nato
forces in Europfe, General
Gruenther.
“The German divisions will
include four armored and two
fully mechanised units. All 12
will carry the most modern
arms, but will get no atomic,
bacteriological or chemical
weapons or guided-missiles
unless a two-thirds majority of
the civilian leaders of their
European allies agree to it.
“Troops not assigned to Nato
—about 230,000 in all —will
include at least two-thirds of the
150,000 professional troops, the
volunteers. Their major job
will include the basic training of
conscripts who are to be called
up at the rate of about 60,000
every six months.
“The German conscript will
get 18 months’ training. Basic
training will take a year. After
that the German civilian will
get six months of service with
one of the combat divisions.
Then he goes back home, but he
is subject to Army call until he
is 45 years old.
“The Air Force will be tacti-
cal, designed to operate with
troops. Long-range strategic
bombers are barred for the
Germans. But the German Air
Force of 85,000 men will have
eight wings of fighters, six wings
of fighter-bombers, two all-
weather wings, two reconnais-
sance and two transport—l3oo
planes in all.
“The Navy will be small and
designed largely for coast-
defence in the Baltic Sea. Some
20,000 men will operate fast
torpedo - boats, anti - submarine
fighters, minesweepers and,
possibly, submarines of limited
range.
The command - structure of
these German forces, under
present planning, is a complex
system of checks and balances.
German and Allied experts
agree that this question is likely
to give trouble.
“A German General Staff will
be revived. It may be headed
by General Ludwig Cruewell,
who succeeded General Erwin
Rommel in command of the
World War II Afrika Corps, but
was ousted by Hitler. Army
Chief-of-Staff. may be .General
Adolf Heusinger, also ousted
from a war-time staff-post as
anti-Nazi.
“Present plans call for this
General Staff, in command of
the new German Army, Navy
and Air Force, to report directly
to a Defence Commissioner,
currently a tough former trade-
union official, Theodore Blank.
“All combat-units in the Ger-
man armed forces are to be
under Nato command. Some
German divisions will be in U.S.
and British Army corps. Others
may be in all-German corps.
Most will be under the Com-
mander-in-Chief, Allied Forces,
Central Front. He is a French-
man, Marshal Alphonse P. Juin,
who takes orders from General
Gruenther.
“From the top command
down to the training of the
lowliest conscript the plans for
re-arming Germany are designed
to play-down militarism, play-up
democracy.
“The goose-step —the stiff-
legged drill-step taught to Ger-
man troops under the Empire
and the Nazi regime—is offici-
ally banned. Uniforms are to
be olive-drab, U.S. style, not the
familiar German fi6ld-grey.
Many democratic procedures,
common in the U.S. Army, but
new to Germany, are to be
tried.
“Most German officers are
opposed to such reforms. In
the West German Frontier
Guard some units were found to
be ‘goose-stepping’ on their own,
anyhow. Only experience will
show whether the new reforms
will survive.”
Various Voices
Nehru {on Indian neutrality ) :
“Our duty is to set our house
in order and improve conditions
of the people. The real
strength of a nation is its
economic power. We must
step-up production. We must
eradicate poverty and hunger.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., .
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my ’ cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, ’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS .
fg
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Divorce Notice
IK THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JOHN FOSTER late of
71 Glebe Road Glebe—TAKE NOTICE
that MAVIS FOSTER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4513 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
12th July 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MR. W. T.
MORCK, Solicitor, >of ' 107 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
WOULD any next-of-kin of ANINE
THEODORE (also known as THEODORA)
HANSEN, {nee TALLACKSON), born in
Grimstadt, Norway, and widow of GAB-
RIEL ENERVAL HANSEN, formerly of
Stavanger, Norway, later of Melbourne,
Victoria, and Goomalling, Western Aus-
tralia, please communicate with the
undersigned.—JACKSON McDONALD,
CONNOR & AMBROSE, Solicitors, 55 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia ?
WILL any person knowing the where-
abouts of EDWARD KAVANAGH (age
72 years), formerly of Wirrabara, last
heard of at Grafton, New South Wales, in
1921, please communicate with the under-
signed.—FAßMEßS’ CO - OPERATIVE
EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES LIMITED,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide? S.A.
’ALMER.—GEORGE PALMER, a son of
lAROLD FREDERICK PALMER, de-
eased, late of 22 Gibdon Street, Burnley,
Victoria, or any person having knowledge
■r his present address, is requested
ommunicate with the PUBLIC TRI
’EE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Lord Lindsay of Birker's Views
On Chinese Communism
By M. H. ELLIS
LORD LINDSAY OF
BIRKER has practically
every qualification for
writing such a book as
his China and the Cold War
(Melbourne University Press),
and wherever he feels that
his qualifications fall short
he says so explicitly. He
understands historical method,
and—what is rare—he under-
stands the basic principles of
Communism and Communist
philosophy.
Few writers can expound
Marxism-Leninism with a full
comprehension of what is
implied in the Leninist inter-
pretatipn of dialectical-
materialism. Lord Lindsay’s
experience in Communism is
the ideal one to fit him for his
task. He speaks Chinese and
was in China to see Communism
come into being there. He is
impartial, and his findings are,
in nature, judicial. 1
These findings are sometimes
expressed, when he deals with
the scientific and philosophical
side of Communism, in terms
of lengthy exactitude which
may not be for the general
reader; they are for the
teacher and publicist; and, read
side by side with the Commun-
ists’ own interpretations, they
provide a satisfactory elucida-
tion of basic viewpoints and
make a notable contribution to
Western thinking about the
problems of Chinese Commun-
ism in particular, and about the
mode and detail in which it
differs from the Communism
of Russia. -
Russian Communism is the
hard-core materialistic Com-
munism of the Slav, crassly
dogmatic, on to which has been
grafted the impelling urge of
the Tartar horde to attain
security by moving west. In
terms of the Russian outlook,
the old joke about the fact that
the Russian word “mir” means
both “peace” and “the world”
probably has a large amount of
truth in it without having a
.conscious intention behind it.
Lord Lindsay’s analysis of the
Chinese position takes the think-
ing on the matter into the
dissecting - room in useful
fashion, but is so detailed and
closely argued that it is
impossible to state his viewpoints
on the philosophical and what
might be called the “religious”
aspects of the Communist creed
in a short review, stimulating as
some of them are.
The author had his first con-
tacts with Chinese Communism
before and in the period of
Chungking, when, as a British
publicist, he came into touch
with them while seeking to
improve Sino-British relations,
He says that in the period
1938-45 the record of the Com-
munist party was one which
could command general approval
from an independent judgment,
The Chinese were “doing a very
remarkable job 'in resisting
Japanese militarism under con-
ditions of extreme difficulty.’’
Judging from areas in which
he was able to make direct
observations, the first Commun-
ists were very successful in
carrying out a programme of
economic, social and political
reforms. While these reforms —
such as those of certain land-
laws—were universally admitted
to be necessary and were intro-
duced in parallel both by the
Communists in their region and
the Kuomintang in theirs, the
difference between the two was
that the Communists enforced
their regulations while the
Kuomintang did not.
Admittedly (Loj-d Lindsay
writes), there was a strong
element of “political tutelage’’
in the system, , but this was
almost inevitable in a country
where the masses had no politi-
cal experience and were largely
illiterate. At that time the
elements of democracy seemed
to be stronger than in other
Chinese regimes, and there was
evidence that Communist power
rested .on genuine popular
support.
Even though there were, as
always in such situations,
extreme doctrinaires among the
interpreters of local Communist
theory, “a high proportion of
the leaders seemed to be quite
unlike other Communists in
treating their Marx-Leninism
as a scientific hypothesis and
not as a quasi-religious dogma.”
There seemed to =be among
them a democratic tendency
towards freedom of discussion
and criticism and effective repre-
sentation. And in most disputes
with the Kuomintang they
appeared to be in the right,
while their conduct of the com-
plicated three-sided negotiations
from 1944 to 1946, “seemed to
show greater good-faith than
either the Kuomintang or the
Americans, though they were
often inept in handling their
case.”
The rise of Communism in
China has been due as much to
the defects of its opposition as
to its own momentary intrinsic
merits in its incipient period,
but its judgment in international
affairs, as the author declares,
was “always seriously distorted
by uncritical reverence for the
Soviet Union.” Lord Lindsay,
however, continues:
Since 1946 there seems to have been
a progressive deterioration in the
standards of the Communist party,
and for the last few years the evi-
dence seems to be quite incompatible
with a rational belief in both the
good faith and the good sense of the
Chinese Communist leaders. The
proclaimed objectives of peace and
international goodwill are accom-
panied by policies which simply do
not make sense as methods to obtain
these objectives. Claims of enthusias-
tic and almost universal popular
support for the new regime are
accompanied by policies which only
make sense as measures to enable an
oppressive and unpopular Govern-
ment to retain its power. And the
distinctive features of Chinese Com-
munist administration seem to be
giving Way to an imitation of Soviet
practice. Instead of basing policies
on empirical, operational standards
of what the masses really want, the
Chinese Communist Party now seems
more inclined to base its policy on
what Stalinist theory says the masses
ought to want.
He states two alternative
hypotheses to explain the evi-
dence : one, that though the
Chinese leaders are acting ration-
ally, they are not sincere in say-
ing that they want peace and
are eager to promote the well-
being of the Chinese people, but
are only making such claims as
cover for some quite different
objective, such as the extension
and consolidation of their
power; the other, that the
leaders are sincere in their state-
ment of objectives, but operate
in a psychopathic state of
emotional and intellectual con-
fusion which makes them incap-
able of acting rationally to
attain these objectives.
He inclines, from his personal
experience, to the belief that
the second hypothesis is the
nearer to the truth.
The effects, however, promise
to be no less dire and the pros-
pects no less unpleasing because
of this. The dangers, he holds,
are accentuated by the one-
sidedness of the ethical view-
point of British and American
publicists who are apt to apply
their experience of Russian
Communism to the Chinese Red
and who fail to understand the
Chinese people’s need for drastic
reform. But, as he remarks, it
is “no defence of the present
Chinese policy to show that it
has been no worse than the less
defensible aspects of British or
American policy.”
Lord Lindsay considers the
chance of a settlement between
the East, as represented by
China, and the West, as repre-
sented by the English-speaking
Powers, is probably lessened by
several factors, one of which —
helped by Russian propaganda—
is, he believes, a genuine fear
of American policy.
A greater factor, however,
crops up insistently in his
analysis—that it is difficult for
the negotiators of East and
West, striving for rapproche-
ment, to meet each other on
common ground, to approach
the problems involved from the
viewpoints of a common system
of ethics and logic, and, there-
fore, a common understanding
of what constitutes good-faith.
Chinese logic and European
logic are two very different
things. There are “two
standards of truth,” and so long
as Communist leaders stick to
the Stalinist definition that
“truth is what we consider to be
in the interests of the masses,”
there is “no way in which any
dispute can be settled except by
other people accepting the Com-
munist view.”
Hence the alarming state of
deadlock in which every negotia-
tion ends —deadlock like that
produced by months of
wrangling to secure the Korean
armistice, at the end of which
“the only point of agreement
really recorded was that neither
side considered it worth while
to go on with the fighting.”
The author’s conclusion, con-
firmed by his last , visit to China
as interpreter to the Attlee dele-
gation, is that the Chinese Com-
munists operate to a large extent
in terms of the world as it
should be according to their
theories and not in terms of the
empirically real world.” But
he sees some prospect of accord,
though he is far from being the
all - too - familiar academic
optimist.
He thinks that Chinese con-
fusion of thinking about the out-
side world makes it uncertain
how far the subjectively-sincere
Chinese desire for better rela-
tions will produce an actual
improvement; but he also thinks
the situation “considerably more
hopeful than at the beginning of
1954,” and acquits the Chinese
of being moved either by the
racial instincts or the wooden
and static dogmas and the
imperialistic longings which
dominate the thought and inten-
tions °f the men of the Kremlin.
He holds that there are “serious
difficulties to be overcome to
produce a situation in which
peaceful coexistence would be
secure,” and that they may be
overcome. He says that the
West will need to show itself
responsive to the Chinese desire
f° r an improvement in relations
-•» is convinced that such a
desire has begun to develop,
But, he writes, it must be made
clear that peaceful coexistence
practical
ca » only be based on practical
actions and not on mere words ;
that Chinese policy cannot act
effectively to secure friendship
and peaceful coexistence “so
long as it continues to maintain
‘double-think’ positions and to
operate in terms of delusions
about the outside . world.”
At the same time, he holds
that it is necessary to an under-
standing of the Chinese situation
to concede the hypothesis that
the Chinese are “doing an
extremely good job in all techni-
cal fields in which Marxist-
Leninist theories are irrelevant:
public-health, building-COnstruc-
tion, transportation, food-distri-
blltion and SO on.” Also, the
interference of Marxist-Leninist
faith with functionally rational
action t O benefit the Chinese
people seemed to him, on his
visit last year, to be less than
he had expected from evidence
obtained outside.
He found the Chinese leaders,
while talking about their deter-
mination to follow the Soviet
dnion, acting in practice with
a great deal more mtelligenc®
and commonsense than the
Russians their Communism,
though undemocratic, superior
to European Communism, and
differing from it in not dogmati-
caUy waging class-war and
making outcasts of members of
the former ruling-class.
He even believes that the
stability and freedom from war-
lord government brought about
by an iron rule has such charms
j “r'hina
mat IJ It 1 seems 11K ®y
he an exception to tne
proposition that no orthodox
Communist Government could
survlve a i ree election.
II a PP earS from L ° rd Lindsa Y
of Birker’s essay that there is at
least a narrow foothold or
common ground on which the
meeting of practical minds
might achieve a modus vivenai
as between China and the West,
Such discussions as appear in
helpful contribu-
an P understanding
Qf both situation and the
nroSDects
B P
THE SHEARER IN WILLIAM-STREET
In William-street by a pawnshop light
I met a lady of the night.
She took my arm and hitched her gown
And said, “Young fellow, let’s do the town!
“We’ll dine- at Prince’s and see a show
And call, maybe, at a club 1 know
“Where there’s champagne fountains and oyster-pies,
Redhot music and two black eyes.
“It’s a step from there to Bondi sand
And if you are kind, you may hold my hand
“While men lay nets and tides creep back
And the green wave marbles the headland rock.
“When we’ve smoked, and laughed and found my
comb,
In a yellow cab I will take you home
“Where you may give me a goodnight kiss; —
But if you loiter, remember this:
“While we lie on a beach or do the toff
It’s all on me and it’s all for love
“For tonight is tonight and it’s my birthday—
But after that, young man, you pay.”
Now I was going some-other-where
So I gave her a wink and left her th£re
Where neons flower against the dark;
And she yawned, “Ah, well, and so to work.”
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


BELtS
*OO% SCOTCH WHISKIES
tt*njLt£o AND BUNDED
* IN SCOTLAND
TiAN p
D| STILLERSra>™SCO
PRODUCT Of X&r,
rut*
Can you detect
a ‘classic ?
One of life’s little joys lies
in making your own dis-
coveries. Quietly finding
the best. Many a man has
been delighted to come
across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. It has a magic
subtlety that only the rare,
the very best whiskies can
achieve. You have only
to open a bottle to appre-
ciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
•
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825. .
Missing Friend
WILL anyone knowing the present where-
abouts of GEORGE WASHINGTON
GUILFOTLE, also MARY GUILFOYLE,
n&e LANE, would they please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne?
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today*B values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
A FAMILY?
by choice, not chance!
SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY
The Viennese scientist, Dr. Knaus, and Dr. Ogino, of Niigata,
have discovered a means of determining with certainty the exact
time of fertility and sterility in the individual woman. Therefore
from now on one can dispense with poisonous chemicals and harmful
appliances—with all contraceptives as being unethical, unreliable
and opposed to religious principles.
A NATURAL METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL
and family planning, easy to follow and absolutely reliable. This
O.K. system enables people to whom children have been denied for
years to calculate accurately the woman’s fertile times and thus
know when conception may be fostered. On the other hand, it
encourages young couples to marry early by enabling them to settle
down properly before assuming the responsibilities of parenthood.
Then when both are fittest, they can fix the date for conception and
the birth of their first child and later, according to circumstances.
THE ELIMINATION OF RISK
In the past, a woman could never be sure; she had to take a big
risk. Now, with the O.K. system she knows with certainty.
CHURCH SANCTIONS NATURAL METHOD
World medical authorities highly recommend it. The “O.K.
MARITAL ADJUSTMENT COURSE” gives complete guidance for
the happy and successful regulation of the marital relationship
in all its aspects. It contains the “WOMAN’S CYCLE CALCULA-
TION,” invented by Dr. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc. Their information
is guaranteed reliable and enables you to plan your family with
certainty.
Price of FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR £3
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, Dept. B.N.l, Box 3584, G.P.O., Sydney
hf
MAIL NOW—DON’T WAIT—AND BE SORRY ———
DR. E. ALEXANDRE, D.Sc.,
Dept. 8.N.1, Box 3584, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
(12 Alan St., North Sydney. Phone XY 6789.)
Please send me, under plain sealed cover:—
Further information re both. I enclose addressed, stamped envelope.
The FULL COURSE with CALCULATOR I enclose £3
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS 8.N.l 11-5-’55
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Outback Occupa-
tions by Charles Shaw. —6055.
To buy copy of “The Newsletter”
(Sydney) for April 15, 1905, contain-
ing article “Early Bulletin Memoirs,”
by John Haynes, one of the two
founders of The Bulletin. —6054.
Photographs of Henry Kendall,
“Banjo” Paterson and Henry Lawson
wanted by Queensland rural school;
about postcard size.—6os6.
Author of the following lines and
in what Australian school are they
inscribed on a World War l
memorial gate:
Pause in your sport, till you have read
This message from the unknown dead:
We bought you children of today
With careless Death the right to play.
Watch! Lest with careless play you buy
Some other army’s right to die.
—6057.
Copies of any poems written by
Jack Sommers, one-time Bulletin
poet.—6o4B.
To buy copy of A Book for Kids
(1921) by C. J. Dennis, republished
in 1935 under the title of
Roundabout. —6o49.
Information Sought
(i) How to restrict pumpkin-plants
without affecting growth of pump-
kins ? (2) How to destroy con-
volvulus ? (5) How best to grow
carrots ?
(1) The plant can be kept within
bounds by nipping back the main
runners after they have grown to a
length of about 2ft. from the base.
This induces lateral growth, and it is
upon these laterals that most of the
female flowers are formed. By hand-
pollinating nearly every female flower
will form fruit, and plenty of medium-
sized fruit will be produced. If
allowed to grow and pollinate natur-
ally, the tendency is for vines to
straggle, and fewer, and perhaps
oversize, fruit will be formed. (2)
Best method to eradicate con-
volvulus is to spray it with 2-4-D.
Several applications may be necessary
to destroy the root-system com-
pletely. (3) There is no trick in
growing carrots. Main point is care-
ful preparation of the seed-bed. The
soil should be dug deeply and raked
to a fine tilth and the seed sown in
moist soil; bed should be mulched
or covered with hessian to protect the
germ'inating seed from heat and to
retain the surface moisture.
* * * *
Some information on the present
wheat-stabilisation plan ?
Following the end of the five-year
stabilisation-plan after the marketing
of the 1952-53 crop, the Wheat
Marketing Act was passed by Federal
Parliament to provide for the orderly
marketing of Australian wheat from
the next three crops; it did not,
provide for stabilisation. (“Orderly
marketing” means one central
authority empowered to market all
Australian wheat to the best advan-
tage within Australia and overseas, to
pool the proceeds, and pay growers
on the basis of net bushel pool
return; “stabilisation” means the
same marketing machinery, but
uniform State domestic-price provi-
sions must be imposed, plus a Federal
guaranteed price for exports, a
stabilisation-fund and an export-tax
to support the fund.) However, at
the Premiers’ Conference on June 30,
1954, the Federal Government and
all States except Victoria agreed to
call a special conference on a
stabilisation-plan; at this special
conference, at Canberra on July 26,
of all State Premiers and Ministers
for Agriculture and presided over
by Mr. Menzies, a five-year wheat-
industry stabilisation-plan was
decided on. The plan was submitted
to ballots of growers in the mainland
States, and the approval of the
majority was obtained. Under the
plan the Australian Wheat Board is
the sole authority for marketing
wheat within Australia and for wheat
and flour for export; and the
federal Government guarantees to
growers the ascertained cost of pro-
duction of up to 100 million bushels
exported from each of the five crops
(1953-54 to 1957-58 inclusive). The
Bulletin has never favored such
“stabilisation”-plans, and has been
in opposition to them;
and farmers themselves are now not
completely satisfied —as quoted in
B. 16/3/ ’55 a Farmers’ Union spokes-
man in W.A. described it as “one of
the greatest confidence-tricks of all
time.”
* * * *
Did J. T. Lang, when N.S.W.
Premier, demand the repudiation of
interest-payments ?
Yes. At the Canberra Premiers’
Conference in Feb., 1931, Lang
urged, as part of his “Lang Plan,”
that the “proper method” of dealing
with the diminished resources of
Australia was to suspend overseas
interest-payments. In Feb., 1932, he
again pressed for a moratorium on
£900,000 interest then due. In con-
sequence the Federal Government
introduced the Financial Agreements
(Commonwealth Liability) Act, 1932,
and the Financial Agreements
Enforcements Act, 1932, under which
the Commonwealth Parliament
assumed responsibility for the debts
of the States. Lang, however,
opposed the Federal Government’s
action, and issued a circular openly
instructing N.S.W. public servants to
flout the new regulations. This, of
course, being tantamount to en-
couraging a breach of the law, it
precipitated the Constitutional crisis
of May 13, 1932, when the N.S.W.
Governor, Sir Philip Game, dis-
solved the Lang Ministry.
* * * *
What is the meaning of the mark-
ings 1/3, 2/4, 513, etc., enclosed in
circles, that are printed on packets
of cigarettes, tobacco, matches and
playing - cards manufactured in
Australia ?
The articles mentioned are liable
to an excise duty and their manu-
facture is governed by the provisions
of the Excise Act, 1901-25 and
Regulations made thereunder. In
order that the Customs Departfnent
may readily identify the source of
excisable goods manufactured in
each State and to minimise the
possibility of illegal manufacture,
provision is made in Excise Regula-
tions to allot to each manufacturer
licensed under the Excise Act a fac-
tory-number and a State-number,
which are used for marking pack-
ages containing such excisable goods.
The factory-number is placed directly
above the State-number and within a
circle, in a diamond or a triangle.
Factory-numbers are allotted to the
various types of factories by the
Collector of Customs in each State.
State-numbers as decided by the
Customs Department are: 1, WA;
2, S.A.; 3, Vic.; 4, N.S.W.; 5,
Qld.; 6, Tas.
* * * *
In plain country in the Clermont
(Q .) district, I noticed, after rain, a
number of cleared circular spaces
about sft. in diameter,'in which the
grass had been pulled up. In the
centre of each circle was a neat
round hole about 12in. deep that was
full of water. What animal or bird,
would be responsible for such clear-
ance of ground and excavation ?
The Australian Museum, Sydney,
advises us that “there is no recorded
evidence to link the behavior of any
native furred animal with such a
methodical clearance of ground, with
a fairly uniform circumference, and
single excavation. However, wom-
bats inhabited the Clermont district,
at least until a few years ago, and it
is just possible that these marsupials
were tugging-out the grass to feed
their young on the tender roots of a
certain type of grass. Wombats are
also known to dig for certain kinds
of fungi, or the digging may have
been done by the juvenile wombat.
The latter suggestion, however, does
not account for there being only a
single excavation in each denuded
circle. It would be of scientific
interest to know if wombats still
occur there. Our Curator of Birds
reports that no known bird would
have done this. Although he has
never heard of it, it might be possible
for a goanna to do it in search of
food.”
* * * *
(7) What countries are most sus-
ceptible to floods? (2) What steps
have been taken in various countries
to avert floods?
(1) China has always suffered
greatly from floods. In 1887 levees
70ft. high proved ineffectual when the
Hwang-ho overflowed its banks,
1,000,000 people being drowned.
Last year there was a flood in the
same valley equally as devastating.
The. Mississippi, Missouri and Ohio
valleys (U.S.A.) are liable to floods;
great inundations occurred in 1897,
1927 and 1937, when more than
1,000,000 people were made homeless.
The Indus (India) has caused several
great floods. England and France
have both suffered from floods —
disastrously in England in the summer
of 1912, in March, 1947, and in Jan.-
Feb., 1953. (2) Basically there are
two main systems of flood-control —
by provision of an adequate channel
for the floodwaters to pass (deepen-
ing and widening of rivers, silt-
removal, etc.), and by provision of a
flood-storage basin (reservoirs, etc.).
The Tennessee Valley Authority
(U.S.A.) is the celebrated instance of
effective flood-control: great dams
and lakes were built, soil-regeneration
was undertaken, and other measures
were scientifically applied. Since the
1953 floods in England, following
recommendations by the Waverley
committee, various preventive
methods (an efficient flood-warning
system, river-control, construction of
levee-banks) have been developed.
1 Brief Answers
M.P.: No pension is payable to a
married couple who possess “pro-
perty” valued at more than £3500.
“Property” includes money in the
bank, cash in hand, bonds, stocks,
shares, houses, land, money on loan
or otherwise invested, but does not
include the value of a home
property, furniture, personal effects
or a vehicle for private use. As you
have investments valued ft more
than £3500, you and your wife have
no entitlement to an age-pension
5.8.: Write John Meredith, Secre-
tary, Australian Folklore Society, 5
Henry-street, Lewisham (N.S.W.).
G.M.: Write Chief Superinten-
ded!, Defence Standards Laboratories,
Department of Supply, Maribyrnong
(Victoria) H.G.: (1) “Scratch the
Russian and you will find the
Tartar” is attributed to Napoleon.
(2) “Who rounded in his palms
these spacious orbs” is from Night
Thoughts, the most famous work of
the English poet Edward Young
(1683-1765). (3) A Short History of
Christianity, by J. M. Robertson, or
The Social Record of Christianity,
by Joseph McCabe F.R.: The
Wilga “haunted” waterhole is now
located on a selection called Wilga;
it was once on Ruthven, which has
since been subdivided. The common
belief in the district is that a rare
bird with a weird call visited the
waterhole at certain times, hence the
reputation it came to have of being
haunted C.M.S.: (1) Not accur-
ately known, but somewhere about
18 months. (2) Can’t find an
estimate, but it certainly would be
nowhere near three weeks
A.D.8.R.: Main reasons for the
change were that heats could be
dispensed with, and that on the
Nepean no one crew gets any undue
advantage, as was sometimes the
case on the Parramatta course. First
G.P.S. held on the Nepean was in
1936... .E.W.: If the wife pre-
deceased her husband, any will made
in her favor would become void.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
. on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.McK.: That sort of sketch has
only a limited appeal—outside the
writer’s circle of friends it generally
falls flat F.8.V.: More evidence
required; as it stands it is too
sketchy J.R.: Among the feather-
weights R.M.E.: More could
have been made out of that literary
hoax... .H.G.8.: A lot of flurry and
commotion about nothing
E.L.H.S.: This week’s tamest “tough-
guy” story E.K.: For a start get
rid of half the adjectives L.M.Ci.:
Not allowing that hooded terror to
roam through our pages S.TJ.:
The old girl who changed her will
every second paragraph was written-
off as a bad loss M.J.: “Portrait
of a Sailor’s Sweetheart” could, in
the unlikely event of it seeing print,
cause 4 rush of recruits to the Navy.
That seems to he its only merit
R. : O. Henry thought of it first
and many others have used the same
idea A.8.R.: You have a long
way to go if the best that you can
do is the tit-bit that follows:
Old Mister Kookaburra
Suddenly got a hunch.
Saw snake in a furrow,
Had him for his lunch.
A.P.L.: “I just dash them off
without thinking.” That is most
apparent R.S.: “This story, or
legend, folk-tale, fable or parable,
was told to me long, long ago.
Whatever it is it is not Bulletin
material... .A.J.: Not on your
life!
I am only an ordinary ink-slinger,
Just a penny-a-liner freelance hack.
Who aspires to be a Bulletin singer,
Singing the songs of the great outback.
Please grant me entry to your pages
And all from my quill shall be yours.
From you I ask no fancy wages—
I only want applause.
W.K.N.: Surely those race-
course urgers are not still going
strong? A.E.L.: It never lived up
to the brilliance of the opening
sentence: “Percy was a parlor-pinfc
with* a yellow streak, who loved a
blue-stocking, brown as a berry,
with a heart of gold, in whose eyes
there flashed, according to her mood,
all the colors of the rainbow”....
S. Cut down it might make a
paragraph H.A.: Afraid that you
will always “stand unnoticed in the
throng” while you continue to write
in that fashion J.H.: The fact
that a poem has been published
elsewhere, no matter how limited the
circulation of the publication, rules
it out so far as The Bulletin is con-
cerned... .E.F.P.: We are stul reel-
ing from the shock of “Eternal
Paradox”... .8.L.: We could not
imagine anything worse than •living
in a “land of dreams, where all
dreams come true” M.L.P.: Not
accepting your challenge to write a
better poem than the one you wrote
on the subject—we leave the held
to you L.O’L.: That sort of non-
sense has to be uncommonly well
done to pass muster H.E.R.: It
didn’t raise a laugh R.W.: Never
have we met so many corpses in one
short story D.J.N.: As a teller
of tall stories you’re a flop. Why
not try a straightforward yam?
8.D.A.: From what sentimental
novelette did those characters stray?
....G.M.: “Those Were the Days”
is not vastly different from a
hundred similar sketches received
every two or three months
H.W.G.: Your comic Irishman
should have stayed in Dublin
M.G.A.: A teenager might swallow
it, but not an adult A.D.: Too
gory for us E.T.: Frankly, we
found grandma and her longwinded
recollections of vanished yesterdays
a trifle tedious A.W.: It had one
foot in the basket before the com-
pletion of the first page F.N.S.:
That old prospector is talking
through his hat M.W.F.: Did
you borrow your characters from
an old-fashioned melodrama and
lift the “local color” from a
tourist guide? W.L.H.: Would be
pleased if you would call and collect
that demented dosser... .L.8.D.:
There are too many uncles and
aunts, not «to mention the cousins,
cluttering up the story J.McK.:
Only space for the opening stanza
of “A Sydney Bride’s Lament”:
Now the pubs shut up at ten,
We .wives seldom see our men.
Instead of coming home at seven
The brutes roll in about eleven.
P.S.: Notwithstanding the fact
that it neither scans nor rhymes, we
could not resist its homely appeal:
You can have your fish and chips;
I don’t want your tripe and onions,
I hate corned beef and cabbage
And even steak and oysters.
You can keep your saveloys and snags,
Your rissoles, prawns and lobsters,
All I want, when I am on the scoot,
Is two meat-pies in a paper bag.
L.L.R.: It could do without the
long introduction, also the artificial
trick-ending.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
Os
GM-
ILI«°
CTfcR
fV.O'**
65%
‘dii-MOi.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular! gladly (applied—
Write to OAVIS GELATINE! S.P.O. See ÜBS.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
. • G.P.O Box SBB. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
The "FARMERS' BOY"
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.,
BOY
The World-famous FARMERS
ROTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
the grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and for demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIYE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1611-
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SxCSE-
gh
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
TOWN WASTES
IN an excellent foreword to
J. C. Wylie’s Fertility from
Town Wastes (Faber), Sir
C. Stanton Hicks, Professor of
Human Physiology at Adelaide
University, writes:
“It is no accident that this
reaction [Wylie’s] should take
place after little more than a
century has passed over the
doings of the industrialised
inhabitants of the British Isles.
“The fact is that it has taken
just about a century for the
prophecy of Disraeli, in the form
of an appeal against the Repeal
of the Corn Laws, to be fulfilled.
“In this country [Australia]
the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research Organisa-
tion has published, in* a popular
available form, a study by
Cornish (“Rural Research, 1952”)
disclosing the lamentable fact
that the soils of the Australian
wheatbelt have undergone a con-
siderable decline in fertility. This
is the more significant when it
is considered against the back-
ground of phosphate-deficiency,
which was the limiting factor to
yields prior to 1896.
“The removal of the ‘phos-
phorus limit’ by the use of super-
phosphate stimulated yields to
such an extent as to cause a wide-
spread belief in the discovery of
a cereal El Dorado. Now that
cold scientific appraisal has been
made it is realised that removal
of the limiting factor of phos-
phorus merely masked a down-
ward trend to general soil-
deterioration ; i.e., loss of soil
‘structure,’ depletion of nitrogen-
fixation through soil-organisms
and so on.
“Thus one limit to yield is
removed, and man’s vaunting
ambition is encouraged to over-
reach itself ; and all the while the
industries of the United Kingdom
were establishing themselves ever
more extensively upon the
assumption that manufactured
goods could be indefinitely
exchanged for foodstuffs from
‘less-developed’ lands, like Aus-
tralia at the turn of the century.
I had not long settled in Adelaide
when I listened to a visiting
president of the Imperial
Chamber of Commerce tell a
large audience of businessmen
that they would do better to
leave manufacturing to the
mother country, and to concen-
trate on primary production.”
Sir Stanton has been quoted
at some length because he has
the ability to bring things into
focus; to take the large view;
and, in this ca§e, to relate the
work done by an engineer in
Scotland to national problems in
Australia. This- rather rare
quality of analysis and synthesis
is an important factor in his
personality: as became plain, on
a recent visit to The Bulletin’s
Sydney office, when writer took
the opportunity to ask questions
about Wylie’s work.
Sir Stanton Hicks pointed out
that, apart from anything else, it
was a quite considerable achieve-
ment for an engineer to persuade
a hard-headed Scottish council
to spend money on something so
experimental—at first glance—
as the conversion of town-waste
into fertiliser. He was inclined
to see in such a contribution a
reaction to “the barbarism of
specialisation.”
There is, of course, a basic
absurdity in the spectacle of a
nation spending huge sums of
money to dispose of sewage, and,
at the same time, importing
fertiliser. But this is a large
view; and, from that angle, a
good many human activities
savor of a sort of cosmic idiocy.
On closer inspection it can be
seen that sanitary services
developed in civilised countries
have been wonderfully effective
in preventing all sorts of
unpleasant diseases.
An uncritical enthusiasm for
the utilisation of human-waste in
building up fertility is unlikely
to survive a visit to an Asiatic
port; or, for that matter, parts
of Europe. One remembers the
freshness of an Alpine morning
polluted by the creaking, leaking
wooden cart which is the tradi-
tional vehicle for such cargo in
Austria ; night-soil spread .on
fields surrounding a prisoner-of-
war camp in Upper Silesia. And,
to be fair, certain arrivals and
departures in Australian country
towns. One returns with relief
to the amenities of urban
plumbing.
But it must not be supposed
that the Dumfries scheme, or the
earlier work of Davies at
Leatherhead, failed to take these
factors into account.
The factors which determine
the capacity of agricultural land
to absorb crude sewage ate the
population of micro-organisms in
the topsoil and the porosity of
the subsoil. The micro-organisms
oxidise the complex organic sub-
stances in the sewage, as the first
stage in transforming them into
the simpler compounds which
can be assimilated by growing
crops.
The most active of the micro-
organisms require a plentiful and
continuous supply of oxygen. If
the subsoil isn’t sufficiently
porous for drainage of excess
water, the soil becomes water-
logged. Then, instead of the
rapid reduction of organic-
matter by aerobic bacteria, the
work is done by the slower-
acting anaerobic bacteria (present
only in absence of oxygen).
Anaerobic conditions in the
soil are quickly created when
crude sewage is applied at exces-
sive rates. The upper layers then
become clogged with putrefying
matter, and the soil turns sour.
In reviewing the history of
sewage-disposal in the U.K.,
Wylie points out that the
tendency was to overdo applica-
tion to the soil:
“There was, in consequence,
an understandable prejudice
against crops grown on land
treated in this manner. This
established an altogether wrong
conception of the contribution
which the organic-matter in the
sewage could make to the main-
tenance of soil-fertility.”
Established methods of treat-
ing sewage are “efficient, when
properly applied, in purifying the
sewage-liquor, but are defective
in that they destroy enormous
quantities of agriculturally valu-
able mineral-salts and organic-
matter.” But, “the failure of
sanitary science to devise
adequate means of conserving the
values contained in sewage for
agricultural use has not been
compensated by the development
of complete-treatment processes
capable of universal application.
If disposal is the final aim, it
has not been hygienically
attained; the noxious sludge
remains, accumulating in huge
quantities which are continually
on the increase as water-borne
sewerage systems spread.”
The rate at which nitrogen in
sewage-liquor is lost in the U.K.
is about the rate at which it is
applied by fertilisers. The extrac-
tion of these salts by chemical
processes “does not yet offer a
practical and economic
solution.”
It may be that the problem
can only be solved biologically
by the growth of water-plants
capable of absorbing the salts,
the plants later being incor-
porated in compost. Work on
these lines was done in India,
with water-hyacinth. In 1947
the city of Bradford experi-
mented with the plant, but it
couldn’t stand up to the English
winter.
Sludge remains the big
problem. And, although “some
intricate and costly processes of
treatment are capable of reduc-
ing sludge to a condition which
makes it convenient to use, and
gives it a relatively high value
as a manure,” much of the
sludge offered to farmers by
sanitary authorities in the U.K.
is less valuable. And, in fact,
the disposal of sludge is becom-
ing more of a problem.
There is, too, the parallel
problem of the disposal of
garbage, household- and
industrial-waste; all involving
manpower, wages, plant.
The solution Wylie suggests —
and has demonstrated —is the
combination of the organic
wastes in refuse and in sewage-
composting. The difficulty in
disposing of sludge is its high
water-content. By combination
with organic wastes the
difficulty disappears.
In 1950 approval was obtained
from the Department of Health
for Scotland for the construction
of a refuse-sewage treatment-
works at Kirkconnel, Dumfries-
shire. Earlier work had been
done in the shire, but, since the
evolution was gradual, a descrip-
tion of the technique at Kirk-
connel fits in better with Wylie’s
considered opinions. The treat-
ment-works were officially
opened in May, 1953.
The dry-weather flow of
sewage from the district served
by the works is about 200,000
gallons a day. Refuse is collected
and taken to the plant, separated,
and the final screening mixed
with the sludge. Preliminary
processes are explained in detail.
Then, “a 9in. layer of mixed
wastes containing about s|cwt.
of refuse-dust and sycwt. of
waste vegetation, consisting of
pulverised material from the
refuse-plant and material such
as straw, is spread on the floor.
About 600 gallons of liquid
sludge is then dispersed over the
surface of the layer through a
flexible hose. The liquor, which
passes through the layer of
wastes and open boards, drains
off the sloping floor into the
drainage-channel, through which
it is conveyed to a sump, from
which it is pumped to the inlet
of the sedimentation tanks.”
The film of sludge which
forms on the top is broken and
mixed with the vegetable-wastes.
About 201 b. of ground-limestone
is then sprinkled over the surface
of the mixed-wastes. A further
9in. layer is laid on top of the
first, and same procedure fol-
lowed until chamber (four
mixing-chambers, each 10ft. by
9ft. by sft. 6in. deep) is full;
then, to facilitate drainage, holes
are punched through the waste
at 3ft. intervals.
Wastes remain in these mixing-
chambers for about a week, by
which time. moisture-content is
reduced to about 60 per cent.,
and intense biological action is
starting. The wastes are then
transferred to the composting-
cells.
These are 14ft. by 13ft. by
sft. 6in. deep. # Floors are of
same construction as the mixing-
chambers (sloping to a central
drain), but, whereas the walls
of the mixing-chamber are solid
brick, these are cavity-
brick-work, and each wall has
12 ventilators. Emphasis is on
circulation of air.
In the composting-cells the
mixed-waste is laid out in 9in.
layers, and an additional llcwt.
of dry refuse-dust is mixed-in.
Repeated, until the cells are full.
Compost remains in cells for five
weeks, then it’s transferred to
the maturing-bay. The effect of
adding refuse-dust at this stage
is to reduce moisture-content to
about 45 per cent., so as to allow
for chopping into a granular
condition without further drying.
After standing in the maturing-
bays for another five weeks,
composts have been reduced to a
condition approaching that of
humus. This is chopped, blown
(by forage-blower), bagged, and
finally sold under a trade-name.
A technical supplement
presents detailed tables of
moisture-content, mineral and
organic matter, etc. These, on
examination, are impressive. The
output of compost from the
plant is about 1000 tons a year,
which is sold at prices ranging
between 7s. 6d. per cwt. for
small users and 80s. a ton for
orders of 10 tons and more.
Sale of metal, paper, rags and
cinders works out at about £4OO
a year.
On this basis, the scheme must
be the cheapest of methods of
disposing of garbage and sewage.
But the point is that sanitation
authorities are bound to spend
large sums of money on disposal,
anyway. Wylie thinks it possible
that a stage might be reached
when the end-product could be
practically given away. What
it would mean to the fertility
build-up of any given area if
such a scheme economic,
hygienic, safe—were, adopted is
difficult to estimate. It could,
over a period of years, be
immense.
On the basis of the informa-
tion in Wylie’s book, the method
could be adopted by quite small
authorities municipalities,
shires and the like. Engineering
problems, he says, are straight-
forward ones, “within the com-
petence of any trained engineer.”
J.F.
Red Apple "Sports"
“Ilex” (Tas.): Nurserymen of
40 years ago not only stocked up
to 260 varieties of apples but
were continually adding to their
collection. Every one of these
was catalogued as possessing
some particular merit, and some
orchard-owners who could not
resist temptation found them-
selves with anything up to 30
kinds.
Today the choice lies in about
a dozen varieties which have
proved economical to produce
and are favored commercially.
Red apples are popular both with
the retailer and consumer, and
they now outnumber the green
or yellow kinds by three to one
for dessert purposes in the
export-list. Not content with
this, pomologists, during recent
years, have been on -the look-out
for even redder-colored sports of
the standard varieties.
One of the first to attract
attention was the popular
Delicious. The U.S. produced
a color sport of this variety
which was named Starking. New
Zealand followed with a similar
new strain called Richared, and
about the same time the now
well-known Lalla was propa-
gated in Tasmania.
Now there is an imposing list:


Only Genuine
fg
parts restore the
true stamina and staying power of your
thoroughbred
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
tractor!
ET true power from your thoroughbred
McCormick International tractor by
replacing worn or damaged parts with
only genuine I H parts. Genuine I H parts
fit better and last longer because they’re
the same as the original! Worn parts
waste power, so get the performance of
your McCormick International tractor
checked regularly. Your local IH dealer is
a tractor specialist he is ready to restore
the original stamina and staying power of
your thoroughbred \ McCormick Interna-
tional tractor. He gives specialised IH
service and uses only genuine IH parts.
Make an appointment for your tractor nowl
They’re the same as
*
Genuine 1H parts are made
in the same factory and pass
the same rigid quality control
as the original! They're not
"will fit" P arts but P rec . l^ lon
made to the exact specifica-
tions of the part in your
tractor. That's why genu.ne
|H parts give just as long
and trouble-free service as
the original.
Super AWD-6
Farmall Super AM
Farmall Super AMD
Model AOS-6 (Orchard)
0
Model AOS-6 (Standard)
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
INTERNATIONAL
hff
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
HARVESTER
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG, VICTORIA.
GLSB6-S6
besides the Delicious sports there
are red strains of Jonathans,
Croftons, Rome Beauties,
Gravensteins and Cox’s Orange
Pippins. Even the yellow kinds
are included, red Sturmers and
Granny Smiths.
Observations over a number of
years reveal some interesting
facts regarding color sports.
Orchardists in the colder and
later districts can produce fruit
as well colored as some of the
original kinds grown in the
earlier and warmer locations.
Although the color-area on an
apple may he increased or
intensified, variations may also
take place in the flesh-texture and
flavor; also, apples that are too
dark in color lose their sales-
appeal and tend to become dull
and unattractive.
Fortunately, there are still
some of the yellow dessert kinds
surviving, such as Cleopatra,
Golden Delicious and Granny
Smith, to give some variation in
the shop-window or the dessert-
dish. And, after all—all apples
look alike when they are peeled.
Rye
“Hortus”: A point not
emphasised by “Secale” (B.
13/4/’55) is that this crop can
be grown on ground too poor
to grow other cereals.
It’s a pity to waste good
Wheatland for rye, but it’s a great
advantage to know that where
wheat has not responded very
well rye will succeed. Also, this
crop is deeper-rooted than
wheat, and so is more drought-
resistant.
The value of rye as green-feed
and as green-manure is greatly
enhanced if peas are grown with
it. One bushel of rye plus half a
bushel of peas per acre with
icwt. of super.
Money Bees
“Berri”: We haven’t yet
reached the stage of apiculture
“R.M.N.” (B. 27/4/’55) describes
as familiar in the U.S., but in
Victoria, anyway, some useful
work is being done with bees in
orchards.
In the A.B.C.’s country-hour
recently, bee - expert Don
Langridge said that bees had
increased production in a Shep-
parton pear-orchard from about
1400 cases to nearly 4000 cases
an acre.
As an experiment the
orchardist caged half a tree to
prevent bees getting at the
flowers. That half produced
about a dozen pears. The fruit
was hanging like grapes on the
other half of the tree.
On an irrigated property pol-
lination by bees has increased
the yield of white-clover from
351 b. an acre to 1001 b. an acre.
Similar increases in yield have
been obtained with apricots,
pumpkins, mustard, lucerne,
cherries, apples and cantaloupes.
Hives are usually hired by
orchardists from apiarists under
an agreement which specifies the
number of hives and when they
are required. The Victorian
Apiarists’ Association has sug-
gested a standard fee of £1 per
hive a week, with a maximum of
£3 per hive overall.
In the U.S.A. the apiarist
charges a nominal fee to cover
transport-costs, plus a percentage
of yield in excess of an average
based on about five years without
bees.
Broom Millet
“Hortus”: After four years’
research and breeding, Bathurst
(N.S.W.) Experiment Farm has
developed a new strain of this
crop; reported to be of better
all-round quality than present
commercial strains, and with a
lower percentage of curly and
twisted fibres.
Broom-millet, on suitable
country, is a good proposition.
In March, this year, poor-
quality millet fetched £lOO to
£l2O per ton. Good-quality has
reached £175. Yield is lOcwt. to
15cwt.
Soil-requirements are similar
to those of maize. Of course,
ideal conditions are afforded by
deep, rich, well-drained alluvial
lands, but fairly good results
may be obtained on any land
which produces 40 or more
bushels of maize to the acre.
The essential factor is first-class
drainage.
Now’s the time for prepara-
tion. Deep ploughing ,and
constant working of the fallow
to eliminate weed-growth will
aid in bringing about a uniform
germination and a quick, early
growth. Presence of weeds in
early stages spells failure.
Do not, however, sow until
all *danger of frost is over.
Depending on local seasonal
conditions, sowing would take
place from September to
November; on coastal areas as
late as December and even
January (Northern Rivers,
N.S.W.). Seed from 31b. to 61b.
per acre, plus lcwt. super.
When 6in. high, plants are
thinned out. This requires care,
for quality of brush is affected
to a very large extent by the
manner of thinning.
Too much space produces
strong, vigorous growth with
resultant coarse brush. Too
little space causes plants to be
very fine and weak. A uniform
distance is to be aimed at.
Broom-millet may also be used
as stock-feed. A certain amount
of sugar exists in the sap while
the plant is young. Stalks and
leaves may be chaffed,, mixed
with molasses and fed to cattle.
Ground millet-seed added to
morning mash is good feed for
poultry.
,' Victorian Olives
“Emel”: Victoria came late
to commercial olive-growing, but
in the past decade plantations
established in the foothills of the
Grampians and at Edenhope,
south-west of Horsham, have
made amazing progress.
• Last year an expert from Italy,
Dr. J. V. Dalpero, Professor of
Horticulture at Florence Uni-
versity, declared that five-year-
old trees in these plantations
were as productive as 18-year-old
trees in Italy. He had been
astounded to see one-year-old
trees, under nursery conditions,
bearing fruit.
A promising local variety is
the Verdalion, bred from a
Verdale-type olive planted his
Horsham home-garden by J.
Friedman, who, on his arrival
from Israel, saw the suitability
of country near Horsham for
olive-culture and founded the
Mount Verdalion olive-planta-
tion, of which he is now
managing-director.
This new variety, Verdalion,
which fruits in its first year, was
pronounced by Dr. Dalpero the
best he had seen anywhere in
the world. -Recently a request
for scions came from the
University of California.
* Crosscuts
“Quo Vadis”: Wild deer are
about in mountainous country
near Crow’s Nest, north of
Joowoomba (Q.). Farmers are
worried because the deer are
tick-carriers.
* * * *
“Q.V.”: Queensland Railways
are experimenting with rubber-
buffered stock - wagons to
eliminate bruising in cattle. An
ordinary K-wagon is fitted with
a hollow cushion of rubber at a
height at' which it will protect
hips and pin-bones. Door-
openings are bolstered with
rubber-rollers to reduce bruising
at loading-time.
* * * *
“Big Billy”: Growers of
lucerneTseed in S.A.’s lower-
north have substantially
increased their seed-yields by
improved seed-setting and more
efficient harvesting. Improved
seed-setting was a result of
eradication of thrip and cutworm
with parathion and D.D.T.
Favorable reports on the All-
Crop Harvester for harvesting.
* * * *
Victorian Department of
Agriculture reports that experi-
ments over the last four years
have demonstrated that
rhizoctonia—a disease present in
all potato-growing districts in
Victoria—can be . controlled in
the tuber-borne phase by dips
containing inorganic mercury
compounds. Organic mercury
compounds, particularly when
used as instantaneous dips, were
found to be ineffective.
* * * *
U.K. scientists have isolated
a substance, nisin, which prevents
the growth of butyric-acid
bacteria in cheese and other
foodstuffs. Butyric acid and its
cousins make dairy products go
bad —so the possibilities are
considerable.
* * * *
“Sandy”: Commonwealth
Immigration Department officials
in Brisbane are preparing for the
biggest mass - migration of
Italians direct to North Queens-
land in the history of the area.
When the liner Flaminia arrives
in Cairns late in May it will be
carrying 800 sugarcane workers
ready to start toil. The migrants
are being sent direct to Cairns so
they won’t get a taste for city life
first.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(l/5/’55)
The estimates have been fulfilled to a remarkable
degree, particularly with regard to the recent heavy rains
in southern Queensland, and ■ the heavy rains which are
falling on the coast of N.S.Wv at time of writing.
Sydney should experience a wet month, with further
heavy rain 'on the coast and general rains throughout
N.S.W. There is also a likelihood of further flooding, and
the position will require watching.
Victoria and South Australia should also receive
general rains in May, and flooding could occur in the
upper-north of S.A. ,
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FEUOW'S MIND
Modern Extravagance.
There was a time, within memory,
when people made-do with the wages
they earned. However small those wages
may haye been, the family coat was cut
according to the cloth and the range of
indebtedness was limited strictly to the
“chalk-up” on the board at the local
pub—rubbed out when the weekly wage
came to hand. The housewife with chil-
dren might go so far as buying a sewing-
machine at a cost of three or four pounds
—a pound down and the rest at half-a-
crown a week. People collected their
homes bit by bit, and paid as they
bought.
As a rule, ordinary folks seemed
fairly contented. Food was cheap, and
if education was not yet “free,” the penny
or twopence a week it cost was neither
here nor there. Books and slates were
free, and there were no expensive uniforms
to cause parents seasonal headaches. It
might have taken several years to create
a home, but what was there belonged to
the owners, and they were not in debt.
Today, the young are all out to start
where parents left off. A few shillings
down, and the home can be filled with all
the luxuries of the day.
At the beginning of the 1930’s American
economists were telling the world that in
their country everybody owned his own
house and there was an automobile for
every three people in the land. When one
of them was questioned on these state-
ments he admitted that over 70 per cent,
of the people in America had actually
mortgaged, their incomes for anything
from 15 to 20 years ahead, by hire-pur-
chase indulgence pushed to the limit.
When saturation-point in consumer-
goods is reached, something is bound to
happen, and in America the slump hap-
pened. At its worst there were 16 million
unemployed on the bread-line and many
banks closed their doors. All over the
place mortgages were called in, and hire-
purchase organisations started to grab the
goods for which the hirers could not pay.
Figures quoted today show that Aus-
tralian people have gone the whole hog
with hire-purchase. They have beaten
those Americans to a frazzle. Hire-pur-
chase conditions may be rather more
favorable to the hirer than they were
then, but the debtor has to pay heavily
for the accommodation. Living so far
ahead of income is one of the prime
causes of the rise in cost of living, and
the fact that so many expensive luxuries
have become “essentials” is a sure sign
that hundreds of thousands of our people
are living far beyond their incomes and
that 1 what is described as national pros-
perity is in reality a great load of debt.
That may seem fine for the time, but
the ability to obtain everything for a
few shillings down may well result in a
premature saturation-point which could
create widespread unemployment.
Moneylenders, who are the prime
movers in this modem rush for luxury,
no doubt know how to cover their com-
mitments, but in a land which rides upon
the back of its sheep, as we do in Aus-
tralia, recession of the mildest kind can
change the picture overnight and land
into serious trouble people who owe hum
dreds of millions of pounds for goods
not yet paid for.
It happened in the U.S.A. and it can
happen here. — Shellback (N.S.W.).
Negligence on the Roads
In the Brighton (Vic.) court a plea put
forward by counsel on behalf of a
motorist charged with a traffic-offence
was that he had fallen asleep at the wheel,
and could therefore not be held respon-
sible for his actions, any more than a
sleep-walker could be held liable for
offences inadvertently committed during
his slumbers.
The driver had been out until 4 a.m.,
according to evidence submitted, by
which time he was understandably
fatigued. The car had crashed through
the wall of a house.
The Bench rejected the plea, and im-
posed a modest fine for negligent driving.
In the U.S.A. severe penalties are
imposed on those who endanger the lives
and property of others by driving when
over-fatigued and when the senses are
not alert. Driving when physically weary
is regarded as in the same category as
being at the wheel when suffering from
the effects of liquor.
In New Zealand the police are em-
powered to immobilise cars whose drivers
are considered, for any reason, to be
unfit to drive. A similar attitude by
traffic authorities in Australia would help
to reduce die toll of accidents. — Doynest
(Vic.).
Business Management
Products from the Administration Staff
Coliege to be set up by some big private
concerns (B. 13/4/’55) should be worth
watching as the scheme develops.
Some concerns have grown really big,
and the shareholder is probably the only
party not represented on the multitude of
committees, generally composed of scien-
tists, economists and technicians, all now
considered necessary to run big business.
Attending meetings and writing the in-
evitable reports consumes many hours
each day. The stevedoring-industry is
probably the best example of this system
of management —nobody is responsible
for anything; everything is a group
decision.
The buoyant state of the market for
our basic manufactures has meant the
employment of more administrative and
technical staff, but the increase in groups
of supervisors in businesses of my
acquaintance appears out of proportion.
Some big organisations are used by
staff as a training-ground—‘‘gaining
experience” is the term —-which is fair
enough, but if the controllers of these con-
cerns realised the amount of information
taken by staff moving from job to job,
they would not be shocked by leakages
of secret knowledge from firm to firm.
Obtaining secret trade-information
appears to be as simple as asking a typist
to take another copy.
The old-type foreman who grew up
in the job is now being replaced by as
many as 20 people to supervise 50 men —
once a job for one well-trained foreman.
However, the next step it* our industrial
growth will probably bring more concerns
into the country with a big outlook, and
competition will, as it always has, level-
out the shortcomings and shortages of
administrations and laborers alike.
When we have to call in private over-
seas concerns to accept “management
fees” to provide men with the personal
ability to use our own men, to do our
own work, with our own equipment, it
says little for past training-schemes. The
job in hand has been too often forgotten
by too many executives in their eager-
ness for personal advancement, often at
the expense of pushing the rising leaders
down. If this college produces men like
Monash, who was not a staff-college pro-
duct, it will reduce the number of appli-
cations for subsidies, assistance-grants and
tariff-protection now being made to
“herds of Government heads” by herds
of private enterprises, and the shareholder
will once again receive a reasonable
return for his investment.
Big business has invaded the once ex-
clusive domain of the Government in
having printed forms in sextuplicate, and
it is quite apparent that the production of
leaders is not a difficulty peculiar to one
particular political party.—C. (Q.).
“Ah, lovely—lovely! Bom-bom-de-bom-de-ay !”
“The old professor will think hes discovered a new constellation on
Monday !”
Underpaid purses
True, the position, of nurses is not
attractive financially; but they are not
likely to get sympathy from the public
by adopting a superior attitude to
domestics, “Quo Vadis” (B. 20/4/’55).
Nor is it possible to base wages on
passing exams, or an educational stand-
ard. Manual and menial workers obtain
higher wages, not because the job is
simple, but because they are prepared to
do it. Those who go in for higher educa-
tion solely to escape doing such work are
bound to be disappointed, as menial or
manual work is just as important and the
more who wish to dodge it, the more
those who do it will command better
money.
The N.S.W. Director of Education
recently deplored that out of 40,000 pupils
who entered secondary schools only 13,000
completed the course, yet we value the
intellectual attainments of alien immi-
grants so highly that in most instances we
won’t recognise them, but compel the
immigrants to do two years’ manual
work as a condition of their settling here.
To me that doesn’t make sense. — The
Dunce (N.S.W.).
Honoring the Pioneers
A Momington (Vic.) cinema pro-
prietor has decorated his theatre to per-
petuate the name of Matthew Flinders,
who landed near by in April, 1802.'
To keep the great navigator’s name
before the picture-going public he has
renamed the cinema after Hinders, turned
the foyer into a sailing-ship’s poop-deck,
made the ticket-box look like a wheel-
house, with a massive wheel hung behind
it, and the lights into ships’-lantems.
Even the stairway has received some
treatment —it’s been changed to a gang-
way with a rope handrail.
Inside, hanging from the walls on each
side, are two 20ft.-square colored charts
—copies of Hinders’s originals of Western
Port and Port Phillip.
In the hurly-burly of modern life we
are apt to forget our pioneers too easily
unless someone like this cinema-pro-
prietor gives us a reminder. — Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
Typist’s Budget
A lass getting £ll per week in her per-
manent job gave me her weekly figures.
With tax deducted, her net salary is
£lO 6s. 3d. Expenses: Rent £3 55.,
laundry, gas, light and hot-water, 65.;
heating, Is.; food, £3 4s. (two evening
meals in town at 6s. each; five evening
meals at home at 4s. each ; lunches, 125.;
fruit, 55.; milk, 6s. 5d.; butter, 25.;
bread, Is.; cereal, jam or honey, plus
bacon one morning a week, 2s, 7d.; eggs,
35.); clothes, £2 55.; dry-cleaning, shoe-
repairs, etc., 35.; pocket-money, £1 Is.
(radio-licence, 9d.; stamps,-Is.; papers
and one magazine, 3s. 3d.; book-club,
Is. 3d.; hair-cut, 3s. 3d.; cosmetics,
Is. 6d.; recreation, 10s.); insurance,
ss. 6d.; medical-benefits and hospital-
fund, 25.; dentist, 25.; office subscrip-
tions, 45.; fares, 10s.; ,chemists’ bills, etc.,
25.; total, £ll 10s. 6d.
This makes no allowance for extras
such as membership of a tennis- or social-
club, hair “permanents” or things like
costume jewellery, etc. y Neither does it
make any provision for regular savings.
The only saving is that made by means
of the weekly insurance payment of
ss. 6d.
This lass has to work as a waitress at
night to keep ahead. Una Auld
(N.S.W.).
Costs of Delays
An important cause of the increase in
house-prices is the protracted delays in
obtaining clearance of title and other
security documents. These documents
must be in order, surveys correct and
Work properly completed before the
money is paid over.
Most available homes are erected by
“spec”-builders, who, in turn, obtain
their accommodation to build from their
bankers. Interest on the overdraft goes
on while proceeds of sale of the house are
awaited (often the house is sold several
months before completion of details), and
naturally the builder makes up this added
cost.
Surely something could be done to
speed-up completion of these matters,
with benefit to all. Solicitors, building-
inspectors, surveyors, council employees
and many others share in the blame for
the delays, which in many cases could be
cut in half by prompt attention.
As a bank-manager I know that, if
on completion of a home the builder
could receive his cheque without delay,
many would be eager to reduce their price
by from £5O to £lOO on (say) a £3 500-
structure.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Volunteer Defence
There must be something radically
wrong about our defence-policy when the
Prime Minister talks about depending on
volunteers to protect Malaya against the
encroachment of Communists.
If the position is so vital that we have
to send troops to our frontiers of New
Guinea and Malaya, why depend on
volunteers? Is it not the duty of every
person enjoying the prosperous conditions
in Australia to protect those conditions?
A continuation of the volunteer system
in a young country like Australia shows
a lack of foresight. One does not need
to be a scientist to know that if the best
type of manhood is being killed off the
race must deteriorate.— Mulga Mick
(Tas.).


An Industrial Myth
The myth of Australian industry is the
40-hour week. Take an average trades-
man in a year’s work: Annual leave, 14
days; statutory holidays, nine; Satui-
days and Sundays (50 weeks), 100,
special holidays, two; sick-leave, five,
a total of 130 days off.
That leaves 234 appearance-days of
eight hours each, making 1872 hours.
Smoke-ohs, at 20 minutes a day, whittle
this down to 1794 hours. Allow another
40 hours for time lost answering phone-
calls, through domestic upsets or hang-
overs, family deaths or other emergencies,
leaving 1754.
If the man smokes he’ll burn-up about
an hour a day rolling, lighting-up, etc. ;
an almost incredible 234 hours: leaving
1520. Now, over a year, this gives us a
working week of just on 29 hours!
This estimate is flattering. Unpunctu-
ality and early knock-offs haven’t been
included. Long-service leave, where
granted, means still further attrition *,
many industries now allow a month s
annual leave. Then there are strikes, go
siow and malingering.
If we are successfully to compete in
the world’s markets, production must in-
crease. It would if the 40-hour week was
properly worked. In the fight of the
present international situation any worker
who doesn’t give of his utmost produc-
tive-effort under our idiotically short
working-week is a traitor and a fool.
Quo Vadis (Q.).
Exhibitionists
The herds of feather-brained flappers
and their callow escorts who register
hysteria every time a “glamor groaner’
from the U.S. casts up here are pale and
anaemic exhibitionists beside some who,
living in Paris a century and a quarter
ago, when the Romantic movement was
coming into full flower, made up the
greatest concentration of strange genius
the world has seen.
The Paris lot included Balzac, Dumas,
Gautier, Rousseau, Heinrich Heine,
Merimee, Hugo, Stendahl, De Musset
George Sand; the painters Corot and
Delacroix; Rossini, Chopin, Meyerbeer,
Berlioz and Liszt.
It was a time of emotional excesses,
spurred by the impact on the minds of
most of the intellectuals of the day by a
brace of literary works: Byron’s Manfred
and Goethe’s Sorrows of Werther, with
their pathological heroes; the first the
repository of mysterious sins, the second
a case of melancholy neurosis calculated
to delight any present-day psychiatrist.
Superheated emotionalism and exhi-
bitionism were the order of the day.
When the novelist George Sand heart-
lessly transferred her affections—no
unique thing with that cigar-smoking,
trouser-clad lady—from Alfred de Musset
to the Italian Dr. Pagello the young poet
spent several months “in tears every day.”
He was also given to turning deathly
pale and coming near to swooning every
time he heard some lines of Racine read.
It was said that the composer Lesueur,
Berlioz’s teacher, became so overwrought
on hearing for the first time Beethoven’s
Fifth Symphony that at the conclusion of
the performance he couldn’t find his head
to put his hat on.
Berlioz himself fell violently in love
with the Irish actress Henrietta Smithson
the minute she took the stage as Ophelia
in “Hamlet.” This produced in him, he
confessed in his famous Memoirs, a
“sickly nervous state and intense suffer-
ing” when the lady failed to respond to
his importunate advances. He was able
to sleep only four times in several weeks,
and it was in pursuit of his high-voltage
wooing that he wrote his Fantastic
Symphony.
Dumas wrote that “it was the fashion
to have consumption and die before 30,
and it was considered good form to spit
blood after every emotion.” Chopin, on
discovering that Liszt had used his rooms
for art assignation, burst into tears, some-
thing not exactly to be unexpected in one
who as a youth had written passionate
love-letters to another 18-year-old young
man.
By their standard our flaming youth
are almost phlegmatic, —S. K. (N.S.W.).
The Road Toll
Victorian traffic-police propose to set
up an elaborate organisation to detect
unsafe cars by inspection on the road,
with the object of reducing accidents.
Speed and drink are recognised as the
principal causes of accidents, and speed
is the prerogative of the newer, faster
cars, which are usually in sound mechani-
cal order. Of the 18 Easter road-deaths
in Victoria 12 were caused by speed, five
by collisions, and one by a hit-and-run
driver. In no case was the age or con-
dition of the vehicle responsible,
Accidents caused by mechanical
faults are relatively few, and rarely fatal.
The time and attention of police could
be much better spent on enforcement of
speed-limits, which are openly contra-
vened on every road, and to patrolling
notorious hotel-areas where motorists
prime themselves for driving, particularly
at weekends.
In New Zealand the police are em-
powered to confiscate ignition-keys from
motorists considered to be unfit to drive.
Similar powers in Australia would help
the police and reduce accident-lists. —
D. J. G. (Vic.).
- T
The Socialist Trend
Whether we like it or not the nation
is being trained for some sort of Com-
munist State.
The first essential of any form of
Socialism is for management to be in the
hands of a few trained administrators,
remote and impersonal, with masses to
move around as required. Towards this
end we already have a host of securely
settled bureaucrats who cannot tolerate
individualism. Next we have the big
companies which slowly and methodically
drive out the little men who “hate work-
ing for a boss.” Now comes the adminis-
trative “staff college” to train men for
top jobs ip private enterprise, and Dubbo
(N.S.W.) will soon see a “managers’
school” organised by a pastoral company.
The question arises, Is a huge organisa-
tion, controlling directly and indirectly
the whole machinery of an industry, to
be regarded as “private enterprise”? In-
asmuch as it is not staffed by civil ser-
vants, yes: but since it can, and does,
make and unmake democratically-elected
Governments, its power can be greater
than that of the bureaucrats.
Indeed, sometimes the bureaucrats en-
force legislation designed to protect big
business. The bigger the business the
more staff employed, and the outlook of
the staff-man is often identical with that
of the public servant —briefly “I’m all
right.”
Criticism of the public service often
stems from the fact that it is so huge
and impersonal. It is noteworthy that one
often hears of similar criticism of the
bigger business-houses for exactly the
same reason. Even the backing-and-
filling that goes with public-service
appointments is not unlike that in larger
private undertakings, with the share-
holders ignorant of everything except the
profit or loss. Waste in the public service
is carried by the taxpayer, in business by
the consumer. Usually they are identical.
In both cases a monopoly of service per-
mits raising prices to cover the loss.
It is not difficult to visualise a well-
organised group forcibly taking over, dis-
missing the Government, installing a
well-armed police force, and merely
saying to top business executives and
civil servants, “Carry on as usual.” With
production and distribution in a few
hands it would be just that simple, and
the new order would be created overnight.
Undoubtedly the masses are partly to
blame. Place the unionised men and the
fashion-regimented women together in
industry and the courage that goes with
individualism vanishes.
Our concentration of resources in a few
cities is another sign. Far fewer dogs are
required to hold the flock once they are
mustered. Taken all together, it is no
pretty picture. And young people grow-
ing up in these conditions accept them
and become as the older sheep without
being aware of anything lost. Thus the
nation is led tamely to its chains.-
K.C.S. (N.S.W.).
Underworld Confessions
I wonder if the present craze for
printing the “life”-stories of gangsters
and retired prostitutes (usually written by
themselves or “ghosted” for them) in
books and popular magazines does not
do more harm to teennage conduct than
all the condemned comics ever could do?
These people usually point Out, often
in a weak and unconvincing way, that
crime does not pay ; but modern teen-
agers are not dumb —they know it must
have paid-off in the end, because such
books have huge sales, and magazines
pay good money for “crime confessions.”
If these repentant (?) sinners don’t get
this final rake-off on misspent lives,
just who does has never been indicated
in any “life”-story I have read. —O. W..
(N.Z.).
Gambling Laws
N.S.W. gambling-laws are cock-eyed.
You can take children of any age to
horse-racing—at Randwick or any other
course —but not to the dog-races, where
even infants are barred. According to
law, a youth of 18 can make a bet with
a bookmaker, but he must be 21 before
he can take a ticket on the tote.
The Sydney lottery-office will sell
tickets to children without asking their
age, but should the ticket win a major
prize the child cannot collect until he or
she is 21.
I cannot legally buy a quarter-share
lottery-ticket in N.S.W. State lottery, and
if I send to Queensland for a quarter-
share ticket in their Golden Casket I’m
breaking N.S.W. law. I can legally bet
on horse-races, dog-races and trotting-
races, but I cannot bet on foot-races,
sailing-races or motor-car races. I can
play housie-housie every night in the week
without infringing the law, but if I’m
caught playing two-up I’ll be pinched,
though I reckon I have a much better
chance of winning at two-up than at
housie-housie.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 329
Across
I—Affectionate1 —Affectionate act he is following
with a Billy. (6)
4—Queensland town is to smother
the lot in soot. (8)
9—A sherry parent takes Maoriland
a crook one. (10)
10—A sort of fringe report. (4)
12 — Bearings of a car (or hearse) used
for deaths in the world-news?
(3-4)
13 — Degree to a sailor rock which is
artistically down and musically
up. (6)
16 — Pen four notes of music. (4)
17 — Peevish character to go over the
trouser repair. (5-5)
19 —Part of India which makes Albert
the Naked transfix Diana. (10)
21 —Stroke business in heaven? (4)
24 Where you might find many ot
Lord Macaulay’s characters with
fillings. (6)
25 — Boy surrounds solitary bosh. (7)
28 — Auxiliary verb turned on wood.
(4)
29 Electroplated sister is made of
tin or iron or suchlike figure of
speech for me, and the story
footnote is last. (10)
»0 —Rogue from Walpole’s novels
follows the south wines. (8)
31—Ran into Capone’s products of
mine. (6)
Down
1 — It makes a “necklace” for a
gallows bird like a male legislator.
(4)
2 like a gangster between
Goulburn and Yass. (7)
3 Dodger composed by a girl with
the red back. (6)
5 The end of many an adverb
doubled an Elizabethan play-
wright. (4)
6 The ultimate ancestor of all
emmets is immovable. (7)
7 Aid to navigation puts a match
to joints. (10)
8— Lizzie Borden was reputed to
have done this barrel. (9)
11—What takes much pluck, and
why? Only a monstrously
rapacious woman can give the
answer. (5)
’l4—Mongrel punishments in the
steamer condition like dandruff.
(10)
15—Employed a cat with an estimate
of the attitude of domesticated
animals. (4, 2,3)
18—Woodwork instruction for Myrna
in South Dakota. (5)
20—Novelist takes up law on top of a
mast. (7)
22 Love poetry with a description
of any other continent. (7)
23 — He, in the heart of heart, is to
stick. (6)
26 Observe me about the lake. (4)
27 Manuscript on the Islands systems ,
of thought and belief. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 328


V
_
in
o
The utility swung off tKe road and pulled over towards the long
mound of reddish-yellow earth.
“You’re just in time,” said the engineer, as we got out and
walked towards the group of men on either side of the ditch.
“Here come the tractors now with a section of pipes. See the
way the side-boom cranes have got ’em under control?”
Towards us and paralleling the deep, straight-sided ditch that
stretched away into the distance came two giant Caterpillar D 7
Tractors. Side-boom cranes, mounted on the big yellow
machines, held suspended a long length of pipe poising it
delicately over the line. Working as a perfect team, the two
operators manoeuvred the machines into position then lowered
the snaking length of steel pipe down slowly into the ditch
until it rested safely on its bed.
“Takes care,” the engineer remarked. “That little section is
made up of 5/16" thick mild steel pipes, 18" in diameter . . .
thirty-foot lengths, welded together.”
The two Caterpillar D 7 Tractors had disconnected the crane
cables and there came a sudden deep-throated roar as the
powerful diesel engines revved up and the machines slewed
around in a tight turn, moving away from us. Down in the
distance where the ditch narrowed to a thin line, a small yellow
speck appeared.
“See—there’s another Caterpillar D 7 coming along to make
the fill. Fitted with a ’dozer blade. Certainly makes short work
of it.” '
“How far will this pipeline run?” we asked.
“Well, from Morwell to Melbourne . . . let’s see . . . about a
hundred and two miles. Took some survey, too, let me tell
you! The more I think about this job, the more I . . . look,
let’s go over into the truck and I’ll tell you something very
interesting.”
“No, thanks - smoke a pipe.” He fumbled in his jacket
pocket, produced his pipe, then handed us two small objects.
“One’s brown coal, the other’s black,” he said. “Victoria’s
got plenty of brown coal, no black. Has to import it. And, as
you’ll remember I told you this morning, brown coal under
black coal process conditions is useless for town gas supply.
We’ve been using it for thirty years as a straight fuel, of
course.
“The plant you saw at Morwell will be ready to operate next
year. It’s based on the Lurgi process of brown coal gasification
which was developed in Germany. They erected two plants—
one in 1940 and the other in 1943—and they’re both behind
the Iron Curtain now. Only other Lurgi process plant besides
ours is Johannesburg, South Africa.
“The Chairman of the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria
is Australia’s foremost authority on brown coal and this scheme
is the result of his work on the subject. When the plant starts
to produce, we won’t have to pump or boost it along this line
. . . it’s produced at 425 lbs. pressure. And, incidentally, the
brown coal gas will have a higher degree of purity than any
other gas so far supplied in Australia. It’s odourless, by the
way, so, for safety reasons, we’ve got to introduce an odour
so it will smell like black coal gas!”
• 3 • • •
The tremendous project at Morwell, Victoria, for the gasifica-
tion of brown coal is rapidly nearing completion. Playing their
part in yet another huge Australian development are the big,
powerful Caterpillar track-type Tractors, helping to build an
industry vital to Australia’s future.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distribut ors:
N.5.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS DEERING—QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD., BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
TAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO M ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DEERING (N.T.) PTY.
LIMITED, ALICE SPRINGS.
NEW GUINEA: HASTINGS DEERING (NEW GUINEA)
PTY. LIMITED, LAE.
